

SOLD
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA
mu
Eaude
cologne
1.1.
m.
rrm
mnE
dealt de cologne
4711
Mu Jr Caterer i r*rtutn<rte f*OoV 2
GIOCKWGAStf rC47Il* %
L
mi
Sole Agents for Australasia BLAU & (§. 181 Clarence St,Sydney
'Phone: City 4-7-11.
*
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N*. 2232.
Thursday, November 23, 1922.
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Pest Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Pest as a Newspaper.


New 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Poated free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, City.
liii'li&HlSSfi
■
RECORDS AND RESULTS
The service records of Mangrovite Leather or Raw-Hide Belting
pxplain its wide use by exacting manufacturers, who demand
high -power-transmitting efficiency and the lowest belting-cost uer
horse-power. It is the product of 40 years’ experience. Try
it on your main drive. ‘
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD..
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA r Corbett, Derhani & Co. Pty., Ltd. 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid and Sons, Ltd., Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Henry Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 5 Bedford Row, Christchurch.
Points the way to pencil supremacy •
L
THE PERFECT
PENCIL.
Made in 17 degrees,
6B to 9H.
ALL “KOH-I-NOOR” Pencils are yellow-
polished, but not all yellow-polished pencils
are “ Koh-i-Noor.” Every “ Koh-i-Noor ” bears
its name and the name and address of its
makers, Messrs. L. &C. Hardtmutln This
precaution against confusion and substitution is
deliberate. It saves considerable disappointment.
From all Stationers, Drawing Material Dealers & Stores.
Agent for AUSTRALIA ;
Mr. JOHN MACDOUGALL, G.P.O. Box No. 165, SYDNEY.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, 10, BothwelJ Street, GLASGOW.
Factories — Budweis, Czechoslovakia.
The 14-h.p.
4-cylinder
SUNBEAM
4-seater
Touring
Model.
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROS., LTD.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
THE AUTOCAR INDUS-
TRIES PTY., LTD.,
104-112 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
HOWARD MOTOR CO.,
LTD.,
376-378 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
“The feel of Quality”
That indefinable feeling which is particularly
noticeable in the latest six-cylinder Sunbeam
Models, as evidenced by the following opinions
of “Men who know”
The Autocar: —“There is no doubt that the Six-
cylinder SUNBEAM car is a distinct advanee on the
previous model, good as that was. The flexibility of the
engine is as remarkable as its silence of running, and
although the car is decidedly fast, it behaves with the
utmost docility.”
The Motor -“The side val-ve six-cylinder SUNBEAM,
of which we gave our impressions about 12 months ago,
was undoubtedly a good car, but the present overhead
valve model is far and away superior to it. Than this
there could, perhaps, be very little higher praise.”
HE SUPREME
TIT/yqJ //!<•» Pnrfir'iiJnrsi
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD., Wolverhampton, Eng
Export Dept.: 13 PRINCES STREET, HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON,
Cable Address —“ Subeamoco /
AND AX NEW YORK.
;land.
W.i.
” London.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY
(Opp.
Station))
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD, TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1 /-, Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1 /-. Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1/-.
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS,
WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
Afb
j
FOUR MORE FAROES,
in one book. 2/-
Contents-—Our First
Performance, My Turn
Next, Area Belle,
Mock Trial for Breach
of Promise. PLAY
Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/-
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
CATALOGUES FREE. HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage 1/6
MUSTDIE.
I Flies.
Fleas
Buas
Mo''" floes
| Tra lj-
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney. t*
The Red Page
When War Is Declared in Industry.
“The Weapon of the Strike," by Arthur
Paterson.
(.Itodder & Stoughton, London.)
The author of this level-headed and
thought-stimulating book has written other
social studies, in novel and essay form, and
has been, responsible for an excellent, if
somewhat short, life of Oliver Cromwell. His
present work is preceded by benedictions
from both Sir Peter Eylands, first President
of the Federation of British Industries, and
Arthur Henderson, the Labor leader, who
begins with the time-worn formula that
Labor seeks a higher status, a better social
position, and ends with the suggestion that
the true solution of labor unrest lies in the
creation of some sort of Parliament of
Industry—something more than a concilia-
tion board and less than an arbitration
tribunal.
This latest addition to the vast library
that has been written about labor questions
is really a history of the origin and develop-
ment of the strike, which is not, as so many
imagine, a modern development, but goes
back, if not to the dispute between Pharaoh
and the Israelites on the difficulty of making
bricks without straw, at least to the days of
Rome, to the quarrel between the Plebs and
the Patricians in 494 8.C., when the legion-
aries refused any longer to obey the Consuls
and marched out of the city to the Sacred
Mount.
In Britain the strike dates back as an
organised method of protest against injustice
or oppression to the 14th century, the first
recorded instance being the uprising of the
villeins of the Manor of Bernholme in Sus-
sex. (Strictly, by the way, the Bernholme
affair was a lockout, for the employer, the
lord of the manor, got in first.) No stu-
dent of Stubbs or Lipson can ignore the fact
that all our present-day industrial troubles
are merely modern versions of what went on
many centuries ago. Just as strikes and
lockouts occurred in the Middle Ages, so
existed the capitalistic system, direct action,
shop stewards, job-control and practi-
cally the whole box of tricks which to-day
lis grandiloquently called the “industrial pro-
blem.” We simply have coined new names
for old ilis, and we are trying to cure those
ills by exactly the same methods as did our
ancestors, and, therefore, with equal ill-
success.
Perhaps the most remarkable difference
between the industrial unrest of mediaeval
times and that of 1922 is that in
its earlier development unrest was prin-
cipally on the land, amongst the agricul-
tural population. The most brilliant writer
on this aspect of the problem is probably
Ramsay Macdonald, but it is doubtful if he
is a trustworthy teacher to follow, inasmuch
as he is apt to read into what are purely
economic causes a moral aspiration which,
it is quite certain, was totally lacking in
the villein class of the days of, say, the Black
Death. Mr. Paterson, following Mr. Mac-
donald and quoting from him, makes the
same mistake. In primitive or even semi-
primitive society there is very little innate
desire for uplift. Life is quite hard enough,
and the economic injustices quite strong
enough, to account for unrest without import-
ing into the discussion motives which cannot
be proved and the existence of which is purely
imaginary. It is really a cause of the failure
of much social propaganda that the advo-
cates of reform will impute to the people they
desire to help motives and ideas which are
remote from their minds. “A full bowl makes
a happy man,” said Confucius; and it is
certain that an empty stomach makes a dis-
contented one. It is not true that humanity
only fights for improvement when the
“spiritual stuff of humanity is in-
jured.” It is sheer hypocrisy to say that
“men do not object to economic poverty pure
and simple.” They do object, and if they
feel that they can by fighting get something
above the bread-line they fight.
It is often assumed that the mediaeval
craft guilds were the first trade unions, with
which bodies the early strikes have been
mostly associated. The original guilds, how-
ever, had nothing to do with disputes be-
tween masters and men, but were organisa-
tions containing both parties, and were, in
fact, co-operative trusts for the protection of
the industry against the extortions of the
Crown, tlie Church corporations and the
nobles. Their basic principle was stability
and order, and the cause of their decline and
eventual downfall was their oligarchic con-
duct and exclusiveness. The later develop-
ment of the journeymen guild, which was the
direct ancestor of the trade union of last cen-
tury, was due to the conflict of interest be-
tween capital and labor within the guild
itself. The population of the country
had vastly increased, and the output -of
industry was not sufficient to meet the in-
creasing demands of the population. The
masters wanted to enlarge the number of
apprentices; the journeymen, who feared
greater competition and reduced wages, ob-
jected. The position in other respects was
very like that which exists to-day. There
had been a great debasement of the cur-
rency, and a great rise in the cost of living.
The scarcity of labor, owing to the epi-
demics and the casualties of war, had tended
to improve the position of the workers. The
masters sought to make up the heavy taxa-
tion and the increased cost of production by
reducing wages, and Labor was determined to
hold on to all that it had gained. There fol-
lowed the competition of foreign producers
in the English market, and the retaliation of
the English producers which introduced the
industrial system, changed England from an
agricultural into a manufacturing country,
and brought the so-called capitalistic system
into existence. It was well that it did. for
Mr, Paterson admits that “but for her capi-
talists, who broke free from rule and craft,”
England would have been crushed out.
The author’s opinion is that the trade
unions have been a necessary and coincident
growth of industrial progress, but that their
day is past as an active force for good or
evil. Industrial development to-day is too
large for the unions to cope with, except in
certain spheres. The practical breakdown
of unionism in 1875 resulted in the rise of
Socialism, which had no more real connec-
tion with unionism then that iff has to-day.
The union was an organisation within the
industry for the improvement of the status
of the worker. Socialism is not concerned
with the status of the w'orker, or with indus-
try, but with society as a whole. The Socialist
may spring from the working classes, and
often he is of the higher artisan class—one
who sees no future for the laboring classes
except those classes obtain control of the
machinery of government. Trade unionism
was a social conception. Socialism is a
purely political idea. The Socialists truly
have been the most important influence in
industrial legislation during the quarter of a
century preceding the war. This has been
due to the adhesion to their ranks of men
who primarily were politicians, and at heart
had no genuine sympathy with the working
classes. The amateur Socialists were vote-
catching for their own future advancement
in other spheres than those of reform, and
are largely responsible for the disrepute into
which Socialism has fallen with true Labor,
Though the strike to-day is a more formid-
able weapon than ever before, it is less in
favor with Labor. A principal cause has
been the efforts of publicists like the author
of this volume, and of the National Alliance
of Employers and Employed. They are aim-
ing at that Industrial Parliament which Mr.
Henderson forecasts will one day come. If
this volume helps to that end —and, of
course, all truthful and impartial literature
on the subject must so help—then Mr. Pater-
son has done a public service in writing it,
and in any event he has placed students of
British social and economic history under
an obligation.
Rebecca West
Rebecca West has written only two novels,
but both have been such unusual achieve-
ments that she has set some of the sharpest
critics seething with admiration. Her first
book, “The Return of the Soldier,” issued dur-
ing the war, was honored with a special
three-page analysis in The North Ameri-
can Review. It is the tragedy of a warrior,
who, losing through shell-shock all memory
of a wealthy marriage with a beautiful girl,
wods and weds a humbler divinity whom he
had known 15 years before. The poignancy
of the tale lies in the fact that the second
wife, exalted by the hero’s hallucination, is
the blind instrument for the restitution of
her rival’s conjugal rights. All the figures
in the story are drawn with a fine perception
of their social standards and obligations,
though Margaret sometimes glistens in the
flame of the author’s prejudice for the down
and suffering. But the outstanding feature
of the effort is the rippling masculine'prose.
The descriptive writing is packed with wit,
and ambushes the solemn reader with pene-
trating turns of phrase. Likewise, there are
glimmers of irony.
In her second novel, “The Judge,” the English
is more brilliant and luminous : the psychology
scores many a victory. The narrative, how-
ever, is not without faults. The finale, in
its murk of murder and suicide, appears to
be a Grand Guignol sacrifice to a belated
desire for action. The death of the domi-
nating mother and her decrepit son comes
like the blare of the South-street band con-
test after an Etude by Chopin. . Also, the
disappearance of the little heroine, Ellen,
as a dramatic factor in the second half of
the story, evidently to enable the authoress
to indulge her preoccupation with the misty
disencliantments of an inordinately com-
plex female, is inartistic and Unjust. Ellen
is so significant that she cannot be reduced
to the status of a spectator to Mrs. Yaver-
land’s emotional parades. But, barring those
aspects, “The Judge” is immensely stimu-
lating. Ellen’s early days in Edinburgh, de-
veloping her sweetness and Scotch acumen
in an environment of wet days and soul-
deadening penury, are depicted with meticu-
lous regard for every trumpery detail that
looms like an adventure in the little crushed
life. Then there is the figure of her lover,
Richard Yaverland, who, despite all his
civilisation, might have stepped out of one
of Drake’s caravels on the Spanish Main.
Yaverland is a curiosity to the psychopath.
A big, unconventional and forthright man,
he definitely succumbs to the absurdity of a
pride and power which are eternally derided
by his illicit origin. The corrosive bitter-
ness of illegitimacy, and the notoriety that
shrills of the consequences of reckless lust,
were never more grimly revealed in a novel.
Rebecca West is just 30, but she began in
her ’teens as a critic and pamphleteer. She
started to strop her wit in the pages of The
Freewoman, an ardent suffragist journal,
and she has since contributed to The
Clarion, The New Statesman, The
New' Republic (U.S.) and many other radi-
cal journals. As a dramatic critic she is
now scintillating in the columns of the new
Loudon weekly, Time and Tide, and as a
literary reviewer she has sized up the merits
of numerous contemporaries. Her book on
Henry James is a remarkable example of her
verbal cleverness. “The Portrait of a Lady,”
she declares, is “a tale which would draw tears
from a reviewer, and yet the conduct invented
for Isabel is so inconsistent and so suggestive
of the nincompoop, and so clearly proceeding
from a brain whose ethical world was but a
chaos, that it is a mistake to subject the book
to the white light of a second reading.”
“Roderick Hudson” “is wooden, it is
crammed with local color like a schoolmis-
tress's bedroom full of photographs of Rome,
it has a plain, boiled suet-pudding heroine
called Mary.” “Lady Barberina,” we are told,
“is painted with the flatness of a flagging
interest, and we suspect Mr. James of tak-
ing English architecture as an index of
English character.” “The American” “is
an exposition of the way things do not hap-
pen.” Also the heroine “might have flamed
with a strange fire, but she could not have
diffused a rectory lamplight.” Though Miss
West concedes the merits of “The Turn of
the Screw,” “Washington Square,” and one
or two others, she concludes that, while
(Continued on page 25.)


Jk
Exquisite Modes in Millinery and Charming
Styles in Children’s Summer Frocks.
Becoming Versions of Summer’s
Newest Millinery.
**r
v
/1
'I:
, s.
hi 5
H6
T
Hs.—An Unusually Distinctive
Dress Hat, of Platinum Grey Crepe
and Ostrich. The wide brim is
slightly rolled to show the deep ban-
deau, which fits closely to the head.
Price £B/6/-
H 8
1
H 9
H7.—A Charming Model of Ivory
Organdi, with embroidered motifl's
of peacock Silk. Large spread bow
at side of very wide, rich-quality
peacock satin ribbon.
Price 70/-
Attractive Leghorns in
Smart Flat Shapes, all
one Price,
10/6.
HG.—A Marie Lancret Model, of
Black Chantilly Lace and Malines,
with novel loops of Royal Blue
Faille Ribbon. Note the quaintly
Eastern arrangement of the Face
Veil.
Price £5/5/-
HB. — Large Cantoier, with crown
of coral georgette. The curving
brim, widest at sides, is of chocolate-
brown Lace Crinoline, faced with
shirred georgette to match. The
crown is wreathed with coral shades
in silk roses and foliage.
Price £6/6/-
H9. — Very Simple and Dainty is
this model Oyster Grey Crepe and
Braid. It has a 5-piece sectional
crown, and the brim is underlined
with the palest Pink Georgette.
Price £5/5/-
i
These shady and becoming Italian Leghorns are decidedly fashionable, and
constitute an offering you will appreciate. Style and Economy unite in the
very keen price of 10/6. The Capeline Style is illustrated above, and there are
many other smart shapes displayed.
Price 10/6
Colors are White, Saxe, Kingfisher, Mastic, Burnt, Lilac, Grey, Shrimp, Cherry
and Navy.
MILLINERY - - - - THIRD FLOOR.
Children’s Frocks of Filmy
Summer Materials.
Cl
05
\\\\i
A
\
CIX
C 6.
3161.—Magyar Frock in Floral
Cretonne. It has a square neck
and an all-round belt. A patch pocket
on the skirt attractively finishes.
Sizes 18-22 inches.
8/6
Price
C24.—Attractive Check Zephyr
Frock, effectively piped round the
neck and sleeves; and also where
the skirt is attached to the bodice.
A sash belt encircles the waist.
Sizes IS-22 inches.
Price
8/6
Cl.—A Practical Little Frock, de-
signed in Magyar lines, and com-
posed of striped print. The waist
is defined by an all-round belt.
Sizes IS-22 inches.
Price 4/11
Cs.—Serviceable Little Frock in
Striped Print. The round neck
and sleeves are effectively bound
with White Pique, and the patch
pockets are composed of White Pique
also. Sizes 18-22 inches.
Price 4/11
ClX.—Useful Frock in Striped
Print, cut on Magyar lines. It
has a square neck, bound with
self material, and an all-round belt.
Sizes 18-22 inches.
Price 4/11
C6.—Striped Print Magyar Frock,
effectively trimmed with pipings of
White Pique. Sizes 18-22 inches.
Price 4/11
C 3161
C22.—Smart School Frock, in a
check and plain zephyr. The Magyar
bodice is composed of plain material effectively piped round neck and sleeves with
the check. An all-round belt completes the frock. Sizes IS-22 inches.
Price 8/6
CHILDREN’S FROCKS - - -
THIRD FLOOR.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
Telephone: City 9440,


The Original and Best
Australian Linseed Oil.
m ! I ii
II 111 ■ ■
I 11
Ml,
!:«!!
: '! || |iiijj ! Ti!l! ii! I
I I I I •' 1 111 1 1 II I
' I ' II •
lilt
/}
JflEESj]
J
/
o
€.
I
V
m
&
f f //
m
A, 1 PAINIING TIME, that s when the genuine LINSEED OIL proves its quality.
It is better to-day than ever.
ABSOLUTELY PURE—THOROUGHLY MATURED.
GorrfS
UNSEEOOIIMOI
m
nEDGITT L T ®
9?ie boy on the bag
guarantees quality*
HEAD OFFICE ‘LG KING ST SYDNEY(V^)rks:Parramaita)
AGENTS — Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton
d Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. F. W. Heritage d Co., Ltd., Hobart and Laun-
ceston; Messrs. William Adams & Co., Ltd., King Street, Perth; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd.,
Rundle Street, Adelaide.
MNSEEOOUMW
fw)
■sssss
boy on the bag
guarantees quality


A
&
<2
V'jfTV
/ / //
Cuticura Insures
Healthy Complexions
Daily use of Cuticura Soap, assisted when
necessary by Cuticura Ointment, promotes
a clear skin, good hair and soft white
hands in most cases when all else fails.
Always include the exquisitely scented Cu-
ticura Talcum in your toilet preparations.
Soapls.,Ointmentls.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.. Sydney. N.S.W.”
Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
T tie iridium tipped gold nibs in
Waterman s Ideal Fountain Pens are
the finest in the world. They are so
skilfully made that they will easily
last a lifetime. Every hand can
be suited exactly.
Waterman's
(Ideal)
FoimtaSilFen
JkreeType, : Self-Filling, Safety & Regular
Lfj Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
Use Waterman’s Ideal INK
for all Fountain Pens.
L. 6. SLOAN, Ltd., Corner
Kin;, sway, London, England.
Australia: HAROLD D. DIXON
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Situation Vacant.
WANTED.— MANAGER, lay out and
run New Sawmill. State salary
required. References, etc., to RED GUM,
c/o Bulletin.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
9
“ What a
Difference!”
Try Dr.
Allen’s Mexi-
can Walnut
Stain on
YOUR HAIR,
and you’ll be
more th a n
pleased with
the difference
in your appearance! Don't look
old any longer—change your
GREY HAIR to a glossy WALNUT
SHADE. Easy to apply—harm-
less —waterproof—permanent!
All Chemists.
if
11 k
n
MEXICAN
WAIKUT STAIN
Superior Serviceability
Denver's Surgical Appliances—crutches, artificial limbs
trusses, etc.—are pre-eminent because of their Superior Service-
ability. Not only are they correctly and scientifically designed
to afford the maximum assistance possible—they are also care-
fully made to give honestly long and reliable service. They
represent the utmost possible in goods of this kind.
Write and ask for free advice on YOUR ease. We have
many years’ experience behind us.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT
SAVINGS BANK
of N.S.W. and RURAL BANK.
Plead Office: 19-23 Martin Place, Sydney.
4 /0 INTEREST allowed on Savings Accounts up
to £5OO, and 3£ % on any excess to £lOOO.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS opened for any person, firm, company
or institution.
D
Dependable
Marine Engines
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H. P.
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
All Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Reduced
Prices
$135 00
to
$1550.00
F.O B. Detroit
Mich.. U. S. A.
Kermath Marine Engines are made with the precision of a watch,
all parts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representative:
Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia) Etd.,
25-27 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia.
Kermath Manufacturing Co., Detroit, Mich..U.SJL
Cable Address-KERMATH
JO
'/////
N
; /
"4.id
'A...
~Ja £
,/?s£ your Agent to fit your Machine for comfort.
Reckon your Season
in miles not days.
fHE distance you travel is
governed by the comfort
you enjoy—for maximum
comfort over long distances
everyone fits a luxurious
A
D D
L
E.
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
Criterion Works, Birmingham England.
Jigents in Australia: —
SCOTT & HOLLADAY, LTD., 31a, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
CAILLE “PERFECTION” MARINE ENGINES.
a
©3
* e'-
ftRfKHONItoW
A Type to Suit Every Hull.
Now’s the time to buy if you want
your Engine this season.
BIG REDUCTION ON
ALL ENGINES ,
New shipment of 4-h.p. Engines, com-
plete with Igniter, just arrived.
We have stocks for immediate delivery
at the following reduced prices
Neptune Outboard . . £32
5-Speed Outboard . . £43
Liberty Drive Outboard £34
Inboard Motors:
2h„p. £34, 4h.p. £47/10/-, Sh.p. £BO,
2gh.p. £45, 6h.p. £57/10/-, 14h.p. £l5O
WRITE, ’PHONE OR CALL.
Sole Agents for Australasia and Pacific Islands.
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED
76 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 107-109 Queensbridge Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Cable Address: “BROSBENSON.”
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In November.
Who said the gods were dead? This very
morn
I saw Pan tying on one ruddy horn
A sprig of golden broom. And where the
foam
Of pink boronia tossed, he made his home.
The creek reeds for his pipe, again he blew
A leafy lay of freedom till he drew
My spirit like a thread of air along,
And mixed me, strangely drunken, with his
song.
Time said it was November waiting there
To drown the gold October in her hair.
How could that be when Pan himself arose
And danced for me till I stood on tiptoes;
And took the wind for partner while he
played
His old Arcadian music in the glade,
This very, very morn in spite of time,
Piercing his ears with train-shrieks out of
rhyme?
N.B.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Dream Makers.
In that round clump of brigalow the witches
sit all day ;
Their hair is green like brigalow leaves, their
kirtles are of grey ;
And they are busy making dreams from every-
thing they see—
Gay feather of a parrot’s wing, gum blossom
on a tree.
And one, the fairest of them all, she ever sits
apart.
And paler grows and paler, for she winds
them from her heart;
Just as a spider-web comes out with glisten-
ing of gold,
The young witch draws the shining dream
from her white bosom’s fold.
I know she sent a dream to me that will not
come again ;
It glowed across the night as rose strikes
crimson through the rain.
And I heard when the bracken fire along
the range was red
The Jseening of the little twigs that told
me she was dead. ...
In that round clump of brigalow the witches
sit all day,
Their hair is green as brigalow leaves, their
kirtles are of grey;
And they are busy weaving dreams of every-
thing they see,
But she who sleeps beneath the roots made
my last dream for me.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Mountain Rider.
Over on the mountain tops I ride;
I have found my life, and am satisfied.
Onward, by paths in the blowing oats,
Marking the field lark’s rippling notes,
Lightly I sweep
From steep to steep.
Over my head through the branches high
Gome glimpses wide of a rushing sky.
The tall oats brush my horse’s flanks:
Wild poppies crowd on the sunny banks;
A bee booms out of the scented grass;
A jackass laughs with me as 1 pass.
I ride on the hills. I forgive, I forget
Life’s gathered hoard of old regret—
All the terror and pain
Of the chafing chain.
Grind on, O cities, grind!
I leave you a blur behind.
I am lifted elate —the skies expand;
Here the world’s heaped gold is a pile of
sand.
Let them weary and work in their narrow
walls;
I ride with the voices of waterfalls.
As one who rides in a dream I swing
Down the breezy hollows. I shout, I sing.
The world is gone like: an empty word ;
I’m a bough in the wind, and my heart a
bird.
n.s.w.
P. B. PRIOR.
The Moth and the Moon.
When ghostly lawns were jewel-strewn
And beach-bound waters sang a tune
Of space where planets swim,
A moth set out to reach the moon
That lit the heavens dim;
Her lamp, so like a white balloon,
Looked very fair to him.
Above the mists where rivers swing
And meet the sands, and foam and fling
Their strength on sullen bars.
The moth flew on (Oh, tiny thing
That giant distance mars!).
Perchance he heard the sky-wind sing
That blows from glowing stars.
Oh, moths are very small and frail
To dare to soar where planets sail,
And weary wings had he.
When earth seemed like a silver veil
He saw, down in the sea,
Another moon-queen brightly pale,
A fairer queen was she.
No more in upward flight he’d spur,
To this tired little traveller,
Sweet shone the sleeping tide ;
And ere a warning wave could stir
He’d swooped and circled wide.
And touched the mirrored face of her
He’d sought, and thrilled and died.
If you’re not big enough to climb
To god-like heights where star-bells chime
You must seek lowlier bliss;
Tbnt is the moral of this rhyme,
Yet just as clear is this—•
The brave moth had a merry time,
And death came with a kiss.
Maoris and.
WILL LAWSON.


Wttßn mm
*
SK||| ■
H ■
r :
«5
35
L
I!
a : s
■
/
si ;"if
i..^r
„o 3
:
m
m
mmm
■HI
I
> •■- m
1 !I' ■■■■
1
: ■'.' ■■' : ■ -SV'-S "
a &a&&BB6BBtiSSMKmfe» I , ffl I||H
■J.'
II
•S ::; v!.I
: a
SIS
spill
■ ■ /
■HHH
■n
ISiW
M2fe
Biii
I
f s


The Bulletin
.Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
vol. 43.— n0. 2232.
THUItSDAY, NOVJEIMBEYt 23, 1922®
rmc ß 6».
THE LOGIC OP IT.
“Speaking at Coburg (Vic.), Dr. Mannix put in a plea for a stronger Australian sentiment. It was not right to import goods from overseas, when we could produce as
good, if not better, in Australia. ’ Let us, then, keep out foreign imports.” —Melbourne Auk.
MERE AUSTRALIAN: “I’m with you on this question of foreign imports, Doctor. But what I say is: Why stop at the goods?”


The Commonwealth Electoral Law,
Any prose matter in this paper which refers to the
coming Federal elections has been written, after dis-
cussion, to express the views of Tub Bulletin, by
John Dailey, James Edmond and J. E. Webb, all of
214 George-street, Sydney. The verse is by A. Hay-
ward, 214 George-street, Sydney, and Edmund Fisher,
Bulletin Office, Melbourne.
The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
‘‘Australia for the White Han.”
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
lit months , £1 6s.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, is.
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas: 12 months, £1 Ills.; 6
months, 15s.; 3 months, 7 s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which shoidd be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to- the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and
Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London
E.CJi; E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, )6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High IJolborn, London, W.C.l.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., ))l Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland- Kay Col, 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano's, 5 th, Avenue
and 27th Street, Now York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Bool: and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera. and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua.. — Whit-ten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva,
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.. —Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, EX',).
U.S.A. —J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonicealtli: 16oz.,
Id. (for single- copies). All British Possessions: )oz.,
lid.; for every additional 2oz., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 16oz., lid. United States: )oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1922.
TROUBLE’S FRIEND.
Kelso King,, manager of a big N. S. Wales
Insurance Co., and one who cannot be ac-
cused of partiality towards the drink traffic,
had two significant things to say
about the attempt to enforce prohibition
on his return to Sydney last. week. “It
seemed to me,” he told a Telegraph re-
porter, “that anyone who had the means to
purchase alcohol could do so; consequently
it operated only against the poor man, who
could not afford the luxury. In Canada all
the provinces, with the exception of Quebec
and British Columbia, were ‘dry.’ In the
cities of Quebec and Montreal huge hotel
extensions were going up in order to accom-
modate those domiciled in “dry” districts
whose great aim in life was to spend their
vacation in a ‘wet’ district.”
♦ * * *
It is not difficult to persuade a State or pro-
vince to do rash things. One Yankee revivalist
in the Cold Tea line is reported to have
boasted in London that, given the right staff
and enough money, he would undertake in a
very few years to have Englishmen wearing
skirts and their womenfolk trousers. What
he. meant was that an energetic and skilful
minority can stampede a mob on almost any
issue. And once the work is done it is
often, as in the U.S., very hard to undo.
Prohibition survives there now, not on its
merits so much as on its demerits. It is
generally admitted that, if it only had the
support of those who expect it to abolish
intemperance, it would fall in brief order. It
is safe because of the huge vested interests
which have formed round it. The sly-grog-
makers and -runners want it to continue;
the army of officials who are being paid by
the State to enforce it —and, in many cases,
by individuals to do the other thing—would
be in despair if the return of the old system
drove them to less easy and remunerative
methods of earning a livelihood; the “soft”
drinks manufacturers, whose over-sugared
wares are making the Yanks a nation of dia-
betics, are all for prohibition, and so is the
employing class, alcoholic and otherwise.
The members of this section can, in Mr.
Kelso King’s words, “afford the luxury,”
and meanwhile they are spared the spec-
tacle which offends practically all classes in
free British communities —the front premises
of badly-conducted hotels at closing-time.
The fact that the humbler type of U.S. con-
vivialist is no longer seen outside hotels
does not mean, of course, that he has been
legislated out of existence. “I am a tee-
totaller,” said another Sydney traveller —R.
W. Gibbe —whom the Telegraph also
tackled, “but I think prohibition is a curse.
When I left America there were 14 deaths
in one day. and many people were going
blind from wood alcohol. Young girls who
would never think of drinking in Australia
■ —l7 or 18 years of age—think it a great
thing. Nearly all the shooting results from
bootlegging.” So it would seem that the
poor Americans who are really attached
to drink—the prototypes of our fellow-citi-
zens who stagger out of bars at 6 o’clock
and carry loads of alcohol home on Saturday
night for consumption on Sunday—are not
debarred from getting drink, but only from
getting non-poisonous drink.
* * * *
The Fuller Government has announced
its intention of taking a prohibition refer-
endum in the near future, and it behoves
the people of N. S. Wales, in the circum-
stances, to give a good deal closer atten-
tion to this issue than they have hitherto
done. They will be appealed to chiefly on
moral and humanitarian grounds—in some
cases by sincere believers in prohibition’s
power to prohibit, in others by professional
anti-drink orators and organisers who have
long since lost their illusions on the sub-
ject—but the impressions of Sydney’s two
latest investigators suggest other aspects
which, cant apart, are far more important.
The first has to do with finance. The rich
can get plenty of drink in the dry
areas, according to Mr. Kelso King, but
that does not prevent all but an adven-
turous few preferring to take their alcoholic
pleasure within the law. And hence the
wealthy crowds “whose great aim in life
was to spend their vacations in dry dis-
tricts.” It is a truism that a kind of blight
falls upon regions and institutions which
are drinkless, provided there is an alcohol-
supplying rival anywhere in the vicinity.
Maine is the oldest dry State in the Union,
and with many natural advantages it has
for years been one of the poorest and mean-
est. The “dry” liners of the U.S. mercan-
tile marine are being ruined by the com-
petition of the “wet” British ships. Ameri-
cans who drink little or not at all are
just as partial to the liquor-carrying pas-
senger-ships as the hardest of drinkers: the
“wet” ones are more comfortable. In Aus-
tralia a comparison between the dusty sor-
didness of the average coffee-palace and the
luxury of a licensed hotel. provides a lesson
on the same lines. The first loss, therefore,
that N. S. Wales will sustain, assuming it
goes “dry,” and that the other States'are
not sufficiently unselfish to follow its ex-
ample, will be a large part of its tourist
trade. There is not a single citizen of N.
S. Wales but will be hit in his pocket, to
a greater or less extent, by this deprivation.
The Australian wine-manufacturing industry
is still in its infancy, but there is every
indication that it will eventually be a
greater thing than the wool-growing indus-
try. Some of the choicest wines in the coun-
try are at present being produced in N. S.
Wales —in the Murrumbidgee, Murray and
Hunter River valleys, on the Yanco irriga-
tion area, and right at Sydney’s back door.
With prohibition, the whole of this busi-
ness, together with all its potentialities, will
go_ to S. Australia and Victoria. The brew-
eries of N. S. Wales pay out about a quarter
of a million sterling, year by year, in wages;
the value of the materials used is over a
million and the value of the output over two
millions sterling per annum. Ou all the U.S.
evidence the people of N. S. Wales would
still drink their £5 per head per annum,
the only difference being that brewers and
employees in other States would earn the
profits and wages that are now being earned
in N. S. Wales. And then there would be the
gigantic cost of attempting enforcement along
the State’s sparsely inhabited borders and
coast. From being a rich and popular State
N. S. Wales would become a more or less
indigent IshmAel —unless, of course, its
rivals to the north and south were obliging
enough to cut off their financial tails in
emulation of its example.
**. * *
The second possibility, which is fore-
shadowed in the remarks both of Mr. Kelso
King and Mr. Gibbe, is much more serious.
American Governments have always had a
short way with their working classes. The
U.S. is the only civilised white country
where the tendency is to call out the mili-
tary and shoot strikers down first and argue
with them afterwards. A possible reason
for this convention is that, until recently,
anvhow, it has been politically safe. Before
the war Labor was less organised in the
U.S. than in any great Caucasian com-
munity. Australia has been, for many years,
the best-organised country in the world in
the industrial sense, the respective (1914)
figures being: America 27 unionists per 1000,
and Australia 106 per 1000. The Common-
wealth, and notably N. S. Wales, with its
many industries, is more solidly unionised
to-day than ever it was, but to the regret
of the local revolutionaries the working
classes lack a common grievance. In France
at the end of the 18th century, and in Russia
during the war, the advocates of revolt could
point to a state of abject poverty which was
almost universal outside two or three small
classes. In Germany and Austria the ruin
brought on the workers by the monarchists
was the argument; and a good one, too. Here,
with the exception of a relative handful of
unemployed, there are no poverty-stricken
workers. In fact, in the scandalised eyes of
the newly-arrived Bolshevik propagandist,
our proletarians are prosperous bourgeois. It
is an uphill fight for the apostle of revolu-
tion, leaving him no hope of creating trouble
except on sectional lines —in the shipping,
coal and similar industries. Prohibition, the
only sort of prohibition that the world
knows, a state of affairs under which “any-
one who had the means to purchase alcohol
could do so,” is just the argument that is
wanted in N. S. Wales by a class which at
present is painfully short of arguments. It
is hard to say offhand which section would be
more infuriated at the spectacle of the wealthy
drinking good liquor by stealth during
most of the year, and for the rest doing it
openly, on their vacations —the worker who
would like to drink but who respected
his inside too much to risk periodical
libations of wood-alcohol or the more reck-
less toiler who preferred the risk of death
or blindness to teetotalism. As a matter of
plain commonsense the students of this ques-
tion in N. S. Wales should brush aside the
platitudes about the blessings and economies
of temperance that will be discharged at
them when the prohibition campaign starts,
and inquire:—
(1) What will be the cost of enforcing - the policy?
(2) Can any method be shown by which it will
be enforced against the rich equally with the poor?
Taking into consideration the State’s indebt-
edness and the prevailing post-war unrest in
our midst, it is plain that, unless satisfactory
answers can be supplied to those two ques-
tions, the likeliest effect of prohibition is
going to be to plunge N. S. Wales into
poverty and chaos.
THE SASSAFRAS TOUCH.
Australian elections nowadays are por-
tentously dull. Politics, in the average
elector’s judgment, has become an affair of
small men and mean issues, and he shows
his contempt for the whole business by
absenting himself from the felicities of can-
didates’ speeches. In the dreary campaign
now dragging its slow length along an
attendance of 20 is regarded as a good meet-
ing ; an attendance of 100 as a crowd.
Hughes himself has had to depend upon
reporters and policemen to pad out an audi-
ence. One of his Senators had nobody pre-
sent at his inaugural meeting but policemen
and reporters. The attitude of those who
vote for the great National party is, gener-
ally speaking, that it is the lesser of two
calamities. In the wretched condition to
which Labor has reduced itself by its rabbit-
brained internationalism, it is obliged to rely
for support on the same chilling conviction
upended. The Country party is distinguished
from the other two in that it excites some
real enthusiasm, but it is fatally handicapped
in the cities, where three-sevenths of the
voters abide, by its unfortunate name. Until
it frees itself from that burden it can never
expect to come back with a majority. The
same is. true of the Labor party so long as
it remains encumbered by its stupid foreign
Socialism and pacifism, so. hopelessly irre-
concilable with the Australian spirit. Inso-
far as the election is a contest between
Labor, so called, and non-Labor, so called,
it has already been decided. Labor
can’t win. The only question that remains
in doubt is whether the Prime Minister, who
has held his job down since February, 1917,
will retain it after December 16.
* * * *
Hughes sees that clearly enough. He
realises that if the Country party gains seats
at the expense of his obsequious supporters
it may be strong enough, with the help of
men like Watt, Pratten, Fowler and the
expected Liberal reinforcements from South
Australia, to force a reconstruction of the
Ministry with him out of it. To prevent
this consummation he is exerting all the
ignoble arts of which he is master. For
him the Country party is the foe (La
Cockyisme—voila Pennemi) , not Labor.
The latter party he dismisses in a few con-
temptuous sentences, followed always by
assurances of his high personal regard for
Charlton “and a few others.” His talent
for ridicule and invective is reserved for the
Agrarian group. He never refers to Earle
Page without sneering at him. Bruce, the
Treasurer, recently issued a plea for the
establishment of harmonious relations be-
tween the Nationalists and the Cockies. “As
far as I am personally concerned,” he said,
“I am prepared to do anything and to make
almost any sacrifice to ensure this being
brought about,” and he included “every
member of the Ministry” in the same
category. “We are determined,” he went on,
“to do nothing to antagonise the Country
party—to do everything to conciliate it and
bring about an amalgamation.” The words
were hardly out of his mouth when his leader
rushed into the Robertson (N.S.W.) elec-
torate and delivered a violent attack on
Fleming, deputy-leader of the Country,
party. He accused that person, once a
Nationalist, of having crossed over because
he hadn’t got a portfolio promised him by
Joseph Cook. “Mr. Fleming now sees,”
says the Priminister, with impish malignity,
“that if he had waited a few weeks longer
he might have received an appointment, and
is correspondingly bitter.” To which Flem-
ing replies (1) that he refused an offer of
an honorary Ministership, with the reversion
of the Treasury, on condition of his remain-
ing with the Nationalists; and (2) that he
could have had a portfolio when the Coun-
try party was invited to join the Ministry,
but was instrumental in turning the pro-
posal down. No one would think much the
worse of the member for Robertson if he
battled for a billet as strenuously as his
detractor alleges he did. That ' kind of
thing is all in the party game. But the
effect of the Fleming incident may be bad
for country Nationalists who are hoping to
get the Agrarians’ second votes. And, by
showing that personal antagonisms are more
to him than the larger interests of his party,
the Priminister has injured his own cause.
He has succeeded in making Bruce look
ridiculous; and even the loyalty of a Bruce
may be tried too high. • ,
In Lansing’s “Peace Negotiations” there
is a blistering comment on the conduct of
one Bullitt, a member of the American
Commission at Versailles, in “voluntarily
repeating a conversation which was from its
nature highly confidential.” Lloyd George,
another victim of Bullitt’s indiscretions,
dealt with the gentleman in even more blis-
tering terms. He remarked, in effect, that a
public man who published the substance of
private conversations wasn’t fit to carry swill
to a hog. The Prime Minister’s canons of
controversy are much more elastic. Witness
this account of his discussions with Flem-
ing :
After the election in 1919 Mr. Fleming came to
me at Sassafras to discuss his political prospects.
At various times in my political career I have been
approached by persons on a similar errand who
have managed, with more or less directness, to con-
vey to me that they desired to be elevated to more
responsible positions in conducting the affairs of the
nation. I have had some experience of these matters,
and, however subtly these aspirants have seen fit
to make known to me their desires, I have had little
difficulty in understanding what was required, but
of men like Mr. Fleming I had had no experience.
There was no subtlety about' Mr. Fleming. He did
not beat about the bush.
All of which is so very interesting that the
sharpened appetite clamors for more. Since
the Prime Minister’s conscience permits him
to lift the veil one would like to learn the
whole truth about the pilgrimage to Sassa-
fras and its dimly outlined importance
in the scheme of things. Clouds of
potential Commissioners have descended
upon that sylvan retreat. Dozens of
departments must have been born there.
There, perhaps, the idea of pressing
£25,000 into the Priminister’s unreluc-
tant hands, in recognition of his extraordi-
nary sacrifice in sticking to his job when his
party had gone to pot, had its birth. There
the identity of the donors, jealously withheld
from the inquisitive multitude, is no secret.
It may be solemnly conjectured that many of
those shrinkingly modest gentlemen have had
their feet under the Sassafras mahogany.
There, likewise, the great Nationalist policy
of buying constituencies wholesale and hand-
ing the bill to the public, or passing it on
to posterity, is thought out. Incidentally,
the 1 latest instalment of the policy—it was
announced at Maryborough (Q.), while the
Priminister tarried there —hasn’t received
the attention it merits. Corser, the aged
member for Wide Bay, is in deadly danger.
He is a thick-and‘-thin supporter of the Pri-
minister and must be saved at all costs —
meaning at the cost of all. One of the
S.O.S. measures was announced in these
terms t
In order to improve the quality of stock [not to
mention the prospects of Corser] the National Gov-
ernment is prepared to pay for the transport and
. quarantine of any stock brought to Australia.
But persons rich enough to buy stock abroad,
and not too proud to let the Government
pay ocean freights and quarantine expenses,
are comparatively few in number. “Nation-
alism” accordingly prepared for a bolder
flight:—
The National Government is a great believer in the
future of cotton [and isn’t so confident about the
future of Corser] . .The State Government has guar-
anteed a price for the 1922-23 and 1923-24 seasons.
The National Government is prepared to go further
and guarantee a price for the 1924-25 season. Dr.
Page cannot give any guarantee. He doesn’t believe
in guarantees.
The Hughesian philosophy of politics was
never more succinctly stated. Hard it is
for a politician who doesn’t believe in
guarantees (i.e., bribes) to compete with
Nationalism when it has these exalted
moments. But, grotesque as it seems, Earle
Page would rather lose the election than
win by Sassafras methods.
THE BRITISH ELECTIONS.
Since early in the present year Lloyd
George had been looking for a chance
to dissolve Parliament, and it says a good deal
for the tactical ability of the Die-Hards
that they succeeded in stalling him on every
occasion when he mooted the project. In
fact, there is no particular reason to dis-
believe that the Welsh wizard was out-
manoeuvred at his own game. For several
years he got his way by the simple expedi-
ent of threatening Asquith to resign every
time the latter disagreed with him.
Finally he pushed Asquith out. In simi-
lar fashion he has appeared to control the
Coalition by threatening a dissolution or
resignation. Certainly dissolution or re-
signation would at certain stages have been
disastrous to the country, and the Coali-
tion was maintained to avoid that disaster,
until the time arrived when a greater disaster,
appeared in the offing—namely, the main-
tenance of Lloyd George in office.
The continuance of the Coalition in office
would have meant the end of party govern-
ment in Britain, and have culminated in the
creation of an overwhelming Labor party
with no other party to oppose it. Now
the party system may be bad, but the crea-
tion of one supreme party liable to be con-
trolled by extremists and doctrinaires would
have been a supreme disaster, equal in its
potentialities for evil only to another world
war.
The abiding cause of the fall of Lloyd
George is not the merits or demerits of his
policies at home or abroad; it is not the
economic depression from which the United
Kingdom is suffering so severely; it is not
his failure to hang the Kaiser or to recover
fabulous sums from Germany. It is due
to the choice which faced the country be-
twen a further continuation of Lloyd
George and the ultimate inevitability of a
Labor Government, and the possibility of
Britain being wrecked in the same way as
Russia has been wrecked. A longer "con-
tinuation of the Coalition would have split
up the Conservatives, as it had already split
the Liberals, with the result that Avhen an
election did come Labor would have won a
complete victory. Of course there might
have been a possibility of a new party, the
National party, which the cables said
Lloyd George had in view. But the
country is not ripe for such an experiment.
The bloc system has never been favored in
Britain, and it is quite certain that the bit-
ternesses and animosities of the war and the
post-war periods have not developed condi-
tions favorable to its introduction now el-
even within the next few years. The strict
party system is too deeply embedded in
British politics to be uprooted yet awhile.
That the Conservatives have won at the
polls is only as was to be expected. The
Liberals were split, and Labor, though it
has made substantia] gains, is not yet in a


7/ufsulidm.
CHRISTMAS NUMBER,
due on December 9, contains Henry
Dawson’s last yarn. He chose it him-
self, a few weeks before his death, as the
one by which he wanted to be repre-
sented in the Christmas issue. There
is a remarkably fine collection of pic-
tures, the frontispiece being an Abo.
idyll by B. E. Minns. Abbott, Bedford,
Dyson and “Kodak” arc among the old
favorites who figure in this number, and
some brilliant new r men make their first
bow. Altogether it is an astonishing
sixpenn’orth.
position to even think of forming a Gov-
ernment. There are many capable admin-
istrators in the Labor party, far more than
is generally recognised. But there are few,
not more than a dozen, with active experi-
ence in government business. _ Equally un-
likely is it that the Liberals will come back
to office as an independent and going con-
cern. Only an optimist of the brightest
hue can see the Asquithiaus, Simonses, the
Wee Frees and the Lloyd George wing,
sitting down together in peace and amity.
Three weeks do not give much time for
campaigning, and, if the cables are to be
believed (which is seldom nowadays) the
campaign has been very quiet. Of the
menus offered to the electors that of
the Conservatives, by its very negation,
was the most attractive. “Peace, quiet
and retrenchment” must have sounded
extremely welcome to a nation surfeited
with war and war’s alarms, and with
a huge army of pensioners being sup-
ported by the State one way or
another. The most indefatigable dancer
can suffer from too much dancing, and it
must be admitted that Coalition politics
were very much like a continuous existence
in a night club. Labor cut its own throat
by the promise, not a threat, of a capital
levy, which is the most inane and impossible
of all the panaceas offered for reconstruction.
Long ago it was pointed out in The Bulletin
that the stumbling-block to Labor’s politi-
cal advance was its ignorance of finance. One
of its best men, J. R. Clynes, only last year,
speaking for a deputation of the Labor
party at the Ministry of Labor, said: “What
Labor needs more than anything else to-day
is instruction, not in the higher forms of
art and science, but in the simple truths of
economics.”
The National Liberals really had no policy
to offer the country. Lloyd George could
not point beyond himself to any hope for the
future, and he js a very tired man, to
say the least. llis record since the war has
been one of making the best of a bad job, but
as he was one-third responsible for that bad
job a good deal of the credit side of the
record has to be discounted In 1918, at the
zenith of his fame and popularity, he was in
a position to say straight out that the terms
of peace were impossible, that they were
only being made at the behest of Lord
Northcliffe and of France, and that they
contained the seeds of 10 years’ war in
Europe and throughout the world. If he had
done that the world might well have been at
peace now. Instead, he was pulled at the
tail of the Northcliffe cart and eventually
hoisted into the box seat. Later, it is true,
he pushed the coachman off, but he could
not stop the horse, and landed in the bog.
As for the other Liberals, beg they never
so hard, they-are down and out for a genera-
tion, which is a pity, for the groups contain
some of the finest characters in British pub-
lic life to-day. Asquith has his failings,
but he is honest beyond reproach. Sir John
Simon and Lord Haldane are two of the
best minds in British history, and, like
their chief, of untarnished reputation. Sir
Donald Maclean, the leader of the Wee
Trees, has not changed from the days when
he hawked his carpet-bag round the Cots-
wolds seeking for a constituency that might
elect him. _ There is no pleasanter figure
in the kingdom. The new Premier
will be a contrast to Lloyd George.
V ery shrewd, very Scotch, Bonar Law can
work like a demon if he wants to do so, but
he seldom wants. The policy of “peace,
quiet and retrenchment” is typically his. He
once acknowledged in the House that he dis-
liked work, and quoted the swansong of the
dying charwoman:—
Friends, don’t grieve for me,
Grieve for me never!
I want to do nothing
For ever and ever!
He is a man of great character in the best
sense of the word. At the Paris Conference
ne and Foch made a striking contrast. Botli
had suffered the same irreparable loss, each
having; lost his two sons in the war. Foch
took the loss hard, very hard, and the treaty
was to a large extent his revenge for his
sons. Bonar Law took his loss hard, too,
but was always on the side of moderation.
He realised the impossibility of accomplish-
ment of many of the terms of peace. “Our
sons,” he is said to have told Foch once,
died to make war less possible, not to per-
petuate it.” If not true the story is ben
trovato. It. fits the man’s character justly.
YELOOP.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Belated Righteousness.
A circular was sent to the Protestant alder-
men of Sydney’s City Council last week, sug-
gesting that the present Lord Mayor should he
pushed out of his billet for being a Roman
Catholic. There is a popular notion that
Catholics in Australian public life are usu-
ally Radicals. Such a charge would, of
course, be preposterous in the case of Mr.
MCElhone, for whose civic blood every
Labor alderman has been clamoring for
months past. And it may be suggested, with-
out undue cynicism, that the oft-established
conservatism of the Lord Mayor had a lot
to do with the passion of indignation which
was evinced in several quarters at the
attempt to undermine him on the religious
issue. The Evening News had a leader
reprobating the whole business as dastardly •
General Rosenthal informed the Council
tha;t he had received the communication, but
had revoltedly “cast it aside”; and the
Telegraph remarked that the General’s
attitude was the only one that “public men
with an exact conception of the meaning of
patriotism and citizenship can take regard-
ing an attempt to introduce sectarianism
into public life.” Such sentiments will be
acclaimed by every genuine Australian
every man or woman who does
npt put country second and Hibernianism or
Urangeism, as the case may be, first. How-
ever, it is to be regretted that N. S. Wales
had to wait to hear them expressed until a
life-long opponent of Radicalism stood to be
jire.n!diced by tactics which have been freely
u£ea, or late, to defeat anything that in the
resembled Radicalism. The Puller
Ministry, for example, is exclusively Protes-
tant. Shortly after it took office the late
James Robinson, M.L.C., was reported in
both the papers, which last week denounced
the sectarian move against the Lord Mayor,
as follows: —
Mr. Roblnson. .. .Said there was in power a party
which was unique. They had not a Roman Catholic
in the Cabinet. Even Paiikes wanted one or two,
just as a sop to come and keep things quiet. But
Fuller did not have one in his Cabinet —because he
did not want one.
No denials were made by Premier Fuller
and no protests were made by any National-
ist paper at the time; nor have any been
expressed since at the spectacle of a Minis-
try in which exactly the same principle is
followed for the purposes of administering
the State as the circular which General
Rosenthal “cast aside” suggested should be
applied to the administration of the city of
Sydney. When it became necessary to oust
Archdale Parkhill from North Sydney in
the interests of W. M. Hughes an even
more remarkable situation developed. No
one could accuse Mr. Parkhill of not being
a Protestant: the point was taken that his
Protestanism was in some way inad-
equate. The N. Sydney Protestant
Federation opposed him for the Nation-
alist selection. “The Protestants of
this electorate will have their say,” said
a speaker at one of the pre-selection meet-
ings, amidst cheers. “It is not an idle boast
to say that Mr. Parkhill would have been
defeated. We must put loyalty before dis-
loyalty, and Protestant principles before
party expediency. Mr. Parkhill has been
ruined by his consideration for the other
side.” The rift which has developed in the
Fuller lute is understood to be largely sec-
tarian. The- Premier, who, when lie took
office, w-as hailed as superior in sectarianism
to Parkes himself, is now suspect in ultra-
Protestant circles; there is a notion that
Oakes “wants one” of the type of Thomas
Hughes, M.L.C. ; and a haunting feeling
that Carruthers is not sufficiently un-
friendly to the “other side.” The idea ‘is
that the only leader to make the State safe
for Protestantism is Ley. Of course, it is all
transparent bunkum, as obvious in its inten-
tion as the Town Hall circular about which
there have been such vehement protests. But
it has not earned one word of rebuke from that
section of the press which deplored the em-
ployment of the sectarian weapon against
Lord Mayor McEliione. And when,
as the Piddington-Hugiies contest warms
up, a Hughesite enthusiast proclaims
that Piddington— the son and son-in-law of
Anglican clergymen—is a minion of “the
other side,” and hence repellent to true-blue
Protestants—when that stage of the cam-
paign is reached, as reached it is absolutely
certain to be, if Hughes looks like losing,
the daily press will still remain silent. Sec-
tarianism doesn’t appear half so nqxious as
it might when it threatens to win support
for the politician you happen to favor.
National Fighting Qualities.
From one who ought to know : —
In his criticism of “England: by an Overseas Eng-
lishman” (B. 19/10/’22) “A.M.P.” seems to me to
omit everything calculated to tell against his argu-
ment. For instance, in comparing the fighting
qualities of Englishmen, Frenchmen, Canadians; Aus-
tralians and the rest, as evidenced in the late war,
he ignores the fact that it was almost entirely an
English army which broke and ran from the Cambrai-
St. Quentin front in March, 19181 Leaving out of
account Russian hordes and Dago mobs suffering
from moth-eaten discipline, this retirement of Eng-
lish forces in the face of the enemy amounts to
the biggest rout of modern times. In those five
days of retreat the Hun advanced 36 miles. It con-
stitutes a record for the Western Front. What
stopped the Germans from coming right on no one
on our side is in a position to say—being unaware
of the mental state of the Boehe leaders. A lot of
us who were there like to hear it said that the
Aussies stopped Fritz in front of Amiens; but it is
much more likely that the pursuing army overstepped
the pace at which its transport could bring up sup-
plies of food and ammunition, and that those few
lost days proved fatal.
The point I wish to make, however, is that on the
day Haig wrote his hysterical message to the
troops telling them their backs were to the wall,
the number of English regiments clinging to the
line was negligible. The French were on our right,
fighting furiously, and to the left there stretched
northward a thin, dun-colored line made up of Aus-
tralians, Maorilanders and South Africans. Scottish
troops were clinging to Arras (the pivotal centre)
with a tenacity little short of marvellous, while the
Canadians were scattered along the line beyond them
past Lens. They told us the English were fighting
up in Flanders, but when the blow fell there, on
April 9, it was mainly the French and the first Aus-
tralian division that parried it. The French de-
fended Kemmel Hill at the outset, .and were seen in
the Ypres salient. What were they doing on sec-
tors on which they had hitherto not been seen? And
whose places were they taking on a British front ?
It was after this that our military heads descended
to the truth and told us Haig had withdrawn the
English from the line- —that many of the county
regiments extolled by “A.M.P.” wouldn’t fight.
Those who were conversant with the mental state
of many English regiments towards the end of
1917 could readily believe it. The spunk was out
of them. The leavening of forced service men had
done its worst. When Haig laid his plans for the
attack on Passchendaele, in the autumn of that year,
he intended carrying on the assault with English
troops. It is enough to say that, whereas" English
county regiments began the assault, it was Canadians,
Australians and Maorilanders who finished it.
England, in the writer’s opinion, shot the bolt on
her days of glory when she passed the Military Service
Act. A conscript may- be all very well scrapping on
his own dunghill, with his own womenfolk looking
on from behind, but ship him to foreign parts and
he is done. This is one of the reasons also why
Continental conscripts—be they French, Italian or
German or any other —have never done much good
in wars away from home. England won her way
to glory through the spirit of men to whom stoush,
in some form, was the very lifeblood of existence,
and who fought for her in every hole and corner of
the globe. Taking the conscripts of Europe in the
late war, the French, seemingly, were the best sus-
tained. The driving force behind France was its
women. Bitter to a degree, I have heard old hags
\Hio went through the war of ’7O says things about
the Germans that few masculine lips would utter.
With such women behind it a nation has simply got
to fight.
If it was English man-power, as “A.M.P.” alleges,
that carried the burden' of the late war, it carried
it, towards the end, not in the trenches but behind
the line. Good work was no doubt done in muni-
tion works, on transport duty, and in a hundred
other ways by English hands. But as a fighting ani-
trial Atkins slipped a lot towards the end of the
war, and after the second half of it the further the
thing went the more he slipped.
Property in Photographs.
With the arrival of Melbourne’s illustrated
daily the Australian press is concentrating
more strenuously than ever on the photo-
graph as an item of news, even the archaic
Argus having recently fallen into line in
this respect. The practice of publishing
photographs of the house where the horrible
murder occurred, and thereby, as a rule, help-
ing to depreciate the value of all the real
estate in the neighborhood, has long been a
convention'; as, also, has been the practice of
snapping the accused on his way to court or
elsewhere. A man never looks quite so cul-
pable as when, collarless and dishevelled, he
is being escorted by a couple of detectives
to one of -the lower courts on a charge of,
say, murder. And "this is often the first
view that members of the jury who are to
consider his case get of him. Except to
the _ extent that the proceeding gratifies the
curiosity of the morbid, and in the process
sells a few thousand extra newspapers, it
is of no benefit to anyone. Apart from the
moral effect such pictures may have on
imaginative jurors, they are calculated to
cause anguish of mind to many accused per-
sons, not to mention their relatives. Of the
guilty, it will be said that they deserve it,
and more; but even the guilty are assumed
under our laws to be innocent until an
adverse verdict has been given against
them, and, furthermore, many accused
persons are eventually shown to be inno-
cent. It is in the interests both of justice
and decency that the practice of snapping
suspected malefactors should be stopped.
Rut special legislation would no doubt be
needed to do it. Not so, probably, with another
form of ministering to the impertinent curi-
osity of the reading public, which is becom-
ing a convention equally with the practice
of coining money out of the counterfeit
presentments of criminals, genuine and
otherwise. A Sydney weekly announced,
the other Sunday, that it had already re-
ceived “nearly 500 snapshots from amateur
photographers sending pictures of bathing
scenes.” The question arises: Has the paper
the right to publish all these photographs?
We know that anyone who is photographed
and pays for it has a copyright in the re-
sult ; _also, that if there is no payment the
copyright belongs to the photographer. What
is the position where there has been no pay-
ment, but no consent on the part of the
subject either? So far as this paper knows
it still awaits the decision of a Court of Jus-
tice. Imagine, for the sake of argument, that
a girl with an old-fashioned distaste for
mixed bathing has gone into the surf from
her parents’ home on a quiet beach; and
imagine, further, that someone eager to win
a snapshot competition photographs her with-
out her knowledge, and is successful with
the result. Has a newspaper any right to
present her to thousands of readers garbed
as she never was publicly in her life? If
so, a still more enterprising sheet might
logically conclude that it would be safe to
institute a snapshot competition in which
females were depicted in their nightgowns
or other intimate garments. As a matter of
fact, practically all this free-and-easy photo-
graphing which has achieved such a vogue
of late is probably illegal, and some of it
certainly is. The first intimation the gen-
eral public will get of its rights in the
matter will perhaps take the form of a suit
on the part of some outraged citizen who has
been unautliorisedly snapped for some total
stranger’s profit, culminating in smashing
damages against the newspaper responsible
for printing the picture.
A Perishing; Autocracy.
Whatever happens on December 16, it is
certain that the Commonwealth Bank will
not be. allowed to remain under one-man con-
trol. Hughes’s feeble sneers at the advo-
cates of reform suggest that he would like
to maintain the present regime if he had the .
power, but the hanking autocracy is perish-
ing as surely as his own autocracy in mat-
ters of government. When the time comes
for a vote to be taken on the Country party’s
proposal that the bank should be governed by
a board of directors, the majority will include
a large proportion of Nationalists and Labor
members. Men of all parties have been an-
tagonised by the rich architectural monopoly
granted to J. and 11. G. Kirkpatrick, and
by the repeated snubs administered to mem-
bers seeking information on such topics.
They strongly object to the institution
butting into controversial matters like
the war-service homes, the Moore-street
(Sydney) extension, and the unification
of railway gauges, recalling that, when
the Rank of the IJ.S. came under sus-
picion of trespassing beyond the normal func-
tions of banking, Andrew Jackson revoked
its charter. They are likewise highly criti-
cal of the “Commonwealth’s” extensively-
advertised profits, pointing out that it has
had the use of huge unexpended loan funds
on absurdly easy terms; and are openly in-
credulous of the oft-repeated assertion' that
it has saved Australia millions in various
unspecified ways. The one-man bank gets
a lot of cheap boosting from one-eyed parti-
sans or persons who are merely ill-informed.
But its achievements are inconsiderable along-
side those of the relatively small Bank of
M.L., which in nine years has returned the
Government £1,516,000 in income-tax,
£126,700 in land-tax (the Commonwealth
Bank pays neither), £528,750 in dividends
on £875,000 found by the Government,
and £37p,000 in bonus shares. This in
addition to lending out about £7,000,000
more in Maoriland than the one-man concern
has advanced in Australia. Nor does the
latter’s savings-bank branch compare favor-
ably with the State organisations. Its
intrusion into this department of banking
added another complication to the dual-con-
trol tomfoolery which is the curse of Austra-
lian government, and the results have not
been brilliant. In 1920 the management
negotiated with the Queensland and Westra-
lian Governments for the absorption of their
Savings Banks. Theodore agreed, thinking
he was doing a great stroke of business, for
his State.- Mitchell preferred to adopt a
wait-and-see attitude. The Groper Premier
Do You Remember?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Do you remember how this Morris Hughes
Has lived a decade on his changing views
Of Capita] and Labor, how of yore,
With Governments at peace, his thought of
war
Was Labor ranged against the hungry Trust,
That stole the butter from the worker’s
crust,
Serving the purpose of the bloated push
Whom Labor leaders all had sworn to
crush?—
Do you remember
How this loud leader was by Labor sent
To preach his Gospel Guff in Parliament,
And make the glad Millennium, when it
came,
A proud memorial to Billy’s name?
Do you remember
How, when young Labor Leagues at first
began
To run their show upon the Caucus plan,
And Watson’s Government held nerveless
sway
A little while, and then, to its dismay,
■Was outed by the Deakin crowd, how
Hughes—
The sweets of office ever loath to lose—
Was likened by his victor to a child
(An epigram whereat good cynics smiled),
“Torn, screaming from the tart-shop” and
its joys,
So keen his appetite, so loud his noise,
Do you rememberf
Do you remember how a figurehead
Named Fisher came to pass, whilst Billy
led?
The Referendum was the word employed
By which injurious Trusts would be de-
stroyed ;
Then Labor’s rights would come into their
own,
With Billy Hughes as power behind- the
Throne, •
And every worker’s wife in new silk dress
Would utter thanks to God and loudly bless
The day when all Australia voted “Yes” —
Do you remember?
Do you remember when the war-plague took
Our Anzac boys, that Labor oiiteooked Cook,
And Billy Hughes, the booster, seized the
Grown,
Becoming soon a patriot of renown:
Went off to England in a secret way,
Told Britain how to win the bloody fray,
Then came back here, a god of tin, or straw,
Enforced conscription ere ’twas passed by
law C
(Whereby ho looked an autocratic ass
Because conscription never came to pass) ;
Fixed up a compact with the Liberals,
And changed some bitter foes to artful pals:
Went off again to Europe, and once more
Returned to play the game he’d played
before, ' - ■ *
Swearing, by all his hopes aijd all his fears,
He’d put the stranglehold on profiteers,
Reduce false prices, making one-pound notes
Worth thirty bob, -if Billjim gave him
votes —-
And then, despite his- frenzied flow of gab,
His vows to them he was abbut, i .to stab.
He introduced the shameless,, sinful Grab —
Do you reyiember?
Do you remember what that same Grab
meant,
That sudden rise of sixty-six per cent.
On what the House allowed itself of old,
Ere Hughes each party’s conscience had
cajoled ?
It meant that lie, himself, had scored a rise
Through finding grace in Trust and Com-
bine’s eyes:
That he, himself, the erstwhile raging scourge
Of Capital, was now about to purge
His politics of all that made them seem
Antipathetic to the Goldbug’s dream,
And must in future bend a kindly brow
On those who’d found his five-and-twentv
thou.
For William Morris Hughes, whose word
and deed
Had “saved the Empire”—in its hour of
need.
Do you, remembert
Do you remember all the waster spent
In piling up the cost of government !
To giddy heights? And all to gain his ends—
Creating billets to secure new “friends”
And swell the grandeur of himself, the King.
He’s game to say he’ll do whatever thing
Would keep him where his Nibs delights to
pose
(No weed than vain conceit more quickly
grows),
Believing in his heart that he is It,
The glass of wisdom and the mould of wit.
Do you remember
What William squandered, and will squan-
der yet
Unless you spare the country sore regret,
And queer his pitch, bid him go hide his face
And leave a decent man to fill his place,
The while his party breathes its great relief
At having lost its rash, despotic chief?
Small eel-like Hughes will twist and scream
again,
But in the tart-shop let him not remain
To fill himself with rich, inflated puffs
And feed disciples with his stale old guffs.
Let Billy’s knell the party bell now toll:
Be “Exit Hughes” your password at the
poll—
In that phrase Wisdom both begins and ends.
Do you remember
Next December, friends.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


The Ideal NATURAL Food for Summer
GRANOSE BISCUITS
If troubled with indigestion eat GRANOSB
BISCUITS dry. The thorough masticatim
of the flakes induces the flow of saliva, which
the digestive organs need. GRANOSB
BISCUITS are digested in half an hour.
GRANOSE BISCUITS have become extremely popular throughout
Australasia, and now form the main item on the breakfast menu in
hundreds upon hundreds of homes.
Easily digested, this fine wheat food is beneficial alike for adults and
children. GRANOSE supplies the body with new energy, new strength,
new vitality.
GRANOSE BISCUITS make a delightful breakfast with hot milk or
cream —a delicious dessert with stewed fruit and cream. Try
GRANOSE with poached eggs.
Your grocer sells GRANOSE BISCUITS in large packets at lid.
SERVED DAILY AT THE
SANITARIUM HEALTH FOOD CO.,
VEGETARIAN CAFE, MASSAGE PARLORS, BDB GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WHOLESALE WAREHOUSE: 319 SUSSEX STREET. AND IN ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND^
must have been on good terms with himself
when he read the subjoined paragraph in
the Queensland Auditor-General s report:
It is provided that the profit or loss of the amal-
gamated Savings Banks business shall be equally
divided between or borne by the Commonwealth Bank
and the Queensland Government. The result has been
that, during the year 1921-22, the state Government
has been called upon to pay £13,086 9s. 9u., maue
up as follows :■ — T
r Loss.
Half-year ended June 30, 1921 ~£22,799 16 4
Half-year ended Bee. 31 .. * • 3,3(3 3 &
£26,172 19 6
State Government’s proportion ..£13,086 9 9
A loss of 120,172 19s. Od. in running an old-
established banking business for 12 months
is rather astonishing. More especially as the
Vic, Savings Bank, which is administered by
five Commissioners and an Inspector-General,
and which pays 1 per cent, more interest
up to £SOO than its Commonwealth competi-
tor, announces a net profit in 1921-22 of
£137,283. The Queensland taxpayer is en-
titled to some explanation of how the £suo-a-
-week debit balance occurred. But he is not
likely to get it.
Misplaced Braconianism.
The smashing sentence of 10 weeks’ hard
labor, imposed in Sydney last week on 23
members of the crew of the Moeraki, is just
the kind of occurrence that makes the prose-
lytising revolutionary rub Ins hands in joy-
ful anticipation of more trouble to come. In
the first place the men had. a sort of a case;
and though Sydney’s short-sighted daily
papers did not state it for the benefit of the
general public, there is not the slightest
doubt that the seamen and their adherents
know every detail of it. Briefly, the Moeraki,
which used to be fired by a dozen men as a
Maoriland vessel, is only to be fired by eight
now that she is the property of Lord Incii-
CArE’s Shipping Trust. It was this change
in a custom with the sanction of 1G years
behind it which provoked the dispute. And
now as to the heinousness of the offence.
For a crew to refuse duty while on the high
seas —'thus, perhaps, endangering human lite
as well as property—is clearly a crime de-
serving of the severest punishment. But
it is equally clear that a strike in harbor
comes in a different category. At the worst
it is only a breach of contract —a breach
involving private and public loss and incon-
venience, perhaps, yet still only a breach of
contract. For generations the easy-going
sailor-man has accepted the position and
“done his month” uncomplainingly when he
has decided to abandon a life on the ocean
wave at some port where he was not legally
authorised to leave his ship. Because of this
practice Long Bay, the Sydney gaol which
now houses the Moeraki’s crew, is seldom
without its quota of British tars, who
qualify there, in a sense, to become Aus-
tralian citizens. Was the action of the
men of the Moeraki two and a half times
more flagitious than that of the frequent
type of sailor who refuses duty for
no reason whatever except that he wants to
stay in Australia, and who knows before-
hand that he will get “a month” for h:s
action? Most, if not all, of these men are
first offenders. Some are just the types
that the Act was intended to save from the
prison stigma—impressionable youngsters,
lured into an act of foolishness by the bad
example and unscrupulous counsel of com-
rades old enough to know better. The spec-
tacle is constantly witnessed in the courts
of burglars and other dangerous malefactors
being bound over, on conviction, to come up
for sentence if called on. Was any one of
the Moeraki strikers guilty of worse than
burglary? The fact of the case is they have
been sentenced under a law which, in spirit,
dates back to the period of the press-gang.
It is not only unsuited to modern conditions,
but if handled on a few more occasions as
it was at the Sydney Central Police Court
last week, is quite likely to lead to one of
those upheavals which our llowies and
Walsiies so ardently desire. A sailor who
walks off his ship at a port, whether sing’e
or in company, may be a reprehensible char-
acter, but the general sentiment of the 20th
century declines to regard him as the per-
petrator of a serious crime; and the C urt
which treats him as a criminal stultifies
itself in consequence, and to that extent mu it
help the cause of anarchy.
W.A.’s Section of the Tropics.
A mild request for the preparation of “a
return showing the assets and liabilities of
the northern half of Westralia, as a pre-
liminary step towards creating a sep““’V“
State,” has been turned down by the Perth
Assembly. The information would be useful
and wouldn’t cost much to obtain —it might
even be collected by the absurd Department
of the North-West, run by a Minister who
has made one hurried trip to Wyndham,
and by a Protector of Aborigines who never
saw an aborigine till a few years ago but
a point of dignity is involved. The Perth
nolitic’ans have authorised scores of bootless
inquiries, but they are not going to have doubts
thrown on their capacity to develop and
rule a remote and immense region which
four-fifths of them have never seen. Still,
there is no getting away from the fact that
the Northerners are dead tired of Perth.
Beyond build.ng the W.vndham freezers and
the Hedland-Marble Bar railway (both
political jobs and, therefore, white elephants),
together with a few jetties and police-
stations, Perth has done nothing for them.
All their progress has been made n Perth’s
despite. And, considering the limits im-
posed by enormous distances and a scanty
population, the progress has been consmtei-
able. Most of Westralia’s sheep and nearly
all its cattle graze north of 20, The world’s
biggest pearling industry has its habitat
there. Turtles, dugong and whales are
caught; in fact, a Norwegian whaling com-
pany has had a splendid season at Point
Cioiites. A fair amount of gold is turned
out, and copper, tin and other metals were
produced in abundance until the markets
crashed. The Yampi Sound iron-ore deposits
are the most extensive in the Common-
wealth. For years the Japanese have had
their eyes on them, and the Queensland
Government has taken an option over some
of the leases. Petroliferous measures have
THE SELF-PORTRAIT.
ARTIST: “What do you think of it?”
CRITIC: “Imagination excellent —likeness rotten!” .
been proved to exist, and at least two com-
panies are engaged in boring operations,
while others have prospecting parties out.
One of the bores has struck the onlv free
oil thus far discovered on the continent.
Lastly, the only sizable rivers and (Albany
excepted) the only natural harbors in \\est-
rain! are beyond Capricorn. It is undeniable
that Northern W.A. has been hard hit by
the slump in metals, dead meat, pearls and
pearlshell. Even so, a return covering a
period of 10 or 20 years would almost cer-
tainly show that it has returned far more in
faxes than has been spent on it—in short,
that it is the only part of Westralia that has
consistently paid its wav. But a document of
that description wouldn’t suit the purposes
of the Perth politicians.
e
“Sucre”: “W.P.D.” (B. 19/10/’22) is wel-
come to his Dago preferences, but he talks
like a politician when he suggests that the
sugar industry of N. Queensland was mori-
bund until Antonio hopped in. I lived
long enough in the cane districts of the
North to learn that Britishers and those of
British descent are fully capable of making
the game pay, and without nigger labor at
that. David Hunter (who is emphatically
not a Lombardian) bought gome land from
the C.S.K., after acting as overseer of labor
for them, and his first season’s crop yielded
him ISOO tons, which increased to 2832 in
less than six years. Messrs. Barclay,
Jodrell, Stevenson, Backhouse and Sug-
den never saw Italy in their lives, and they
cut 7950 tons of cane off their land, between
them. This was long before Lombardy
started to invade Queensland, and after the
Kanaka had been sent home to his Mary.
As a matter of fact, it would be just as
rational to say that the fish and oyster
trade of Sydney was a dying game before
the advent of the Giuseppes and the An-
tonios, as to endorse “W.P.D.’s” wail about
the sugar industry. The real secret of the
Dago’s success is Communism —not the. com-
pulsory variety which Lenin and his lot
instituted, and which, having no basis in
morality, is bound to fail; but that form of
voluntary Communism which the Redeemer
preached, and which certain small and iso-
lated communities in foreign lands are some-
times able to
As “Groper” views it: —
The sectarian issue is still working hard in Aus-
tralian politics. Along with personal animosities
it caused the defeat of J. J. Simons in the East
Perth fW.A.) by-election. Simons, elected last year
as a Laborite, refused to come to heel when ordered
by the Perth Trades Hall to explain his association,
as a proprietor, with the Perth newspaper strike, and
resigned his seat, announcing that he was fighting
for the principle that a member was responsible
only to his constituents. He weakened the effect
of this declaration by coming out as a Nationalist.
Two other candidates- — Franklin, a city councillor,
and Hep ping st one, a returned soldier —stood in
the same interest, but they were refused endorse-
ment by the egregious National Federation. The
Labor nominee was T. J. Hughes, a civil servant
by profession, and a prominent actor in the Trades
Hall proceedings against Simons. Preferential vot-
ing obtains in W.A., and when the first votes were
counted Hughes had 1354, Simons 1177, Hepping-
stone 628 and Franklin 599, the total non-Labor
vote being 2404. In normal times this would
have meant a win for the leading Nationalist by at
least 900 votes. But Simons, though a man of
ability, has bitter enemies. Rejected for active
service he was a camp adjutant in the early part
of the war, and became a leading anti-conscription-
ist during the controversies of 1916 and 1917 —this
in a State where the ayes were enormously in the
majority. Many Nationalists objected to an ex-
Labor “anti” being selected by the preposterous
Nat. Fed. in preference to Heppingstone, who had
polled extremely well against Simons last year.
Above all, the 'latter is an R.C. So, instead of
nine-tenths of Heppingstone's No. 2 votes going to
Simons, three-fourths of them went to the Labor
man, and the latter, although in a minority of
1050 after the first count, was elected by a
majority of 357. The thing is without parallel
since Australia adopted the transferable vote. But
sectarianism and personal bias tend to blot out
party lines. They may conceivably play some strange
pranks on December 16.
“Murranji” : In the old days, when there
were no railways and not much in the way
of roads, stock-droving played a big part in
the development of Queensland. Then the
iron horse arrived and the drover and his
plant faded from the settled districts into
the land of Sunset. However, since Theo-
dore and co. took on the job of caring for
the man on the land, it has become more
and more costly to use stock trains, and the
drover looks like coming into his own again.
Here is an instance. A cattle breeder
recently asked the Kailway Depart-
ment for a price to rail 300 head of
cattle from Duaringa to Rockhampton—dis-
tance 66 miles. Someone in the office
drawled “£70,” and went on adding up
deficits. The bloke who made the inquiry,
after getting over the first shock, resorted to
arithmetic, and found that the quote worked
out at 0.85 pence per head per mile. (The
second-class passenger fare is only 1.41 pence
per mile.) One of the old, disappearing
tribe of drovers was then asked what he
would take the job on for. His price was
£2O, which worked out at 0.29 pence per
mile per head. So the owner saved about
four bob a head, while the taxpayer pays
interest' on the idle rolling stock. Also the
man on the land, to avoid the helping hand
of the philanthropic Theodore, goes back
to the methods that were hoary when the
Israelites left Egypt.
——•
“Cutter” (from New Plymouth, M.L.) :
Tell “675” (B. 26/10/’22) and his fellow-critics of
Australian canned fruit that practically all the
trouble was due to inferior tinplates, imported at a
time when manufacturers had to take what they could
get. This was not peculiar to the Australian product
or to fruit alone. Here, in M.L., the Yankee is
recapturing the tinned-fruit market with his lower
prices, but already the public is growling about the
quality compared with the Australian brands it used
to get. TO this port the freight from San Francisco
is 15 dollars (say 675. 6d.) per 40 feet, from Sydney
71s, from Brisbane 925., which shows the American
advantage. The duty on American fruit is 40 per
cent., on British 25 per cent., but the Australian pro-
duct pays 35 per cent. What W. M. Hughes ought
to do is to convince Massey that the Queensland pine-
apple is as British as that of the Singapore Chow’s,
and that it would not seriously injure the Empire to
send our money over the Tasman instead of to the
Yankees. Certainly, in some cases, your label is not
attractive, but there are bright exceptions, and, writ-
ing as one who has handled thousands of cases of
tinned fruit, take my word there is nothing wrong in
quality or condition with the Australian article to-day.
“Maki” on Papua and the Navigation Ordi-
nance :
Para rubber, lifted to lOfd. a pound, has put a
thrill into the veins of the rubber planters of Papua.
Should the price rise to a bob, the industry will be
on its feet again, for the gentle art of cutting the
overhead has been so well worked out during the last
year or so, that Papuan rubber can now be pro-
duced at almost Bd. f.o.b. Moresby. This allows
about Id. lb. profit, which works out in the case of
the average plantation, allowing 3001 b. dry rubber
per acre of 100 trees, at £1 ss. an acre. It is
nothing to write home about, but, still, it is a
profit; and rubber lands in Papua and the neighbor-
ing mandatory territory, with rubber fixed at Is. a
pound, will return their unfortunate owners some-
thing more than an overdraft at the bank. It is
significant that the price did not soar until the Hun
came into the market —the stricken copra planters
are taking heart from this, and trusting the same
happy coincidence may touch their product. But
even if the market rates for our staple products do
return to those of 1916, the damage done Papua by
the Navigation Ordinance will take years to repair.
What is the good of a lucrative price for, say,
copra when you have to ship it 4000 extra miles
and pay corresponding freights and handling charges,
to get it on the market ? And the other end of the
story is the same thing. Rice, tobacco and other
essential items in the running of a plantation get
hit up in cost by the same stupid policy. If Papua
were given the opportunity of fast transport direct
to Europe or America or Singapore by competing
lines of steamers, the planters here would have a
chance of making good. But the settlers are dis-
franchised and do not count in matters political. So
Heaven knows when this will happen.


The Commonwealth Electoral Act.
The addresses of the artists whose pictures deal
with the coming Federal election in this issue are,
respectively, Percy Leason, J. C. Bancks, 214 George-
street, Sydney; and Tom Glover, 268 Flinders-street,
Melbourne.
POWER USERS
Install a “Peebles” Motor where you wish to economise in power consumption. Peebles Electrical
Machinery is noted for sturdy construction, reliable performance and high efficiency.
SOME OF OUR STOCK:—
27£H.P., 720R.P.M., SLIP-RING TYPE .. . 40 C. RATING
221H.P., 967R.P.M., „ TYPE 40C.
15H.P., 965R.P.M., „ TYPE 40°C.
12H.P., 960R.P.M., SQUIRREL-CAGE TYPE, 40" C.
7|H.P., 947R.P.M., „ „ TYPE, 40 C.
PRICES AND PARTICULARS FROM:—
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown (City), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Hunger-striking runs in the McSwiney
family. A brother, the Mayor of Cork, died
through an overdose of it. His sister Mary
announced, the other day, that she would
also take the fatal step unless she got some-
thing. Fears are entertained that another
sister, Muriel, who is reported to have a
grievance of sorts, may follow suit. The
idea is capable of wide application. Pro-
bably Ley, of N.S.W., would have got
the Deputy-Premiership his soul craved
for if he had hunger-struck for it, with his
constituents offering up fervent prayers in
the street outside his house under the guid-
ance of his election agent.
Some keen judges of political form are
tipping* Davy defeat in his hither-
to impregnable stronghold of Newcastle
(N.S.W.). The redistribution carved a
huge slice of coalmining votes from the
electorate. Willings, the Nationalist, is a
Protestant minister and a leading member
of the organisation which was a large factor
in Skelton’s rather amazing victory at
the State election. Moreover, the presence
of Gardiner as an independent Laborite
with a strong personal following won t help
Watkins a bit. However, the solid ex-miner
has been in the Reps, for 21 years, and will
take a lot of digging out.
The S.A. Liberals are running candidates
for four of the State’s seven seats in the
llous* of Reps. Three of them —Cameron
in Barker, Ritchie in Angas, and Duncan-
Ilughes in Boothby—have excellent chances
of winning. McLeay, the other man, will
Drobably beat the Hugheselier in Adelaide,
but whether he can lick the Laborite is
doubtful. Apropos, the ridiculous Pearce
recently assured a Perth pressman that the
breach between the S.A. Nats, and Libs,
had been “bridged.” In point of fact, the
brick-' has been breached.
R. J. Alcock, who was honorary treasurer
of the Hughes testimonial, has been baited
into controversy. Alcock mentions that l ie.
subscribers deposited £4500 m the little
hat, and that “far and away the target
number contributed in amounts from 2s. bd.
to £25.” But he doesn’t say where the rest
of the £25,000 came from or who supplied
it —or any of it. If the gift was a hona fide
expression of popular admiration, why all
this desperate secrecy regarding details !
Looking round for something agreeable to
say about the Hughesite nominee for Robert-
son (N.S.W.), the eagle-eyed S. M. llekald
pounced on the fact that “during several
years of the war period he was an assessor
in the Federal Taxation Department.” No
discovery could be more effectual in a farm-
ing electorate. It is as if a candidate were
recommended to Cromac, Belfast, as an earn-
est Sinn Feiner, or to Cork County as a life-
long member of the L.O.L.
It required an all-night sitting to force the
measure against jury-squaring through Vic.
Assembly. Labor stonewalled, and the
Ministry stuck it out. In deference to
his own supporters Lawson reshaped the
measure to provide that the Crown, like a
prisoner, should have no access ,to the panel
till the day of trial, that J. Hops should
make no use of information obtained when
serving jury lists for the advantage of the
Crown, and that occupations, but not
addresses, of jurymen should be read out in
Court when names are called. The Uppah
Chambah, which had first go at the bill, has
now to deal with the amendments.
“Wodgil”; The result of the British elec-
tions is that the Conservatives have a majo-
rity of 79 over all other parties. They won
347 seats, the Laborites 142, the Asquith
Liberals 62, the Lloyd Georgians 47, and
there are 17 Independents. Relatively to
their strength in the last House of Com-
mons, the Asquithians fared better than any
other party. Labor did pretty well, but it
was greatly helped by the Liberal split and
the first-past-the-post provision, together
with the distress and discontent occasioned
by nearly two million electors being out of
work. It won’t be helped at all by the
A DIVERSION.
BOGEY MAN BILL: “He mightn't think it’s real; hut it ought to keep his mind off my
frightful past.”
accession of such cranks and oddities as
Ramsay Macdonald, the pacifist; Sidney
Webb, the exponent of a dead socialism;
Zaklatava, the Par see; and Morell, the de-
featist, who is pro everything that isn’t
British. The English would have to be
completely mad to entrust their destinies
to such persons.
N.S.W. Premier Fuller quelled the tea-
cup mutiny in the N.S.W. Ministerial party
—rolled a stone, as it were, to the mouth
of the Ley-Weaver “cave” —with a decision
and assertiveness he might show oftener, but
which he certainly can show sometimes. His
way of bringing the malcontents to their
bearings was simply by announcing that he
had exercised his undoubted right of appoint-
ing Oakes as Deputy-Premier during his pro-
jected absence abroad. In fact, while the
mischief-makers were discussing whether
they would allow him to take such a step
without consulting the party, he had taken
it, and he dared them to question his action.
They didn’t, being apparently too much
taken aback to do more than indulge in some
face-saving jaw about having tried to estab-
lish a principle. “It wouldn’t take much to
settle that ’ere Dowler,” said Sam Weller to
Mr. Pickwick on a certain occasion. Fuller
certainly settled his Dowlers in double-quick
time when they showed signs of becoming
too arrogant and pretentious.
“Xox”: British Labor will soon drop its
bowyangs and wear a silk hat. Among its
new members are a Newcastle shipowner by
the name of Adams, two Iv.C.’s, Graham
Hastings and E. G. Hemmerde (a Diamond
Sculls winner and part-author of “The But-
terfly on the Wheel”), and a parson, the
Rev. Campbell Stephen, of Glasgow. A
brilliant new recruit is Arthur Ponsonby,
once private sec. to Campbell Bannerman,
and an intellectual with many blue-blooded
relations. He was a Liberal for over 10
years. C. P. Trevelyan, another ex-Liberal,
is also in the Labor camp. Parliamentary
Secretary to the Board of Education, he re-
signed his billet in 1914 as a protest against
British intervention in the war. C. R. Bux-
ton, the clever son of a former Governor of
South Aus., has found a vent for his radi-
calism in the same crowd.
Bob Best, of Kooyong (Vic.), is trying
to rehabilitate himself in the affections of
Hughes. All last session Best kept aloof
from the Priminister, and his voice was
often raised in criticism of the Government.
Once or twice he gave the impression that
he might point his animadversions with a
hostile vote. But now the situation has
changed. Best is hastening to get back
under the Nationalist umbrella. He. assures
the world in tones broken with emotion that
Hughes is a great lawgiver and thinker. The
autocrat must smile cynically at these pro-
fessions of regard, though he is careful to
accept them publicly as the outpourings from
a noble heart.
“Lexite”: The decline of Labor is attested
by the difficulty it experiences in digging up
candidates. In the days of its strength it
contested every seat in the Senate and the
House of Reps., but those days are gone.
Last week it was unable to find opponents
for Ryrie in Warringah, Pratten in Martin,
and for three other N.S.W. constituencies.
Charlton, who sits for Hunter, is the sole
Laborite elected without a fight. In Vic-
toria, Watt, who has declared himself
Liberal, gets a walkover for Balaclava, and
there are no Laborites offering for Echuca,
Flinders or Wimmera. In Queensland,
Lilley is uncontested; in Tasmania Darwin
has been abandoned to the enemy, and only
three of five seats are sought by A.L.P. men
in Westralia, where Gregory has been re-
turned unopposed for Swan and Andy Clem-
enson, who has more pluck than discretion,
weighed in at the last moment with a forlorn-
hope nomination for Perth. Barker (S.A.) is
another place from which the A.L.P. banner
is missing. In effect. Labor has presented
its opponents with 14 seats.
Kink O’Malley is out for Bass (T.) as the
sole member of the Sound Finance party,
which, he reckons, is the only party the
Commonwealth can afford to take seriously
these times. He lightly brushes aside his
20 years’ connection with Labor, explaining
that he wants to get back to his old “King
O’Malley, Unlimited,” the title he wore when
first appealing to the Commonwealth elec-
tors of Darwin (T.), and “before I joined
the party that agreed to help me establish
the Commonwealth Bank.” The other Bass
candidates are sitting-member Jackson
(Nat.), Hegarty (Ind.) and Higgins (Lab.).
If the anti-Hughes spirit is half as strong
in Bass as many prominent Nationalists say
it is, the O’Malley’s chance is by no means
hopeless.
The candidates vocationally considered: —
More than a fifth of the 199 nominees for the
House of Reps, are farmers and graziers. Reckoning
in ouchardists, 48 get their living off the land. Of
lawyers there are half that number, and 12 are distri-
buted over 10 city and country electorates. In Vic. two,
Maxwell and Foster (Labor), are battling in Fawkner,
and another pair, Best and Latham, are standing for
Kooyong. Journalists are fairly numerous, and include
Senator Millen, J. H. Catts, Scullin, Anstey, Higgs
and the Liberal aspirant for Henty (Vic.), Harry
Gullett. There is a fair sprinkling of organisers,
secretaries and the like, and Earle Page, Maloney
and Neville Ilowse represent Medicine. Speaker
Johnson swears he is an “artist” ; IV. F. Fitzgerald,
Labor candidate for Wentworth, is a botanist; whilst
geology is the passion of 11. I. Jensen, one of the
Labor quartette for the Senate in Queensland. Some
of the other occupations mentioned are not without
humor. Foley, the mfggety Nationalist who speaks
for lialgoorlie, has no hesitation in dubbing himself
a “legislator.” Gabb, who will probably be the
despised and rejected of Angas (S.A.), flatters him-
self with tho same label. Blakeley is a “member of
the House of Representatives,” though his salary
was stopped some days ago. Blundell calls himself
a “tobacco-twister.”
Lavish were the Priminister’s promises
when he toured the Wide Bay (Q.) electo-
rate iu the interest of Corser. But he might
have saved his breath. The ancient is sent
for. Not even the resolute sacrifice of his
ziff will avail him anything against the C.P.
candidate, J. A. Heading, whose very name
is prophetic. Seven State constituencies and
parts of two others are included in Wide
Bay. Two are held by Laborites and seven
by Cocky members. There is nothing left
for Corser. Neither can it be urged that
Heading is a Bolshevik or has been bribed
with German gold. The only bit of Hun metal
he owns is a fragment of Krupp steel which
the surgeons have been unable to shift. He
got it where he collected the D.C.M. and
the M.M.
The outlook in the Speck:—
The Labor faith of the Speck is a low-spirited
affair nowadays. For the first time in 16 years
only one Labor candidate (ex-State member J. E.
Ogden) is nominated for the Senate. No other
Labor man applied for endorsement, and the Labor
executive, having no funds to speak of and no organ-
isation worth mentioning, didn’t seriously attempt
to complete the “ticket.” The story goes that Ogden
himself preferred to run alone, presumably reckoning
that a full Labor team would make the contest look
too much like a party fight, and so restrict the cross-
voting by which he hopes to score. Darwin, the
West Coast electorate, is without a Labor candidate
at all. The sitting member Bell (Nat.) is opposed
by two Country Party nominees, Whitsitt and Camp-
bell. The latter is a new man. Whitsitt was a
freakish frisker in the local Assembly for a dozen
years. He will get a lot of votes from the West
Coast miners, and his chance of ringing the bell is
by no means remote. In Franklin Ben Watkins
(Lab.) and Seabrook (Nat.) are opposing McWil-
liams, but nobody expects McWilliams to “drop his
sinker.” Neither has Palamountain (Lab.) a ghost
of a chance against one of the C.P. trio —Atkinson,
Campbell and Norman Cameron —iu Wilmot. For
Denison (Hobart) railwayman Laird Smith is
opposed by two former Senators (O’Keefe and Mul-
cahy), a pressman (Broinowski, associate editor of the
Mercury) and insurance-agent Blanchard. O’Keefe
will top the poll for Labor in the primaries, but
only by a miracle can he stay there. At present it
looks as if Laird Smith will again scramble in, but
if somebody would undertake to flood the fires of
Smithfield with beer, and keep them soaked until
after election day, the Denison contest would be very
full of interest.
WHAT ABOUT IT?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“What about that £25,000?” Mr. Hughes was
asked at North Sydney, but the chairman hurriedly
intervened with “This has been a splendid meeting.
Do not finish it by an insulting question.”
Whence did it come, that competence substantial
That someone tossed him like a cricket-ball,
Observing simply “Catch” ? What power financial
Inspired benevolence so prodigal?
Whose were the hands the largess out that ladled,
Heaping their eleemosynary gold
On him who ’neath some lucky star was cradled
Like fairy godmothers? You won’t be told.
Reeking with innuendo and suggestion,
It really is a most insulting question.
Who gathered round, like Greeks of old, ferentes
Dona —and yet mistrusted not for that —
And licked their lips, and bunged their tens and
twenties,
Hundreds and thousands, too, into the hat?
Hasn’t their anonymity a savor
Of something rat-like? Was their gratitude
Evoked by some anticipated favor
Or merely past performance? Don’t be rude.
If merit’s generous patrons undetected
Prefer to lurk, their wish must be respected.
What were the shining virtues manifested
That podgy hands seized cheque-books to subscribe
Baksheesh for one most savagely detested
For years and years of all the Labor tribe ?
Gifts there may be conveying no reflection
On donors or recipient, no doubt:
If this was such, why the pronounced objection
To having it recalled ? Oh, cut it out!
In Nationalist ranks this —er —subvention
Is ruled a breach of etiquette to mention.
His job’s to tell of all he gave Australia,
Not of a part of what he got therefor;
Of wheat and wool in pools and, inter alia ,
Sugar (in bags), and how we won the war;
His game’s to show himself his country’s saviour
And not to be interrogated how
He fits it in with statesmanlike behaviour
To take a tip of five-and-twenty thou
From givers unrevealed and sources hidden.
Label that query, once for all, “Forbidden.”
x.s.w.
T. THE R.


SAVING THE NATION.


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street,.
Melbourne. -
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Christchurch,
Dunedin and Napier.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety uso
Detonators
Cartridges
The Hadfield System of Steel Manufacture is the cumula-
tive result of over 40 years’ research and practical experience
in the Largest Steel Foundry in the World.
The Hadfield System has now been established in our
works by picked men from Sheffield, and we are now pro-
ducing Steel Castings and Forgings of the same High Quality
that has made the world-wide reputation of Hadfields, Ltd.,
Sheffield. * * * *
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland State Government Insur-
ance Office
Life Department.
EX- To Re- Itfe-
Income. Claims, penses. serves, serves..
1918 .. £16,313 £313 £6,038 £9,962 £9,962
191,9 : . 60,656 5,696 29,608 25,352 35,314
195>Q • . 9i,897 13,031 f 1,552 40,314 75,62'8
l£»2l . . 148,2dl 16,867 51,303 80,031 155,659
1922 .. 294,594 34,210 66,487 103,897 259,556
Established five years ago, this branch of
the State Office has been a record-smasher
in several respects. A valuation as at De-
bhmber, 31 last shdwed policies in force total-
ling £4,195,200,, and at the balance at June
30 they probably exceeded 4f millions;
Other offices have been making greater pace
fit police-writing, but never before has &
yoiing Australian office put assurances dn
its bboks at such low cost, and there are
Very few even among the big concerns which
afe writing new business at a cheaper rate;
Costs have been So favorable from thb begin-
hing that after only three years the actuary
rbcommended a 30s. fi.e. bonus on whole-life
participating policies and 20s. p.c. on en-
dowments. Similar bonuses have beep re-
peated for the past year; The basis ,df
valuation has also aided the bonds dis-
tributions, for the State Office liabilities are
estimated on the assumption that funds will
earn 4 p.c. over , the life of policies; whereas
did sbeieties and proprietaries alldw dnly 3
P.c. interest.
. The Life department of the Queefaslfind
Sta,te Office began tindet exceptionally fav-
orable qonditidns. The organisation created
td handle cfijnpulsory insurances finder the
Workmen’s Cbmpensatiofa, Act had been thor-
oughly developed when the first Life policy
ivas writteii, So the branch became mdre dr
less a sideline .of an, established business:
the Life branch has, ndt
been burdened pith heavy Cstablish-
inent and extension of business expenses;
Which usually are features of assurance en-
terprises. Besides carrying the Life infant,
the Workmen’s Compensation branch appeals
to have also suckled it. Expenses p.c. df
income have been as follows: 1918, 37 ; 1919,
48.8; 1920, 43.8; 1921, 34.6; 1922, 32.5.
These percentages are calculated oh the
figures presented by the accounts, but even
the Commissioner could not guarantee them
as the actual expenses of the department.
Qf the £66,487 charged against Life income
last year £32,300 was the portion of the
total “general administration” costs of
£131,122 which had more or less arbitrarily
been reckoned by the Commissioner as a
fair debit against Life operations. In other
years several apparent anomalies existed in
the division of these administrative costs;
but in the latest accounts the apportioning
appears to have been more equitable. Never-
theless, Life costs still look too good to be
true, though the expense ratio can feasdti-
ably be expected to improve as the volume
of old business increases in proportion to
new assurances. Last year 6422 new poli-
cies assuring 14 million-odd were accepted.
Assuming 7 p.c. of renewal premiums and
3 p.c. of annuities is a fair allowance for
expenses of old business; then last year’s
£60,057 of first premiums were won at a
cost of £58,057, or 97 p.c. For the pre-
vious year, on the same basis of calcula-
tion, the ratio was 92 p.c. That means that,
after only four years, the Commissioner
claims to have been writing new business at
smaller cost than many offices which have
been perfecting their organisations for scores
of years.
The Life branch Is the favored department
iii another respect: whereas average Work-
men’s Compensation funds last year earned
interest at the rate of 2.3 p.c. and average
Fire funds 4.4 p.c., actuary T. W. Bremner
reports that at December 31 last Life funds
were giving £5 ss. sd. p.c. The Life de-
partment has not only been given the pick
of the Insurance Office’s investments, but a
very small portion of its funds is idle —no
less than £233,773 of the £259,556 funds
accumulated at June 30 were invested:
£206,648 was in public securities, £23.400
had been advanced on mortgage and £3725
loaned on policies. Incidentally, except for
£l5OO stamp duty, the Life branch is evi-
dently not called upon to pay taxes, an im-
portant factor in profit-earning and in de-
ciding the net interest return. The vital
point with respect to the investments is
whether in the years to come, when money
may reasonably be expected to cheapen, the
Commissioner can earn the 4 p.c. net which
be anticipates for policy-valiiation purposes;
There is at present a good margin in his
favor, but it inajr ndt always be sd. Mean-
time, this 4 p.c. valhatidn and the Idw cost
fates have been responsible for the, bonuses.
The indrtaiity experience has also been
faVorable, and that is , another facto.r
which influences bonuses. The profit distri-
butions do ndt, df coUfsej atnount to iriuCh
Sd far. The estimated net liability at De-
cember 31 Was £203,304, and £8144 less than
ffinds. bonuses declafed have taken £7550
of this surplus;
Miscellaneous Accident Department.
to lie- fle-
Inconle. tosses. Expenses, serves, serves.
1917.. £362 £l3B £224 £224
1918.. 4,607 £324 1471 2812 3,036
1919.. 7,070 1075 2054 3941 6,977
1920.. 8,892 3096 3644 2152 9,129
Added to resefves . . .. 1690 10,819
1921.. 11,461 4380 5834 1247 12,066
1922.. 12;610 5770 6213 627 12,693
Policies issued in this department covet per-
sonal accident, disease, guarantee, plate-
glass, hiotof-Car, burglary, nubiic risk and
miscellaneous accident. There have been
two premium reductions, the last in May,
1918, when the Commissioner estimated that
the total net reduction of 20 p.C; represented
a saving of £20,000 available to Queens-
landers by insuring through the State Office,
Last year was the wOrst sinee this depart-
ment got into its Stride. Expenses qhafged
to it represented almost 50 p.c. of income,
and losses took nearly 46 p.c., leaving a
surplus of only £627. Previously £3197 of
accumulated surplus had been transferred
to general reserves and £l5OO to depart-
mental reservesbiit £lOOO of the latter
has been replaced td maintain a fair balance
between revenue fifccdtint reserves and unex-
pired risks;
* * # *
St. Joseph’s tNvfcSIMENT anO Building
Society (Sydney) :
Business Profit To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits, on Sales. Dividends, serves, serves.
1912.. £6,885 £1056 6 p.c. = £3335 £4606 £14,630
Assets written up, £6OOO .. .. 20,636
1913.. 9,134 571 5 p.c. = 3335 6370 27,006
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529 17,477
1914.. 10,114 2091 5 p.c. = 3812 8393 25,870
1915.. 9,721 824 5 „ „ 3812 6733 32,603
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529 23,074
1916.. 9,897 493 5 p.C. = 4289 6101 29,175
Reserves transferred to capital, £9529 19,646
boss.
1917.. i 0,301 727 5 p.c. = 4765 4809 24,455
Profit.
1918.. 10,362 1627 6 p.c. = 5718 6271 30,726
1919;. 10,674, 430 7 „ „ 6671 4433 35,159
Assets written up, £6OOO .. .. 41,159
1920.. 10,840 2600 10 p.c. = 9531 3909 45,068
1921.. 11,510 1500 10 ~ ~ 9528 3482 48,550
1922.. 10,935 4092 10 „ „ 9528 5499 54,049
In the table profits are divided into two sec-
tions: (1) those won from current building
society activities; (2) the surpluses over
book values resulting from the sale of old
properties in possession. There still remain
foreclosures with a book value of £44,573,
but judging by the “profits” they are turn-
ing in St. dde’S is doing Very well from
selling properties it faaS iitirSed for many
years. The balance-sheet figures, how-
ever, suggest that comparatively deW pto-
perties have gone into * the foreclosures
account: last year’s profit of £4092 on sales
was made with a decline of only £2483 in
the book value of this asset. City and subur-
ban values have appreciated so much that
good profits can probably be expected from
further sales of the old written-down proper-
ties. The society had a rough passage after
the ’nineties’ smash, and was unable to meet
£330,000 of debt. When assets were written
down £7 pet £lO share was struck off, but
the Society Undertook to repay every penny
of debt together with 3 p.c, p.a. thereon.
Until 1908 all profits were Used to satisfy
creditors; then a re-arrangement was made
whereby the society undertook to wipe off
old debts within 20 years. That opened the
way for a resumption of div. distributions,
and after paying 5 p.c. for some years the
rate has increased to 10 p.c. for the past
three years. The recovery was so good that,
in addition to the divs., the whole of the lost
capital has been replaced by bonus issues
from reserves.
Balance-sheet movements since the. 1908
re-arrangement have been as follows: —
1908. 1915. 1921. 1922.
Old deposits .. £69,608 £42.304 £26,544 £16,679
New deposits .. 8,274 11,217 15,729
Other liabilities 1,057 873 401 416
Advances .. 43,360 91,868 101,720
Old mortgages and
foreclosures .. 125,879 89,101 47,057 44,574
Premises .. 6,000, 12,000 18,000 18,000
Cash and other
assets .. 7,325 19,638 34,621 27,414
The outstanding features of that comparison
are the rapid reduction of old debts and the
rejuvenation of the society by developing
new business. During the past year old
debt was reduced £9865, and, though the
management still has five or six years to
repay the balance, it could without difficulty
meet all its old obligations at a much earlier
date. Prior to payment of the latest div.
there was £18,595 in War Loan, cash and
deposits. An unexplained feature of the
latest accounts is that, though mortgages
have increased almost £lO,OOO, income from
rents and interest declined from £16,974 to
£16,503, The society’s position, nowadays,
looks very comfortable, provided the old lore-
closures are all the books claim. But, in
any case, there are reserves exceeding the
book value of all old assets. After payment
of the latest div. there were net assets set
down as worth 31s. 4d. to represent every £1
of paid capital.
# . * • *
The Wellington Woollen Manufac-
rusing Co. (M.L.) :
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends, Off. serves, serves.
1912. £14,735 7 p,c. = £8,074 £5OOO £1,661 £27,336
1913.. 17,150 8 „ „ 9,228 5000 2,922 30,258
1914.. 15,545 8 „ „ 9,228 5000 1,317 31,575
1915.. 31,756 13 „ „ 14,995 5000 11,761 43,336
1916.. 27,298 13 „ „ 14,995 5000 7,303 50,639
1917.. 26,958 13 „ „ 14,995 5000 6,963 57,602
1918. 28,712 13 „ „ 14,995 5000 8,717 66,319
1919.. 29,952 13 „ „ 14,995 5000 9,957 76,276
1920.. 41,705 13 „ „ 18,495 5000 18,210 94,486
1921.. 33,898 15 „ ~ 25,359 5000 3,539 98,025
1922.. 24,404 14 „ „ 27,000 5000 90,429
Assuming that the £5OOO appropriated was
a reasonable allowance for depreciation, the
past year’s net profits amounted to £19,404,
arter no less than £23,774 had been paid in
taxes, which took almost one-third of gross
profits. But in view of the world-
wide fall in values, the co. was fortunate
to do so well. The mill output has been in
excellent demand for some years, so there
was very little stock on hand to write down
when values collapsed. The demand con-
tinued last year, and two shifts were being
worked recently to fulfil orders. The co.’s
trouble has been that while Maoriland wages
and expenses generally have remained high,
the management has had to cut prices to com-
pete with goods from overseas. Since the
war began this Wellington mill has done
very well, and though paid capital has been
almost doubled, and funds now invested in
properties, plant, etc., are twice those of
eight years ago after liberal allowances have
been made for depreciation, further exten-
sions are evidently contemplated. The night
shift is “found to be not agreeable to em-
ployees, and not directly profitable to the
c 0.,” so “other arrangements” are under
consideration by the directors. During the
years of prosperity the management main-
tained the co.’s affairs on a sound basis;
though in seven years to 1921 £66,450 of
visible surplus profits accumulated there was
ho issue of bonus shares. Consequently,
though it was not earned by approximately
£7500, the directors had no difficulty in
paying a 14 p.c. div. for the past year.
After making that distribution there still
remained reserves exceeding £90,000 to assist
a paid capital of £200.000. The 14 p.c.
div. is, therefore, not excessive; on total
shareholders’ funds it gives a return of
under 10 p.c.
Balance-sheet comparisons oyer two eight-
year periods show how rapidly the con-
cern has developed:—
1906. 1914. 1921. 1922.
Paid capital . . £BO,OOO £115,350 £179,932 £200,000
Liabilities .. 62,964 72,166 258,794 174,959
Fixed assets . . 68,263 80,313 185,/29 199,081
Stocks . . . . 83.142 107,784 255,518 172,124
Book debts .. 17,140 35,416 59,800 63,883
War Loan, Cash, _ „
Ctd, ~ .. 437 769 49,761 44,297
Between 1906 and T 4 divs. averaged less than
7 p.c. on a paid capital which grew from
£BO.OOO to £115,350, but meanwhile only
£7557 went into visible reserves. _ During
the past eight years capital has increased
to £200,000, divs. have exceeded an average
of 13i p.c. and £58,854 has been added to
reserves. Stocks on hand at the latest
balance were much smaller than those of
12 months ago, and that reduction and the
£20.000 of new capital have cut down lia-
bilities considerably. This Maoriland mill
was in a snug position at the balance: the
book value of liquid assets exceeded all lia-
bilities by £105,000. After payment of divs.
there were £7 ss. of assets to represent
every £5 fully-paid share.
* «• . * *
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd., who carry
on a furnishing and drapery business in
Sydney and elsewhere, and do much of it on
a time-payment basis :
Dividends.
f ■,
Pref. Written Re-
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinary. Off. serves.
Aug., £ £ £ £ £
1913.. 36,121 9000 8 p.c.= 16,000 3379 68,964
1914.. 38,660 9000 8 „,, 16,000 4171 78,453
1915.. 34,868 9000 8 ~,, 16,000 4066 84,255
1916.. 39,607 9000 8 „ ~16,000 4873 93,989
1917.. 45,271 9000 10 ~ ~20,000 4148 106,112
1918.. 49,787 9000 10 „ „ 20,000, 4233 122.666
Reserves capitalised, £87,500 .. 35,166
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord.
6 p.c. 71 p.c. 10 p.c.
1919.. 54,193 9,000 3,281 20,000 4,771 52,307
£60,000 (in shares) received for
goodwill of Bon Marche business.. 112,307
Less £3026 Bon Marche flotation
exes. . • • • • * . • 109,281
81 n.c. 71 p.c. 121 p.c.
1920. . 78,174 12,750 6,562 25.000 4,861 138,282
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
1921 . 58,820 9,000 11,431 20,000 15,071 141,600
1922.- 50,060 9,000 13,125 20,000 5,131 144,404
Marcus Clark’s is another of the big drapery
and furnishing cos. which escaped being
hard hit by the slump of prices. For each
of the past two years the ordinaries have had
10 p.c., and a small margin of surplus profit
remained on both occasions when stock values
had been reduced to replacement level. The
directors’ reports for the two years admit
how fortunate the retailers were during the
period of erratic and declining buying prices:
for 1921 the “progress” of this co. was “satis-
factory” ; for the past 12 months “sales in-
creased over the previous period.” Further
evidence is provided by balance-sheet figures.
Marcus Clark’s does a big time-payment busi-
ness, and book debts have expanded in this
way, despite the lower values: —
1914.. £198,078 1917.. £222,406 I 1920.. £304,734
1915.. 192,802 1918.. 243,404 | 1921.. 337,176
1916.. 209,093 1919.. 305,566 | 1922.. 383,105
The industrial depression has, no doubt,
helped the turnover of the t.-p. trader, but
many retailers who restrict credit to the
monthly-account system have also admitted
a larger business since prices fell.
Marcus Clark’s has expanded its business
considerably in recent years: in 1921 new
premises were erected at Wollongong, and
during the past year extensions to freeholds
at Newcastle were completed. These addi-
tions and the larger stocks and book debts
have resulted in an increase of liabilities of
£72,134 since 1920, though £87,500 of new
capital has meanwhile been got in. That cash
was the balance of calls on the 175,000 of 71
p.c. 2nd prefs. issued paid to 10s. as a bonus
to ordinaries four years ago. Consequently
old holders of ordinary scrip are getting a
little more than 10 p.c. on their money. On
the other hand, this improved return is some
reward for their patience in the past, when
they were satisfied with S p.c. divs. and per-
mitted the accumulation of large surplus
profits to enable the business to be developed.
Balance-sheet comparisons since 1915 have
been as follows:
1915. 1920. 1021. 1922.
Mortgages. • .. £69,500 £70,000 £57,500 £55,500
Other debts .. 17,064 213,710 311.871 300,344
Stock . . . . 158,758 228,475 320,325 256,377
Book debts . . 192,802 304,735 337.177 383,105
Freeholds .. . . 93,604 123,189 151,758 169,802
Leaseholds.. .. 72,825 68,733 65,677 61,393
Plant, etc. . . 21,633 22,860 24,080 24,808
Shares in other cos. 9,993 120.493 119,689 119,899
Cash, etc 13,702 19,533 35,234 30,927
The co. took over the old Marcus Clark busi-
ness just 20 years, ago and paid £72,377 for
goodwill. The last of that intangible asset
disappeared from the accounts seven years
ago; and the £525,000 paid capital is now
supported by reserves of £.84,404, not taking
into account a new goodwill item of £60,000
which was introduced into the balance-sheet a
couple of years ago, when the co. floated off
a side-line business, Bon Marche, into a
separate concern. Marcus Clark’s holds all
the ordinaries in that enterprise, and receives
74 p.c. p.a. on its holding (including the
goodwill shares). Incidentally, in 1921 the
management took £lO,OOO of profits to write
down the book value of its share interests in
other cos. At the latest balance there were
liquid assets exceeding £670,000 to set off
against the £300,344 of liabilities, apart from
mortgages.
* * * *
The Federal Palace Hotel, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) :
To Re- Re-
Julv, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1911 ..£4,918 144 P.c. =£1953 £2965 £8,129
1912 . . 6,203 21J „ „ 2930 3273 11,102
1913 .. 5,124 211 „ „ 2930 2194 13,596
1914 . . 4,927 2l| „ „ 2930 1997 15,593
1915 . . 2,126 Nil 2126 17,719
1916 . . 3,871 21J p.c. = 2930 941 18,660
1917 . . 2,858 144 „ „ 1953 905 19,565
1918 . . 3,809 21f „ „ 2930 879 20,444
1919 . . 3,952 2lf „ „ 2930 1022 21,466
1920 . . 9,100 431 ~ „ 5860 3240 24,706
1921 .. 10,971 544 „ ~ 7325 3646 28,352
1922 . . 10,408 54J „ „ 7325 3083 31,435
There are a few “wet” pubs which are pay-
ing high rates of dividend on original capi-
tal; but this is one of Melbourne’s old “dry”
houses, and at the present rate of div. dis-
tribution it is returning more than its paid
capital every two years. But the 54J p.c.
is not all it seems : that rate is not on ori-
ginal capital. The Federal Palace was a
product of the big Melbourne boom, and
when some years later the directors reviewed
the co.’s belongings, the £1 shares paid to
19s. were written down to 2s. each. Then
lid. per share was called up, and a few
shares were paid to 3s. The writing-down
proved to have been too severe; so the
accounts present the unique spectacle of the
hard-headed Bank of N. S. Wales manage-
ment having lent £40,213 by way of mort-
gage and overdraft to a. co. whose paid capi-
tal is only £13,493, though nowadays there
are also reserves of £31,435. Incidentally,
£2(>,000-odd of those reserves have accumu-
lated during the past dozen years. Recent
improved profits have been made possible by
considerable additions and improvements to
the old property. Net earnings have revived
so well that they now give almost 9 p.c. on
the boom-tiine capital. But though the pre-
sent rate of div. means only a mild return
to original holders, it is fattening those who
were plucky enough to buy in at around 4s.
a dozen years ago, when, on paper, the co.’s
position was not attractive.


Scientific Glassware, Crucibles, Scales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-mills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request.—Advt.
* * * #
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adan.iax Asphaltum Hoofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process vvinch makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. . [2
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe is increasing greatly in popu-
larity throughout the different States, where it is
being used for many important projects. This low-
cost conduit is as efficient and economical when used
for small irrigation requirements as for the larger
projects running into many miles of large-diameter
pipe. Write for full particulars to The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Hoad, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. —Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street. Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street; Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
* * * #
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Circular
Quay, Sydney* and Collins House, Melbourne, sup-
ply : “Robey” Steam Engines, “National” Gas and
Oil Engines, “Foden” Steam Waggons, “Multimix”
Concrete Mixers and Concrete Machinery, Conveying
and Earth-handling Machinery, Road-making Plants,
etc. — Advt.
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being snown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Sydney.— Advt.
CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic —32 per cent. N a 2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
BLEACHING POWDER, 33%.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BA
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
'THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVEftLEY PEN.”
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872. . ,
Head Office* Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney-.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine. Personal Accident. Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY ANI> EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POP><\ General Manager.
B. 11. Block 10 lost £6771 last half-year,
and the position at its Misima gold show is
worse than dismal. While the big mines at
Broken Hill can jog along in comfort under
the Edmunds award, back-numbers like
Block 10, Block 14, Junction and Junction
North cannot move a wheel. Wages, with
metals at present prices, are 0.K., but with
working-time cut down to 30 hours a week
and with no night shift the little mines are
ham-strung. Things must be bad when Block
10 has been driven to consider amalgamation
with others on the line of lode. The wail
about the Papuan gold show has changed
into a snarl. Needlessly the late O. B.
Ward’s commendation of the mine is pla-
carded. That his judgment of the show war-
ranted prospecting is proved by the opening
up a 2000 ft. ore body 10ft. wide with good
ore in both ends. Now that - the deep work-
ings are in mixed sulphides, the old cyanid-
ing outfit may have to be scrapped and fresh
capital raised for new appliances. But the
B. H. Block 10 Board does not intend to go
on making calls to exploit Misima: “in the
future it is intended to devote whatever calls
may be made to the welfare of B. 11. Block
10.” It lent £25,000 to Misima, so Block 10
may expect it to fall into its lap. Some
day it may work Misima for itself, and let
purely Misima shareholders go.
The diamond drill is working at Broken
Hill Block 10 with the hope of finding some-
thing so far overlooked. A little ore has
been got—it is supposed to be an extension
of the western lense—but values are not
remarkable so far.
* * * *
Though better progress is being made with
the drills at Mt. Gambier, Associated Oil
Corp. is a very disturbed concern. It was
originally thought that the S. Aus. town
would strongly back its faith in oil in the
South-East, and the float made provision for
substantial local representation on the Board.
Sydney, however, holds the majority
of shares, and wants a change of
directors; so a requisition for a special
meeting has been lodged. Mt. Gambier has
replied with another requisition, and a meet-
ing is to be held there on the 30th, at which
shareholders will be asked to express an
opinion as to the conduct of the Sydney
directors, and also “to pass a resolution that
the Corp. go into voluntary liquidation.” As
boring in earnest has only recently begun,
and finances are good for several months’
campaign, this latter move appears farcical.
The fight will probably end in a battle of
proxies, but it’s up to shareholders to pre-
vent the hunt for oil in the South-East end-
ing with a flow of hot-air in the Mt. Gam-
bier board-room. One matter to be thrashed
out is whether the Corp. secured the area
which it was originally proposed to take up,
and what happened in respect to holdings
adjoining blocks the Corp. finally acquired.
The present bore, it appears, is going down
almost on the Corp.’s boundary, though the
site was originally planned as approximately
the centre of the area it was proposed to
acquire.
Oil is so much in the air nowadays in Queens-
land that there is little difficulty in collect-
ing cash on a plausible prospectus. The
Queensland Coastal Oil Concessions Co„
which is going to test an area at Tewantin
(Q.), has had its shares over-subscribed, and
C. E. Nicholas, who is in charge of opera-
tions, has been candid enough to tell the
shareholders that in a few months they will
know whether they have lost their cash or
have backed a winner. He is banking chiefly
on the oil-shales found there, as well as
surface asphaltic indications. The area is
in Ipswich coal measures strata, which, so
far. have not yielded much evidence in favor
of being petroliferous in other districts. In
the Ipswich mining district, where there has
been plenty of boring, they have been re-
markably free from oil-shales, which, by
many sound authorities, are regarded as
good collateral evidence. The drilling mach-
inery is on the way to Tewantin, so work
will be started early. Qne redeeming feature
of the float is that the principals are risking
their own cash as well as the outsiders. It
seems absurd to predict that a few months
will be enough to prove or disprove Tewan-
tin as a possible oil-area. The Australian
public knows little yet as to the peculiarities
of oil-fields, and will swallow almost any-
thing. Very few of them know of the geo-
logical and topographical work, as well as
the vast amount of test drilling based on the
former, that has usually been necessary to
bring in a producing field elsewhere. Nearly
all our Australian oil-flbats are under-capital-
ised for the work in hand.
* * * *
A report on oil possibilities at Beaudesert
(Q.) by Government Geologist J. H. Reid
is out. It relates principally to the country
west of the town, where the Overflow areas
were taken up. A fine anticlinal structure
was located, but Reid turns that part of the
country down. He says. that none of the
alleged surface indications of oil was up to
sample, and that as the anticline has been
deeply eroded surface signs were to be ex-
pected if the beds carried any oil below.
Ipswich and Bundanba beds are both turned
down, the former on account of the high
carbon ratios of the coal, the latter on
account of the massive sandstones, poor in
organics and in impervious beds. The report
does not take in Dunn’s country, but the
geological sections accompanying it show it
to be in an unfavorable position as regards
structure.
Milsom and party have gone on to the
Orallo oil-prospecting areas, near Roma
(Q.), and have started serious surveying
work as a preliminary to getting the drills
going when there is enough evidence to select
boring sites. Milsom reckons Arthur Moore
is on a forlorn hope for the Government at
Roma bore on account of the flooding of the
sands. Word is due from Roma any day
now as to the result of the bailing of the
bore, and in the event of not getting any oil
at the 2700 ft. the Government will probably
consider the advisability of shifting the plant
to a site a few miles out of the town.
* * ■* *
Mutooroo’s stoppage at Hampton Plains
means that of the scores of cos. floated dur-
ing the 1920 boom only two, Celebration and
Golden Hope, are left to struggle, and the
odds are overwhelmingly against either ven-
ture giving shareholders anything. Mutooroo
had no shoot of gold big enough for a co.,
and Herbert Daly was right when he recom-
mended his crowd to have nothing to do with
it. Daly, by the way, has again forsaken
mining for art, and when last heard of was
painting landscapes and seascapes in France.
* * * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.) issued a re-
port the other day showing that the past four
months’ revenue, plus estimated gold pre-
mium, had amounted to £12,933, and expen-
diture, including new plant (£5744), £18,510.
A bore heading north-east from the 18th level
of the Lake View lease lately drilled its way
through a good width of half-ounce ore.
* * * *
Associated Northern (W.A.) recently sent
samplers to the Yalgoo field in search of a
new mine, and already one option has been
taken. This is the Sweet Doris, at Warda
Warra. Surface sampling over a length of
800 ft. is said to have disclosed good values,
but similar results have from time to time
been obtained from many other Yalgoo mines
which failed to respond at depth.
* * * *
As regards appearance and width North
Fingall (W.A.) has an excellent lode at
300 ft., but so far values are low —another
instance of appearances being misleading.
* * * *
North Fingall Extended has sent Dave
Welch, who is familiar with most goldfields
and golden delusions in the West, to report
on its new option, The Highland Chief, near
Warriedar. The Bulletin’s recollection of
this show 7 is that other people sampled and
reported adversely on its ore-bodies, and un-
less something is now showing which was
not previously visible Welch will do the
same.
* * * *
A bright budget from Bendigo:—
When the Bendigo Amalgamated “pups” scheme
was announced The Bulletin correspondent selected-
three as having some reasonable chances of success:
Hercules, Carlisle and Monument Hill. Hercules
provided the sensational surprise of last week, shares
jumping from Is. 6d. to 65.; Carlisle prospects have
so improved that shares were bought up to Ss.;
Monument Hill prospecting work, so far, has not
justified expectations. Shares in this and the three
other companies are quoted under a shilling. Her-
cules comprises one of the oldest quartz-reefing areas
on the field, and for about 65 years it has been a
steady working-man’s standby. The old co.’s record
for 60 years was: divs. £181,394; calls, £73,768.
Those figures do not include returns from the Vic-
toria Gold Mines, now included in this area. Until
the B.A.G. got possession, productive work on the
Hercules proper was confined almost solely to the
New Chum reef, which has been well exploited
down to about 3000 ft. and has been abandoned for
over two miles from this point to the south. The
Hercules eastern shaft was down only 800 ft. when
the B.A.G. started, and geologist Pabst reported
that there were good chances of locating payable
formations within 500 ft. of sinking. The shaft is
on the northern extension of the Sheepshead line,
and Pabst’s conclusions were founded on surveys of
the reef which had been worked with big success
by Lansell’s Little 180 and the Central Blue. The
Bulletin has noted the deceased young geologist's
accurate forecasts of important developments in the
Constellation and New Blue mines, and the discovery
in the Hercules will add to his fame. This reef is
now being worked at 1320 and 1380 feet, the
depth to which Pabst recommended sinking. The
lode is of large dimensions, and, so far as prospected
at the two levels, is looking well. Last week’s’
crushing wou from development work at the two 1
levels returned 138 oz. from 86 tons.
The Sheepshead line is now being worked with
remarkable success at its two extreme points—New
Blue, at the south end, and Hercules, at the north.
In the intermediate area Lansell’s Little 180 aiid
Central Blue have been large producers, but both
are on the sick list at present. As the peculiarities
of this anti-clinal formation, with its associated
irregular bodies of spurs, become better understood
it is conceivable that further good discoveries may
be made between the extreme points referred to, to
say nothing about the northern extension, where the
Pearl co. spent tens of thousands on formations
which, allowing for the pitch, are hundreds of feet
above any of those worked to the south.
Fred Tricks, of Melbourne, who engineered the
Edna May (W.A.) flotations, has undertaken to
float the first of the Bendigo mine-managers’ pro-
jects—the Lightning Hill, at Eaglehawk. The co.
will be in 55,000 shares of 10s. each, of which
5000 arc to be held in reserve; on the 50,000 to be
issued now, Is. per share is to be paid. “There
are no promoters’ or vendors’ interests either in cash
or shares —all shares are to be paid for alike.”
This unique principle, added to the recommendations
in favor of the scheme by practical and official
authorities, ought to secure a prompt flotation.
When this is completed the managers’ leases on
the Christmas reef at Kangaroo Flat will be similarly
dealt with.
New Blue return last week showed increased ton-
nage and improved value—7oo tons producing 400 oz.
White Hope Gift, one of the Hampton Plains
(W.A.) boom products, having exhausted its funds
in futile efforts to discover an available payable mine
in Westralia, is making an appeal to shareholders
for further funds to enable it to look for options
in other States, and as an attractive bait it is
stated that it will “most likely have the opportunity
of securing an option over a promising property at
Bendigo without having to pay any cash considera-
tion.” Brave Adelaideans to risk another Bendigo
proposition after the lamentable Hansel Mundy fail-
ure—all Bendigo marvelled at their taking that on —
and the bravery is emphasised by the suggestion that
Bendigonians think so little of the project in view
as to let it pass out of their hands on a cashless
option to a proclaimed fundless co.
Bendigo Amalgamated has issued interesting leaf-
lets respecting the areas held by the six “pup” cos.,
and those retained by the parent. The history of the
areas is briefly summarised, there are diagrams show-
ing the positions of the principal workings, and
statements indicating the prospecting work that is
recommended. These leaflets will be very useful to
shareholders who wish to keep conversant with the
operations in the different mines.
* # * *
Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), developments
continue satisfactory. The latest report
states that the north drive at No. 6 level
had been driven 15ft. on the right forma-
tion ; the stone is wider than the drive, and
of good quality. The south drive was for-
ward 12ft., in 3ft. of stone of highly-payable
grade. At No. 5 level, the north drive on
the east lode was carrying 4ft. of good ore.
All the stopes off the three rises were in
payable stone. Last return was 588 oz. (ex-
clusive of contents of mineral) from 800
tons. A div. of Is. per share is payable
Dec. 7.
* * * *
“T. 8.”: Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), was
given an old-fashioned boost last week, with
Ballarat on top, as usual. As the share
register is small, flutters are easy and bear
selling risky. It is the same with North
Ajax, and probably still more so with the
revived Ajax Central. What the market is
gambling on is a junctioning of the new
make of stone at No. 5 with that being
opened at No. 6. Daylesford formations are
always showy when they look well, but it is
the battery that speaks. But if a speck
or two of gold should appear in the “mix-
ture” at No. 7, Daylesford is in for another
boom. Hence the feverish pushing out by
all the mines into the new eastern country.
Delungra Tin Mines, Ltd., which was
formed only a few months ago to work a
sluicing show near Inverell (N.S.W.), has
put up a novel record. The capital sub-
scribed was very limited, tin propositions,
no. matter how good their prospects might be,
being quite out of favor at the time, and
the promoters had to do some forced financ-
ing to get a plant. This was erected, but
the low price of tin and shortness of water
supply prevented a start being made. Now
that conditions have improved the co. finds
it impossible to raise funds to get fuel and
other supplies in anticipation of a clean-up,
debenture holders have foreclosed, and the
plant, not a wheel of which has been turned
in its present location, is advertised for sale.
* * * *
Mt. Cuthbert is given until April 26 next
to look round, provided it puts up cash to
keep mines and plant in good order. So say
the prior lien debenture-holders, the biggest
of them being the Commonwealth Bank.
It has the pull of the old £55.000 bonds, and
is believed to be ahead of all sundry credi-
tors. Still as P. Piggott saw a lot of Pre-
mier Theodore when times were bad, the
Queensland Government may also rank
among the creditors. Cuthbert’s shareholders
are agreed that they won’t carry the baby
unless they are promised that any calls paid
up to £5OOO to keep the mine safe shall rank
level with the first mortgage debentures. If
the bond-holders assent to the stipulation
Cuthbert will petition all the saints in the
calendar for a jump in copper to make it
worth while for the market to find the cash
for a final run with mine and plant.
* * * *
A small attempt has just been made to
get on to payable wash in the old Cape
River alluvials (N.Q.), but. with no luck
so far. Another attempt will be made after
the rains. Three dredging leases have been
taken up, and engines, boiler, fine gravel
pump and gold-saving appliances placed in
position. Colors were obtained, but the
effort was hampered by the shortage of
water —the North is suffering from a bad
drought. Cape River was famous be-
fore Charters Towers was thought of, aud
was the leading alluvial field. The theory of
old hands is that the rich lead was lost, but
the plans showing the distribution, width
and values found along it do not support
that belief. Values dwindled as the valley
widened.
* * » *
Fred Reid, of Mungaua (N.Q.), has got
on to the King Vol again, and on re-opening
it has met with fair prospects. It is an old
silver-lead show on the contact of the Chil-
lagoe limestone, and like most contact ore
deposits it is bunchy; but old workings have
proved it metalliferous for 600 ft. or 700 ft.
at least. Reid is stoping 10ft. of good ore
in one part of the show, but the average is
much less. With the aid of a Government
grant, up to the present the show has been
a payable proposition and gives work for 20
men. The present run of ore is worth 20
P.c. lead and soz. silver.
* * * *
Nawng Pet, Ronpibon (Siam), has been
in the limelight recently with some good
yields. For October 16,600 c. yd. were
treated for 254 tons oxide, but the first fort-
night’s run this month slipped back to 10
tons from 24,500 yd., a considerable quan-
tity of overburden having been handled. Be-
tween June and October the co. netted
£10,295 from tin sales for a mine expendi-
ture of £3145. These are handsome results,
and have enabled the co. to recover its finan-
cial balance by paying off outstanding
liabilities. Recent performances are by no
means normal, though. Operations have been
in a rich patch going from 31b. to 51b.; the
prospectus claimed three million yards aver-
aging 141 b., and four millions more going 11b.
Water shortage is one of the Pet’s difficul-
ties, and though the wall of the new 124-
acre dam has been raised 10ft., that is un-
likely to be an effective remedy for the co.’s
water troubles. In average ground Nawng
Pet would probably do better if it installed
a good engine for gravel-pumping, and
utilised available water supplies for nozzling.
* * * *
The Gibbs-Bright crowd are to get their
usual Is. Christmas cUV. from the Pioneer
tin (Tas.). The metal is up, and the
rich bottom stuff can be worked for another
six months. Cecil Ryan imparts the cheerful
news that the lead has not cut out after all,
but has been shot off to the north by a bump
in the gutter.


THE SUBURBAN MORALIST.
Absolutely fed hot , tha. way tbe&e pap a-r*, 4>e Murders .
Yes , &*->d these divorce 1 Crime r&gj* ." "Absolutely! !*
Person aOiy I na.MG.'f ra-o-ci tbo. mock . " Wor noo. *
I dont either r 'Disgjustw^j! ” '* Dare not take 4>«.m borne.*
*' Mot wi Hi a. fz>rr> ily. to .
" Alo". *C*ot understand it. Wond<w i/ anybody reads it -
y<2-$ /" "jy it it.nl a* murder it's & Suicide.*
Yes.* “Or JtJ\ tf>a. repulsive. details of a. divorce C&J.3. J*
■ATosolot"«.ty • . It’s Criminal
M E.* a city • . Oust wl~\2.t xt is. Criminal !l
"£r —y<z.& —o - courses "
Coreus , "View a could do iv lik.<z- 'that' "
Va-S . But tka wi/iz.. wb& sAy i r>£ rvg>bt, tt>vt
woman's avida-nca. to bo. vary u-iTa-re-stin^y* y/


Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Daktng House.
Sydney.
Olderfieet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High St., Christchurch
W A. —H. Little Sr Co.. 851 Hav St., Perth
Won its favor through its flavor.”
Take a bottle or
three home
this evening!
K. B.
LAGER
It’s Tooth's!
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Daniel Ivingsland, of Currency Creek
(S.A.), claims to be the ladder of a
world’s record. He has great grand-children
older than his own children by his present
wife.
A lot of directors’ chairs were emptied
when P. T. Taylor died in Sydney the other
day. He was governing director of the mer-
chant firm that bears his name, and director
of the Sydney Ferries, Ltd., the North Shore
Gas Co., the Australian Gas Light Co., J.
Meloy, Ltd.. Newcastle and Hunter River
S.S. Co., Norwich. Union Fire Insurance
Society, Norwich and London Accident In-
surance Association, Toohey’s, Ltd., and the
Boyal Sydney Exchange He had only re-
cently aiven un the chairmanship of the
Fresh Food and Ice Co., and a number of
other cos. owing to ill health. Taylor was
a Scotsman, 60 years of age, had been an
M.L.C. since 1917 and was one of the foun-
dation stones of the National party.
Cohen, K.C., who is unofficial leader of
the Vic. Uppah Chambah. collided with Jus-
tice Macfarlan, in the Supreme Court the
other day. They both took silk about the
same date, and Coben wasn’t hnnpy when
the other was
selected for the
Bench by Attorney-
General Robinson.
When Macfarlan
rebuked Cohen in
court for keeping
back a material
point, Cohen ve-
to r ted that he
assumed ’S’Onor’s
leg a 1 knowledge
would be equal to
bridging the hiatus,
and that if it w 7 ere
any other Judge he
might take some
notice of the ad-
monition. Of course
he had to withdraw
and apologise, but
he didn’t exactly do
it with a courtly
grace.
Deputy-Governor
BURKE . of Pent-
ridge Gaol.
Ned Harney, elected to the Commons for
South Shields on the Liberal ticket, re-
turns to Parliamentary scenes after an inter-
val of 19 years. He w T as a Westralian sena-
tor in the Commonwealth’s first Legislature;
but he made no mark there, and retired at
the end of his three years’ term. He had
been admitted to the Westralian Bar in
the roaring goldfields’ days, and being
an eloquent, florid pleader, of the type
that always sways jurymen, he commanded
big fees from the start. After a subsequent
unsuccessful attempt to get into the W.A.
Assembly he returned to the U.K. and the
law courts of London and Dublin still in
his forensic prime.
A son of Peter Laior, the leader of the
Eureka Stockade insurrectionists and sub-
sequently Speaker of the Vic. Legislative
Assembly, is a medical man w'ho has made
a special study of mental cases, and recently
stepped into the job of medical superinten-
dent of the hospital for the insane at Sun-
bury (Vic.). His name is Peter, too.
A. Maughau, the new general manager for
the Australian General Electric Co., Ltd., of
Australia, passed through the Sydney ’Var-
sity Engineering Course, 1902-04, then w 7 ent
to the Cornell University, Ithaca, New York,
v'here he graduated with a degree of M.E.
After working with the Montana River
Power Co. and the Commercial Engineering
Department of the Utah Light and Railway
Co., Salt Lake City, he joined the staff of
the Australian General Electric Co., Ltd.,
nearly 12 years ago. Maughan is a member
of the Technical College Advisory Commit-
tee, and a past president of the Council of
the Electrical Employers’ Association of
N.S.W., which body he represents on the
Council of Employers’ Federation.
“S’African”: The item (B. 9/11/’22) about
Lieut.-Colonel Schlam
(not Sc h lain m) did
scant justice to a gallant
fighting-man. Schlam did
serve in the African
Forces during the last
dust-up there —and by
the same token is still,
I believe, C.O. of the Wit-
watersrand Rifles. And
after the Germans had
been mopped up he cer-
tainly “got away to Bri-
tain.” But instead of
“putting in the rest of
the war in a home-service
job” he took immediate
steps, on arrival in Lon-
don, to get posted to his
old regiment—the Queen’s
(R.W.S.) —and he fought
with it in France till in-
valided out in 1918. The
only connection Schlam
ever had with a home-
service job during the
the w 7 ar was with the
one he could have had in
London —and didn’t take.
Captain JOHN KINO
DAVIE, Director of
Navigation.
“A.P.” on a French Laborite:—
Albert Thomas, who has been lecturing in
America on the universal eight-hours’ day. is the
Director of the International Labor Office, in whose
interests he threatens to come to Australia.
Thomas was French minister of Munitions during
the war, and despite his youth—lie is now only
44 —a tremendous success, literally making the big-
wigs, as Schneider and the rest, shake in their
shoes before his heavy black ziff. He was the son
of a small baker at Champigny-sur-Marne, and
earß displayed the threat of great intelligence.
He lived on scholarships, like John Simon, in
England, ,and as soon as he left school, he took to
publicity like a cat to the roofs. He has written
a library of books on various sociological problems.
Before the war he was one of the chief labor leaders
in the Chamber of Deputies. As Director of the
International Labor Bureau he has made himself
generally unpopular. The policy of the Bureau
under his leadership has been French policy, and
this is not suitable to other countries. For
example, Thomas introduced the eight-hour-day at
sea into the French mercantile marine, and then
spent years trying to force the British marine to fol-
low' suit. Now France has had'to abandon the law.
“Sigenoth”: “0.P.H.” (B. 16/11/’22), in
his par re Judges’ sons on the Vie. Bench,
overlooks Hartley Williams, who followed
his father, Edward Eyre Williams, in the
Supreme Court. The son was appointed,
at the age of 37, in 1881 —seven
years after his dad had retired and
was drawing his pension in England. lie
stayed on the Bench for a quarter of a cen-
tury, then he too retired and w T ent to Eng-
land, where he still lives on a pension of
£l5OO. When John Madden got the job of
C.J., in 1893, over the head of Williams, the
latter wrote a virulent letter to the press
pointing out his peculiar fitness and Mad-
den’s unfitness for the position, and Duffy
(now 7 High Court Justice), in his “Dream
of Fair Judges,” satirised him thus:—
I am cut off from hope in dull despair,
A wn-etched puisne who should be a chief;
My father suffered so, and now I bear
Hereditary grief.
Frank Vanderlip. who shares with Gov-
ernor Cox the credit of being the author
of the only sensible plan yet evolved for the
reconstruction of European finance, is one
of the dollar-a-year men who enlisted at
Washington to help Woodrow Wilson win
the war. Neither he nor any of his col-
leagues ever got a penny out of the business,
which is a good deal more than can be said
for their opposite numbers in Britain, Aus-
tralia or France. In his early days he was
on the Chicago Inky Way, as were Cox,
Harding and Hughes in the present Admin-
istration. Vanderlip’s specialty was writing
chatty financial pars. A small enough be-
ginning for one who is now a leader in
world finance.
“10-2-4” discusses a Master:—
It is an odd thing that Sydney, which was the
birthplace of the word “wowser,” should have had
tor import perhaps the most flawless specimen which
has been revealed to date, and certainly the finest
of recent years. Robert Keable, author of “Simon
Called Peter,” which has run “The Sheik” hard
for popularity amongst a generation that knows not
Elinor Glyn, is a lank, slab-sided young man, with
spectacles and a wide, loose mouth. He is as moral
as though he were still a clergyman, but likes to dis-
course about naughtiness. The true wowser does not
do this in private, unless driven to it by lack of
a public; and it was, one may be certain, not
entirely with a view to booming his latest novel
that. Mr. Keable filled the columns of the com-
plaisant daily press of Sydney during his stay with
reflections on the wickedness of the world. Wowser
dogmatism runs in all shapes, the only requirement
for admission to the guild being a state of scan-
dalised annoyance at the abominable goings-on of
someone else. Mr. Keable’s bugbear is marriage in
its capacity of a binding tie, and, on that issue, he
is as vehement as a Sunday-school superintendent
fulminating against a discovered case of free love in
the local church choir. But the acid test which
proved him pure gold was provided by an interview
in the Sun. “Yesterday,” he told the reporter,
“after 1 had been to church, I went to see the surf
bathers at the nearest beach”—and a few stimulating
remarks followed about the ladies’ figures and the
recent mayoral routine order that gentlemen must
sun-bake in future on their stomachs. It is all the
greater tribute to this champion’s virtuosity, it
seems to me, that even as he is removing the ashes
to the Pacific island on which he proposes to write
his play, the dull, unoriginal wowsers, of which
every country has thousands, should be condemning
him as one utterly different from themselves.
J. McKellor Stewart, Associate Professor
of Philosophy at the Melbourne ’Varsity,
who now goes to the Chair of Philosophy in
Adelaide, is a 44-year-old Victorian who
accumulated knowledge at the Universities
of Melbourne, Edinburgh and Marburg
(Germany), and bagged the degrees of Mas-
ter of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy. He
has been on the Melbourne ’Varsity staff for
a decade.
“Chris”: Utiku Potaka, big chief of the
Ngati Ilauiti, has passed out, aged about
105. His ancestor Tamatea bossed the
Takitimu canoe on the historic voyage from
llawaiki to the Shivery Isles. Potaka, who,
wielded a mere in the inter-tribal scrap at
Toitoi about 90 years ago, was a patrician
of the old type, soft-spoken, courteous, dig-
nified. Two stations on the Main Trunk
railway line are named after him.
“W.G.S.”: Re “Jobber’s” par. (B.
9/11./’22) on Australians with numerous
locally-born forebears. My father’s mother
was a. daughter of T. J. Ryan (of Emu Hall,
Emu Plains, via Penrith), and her mother
was a daughter of Robert Rope, the first
white male child born in Australia. So that
my 26-months’ old offspring is a g.-g.-g.-g.-
daughter of Robert.
There died recently at 85 Mrs. Gannon,
wife of Frederick Gannon, father of the
lower branch of the Costs brigade. She was
a daughter of Capt. Murray, a master mari-
ner of Five Dock, and for 45 years she
lived at Tempe. Nine sons and a daughter
survive her. James Gannon, K.C., is a
nephew.
His walkover for Balaclava is Willie
Watt’s first experience of the kind. Since he
took up politics 25 years ago he has offered
himself 17 times, and has been opposed 36
times. His last fight as a State Minister
was in January, 1914. After that, re-elec-
tion for a constituency on taking -Ministerial
office was made unnecessary. Once, when
he was P.M.G. under McLean, he was de-
feated for North Melbourne by Prendergast.
Twenty-one years ago he retired unofficially
after withdrawal day from the East Mel-
bourne election to let Deegan have the seat
rather than see it go to Findley, and he was
among the also-rans for the Senate on one
occasion.
Walford Davies, whose music has brought
him a knighthood in England, used to be
organist and choirmaster at Windsor, and
has latterly been Professor of Music at a
Welsh ’Varsity. He is a brother of Harold
Davies, of Adelaide, who came to Australia
as a youth, and has progressed along exactly
similar lines—he was a prominent organist
and teacher for years, then succeeded Ennis
in the Chair of Music at the Adelaide Uni.
With a cartload of material, M. P. Han-
sen, Chief Inspector of Vic. Secondary
Schools, has returned from an eight-months’
tour of Europe and America, He will pre-
pare four special reports and a general one.
The latter is awaited with special interest,
as Hansen is tipped to succeed Tate as
Director within three years, and it ought to
be possible to discern his programme from
the comments on his voyage.
“R.”: Abram Joshua, one of the owners
of the Vic. whisky-distilling establishment,
who left estate in Melbourne worth £24,775.
was a whole-hog cremationist. He died in
London, and in his
will directed that
his body should be
burned, without re-
ligious ceremony of
any kind, and the
ashes left at the
crematorium “o r
scattered in an
adjacent grass
field.” The Amal-
gamated Society
of Monumen-
tal Masons are un-
derstood to be
thinking of moving
in the matter of
Joshua probably
in the form of a
motion of disap-
proval.
HORACE RICH-
A RDBON, M.L.C..
president Munici-
pal Association
of Victoria.
Through the death of L. A. Jessop, in
Adelaide. Herbert Phillipps moves up into
the chairmanship of the Executor Trustee
and Agency Co. This co. has a canny habit
of enlisting as directors the heads of any
commercial houses who might conceivably
start opposition executor bodies —as Elder,
Smith and Co. and the Bagot Shakes Co.
have both done. Phillipps’s directorship goes
to .1. 11. Gosse, of Wills and Co.
“Yoyang”: Berry’s Bay, where “Bilbav”
had a look round (B. 5/10/’22), was named
after Alexander Berry. A Scotchman from
Fifeshire, he was for a time in the East
India Company’s service. He left it to come
to N.S.W. In 1808 he bought the .“City of
Edinburgh,” and in 1809 he rescued the sur-
vivors from the massacre of the ill-fated
ship Boyd, in the Bay of Islands (M.L.), an
incident which reads like a chapter from the
books of adventure that thrill schoolboys.
Berry succeeded as a trader and married the
sister of his partner, Wollstonecraft. He
received a grant of 50 acres at Berry’s Bay,
and later a very large area of land about
the Shoalbaven (where now stands the town
of Berry) on condition that he took a large
number of assigned servants off the Govern-
ment’s hands. Hamilton Hume, then a very
youthful explorer, helped him select this
area. The estate came to Alex. Hay. M.P.,
through his uncle, but with a number of
heavy liabilities attached —-dowers, bequests
to hospitals and the like. Through the
Wollstonecrafts, by the way, the Berry-
Hays can claim kinship with the poet
Shelley.
“Blackfriars”: Now that A. G. Wise has
thrown down the Melbourne Herald man-
agership, the Fink-Baillieu sheet has a man-
aging-editor, a former managing-editor, a
former editor-in-chief and two ex-managers
all on the premises together. Shareholders
are beginning to inquire as to the cause of
the numerous upheavals, another of which
is already predicted. Similar displacements
have been occurring with much frequency in
the Herald’s other leading staff posts, the
result being much jumpiness among the big-
job men and unrest among those who recog-
nise that the onjy way to get a good place
on the Herald is to belong to some other
journal. A pretty strong “Fink must go”
movement is said to be organising for the
next meeting.
Architecture in Vic. has lost a notable ex-
ponent in Anketell Henderson, who went out
the other day at Hawthorn. In 47 years’
practice he designed banks, hospitals, ware-
houses and offices in Melbourne and all the
other capitals, and he was five times presi-
dent of the Royal Vie. Institute of Archi-
tects. His father was the first minister of
Collins-street Independent Church.
J. Malcolm Newman, Country Party can-
didate t for Lazzarini’s Werriwa seat
(N.S.W.), is one of the Commonwealth’s
best-known mining-engineers. He was the
first student at Sydney Uni. to get first-
class honors in mining engineering, and the
first of only three recipients to bag the
graduate’s medal. At 27 he managed the
English-owned Peak Hill mine ( W.A.), was
for a time consultant to Mt. Morgan, and has
prospected in the four corners of the con-
tinent and in the Near North. Tin has been
his big Jine in recent years, and Larut,
Tupai, Kota and Rawang are four of his
latest enterprises. Meantime, having come
of a Cockv family, a lot of his tin-winnings
have gone into developing Queensland dairy-
ing and farming properties and in establish-
ing herds of pure-bred Cow.
REINCARNATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wo meet, you smile, and then we jazz
In fancy-dress.
1 hold you close and suddenly
Your hand I press.
Your eyes flash power beneath your masque
Of silken sheen.
Dear gill, in robes worn long ago
By Egypt’s Queen,
Was it just chance that I should come
As warrior bold
To meet my Love of other days
Robed as of old?
I gaze into your wide dark eyes,
Your lips I press.
I feel I gave you long ago
This same caress.
Strange I should meet you here to-night;
You, part of me.
Not strange, perhaps, if truth be told :
’Twas Fate’s decree.
The Earth through centuries has rolled,
Since first we met;
And for Love’s past I claim you now.
Did you forget?
Again we meet, and as before
We’ll mate again.
Why do you start and draw apart
And cry in pain?
You hold your left hand to the light;
No words are said.
Beneath rare gems there sparkles there
A golden thread.
No jewel studs this slender band ;
A simple thing,
And yet it stabs my inmost heart—
Your wedding ring.
VICTORIA.
ANNIE MCCLELLAND.


m
fcvHS
M
M
M
A
mWmm
Four Weeks to Christmas
Choose your suit from Gowings’ Specially Selected
Stock of Seasonable Materials. Patterns posted
free of charge to any address in Australia.
For the Christmas and Summer Season we are showing a wide variety of
seasonable materials, which for their quality and light weight will unfailingly
appeal to all men who like to combine Comfort with Good Style in their
clothes. A full range of patterns will be posted free of charge to any address.
Now is an opportune time to choose
your suiting! With Christmas only
four weeks away the holiday rush
will soon start. Orders placed within
the next few days are guaranteed
delivery in ample time for Christ-
mas wear.
Your satisfaction with any suit from
Gowings’ is assured! The wide ex-
perience of expert tailoring gained in
our long association with country cus-
tomers guarantees that the Suit you
order will be perfect fitting, smart,
and excellent value.
£4/4/-
£5/5/-
£6161-
Neat new designs in Grey and
Brown, or plain Grey Australian
Tweeds. Also in All-Wool Eng-
lish Tweeds in smart Donegal or
Overcheck effects.
All-Wool Australian and English
Tweeds of light weight. Donegal
effects in Light and Dark Grey,
Fawn and Brown or Dark Grey
Vicuna Hopsaek.
Our special line of English
Cheviot Indigo Serge, famous for
wear. Color guaranteed. Also
All-Wool West of England and
Australian Tweeds in a variety of
designs.
All-Wool Fine Twill English Indi-
go Serge. Color guaranteed. Also
All-Wool Australian Worsteds,
Saxony Tweeds and All-Wool
English Flannels in plain and
stripe designs.
All-Wool Australian Worsteds of
exceptionally fine texture and
very suitable for summer wear.
Colors include Blues, Greys and
Browns in fancy or stripe effects.
£BB
Fine texture closely woven All-
Wool English West of England
Worsteds. Also fine English
Saxony Tweeds of quiet harmoni-
ous designs and patterns in shades
of Blue or Grey.
£9/9/
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
Your order may be placed in our hands with the full
confidence that its completion will meet with your
entire satisfaction. Otherwise your money will
be refunded.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS.
Self-Measurement Forms, tape measure and a full
range of patterns will be posted free on request.
Send for our new Summer Catalogue, posted free
of charge.
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON ALL PARCELS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
GOWING BROS. LTD.
GEORGE, ST. (Branches at 304 454 George St.) SYDNEY.


r
THIS IS the: sign
which has come to be. associated with all
that is best in Hat values. Hundreds of men
realise that
Fischer’s Hats
are in a class by themselves. They reflect at
all times the latest phase of style, and satisfy
the most exacting demands as to value. The
same may also be said of Fischer’s Shirts and
Mercery.
Fischer’s Men’s Wear Catalogue
Post Free to Country Residents.
FISCHERS IN THE STRAND,
The Young Australian Hatters,
SYDNEY.
»
4„ *1 1
A FRAGRANCE WHICH BY
ANY OTHER NAME COULD
NEVER SMELL SO SWEET.
Until “Rose d’ltalia” was made it was
little guessed to what heights of beauty a
Fragrance could reach. Exhilarating and
persistent, yet so delicate and clinging
as to make it altogether different to
ordinary Perfumes.
THERE IS A FACE POWDER TO
ACCOMPANY and harmonize with all
“Lepits” Beautiful Perfumes. More than
25 separate Fragrances from which tb
choose, and each the pure natural extracts
of the fairest blooms of Italy.
FROM ALL GOOD CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
GATTINO (Si CO. LTD., Sole Representatives
39-41 YorK Street. SYDNEY.
Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, has now
taken over the management of the Hotel
Carlton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. Levy is- a well-
known French chef, whose cuisine is
famous among visitors to Sydney.
t.
Registered address, Cable, Radio or
Telegraph: “HOCAR,” Sydney.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Ex-Patient”: I had hired a room at the
big hospital, and had been duly carved by
authorised parties, and was settling down in
semi-darkness to the dire monotony of a
recovery. Then the angel of the place was
seized with an attack of ’satiable curiosity,
as Kipling put it in the case of one of his
THE SEA HATH ITS PERILS.
“Some sharks are more dangerous than others, aren't they?”
“Yes. I think divorce-court lawyers are the worst.”
picturesque heroes, the baby elephant that
got the new nose. I presume she had once
been doorkeeper to the semi-charitable de-
partment, where apnlicants are interrogated
as to their means, and financial malingerers
weeded out. Anyhow, she entered with heal-
ing on her wings, and we held converse: —
“And how r much will this company you work for
make in a year?” I hurriedly suppressed half the
truth.
“And how many shares have you yourself?” I
hastily suppressed the other half of the truth to keep
the first half company.
“And what will you get out of them in a year?”
I said the fluctuations were terrible and a definite
reply impossible.
“Now, what did they pay you when you had a fine
billet there —when you were younger, and before
you were partly superannuated?” I seemed to see a
figure floating in the air, and quoted it at random.
“And I suppose you still do a little work for
them ? Do you get a salary or just what you make ?”
I replied with intense vagueness that I was remuner-
ated according to a sliding scale. The angel rumin-
ated over this, then went straight to the next point.
“Do they pay you anything while you’re here
sick?” In reply I explained the company’s method
carefully. When a man was well he got all he
earned. When laid up he got half what he earned.
When dead he got the sack.
The real question rushed into prominence.
“You'll be giving something handsome to the fund
for the new improvements—a rich man like you?”
At this I disclaimed the possession of wealth vehe-
mently. I explained that my life had been one of
extravagance, misdirected speculation, and the more
costly forms of sin. Barring a few shares in my old
company my assets, on entering the angel’s establish-
ment, consisted of a small bank balance, some clothes
and a medium library. I contrived, by the blessing
of Providence, to keep my life-insurance policy out
of the discussion, so it got away alive, so to speak,
but it was a close shave.
The angel spoke in mild reproach:
“But you’re surely forgetting your fine house and
furniture, of course.”
I replied with a brief and lurid account of my life.
I had always dwelt in rented houses, not in hereditary
marble halls. Coming a financial crash in the war
days, I had sold the furniture and acquired the furn-
ished-flat habit. Later, I had taken to subscribing
to a joint establishment along with some married
relatives- —very near relatives. The domestic sticks
were theirs.
The angel was touched at this picture of simple
domestic infelicity which I drew with a few master-
strokes, and asked anxiously if the members of the
joint establishment all had their meals together. I
stated that so far active hostilities had been suffici-
ently avoided to make such a course possible.
“Well, well! And I suppose that was your best
suit you wore when you came here?” I admitted the
dark-brown impeachment.
“But you’ll have another suit at home?” This was
in a tone of sudden alarm. I anticipated suspicion
and took the wind out of the sails of dubiosity by
saying that I had another suit, but that having gone
to be cleaned it couldn't be produced. My people,
however, if applied to over the telephone, would
gladly give the cleaner’s address.
“And how much might you have put by in the
course of your life now? You must be able to give
something towards the improvements”
A blessed interruption happened just here. I
hated to be rude to a lady, especially to one
who had me down and helpless, but I was
getting up a temperature and the bedclothes
were beginning to smoke.
“Stellsb.v”: The London
movie producer who screened
the Kitchener film in de-
fiance of the authorities de-
serves some credit. The
plot may be exaggerated,
but the trouble made by the
authorities about the pic-
ture lends color to biG”
graphet Sir George
Arthur’s, testimony that
“there is a substratum of
truth” in the rumor of Kit-
chener’s betrayal. A per-
sonage of greater standing
than “a British staff-officer”
could a tale unfold, and the
authorities know it. Apart
from the destruction of Kit-
chener and his staff, it is
a deplorable state of affairs
when a ship’s company if?
practically wiped out to a
man, not by “act of God,”
nor, according to the Hague
rules governing civilised
warfare, but solely in
furtherance of abnormal am-
bition. Bottomley, of the
wrong turning, when excited
used to shout “Watch Rus-
sia.” The British public
should have watched nearer
home after chanting Kit-
chener’s Nunc Dimittis.
* * *
“Sucre”: With a white
rose in his buttonhole and
his Sunday boots slipped
over his feet, Bill, the
plumber, sauntered down to
the corner pub. “Wot!
Ain’t yer workin’ ter-day?”
queried the barman. “No
’ope,” explained Bill; “cele-
bratin me golden weddin’.” “But I seen yer
missus just passin’ by; ain’t she celebratin’,
too?” “’Er,” grunted Bill reflectively; “she
ain’t got nothin’ to do with it. She’s me
third.”
* * * *
“Dune”: One hasn’t to look far for at
least one of the explanations of the projected
reduction in railway freights and fares fore-
casted by the N.S.W. Railway Commissioners.
Along the Great Western-road there is now a
constant stream of motor-lorries carrying
both ways. The loading from Sydney at
present is mostly petrol, although there is
at least one firm in a large western town
motoring all its stores from Sydney and cut-
ting railway freights to pieces. The loading
back, at the present time is all wool, although
before the wool season, general mer-
chandise was carried. Freights are con-
siderably reduced on all lines of produce, and
FIFTY-FIFTY.
“Yon had a neck to kiss me!”
“And you bad a check to tempt me!”
the time taken is half that usually consumed
by the goods trains. One can also get a
trip to Sydney per touring car at a little
under the present first-class railway fare,
and have a pleasant ride into the bargain.
* * * *
“M.D.” disposes of the robbery-with-
morphia theory :
Last week a couple of Sydney women, while
looking into shop-windows, “felt a sudden, sharp
stinging pain in the arm.” On the first occasion a
man was observed to move rapidly away into the
crowd, and on the second the perpetrator, though
in female attire, was thought to look like a man.
And on Monday the thing was repeated, except that
the lady got it, this time, in the back. The punc-
ture was attributed in each case to a hypodermic
needle, imagination flying, as in Melbourne, where
the same sort of thing has been occurring, to injec-
tions of morphia for the purpose of robbery or worse.
However, injections of morphia are not carried out
so easily even in the calm surroundings of a sick-
room. The operation requires the dexterous use
of both hands, one to pinch up a fold of skin,
and the other to insert the point of the needle, and
press home the piston of the syringe. Nurses
have to be trained for months before they become
expert. There is no doubt that punctures were made
in the ladies’ integuments by some sharp implement,
and, without going further, there are silly people
who delight to frighten others by sticking pins into
them in a crowd. But a more likely theory is that
the perpetrators of the outrages were degenerates
with sadistic tendencies, which would explain the
resort to female attire. As a matter of fact, sev-
eral men have been arrested lately for masquerading
in women’s dress, and such persons want watching
by the police, because the underlying cause of their
behavior is always pathological. Extra vigilance
on the part of ladies engaged in shopping in con-
gested areas is necessary if this nuisance is to be
avoided, but there is no cause to worry about injec-
tions of morphia and other dangerous drugs being
given without ulterior objects. In fact, the theory is
idiotic.
• * * •
“The Pariah” views some innocuous “bad
men”: —
Though I have been in Melbourne only three
months I have achieved (what the police seem unable
to do) introduction to several members of the over-
boomed gangs of gunmen which are supposed to infest
the city. Whatever may have been the feeling at
the start of the row the feudists now carry on in
much less bitter spirit than most youngsters display
in a game of kick-the-tin. They all go armed with
automatic peashooters of .22 calibre, and no sensible
life insurance co. would hesitate to accept any of
them as first-class risks. If these ridiculous weapons
killed anyone it would be the merest fluke, and their
stopping power is shown by the fact that after one
of the gangsters had collected five of these .22
souvenirs and been taken to hospital he got up and
walked home. These so-called desperadoes strike one
as merely police-bluffers. If the authorities really
w r ant to stop the sporadic outbursts of shooting by
which the feudists amuse themselves they should see
that each alleged seeker of trouble is armed with
what the Yank who shot Sydney’s mad Chow three
years ago called “a regular gun.”
* * * *
“Adsum” on the tragic comedy known as
“seeking legal redress”
The bankruptcy of Dr. Gordon Bray, who was
examined before the Registrar in Sydney on Thurs-
day, affords yet another vehement sermon against
the practice of going to law. Here is his story:—
In 1912 he married Nina Windeyer, and six years
later she began divorce proceedings, naming three
women. W. A. Windeyer, her solicitor, “agreed, on
condition that petitioner signed an agreement allow-
ing his wife £l5 a week alimony, and paid £3OO
costs, to withdraw the names of two of the women.’’
Bray was unable to raise the £3OO (his total in-
come, he says, is only £6OO per annum), so the
father of one of the ladies paid, or, perhaps, he
halved the expense with his partner, whose daughter
was the other party involved. To deal with this
episode first (1) the ladies’ names, though they
were duly taken out of the petition, came into the
proceedings; so (2) the father who had a receipt for
the £'3oo paid to Windeyer proceeded against Bray
for the cash, and (3) got judgment—but not the
money. Mrs. Bray was eventually refused her divorce.
Bray either couldn’t or wouldn’t pay Windeyer. Mrs.
Bray left for England, and Windeyer--his avuncular
interest in the lady apparently being, by this time,
dissipated to the four winds of Heaven —had her
arrested in S. Aus. under a writ of the N. S. Wales
Bankruptcy Court and east into an Adelaide gaol.
Mrs. Bray was now to score the solitary financial
point gained by any lay party to the proceedings, as
a result of the invocation of the law. She went for
Windeyer for wrongful arrest, and shortly after the
suit opened he settled with her out of court to the
tune of £750 and costs. An optimist, by the name
of Bartlett, next took Bray to court, claiming dam-
ages for impaired eyesight, and got a verdict for
£750 and £2OO costs —but no money. _As it is
the far-sighted custom of the legal profession where
strangers or non-relatives are concerned to collect
payment daily before going into court, this meant
that Bartlett disbursed £2OO for the pleasure of
telling the world about his eye-trouble.
It should be mentioned, in justice to the lawyers
concerned, that Bray’s statements were ex parte,
privileged and impossible of rebuttal in the place
where they were made. But, if untrue, some of
them ought certainly to be rebutted elsewhere. In
THE magnet.
“has your street ample police protectionf”
“My dear woman, our cook is the best-look-
ing one in the suburb .”
the meantime, what outstands is the insanity of
going near the legal machine unless pushed by main
force into its ravaging embrace. The thing may
be stated in the form of a syllogism: If one brief
excursus into litigation is liable to cost a W. A.
Windeyer £750 and costs, what are the chances
against insolvency in the ease of a layman who
makes the adventure ?
(Continued on page 18.)
AGREED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“One cannot shut one’s eyes to the wickedness that
flaunts in every street in Sydney.” —“A Woman” in
the Sun.
It shocks me terribly to see
The things one ever sees —
Glad eyes, glad legs, glad lingerie
And glad, gay-gartered knees —-
When wandering the Block around,
Or in the street astray,
Where lures of wickedness abound.
And Sin stands by the way!
Appalled I pause each time a tram
Is halted as I pass,
To note the way the flappers cram
The smoking cars ; alas !
I cannot help but see the show
Their lifted legs reveal:
My senses in a tumult glow—
Due to the shock I feel!
I might conceal them from my sight,
Might be a modest lad,
But there’s a certain wild delight
In going to the bad;
So, as such ills I cannot stem,
To make the whole world good,
I cannot close my eyes to them —
Nor would I if I could!
n.s.w.
AN ERRING SON.


7
7"
si
I
i
7
c
/VP
n
7)
7
yui
<2r
<f ( <\
*<T
2
7
O"
In Quality
All PACKARDS are One
Long , low and graceful in every
proportion, the TSfew Packard
Single-Six makes instant appeal
to the eye. It represents beauty
to a most satisfying degree —
beauty of design, material and
manufacture, embodying the
perfect ideal of a high-quality
car that is light in weight, eco-
momical to operate and main-
tain, powerful, easy riding and
not exorbitantly priced.
It is made in eight new standard
body types, in two •wheel-base
lengths, 126 and 155 inches.
The twin-six with its superlative reputation as a
high power car and the single six already in such
high favour amongst experienced owners, actually
come to completion in the same assembly room
under the hands of the same workmen.
To secure absolutely consistent standards of quality, for the sake
of faultless performance and reliability, the Packard factory has
set up a series of both tests and processes and through this
series the various metals designed for Packard parts must pass.
It is no wonder then that, from the old one-cylinder Packard
of a generation ago, to these most modern marvels of engineer-
ing and manufacturing accuracy, the progress of the Packard
car has been one uninterrupted and triumphant march forward.
Test its merits for yourself.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.
206 Russell Street,
Melbourne.
IRA L. & A. C BERK
D stributors : 261,263, 265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The Universal Motors Pty.
Petrie’s Bight,
Brisbane.
Eyes & Crowle Ltd.
75 Pirie Street,
Adelaide.
mmm
Ya
pjyjj
mTTTTTTt'
imuii
man
m
yTsJz the man who awns one
nuiT


Stewart Dawson’s
in 10-Year Gold-Filled Hunting Case.
15 Jewels, f-Plate Nickel Movement.
GUARANTEED
to be Scientifically and Soundly Constructed, and
to Keep Accurate Time.
Stewart Dawson & Co.
ESTABLISHED 1871. Nsw LTD -
N
Defiance Lever
Special Price : 65-
For Reliability and Value this Watch is Unequalled.
POSTAGE FREE.
——- Two Sydney Establishments:
412 GEORGE STREET, STRAND CORNER.
185-87 PITT STREET, NEAR KING STREET
“Boko” ; The ninepenny hashery in Sussex -
street was filled with an Armistice Day lunch
crowd; 14 guests being wedged into a space
which usually holds nine. The discomfort
was intensified by the garrulity of a fat,
husky-voiced chap whose A.I.F. badge had
been carefully burnished for the day. He’d
been in the first batch ; he verbally fought
Fleurbaix, Fromelles, Polygon Wood, and
other bigger and lesser stunts over again
for the benefit of those who were trying to
catch the eye of the overworked waitress
of the table sector. “Yes,” he husked, mop-
ping up his soup-plate with a crust, “and
I’d have seen it right through, but I got
gassed just a few weeks before the Armis-
tice.” A tired-looking bloke at the far end
of the table, whose left coat-slecve was
doubled up and pinned against his shoulder,
gazed in deep commiseration on the orator.
“Gripes, Dig.,” he said, “they must have
given you a full issue. Four years gone
by and it’s still coming out of you.”
“The Rumpus”: I had always regarded
the idea that the Australian is a great sport
in the horse line as an elaborate piece
of skite, but have now changed my
opinion. Three days before the Melbourne
Cup was run, a drunk fell out of a Perth
W.A. suburban train. When interrogated
by the stationmastcr, he didn’t know his own
name, where he was, where he was going to,
or where he came from. But before he was
hustled into another train to take his chances
again, he managed to say: “Put yer yearsh
takin’s on King—hie—lngoda—Melbun Cup,
an’ buy a new railway!”
“Randolph Rentless” unfolds a hashhouse
drama: —
The close-on-40 Mary Ann of our hashtower
revealed to Mrs. Currie, the landlady, that she had
A FRIENDLY
INTERROGATION.
“Whan I got home from the surfing party I was
quite done up.”
“But weren’t you when you started, dear?”
saved £2OO, and would like advice as to how it
might be made to yield something more than Savings
Bank interest. Mrs. Currie mentioned the matter at
breakfast one day to Bond, who is employed in a
stockbroking office, and from that day the female with
the money was always in perplexity and mostly in
tears. She might have taken the advice which Bond
brought home that night, only Binks, who has a
small business, had taken the opportunity to talk to
her seriously about the thieving propensities of stock-
brokers. It was a few days before Binks followed
up with the news that he was prepared to sell an
interest in his business for just £200; but as, before
HEAVEN IN VIEW.
“Are you happy, dear?”
“I’m within a new fur and a limousine of being so.”
that, somebody had warned her that that was just
the sort of thing he would do, with evil intent, she
turned him down tearfully. Roarer suggested that
she might finance a theatrical enterprise he was
starting, and although she was a bit doubtful of his
capacity for success, seeing that he owed board money,
what killed that idea was his tactless statement that
she could play “old women.” Jones, the law clerk,
said that if she let him have the £2OO to bet with
he would make it £lOOO in no time; but then
Jones was notoriously broke after every race meeting
he scraped up sufficient money to attend. Every-
body was eager to give advice, to which the money-
owner listened in an anguished manner, and after
which she wept hysterical tears of doubt and fear ;
for everybody warned her of the nefarious designs of
everyone else. At times she shrieked that she wished
she had never mentioned the money, and again she
proclaimed that she had a good mind to throw it
away. At last she disappeared; but the dread
idea that the worry about her cash had driven
her to suicide was dispelled by an embittered
denunciation of her delivered by another
household help, to the ears of her mistress, but, for
the information, apparently, of the world. This
girl had told her lover about the money, it seems ;
and the perfidious youth had supplied the advice
which most appealed. He had become united to Mary
Ann and her £2OO on the spot.
“Sucre” : It was closing time at the Sydney
Botanical Gardens. The caretaker was on
the point of pushing the iron gates together,
when he glimpsed a solitary, belated lotus-
eater lying on a seat nearby. “Now, then,
Weary, ’urry up; I’m goin’ to close th’
gates,” he roared. “Orlrite,” yawned the
other resignedly ; “but fer Gord’s sake, .don’t
slam ’em.”
“Harold Hardupp”: Owning houses in
Surry Hills can be put in the category of
rough sports if the owner likes to collect
the rents himself—or herself—or try to.
They are no re-
specters of sex in
Surry Hills, and
they will make a
landlady feel that
her presence i s
objectionable with
the same heartiness
that they are pre-
pared to bestow
upon a bai 1 i ff.
Moreover, this
rooted aversion to
landlords or land-
ladies is by no
means confined to
their particular
tenants; the emo-
tion may be said
to be universal.
One female pro-
perty-owner, who
recently tried to
collect a fragment
of long overdue
rent, had a win-
dow crushed down
on her fingers, was
hurled down some
steps, thro w n
through a gate,
slammed with an
axe-handle, and
finally emptied into
the gutter. And
then the people who
had done these un-
kind things to her
denied from the
front balcony that
she was their land-
lady. They ex-
plained to the
baffled intruder, as
she slowly picked
herself up and
dusted her deteri-
orated garments,
that they were the
tenants of the
woman who rented
the house from - her. The purpose of
the apologia appeared to be to demonstrate
that they were moved by enthusiastic parti-
sanship and generous esprit de corps rather
than any personal hostility.
* * * *
“Thor”: There’s not a word too strong
in “Clausewitz’s” description of what hap-
pens at some parades of military trainees. I
made a test re-
cently on a small
squad of lads in a
Melbourne new s-
paper office. Not
one knew as much
drill as an awk-
ward-squad rookie
in his second day
under a business-
like sergeant. They
told me that all
they did was “form
fours” and “form
two deep,” and
then squat about
while they listened
to so-called lectures
by very youthful
blokes who pos-
sessed one “pip”
and handed out an-
other sort to their
charges. I have
since watched
some night par-
ades, and found
that the boys were
not exaggerating,
for much of the
talk was sheer pretentious piffle, unaccom-
panied by one minute’s practical work, and
calculated to breed a lifelong distaste for
soldiering.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: The site of Her Majesty’s
Theatre, Sydney, which has recently changed
hands, is said to have been in the McQuade
family for 80 years. The original McQuade,
one Michael, was a storekeeper in Windsor
nearly a century ago; his son William owned
Fairfield, and made a racecourse there; he
was one of the first to discern Randwick’s
sporting possibilities, and lived to see it
become the centre of racing in N. S. Wales.
He died in 1885, leaving his three sons,
William, Henry and Frederick, inheritors of
a large area of city and suburban properties.
The corner on which the George Hotel
stands was at one time the property of the
late George Hill, who refused to let or
sell when the theatre was being built in
1886-87, but it appears to be included in the
present deal with J.C.W., Ltd.
* * * *
“Gaigai”: On the Yodda (Papua) gold-
field there were some tragic deaths—and
some quaint funerals. On one occasion,
when a well-known goldseeker had passed out,
the usual coffin was constructed from sundry
whisky-cases, a prayer-book was dug up from
Lord knows where, and, old Buttersley hav-
ing been prevailed upon to act as parson, the
entire field gathered to pay the last honors.
It was raining at the time in the way the
tropics know how', and half-way through the
ceremony the river overflowed. Presently it
filled the grave, and the coffin commenced to
move downstream. The officiating minister
was equal to the occasion, however. With
one look towards the river, and to the accom-
paniment of “Here, finish the —• — service
yerself,” he hurled the book after the now
fast travelling and doubly departed, and inti-
mated that the obsequies, as far as he was
concerned, were completed.
* * * *
“Stellsby”'; Lloyd George made the politi-
cal supreme sacrifice the other week, and pre-
sumably the first to benefit will be Imperial
war pensioners, as may be gathered from
the following cable message:—
The new British Minister for Pensions (Major
Tryon), speaking at Brighton, declared that Cabinet
had decided that all pensions, including those to
widows and dependants, of dead soldiers, should
remain unchanged for a further period of three
years. Three million beneficiaries are affected by
this decision.
Doubtless there are hundreds of disabled
Imperial veterans out back to whom the
news will be more than welcome.
* * * *
Adelaide lias been holding another of its
“gem weeks,” to impress on buyers
of precious stones that the money need
not be sent out of the country. Opal
is as beautiful as ever, and specially inter-
esting because of the apparent scarcity of
it in other parts of the world. Westralia
sends pearls, and jade mostly comes from
M.L. In sapphires. £lOO has been refused
for a single Queensland stone. S.A. contri-
butes many garnets, which it likes to call
rubies, and the amethyst makes a good show.
But the most unusual gem—looking well
when skilfully cut and polished—is a stone
which Binghi picks up occasionally on the
Nullarbor Plain and sells to passengers on
the East-West railway. Experts in geology
sav that it must be meteorite from some
other planet.
“10618”: Re “Gnarek” (B. 9/11/’22) on
the alleged place of toil of the original
Village Blacksmith. The supposed smithy
stood in the village of Fighledean. But
when I visited the joint in 1916 (July),
among the first Australians to land in the
Old Dart, the legend was already blown.
The troops would stroll there on Sundays
and have a look at the place, but they paid
SOMETHING IN COMMON.
SHE: “When I married you I thought our tastes were congenial"
HE: "Well, we both like to argued"
much more attention to the premises hard by
where the Ladies of the Church Army had
established themselves, and provided a great
feed for a traybit. I once tried to
get out of an old dame, who lived at
the smithy, the reason for the rumor, but
she was about as communicative as Billy
Hughes when £25,000 is mentioned. Re the
last sentence of “Gnarek’s” paragraph, about
10 years ago a portion of the dinkum chest-
nut-tree at Massachusetts was ; made Into
an armchair and presented to the family of
Longfellow.
* * # 4
“Centurion”: That English army order
quoted by “Liss” (B. 2G/10/’22) which com-
pelled the recipient of a nip of rum to say
“Thank you” as evidence that he had swal-
lowed the stagger-juice has a naval origin.
It was employed to circumvent a dodge as
old the seven-bells’ grog issue itself. A
Jackie’s grog was often stopped as a pun-
ishment. The navy rule of lowering the tot
at the tub was instituted to prevent the
“opposite number” or mate of a sailor on
the prohibition list from ducking off to a
convenient spot, and transferring a portion
of his ration to his cobber.
THE LOVE-TOKEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He promised me a cairngorm—
I thought a cairngorm was a bird—
. About its habits, age or form
His letter never said a word.
Mv flat is such a tiny place,
There’s scarce a stride ’twist sink and hall
And how to find a birdcage space
I really didn’t know at all.
He vowed to send a cairngorm.
It sounds a massive thing and strong.
I wondered would it shriek and storm
Or flood my maisonnette with song.
A cairngorm in a Potts Point flat —
It might be like an albatross!
As o’er my marcel drooped my hat,
My brains were playing pitch and toss.
I asked an editor its size,
Sagaciously he wagged his head:
“The cairngorm breeds ’neath tropic skies;
’Tis large, and must be often fed.”
1 told my neighbor, Mrs. Jones,
About the bird. She said; “My dear,
The lease makes not the slightest bones
About the fact: No pets come here!”
I wired my love a line or two:
“If you a cairngorm should send
I'll have to give it back to you.''
.He writes no more. Is this the end
Of our romance? Tt. makes me warm.
Why should he break his plighted word?
He vowed to send a cairngorm—
-1 thought a cairngorm was a bird.
N.S.W,
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.


!Born 1820-
-Still going Strong !
Ya
v/M
sea
m
A
K
m
r
i
59
<<c
%
4*
v
a
2*
32s
W A
m,
M,
L_
B
E\
*r
&
v;
*§
-t
l
ll
HISTORICAL SPIRIT SERIES NO 9
THE GEORGE, Glastonbury.
Another old pilgrims' hostel built by the monks of the
once the resting place of King Henry. VIII, with
practically unaltered since the fifteenth century.
Middle Ages, and
Gothic frontage
Shade ol Henry VIII:
JOHN WALKER &
“ Yes, Johnnie Walker, you embody all
my song implied :
‘ Pastime with good company I love, and
shall until I die, judge who - will, but
not deny
SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine and Accident.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual
Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Branch: 6 Bolton Street.
<fc
King George IV
lUlw Jl WHISKY
tH e"TOP NOTCH"scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
SHIRT
moaiv tnoro
comfort and
stijlo* Do not
take a substitute
All Morcers
Makers -
Alfx Stewapt
t- SONS LTD
BRISBANE
A HO
S YDNE. Y
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Five Foot” : Re “King Kurrajong’s” in-
quiry about “The Trotting Cob”(B. 2/11/’22). I never
meet any old-timer who could say any more than
“She’s Mrs. Garvie, and come from Melbourne way.”
She was well known on the Powlett River railway
construction, where her husband toiled. I saw her in
action only once, but even so I don’t wonder at her
title. It happened at Nyora, in Gippsland (Vic.),
just about 3 p.m. After “liquoring” fully at Joe
Davis’s pub, she tried to wreck the whole show,
barman included, and was doing it fairly well when
the Law arrived from the next town in response to
an urgent wire. Together with the S.M. the cops
gave chase round the camp, but they didn’t catch
her till she had footed over a mile to an accompani-
ment of wild yells from about 300 navvies who had
made side-bets on the race. One of the hounds will
remember this event better perhaps than I, as the
ON THE CONTRARY.
"My word, missis, I been dream last night you gibbit
new shirt; boss, ’im gibbit plenty ’bacon.”
"But dreams always go the opposite way, Jacky.”
“All right. You gibbit plenty ’bacca; boss gibbit shirt.”
hare bit a good-sized piece out of his calf. They
Sewed her in a sack to keep her (temporarily) out
of trouble.
“Wild Oat”: We were discussing the
numerous “Queer Accident” pars when Bill chipped
in. “Gorblime,” he drawled, “them’s nothing to
wot ’appened to my cat.” Then he closed up like
an oyster. After a prolonged silence I eased the
tension with: “Well, what happened?” “Oh, yes,”
he came back, “ ’e cut ’is blanky throat lickin’ out
a jam-tin.”
* * * •
“Booyong”: Re “Boomerang’s” doubt
about a kangaroo jump of 37ft. (B. 26/10/’22). The
long-distance leapers are the grey mountain kang-
aroos. I have seen one of these chaps on the side of
a range, when chased, do 60ft. without any trouble.
On the head of the Clarence River (N.S.W.) I’ve
seen rock wallabys do a standing jump of 30ft. from
one pinnacle of rock to another. For sure-footedness
the rock wallaby is in a class by itself, and can get
along the most precipitious hillside with ease and
certainty at full speed.
* * * *
“Unit!”: Back in 1908, on Erlistoun sta-
tion, East Murchison (W.A.), I rode on to several cows
lying in similar positions to those described by “Old
Timer” (B. 21/9/’22), but in each case the entrails
were all torn away. I have actually seen two dogs
performing the butchery—one at the nose ; the other
tearing at the paunch. The wild dogs committing the
deed were the product of a kangaroo-dog and a dingo
cross.
“F.A.”: Tell “Tren” (B. 21/9/’22) and
“Oka” (B. 26/10/’22) that I’ve seen flocks of mutton-
birds leaving level terra firinr with ease. The young
bird knows as much about flying as a Flying Corps
equipment officer; but
at four or five months
he takes the air com-
fortably. At this stage
he is only half the
size he is at two
months. I went mut-
ton-birding round the
islands south of Bluff
(M.L.) some time ago
with Jack Topi,
“King” of Rubuke.
It’s a yearly festival
with Henare and his
wife. The latter
starts making the flax
kits to pack the catch
in about a month be-
fore the expedition
starts. The birds are
found in holes and
crevices on the rocky
islets. We did the
Rubuke Islands, Snares
and some smaller
specks about Stewart
Island. The birds are
salted down and
packed in the kits for
despatch to other parts
oi M.L. A few get to
Melbourne. If properly
cooked, the mutton-
bird is not bad eating—the taste is a cross between
fish and fowl. A coat of fat is worn by the young,
and this has to be melted away before the rest of
the bird is edible. I’ve seen a pannikin of fat come
from one bird.
* * * *
“Centre”: There are six separate kinds
of puff-balls included in the list of edible fungi, as
given by Worthington George Smith, F. 1.5., of the
Department of Botany, in the British
Museum, London. All should be
picked when young, and cooked as
soon as possible. When the flesh is
firm and white they are toothsome to
many people. They are frequently
picked in mistake for the small but-
ton-mushroom, and are harmless until
they become old. One puff-ball, when
eaten raw, causes the tongue and
throat to swell up to a dangerous ex-
tent, though it is harmless when
cooked. There is one variety,
Broomeianus , with a reddish outer
skin, and the inside pure white. This
was known as “Red Truffle,” and was
sold as such in certain towns in Eng-
land. It is still in general use on the
Continent. “M. Magee” is mislead-
ing in his remarks (B. 2/11/’22)
about the dried puff-ball being
stocked by many chemists as a styptic
in the U.K. Fifty years ago it might
have been; but not one chemist in
500 to-day has even heard of it. The
dust of the dry and old puff-ball was
also used, in the long ago, to stupefy
bees before robbing the hives, and
about the same date it was used for
tinder to catch the spark from the
flint and steel. Incidentally, are the
puff-balls found in Australia indige-
nous, or have they come over the
water ?
“Tarago”: “I say, young fel-
ler,” drawled old Jack, “d’you know
that pony o’ jours’ll kick?” “Rot,
Jack!” I said. “You could sit or.
his hocks and he wouldn’t blink.”
“Well, down th’ paddiek just now
he lashed out at me with both heels,
an’ I jist ducked in time.” “Oh,
that was an accident, Jack—only his play,” I
assured him. “May be it was,” said John; “but
I sore a bloke killed be a naccident like that once ;
and, by Gawd, ’e wus jist is dead ziff ’e’d bin killed
on purpose.”
» * » •
“The Rumpus”: Apropos “King Kurra-
jong” (B. 19/10/’22) on St. John’s wort. The pest
originally came to Bright (Vic.) as a pot-plant for
medicinal purposes, its leaves being valuable for
poulticing. An old lady grew it at the back of the
racecourse, whence it spread. For years it was
known in the Ovens Valley as the “racecourse weed.”
* * * .
“Sierra”: “Ack F. C.” wants to know (B.
2/11/’22) if an albatross is called by another name
when it flutters across the line. Well, it depends
upon whether the observer is a naturalist or just a
plain seaman. The former recognises many species
of albatrosses, some of which are found in the
northern hemisphere; the latter knows only one
albatross —that is the huge bird that poises itself
upon almost motionless wings and gazes with a
knowing, unwinking eye at the miserable shellback
in that turbulent region between 45 and 55 south
latitude. Farther north, where the birds become
smaller and less dependent on strong winds, they are
known to seamen as mollyhawks. Windjammers on
the great circle route from England to Australia cut
through the mollyhawk belt (about 35 to 45 south) on
THE GREATER NEED.
“I have a letter of recommendation from my minister.”
“I won’t require your services on Sundays. Have you references
from anybody who knows you on the other six days of
the week?”
their quest for wind; and, when the true albatross
appears, all hands stand by to square away before the
heavy westerlies. Most seamen have seen mollyhawks
on the borders of the tropics and in the north Pacific,
but not many will admit that they ever saw an
albatross north of 40 south. By the way, the alba-
tross is one of the few wild creatures that looks
directly into a man’s eyes. While Standing at the
helm one has lowered himself through the rushing
atmosphere to cock his beady eye beneath the edge of
my sou’wester.
* * * *
‘‘Shiga”: Tell the whole group of Abos.
who aired their cures for “dysentery” (B. 2/11/’22)
that their varied treatments have this in common—
they are all astringents. All contain tannic acid,
which is the active principle, and could readily be
supplied in more palatable form in a pint or so of
overcooked tea. Also, tell these bush quacks that
their complaint is not dysentery but ordinary
diarrhoea, which may be symptomatic of God-jknows-
how-many troubles from cancer to fright. With them
it most likely follows dietetic indiscretion, and
would readily yield to astringent treatment. Dysen-
tery is extremely rare in Australia. It is as specific
a disease as typhoid, caused by a similar bacillus,
and, like typhoid, is particularly favored by close
associations of men. Its causal agent, whether
“Shiga’s” or “Flexner’s” or “Morgan’s” bacillus,
would have as much chance of living in the Austra-
lian bush as any other parasitic bacillus, i.e., prac-
tically nil. When you do get dysentery, Paddy’s
lucerne, wattle-gum and the rest will not cure it.
Better call in an M.D.
* * * *
Park ’: Vi hat is claimed as a wool
record has been clipped from six 14-year ewes, bred
by R. E. Lines, Riverview, Gladstone (S. Aus.).
They are the progeny of- the famous sire Jellicoe,
and averaged 201 b. 14oz. of wool of 12 months’
growth. The whole of Lines flock of all grown
sheep (75 per cent, being breeding ewes) have had
an average of 141 b. of wool per sheep annually since
1915.
* • * *
“Derf Commor” : I was travelling overland
from Bowen to Townsville (N.Q.) with two mates,
and a rather religious abo. as horse-boy, and we
had been warned to be careful crossing the Burde-
kin, a s alligators were rather plentiful and not too
friendly. Coming to the river-bank, we pulled up
to let Jacky lead the way, but the nig. wasn’t
having any. “Go on, Jacky,” I said; “you good
friends with God —He no let alligator catch you.”
Jacky backed his horse away from the hank. “By
cripes, boss, He mightn’t be lookin’.”
* * ■ * #
“Sidweelan”: Let me administer first aid
to “Adrem’s” cobber (B. 2/11/’22), who “chucked a
seven” On reading “A. Borig’s” par. (B. 5/10/’22)
re heliographing between Nimitybelle and Mt. Kos-
ciusko (N.S.W.). Communication was first established
between those stations by the first offlcers-in-charge
of the Mt. Kosciusko Observatory—De Burgh Newth
and Bernard Ingleby, who later became a well-known
Bulletin writer—and the Nimitybelle schoolmaster,
whose name, if my memory serves me rightly, was
Williams. Later, during my regime as 0.-in-C. of
the Observatory (1900-02), helio messages were also
frequently exchanged between the two stations —in fact
many times in the long winters when the low country
for weeks on end was hidden under cloud fog, and the
monthly journey to Jindabyne (35 miles) for mail
was thereby rendered impossible, our crude, home-
made helio was our only means of communication
with the outer world. Although “Adrem’s” cobber
says a very powerful telescope would be necessary
over the 70-odd miles, the telescope of our theodolite
easily did all we wanted. If “A. Borig” is identical
with the Niriitybelle pedagogue I mentioned, I “dips
me lid” to him in recognition of past heliographic
courtesies.
* * * *
“H.W.S.”: While on the flight of the
mutton-bird (B. 9/11/’22) ; a flock was recently seen
on the nor’-east coast of the Speck which took two
hours to pass. It was from 20 to 30 birds wide.
That seems a large number, but is only a fraction
to the flocks which were to be seen in the old days.
Flinders, in 1798, close to the Three Hammocks Island,
watched a flock pass which he calculated to total
something like 132,000,000 birds. As late as 20
years ago I saw a flock which took four hours to
pass, and was 50 yards wide. There are dozens of
islands in the Straits which were covered in rookeries
50 years ago, but are not visited by a single bird to-
day. Grazing has done the damage on some of the
rookeries and the indiscriminate taking of birds
and eggs on others. On one island pigs were turned
loose to fatten.
* * * *
“Go Crook”: Tell “Boomerang” (B.
26/10/’22) I saw a flying doe chased by a dog, and
for a distance of about a quarter-mile she did 33ft.
each jump. The ground, which had a slight fall,
was soft, and she left her finger-prints each time she
lobbed, which made it easy to measure. And as the
jumps didn’t vary more than an inch or two, I take
it she was about at her top.
# * * »
“Alkaloid”: “Naracoo” (B. 2/11/’22) is
correct when he says that potassium bromide is an
antidote for strychnine poisoning; he is also correct
in advising that Fido be caught early, before the on-
set of symptoms. His explanations, however, are
at fault, both chemically and pharmacologically.
Potassium bromide never has, and never will, form
an insoluble sulphate with strychnine compounds.
Moreover, strychnine sulphate is one of the more
soluble of the salts of the alkaloid. The antagonism
is purely physiological. Strychnine salts have a
specific action upon nervous tissue, more particularly
upon the spinal cord. They “increase spinal reflex
activity,” so the pharmacologist says, and the
slightest external stimulus, e.g., a bright light, a
breath of air or a light touch is sufficient to start
off a whole series of pronounced muscle contractions.
The alkaline bromides, on the contrary, diminish the
spinal activity; but, as stated by “Naracoo,” they
must be given early, as the mere act of administra-
tion starts the whole of the body musculature going.
Once the drug exerts its actions chloroform or ether
anaesthesia is the first essential. Manipulative
measures are out of the question until the nervous
activities are depressed. My experience is with
humans; but I have no doubt that Fido displays
the same general signs and is amenable to the
same treatment,
* * * *
“Pick”: “Werrimee” wants to know (B.
2/11/’22) why our dairymen import grasses. The
chief dairying areas of N. S. Wales are situated on
the north and south coasts, where originally there
was impenetrable jungle-land that didn’t grow a
blade of grass to the acre. When the matted
lawyer-vines, bracken and brushwood were fallen and
burnt off, early production compelled the planting
of grass-seeds, and the imported kinds were more
MERELY ON TRIAL.
“ You'll have to look about for another place
after October, Mike.”
“An’ me done twenty years’ service wid
you! Boi croipes, if Oi’d hev known
it wuzn't gain' ter be a stiddy job Oi’d
hev seen yes damned before I come
here."
readily procurable and otherwise much more suit-
able. Although the native grasses have good fatten-
ing qualities, they are hard and tough, as a rule,
and animals solely fed upon them become gummies
earlier than when they browse upon the softer and
more luscious imported varieties.
(Continued on page 22.)
GOTTER FILL?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tou meet him in the bush, out back, on trains and
in the street.
His clothes are sometimes ruined, and at other times
they’re neat.
He wins, and holds, attention, with his breezy wit —
until
He gurgles through his empty pipe and whispers,
“Gotter fill?”
For years he’s flitted round the globe; he’s travelled
near and far.
The Esquimaux are friends of his, he’s hobnobbed with
the Tzar.
Through Europe, Asia, Africa you follow him until —
He taps your arm and murmurs the inquiry: “Gotter
fill?”
Life’s wine for us may be but poor, or of a vintage'
rare:
When Death, the butler, draws the cork, we go—well,
God knows where!
But be it to the sizzling depths or up the Golden
Hill,
I know that he’ll be waiting with his grin and
“Gotte.- fill?”
N.S.W.
I. A. DINE.


Gif?s
of refinement
The Famous
CIGARETTES
for
PRESENTATION
IN HANDSOME CABINETS, EACH CONTAINING 150 CIGARETTES.
VIRGINIA—
No. 333 High-class Cigarettes at a Moderate Price
No. 555 Absolutely Unique in their Qualities
No. 999 Extra Quality, Gold Tipped
No. 222 Gold Tipped ; also for Ladies
ASTORIAS Billiard -room Size
DE LUXE Magnum Size
MY DARLING . . . Gold Tipped, for Ladies
MAJESTIC Heavy Weights—a new cigarette that will please
11/3
14/3
18/-
18/-
20/3
17/3
15/-
15/-
TURKISH —
No. 1 Extra Mild Turkish Leaf
EVE Approved by Ladies’ Society
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES, IN CABINETS OF 75.
ASTORIAS Billiard-room Size
DE LUXE Magnum Size
18/9
18/-
10/6
9/-
GOLDEN CASKETS, each containing 150 No. 555 Virginia
17/6
Sole Manufacturers—
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.,
LONDON.
fo,.
Britain’s Greatest High-class
Cigarette Factories.


MONKEY BRAND
1/ /, WON'T WASH CLOTHES
rt
\ \ i////
X
AT ALL GROCERS, n
—but keeps
everything
and
everybody
bright
M 3.
%9»
fe
m
Usa
ss
BEE
LAGER
THE BEER WrTHOUTARIVALr
“Eddyson”: The eampers-out—there were
five of them —were lying in the state of Adam
before the popular demand for apples set in, taking
the sun. The water in the creek pool was drawn
from snowclad hilltops. Suddenly a farmer-man,
driving an old, one-horse shay came, with small
noise, through the trees, seeking the ford just
below the pool. The farmer’s face looked like a
bed of whiskers with a pipe stuck in the wool. By
the side of the shaggy agriculturist sat a woman
of about 40, who seemed not in the least con-
cerned at their invasion of a bush Eden with five
Adams. But the bathers were shocked into sudden
action, and plunged. Baker and Kernick had their
shirts on. The farmer-man pulled up and eyed
them solemnly. “Fine day yer got fer it,” said
he. “Could you lend a feller a match?” Kernick
directed him to feel in his coat-pocket. The woolly
one dismounted, secured a match, and, sitting on
his heels, began a discussion on the astronomical
indications and their bearings on the crops. The
water was intensely cold; sitting still in it, it
gnawed to the bone. “For the love of Miekie, get a
move on!” said Draper. The farmer still perched
on his heels, asked in surprise: “Whaffor?” “Well,
we want to come out. The water’s freezing.” “Oh,
come out.; don’ mind me,” said the tiller, scraping
another match. “For Heaven’s sake shift him;
you’ve got a shirt,” said Draper to Kernick, and
Dick sneaked out, clambered into his trousers, and,
despite the owner’s fierce protest, drove the horse
and the imperturbable woman off down the creek.
Then the shivering wretches crawled forth, and
THE BITTERNESS OF DEATH.
“Hard luck the missus dyin ’ on yer like that.”
“Yes, it were a bit hard. She was a willing worker, an’ I never
’ad to call her twice.”
soaked in the ;sun. When Dick told the story to
Follces, the st&reinan, Folkes said: “Oh, that ud
he Campbell. The woman with him was his missus.
Youse shouldn’t have minded her.” “Oh, and why
not?” “Well,” said Folkes, “as a matter of fact,
she’s as blind as an egg.”
THE LOAFER’S LOAF.
“Buck in, mate; the boss is cornin’.”
"’Ard luck, but, ennyhow, ’alf a loaf is better than none.”
“Bill Bowyang”: “FY7” (B. 9/11/’22)
notwithstanding, Count Beauvoir was not necessarilv
a leg-puller when he wrote that the late Frank
Jardine, of Cape York (Q,), had shot 65 aboriginals
at the age of 24. There’s nothing wonderful about
the tally, and if “Wessel’'
(B. 12/10/’22) ever comes
my way I’ll introduce him
to a. white-haired ex-
squatter who 1 know, with-
out accepting his word,
slaughtered over 100 blacks
of both sexes. When
•Tardine left Rockhampton
in 18G5 with three white
followers, 300 cows and
100 horses, and guided
‘himself with a small com-
pass towards Cape York,
where he intended to estab-
lish a cattle-station, he
travelled for the most
part through unexplored
territory, and scarcely a
day passed without his
party being attacked by
blacks. At first he urged
his companions to refrain
from killing the Savages,
but later on he saw that
if he did not use his rifle
freely he would soon be
turned into “long pig.”
It was probably on this
trip that Jardine killed
most of the blacks men-
tioned by Beauvoir. Those
who were acquainted with
him in later years will
agree with “FY7” and my-
self that he was not the
sort of man who would hurl
Binghi into eternity with-
out good cause, and he was
a favorite with the Gudang
tribe, who inhabited the
country in the vicinity of
Somerset, where he had his
home. I don’t know if
“Wessel” ever heard of
Christy Palmerstone. Let
him ask some of the
dwellers on the roof of Bananaland how many blacks
Christy killed. If they tell the truth he'll gasp.
“Fitcher” : How’s this for the Queer Acci-
dents Stakes: Working on a high stage in the stopes
of the Catherine mine at Eaglehawk (Vic.) one
Daniel Considine, a newchum miner, was boring a
hole single-handed—“working Gympie,” the Bendigo
miners call it —and he repeatedly knocked the drill
from his left hand. Each time this meant a laborious
climb down to the mullock to collect it. Then a
bright idea germinated in his nut. He got a piece
of rope and tied one end to the drill and the other
round his neck. This enabled him to yank the drill
back each time it fell. Things worked smoothly till
the hole was in a few inches ; then suddenly the
stage gave way, the drill stuck in the hole, and—
“death was instantaneous.”
* * * *
“Centre”: Is thc-re anything uncommon
about a small bat with white ear-tips? I found one
in a damaged condition on the ground the other
evening. He was pretty well at his last gasp, and,
seeing that he would only
fall an easy prey to the
ants, I finished him off.
It struck me afterwards
that his white ear-tips
were something new —at
least I’d never seen them
before Possibly they were
due to the white hairs of
old age; or maybe he had
had a fright. Does any Abo.
know anything about the
little blighter?
* *
“Ida D.” (Pata-
gonia) : “R.G.R.” (B.
20/4/’22) mentions having
Been an albino woodpecker
and albino jacks. Here,
the other day, we saw a
perfectly white sparrow.
He seemed quite at home
with his mates, an d
hopped all through the
flock, picking the crumbs
we threw. Also, we were
brought the skin of a
pure-white skunk. Usually
these creatures have two
whitey stripes on the
brown or black ground;
but this one was abso-
lutely speckless, and very
handsome. It is strange
that in this high and cold
country, none (or not any
that I have seen) of the
birds or animals are norm-
ally white, or even nearly
white. They,are all brown,
inclining to grey, exactly
the color of the bare,
rocky hills and tussocky
gullies. . With scarcely
art exception the birds’
eggs are green—plain or
spotted—and all the flow-
, ers are yellow, or have
that color somewhere in the blossom.
* * * *
“Dido” : It was a very hot day at that
period in my existence when I was insane enough
to conduct long, unadventurous walking tours under
interminable gum-trees, each one the dead image
of the other, to visit townships that did not differ
even in the bald-backed black goat that scratched
herself against the pub verandah-posts. We had
walked nine miles without discovering anything wet,
when we sighted Blank's farmhouse, and preci-
pitately descended upon it, demanding drink for
love or money. Banks could give us only skim-
milk. He was very apologetic about it, and whined
rather than said: “I had a beautiful crick down
next the hill there, but day afore yesterday a push
iv blokes from Angels come along and drunk it.”
“W.D.G.”: Animals have their queer
accidents as well as humans. Some years back 1
came across a dead horse with the head stuck in an
old five-gallon oil drum. The
poor brute had evidently been
looking for water, and by
some means had got the drum
fast on his top-piece. He had
then rushed about till fright,
thirst or starvation ended his
troubles. While at the
morgue—it is quite a com-
mon thing to find a sheep
dead in the scrub with a foot
caught in the fork of a small
tree. They hang there, some-
times with a leg broken, till
hunger or thirst finishes them.
* *
“Friday Island” : Tell
“Old Woman” (B. 19/10/’22),
who asked for a doctor's
opinion re “lying-in,” that
the average period after child-
birth is 10 days among civi-
lised white women. With'
colored races less. I was
once served at breakfast by a
Torres Strait native house-
maid who had become a
mother 10 minutes previously
(vide Bulletin, 1920). Among
the hard-worked wives of the
poorer city-dwellers, the 10-
day puerperium affords the
only chance of a rest from
work and worry they can get:
This rest from worry in itself
is an advantage to them in
preventing a too-early old age. Gynseeolcgically it
is harmful for civilised women to get about too soon
after childbirth.
“Azrim” : I am aware of the experiments
quoted by “Colub” (B. 2/11/’22), showing that
black-snake venom does cause haemolysis of the cor-
puscular elements of the blood ; but “Colub” seem-
ingly forgets its action on the plasma, which, let
me reiterate, is coagulated by the protein constitu-
ents of the venom. As for his claim that “the
poison, by partly paralysing the end plates of the
phrenic nerve, sets up a condition of semi-asphyxia-
tion,” C. J. Martin, who I take it, is an admitted
and reliable authority avers: “No definite influence
on the motor nerve endings has been detected.”
There is some slight effect on the kidney, since in all
in all cases of Pseudechis snakebite the urine shows
albumen and traces of blood pigment, but this is
nothing like so marked as that seen in viperine poi-
soning, where haemorrhages may occur in almost all
the organs, and where albuminuria and haematuria
are the rule. Curiously enough, cobra venom, which
is also excreted by the kidney, does not excite any
pathological change in that organ.
* * * *
“Wild Oat”: “Murranji” (B. 19/10/’22)
waxes wrath because a Pitt-street bushman dares to
say he can pick the premier horseman of Australia.
According to “M.’s” argument Australia has no
champions in any branch of sport, simply because
“the real champs” dwell in obscurity- All I can
say is, let them come out into the light, for that’s
where the sugar lies. In the meanwhile, tell “M.”
if he wishes to know Australia’s worst horseman to
ask Billy Hughes. P.S.—He’d better do it through
the post.
* * * *
“Centre”: Now that the buzz of the blow-
fly is loud in the land, try this: Place a piece of ripe
meat in a bowl and pour round it about half a cup
of stale beer. The buzzers smell the meat, enter the
bowl and take to drink, finally falling in and drown-
ing themselves. This trap answered well with the
particular family of blowflies which invaded my
kitchen with the opening of the season. Tt is cheap,
there’s a certain salutary discipline in letting half
a cup of beer get stale, and—the flies have a very
pleasant death.
» * * »
“Billy T.” : Athlone is in Gippsland, and
the lone fisher of Athlone was a Melbourne man
sent up by the doctors to recuperate after a ner-
vous breakdown. Cooper’s idea of spending time
interminable was to fish for blackflsh in a pool
that was known to have contained at, least one fish,
but that was five years ago. Cooper started fishing
after breakfast, and he fished all day. He said
the doctor had told him to fish and shoot, and he
couldn't shoot, so he took it all out in fishing. He
never caught anything, till that day he came home,
proud and elated, dragging something on a string.
“I don’t have no luck with the blackflsh,” he
said; “but I got a blinkin’ fine eel. I killed him
with a stick as he was crawlin’ out of the water.”
The blinkin’ fine eel was a blinkin’ fine fat five-foot
of black snake.
* * * *
“W.D.G.”: I came across a small brown
snake the other day drowned in a receiving tank at
a well on our run (western N.S.W.). It has black
and orange bands across the head and pinkish bands
on the body. I have often found salt-bush snakes
(brown with a black head) in this tank, but I’ve
never seen one anywhere like this cove. I showed
it to several men and they all reckoned it was
something new. I know it sounds like coming out
of a bottle, but all hands were bone dry, and had
been for months.
* * * *
“H.V.E.”: I struck recently, near Bega
(S. Coast, N.S.W.), a fair-sized company of sharp-
tailed sandpipers or stints intermixed with some of
the common sandpiper—both birds of wide range
and not often observed, though they visit Australia
annually in summer. I have, also, met with the
stint occasionally on the mud-flats of South Coast
A STORY WITHOUT WORDS.
“And what did daddy say when lie saiv his pipe was
broken?”
“Will I leave out the wicked words, mummy?”
“Yes, dear.”
“Then, there’s nothin’ to tell.”
(N.S.W:) salt lakes. Several brown hawks squatted
on fences running through the big mud-pool where
the sandpipers were feeding, and one of the latter
was afterwards picked up dead with a torn throat;
but as a rule the brown hawk is an unaggressive
insectivorous person, so a sparrow-hawk may have
been the murderer. The sandpipers breed in the
north of Asia. The dotterels, by the way, are very
commonly called “sandpipers.”
BY THE RIVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s an old house by the river
Where the golden blossoms fall,
And the magpies call the morning
From the scented gum-trees tall,
While the southern birds of laughter
In their merriment declare
To the sluggard pools and sleepy
That all Heaven’s in the air.
There are homes of peerless beauty
In an older land I know,
With tradition’s wondrous story
Of the wealth of long ago.
Gay, Romance’s lure is crowning
Ancient glories of the past,
And I wander in my dreaming—-
Yet, an old home holds me fast.
For an old house by the river
As the evening shadows fall,
Keeps the memory of the morning
And the happy bush birds’ call.
Soft the drowsy dews of darkness,
Sweet the scented summer night,
Where the slumberous things of Silence
Wait the coming of the Light.
N.S.W.
E. BEAUFILS LAMB.
“Bill Bowyang”: Although “Gouger” (B.
19/10/’22) and 1 cut cane in the same field at Bowen
(N.Q.) this year, I cannot agree with him that it
takes a good man to cut and load three and a half
tons a day, constant going. I could name a dozen
cutters who will cut and load four to five tons in an
eight-hour day. It all depends on the cane. Last
year, when I was cutting at Proserpine, my mates
slogged their four tons daily in a first-ratoon crop,
and when they attacked plant cane, which was mostly
Malagash and Clark’s Seedling, they each cut and
loaded their five tons a day. They did not class
themselves gun cutters by any means, and both refused
to work a minute over eight hours. This was
“Gouger’s” first year with the cane-knife, but I must
admit that he shaped better than many a cutter who
has been at the game for years.


(r
C 3
■
in:nn*
!TT>~
3
Electric Light
and Power Set
This Home
Lighting Plant
only occupies a Floor Space of
32\ in. x 12 § in. but it will
supply
Every room in the House, Dairies, Barns, Stables,
Gateways and Drives, as well as furnish —“
Electric Power for
Recharging Automobile Accumulators, Operating
Electric Fans, Vacuum Cleaners, W ashing Machines,
Sewing Machines, Electric Irons, Pumps, Churns,
Separators, Feed Cutters, as well as many otlur
kinds of small machinery and modern Household
Con veniences.
The " PLIX ” Electric Lighting Plant is so simple that a child can
operate it with perfect ease. It provides a perfectly safe, clean and
convenient source of Light and Power that places the comforts of city
life at your service—ready for use at the pressing of a button. It is an
asset that permanently enhances the value of your farm or homestead.
Space does not permit our telling you everything we would like you to know
about this wonderful machine, but if you’ll send us your name and
address, we’ll gladly mail you our illustrated folder " W 157,” post free
by return mail.
John DANKS & Son Pty. Ltd.
391-403 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
324-330 Pitt Street - SYDNEY
ilSSiiilHßi Ml S i
.. . • •
i
m
mm
*
&
>; : .;
>«ss
&
w?
*
m
m
n
,x
0
;||l|||
S^Mpl
m
m
,6
g A
r .
Listed on LLOYD'S REGISTER, London,
as Manufacturers of
*Steel
Castings
SPARES
for
CRUSHING, ORE REDUCTION
and
GENERAL MINING AND
INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY.
SOFT, MEDIUM AND HARD CARBON
CAST STEEL. MANGANESE AND
CHROME CAST STEELS.
CARBON CAST STEEL. —Battery
Liners, Cams, Heads and Tappets,
Tube Mill Ends, Gearing, Truck
Wheels, and Castings for General
Industrial Machinery.
CHROME CAST STEEL. — ‘HEAT-
TREATED.” —For Battery Shoes and
Dies, and also Roll Shells and Parts,
which have to be machir ed but which
are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL.—For
Rockcrusher Jaws, Concaves, Slag
Elevator Chains, Truck Wheels, Coal
Crushing Machinery, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria. Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
AGENTS IN QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY STREET, BRISBANE.


w
vX
*>
J
N
At the Mercy of Wind , Wave & Man-Power
t
«=
w s^
£>
\»
=S>
y
Depending on )EXIbC Batteries , which
NEVER FAIL
Uncertainty or Reliability.
WHEN the ancients put out to sea their arrival at
their destination was a matter of conjecture.
THE Submarine of modern days patrols the oceans
independent of weather conditions, moving on the
surface or propelled by“2£xtbe” Batteries under the sea.
THE same reliability which has brought"JExtfcc”
Batteries through the years of war and peace without
a single failure is built into every “Jsxtfce” Battery for
motor-car starting, lighting and ignition, wireless, etc.
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND - Howard Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEW SOUTH WALES Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA Sutherland & Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra St.), Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA. . Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND..... Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, Wellington.
JHEY THAT CO DOWN
TO THE SEA IN SHIPS ”


Travelling Needs
at David Jones’
Holiday time is drawing near, and with it the necessity of
securing travelling needs.
David Jones’ are displaying a comprehensive range of suit
cases, kit bags, wardrobe trunks, etc., in the department on the
Ground Floor, and invite your early inspection.
Illustration shows the famous “Orient” cowhide suit case
made from best selected leather on strong steel frame, finished
with two secure nickelled lever locks.
Size 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
Price 37/6 41/6 45/- 48/6
Kit bag as shown above is built on strong steel frame with
nickelled mounts and hard-wearing cloth lining.
Sze 14in. l(iin. lS'n.
Price 19/6 23/6 26/6
We pay carriage on above goods to the
extent of 5 per cent, of purchase money.
David oJoney
for Service
Opp G. P. O.
SYDNEY
Tel.
(.City —6336
1(Aut0.)86971
James created backgrounds in mesh upon
mesh of tenuous evasions, he shrouded his
characters in impenetrable fog. In her
own striking words, “his foregrounds are
red with the blood of slaughtered probabili-
ties.” This study of Henry James is well
worth reading. Much thought and good sense
lie behind her sweeping annihilations.
C. R. BRADISH.
Our Own Voices
Readers in this country fall into two cate-
gories: (1) those who do, and (2) those
who do not, relish Australian books. Such
is my experience, at any rate. It may be
that local publishers are to blame, that the
format of their volumes—an important thing
with your book-epicure—is, as a rule, not
sufficiently appetising. Being, in this re-
spect, rather an epicure myself, I must con-
fess that to some extent I share this pre-
judice; for the average Australian publica-
tion does not intrigue the senses. Every
good reader is something of a bibliophile, to
whom binding, paper, type, margins, etc., are
things of moment; but, with very few excep-
tions, Australian publishers make no effort
to cater for his tastes. Indeed, I will go'
so far as to say that their publications are'
in all points repellent to a booklover, things
to shrink from, abhorrent to sight and touch,
a disgrace to the houses that issue them.
But this alone does not account for the
neglect of Australian literature by Austra-
lian readers, many of whom read a thousana
English (or even American) books for one
that is \tritten here. I know several such
who have never read Daley, Lawson, Gellert,
Wright or Hugh McCrae; though, which is
odd, most of them seem to have read O’Dowd.
Scarcely a dozen of my acquaintances have
opened “The Sentimental Bloke” yet. None
of them seems even to have heard of John
Hay’s little prose classic, “An Australian Rip
Van Winkle.” I suppose not one in fifty or
the readers of this column has heard of F.
S ; Sinclaire: am I alone, then, in thinking
him Australia’s best essayist? Vance
Palmer’s Australian comedy, “A Happy
Family,” is being shown at the Temperance
Hall here in Melbourne every Thursday even-
ing ; but what does the average Melbourne
citizen know or care about that? Frank
Wilmot (“Furnley Maurice”), who has the
arresting voice and gesture of a true poet,
is known to a coterie in this city—to how
many elsewhere? And but for The Bulle-
tin'; —the digesting of which is a confirmed
habit with most Australians—how many
would have heard of Albert Dorrington,
Edward Dyson, Randolph Bedford, J. H. M.
Abbott and 20 other good Australian scribes?
It is possible that many Australians, taxed
with this neglect of their country’s litera-
ture, would say: “Show me an Australian
Keats, or Browning, or Whitman, and I will
read him to my heart’s deep content.” I
have heard such things said.; upon occasion
I have said something of the sort myself.
Yet a splendid singer like Kendall goes un-
heard while we sport with Mary Coleridge
in the shade; and we have no time for.
Daley’s wine and roses while Dowson’s fill
the bill. One is set wondering if quite so
many of us would know our Rupert Brooke
by heart if he had been a mere Australian.
In the London Mercury the other day
David McKee Wright maintained that “in
a literary sense Sydney is no younger than
London. All English tradition,” he claimed,
“is ours by right of race; we have merely
changed the color of our environment.” But
the fact is that change in color involves a
definite break in the tradition: the Austra-
lian writer, like the Australian painter, must
begin afresh. Before we Australians can
do ourseives literary justice, we must evolve*
an idiom: we must express ourselves with
our own tongue and in our own terms.
And our critics, if they are to be of any
service, must be disposed to give that idiom,
those terms, a downright welcome. It is
very well for an English critic to demand'
of modern verse that it shall conform to
classic English standards: he is a frivolous
and mischief-brewing critic, in fact, that
attempts any valuation of new English verse
without this constant, zealous reference. But
our voice is not the English voice. We are
the dawn-folk of a new world, and our sing-
ers must make new songs for us.
I suppose, though, we must be content for
a long time to make what use we can of our
English idiom. The day will come, never-
theless, when the Australian tongue and the
Australian accent will be recognisably dis-
tinguishable from any other; and as the
tongue expresses the thought, I mean to sug-
gest that the Australian mind will, some day,
be recognisably different from any other.
Between now and then, however, we must
free ourselves from the immense and over-
whelming thraldom of the English literary
tradition. It would be as hopeless for a
man to attempt any vitally Australian work
in the English manner as to compose a
winning love-letter in Latin, or give the
Chinese gardener his orders in Gaelic.
Poetry, the language of revolution, should
fill us with, a sustained pleasurable surprise,
or wonder. All employment of worn and
characterless stereotypes is therefore ruin-
ous, is fatal, to the high imaginative life of
poetry. Yet we repeatedly see Australian
poets trying to make verse of no better stuff
than the dull and defaced tags that belong
to us all “by right of race and tradition.”
And since it has been the habit of Australian
criticism in the past to refer always to Eng-
lish norms, as it has been increasingly the
aim of Australian art to create its own
norms, perhaps it is our criticism (which is
too often censorious and flat-footed, like the
stamping at a political meeting), that is
responsible for the dust that lies on the
Australian book-shelves. There are never
wanting pedantic hoofs to drown, as we say,
such voices as are heard to sing. But such
manifestations are soon forgotten, whereas
the singing-voices are apt to go soaring on
forever.
ADRIAN LAWLOR.
The Fate of “The Times”
John Walter, a direct descendant of the
original founder of The Times, has exercised
the option over the 291,000 shares left by
Lord Northcliffe, so that the great paper now
passes back into the hands of the family
that has owned it since its foundation in
1785, except for the Northcliffe interregnum
of 1908-1922. John Walter is the fifth of
the dynasty, The Daily Register of the
Times having been founded by John Walter
I. in 1785 (it took the name of The Times
simply in 1788). John Walter I. was a man
of remarkable ability and enterprise. He
made a fortune out of coal, and lost it
through the capture by the French of a
merchantman, whose cargo he had under-
written at Lloyd’s. His creditors helped him
to a new start, and he decided to open a
printing house. He energetically espoused
the cause of printing “logographically,” i.e.,
by setting up whole words and parts of words
instead of the separate letters. The first
book he published in this manner was an edi-
tion of “Robinson Crusoe.” One of his
orders to the type-founder is said to have
run thus-
Send me a hundredweight of type, made up in
separate pounds of heat, cold, wet, dry, murder, fire,
dreadful robbery, atrocious outrage, fearful calamity,
alarming explosion, honorable gentleman, loud cheers,
gjracious majesty, interesting female, and so on.
By this method The Times was for some
time printed, but the older method reasserted
itself and the linotype finally killed it.
Walter, however, in the face of heavy odds,
made a success of his paper for two reasons —
he represented the growing manufacturing
class as against Pitt’s aristocratic govern-
ment, and he had a keen sense of what was
what in journalism. He originated the idea
of war-correspondents (he sent H. C. Robin-
son, the first war-correspondent, to the Penin-
sular War), he made The Times’s foreign
news authoritative throughout Europe
(The Times first announced in England the
result of Waterloo) ; and he was fearless in
his criticism of the Government and of high
personages (he edited his paper for 16
months, like Leigh Hunt and Cobbett, from
gaol, for printing adverse but justifiable
criticisms of the Prince of Wales and the
Dukes of Clarence and York). The diffi-
culties against which he had to contend were
far greater than those of the newspaper pro-
prietor of to-day. When Walter started The
Times, the Government exacted a tax of
fourpence on each copy sold (in 1815 this
became one penny, in 1855 it was abolished).
The advertisement tax was enormous; in
1830 The Times printed £170,000 worth of
ads. and paid the Government £70,000 of
this in ad. taxes (this tax was only abolished
in 1853). The paper duty was very high
(it was only removed in 1851), and finally
the possible public was strictly limited in
those days, decades before the passage of
the Education Act made reading almost uni-
versal. In the face of these handicaps,
however, John Walter did succeed in leav-
ing a valuable heritage, and to the manner
in which he left it is, strangely enough, to
be traced the acquisition of The Times by
Northcliffe. He divided the profits of The
Times into a number of shares, which he
distributed among members of his family,
and other persons connected with the paper.
These shares being inalienable by sale were
.held by the descendants and legal representa-
tives of the original beneficiaries, right up
to 1908. The premises and capital were to
pass from father to eldest son.
John Walter 11. (proprietor from 1814 to
1847) devoted himself to developing the busi.
ness side of the paper. Under him the
editorial and proprietorial functions were
separated, and one of his editors, Edward
Sterling, was responsible for the nickname
of “The Thunderer,” which The Times has
never quite lost, by beginning a leader: “We
thundered out the other day an article on
political reform”.... In 1841, John Walter
11. engaged the famous John Delane, “the
most successful editor any paper ever had.”
He also introduced “Letters to the Editor,”
still such an important feature of The
Times.
John Walter 111., who took over in 1847,
carried the paper through its most successful
years, but finally also initiated the beginning
of its difficulties (in 1887) by publishing the
notorious Pigott forgery—a letter purport-
ing to be from Parnell, condoning the
Phoenix Park murders. However strong
may have been the feeling of The Times
against the Irish (and it was responsible,
at the time of the famine, for the phrase
that Irishmen have never forgotten: “The
Celts are going with a vengeance—thank
God!”), that this letter should have been
accepted as authentic by any paper is, to-day,
simply incredible. The first page of the
letter was not in Parnell’s handwriting, and
the last few lines had plainly been squeezed
in, as the second page contained the signa-
ture alone, at the top of the page. The
leader accompanying the facsimile of this
letter explained these facts with ludicrous
inadequacy. This error cost The Times
£5OOO, when Pigott, under the famous cross-
examination of Charles Russell (after-
wards Lord Chief Justice), confessed, fled
and committed suicide. It took long for
the paper to live down this episode, and
Arthur Walter, the fourth of the line, could
only see it gradually decline under his hands.
In 1905 the foundation of “The Times Book
Club” let the paper into costly conflict with
the publishers and booksellers, and in 1908
it was realised that something had to be
done to revive its fortunes. The inability
of the various proprietors to determine a
common policy led to The Times being re-
constituted by a Chancery Judge, as a
limited liability company, in whiqh Lord
Northcliffe became the largest shareholder.
JOHN SMITH.
“0.K.”: A just appreciation—just as I
see it —of the literary ability of the late
G. R. Sims was published by his ancient
friend and colleague, H. Chance Newton,
immediately after the death of the inde-
fatigable ink-slinger.
To put it plainly, Sims should have been, had
he specialised more, a far greater and more con-
sistently powerful dramatist. Secondly, he could
easily have been a greater and even more far-
reaching poet His great powers of insight of
prophetic vision-, and his often poignant sympathy
with the* oppressed and needy, and his hatred of
sham and tyranny, could have made him l a Poet to
Live....
It has to be confessed that our dear old volatile
quick-working colleague did not give himself the
chance to achieve lasting greatness outside of
journalism.
As a specimen of G.R.S.’s talent for verse,
Newton quotes some lines he wrote nearly
50 years ago for a Comic Annual.
Who counts the cost when tables groan,
And round the flagon passes?
Let care beneath the board be thrown,
Among the broken glasses.
Laugh on, toil on, from mom till eve,
Through night and noon and daytime,
Till broken health shall pluck your sleeve,
And Death proclaim it Paytime.
The theme and the Thackerayan mood of
the lines might be hackneyed, but the clever-
ness and feeling in the young man’s poem
promised a much higher level of attainment
than he ever took means to reach. The per-
sistent worker never took spells, or braced
up his mental muscles for big efforts. The
£l5 a week he drew for his weekly three
columns of Mustard and Cress in the
Referee remained his first consideration,
and the fact that he provided those
columns without intermission for 45
years was his proudest reflection. Mean- -
while men of lesser intellect, taking
their literary powers much more seri-
ously and giving themselves every possible
chance to reach distinction, were doing at
rare intervals something more impressive in
drama and verse than the machine-like Sims,
whose happiest turns of thought, expressed
in the simplest of graceful metre, were aban-
doned in his rush of copy when they had
served for 20 lines or so. Such volatile
producers of “copy” as Sims squander their
wealth of fancy. It is easy come and easy
go with the slap-dash artists. They have no
pose, no pretentious self-conceit of the kind
cultivated by such apostles of cul-
ture as Oscar Wilde, or the “uni-
versity school” of essayists and literary
stylists who have notions of writing for
posterity, whilst they are merely appealing
to cut-and-dried scholastic reviewers. No
other writer of his ability was so utterly
free from literary snobbery as George It.
Sims, perhaps. He had no time or inclina-
tion for putting on airs of genius in print.
He must have known that he could have
catered for posterity in book form had he
set his heart on becoming even a minor
classic, but the demon of industry refused
to let him limit his output. His one hasty
attempt at high-class play-writing, I have
always supposed, was “A Wife’s Ordeal,”
written to the order of the Dacres, and pro-
duced by them on their first appearance in
Australia, nearly 28 years ago. Sims’s un-
sensational play missed the mark because it
was not the leisurely production of one who
specialised in dramatic work, like his few
contemporaries who scored on an average,
say, one real success in three tries. In a
previous reference to the late Sims I spoke
of this play as “Esther Sandraz,” confusing
“The Wife’s Ordeal” with a drama by Syd-
ney Grundy, which also was written with
Mrs. Dacre, as heroine, in the author’s eye.
Not having made money out of this experi-
ment in a new direction, Sims reverted to
lurid melodrama and conventional burlesque.
He had other fish to fry. He refrained from
literary drama for the same reason that he
abstained from high poetic endeavor. He
saw no guarantee of royalties in it, and
where there are no immediate royalties com-
ing in the bare possibility of winning a little
bit of immortal fame is poor consolation to
a working humorist.
A Satchel of Books
_ _ binder mark’s Folly, by Herbert Quirk (Bobbs.
Merrill, via Dymoek’s). A patchy novel, dealing
with the migration to America’s Middle West.
it r, c^in ? capitally, but (a fault noticeable in much
U.S. fiction) its early promise is not sustained. The
author is at his best in describing the picturesque
life of the boatmen on the Erie Canal, but, having
deposited his hero on an lowa farm, he doesn’t
quite know what to do with him. In desperation
he packs the youth off to the Civil War, and hero-
ically abstains from describing the personalities and
manoeuvres of that overdone controversy. For which
he is entitled to the reader’s thanks.
Moon-Calf, by Floyd Dell (Heinemann, per
Dymoeks). Life and emotional experiences of an
imaginary U.S. poet. Some of his verses are in-
cluded as evidence that he is a poet, and the evi-
dence requires corroboration. Nor is the young
man himself a very thrilling character, but there
are some entertaining glimpses of the odd foreigners
who work up revolutionary movements in American
cities. “Moon-Calf” is one of the season’s best-
sellers. Drastic cuts would have made it a better
book, if not a better seller. In point of fact, Dell
hasn’t told half his spun-out story—it is obviously
,to be expanded into one of those appalling produc-
tions known in the language of Yankee publishers
as “trilogies.”
J. H. M. Abbott’s new book, Ensign Calder, the
last work of this author to be accepted by A. C.
Rowlandson, of the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., before his
death, has just been published. It is a series of
incidents, each a complete story in itself, in the
life of Mr. Patrick Calder and his friend
Lieutenant “Pansy” Wicks, R.N., both of
whom lived and flourished during the Gov-
ernorship of Lachlan Macquarie. No Australian
writer has pictured the Sydney of those mad, bad
days with Abbott’s vividness, and none will ever
invest those old-time ghosts of the Rocks and Mrs.
Macquarie’s Chair with such living flesh and blood.
The stories in this collection have all appeared pre-
viously in The Bulletin.'
The Black Opal, by Katharine Susannah Prichard
(Heinemann). This book was published in London
months ago, but very few copies have come to Aus-
tralia —more’s the pity, seeing that the flood of
American Action has continued to pour into the
country in the meantime. The author, a Melburnian,
and now the wife of Captain Hugo Throssell, V.C.,
achieved a considerable success with her second
novel, “The Pioneers,” and now with “The Black
Opal” she has rammed home the fact that an Aus-
tralian, using an Australian setting, can turn out a
work of Action that can conAdently challenge the
interest of readers both at home and abroad. The
scene is laid in an opal-gouging Aeld in New South
Wales, the atmosphere of which she conveys natu-
rally without that straining after “local color” which
has spoiled so much Australian stuff, and she pic-
tures her group of characters—miners and their
womenfolk, opal-buyers and station people—in
craftsmanlike fashion. They are all human beings,
the best of them with human failings: and in the
heroine particularly she gives us a ffne study of
femininity courageously real. There is nothing rough-
and-ready about the story itself, either in its con-
ception or its development. It deals with the im-
pingement of outside emotional influences upon the
life of a daughter of the opal-fleld and of outside
material influences upon the fleld itself; and
once it gets fairly into its swing it unfolds a series
of situations that effectively grip the reader. The
book is not without its faults, though they are
minor faults. One source of irritation is the wav
the eyes of the male characters cloud with tears
under emotional stress. As a matter of cold truth
the out-back Australian doesn’t run to tears. But
on the whole it is a sound novel that deserves to be
widely read.
The Christmas Number of the War Cry, which
has reached this office, affords proof that the red-
shirted warriors of the Lord can do other things in
addition to saving souls. The production is beauti-
fully got up throughout, a special feature being a
colored supplement of H. Power’s “An Australian
Bullock Team.” Over 52,000 copies were sold before
the issue came on the open market at all.


DICK’S
TRADE
MARK
Genuine Balata
Belting.
Examine one. Huy one. Try one.
Keep its record. Then decide if
you ever knew its equal.
DICK’S Original Balata Belting creates a
confidence and trust that has brought about
its specification in all the best-equipped
plants. It delivers the greatest degree of
power at lowest cost. It gives many years
of trouble-free and efficient service with no
upkeep costs. It overcomes abnormal condi-
tions of dampness, dust and heavy service.
Let our Practical Engineers submit sugges-
tions for decreasing your power costs. Let
them solve your belt problems. The only
cost involved is your goodwill.
Write for Free Catalogue “IS.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts-, Sydney;
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne;
30 Currie St., Adelaide
Judge by Results.
Records, experience and the example set by
thousands of growers prove the wisdom of
this advice.
SEND YOUR WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SELLING BROKERS, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Reduced 10/- in Price
and delivered at your door any-
where in Australia.
COLEMAN
OCjICK— LITE 72
lAnxerm
300
Candle-
Power.
Lights
with
Matches.
It's Easy to do Better Work
with Quick-Lite at Night.
Quick-Lite gives 300-eandlepower light from
petrol-gas generated by the lantern itself, and
puts any other outdoor light in the shade.
Strongly built for service in the wildest storm.
Cannot blow out or spill, and has unbreakable
mica chimney and twin mantles that cast no
shadows.
The Light that Never Fails.
Reduced to 65/- each.
WITH FULL KIT OF TOOLS
AND TWO SPARE MANTLES.
GUARANTEED AND DELIVERED FREE BY
RAIL OR MAIL IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
ORDER NOW, or write for pamphlet to
Coleman Quick-Lite Company of Australia,
‘395 Collins Street, Melbourne; Box 10S3.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life-
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagrh Street, SYDNEY.
agents—
ELDER, SMITH & CO.,
Adelaide Brisbane
LTD.,
Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
d/iptweAA!
When nursing infants to see that
their stomachs are kept sweet
and healthy by giving
small doses
of
» Bk ll I •
I IMP 9
A great many
infantile ailments
can be positively avoided
by taking this simple precaution,
and the unpleasantness and distress
arising from teething greatly minimised by
the use of this delightfully cooling and safe
aperient.
COOLING I* SUMMER
RELIABLE ALWAYS
The genuine KRUSE'S FLUID MAGNESIA contains no
harmful drugs, and is strongly recommended to people of
all ages by the Medical Faculty
Sold Everywhere
Made by
Felton, Crimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne
REGISTERED
riADE MAPk
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Longhurst
60 York Street. Sydney.
Skandia
MARINE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
MOTOR CRUDE OIL WINCHES
STATIONARY CRUDE OIL ENGINES
PORTABLE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
(HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL)
Most economical, durable, simple
and safest engines of the world.
Nelson & Robertson
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Official figures checked by the director of
the dairy division of the Maoriland Depart-
ment of Agriculture show that a Friesian
cow in Taranaki (M.L.) has produced
31,312i1b. of milk, and 114511 b. of butterfat
in 365 days. Under the conditions in which
the test was made this is a world’s record
for milk and butterfat production. A Yankee
Strawberry is said to have done better, but
in that instance the cow was pumped dry
by machinery four times a day. They’re
very thorough in the U.S.
“Jimmy Trousers” : There are possibilities
of superior dyes being extracted from the
eucalypts. Acting as offsider for myself 1
gave the stringy-bark table a wash down
after the crockery had been cleansed. Since
then my once white dishcloth has assumed
a beautiful khaki hue that neither washing
nor boiling, soap nor soda has any effect
upon. Experiments with other species
would probably result in the discovery of a
wide range of excellent colors which would
be Australian in more than name.
* * * *
“Park”: The fact that Australia grows
insufficient wattle-bark to supply local needs
has impelled the Victorian Master Tanners’
Association to an effort to secure increased
production. The Forest League has come
into line, and they are offering the seed of
black and golden wattle-trees free of charge
to the headmasters and teachers of the Vic.
public schools. The seed is to be handed
out to youngsters who will promise to cul-
tivate the wattle. It is also suggested that,
where possible, a fringe of wattles be planted
round the school grounds.
“J.C.S.”: Is “O.K.’s” (B. 26/10/’22)
complaint really genuine regarding the Fed-
eral postal service V Have been in business
for over nine years, with an average daily
bag of 40 letters, etc., from various States,
and have never yet had to complain of over-
due or non-delivered mail. But I have
received letters which might have been
addressed with a fencing-post dipped in tar
and wielded by a St. Vitus’s-dance patient.
The postal people succeed with many ad-
dresses which would utterly baffle me. Add
to it that the rank and file are amongst the
worst-paid workers in this country, and at
least as much entitled to the Saturday half-
holiday as other public servants.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Bank has bought its
Adelaide premises from Henry Woodcock,
the owner; or, rather, it has compulsorily
“acquired” them, under the statutory power
it holds, leaving the price to be fixed later.
It is the building which Adelaide still knows
as the Royal Exchange. Some 30 years
ago it was built by John Robb, of Mel-
bourne, as a home for the Stock Exchange
of Adelaide, but the owner’s lawyer son-in-
law, Muirhead, who had the management of
it, soon fell out with the brokers, and they
moved into a home of their own. The bank
does not occupy nearly all of the building at
present, and is considering whether it will
extend itself or let the other offices.
* -;t * *
“Barcoo”: The recent Bulletin para-
graphists who asked why Bananaland
silky-oak was not more used must have been
hard up for a speculative nroblem. No wood
is more used. Twenty years ago the New
Golden Gate Athletic Club, San Francisco,
the largest of its kind in the world, imported
for furniture and fittings a shipment of
Queensland silky-oak. Even in Sydney it is
only necessary to shove your nose inside
what was the Bank of North Queensland, and
is now the National Bank of Aus., to see
Bananaland woods, and silky-oak in particu-
lar, to advantage. It is a peculiar property
of these timbers that with wear they appear
to take on a density of texture found in
no other woods.
* * • *
“Huffin-Guffin”: “Brugglesmith” argues
(B. 2/11/’22) that the rush of candidates
for medical and other superior callings is
largely due to snobbery. Maybe. But his
reference to the lack of gardeners who know
their job reminds me of a man I met the
other day. He had put in five years at the
gardening profession. Then he went
out into the world, hoping his knowledge
would at least bring him and his prospective
Eve a crust and a figleaf or two. His first
offer was 355. a week, for which he was to
keep the drawing-room in flowers, the kitchen
in vegetables, and do other odd jobs, such as
cleaning boots, knives, etc., in his spare time.
His next chance was a 30-bob-a-week offer,
with much the same stipulations. So he
threw up that line and joined the great army
of mechanical workers. If there is snobbery
it is not all on one side.
* * * *
“Azac”: According to a recent report of
the British Commercial Agent at Cairo,
German trade is being vigorously pushed
by all sorts of unscrupulous methods.
To regain their pre-war position in
the Egyptian market Ivrupps have
offered credit to their agents extending
over three years, and Other German firms
are allowing from six months to two years’
credit. Both German and Austrian firms
are offering to complete pre-war contracts at
pre-war prices. Moreover, these German
firms have no scruples about the infringe-
ment of trade-marks. “German knives,” the
report runs, “are being imported with the
word ‘Sheffield’ stamped on the blade, and
German razors are on the market with
‘Guarantie Solingen’ stamped in Latin char-
acters near the handle, and ‘Real English’ in
Arabic letters in the middle of the blade.
The imitation of the name of a well-known
British razor has been effected by changing
one letter in the name These goods are
made in Germany and packed in boxes the
same size as the genu life article, and bearing
a facsimile of the signature of the maker.”
SSSSSSSH!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let me tell you all a secret:
It concerns the next election,
And my well-known predilection
For the cup that cures all ill.
Now I’ve always had a secret,
Though it’s true that I am married,
And if Prohibition’s carried,
I shall have —a secret still.
MAORI LAND.
H. E. G.


Underwood
Standard Portable
Typewriter
For Students and Freelance Writers
eliminates the tedious drudgery of hand writ-
ing, and the legibility of its work is an aid
to concentration.
Weighing only Sflb., with case, it may be
carried easily to and from office or college.
It uses the standard Underwood one- or
two-color ribbon, and has a keyboard w’ith
standard spacing.
The finest of all the portables. It is of
Standard Underwood quality throughout, and
has all the necessary attachments that have
made the original Underwood Typewriter
famous.
STOTT & UNDERWOOD LTD.,
70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
426 Collins Street, Melbourne.
305 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Every tcord
visible.
Underwood Portable Dept., Stott and Underwood, Ltd.
Please send me your Underwood Portable Booklet, with particulars of price and terms under
which I may purchase the Underwood Portable Typewriter; It is understood that this does not in
any way obligate me to buy.
Name ..
Address ,
Date
TEXACO
here
MOTOR
OIL
Lubricate—
and forget
You can afford to forget
your engine.
Most of it is out of your
sight, anyway; put it out of
your mind, too. That sort of
forgetfulness is not careless-
ness. It’s just a sensation of
luxurious confidence; you’re
entitled to it.
No matter how good your
engine, no matter how well it
works—give it the right lubri-
cation. Every engine is en-
titled to good oil.
The wise man uses Texaco
—and then forgets all about
his engine. He can well afford
to, because he knows it’s all
right. He knows that Texaco
Motor Oil is keeping every-
thing working smoothly, with-
out friction.
This luxury of confidence is
yours by right—when you use
Texaco Motor Oils.
The Texas Company
(Australasia) Limited,
Head Office : SYDNEY.
Branches throughout Australasia.
L.
\
TESK&CO
o
A
Let Lassetter’s
whisper Something about Xmas
Hampers and Xmas Gifts in Your Ear.
No. 1 Hamper.
Price 27/6.
1 Box Xmas Crackers.
1 A 1 Crown Iced Xmas Cake.
1 Xmas Plum Pudding.
1 lb. Fresh Muscatels.
lb. Sweet Almonds.
1 lb. Mixed Nuts.
Box Choice Sweets.
Surprise Stocking.
Spray Holly and Mistletoe.
Bottle Xmas Port.
Packet Figs.
Weight about 301 b.
No. 2 Hamper.
Price 37/6.
1 A 1 Crown Iced Xmas Cake.
1 lb. Mixed Nuts.
1 lb. Cleaned Currants.
1 pkt. Seeded Raisins.
1 lb. Best Sultanas.
1 Spray Holly and Mistletoe.
1 lb. Mixed Peel.
1 Bottle Essence.
2 pkts. Mixed Spice.
1 tin Cordial Crystals.
1 tin Delicious Sausage.
I jar Potted Meat.
1 Globe Fruit Compote.
1 tin Figs.
1 tin Butter Scotch.
1 box Xmas Crackers.
1 lb. Fresh Muscatels.
14 lb. Jordan Almonds.
Weight about 401 b.
No. 3 Hampi
Price, 40/-
Australian Xmas Wines.
2 bottles A 1 Port.
2 bottles A 1 Sherry.
2 bottles A 1 Muscat.
2 bottles A 1 Hock.
2 bottles A 1 Burgundy.
2 bottles A 1 Chablis.
Weight about 601 b.
No. 4 Hamper.
Price, 45/-
1 A 1 Crown Iced Xmas Cake.
1 Xmas Pudding.
Spray Holly and Mistletoe.
2 Surprise Stockings.
1 box Xmas Crackers.
1 lb. Fresh Muscatels.
Yz lb. Sweet Almonds.
1 tin Figs.
1 lb. Mixed Nuts.
1 box Choice Sweets.
1 Globe Fruit Compote.
I jar Potted Meat.
1 Ox Tongue.
1 box Chocolates.
1 bottle Xmas Port.
Weight about 451 b.
No. 5 Hamper.
Price, 47/6.
Assorted Xmas Wines and
Cordials.
1 bottle A 1 Port.
1 bottle A 1 Frontignac.
1 bottle A 1 Sherry.
1 bottle Lemon Cordial.
1 bottle Passion Fruit Cordial.
1 bottle Pineapple Cordial.
1 doz. Lager Beer.
1 doz. Dinner Ale.
Weight about 1501 b.
No. 6 Hamper.
Price 55/-
1 Xmas Ham, “Farmer’s Bal-
larat.”
1 A 1 Crown Iced Xmas Cake.
1 Xmas Pudding.
1 Spray Holly and Mistletoe.
1 box Xmas Crackers.
1 bottle Extra Special Port.
1 bottle Extra Special Sherry.
Weight about 451 b.
No. 7 Hamper.
Price, 70/-
Xmas Wines, Ales and
Cordials.
1 bottle Sparkling Hock.
1 bottle Sparkling Burgundy.
2 bottles Champagne.
1 bottle Xmas Port.
1 bottle A 1 Sherry.
1 bottle A 1 Muscat.
1 bottle Vermouth.
1 doz. Sparkling Cider.
Weight about 1301 b.
No. 9 Hamper.
Price, 84/-
1 Ham, “Farmer’s Ballarat.”
1 A 1 Crown Iced Xmas Cake.
1 lb. Fresh Muscatels.
Yt lb. Sweet Almonds.
1 tin Figs.
1 lb. Mixed Nuts.
1 box Xmas Crackers.
1 Spray Holly and Mistletoe.
2 Surprise Stockings.
1 box Sweets.
1 bottle Tomato Catsup.
2 tins Pates.
2 Jelly Crystals.
2 lb. Mixed Nuts.
1 box Chocolates.
1 tin Ox Tongue.
1 tin Cordial Crystals.
Weight about 561 b.
No. 11 Hamper.
Price, 130/-
Assorted Spirits.
4 bottles Golden Guinea Whisky.
3 bottles Golden Guinea West
India Rum.
3 bottles Exshaw’s French Brandy.
2 bottles Tanqueray Gin.
Weight about 601 b.
Lassetter’s
Book of
Xmas Gifts
and Toys.
Post Free Anywhere.
Welcomed Everywhere.
Just the dainty, useful, practi-
cal Gift you’ll be seeking, at
precisely the price you’d like
to pay, will be found within the
magic pages of this Xmas Gift
Book.
It costs you nothing. It will
give you pleasure, help along
your gift-giving, and save you
money into the bargain.
GET ONE.
F. Lassetter Co. Limited,
George Street, Sydney.


To Avoid Sickness.
To avoid and to overcome sickness of al.
kinds, watch your bowels. Don’t allow old
fermenting food to stay in them for days,
but get it out.
If your stomach is disordered, or your
bowels constipated, if you feel sluggish,
dizzy or bilious, get .a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets at once.
They act directly upon the liver, regulate
the bowels, invigorate the stomach, cleanse
the system. The result is a relish for food,
increased strength and a clear head.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are good for con-
stipation, sour stomach and gases on the
stomach. A single dose often relieves these
troubles.
The use of these Tablets is not followed by
constipation as is the case with many laxatives.
Instead of weakening the bowels they strength-
en them to act naturally without assistance.
Chronic constipation may be permanently
relieved by Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
have none of the sickening qualities of pills,
and do not produce an unpleasant effect.
Keep Your Bowels Clean.
That listless, tired, drowsy feeling may be
due to poisonous matter lodged in the bowels.
Many folks who always feel tired and only
“half alive” will be surprised how much
better they will feel when they get rid of this
matter which has been poisoning their system
for days.
Nervousness, sleeplessness and some kinds
of headaches are frequently signs of poison-
ing of the system through poisons left in the
bowels.
Irritation of the bladder, breathlessness,
so-called weak and fluttering heart, are often
caused by pressure of gas in the intestines —
this gas may originate from decaying food in
the system.
A man is seldom sick when his bowels are
regular, and never well when they are
irregular. Bear this in mind and take
Chamberlain's Tablets as occasion may
require. There is nothing better. They
are i *Ld and gentle in their action and
pleas. to take.
Old Age.
Old age as it comes in the orderly process
of nature is a beautiful and majestic thing.
It stands for experience, knowledge, wisdom,
counsel. That is old age as it should be,
but old age as it often is means poor digestion,
l orpid bowels, a sluggish liver and a general
feeling of ill health, despondency and misery.
This in almost every instance is wholly
unnecessary. One of Chamberlain’s Tablets
taken immediately after supper will improve
the digestion, tone up the liver and regulate
the bowels. That feeling of despondency
will give way to one of hope and good cheer.
Chamberlains
ARE just what you need when your
appetite fails and you feel dull
and out of sorts. A few doses
will restore you to health and happi-
ness. An occasional dose of Chamber-
lain’s Tablets will keep away disorders
of the stomach, liver and bowels.
If you wish to try before you buy, send
your address and twopence for postage to
Chamberlain’s Ltd., 520 Riley St., Sydney, N.S.W.
y
mw
nm
p*
*t»>
O'**
I*l
SO
Mt-t
Vt*
c.v*>
TV'*' 1
V\^
l«> r
ptOVJ^
lac
>^.c
,t*6
&t*v,
•fjt'-'-
ci
C,v\t^
uV<
SVD
\|6
Children’s Ailments.
Children, like adults, are subject to
disorders of the stomach, liver and bowels,
and many of the apparently alarming ailments
of childhood are due to these causes.
Constipation is a common trouble among
children and is often the cause of seeming
stupidity at lessons and also of many an
exhibition of temper.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are invaluable for
children. They are pleasant and safe to take
and absolutely without harsh effect.
Half a Tablet is sufficient for children from
six to twelve; for children under six, one-third
of a Tablet will have the desired effect.
If your child is bilious, if its appetite is
poor and variable, if it is fretful and
nattering, restless in its sleep, you may be
sure that its stomach is out of order and a
few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets will
quickly set it right.
LMPI-KIAJ
"srAG” .BRAND
NJN Ck)3
oL $ A
cjr>
K
9
EDGAR ALLEN’S
British Steels
for Every Purpose.
Under these registered trade-marks is marketed
the full range of Edgar Allen Steels, which covers
every need of modern engineering practice.
Generations of experience have produced a correct
grade of steel for every job in a quality that is
world famous.
HIGH-SPEED TOOL STEELS.—“Air Harden-
ing” and “Stag Special,” the highest-grade tool
steel made.
SPECIAL ALLOY STEELS.—“lmperial,” “Red
Label” and “K. 9” Tool Steels. Also Chrome
Vanadium, Permanent Magnet and Sheet Tool
Steels.
CARBON TOOL STEELS.—“L.S.D.” series of
Tool Steels, Mining Steels, etc.
MOTOR AND AIRCRAFT STEELS.—3 per
cent. C.H.N.S., Nickel Chrome and Chrome Vana-
dium Steels, Silver Steel, etc.
Also VALVE STEELS, SPRING STEELS, HOT
and COLD SAWS, FILES, HIGH-SPEED
TWIST DRILLS, etc.
m
ma
I- I I
mm
EDGAR ALLEN’S
CRUSHING S GRINDING
EQUIPMENT.
We can supply an Edgar Allen machine for the
reduction or disintegration of every class of
material, wet or dry.
All Edgar Allen machines are made to standard
patterns and templates, so that parts subject to
wear can be quickly replaced. We hold stocks of
spares for that purpose.
Inquiries invited for Edgar Allen Tube Mills, Ball
Mills, Combination Mills, Ore and Stone Crushers,
Coke- and Coal-crushing Rolls, Air Separators,
Tipplers, Measurers, and Cement-mak*ng machin-
ery. Also Cast Alloy and Forged Steel Balls,
Fiint Pebbles and Linings for Rotary Kilns.
Write Nearest Address for Special Catalogues of Edgar Allen Steels, Crushing
Plant, Railway Rails, etc., also our 128-page General Engineering Catalogue.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; Victoria Chambers, Eagle Street, Brisbane;
and 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd., 499-501 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; Darling Building, Franklin Street, Adelaide; and corner Collins and Elizabeth
Streets, Hobart. Also from J. R. W. Gardam, Perth.
THE INKY WAY.
“Coot”: The Corroboree, the journal of the Aus-
tralian Literature Society in Melbourne, having just
completed the first year of its existence under the
joint editorship of Rev. John Mathew and P. C. E.
Widdop (of the Argus), announces that, owing
purely to financial reasons,” the monthly issue cannot
be continued. It will reappear next year as a
quarterly. The little eight-page magazine has been
popular among members since its birth, but they
are not numerous enough to compensate for the
absence of outside support.
“Smike”: Jack McLaren, who has written much
for The Bulletin under the pen-name of “Mc-
North,” is steadily bombarding the London papers
with copy, and has lately had signed articles m
the Daily Mail, the Daily Sketch and other well-
known sheets. Also, he has started his picturesque
autobiography for the Wide World under the title
of “Roaming the Wild South Seas.” T.ie yarn will
subsequently be issued in book form, and the an-
nouncement of its appearance has already brought
two or three offers from publishers But, on the
advice of his agent, McLaren is holding out for a
good price, and feels pretty certain of getting it.
The volume will be christened A South Sea
Odyssey.”
“Bill Bowyang”: Since the typewriter has done
away with the hand-written manuscript, and collec-
tors find it increasingly difficult to secure specimens
of modern authors' cali'graphy, gallev proofs corrected
by the author have acquired a high value. At a
recent American auction sale some ot these rust-
hand evidences of Kipling’s stories, published in
the Ladies* Home Journal, were eagerly competed
for. The first corrected galley of ‘ W leland s Sword,
with many changes and corrections in tile authors
hand, fetched £65; “Young Men at the Manor
first corrected proof, £75; second corrected proof,
£45. The first corrected proofs of the Kmgnts
of the Joyous Venture” and “The Old Men at Peven-
sey” each brought £7O.
“Tod” - The soft snap for Melbourne Sun Pictorial
type-snatchers (B. 26/10/’22) was mainly brought
about through one of many efforts by the long-
os tabli shed dailies to squelch the bantling at the
outset. One or two comps in the existing offices
were prominent in insisting that their union should
not give way, and the “fat,” instead of dropping
into the pockets of men who do not work for it,
was very nearly in the fire. When the new paper
started 'each linotypist was nearly £5 to the good
on picture and advertisement fat before he had
touched a key of his machine. The Argus, with its
laughably feeble attempt to be a picture paper,
toof also has to hand over a big wad for services
unrendered.
“De Yid” on a tireless veteran:—
Don’t know where the idea arose (B.
26/10/’22) that Langdon Bonython has done little
or no writing for his paper, The Advertiser, for
many years. It certainly wouldn’t enter the minds
of any of the ’Tiber’s staff. Every afternoon at
2 o’clock precisely the “old man” mounts the stairs
that lead to his editorial den. It is generally 2
a.m., before the paper is put to bed, and five nights
out of six he tucks it up personally. He generally
succeeds in keeping the telphone busy, too, soon
after 11 in the morning, and there is a procession
of proof-bearers to his private house if he is likely
to be delayed in coming into the office. It is
true that he does not come into personal contact
with his staff very much these days, but he
has an unerring instinct for picking his men, and
every cub knows that his stuff is read and noted
for future reference by the chief. Despite his 74
years of age and his undeniable opulence, the liser
proprietor is still a wolf for work.
“S T S.”: A new book of memoirs by James
Denham (whose recent knighthood was something
of a mystery) is very patronising to Beerbohm
Tree: —
“Tree was a man of infinite resource and very
considerable ability. But in many things he was
most appallingly deficient, and, unless he took to
it, most difficult to teach. Could anything be worse
than his delivery of blank verse ? I don t say that
there exist many who can do much better.
Tree was specially bad, but in his defence I shorn
nay that he was a criminal wishful for a better life.
He besought me to give him lessons. Tins I did,
but I had to stop him so often that I grew weary
and he grew irate. Where progress did co “ e ,-"
was owing to a very happy thought. I K°t
secretary to type the blank verse as if it were
prose, and thus made Tree proceed with the sense
of the lines rather than stop at the end of a line,
as doth every idiot, whether there is a comma or
no. Why on earth should people pause at the end
of lines' unless there is a comma, colon, or stoj) t
That is a question which can only be answered m
Which shows conclusively that the critical Denham
has not the slightest idea of the delivery of blank
verse himself.
“Amos Manbis” on Marcus Clarke’s “Fireman s
“OK” (B. 2/11/’22) refers to some unpublished
verses of Marcus Clarke’s “The Fireman’s Story” (in
parody of Sims’s style”). Let me assure him that
they were published. They appeared in The Yaga
bond Christmas Annual,” issued by that erratic lour
nalist, Julian Thomas, in December. 1877. I think
“0.K.” is also wrong in regarding them as a sung
off at George Sims’s style. A copy ot the> ver
is before me now. They are entitled Bill J J nK , > “
Romance in the American Manner, and I have
always regarded them as a burlesque of the sort oi
pathos found in John Hay’s “Jim Bludso and
poems of that type. In Clarke’s piece, after Bill s
gallant death has been recorded, as ment oned b.
“0.K.” and the fact has been noted that the corpse
was “just an unpleasant mess, like a troa-upo
raspberry-tart!” the poem concludes; —
“Perhaps in Heaven there ain’t no bars,
Where friends can meet each other
(I haven’t made out this world yet,
Lord, let alone the other) ;
But if there be. I’ll there meet him—
For God is just, I thinks —
And liquorin’ up with the seraphim
Sits the soul of William Jinks.”
“Topee” on the days when The Bulletin was
young i ——
J. 11. M. Abbott’s review of the first Dullehn
(B. 2/11/’22) reminds me that I reached Sydney
in ’BO and bought my first B. in March oft
year. The Sydney Arcade was opened in Dec ® m .
’Bl, and in Forster’s American Wine Bar I fir
the great triumvirate —Haynes, Archibald and . •
Traill—who had wandered in to investigate “
novelty. The two Jacks were gleefully
W.H. as he absorbed a sherry-cobbler thi °“Bh J™
straws, oblivious that one was leaking and bedewing
his magnificent beard. Next to the tno • ,
Reid with a lemon-squash; bulky even then, but "ot
giving much promise of the generous P t j, c
was to develop later. On the other sid . e
violin virtuoso August Wilhelm j (then * j£ ets ).
Freemasons’ Hotel Hall, York and Clarenc t
He also had a cobbler, and was lugubriously
ing to the bartender’s explanation that the P
(3d.) marked on the window applied only to » t
tain drinks, and that “all wines was six.
is still living, I believe). The Fiank »a ® dav
ferred to, and known to B. readers of
as the “long-legged evangelist was a Jam t^
the early ’eighties, who divided, his time c
selling disinfectants, “doing time for l ,ass f Gosppl .
less cheques and spreading the Bight of the £, g
The solemnitv of one baptismal cei erao ' l .7, , : s j, ap .
Baths was seriously endangered by a stag
One catachumen was a negro cook from
ship lying at the Quay, where the wind jam^
were ranged three and sometimes four at ea ; t. ence
lost hold of the convert, and but for Sambo p ng
of mind in gripping his pastor by t 'f “ ‘ .’ s tone to
him in and using his head as a stepping t(
get ashore, the congregation might have Deen e
with the function. This was at a Foley
later than the one referred to in B. No. L
passed out in ’B3.


Most
Miles
per
Shilling
I
%
%
%
Vftl
9
\
st
m
w4'
3^
I
%
%
V
J
J i
tn
U
i>.
i>i
•IP-,
V's
ft
m
First Shipment of
FIRESTONE CORD TYRES
(both inch and millimetre sizes)
Are Now Actually Available in SYDNEY
This is a new tyre of a famous make with a new tread ,
and a new quality that will faithfully maintain the
Firestone reputation for giving “ MOST MILES PER
SHILLING.”
In cordially inviting correspondence from high-grade
Motor Traders desirous of participating in the dis-
tribution of Firestone products in New South Wales,
we are in a position to state that we can offer a
complete line comprising: —
CORD AUTOMOBILE TYRES and RED TUBES.
SOLID TRUCK TYRES (including the New Cushion
Solid for higher speeds).
CORD MOTOR CYCLE TYRES.
Write for Prices and Trade Discounts*
Factory Representative: ROBERT F. LEE, Castlereagh St., Sydney,
Sole Distributors for N.S.W.
E. G. BAGSHAW & CO.
352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephones—City 2658 and 11254.
Gum-Dipped Cords


Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
l'heatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from No.
4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if. required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
4 % Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OOl, 3002, 3599.
D. O. M,
BENEDICTINE
Is the GENUINE LIQUEUR with
400 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
The best-known Digestive Tonic, as well as
the most fashionable After-Dinner Liqueur.
II
THE STORM KING
LANTERN.
350 Candle*
power.
liuriis Benzine. Simple and Safe.
Wind- and Rain-proof. Price, 65/-
Also Table Lamps and Comfort Irons.
Send for illus. pamphlet— LUX LIGHT,.
CO., 495 Collins Street, Melbourne*
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL .
Fire Insurances
\
- £1,000,000.
j effected on all classes ot
- Buildings,,, stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents algo assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Missing: Friends.
0 the next of kin of JAMES CURRIE, who died
1
intestate at Palmerston North, New Zealand, on
the 21st day of December, 1919.
Inquiry is made for the Next of Kin of the above-
named JAMES CURRIE, deceased. The said deceased
is believed to have been born in BALLYMENA,
COUNTY ANTRIM, IRELAND, and to have a
SISTER RESIDING IN TORONTO, CANADA. It is
thought that RELATIVES of the deceased are now
LIVING IN QUEENSLAND, ANSTRALIA. Any
claims by, or on behalf of, the next of kin of the
above deceased must be made to the undersigned on
or before the 7th FEBRUARY, 1923, failing which
the Estate will be distributed amongst those entitled
thereto, disregarding those whose claims have not
been received on or before that date.
Dated at Wellington this 7th day of October, 1922.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Public Notice.
British Australian Wool Realisation
Association, Limited.
EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL
MEETING.
6th DECEMBER, 1922.
"XfOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that in
_IA; accordance with requisitions received
by the Board an Extraordinary General Meet-
ing of shareholders in the above Association
will be held at the Assembly Hall, 160 Col-
lins Street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, the
6th day of December, 1922, at 2.30 p.m.
BUSINESS.
To consider and, if deemed advisable, to
pass with or without amendment the follow-
ing resolution: —
THAT it is desirable to have a Central
Organisation for the protection, stabilisa-
tion and development of Australian Pas-
toral and Agricultural Industries, includ-
ing the formulation of policies respecting
the disposal of primary products or of
such of them as may be decided upon bv
the meeting,-and that British ■ Australian
Wool Realisation Association, Limited, be
such Central Organisation, and that the
Directors thereof be and they are hereby
authorised to take such steps as they con-
sider necessary to carry this resolution
into effect.
By Order of the Board,
G.’ F. PARIvES, Secretary,
Proxies should reach the registered office
of the Association not later than 2.30 p.m.
on Monday, 4th December, 1922.
540-542 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
27th October, 1922.
tsry
Save that 5 to 5 Your Horse’s
Energy Lost in Axle Friction
The invisible enemy that is robbing your horse of one-third to half
of his useful pulling energy is neither the road nor his load : It is
the axte friction. If, however, you equip your lorry with
Ball Bearing Axles
that friction will be reduced to practically nothing. The lorry will
run more smoothly, last longer and need less repairs. The animal
will be in a better condition —he will require less fodder —and yet
you will be able to make him earn more. In other words, you
will soon find it most profitable to change over from plain to
S K F Ball Bearing Axles.
Veterinary surgeons strongly recommend them.
GARDNER, WAERN & CO. Pty. Ltd.
Head Office: 384 City Road, South Melbourne. Showroom: 369
Flinders St., Melb. DepGts at:—SYDNEY: 225 Clarence St.
BRISBANE: 369 Adelaide St. PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Ltd., 37 King St. ADELAIDE-. 122 Currie St. HOBART:
Charles Davis, Ltd. LAUNCESTON: j. R. Sides, 77 York St.
H 22/23
MECCANO
ENGINEERING FOR BOYS
A perfect crane one day, a splendid transporter bridge the next, then a wonderful tower with a running
elevator and so you go on every day for a year without once repeating a model.
REAL ENGINEERING. The reason why you can do such extraordinary things with Meccano is that
every part of it is a real engineering piece—pulleys, gears, strips, girders, rods, couplings and cranks, all
perfectly designed and accurately made.
ANYWHERE BETWEEN 5 and 70 is the correct age to .start Meccano. The youngest boy can begin
to build the moment he gets his Outfit home. A screw-driver and spanner are the only tools necessary.
Every Outfit complete—nothing further to buy.
FULL INSTRUCTIONS.
A big illustrated Book of
Insti 'actions goes with each
Outfit, making everything
perfectly clear. No study
necessary.
}®cc m
SSSOCft
FREE TO BOYS
A Splendid New Meccano Book.
This is a beautiful new book which shows boy 9
how to enjoy every minute of their leisure
hours. It is beautifully illustrated, and explains
in a simple way the joys of Meccano.
HOW TO GET A FREE COPT.
Just send us a postcard giving your name and
full address. Put No. 2 after your name for
reference. When you receive the booklet show
it to your chums, and get them to send for
copies too.
Grand £250 Prize Competition
This contest brings golden opportunities
to brainy inventive boys. Write us for
particulars or ask your dealer for an entry
form
MECCANO PRICES
■■'3: C )
o o
[o o
Jtny boy
can build
this
wonderful
Revolving
Crane.
THE MECCANO DEPOT, 379, KENT ST - SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 1832-
4
w
eg
1
yp\bJ ! h
1
m
0
Q
□
SODA WATER -
DRY GINGER. ALE
THE BEST
“Sucre”: “Stellsby’s” (B. 9/11/’22) sur-
prise re Brisbane’s archaic canning industry,
controlled by the “Pilgrims of the Night,” is
no greater than the amazement of Brisbane
over the North Shore bridge will o’ the wisp.
The other day a Brisbane man asked a
Sydney policeman what tram he would take
across the bridge to N. Sydney. “There ain’t
no bridge,” was the reply. “No bridge!”
exclaimed the visitor. “Spare me days,
grandfather voted for it 40 years ago.”
“Footslogger”: “Flicker” (B. 19/10/’22)
gives some of the bygone high-sounding bil-
lets that wex-e deemed necessai*y to sustain
the splendor of the House of Hanover. Here
are a few of the quaint collars still held
by the King’s batmen: Keeper of the Privy
Purse ; Gentleman of the Cellars ; Coroner of
the Verge; First Gentleman Porter; Ser-
geant State Porter; Surveyor of the King’s
Pictures and Woi'ks of Art; Keeper of the
Swans; Master of the King’s Music; and
Keeper of the Jewel House. I find myself
wondering whether, if I had my choice, I
would sooner close my strenuous life as
Coroner of the A’erge or Keeper of the
Swans.
“Paree”: It was bound to come. A forger
has been arrested in France, dies and presses
all complete; but lie was fabricating merely
old used stamps. As long as there are
people who will pay a small fortune
for a stamp if a word is misspelt or if
it has 16 indentations down the side instead
of the usual 12, so long will there be fabri-
cators to oblige them. To every fool a
knave (Spanish proverb).
“Henry Bateson” : Have any of the medals
presented to the Maoris at Queen Charlotte
Sound by Captain Cook in 1773 ever been
discovei’ed? They were made of brass, and
on one side bore the King’s head, with the
inscription “George 111., King of Great
Britain, France and Ireland, etc.” On the
other side there was a representation of two
men-of-wai', with the names “Resolution”
and “Adventure.” over them, and the
-wording “Sailed from England, March,
MDGCLXXII.” The date is wrong, by the
way, being that on which Cook was origin-
ally to have sailed, but did not.
“Mut Quad” : There is at least one con-
scientious Pussyfooter in Vic. He is the
ow T ner of a closer-settlement block in the
Goulburn Valley, and when I met him he
was looking for a job in town. He spoke
of having had a bad spin on the land ; there
was no market for grapes last year, he com-
plained, and the season’s crop had to rot on
the vines. “Why didn’t you sell them to the
Shepparton Winery?” I asked. “They were
paying £2O per ton for grapes.” “Yes,” he
replied, “I know that, but I’m a member of
the Anti-Liquor League, and to sell grapes
for the making of wine is against my prin-
ciples.” I recommended him to try watex’-
melons next season.
“O.B.”: Will Ives’ Reward shareholders
ever wake up? From the beginning the
co. has been blowing about its “prospects,”
reporting good average values, wheedling
money out of the Government, and making
qalls. It is still doing so. A lot of the
cash subscribed by shareholders seems to
be going into the pockets of debenture-
holders, and after their claims have been
satisfied —if ever they are —the real value of
the mine will pi’obably be disclosed and
the shutters put up. The prospect of shai-e-
-holders getting anything is remote. After
all the puffing and expenditure of many
thousands on alleged big lodes, reefs and
formations, less than 1000 tons have been
treated in the last 12 months.
“Cartot”: “D.’s” statement (B. 9/11/’22)
that a Yankee asthma remedy is “fairly
bristling with cocaine” is not quite in accord-
ance with the facts. The Federal authori-
ties carefully regulate the amount of this
or any other narcotic drug that may be con-
tained in patent medicines, and the maximum
quantity permitted is so minute that a
cocaine fiend would have to consume gallons
in order to get a “jolt.” In many of these
quack remedies cocaine has disappeared as
an ingredient, simply because the restrictions
were so troublesome that it was easier to
leave it out. A couple of years ago a large
number of patent preparations manufactured
by a well-known American firm had in
them not only cocaine but morphine, which
ensured an enormous demand for them.
Nowadays they are free from narcotics, and
have consequently lost more than half of their
popularity.
“Gippo”: I concur with “TJ.P.” (B.
26/10/’22) that couch-grass is not by any
means an undiluted curse. As a summer
lawn-grass it is, I think, without an equal
in Australia, and I’ve heard bowlers declare
it makes a perfect rink. Buffalo is gener-
ally considei’ed- the camel of grasses, but
couch will beat it by months in a thirst-
endurance test. Four years ago I had a
lawn of pure buffalo, and for two years
slaved desperately to keep it free from other
grasses. However, the couch beat me, and
to-day there is 90 per cent, of it, and a better
lawn. Constant turning of the ground is
the only way to check couch, which has been
known to push its way through asphalt. The
running-track of the Caulfield racecourse is
mostly covered with this gi’ass during the
summer months, the main reason for the fast
times so often recorded there.
THE PIONEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“This iron post stands at the corner of Margaret
and George streets. The raised letters read: ‘Brisbane
Ward, Hosking Mayor.’ On the other side is the
date—l 342.” — Evening News, Sydney.
Before De Quiros sailed the seas,
Ere yet Dirk Hartog' roving came,
Before the Dutch, or Portuguese,
Or William Dampier hid for fame,
Ere Tasman sniffed the southern breeze,
Or Captain Cook had won acclaim,
Old Hosking did a wondrous feat,
And left his mark in Margaret-street.
Historians are strangely dumb
Concerning this old pioneer.
For instance, whence did Hosking come?
What vessel was it brought him here?
His iron signpost stands there, plumb,
But we know naught of his career.
We must find out, by hook or crook,
How Hosking antedated Cook.
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


m.
i
&
1
1
1
w,
m
K
with Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
Every woman knows that
clean bread cannot be made
with dirty hands, neither can
a house be kept tidy without
constant attention. So it
is with the human system.
Pure blood cannot be made
from a foul stomach and
deranged digestion. The
body needs the same care
and attention to keep it clean
as the good housewife knows
is necessary to keep the home
clean and in order. It is not
enough to keep clean on the
outside, but on the inside as
well, and many people
entirely neglect themselves in
this important matter, which
is so necessary to their gen-
eral health. If people would
only bear this in mind, much
unnecessary suffering could
be avoided. For the pur-
pose of cleansing the system
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are unrivalled. They
cleanse the stomach, purify
the blood, aid the diges-
tion and assimilation of
food, and tone the entire
*•■ : i
system.
mmm
m
D
R
m
1
1
I
FOR
m
mmmm
Aft
Comstock’s “Dead Shot”
Worm Pellets.
A SAFE, SURE AND RELIABLE
REMEDY FOR THE ERADICATION
OF WORMS IN CHILDREN AND
ADULTS.
Worms, by their movements and the inter-
ruption they offer to the contents of the
bowels, generally occasion pain and uneasi-
ness in the abdomen, sometimes spasmodic,
sometimes gnawing or biting, and not infre-
quently of a vague, indescribable character,
and yet verx distressing. Sympathetic with
this is a sbttMtioh of itching at the anus
and at the nostrils, producing a disposition
to scratch the fundament and pick the nose,
which is characteristic of this affection. The
bowels are often discolored, sometimes con-
stipated or stopped, and sometimes relaxed,
with occasional bloody discharges, as in
dysentery. The discharge is sometimes in
shreds or flakes, which are not infrequently
mistaken for fragments of partially digested
food. It is not uncommon for portions of
undigested food to pass with the discharges.
The appetite is exceedingly variable in
some cases natural, in others deficient, crav-
ing or depraved; one condition not infre-
quently alternating with another. The abdo-
men is often hard, swollen and tympanetic;
the breath heavy or foetid; the tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste, and a copi-
ous flow of saliva. Swelling of the upper lip,
bleeding of the nostrils and disposition to
grind the teeth during sleep are other char-
acteristic symptoms. The effects, however,
often extend beyond the alimentary canal,
and various derangements of health are ex-
perienced in consequence either of the direct
irritation of the worms or of the disordered
digestion which they occasion. Among the
most common of these are nervous affections,
such as fretfulness, irritation of temper,
wakefulness or disposition to excessive sleep,
disturbed sleep, sudden starting out of sleep
as if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, dilated pupils, per-
verted vision, temporary blindness and deaf-
ness. General convulsions are not infrequent
in children, and symptoms strongly resemb-
ling “water on the brain” have been ascribed
to w*rms and have ceased on their expulsion.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to re-
cognise the fact that their little ones are
suffering intense pain and distress, and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts of
temper, restlessness and peevishness, and
until some more serious symptoms appear
nothing is done to alleviate the distress. The
symptoms of this disease are somewhat vari-
able, but generally they are so characteris-
tic that no mother need have any doubts.
The best proof of worms is worms, and if
the general conduct of the child is such as
to give the slightest suspicion, an examina-
of the stoools (evacuation from the bowels)
will afford ample proof.
A child who is affected with Thread
Worms will often appear to the eye to be
in an indifferent state of health. It becomes
peevish and irritable in its temper, and com-
plains of itching of the nose, whilst the
same symptoms may be very prominent in-
deed in the lower part of the bowel. Another
point to which the attention of mothers
should be specially directed is that the child
is apt to start in its sleep, its repose being
in this way of a disturbed nature. Note also
that many children who are in the habit of
wetting their beds do so by reason of the
irritation which these worms produce in the
body, the irritation extending to the bladder
and causing it involuntarily to part with its
contents.
In every heap of decaying matter there is
always to be found a nest of worms. They
breed and multiply in impure matter. And
so it is in the human system. The accumu-
lation of partially-digested food in the in-
testines, which becomes putrid when the
bowels are constipated, induces the presence
of worms. A few doses of Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets, followed by a dose or
two of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, will
disturb them in their nest, and drive them
out of the system.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation,
compounded on a scientific principle for the
eradication of worms which infest the intes-
tines. They contain specific properties
which destroy the worms, but cause no in-
jury to the stomach or bowels, and do not
weaken the system'. The pellets are pre-
pared in the form of a confection or lolly,
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but, on
the contrary, inspire children to take them
as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney,
N.S.W.; and Farish Street, Wellington,
N.Z. Price 3/6 per packet (6 packets 20/-1,
post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.


SEND FOR
LATEST
CATALOGUE
IT’S
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Hot Water Kettle, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, rustic stand,
£7/10/-
M
mx
A Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, Cut Crystal Glass Bowl,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Baking Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
£3/10/-
TABLE
APPOINTMENTS
1
B E
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, GadroOß
design, hand burnished; Sugar and Cream gilt-lined, £l5.
Others, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO.
WE POST
ALL
ORDERS
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Fruit Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly burnished, detachable dishes, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opp. Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Box, pure Silver-
plated, hand burnished, without
engraving, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, hand engraved.
In three sizes, £3, £4, £5.
a
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated. A 1 quality, highly
burnished, £3/10/-
e)
20
o
Oo
Hupmobile
It was the engine of the Hupmobile that first attracted the atten-
tion of the civilized world. Time has but enhanced its reputation
in the minds of motor-car drivers. Hupmobile power and en-
durance are well known to motor-car owners. These qualities
never fail. Every additional Hupmobile made contributes to this
good reputation.
I. FHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth
Street, Hyde Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664
Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
112-120 Pirie Street, Adelaide, S. Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tas.
N.Z. FARMER S’ CO-OPERATIVE
ASSOC., Christchurch, N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Welling-
ton, N.Z.


Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
ACTUAL size
The cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each.
Special sampl-
ing cabinet
containing
10 cigars, 6/-;
25, 12/6;
50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Post paid to any
address.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
6548 George Street*
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
PLUM
RAZORS
ts
k
N
The “Tried
and True”
quality-main-
tained Razor.
For thirty-
five years
the “Plum”
has retained
the confi-
den c e and
patronage of
men who
a p p r e ciate
its sterling
qualities.
Price 12/6
Pair in Pre-
sentation
CaM '2s /-
Post Free.
Kept in
order for
two years
free.
CRAIG and AITKEN
654 b GEORGES!SYDNEY
Amusement
O VI)N K V’S CIII K T TJIKA T K E S
'- 3 J. c. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
CAIRO.
CRITERION:
THE SILVER FOX.
ROYAL : THE NAUGHTY PRINCESS.
FLLKRS’ NEW THEATRE. SYDNEY
Proprietors: BENJAMIN and JOHN FULLER.
Sole Direction MiSS ADA REEY’E.
Opening- with the Matinee Performance
ON " SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2.
ADA REEVE,
The World Renowned Comedienne, with Her Owr
Company, including GUS McNAUGHTON, th(
modern-style Comedian, in
SPANGLES,
The Australian Record-making Production.
Box Plan at PALING’S on MONDAY.
TUI-: ALLAN WILKIE SIIA KSI’EA UEA '
PRODUCTIONS
NEW ZEALAND TOUR: NORTH ISLAND.
Australasian Representatives: WILSON & SODEK
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street, Sydney.
JC. HILLLA.MMLN, LTD., MELIK) C UNI
■ ATTRACTIONS.
lIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
MARY.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE PEEP SHOW.
A WHIRLWIND OF DANCE AND MELODY.
(I NO’S THEATRE. MEI.RO Si R N L
Sole Lessees: Bert Bailey and Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AT 2.
E. J. & DAN CARROLL present
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
an Australian Comedy in three acts,
by C. J. DENNIS.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MKLROHRNIC
.Also SYDNEY.
>E LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (ovet
Prince’s Bridge).
GOD’S CRUCIBLE.
YN ADAPTATION OF RALPH CONNOR’S GREAT
STORY, “THE FOREIGNER.”
Prices as usual.
yjA.IESIIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
GREAT ATTRACTION.
THE SEA LION.
AN ASSOCIATED PRODUCERS’ PRODUCTION.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
QTtM P I A, MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinCes Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS.
A host of entirely new International Celebratei
Artists personally engaged by Mr. George Wirth oi
Ids recent tour of the World.
Prices, 7/-, 6/-, 5/-, 3/- and 2/-. Plan at Glen’s.
I'or Sale.
A PPLE ORCHARD. —Near Katoomba.
close station, 1200 apples, pears and
Ruins coming into full bearing; good con-
crete bungalow; telephone, electric light,
etc.; stables, storerooms, pigsties, etc.
Complete orchard outfit, abundant water laid
m throughout. Easy Terms.
K.G., Box 241, G.P.O.
FOR IMMEDIATE SALE
—OWNER LEAVING DISTRICT.
Cronulla (Burraneer Bay)
Residence.
ABSOLUTE water frontage. Ground:
two acres. Torrens Title. Buildings
consist of Brick Bungalow, six rooms, exten-
sive verandahs three sides, electric light,
motor garage. Immediate possession. Price,
£2250, below cost. Apply owner, J. WILSON,
“Burranhurst,” Burraneer Bay.
Missing Friends.
JAMES NEWTON.—WiII James Newton, formerly
of the city of Leeds, England, who sailed in Sep-
tember, 1902, on the Aberdeen Liner Moravian, tc
Sydney, with forwarding to Townsville, Queensland,
or any person having any knowledge of his where-
abouts, or of his death or of his family, pleast
communicate with ROOKE & MIDGLEY, Solicitors.
3 White Horse Street, Boar Lane, Leeds, England.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Z///////////////////A
LS, *
CHRISTMAS
GIFTS
o
ONOTO INK—
Best for all Pens
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
A French Physician
has lately discovered that the bacilli of
TYPHOID FEVER cannot live beyond
a very short time in APPLE JUICE,
and he therefore advises persons who
reside where the drinking water is not
above suspicion to mix CIDER there-
with before drinking it.
KITZS
CIDER
Made Wholly and
Solely by
Australians from
Australia’s
Finest Apples.
BABY BOTTLES ALL HOTELS.
PINTS AND QUARTS ALL STORES.
ALL STATIONERS and
JEWELLERS.
OWSffTstfßSpt
PEN
The Pen with the Quarantee
7/6 to 35/- each.
DENTAL
CREAM
White Teeth —and
a Warning
You want your teeth to look white—and naturally
so; but be careful you do not ruin them in the
process! See that your dentifrice contains no
grit. Dentists throughout the world agree that
nothing is more harmful to the precious enamel.
DENTAL CREAM
is entirely free from grit. It brings to the teeth
their natural lustre, destroys dangerous bacteria,
and thoroughly cleanses the whole mouth.
Obtainable at all chemists, druggists, etc. Have
you tried it? If not, post the attached coupon
to us to-day.
Please send me a free sample
of Kolynos Dental Cream
Name - -
(Mr.. Miss, or Mrs.)
Address
To
TvlUii —
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
ELLIOTT BROS. LTD., O’Connell Street, Sydney; FELTON
GRIMWADE & CO. PTY. LTD., 342-346 Flinders Lana,
Melbourne; ELLIOTT BROS. LTD., Eagle Street, Bris
bane; A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., 42-46 Currie
Street, Adelaide; FELTON, GRIMWADE & BICKFORD
LTD., Wellington Street, Perth.


THE HENRY LAWSON
MEMORIAL.
We have received the following:—
Town Hall, Sydney,
3/11/1922.
The Editor “The Bulletin,” Sydney.
Dear Sir, —At the last meeting of the
Executive Committee of the Henry Law-
son Memorial Fund it was decided that
the memorial should take the form of a
statue, and if sufficient funds are avail-
able also to provide a scholarship at the
Sydney LTniversity.
It was resolved that the Lord Mayor
should open a fund, that the press be
asked to open their columns for sub-
scriptions, and that “The Bulletin” be
asked to open a special “Bulletin” Henry
Lawson Fund, owing to that paper’s
association with Henry Lawson’s work,
and its unique circulation.
In pursuance of this resolution, the
Lord Mayor desires me to ask if you can
see your way to open a subscription
list in your columns. The Lord Mayor
feels that your help in this direction
will materially assist the fund, and will
be highly appreciated by the Executive
Committee.
Yours faithfully,
W. G. LAYTON,
Joint hon. sec. Henry Lawson Memorial
Fund.
Contributions should be addressed to The
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
THE HENRY LAWSON FUND
SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. .. £lO5 0 0
Subscriptions to hand will be acknowledged
next week.
Special Shipment of English Brushes
Ready for Christmas Buying at Peapes’.
These brushes, direct from England, are absolutely
reliable, and will give twice the service of brushes
derived from any other source.
Whether for personal use or gift-giving, thev are an
ideal choice, because of their utility and long wear.
Single Military Brush, in case.
12/6, 16/6, 18/6, 22/6, 27/6 each.
Bair of Military Brushes, in case,
32/6, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/- pair.
Clothes Brushes, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 each.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS.
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Peapes’ New Catalogue.
WORLD-FAMED
MATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Cairo”
Criterion ". “The Silver I ox”
Koval “The Naughty Princess”
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mary”
Royal “The Peep Show”
King’s “The Sentimental Bloke”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
"The Sentimental Bloke,” at Melbourne
King’s, had two of his original company out
of the bill last week. The long, thm “Strore
’At Coot” was hustled into hospital by pains
in the ’dix, and as there is little for him to
do but impersonate a type, the substitution
of a rather short, thickset coot was a loss
to the altogether. The other change was
d.ue to Edward Landor’s sore throat. Tom
Cannam was called upon to play Uncle. By
acting a little less, whilst giving the author’s
lines just as much weight as the other per-
former had done, Cannam’s Uncle gave a
broad hint to Doreen’s Mar, the one serious
offender in a well-chosen company. Hints,
however, seem to be wasted on that much-
mannered lady. Bhe continues to over-
emphasise every other word, and her “crea-
tion” of the artless hay-and-eorn dealer’s
widow smacks of ancient theatrical tradition.
Therefore she is most realistic when merged
in the chorus of “The Broken Vow.” That
wild burst of melody has been worked up to
a high pitch of humor, but mustn’t go any
higher in pursuit of guffaws.
In the two Melbourne J.C.W. shows the
greater strength of attraction rests with
“Mary,” at Her Majesty’s, perhaps. “Mary,”
like “The Peep Show ’ at the Royal, is with-
out story or music worth remembering, but.
if it leaves undone many of the things which
ought to be done, the insipid musical comedy
at Her Majesty’s is at least devoid of those
things which ought not to be done. Now,
“The Peep Show” is full of such things. An
Oliver Twist, who whines “I want some
more,” is one of them.
*$ * *
At Melbourne Tivoli the promise of pro-
ducing a pair of perfect lovers on Saturday
was postponed until Monday, the delay be-
ing atoned for by one more farewell of Lee
White and Clay Smith. The bill at the
Tivoli, apart from the Lovera, has grown
fairly strong. Will Collinson is a familiar
type of comedy-sketeher, minus an individ-
uality, but, with the aid of a seven-foot long
accomplice, lie pulls through. The Spanish
wirewalker is one of the best at the ancient
game, and Brooke and Cahill, the Australian
tenor and pianist, are back. A lady soprano
now makes a duet with the melliflous warbler.
The order of manifold things at Wirths’,
in Melbourne, is proceeding as before to the
music of the circus band. The band invari-
ably stops when a feat of amazing magni-
tude comes due from a pair of athletes in
the arena. At these brief moments of
silence everybody remains awestruck save
the menagerie outside, the roar of a. distant
lion coming in so opportunely that one sus-
Billy Maloney, the
man with the
silver stick, at
Sydney Tivoli.
pects the management of giving the noble
animal• a kick in the stern sheets as a cue
for it to start the uproar. Thus far
there has been no warning of the circus’s
intention to shake the dust of Olympia from
its elephants’ feet, though the weeks of its
stay in Melbourne are bound to be num-
bered. The country calls, and the warthog
grows restless after a long spell in one dis-
trict.
* * * *
The attractions of Anita Stewart as
“Rose of the Sea” are being published at Mel-
bourne Majestic this week. Anita has to
fight a chorus-girl for the usual Adonis, and
wins on points in the final round. “Big
Stakes,” another amorous gamble in a Mexi-
can setting, is at the Majestic. Hoyt’s pin
their faith to “God’s Crucible,” an adapta-
tion of a Ralph Connor yarn, which has to
be seen to be forgotten. “The Journey’s
End” —with Mabel Ballin, torn between
jooty and a noble passion—has found a
week’s lodging at the Britannia. The
Melba has hired Bebe Daniels to posture as
a movie queen in “Two Weeks with Pay.”
$ v V V
In a collection of oils, water-colors and
etchings at the Melbourne Athenaeum, Jessie
Traill’s work is conspicuous for quantity.
She hangs over 30 water-colors and a dozen
or more large etchings, which occupy nearly
two walls of the show. The water-colors
have a slap-dash spontaneity, but are fre-
quently somewhat garish in tone, whereas
the etchings are forceful examples of her hand-
ling of massed shadows in plain landscape or
forest effects. Edith Hope, another etcher
nearby, is more richly picturesque in the
same manner, “The Viaduct, Albi,” revealing
her ability to take brilliant advantage of an
unusual scene.
Among the paint-
ers present Ber-
nard Hall is re-
sponsible for a
poorish landscape,
a now familial
study in still life
and a careful bit
of nude painting,
wherein he lavishes
all his art on the
lady’s reflection in
a mirror. Two ex-
cellent lithographs,
one of them slightly
marred by an over-
emphasised outline
along the nose and
jaw, are the
achievement
of James Mc-
Donald. Septimus
Pow e r sends a
water-color, “Har-
rowing,” and Elder-
shaw signs a de-
Chas. Dawning, musi-
cal director of
“ Mary ,” at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
sign called “The Church,” which sug-
gests a mellow English treatment of
a typically English theme. Then there
is R. W. Sturgess demonstrating his
talent in a wider range of subjects than
ever before. He has now definitely broad-
ened out into the study of landscape in vari-
ous peaceful aspects, and the general result
is charming. “The Grey Shed” is a gem,
and “Evening, Malmsbury,” is another, both
capturing the eye with their unassuming
beauty.
v v v v
Despite the evident technique and prettv
color play, Rupert Bunny’s canvases at the
Melbourne Fine Art Society compare to
modern realistic Art like the novels of Ouida
to “Tono-Bungay.” Bunny has been
painting for a long time now, and the evi-
dence is apparent in the staid and passe
ladies who look so aw T fully dated in
“The Luxembourg Gardens” or parade in
languid idleness in the rather garish “Le
Bel apres midi Royan” [sic|. In the
latter the artist was taken with a highly-
ornamental impulse, and, whilst confessing
mild regard for the general performance,
one feels the obtrusiveness of the dame hold-
ing a yellow-back book and a pale blue para-
sol in unsympathetic discord with a lavender
frock. Color for mere color’s sake leads the
artist to even more audacious experiments,
as witness “Lounging” and “The February
Sun at Cavalaire,” w T ith its shattering extra-
vagance of Iteckitt’s blue. Beside those the
pea-green symphony, “La Chaise Longue,” is
almost restful, and “The Garden Bench” is
a perfect vision of peace. Bunny has some
more attractive studies of ladies at their
toilette, of which “Sunlight through Lace
Curtains” may be mentioned favorably for
the treatment of the light on the handsome
shoulders of the model. “Sun Bath,” a nude,
is also good in drawing, though the slats of
light on the face give an artificial aspect to
the production.
* * *
Gladys Moncrieff, a sombre and Carmen-
like figure, dominates the revival of “The
Maid of the Mountains” at Adelaide Royal.
Mac Master is now the opera hero who some-
how never sings a note, even allowing the
heroine to sing love duets with someone else;
and he rules firmly over that strange bandit
stronghold, of which one hears three things:
(1) the local Governor is being deposed, with-
out protest, for having done nothing to cap-
ture it; (2) it is at that very moment sur-
rounded by his troops ; in spite of which (3)
his daughter, out for a stroll, can wander
right into it without meeting either the
attack or the. defence. The quaintest thing
about the revival, however, is the clever boy-
ish rendering by Lance Lister of the low-
comedy part, meant for someone more of the
Phil Smith type. The biggest thing in sight
in . pictures is “Perjury,” at the York, with
William Farnum in some intense situations.
Wondergraph has Mary M. Min ter, begin-
ning in a circus and working up into that
other circus called Society. Harold Lloyd
is made a special feature at both West’s and
Pav., but C. Chaplin threatens to “come
back” shortly.
The Repertory Theatre of Adelaide has
been going in for one-act plays. Its recent
programme was made up of Shaw, Wilde and
Barrie. “The Dark Lady” and the “Floren-
tine Tragedy” were revivals from long ago,
when Adelaide gave them their first showing
in Australia. This time, Wilfred Neill and
Kitty Sullivan divided the honors in Shaw’s
quaint plea for an endowed theatre. The
tragedy was a heavy score for James Ander-
son as the merchant. Barrie’s “Rosalind”
was a new thing locally; Claude Saunders
(who lately almost scooped the pool at Bal-
larat competitions) shared the honors w T ith
Kitty Sullivan, who was great as the actress
on holiday in a floppy and middle-aged rest-
ful condition. The other players throughout
were good, too, but in an amateur way. Those
named could doubtless obtain a professional
engagement at any moment if they cared
for it.
# # * *
From an Adelaide critic: —-
The present exhibition of S.A. Society of Arts if
not a great thing. Its main feature is the large
number of portraits, probably inspired by the Alec
Melrose prize for the best figure-study. May Grigg
has won it both years it has been given, this time
with a portrait of James Ashton (painter himself,
and father of Will). The Art Gallery of Adelaide
is not rolling in funds just now, and has bought
only one picture, a Persian pot with flowers, by
Marriott Woodhouse, of N.S.W. The most striking
thing in the show is by Seppelt, a South Austra-
lian, who is coming fast but has hardly arrived.
His Lying-in-state of Boss Smith is exactly the
ambitious kind of thing which needs encouragement
in a community given mostly to landscape and
timid figure-studies. Parts of it are fine, but the
outlines are too hard, the color too striking, for
complete success. Cumbrae Stewart and Dora
Wilson have their usual blonds of bare flesh and
costly fabric. James Ferries continues his alle-
gorical studies, but cannot hope for success till he
learns to draw the human face. In landscape, the
most striking things are a stream with poplars,
by Bose Lowcay, and an “Australian Summer,” by
the late Edward Officer, with long grass of an
incredible blueness. Goodchild continues his skilful
etching, mostly of architectural subjects, Howie
has a couple of war pictures, and there is some
brilliant eccentric modern lithographic work. Pur-
chasers have been frequent, but always of the low-
priced works. The public does not trust its own
judgment enough to back it in large figures.
“The Naughty Princess” is about to enter
upon her last week of Parisian dissipation at
Sydney Theatre Royal. After next Thurs-
day tlie winsome girls in the gay gowns will
be gone with last week’s roses, and the lilt-
ing melodies become echoes of nights that are
no more. On Saturday week “The Arca-
dians” will be revived for a brief season at
the T.R., with Kathlyn Hilliard as Sombra.
“Cairo” will finish its 12 weeks’ run at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on December 8, to
enable the immense caravan of glittering
Orientalities to move on to Melbourne. Oscar
Asche will produce “Julius Caesar” to fill in
the hiatus for himself and company before
“Cairo” is re-erected in its new surround-
ings, the Strong Man from Persia convert-
ing himself into Mark Antony, and a massive
and dominating Mark at that.
$ s>s $
“The Silver Fox” is still going strong at
Sydney Criterion. It’s an engaging animal,
whose precious pelt harmonises admirably
with silk stockings and lightly-held marriage
vows. Lawrence Grossmith is himself a
study in the fine art of being impressive with
the minimum of conscious effort, and Diana
Wilson shows herself an actress of remark-
able charm.
* * * *
At Sydney Tivoli, one Bertini, of New-
castle (N.S.W.), whose real name is David
Burt, grinds out inept but lively melodies.
with the help of bow and catgut. Nell Flem-
ing, breezy as to both manner and dress,
goes down well with the baldheads. Dulcie
Hall’s dream in the dentist’s chair is well
done, and would be even more pleasing if it
hadn’t been done before. Amongst the top-
liners Ethel Hook and Gene Gerrard are
running a dead-heat in the race for popular
favor.
* * * *
“Over the Hill” has sobbed itself out of
the Globe, making way for the spectacular
“Fool’s Paradise.” “Is Matrimony a Fail-
ure?” asks the star fill-um at the Lyceum,
and the answer, on the whole, would seem
to be the negative. At the Rialto, Alice
Calhoun is showing in “Rainbow,” and
Bessie Blythe in “Fair Lady.” Hoyt’s has
“When the Devil Drives,” while in “The
Prince of Lovers,” at the Palace, Lord
Byron’s outraged wraith stalks across the
calico sheet twice daily. At the Crystal
Palace the programme ranges from a Chap-
lin comedy to “Madame N.”
* * # *
Gayfield Shaw’s exhibition of sketches at
the “Attic” Gallery consists chiefly of pot-
boilers designed frankly to make the most of
the present excellent market for home-made
art. Prices are limited to 10 guineas, and
some well-known names are included in the
catalogue, but the serious efforts mostly come
SKALSKL AT SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
from the smaller men. Considered as sketches,
many of the exhibits show so little study and
so much slickness as to rob them of any
claim to serious consideration. Perhaps the
most notable feature is the improvement in
the work of J. R. Eldersliaw. He still runs
to too full color and low-toned skies, and
remains addicted to the shallow charm of
accidentals in water-color; but in “The Cot-
tage,” where these faults are least evident,
he exhibits a good picture. Will Ashton’s
“Silver Glitter,” J. R. Jackson’s “Clontarf”
and Gordon Esling’s “Hay Waggon” are
some of the other more conscientious things.
Art in Australia grows more and more
beautiful so far as its make-up, printing and
general effect are concerned. The Novem-
ber number, which is just out, contains, as
its star item, a plain-spoken study of Henry
Lawson by A. G. Stephens, with a fine re-
production in color of Lougstaff’s painting
of the poet. Hugh McCrae provides one of
his rambling articles about books of other
days, and their writers, ornamented by
absurd colored drawings of his own fashion-
ing, which are exactly suited to the whimsi-
cal matter they illustrate. And then there
are some excellently-reproduced pictures in
oil and water-color, a poem by Leon Gellert
and some epigrammatic wisdom by Norman
Lindsay. On the whole, at 65., this ambi-
tious Sydney quarterly is a better bargain
than ever.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS of
Australian Oil Corporation No Liability
(To be incorporated under the “Companies Act 1915” of Victoria.)
CAPITAL: £,500,000, divided into 1,000,000 Shares of 10/- each.
500,000 Shares are offered for public subscription at 2/- per share on application and allotment. (It
is anticipated that no call on these shares will be necessary for a period of 12 months from
date of allotment.)
200,000 Fully-paid 10/- shares to be allotted to the Vendors and Promoter, which, together with the
sum of £3500, is the full purchase consideration for the oil concessions hereinafter set out.
300,000 Shares held in reserve.
1,000,000 Shares total.
PRO VISIONAL DIRECTORS:
RALPH S. FALKINEE, Esq., Pastoralist, 103 William Street, Melbourne.
3. A. C. BLAIR, Esq., Solicitor, Royal Bank Chambers, Melbourne.
J. E. ELLIOTT, Esq., Goldfields‘Diamond Drilling Company Pty., Ltd.,
331 Collins Street, Melbourne.
J. M. STEARNS, Esq., 123 William Street, Melbourne.
D. H. GIBSON, Esq., Chairman Victorian Wheatgrowers’ Corporation, Ltd.,
39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BANKERS:
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
AUDITORS:
FLACK & FLACK, 128 William Street, Melbourne.
LONDON AGENTB ( Provisional )
H. W. WEST & CO., Worcester House, Walbrook.
SYDNEY REPRESENT A TIVE:
H. C. MAC FIE & CO., Chartered Secretaries, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
ADELAIDE REPRESENTATIVE :
M. J. COWELL (Member of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide), Victoria
Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
MANAGER AND OFFICE (pro tern.) :
R- W. STRINGER, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
AUSTRALIAN OIL FOR AUSTRALIAN
REFINERIES.
OBJECTS OF THE CORPORATION.
The Australian Oil Corporation is being formed to acquire certain oil
licenses in the north-east Kimberleys of W.A., the Northern Territory and
Queensland, embracing a total area of approximately 25,000 square miles,
with the sole right to bore and search for oil thereon for a period of five years
as set out in the full prospectus.
Further, to obtain leases, licenses, options and permits to search for oil
and minerals in any part of Australia, Timor, Borneo, Burma, or any other
country where it is considered expedient and in the interests of the Corporation
to do so.
A special arrangement has been made by the promoters to acquire, on
behalf of the Corporation, certain licenses to bore for petroleum over a large
area in the Beaudesert district in Queensland, where light petroleum has
been discovered in geologically favorable country.
Mr. J. L. Strevens (A.M.Inst.P.T.) reports on the
area as follows: —
“After visiting Beaudesert, where I examined the
petroleum seepage and took samples and tested the
oil, there is no doubt that this seepage represents the
lighter fractions of a true crude petroleum coming
from depth, and I recommend immediate boring
in the district after a detailed geological survey.”
GENERAL.
For the present this proposition must be regarded as speculative in
fact, the prospects of each well in a proven oilfield are speculative—but the
great riches that would accrue to Australia from a national point of view, as
well as to the lucky shareholders of a strong Corporation whose geological and
drilling staff were fortunate enough to locate a payable oil-well, should
stimulate investors who are prepared to take a chance.
“THE SEARCH FOR OIL IN AUSTRALIA” is the headline of many
articles in the daily and weekly press of Australia at the present time, and
it is of the greatest importance that Australia should, if possible, come
forward with oil supplies for herself and the Empire. Many thousands of
timid investors are hesitating and only waiting for a lead before risking a
small portion of their capital to assist in the alluring hunt for oil in Australia.
Eminent geologists who have lately visited and closely inspected the
Kimberleys and Northern Territory, are, from positive evidence obtained,
unanimous in their verdict that oil does exist in some form in the northern
parts of Australia, and they strongly recommend a systematic search under
the guidance of practical oil men. Should oil be struck in payable quantities
a boom and rush that will easily eclipse that of the old Broken Hill and
Coolgardie days is certain to take place.
Caution, therefore, is required by intending investors, who should see
that their capital goes only into sound concerns, with ample financial resources
behind them.
REPORTS:
MR, J. L. STREVENS, A.M.Inst.P.T. (London), who reported on behalf
of two of the Vendor Syndicates, the “Australian Petroleum Development
Co. N.L.,” and the “Great Northern Central Petroleum Development Co.
N.L.,” states: —
“Both the sandstones and limestones are gently to moderately folded
into anticlines of extensive area and wide closures. Such conditions are
ideal for the accumulation of petroleum, and the shales in the areas could
constitute the necessary cover rocks for its retention.'
Mr. Strevens further reports: “To sum up, your area possesses:
“(a) Structural features favorable for the accumulation and retention
of petroleum.
“(b) Apparently original conditions of deposition of the sediments and
accompanying organic matter favoring the formation of petroleum.
“(c) indications that petroleum exists thereon.”
ML. L. BLATCHFORD, of the W.A. Geological Staff, in his report on
the Okes Durack Company’s property, which adjoins this Company’s areas,
reported upon by Mr. Strevens, states: —
“The discovery (glance pitch) is certainly the most definite indica-
tion of mineral oil residue which has been found in the State, and
certainly one of the most important indications yet recorded.
“With regard to the possibility of the existence of a payable oil basin
in the underlying beds, it would be mere conjecture to offer an opinion.
It is certain, however, that mineral oil did once exist in the locality, and
the certainty as to whether it still exists can only be proved by systematic
survey work and boring.”
PROFESSOR SIR EDGE WORTH DAVID and other prominent
geologists state that in their opinion if oil is discovered in payable quantities
in the Kimberley district, it will probably be over very large areas. “This is
not only because mineral oil has recently been definitely proved to exist at
distances hundreds of miles apart, but because the necessary geological
conditions for the storage of oil in quantity by nature are apparently ideal
and uniformly so over immense areas.”
MR. D. J. MAHOKY, M.S.C., F.G.S., Petrologist to the Geological
Survey of Victoria, and Mr. Hubert F.Kessal,a petroleum engineer of consider-
able experience in the U.S.A., both report favorably on the prospect of liquid
oil being discovered in the neighborhood of the Ord-Kegri junction on the
Okes Durack oil area, Kimberleys. Mr. Kessal states there are “definite
indications of oil, and good cover rocks of impervious shales and mudstones.”
SIR DOUGLAS MAWSON (Adelaide Advertiser, 15/10/’2l) says:
“The recent report issued by the Geological Survey Department of
Western Australia definitely establishes the existence of petroleum in that
region, and the formation of the country is favorable for the storage
of oil.”
Full prospectus, with reports and maps, together with forms of appli-
cation for shares, may he obtained from members of the inter-State Stock
Exchanges, or from the Manager, R. W. Stringer, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Australian Oil Corporation No Liability
(To be Incorporated.)
ISSUE OF 500,000 10 /- SHARES AT 2/- PER SHARE
APPLICATION AND ALLOTMENT .
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES,
To R. W. Stringer, Manager (pro Lem.),
AUSTRALIAN OIL CORPORATION N.L.
31 Queen Street, MELBOURNE
I HEREBY APPLY for of the above-mentioned
Shares in terms of the Prospectus, and / enclose herewith the sum of
£ being 2/- per share application and allotment thereon,
and I hereby agree to accept the said Shares, or any less number that may be
allotted to me. I further authorise you, if I shall not be present at the
Preliminary Meeting of Shareholders in the Company, to attend such meeting
and vote for me on my behalf upon all business wliich may be brought forward
thereat, and more particularly to adopt Rules and Regulations for the
Company, by which Rules and Regulations I agree to be bound.
Dated this day of 1922
Name in full
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
Address
Signature


An Alston Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply ofWater for
Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to light winds, stronger or
move duVdble, lower, ‘•in cost, or. easier and cheaper to erect and
maintain.
Their' reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Oears, Ball Bearings, Auto-l.ubri-
cation arid Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust.-pr'66f Case, 'and
run in oil.
Over 60,000. Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes,
from sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the
largest works in Australia, devoting its whole
attention to windmill construction.
Expert advise and Illustrated Catalogue
free on application.
Alston Windmills
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS Pty. Ltd.
Queen’s Bridge. Melbourne, Australia.
|.W':
t
mm
|g|lr % 4
■■■■H v
1
m*
A Diamond
Purchase.
Our buyer has just bought
heavily of the famous Blue
White “Jagersfontein” Dia-
monds, at a very low cut
price. The Representative
of a large diamond cutter
wanted to realise his stock,
and we had the cash.
We benefited, and now we offer
our customers the benefit of
securing these prized diamonds,
set in rings, at a very special
price.
Fine Blue White
Diamonds, set in
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £2l.
2 Choice Blue
White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and
18ct. Gold, £45.
Choice Diamonds,
set in Platinum and
18ct. Gold, £l5.
am
3 Fine Blue White
Diamonds, set in
Platinum and 18et.
Gold, £35.
Fine Diamonds, set
in Platinum and
ISct. Hold, £l9.
2 Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum and
18ct. Gold, £l4.
Some we can guarantee perfect, under the most powerful glass, but all are of the famous
blue white color, and clean. It is seldom that goods of these qualities are available in
Australia.
We submit, with pleasure, distinctive designs for mounting.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
Poverty
Point
L.T. PIVER. PARIS
The FACE POWDER
de luxe
“Second Murderer”: Apropos of G. R.
Sims’s verses, I remember that at a benefit
performance at the Theatre Royal, Mel-
bourne, in 1884 —it was in aid of the widow
of W Marshall, Fred’s brother —Genevieve
Ward’s leading man, W. 11. Vernon recited
G.R.S.’s long and windy “Lifeboat.” Gene-
vieve herself delivered “John Maynard.”
People seemed to like recitations in those
days.
“Snell”: Since the old-time farces are
being pressed into use to provide plots for
comic operas, why is it some needy impres-
ario has not hit on “Skipped by the Light of
the Moon”? “Skipped” was a rousing knock-
about farce which Harry Shine and Johnnie
Gourlay made a lot of money out of in Aus-
tralia at one time or another. It would lend
itself admirably to musical divertisement.
Another big success that has been neglected
is Johnnie Sheridan’s faithful friend, “Widow
O’Brien.” With a man capable of infusing
some fair proportion of the humor Sheridan
supplied as the widow, this burlesque would
make a swanking com. op. A woman like
Connie Ediss might fill the widow’s shoes
with success in the absence of an efficient
male comedian.
“G.”: It is alleged that French Royalists
have protested against the caricatures of the
old regime in “Orphans of the Storm,”
Arthur Argent, bari-
tone, with Ethel
Book, at Sydney
Tivoli.
now touring the
Melbourne subbubs.
An d well they
mig h t, if tli e y
thought it worth
while. There were
wicked French aris-
tocrats, no doubt,
who tortured pea-
sants, ran over
children in the
street and gave
their mistresses
baths of wine; but
it is impossible to
believe that they
were less intelligent
as a class than
modern American
plutocrats. A real
picture of some sig-
nificant scenes and
characters of the
Revolution would
be useful to the
Australian public,
so deficient in
knowledge of his-
tory. Griffith does
some things- well.
II is j streets, shops,
cabarets, interiors,
costumes and props
gmvrn-r vivid im-
pression of old
Paris. Even the
silly story of
be excused'-if he showed
the slightest regard for historical truth.
“L.F.H.”: Byron Moore is reported to
have said that he conducted the first Mel-
bourne, performance of “Elijah,” .having for
principals -the members of Lyster’s Opera
Co. But the • aged V.R.C. secretary must
take second place to the Melbourne Philhar-
monic, which produced the work in 1857.
John Russell conducted. Mrs. Goodliffe and
Sara Flower were the women-soloists, Ewart
was the tenor and Farquharson handled the
name-part —as he did in five subsequent re-
vivals. Lyster’s operatic venture didn’t start
till 1861.'
“T. 0.1.”: Her Majesty’s, Sydney, which
has been sold by the McQuade family to
,T. C. Williamson, Ltd., for £150,000,
was opened on Sept. 10, 1887,. by Riguold
and Allison, Rignold playing the name-part
in “Henry V.” In 1902, during the run
of “Ben liur,” the premises were gutted by
fire, but were rebuilt by Mrs. Cecily Mc-
Quade, who, as Cecily Durant, was a mem-
ber of Emily Soklene’s co. A second but
less damaging fire happened during the run
of “Brewster’s Millions.”
“Private Boxer”: If Hugh J. Ward really
told an English interviewer (B. 9/11/’22)
that “he did not think Australia could export
a company which could do justice to itself
in a London theatre,” he must have for-
gotten what lie said here before he left. One
of Ward’s grievances against the J.C.W.
firm was —so he imparted to the press—that
he had suggested to his brother-directors on
one occasion the sending of a complete Aus-
tralian company to England, but that the
proposal had not met with support. llow
reconcile the two statements? What Hugh
J. should have said to the London reporter
was, “What would be the use of sending
an Australian company to London without
any original plays?”
“Santander”: London critics are pretty
unanimous about the failure of “Body and
Soul,” Arnold Ben-
nett’s latest at the
Regent. The piece,
which is supposed
to contain a satiri-
cal portrait of the
over- advertised
Lady Diana Man-
ners (as was), is
stated to have no
slia p e and sub-
stance, and ap-
pears to be cor-
dially resented by
even Arthur Bing-
ham Walkley, of
The Times, who is
usually most
urbane in his dis-
likes. A few
years ago Rudolf
Besier tried to
hold the spotlight
up to the peculiari-
ties of Mrs. Pat
Campbell in “Lady
Patr i c i a,” and,
what is more, in-
vited the actress to
play the principal
part. Mrs. Camp-
bell gaily agreed
with the witticism
that “there is no
one I like better
acting than myself.’
a success.
“The Peep Show,” at
Melbourne Royal.
“In That Quaint Old
Cornish Town.”
George Baker at the
piano.
But the thing wasn’t
"Y.Z.” : An irritating and persistent defect
in Dennis’s play, “The Sentimental Bloke,”
is the courtship of the ziff by Doreen’s
mother. Just such a courtship, conducted
in just such a way, has been a feature of
half a hundred plays, and as Dennis uses it
there is nothing in it, neither comedy npr
commonsense. Also, Doreen is completely out
of the picture, not now and then, but all
the time. In speech, dress, manner and bear-
ing the sweetly glutinous, maiden is a crea-
ture apart, impossible of acceptance as the
Bloke’s bit of skirt. No girl of Doreen’s
make, shape and social standing would have
a detrimental like the Kid on her mind for
10 minutes. Another depressing defect arises
from her ma’s continual misapprehen-
sion of sabre-cuts of Australian speech.
Doreen’s mother has been in contact with
slangy elements of the suburban social order
all her life, yet the play is held up a dozen
times while she expresses a childish misun-
derstanding of the most popular scraps of
slanguage. For the rest, Dennis has made
a play miles ahead of the “On Our Selec-
tion” types in ordinary actual human in-
terest.
“Billy T.” : An uproar arose in the stalls
of a Melbourne theatre one night recently,
and presently the house pugilist and ground
and lofty wrestler was busy trying to throw
a man out. The man was no lightweight,
and not easily to be tossed about, so the
assistance of a policeman was called in, and
the struggle was resumed. The 10-minute
interval saw the contest still being waged.
There was some probability of the aggres-
sors tearing the interior out of the theatre,
but short of that there seemed no chance of
detaching the unruly man from the pre-
mises. He simply clung to the fixtures, and
defied the law and all constituted authority.
There came a lull in the argument, the up-
holders of law and order wanted rest and
change, and in this brief spell of silence the
man to be chucked made his voice heard:
“What d’yeh wanter chuck me out fer?” he
protested. “If the others can stand the show,
I can.”
“Second Murderer”: Before “Caesar’s
Ghost” said so (B. 16/11/’22), I never
beard that it is “a convention of vaudeville
that no purely physical ‘act,’ however good,
may head a bill.” One recalls, offhand, the
Craggs, the Faust Family, the Florenz Fam-
ily, the Montrose Troupe, the troupe of
Arabs, Sandow, Sampson, the Flying Jor-
dans, Hackenschmidt, Jack Johnson, Tommy
Burns and many other “purely physical ’
top-liners. But I cordially concur that the
wire-walker, Colleano, now on the Tivoli
rounds, is a bobbydazzler with his back-
somersault turn. At one Sydney perform-
ance he broke a small bone in his foot, but
carried on twice daily as if nothing un-
toward had happened. By the way, the
Firm starred Don Juan Caciedo, a Spanish
wire-somersaulter, at the Lyceum, Sydney,
in ’94. He did his bit in the Tokio street-
scene of “Round the World in Sixty Days,”
a bellowdrama in which Henrietta Watson
and Sass played leads, Robert Courtneidge
being the comedy merchant. Caciedo did
his act in topboots, and had his wire run-
ning from the stalls to the back of the
stage, not across from O.P. to I’., as is
usually the case.
“Norbell”: “Russ” suggests that Harry
Daniels is probably the oldest Australian
mummer living (B. 16/11/’22). Five-and-
twenty years ago I toured with Harry
Daniels, who was then “Old Harry,” and
“O’Callaghan on His Last Legs” was on
our manifest. The old ’un told us he had
played in “O’Callaghan” with G.V., and gave
us several of the great man’s original gags
in that clever farce. Daniels was a panto-
mime performer of experience in the old
days, and was a reliable support to every
dramatic show for half-a-century. I recall
his being with Genevieve Ward, and he was
in the first Australian outbreak of “The
Silver King,” October 27, 1883, being Binks,
one of the three “pesterers” outside the vil-
lage inn. The Chequers. Harry Sefton
and W. Marshall (Fred’s brother) were the
other two. Old Harry was s.-m. for the
Potter-Bellew Co. on one tour, and was
stagedoor Cerberus at the Melbourne Opera
House (the Tivoli), for years. A son,
Charles, comeded as the Poverty Pointer in
Randolph Bedford’s “The Boss Cockie.”
“T.W.”: Prodigal-daughter Melba got a
better helping of fatted calf from London
Times than her rival Tetrazzini. “It
doesn’t matter what she sings; she is the
embodiment of vocal art,” declares the Times
with a fervor which makes one smile at the
recollection of its first very left-handed wel-
come of her: but its critic had nothing save
biting sarcasm to spare for Tetrazzini when
she emerged again at the Albert Hall a few
weeks ago. Kissing of hands, waving of
arms and “bouquets carefully regulated in
number, size and colors to fill the span of
each vocal effort and lead up to the final
triumph” were the things that measured this
Queen of Song from an ordinary singer, he
snarled. The ordinary singer might be ever
so talented, sing far more difficult music in
a far more intelligent way, and “why should
three arias, of which ‘Ah, fors e Lui’ must
necessarily be one, be sufficient justification
for all this paraphernalia of delight?”
“Whitehall”: Cissie Loftus, who was
swept up in the drug craze which is now
over-running the U.S., figured in the cables
recently as having been arrested for possess-
ing morphine. She took London by storm
as a girl of 17, just 29 years ago. Nothing
more virginally lovely had appeared on a
music-hall stage than the slim, dark-eyed
child who stood in a plain white frock, with
her hands clasped before her, and diffidently
announced that “with the audience’s kind
permission” she would “endeavor to imper-
sonate Mr. Albert Chevalier.” Or it might
be Mr. Dan Leno, or Miss Ellen Terry, or
Miss Marie Lloyd. She represented them all
with an equal charm and verisimilitude. A
year after her debut she married Justin
Huntly McCarthy, only son of the M.P.,
but more or less famous on his own account
as a novelist and dramatist. He was twice
her age, but they were wildly devoted, and
for a few 7 months kept London smiling at
the expressions of affection and admiration
which they exchanged in the form of sonnets,
lyrics and the like in the press. The mar-
riage lasted less than five years, at the end
of wAiieh time they got a U.S. divorce for
incompatibility of temper. She married a
Chicago doctor at her second venture, but
continued on the stage. She wrns a capable
actress of the second or third class, at her
best, and played successfully both in comedy
or drama. But it was in mimicry that her
genius lay. and when increasing years and
weight banished the piquancy created by the
old-time contrast' between her girlish artless-
ness and the sophisticated stuff she ren-
dered, there was no Crying demand for her
services.
“G.” : Ward was right when he denied Aus-
tralia’s capacity to export a company of play-
ers which could do justice to itself in a
London theatre. How could an Australian
company interest London by a second-hand
representation of “The Second Mrs. Tan-
queray,” “Candida,” “The Silver Box” or
any other characteristic play of English life?
A company only becomes distinguished when
it can do something better than any other
company. The Abbey Theatre Players can
run a year in London because they are ori-
ginal and distinctive. The Russian players
from the Art Theatre of Moscow lately have
captured Europe, because they, too, have some-
thing new and true to say. The best English
company fails badly when it attempts Synge
or Tehekhof. Before Australia can appear
"THE NAUGHTY PRINCESS," AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
Jack Cannot as Michael the First.
abroad it will have to do something at home.
It can succeed only in Australian plays
where types of character, scenes, outlook on
life, atmosphere and spirit are different from
those of all other lands. It will need a
fair repertory of plays, and a number of play-
ers who understand the Australian character.
Australia will have to become national in
regard to drama (at present it is only pro-
vincial) before it can become international.
“Fax” : Amusing to read recent apprecia-
tions of the Australian chorus-girl, published
as extracts from letters written by George
Tallis, or from an “interview” in a London
or New York paper. Every word of them
is true, but why repeat an oft-told tale, as
though aptitude for dancing, singing and
stage business by the well-grown, good-look-
ing Australian girl had only just become
known to Tallis and this country? Just
now, as a matter of fact, it comes with less
force from G.T. than it did from, say, Robert
Courtneidge, in England, when he showed a
special liking for any Australian or M.L.
chorus-girl who offered, and gave Carrie
Moore a leading-girl part in musical com-
edies. The J.C.W. firm stocks Australian
chorus-girls. It has produced many hun-
dreds of them, and will produce hundreds
more. In talking of their merits, as he has
done, Tallis is only boosting his own goods
abroad for the gratification of his customers
in Australia. When he returns he will not
call all the chorus-girls together and tell
them that, owing to their superior worth
oyer all other chorus-girls on earth, the Firm
is going to double their wages. In that sort
of flattery managers never indulge.
“Stargazer”: While nothing is barred
within the limits of the four walls of crea-
tion, “The Peep Show” yet contrives to be
almost inhumanly dull. Nothing could ex-
ceed the flatness and fatuity of the rocket
trip to the moon, unless it is the fatuity and
flatness of the rocket return. Since the moon
is so entirely commonplace and earthly an
orb, one is left wondering why in the name
of all the devils of stupidity the trip was
made. The entertainment gives hints and
indications of becoming some such when a
burlesque of the old-time lantern slides comes
on, but here, as •with the resurrection of
ancient song favorites, it may be remarked
that caricature, to make its points, must deal
with familiar people, places or things. Only
quite definitely (with the exception of some
casual dancing) does. "The Poop Show” resolve
to be damphunny when the sketch of the
piano next door is paraded. This is a joke,
and a neat, homely burlesque that touches
everybody somewhere. Since anything and
every old thing may be tossed into the parade
of peeps, why not another sketch? I elimi-
nate the Dickens stuff, which is nil very
dreary after people have overcome the excite-
ment of trying to tell Uriah Heap from
Scrooge and I’ickwick from AJicawber.
■ “J.F.11,” : London's latest novelty is the
go-as-you-please concert. There are no
printed programmes, the songs being an-
nounced by the singer from the stage or
platform. Chaliapin, the great Russian
basso, introduced the notion at the Albert
Hall, and Clara Butt is following his lead. A
book of Chaliapin’s songs, all numbered like
a hymn-book, is sold at the doors. Arrived
on the platform, he mentions the number of
the song lie purposes rendering and then
wades in for all lie is worth. There is a
piquant air of informality about the busi-
ness, and the curiosity of the audience is
aroused in advance. The advantage to the
artist is that he or she is not tied down
to any particular programme or selection of
songs, but is at liberty to sing whatever the
mood or fancy of the moment may suggest.
THUMBS DOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A life-limned romance of Lord Byron —-the super-
Sheik, who loved not wisely but too well. He sent
a thousand women crazy. Can you resist him V
—Moving picture ad.
Come out with me, my little maid,
And see a movie show,
The films now raging, I’m afraid,
You’ll find a trifle slow ;
The tertium quids are meek and mild,
The wives too easily beguiled.
The dens of infamy and vice
Are somewhat tame affairs ;
The Jezebels cannot entice,
The vampire merely glares ;
The handsome villains, bold and bad,
Are not so shocking as the ad.
But come, my little maid, with me
And see this photo-play
(It’s half-price at the matin-fie),
There’s murder there to-day,
Lord Byron, as a super-sheik,
Butchered to make the flappers squeak.
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


British Built “SENTINEL Steam Waggons
for
Heavy Speedy Haulage at Lowest Costs.
Fuel Costs id. to id. per ton mile.
“SENTINEL”
FEATURES
- L. . . ,
Vertical Boiler.
All Parts
Accessible.
Slow Running
Engine.
Simple 8 Strong
Transmission.
Large Paying
Load Carried.
77 ><7
Easy
Manoeuvring.
Neat
Appearance.
m* i
m m
'
«
mm,
3-4 ton Sentinel, fitted with all-steel end tipping body, recently supplied to
Bexley Municipal Council, Sydney,
JWroFfiH FSodIIcE C?
12
M
m
LA
till
f' •;
m
Mm
kCLJEAft
■pi ■pppirnpr'w
ICWTOTUI
ri
3-4 ton Sentinel, recently supplied to Fresh Food & Tee Co., Sydney,
"SENTINEL”
FEATURES
Coke or Coal
Fuel.
Absence of
Smoke and
Nuisance.
Reliability.
Durability.
Low Cost
Operation
and Upkeep.
“Close-Up”
Road View.
Driving
Comfort.
Repeat Orders Received from Numerous Satisfied Owners.
Consult Us Before Purchasing Mechanical Transport for Heavy Haulage.
Full Particulars from
WILLIAM
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence St
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins St.
BRISBANE:
Cor. Edward &
Mary Sts.
PERTH:
33-35 King St.
ADELAIDE:
Waymouth &
Morph ett Sts.
NEWCASTLE
Watt St.
LAUNCESTON:
31a Cameron St.
NEW ZEALAND (South Island): Messrs. Anderson Ltd., Christchdrch.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP 3t CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special”whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
HAWAII
THE Y£ ar round, playground
Every Month is
Spring in Hawaii.
A trip to those romantic isles, at
the edge of the tropics, means a
pleasant voyage through temperate
seas ; a holiday of rare enjoyment;
gorgeous scenery; ever-aetive volcano
Kilauea; varied outdoor recreation.
Consult nearest tourist or steamship
agency; or write for new illustrated
booklet, to —-
Department B,
Hawaii Tourist Bureau.
Box 241 G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.; or
Box 2X20 Honolulu, Hawaii, U.S.A.
the EUASMIC
SHAVING STICK.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
T.ast week the A.J.C. was imanirhously
authorised by its members to complete the purchase
of the Warwick Farm racecourse. The price for
the land (106 acres), stands, totalisators and other
rights is £75,000, which would be cheap if it
were a cash transaction. But the proprietary co.
wouldn’t take cash. It demanded, instead, 10 years’
debentures at 10 per cent., and had to be accommo-
dated. For another £lO,OOO the club is buying 130
acres of the adjoining Oatley estate. Its intention,
at present, is to race 21 days at Randwick in the
course of a year, and eight days at Warwick Farm.
In the process it will make things sultry for the
remaining proprietary clubs, some of which give
rotten stakes and arc merely cumberers of the
ground.
* * * *
Nautical’s win from a field of 11 in the
Armadale Cup was not a startler to those who had
noted his appearance in the paddock at the V.R.U.
meeting, lie looked fit and eager for the fray. Never, in
fact, has he looked better. As a runner-up in the Vic-
torian Derby, and a winner of the Leger, in his year, and
being now in the prime of racing life, Nautical on
paper was a. good thing compared with Anton King,
who ran only a poor third in his Derby, and was
handicapped within 91b. of the five-year-old. Yet
Anton King was hacked down to 4’s, whilst the Sea
Prince gelding was neglected by punters in general
at 15’s and 20’s. < He won in fine style from Yaca-
munda and King'of the Sea, the last-named, ridden
by Dempsey, performing a lot better than he did
in the Veteran Stakes at Flemington, when A. E.
Nunn was on top.
■***•■*
“Fax”: The Cup victory of King Ingoda,
a seasoned four-year-old, was a triumph for James
Scobie’s pet theory that a trip to Adelaide in May
is an excellent change of climate for a Melbourne
steed that will be wanted at his best in the spring.
In the case of King Ingoda the autumn trip to Adel-
aide was a return to the air he had breathed as a
youngster, when he lived there. But in other cases
the change has been proved beneficial to Victorian-
trained horses. The Victory was a Melbourne Oup
winner, Melbourne-trained, who had won the Adelaide
Cup the previous May ; and St. Spasa, who had been
“off” for nearly two years after winning the Metro-
politan at Randwick, was renewed in vigor by Adel-
aide air. St. Spasa won the Adelaide Cup with 9st:.
up, and six months later he ran third in the Mel-
bourne with 9st. lib.
* # * *
“Hambone”: The distressful grip which
horse-racing has on Australia (B. 16/11/’22) is em-
phasised by the A.J.C. advertisements calling for
stipendiary stewards for the metropolitan and New-
castle racing areas. To the right man for the
former post, £BOO a year is waiting. In return he
will be called upon to attend (roughly) 130 meet-
ings annually, and to squint through a pair of
Zeiss glasses for not more than 15 minutes per meet-
ing, in a noble, but mostly ineffectual, effort to
pick out the “stiffs.” Taking an average of an
hour’s inquiry per meeting, the successful applicant
will have to perform a maximum of three weeks’
work in the year. And for that he will get nearly
twice as much as a senior journalist on a morning
paper; four times the basic wage; much more than
many bank managers; a nd so on, ad infinitum. Aus-
tralia Felix —yes, for the lucky few!
* * * #
“Fax”: Friends and foes of the totalisa-
tor on racecourses can ponder well this artless pro-
Ikey tale from Melbourne Mural d : —
“Ringmen on whose word every dependence can
be placed bear out the report that this year’s Spring
carnival has been the most disastrous on record from
a penciller’s point of view. In several cases prompt
settlement has been out of the question A punter
who won £5OOO on the last day of the V.R.C. meet-
ing was not able to collect more than £l5OO on
settling day. He has been asked to grant time for
the pavment of the balance. There are wagers un-
settled "over the last Melbourne Oup, and even over
the Grand National fixture in July.”
Only a week previously the public had been told
how many thousands of pounds had been lost by
punters in their vain endeavors to pick the Cup
double, the idea of coupling King Ingoda with Whit-
tier not having occurred to anybody. But this by
the way. A “disastrous” time for the ring means
that the supply of easily-available cash has run out
short, if not right out, in many cases, big and small.
The shortage comes especially rough on modest occa-
sional punters whose debtors are evading payment
of their liabilities, because too much of their capital
has been sunk in safe investments, not infrequently
settled on bejewelled wives. Bookies want “a little
time” to gather in money from the army of punters
who are having another of their ordinary “disastrous”
times, and, meanwhile, the hard-faced property-
owners call themselves unfinancial, and bid their
creditors wait. The need for a totalisator to give
punters a fair spin for their money is increasingly
evident. The machine never goes broke, or pro-
fessedly broke. It never starves the odds to the
many after accommodating the few with a less unfair
gamble. No “disaster” ever happens to the regula-
tion tote. It continues to lay one, two, three to the
satisfaction of investors who can hope for nothing
better than “concession” betting from men who ask for
time when too much of their wealth is already sunk
in house property or fixed deposits at the bank. No
hopeful holiday punter wants the blessed betting
ring to meet with “disaster.” He wants a tote that
never fails: which has no bad or good days, and
always meets its liabilities directly after a race.
* * * *
Winning the toss from Victoria, Maelaren’s
XI failed to take full advantage of a batsman’s wicket.
Out of the 210 scored, Chapman got 73 and Wilkinson
62 by neat, confident cricket. The Englishmen
seemed to shape pretty comfortably against fast
howler Wallace, who took 3 for 64, but Hartkopf
came on with his devious slows when the board showed
4 for 173, and badly rattled the tail-end, his record
reading 5 for 23. It looks a sad error of judgment
that he wasn’t tried sooner. The Victorians made a
depressing start, and the Englishmen seemed to have
all the best of the game when they had dismissed half
of their opponents for 44 at call of time on Friday.
It was again Hartkopf who came to the rescue, smack-
ing up 86 in great style, while Woodfull, by more
cautious cricket, contributed 74. Owing mainly to
their partnership, the Vies, finished up 68 ahead of the
Englishmen on the first innings. Maclaren’s team put
up 231 in their second venture, Titehmarsh (82) and
Chapman (69) sharing the batting honors. Hartkopf
captured 8 wickets for 105. Left with 164 to make,
a lid three hours to sedre them in, the home side
proved just equal to the occasion, and secured a vic-
tory by 2 wickets within a few minutes of time.
Dark (60) was the only notable run-getter, and Hart-
kopf and Woodfull were the two not-outs. It was
liartkopf’s match, and his great all-round perform-
ance—loo runs, once out, and 13 wickets for 128 —
brings him into the charmed circle from which Test
cricketers are selected.
There are several passengers amongst the English-
men. In the three matches so far played, Chapman,
Titehmarsh and Wilkinson were the only batsmen who
did anything notable. Chapman has scored 360, aver-
aging 60 (75 and 58 v. Westralia, 32 and 53 v. S.
Aus., and 73 and 69 v. Vie.) ; Titehmarsh has made
197, averaging 39.4, and Wilkinson’s record is 192,
averaging 32. The trio have contributed 288 more
runs than 11 others among them. As for the bowlers,
Freeman has taken 13 for 390, Gibson 8 for 240 and
Tyldesley 8 for 205.
* * *
“ Ex-Englishman”: Archie Maelaren will
have his 51st birthday on Dec. 1. He was playing
m Tests before most of to-day’s cricketers were born.
When fresh from Harrow—he did not go to a uni-
versity—he made a century in his first county matcli
for Lancashire, jumped into international form almost
at once, and for 20
years was one of the
chief snags Australia
had to meet. Mac-
laren came here with
Stoddart's team in
1894-95, with men
whose names now
Bound ancient—Peel, J.
T. Brown and Albert
Ward. It was the first
season in which five
Tests were allowed,
arid —surprisiiTgty—the
only one in which the
scores have ever stood
at two all. (The de-
ciding one was won in
Melbourne by England
amid excitement which
has hardly been
equalled since.) He
came again under
Stoddart in 1897-98,
and the next team had
him as captain, 1901-
02. Australian turf
always suited him, and
he is the only Eng-
lishman who ever made
Test-match centuries
at Sydney, Melbourne
and Adelaide. The
time he was captain
he had the begt aver-
age on his side, 58.
A. O. MACLAREN,
the English
captain.
The pronounced public weariness of dull
cricket is having a good effect on Sydney batsmen. On
Saturday five of them helped themselves to centuries,
the hitherto unlucky H. O. Rock (’Varsity) getting
161 v. Glebe in 3 j hours. With Johnny Taylor (90)
he knocked up 144 for the second wicket. Kelleway,
making his first appearance with Gordon, scored 126 V.
Cumberland in 2) hours—an astonishing speed for Kel-
leway. C. Hosking (109 not out) assisted the inter-
national to add 136 for the fifth wicket. P. M.
King, one-time of Victoria, contributed 115 in 1 }
hour, for Sydney v. Balmain; and wicket-keeper Andy
Ratcliffe (Paddington) hit Dight, Western Suburbs’
slow bowler, all over the shop in compiling a bright
104. Gordon Parnell, who has been forgotten since
he did so well in the N.S.W- VI last year, collected
7 Paddington wickets for 106. Other notable howl-
ing performances were those of Clarrie Hogue (North
Sydney), 6 for 26, v. Petersham; and Alan Thatcher
(St. George), 6 for 71, v. Marrickville. North lead
Petersham by 50 on the first innings; the other seven
matches are on the knees of the cricket gods.
* * * *
“Tren”: H. S. Love, the N. S. Wales
batsman and wicket-keep, who has joined up with
Carlton, _ will have to show exceptional form to gain
a place in the Victorian Xl. Jack Ellis, of Prahran,
the present custodian, has always kept brilliantly
for Victoria, and he is also a good batsman in club
cricket, who often reaches the century. This year, in
his first match against South Melbourne, he made
65 in good style, and though Love, too, has been
making runs, they have conie but slowly. Love is
the first wicket-keep to migrate to Victoria with
an eye on inter-State honors, but when Jack Black-
ham was in his prime F. Burton and Jim Kelly left
that State to try their luck in N. S. Wales, and later
H. Woodford went to South Australia and kept for
them. In the long ago those splendid bowlers, Sam
Casstick and Spofforth, and the South Melbourne
all-rounder, Midwinter, played for both Victoria
and N. S. Wales; and more recently the Victorian
team has been strengthened by Les Cody and Frank
O’Keeffe, from N. S. Wales; Ironmonger, froin
Queensland; Edgar Mayne and Johnny Moyes, from
S.A. ; and fast-bowler McDonald; who was born in
Tasmania. The late Jerry Hazlitt represented Vic-
toria atld then N. S. Wales. W. L. Murdoch, who
made 321 for N. S. Wales against Victoria, was
horn south of the Murray, but lived in N. S. Wales
from boyhood, and played with the Ma State team.
When in his prime he dwelt for a time ih Victoria,
but refused to play with the Vies, against the State
he had represented so often.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Since Bettington, of King’s
School (N.S.W.), has been discovered by some of
the Sydney sporting writers us an Oxford double
blue, it has been alleged that he is the only Aus-
tralian to put up a double in this respect. Not so,
for Sammy Woods did the same stunt at Cambridge
years ago. The mercurial Samuel likewise played
Rugby football for England and several matches
with the 1888 Australian XI. Moreover, Sammy
Was for years the fast bowler for Gentlemen v.
Players, the biggest games outside the Tests in
Britai n.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Sydney Smith went away
from Adelaide saying the kindest things about the
possibilities for S.A. cricket; but too much import-
ance should not lie attached to the win oVer the
half-fit Englishmen. This is the first victory S.A.
has had for years, and It Was thoroughly deserved;
but: the new fast bowler, youhg Morton, proved abso-
lutely ineffective, atul the old hands had to get the
opposition out. With the two Pellews added, S.A.
would have a really strong batting team, but unfor-
tunately this alone hardly wins matches.
* * * #
“Centurion”: Oxford has had few filler
athletes from Australia than L. R. L, (“Tip”)
Raymond (B. 16/10/’22). A good track-runner and
a decent cricketer, lie is a great Rugby footballer,
•Pip” has represented N.S.W, against the A.1.F.,
the Springboks, the Maoris atld M.L., first as full-
back, then as centre and, later, on the wing; Play-
ing against the last Maonland side, he fairly dimmed
the lustre of his vis-a-vis, Steele, whom the All
Blacks proclaimed the best three-quarter in the
world. > Six feet high, and weighing 13 stone, Ray-
mond is as nippy as a man half his size, and Very
fast —-“a . fair cow to stop,” as the All Blac-k full-
back Bell said of him last year.
* * * *
“Tren”; The matches played GO years ago
between the first English Xt to visit Australia and
teams representing Victoria and N. S. Wales were
not the first between Englishmen and Aussies* for
in 1830, 92 years ago, a team chosen from the 57th
Imperial Regiment from England, then stationed iff
Sydney, played two matches against an Australian
AI. Australia g&ve & foretaste of her future cricket-
mg glory, and won both matches, the first by .24
and the return, f o r a stake of £lo' 10s., by 32.'
* * * *
“Xox”: Four of district
elevens include a couple of representatives from
popular cricketing families. Collingwood have M.
and L. Keating, both good all-rounders, the latter
being especially useful. Then there are the Sindreys,
Clem and Olive, who appear for Richmond; Stan and
Syd Hastings, who do a bit for Carlton ; and E. L
and E. V. Carroll, the Northeote pair. E.L., by the
way, is shaping well this season, and looks' like
returning to the inter-State arena, in which he was
noticeable a few years back.
* * * *
Though Victoria beat N.S.W. in the tennis
match at Melbourne, the margin wasn’t suffleieht to
cover the winners with glory, Patterson, stale per-
haps after his heavy work in Britain and America,
notably failed to score decisive triumphs, and in his
singles with the Ma State captain, Peach, he flopped
before the intensive driving of his antagonist, after
winning the first set to love. Peach, one of the
headiest and pluckiest men in the game, took hold
ot the champion’s tumultuous service in the second
and third spasms, and ran out each time at 7 —5, in
the last chapter getting home after Patterson had
established a s—-35 —-3 lead. Ilawkes, Victoria’s only
other international, was a player of much greater
consequence to his side, for he walloped Peach in
two straight sets, in which the other gathered only
five games, and wasn’t troubled much by the rest of
the opposition. In the doubles he was a friend
indeed to his partner, Patterson, his peculiar break
service and low, whizzing placements being on a
higher plane of tennis than anything that came from
Patterson s .racquet. Young Mclnnes helped in the
Victorian victory, and N. M. Heath was useful in the
doubles; hut the other two, Wertheim and Roberts,
were very in-and-out, especially in the argument with
Glemenger and Kirkpatrick, wherein Roberts’s babvish
service was despitefully treated, as it deserved. The
weakest of the N.S.W. six was probably Baker, a loose-
limbed young man who hasn’t any great pace and
doesn’t reveal much respect for the foot-fault rule.
The most interesting of the Sydneysiders was Clemen-
ger, who is a master of many good strokes and has
the sort of service that forces lobs from the most
experienced players. Victoria’s second best were not
quite good enough for the S. Aus. party, headed bv
the old prize-winner. R. V. Thomas. But Thomas
has lost a lot of his steam and courtcraft, as was
evidenced when the youthful Victorian, R. Sehlesinger
an assiduous baseliner, without an ounce of enter-
prise, and relying for winners on hard-driven passes
took. the match by two sets to one, the last session
running to 14 games. L. Rainey, the ancient Vic
captain, who Usually plays hard, guileful tennis bit
a vegetariah menu, was not his old self agaihst t.
Stuart, whom SchlCsingfer accounted for in vefV quick
time. But Rainey was well to the front in the
doubles with Schlesinger, the pair capturing tfaeii
three matches with the loss of one set. The S. Aus.
ladies easily held their own against the Victorian
contingent, but the N.S.W. damsels were not formid-
able enough for the Victorian lot, among whom the
reliable Miss Boyd and the beauteous Mrs. Lister
had the star parts.
MEL VOOGAN,
(V.S.A.), who got
the decision Over
Archie Bradley, of
Gympic (Q.), on
foul.
Archie Bradley,
the Oympie (Q.)
welter-weight, is a
red-blooded refutation
Of the Barwellian
theory. Ho is as
strong as a bull and
as pugnacious as a
soldier-ant. Archibald
fights all-in and
wrestles with enthusi-
asm, and in his mill
With Cobgan, , the
Aittef'icafi, at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday
bight he had the
crowd roaring from the start. Coogan is a
boxer of more than ordinary merit, but Bradley
crowded him every minute of the battle, and wbuld
perhaps have stopped the Attlerican if he had kept
’em up. But in the eleventh the rushing Queehs-
lander Connected \tdth it low left swing,. and, as
Oobg-an sagged, a knee crashed against his aliiminihhi
protector. The thing Was certainly aii accident, but
it was just aS certainly against the rules, and Coogan
got the Verdict on a foul. The lose! was cbnSmed
with a hhrrica.ne of cheers. He proved the greatest
draw the StadiuiU has had since CriqUi wfent hofite,
and the Lord only knows why the management didn’t
book him before.
* # • *
“Biff” : Bernard Shaw, who appears to
be recognised in Britain as a gbod judge of bdxiiig,
has been giving his views bn tHfe Carpentier-Siki
tnOlfie in the Londoh SUndaV CiiBOSrCLk. Shaw holds
that the Frenchman made the mistake of wastirig His
punches on the negro’s cranium. “Like all hegfoes;"
W>ys the Superman, “Siki doCs wliat no white mgii
dare do—meets a straight lefid by dropping His head
heatly and taking the shock dh the ridge Of his
eyebrow, where it makes Üboiit Us mtieh, impression
Us a mUsliroom bn a miriotilur ffnd jhrs the assailant
inbst discounigingiy.’' CarpOntier should have
ftVoided in-fighting, and kept to long-range work* but
Shaw reckons that he is by no means finished, for
he employed blows Ih the battle which wbuld have
made eVen tfertlpsey long for home and mother.
Siki’s triumph whs due to “toughness about the
head, trickiness and speed on his feet,” in which,
according to the critic, he wUs “much cleverer and
quicker than C'arpentier.” Shaw, by the way, scoffed
at the suggestion that the darky's success would
effuse an unpleasant outburst of racial pridfe among
Franco’s black subjects. .Id .this he anticipated the
bellow against the British tlonie Officfe vetoing the
engagement, betw'een Beckett and Siki On the ground
that j. BUll’s dark subjects would be similarly
affected.
* * * *
“J.il.” (London) : The truth about the
Ourpentier-Siki tragedy is that the Gaul was only
half-trained. He has been trying to be a Beau
Brummel of the films, and has paid the penalty with
part of his pugilistic reputation. I used to see Georges
waiting on the steps of the Hotel Victoria, in North-
umberland-avenue, for the Rolls-Royce limousine that
daily whirled him, his producer and a bevy of film
actresses to Stuart Blackton’s studio in the country.
And, in the gossip columns of the Daily Drivel, you
were kept welL supplied with details of his nightly
appearances at West End restaurants and night-clubs,
after his day’s “work” at tlie studio. Is it any
wonder thatj in the first fight he has had for nearly
six Months* Carpentier wilted before the end of the
third roUnd? Let the Frenchman cut out these film
stunts, and get away, with Desehamps, for six
weeks’ solid training, and the odds on his flooring
Siki under half-a-dozen rounds couldn’t be named.
•* * * *
By way of helping Australia to regain its
supremacy in swimming Sydney Referee is subscrib-
ing £lOOO towards the expenses of an American
coach. In the days of Keiran and the Cavills, the
Aussies didn’t take water from any other nation. But
in trying to learn the Australian crawl stroke 0. M.
Daniells hit upon a much speedier method of pro-
pulsion, and since then the Yanks have had things
all their own wav. The chances are that an attempt
will be made to get Lou Handley, author of “Swim-
ming and Watermanship,” and instructor of Claire
Gilligan, Charlotte Boyle and Ethelda. Bleibtrey. No
man living knows more about the trudgeon-erawl
stroke.
* * * *
Seven- deep-keelers of Sydney’s Royal
Prince Alfred Club competed for the Rawhiti Cup.
J. M. Brunton’s Oenone (29min.) led all the way
and won by ljmin. from Albert’s Rawhiti, with Leu
Patrick’s charge, Bona, third. The “new” club,
which is searching for a suitable designation, staged a
21ft. restricted class event, in which every available
dugout of this description, excepting the G.-G.’s
Corella, took part. Fred Doran’s Inez cleared out from
the fall of the bunting, and won by 3min. 59sec. from
Gymea (her fourth successive second) and Nettle.
* * * *
“Tarago”: J. L. Fitzgerald, winner of
the revived Austral Wheel Race at Melb. Exhibition,
is a native of Io»a, Gippsland. Before his last vic-
tory he had had 18 consecutive wins awheel. Ger-
many cut off another promising career on the cycle
track when his brother Jack was killed in France.
At the start of the war J.L. was too young to enlist,
but before it finished he saw service with the R.A.N.
in the North Sea.
PRO PATRIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Australasian Lawn Tennis, dealing with J. O.
Anderson’s amateur status, complains bitterly of the
unfairness of attacks directed against a man who has
been ‘fighting for us in America.’”
He fought for us. Not blood and mud amid
AVhere shrapnel bursts and wanton bullets whir,
But still he fought, undoubtedly he did ;
He fought—if only with a Slazenger.
He volleyed and he smote; around the court
He pranced and smashed like some Homeric cuss.
Why all this chipping at a dead-game sport
AA'ho fought for us?
His country paid his exes. Whether he thought
He got his dinkum dues one can’t reveal
Not knowing. But the point is that he fought
AVith catgut, if he didn’t fight with steel.
Shame on the miscreants who dub him “pro”
And make about his status such a fuss!
Australia loves him, amateur or no.
He fought for us.
fearless he faced, not Huns or Turks, perhaps,
AVith mortar, bomb and bristling bayonet,
But flannelled Yanks and wildly bounding Japs
And courtly Spaniards—across a net.
He fought—for freedom? No. Home? I surmise
It might be said so. For his country? Yuss.
He toiled and strove and grafted, hero-wise.
With glory and the Davis Cup for prize,
He fought for us.
x.s.w.
PIPARDS.


tMtRSPMP
WAHL, pm
'The
WRITE TWINS
make a royal gift
They match in quality and design.
Nestled together in a neat velvet-
lined box they are most beautiful as
well as useful, and entirely personal.
If you have already given some one
an Eversharp or a Wahl Pen, com-
plete the double gift. Many styles
and sizes for selection—for pocket,
for purse and for chain or ribbon.
Our suggestions are at your service.
EVERSHARP
Write-hand Companions
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HOAR E. Ltd..
Remington House. Liverpool St.. Sydney
wiMx alt
rtvd-czt
SutwaJL/
Hillier’s
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes
and mailed to you the day they
are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post tree to any address
in Australia.
162-166 Pitt St., Sydney,
and Cr. George & King Sts.
“What a lovely
Christmas Gift!"
I
m
, * v
i
2**
m
t~w S&WI
Gay Glimpses
MACIUE C?y DISTILLERS L™
GLASGOW. ISLAY b LONDON.
Represented by
DALGETY fcr C? LT?
SYDNEY.
GROVES, M? VI TTY Is C9PTY LT9
MELBOURNE.
And Agencies Throughout- AUSTRALASIA
BY APPOINTMENT
dm i
ikJ:7v%
;■
/H
■
I*l
BSPPPpaife':i«teiMßi»
' . ’%* - ** J^P
fi Hi
■I
a
HH
n
m e*
i
/
'V.
•-•f/i:.—
H
'v; , --«*-2‘ ■",
>V? Vr.
-v
A -*
•H
sk
■
MS!
m
m
M
Hi
«aa
B
:
m
■■■ -;;' ;- : , '
M
mmm
■*
■. :
saggs®: s $ ''W'/rsv , , > ' .
, ; v
IK
' m
v . % ** - 'll
■
IN SERBIA
First for Q] lAIJTY


4:
Travel Needs
as Christmas Gifts
A reliable travelling case, is always a acceptable
Christmas present. The famous Case, of
polished hide, strongly sewn on steel frame; fitted with
two nickel locks. Sizes, ins. 20 22 24 26
Prices 39/6 45/- 48/6 52/6
Carriage on Trunks paid only to extent of 5 per cent, of purchase price
Farmer’s :: Sydney.
Carlyon’s,
Esplanade,
St. Kilda.
Special arrangements can be made for
Room and Breakfast or Inclusive Tariff.
Dine Here and Dance in Our
Famous Ballroom.
Hotel guests are invited to
make free use of Ballroom.
e A. la Heine des Fleurs :: established 1774
L. T. PIVER, Paris
COMPLEXION POWDERS
de Luxe
Supplied in all Shades and Odours. These Face Pow-
ders are made in France by a Firm Established 150 Years;
they are of exquisite fragrance, perfe&ly adherent, and
will suit your skin: the name is the guarantee of quality.
d
m
Cxquisite ‘Perfumes created by the ‘
House of L. T. FIVER :
Le Trefle, Azurea, Floramye. Safranor, Pompeia,
Esperis, Mismelis, Gerbera, etc., etc.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
collins St. Melbourne
From Verors
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Central 1533, 1533.
Lady Charlotte Rous seems to be coming
in useful for little jobs that the Countess
isn’t able to do. Last Friday she motored
down to Frankston, with Miss Curry as sup-
port, to open some spacious additions to a
local branch of the Ragged Roys’ Home,
which lias its town headquarters at Latrobe-
street. After she had formally prised open
the new building (it cost £lOOO, and is all
paid for), the vice-regal deputy, ere motor-
ing back to Melbourne, partook of afternoon
tea under the beaming smile of Rev. Roach,
the president, and the Mintons, who have
superintended and matroned the Home dur-
ing its upward career. The Government has
now put a State school on the property, to
the grteat satisfaction of surrounding inhabi-
tants. . The kiddies used to have a walk of
a mile and a half to the nearest font of
learning.
One of our smartest flappers smashed up
her engagement to an Anglo-Fijian, married
another man and went abroad. Now her
male parent, who is a rich softgoods man, is
off to help in her negotiations for a divorce.
The Air Force ball, on Friday night, at
the St. Kilda Town Hall, was vivacious,
very young and full of go. Birdmen are
necessarily young, but even the baby ones,
with down on their cheeks, are not callow.
Moreover, they travel mostly on the water-
waggon, and the small hours saw nothing
of the maudlin champagne effects displayed
by so many of our more or less gilded city
youths. Two Governors and their house-
parties dropped in. The decorations were
aerial. A dirigible, 36ft. long, hung from
the ceiling; a fighting ’plane spread its
wings over the orchestra on the platform,
and the Point Cook boys had made several
small models as well that were perfect in
detail. Each of the latter had its own
dynamo, and at intervals the electric-lights
were switched off and the dancers jazzed in
a whirl of lights and shadows cast from
revolving propellers. The vice-regal folk
were brilliantly garbed. Lady Forster wore
misty-blue satin and a wreath:. of diamond
leaves rested on a blue tulle band round her
smoothly-dressed hair. ;Lady Stradbroke
was in pale-grey tulle, and her tiara of opals
gave her an aura of fire. Lady Digby was
dashing in the green and gold that an Aus-
tralian beetle wears. Mrs. Wing-Com-
mander Williams made quite a foil in her
black gown. The supper-rooms were gaj
with Air Force colors, mixed with gar-
lands of evergreen. A special feed was
spread in an upstairs room, where the Wil-
liamses hosted the vice-regals. Secretary
Major Wrigley, with Major Coleman as his
aide, were hosts at another table to the
house-parties of the Government Houses.
Mrs. Rumor says that Lord Digby and his
cheerful little missus are preparing to re-
cross the equator at the end of the year
with their brace of girl babes, the smallest
of whom is a little Australian. Jimmy Traill
is also said to be making ready to shed his
aigu llettes and start in the same direction.
This cheery sport is an Australian on
his mother’s side. She was a Stony Park
Sumner. The older generation who knew
the young man’s father when he was on
Governor Loch’s staff, vow that the son is
the dead spit of his forerunner, even to his
passion for check trouserings of a large and
violent disposition.
Swanson, thrice Lord Mayor of Mel
bourne, had hardly got his breath after his
latest inaugural feast when he was plunged
into further celebrations for his daughter
Irene’s wedding. William S. Rankin took
the maiden to wife at the Scotchbyterian
kirk in Alma-road, St. Kilda; He is the son
of the Duncan Rankins, of Elsternwick. The
bride wore the conventions! trappings of
satin, tulle and orange-blossom, carried out
in gorgeous materials —the,; timerick lace
that edged her bridal veil cost a small for-
tune in itself. The dress , was a draped de-
light of soft satin, and'-fne train . was lined
with oceans of foamy georgette.' Three
gilded bridesmaids fluffed along/ni flounced
gold lace with amber chiffon friljs . and waist
girdles of tawny pansies.- " The ceremony,
happening after sunset, was followed by a
dance at ipnglefield, the Swanson home at
St. Kilda. The beaming mothers of both
bride and bridegroom wore black—satin and
jet and tulle, in great opulence. Councillor
folk came alpag in swarms with their wives
and daughters; The wedding-supper had a
pink-lined marquee, ablaze with flowers and
electric lights, all to itself on the tennis court.
The newly-weds later broke for the Blue
Mountains, she in a travelling-dress of
bronze-beaded fawn cloth, in which she
looked a veritable dream.
Mrs. O’Hara Wood and her younger sister,
Mrs. Webb Ware (they are daughters of the
late Judge Holroyd). hired No. 1) Darling-
street the other day for an afternoon tea-
party—a chatty gathering of about 300 of
the Very Nicest, with a scattering of the
New Rich. Mrs. Wood, who, by the way,
is mother of tennis-playing Pat, had red
beads patterning her navy silk, and flew
ostrich feathers from a becoming headpiece.
Her daughter, Mrs. Bagnall, was decora-
tive in blue silk, with a dinky little toquelet
to match. Mrs. Ware, in soft black and a
lace veil wreathing a Frenchified little hat,
looked young to be the mother of flapper-
daughter Eleanor, an attractive young thing
in fluffy white chiffon topped by a lilac hat.
An all-girl orchestra provided agreeable
accompaniment to the chatter. The Irvine
dame had silvery stripes on her blue uphol-
stering. Mrs. William Leonard, who now
hides her twinkling eyes behind big specs,
chatted in a corner with the Charles Mills,
Albert Miller, Charles Officer, Herbert Power
and one or two other well-known widows.
One other widow there was the Frank Madden
lady, who had come out of her retirement
for the occasion under convoy of her daughter
Nancy. Mrs. William Templeton was an-
other of the old brigade present. The host-
ess’s sister, Mrs. Van Asche, brought her
bright little songstress daughter Sylvia.
The Australian wife of Archie Mac-
laren is having a thrilling time becom-
ing freshly acquainted with her former
Melbourne pals, most of whom she has
not seen for umpteen years. Two
college sons mark the flight of time with
her. She is the younger daughter of the
late Robert Power, by his first wife, and
was one of the smartest girls in Toorak’s
smart set, in the days of tightly-
netted front fringes under little white
gem hats perched on the giddy sum-
mits of high-piled locks. Her sister mar-
ried the late Captain Thomas, R.N., one-
time chief of the Victorian Navy.
The lonely Mallee between Quambatook
and Cannie had as impressive an Armistice
Dav service as any other place. The driver
of the Mallee snail broke regulations by pull-
ing up at five minutes to 11; the passengers
were lined up, and fireman Allen, a returned
soldier, sounded the Last Post on his cornet.
There were moist eyes when the train re-
sumed its endeavor to pass the grazing
cattle.
Kathleen Malone, here pictured by Lafay-
ette, is a Victorian native who for some
years has kept the
wolf from her door
step ouite comfort-
ably by acting as
concert director —a
business which re-
quires some talent
for organisation and
quite a lot of tact.
Intimate friends of
the dark-eyed maiden
know that she is
plentifully gifted
with both virtues.
She has just popped
up smiling in town
after a feverishly
active time running
tenor Walter Kirby’s
latest country tour,
and is now busy pre-
paring things for Edith Harrhy’s coming
recital.
Mrs. William Dalrymple refused to gamble
with the weather for her afternoon
at-home on Thursday, and, instead,
staged the frivol inside Stranraer, her
big grey home in Toorak, instead of
on the front lawns. And the day proved
to be the most perfect of the whole year.
She wore black georgette with ospreys
athwart her black hat. Her daughter Mollie
had pmk roses emblazoned on her white silk
frock, and smiled from the lacy brim of a
black hat. A finy white-clad grand-daughter,
determined not to be out of things, fore-
stalled her elders by welcoming the arrivals
on the front steps. A concert was staged
in the front parlor, with Sidney Mannering,
Charles. La'wrence, Gracie Evans and old
friend Scherek on the musical menu, while
Maurice Gutteridge directed his banjotefs in
cheery ragtime, out on the verandah leading
to the pink-lined tent, where the company
took their tea and ices at rose-decfeited
tables. Everyone who is anyone was there.
“Lucille, of Bond-street,” by Mrs. Clapp
(wife of our Railway Chief), happened on
Saturday. Mrs. Clapp “produced” it and
played the name-part; Sassiety girleens were
cast for the chorus, and the more leisured
of the gilded youth were drawn in as acces-
sories. The rehearsals, as you may imag-
ine, had been wells of delight. Lady Forster,
who all along had been barracking'for the
venture, made a comprehensive speech fri m
the stage and then watched proceedings
from a box. The house was crowded.
Mrs. Clapp herself is a relation of
the big Madden clan, a daughter of J ud°e
Noel, of Bananaland, and a niece of old Doc-
tor Henry O’Hara. The social threads were
various and strong, and the interest was
intense. As for the play and the players—
they were delightfully amateurish. Very well
dressed; very satisfied with themselves and
hopelessly wanting in the deportment that
is drilled with desperate hard work into pro-
fessional pros. (A refreshing touch of real
stage precision came in a pony ballet trained
by Jennie Brenan.) But the show, which
was in aid of the Kindergartens, was quite
worth while. It brought in the monish, it
gave sensations and thrills to its actors and
actresses, and interested the audience, which
felt that it could have done quite as well, if
not better, itself. There was the usual auc-
tioning of sweets from the stage; women,
keenly interested in the kindergartens, s,old
tea and ices and squashes and sweets, and
pretty girls raked in much money for flowers
and programmes. They knew they looked
sweet, and had a perfectly lovely time.
Behold here Miss Agnes Caples. one of
Melbourne’s most accomplished pianists, the
possessor of a win-
ning personality and
a glorious Titian-
esque head of hair.
She was a favorite
pupil of the late D.
J. Coutts, of the
’Varsity Conserva-
torium, and while
studying under him
she won exhibitions
in three successive
years, and bagged
the licentiateship
of the Associated
Board of the Royal
Academy of Music
and Royal College of
Music. Incidentally,
she and Thos. Brent-
nail have been asso
dated for some
years in piano and violin work. and. occa-
sionally, they are heard at charitable or
social functions.
Frank Russell has a new financial feather
to fly with. The Universal Film Co., of Los
Angeles, U.S.A., has bought the film rights
of his prize book, “Ashes of Achievement,”
for 5000 dollars.
The Dick Casey widow waved Melbourne
farewell from the deck of the Narkunda, by
which she is crossing to England under the
care of her devoted maid, Mho has attended
the cheery matron on many previous Mrorld-
travels. Mrs. Dick says her stay on the
other side may be for years, but it won’t
be for ever. Incidentally, pretty Mrs. Pat
Osborne and her husband, whose hurdler
Ecarte did so well at the Cup meeting, have
also fled. They are off to London, where the
Madden dame, Mrs. Pat’s mother, is living.
On Friday night the British Music So-
ciety gave an Australian Composers’ con-
cert at the Toorak home of the Victorian
representative, Mrs. James Dyer. The
members attended in full force; and though
the concert room n ? as large, some of the
guests had to find places on the picturesque
stairways. It was an excellent idea to
produce the works of Australian composers;
but, perhaps, the programme might have
been more happily chosen. Australian
music, as represented, seemed most unen-
terprising, conventional and old-fashioned,
with hardly a piece that would have brought
the blush of shame to the cheeks of Queen
Victoria. With the exception of Fritz
Hart, who has really something to say, and
was well represented by a musicianly
pianoforte solo, there seemed to be
none who, as an original artist, might
be. compared to the best of our
painters. In music Australia has been more
successful so far in interpretation than in
original composition. It was not surpris-
ing that Louis Lavater, or D. J. Coutts, who
made songs out of famous poems, but turned
Keats into a heavy-going German and Burns
into a sentimental lemonade-drinker, should
belong to the old school; but it was disap-
pointing to find a clever young man like
Max Pirani so lacking in daring, so safe
and utterly blameless in his violin solo
Andantino,” and even in his popular
“Rower’s Chant.” The songs of another
young man, Dudley Glass, were quite
pleasant, and more modern in style, though
mot ver^original.
'Mrs. Fted Krcrouse (who was Essie
Perrin) is off to Colombo, so last week Mrs.
W. Cameron gave a lunch-party in farewell
It was at the Cameron St. Ivilda house, but
all the floral decorations came from the
hostess’s gorgeous Macedon garden. Mrs
Hewlett, Mrs. Sam Mackay, the Macdonalds
and Mrs. Clendinnen rolled up for the good-
bye to the po pillar; Ipdy.
.Janet Cumbrae Stewart, who went to
England early this year under the wing
of her married sister, Mrs. Peveril, sends a
cpo-ee intimating that she has hired a
studio in St. John’s Wood for 12 months,
and has several orders on hand to
keep her profitably employed. When the
gM unpacks her easel here again
she will find her family domiciled in an
Elsternwick bungalow, her widowed mother
having disposed of her old roomy mansion
at Brighton.
There is a tough fight in progress be-
tween the fashion-decreed long skirts
and the delightful short variety. Society
folk, whose understandings are a rather mixed
assortment, came out during Cup-time clad
down to the ankles. Other compromised with
a silken skirt two inches above the knee
and covered with ankle-length pendulums of
chiffon that waggled in the wind and gave
breathless surprises. One expensively-frocked
girl had gathered heavy knots of fringe from
some early Victorian bed-canopy, and these
hung to her toe-tips from a scrap of a knee-
high silk skirt. The really smart gown of
the moment looks as if the wearer had grown
infuriated with her dressmaker, torn the
material of the new dress into long shreds,
then tacked the odd ragged lengths on to a
short pettie and let it go at that. Nellie
Stewart got a somewhat similar effect, but
with much more charm, in the Sweet Nell
days. Nell Gwyn’s dress in her poverty was
made of beaver-colored rags sewn any way
on to a waistband. But what adorable be-
tighted limbs it disclosed!
Estelle Collis Boyd, who tripped off to
China earlier in the year under convoy of
her mother, has forsworn her native wattle,
likewise her British nationality, to become
the wife of an American citizen —one Hector
Morrison. The knot was tied at the Shang-
hai Cathedral on November 15.
Pianist Agnes O’Keefe and violinist Ger-
trude Healy gave a joint recital the other
night. Joe Foster, who had been called to
add variety to the programme, aired a fine
baritone and a less fine enunciation. Miss
Healy, who has had six years’ European
training, revealed a delightful delicacy of
expression and purity of tone. Had she
been called Healyvitch, and billed as an im-
ported star, people would have been maimed
in the rush to hear her. Miss O’Keefe, who
opened with Liszt’s gaudy “Ithapsodie Hon-
groise." has marvellously facile fingers and
a gift of poetic expression which should
carry her up top-side anow.
Calixte Denat’s death —he was knocked down
by a tram near his home at St. Kilda—
has revived memories of a chef who planned
unnumbered Bohemian feasts. Before going
to the caf€ opposite Her Majesty’s, in Exhi-
bition-street, he was in Little Collins-street,
in the premises vacated by the ’Erald when
it went to the old Daily Tet.kgrapii office.
Denat retired about two years ago, but he
didn’t accumulate much wealth.
A little gossip from Adelaide: —
Rita Coonan, bound for Paris and teachers chosen
for her by Melba, made her farewell bow at a con-
cert in the Town Hall on Monday. After her first
encore the stage was heaped high with flowers, ar.d
at the end of the programme the audience sat tight
till the slim figure mounted the steps again (by the
way, she says that physical culture in Melbourne has
added two inches to her stature), and the sweet
voice was turned on once more. Lily Sara, Lalla
d’Arcy Irvine and Staulty Baines lent the star a
musical hand.
The feminine portion of the Liberal tJnion had
its final meeting for the year at a “Toast Social” at
the Grosvenor t’other evening. Speakers were Mrs.
Mayfield (president of the Union’s Women’s Branch,
just back from England), Mrs. Christophers, Mrs.
A. K. Goode, Mrs. li. H. Weston and half-a-dozen
others, including little Mayor Cohen and Premier
Barwell. The latter tactfully remarked that women
were better out of Parliament than in it, which has
brought a flood of feminine recrimination upon his
head.
Miss Harriet Stirling is to take Walter Hutley’s
place as president of the State Children’s Council —
a job that was first held by her father, the late
Edward Stirling. She is a keen worker for the
Babies’ Hospital, the School for Mothers and the
Babies’ Aid Society ; and a trip to England, Germany,
Italy and Amerim before the war showed her what
was being done in the same direction there.
For the second time May Grigg has captured Alex.
Melrose’s prize for portraiture at the Society of Arts
Federal Exhibition. This year her entry was an
excellent study of James Ashton. The Art Gallery
bought J. Marriot-Woodhouse’s “Persian Pot.”
Among the exhibits, by the way, are two pictures bv
Miss L. McNamara, which were sent to the London
Royal Drawing Society’s Exhibition during the war.
The ship they were in was torpedoed, but the pic-
tures were rescued, sent along to the exhibition,
and awarded a silver star apiece.
News comes that Arthur Hill, who has been ill
most of the time he has been in Europe, is on the
road to recovery in the south of France. He and
his family are due back here in January.
The Murrays struck an ideal day for their garden
party at Government House. There were about 800
guests, and, at a conservative estimate, 70 per cent,
of them were women. But the men who were
there blossomed into an amazing array of top-hats
with due etceteras —notably two of the youngish set,
who might have stepped straight from Piccadilly.
Returned revellers from the Cup included the Frank
Mouldens, the J. H, Gosses and Mrs. Hugh Davies;
and among newcomers from t’other side were the
W. A. Map.areys, Prof. Geoffrey Duffield and his wife
(she was Doris Boult, of this village, before her mar-
riage, and she put in a hectic afternoon picking up
the threads of old acquaintanceship), composer Ken-
neth Duffield and his wife, brown-haired, soft-eyed
and charming, and Mrs. Warren Edwards.


TK
m
\it
A
J/
\
; o
\
sN
F»
/
vW
N
ji/noo
s^uauiopy^
Happy the girl who knows that her fresh, clear
skin and smooth white neck and arms must
command admiration
W/ HEN you are conscious of the scrutiny
** of interested eyes which appraise
every detail of your appearance, can you sit
serene, secure in the consciousness that there
is nothing to criticise, but everything to
admire? Are you happy in the thought
that your complexion will stand the test of
the most searching sunshine?
The girl who is sure of her skin, sure of its
clear bloom, its fine texture, is a girl released
from doubts and lack of self confidence.
Then most truly may she be herself, natural,
unaffected, irresistible.
The girl who is not so sure of her personal
attractiveness, who is conscious that com-
plexion defects may affect her popularity,
should waste no time but at once remedy
these conditions. The secret of a clear skin
is cosmetic cleanliness, which keeps it free
from clogging accumulations.
ONCE A DAY, DO THIS
Once a day, preferably at bedtime, give your
face a thorough cleansing. This doesn’t
mean a harsh, irritating scrub, but a cos-
metic cleansing accomplished by the gentlest
possible means. Soap is necessary, but only
the mildest soap should be used. This is
PALMOLIVE, the soap containing palm and
olive oils.
Once you experience the mild, soothing effect
of its smooth, creamy lather, the delicious
sense of refreshment resulting from the use
of Palmolive, you will recognise careful
cleansing as the surest complexion beautifier.
Removal, once a day, of the accumulations
of dust and the remaining traces of cold
cream and powder is absolutely essential if
you would retain a clear complexion. Neglect
results in clogged pores, coarse texture and
a dull, unhealthy skin that cannot function
properly—a skin asleep.
WON’T YOU TRY PALMOLIVE?
We—makers of Palmolive—want you to try
it. We want you to know the luxury of
using*the finest facial soap of all.
We are soap experts. We have studied soap
for decades. We have won millions of
women throughout the world—won the top-
most place in toilet soaps—by creation of
Palmolive.
Now we want you to give this soap a test.
Go back to what you now use if you do not
find PALMOLIVE better. But test it once
—we know what your verdict will be. Send
for a trial cake to-day.
OSIRIS
Originally a king of
Egypt, who taught Ag-
riculture to his people.
When he died he be-
came the great Judge
of the Dead, and
weighed the heart in
the Hall of Judgment.
Osiris, possessing many
attributes, absorbed
and outlived all the
Egyptian gods.
To preserve their
beauty, the elegant wo-
men of ancient Egypt,
worshippers of Osiris,
used the oils of palm
and olive, the same
gentle, stimulating
cleansers we recom-
mend to you to-day.
The Genuine Palmolive Soap sells
everywhere at One Shilling per cake
M
TiUAL CAKE FREE SB “
Fill in and Mail to —
THE PALMOLIVE CO. (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
Broughton House, 181 C'arence Street, SYDNEY
Name
Addreaa-


CIIfIRIIS
Vintage 1911
CflfflPM
N l PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
FINE DIAMOND ORNAMENTS.
Fancy Cluster
Ring, all Platinum,
£97.
Old .Jewellery remounted
in newest ideas.,
Artistic Bow Brooch, mounted
in Platinum and Gold,
£6O.
Cluster Ring,
mounted in
Platinum and Gold,,
£47 10 0
Designs and estimates
submitted.
Jewellery valued for Probate.
WILLIAM FARMER &C° L TD
Jewellers. Gem Merchants .Silversmiths
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
m
Chateau Napier,
Leading
Mountain Resort,
Leura, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Central Heating Svstnn
Throughout.
BALLROOM, BILLIARD-
ROOM, TENNIS COURT,
GARAGES.
All products from Napier Farm.
Tel. 121 Katoomba.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
There was an overflow audience beautifully
upholstered and coiffured at the Conserva-
torium the other night, when the members
of the Musical Circle of the Salon provided
“Trial by Jury.” Milner Stephen, as the
Judge with the glad optic, scored a hit, and
Arthur O’Connor, as the Usher, made a day
in court an object to be prized before pearls;
Philippa Alston sang well and acted with
the right shade of demureness as the lass
with the damaged affections; and F. R.
Crouch, as the hcartbreaker, put up a strong
harmonic defence. Other parts in the mad-
ness fitted Nancy McNaughton, medicoes Hal-
loran and Silverton and P. H. Goldfinch.
The love scene from the third act of
Boh&me opened the proceedings, and in this
Mrs. Silverton’s Mimi shone as a bright and
particular star; Dulcie Starkey’s Musetta
had charm, and the Bohemian Blokes were
represented by Richmond Crouch and R. J.
Silverton. The objective was to raise funds
for a club house for Sydney’s Adult Deaf
and Dumb.
Over £2280 is the grand total from
the fair held at Cranbrook in Sep-
tember, and the scrap of paper repre-
senting that sum was handed over to the
school’s councillors last Saturday by Mrs.
Alexander Gordon, who organised the effort.
Vero Read took the cheque with due rever-
ence, and voiced his own and the rest of
the council’s wonder at its size, which was
twice the expected figure, and finished up
a pretty speech by surprising the grey-clad
lady with the gift of a travelling clock.
Beckoned by an imperative finger, Justice
Gordon, who had been sunk in retirement at
the far end of the long room, stepped blush-
ingly forward to say “Thank you” for his
small wife, although, as lie added in paren-
thesis, she was quite able to speak for her-
self. Padre Howard Lea was another of
the speech-makers, and a reverend gentleman
in the front row of cane chairs upended to
express episcopal approval on behalf of
Archbish. Wright. Then the well-dressed
guests sought tea and iced coffee on the
terrace. Most of the money is to be spent
on the school’s playing fields.
The Renwick Babies elected to have the
first birthday-party of their new home at
Summer Hill on the most blazing afternoon of
last week. Even the trees and lawns, among
which the tea libations were poured, con-
veyed not even a semblance 'of coolness to
the perspiring worshippers at the shrine of
babyhood. Chief Secretary Oakes and his
wife were the official bigwigs, while M.L.A.
Ness was also there, cheered probably by.
the discovery that orange-juice forms a daily
part of every properly-brought-up baby’s
diet. Arthur McElhone, w T hn is a vice-
president of the Benevolent Society, told
of the _ great work., being done for young
Australia by the bands of trained nurses who
are ready at a minute’s notice to visit the
sick baby in its home, if the 70 cots of the
hospital are all full up.
The Christmas sales of tin; work done by
the invalided soldiers was opened by Dame
Margaret at 7 Wynyard-street amid the
scent of Dorothy Perkins’ roses and the pol-
leny smell of pansies. In the moist heat of the
afternoon the flowers yielded their perfume
with a sort of passionate abandon, till tlie
room, with its glittering woven bead necklets,
flashing brasses, gay raffias and rich glazes
might have been some incensed Eastern bazaar.
The most useful thing to the girl with the
bobbed head is the eyeletted suede case
with a narrow comb inside. It makes a
dainty accessory to the peggy-bag.
The insurance on the roomful of exqui-
site work at the Women’s Handicrafts Depot
was only £3OO,- and every thread of the
fine embroideries was reduced to nothingness
by the fire in Dymocks’ Building. The com-
mittee. however, when it got its second wind,
decided to carry on as usual, and dropped
£56 into the hat straight away to meet cur-
rent expenses. The insurance money is to
be divided among the unfortunate members
whose work was in the doomed room; and
the annual show will be opened on December
sas though nothing had happened. But the
new fire-policy should have a few hundreds
added to it.
It was bound to come. C. N. Baeyertz,
editor of the Triad, has written a book with
the object of eliminating the Australasian
accent —-Australasian advisedly, since, in the
opinion of scandalised London actors, Eng-
lish A.D.C.’s and others qualified to speak,
the Maoriland twang is as bad as our own.
The danger of the thing lies, apparently, in
its infernal insidiousness. Unlike bunions,
red hair, a ruined waist-line and so on, the
sufferer does not know of his or her afflic-
tion. This is likely to make Mr, Baeyertz’s
task more Sisyphean than ever. Still, he
is going bravely on, and later proposes to
give lessons on the likeliest means of com-
bating the abomination. As a sample of
what he is up against he watched six well-
dressed children playing the other day, and
presently heard, “intoned in a sort of anti-
phonal chant” the following:—
Four: Sha’pe, sha’pe, ker mowme!
Two: Fry-’id.
Four: Waw tov?
Two: Woo-ulf!
Four: Woo-ulf wown’t be owme 't’l noin er’clock
ter-noight, sow sha’pe, sha’pe, ker mowme!
It was after this, apparently, that the an-
guished editor reeled away and wrote his
book.
Captain Fred Aarons (.whom the Diggers
knew as the Iron Duke) is also writing a
book. However, his is to be a novel—partly
about the war, but mostly about Sydney. Not
many were more severely wounded and lived,
than this persistent candidate for a place in
the front line. He lost an eye and acquired
a hole in his side the size of a dinner-plate
on Gallipoli, and six months after his re-
turn to Australia was on his way to France,
lie was gassed in the Ypres sector, and the
stuff affected his sound eye. The other day he
had a splinter of shell removed from it, and
all seemed well, when, as he was driving his
car near Goff’s Harbor, everything suddenly
went black, and for five months he was stone
blind. Something had happened to the
retina, and though he can see well enough to
get about he will never see, in the real sense,
again. He married Dr. Hamilton Marshall’s
pretty daughter after his second return from
active service.
Pat Taylor, who died last week, was a
popular member of the Union Club, and one
of the most dapper and youthful-looking men
of his age in Sydney. He was 60, and until
a mishap which completely broke him up last
year, did not look 45. He had been a power
in a diverse lot of concerns, ranging from
the Fresh Food and Ice to the Sydney
Ferries. Apropos the latter holding, he had
been a Manlyite, off and on, for over 20
years, and from his place at Newport used
to play polo with Brock on the estate which
is now La Corniche. One son was killed
and the other won an M.C. in the war.
A measure of the unpopularity of Lloyd
George in England was the departure of Leslie
Wilson from Reading and into the obscurity
of private life. The good-looking Rawson
A.D.C. bought an estate not far from the big
Thames-side town when he married Winnie
Smith, of Sydney, and her £lO,OOO per annum.
At his first attempt for Parliament he
severely shook up Rufus Isaacs (now Vice-
roy of India), and before there could be
another trial of strength the wary Hebrew
got out. After that Reading was a sort of
pocket borough so far as this ambitious
young man was concerned.
Mayoress McElhone is putting a big push
behind the building fund that is to provide
a properly equipped club house for our
grown-up deaf and
dumb. Plans for an
organised campaign
were laid at the
Town Hall meeting
the other morning,
when an objective of
£15,000 was decided
on. The Cullen lady
was elected presi-
dent of the commit-
tee, and she is to be
supported by Pre-
mier Fuller’s wife
and Mrs. Maearthur
Onslow as vice-presi-
dents. Attorney-
General Bavin’s wife,
the Hay knightess
a. n d Mrs. Orwell
Phillips are others on
the big committee. Mrs. Milner Stephen
(whose photograph is alongside) sent word
that the ticket-office takings for the Salon
performance of “Trial by Jury,” which she
had organised, amounted to £l9O.
Mrs. McElhone also casts a kindly eye
on the day nurseries, and it is to bring a
monster Christmas-tree to fruition for the
kiddies that a series of “snowball teas” was
set rolling a few weeks back. She hostessed
one in her rooms at the Town Hall last
week; and the final beano is to be on Decem-
ber 5, at the Mary Elizabeth, when vice-
regal lustre will be lent the affair. Dame
Margaret having promised to attend.
A piano recital, almost entirely modern
in its makeup, was given by Frank Hutchens
at the Conservatorium during the week, lie
put up a strong case for Scriabine, and illus-
trated the Russian composer by his “Sonata
in F Sharp.” Arnold Bax’s “Mediter-
ranean” was another gripping number —it
seemed to murmur all the mystery of that
ancient, land-locked sea that knew the purple-
sailed ships of the Phoenicians. Palmgren’s
‘‘Night in May” and Chopin etched in roman-
tic touches to one of the most musically
stimulating concerts of the week.
This is a picture of Charlie Bryant, whose
art show, at Anthony Horderns’ gallery, was
opened by our industrious Governor." The
artist, who is a
native of Sydney
and an old Sydney
Grammar boy,
started when quite a
youngster to exhibit
with the Royal Art
Society; and was
successful enough on
his own bit of earth
to warrant a trek to
Europe and further
study in 1908. His
first teacher abroad
was John Hassall,
but later he concen-
trated on marine
painting under Julius
Olsson, R.A., at St.
Tves, Cornwall. He
first exhibited at the
Royal Academy in
1911, and in 1913 won honorable mention for
his “Morning Mist” at the Paris Salon. lie
is a member of the Royal Institute of Oil
Painters, London, and was one of the official
war artists with the A.I.F. in France.
The Gallery is going to be the richer for
two of Bryant’s sea pictures. Charles Bry-
ant sold 400 guineas’ worth of sea pictures
to the Gallery Trustees the other day. One,
“Landing the Catch,” is full of radiance
and sparkling sunshine: and a second, “Low
Tide at St. Ives,” is a study in soft blue-
greys.
Vern Barnett’s brilliant pupil, Mary Charl-
ton (a daughter of Canon Charlton, of St.
Andrew’s Cathedral), unpinned her grand
piano at the King’s Hall one night last week.
Her music holds both imagination afid poetry,
and she is equally at home among the litera-
ture of the ancients and moderns —Beethoven,
Cyril Scott, Chopin, John Ireland and Rach-
maninoff caime in for the same intimate treat-
ment.
Gayfield Shaw chooses this month for an
exhibition, Uo picture in which is under
five or over ten guineas. The little show at
the Attic includes every Australian artist of
note, from Norman Lindsay down. Charlie
Bryant’s “Rolling Surf” and Herbert Gal-
lop’s “Aged Apple-tree” are things of de-
light, as are the Lindsay and Griiner
sketches.
Renee Maxwell, having left the Firm and
the champagne-quaffing and delirious high
lights that are the nightly stage lot of the
heroine in musical comedy, came back to her
own last week, making a reappearance at
the Paling-Chappie concerts in the Town
Hall. Her voice proved as golden and as
trilling as when she first returned to Sydney,
and she looked like some exquisitely dainty
doll. Mrs. Layton Gaubert made a hit with
Teresa del Riego’s “Castilian Lament.”
The Italian students had their final fore-
gathering of the year in the rooms of Presi-
dent G. Waterhouse of the Modern Lan-
guages’ Association. Gladys Coles sang two
Italian songs—of a 200-years-or-so vintage,
and made them sound better than new,
especially “La Balia Calendrina.” Countess
Lalli recited “L’Amor Pacifico,” and the
Bentivoglio lady was another who poured
forth stanzas in the language of Dante.
Judge Rolin cheered up the sons and daugh-
ters of Italia by announcing that the ’Var-
sity Senate might in the near future take
steps to further the tongue in which “Orlan-
do Furioso” was written. Chris. Brennan
brought an enormous volume and his hand-
some daughter, Anne, whose brown lace
frocking toned in with her eyes. Lute Drum-
mond, Melbourne’s Professor Chisholm, Dr.
Fiaschi, the Dennehy couple and Mrs.
Vivers were others present. The table held
some tremendous leather-bound tomes, hoary
with age, and some fascinating curios.
Among the latter was a walking-cane which,
when the right spring was touched, turned
itself into an elongated fiddle, with resin and
bow complete.
By the way, Mrs. Septimus Harwood,
M.A., was probably the pioneer of what is
now thte Modern Languages’ Association.
Her former “Foreign Lecture Society” filled
a real gap in Sydney, and provided delight-
ful intellectual evenings. Dr. Storie Dixson,
likewise an accomplished linguist, often pre-
sided over appreciative audiences, and vari-
ous foreign Consuls gave their valuable sup-
port. At that time the speaking of foreign
languages was “taboo” in influential quar-
ters ; it was left to Cook’s guides and
commercial travellers —maybe as sour
grapes. Reading and translating only were
considered the proper thing. Mrs. Harwood,
ahead of the times, laid stress on the speak-
ing and understanding of foreign tongues,
holding that printing and writing were only
substitutes for speech, and poor ones at that.
The lady, who is a prolific writer, was edi-
tor of Pax and author of “Shakspeare Cult
in Germany.”
Jean Drummond is at the Ilaymarket with
Allen Priora as a protagonist. II is voice is of
beautiful quality, and his opera repertoire
as wide as Jean’s own; and the two are
charming audiences twice daily with a sort
of potted grand opera. Last week it was
“Trovatore,” this week it is “Faust”
Artist Mclnnes, last year’s winner of the
Archibald prize, is having another swing for
the honor with a portrait of Sydney Ure
Smith. Norman Carter and Leason are.
other triers. But no matter what they may
do with, paint and brush, none of them can
hope to transform his sitter into the Apollo-
like creature demanded for the winning of
the Sunday Times male beauty prize. There
are no Apollos amongst our Intelligentsia.
Another show in pen, pencil and chalk is
tucked away in Basil Burdett’s New Art
Salon, in George-street North. Lloyd Rees
here shows some of his poetic pencil work.
Rees can even make the doorway of the Medi-
cal School at the Uni. suggest an avenue
to untold adventure. The Lindsay group,
some charcoal drawings by Hans Heysen, a
chalk portrait study by Norman Carter, and
Sydney Ure Smith’s “The Willows” are
among the best things in the show.
The energetic Vagabonds are to appear
at St. James’s during this week in Haddon
Chambers’s “Saving Grace.” The proceeds,
as usual, are for charitable purposes—the
T.B. Soldiers and the maintenance of “The
Vag.’s” protege, a little cripple whose cir-
cumstances aroused their interest.
There are a lot of kiddies in Sydney who
are glad that Mrs. J. A. Wilson didn’t land
the Parliamentary honors she sought at the
last State elections. She is the lady who
interests herself in organising Saturday ex-
cursions to beaches or bushlands for slum
children who have, in many cases, never seen
either; and as an M.L.A. she might have
had less time for this kind of enterprise.
Now she is campaigning, in addition, for
funds for Christmas toys for the youngsters.
It seems a far better work than the average
politician’s. Mrs. Wilson, by the way, was
among the first group of women J’s.P. ap-
pointed in N. S. Wales.
Medico Ralph Noble and his wife, just
back from a 12-months’ tour of Europe, say
that many people are now travelling on the;
Continent, simply because they find it
cheaper than staying at home. When going :
up the Rhine the Nobles met Prof. Wilson's
daughters. The cheery doctor was attached
to Broughton Hall Soldiers’ Home, and
while abroad did post-graduate work in men-
tal and nervous diseases. Mrs. Edwin Ryrie,
whose two girls have grown into beauties of
a sensational type, has a lovely little place
near Vienna.
The Waterfall Sanatorium shelters 25
girl and boy patients, and an S.O.S. goes
out for gifts for their Christmas-tree.
A Brisbane postscript:—
His Ex. appeared twice at the races within a few
days and gave two joyous tea-parties at Ascot. In
serious mood he also arranged the platform for the
National Council of Women, and told them where
they were right (and where they were undoubtedly
wrong) on the 10th.
The Pitt Riverses are at Government House, also
medico McDonnell, of Toowoomba, and his spouse
and Capt. and Mrs. Harboard. The Tullys, who
chaperoned Isobel Campbell and Grace Deshon under
the vice-regal roof-tree while Colonel and Mrs. Par-
sons were viewing things about Toowoomba, have
gone back to Kangaroo Point.
Dentist Martha Burns, who did transport duty for
the Allies during the war, has, among other valued
possessions, a mother of 85 —an interesting pioneer
who has. been 60 years in this distressful climate.
Governor Nathan, who has a thirst for information
on all subjects, went and had a long' chat with her
this week.
During the performance of “Within the Law,” at
the Theatre Royal the other night, a fire started in
the adjoining building, and to calm the nervous
audience De Tisne played a callous and cheery and
effective violin, and with his pretty. wife jazzed dis-
tractingly about the stage. The fire was put out
after the theatre had been warmed to the tempera-
ture of a hardy brick oven, the nerves of the audi-
ence simmered down, -and the play went forward.
A door or two away, l ight to leeward of the fire, a
lecture on George Essex Evans was being given by
Henri Tardent Under the wing of the Authors and
Artists’ Association. The place got. full of smoke,
and lively interjections came from the audience near
the windows, from which could be had an excellent
view of the pyrotechnics, but nice things were said
of the Queensland poet nevertheless by an apprecia-
tive, if coughing, Governor.
Rank and fashion and the aristocracy of intellect
trooped in to the Dickens Fellowship evening in the
Albert Hall. Miss Harboard was with his Ex., and
Tom Heney and Emily Buleock were shining lights
in the audience.
Archbish. Glune, of Westralia, with Father Dunne,
is at Dara, Archbishop Duhig’s home on the heights,
dune, as the papers rather pathetically report, was
“almost successful in bringing about a settlement
with Ireland.”
Pretty Mary Corrie joined John Pain, Major, D.S.O.
and M.C. in the better-or-worse act the other day.
She did it in ivory brochd, brandishing a bouquet of
carnations and stephanotis the while. Beres Corrie
bridesmaided in blue; Lieut. Selwyn Dowling helped
to see the bridegroom through, and George Sampson
played the organ, while Walter Thompson (who mar-
ried a step-daughter of poet Essex Evans) tied the
knot.


HARDY BROS. LTD
Jewellers,
TOILET REQUISITES
■
mm
■
Pair hand-engraved heavy Silver Brushes, with finest-quality
bristles; Mirror and Comb, in Silk-lined Case
£lB 0 0
Hardy Bros, carry a large and well-selected
stock of Toilet Requisites, choice in design,
and of highest quality.
A copy of the Company’s new illustrated Catalogue
will be posted to any address on application.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
IJ6-118 Queen St.,
BRISBANE.
LONDON.
298 Collins St. t
MELBOURNE.
A novice can take Good
Pictures right away with a
m
m
m
i£l<
a
Box Form Ensign”
An Inexpensive British-made Roll Film
Camera, exceptionally well and strongly made.
There is nothing to go wrong, and its absolute
simplicity makes success certain.
The prices have been recently reduced.
Our Xmas Booklet “Presents that Please’’ is free—ask for one.
lIP
The House for
Good Cameras,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
Katoomba Street, Katoomba.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
16 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The BEHNING PLAYER P
. ?
-
BEHNING)
PLAYER
PIANOS.
SOLD ON EASY TERMS
and fully guaranteed.
Beautiful tone quality, highly
artistic case design.
What a delightful Christmas present a
Behning Player Piano would be!
Every member of the family would love
and enjoy it.
Father, mother and all the children would
be able to play it —and then, when visitors
arrive, how pleased they would be with it?
All the greatest musicians of the world would
play in your own home through the medium of
the Artist Rolls.
All the latest songs can be sung to your own
accompaniment, and in the key that suits your
voice—the transferring device does this for you.
All the latest and best dance music—Fox
Trots, One Steps, etc., are always available.
Does this not open a wonderful vista of
pleasure? We know it does. Then send at once
for our Catalogue and Price List—they are free
for the asking.
Sydney.
p
And at Brisbane, Newcastle,
Lismore, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton.


Learn to Draw!
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
IT]
< S
Sf 7
The
above is
the title
of our book-
-1 e t, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing’—-
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARRY J. WES-
TON, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex.
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
successful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
178 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
Story Writing
FOR
Pleasure and
Can You Write a
Short Story?
We can train you to become a suc-
cessful writer. You can find congenial
and lucrative employment as a Journal-
ist, Story Writer or Magazine Contribu-
tor. There are many chances confront-
ing bright men and women in this Held.
Editors cannot get sufficient well writ-
ten Short Stories.
LEARN TIIE “TECHNIQUE” in
Story Writing, so that your Stories have
a reasonable chance of acceptance.
Thousands of well-read men and women
could write a short story if they knew
how to arrive at the “climax,” or knew
the theory' of “single effect.”
This College is organised to help you.
You will receive individual instruction
from a successful writer and editor.
Write for our unique booklet, “Your
Career.” It’s free to all enquirers.
STOTT’S
Technical Correspondence
College
(37 Years’ Practical Experience),
100 Russell Street, Melbourne;
70 Pitt St., Sydney; Queen St., Brisbane.
MUCILINE
£7/7 e Tfoer/ec/r
©FIFHCgH IPASSTI
CLEANEST,
STRONGEST,- BEST
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS
%!5% le ALEx Cowan © Sons, L t .?
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
Missing: Friends.
ALBERT EDWIN MAYFIELD.
IT will be to the advantage of ALBERT
EDWIN MAYFIELD, late of Adelaide,
in the State of South Australia, clerk (born
in 18(17), who was last seen in Adelaide in
1005, and who was a son of WILLIAM
SHEPARD MAYFIELD, of Adelaide afore-
said, upholsterer, and CAROLINE JANE
MAYFIELD, bis wife, now both deceased, if
he, his representatives, or any person know-
ing anything of his whereabouts or move-
ments since 1905 will communicate with the
undersigned.
Dated November 7, 1022.
BRIGHT & BRIGHT, Solicitors.
Unity Chambers, Currie Street,
Adelaide, South Australia.
THE RELATIVES of the late
JOHN SLOAN.
who died at Waimate, New Zealand, on the
Bth June, 1922, are requested to communi-
cate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington, New' Zealand.
KEEP YOUR BODY IN TUNE
m
Your health and strength depend upon exercise. Exercise is the
judicious movement of the organs of the body, so that they will
NOT become flabby through want of use. When an organ
becomes flabby it cannot carry out its functions in a natural
way. It goes from bad to worse. Eventually it is a source
of never-ending annoyance—then chronic ill-health.
Judicious exercise is the key of Health. It cuts out monotony,
accomplishes permanent results quickly, takes up very little
time —every movement goes right to the spot.
The Baker Postal Course of
Health and Strength Exercises
will make you fit and keep you strong and healthy.
The exercises you receive will be most suited to your
individual needs, just as the particulars you furnish
tell us you require.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and send it to us, with three stamps, and we
will send you a copy of the interesting booklet,
“Health and Strength from Self-culture.”
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
“ The All-round Champio 1 Athlete of Australia,’'
216 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
1
Ate
I
1
m
i
Vw
DRY SUEDE CLEANER
keeps dainty suede footwear fresh and immaculate,
factorily solves a tricky shoe-cleaning problem.
popular colors.
It satis-
In all
ROSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., Box 91, Haymarket
NATIONAL hotel
Bill
tm
AIiONA
BRISBANE-.
EuropeaK Plan,
Charges arejor Room Only.
Service a la Carte -
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
Suites de Luxe, with Bath Room attached.
telephone in every Room. RooJ Garden.
S UNDER THE DIRECTION OF ROWE’S LIMITED,
PROPRIETORS.
for Reservations address Managers
(<J
O'
Oj
0 *•
*<£
209
_ss?
»iS
' ,n^s
BBS
w*
wnrren
SH/U/INS
Magnetos
Have Cobalt Steel Magnets.
They are four times as power-
ful as Tungsten, and give
efficient starting at a magneto
speed of 50 r.p.m.
Sole Distributors in Australia—•
Smith, Sons & Rees Limited,
100 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
30-32 Wentworth Avenue,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Aa me and address must appear on the MSS. A'o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Outbacker: Certainly. Any sum, however
small, is acceptable for the Lawson Memorial. In fact,
the people that it is most desired to associate with
the thing are his, often indigent, bush admirers.
.... Woolgrower: Don’t print communications that
have appeared elsewhere... .W.G.S.: Cut out your
contribution and send it to the accountant, or,
at least, give some details to make it identifiable.
. ...C.C.S.: “Einstein” promising but belated. Let
us see “The Sentimental Shielah”.... F.E.M.: Idea
good; execution vile. .. .E. 8.: Verse misses. It
isn’t even grotesque enough to be amusing....
J.C.P.; The verse scans correctly, but nothing more
can be said for it. And why take a theme that
another writer has made his own so completely?....
Bolem: If stamps are enclosed rejected matter will
be promptly returned: if not, and the contribution
is accepted, it is impossible to fix a date inside
which it will appear. .. .J.A.V.S.: Poorly told, and
not worth telling, anyhow.... Viator: Empty....
Alma B.: Tinkles, but not musically enough....
0.L.8.: No use to us. . . .M.H.E.: A poor ghost yarn.
.. . .T.V.T.: Ponderous mirth. .. .George and his Girl:
The typing is good. . . .R.H.K.: We don’t want prose
that, pretends to be verse R.T.K.: Doesn’t get to
anything... .E.M.M.: Bumpy commonplace. .. .C.A.C.:
Too rugged K.M.T.: “Spring Song” is gentle
album verse. . . .Iverwin M.: Not up. .. . F.A.: Not for
us....Huia C.: A bit too rugged. It’s 10 use
sticking in “so” to fill up a line and tagging it off
with a misused commonplace... .Douglas C.: Nearly.
... .Ernie S.: Not up... .Bellerive: Your old power to
intrigue and horrify flares up in “The Hidden
Crime”:—
The skeleton of a man was found
Out back in a lonely spot,
A inquest on the human shell
Did prove that he d been shot.
A bullet-hole in the fleshless skull,
As clear as the light of day,
To the coroner and otfkers
Cruel murder did betray.
Maybe by lie’s camp-fire flare,
While encamped with a little gold,
Shot from the cover of a tree
By some fiend grim and bold.
A billy and a tattered swag
Was found beside the bones.
The tragedy of a ill-fated man
In the weird forest lone’s.
... .C.W.W.W.: Not quite... .Barkis: The refrain is
file only good thing in it. . . .N.R.D.: Nothing there.
... .F.H. (Balmain) : No use for the verse. . . .Enare:
The story is without life.... Alii e T.: The “Little
Bush School” has been overdone in verse.... Leslie
H.: Stop methinking and try to say something that
is your own. . . .George’s G.: Doesn’t strike us.. . .
Alex. C. II.: Your “Dream-maiden” fails to thrill. . . .
J.L. (Adelaide) : The verse bumps from common-
place to commonplace.... C.F.R.: Worse verse may
have "been written, but not much worse. .. .A.D.P.:
Doesn’t get to anything worth while. ... Frank N.:
Very lumpy. . . .Camp Fire: No g00d... .Phil S.: You
went out into the bush, and the sun went down.
Only that in very lame verse. ... Ethel W.: Nothing
very attractive there. .. . A.S. (Paddington): Obscure
mirth that turns on dreadful puns.... Jimmo: Yes,
the basket gets it. . . .A.F.S.: The yarn starts well and
then flops away to nothing. ... J.N.Y.: Feeble little
flutter. .. .Max J.: Better grow i p A.A.G.: As
solemn and dull as a cow. .. .S.A.V.: Doesn’t strike
us. . . .Kai-kai: You take a very long time to say
very little. .. .R. 8.5.: That drunken doctor has so
often been dragged away to save a patient that he
begins to. be a nuisance... .Lottie A.: Not up....
Kemble: Too slight. .. .A.F.M.: Lumbers along
heavily, saying the old things P.A.D.: You can’t
rhyme “sweet” and “sleep” Alex. D.: Try the
screed on the lady. It’s no good to u 5....
J.J.S.: Doesn’t work. .. .Caroline: It’s a flimsy
little thing and ycu hardly give it a real
rhjme to fly with. . . .8.C.W.: The yarn is a bit
too mechanical. ...616: The man in the wrong bed
idea is pretty old, and your treatment doesn’t in
it-elf cause uproarious mirth. .. .W.T. (Fairfield):
Sorry your dreams among the “sclirubs both bad and
good” were disturbed. ... Iv.J.E.W.: Your thin doubt
as to whether Spring has arrived or not is hardly
worth all those words.... D.D.F. II.: We can’t find
the resemblance to Shakspeare and Marlowe ; but it’s
like a lot of things in'the basket.... Kat: “To a
Wattle” is unlike any poem we ever met: —-
Oh, golden-tressed wattle, in you I find
Balm for sore mankind !
To miss your perfumed, soothing breath
Would be to me, death.
At your feet, Sweet-Golden-One, I shall myself fling!
For ecstasy to my heart you bring!
And marvel as I gaze up at your noble, bonnie head!
And pray that your beauty will never shed.
While possessing nothing on this Earth
You proved to me God’s worth !
Blind, as I were, you healed, and gave me sight!
Then I saw God's might.
Ofttimes have I wished that I was dead,
Till your beckoning head!
Commanded me to glory in your beauty,
And I saw my duty.
TO ARTIS IIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPON DENTS.
R.G.C.: Figures too mixed up with background. ...
8.W.R.: Lady with the wobbly wooden leg sent
hence. .. .E.A.S.: Miles below the mark... .R.W.:
Old gag badly illustrated... .A. 8.11.: Drawing not
up. . . .W.R.H.: Anaemic joke. .. . A.W.8.: You’ve got
to handle your pen with more confidence yet....
R.H.: Hoary old gag. .. . A.G.F.: Both miss.
“Exul”: “Rus” (E. 2/11/’22) assumes a
new force to account for a vase emitting a
musical note whenever the whistle of the
brickworks sounds. This is quite unneces-
sary. It is well known that many objects
will vibrate to sounds of the proper nature,
as a tuning-fork does when a note corres-
ponding to its pitch is sounded on the piano.
There are instances of a singer smashing a
wineglass on a table by a particular note.
The vibrations, of course, are set up by
ordinary sound-waves in the air.
“T. Yerte” ; I’m the last man in the world
to deny Frank Hurley the distinction he has
earned as an enterprising and highly success-
ful photographic artist, but “Tauwarra” (B.
12/10/’22) is in error. The unassuming
Captain Andrew Lang, not Hurley, made the
first flight over Port Moresby, and he did
more thereby in five minutes to restore the
waning prestige of the white man in Papua
than the rest of us have done in five years.
Lang, who commands the flight details of
Hurley’s present venture in Papua, had suc-
cessfully carried out his trials, to the awe-
some wonder, of every colored lady and gentle-
man within eyeshot, before Hurley arrived
in the Territory.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, DECEMBER 20,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
I"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
5.3 ; ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.in.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
Hanking, Public Companies, ,Vc.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . .. . . 360,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,609 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G. W.
Gray; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Brandies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,523,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922. . £13,269,793
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarxvood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman; George
F. Todman ; Duncan Carson ; H. R. Lysaght,
O. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting-Manager : G. H. Westcott.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 148 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 23 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager ; R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairhairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income ..
£1,551,18s
£2,629,000
£47,000,000
£7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, eta.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND REST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
NIAGARA, 28th DECEMBER, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 25th JANUARY.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey aeross America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara l'alls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MAUN GAN UI, 11th JANUARY, 1923, 11 a.m.
TAHITI, 15th FEBRUARY.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHU’ CO., UNION
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION
HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island
and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3i TO 4i WEEKS
Affording a restful holiday amongst
beautiful scenery and interesting
people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
m
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from* £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SCEY’IC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line
■
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
TIIEMISTOCL.ES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
♦SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
♦DIOGENES 12,500 tons
♦New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
rai<l-up Capita!
lieserve Fund
Iteservo Liability
m
Directors;
- £5,640,700
- 3,600,000
- 5,640,700
£14,881,400
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles It. Mackellar, It.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
General Manaqer; Oscar Lines.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
360 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTTtFCT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
Ssank ot Australia
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Saving's Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300,
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Governor.
JENOLAN
Inclusive Cost:
CAVES TOUR PARTIES
Leave Sjdney daily, 925 a.m. (Sunday excepted).
3 days, £5 55.; 4 days, £6 35.; 5 days, £7 3s.
Programme and Booking at
government tourist bureau,
CH ALLIS HOUSE (opp. G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
ShlnnlTi*.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
| TOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraidton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN.
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
*Brisbane, Maekay, Townsville and Cairns.
tßrisbane, Port Alma, Maekay, Bowen and Towns-
ville.
Burns=Philp lours
to All Parts of the World.
TOUR AND TRAVEL ADVICE.
For direct Passages to LONDON, EUROPE,
AMERICA, INDIA, CHINA, JAPAN, also SPECIAL
ROUND EASTERN TOURS and ROUND WORLD
TOURS,
Apply our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT.
Burns-Philp Line to
Java and Singapore.
Passages booked through to India, Burma, Siam,
China, Japan, etc., via Singapore.
For further Information apply,
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Huddart Parkei L!b£'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Coll ins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
iUOIILIIiV oil 111 iijja iiit iniiLvi.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISIIA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS."
Macdonald. Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. I.td.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and 1 itzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackliealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co}. New Zealand Shipping Co.,
l,td. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, .Bun-
da berg, Bowen and Cookto^-'n.
Legal Notices.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
To ALEXANDER HAROLD MURRAY, formerly of
Goulburn Street, Hobart, and thereafter of Philip
Street, Surry Hills, Sydney, New South Wales: —
TAKE NOTICE that vour wife. Maud Theresa Mur-
ray, of Darlinghurst, Sydney, has filed a Petition
in this Court praying for a dissolution of marriage
on the ground of desertion. Unless you appear on
the said proceedings ' the case will be tried in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs. If
you intend to appear you must within thirty-one
days from the last publication hereof enter an
appearance in the Office of the Registrar of this
Court, where you may on application obtain a copy
of the Petition and Citation herein.
PAGE, HODGMAN & SEAGER,
Macquarie Street, Hobart, Proctors for the Petitioner.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
AUSTRALIA POWER ALCOHOL LTD.
To be registered under Queensland Companies Act 1863-1913.
CAPITAL £500,000, divided into 500,000 Shares of £i each.
10,000 Ordinary Shares are to be issued as fully paid to the Vendor in part
consideration.
240,000 Ordinary Shares are now offered to the Public for subscription on the
terms set out herein; and
200,000 Shares are to be held in reserve for future issue.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS :
Colonel The Hon. A. ,T. THiNNE, V. 1).,
Solicitor, Brisbane.
Major-General Sir WILLIAM GLAS-
GOW, K.C.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D., Pas-
toralist, Maryborough.
ARTHUR FEE Z, K.C., Barrister at
Law, Brisbane.
M. L. CAMERON, M.D., Ch.M., Medical
I ractitioner, Brisbane.
ALEX. INNIS, Chairman Mackay Sugar
Manufacturers’ Association, Sarina, Mackay.
G- A’ JULIUS , B.Sc., 8.E., M. 1., Mech.E.,
M.I.E. Aus., Consulting Engineer, Sydney.
PERCY T. GRIFFIN (Managing Direc-
tor), Brisbane.
TECHNICAL ADVISER:
B. D. STEELE, D.Sc., F.R.S., F.1.C.,
1 rofessor of Chemistry, University of
Queensland.
CONSULTING ENGINEERS :
FREW., A.M.1.C.E., and A.
HARDING FREW., 8.E., etc., Brisbane.
A. J. LEAVER, A.M.I.E. Aust., Tech.
Adviser to tlie Royal Auto Club of Queens-
land, Brisbane
™ CONSULTING CHEMISTS :
GUMMING, SMITH & CO. PTY., LTD.
Melbourne.
A. DE BAVAY. Melbourne.'
REPRESENTATIVE FOR VICTORIA
TASMANIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA :
BRUNEL KAY, A.M.1.E., 81 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Pres., R.A.C., V.
SOLICITORS:
TIIYNNE & MACARTNEY, Brisbane;
NORTON SMITH & CO., Sydney ■
MOULE, HAMILTON & KIDDLE, Mel-
bourne.
AUDITORS :
TROUP, HARWOOD & CO.
BANKERS :
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRAL-
ASIA LTD. (for Queensland and Victoria).
COMMERCIAL BANKING CO. 01
SYDNEY, LTD. (for New South Wales),
BROKERS:
CORRIE & CO., Parbury House, Eaglt
Street, Brisbane.
ING, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
JOHN GOODALL & CO., Queen Street,
Melbourne.
SECRETARY pro term, and OFFICES:
MALCOLM A. CORRIE, F.F.1.A.,
h.AI.S., Parbury House, Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
9,in ann i- ™P IS A ND CONDITIONS OF ISSUE.
par. paytblTas follow?- ° f eaCh are ° ffered to the public for subscription at
jth Application (to be applied towards payment of first call
<)„ lit 1 be made immediately after allotment) 2/6 per Share
On Allotment (being balance of first call) 2/(5 Share
llnee months after Allotment (beimr second ,>nin 'o/o * tn <Ue
Six months after Allotment (bei™ Skd call 1 o(« P “ !£ arc
and when no, exceeding 2/6 P« siar( atlfie^S
balance of' the unissued Shared will* be reserved nnrfr 6^ 11 * 8 ment / oned herein, and the
msmmrnmmm
m«t“S Ihe ~ aS'ffi
CONSIDERATION PAYABLE TO VENDOR.
£l5OO per annum, with quarters and a contract Vui" « 7'? ,lL ruie or
with him dated the 7th November, 1922 t 44th 4 ffect ha ‘ s beon ente red into
The^ttlturT" 8 ar «W other than those above mentioned, are to be issued
working capital Spfcted leaving f 90,000 as
twelve months, and the output is estimated JtTlOOOnn °^ eraho J l Wlthin tbe first
the first year ofoperation‘>9oo 099j’ 0 ? 0 gallons of power alcohol for
under cultivation extends ’ fhe Sof Stf mcreas,n S annually as the area
estimated at £Bl.OOO the first year and
giving a profit of £29,000. The cost SfproducHon“ for P tiL gal ° n ’, repreaeuts £llO,OOO,
as &&* iSwiYs * HasP 1
rS?,£ ‘“f weh a l #™' "‘T '
alcohol plant. Messrs. Cumming, Smith & C?Pt? d M S* constl '. uction <? f the
chemical industry, will advise in of thf'’ of fl M ® lba urne, pioneers in the
arranging to purchase the™ white D R J 4jf°f 01 “"5 *P
Queensland University, whose success & this direr tinoTJ Jm, i Steele >, F.R.S., of the
out and co-ordination of the complete factory. known - Wlll design the lay-
prod note /“ d «*. "WHto* by-
agricultural and other machinery. A great savin £:n ¥?¥'! J a ” d as suction gas on the
the Company can 0 compiTwXTL txiSing 53 &“*'>*■ be «*»*. »*
been «irJ^ ,, di^i ,,^, f£jSSr , sSS C A r !l** base<l ,. ir>n catenates which have
mobile ClnhV Victoria, a Z Seteteporfstpioar ?n the'S SspSns* 11 ' R ‘ >J '* l A ”*-
ESIJf" ”“Xs'te33 ““V'empS? t G,*nS
will not exceed £lOOO, exclusive of brokerage. l fl tatlon expenses - whieh it is estimated
ssawjsstj-jssb? s
16th DECEMBER, 1922. RLCLI\ ED TI TO AND INCLUDING THE
a t C ™ NTRACT ?-~t¥ Agreement dated November 7, 1922 between P T rviffin
A - J. Thynne as to Vendor’s consideration ween i. Gnfhn and
appoLrcfnf “* b “™«" RT - <««» A. J. Thynne as to
to the°Co e mpan“ n oo,,t, '" cls “» «* at the Offices of the Solicitors and Brokers
Power alcohol is a fuel having an alcohol hasp with
point fractions to ensure easy starting and satisfactory ndleage I? cai? be used £? „nf
car or stationary petrol engine, gives smoother running greater n „wm! ,• ia any
knocking and fuel carbonisation, will start from cold as oVhVV b ls ’ elimi “ a .tes
miscible with water, reduces fik-rsksandmfercmries iifo i as, benzine and, being
petrol from the presence of drops of water mercomes tbe experienced with
The folio wing reports are included in the full prospectus:—
(J ) Sll Alfiea Cowley, K.C.M.fI., oil of nw rrmtannl t> i? T-v
Steelo PRS FTP a p’ I w \r i, lllateiia ß Professor B. D.
a'miF AMt ri K cii" cost of cstablishmciit S'd‘mnoKfacrtrc 4> (s)° a‘ V’Shwl?
ss tt e on w ffl r 'hS'^nT% ;T f r s
A.M.I.E. Aust., on fuel behavior. (7) A< J - L eaver,
an • .COMMENTS BY THE QUEENSLAND BROKERS
Seldom is there offered for investment so sound a i,nc;„¥ , x , .
production of POWER ALCOHOL, nor could
skilful bunds, both executive and professional; certainly no greater wanf ex^stT^n
Australia than cheap motor spirit. We strongly recommend fi „ ! waat . exists in
clients. CORRIE & CO. gly iecomm end this proposition to our
Power alcohol is a perfect substitute for benzine, and the reports show tW in
capabilities are eminently satisfactory, coupled with the sivnifienni fcl th . . that As
40 per cent, less than petrol (which is 3/- to dav aud thn wf . , that lts cost is
scale it can be further reduced. ™aayr), and that when produced on a larger
The demand for a cheap motor spirit is unlimited and once tho nmeent. n
established there is no doubt that expansion will be required to cone £ ompany 1S
ments. It is proposed to extend the operations of Ifm nl ,! w , lth tbe require-
by establishing subsidiary distilleries in suitable localities* ‘Vo the (^ n ! an .d develops
throughout the world there is nothing so desirable as a ehe’nn mot onng public
can, while being practically equal to" the bes? pettSl be sold at a figure SPIHt w ?. ich
half the present price of motor fuel, has no fear of a markef Power i
tried and used by numbers of motorists in this country and fliere I k? 1 as been
sufficient supply available its adoption will become general Ie 18 no doubt that with
The prospectus is, therefore, placed before the investing public with o.f
Brokers. B ” P!)0rt ' **“ **“■ ’"**»<*» fo ™. •« obteiuable fiomX
November 7, 1922.
RELIABLE GUNS
BY WORLD-RENOWNED MAKERS.
TRY US FIRST FOR ALL SPORT EQUIPMENT.
SUNOL FINE CUT
TOBACCO.
The World’s Best.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/6 each, post free.
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. simlf’
Delivered, SKO/IX/O
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt Delivered, £6/5/-
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES ;
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
barrels both * English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
patent' fore-ends i•, ? P ac * lon cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
' ’ llgllly engraved, matted rib, weight about 711 b. Freight paid,
£l4/»4/-
Marble’s Waterproof Match
Boxes, for the Outdoorsroan.
Post Free, 3/10.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
m
li9. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
A iftCOll Gull (&S illustrated), field Quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
Sr barrels both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cot rib, pistol
grip, cnambered for 2fin.
Tested for Nitro Powders
cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 741 b,
Freight paid,
£l6/16/-
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges ; weight
about 71b Freight paid,
£l2/12/-
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid,
£l5
POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 5/6 lb.
DUPONT'SSmoKeIess for Guns 9/6 lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Rifles 8/6 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS ... 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 2811).
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Gi eerier eross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for
beautifully engraved, weight about 751 b
2|in. cartridges,
.. Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
can now purchase Sporting Rifles and Guns without
first obtaining a license.
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
I '.<
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, SOin. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock \ weight about Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
B 8 Ejector, 65/-
Freiglit paid.
ric
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.
i fill minimi timmnttt in


Girls ! Rexona Soap is
Simply Wonderful for
the Shin and Hair.
5 s
•3 <
ItmimTimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiimiiiiiii
“I am simply delighted with
Rexona Soap. ‘Absolutely lovely,’
is how I would describe it for the
skin and hair. I have been a Rexona
Girl for more than two years, and
always will be, for 1 cannot imagine
.how any Soap could be as nice as
Rexona.
My skin and hair have consist L
enliy improved since I started to use
Rexona Soap, and I advise any girl
who cares for herself to at once use
Rexona Soap. I am sure she will be
delighted with it.
“Very sincerely yours,
“(Sgd.) OLGA DEANE.”
c/o Pauline’s Song Shop,
111 King Street, City.
Rexona Soap—Purest and
Best Soap Known.
tends to dry SZFSSVSS
such soaps can only cleanse—they
cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same
soothing, healing, antiseptic bal-
sams as Rexona, the Rapid Healer,
the value of which in the treatment
of skin affections is known
throughout the world.
Simply use Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap regularly once or twice
a day, and see if it does not quickly
soothe and cleanse the pores,
lessen the tendency to pimples,
and leave the complexion clear,
fresh and velvety. Rexona Soap,
1/- per Tablet.
&SSJ
WSm
Oik
552
m.
1 -
•*IJgl
ll'lU'riSStlfSrFF '.lllUlllllliml|ln l==^y/'<'-t== \|mjW=^|UllH
IS saooj; 3Mnd ?
—fri
d>
itiiiiasaMiiiliiitnsiJiitii
Hill 11111111(1111111111111
REX HAM
PATE
the Sandwich
Spread of the
Age. !
Summed up in brief:—“Rex” Ham Pate
is the “good luck” sandwich spread
which reduces lunch preparing worries
to a minimum.
REX HAM PATE is made from the
finest “Rex” Hams —cooked to retain
all their delicious flavor and mildness
then minced fine and seasoned with pure
wholesome spices.
It can be served in dozens of ways by
interlaying the slices of bread with sliced
egg, tomato, cucumber, olives, lettuce
leaves, etc. Give it a trial. Many new
ways of serving will suggest themselves
to you.
Sold in handy sized solderless hygienic
tins by all Grocers.
Insist on getting “Rex” brand.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F.J. 283
The Old Dog and Duck.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bell's Life in Sydney advertised all challenges
during the forties and fifties of last century,
an invariable portion of the ritual being “Man and
Money at the Dog and Duck.”
WHEN Sydney was a village ’twixt
the Sandhills and the “Kay,’"'
.Tnst strung along the wheel-marks
of the primal bullock-dray,
There stood a quaint old hostelry—resort of
bond and free—
Where the sportsmen of the ’fifties met in
perfect amity.
And the liquor it was honest, as also was the
tuck,
For a model “full and plenty” had the old
Dog and Duck.
At the old Dog and Duck
Were you flush or out of luck.
You’d get a rousing welcome
At the old Dog and Duck.
The Dog and Duck was there before the
Sydney streets were kerbed,
And when old George-street reached it, it
couldn’t be disturbed,
So it jutted on the roadway in a queer three-
cornered style.
My goodness gracious, how it would our
modern Bumbles rile!
Yes. the old Dog and Duck,
Though it’s fallen in the ruck,
’Twas important in the ’forties,
Was the old Dog and Duck.
For “the fancy” used to gather in this
ancient hostelry,
And through the dimming mist of years I
scan the company,
The bruisers and the coursing men and coves
with birds of pluck—
They filled the sanded parlors of the old
Dog and Duck.
At the old Dog and Duck,
If for backing you were stuck,
You’d find both man and money
At the old Dog and Duck.
If your grandpapa arrived before O’Connell
left the ’Loo,
If your grandma left old England by “Red
Rover Number Two,”
Amongst the swell havanas you might still
your dhudeen suck,
For every man was equal at the old Dog and
Duck.
At the old Dog and Duck
You could down your cadey chuck
And he hacked to win a hundred
At the old Dog and Duck.
If any of “the talent” were to fall on evil
days.
They’d find the helping hand stretched out
with couters, bobs and trays,
For the sportsmen of the ’fifties would never
see you stuck:
There were no Tambarooras at the old Dog
and Duck.
At the old Dog and Duck
The sports their stuff would chuck
To a decent cove “in trouble”
At the old Dog and Duck.
Oh! you padded Stadium boxers, who never
in your lives,
Rose at dawn to go a-milling with a reeking
bunch of fives,
You’d find your modern sparring would be
looked upon as muck
By the lads who used the raw ’uns at the
old Dog and Duck.
At the old Dog and Duck
We’d surely have no truck
With squibs who fought in mittens
At the old Dog and Duck.
There were doxies in the quarter, but they
never came around,
For their presence was d’scouraged—it was
quite monastic ground ;
And should a little Sheila on one of us get
struck,
We 11.... there was no “rumpled muslin” at
the old Dog and Duck.
Yes, the gals were out of luck
At the old Dog and Duck.
“Men only,” was the slogan
Of the old Dog and Duck.
Heigh ho! These good old times are gone ;
the good old sports are dead,
And sometimes when I muse alone the
thought goes through my head,
That Australia’s reputation for indomitable
pluck
Was born in such queer places as the old
Dog and Duck.
For you had to show your pluck,
And you had to back your luck.
Or you’d ne’er have got a footing
In the old Dog and Duck.
QUEENSLAND.
J. A. PHILP.
A Desert Interlude,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
KHL,” said the tall, hawk-eyed
y j man to himself, “it looks to me
to be a case”... .
He inspected his companions judicially. On
both of them were indubitable signs of its
being a “case.” The old swagman, who had
volunteered to guide them safely and had
failed, sat face, on hands and showed the
wrinkles of a withered neck to a swiftly ris-
ing 6 o’clock sun. For him the Tall'Man
was not sorry. He and his apocryphal
short cuts had brought them to this pass:
it was all too literally—“his funeral.”
The Youngster, of course, was on a dif-
ferent plane. That he was very young,
broad of shoulder and deep of chest made
ms plight the more pathetic. He sat on
his dirty bundle staring straight ahead of
him, a little dazed, blinking already from
the glare, and licking a pair of bleeding lips
with the air of a beaten animal. With
mm, too. it was a “case,” decided the Tall
Man - there was no hope in his eyes, and
his face held that vacant look which comes
when purpose is dead and thought has be-
come barren of intention.
In the emptiness of the desert, as far as
w + C L° U {L see ’ 110 live tiling was in sight
ut the three men slouching on the ground.
No flesh, no fowl, no weed, no tree, no
shrub, no grass adorned the barren land-
scape. Here was a depression full of
yellow sand, bounded by two sweeping, wave-
like sandhills. In the middle of it were
the three tattered and dirty travellers ludi-
crously anchored to precise chains of foot-
marks impressed in the soft surface and
making from the east.
Into the picture, an hour or two ago, had
come a molten sun swaggering regally into
a tremendous blue-black sky and making
every object cringe. The early morning
light, rippling quickly into yellow brilliance,
had swept over the travellers in spreading
bands of intensity as waves pass over a
winkle. A scorching dryness in the air
announced that the dawn was properly
achieved. Then the mature heat haze danced
evasively just out of reach. It remained
only to wait for the hot wind to rise and
fill their mouths and eyes with sand, and
the final torture would begin....
Here came the breeze —very gradually.
One saw its movement before one felt it.
In so dry an atmosphere, in so magnifying
a light, in a terrain so stripped of arresting
features, no grain could move without draw-
ing the eye upon it. The fine surface pulver
lifted almost imperceptibly, scarcely stirring
as_ the first breath of the zephyr stroked it.
Diminutive runnels formed in the edges of
the wayfarers’ tracks. That was all: the
air grew very still again save for the mad
polka of the haze and the steady pulsing
of three shadows in rhythm with the heavy
breathing of their owners. Then another
breath, a second’s respite; back came the
breeze more than a trifle stronger, capering
up, capering away, running hither and
thither, like a timid puppy at play.
Yes, it was a “case” all right. A few
hours of that sun would finish them. A
few weeks of the wind would bury them.
The wind might have waited till the sun
had finished its work, thought the Tall Man.
Its coming like this was rather too much
like the undertaker calling with the doctor,
But there was no help for it. Here it was
again, gathering force, already sending tiny
cyclones staggering down the valley with
a triumphant swish in them and almost
knee-high. It meant business, did that wind.
It carried with it a sinister aroma which
every puff left lingering behind; the subtle
suggestion of an essence of some strange
mould, indefinable, elusive, and at the same
time penetrating.
The wind had risen quite a lot before the
Tall Man noticed this new feature, and
even then it was so tenuous, so subtle that
he was scarcely more than conscious of it.
It was, in fact, as if the wraith of some
odorous mirage of the memory were faintly
haunting the hollow. After a time it grew
bolder, and the bolder it grew—though still
so vague and faery as to be no more than
an olfactory ghost—the more tantalising it
became. It intrigued the Tall Man. It
puzzled him. It pursued him with a per-
sistence which annoyed him, hanging in his
nostrils with a vague sense of memory, with
an irritating reminder that it had some asso-
ciation which he could not for the moment
recall.
He tried to tell himself that it was merely
the odor of desert rot, but as his mind
dwelt on it, curiously, he felt in it a warmth
that placed it as organic. He tried to put
it away; it stole back craving to be remem-
bered like a name that sticks on the end
of one’s tongue, almost caught and uttered
but always' finally evasive. Where had he
met it? Certainly not here; he had never
been in this country before. In some old
land, then—a castle of his youth in the
Pyrenees? A dungeon on the Marseilles
waterfront? Ragusa? Corinth? Some un-
clean Turkish town?
No; it baffled him completely, and in his
weak state he felt inclined to weep about
it. My word, that sun was a scorcher! He
wondered how the Youngster was standing it.
He felt a maudlin kinship with the Young-
ster. In a crisis like this it was a great thing
to have a cultivated mind beside one; a
mind that shared one’s conventions. The
mind of a fellow-being who had the same
kind of nerves and who would comprehend
one’s feelings. There was real companion-
ship in the Youngster. He had a philosophy,
pleasingly complex beside that of the crudely
simple Old Guide, dying there with his head
on his hands in a stupid, brute-like torpor.
Here was the wind again and its aroma.
Cyprus? Suez? Aden? He weighed them
carefully. Aden or Suez —they seemed
likely. That smell had something to do with
deserts, old deserts. He wondered whether
it was worth while to interest the Young-
ster. Perhaps he had noticed it already.
He had. When that last whirl rode by lie
had drawn a long- breath....
“So you smelt it, too?” said the Tall
Man. “What do you make of it?”
“Dunno!”
“Funny,” mused the Tall Man queru-
lously, “I’ve been puzzling about it for a
quarter of an hour. I generally remember
stinks, too. Can’t fail to associate them.”
“Me, too,” said the Youngster guarding
his lips.
“I think everyone does.” said his com-
panion a trifle feverishly. “Scents are
mnemonic—the best key to things locked
away in your mind. Too good a key some-
times. Take lavender—l never .smell laven-
der without thinking of my mother. And
rain”-—he lingered _ on the word—“rain
always makes me think of Melbourne—home.
Top o’ Collins-street in a drizzle; girls
whispering out at you from dark porches
a bit sinister; hotel doorways making car-
pets of light on the pave; bare trees etch-
ing themselves on white walls; cold: clock-
faces up in the sky: the burr of voices down
in Swanston-street—home. Ever think of
home ?”
“To Hell with home!” said the Youngster
bitterly, still guarding his broken lips.
“What the devil do you want to talk about
home for?”
“Sorry, old chap. Didn’t know it’d hurt.”
“I don’t want to think about it,” mumbled
the Youngster. “Never want to hear of
home. All I want is to peg out and get out
of things.”
“You’ll do that soon enough,” said the
Tall Man testily. “So don’t let us bother
about it. Here’s the wind! Now—l
wonder —what—the—devil—that—darned—
smell is? Get it? ’Tain’t exactly lily of
the valley, is it?”
Strange sounds came from the Youngster.
The Tall Man thought at first that he was
(Continued on next page.)


\
Ni
V//
THERE is a safety, effectiveness and reliability in
Zam-Ruk that cannot belong to ointments contain-
ing animal fats and mineral drugs. The rich
medicinal ingredients from which Zam-Buk is made
are so curative in effect and so skilfully blended that
this balm is endowed with unprecedented
HEALING
power. Try Zam-Buk on any spot, pimple or cut. You
will be astonished at the swift and effective way Zam-
Buk has. It is not only a wound-cleanser and disease-
destroyer, but it preserves the inner tissues from
infection, and quickens the regeneration and healing
of the damaged flesh. The wonderful
SOOTHING
action of Zam-Buk is second only to its valuable anti-
septic influence. Zam-Buk prevents a sore place taking
bad ways”— its application is a sure safeguard against
the danger of poison being located in a wound or sore, as
is the case when fatty ointments are used. Immediately
Zam-Buk is applied to the broken or diseased skin its
strong
ANTISEPTIC
action destroys any disease-germs present and prevents festering and blood-
poison. Having completed the perfect cleansing of a wound or sore, Zam-
Buk grows sound, new, healthy skin. In short, Zam-Buk is the most effective
and most reliable healing balm and skin-cure in the world to-day.
The Box ft pays
to keep handy
CO N T AI '•
NO ANIMAL OILor FAT
t/Jjo'sr
Win'
m
TFtfL
for
CUTS
BRUISES •
SORES • BURNS •
PILES • PIMPLES • ECZEMA*
RHEUMATISM • SCIATICA • BAD LEGS*
•SORE HEADS & BACKS * CHAPPED HANDS*
UNEQUALLED fon CRICKETERS. / ,
CYCLISTS. FOOTBALL PLAyERSA/J.
V £ SPORTSMEN GENERALLyS oflj
'The most effective and reliable remedy for all cut,
lacerated and diseased conditions of the shin, Zam-Buk
■is also unequalled in Bummer for sore, aching feet, sun-
burn, prickly heat, rash, insect bites, peeling skin, etc.
1/6 and 3/6 per box, of all chemists and stores, or post
free from G. E. Fulford ( A/sia), Ltd., Sydney.
.TRY IT ON THAT CUT OR BURN
by simply sending your name and address (mentioning
The Bulletin, Nov. 23) to the proprietors, C. E. Fulford
(A/sia), Ltd., Sydney. By return post they will send you
a sample box of Zam-Buk absolutely
FREE
sobbing. Then he realised that he was
merely laughing painfully away down in his
throat.
“What the joke?” asked the Tall Man.
“Jolce!” cried the Youngster, still gurg-
ling. “Joke, you think it is? Oh, it’s a
lovely joke. Oh, what a grand pair we are!
Here’s you squatting on the sand half-
crying, trying to associate some darn scent,
And here’s me doing the best I can to forget
one and you helping me not to. Lily of
the valley—you and your lily of the valley!”
The echo of his thin voice came flirting
back from the sandhills.
Now, now, now!” said the Tall Man
trying to be fatherly. lull yourself to-
gether. No good going on like that. Get
your mind off it and help me to place this
other thing. We’ll make a game of it. You
never know”
"I can’t get my mind off it!” whimpered
the Youngster. “I’ve been trying to get my
mind off it for two years now. Her scent
it was—bottles and bottles and bottles of
it I’ve bought....l wish I were dead....l
wonder what slic’d say if she could see you
and me and old Whiskers there pegging with
our tongues hanging out, and us sniffing over
a bit of dry rot in the wind!”
“Shed think it was a judgment if she
had any sense of humor,” said the Tall
Man, making a grim survey of the party.
“She’d think it was a judgment if she
remembered the last time I saw her.”
“Well?” (May as well give him a chance
to get it off his chest, thought the Tall
Man.)
“It was like this,” whispered the Young-
ster huskily, forgetting all about his tortured
lips. “It was like this. It was a gala night
for me. Here I was all done out like a
swell, atmosphere very rosy with the right
ingredients. You know—all the things that
you don’t seem to see when you have ’em
and miss like the dickens when you don’t —
lights and flowers and babble, white napery
and glass and silver—and a band—and a
real waiter.... How long is it since you last
saw a real waiter?”
“Don’t ask me!” said the Tall Man sadly,
“This chap was the real Mackay,” said
the Youngster. “Always leant over you as
if you were a duke in the Magnum Bonum
class! ‘Waiter,’ I say to him; ‘waiter’
(can’t you see me now?) ‘another bottle.’
‘Not for me. thank you, my dear,’ says a
voice; my bead’s a bit too Scotch for
another.’ ‘For me, then!’says I. ‘This is a
celebration, and I deserve it!’”
A pause followed.
, And you had it?”
I had it, said the Youngster getting
near the end of his control, “and all the
time I was having it I could see the sweep
of the hair across her brow under a pro-
vocative little hat of feathers, and her long
lashes shading her eyes, and the rich, full
sweep of her profile sharpened by the tiny
mole on her cheek. And that darned scent
intoxicated me as much as the wine and
the queer catch in her speech when she was
excited about things. I never wanted her
so much as I did then. 1”....
He broke off. The Tall Man said con-
versationally: “That’s when you always do
want ’em ! A drop of sparkling Burgundy’s
a great starter for a romance.”
“It’s a great finisher, sometimes,” re-
torted the Youngster. “She took my ring
off in the cab going down to the Quay, and
in two months I had nothing left to remem-
ber her by but the bub-blasted spire of the
church she was married in sticking into me
like a hatpin every time I crossed the harbor.
Used to feel like an insect on a hatpin every
time I crossed that harbor... .Used”.., .He
began to cry weakly and deliriously, a
strangely miserable spectacle in the sun-
shine.
“Stop that nonsense!” said the Tall Man
roughly.
But the Youngster wouldn’t stop. He
continued to rave tearfully about cockroaches
ant j hatpins and the sweep of someone’s hair
i, p ,. hl . fiw
‘ lir n| f , urn- » <-i m n
That’s the end of him,” thought the Tall
Man ‘ A dreadful spectacle, he thought with-
out emotion, to see a grown man cry like
at Ia ) er -\ eIK ot things when theie
?? y , ou -.‘t P eace and candles and
black-and-Bilver mourning. But after all,
was . a we iJ *hat , one h ad one s feel-
!n^ K sharpened. One had a lot ot twinges,
aut they were pa.d tor in good coin by
!V any a moment of rare elation. No doubt,
5" “ji!?/, 611 46 Y r" ng '
* no had had k iave tunes.
Eveiyone did except dumb animals and men
1 a ® g uide ,_ dying there beside him
wltl * ns lead 011 h l ® hands.
tie felt a patronising pity for the Old
Guide. What land of a life could he have
had who could scarcely have left this cursed
desert country—born in it, bred in it through
a torpid youth, tramping it in filthy beggary
in his senility. Hardly worth while to have
a mind to do that. One didn’t need it. The
mind was made for memory, so that one
might store away the bright moments of
existence—the richness of old things, the
beauty of women, the scent of the snows,
°f water, of early morning in a Japanese
Pmc forest, of the sea—curious how it always
came back to scents and odors and through
them to that tantalising, musky, animal smell
still lingering in the growing wind. Was
there a chance that this dirty old tramp
might recognise this olfactory teaser?
No ; not worth while to make him stir,
It belonged to the East; the old, rotting
East; right away across the Indian Ocean.
Let the Old Man die in his torpor. Let
him. perish in his insensitive stupor. The
very wind seemed to share the Tall Man’s
derision of the ancient. See how that whirly,
headhigh, till then sedate, acquired a pro-
vocative impishness as it paused in front
of him; see how it hovered about him, gath-
ering resolution, now engulfing him in a
splather of sand and darting away with the
glee of a naughty child! Oh, very funny!
Very funny!
The wind was gone.
On the moment a strange thing happened,
The Old Guide woke, spluttering. With
clawing fingers, cursing in a voice that
scarcely made a sound, he brushed the dust
from his eyes and shook it from his beard,
He drew in a long, dry scalding breath of
desert air to clear his lungs. A queer, ques-
tioning expression passed over his face, and
in a moment he was bolt upright sniffing at
the wind, drawing back his lips from his
gums as does a hound when it is on the
scent.
He tried to speak, but there came only a
hoarse mutter. Lie tried to rise, as if test-
ing his strength, thought better of it, fell on
all fours and began to crawl away slowly and
with a painful aw'kwardness. His hands, as
they lifted quickly from the burning contact
of the ground, wrote a new track beside the
trail of his dragging feet. A demented
shadow pursued him. He looked for all the
world like a long, thin, broken-legged spider
struggling on the surface of a hot and sticky
jampot. A delirious amusement possessed
the Tall Man as he watched him. How
clearly the gaunt frame stood out against the
waste; how defined the shadow. How thor-
oughly the sun explored every crevice of
the absurd figure, so that one missed no detail
of its comicality. Another whirly engulfed
it as it reached the summit of the sandhill.
The Old Guide shook himself but never
paused. There he w.as for a second,
cut out sharp against the sky. Now he
w r as gone. Now he w 7 as back again, more
awkward, more insect-like, slower, more
broken, attacking the slopes of the next hill-
ock, higher than its brothers and dominat-
ing the landscape.
It was a harder task, one fraught with
exquisitely funny possibilities to an appre-
ciative watcher like the Tall Man. Once
or twice when the old fellow slid or rolled
back in his tracks the Tall Man cheered
openly. At last the spider was on top.
The game was at an end. Pity that all
games came to an end. But no; the Old
Guide was not satisfied, it seemed. Oh,
vain ambition, he was trying to stand ! He
had done it! He poised himself there
against a background of haze, uncertainly,
and the heat-haze caught him in its grip
and appeared to dandle him up and down
like one of those phantoms which schoolboys
make on walls with handkerchiefs by
candle-light. Pie clutched the air for a
better balance, he stiffened in involuntary
contortion, no longer a candle phantom, but
a straining felon on a rope. Oh, funny !
funny! So magnifying the air that one
could see his muscles swell in labor; a tre-
mendous labor, indeed, for with such strain-
ing as Hercules might have spent on the
Hydra he was taking off his shirt. It was
off.
“Oh, funny ! funny ! funny !” laughed the
Tall Man.
“Funny”... .said the echoes. “Funny!”
the blood pounded the word into his brain.
The heat-haze came between him and the
figure on the hill. He saw it dimly as a
diver sees through water; first, still strug-
gling with that shirt; then, casting it mal-
adroitly in air; clawing at it blindly in
its descent—casting it up again; casting—
casting—-casting....
Down a tunnel, miles long, sang a weary
voice : “Going—to—die—going—to—die—
insect—on-a-hatpin—going— to—die.” The
landscape canted itself sideways and began
to spin round a large and bloody sun. The
air was full of the strange aroma. Oh,
funny, funny !
A long time afterwards, years and years
and years, during which he dreamt that
someone was feeding him with water, tiny
drops of water that only made one pray and
grovel and whimper for more, the Tall Man
heard a voice say: “He’s all right now;
when he wakes you can give him a real
drink!” So he sat up and rubbed his eyes
and beheld a delicious transformation of
scene. A tent had been built over him, and
there was real shade. Undeniable moisture
dripped from his brow. Nothing remained
of the old nightmare of glare and desert
but the tantalising odor of the wind, near
and arresting* and the Old Guide, who was
sitting on the ground, a huge hunk of coarse
provender in hand, making one battered
fang perform the work of 32. From out-
side the tent came a sound; a series of
sounds, protesting and animal, burbling and
indignant and not altogether unfamiliar.
.“What the —where are we?” asked the
Tall Man.
“Camp,” said the Guide laconically', dex-
terously separating the fang and the pro-
vender to emit the words, “Camp. Saved!
Camel train (munch munch). Smelt ’em
in the wind (munch). Waved me shirt.”
“I knew it was Suez,” said the Tall Man,
apparently apropos of nothing. And then,
as an afterthought: “I suppose the Young-
ster’s dead?”
“Dead, be blow'ed!” said the Old Guide
sarcastically. “Dead? Ho, I like that!
He ain’t takin’ any chances of bein’ dead
and never seein’ home and mother no more!
No, sir! We got to keep him tied up to
stop him stealin’ water! Supply’s short.”
“But” - -
“Oh, do let me get on with me lunch,”
said the Old Guide.
MALOCOLM ELLIS.
Merrymaking.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Black weather it is, and wild weather,
Rain driving, and clouds flying fleet;
But, in spite of the wind and the weather,
They are dancing, light-footed, together,
In the little house, back from the street.
From music, bright music, they borrow
Glad motion —their forms swinging free;
And ’tis jewels of sound that they borrow,
But they keep their hearts locked on old sor-
row,
And it’s like them the wide world should
be.
Rain-laden, on rooftree and rafter
And window the wild wind is hurled,
But the dancing goes onward, and after
They will make the room ring with their
laughter,
For ’tis laughter that’s loved by the world.
Joy sits in their midst blowing bubbles —
Oh, hark to the beat of their feet!
The music their merriment doubles,
And they’ve done with the day and its
troubles,
In the little house, back from the street.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


r
O§Wt w ’
d
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents- HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Off ice—93-107 Feathereton Street, Wellington
Victorian Office—BB Queen Street, IVielboiirne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
7
r*
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 29s
inches; Stroke of Piston 2 y z inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
* D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
or
Children ©
theSlged —
The perfect purity, pleasant taste, and gentle
action of ENO’s “ Fruit Salt ” make it the ideal
corrective for both young and old at all season's.
It agrees with the most delicate constitution —-
for ENO possesses the refreshing, purifying
properties of fresh, ripe fruit in a convenient,
concentrated and economical form. Ask your
chemist or storekeeper for
FRUIT SALT
Tulle) Representatively
THE BRITISH
H. F. RITCHIE & Co Etd
CHINA HOUSE, SYDNEY
m i
VL
.■
m
m
and hoping if you wish
to succeed—
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
R 6434
nyjJ
n
3053
Remington.
A
rm
"They cut keenly 99
Pocket Knives
Many Styles
One Quality
The Best
P 2
R 3333
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
25 Broadway, New York f U.S.A.
D. D. BRYANT, Representative, Box 686. G.P.0., Melbourne.
ARE YOU BILIOUS 9
ARE YOU FAGGED 9
ARE YOU CONSTIPATED 9
TAKE
Beccham’; pills
IF YOU ARE BILIOUS
It interferes with work, pleasure and happiness. Everybody
is so at times and in many cases it makes life a burden.
The fault is with the stomach, liver and kidneys. The action
of Beecham’s Pills is prompt and certaia, and they will in
a short time afford relief.
WHEN YOU ARE FAGGED
That “run-down feeling” is caused by your overworked
digestive organs not doing their work properly. Beecham’s
Pills will set them right, invigorate the system and restore
the "energetic feeling” of good health. .
IF GONSTIPA7EB
It is important to know that constipation causes a very
large proportion of ill health, especially amongst women.
It can be prevented if Beecham’s Pills are taken whenever
nature requires assistance. Comfort and happiness are sure
to follow the use of BEECHAM’S PILLS.
“Worth a Guinea a Box.”
Sold in boxes, labelled 10|d., and 2s-9d. (original English prices.)
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read tlie Britisii Australasian,
Gd. weekly—au illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, \V:C. t
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
WHO WOULD NOT LIRE TO HAVE
THIS WORK-BENCH AND TOOLS?
With such an outfit there is practically no job that the mechanically-minded
could not successfully do.
WSTrx.-^
* r «~-«r t -* " ■MW
j|
♦> ■)y-'»i' .... I
Hjj ffl ""-' jjtf~~' v " S *flfi | ' ® i;y“ :„
/r*
l. 26V 27
4- '■'* Bit I.*ji
~?
3£
, j~" ir~ I .® m£^ e fi'om tlie best of seasoned timbers, and so braced and
winta that it will stand all manner of strains and knocks, while THE
not in ,i afty sense makeshift, but actually the same as the most skilled
mechanics buy and use.
Here is the list of tools as now supplied:—
1 2y z in. Jaw Bench Vyce.
1 Set 3 Carbon Scrapers.
1 Hack Saw.
1 Adjustable Wrench.
1 Footprint Wrench.
1 Adjustable Wrench (Small).
1 6in. Rule.
1 Inside Caliper.
1 Outside Caliper.
1 Pair Cutting Pliers.
1 Pair Gas Pliers.
1 Pair Snips.
1 Soldering Iron.
1 Pair Pick-up Pliers.
1 Hammer.
1 Round, 1 y z Round, and 1 Flat
File.
1 Oil Can.
1 Set Double-ended Spanners.
1 Punch.
1 Chisel.
1 Small Screwdriver.
1 Large Screwdriver.
1 Packet Spring Washers.
Price Complete, £B/17/6.
SWANS LIMITED, 304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
THE HOUSE FOR MOTOR-ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES.


m
1100
'i
SI
1
-~4-
Hill
in
son
L
n
HI
j
-a
y
Z3s
rapy
Hill
PROPRILTARY C°L T 2
MANUFACTURERS
•f
PIG IRON (various grades) ..,
INGOTS, BILLETS, BLOOMS,
RAILS and FISHPLATES....
CHANNELS, BEAMS, TEES ..
Plain and Bulb ANGLES, BARS,
ROUNDS, FLATS, SQUARES,
REINFORCING RODS-all sizes
from Xto 1X inch.
SULPHATE of AMMONIA ...
§35
28 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES:
28 Franklin Street,
ADELAIDE.
3 Great Winchester Street,
LONDON, E.C.2.
HEAD OFFICE:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, Collins Street, MELBOURNE
