

m
8
9
8
:
&
k
Wa
7
VS Hi-’
%
2
v?A A
/**)
“By cripes, Mary, you lookem white as a sheet, mine t’ink
you wantem Clements Tonic!”
If you’re looking on the dark side of life; if worry, overwork or general debility
is wearing you down to a shadow, test the rejuvenating effects of CLEMENTS
TONIC. It does not contain alcohol or opiates, but through nourishing,
medicinal ingredients it purifies the blood, calms the nerves, thus ensuring
that radiant health essential to business success and domestic contentment.
CLEMENTS TONIC is on sale throughout Australasia. Your local chemist or
storekeeper sells it. “It puts the ‘Vital’ into Vitality.”
Clements Tonic, Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2195.
Thursday, March 9, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Have yon had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It*will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advt.
■SiiSIMSK
§:a:i
m
I’jiXa
>!■!■;!! i
iiiSffirlSK
■ ■
Engineers praise the performances of
Mangrovite Leather Beltings.
A Mangrovite Raw-Hide Belt has proved to be the
only belt that will give satisfaction on a Lock
Cornering machine in a large soapworks. It
is giving perfect service under difficult conditions.
A Mangrovite Leather or Raw-Hide Belt will
solve your transmission problems.
Instal one on your hardest drive now.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD..
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing' Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co.. Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
TASMANIA: Henry Clark & Co, Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd,, Brisbane.
LYSAGHTS
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
en
a
ONOTO INK-
BEST FOR ALL PENS.
Ask for
the New
Streamline
Model
When you want to write, the Onoto is
always ready. When you have finished,
a twist with finger and thumb turns the
Onoto into a sealed tube, which cannot
leak.
And when you need a fresh supply of
ink, the Onoto Fills itself in a flash from
any ink supply, and cleans itself in filling.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
100% Efficiency ldea! Power Lawn Mower.
No municipality, club, school or owner of large lawns can afford to be without
an "IDEAL.” ITS COST CAN BE SAVED IN A SEASON’S USE.
The “IDEAL” MOWER will cut and roll five to seven acres in eight hours with
unskilled labor on a gallon of petrol.
If you are up-to-date and prize efficiency and economy you will add your name to
this list of discriminating users: —
U.S.A.
THOMAS EDISON. JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER.
ANDREW CARNEGIE ESTATE.
AUSTRALIA:
T. TURNER SHAW, Esq., Cheltenham.
J. VAN COOTH, Esq., East Malvern.
OSWALD SYME, Esq., Macedon.
PHILIP RUSSELL, Esq., Beaufort.
T. W. GUNNERSON, Esq., Balwyn.
METHODIST LADIES’ COLLEGE, Melbourne.
NORTHCOTE CITY COUNCIL, Melbourne.
The "IDEAL JUNIOR” is specially made for private lawns. Over 8000 “IDEALS” in use.
w
Vsr,
■
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVES WANTED.
8016 Agent3 t r Blan
C. J. WHITE
172 Little Collins St,
MELBOURNE.
TAe Best Cowes First in Clubland
and that- is
à
KING OF TABLE WATERS
Rich in Curatives-Cool
Contains - Lime. Coda . Litfiia, 3 Magnesia .
Agents 1
Rowlands Pty Ltd
Melbourne . Ballarat. &. Sydne'
„o
'
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
kill the typhoid fly.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, Is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man. /
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Sold Everywhere. PRICE 1/-
HOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
Wmmm
MUSTDIE^
The Red Page
Romain Rolland and Kriegslust
It is eight years since I first read “Jean-
Ohristophe.” Since then I have had my
share of vicissitude, and my personal experi-
ence has (in common with most people’s)
been enriched by the mingled sufferings and
raptures, splendors and infernal glooms of
those bloody years. And my point of view
has very definitely changed. -My Nietzsche,
for instance, that was in Oscar Levy’s trans-
lation the Bible of my visionary youth, has
remained unopened since 1913. Possibly,
could I persuade myself to read in those sleek
and solemn-looking volumes again, 1 should
find the prophet of Superman as profound,
subtle and brilliantly omniscient as ever; but
I feel it is unlikely. I have been in too
close contact with reality (as the phrase is)
since then, and 1 find I have become some-
what addicted to a habit of mental and
moral platitudinising in consequence. Which
is another way of saying that I am now
fairly on the road to middle-age.' Alas!
But 1 find “Jean-Christophe” still holds
good for me. Touching this book, lam
strengthened and reinvigorated. It gives
me the vision and the courage—if not the
faculty—of a poet. It insists that great is
great and small is small. It re-establishes
the Eternal Verities and reminds me (and
this is the supreme function of art) that
Man is divine. Its author is therefore to be
classed with the authentic sages and spiritual
captains of the modern world —with Goethe,
Beethoven, Carlyle, Tolstoy.
Remain Rolland stands with these masters
for the ideal of a universal civilisation and
the internationality of the mind. He be-
lieves, that is to say, that Man has no further
use for wars. This faith, increasing and in-
tensifying with his years, was never ex-
pressed with a more effulgent vigor than lat-
terly, when the nations of the world were
drinking up each other’s blood ; but it has
been a shining principle in all his work. In
his masterly studies of Handel, Beethoven
and Michael Angelo the thrill of this sub-
lime thought, is constantly conveyed to the
reader. Always the grandeur of an epic
ideal informs his interpretation of the moral
significance of these great suffering souls ; and
always there is a tenderness, a noble under-
standing of their human weaknesses, as a
complement to his inspiring record of their
spiritual and intellectual triumphs. For
these were supermen in the real and splendid
sense that, though shackled with our heavy
weaknesses and sloths, they bent their sinews
to the steep path and moped 'their way
farther towards the stars and the dawn-
smitten heights than we could hope to climb.
They looked down the centuries and beheld
a great light. In a word, they knew how to
aspire. Doubtless that is why they held
such a powerful fascination for Remain Rol-
land, International Idealist and Professor of
Musical at the Sorbonne.
This International Idealism is apparently
the leading motive in “Jean-Christophe,”
that tumultuous, turgid and smouldering
book, in which the study of a post-Wagnerian
Beethoven (musicians will stop their ears,
perhaps!) soon becomes swamped and
all but lost in a vast cinematographic
welter revealing the millionfold confusion
of modern Europe. And inevitably, as
the price and penalty of this con-
fusion, unprecedented war is prophesied.
The approaching shadow of this portentous
thing broods over the latter phases of the
book —Rolland spent seven years in writing
it—until Christophe is neglected and all but
forgotten by author and reader alike. Thrill-
ing with indignation, Rolland grapples with
the Menace, *his voice ringing with heroic ap-
peal to all “Good Europeans,” “Free Spirits”
and “Intellectuals.” But the Intellectuals
were for the most part men all-too-human, as
it turned out; and the Good Europeans
showed themselves, when the Shadow stiff-
ened into Substance, to be merely good Ger-
mans and Frenchmen and Englishmen;
fellows fond of sport and dancing and their
wives and their little hobbies, and curiously
apt, at the approach of the Menace, to rally
round their own particular flag in clannish
and inseparable clusters.
Personally, I \vas one of those that clus-
tered. I forthwith abjured my admired
Nietzsche, who was also fond of referring
to “Good Europeans” ; and I stoutly repudi-
ated the insidious rumor that the Huns were
probably as “good” as we were. Pragmati-
cally speaking, I believe I did the right
thing. I feel no twinge of shame when I
admit that I have killed Germans. I be-
lieve that it was my duty to kill Germans
at that time. I would kill anybody or any-
thing on the same principle at any time.
This is in some respects a brutal, a bestial,
thing to say, I know. And it is because I
recognise and loathe the bestiality of it
that I believe Romain Rolland and his few
peers—Bernard Shaw( Maxim Gorki, G. F.
Nicolai, Stefan Zweig—to have been abso-
lutely and incontrovertibly in the right in
maintaining their “Good European” attitude
during t'he war. For it must be insisted
again and again that war is obsolete. It
has nothing “to do with” our civilisation,
and yet it is at the same time the greatest
and filthiest blot on that civilisation. It is
a grotesque and hideously impossible thing.
It is a lie in the throat of God.
I have, therefore, been an enthusiastic
reader of Rolland’s noble pacifist writings,
translated into English in two volumes as
“Above the Battle” and “The Forerunners.”
These essays should be read by everyone.
They are the most valuable prose products
of the war, not excepting even Henri Bar-
busse’s “Le Feu” or “The Four Horsemen”
of Ibanez. Those two striking books con-
tain many superb pictures of the actual suffer-
ing and horror of modern war, it is
true; but the world was familiar with this
sort of word-picture before 1914, and Seems
to have profited nothing thereby. So that it
is perhaps not fantastic to hope that Rol-
land’s war writings, philosophic as they are
(in the popular sense of the word), will have
a more salutary influence ..than all the neatly
horrid war that have entertained
the civilian world during the past few years.
Art is impersonal. When you read a vivid
sketch of a battle you are merely an excited
spectator at a brilliant show. But when the
same stark facts are submitted to your cool
reason you think, rather than feel, about
/the matter. And w'ould to God people were
more thoughtful and less emotional about
this ghastly matter of wars!
People have said that these pacifist writ-
ings of Holland's are too superior, too super-
mannish. That is nonsense. They are
merely sane. As for the bloodthirsty argu-
ment that the will to war is a fundamental
principle of the universe, and must neces-
sarily, therefore, be a principle of our human
nature, this is a piece of unmitigated and
absolutely hollow cant. For what is the
glory of Man? Is it not his ability to con-
trol and manipulate the laws of nature to
his own advantage? What does nature
know about sympathy, charity, forbearance,
wisdom, mercy, indignation, justice, truth,
honor or any of our anthropomorphic ideas
of vice and virtue, good and evil? Holland
knows as well as anybody that the beast
survives in us. None the less his faith in
our better nature is ineradicable; for he
too has seen the great light, though it is be-
yond the scope of the average vision. Natu-
rally, he has been reviled, and hooted at for
his long-sightedness. The popular belief is
that wars will never cease. But what is a
popular belief beside the faith of the world’s
spiritual captains? I am far from main-
taining, on the other hand, that one should
not make a sharp distinction between the
caddish “conscientiousness” pf an inverte-
brate slacker, who hasn’t the spunk to face
the chance of death, and the sane and splen-
did counsels of such a man as Romain Hol-
land, whose greatest fault is that, like Eras-
mus and Galileo and Leonardo da Vinci and
Ibsen, he is—a Forerunner.
ADRIAN LAWLOR.
Wells on the Warpath
11. L. Mencken, who teacnes America how
to write and think while his offieeboy edits
the Smart Set, recently published an
article which he headed ‘‘The Late Mr.
Wells.” And for once Mr. Mencken was
almost right. For the real Mr. Wells —the
Wells of “The Time Machine” and ‘‘The
Country of the Blind” and “Tono-Butigay”
—is dead. Fifteen years ago his condition
began to alarm his many friends and
admirers, and somewhere about 1914 the
invalid passed quietly away, the victim of
a fatal habit of taking himself too seri-
ously. The late lamented gentleman left
his novels to posterity and his soul to the
God with whom he was on such chatty terms.
It was no light matter, this disappear-
ance of a great artist from a world in which
great artists are rare. But the tragedy was
not wholly without its compensations.
Hardly had we tailored our sackcloth and
made ready the ashes when Mr. Wells, the
Preacher and Teacher, began to show what
really can be done by one able man with a
will-to-publicity and a passion for putting
things right. He began by putting Chris-
tianity right with “The Soul of a Bishop”
and “God, the Invisible King”; next he
put Lenin right with “Russia in the
Shadows”; finally, he put the whole world
right with lectures, essays and books on
reconstruction. And then, by way of relaxa-
tion, he put historians right by tossing off
a history of the world- —a task which would
have terrified Gibbon, Mommsen or any
other historian of the old school, but which
presented not the slightest difficulty to a
gentleman to whom other planets are toler-
ably well known and the earth is positively
parochial.
Nor is this all that stands to the credit
of the new seer. Not even the reincarnated
Mr. Wells can smack a naughty world and
put it in its place without provoking some
little resistance from the more obstinately
stupid section of mankind; hence a number
of disputations to add to the gaiety of
nations. Mr. Wells, of course, was not
altogether unpractised in the gentle art of
controversy, for he had not only engaged
Mr. Shaw in a full-dress debate, but had
excited quite a number of people with “Ann
Veronica,” “The New Machiavelli” and other
works that were supposed to be a menace
to the nation’s morals. But the really seri-
ous trouble began with “The Soul of a
Bishop.” Some readers disliked the slightly
patronising air with which Mr. Wells’s
Bishop conversed with the Almighty; others
disagreed rather violently with the new
theology. With the publication of “Russia
in the Shadows” and ‘‘The Salvaging of
Civilisation” the battlefront was widened ;
and with the “Outline of History” the com-
bat reached its gory climax.
First of all, the “Outline” v r as attacked
by Hilaire Belloc, an effective controver-
sialist but none too profound a historian, if
one can judge by the episode that followed
the publication of his “Warfare in Eng-
land.” The. Times, reviewing that work,
ventured to suggest that Mr. Belloc had
not enough detailed knowledge of his sub-
ject, and supported its remarks by refer-
ence to the battle of Evesham. Mr. Belloc
liaughtilv replied that he was “at a loss,
in the light of the original authorities,” to
seize the reviewer’s meaning, and added an
imnosing list of authorities, beginning with
Matthew Paris. The reviewer simply added
a. footnote pointing out that Evesham "as
fought in 1265. and that Matthew Paris died
in 1259. A. W. Gomme. whose academic
qualifications are rather higher, was the next
to respond to Wells’s declaration that he
vyelcomed criticism. But when Mr. Gomme
stated that the “Outline” dealt superficially
and misleadingly with the early civilisations
around the Mediterranean. Mr. Wells showed
how welcome was the criticism by allegin' -
that Mr. Gomme was “unteaehable,” looked
for things he did not understand, and dis-
played “vanity and peevishness” and “invin-
cible and remarkably complete ignorance.”
Wells admitted that he “did not do justice
to” the work of the Greeks of Asia and the
islands, but this error, he said, was “little
more than a laxity of wording.” Seeing that
he made no reference to the subject what-
ever. his admission is perhaps just a little
conservative.
And Wells displays the same intellectual
quality in the controversy with Henry
(Continued on page 25.)


r ace
Dainty Dress Accessories for Autumn Elegance
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Fashionable Veils
Smart Silk Net Square Veils, with
self embroidered border and white
silk medallion corners, in Brown,
Saxe, Taupe, Navy and Black.
PRICE 9/6 each.
Silk Net Veils, with silk braided
■ scroll border, yards long, in
Black, Navy, Nigger, Purple, Mole,
Saxe, Royal, Champagne and Rust.
PRICE 5/11 each.
Handsome Braided Silk Net Square
Veils, in Black and White, Navy
and White, Nigger and White,
Taupe and White, Saxe and White.
PRICE 12/6 each.
Dainty Embroidered Border Silk
Net Veils, Ij yards long, in Navy,
Nigger, Purple, Mole, Saxe, Royal,
Champagne and Rust.
PRICE 3/11 each.
Scarf Veils, 1| yards long, smartly
embroidered with silk and gold
thread, in Navy and Royal, Black
and Rust, Mole and Blue, Black and
Royal, Brown and Rust.
PRICE 13/6 each.
Value in
Handkerchiefs.
Ladies’ Fine Cotton Handker-
chiefs, hand-loom embroidered cor-
ner, hemstitched border.
PRICE 9/6 half-doz.
Ladies’ Fine Cotton Handker-
chiefs, hemstitched, embroidered in
corner.
.PRICE 5/11 half-doz.
Ladies’ Fine White Lawn Hand-
kerchiefs, with hemstitched colored
border and colored embroidered cor-
ner.
PRICE 7/6 half-doz.
Ladies’ Fine Lawn Handkerchiefs,
scalloped edge, embroidered all
round.
PRICE 13/6 half-doz.
Ladies’ Fine Cotton Handker-
chiefs, choicely embroidered corner,
assorted patterns, hemstitch border.
PRICE 8/11 half-doz.
Ladies’ Fine Lawn Handkerchiefs,
daintily embroidered all round, scal-
loped border.
PRICE 10/11 half-doz.
Ladies’ Fine Muslin Handker-
chiefs, trimmed guipure lace edge.
PRICE 2/6, 2/11 each.
Ladies’ Fine Guipure Lace Edge
Linen Handkerchiefs.
PRICE 3/11, 4/11 each.
The importance of Accessories is realised by
every woman who appreciates the meaning of
the word Distinction when applied to matters
of Dress.
Appealing Values, Reliable Qualities, and
Moderate Prices are the features that set
Anthony Horderns’ display on a high plane of
excellence.
These prices are an indication of what may be
accomplished by adherence to a policy of
Exceptional Value-giving.
Excellent Hosiery Values.
I
Ladies’ Plain Black Cashmere
Hose, full fashioned, Best British
make, self and colored silk clox,
double soles.
PRICE 6/3 pair.
Ladies’ Plain Black Cash-
mere Hose, Best British
Manufacture, all pure wool,
double heels and soles, with
fancy colored Silk clox.
PRICE ... 5/6, 7/6 pair
Ladies’ Black Cashmere
Hose, full fashioned, all pure
wool, high spliced heels, double
PRICE, 4/11, 5/3, 6/11, 7/6
pair.
Ladies’ Plain Black Cashmere All
Wool Hose, perfect seamless feet,
double soles, with colored silk clox.
PRICE 7/6 pair.
Fancy Heather Mixture All Wool
Hose, in broad fancy ribs, extra,
fine and soft, double heels, toe and
soles.
PRICE 6/11 pair.
Ladies’ Plain All Wool Hose, Fine
Heather Mixture, British Manufac-
ture, in Coatings. Assorted Greys,
etc.; seamless feet, double soles.
PRICE 5/0, 0/11 pair.
Quality in Fashionable Footwear.
Best Grade White Nrabuck Shoes, with
Welted Soles and Low Covered Sports
Heels.
PRICE 30/- pair
Crocodile Suede Lace Shoes, new Grey
Color, with Welted Soles and Leather
Sports Heels; new American Sports
Last.
PRICE 45/- pair
Fawn Crocodile Suede Lace Shoes,
with Low Leather Sports Heels,
Welted Soles and Fringe Tongues,
new American Model Sports Last.
PRICE 47/6 pair.
Best Quality Grey Suede Lace
Shoes, Cuban or Sports Heels,
Welted Soles.
PRICE 37/6 pair.
Finest Quality Imported 2-Color
Combination Sports Shoes, in
Grey Suede, with Grey Kid Strap-
pings, Welted Soles and Sports
Heel.
PRICE 80/-
r
ir
\
k
Can also be supplied in two-color
Combination of Grey, with smart
Instep Straps to buckle at side.
TRICE 90/- pair.
Carriage Paid on Fashion Goods in N.S.W., and to the nearest Port
on Interstate Orders.
Write for the
Fashion Catalogue
You will enjoy a leisurely inspection
of the many exquisite Styles illus-
trated. A copy will be posted you
free on request.
Economy in Gloves.
m
Ladies’ Pure Silk American
Gloves, in White, Mastic, Gun-
metal, Navy and Black.
PRICE .' 9/11 pair.
Ladies’ Nigger Brown Heavy
Leather Cowboy Gloves, fringe
at side.
PRICE 18/6 pair.
Ladies’ Driving Gloves, Gauntlet
fabric, with leather palms.
PRICE 6/6 pair.
Children’s Two-Button English
Suede Finish Lisle Gloves, in
Black, White, Navy and Beaver.
PRICE 2/11 pair.
Ladies’ Two-Button English Lisle
Gloves, White only.
PRICE 3/6 pair.
Perrins’ Two-Dome French Cha-
moisette Gloves, in Beaver, Pastel,
Grey and White.
PRICE 5/6 pair.
Ladies’ Suede Finish Gauntlet Top
Gloves, in Grey, White and Black.
PRICE 4/6 pair.
Ladies’ Two-Dome American Pure
Silk Gloves, all sizes, White only.
PRICE 5/6 pair.
Ladies’ Short Taffeta Gloves, in
White. Grey and Black.
PRICE 5/11 pair.
Variety in Ribbons.
w,
Rich Double Satin Ribbon, in
White, Blue, Pink, Helio, f inch wide,
2d. yd; \ inch, 2}&d. yd.; inch,
3%d. yd.; f inch, 4?4d. yd.; 1
inch, 6Yz d. yd.; If inch, 10 Yt d.
yd.; 2 inch, 1/2 yd.; 3 inch, 1/8
yd.
Rich Lingerie Ribbon, Lover’s Knot
and Spray Design, in White, Cream,
Pink, Blue, Helio, £ inch wide, 3d.
yd; finch, 4d. yd.; f inch,
yd.; l inch, 7 d. yd.
Reliable Glace Silk Ribbon, in all
colors. | inch, 4 % d., j d.; If inch,
yd.; 2| inch, 11 %d. yd.
Rich Double Satin Reversible Rib-
bon, in Black and Henna, Black
and Jade, Black and Grey, Black
and Saxe, Black and Royal, Navy
and Saxe, Navy and Royal, Navy
and Henna, 1-1 in. wide.
Price 1/9 yard
Rich Silk Faille Ribbon, with Fancy
Tinsel border, in White, Black,
Navy. Nigger, Jade, Purple, Fawn,
Royal, Cerise, Grey ; If in. wide.
Price 1/- yard
& Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD
.SYDNEY.
Teleohone: City 9440.


Qr-'Ai
interphones
a type for every service
iiisss
afSjg / v . • <*
- -'-v ,
BOSS
■ ■ \
| MAWACigff,
GSowNTAMr.
oe&PAfm
A WA6|i r%
orrlCt
i ■w*?^
pw
*< ro 2£ I
* £ SL._S
Hilli :
IK til
6AICS
fC; : -\- v '
SHOWROOMS
£N&it4£&R
■
f'
FOR USE
UNDER GROUND
&M-SSSSS
IS H
§p;i®S|s
®1
Wm
■
Western Electric
Bk MINE
TELEPHONE
Electric Interphones have long been
recognised as an almost indispensable factor in
modern business. They permit instantaneous com-
munication between all departments, enabling em-
ployees to seek and obtain information without
leaving their work.
By eliminating needless running about, by conser-
ving mental and physical energy, Western Electric
Interphones promote a high standard of efficiency,
the economies of which must be obvious to any
business man.
For all purposes of inter-communi-
cation in offices, warehouses, shops,
factories, flats or large dwellings,
there is a Western Electric Inter-
phone that meets every requirement
and provides a measure of conve-
nience and comfort that is appreciated
by every individual.
Farmers and Graziers in all parts of
the country have long recognised the
value of a Western Electric Private
Telephone System for keeping them
in constant touch with the various
activities on scattered parts of their
property.
In the Mining Industry, Western
Electric Iron-clad Telephone Systems
are world-famous because of their re-
sistance to fumes, water and dust and
because they link all the workings
together and protect the men.
The Western Electric Interphone is
universally accepted as the world’s
standard. The first commercial tele-
phones were Western Electric pro-
ducts, and these have been in the
fore-front of the telephone business
ever since. To be sure of satisfaction,
as a guarantee of reliability, insist
upon having a Western Electric
Interphone or Telephone.
Western Electric Company
(AustratiajLfd.
192 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. Agents: C. R. FOSTER, 262 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne; T. TONKS, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane; UNBEHAUN & JOHN-
STONE, LTD., 132 Currie Street, Adelaide; UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE, LTD., 37
King Street, Perth; MEDHURST ELECTRIC CO., Argyie Street,
Hobart; A. D. RILEY & CO., Lambton Quay, Wellington. Also at
Christchurch, Auckland and Dunedin, N.Z.
NOTE.—Do not install any other telephone
system before investigating Western Electric
Quality, and the better value which a Western
Electric Interphone system offers over all
others. Complete information will be sub-
mitted upon receipt of particulars of your
requirements. Western Electric Telephone
systems can be obtained from any electrical
contractor or supplier, or from nearest address
shown above.
Pedestal or Desk Interphone.
Long-distance Magneto Tele-
phone, Wall Type.
Table Type Magneto Telephone.


PINKETTES
FOR YOUR LIVER
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
who are unnaturally drowsy and
sleepy, who lack ambition and
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action'
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and weariness.
They are effective without being
drasiic and they have none of the
bad effects of strong purgatives.
Pinkettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use during colds
and fevers.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DO YOU KNOW THAT ALL THE
NEW DRESSES ARE WORKED
WITH THE
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER?
It works on any material-
-21- Complete Outfit.
Full directions with every machine.
Instruction given at address below.
Send a stamped envelope for a FREE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
To JAMES WILLIAM PREECE the hus-
band of Cleopatra Preece formerly of
Ulverstone and Warratah in Tasmania.
WHEREAS a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of Tasmania citing
you to appear and answer the Petition of
the said Cleopatra Preece wherein she prays
for a dissolution of her marriage with you
on the ground of desertion NOW THERE-
FORE TAKE NOTICE that within thirty
days after the eleventh day of March One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-two the
date of the last publication of this notice
you are to appear in our said Court then
and there to make answer to the said Peti-
tion which may be inspected and a copy
thereof obtained by you upon application at
the office of the Registrar of the Supreme
Court at Hobart in Tasmania AND ALSO
TAKE NOTICE that in default of your
appearing to answer the said Petition as
aforesaid a Judge of our said Court will
proceed to hear the said charge proved in
due course of law and to pronounce sentence
therein your absence notwithstanding
AND TAKE NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid you are within thirty days
from the said eleventh day of March one
thousand nine hundred and twenty-two to
attend in person or by your Proctor at the
Registry of the Supreme Court and enter
an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.
DATED at Hobart in Tasmania this
tenth day of February one thousand nine
hundred and twenty-two.
(Sgd.) W. Y. WISE,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania.
DOBSON. MITCHELL & ALLPORT,
111 Macquarie Street, Hobart,
Proctors for the Petitioner.
a
9P
•*.«
3
WALNUT HAIR
that is youthful, .entrancing
and ever envied by others is
quite easily obtained by
means of the high-grade
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Harmless, Permanent, Water-
proof. All Chemists. [4.
á
A Superior
Dentifrice at
a Low Price.
Any dentifrice is, of course, better than none,
but when you are offered one that possesses
all the qualities a good Tooth Paste should
have, and at the same time costs you less
than the majority of other lines, why
not buy it ? Eudenta is its name.
Your Chemist
sells it
at 1/-
a Tube.
>s4<ro
sdrc met fee
ECXCMAI
"’hat itching spot of Eczema
can be at once relieved by
using
LIGMOLLIENE
the sure and permanent cure
for all skin diseases.
W. MALYON & SON, LTD.,
Sturt Street, Ballarat.
ã
CUT OUT THIS
&SEMD WITH Ife
FOR SPECIAL SAMPLE
HIM!
THE FAMOUS
COD LIYERj
OIL
EMULSION
and Wash'ng
L Disorders j
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
“Better than Tatts.”
£4OOO for ll-
£looo
Katoomba Thousand
No. 2.
£lOOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBE"
or not later than Sept. 7th, 192 2
Gigantic Art Union
in aid of
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ANZAC MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Blue Mountains A. K. 8 1. Society’s Show
Ground Improvement Fund,
and Katoomba Soldiers’ Memorial Hall.
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General.
£lOOO First Prize £lOOO
£5OO Second Prize £5OO
£250 Third Prize £250
Total Prizes £4-000.
Winning Numbers published all States,
September 16th, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/- Onl,
By Post, 1/2. Three or more Post Free.
FIVE TICKETS FOR 5/.
Each Ticket has 241 Chances,
and can possibly win £4OOO.
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope
for result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N S.W. Bookstall Co.
(all branches), also Hairdressers and Tobac-
conists in City, Suburbs and Country.
EDGAR BOOTH, Hon, Secretary,
Codzow, Warjega-street, Katoomba, N.S.W.
Missing: Friends.
Barrett, daniel Francis (son of
Police-sergeant Barrett, of Richmond,
near Melbourne), will hear of something to
his advantage by) communicating with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113
Queen Street, Melbourne.
ä
The Fragrance of
the Flower itself
Zenobia Perfumes faithfully reproduce the delicate
and lingering fragrance of sweet English flowers.
They give a charm and personal daintiness unobtain-
able by the use of ordinary scent. Delicate, yet last-
ing ; elusive, yet distinctive; subdued, yet refreshing.
Three favourite perfumes are
Zenobia Lily of the Valley, an exquisitely delicate fragrance.
Zenobia Night-Scented Stock, a sweet bewitching perfume.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom, the original scent of this name.
an obtainable at most hieh-class Chemists, Perfumers and Stores.
Manufactured only by Zenobia,Ltd., Loughboro’, Leicestershire, Eng.
Sole Assent for Australia
(Wholesale only)—
KENNETH BUCIvMASTER,
15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for New Zealand
(Wholesale only)-
NEWSON & CO., LTD.,
P-0. Box 1162, Wellington.
r Ar
‘^7
to
IMfIKIIMMKBMIMM
å
3EBSE
ill
ă
ą
ǻ
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By a Waterfall.
The scarred grey mountains, the mist all
white,
The' shadpwed pass, the deep and the height,
The' brown' bird’s song and the light wind’s
sigh,
All, ail are mine as at rest I lie
On a golden rock by a waterfall,
And dream and wonder about it all,
And wonder and dream about it all,
And watch for the gleam of the waterfall!
Now what care I if around the bend
The road winds on to its fated end?
A glimpse of red through a lacy tree,
Why, that, forsooth, is enough for me!
Though some may yearn to climb the height
It could not add to my delight.
So leave me here all the afternoon
To hark to the water’s tinkling tune:
While a scented breeze blows wantonly,
And a brown bird sings in the • tall gum-
tree ;
Content to wonder about it all,
To dream dear dreams by my waterfall.
N.s.w.
MARJOURIE QUINN.
Sea-longing.
I have a longing for the sea to-night—
The mermaid sweep of billows blue and
cold,
And hollow shells little as fairies light
When babies dream of them at two years
old.
The slumbering green of leaves has wearied
me,
Of bush and hill and creamy-curtained
dusk,
Soft as the moving folds of Fantasy
When fragrant houris stir them into musk.
I long to hear the wild Valkyrie shout
Of the sea-horses champing at their bit;
And listen while the waves creep in and out,
Just lapping the smooth beach where
lovers sit.
The ripe romance of morning splits these
trees
Without a sound save dimpling songs of
birds;
Colored with fires of dead eternities
The Day comes, hooded, dropping no blue
words.
But I can see, all tinctured with the sun,
Brown men and maidens romping Morn
away,
Stinging with laughter as they rush and run
Into an emergld breaker drunk with play.
So listening to the lute-notes of the leaves,
The murmurous, silken song of she-oak
trees,
I think of oceans, and my spirit grieves
For periwinkles and anemones.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROOSS.
The Ballad of Edwin.
“What can he do,” the bushmen say,
When Edwin enters in
The shanty bar, “to drive away
Black thoughts but fill his glass and play
His mocking violin !”
He was a splitter, straight and tall.
Whistling we’d see him go
To swing his axe where b'.g trees fall;
And every year he’d win from all
The wood-chop at the show.
Simple his heart; and all around,
At many a country dance,
You’d hear his merry fiddle sound,
Till thus it was that Edwin found
His doom in Hetty’s glance.
A gay girl of a different sort
From country girls was she.
But Edwin laughed at ill report,
And let their courting days be short—
An eager lover he!
Then homeward he’d return to seek
His young wife by the door
Of their own house beside the creek;
And though chill words would Hetty speak,
He loved her more and more.
“But what’s the use of suffering pain,
When life is full of fun?”
So Hetty thought, for she was vain,
And danced all night with Tom Delane,
The rich old farmer’s son.
When Hetty for the mail drives down,
There’s always much ado.
For Hetty wears a silken gown,
The envy of the little town, •
And she has jewels too.
“Did Edwin give her things like those?”
The women’s words are plain.
“No splitter’s wife in gay silk goes,
And finery, but I suppose
They’re gifts from Tom Delane.”
She welcomes Tom with laughing face.
For what does Hettv care
If people talk of her disgrace?
So much he’s taken Edwin’s place,
He might be living there.
“It’s finished, Edwin, our dull life.
It’s him I want,” she said.
Edwin’s too dazed to end the strife,
For. simple still, he loves his wife,
Although her love is dead.
He has no will to break away
Or conquer his despair.
“Edwin is lost,” his old mates say:
“Maybe he’ll shoot himself some day.
Look, he’s still drinking there!”
Bright-eyed, but haggard, pale and thin,
Edwin’s in swift decline.
No matter how his wife may sin,
He laughs and plays his violin.
And drowns his thoughts in wine.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


% X-f .
.* ;
■: * s*s
f ‘ ■
1
%
•' §■
ML k
t,
i
Jas AJtV' £
C'tt
m
1 . *> *
/f
4G£ 4/VD QUALITY.
S 3
WHISKY
IMPORTANT NOTICE !
Messrs. James Buchanan & Co., Ltd., Scotch
Whisky Distillers, Guarantee that all ‘‘Black
and White’’ supplied in Australia is PRE-
WAR WHISKY, and that they and their
associated companies hold the largest stock
of Old Matured MALT Scotch Whisky,
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transit ission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voij. 43.—N0. 2195.
MARCH {), 1922,
Price 6d.
THE GOOD TIME COMING.
JACK CADE DOOLEY: "When lam king there shall be no money; all shall eat and drink on my score, and I will apparel them all...There shall
be seven halfpenny loaves sold for a penny; the three-hooped pot shall have ten hoops, and I will make it felony to drink hop-beer.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia for the White Mau.”
Panted and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, S.vdnev. N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
terms to subscribers.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 18s.; 3 months, 6s. 6d.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 Ids.; 6
months, 155.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. IVhen MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention, Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical draivings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
'ait unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-draum —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IK. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.CJi;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, J/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Ilolborn, London, IV.C. 1.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
toivn, Durban and Johannesburg; Daivson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, Now York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Neicspaper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Soz., 11d. ; Sloz. to 10oz.,
3d.; 10oz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, hoz., lid., and
id. each additional Soz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1922.
“REPRODUCTIVE” RAILWAYS THAT
COST THE TAXPAYER £1 PER YARD
PER ANNUM.
“For many months the Government had had to
contend against the campaign of certain unscrupulous
employers, and though it had not been able to pro-
vide work for all the men and women whom these
employers had thrown on to the labor market, it
had, by . the judicious expenditure of over
£11,000,000 on reproductive public works, found
employment for nearly 40,000 men.” —Premier
Dooley, boasting as usual.
Patronage is essential to the existence of
a thoroughly bad Government. It is the
thing with which the vulgar and undeserv-
ing buy votes, and it is worked in three prin-
cipal ways. One is the creation of new
billets. Another is the turning of as many
industries as possible from private into State
concerns, for though the Government meat-
shop (to quote one instance) may be dirty
and unprofitable, it is more advantage to
the Government that it should have even
some humble steak-hacking jobs to buy sup-
port with than that the patronage should
be left, with men who don’t know how to
turn it to account. The third device, which
was never before worked so furiously as it
is to-day, is the distribution of loan money,
ft provides the great advantage that it is
possible to pay out fl to grateful friends for
results worth less than 55., and except in
rare cases years elapse before there are suf-
ficient results to prove that it was only
worth ss. Meanwhile, blatant Hooleys and
Dooleys gain kudos with the ever-exploded
tale about the reproductive character of
their particular batch of jobs, which are
quite unlike all nrevious iobs: and they stmt
as proudlv. and demand reward as insist-
ently. as if it was their own and not Pos-
terity’s money that had been paid out.
Also they pose as if the making of a bit
of railway resembled the founding of a great
factory which might last and grow for cen-
turies, instead of being a fleeting bit of
make-believe which begins to-day and ends
to-morrow, though the bills for maintenance
and interest go on for ever.
Railway-building at the charge of posterity
long ago became the refuge, on the grandest
scale, of political adventurers. Other public
works and enterprises serve also, but the
railway dodge is the oldest, biggest and
easiest swindle, and it saves the trouble of
thinking up new ones. Even if a political
spieler couldn’t run a bookstall for a week
without the Saturday-night balance showing
his incapacity, the same man, given the
needful loans, might build six transcontinen-
tal railways, and be a genius—till the trains
began to run. When that kind of charlatan
comes out with tiie thousand-timcs-told tale
about how his loan devices, alone among the
disreputable herd, will prove to be a rich
investment, and demands payment with
votes in advance, it is well that the ever-
swindled Ma State should take another look
at the collection of ruins and derelicts it
has. Then it can ask itself what hope there
is of Dooley’s ruins differing from the rest,
save in the way of being worse, if only be-
cause there are fewer routes for him to choose
from. The following table deals with this
little-explored aspect of the N.S.W. system :
Date of Last Year’s
Opening. Loss per Mile.
Demondrille-Blayney .. 1881 £ll6l
Culcairn-Corowa .. 1892 310
Kiama-Nowra .. .. 1893 1138
Nevertire-Warren .. 1898 413
Clyde-Carlingford .. 1901 1969
Koorawatha-Urenfell .. 1901 418
Byrock-Brewarrina .. 1901 165
Burren Junction-Pokataroo 1906 303
Tarrawingie .. .. ? 163
Labor Government commenced.
Fassifern-Toronto . . 1911 1492
Lidcombe-Regent’s Park.. 1912 2439
The Rock-Oaklands .. 1912 299
Galong-Boorawa . . . . 1915 420
Raleigh-Coif s Harbor . . 1915 982
Tullamore-Tottenham .. 1916 285
, Muswellbrook-Merriwa .. 1917 332
Tottenham-The Mines . . 1918 297
Cobar-C.S.A 1918 258
Condobolin-Trida. . . . 1919 235
Matakana-Mount Hope .. 1919 220
Menindie-Broken Hill .. 1919 390
Oraboon-Ooolah .. ... 1920 708
Henty-Rand . . . . 1920 375
Humula-Tumbarumba .. 1921 111
All these lines (15 out of the 24 opened
since Labor came into office in 1910, and all
opened by Dooleys who described them—
even swore to reproductive works)
are in a category by themselves. They not
only lose all the interest on their cost, but
a lot of their working expenses as well.
The figures are now nearly a year old, and
the position has become worse in the interim.
But even when they weren’t so bad as they
have since become, N. S. Wales had this
bundle of “renroductive” loan railways which
produced nothing and required a subsidy of
anything up to 275. 6d. per yard per annum
to live at all.
« • • »
Another list of swindles consists of lines
the building of which out of revenue was
fully justifiable, but the charging of which
to posterity was, in most cases, a cowardly
fraud. Here it follows :
Date of Last Year’s
Opening. Loss per Mile.
Blacktown-Richmond .. 1861 £650
Narrandera-Hay .. 1882 252
Nyngan-Bourke . . . . 1885 235
Tamworth-Wallangarra .. 1888 235
Goulburn-Crookwell . . 1902 147
Moree-lnverell .. . . 1902 109
Cootamundra-Tumut . . 1903 269
Murwillumbah-Grafton . . 1905 419
Tamworth-Barraba . . 1908 138
Bogan Gate-Tullamore . . 1908 125
Burren Junction-Walgett. . 1908 151
Labor Government commenced.
Casino-Kyogle . . . . 1910 128
Cowra-Canowindra . . 1910 299
Wallerawang-Dunedoo . . 1910 260
Narromine-Peak Hill .. 1910 50
Goulburn-Nimmitabel .. 1912 359
Finley-Tocumwal .. 1914 17
Parkes-Peak Hill.. .. 1914 25
Moree-Mungindi . . . . 1914 113
Glenroagh-South Grafton. . 1915 489
Barellan-Griffith . . . . 1916 120
Wyalong-Cargellico .. 1917 196
Wagga Wagga-Humula . . 1917 299
Dunedoo-Coonabarabran.. 1917 226
Stockinbingal-Forbes . . 1918 89
Troy Junction-Merrygoen 1918 225
West Maitland-Macksville 1919 144
Culeairn-Holbrook .. ? 206
When the last accounts were published there
were 2971 miles of railway that lost money,
and 2071 of other sorts. The system, as a
whole, lost nearly £600,000 for the year.
Owing to the collapse which took place at
the end of 1921 there are many more miles
on the losing list now, and the Joss is bigger.
Tt is questionable whether one payable
public work of any sort has been opened
during the 10 years of McGowen-Holman-
Storey-Dooley administration. So when
anv Minister claims that he has built
£11,000,000 worth, or any other quantity,
of “reproductive” loan railways, etc., it
saves trouble to say right off that Ananias
wasn’t in the same street with him.
* * * *
Men crazed with the desire for power and
mere billet-hunters by instinct may fancy
they see an advantage in destroying great
iron and steel and mining industries and
transferring the men to Government employ,
engaging them to build railways that have
to be subsidised to the extent of £1 per yard
per annum. It makes a greater number of
humble clients dependent on the Ministry,
and it is a blow at the wage-paying class—
the “bourgeoisie” which the Sydney Labor
Council (now a part of the Red Inter-
nationale of Moscow and taking orders from
it) is pledged to destroy. But thinking
people will stick to the conviction that, if the
unemployment and loan and pauper-making
craze is really incurable, it would be better
if Dooley built pyramids. They cost no-
thing for repair—at least no one seems to hear
of a pyramid needing repair ; nothing for main-
tenance, fuel, compensation or even for dust-
ing. They are never unpunctual, nor do they
go out of date, nor do their sparks set crops
on fire. They are better even than cathe-
drals as relief works, for cathedrals require
to bd expensively preached in when finished.
Pyramids are clean, tidy and popular. Also,
they are not overdone. And the maddest of
them never lost 275. 6d. per vard per annum
in running charges alone, like som° of the
“renroductive” railways thaf are being un-
LacWl on to the unfortunate taxpayers of
N. S. Wales for the purchase of votes.
CONTORTIONAL MISREPRE-
SENTATION.
The average Australian politician, whether
he calls himself a Liberal or a _ Laborite, a
Nationalist or a Socialist, is at heart a
Tory. His temper and outlook are conser-
vative —he believes with Pope that what-
ever is is right. He carries this feeling so
far as to resist, when in power, the amend-
ment or destruction of institutions—Leg.
Councils, for instance, which, when in Op-
position, he has vowed to amend or destroy.
Even Ins innovations are made in a con-
servative spirit, and once they are trans-
ferred to the statute-book they acquire in
his dull mind the sacrosanctity of vested in-
terests, no matter how unsuitable they may
have proved. Proportional representation is
a case in point. Imposed on N. S. Wales
by the Holman Government, it has been a
delusion and a pitfall and a mockery from
first to last. The election at which it
was introduced —-that of 1920 —was the cost-
liest and most chaotic ever held in the State.
Although there were as many as 21 candi-
dates in one constituency, the Government
insisted on the voter recording a preference
for every name on his ballot-paper. He had
also to sign a declaration —this alone added
£15,000 to the expenditure—that he hadn’t
voted before. As a result of these brilliant
measures 505,726 of the 1,154,437 persons
entitled to exercise the franchise kept out
of the way. Of the 648,709 who voted
62,900 (9.696 per cent.) invalidated then-
papers. In one electorate (Botany) the
number of informal votes was greater by
466 than the quota required to return one
member-—4749. The Chief Electoral Officer
found also, on going through the valid
papers, that “in a vast number of instances”
the elector had got tired after recording eight
or nine preferences and “filled in the remain-
ing blanks in chronological order.” There
is evidence that hundreds, if not thousands,
of these blind votes went to “candidates who
enjoyed positions of alphabetical advantage,”
for in numerous cases the returning-officers
had to count 20th preferences, and a No. 20
vote at the end of a ballot is as good as a
No. 1 at the beginning. It is significant
that 33 of the 90 members elected, an unusu-
ally large proportion, belonged to the A,
B, C and D groups.
* * * *
The main argument for the proportional
system is that it secures the representation
of minorities according to their voting-
strength. In theory the representation of
minorities is a fine thing, but in practice
it is ihore important to have a majority
strong enough to govern, and under propor-
tional representation the difficulty is to find
one. No party had a majority when the
effective votes were counted in N. S. Wales.
The Laborites and the Liberals (reckoning
the Progressives as a wing of that party)
each held 45 seats. By persuading a Liberal
to take the Speakership the Dooleys got
possession of the Treasury benches and, with
an interruption of seven hours, caused by
the rise and fall of the Puller Ministry,
have stuck to them ever since. Proportional
representation placed them in this fortunate
position-—a party without a majority in
Parliament and with a pronounced minority
in the country—and proportional represen-
tation has sustained them. To consolidate
its power the Government found judgeships
for two prominent lawyers on the other side
of the House. Then somebody discovered
that no provision had been made in the
measure enacting proportional representa-
tion for the filling of vacant seats. It took
the Government seven months to wrestle
with the problem, and in the meantime four
electorates were partly disfranchised, for
two other member's had died. At the end
of the seven months Dooley (he was Chief
Secretary then) proudly announced that he
had settled the knotty business and pro-
duced his great Casual Vacancies Bill, one
clause of which set forth that “any vacancy
shall be filled by the election of the unsuc-
cessful candidate who represents the same
party interests as the late member and
was highest on the list of primary prefer-
ence Votes,” and another that the said can-
didate must be nominated by “the recog-
nised leader of the »party to which the late
member belonged.” On the assurance of the
beaming Dooley that he had provided for
all possible emergencies, the bill was hur-
riedly passed. But the public was soon
to learn what odious political crimes can be
committed in the name of proportional re-
presentation. One of the Labor members
for Eastern Suburbs dying, his seat was
given, not to the man who polled most first
preference votes and who chanced to be out
of favor with the heads, but to a badly-
beaten candidate of the right color. When
Brookfield perished this precedent was
ignored: the two men who had stood with
Brookfield as Industrial Laborites were
rejected in favor of an A.L.P.. nominee, on
the ground that he had scored more first-
preference votes. Next Captain Millard,
Nationalist member for Goulburn, was gath-
ered to his fathers, and straightway the
author of the Casual- Vacancies Bill, which
had provided for everything, looked foolish,
for there wasn’t a defeated Nationalist to
fall back on. By an “amendment” of the
Act Fuller, the Nationalist leader, was em-
powered to nominate Millard’s successor.
He gave the job to a man who had never
been before the electors at all.
* * *■ *
About this time H. E. Pratten resigned
from the Senate, and, as the custom is, a
special sitting of both Houses of the State
Parliament was summoned to choose a man
in his place. It was then found that, owing
to the free exercise of the dangerous powers
conferred on the party leaders by the Casual
Vacancies Act, nominee members were in
the majority. There being 83 of them in
the Council and seven in the Assembly, they
outnumbered the elected representatives by
seven. Such a travesty of democracy was
never contemplated by the founders of the
Federal Constitution when they decided that
stop-gap Senators should be chosen by State
Legislatures. It was reserved for propor-
tional representation to restore the old pre-
dominance of the nominee. In that respect
the freak system which was going to work
such wonders has put the clock back half-a-
century. In other respects its results have
been equally pernicious. It has suspended
maioritv rnD f r two years, and may sus-
pend it indefinitely. It has set up a state
of affairs in which public men may be
bought and sold like cattle. By it unscrupu-
lous politicians have been enabled to rob
the people of their right to select their own
representatives and to pass judgment
on a guilty Government. In addition it
has x made the already over-centralised busi-
ness of administration more absurdly com-
plicated and expensive than ever, for three
or five members (as the case may be) have
now to ’be interviewed, written to, dodged,
wrangled with and accommodated with State
motor-cars for “tours of inspection” of the
sand-shifting works at La Perouse or
the bridge over Crabhollow Creek. Never-
theless, none of the parties now appealing to
the swindled people propose to deliver them
from these abominations. The subject hasn’t
l?een mentioned except by Fuller, and he
merely said that “proportional representa-
tion should have a fair trial”—as if it
hadn’t been tried and condemned by public
opinion without hope of mercy. Unless the
electors assert themselves and demand the
restoration of the rights which have been
insidiously wrested from them, the svstem is
to be perpetuated in all its rottenness
because (1) a few politicians have fluked
seats that they would never have won under
the single-electorate system, and (2) their
friends on both sides of the House want
them to keep their billets. There is no
other reason. Popular rights are of small
account nowadays compared with the poli-
tician’s vested interest in his job.
IN A NEW STATE.
Either in a dream or by a spiritual revela-
tion I went on an excursion through liiverina,
or New England, or a mixture of both, the
other twilight. It wasn’t exactly night on the
border, and it wasn’t precisely day, and it
wasn't quite the usual kind of twilight either.
1 knew the land well, though all the
old features had disappeared. It was
impossible to be quite certain as to
the season of the year, for there was
no weather of any sort—good, bad or
indifferent, nor wet nor dry. I had never
met anything quite like it previously. By
reason of the intangible smell of the sur-
roundings I fancied the period was the dim,
long-past future. If it wasn’t futurist it
might have been cubist.
We voyaged along i n a large, faded,
swelled-up train, which sounded as if it had
been kept a long while soaking in a river
bottom along with spectres and mushrooms.
Its speed was more non-committal than any-
thing else. In course of time I learned that
we Pad come to a definite stoppage in the
middle of nowhere. The line ahead was
obstructed. A long passenger train stood
there and served as the strangest terminus
on record. It was partly eaten by
ants, and partly overgrown by forest,
and partly inhabited by rabbits of a
new daddy-long-legs variety which had
probably grown up between the last time I
remembered and the time it was then—if
the substance going past really was time. On
inquiry I learned that the outfit—a real
train once—had happened that way when the
railways were in a poor state of health. It
had stopped where I found it because “the
water had gone off the boil.” Telegrams had
been sent to ask permission, under some new
Industrial Act, to boil the same water over
again, but the Government snatched at the
opportunity and ordered that the train should
be left there permanently to block the New
State movement. The New State people, a
law-abiding lot who never founded New
States or did anything else without permis-
sion, didn’t like to remove it till they got
authority. _ So the blocked district gradu-
ally sank into a condition of apathy and was
deserted by most of the sane population.
In fact, it came to be a dumping-ground for
a sparse population of mental deficients. As
they had no particular use for time and
weather these things died out in course of
ages, just as the human appendix tends to
die out through disuse. All round a ghostly
ai r of unreality settled on the place, but it re-
mained law-abiding even in its living death.
I walked some miles to the ruin which
marked the beginning of the really dead
country, as distinguished from the half-dead
fringe of country where the unaccountable
and swelled-up train still ran once in a while.
My companions—disappointed New Staters,
I believe, who had been taking a glance, bv
permission, at the edge of the live world-
dropped off by the way. A surviving struc-
ture in the ruin was a tower, six storeys
high, with one room on each floor. It was
run as a sort of hotel by one of the brightest
of the survivors. It had been built, I
learned, in days when there was still hope,
so that the watchman on the top might keep
a haggard weather eye, with a look of dog-
like fidelity in it, lifting for the arrival of
the New State Constitution from Sydney.
I had a dinner of five courses—one laid on
each floor, that being the only way the land-
lord could keep count. The basement course
was wrecked and lost. By the time I got
down that far it had been trodden underfoot
in a silly scuffle between the oldest inhabi-
tant and an authentic ghost. The place
was so dead and shady that spooks stayed
to all hours.
No building went on. No particular work
seemed to be done except the perfunctory
cooking of bad victuals. There were many
ruins, much forest, few people, and especi-
ally few children. And they seemed
Methuselah-children with their air of wait-
ing.
I got away by accident along a disused
road. There were towers here and there, all
built as look-outs for the Constitution com-
ing by bullock-dray from Sydney. They were
now mostly used as boarding-houses, though
there seemed to be no regular meals —only
snacks. At one place I chanced on the chris-
tening of a baby girl-ghost. To be born dead
struck me as a curious way of starting life.
The new arrival was named Grafton In-
verell Murrumbidgee Moree.
Over the Northern border the twilight
ended like a precipice, and my watch began
running again, and there were no ghosts ex-
cept one who had strayed across in the nieht,
and was now running for his life. The
people I met said their remote ancestors had
tried to thaw out the New State when it
orivirallv froze, b”t the New Staters said it
would look irregular, and savor of job con-


trol, to act before instructions came from
Sydney. I suppose the boy on the burning
deck and the Roman soldier at the gate of
Pompeii are waiting for instructions from
Sydney also.
H. H.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Dagoes for the North.
As a counsel of despair, and on the plea that
Anglo-Saxon settlement in our North is an
obvious failure, Premier Barwell (S.A.)
lecently revived the silly idea of nigger immi-
gration to the Territory— the great neglected
property where everything has been tried
except the thing that is tried as a matter
or course everywhere else. Now Donald Mac-
Kinnon, a Victorian ex-Minister with a good
leputatijon, uirges, as another counsel of
despair, the importation of Italian agri-
culturists. This is also on the plea that we
cannot “develop the Territory with British
stock ; and of course the success cJ the
Italian as a colonist in Argentina is quoted
no tale of the sort would be complete
without it. But Argentina, which has
gathered in 2\ million Italians from first
to last, extends 12 degrees further south
than lasmania, almost to the edge of the
ice, and only a mind enslaved by habit and
by vague recollections of boyhood adventures
in the Spanish Main would call that sort of
place tropical. The merest fragment of
Argentina’s north is tropical; at the other
end it claims to own the nearest perma-
nently-inhabited house to the Pole. The real
example for Mackinnons and Babwells to
poie over is Southern Rhodesia, extending
north to about the level of Cooktown and
tropical all through. In Southern Rho-
desia the Anglo-Saxon population num-
bered only 23,000 in 1911; by 1918 there
had been an increase of 65 p.c., and it was
the sort of population which announces
loudly that “the land is well adapted to
agriculture and white settlement.” The
T ll , v i, sible difference between the vigorous
Anglo-Saxon tropical settlement which goes
along as a matter of course around Salis-
bury (Rhodesia) and the one which is all
fuss, failure, self-pity, despair, strike, Bol-
she vile theory and political muddlement
around Darwin (N.T.) in almost exactly
the same latitude, is that the S. African's
pushed their railway up the middle of the
country, from end to end, while the Austra-
lians didn’t. As a matter of fact, it is
probable that the Italian of whom Donald
Mackinnon talks in such airy fashion would
refuse to come to the Territory as it is now,
or if beguiled there would declare himself
shamefully deceived. Carlo Spaghetti by
no means regards himself as filing material
or waste substance, to be sent where no one
else will go. lie is accustomed to be a
freeholder, and likes it, as. all the world
seems to do. Heaven only knows why he
shouldn’t be a freeholder —with the necessary
precautions against the accumulation of big
estates and abuse of the renting habit. A
freeholder whose contribution is called tax,
and a leaseholder whose bit is called rent,
differ mostly in the fact that the former
sticks better. But the highbrows who deso-
late the Territory insist on leasehold because
of the theorising of city men like Henry
Ceorge or Karl Marx —and settlers stay
away . Further, the Italian is accustomed
m all his favorite new haunts, such as Ar-
gentina, the United States and Brazil, to a
land cut up into small divisions, with law
and justice at the door, and also to have a
>ive town, a railway and an available port
quite handy. To be marooned 3000 miles
from his rulers, 2000 miles from a live town,
and. about as far from the beaten tracks of
foreign commerce are not among his thrifty
habits. His value as a settler is largely a
matter of hard toil, long hours and piece-
work, and these aren’t allowed in
the Territory. In any case it is well to
remember that the Territory has had its
share of alien white labor, with no great
results. At the census of 1911 there were
1422 people there who read and wrote Eng-
lish, 918 who read and wrote only a foreign
language, and 970 who avoided literature
altogether. So probably Donald Mackin-
non’s Italian has been there —and gone away
again. When all is said and done, the Anglo-
Saxon, from Northern Rhodesia to the
border of Alaska, has shown himself a good
enough settler—save in the one case where
wild theories and lazy loan habits have de-
moralised him.
Theodore’s Great Wage-cutting
Conspiracy.
Theodore, the Queensland Premier, rushed
down to Sydney the other day with the
latest news about the Conspiracy to. Reduce
Wages. He arrived at the Town Hall, where
a Labor meeting was in progress, in an
exalted state of moral indignation^—the re-
sult of a few hours of plain living and high
thinking at the Australia Hotel—and these
were some of the burning words that issued
from his mouth :
The statement that a conspiracy has been inaugu-
rated by the capitalists is no figment of the imagina-
ti°n - It exists in stern reality. The Press may use
its best powers to discredit the statement that the
employers have any conspiracy to reduce wages, but
if the workers will use their intelligence thev
ought to be able to understand the reality of this
assault upon their wages and conditions.
It is the rankest of humbug. If there is
really a conspiracy to reduce wages Theo-
dore can’t be dissociated from it. He it
Iv. aS ’x?i or vr than any otber m an, who induced
the Mt. Morgan miners to accept a reduc-
tion of 20 per cent. Certainly the pill was
sugared to some extent by a Government sub-
sidy, but money wages have been reduced all
the same, and Theodore was in the “con-
spiracy up to his neck. Theodore’s Gov-
ernment it was, too, that made Justice Mc-
Cawley. president of the Arbitration Court.
Its admiration for Justice McCawley has
been so extensively advertised that all
Queensland believes— more especially since
the tenure of the Supreme Court Judges has
,\ n violation of their contracts
that Mr, McCawley is booked to succeed
the present Chief Justice. In view of their
past statements no member of the Theodore
Tovernmeiit could have the face to accuse
Justice McCawley of being biased against
e workers. Yet the subjoined judgment
as delivered by President McCawley and
ms learned brother Macnaughton in the
Arbitration Court last month:—
In November we announced that we should await
the publication by the Commonwealth Statistician of
tne cost of living figures for the December quarter,
before giving our decision on the basic wage. The
figures have now been published. They show that
compared with the December quarter of 1920 there
was in the December quarter of 1921 a reduction
in tiie cost of food and groceries at Brisbane of
lb.d per cent., and a reduction in the cost of food,
groceries and house rent combined of 11.8 per cent.
Having before us the 1920 figures we fixed for Bris-
bane m February, 1921, a basic wage of £4 ss. per
week for adult males in industries of average pros-
perity. We are of opinion that the basic wage should
•n re » . P er we ek. The wage we now fix
will have a higher purchasing power than the wage
of £4 ss. fixed by us in March last then had; the
induction of ss. per week is 5.9 per cent., as against
11.8 per cent, reduction in the cost of living. The
reduction in the basic wage, therefore, entails no
reduetmii in • the standard of living recognised in
“? ui 't s basic wage judgment of February, 1921,
and the reduced wage exceeds the Brisbane equiva-
lent of the Harvester wage, namely, £3 9s. 6d.
bince the basic wage of £4 is the wage for the
average prosperous industry, the Court will, as here-
tofore, specially consider industries of greater or less
than average prosperity. The basic wage of adult
females at Brisbane will be £2 Is. per week, a
reduction of two shillings per week ; at Townsville,
£2 6s. ; at Mackay, £2 4s. . Upon application,
ouly made, the Court’s awards will be revised in
accordance with this decision and the Court’s decision
of November last. No reduction in pursuance of
this decision will come into operation before March
1 next.
March 1 having come and gone, the Court
has reduced wages in a swarm of industries.
1 hat is to say, it has knocked ss. a week
off the nominal wage; the real wage, as Mr.
McCawley rightly insists (the point is per-
sistently dodged by the Theodores and
McGirks), remains higher than it was 12
months ago, since £4 will buy more now
than £4 ss. would then. And the Court’s
judgment has been acquiesced in by both
workers and Government. There has been
no repetition of the McQiRR 'business in
Queensland —no outrage on the principle of
arbitration for the sake of three or five bob
a week. After seven years of Labor admin-
istration the average Queensland wage-
earner is more concerned about getting a
job than about the propping-up of artificial
wage-rates. And Theodore has his own
reasons for not interfering. It doesn’t suit
him to pick a quarrel on such a ground
with the valuable McCawley. Better; far
better, to absent himself for a while from
the scene of the five-bob-a-week reduction
and descant on the great wage-icutting con-
spiracy in N. 8. Wale??,
The “Pommy” Delegate Shows His
Hand.
The Priminister’s Economic Conference has
done nothing to improve thp grim outlook
for Australian industries. It met in an
atmosphere of suspicion and disappeared in
a whirlwind of words. A large percentage of
the union delegates were imported agitators
with Bolshevism on the brain. United by
the bond of exile and by a common enthusi-
asm for the “class-war” and the “dictator-
ship of the proletariat,” these brewers of
trouble established an ascendancy over their
Australian coadjutors, among whom there
was no man of outstanding individuality,
and once that happened the Conference, Con-
sidered as an attempt to save the country
from the industrial calamities that threaten
it, became a waste of breath. The spirit
which the “pommy” delegates brought to the
discussions was revealed in a depressing
fashion when the state of the iron and steel
industry was considered. It was shown that
the orders in hand at the Newcastle steel-
works were only sufficient to keep them
g-oing for a few weeks at the outside. Since
the company had been obliged to curtail its
operations its output largely consisted of
merchant bars; but inasmuch as its price
was £l6 10s. a ton (and that was less than
the cost of manufacture) and imported bars
could be bought in any large Australian port
at £l4 IQs. per ton, nobody wanted the New-
castle (N.S.W.) article. Already all the
coke-ovens and two of the large blast fur-
naces had been closed down; within “a week
or two” the same fate would overtake the
third blast furnace; and before another
month had expired the whole of the workers
would have been paid off until the cost of
manufacture could be reduced to a price at
which the Australian consumers of steel
would buy. “If we don’t get a reduction in
wages, interposed Hoskins, the Lithgow
ironmaster, “the steel business is as dead as
CkESAR.” “If that is the case,” said
the imported Willis, according to the Daily
Telegraph report, “then let it die.” Such
is the attitude of the foreign-minded fanatic
to the industries of the country which gives
him an easy living. If they can’t pay boom
wages in a time of slump let them die. The
sooner they perish the easier it will be to
socialise them, the wherewithal being sup-
pled by “credits secured on the whole public
and private wealth of the country.” This
idea was elaborated in a profession of faith
with which the union representatives weighed
in before the Conference vanished into space.
Each side having been asked to make pro-
posals for the carrying on of industry, the
employers suggested the general adoption of
(1) piecework, (2) the 48-hour week, and
(3) a simplified arbitration system. They
likewise agreed to accept the principle of “a
minimum wage sufficient to maintain the
workers in the standard of comfort necessary
to the welfare of the Australian community,”
and admitted that “a high output is only to
be obtained from Avell-paid and contented
workers.” There were also a few remarks
not very explicit or binding about profit-
sharing. For their part the union delegates
affirmed (1) that “the Commonwealth will
shortly be gripped by the same crisis, that is
P a Udysing industry throughout the world,”
and (-.) that “only the socialisation of
industry, with workers’ control, offers a
solution.” In view of “the impending col-
lapse of industry” there must be “no reduc-
tion in wages or lengthening of hours” • on
the contrary, the cost of production should
be increased by adequate unemployment
insurance as a legitimate risk of and charge
upon industry”; also job control would have
to be practised on a large scale. Pending the
advent of sreneral socialisation the n-
wealth and State Governments should
appoint a few more Royal Commissions to
inouire into everything and borrow fur ; 6usly
tor comprehensive developmental schemes
to absorb the unemployed. At this stage it
dawned upon the Conference that, sincj the
irresistible force had come in contact with
the immovable body, there was nothing left
to talk about.
♦
The Men Who Do the Nation’s Jobs.
After a week’s wrangling we get
to the basic fact about the immigration
muddle. Doing everybody’s work, doing
it all at once, doing it badly and
irritably through haste, doing it with
the two hands he has auu the six
more he would have if he were an octopus,
which he isn’t, Australia’s Prime Welshman
took over the control of Immigration from
the Home Department when his young
friend Gullett was appointed Director at
£l5OO a year. Some passionate instructions
were issued about getting 100,000 immi-
grants right off, but when the expensive
subordinate wanted to consult about details,
he found his expensive chief either shut up
or in violent eruption and behaving like the
Last Day of Pompeii. So Australia pays
for its form of Party Government. Hughes
wants eight or ten men for the most impor-
tant administrative jobs in Australia. He
has to select the men for these jobs from
about 30 or 40 who have been successful in
winning another sort of job—a different sort
of job altogether. And he can’t even roam
freely among the 30 or 40. lie has in
effect to take so many from this part of the
continent and so many from that. The sys-
tem is positively as absurd as it would be
if the Broken Hill Prop, held competitions
in bowls and tennis and rifle-shooting among
its shareholders, and made the winners chief
engineer, mill superintendent, and steel-
works manager. No wonder that when a
Prime Minister arrives who, like Hughes,
is something of a genius as well as a superb
egotist, he groans when he Considers the
men who have to do the job in relation
to the job that is to be done, and takes one
Ministerial activity after the other into his
own hands. This paper believes that
Hughes has done incalculable damage to
this country; but it doesn’t blame him half
as much as it blames the system under which
he has been compelled to work.
» .
Irredeemable Paper.
From a quiet corner of the morning papers
of March 3 :
The Federal Treasurer has decided that gold can-
not be obtained for Government notes from the
Commonwealth Treasury, and no Australian gold
coin is permitted to be taken out of Australia.
So that tale on the face of the Federal scrap
of paper, “The Treasurer of the Common-
wealth of Australia Promises to pay the
Bearer TEN SHILLINGS in gold coin on
Demand,” after being 95 per cent. Ananias
for a long time, is all Safpiiika at last; and
Australia joins the irredeemable paper-
currency nations —Russia, Austria, Hon-
duras, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Turkey and
the squalid rest. For a country which is
still a considerable gold producer, which has.
no war on ha..d and no war-damage to
repair, anu which still borrows in gold
enough to meet most of the interest on its
foreign debt, there is only one way to
account for this brisk act of repudiation.
The nation imports far too much—-either
because it is too tired to make for itself, or
because it is too luxurious to do without,
or a good deal of both. The United States,
which is more profuse in its expressions of
friendship than other nations, but which gets
so much the better of us in trade that it has
been known to hold n”t a friendly hand for
close on 12,000,01)0 sovereigns in on_ year to
balance accounts, is almost the whole cause
of the drain. Apparently the Commonwealth
was up against two alternatives. It could
tell .Uncle Sam that, solely through his
admirable business qualities, with which our
primitive folk can’t, compete, it was neces-
sary to limit imports from him so that they
wouldn’t exceed exnorts to him: or else it
had to repudiate the promise on its paper
and join the caravan of the bankrupts. It
took the easy, shabby way.
♦—
They All Do It.
Treasurer Lewis, of the Speck, who com-
pletes his sixth consecutive session as Trea-
surer by announcing that be is pulling out
of Parliament, increased the debt of the
midget State by over a million in every one
of the half-dozen years. When he took Labor-
Treasurer Lyons’s job in 1916 the debt was
just under £14,000,000; to-day it is just
under £21,000,000. In 1915 Lyons, the
Labor Treasurer, spent £853.319 of bor-
rowed money, or £4 4s. Bd. per head
of population, and was denounced and
bounced out of office as a spend-
thrift and a calamity. The Lee-Lewis
“economy and sound finance” Government
last year spent loan money amounting to
£2,717,452, or £l2 6s. 7d. per head of popu-
lation. It is true that Lewis himself
again and again lifted up a warning voice
and urged upon his Nationalist colleagues
the imperative need for further taxation to
meet the vastly-increased interest bill and
check the alarming growth of the floating
deficit. And he also indicated where the money
could and should be found, by pointing out
that land profiteers were paying less taxa-
tion than any class in the community. But
his colleagues, most of them representing
the powerful class which has grown pros-
perous on unearned increment, were not
enthusiastic. Instead, the Government put
forward a poor little proposal for a mere
£35.000 increase, mostly in income-tax, and
it didn’t push even that through. Of course,
nobody would expect an easy-going, mild-
mannered, dignified, elderly (he is 63) and
strictly conventional party politician like
Elliott Lewis to throw handsprings of
indignant protest and quarrel with the
Nationalist party for ignoring his warning
and advice; but with an accumulated defi-
ciency of nearly a million staring at him
over the immediate horizon, a yearly interest
bill of quite a million (nearly’half' the total
revenue of the Stated to be provided for,
the special Commonwealth grant coming to
an end this June, and a diminution of the
per capita payments adumbrated—well,
what peaee-lovine and comfortably-off gentle-
man of 63 would not prefer to take Kip-
ling’s advice to the unvouthful to “be rid
of your harness betimes” rather than butt
into such a Political blizzard as apparently
looms ahead? To a weary politician thus
circumstanced a State Governorship, even
a small and poorly-paid one, such as his
recent Ex. Allardyce found to be a sort
of wolf eating up his substance, might easily
look much more like a bed of roses.
Wives and Mothers.
Louise Dixon in reply:—
“Rachel” (B. 23/2/’22), with her list of per-
sonal interests and attainments, merely argues her-
self to be one of the exceptions among women, and
I suspect that she knows it quite well. The fact
that such exceptions exist proves that women are
capable of a wider outlook. If they were not, it
would be simply futile to discuss the matter. I
would not even say that the lady who went botan-
izing with her husband was unique—-although quite
rare. Mrs. Jack London, I believe, accompani d
her husband around the world in a 40-foot sail-
ing boat; but she is not an argument either. I am
willing to bet that if “Rachel” did a door-to-door
canvass in our suburb—which I imagine is only
typical of hundreds of other suburbs in hundreds of
other towns —and asked the housewives for an expres-
sion of opinion on, say, any recent Red Page dis-
cussion, she would be lucky if she found half-a-
dozen who even knew what she was talking about,
and a closer acquaintance with the remainder would
reveal that their main interests were such as I have
indicated. And if “Rachel” went into their draw-
ing-rooms and noted how many of the pictures
simply insulted the wall-paper, she would feel like
mailing a copy of her Art in Australia all round.
“Rachel” says that most of her girl friends are
more or less indifferent to the “love element” in
life, and I’ve no doubt the more sophisticated might
wish it to appear so. Some women are very profi-
cient in the gentle art of camouflage, and well under-
stand the truth of the maxim that “words were
given us to conceal Our thoughts.” It would be
idle to deny, of' course, that some women are
utterly indifferent to all sexual feeling. Some
women (and men) are physically incapable of ever
experiencing such feeling, but they are hardly worth
taking into account when speaking of the majority.
“Rachel” also asserts that she plainly sees the
faults in her own children. Every mother asserts
the same thing, just as everyone believes that he or
she is tactful, unselfish and possessed of a sense of
humor. As for its being a libel to suggest that
women devour Ethel Dell and her kin —well, it is
by the selling of such stuff to such readers that I
have a little butter on my daily bread. “Rachel’s”
suggestion that the only ones who read them are
women too tired for anything else implies that the
reading of anything else is at least an effort. Per-
sonally I’ve found books such as those referred to
as hard reading as anything I’ve tackled.
Let me add that my conclusions have been reluct-
antly arrived at after years of observation and
thought, and that I quite sympathise with the pro-
test “Rachel” felt called upon to enter, I feel
sure, too, that it might equally well have been
voiced by any of her sister devotees to The Bulle-
tin, for the fact that they even bother to think on
such matters is a proof that they belong to the very
small enlightened minority.
It would be interesting if some male contributors
(protected from their women-folk by an effective
pen-name) were to give their candid opinions on
the subject.
“Come Let Us Spout Together.”
From the back of the oblong “round table”:
Of course Hughes’s Conference was a mere stunt,
designed by the little man for propaganda pur-
poses in connection with the Industrial Disputes
Bill. No one expected anything except a lot
of oratory that meant nothing and led nowhere.
The essence of it all was an allegation by the em-
ployers that Australian industry was going downhill
because of excessive cost of production, and a
counter-assertion by the workers’ representatives
that the present economic system is rotten from the
base up—that defects in the distribution of wealth,
not in its production, are the root causes of indus-
trial stagnation and unemployment. So far as the
discussion proceeded upon academic lines the
workers’ delegation of 19 more than held their
own. A university professor would have said that
these had read more, thought more, burrowed more.
They are men hospitable to any homeless theory.
But when it came to arithmetic the employers had
the mastery of the situation. To them 2 -f 2 = 4,
and not all the speculations on earth could make’
the addition seem wrong to them.
When after much skirmishing the Conference
approached bedrock and the proposals of each side
for ensuring “more amicable relationship between
Capital and Labor” had been produced, the em-
ployers had the anti-capitalists where they wanted
them. “We want work and production,” they said.
“You declare for communism. We cannot have that
on any terms—it means chaos —and it is no use
discussing such things”—and folding uj> their statis-
tics they left the table, and the others packed up
their theories and filed • off, too. It was not' an
anti-climax. What was going to happen had been
obvious all along. From the beginning the em-
ployers gave to onlookers the impression of being
suspicious that Hughes had shepherded them on to
a quicksand. The workers’ men were as plainly
afraid of a trap being concealed under the furniture.
They. made a queer picture, those representatives
of rival parties, sparring there day by day—on the
employers’ side quiet, non-committal men, defend-
ing a system they understood, fearful of radical
change, judging everything by results, mostly
expressed in terms of money. On the other side
men of very distinct type, facially and mentally—
eager-eyed, restless. Content and Discontent glared
at one another at close range. It would be hard to
visualise two men more different than McKay, the
Sunshine Harvester and Broken Hill Prop, man, and
Kilburn, a Sydney bricklayer; or Thomas Gibson,
of Melbourne, and Willis, of the Miners’ Federa-
tion. Howie, a Sydney cooper, who talked most on
the workers’ side, is heavy and didactic, and prone
to make rambling orations about Russia. Voigt,
also prominent in the proceedings, states the
Socialist doctrine in direct, incisive phrase. He
has mastered his brief, such as it is, in every detail.
Joe Garden, of course, became vocal on the
slightest provocation. William Brooks, a Sydney
printer, led for the employers. He is fluent, dis-
cursive and narrow. Ashworth, of Melbourne, and
Edkins, of Queensland, were on that side the most
effective. As for Hughes, who, as president, had
been bidden to take no part in the discussion, he
seemed strangely futile at the end. He let the
Conference fall in a heap without making even a
gesture to bring the parties to a decision. Per-
haps he had been told the farce had gone far
enough, or had himself sensed the expediency of
evaporation.
Out—but a Long Time In!
Found guilty of murdering his wife at
Tumblong (N.S.W.) and sentenced to death
eight months ago, Arthur Bryce Peden
was liberated last week from Long Bay


■ft Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.ofA“!2!i a
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £ 100,000.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in tins soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. .R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
Gaol on the finding of Justice Street, who
had sat as a Royal Commissioner to review
the trial and conviction. So far as the public
is concerned his Honor’s report that the ele-
ment of doubt in the case was so strong
that Peden should be given the benefit of
it —and would have been given it at the trial
if all the doubt had been put upon the
court table alongside the severed head—-
ends one of the most extraordinary criminal
trials in Australia. The Bulletin takes
little credit to itself for having, upon
Peden’s conviction, again and again chal-
lenged the finding of the jury and insisted
that unless corrected tliefe would be a gross
miscarriage of justice. It was Peden’s
extraordinary good fortune that at his trial
there was at the reporters’’ table' a man who
was something more than a reporter; and
it was. Peden’s further good fortune that his
defence fell into the hands of men who had
no regard for the fact that he was practi-
cally without means. Between these two —
the journalist showing The Bulletin that
here was a where a horrible injustice
was threatened, and counsel and solicitor
ready to do the law work without financial
reward— Peden was saved, first from the
gallows and then from imprisonment for
life. When no flaw could be found in the
legal procedure relating to the man’s con-
viction, it stands also to McTiernan’s
credit as Attorney-General that he went be-
yond the regular courts of appeal and ap-
pointed the Commissioner. Except perhaps
Peden himself, nobody is likely to be more
relieved at the finding than the several
Judges before whom the case came. Practi-
cally without exception they made it clear
that they disagreed with the jury respon-
sible for the conviction. There is a lesson
in that, a lesson and a warning—a warning
not to make a fetich even of our jury sys-
tem. It is a human system and a very
fragile system, demanding more care than
society is apt to give it, because taking
its merits too much for granted.
Judge Parsons, of S. Aus., has dropped on
the longstanding practice of Adelaide
Corporation in dealing with minor offenders
against its by-laws. They generally receive
notice that a breach has been reported, and
that, if they pay up so-much at once at the
Town Clerk’s office, they can prevent the
matter going into court; and they mostly
jump at the chance. Here are the two sides
of the case:—
Judge Parsons: I think this practice should be
stopped. Any contract to pay money in consideration
of the stoppage of a criminal prosecution, without
leave of the Court, is invalid, and the act of the
Corporation is, I think, illegal.
Mayor Cohen: There is no compulsion in these
cases. The person reported has a perfectly free
choice, and the fact that he declines to pay the fee
can in ho way prejudice his defence in the court.
The acts are not of the same serious nature as those
which in the ordinary way would come before the
police-court. To compel a reputable citizen, who
might have allowed his chimney to catch alight, for
instance, to appear at the police court in company
with persons charged with drunkenness or similar
offences, I consider unreasonable and unnecessary
to secure the due observance of the by-laws—which
is the sole object to be attained.
And his Honor and his Worship are both
right. One may go outside the law with the
best of intentions with apparent advantage
to both parties; but a time is liable to come
when the party holding the thick end of the
stick has intentions that are not good, and
then justice suffers. The only safe plan is
to require anybody who doesn’t observe
the law to pay the penalty where daylight
and fresh air can play on the whole trans-
action.
♦
“Cartot” : In saying (B. 26/l/’22) that white
women in Port Moresby and Rabaul are not
now immune from the overtures of natives
“Tauwarra” is correct, and he is equally
correct in saying that the white woman is
still respected in the outlying districts.
The unsatisfactory state of things in the
ports can be traced to the presence there
from time to time of low-class white women,
and also, but in a much less degree, to
natives who have been taken to Australia
meeting such women there. The woman
who is a more or less permanent resident
of New Guinea, no matter how loose her
moral code might be, would never dream of
making overtures to a native; but transient
ladies of easy virtue have been caught in
flaffrante delicto with black lovers. Up to
somewhere about the end of 1915 white
women were treated with the greatest respect
by the natives at Rabaul, this being one
of the fruits of their training by the Ger-
mans. But then two lydies were brought
up from Svdney bv a trader returning from
a holiday. The Administration subsequently
deported both of them, but in the little while
they were in the town they treated natives
with the same familiarity as white men.
and it was not long before the results of
this were seen in a marked diminution of
respect on the part of the bucks towards
other white women. These two Thaises
damaged the prestige of the white race to
a greater extent in one day than two male
persons could have done in five years. If
there is to be a proper respect for the white
man and white woman two things are neces-
sary—a careful scrutiny of the kind of
European who visits the territory, and the
re-introduction of the kunda, which is not
such a dreadful weapon of torture as the
Age and a few other “reformers” and wow-
sers in their ignorance would have the
public believe.
,— «
Statistician Smith (N.S.W.).has pub-
lished another volume, in which he dis-
courses on wheat-raising. During the
five years 1915-16 to 1919-20 the Hercules
who struggled with 250 acres averaged £ 132
per annum, or almost 51s. each week. That
period included the 66j-million bushel crop
and the war prices. But even with that unique
patch of fortune, the 250-acre harvest only
averaged, according to the official figures,
£295 per year over a six-year period, which
included two record crops ; and out of that
the farmer had to pay all his expenses, leav-
ing the net amount above mentioned. If he
hadn’t to send his produce so far (for want
of a widespread industrial population here)
he would probably do better. As it is he
will probably do a good deal worse, because
while the price of the thing lie has to sell is
at almost pre-war level in the world's
market, the prices of all the things he has
to buy, including machinery, harness, cloth-
ing and freight, but especially freight, are
still up in the clouds. Until the balance is
restored between the two lots of prices, the
farmer’s prospects are as black as midnight.
And. though the real position may be masked
by loans, a State’s prospects can’t be bright
while the farmer’s prospects are altogether
otherwise.
“Wilfrido” from a lawyer’s viewpoint:—
Before accepting “T.R.H.’s” remarks on bail (B.
16/2/’22) it would be well to consider the conditions
upon which bail is granted. In some offences it is
not allowed at all; for some it is in the
discretion of the Court; for most it is a
matter of right., If persons cannot be found
who will go surety for the amount fixed by
the Court the offender has only himself to
blame. I have never yet found an accused
person who, if he was at all decent, could
not find some relative, friend or acquaintance
tJ stand by him. With hardly an exception, the
man without friends deserves to be.
As far as the preparation of a defence is con-
cerned the Bench will always see that a man is not
“THERE WAS AN OLD WOMAN WHO
LIVED IN A SHOE .”
“Mr. Hushes is so busy he hasn’t time to attend
to Immigration.” —Harry Gullett, who has thrown up
his job as Director of Immigration at this end.
prejudiced by his failure to get bail. He can
secure an adjournment, brief counsel and have
writing materials placed at his disposal. But there
is another aspect—bail, which results in temporary
release, may be responsible for a defence that is
manufactured, not prepared. Frequently police wit-
nesses are suborned to commit perjury, and the
traces of the crime are completely covered up. It came
out recently that two burglars on bail took the oppor-
tunity to remove and hide their entire haul. Bail
should be refused in all cases where the police are
likely to be hindered in their inquiries or the Court
believes that the course of justice will be subverted.
The suggestion that a 12-months’ stretch might
be substituted for a monetary deposit does not
appeal to me. The offender who contemplates “skip-
ping” would not be deterred by the threat of the
12 months; he would include that with the rest of
the risk. On the other hand my observation is that
when a man is in trouble he is deeply grateful to
those who come forward to help him. He may have
robbed, committed bigamy or a dozen other things;
but, unless an arrant rotter, he feels towards his
bonsdmen only gratitude, and this will make him
face his trial.
“Elburg” : “Sol. Malaprop” (B. 9/2/’22)
allows his zeal for the North-South railway
and justifiable rage at the non-delivery of
the goods to distort his vision and make
him look cross-eyed in any other direction—
particularly East-West. The North-South
route may be a veritable Garden of Eden,
without the snake; but the Western line is
not a “silly business,” nor has it the “desert
on one side.” And anyone who says that
“the Commonwealth rushed to build” the
line would look upon a steam-roller in
action as a bolting vehicle, and would scuttle
out of its way. The building was a distinct
pledge, and isolated Westralians waited until
almost despairing for the fulfilment. It was
not expected to pay in its earlier years; but
the loss would even now be less it it were
not for the campaign of calumny engaged in
by the parochial press of the East, and the
brigandage of certain officials. The link-
ing of East and West was necessary to make
Federation something real to Westralians,
who are also Australians. They have reason
to bless its existence when the W alshes
and Willises of the East periodically close
up the sea-line of communication. Does
“Sol.” begrudge them this? To recur to the
desert aspect, the line rims through many
hundreds of miles of excellent pastoral coun-
try covered with the wonderful salt-busk and
blue-bush which California is industriously
cultivating as a precious thing. Foreigners
believe that Australia is mostly desert be-
cause the Australian press is always telling
them so. Even Australians under similar
influences may learn to think in sand in time.
Mrs. Cowan, the lady M.L.A. from Perth,
had a chance in Melbourne last week to pass
some wise remarks on the “social evil,” but
all she did with the chance was to waste it
on the old advocacy of Moral Endeavor.
Dr. Fetiiejrston. addressing a branch of
the Womenfs League, talked about the evils
of venereal disease in general, and in
particular ; the iniquity of marriage where
the male party is suffering from v.d. when
the rites are solemnised. The medical man
suggested that a clause in the Health Bill
should empower a licensed practitioner to
prevent a marriage where he knows of just
cause and impediment why it should not
take place. He called upon the women pre-
sent to help the doctors towards effecting
this reform; but of all the women present
only Mrs. Cowan spoke freely, and she
chose to turn the matter to a question of
sex comparison
She thought the doctors ought to advocate the
cure of this disease by a single moral standard. If
they taught chastity to men as well as to women
this could be accomplished.
It is disheartening to find an early woman
legislator thus burbling with the professional
purist. “Why cannot men be subject to
the same social laws as women?” Why
cannot your uncle be your aunt? The male
isn’t the female, and that is all about it;
and if Mrs. Cowan will devote a little study
to life in the farmyard, the dogyard, the
sheep-run and other places where birds and
nuadrupeds foregather, she will conclude that
Nature made it so and advocate the pre-
vention of horrible diseases by more prac-
tical means. And, incidentally, who told
Mrs. Cowan that doctors are in the habit
of preaching chastity to women? Nature
and their mothers have been more than suffi-
cient for the purpose hitherto. It seems
only the other year that a medical-woman
lecturer from America was telling a Mel-
bourne audience of women that husbands
would have been much more sexually respect-
able than they are had not women been
taught to practise an unnatural self-restraint
■ —a coldness which causes men to be seekers
of strange goddesses in the hope of at last
finding their ideal.
» _
Melbourne ’Varsity is shortly to have a
students and graduates’ employment agency,
along the lines of the bureaus of service in
many English and most American Universi-
ties. The idea is an excellent one and should
forge a serviceable link between the Univer-
sity and the outer world. The greatest benefit
will probably come from interesting the
business man in the ’Varsity and getting him
to appreciate the value of the trained techno-
logist. Among manufacturers and others
there is thus far a well-rooted idea that the
graduate is an impractical theorist, and
that one “practical” but uneducated man
is worth a dozen of him—a belief which finds
its last stronghold in Australia after
having had its hollowness exposed nearly
everywhere else. The originator of the
idea of the Melbourne Bureau was the
late Dr. Rothera, who arranged for the
creation of what was to be known as an
Appointments Board just prior to the
beginning of the war. But that and his
death put the matter into abeyance until
a few weeks ago, when it was revived by
Stanley Addison, the Assistant Registrar
of the University, who will probably serve
also as secretary of the new agency.
“Solom>on Malaprop” was a selector once:
“C.C.” writes (B. 16/2/’22) about the difficulties
experienced by his friend Juggins in “settlin’ on
the land.’’ I didn’t find things so difficult. In the
’nineties I took up 320 acres about 65 miles from
Sydney and four miles from a railway station. The
local Lands official gave me no trouble. He seemed
glad to see me. He knew everything. He would
feed out of the hand. He would also drink. The
Land Board was friendly, and gave me such fencing
exemptions as I asked for at the first time of ask-
ing. Two Governments (those of Dibbs and Reid)
did their best for me. The Dibbs Ministry went out
of its way to write to me, and inform me that the
adjacent 320 acres were in process of forfeiture and
I was eligible to add it to iny estate. It was even
mentioned that special arrangements might be made
so that I could expand to 1280 acres. Though I
liked the scenery and the people, I declined. The
Dibbs Ministry was all broken up and immediately
resigned. Later I told the Reid Cabinet that I
would see it blistered before I would pay another
bean ; but I received a peck of documents, extending
over years, before the State reconciled itself to part-
ing with me. I fancy every selection thereabouts
had six successive owners before my time, and had
six more after it. I was told lately that a returned
soldier had been put on one of them at great cost,
and as a great favor, and that he Was under the im-
pression that the former owner had made his fortune
and retired. One owner was an acquaintance of
mine, and he retired right enough, but he carried
the fortune in a potato-sack. He left by the mixed
train. I believe changes have taken place, and a
railway deviation runs through my old selection
now. Also, I have heard a city firm has been selling
“farmlets” there after the new manner, a farmlet
being a little farm, just as a hamlet is a little ham.
In fact, there has been a boomlet. Fishing is spoken
of, so maybe someone has been sowing whale-seed
in the purling Rhine across which I used to wade
in brighter, happier days. But even if castles and
cathedrals are built there the place will drift back
to vacancy. The selection business is quite easy
—especially if you don’t know enough to be a
Selector ; that is to say, if you take whatever is
offered to you. And that is the unfortunate position
of two-thirds of those who are “put” on the land.
“Ex-Dig.” : To guard against the dummying of
soldiers’ settlement areas, it was laid down
that a Digger might not sell his land and
improvements without approval for a set
term of years, and then only to another re-
turned soldier. A wise enough provision,
but it is flooring many returned men who
have experienced bad seasons. They want
money to carry on ; but as their land (in spite
of all their money and labor having gone
into improvements) is inalienable, they
cannot get it from private people. Applying
to the Soldiers’ Settlement Branch, even if
there is still available a portion of the grant
to which the men are entitled, is a hopeless
business, because of the hair-raising speed
with which that branch doesn’t deal with
applications. Ifortune seems to have selected
some of the Digger settlers for special chas-
tisement ; in various parts they have suffered
heavily from droughts, floods, hailstorms,
grasshoppers and grubs; and, through no
fault of their own, they are “up against it.”
Their straits are so bad that unless they
can get some more help many will simply
have to go out and leave their improvements,
and a couple of hard-grafting years will
have gbne for less than nothing. 'The
only way out seems to be for an arrange-
ment to be made between the Soldiers’ Settle-
ment Department and the Commonwealth
Bank for further advances on the jointly-
held security. Millions of pounds have been
spent on soldier settlement: it will take a
lot of expert nursing to prevent perhaps
the bulk of it becoming plain bad debt.


■a
II!
off ike Ice
ABBOT'S
LAGER
“ 3he Beer
Without a RiVal **
BREWED FROM PURE MALT&HOPS ONLY
+9o*
ITALY’S BEST.
á
AT.T. FIAT CARS are fitted with Eleqr
trie Eights and Self-starter and 5
detachable steel wheels with tyres.
EFFICIENCY.
A purchaser of a mod i SCI 10/Ish p.
FIAT writes: —
“I had a very good trip up from Syd-
ney ;we must have travelled more an
280 miles, and the FIAT behaved herself
splendidly.
“Although the car is a small one I
was very surprised at her power on top
gear—she took practically every hill on
top that I could so negotiate with my
’>
This gentleman formerly owned r. six-
cylinder car rated at 27 h.p. x’..A.C.
Another tribute to the high efficiency of the FIAT.
GARRATTS LIMITED,
173-175 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
>UCK McNEIL. General Manager. SOLE AGENTS FOR N.S.W. Telephones: City 582-3-4.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Immigration Case will no doubt be
listed as Gullett versus Gullem.
GnS thing Theodore of Queensland didn’t
mentibn td the great Labor rally in Sydney
Town Hall was that the latest official count
in his State showed 218 unemployed otit of
every thousand unionists (strikers addi-
tional). It has taken seven years to do it:
but with Theodore on hand to show how it
can be done Dooley and McGirr will manage
it in much. less.
At the Economic Conference, Garden, one
of the representatives of Moscow, produced
a bale of figures to show that the Broken
Hill Prop, shareholders had bee™ pouching
fat' profits in the war-time and that it was
all nonsense to say their steelworks couldn’t
carry on. Well, even assuming that the
figures are right, what about it? There was
a time when 600 cos. and syndicates were
operating on the Barrier. Five hundred and
ninety of them never paid a dividend. It took
these hundreds of concerns to find one Broken
Hill; and some even of the Broken Hill
mines haven’t paid a dividend for close on
20 years. Unless mining “investors” are
going to be allowed a prize now and then
there won’t be any prospecting or mining at
all.
The way things are done is that the States
indent immigrants through the Common-
Wealth, The Commonwealth collects them,
telling the necessary fairy tales and making
the necessary promises, and the States keep
the promises—or don’t, Australia is so fond
of divided authority and duplicated jobs
that if it bought a jackass out of loans the
front would be Federal, and the rear State,
and the middle debatable or neutral ass.
From the Federal Gallery man :
Liberal “heads,” whose regard for Hughes consists
of tolerance colored with opportunism, have been
looking over the plans for the new Federal electo-
rates, and profess to see the doom of Laird Smith
and some others whom the autocrat is supposed to
hold dear. The seats of these, it is alleged, can
be captured for Liberalism, and with the expected
victories in Ballarat, the new constituency in Mel-
bourne and other centres, the possibility of a mass
withdrawal from Hughes is regarded as hopeful. If
Watt would come out of his retirement and
start a fresh party, Hughes’s Government wouldn’t
live a week. But Watt is in no haste to assert
himself. Plenty of time for action, he thinks,
on the reassembling of the Reps., when the language
which is being stored* up over the immigration
fiasco is bound to be augmented by further criticism
over some other exhibition of muddlement.
“The biggest organising brain and the best
financial expert in the world,” according to
Dooley Superbus', is to be hired, when he
gets back to office, fo manage the N.S.W.
railways. He might as well, hire a lay
figure and chain it to a post. The manager
isn’t allowed to build lines where they W ( ill
pay; to build them to new ports; to build
them anywhere: to forbid them being built
anywhere; to close hopeless lines; to pre-
vent rates being faked to force trade to one
city when the result is to kill trade; to join
up his lines with those of other States; to
have any voice that counts in fixing wages
PF Other conditions of employment; and it
k bi\oposed. that he should lose all power of
fligbiissai; hfiyg an elected shunter for a
colleague, dna .bS limited by a Parliament of
union secretaries. tVh£ii this is fixed up
no genius is wanted. To hire One would be
like buying Napoleon and putting him in a
sentry-box.
WeSttalian Premier Mitchell, a hopeful
and affable chan,- lately farewelled himself
off to London in a blaze of optimism. At
an official snack he said the Federal Gov-
ernment has agreed to help in “develop-
ment,” and the expenditure of six millions
in three years was mooted. Also, a million
acres are to be cleared —the speech was full
of millions. Mitchell’s State borrowed some
£26.000,000 between censuses, and added
48,074 people to the population of Perth and
2025 to that of'the balance of the State.
In the previous decade, when the borrowing
pace was onlv about half as fast, 27,472
were added to the country population. Big
loans only make big cities —the experience
of every State proves it.
SPOILING THE SERENADE.
So little did the Lawson Government
think of the Jury Squaring Prevention Bill
that it threw the thing overboard, although
it had been passed by the Council, to enable
the Assembly to knock off for Christmas a
week earlier than usual. Now the Govern-
ment is making a flourish of the strict legisla-
tion it will try to pass this year. It proposes,
amongst other things, to forbid the reading
out of the addresses of jurymen and the
publication of their names. But there is to
be no provision against packing, which is at
least a possibility. Persons sent for trial
are not always guilty, and if there is to be
a fair hearing by 12 average men there
should be somebody to audit the work of
sheriffs and other officials.
The verbal bill of fare, offered by the
alleged representatives of the workers at
Hughes’s futile, “economic” conference,
included the usual hazy, hoary anecdote
about the “opening of credit” (always talked
of as if it was a religious service, or a door,
or a football match) “to provide for the con-
tinuous needs of industry.” The hackneyed
“credit” idea is a humble branch of the art
of getting A great deal of money from no-
where. If it were given its plain, one-
syllable name the deluded workers would
recognise it. That name is Debt.
Last year the Murrumbidgee irrigation
settlement was £71,000 further from paying
its way than ever, but it is always just after
it has made the biggest smash that Dooley-
ism sees better things ahead. The last year’s
deficit was £284,567, and as the irrigated
space was 33,415 acres the loss was over
£8 10s. per acre. The railway loss is an
extra. Irrigation may bring a fortune to
Egypt or India or Mesopotamia, where
people irrigate for vegetables, but in Aus-
tralia, where they only irrigate for votes, the
mere hint of more of it makes the hair stand
Up on the taxpayer’s head. Improvement is
promised—by the Thirteen Rich Men who
spend £6OOO a mile in putting a thin streak
of surface along the middle of Parramatta-
road, and who have about 200 cottages on
their hands at Gladesville because they
couldn’t provide three rooms and a kitchen
for less than £lOOO and the value of the land.
Titus Oates Dooley’s wonderful Gun-
powder Plot about a meeting off capitalists
at Brisbane to organise armed forces, fill
the land with nigger workers and overthrow
Labor, was rather a fizzle. Dooley professed
that the capitalist was so almighty that,
when a few of him gathered at an address
which was too terrible for Dooley to 'men-
tion. there was nothing left for Labor but
to die fighting. The “capitalists,” who now
exist in Queensland chiefly to ■ pay taxes
which don’t seem to do anybody much good,
replied that they were under no> delusions
as to their almightiness, and that (their meet-
ing was advertised and was quite public and
ordinary. As a matter of fact, the only
notorious scheme for organising armed forces
just now is that of a semi-secret Labor bodv
which demands that there should be all-round
militarism in Australia, the soldier retaining
his gun on discharge, presumably that he
may be ready to use it against his fellow-
Australian when orders arrive from the Red
Internationale at Moscow.
It will be interesting to discover if there
are ghosts in N.S.W., as there are in Queens-
land, where, on a State election day, one
can hardly get near the poll for spooks.
As 5000 new names have been put on the
roll in Mr. Dooley’s district there may be.
Certainly many disembodied spirits were
found on the Sydney municipal roll after
three years of Labor rule. And judging by
what infuriated Laborites said about each
other after the selection ballots the con-
tents of three cemeteries took a hand.
Queensland has three tests of public senti-
ment —the municipal, Federal and State elec-
tions. At the first and second the Theodore
crowd is despised and rejected, but at the
State election, which it takes itself on its
own special roll, it v = u enough. In
1920 there were chroe on 60,000 more elec-
tors on the State roll than the Federal
authorities could locate, and people who died
50 years ago flocked to vote along with
people who won’t be born till 50 years hence
—and not then unless their parents become
acquainted first.
“J.E.” : One of Dooley’s admirers has been
comparing him to Moses, and in doing that
he builded better than he knew. Moses was
the man who led an ignorant people through
the wilderness for 40 years towards the
promised land and left them before they
reached it.
Every Minister must be up and doing
something to keep himself before the public
when 13 big Ministerial salaries hang by
a hair over a precipice. So silent Sproule,
the N.S.W. Solicitor-General, whose very
existence is disputed in some quarters, has
ordered seats to be placed in witness-boxes
—a good idea, though it seems an inade-
quate return for two years’ copious salary.
And two years also seems an awful time
to take to find out that some witnesses have
corns.
The New State organisers in Northern
N. S. Wales sent polite inquiries to candi-
dates in the five northern electorates. The
result up to a few days ago showed 17 seat-
hunters to be favorable. The 17 are also
in fayor of peace, virtue and prosperity, like-
wise .art, culture and happiness. Some of
them, greatly daring, go further and give n
general support to piety and economy. But
as they haven’t deposited their signed resig-
nations as security that they will fight and
stonewall and, at the last 'resort, even secede
for the New State, things seem no further
advanced. y
Three persons who understood that there
are always people who will give valuable
consideration in return' for promises have
been heard of in England. They offered
17 p.c. per week on money entrusted to them
to back horses with, and as many as 2000
remittances would reach them in a day.
People sold properties and war bonds to
raise the money, and left off work as a super-
flous thing, if the trio had been Australian
nolitieians they would have gone to the coun-
try and nromised 34 per cent, per week in
return for three years of office, but they
missed that .tricj# somehow.
The Lawson Government is again talking
of introducing a measure to amend the jurv
system; and Attorney-Geneyal Robinson is
very emphatic about the need for alterations.
But there is one thing he doesn’t mention.
He doesn’t give any guarantee that any
influential criminal whom the police have
taken the trouble to convict will not be
afforded access to the Executive and gain
a remission of his sentence without any
reasons being published therefor. Whilst
this way out exists to crooks of sinister
character the talk of reforms lower down is
so much beating of the air.
The trend of things is interestingly illus-
trated by a revolution in the business man-
agement of Adelaide Hospital—a State in-
stitution. By a new Act the cumbersome
old Board of both sexes has been scrapped
and a small business-like one of three replaces
it, with the Director-General of Hospitals
as chairman. This is Dr. B. H. Morris, a
Welshman with wide experience in New-
castle (Eng.), the Malay States and the
Australian Navy; he was on the Protector
in China. The only member of the old
Board retained is W. G. Coombs, an insur-
ance man who has been chairman of it for
the last 14 years. The third man is Wal-
lace Sandford, produce merchant and present
head of S.A. Agricultural Society.
The first Tasmanian Wages Board to
order a reduction ip pay was the Municipal
and Marine Boards’ Board; but it lopped off
only 2\ per cent, from salaries over £260
and about 3d. a day from ordinary unskilled
laborers’ wages. The main factor in pre-
venting a bigger reduction seems to have
been a notification in the press, on the very
morning the Wages Board assembled, that
the big Zinc Co. had voluntarily agreed with
its several hundred employees that the exist-
ing rate of wages should continue for at
least another six months. But it isn’t every-
body that lias a chance to bleed poor old
John Bull as the Australian zinc industry
is doing.
It was rather a pity that, in the con-
troversy between Gullett and Hughes over the
former’s resignation from the Immigration
Department, neither party alluded to the
value or otherwise of the security which
Theodore offered for the loan , that Hughes
refused, thereby making one of Gullett’s
grievances. But the painful subject must be
mentioned one of these days. Even Queens-
land isn’t Croesus.
PSSISTED IMMIGRATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Among Mr. Mathews’s revelations wtte state-
ments that one man who had come out as a farm
worker was really a racehorse-owner. Another had
taken a position at the Perth University. A young
lady was said to possess 70 dresses and a set of golf
sticks. She was coming here as a domestic servant,
but was said to have stated that she intended con-
tinuing her world tour in the near future, with
Vancouver as the next port of call.” —Daily paper.
She took her passage as a girl
Prepared to swab the kitchen sink ;
She stripped the diamond and pearl
From off her breast without a wink.
Her wardrobe, crammed with silk and lace,
Filled four great cases to the lid ;
Only the wonder of her face
By no devices could be hid.
He left his mansion in the night,
Mor patisefl to bid a fond farewell
(£d, antient parks (hat; left and right,
Had tales tit other years to tell,
But, as the stable Hattie in t^ifjvd; k
He shed a simple, manly tear;
He felt, without a horse or two,
His future must be dark and drear.
As simple as a cottag’a maid, •
As rugged as a navvy’s son,
The lord and lady unafraid
Their yarns about the steerage spun.
The other dukes and millionaires
Passed them with recognition scant,
Each thinking of his own affairs
And proud to be an immigrant.
The stately Marquis of Ardlines
Alone among the wealthy throng
Observed by various marks and signs
That here was something very wrong.
He whispered in an open ear
The secret of the bold disguise,
And mentioned he had cause to fear
The ship was simply full of lies.
X.s.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


SOME OF OUR IMPORTS.
THE KID (languidly): “Why all this fuss, Gullett? Kook what we already owe to immigration!’


\ /
w
*
Vf, .
y
IP M
W.HJ*
i
&
IF NOT THIS
THEN THIS
When you cannot go to the sea bring fresh breezes into your
home or office by using “THE WHIRLWIND FAN”
p
ELIZABETH ST.
MELBOURNE
ers
IWtCTKICAL
CO.LTft
304
KENT STREET
SYDNEY
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Qelatlne Dynamite
Qelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
'Safety , c utfe
Detonators
Cartridge*
WRITE FOR PROSPECTUS OF
Australian Aerial Mail Services Limited
Directors: H. B. HOWARD-SMITH, L. M. SfACPHERSON, H. J. LARKIN.
Government Subsidy: £29,000 per annum.
AVIATION ON BUSINESSLIKE LINES.
SUBSIDY PAYS ALL EXPENSES EARNINGS ARE ALL PROFIT.
ALBAN GEE & CO., Sharebrokers, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
COBRIE & CO., Sharebrokers, Parbury House, Brisbane,
OFFICE OF COMPANY, 524 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd., leather
manufacturers, etc., Svdney :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Serves.
Dec., 1913, . £2127 8 p.c. = £2266 £7,655
•mne, 1914.. 1719 7 „ „ 1982 7,392
Dec., 1914.. 1851 7 „ „ 1982 —r 7,201
June, 1915.. 2023 7 „ „ 1982 £4l 7,302
Dec,, 1915.. 2399 7 „ „ 1982 417 7,719
June, 1916.. 2243 10 „ „ 2832 7,130
Dec., 1916.. 2832 10 ~ „ 2832 7,130
June, 1917.. 2832 10 „ „ 2832 - 7,130
Dec., 1917.. 3116 10 „ „ 2832 284 7,414
June, 1918.. 3135 10 „ „ 2832 303 7,717
Dec., 1918.. 3206 10 „ „ 2832 374 8,091
June, 1919.. 3071 10 „ „ 2832 239 8,330
Dec., 1919.. 3614 10 „ „ 2832 782 9,112
June, 1920.. 5088 10 „ „ 3021 2067 11,179
Dec., 1920.. 4905 10 „ „ 3985 940 12,119
June, 1921.. 4098 10 „ „ 3905 133 12.252
Dec., 1921.. 4487 10 „ „ 3965 522 12,774
This co. has just completed its 30th year —
the Ludowicis were pioneers in the local
leather-manufacturing industry—and has
come through recent abnormal times in sound
condition. There has never been anything
exciting about the concern : no bonus shares
or other titbits have been thrown to share-
holders, but it has been a very consistent
dividend-payer, 10 p.c. having been distributed
regularly for many years except during a
short spell when the Board got at logger-
heads. Still, J. C. Ludowici’s has not done
so well as might have been expected of a
manufacturing co. operating in a hide-produc-
ing continent. Like other pioneers it had
to live down the prejudice against home-
manufacture and struggle for an existence
while the importing mania continued. The
co. is doing much better nowadays: the 10 p.c.
requires £2266 p.a. more than formerly, and
a considerable amount of funds has gone into
properties. The old York-street freehold
premises have been extended and remodelled
for letting purposes, and a new factory has
been erected in the suburbs. New capital
totalling £22,656 has assisted the building
programme, but hasn’t been sufficient to com-
pletely finance it. These changes have
shown ud in the balance-sheets since 1015:
IQI K IQ9O 1091
Capital .. ..£56,644 £79,222 £79,300
Liabilities . . . . 707 13,338 34.628
Freeholds .. ..16,983 36,122 62.636
Plant, etc 4,009 4,759 4,094
, Stocks .. .. 37,817 47,600 40,997
Book debts . . . . 6,260 15,409 18,150
Cash, etc. , . .. 2,09.5 6,102 7,081
The feature of that comparison is that stocks
are only about £3OOO larger than six years
ago, and the plant item is about the same
as formerly. But in consequence of the out-
lay on property liabilities are nearly £34,000
greater.
When the wild gamble in hides proceeded
and large profits were possible by selling
goods manufactured from low-price materials
in the boom market, this co. did not show ex-
ceptional earnings: instead the management
kept a good deal up the sleeve in view of
probable trouble. Hence this one, unlike
some others, had not to do any patching when
the slump arrived. The co. now shows
£27.645 of its capital of £79,300 represented
by the surplus of liquid assets over liabilities,
with properties and plant with a book value
of £66.730 to support £51.655 of capital not
covered by the liquid surplus.
The Coast Steam Navigation
Co. (N.S.W.) :
Unexplained
Busi- Additions Written
ness to Re- Off Re- Re-
Dec., Profits, serves. Dividends, serves, serves.
1909. . £18,334 £1,858 8 p.c.= £ 17,500 £62,159
1910.. 17,903 4,013 8 ~ ~ 17,500 66,575
1911.. 20,710 8 ~„ 18,629 £3245 65,411
1912.. „ 24,762 2,789 8 „ ~ 23,420 69,542
1913.. 27,707 4,466 9 „ „ 27,000 74,715
1914. . 27';234 1,953 9 „ „ 27,000 76.9Q2
1915. . ‘25,644 2,165 9 „ „ 27,000 77,711
1916.. 27,516 4,098 9 ~ „ 27,000 82.325
1917.. 25,416 .4,426 9 „ „ 27,000 85,167
1918.. 25,945 3,900 9 „ „ 27,000 88,012
1919.. 28,805 22,115 9 „ 27,675 111,257
1920.. 41,468 10,962 10 „ ~ 35,664 128,023
1921.. 45,373 15,600 10,,,, 39,471 149,525
There was no slump in the intra-State
coastal carrying-trade last year, and as the
North Coast S.N. management had been able
tomaintain the balance between charges and
working exes. 10 p.c. was found for share-
holders without difficulty. The directors
show £45,373 as the year’s profit, but that
was after £15,600 net had been added to an
insurance and repairs suspense account.
That reserve continues to grow steadily: it
held £64,234 in 1915 and £125,476 at the
latest balance. There is scarcely a doubt
that most, if not all, of the accumulation can
be regarded as genuine stored profit, and,
consequently, that the net additions each
year can also be regarded as profit. For
these reasons: (1) current repairs, etc.,
appear to have been paid for regularly out
of revenue, the directors every year reporting
that the fleet has been maintained "in good
order”; (2) the reserve was not tapped,
though it might reasonably have been, when
considerable alterations were made to the
steamers to comply with the amended
Navigation Act; and (3), in the matter of
insurance, the fleet is evidently Cully
covered with outside underwriters. Last
year the largest steamer, the Wollong-
bar (2005 tons), and one of the smallest,
Our Jack (272 tens), were lost; neverthe-
less, the net additions to the reserve were
exceeded in only one previous year, and on
that occasion the acquisition of another
business may have helped to swell the
reserve. At least it is evident from recent
happenings that, under the directors’ present
policy, wrecks and founderings are not
contingencies which the insurance reserve
is liable to be called upon to make good.
Besides losing two steamers, the old
iCallatina (550 tons) was sold and the little
Doepel added to the fleet. As a result these
changes have shown up in the balance-sheets:
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Capital .. £218,750 £300,000 £390,714 £394,714
Liabilities. ... 23,618 28,631 52,945 43,252
Ships.. .. 244.107 248,979 302,944 234,018
Freeholds, etc. 23,612 26,809 29,945 30,044
Liquid .. 49,975 144,055 260,282 343,164
The liquid assets comprise book debts,
£89,284; coal and stores, £23,909; shares in
other cos., £57,694; public securities,
£44,191; and deposits and cash, £128,086.
The surplus of more or less liquid assets over
and above all liabilities at the balance was
nearly £300,000. After payment of the final
div. almost 14s. per £1 paid share was so
represented. In the book value of fixed
assets there was 13s. 4d. per share more, so
the backing to capital is excellent. The
liquid surplus will, however, be cut into
during the current year: a steamer to
replace the Wollongbar should be ready for
delivery in September, and a new shallow-
draft wooden steamer will be put into com-
mission towards the middle of the year. One
feature of this coastal shipping co. is that
there has been no issue of bonus scrip, and
consequently there has been nothing very
fat for shareholders. In fact, the 10 p.c. is
a mild return in view of the extent of funds
employed. Paid capital and visible reserves
total £544,239, and including the additions
to specific reserves as genuine net earnings
last year’s profit of nearly £61,000 repre-
sented a return of slightly more than 11 p.c.
The co. will in future close its books as at
June 30 each year, instead of in December.
Pelaco, Ltd., formerly Pearson, Law,
Ltd., Melbourne, manufacturers of shirts,
collars and men’s wear:—
Deficit
(Goodwill
Dividends. not
f A , Writ- reckoned
Pref. ten as an
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. Off. Asset).
1913.. £4,494 £1486 Nil £473 £4,564
Reserves.
1914.. 7,874 1487 7 p.c. = £991 567 265
1915.. 6,248 1487 10 „ ,j 1,416 918 2,692
1916 . 8,269 1783 10 „ „ 1,699 961 6,518
Transferred to capital, £5664. . .. 854
Deficit.)
Co. re-formed and re-named; £18,486
added to goodwill items .. . . 17,632
Written
Profit. Dividends. Off.
1917.. 10,416 10,071 958 18,245
Further goodwill items, £133 .. 18,378
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord.
7 p.c. 9 p.c. 124 p.c.
1918.. 15,131 2082 1406 5000 1053 12,788
15 p.c.
1919.. 26,181 2082 2812 7718 1284 503
Reserves.
1920.. 29,455 2082 3656 8766 2165 12,283,
Loss. * Deficit.
1921.. 14,473 2082 4500 Nil 8,772
This co. is chairmaned by E. C. Dyason, who,
as; leading spirit in the Gold Producers’ Asso-
ciation, has constantly had a finger on the
world’s economic pulse. So, when values
tumbled, Pelaco. Ltd., did not hesitate to
readjust its trading to the altered conditions.
Dyason explains succinctly in the directors’
report the reason for the year’s loss: —
The policy adopted by the Board in facing the
unprecedented decline which took place during the
year in the value of stock, held and committed for,
was to face the loss at once, and by meeting th'e
market maintain and improve the trade position of
the co. This policy was persisted in throughout the
year, with the gratifying result that the whole Of
the old high-priced stocks have been disposed of, and
the co.’s present stocks have been purchased at low
prices upon a favorable market. In a period of
rapidly falling values, it is impossible to avoid
losses, and although the Board had provided against
the inevitable fall from the extraordinarily high
price level reached, the beeline in stock values was
somewhat heavier and more rapid than anticipated.
Dyason goes on to explain that, though no
ordinary div. is possible, this misfortune “is
off-set by the great gain in stability conse-
quent on lower price levels and the im-
proved trading position of the co. following
an increased volume pf output.” After pay-
ing pref. divs. the co.’s position had weak-
ened by £21,000, but if that —and, of course,
the loss of a year’s div. to the ordinaries—r
proves to be the total cost of getting the
business on a, sound basis, and of extending
its trading connection, the co. will have done
very well. •>,
• ' ■ :.‘i .-•* J.JV
During the year construction of the new
factory at Richmond (Vic.) was proceeded
with, and the property item has grown from
£23,289 to £95,527. New capital totalling
£27,500 assisted, but liabilities at the latest
balance were nearly £40,000 larger than 12
months previously. They would have beep
much larger but for £48,800 less being tied up
in materials and manufactured goods. This
shows how the co.’s interests have expanded
since the reconstruction in 1917:—
1017 101 Q 1090 1091
Capital . . £81,736 £122,236 £148.486 £175,986
Liabilities . . 22,662 46,371 56,849 96,139
Premises .. 11,814 16,454 23,289 95,527
Plant, etc. . . 9,577 12,837 15,513 28,729
Book debts . . 23,301 56,418 54,030 63.895
Stock . . . . 42,735 85,863 124,349 75,525
Cash, etc. .. 5,186 4,669, 9,652 2,139
In pre-war days the old co. had a paid capi-
tal of £35,400., Capital is now nearly five
times larger, and is made up of £29,736 of
7 p.c. prefs., £50,000 of 9 p.c. prefs., 110,000
ordinaries fully-paid to 10s., and a similar
number paid to 75.-od. At the latest balance,
except for £2300 balance , of purchase money
owing, the co.’s properties were unencum-
bered; but the co. was working on an £83,046
overdraft at the Union Bank. Sooner or
later, the Board will no doubt resort to other
methods of financing. ■ .. •
* * * , *
The Equitable Building and Invest-
ment Co., of Wellington (M.L.) :
To
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1910.. £8578 10 p.c. = £5981 £2597 £61,657
1911.. 8524 10 „ „ 6000 2524 64,181
1912.. 8881 10 „ „ 6000 2881 67,062
1913.. 8937 10 „ „ 6000 2937 69,999
1914.. 8638 10 „ „ 6000 2538 72,537
1915.. 8431 10 „ „ 6000 2431 74,968
1916.. . 7725 10 „ „ 6000 1725 76,693
1917.. .6624 . 10 „ „ .6000 624 77,317
1918.7 6870 10 „ „ 6000 870 78,187
1919.. 7185 10 „ „ 6000 1185 79,372
1920.. 7936 ,10 „ „ 6060 1936 81,308
Profit on sale of assets ... 3767 85,075
1921.. 6814 10 p.c. = 6000 814 85,889
For many years this old co.’s loan business
had been very steady; only £30,000 more
wiis advanced as at December* 1915, than 10
years before. But when Maoriland began to
prosper from war activities, the demand for
advances became brisk, and at the close of
the next five years nearly £31,000 more mort-
gages were on this co.’s books. Last
year, however, when the markets crashed,
the Dominion became disillusioned as to
the permanence of the prosperity, and
an ugly position was overcome only
by the Government declaring a mora-
torium in respect to deposit monev.
The 44-year-old Equitable probably did not
feel the pinch sharply, but the management
decided to go cautiously, and at December 31
last there wa£ £16)260 less loaned than 12
months before) and it had repaid £25,421 net
of deposits. Gross earnings fell off £1072,
and on only one previous occasion during
the period covered by the table were profits
smaller. Although there was a fair margin
over and above the usual 10 p.c., the co. nowa-
days is not doing pearly so well for share-
holders as it did formerly. That has been
due entirely to heavier taxation : this co. last
year paid £3775 into the Dominion Treasury
compared with £9OO in 1915. The manage-
ment now haB to make almost 6& p.c, on capi-
tal for the Government before shareholders
get a look-in. And the TO p.c. divs. are not
fat considering that there are reserves of
nearly £86,000 to help £60,000 of capital. On
total funds the latest net profit gave a return
of under, 4J p.c.
This shows balance-sheet movements since
1910 :
' -r, 1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Capital and n '
reserves . . £124.656 £137,968 £144,308 £148,889
Liabilities .. 240,924 262,427 295,249 269,583
Assets: —
Advances .. 344,960 369,391 400,240 383,980
Freeholds..; 10,237 10,001 1 9,300
Liquid 10,383 j 21,003 30,017 34,492
The £34,492 of liquid Assets at December 3l
were almost wholly Government securities
and cash. The co. nowadays owns no
real property: last year premises stood
in the books at £9300, but they were sold,
and gave a £3767 profit on book figures,
This has been put into a contingency
afid investment reserve, now £5767, and
included in the reserves of the intro-
ductory table. At the balance the co.
had 13 p.c. of all liabilities liquid,
which is a good deal more than many of these
mortgage concerns can show. - Perhaps the
presence of Bank of New Zealand chairman
Harojd . Beauchamp on the Equitable Board
has something to do with it. The £235,091 of
debts not covered by liqifid assets; at the
balance were backed by £383,980 of mort-
gages, or more than £l6O of loans to protect
every £lOO borrowed. So creditors had little
to fear for the safety of their money.
The Ipswich Gas and Coke Co. (Q.) :
To Re- lle-
Feb., Profit. Dividend. serves. serves.
1911.. £2lBl 10 p.c. = £l2OO £9Bl £6518
1912.. 2417 10 „ „ 1700 717 7235
1913.. 2020 10 „ „ 2000 20 72 5
1914.. 2102 10 „ „ 2000 102 7357
Written of/. . . 800 .. .?•
1915.. 2366 10 p.c. = 2466 6457
Transferred to capital, V6OOO 4;>/'
1916.. 3423 10 p.c. = 3150 273 730
1917.. 3042 B| s , „ 2934 108 838
Dec.,
1917.. 3425 94 „ „ 2848 577 1415
1918.. 3077 5 „ „ 1845) „„„ Ifi47
Written off, £lOOO ]
1919.. 2648 ,5 p.c. = 1845 ( _ , 4r ~
Written off, £lOOO j
1920.. 2126 24 p.c. = 956 1170 2620
1921.. 2607 4„ „ 1560 l 382 3002
Written off, £695 )
There is a very lame appearance about recent
entries 1 in that table, and as scrip-holders are
nowadays offered only 6s. for their £l-paid
shares* and over four years have averaged
only a little more than 44 p.c. p.a. they have
good reason to believe that they are nursing
an invalid. At one time 10 p.c. divs. flowed
out regularly and with apparent ease. But
things have changed. First of all there was
the Queensland Gas Act, which set about
regulating the quality and price of gas.
Future div. rates were afterwards jeopardised
by the capitalisation of £6OOO of reserves.
Also, nowadays there is electric competition,
and that has cut into the co.’s field. This
shows how profits were arrived at in 1915
and for the past two years:—
1915. 1920. . 1921.
Gas sales .. .. £8555 £11,412 £11,671
Residuals, etc. .. 1103 981 1,330
Total income .. £9658 £12,393 £13,001
Expenses .. .. 6235 10,267 10,394
Profit .. ~.£3423 £2,126 £2,607
Compared with six years ago, and notwith-
standing the increased prices allowed by the
Gas Referee, income has expanded only 35
p.c., while expenses have increased 66 p.c.
The £2126 and £2607 shown for the past two
years cannot, however, be definitely regarded
as net profits; apparently no allowance was
made for depreciation in either term. Ques-
tioned on the matter of depreciation at the
annual roll-up of shareholders the chairman
said :—■
The Gas Act allowed the co. to pay a dividend of
84 p.c. on the capital value of the plant and
machinery. There was no inducement for them to
write it down. The figures last year did not vary
much from those of the valuer. In this instance he
thought an allowance could have been made for
depreciation.
The reference to the. Gas Act is altogether
beside the question ; the Gas Referee’s duty
is to see that there is no excessive writing
down of assets; in other words, to protect
the public against the gas cos. making fat
profits and hiding them away by writing off
unduly large amounts for depreciation. But
though it may no longer pay to attempt any-
thing of the sort, the directors have an ob-
vious duty to shareholders in making recog-
nised adequate provision against depreciable
assets to safeguard capital. Nothing lias
apparently been charged on this account
since the £lOOO provided in 1919. So though
reserves in the introductory table are shown
to have meantime grown £1552 after paying
an average div. of 34 p.c. p.a., that reserva-
tion may not be actual stored profit at all,
and the co. may have done even more poorly
than the accounts suggest. That there are
uses for the “surplus profits” other than for
divs. was borne out by the directors’ refusal
to entertain a shareholder’s proposal that the
rate for the year be lifted to 5 p.c., though
according to the published balance-sheet that
would still have left £762 of the declared
profit of £2607 available for reserves. Two
years ago the co. had a surplus of £2603 of
liquid assets over liabilities; at December 31
last £lB5B, and all except £328 of the latest
surplus will go in the year’s div, ■ Since
making additions to plant the co. has had to
fall back on a bank overdraft to finance its
Operations.
* *. . * *
Colonial Gas Association, Ltd. —-
Albany (W.A.), Mt. Gambier (S.A.), Sand-
gate (Q-), Casino (N.S.W.) and Footscray, 1
Bairnsdale* Box •Hill, Oakleigh, • Maldofi,
Horsham, Benalla, Seymour, Sheppartbri and
Warragul (Vic.) are all interested in this
English co. It has £272,432 in works which
supply gas to those towns. There are
£56,080 of 7 p.c. prefs. and £157,735- of
ordinaries—a total paid capital of £213,815.
In 1920 the co. Was also working on £39,700
of debentures and £16.885' overdraft and
temporary loans, and though £25.000 more
debentures were raised last year, further
funds are urgently required to finance addi-
tions to works. To get this money the
management recently offered shareholders
debentures carrying 84 p.c. p.a., an interest
rate exceeding the best divs. which have
been paid the ordinaries. Mostly they have
had 7 p.c., but for the past year they got
8 p.c. for the first time.


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to tlie tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company,- corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburu
Street, Sydney; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne.—Advt. [2
* * « *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world's best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. —Abvr. [1
* * * *
Engineers when preparing specifications are re-
quired to look years ahead and consider how their
work will stand in the future. This test of time
and efficiency when applied to a water conduit clearly
indicates the use of Pioneer Wood Pipe in place of
metal. Wood does not rust r:or corrode, and its
carrying capacity is from 15 to 20 per cent, greater
than metal. Arid this capacity does not decrease
with age as metal most certainly does. Send for our
interesting booklet for further, facts and comparisons.
The Australian Wood Pipe .Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.—Anvr.
#*' # •
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd.. “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wyhyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of . likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this_ company. — Advt.
**. * *
Inventors. —Have von an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & liassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Ceil. 5035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
• • . •
IDEAS.-—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Con nisoN & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thir-tv years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
* * » »
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-disfdling and benzol,
etc., plants ; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants; coal-washing plants ;. superphosphate plants;
blast furnaces ; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
“1921 Models”—-“National” suction-gas engines
and Auction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). — Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. -Call or write for particulars. H. 15. Selbv * Co.,
r.td:. 2Gn George - Street (between Hunter anil Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
FOR SALE—Steam Locomotive—Makers, W. G.
Bagnall, Ltd., England.—2ft. 6in. gauge. Double
cylinders, 6in. diameter x 9in. stroke; 45 ljin. steel
tubes; saddle tank; cab with hand brake; sand
boxes ; four wheels coupled, 17]in. diameter; wheel
base 36in., 1501 b. pressure. Forwood Down and Co.,
Adelaide. — Advt.
Dalgety 8 Company
rLimited — -
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates ho
should assist his executors by taking: out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GABVAN,
Managing Director.
â
bOORD & SON
V* V LONDON, ENGLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
m
DU
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Asents. 26 SO Clarence St.. Sydney
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
13
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
The anxiety shown by a certain section
in the House of Commons to see the con-
tract for zinc concentrates between the
Broken Hill cos. and the Board of Trade
annulled might be allayed somewhat were
they made aware of the fact that by the
end of this year pi’oduction of zinc concen-
trates in Broken Hill will be substantially
reduced, as the huge tailing and slime dumps
on which the Zinc Corpoi’ation, B. H. Prop,
and de Bavay Co. have been working these
many years are cutting out. The de Bavay
Co. has a large quantity of, more or
refractory slime on hand for retreatment,
but otherwise the future looks bleak. The
South Blocks mine is the standby of the
Zinc Corp. ; but its low gi-ade makes it a
tough proposition under present economic
conditions. The Barrier cos. through the
agency of Willie Robinson certainly made
a very good deal for zinc concentrates with
the Bidtish Government; but it must be
remembered that they supplied several hun-
dreds of thousands of tons of pig-lead at
£3O per ton and under at a time when
as much as £56 was being paid to the Yanks.
* * * »
During the past four or five years E. C.
Andrews, Government Geologist, has been
engaged on- a very complete geological survey
of Broken Hill and its surroundings. In
this he was aided by a technical staff pro-
vided by the Department and the mining-
cos. The report, which will be available
shortly, should be one of the most complete
ever issued in connection with any mining
field in the world, and will be of great value
to the men on the job. More than likely
some old theories will be upset, but no earlier
geologist ever had the time or the staff
to investigate as Andi’ews has done. An-
drews stands high in his science, and a
pleasing feature of his work is that he de-
votes considerable time to the economic side
of the job he is doing. In this connection
he met with signal success at Cobar during
the war, when his recommendation influenced
the Government in lending the money to
reopen the show.
* * • *
There is talk of an American corporation
re-opening Great Cobar. It sounds incred-
ible ; if it is really contemplated, then the
new men must have unbounded faith in
some method of treatment which, to be suc-
cessful, must reduce costs by one-half.
With new capital amounting to £162,000
(£62,000 subscribed by debenture holders and
£40,000 advanced by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment) the mines were restarted in Nov.,
1915. Actual smelting commenced in Jan.,
1916, and was continued until March, 1919.
During this period 456,505 tons of ore were
treated, from which were recovered 8271
tons copper (average 1.81 per cent.) con-
taining 33,8150 z. gold and 139,6890 z. silver,
the realised value being £849,849, equal to
a trifle over £1 17s. per ton of ore. The
advance made by the Government was re-
funded—lucky for the State was it that
there was a boom price during the cam-
paign ! The official report states: “During
portion of the period under review, opera-
tions were earned on at a profit, but to-
wards its close resulted, we believe, in a
loss. Had it not been for the phenomenal
and unexpected rise in the priee of copper
during 1916, which was maintained through-
out the war, a loss would certainly have
occurred during the whole period.” The
chemical composition of ore smelted during
the three months preceding the closing down
of the mine was: Copper, 2.41 p.c.; iron,
36.50 p.c.; sulphur, 9.60 p.c.; insoluble,
34.90 p.c. The mine officials estimated that
there remained in the Great Cobar mine
the following quantities of ore containing
3 p.c. copper; Basic, 2000 tons; neutral,
33.350; siliceous, 16,500; total, 51850 tons
Costs sheets show that during Feb.. 1919,
when the furnace had an uninterrupted run
of four weeks, the net cost for blister at
the mine was £93 2s. lid., to which have
to be added chai-ges for refining, freight and
realisation (£l7 Bs. 9d.) and official expenses
(£2 10s.). Thus, the cost Of producing elec-
trolytic copper was £ll3 Is. Bd. per ton,
exclusive of charges for intei-est, redemption
of capital, etc. Increases in wages and rail-
way freights would raise present-day cost
by at least £l5. In the Chesney
thei-e are 614,290 tons ore available, with
values: Copper. 2.5 p.c.; gold, O.OOdwt.;
silver, 7dwt. The chemical composition is:
Iron, 12 p.c.; silica. 65 p.c.; sulphur, 5
to 6 p.c.; alumina, 66.8 p.c. In the Fort
Bourke there is an estimated 117,760 tons
valued at 545. per ton. with copper at £lOO
and gold at £4 4s. The ore is principally
quartz. Obviously Chesney and Fort
Bourke are non-smelting propositions, and
the Great Cobar lacks the iron and sulphur
for their utilisation.
* * * *
Associated Extended tin, Emmaville
(N.S.W.), is being worked under a profit-
sharing system formulated by managing-
director J. W. Roberts. . Sluicing was re-
sumed last week, and will be continued fox-
six weeks before a clean-up takes place.
The initiation of the scheme involved a
mass of calculations and much consideration,
but Mr. Roberts reports that throughout
the negotiations he had the incalculable
advantage of the confidence of the men, and
conferences were conducted in g.ve-and-take
spirit. The veteran battier thinks it inad-
visable to publish details of the scheme
until it has had a test, a'nd to this it is
being subjected in the severest form. With
tin at between £l4O and £l5O, or nearly
£3O per ton less than actual cost of produc-
tion on company’s account, it may seem
something akin to madness to expect any-
thing but failure ; but at any rate, the men are
working whole-heartedly and are confident
they can achieve success. If they can, and
the professional mischief-maker doesn’t in-
tervene, it may mean the resuscitation of
the moribund industry.
The old Tingha-Emmaville itin district
(N.S.W.) has been hard hit by low markets
and high costs. Twelve months ago there
were between 60 and 70 dredges operating ;
not more than seven are now at work.
Sub-letting, of portions of large-sized oil
concessions in Vvestralia is now in full
swing. Freney’s has given an option to an
Adelaide broker over its northern area and
another over, portion of its southern block
to some Sydney speculators. Bits of the
Australian Petroleum Co.’s huge holdings are
also being farmed out, and other concession-
aires are getting ready to follow suit. Area
21 H, which lies south of Freney and Okes-
Durack concessions, and which recently
failed to float as the South Esk, has been
taken on appro, by the Lass o’ Gowrie East.
An attempt is being made to boost the
latter’s shares on the strength of the option,
but so far the market has moved only a few
pence and is spineless.
* * * #
A small co. is being formed to prospect
for coal and oil in the Irwin district, be-
tween Perth and Geraldton. Professor
David expressed the opinion that the locality
was worth prospecting, and an “experienced
oil geologist” has since declared that the
prospect of striking oil there is favorable.
There are some good names on the Board,
and, as with few Westralian ventures, the
public is not asked to pay too much for the
privilege of putting iii' its cash.
* * # *
Stannary Hills (N.Q.) is going to'be a lot
quieter than it is, for the Lass o’Gowrie, the
Derek and John Darling and Sons (successors
to the old Stannary Hills Co.) have, all
applied for six months’ exemption, being
“unable to work at present prices of tin.”
Tin (black tin) is down to about £BO or £B5
per ton, but wages, etc., are still high, and
there is no alternative but to wait till prices
greatly improve or expenses greatly fall.
* * * *
A little mining is still going on in Her-
berton (N.Q,). The Wild Irishman is
raising good ore from the western lode*' and
has some 200 tons of stone at grass, good
for about 20 p.c. black tin; but the price is
too low at present, so tho- ore is going into
the paddock. Px-ospecting proceeds for the
eastern lode, which has yet to be loc ted.
The Great Northern Co. is sinking the Gull./
shaft, the objective being the Gully lode.
The shaft should not be long before it is
there. A little dead work is proceeding at
a few —a very few—other mines. The
Empress (copper) is crosscutting for the
lode, and a few tin mines are mostly worked
by the owners; hardly any labor is employed.
There are still some prospectors in the dis-
trict, but very high crushing charges have
thrown a wet blanket on them, and most
of the old hands have sought employment
in the timber trade, on the sugar-fields, and
in railway construction.
* * * *
The holders of the St. George, a gouger
mine in the Duchess group, Cloncurry, have
struck a small bonanza in copper ore. The
lode, which is sft. thick at the plat, car-
ried there a good sprinkling of copper glance ;
but on the 50ft. level it made into a foot
of practically pure copper glance. The last
crushing of 30 tons sent to Chillagoe
assayed 56 p.c. metallic copper.
* * * *
The oil-shale areas at Lowmead and Tar-
ginnie, in the Baffle Creek and the Narrows
tertiaries respectively, Gladstone district
(Q.), have been again taken up recently
and there is some talk of importing a Scotch
shale-retorter to give the owners points on oil
and ammonium sulphate extraction. These
shales were considerably tested in Scot-
land, and are more like the Scotch article
in composition than anything else in Aus-
tralia barring the torbnnite. Old John
Moffat put capital into the original attempt
to exploit Lowmead, and four shafts were
sent down in various localities. All of them
cut shale. The best records were 10ft. and
9ft.. in rwo seams. The Scotch tests of
samples from these shafts have given up to
82gals. of crude oil and 401 b. ammonium
sulnhate per ton; but these results are
higher than those obtained by the Queens-
land Government Analyst from samples sub-
mitted by the Mines Department. Very
little work has been done to prove the beds
in the Narrows deposit, and their value is
uncertain.
Irvinebank (N.Q.) is in a serious position
because it hasn’t found the continuation
of the famous Vulcan lode. The machine
drills were removed from the 1400 ft. and the
water allowed to rise, but the search at a
higher level has not succeeded. The tribu-
tors in the upper levels located some nice
patches giving them a most satisfactory
return, and it was hoped something would
be left for the co., but it seems otherwise.
As the grant made by the Government has
been expended, the co. is now waiting for
further funds. Even the State store has
put the shutters up half-way. The State
mill has very little stone in hand, or promised.
Its charges,’ by the way, are still very high.
Altogether, the Mines Dept, cannot quote
Irvinebank as a shining example of State
management.
*• * * *
Monument Hill Co., one of the Bendigo
Amalgamated’s chickens, has flown home
with 350 z. from 32 tons won from the 600 ft.
level. This is good news, because the mine
is on the Deborah line, on which almost no
prospecting has been done. The New Deborah
Co., south of the Monument Hill, is just
.completing the erection of machinery prior
to testing the reef. Should these claims
succeed the demise, of Bendigo and the death
of the B.A.G. will be postponed. Tnere’s
life in the old field yet: Lansell’s North
Red, White and Blue put 66|oz. of gold in
the* kitty; it was taken from 85 tons at
635 ft. We may yet have to praise Great
Csesar instead of burying him!
* * * *
The Jamieson-Woods Point district is the
only goldfield in Vic. where old mines are
being re-opened. United Gleeson’s and Sailor
Bill at Ten Mile is starting under new
auspices with fresh capital. The Wallaby,
on Ryan’s Creek, is being re-organised, and
the leases formerly worked successfully by
Victor’s Quartz, New Dempsey, and Royal
Standard are being taken out of the safe and
dusted, preparatory to finding fresh money
to go after gold. The success of the Morn-
ing Star has given the whole district a hypo-
dermic injection. Rose of Denmark,
Working Mipers and Star of the West, are
plugging away, and shortly the New Loch
Fyne will be added to the list of producers.
# * * *
Westport-Stockton Coal (M.L.) produced
104,257 tons last year, but could not make
any profit. The co. had labor troubles early
in the period, and its fuel had to meet com-
petition of heavy shipments of Newcastle
coal during the later months. Freight
charges are a heavy load: no less than
£55,756 of the year’s gross profit went that
way. After meeting other exes., though
apparently no provision was made for de-
preciation, there was a loss of £lll3, and
neither the 137,060 10s. prefs. nor the 262,940
10s. ordinaries got a div.
Reports of two small Westralian cos.
whose activities are now mostly centred else-
where were issued in Loudon recently. One,
the Paringa, showed a loss of £1096 on
the year’s working, and the pther, Westra-
lian Mines Development, hinted that ends
were just about being met. Both cos. are
now interested in S’African gold-mining ven-
tures, but the Westralian Mines Develop-
ment has two properties on tribute at Kal-
goorlie, and also holds a parcel of shares
in two other shows there.
* * * *
Westralian oil cos., looking or alleged to
be looking for oil-boring plants, have had
their attention drawn to a new drill known
as the “diamond core,” which is doing well
in Mqxico. The process, it is claimed by its
barrac-kers, is at least 20 per cent, cheaper,
and far quicker, than any hitherto used.
A month or so ago, in London, Anglo-
Persian Oil Co. was offering 2,000,000 8 per
cent, cumulative first pref. £l shares at £1 Is.
and 600,000 ordinary £1 shares at £3 ss.
Interest centred in the ord. shares, as it was
the first time outsiders had been given a
chance to obtain them. Hitherto they had
been held by the, British Government, the
Burma Oil Co. and the Strathconas. The
market quickly established a substantial pre-
mium on the issue. Co.’s net profits for the
past five vears have been: 1917, £344,000;
1918, £1,309,000; 1919. £2,011,000: 1920,
£2,612,000; 1921, £4,028,000. As liability
for excess-profits duty has ceased, future
annual surpluses are tipped to show further
large expansions—'provided present prices of
oil products are maintained.
« * *
While next to nothing is being done with
our oil-shale deposits, the U.S.A. has started
to take a deep interest in its b ds, not-
withstanding that gushers still abound.
The shale it calls “the second line
of oil defence.” There was a National
Shale Oil Conference at Chicago last
October, presided over by Victor Alderson,
who is out to boost the immense deposits
of Utah and Colorado. Opinion was divided
as to how long the gushers were going to
last, but it was unanimous on the point that
now was the time to prepare for supple-
menting them, U.S.A. domestic supplies
being already outstripped by its own de-
mands. In fact, on the statement of Alder-
son, the Standard Oil and other cos. are
intensely interested in oil-shale, and are
acquiring properties, a definite omen of the
expected shrinkage shortly in their own
concerns. On the question of costs the Ken-
tucky delegate showed that there they were
producing shale oil at a dollar a barrel,
while Mid-Continent oil, with the same
paraffin content, was selling at l| dollars.
However, conditions as to mining and cheap
power were shown to be abnormally favor-
able in Kentucky, and it was considered
there would have to be a 50 p.c. rise on
present oil prices before Colorado could
enter the field. But they are doing all the
spade work necessary, particularly in test-
ing and improving retorts to handle large
tonnages daily. Scotch retorts are not suit-
able, as they are designed chiefly for maxi-
mum ammonia extraction, and Colorado and
Utah lack this by-product. The great Dollar
States are not the only ones on the qui vive
as regards oil-shale. Esthonia, with a pro-
duction of 55,000 tons mined in 1920, jumped
up a good second to Scotland in the list of
world-producers. The shale there was first
used in its crude state for fuel, but is now
being retorted and at present coni prises the
chief natural wealth of the Baltic States.
Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Brazil
are countries in which the supplies are
stated to be practically inexhaustible, so
that all portents show that the Australian
industry will, in the next decade, have to
meet fierce competition.


1555 .
<.591.
1910.
191 a.
1916
1920.
1922.
LABOR AND ITS HORSE.


Visitors to Sydney will
find that the bed and
breakfast tariff system
at the Hotel Sydney
considerably reduces
the cost of their stay in
the holiday city, while
giving greater freedom
of movement for busi-
ness or sight-seeing.
400 Guests.
Hot and cold water in every Bedroom.
Delightful Roof Garden.
Write for Tariff Card.
Management: E. T. CHEESMAN.
“The drink of good taste.”
Delightful with dinner!
Satisfying with supper!
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
T. B.
LIGHT
ä
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1021 Model Meats “He
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the onlv proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Chief Justice Nicholls, who is temporary
Governor of the Speck, vice the Excellency
who downed tools and went home, has noti-
fied the Lee Government that, if it-is think-
ing of making the Lieut.-Governorship a per-
manency, he will not be an applicant for
the job. This is taken to be a timely and
not ungracious intimation that if any local
personage—even a lifelong political* oppo-
nent like Elliott Lewis—is after the Gov-
ernment House tenancy. Nicholls is not the
man to stand in his way.
For the first time in his political life 1 of
35 years or thereabouts Treasurer Lewis
Justice
MACARTHUR ,
of Victoria.
(Tas.) lias set
his fellow-islanders
guessing his inten-
tions. The simple
announcement of
his decision t o
stand down from
the hustings at
next elections gives
no adequate clue to
the mystery, so the
guessing is natu-
rally various. As
: there is no indica-
tion that Agent-
General Asbbolt is
tired of his job
and- as no addi-
tional judgeships
are visible in the
offing, most of the
guesses are con-
verging on the
vacancy left by
the thrifty Allar-
dyees at Govern-
ment House.
Having been admitted by the ,Full Court
Digger Will Slater, member for Dundas in
the Vic. Assembly, is now a full-fledged soli-
citor. Taking advantage of special facili-
ties offered, he has got through all the requi-
site exams, since he returned from the Front
in ’l7. Labor has been without a lawyer in
the Vic. Parliament since Maurice Black-
burn went 4 out of the Assembly, and it will
now pit Slater against Lawson, Baird, Snow-
ball, Eggleston and Speaker Mackey—the
Liberals’ legal quintette.
Arthur Davis, who is Steele Rudd to all
Australia, has suffered a serious breakdown
—a general physical and nervous collapse—
and is now at Greenmont (Q.) enjoying
rest and undergoing repairs. One restric-
tion imposed by the faculty is particularly
hard on the father of all the Rudds —he must
not take a pen in hand for 12 months.
“Rio” : Colonel Alf Bennett does not win
the long-service stakes (B. 23/2/’22), but
he gets a place. The winner is Col. J. H.
Courtney, of Melbourne, still on the right
side of 60, who got his first commission in
the old First Vic. Infantry (28/8/’B5). The
runner-up is General Chauvel (16/3/’S6).
Colonel Bennett came in three weeks later
(10/4/’80). Generals Monash, Legge, Irving
and Baton are close up: all put up their
first “pips” in 1887. Bennett, however, is the
only one who fought in three wars, none of
the others being entitled to the Egyptian
medal and star of 1885. But he was not
commissioned then.
E. G. BROOKE,
superintendent of
the- Eastern
Extension
Cable Co. in
Australia.
Tom Skeyhill, the Australian who has
made a name for himself as a lecturer in
the U.S.A., has completed his plans to
again visit Russia and the Balkans. He
will leave New York next month, and, as
on the previous occasion, will contribute
his impressions to The Bulletin in a
series of special articles.
James McDougall McKenzie, Melbourne
City Council’s treasurer, has added up his
last: column of figures. The call came to
him Suddenly at St. Kilda. Victorian-born
(his dad was a Presbyterian meenister),
he went through the mill at Scotch College,
and started with the City Council in ’B5.
when he was a stripling of 18. He climbed
quickly, and had been head of the corpora-
tion’s finance branch for just on 21 years.
Captain H. Larkin, director of the new
aviation co., which lately secured aerial-
mail contracts to the tune of £29,000, is
a mere youth in appearance, but shipowner
H. B. Howard Smith and squatter Leslie
Macpherson have sufficient faith to join him
as co-directors of the show. Larkin has
much of the energy and forthright address
of his dad, who is general manager of the
Commonwealth Government line of steamers
in London.
William J. Jeffkins, the octogenarian who
suicided at Annandale (Sydney) by setting
himself and the house in which he was living
on fire, was at one time in charge of the
Hay prison. Even in those days he liad
queer moods, and once he “sacked” all his
prisoners-—turned the lot out. They had, of
course, to be recaptured; but some of them
were upset at being emptied upon a hard
world, and waited miserably outside the
gates until their gaoler got over his tantrum
and readmitted them to the comfort of the
cells. v
“W.L.8.”: Names? At a cattle-sale
recently at Woodside (S.A.) among those
present were Messrs. Head, Boddy, Chinn,
Legge and Foote. There was still another,
but modesty calls a halt.
A notable figure at the Methodist Confer-
ence in Sydney has been John Gale, of
Queanbeyan. He is 92 and, hfts for 67 con-
secutive years been the representative of his
circuit at the annual conferences. For 70
years he has been a lay preacher—and he
was recently re-married.
Anne Williams, the Melbourne soplano
who has just been given a swagger send-
away concert in the Town Hall, under the
patronage of Melba and all the Mandarins, is
the daughter of a well-known old Ballarat
identity, William Williams, who dates back
to well beyond Eureka, and was manager of
many mines in the district. He, too, is
Ballarat-born.
Peden, the Gundagai assayer, released
after three trials and appeals,_ gained his
freedom partly through the evidence given
before the Commission by Dr. Wilkin, his
dead wife’s medical adviser, who said that
her death had Been more probably due to
a suicidal than to a homicidal wound. Hav-
ing made this statement, Dr. Wilkin died—
on the very day the Commission finished
taking evidence.
One" more of those fearsome records of
youngsters keeping their little noses to the
grindstone. The Creely children, of Coola-
mon (N.S.W.j, have to drive five miles to
school.' Ivy has been attending for nine
years, Sadie for seven, Phyllis four, and
Dulcie two —and not one of the four has
missed a single day. An elder brother, Cyril,
is now teaching, but he also had an unbroken
record of school attendance.
Among the group of bloodhounds engaged
on the Alma Tirtschke case none looked the
part less than the burly. Bropliy, a man of
more courage than brilliance, who used to
be an artilleryman and has a reputation as
a finger-print expert. It was on the latter
account that he was one of the first in Gun
Alley after 'the discovery of the body. Later
there was a yarn that finger-prints had: been
found on the child and that they did not
tally with those of Ross. The police, how-
ever, did not produce any finger-print evi-»
dence at the trial, and the assumption 4s l
that, as the corpse had allegedly been
washed, none were obtainable. Brophy was
born in the Vic. seaside village of Cowes,
which also produced his angular colleague
Piggott. The latter is, mentally, grades
above some of the ex-policemen who try hard
to bring glory to the C.I.D.
Dead in Adelaide suddenly, at 65, A. W.
Shillabeer, an authority on agriculture, and
especially on dairying. He owned champion
cattle himself, and was a leading member
of all sorts of committees nnd councils
dealing with the subject.
The name “Struth” cropped up in the
Melbourne Coroner’s Court the other day.
The man who hurried himself across the gulf
had been a captain in the A.I.F. But he
had lost his grip of things and had recently
been odd-jobbing on the wharves.
“Russ”: Seven young chaps had a “bob
in” at the London Hotel, Ardlethan
(N.S.W.), to-day. Their combined ages
totalled 525 years—J. Helley 85, P. Fisher
79, M. Bowe 75, J. Whyte 73, M. McKinnon
73, T. Clune 71 and J. Prothero 69. All
are old hands in the district.
You could almost throw a brick from
the cliffs at Peterborough (Vic.), where the
old ship Falls of Halliday was wrecked a
few years ago, to the place where Torn
Griffin, her mate, has his selection. Fate
bumped Griffin ashore there, .and, not being
fussy, he dug in. He took a hand in the
recent world rumpus, but is now back at
the old address. The Loch Ard wreck, with
the loss of about 50 lives, occurred close by
in the ’seventies.
Adelaide Museum has acquired a new
foundation-stone. William Light,, founder of
thj city, was Surveyor-General of the infant
province, and had first gone about the coastal
parts of it with quite an open mind, looking
for a site for the. a capital. So the weather-
worn inscription lately found cut in a stone
at Rapid Bay, “W.L. 1836,” is considered
a genuine relic of Light, especially as his
journal shows that he was a good deal in the
district , during that year. The stone had
fallen from a cliff face downward and had
thus kept the inscription hidden.
“Gouger”: Gone to the Adventurers’ Para-
dise, old Billy Lakeland, pioneer and pros-
pector of the Far North. He travelled up
the Cape York Peninsula in the long-past
days of the Overland Telegraph survey, and
was one of the party who later on opened
up the Rocky River diggings. He was con-
tinually poking into the bush, and, often
with only a nigger and his horses for com-
pany, disappeared on prospecting jaunts for
many months at a time. On his last trip
his nigger deserted him. A few weeks later
the Coen police came upon his camp at
Attack Creek, but they got no trace of Lake-
land himself until after several days they
found what the dingoes had left of him.
W. Robertson, a North Queenslander who
died a few days ago, had a remarkable
record. After bucketing about the world in
wind-jammers, he came from Scotland to
Australia, but a little later went across and
shouldered a rifle in the Maori War. Re-
turning to Brisbane he joined the Harbor
and Rivers Department, and was presently
sent to the lighthouse at Flat Top, near
Mackay, where he stayed for no less than
40 years. He retired in ’l6, and died at 78.
Lord Tennyson, a former Governor and
even for a while Governor-General, was not
the only member of the poet’s family to
favor Australia with his . attention. Years
ago a Tasmanian farm was worked by
Horatio Tennyson, a brother of Alfred’s.
Returning to England after 10 years of
antipodean endeavor, Horatio became some-
thing of a social success as a reader of his
brother s art.
JOYNTON
SMITH,
of SMITH'S WEEKLY
and a dozen other
Sydney ventures.
Francis Long-more, the Melbourne chemist,
managed to pile up £32,659, which he left
to his grown-up family.
After having been kept in the background
since he succeeded Baracchi,,.Dr. J. M. Bald-
win, Vic. Government Astronomer, is now
being recognised. He is about to leave for
Itome to attend an international conference
-on' geodesy and geophysics. For 30 years Vic.
has taken all it could get from the observa-
tions of others and has contributed nothing,
so the Government thought it was up to it
to send a delegate. Baldwin will also, try to
pick up some wrinkles on weights and
measures, to assist in having legislation
thereon modernised.
H. Ruge, just dead gt Proserpine (N.Q.)
at 80, came to Moreton Bay as a Danish
youth in ’63. The gold germ soon bit him,
and a few years later at Ravenswood he
opened up the rich Who’d Have Thought
It. He put in five years on the Palmer
diggings, then, returning to Ravenswood,
took up the famous General Grant on tri-
bute, bottomed on good ore and started
Ravenswood’s boom. Of late years he had
been cane-growing.
“Yarnim”: The late Alick Waddell, the
discoverer of Araluen (N.S’.W.), one of the
richest goldfields in the State, got very little
oht of it. He was very hard of hearing, so
he used to have about 4ft. of rubber tubing
on the table beside him, and when one
wanted to say something to the old chap
he had to say it into one end of the hose
while Alick held the other to his ear. There
was some talk of a monument to the dis-
coverer’s memory; but the old hands of the
field left, and the newcomers'Avere too tired
to erect one. Mention Wgddell there now,
and nine out of ten will remember him only
as “the old bloke who played a lot of euchre
and always carried a tube.”
When he was a young man Irvine, now
Vic. C.J., issued a manual for the guidance
of Justices of the Peace. The other day
’Sonor said J’s.P. should, give reasons for
their decisions. L. L. Philpott, the amateur
specially aimed at, hit back by remarking that
Irvine in his manual didn’t say anything
about giving reasons, and that Lord Mans-
field and “a most eminent” Victorian Judge
had counselled magistrates to keep their
reasons to themselves. Of course, Irvine,
C.J., takes no responsibility for anything
Irvine, junior barrister, said or wrote, or
even for what Irvine, State or Common-
wealth Attorney-General, advised. But it’s
no use trying to get that into the heads of
J’s.P.
“Okoy” : Someone recently cabled the amaz-
ing news to Australia that Major Orde Lees
is the first European to stand on the top of
Mt. Fujiyama (Japan). Mendenhall got
there in ISSO, and in the summer of
’l3 my dad and I and another Aus-
tralian also did it. We spent the night
10,000 ft. above sea-level, then the next
morning reached the summit (12,395 ft.)
and: saw the Pacific Ocean on one side of
Japan and the Sea of Japan, 120 miles away,
on the other side. Two years later an Ameri-
can parson wanted to do the climb, but, as
he had only 24 hours before the train left
which connected with his steamer to America,
the Jap guides said it couldn’t be done. I
said it could : so the Yank and I packed our
swags and did it.
THREE MORALITY RHYMES FOR THE YOUNG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1.
There was a greedy Farmer
Who wouldn’t sell his Hay.
He said, “The price is Going Up:;
- I’ll sell another day.” t
He kept it till December:
The Weather grew so Hot,
It caused a blinkin’ thunderstorm
Which Burned the Blinkin’ Lot.
Moral. ,
And when his neighbors heard how he’d
Been ruined in a night,
They laughed Aloud and said, “Indeed,
It serves the Blinker Right!”
11.
Another greedy Farmer
Declined to sell his Wheat
While Starving Folk in heaps and heaps
Were Dying in the street.
lie said, “I want nine shillings
Per bushel—f.o.b.”
The Weevils came and Scoffed the Lot,
Which was the End of he.*
Moral.
And when he Died and went to Hell
His neighbors said, “It’s just as Well 1”
in.
There was a wicked Milk Man
Put Water in his Milk
Because his wife insisted that
Her Undies Must be Silk.
The children in his suburb
Got Rickets by the Score,
But since he died of tetanus
They don’t get any more.
Moral.
If you must poison children
Use something Nice and Quick. It’s
Much Safer in the Long Run
Than killing them with rickets.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
C. H. SOUTER.


Your Easter Suit, £4)4!-, to measure
at
Wi
m i
1
K3ju.
ft
1
*2.
%
I
T will be studying your own interests to place your Easter Suit
order early. This tailoring offer is particularly attractive —
in price, quality and service of the materials.
Patterns and tape-
measure, together
with forms for self-
measurement, will be
sent post free on re-
quest. Carriage paid
on all goods through-
out Australia.
Gowings’ Suits to measure
from Australian Tweeds
å
Other Prices: £5/5/-, £6/6/-, £7/7/-, £B/8/-
If a customer is not
satisfied with his suit
on completion, he has
simply to return it
and his money will be
refunded without
question.
Gowing' Bros. Ltd.,
486 George Street (Opp. Centre Q.V. Market Building);
and Branch at 304 George Street,
SYDNEY.


Riding Breeches to Measure
a Special Study at Peapes'
Being made by an experienced staff, whose time is devoted to this
class of work, it can be readily understood why Peapes’ Riding
Breeches are the preference of so many experienced horsemen.
With cross pockets, seat and leg seams strongly sewn and reinforced,
in Pawn, Grey, Green or Brown All-Wool Gabardine —equal to pre-
war quality—or in West of England Riding Tweeds.
PRlCES—Economic Tailoring .. .. .. 757-
Best Tailoring . . 85/-
Knee-strapped with same material.. JO/- extra
Or with wash leather .. .. 15 /- extra
Patterns and self-measurement form on request.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
á
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
PRESTIGE
How Much is it Worth to You?
COroNA
The Complete Portable Typewriter
WILL ADD PRESTIGE TO YOUR LETTERS,
ACCOUNTS, REPORTS, ETC.
COSTS ONLY *l7/17/- COMPLETE IN CASE
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
17 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
SOCIETY
AN ALIBI.
“I didn’t accept Harold the first time he pro-
posed.”
“No, you weren’t there.”
“X.Y.” : Twenty-odd years ago I saw three
boys of 12, 11 and 10 brought tip for trial
•at the Quarter Sessions in a N.S.W. North
Coast town. Cut off by floods they had
killed and eaten a calf, and they were charged
with cattle stealing as a result. Judge
Coffey had the mother called so that he
might read her a lecture on the training of
boys as law-abiding citizens. “By the way,”
he asked, have you any children besides these
three?” “Yes, yoiir Honor —nineteen,” she
said. And she was not more than 43 years
of age. She died during a typhoid epidemic
a few months lateff.
“Ex-Dig.”: The N.S.W. Divorce harvest
has restarted; and this term an increased
number of the cases concern the affairs of
Diggers married during war-time. Many things
happened to the hurried Pommy brides who
hit c h e d-u p wit h
A.I.F. warriors about
the year 1918. Some,
when faced with the
necessity of leaving
their kith and kin
and making the voy-
age to Australia, de-
clined ; others had
discovered fresh affini-
ties before their Dig-
ger warriors returned
from France on their
fi rs t post-marriage
leave; others, having
arrived in Aus-
tralia before their
’grooms, found new
lovers here before
their rightful lords
came back. Three
years having slipped
past, all these have
become simple deser-
tion cases now. One
Digger petitioner who
married a thrice-made
widow has a letter to
show the lady’s rea-
son. She mentioned
that each of her pre-
vious husbands had
had the decency to get
killed, and she natu-
rally did not antici-
pate any other fate for a fourth. The tone-
of the letter implied that this Digger had
cruelly disappointed the writer in not pro-
viding her with pension, too.
« * * *
“Wart”: Now here’s tact. Launceston
Examiner is the second oldest paper in
Tasmania —in a sense the oldest, because 42
years ago it absorbed the Cornwall
Chronicle, which was the oldest. Its first
issue, on March 12, 80 years ago, contained
eight pages; and .seven of them are to be
republished as a souvenir. The missing
one contained a list of the latest pardons
and tickets o’ leave.
* * * *
“O.K.’s” moral reflections: —
A disagreement of the jury in the Gun Alley case
would have been deplorable, inasmuch as all useful
moralising on the horror would have been paralysed
until public interest was dead. The conspicuous
fact in connection with Ross, assuming that the
stories told by the Crown witnesses fere true, is that
he not only lacked a moral sense, but was more or
less incapable of understanding that any black sheep
might be less brutal than himself.
Talking to a detective about another
tenant in the scowling arcade where
he came to grief, Ross said: “He
seems to get hold of the young
tarts. I wonder where he finds them.
1 can’t”—as, though the capturing
of girls of tender years were a
pastime that nobody need be ashamed
of. When an undisguised prostitute
saw Alma Tirtschke in his den she
remarked: “Rather a young kid to
be drinking wine, isn’t she?” To
which Ross replied: “Well, if she
likes it she can have it.” What
seemed most remarkable in the case,
viz., Ross’s confessions to two women
and a male pal in prison, is not so
remarkable if the witnesses did not
libel him. He expected them to take
his crime at his own under-valua-
tion. He lived in such an evil
environment in the Eastern Arcade
that nothing seamed to him too
e\ il to own up to where a question
of “beating the police” was con-
cerned. When Ivy Matthews asked
him “Why did you do it?” he saw
no reason why he could not expect
her sympathy and assistance. The
same self-deception would account for
his blurting out his story to an
acquaintance in the prison-yard. “Can
I trust you?” he asked, as though
the revolting yarn of how he choked
a moaning child without knowing
he was killing her would be no
more hideous to the other fellow
than it was to his own conscience.
As the result of an appeal a different view may be
possible; but on the evidence at the trial it looks
as though Colin Ross had mixed with bad lots until
his sense of proportion in badness had become
blunted and his judgment (if he ever had reasoning
powers apart from cunning instincts) was utterly
perverted.
* * *
“Lexus”: When the High Court was at
Hobart recently, C. S. Page appeared before
their Honors with a grey suit imperfectly
concealed by the black robes of his trade,
He was told that unless he substituted
black for grey he could not be seen. Jus-
tice Duffy was on the bench at the time,
and I saw 7 a reminiscent smile steal round
the ends of his moustache. Not long after
the court was established, ’Sonor, then a
practising barrister, flashed before the gaze
of Samuel Griffith with his lower limbs en-
cased in bright sporting grey trousers.
Griffith mentioned testily that Mr. Duffy
was not properly clothed, and that at lunch-
time he would have to change. Duffy argued
BEACH AMENITIES.
“I say, that's my missus down by the edge.
What about coming in with me — er,
only just to make her jealous, you
know?”
that his pants were in order. Solemnly he
read the rule, which stated that counsel
must appear “dressed in black coat and
trousers.” Throwing back his robe he
pointed out that his coat was black. “But,”
said the C.J., “your trousers are grey, and
the rule provides for black coat and trous-
ers.” Counsel protested that the rule meant
that he was supposed to wear a black coat
and trousers of some sort. He could not,
for instance, come into court in kilts. Press-
ing the argument, he called attention to the
Court tipstaff. The regulations provided
that tipstaff should appear with “a cocked hat
and sword.” “I submit,” said Duffy with
the utmost gravity, “that if the rule relating
to counsel were to be interpreted as the
learned Chief Justice would have it, then
the tipstaff is improperly dressed, too, for
while his hat is cocked, his sword most un-
mistakably is not.” It was ingenious, but
Griffith wasn’t convinced, and Duffy had to
change his pants.
* * ft *
“Rounds”: Cold Tea got a lift in Mel-
bourne last week. While doing beat duty
in Carlton a John Hop almost collided with
a family of five making a wobbly way home
in the rain. All were unable to take care of
themselves —Dad and Mum, both youngish,
because they had a cargo of liquor on board
that was above their capacity; and the
children because they were aged respectively
18 months and three weeks (2). The constable
took the quintette to Carlton lock-up, but as
there was no matron there to look after
infants he shunted Dad into a cell and moved
Mum and the little brood to the city watch-
house. A sympathetic woman wheeled the
pram. Next morning, before he was fined.
Dad explained that he and the missus had
been “wetting the twins’ heads.” Mum got
off with a lecture. The dailies were decent
enough to keep out names and/address; so
the leaf may be turned over and pasted down.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.” sizes up Y-Emma: —
A fluttering in the dovecotes was caused last
week by the statements of E. R. Peacock, a former
“head,” regarding the mismanagement and worse
of certain Y.M.C.A. activities during the war. Prac-
tically nothing that the man said was new to
Diggers. Y-Emma was a perennial matter for argu-
ment in the A.1.F.: some defended it, more were
ready to attack. Y-Emma was officially recognised
by the authorities for the conduct of rest homes
and cante'ens; and between them an arrangement was
made that it should charge for its goods, as it
was thought to be bad for us to get something
for nothing. So the war-worn Digger coming
penniless from the line knew that it was no good
going to T -Emma for a cup of tea, whereas if he
could get to a Salv’army, “joint” he would find sym-
pathy and a fr ee feed. Thus the Salv’army gained a
popularity with the Digger which f-Emma never
enjoyed. The Church Army—an English organisation
—shoved its waggons as near to the line as possible,
and handed out free tea, coffee, cocoa and biscuits to
the men going in and out of the line or working
in the vicinity. The Australian Comforts Fund also
besides distributing free comforts, had little depots
sometimes as far advanced as the supporting posi-
tions, where hot drinks were handed out. Compared
with these, too, the commercial Y.M.C.A. suffered. The
presence of hale-looking men, in Sam Browne belts,
in charge of the canteens likewise annoyed the
Diggers Billjiin reckoned they were lead-swinging
on the pretence of doing “war-work” while
really enjoying good salaries and living comfortably
well back from the line. There were some Y.M.C.A.
canteens Well up; near Preston Dump, below
Wyschaete, there was one in a deep dug-out in some
advanced trenches. But these places were always
or practically always in charge of Diggers on “light
duty.” Of course the YIM.C.A. did some big work;
but it was largely spoiled by the alliance with the
always blundering military authorities; and that
there were scandals it is impossible to deny.
“Nautilus”: The casual Australian once
more. The mailboat was steaming into a
harbor up north, and Digger Jones was
hurrying to meet his bride-to-be. -On the
wharf he ran into his cobber Brown and
stopped for a few words. Ten minutes later
he was back. “Did I have me eye in when
I was here just now?” he asked. Brown
reckoned he had. “Struth f” exclaimed
Jones. “Then I’ve lost the blooming thing!”
“Borrow Malone’s for an hour,” promptly
suggested Brown. And Jones tapped
Malone, who, a true cobber, wouldn’t see a
friend in need. So Jones inserted Malone’s
eye and went gallantly forward to meet a
startled girl who had never before noticed
that her fiance had one green and one brown
eye!
“Wondah” : The Australian biish-tred girl
is 100 per cent. grit. Margaret Cassidy’s
father took ill, and Margaret, about 20,
volunteered to ride 38 miles to Horsham
(Vic.) to get the medicine to relieve him.
She left home at 1 p.m., got the mixture
and after giving her mount an hour’s spell
started back. The latter part of the journey
was over a mallee track, and the night was
pitch dark. A mile from home the horse
fell, but the girl managed to remount and
both did the remainder of the journey in. a
very groggy state. The game little Busb-
tralian landed home at midnight with an
unbroken bottle of medicine and a broken
collarbone.
* * ft ' »
From the press table: —
To me the quaintest thing about the Gun Alley
case was the manner in which it illustrated the
great truth that it is always the other fellow who
is really the bad egg. Ivy Matthews, when ques-
tioned as to her relations with the accused, said
they were of a purely business nature and that he
had treated her always with “the greatest respect
that it was possible for a man to give a Woman.”
Yet, a few minutes later, when the lady was asked
about a conversation between her and Ross, it trans-
pired that some words used were so vile that she
would only write them, and she did it with tears
of shame. But she still persisted that Ross had
always treated her with respect, Similarly, Hard-
ing, a housebreaker who had lost count of his con-
victions, said he considered himself a “reputable
THE HOUSE SHORTAGE.
HOMELESS ONE (to St. Peter): “Have you
any sort of a crib left at all? We don’t
keep dogs and we got no children.”
man” outside of these lapses, and apart from them
his character was as good as anybody else’s. And
Upton, whom nobody seemed able to classify, after
owning up to a number of convictions, reckoned he
was a person of almost extra-good character, really.
Even Miss Maddox, a cheerful young woman of the
town, drew the line sharply at the insinuation that
she was of bad character. It all goes to show that
the worst of us are (thank God 1) not as bad as
the best of us like to think we are. Self-respect is
(again thank God!) the hardest thing in the world
to lose utterly.
(Continued on page 18.)
MY TROUBLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
That love is fair have bards a score
In tender stanzas told.
They oft declare it is far more
To be desired than gold.
Men read the poets with delight,
Yet know by hapless usance
That all too often love is quite
An indurated nuisance.
When love is most disposed to tears,
And grieving o’er its woe;
When oft beset with horrid fears,
And needs must tell you so ;
When love’s complaining all the day,
And never welcomes joyance,
I care not what the poets say,
Love is a dashed annoyance!
When love is very curious,
Propounding endless “Whys?”
And makes intolerable fuss
With clouded, angry eyes,
And of each other pretty miss
Is cruelly suspicious,
Whate’er the bards’ opinion is,
I hold that love is vicious.
When love exacting is and asks
Throughout the long, hot day
Proofs of devotion true, it tasks
One’s patience right away;
And when with queries and appeal
It plagues the harassed dearie,
Love is a thing to make you feel
Intolerably weary.
Few loves are all these, I agree,
Capricious, dank with tears,
Suspicious of each passing she,
Beset by foolish fears,
Resentful, uniformly sad,
But, trust me, rhyming brother,
When I declare each love I’ve had
Was one thing or the other!
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


â
m
wM
m
/
WM
mm
VI
* T)
ll
V,. £*
<
tU
mm
'■ 1
• ;
•*»i ■
Prizes
£65
In order to popularise our Culinary Essences of Vanilla, Lemon, Ratafia and Cochineal,
etc., we have pleasure in announcing our No. 1 Essence Competition.
FIRST PRIZE £25
SECOND PRIZE £lO
THIRD PRIZE £5
25 PRIZES £1
Conditions as follow: —
Every bottle of Essence will have a number printed on the back of the label. Competitors
require to remove the labels from the bottles by soaking, and each competitor must send
in five labels, with name and address, to
SCHWEPPES’, LTD., 67 FOVEAUX STREET, SYDNEY,
endorsed “Schweppes’ Essence Competition, No. 1.” The numbers of the five labels will
be totalled, and the aggregate highest numbers of the five labels will be the winners of the
competition in the order above. As Grocers all hold certain stocks at present without
numbers on the labels, such label having NO printed number on the back will be taken as
being NUMBERED 505, so that purchase rs will not be at a disadvantage.
The closing date for the No. 1 Competition will be 30th September, 1 922* and the
No. 2 Competition, of which particulars will be announced early in September, will close
on 31st March, 1923. Bottles PURCHASED AT ANY TIME WILL BE AVAILABLE
FOR THE SECOND COMPETITION. .
Schweppes’ Essences are exclusive quality, and the thrifty householder will soon
recognise their intrinsic merit, as they only require to use half the usual quantity if they
order Schweppes’. Like their Waters, they are the Standard of Comparison.
Purveyors to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. the Prince of Wales,
Obtainable all Grocers throughout Australia.
If unable to obtain from your grocer, write Schweppes, Limited, Sydney, or Schweppes, Limited, Abbotsford,
Melbourne, who will advise where to purchase. '
If more than one competitor obtains the same number, the Ist, 2nd and 3rd Prizes will be divided pro rata.
PALATO £lOO PRIZE COMPETITION.
As we are still receiving inquiries as to the winner of the £lOO Prize for the Trade Name for our latest drink, we have
pleasure in stating that the name chosen was
"PALATO”—THE DRINK THAT PLEASES THE PALATE.
AND THE WINNER WAS:— J. Scott, c/o Mrs. L. Petersen, 278 Barker’s Road, Glenferrie, Melbourne.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Uuxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
NDASIA
SHAVING CREAM
m
c *
—i;
Z 5
LEVERX-
ISC
THE LAST WORD
IN SHAVING LUXURY
FOR MEN
AN ACCEPTABLE
GIFT
“For Ever Best/'
STAS
LASER
TOOHEY'S.
“Paudh”: When things are looking blue
it may be only Providence disguised in
police uniform. Five painters were work-
ing on a seventh-storey scaffold in Auckland
the other day when a policeman interrupted
and called one away for a rendezvous with
the law. Shortly afterwards the scaffolding
collapsed and the other four dropped to an
instantaneous death.
About a queer little schism in Jewry:—
One of the rows at present disturbing the Sydney
Jewish community concerns the Chevra Kadislia.
This “Holy Brotherhood” is a body traditional in
all Hebrew communities, its purpose being to see
that every .Tew is buried with decency and the
proper religious rites. The members are supposed
to be volunteers, prepared to assist in the laying-
out of the body and other necessary services. A
long time ago a Chevra Kadisha was formed in
Sydney; but it found that the Board of Management
of the Great Synagogue was not prepared to sacri-
fice an old official who had been emnloyed to give
attention to the dead. When that official died the
Board passed the job, with its emoluments, on to
his widow; and the Chevra Kadisha, thinking it
reasonable that she should not be deprived of her
living, marked time. Not long ago, however, she
died also,- and her son-in-law received the appoint-
ment in her place. Then the Holy Brotherhood
rebelled, complaining that the cost of burials was
made excessive by the prevailing system. Their
complaint was countered with a statement that the
Chevra Kadisha might have given much assistance,
but had rendered no help in the burials; and now
there is a rupture. The members of the society pro-
pose to buy the Synagogue in Dowling-street (the
congregation is building a new Synagogue in Bondi
Junction) and set out on their own.
“Pall Mall”: During the trial of Colin
Ross in Melbourne Fritz Schmidt was up
before the police court at Bendigo, charged
THE DEBUTANTE OLD AND NEW.
( 1 ) When a girl left school, ( 2 ) she used
to “put up” her hair and lengthen her
shirt. ( 3 ) Now she hobs her hair and
shortens her shirt.
with offensive behavior —in plain English,
molesting little girls. He had been released
from gaol on the previous day, after serving
a sentence on a similar charge. The astute
magistrates sentenced Mr. Schmidt to one
month’s imprisonment. The magisterial
idea evidently is that Fritz will have to be
taught better by grievous punishments in-
flicted upon him; hut the reasonable opinion
is that the sexual degenerate will probably
go one better when his next opportunity
comes. It can be claimed by men like
Schmidt that at least they give due warning.
The real mischief arises from the fact that
our mysterious magistracy fail to give reason-
able heed to the symptoms, holding it best
to wait for the lunatic to do his damnedest
before treating him in an effective way.
“Lond”: We are learning how to “revel,”
and London saw New Year in this time with
a multitude of “freak” banquets. The chief
restaurants and hotels competed lavishly.
The Victoria brought in an aeroplane at
midnight from which a Cupid distributed
souvenirs; the scenery was specially painted
by Ilarker. The Carlton was all Japanese,
the Savoy Italian, with “gifts specially
brought over from Paris by air” for the 1200
diners. At the Cecil 1400 sat down to
dinner, with a Christmas-tree on every table.
The Trocadero called it supper, and held
1600; a gold-mounted cigarette-holder was
handed to every lady. There was dancing
everywhere; 2000 crowded into the Albert
Hall to try to do it.
* * * •
“I. A. Dine”: It was Australian airman
Harry Hawker who accidentally discovered
that by centralising the controls of a
machine it would come
out of a spinning nose-
dive and right itself. Up
till then that gyrating
dive had meant death to
the poor devil whose ’bus
happened to make one.
Landing at Brooklands
after his lucky discovery,
Hawker made a bet with
Peter Raynam—the same
Peter who had a double
disappointment in the
Atlantic flight—that he
(Hawker) would spin a
machine from 1000 ft. and
land safely on the aero-
drome. The spin was
made all right, but the
landing was all wrong.
The ’bus refused to stop
its cork-screwing, and it
was only a providen-
tially-placed clump of
elm-trees that prevented
Hawker from going west seven years be-
fore he did. But this'is where the char-
acter of the man showed itself. Straight
away he rolled out another machine, pushed
off into the atmosphere and carried out the
experiment according to programme. It was
this spirit that made the aviation world take
off its cap to Harry Hawker.
* * * *
“Wild Oat” : One day in the Ypres sector,
when the atmosphere teemed with visible and
invisible aerial traffic, I advised the latest
recruit to keep his nut down, as it might
collide with anything from a Zep. to a
ricochet. “Garn,” he said, “yer carn’t get
my leg. I seen them things runnin’ roun’
Colombo.”
* * • •
“Exul”: There has recently been intro-
duced into radiography an apparatus that a
leading expert declares has advanced the
science by at least 10 years. The great de-
fect of X-ray pictures has been the fogginess
caused by some rays being slightly de-
fleeted when they
encountered the
denser tissues of
the body. Now
they use intensify-
ing screens and in-
t e r p o s e between
the patient and the
plate a diaphragm
consisting of alter-
nating strips of
very thin metal
and wood in the
shape of a grid.
This is revolved
slowly so that its
own shadow will
not mar the plate.
The rays going
directly from the
tube through the
body pass through
the wooden strips,
while the deflected
ones are inter-
cepted by the metal. The clearness of
the _ resulting pictures and the greater
details of structures seen are most striking,
and the diagnostic accuracy has been tre-
mendously increased.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: These hot nights Ballow goes
to bed with the French window leading on to
the outer verandah open. The other night
he awakened to find a total stranger in a
tall hat seated on the side of his bed making-
futile efforts to pull off his boots, and threat-
ening to spill on to the top of his belltopper
with every tug. “Here, I say,” expostulated
Ballow, “what are you doing in my bed-
room?” The stranger, who had sprung the
electric light on entering, blinked at Ballow
in silence for a moment, and then replied
very deliberately; “For the marrer of that,
wha’ are you doin’ in my bed?” “Your
bed!” snorted the present occupant. The
stranger looked the room over in a puzzled
way, he looked at Ballow, more particularly
he looked at Mrs. Ballow. “Skewsh me,”
said he, “wash the number of thish house?”
“Five,” replied Ballow. “My mishtake,”
said the intruder. “Mos’ natural error. I
thought it wash 55.” Then the man arose
and went through the French window out
of Ballow’s life.
IT’S AN ILL WIND, ETC.
WIFE: “Harry, whatever are you doing
there at this time of morning?”
HARRY: “Shh, my dear! Been up all night
(hic) shettin’ traps to catch plague
rats.”
“D. 1135”: The agent of a firm handling
fertilisers in North Queensland said the
other day that his co. had installed three
digesters, and were about to commence kill-
ing horses, a large mob having been acquired
at the modest sum of 10s. 6d. per head, with
all foals thrown in. Then, quite inciden-
tally, he told of how one of their men, after
unwanted horses, had stumbled on to one
station just too late. Only a week or so
before they had killed a mob of surplus
stock to allow their pastures to be more
profitably used. _ The method adopted, he
said, was to drive the animals through a
crush while a man stood by with a repeating
rifle and pumped lead into each beast, just
about the stomach. This allowed the horses
time to get some distance into the bush
before settling down to death, so saving
the trouble of dragging the carcases away.
It seems a matter worth attention from
somebody.
* * **■ *
“Wild Oat”: A gunner I know was struck
by a Turkish bullet in the forearm. After
travelling the full length of the limb
and inspecting the armpit, it turned,
and was nearly successful in gaining its
original entrance. In another case a bullet
entered just below the left eye, and came out
at the exactly corresponding spot on the
right. No defects were left, bar two small
scars and a Yankee tWang.
* >;• * * *
“M.D.” on the trials of the profession :
The general practitioner has a hard row to hoe
when it comes to advising his patients about the
latest so-called remedy which is not on speaking
terms with the Pharmacopoeia. If he acquiesces, the
compound may do the patient harm ; if he damns
the treatment he stands a good chance of losing
his patient’s confidence and being stigmatised as
a has-been. On such little things as, per esempio,
the proper method of taking a pint of “Russian
culture’’ does success in medicine depend. It is
the same with audiphones, electric belts and the
latest fad for aching feet —“foot easers’’: steel
traps covered with leather, which the foot-expert
places inside the boots of his customers, whether
they are flat-footed, when their use may be war-
ranted, or, as is oftener the ease, have an arch
like a railway culvert. Doctors when tired of
ordering drugs will sometimes agree to a couple
of “foot-easers,” much as they wearily recommend
de-toothing for pyorrhoea. “Russian culture” is the
newest fad, borne from overseas with wild tales of
the frantic delight of practitioners regarding its
success in every ailment under the sun from cataract
to chilblains. Twenty-five years ago it was known
as “Indian culture” ; 12 or 15 years ago it had a
slight revival as “Bulgarian culture.” I knew a
woman to take quarts of it regularly for two years
without any benefit to herself, but to the exceeding
great joy of the local milkman, long ago retired.
It now rejoices in the name “Russian culture,” no
cou t because Russia is the most unlikely place for it
o be used at present. The “culture” part of it is
eing sold in Australia at prices varying from ,ss.
° - jei ' P° rt i°n. No right-thinking visitor from
Melbourne ever travels without some of it. My
people generally introduce the subject in a round-
about way during a discussion of their symptoms.
Do I think “Russian culture” is any good ? They
ave received such glowing accounts of its efficacy.
I don t; but “take it by all means if it agrees
with you.” The general practitioner has to bear
with these little passing fads; the specialist is not
exempt either, though, a s he only sees the sufferer
occasionally, he can bring philosophy to his aid, and
after a time he is not at all put out when his
patient tells him that she has adopted Christian
science, taken to “Russian culture” or been journey-
ing to Haberfield at 7 a.m. in order to be among
the first batch at a widely-known herbalist’s. As
the French say, C’crt i a vie.
® * * *
‘Gipsy Ewings”: Family coincidences?
In our little lot of 12 three of the boys were
born on the same date at the same hour, at
intervals of exactly 12 months. I was the
last of the three.
* * * *
‘Paudh”: The Adelaide decapitation (B.
16/2/-22) recalls a case in Maoriland last
July. Two mates embarked on a whisky
festival in a whare at Mangamahu. On the
second day one stretched himself on the floor,
unbuttoned his singlet, and said, “Cut my
blanky head off!” The other got a heavy
axe and obliged him. Of ill-intention there
was none whatever in the deed—it was a
pure case of the sacred obligations of mate-
ship standing out clear, while all other values
sank in the befuddlement of excessive liquor.
Accused remarked after arrest: “Poor old
George! We were mates together and I
won’t be able to go to his funeral.” He got
14 years’ h.l.
* * * •
“Mark VII.” : Two anchors of the old Nel-
son have just been heaved out of the silt of
Hobson’s Bay, and now lie on a wharf at
Williamstown. These relics of Victoria’s
naval aspirations are well preserved, except
that one blade of each is bent over, and with
the fluke lies along the shank. Measure-
ments : Shank, 15ft. long and about 4ft. in
circumference at the crown; flukes and
blades,, 14ft. over all; stock (square in sec-
tion and in two halves lengthwise, secured
with bands in quite the approved old style),
14ft. Each anchor probably weighs 8 tons.
“X2X” ponders an eye for an eye:—
The Bulletin's specialist says (B. 9/2/’22) that
nobody out of Bedlam would dream of a surgical trans-
plantation of a whole eye; but I think it would be
AN ACID DROP.
“I do wish I could travel about without
people knowing who I am.”
“Why not stick to your stage name, dear?”
better to qualify this with “in the present state of
our knowledge.” In view of the wonders accom-
plished by surgery in the past decade—wonders which
looked utterly impossible 50 years ago—-no one can
forecast what may be done 50 years hence. By that
time the “grafting” of a complete healthy eye, with
blood-vessels, nerves and all intact, from one person
to another, may come to bn no more difficult than
the transference of an area of cuticle. Already suc-
cessful cases of nerve-grading have been reported, the
severed ends being connected with a length of healthy
nerve taken from somewhere else; and success has
followed even when there have been months between
the injury and the operation. The substitution of
uninjured, healthy tissue for that which has been
injured or become diseased is now so common as not
to call for comment, the growing across of the blood-
vessels and nerves being apparently a negligible
factor. The actual operation of grafting the com-
plete eye to a human being has never been tried,
so far as I am aware, and I’m not saying that it
ever will be done; but while the job at present seems
so extremely difficult as to be practically hopeless,
it is not altogether outside the bounds of possibility.
“GO ERLONG.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ben found his wooing rather hard.
Ethelda had a pretty face,
But that possession much was marred
By total lack of speaking grace.
When for encouragement he sought,
For wooing words or lovers’ play,
She nothing gave but one retort—
“Oh, go erlong!” she used to say.
The months went on in measured gait.
Ben thought about his little farm:
“A girl to keep the cottage straight
An’ milk a bit would do no harm,”
He said. Resolved to take his chance,
Ben popped the question: “Will you wed ?”
The usual words in his romance,
Just “Go erlong,” again she said.
Ben lost his block. “Well, here I’ll stay
Until I learn what it’s to be:
I’ll go erlong just when you say
That you will go erlong with me!”
“Oh, go erlong!” she said and smiled.
Ben took the hint upon a guess.
She followed: now he feels quite wild
To think her words meant always “Yes.”
K.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


!
/
Vi
z 7
it
££
&
(g?S
/ /
/
// 7/
■*r
7_^
w
/
■// /,
-*r
s-"')
Y*
jC>
■n
5C
a
'\y
s 2
A.
\
The water tells the secrets
of the skin
m
\ A
•zm
ARTFUL applications of rouge and
powder may lend your skin the
appearance of smooth freshness but
what a cruel revelation at the bathing
beach!
Yet the naturally fine complexion, which
sun only makes prettier, is an attraction
you can easily possess by giving your skin
proper care. Instead of putting your skin
to sleep with cold creams and cosmetics,
wake it up with soap and water. Cleanse
each tiny pore and skin cell, revive slug-
gish circulation. Get rid of the blackheads
which are only accumulated dirt.
No Risk of Irritation.
If you imagine your skin is too sensitive
for the application of soap, it is because
you have never tried Palmolive. You
don't realise how mild it is, how the
smooth, creamy lather, when massaged
into the skin, cleanses without the slight-
est harshness.
Wash the face gently with the velvet,
creamy lather of mild Palmolive, and
massage it softly into the skin. When
this foam is rinsed away, it carries off
the impurities which clog the pores and
are the foundation of skin infection and
disfigurement.
Palmolive is at once a cleanser, a tonic,
and a balm. Though so thorough and
beneficial in action, it is as gentle and
mild as a zephyr. Palmolive cleanliness
is different. You will appreciate it.
The guest-size cake of Palmolive Soap
will be sent post free on request by The
Palmolive Company ( Australasia ) Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence St., Sydney,
S
Sells everywhere at
113 per cake
Palm and Olive Oils
Palmolive contains palm and
olive oils, discovered 3,000
years ago in ancient Egypt,
They were the cosmetic clean-
sers used by Cleopatra which
kept her skin fresh and smooth.
To-day their scientific combi-
nation in Palmolive produces
the most perfect of all facial
cleansers. If we knew of ingre-
dients finer, milder and more
beneficial, we would use them.
But science has discovered no-
thing so good as palm and olive
oils.
Other Palmolive Toilet
Preparations
Palmolive Cold Cream, tubes or jars;
Palmolive Vanishing Cream, tubes or jars;
"Violet of the Nile” and "Egyptian Rose"
Talcums; "Palmole” Face Powder;
"Palmolive” Face Powder; Palmolive
Shampoo; Palmolive Rouge.
*
*


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
IhMI
8.. TOWNS & CO.. Sydney, Agents.
Smart?
Serviceable!
We should
sou so!
Why don’t
youwear a
isik
SHIRT?
SIE
was
m
BRISBANE
A HO
SYDHEV
The TOP-NOTCH ’Scotch.
sssa
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Te Whare”: “Mirool’s” snake (B.
12/l/’22) is reminiscent of more
than one species. It may have
been a small example of the
copper-head, or superb snake
(Denisonia superba), but then
the body-color of this variety,
judging from the three or four
that I have seen, isn’t described
by “bluish-purple.” The un-
named squirmer also suggests
slightly the pale-headed snake
(Iloplocephalus bitorquatus) ,
while the red-bellied snake—a
small species—wears a peculiar
purplish-brown skull-cap, bordered
with orange. “Mirool’s” find cer-
tainly wasn’t a “moon-snake”
(which, with “red tiger,” is a
fancy name for the nocturnal
brown tree-snake). This is red-
dish-brown above, crossed with
bands of dark brown, and has a
salmon-,pink belly. But where
indeterminate colors are con-
cerned observers almost invari-
ably differ in describing them;
the young snake also may differ
from the adult. Thus the bellies
of very young black snakes are
usually whitish, not red. There
is also the copper-snake, of the
pseudechis (black snake) genus,
but it hails from the Murray
River and pans out 6ft. at times.
The black snake family also in-
cludes a rare species, with a yel-
lowish belly, known as the
“fierce snake.” It runs to Tit.
in maximum length, and homes
chiefly (so far as is known) in
north-western N.S.W.
‘‘X2X”: A better cure for scrub-itch than
“Jaearanda’s” ammonia (B. 9/2/’22) is either (1)
a solution of mercury perchloride (corrosive sub-
limate) in the strength of one part of the perchloride
to 2000 parts of water —distilled for preference
which strength is equivalent to about a grain to
two ounces ; or (2) a five per cent, solution of iodine
dissolved in water containing about five per cent,
of potassium iodide—necessary in order to make
the iodine go into solution. Either of these remedies
is equally efficacious in destroying the parasite and
its eggs. But the iodine should not be applied to
parts of the body where the skin is exceptionally
tender and soft. The mercury solution can with
safety be applied anywhere.
* * * #
“Fraoch”: Snakes certainly possess some
mesmeric powers. Near Billabong Creek, Southern
Riverina (N.S.W.), I once started to poke a tiger
out from under the root of a boxtree. My dog
(a Skye terrier) became interested in the business”
Darting out from the off-side of the tree, the snake
stopped within a foot of the dog, raised its head
and commenced swinging it from side to side. The
dog seemed petrified, sitting on his haunches and
staring at the snake with glassy eyes. I was quick
enough to anticipate the “strike.” When I hit the
snake the terrier came to and took a hand in the
slaughter.
"Moe”: Some alleged experts scoff at the
belief that the saurian of Northern Australia and
New Guinea outlives all other reptiles and animals
and can sometimes celebrate his 200th or 300th
birthday. A few years back a Dutch patrol officer
at Merauke shot a 14ft. specimen, and while skinning
THE BUTTER-IN.
RUBBERNECK: “ Dear me! Has your horse bolted?"
MILKMAN: “Bolted! ’ Struth, no! That's only a new idea in churns."
it found embedded in the root of the tail the head
of an arrow of the kind used about 300 years ago
by Spanish soldiers, sorhe of whom would be fairly
sure:to form part of.the crew of any of the Spanish
vessels visiting New Guinea in the sixteenth century.
It might be said that the weapon had been in the
possession of the natives for generations and was
shot into the ’gator by a nig., but the arrow-head
was of the pattern fired from heavy cross-bows,
whereas the light and flimsy bows used by the
natives are utterly incapable of throwing a cumber-
some metal arrow as far as 20ft. with enough force
to penetrate an alligator’s hide, even in a place where
it is soft and yielding. In a private aquarium in a
N.Q. town there is an alligator whose owner swears
that it is nearly 150 years old; the native legends
in New Guinea take it for granted that the alligator
often sees 3000 moons rise and wane.
“FY7”: Re “G.H.’s” query (B. 9/2/’22)
as to a dog following his master’s scent. Boots
rather accentuate than hide the aroma of genus homo
—ask any hotel “useful”' who gets through his 50
pairs a night. But a scent traced need not neces-
sarily be a foot scent. As to a dog following in
the right direction, the strength of the perfume
diminishes as it lies on the ground, and the dog
follows the increasing scent: A good hound —for
that is the correct name for the scenting dogs—
will often cast both ways when striking a scent.
He distinguishes the fresher odor after a short run
along the trail, and follows up accordingly.
■* * * *
“.Tim Carew”: I knew an old black gin
in Western Queensland who had been hamstrung by
her lord because of her tendency to “walk-about.”
She used to travel on all fours like a dog. It wasn’t
an edifying sight, but she could, without much appa-
rent effort, keep pace with a good walker, and on
several occasions I knew her to cover a 25-mile stage
in a day, and carry a bundle at that.
* * * *
“Ophis”: “Kitty Kitty” (B. 17/11/’2ll
touched on a very interesting subject when he
mentioned seeing a carpet-snake coiled round and
hatching its eggs. All pythons lay eggs, and many
hatch them out. I know of an interesting case, that
of a North American python, which collected her
eggs into a cone-shaped mass and pqjled her body
round them, remaining in this position for over 60
days without food or movement until the young were
hatched out. I have never met or heard of an
Aussie snake which attempted to do the same.
“Orney”: A trout caught recently in the
Adelong Terrace, a small tributary of the Tumut
River (N.S.W.), was found to have dined on a snake
about llin. long. Some Abo.-liars may have heard
of a similar case. I haven’t.
“Nerangi”: During a recent hot spell, on
a perfectly still day, I stood beside a dam and noticed
the water without a ripple on it rising and falling in
quick succession to the extent of about 2in., and
at the rate of roughly four or five times a minute.
When the water was backed up a drain it ran back
and forth in quite a stream, and once while I
watched it ran yards over ground that had been
dry for days.
Ileiodot : Ihe New Guinea nig. can
stand, without turning a hair, agony that would
kill a white man from shock. Some years ago the
wife of a native police-boy on a station in the
Mambare district developed a tremendous swelling
of the left breast. Two native ladies, forestalling
the white doctor, decided on an operation.- The
surgical instrument they used was the circular piece
of thin tin that forms the top of cigarette containers.
By bending this backwards and forwards till it
broke they obtained a fairly-sharp cutting edge, and
with it they lanced the swollen breast. Later the
part was dressed with a poultice of leaves, and in
about three weeks the patient was entirely well
again. Her agony during the operation must have
been indescribable, the incision being star-shaped,
about 3in. long and 4in. across.
“Bill R.”; Let me earn the blessing of
“V.J.8.” whose moke (B. 9/2/’22) objects to being
caught. Get about of trace-chain, and to one
end fasten, by a hole bored through the middle, a
foot-length of light rounded timber about 3in. in
TOWARDS THE END OF THE TIFF.
JONES'S WIFE: “Oh, well, I don't suppose
it's all your fault —your father's a bad-
tempered man."
JONES: “Hum! Don't talk to me about
heredity. Your grandmother was
dumb."
diameter. To the other end attach a leg of the
horse by means of a hobble-strap around the fetlock.
The banging of the timber against his shin when he
attempts to run away does the trick.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE POMMIE AND HIS KIDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Across the sea a proud ship sailed and lobbed at
Aussie’s shore,
And in the mob that filled her deck a Pommie bloke
she bore,
Whose looks and speech both showed the brand of
good old British breed,
With sturdy frame all warmly rugged in heavy
English tweed. -
With lagging step he lugged his bag, and gazed with
manner shy
At all the queer colonial sights that met his won-
d’ring eye,
The men and manners of the place were hard to
understand,
And nothing seemed quite homelike to the New
Chum in the land.
He had both health and hunger, so for work he
fossicked round,
And wore his boot soles thin and got his nice com-
plexion browned,
Prospecting for addresses widely scattered on the
map,
And cracking hardy in the heat beneath a Pommie
cap.
He found out how to roll a swag, and humped it ’way
outback,
Among the farms and stations, where he somehow
learned the knack
Of riding bucks and cracking whips, and shoving
shearers’ blades,
And bursting cheques and other tricks of Never
Never trades.
AN URGENT CALL.
DOCTOR (answering a ring at 2 a.m.):
“What’s the trouble?”
PATIENT : “Got a terrible pain in my side.”
DOCTOR: “How long have you had it?”
PATIENT : “Oh, it’s come off and on for
years.”
Each man he met with did his bit to break him in
to slang,
And by degrees the Pommie tongue sloughed off its
Lunnon twang.
He wore a hat with rakish brim and swaggered in
his gait ;
He talked as if he owned the block, and called
each stranger “mate.”
He flirted with the Aussie girls till he at last was
caught,
And landed by the Only One, for whom the ring
he bought;
Then settled down to build a home, and plant a
family tree
Of Gum, instead of that old Oak he’d left across
the sea.
Unlike the Oak, whose naked limbs are cold through
winter drear,
The Gum is garbed in robes of green throughout the
festive year;
-Unlike the Oaks,, with solemn shade, and trunks o’er-
grown with moss,
The Gums cast meagre shadows as their stately heads
they toss,
His kids grew tall, and strong and straight, with fear-
less, smiling eyes,
As cloudless as the arching blue of clear Australian
skies,
With careless heads and laughing lips and hearts
aglow with pride,
And love of all the bushland with its spaces free and
wide.
They never wore the hobbles of old customs on their
mind,
Nor winkers of tradition that keep bookish people
blind ;
They played around in paddocks broad and liberty
immehse,
But knew to stop at sliprails and their neighbor’s
bound’ry-fence.
They laughed and frolicked in the sun and barracked
poor old dad,
Who still believed that Virtue should be just a trifle
sad;
They paid no humble homage to the Past with all
its lore,
But gaily hailed the Present as it hurried by their
door.
These kids were dinkum Gums although their dad
was heart of Oak,
And proved it by the way they worked and played
and laughed and spoke;
They knew no ancient heraldry of blood or caste or
clan,
But gave their hand to every mate who proved him-
self a man.
Their restless feet keep moving on through every
open gate,
And stir the dust on every track that runs through
every State,
From Brisbane to Fremantle, and from Torres to the
Bight,
And help with sunwarmed Pommie blood to keep
Australia white.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


New Novels
By Australian Authors.
“EQUALITY ROAD” - - by VERA BAKER
One of the best Australian novels of recent years. Valentine Hood, a fine
type of Australian girl, believes that “all men are equal”—given equal opportunities.
She puts her theory into practice—and discovers that Equality Road is a very
rough track indeed. A great story with surprising developments.
“HERMIT ISLAND”- - - by S. W. POWELL
A splendid adventure and humor story of the Pacific.
“FEATHERS OF HEAVEN” by JACK McLAREN
Adventure and love in the wilds of New Guinea.
“THE GREAT JADE SEAL” by S. W. POWELL
A great mystery story chockful of humor.
“THE BOSS O’ YEDDEN” - by Arthur wright
Another thrilling story by Australia’s Nat Gould.
110 Splendid Australian
Novels in the Bookstall Series.
1/3 each. 1/4* posted.
Obtainable at all Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout
the Commonwealth.
Complete descriptive catalogue forwarded
free on application to the Publishers.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
1
mb J
STAND ON
' : Mi
V=ri
w/TzmQ
a. P:
yPkTG'’
|L^3ns
Ni
Hanuf actu» , « < *
WORKS
PORT NKCMSS
TE
CO
You Can Put Your Trust
in the TEXACO ROOF.
TEXACO ROOFING, with many sea-
sons to its credit, is still the same
trustworthy roofing as when first
put on the building.
It’s good roofing. It grows old grace-
fully. In every purchase of Texaco Roof-
ing there is a man who will gain increased
confidence in his roof with each passing
season.
In the first place, the asphalt used is
prepared specially for roofing manufac-
ture. It is carefully tempered to with-
stand all climates. The finest selected
felt is then thoroughly impregnated and
coated on both sides.
The result is Texaco Roofing—tough,
pliable, water-proof, vermin-proof and
durable.
Texaco Roofing comes in rolls of convenient
size, complete with eement, nails and printed
instructions. It can be easily laid by
unskilled labor.
Texaco Roofing is economical. Get it at
your nearest dealer.
THE TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited
Head Office- Auto House,
143= 145 Castlereagh St., Sydney
Branches throughout Australasia.
C
a
Leviathan EASTER SUITS
FOR 14 DAYS
Featuring
LEVIATHAN
TAILORING
New Shipment of
English and
Scotch Materials
Leviathan Tailoring enables you to
have a “Quality” Suit to Order m
selected Imported Materials, abso-
lutely the Latest Shades, combined
with the' Leviathan Distinctive Cut.
Our “Quality” Suit to Order is cer-
tainly an excellent saving proposition.
EASTER PRICE,
£6/1 01-
Navy Twill Suitings
Indigo Dye, Guaranteed Worsted
Twills, London shrunk. A Leviathan
Super “Quality” Navy Suit to Order,
with best linings and; finish through-
out, is undeniably the last word in
Smartness, Newness and Correctness.
EASTER PRICE,
£B/8/-
s
iH
I
m
m
i
n
m
:
imam
V,.' 7
if* 1
PTY. LTD.,
Cr. Swanston and
Bourke Streets,
Melbourne.
S-
V
t'&yvj V .••■ -••*
6 c°" ■' ;
ä
ā
A PICNIC PARTY
HERE YOU SEE!
Right handy to the deep blue Sea. Comely girls are
Sue and Mabel, together spread a tempting table.
“Rex”
Camp Pie
and Cakes and Fruit are just the
things Boy’s tastes to suit. Take
Cue from Sue and dainty Mabel,
spread a tempting picnic table with
“Rex” Camp Pie, it s such a treat,
compounded of the choicest meat.
Serve it cold from out the tin—for
Sandwiches you slice it thin. A
Salad will enhance the flavor. But
anyhow it wins your favor.
Include “Rex” Camp Pie on
this week’s grocery order.
Foggitt Jones
Ltd.


FULL FASHIONED 8 MOCK SEAMED
HOLEPROOF SILK HOSE
Is appreciated more when it brings with it freedom from the BOTHER
and DRUDGERY of DARNING.
FOR MEN AS WELL AS WOMEN.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DRAPERS AND MERCERS.
II
* * *
Monaro”: Along the Condamine, near
Warwick (Q.), is a tiny bird that pipes, perfectly
in tune, “The Campbells are Com” There he
cuts off as suddenly as if a charge of shot had
bowled along.
“Wessel”: From the bird point of view
the little-known Groote Eylandt, in the Gulf of
has just had a fairly good overhaul.
Q M w L r nan ’ collectin » f or H. L. White, of Scone
UN.S.W.), put in over two months there last year,
and got 70 species of birds. But as the island is
over 1000 square miles, much of it covered with
forest and jungle, it probably isn’t exhausted.
McLennan picked up one new sub-species, a black-
backed magpie. It is somewhat smaller than the
southern form, more slenderly built and differently
marked.
* * * *
“L.J.D.”: Out from Singleton (N.S.W.)
there’s a bachelor cocky who on the average pulls
55 gallons of milk from 50 cows morning and
night, after having ridden over six miles mustering
his hornies. He separates the milk, and between
“cow times” follows the plough. He employs
no labor, lives on his own, and gets through a quarter
of saft beef a week, junk and potatoes being his
daily menu.
* * * *
“E. D. Ward”: I caught a bandicoot in
a kerosene-box trap the other day, and on emptying
her haversack I found seven bandicootlets in the em-
bryo stage. As the lady hadn’t sufficient bottles
to go round, how was she going to manage?
* * * *
Amos Crisp”: “Jim Carew” (B.
12/l/’22) says that Professor Simon, of Jena Uni-
versity, made a microscopical examination of a
platypus spur and found it to be ductless. All I
can say is the Prof, didn’t know his work, for
it needs no microscope to prove the contrary.’ If
you lay a male platypus in such a position that you
can place your forefinger and thumb of each hand
at the base of the spur and press firmly down on the
leg, you will see the duct and the poison coming up
and out on the outside curve of the point of the spur.
I have done this many a time.
* * * *
Adx ; Frank Howson, formerly a wool-
scouring contractor but now living in Melbourne,
can beat “Jackeroo’s” long ride on one horse (B
23/2/’22). On July 24, 1885, Howson left Booligal on
the Lachlan for Kilfera station, returning home on
the morrow, covering 221 miles in 33 hours’ riding
time. He did 108 miles on the first day and 113
on the second, and on the two following days the
animal had to carry him a further 100 miles, her
ANOTHER CASE OF PROTECTIVE
COLORATION.
ARTIST: “Here, I say, what the deuce are
you up to behind my easel?”
FUGITTIVE: “It’s all right, mister. It’s my
big bruvver trying to cop me with a
stone.”
record far the four days thus working out at 321
miles. Kilfera, the mare he rode, was a well-bred
grey, standing 15.2 or 15.3, and when he bought
her for £7 from a shearer she was in her eighth
year. She had a weakness for beer, and this he
indulged on their long journeys with an occasional
bottle of ale. Afterwards he used her as the lead
of a four-in-hand from Booligal to Warragul (Vic.),
a run of 400 miles, and she then came in handy as
a troop horse in the old Vic. Mounted Rifles. The
neddy, which once helped Duncan Clancy, son of
Banjo Paterson’s hero, when one of his mares was
badly knocked up, subsequently broke her leg and
had to be shot.
“Jim Carew”: What is a “cobbler”
among shearers? I always thought it was the last
sheep left when the shed was about to cut out; but
on the Monaro (N.S.W.) recently I heard an old
shearer grow] at the penner-up; “Hey! Don’t shove
aR the blanky cobblers into my pen.”
NOT AS REASSURING AS IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN ONCE.
SIKES: Here , Baldy, there ain’t nothin’ to be afraid of —I wouldn’t ’urt an ’air of
your ’ead!”
“Burnett”: “Dossett” advises “I-lecagus”
(B. 2/2/’22) to use kerosene for scrub-itch. But
if, “H.” applies it to any delicate skin area—
and the insect has a predilection for such spots—he
will not, as “Dossett” says, sleep like a babe, but
like a maniac might be supposed to slumber. In
the Burnett scrubs (Q.), where I’ve worked for
years, the itch is prevalent. I find sulphur mixed
with any oily substance a safe and sure remedy.
* * » .
“Johanna”: Re the rhinoceros beetle.
“Malaita” (B. 12/l/*22) should spend a few days
lounging about the bungalow verandahs of the Babaul
or Ralum (New Britain) hotels. The local planta-
tion bosses foregather there, also the
planters who come in from the
schooner-reaches round the coast.
Hear them talk beetle! It is an
evergreen subject, and the different
methods of fighting the pest are
threshed out in detail. One believes
in getting right at the rhino, from
the top; another mutters “maski,”
and shows how the cocoanut palm
should be sprayed up: a third de-
clares that “the palm, fronds should
be practically washed, sir, from under-
neath and up to the tip.” Beetle’s
real enough. The main trouble is
before the palms reach seven years
of age. Once over the danger age they begin to
tower into the blue with little more trouble to the
grower than the everlasting “cuttem grass” opera-
tion at their roots. A careful planter puts in many
acres of new palms every year, so he always has
his nursery to look after.
» * * •
“Theo. D. Lite”: Anyone tell me how to
stiffen the brim of a felt hat? I know that a strap
will pull it up a lot, but the dam thing still hangs
down over my ears. Chemicals unprocurable in
outback places are barred.
* * * „
“J.G.”: The well-sinker that “Murkah”
mentions (B. 26/I/’22) is not the only man lying
buried at the bottom of a deep hole. There is one
about 200 ft. under the surface near the main Murray-
read at Huntly ( \ ic.). The poor devil was caught
in a rush of fine silt at the bottom of one of the
shafts along, the deep lead. When it was found im-
possible to get the body out, a funeral service was
read over the mouth of the shaft. But there must
be a good few hatter-miners buried in shafts on
old goldfields.
“Te W.”: Re “Valamac’s” 21ft. carpet-
snake (B. 19/l/’22). It is the men responsible for
“snake books,” not I, who limit this reptile to
from 10ft. to 12ft., and the diamond snake to ,Bi'l.
But the latter certainly extends to 10ft. at times,
though never nearly equal to the big carpets. There
is an ancient record (about 1830) of a 27ft. carpet-
snake having been killed on the “common bridge
near Parramatta,: N.S.W.” If, the hoary chronicler
didn’t lie this is the biggest yet known. I have,
however, seen an engraving (from a drawing made
at the time of killing) of an alleged 25ft. carpet-
snake found in N. Queensland. Krefft considered the
carpet-snake a mere color variation of the diamond,
which, very remarkably, is confined to the eastern
coasts of N.S.W. and Tic., while the carpet may
turn up practically in any part of Australia. But,
from my experience the carpet is not always found
in diamond-snake quarters.
* * * *
‘‘Bootes”: My best sheep-dog has lately
acquired the habit -of leaving the flock to chase
kangaroos. Can any Abo. reader tell me of a remedy ?
* *• * *
“FY7”: “Kerpatagie” (B. 9/2/’22) com-
plains because he saw a joey head downwards in
ma’s pouch, with his tail sticking out. Nothing unusual.
Joe hadn’t settled down, that was all. When he
derides to take cover the youngster goes up to mum,
puts both hands on the outer edge of the pouch and
takes a deliberate header into it. If the old lady
has urgent business elsewhere, Joey stays for the
time being in any old attitude; but he usually does
a complete somersault and comes up with his head,
hind legs and tail all showing out of the orifice.
Then he shakes himself into the observer’s position.
» * . •
“Xamilc”: The new jackeroo was keen,
but his eternal questions got the boss down at last.
Fitzmaurice was to take some rams out to a tank
and leave them there, and after covering every possi-
bility as to what he should do if so-and-so happened,
he returned for a final query just as the boss had
commenced drafting “five ways.” “And —ah —what
shall I do if the —ah- —tank should be emptai when
I get there?” he asked. Four gates slammed
simultaneously. “Do!” yelled the boss, “what’ll you
do! Why, pray, you blankard, pray !”
“Wallad”: Tell “Rifle Shot” (B. 2./2/’22)
that his cobber, who shoots accurately although a
playing-card placed on the barrel of his rifle ap-
parently obstructs his vision, habitually shoots with
both eyes open. Thus his left eye sees the target
aimed at, while his right lines up the sights, and as
a normal pair of eyes are so trained by constant use
that they naturally focus on the same object, the
rest is fairly simple. P.S.—For the Lord’s sake,
though, don’t let “Rifle Shot” come again and say
his cobber’s got only one eye!
“Barcoo”: “Wilga’s” small fish that fre-
quent the bore drains of Bananaland (B. 5/l/’22)
are the same brand of perch you find in tanks and
permanent waterholes. The spawn is carried by
waterfowl into the drains, and is hatched out just
away from the bore-head, where the water is luke-
warm and not disturbed by stock. The young fish
adapt themselves to the conditions in which they
are born, and as it is impossible for them to live
further down-stream, where the water is much dis-
turbed and muddied up, they become acclimatised
to the warmer temperatures above, where the liquid
is too warm to be drunk by the stock. But to say
they live up as far as where the water is practically
boiling is too rash.
* '* * *
“Wildcat”: Bast Sunday I went fishing
with a mate. On making camp and catching enough
for tea, I took a stroll, leaving him to officiate as
chef. When I returned my plate Contained a couple
Of fish and a stringy substance that made me inquire
“Did you cook the tackle, tod, Bill?” “No,” hfe
replied. “Them’s only the wicks. I fergot th’ fat
and ’ad ter use th’ candles.”
* * * *
“Tuan”: Re snakes swallowing their
young. The other day a friend of mine killed a
wriggler, and when he cut it in two six young
snakes from two to five inches long slith-
ered out of the body. About 25 years ago
I took to England a collection of snakes from
India. On the long sea trip I watched them occa-
sionally, and can take my solemn oath that I saw
some of the snakes emit their young from the mouth.
• » * *
“Jesmond”: I recently saw a Yic. country
girl emptying flour into a piano-ease bin. She lifted
each bag off the ground, carried it 10 yards under
her arm, cut the string and tipped iin the flour
without putting the bag'down. She emptied four
bags in less than 10 minutes. And I had wondered
why my proffered help was refused.
* * * #
“Jim Carew”: Who was the first white
woman in Australia to marry a Chow? In my
grandfather’s diary, under date February, 1827, he
refers to a couple living at Bathurst (N.S.W.), and
says: “Although they are the cause of a good deal
of gossip there is no doubt of their being really
married, and they seem a hard-working, respectable
couple.”
“Ten Eye”: “Skin-Diver” (B. 22/l2/’21)
disputes my statement that jap workers enj-
courage sharks to come round so as to
scare off the naked island boys. Well, per-
haps it was only a coincidence that, just
after I had read his par, one of my boys said: “We
can’t work that place, boss [mentioning a particular
ground]. We been go along, but he too full up
shark. That Japanee boat just been' ’lohg; they
make fast some piece turtle Tongside and chuck
meat. They do that same trick like before.” This
may, of course, have been only a hallucination,
though they’d caught a 12-footer on the strength'
of it. Still, if “S'kin-diver” keeps his eyes and ears
open a bit he’ll find that the sleek-haired little men
are not so incapable of such jokes as he imagines.
They are not above “doing in” their own compatriots
when inducement offers. More than one Jap diver
A SURE WAY.
THE ACTOR : “So you want to get into some
job that will give you a chance to
follow up the profession. Well, why
not take up debt collecting?”
has passed out from paralysis, contracted through
being hauled up in a hurry, so that the conspirators
could whack the pearls. I’ve had this item from
the divers themselves. One smiling Jap with whom
I’m on pretty good terms nearly went west a couple
of years back for the same reason, and he told me
he thought it wiser to retire to a land job.
“Bill B.” : Near Mackay (N.Q.) there is
a full-blooded abo. who joined the A.I.F. In 1915,
and took part in most of the fighting on Gallipoli
and in France. During his absence his wife (also
an abo.) bought 200 acres'and built a small cottage
out of his allotment , money. When the dusky Diggei’
came back he planted sugar-cane, and the couple
are how doing well. I dropped in for a yarn the other
day, and saw the two-year-old son playing with
dad’s war medals.
CONTEMPT IN EXTREMIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Judge had a nose of crimson hue,
W hich told the tale of a wine or two;
The prisoner’s eyes were the eyes of a cod,
Which, in view of his habits, was hardly odd.
Quoth the Judge, with his glasses well down on his
nose:
You were drunk at the time, young man, I sup-
pose.”
Then the cod’s eyes gave the copper a nudge:
“ l was sob er, your Honor,” he said, “as a Judge.”
Then the Judge looked up with a frown on his brow ;
Sarcasm,” he said, “I cannot allow.”
And so, with a regular Judge-like snort,
He gave him a week for contempt of court.
maoriland.
LESLIE R. PREEMAN.


/
/>
3
Cw
VS
m'im
min Mi*®
J
I „ '
U
mj m
w
%
U A
i
‘ v ■
. •
'
4J
Mi*
U'Mlfjl
if! •'
I
*
P
li
s
Si
/
11
i
30
ft
I
(A
1
f-
BC
!
Wt:
%
I
*
7a
a
Vs
m
V).
m
\
4
i
W:
las
. C • s,
•' • ■ - • !
\
£L» -
m
A &
;
-V
SI
CSS
*£
*. N
;
;
_ carrying the load!
In a motor car the transmission of engine
power, the road shocks, and resistance to
cuts and abrasions from contact with the
road, all fall on the tyres; in fact, without
them motoring would be impossible. The
experience of the majority of motorists in
this country is that Australian-made Railroad
<%r
€L
stand up to this hard work better than any
other tyres, and their dependable service is
rendered at a lower cost per mile. No tyre
gives you greater strength, better quality, or
equals the “Dunlop” for value. Excellent
wear, freedom from trouble, and a big
average mileage go with every “Railroad.”
■ ■ # * * '
Always use them—it pays! All Garages can supply.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. Ctd. All States and N.Z


jA\
I
\ '/a
ll-
u
w
//A
ykl
m
W,
David
Jones'
GABARDINE
RAINCOATS
63 /•
Very smartly made from Proofed Cotton
Gabardine, brown shade and lined
throughout with strong check material.
Style features include double-breasted
lapels, strap cuffs and vent at back. All
sizes from 36- to 46-inch chest. If possible
call and inspect this and many other good
value coats at
David Jones’ Sydney.
VICTORY OF GOOD VALUE,
Dodge Brothers Motor Car is in demand because Dodge
Brothers Car meets a definite economic need and satisfies
a human craving for honest and substantial value.
In the Standardised Chassis are embodied many improve-
ments and refinements, including the fitting of 32 x 4
cord tyres, increased length of springs, new type rear
mudguards, patent windshield cleaner for use in wet
weather.
The Australian bodywork has been redesigned to give
increased seating space and greater comfort. The lines
of the body have also been altered to give the most
improved streamline effect.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Dodge Brothers Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce.
The Rose in the Wilderness
M EESPARD,” announced the
-lf_L maid - For the minute the name
was unfamiliar; then, as a very
perfectly-tailored girl came into the room, I
laughed.
“Why, Ruth, I was just wondering who
the stranger was. I always forget my
friends’ married names. Tea, Marie, and
hot, buttered toast. Well, how goes it
Ruth?”
The firelight flickered on a pretty face
that was momentarily hardened in rather a
worried look.
Fail ly well, she said, as she loosened
her furs. “Fact is, I’ve come to say good-
bye. I’ve had a cable from David, and he
wants me to go over to Canada to him on
the next boat. Of course, I’ll love to see
him again, but it s all rather uprooting isn’t
it? I have never lived on a ranch in my
fife, and I think I shall be rather homesick
at first.”
I sympathised, and we talked for some
time. Then she said : “You know I’m rather
worried about the frivolous problem of keep-
ing my looks. David told me that what first
attracted him was the fact that I looked so
different from most Canadian women. But
under Canadian conditions, shall I be able
to keep it up? For example, I have my hair
washed and waved at a hairdresser’s every
fortnight; that will be impossible in my
new life. And I look hideous with straight
hair.”
“Why, that’s easily solved: take over a
supply of silmerine with you. You only
want to damp your hair with it slightly and
put in slides or a curler or two, which can
easily be concealed under a boudoir-cap. Get
your hair accustomed to silmerine treatment
on the voyage over; then by the time you
land it will probably have developed a dis-
tinct natural tendency to curl, and will only
occasionally need damping. Of course, it
is much better for the hair than to sap all
its gloss and vitality with hot irons. For a
home shampoo I think you cannot beat stal-
lax. A teaspoonful of stallax granules to a
cup of hot water will make the most deli-
cious foaming lather, which cleanses the
hair splendidly. You’ll be able to dry it in
the sun in no time in that gorgeous climate.
3 If I were you, I should always keep some
reliable tonic in the house, for you never
know when your hair may require a little
stimulating. Yes, boranium and bay rum
is excellent: I always use it. Also, I think
it would be a very wise plan to keep some
tammalite by you ; dark hair like yours has
a very disconcerting habit of turning grey
in patches. If your hair does show a ten-
dency to fade, you have only to dissolve two
ounces of tammalite in three ounces of bay
rum, and you have a wonderful hair-restorer
ready for use.”
“Why, that seems too good to be true!”
exclaimed Ruth. “I must write that down.
Now, Estelle, I’m going to worry you some
more. What kind of complexion-cream
should I take? I want something that lasts,
that doesn’t take up much room, and, above
all, that really does keep one’s skin in con-
dition,”
“The answer to the riddle is mercolised
wax,” I replied. A tin such as chemists
usually sell lasts for three or four months; it
is solid, compact and not wasteful to use,
and it’s the finest complexion-beautifier there
is. Its great merit is that instead of making
the skin dull by clogging the pores with
grease, as too many face-creams do, it gently
absorbs the dull, outer tissue which gets
coarsened by hard water, dirt and so on, and
reveals the dazzling freshness of the new
skin below. Of course, in a hot climate,
where the sun and dust tend to ruin even
the prettiest skins, it will be simply invalu-
able. I’ll give you another useful tip: be
sure to provide yourself with some tablets
of stymol; then, if you happen to have a
blackhead, you have only to melt one tablet
in a little warm water, bathe the blackhead,
and you will be able to remove it without
the slightest difficulty, with a clean towel.”
“Thanks so much. I’m sure I shall be as
grateful to you when I’m so far away. Of
course, I shan’t need powder, because since
I discovered cleminite I haven’t needed it.”
“No, you couldn’t do better than carry
on with cleminite,” I assured her. “I can’t
think why more women don’t give up the
old-fashioned messy powder and use that
nice lotion instead. Well, Ruth, I think
you’ll blossom in the desert all right, if you
are wise and take care of your looks.”
“I hope I’ll be able to,” she said, “be-
cause however much one loves adventures
and roughing it, I don’t want to become a
masculine-looking woman. After all, David
liked me as he found me, and it’s up to me
to try and stay the same.”
“I must go,” she said, rising. “I don’t in
the least want to, but there are so .many
people to see. Will you come and see me
off? I sail on Friday fortnight*. Goodffiye.”
“Good-bye, Ruth, and the very best of
luck to you both. Write to me, won’t you?
Good-bye.”—Advt.


TKe
Purest
Spirit
in tke
ă
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's schna?^
“IT STANDS ALO^'B-”
mgglP
m
m
C 3
□OSS
a
E 5
g»>
CD
as
SB
£5
K
e
ORIGINAL
BALATA
ą
BRITISH
BELTING.
This illustration, drawn from, a recent photograph, shows a.36in. x 8-ply
Endless DICK’S Genuine Balata Belt, transmitting 700h.p. Belt speed is
5028 F.P.-M. Length of belt is 121 ft.
This is the main drive —the main artery and life-blood as it
were —that feeds the machinery employed in the huge
the Tacoma Lumber Company, Tacoma, Wn., U.S.A. DICK’S
Original Balata Belting was selected, for this drive from a,
number of other belts offering, because it gave sounder assur
ance of Dependability, Longer Service, Greater Efficiency,
Continuous Operation and Power-saving.
In service this big DICK’S BELT is standing up to reputation.
The power is steadily, . silently and fully delivered. Belt
trouble is unknown. There are no belt stoppages, consequenting
heavy losses through labor thrown idle. The belt is doing
its work.
Before buying Belting, consult with one of our practical engineers. Their
suggestions are helpful and no cost or obligation is involved. Also write
for free copy of Balata Belting Book.
JAMES HARDIE S COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY: MELBOURNE > ADELAIDE:
York and YVynyard 540-2 Little 00 Currie Street.
Streets. Collins Street.
QUEENSLAND:
The Queensland Machinery Co., Albert Street, BRISBANE.
Arthur Jones that has been edifying
America. The playwright started the
squabble by publishing a book called “My
Dear Wells,” in which he gives Wells a
place among the “haters of England.”
Jones also analyses Wells’s theories, and
adds “some playful coaxings” in the hope
that they will lead him to “examine the
political doctrines” which he is “advocating
so profusely.” The “playful coaxings”
goaded Wells to a vitriolic complaint in the
Chicago Tribune :
His campaign is a great nuisance to me, for
these articles not only crop up here, there and
everywhere where there is a paper in need of cheap
copy, but also he supplements it by a stream of
private letters to me. The thing is as tiresome as
being shouted after in the streets or having some
one without rhyme or reason perpetually banging at
one’s door-knocker.
“One might as w r ell expect reason,” he added,
“from a mud volcano or a sewing-machine or
three pennyworth of cat’s meat.” Mr. Jones
retorted that he had written only three
letters to the papers and no private letters
to Wells, which proves that that gentle-
man, if not exactly untruthful, is not above
the suggestio falsi. The controversy, besides
being interesting as another illustration (if
any were needed) of the littleness of great-
ness, must hugely delight those schoolma’ams
of New England and meat-packers of
Chicago who represent American culture.
Even before the days of Arnold and Pater
they were taught to look to England for
charm, grace and “sweetness and light.”
Now, instructed by the Teacher, they are in
the happy position of being able to reflect
upon the charm of the mud volcano, the
grace of the sewing-machine and the sweet-
ness and light that glimmer around cat’s
meat.
G. C. DIXON.
Reviews of Fiction
One can see that when the necessary cal-
lousness is achieved the job of reviewing
novels is simple enough. But the achieve-
ment of the callousness is not so simple as
it sounds. So many books come and go leav-
ing nothing for the memory—so few among
them even stimulate passingly as they go;
but hardly one of them all is really bad. If
a book is only a blatant bid for , sales, at
least it exemplifies the necessary skill for
that. The sugary and sentimental book, for
instance, embodies a perfectly fair point of
view; it isn’t yours, but your 'ob isn’t fitting
books to your point of view. On the con-
trary. A book has good color but no plot,
a good plot but false color, good color and
plot but wooden dialogue—and so on, round
and round the mulberry-Dush. If a 10-
minutes’ talk with the writer were possible
you could tell him much more than he
gathers in his blind anger from your review.
But only once in 100 times would you find
a man with the sense to value disinterested
criticism. And the other 99 (and possibly
the hundredth, too) would go on hating you
just as fervently. If you sink your preten-
tious desire to encourage in a determination
to see only the good, you’re not treating your
paper or its readers fairly. If you reverse
that, you’re not treating anybody fairly.
And if you take one of the million or so
courses between, you have to explain, so you
submit three times the matter needed or
allowed . for reviews, and two-thirds of the
“subtleties” are blue-pencilled out. But the
biggest stumbling-block between these silly
human sympathies and the divine callous-
ness of the perfect reviewer is that each of
the books represents months of solid, strenu-
ous work, of continuous thought, of—to the
writer—inspired and significant thought.
Only a very great man can kick that over
for the sake of being right, readers and
papers and literature notwithstanding.
I suppose the perfect reviewer can have
no likes or dislikes, no theories as to the
things as yet unsaid or as to the possible
method of saying them, and, above all, no
hint of enthusiasm throughout his being.
He must, I take it, be an automatically re-
ceptive'' person, uncreative and inflexible as
a clearing-house or a wool-classer. His iron
finger points mechanically to the good and
to the bad according to the iron rules of his
machine. Into this machine goes the fine,
sustained effort of the book ; out of it comes
the miseraole sausage of the verdict.
Some years ago one of these perfect
critics—a German named Oswald Spengler
—discovered to his verbose satisfaction that
all literary expression is, so far as this civil-
isation is concerned, played out. Last year
another perfect critic —a man named Georg
Lukfics, also a German, or writing in Ger :
mai j; —made the same discovery: “that forms
of literary and artistic expression, equally
with other phenomena of intellectual and
spiritual activity have reached, in our West-
ern civilisation, a point beyond which no
development appears to be possible. Western
Europe, with America, has exhausted her
energies, as Greece, Rome, Assyria, Babylon
exhausted their energies before her, in her
efforts to add to the sum of vitally new
human knowledge, of fresh and adequate
channels of self-expression, and now all we
can do is to rest content with our achieve-
ments and wait for the inevitable end—or
rather new beginning, which will come from
a civilisation other than ours.” Dr. Lukacs’
volume, traces the rise of our civilisation’s
romantic novel to this present day of its
played-out rigidity. Having settled that point
—really quite conclusively, according to the
machine’s evidence—he looks with his prede-
cesor Spengler to Russia for the nucleus of
the civilisation which will start the novel go-
ing again,, his direct evidence of this being the
epic- realism of Dostoievsky on the back-
ground of Tolstoy and Turgenev.
No one with his eyes open can help seeing
in Russia’s tumult the possible birth-throes
of a new civilisation ; and the most casual
literary student knows that the epic founds
all literatures. But with due respect I
don’t think that our blubbering sentimental-
ists have finished yet with their childish
excursions into romantic idealism. We have
travelled a long way from Fielding to
Dorothy Richardson, Hergesheimer, and D.
H. Lawrence, and we (lave as yet no more
than stated our case. The accidents of
Russian turmoil and the epic quality in Slav
letters don’t seem to be big enough to kick
away our 200 years of preamble, validated
as the accidents may be by a temporary
rigidity in German and French fiction.
French and German fiction is constantly
running up side-alleys which end in blank
walls—-the diary of a strumpet, of a homo-
sexualist, of a madhouse keeper, and all
that. According to the rules of the critical
machine, such things may suggest the last
edge of expression, but to the literature of
humanity they suggest nothing beyond their
own accidental temporariness. They are not
to be explained, I know; no accident is.
But they are no more significant than any
other Act of God which has been left out
of a carefully built machine’s calculations.
Thirty years ago thought—imaginative,
expressive thought—came into works of
fiction. Our young civilisation gave these
books absurd names (such as “problem-
novels,” etc.), on the same principle as
schoolboys unite to. bait and nickname a new
boy; but that is of course negligible
now. Not so negligible is the fact that on
this tide of pioneering thought and imagi-
nation the currently-written novel rose to
its true place in literature, beside the
poetry and drama, the philosophy and wis-
dom. hitherto considered (in our infantile
civilisation’s blindness) to be the only true
literature. The storytellers then were only
storytellers, fillers of the evening hour, of
the idle moment. Now, their illimitable field
of thought being evident, they are matters
of close and careful study as befits their
great. benefit to humanity’s mental activity.
Within my adult memory this has come,
so naturally they haven’t said much as yet
—much, that is, considered as a civilisation’s
contribution to artistic progress. In the
next three or four centuries some novelist
may tear down all denominations and leave
only a clean faith in God and duty—may
show us the real truth of middle-aged and
aged human love —may stand the sexes on
an equal footing that the good of both may
add to humanity’s sum—may eliminate per-
sonal pity and its retrogression from human-
ity’s relationships—may make clear the
poets’ magic for the myriad readers of tales.
When these are done there will be a hun-
dred future tasks which only the storytellers
can tackle and achieve. The saeres and
poets have tried them all in 40 civilisations
and failed—they haven’t the public, which is
the essence of the contract.
So perhaps the reviewing will do in the
hands of the fellow-craftsmen. They
make a frightful mess of it, but they keep
the possible beauty and value alive, which
the machine by its nature can’t see.
HILARY LOFTIN.
Superlative Buckets
“N. Cliffwell” (R.P. 16/2/’22), venting a
justifiable wrath upon the qualifying ot
superlatives such as “full,” has placed wash-
ladies, suburban gardeners and bucket-
employers generally in a very serious
dilemma. The ordinary bucket of commerce
has hitherto had a habit of getting “half-
full,” “quarter-full” and other vulgar-frac-
tional conditions of w 7 ater-holding. But Mr.
Cliffwell vetoes the qualification of “full,”
it being a superlative. Similarly, he must
veto the qualification of “empty”-—equally
superlative according to logic. The bucket,
therefore, becomes indescribable; circumlo-
cutions, such as “containing-an-aqueous-
fluid - of - an - amount - sufficient - to - come-
into - contact - with - the - sides - of - the-
container - at - a - point - in - linear - mea-
surement - half - the - sum - of - the - total-
number - of - inches - existent - between - the-
ufiper - edge - of - the - container - and - the-
base” being somewhat difficult to memorise
and liable to cause serious industrial trouble
among bricklayers.
Buckets, then, must be either empty or
full. As this is liable to cause paralysis of
such useful trades as floor-scrubbing and
market-gardening, I counsel the immediate
suspension of English grammar by a pro-
clamation from the throne, pending the issue
of a standard bucket to English-speaking
nations. By weighing this bucket several.
times a day in a chemical balance, and call-
ing in the nearest university professor to
calculate the weight in grammes at existent
temperature and pressure, it should be an
easy matter to describe its half- or ouarter-
fullness in logarithms without qualifying a
superlative at all. The souls of charwomen
would be saved, and the expense could be
added to the income-tax. Unfortunately, it
raises a still larger question. Quite a num-
ber of poets are in' the habit of drifting about
half-full. In loyalty to the language they
must now become either full or emptv.
Knowing poets as I do (I belong to the
union myself), I am ouite pertain a super-
lative fullness will ensue with great thor-
oughness and enthusiasm, and the resultant
shortage of noems—and beer —will be upon
Mr. Cliffwell’s own head.
ANTON DENNING.
The Inky Way
H. R. McDuffie’s short stories are to be added to
the N.S.W. Bookstall series. McDuffie, a Victorian, is
the creator of Snorky and Briggs, well known on
the back pages of The Bulletin, and the book will
have a good deal to say about the two hard cases.
“H. H. Champion”: Internationalism is very much
in the air just now. Who speaking five years ago
would have dared to say that it should in the begin-
ning of 1922 be solemnly proposed that all the Powers
should meet in mid-Atlantic and sink to the bottom
one apiece of their useless men-of-war, just to strike
the imagination of the peoples with the idea that
war shall be no more? The idea of bringing together
all the people who spend their lives in making
books to amuse or instruct other neople in other
countries would have seemed equally preposterous.
Yet it has been done, and when the last mail left
London the club had celebrated its third dinner, to
which 90 guests sat down. The president of the
committee is John Galsworthy, perhaps the most
representative author at present among the British
people. The treasurer is Austin Harrison, son
of the 90-vear-old Frederic Harrison, and editor of
the English Review; and the.secretary, C. A. Daw-.
son Scott, may be written to at 125 Alexandra-road,
London, N.W. 8, Ten committee-men include Violet
Hunt, Sheila Kaye-Smith, Rebecca West and Elizabeth
Craig (presumably a daughter of Ellen Terry, the
actress). Poets, editors and novelists may belong
to the club—the P.E.N.—-and each may bring to the
dinners, which are held on the first Tuesday in every
month, a guest, but not the same guest more than
three times within the year. It is worth while tor
Australians to join this club or to start a similar one.
Thomas Hardy has joined. The two great Swedes,
Johan Bojer and Knut Hamsun, have joined, and will
form a similar club in Norway. Mrs. Kate Douglas
Wiggin has just called on well-known writers,to help
develop centres in New York, Boston and San Fran-
cisco. What London is doing may be inferred from a
list of names of those who attended at the last dinner
—William Archer, De Vere Stacpoole, St. John Ervine,
May Sinclair, “Elinor Mordaunt,” Edgar Jepson, Vic-
tor Bridges, Mrs. Peel, Dr. Marie Stopes and others.
As it is proposed that membership of any branch
shall open all branches to the members when on
travel, the advantages for Australians are obvious.
“Te Pana”: Ralph Stock was in the Civil Service'
in Suva before he took to writing South Sea stories.;
Anything from, an outrigger canoe to a steam yacht
was “meat” to him. Once he and his sister set out
from Sydney in a small yacht for a tour ’of the'
Western Pacific, but their cruise ended with a bump
on a reef off Norfolk Island. Later he made a trip'
from England, via Panama Canal, in a Norwegian-
built cutter and looked in at most of the isol'ted
island groups, finally fetching up at Tonga, where
he sold the craft. He beat back to England across'
Asia, but for a long time was held up on the trans-
Siberian railway. These days he finds a ready
market for his yarns in English and American
magazines, and his Islands stuff is now getting into,
the picture-films.
The typical Australian, according to English
novelist Gilbert Cannan, in his latest book, “Pug
and Peacocks”
“As he turned into the Strand, his eye was
attracted by a huge Australian soldier,' lounging
with his back against a shop front, dreaming himself 1
bank into his own land, with his eyes gazing across
miles and miles of bare soil, hot in the bright sun,
for grazing sheep. An amazing sight;; the simplest
possible human being, raw, happy, indolent. Lon-
don to him was a show not worth looking at when
he was alone, though a good enough place to paint
red in company.”
By way of a change, won’t some “huge Australian
soldier” paint a pen-portrait of the English novelist?
'“Tana”: They’re a versatile crowd, these newspaper
men. The other day one turned up at a Government
laboratory in Melbourne to inquire about some work
of interest to the public that was being carried out.
He called himself the Science Editor.. As the
particular work he was interested in was not quite'
finished, Blank, a member of the staff, gave him
what details he could, and promised to ring him up
next day and tell him the results of the researches.
The following afternoon Blank called up the news-
paper office and asked to be put on to the Science'
Editor, explaining that he had forgotten his name.
“Ah,” said the telephone attendant, “that will be
Mr. Dash —he has been expecting a ring from you.”
“Right-oh,” said the scientist, “may I speak to him ?”
“I’m afraid not, sir,”, was the answer; “he’s out:
reporting the hay-and-chaff sales just now.”
“S.T.S.”: It must be delightfully easy to write
poetry nowadays. Here is J. C. Squii-e, one of the
leaders of the modern men, describing a Rugger
match in his own magazine, the. London Mercury:—•
Far over necks and ears and hats I see.
Policemen’s helmets and cards hung on the ironwork)
“One shilling,” “No change given,” “Ticket-Holders
only.”
O Lord ! What an awful crush !. ...
We are packed and ready now. They might as well;
start,
But 2.45 is their time, and it’s only ten past,
And it’s got to be lived through. I haven’t a news-
paper. (
But, judged by any possible standard, is it poetry? 5
“Montalex”: “N. Cliffwell” (B. 16/2/’22) deplores
the qualification of superlatives. But the weight of
opinion has admitted such collocations as being
idiomatic necessities. No doubt “nearly perfect,”
“almost universal,” and so on, are, logically, absurd
expressions, but they serve in the language a definite
purpose that entitles them to legitimation. The
difficulty is not confined to English. Presque ton-
jours and presque jamais are good French; quasi
sempre and quasi mai are good Italian. “About
an idiom,” says Max Muller, “it is futile to ask
why. Like a law of nature, it is its own explana-
tion.”
. ' , . , _, .
“Pollio” : In a book on archaeology Flinders Petrie
makes a comment on the Digger with a queer twist
in it: —
“The Beersheba pavement was turned up by Aus-
tralian soldiers when trench-digging. Nobly they
did their unexpected duty, and spent nine days, con-
tinually bombarded by aeroplane, while they care-
fully raised it and despatched it safely to Cairo to
await their triumphal return to Australia. This
Is a most hopeful sign of the interest that intelli-
gent men will take in preservation: those who will
risk their lives over such work will not grudge a
halfpenny in the. pound on their taxes to save things
from destruction',”-
Has anyone noticed a vote on Bruce’s estimates for
preserving things from destruction? Or was the
writer thinking of the N.S.W. Leg. Council? Flin-
dels Petrie, by the way, has Australian interests
apart from the Beersheba pavement. A descendant
of the Flinders, he owns much of the explorer’s
manuscript, including his original journals. It was
from a copy of this journal made by Petrie for the
Melbourne Public Library that Ernest Scott got much
of the new information he embodied in his big -life
of the explorer.
THE OLD TIMER'S LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I find the younger fellows writing
The things that once I wrote,
The themes and sentiments reciting
Without a star or quote.
The little joke in clever rhyming
In which I took such pride
Appears again, its jingles chiming,
So like the stanzas glide,
“’Tis mine! ’Tis mine!” I’ve often cried.
I see the thing I wrote fair prose in
Appear in lilting verse ;
They throw some ‘‘sob stuff” and a rose in,
Some kisses intersperse;
Though no one else may recognise it,
The thing J have compiled
I know too well. Though they disguise it
I cannot be beguiled.
Tattooed and masked, it is my child.
The story that I told in verses
With such a loving touch,
The later chronicler rehearses —•
He need not alter much.
In prose he faithfully produces
My thoughts of days gone by.
The editor no doubt profuse is
In praise, and that is why
My own supplanter now am I.
The pars in other seasons writteh,
The articles so gay,
With epigram and wisdom knit in,
Their ghosts still walk to-day.
’Tis sad to be a scribe of fifty
And see with heavy pain
The younger fellow, bright and nifty,
Roll freely from his brain
The things I ne’er may do again.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Stockmen!
Silence may be golden—sometimes. But the
energetic efforts of Winchcombe, Carson’s
auctioneers at the yards catch buyers’ atten-
tion and produce good results for sheep and
cattle senders.
Hence the top values secured by Winchcombe-
Carson clients. , . . ;
Rail Stock:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
THE BARRY STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
represents the .most considerable for-
ward step yet taken in the design and
manufacture o£i a steel split pulley.
The BARRY is Electrically Spot Welded by
the latest and most improved methods. Weld-
ing is the strongest possible means of joining
metals, presenting many advantages over the
old-style riveting.. There are no rivets in a
BARRY Pulley to work loose or shear under
strain. The BAHRY is made of special steel
and formed in accurately constructed dies.
Write for Free Illustrated Descriptive <
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HAE'DIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
540-542 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
SKANDIA
MARINE MOTORS,
4-5 h.p. and up to
500 h.p.
4-5 h.p.
The latest type of Semi-deisel Oil Engine.
Specially constructed to take the place of
benzine engines. Runs on Crude Oil at a
cost of about twopence per hour. No
Magneto—sparking plug or electrical
devices. Average starting time only thirty
seconds.
All particulars and prices can be obtained
from
Nelson & Robertson,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
æ
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust-Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZING CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address-
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ALDERDICE
Brassfounder
Warrnambool.
Specialties —
Plumbers’ BrassworK
Country and all Water Board Standards.
Windmill Pumps.
Write for Lists. QUICK DELIVERY.
[5
Flawless Corsican Bruyere.
ǽ
The Best pipe that France Produces.
mt
We
will
show
a
shape.
every
week.
Illustrated,
809D.5., 20/-
is a perfect smoke
■““cool, sweet, clean. That
is because it is made by
Stench Diggers from the flnest-
grade flawless Corsican Briar Root
the World can supply.
fivefy fX.Gi is sold with
A Twelve Months’
Guarantee
and ftliy cracking or burning within that
time will be replaced free.
Made in 98 stnart shapes—that
shown is silver“m’t’d style 809D.5. at.
20/
Ask your tobacconist for one or send a postcard
to Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne, and we will tell you
Where to get one.
M
H
Metropolitan Razor
manufactured throughout
by CMBISTOI'HE Ji
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use tiiis famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
CJ
mp^
Price .10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street. Sydney.
A TOOL ROOM NECESSITY
m
Australasian Agents
Toolmakers decl a r e this
machine to be of the greatest
service and indispensable to a
well-equipped shop.
For grinding hardened dies
and punches, truing the legs of
jigs and similar work, you will
find the
Brown 8 Sharpe
No. 2
Surface
Grinding Machine
just the machine you need.
If you desire further informa-
tion we will gladly send our
catalog, so that you can buy
intelligently and realise the
many superior features that
this machine contains.
Scruttons Limited,
101 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Nik Sim”: The Is. 3d. which “The
Moralist” (B. 16/2/’22) says was offered
for a horse the other day at Tenterfield
(N.S.W.) was an extravagant price com-
pared with that accepted for a prad at
Wondai (Q.). This Blossom was knocked
down by the poundsman for a whole three-
pence. He looked worth it, too.
“Sammas”: A Collie (W.A.) co-operative
co. recently advertised in the West Austra-
lian :
Wanted, competent general manager with first-class
knowledge of grocery, hardware, clothing, drapery,
boots,, butchery, bakery. Fidelity guarantee neces-
sary.
I was thinking of applying; but then it
would be a pity to let my engineering, sur-
gical and rabbit-oh qualifications run to seed.
“Sixenate”: The High Cost of Leaving
still ascends. The undertaking ghouls of
Sydney were authorised the other day to
charge an extra £6 for week-end funerals,
the allegation being that this was necessary
to meet overtime rates now payable to the
employees for Sunday work. For a funeral
in which the essentials were a plain oak
coffin, cedar-varnished, the hearse, and one
mourning coach, two quotations were secured,
and in both cases the figure given was £2B.
Death is a fearfully expensive luxury these
days.
* * * *
“Coot”: A Vic. mail contractor, having
had his run extended by the failure of
another contractor, applied to the P.M.G.’s
Department for an allowance for an extra
horse, as the additional work meant covering
another 15 miles. He received a reply that
“upon reference to a map of the district it
was found that the extra distance would
appear to be only nine miles -as the crow
flies.” Whereupon he wrote back: “There
appears to be a misunderstanding regarding
my application. I am asking for an allow-'
ance for an additional horse, not an addi-
tional crow.” He got the allowance.
* * * #
“8.C.R.” : V. B. Trapp, one of Australia’s
finest timber experts and a great believer in
Tasmanian myrtle for wooden planes, saw-
handles and such-like goods, reports that the
value of the timber is becoming so well
known in the U.S.A. that one tool-manufac-
turer a while ago bought over a million feet
of it. Another maker in Glasgow, who wears
probably the hoariest name in the industry,
declared in a letter to a Melbourne man that
myrtle was the best timber he had ever used.
As material for bobbins, too, its superiority
was recently shown in a surprising test
from which no English wood emerged trium-
phant.
* * * *
That highly successful hotel at Renmark
(S.A.), which is run ter the benefit of the
local community and gives its profits to
public works and charities, is to be provided
with nine more bedrooms. The bar, which pro-
vides most of the profits, is also to be greatlv
enlarged, owing to pathetic complaints that
patrons have to fight their way into it.
Balfour Ogilvy, chairman of the managing
committee, has announced that they mean
to have “the biggest and best bar in Aus-
tralia, as big as a cathedral” —and in par-
ticular larger than that of Berri, a neighbor-
ing settlement on the Murray, which claims
to have at present the biggest in the State.
A deputation has been sent to Melbourne to
study the best models.
* * * #
“Bilhav”: The steam hammer at Mort’s
Dock. Balmain (N.S.W.), is the biggest in
the Southern Hemisphere, and tvork for it
is brought from as far away as South
America and S’Africa. The crankshaft of
the Biloela, the naval collier, Avas forged on
its anvil and machined at the Government
shop. _ for, although Cockatoo has some of
the biggest machine tools south of the line,
it is not so Avell eouipoed for forging outsize
jobs as the Balmain firm. In expert hands
the big hammer can be made to either just
crack an egg or mash up a 15-ton lump of
B.H.P. steel. But it rot out of control
once and bashed it’s anvil three times with
such force that the concussion broke windows
and crockery for hundreds of yards around.
LOVE OF GOLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As I was walking through green trees
Far, far from lane and byway,
A laughing man, a singing maid,
I met upon the highway—'
A merry man, a merry maid,
Who dancing went through shine and shade
Adown the rolling highway.
The birds were gay, the flowers were glad,
To see so ' fair a couple ;
The maid had cheeks of apple-red, ,
The man was tall and supple—-,
A merry maid, a merry man; .
There ne’er was seen, since joy began,
So blithe and fair a couple.
They stayed me in a shady spot
Beside the highway sunny.
“Good sir,’’ said they, “know you a place
Where we can sell for money
A merry laugh, a merry sor,g?
For life rolls joyously along
When it is dowered with money.”
I pointed to the far-off town,
Its dusty domes and spires.
“If you go marketing such wares
You’ll find no lack of buyers,
For yonder wander scores and scores;
Yet, had I golden gifts like yours,
I would not seek for buyers.” ■
Then off they rushed with flashing eyes
Towards crowded street and byway,
That laughing man, that singing maid,
I met upon the highway.
Their laughter, dancing, singing done,
Hot-foot they sped through shade and sun,
Adown the rolling highway.
The birds grew mute, the flowers grew sad,
To see so fair a couple—-
That maid with cheeks of apple-red,
That man so tall and supple—•
Thus break with joy their tryst and troth,
And sell for gold what made them both
A blithe and care-free couple.
N.S.AV.
BRIGALOW.


Week-ends
without a
t
are wasted
KODAK.
:
I vs
1 |
■ ’■= ■ ' • s , j*
What a pity it is to allow the happy times and
pleasant friendships of past week-ends to fade
from your memory, when a Kodak could make
them last for ever.
Take a Kodak with you on the coming week-end;
remember, a holiday without a Kodak is a holiday
wasted.
The No. 3 Box Brownie is a
simple and efficient model that is
used by thousands of enthusiasts
the world over. It takes good
pictures 3? x 4| inches. Price
26/6. Just what you need to
make pictures easily, and with a
minimum of expense.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak
Junior is an instrument of high
efficiency, fitted with every
appointment you heed for good
picture-making. It is thin—
shaped to fit the pocket—and
convenient to carry. Takes good
photographs 2\ x 3J inches.
Price 87/-
The new, complete Kodak Catalogue is sent post free to
any address (except New Zealand) for 6d. to cover postage.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne; 250-252 Queen St., Brisbane;
The Valley; 37 Rundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart; Ruthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders
St., Townsville; East St., Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies CO., Perth; “The Kodak
Corner*” corner Lambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z.
f“
I
/i
Have You Considered
the great amount of pleasure you can get from
one of
Paling’s Player Pianos?
You can learn to play one of these glorious
instruments in a few minutes—the ease of
manipulation of the bellows and levers is sim-
plicity itself and the results obtained are nothing
short of marvellous.
We hold large stocks of the world’s leading manufacturers, and it is a pleasure to demonstrate
any of our Players to you at any time. The pleasure you get is unlimited, and at the same
time it is an education for your children.
Catalogues are Free, and we will take your old piano in exchange as part payment, if you
wish, and allow you its full value.
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD. , 338 George St., Sydney


a
o,
he largest sellmij!
quality pencil in.
the wovlcL
r ENUS
PENCILS
á
REST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
â
ã
ä
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
If Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
Send Your Best Friend
one for CHRISTMAS.
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE
CASH'S
WOVEN
NAMES
The IDEAL Way
TO MARK ALL LINEN
or any Material, CASH S Names en-
sure protection and individuality.—•
They supersede Marking Ink—A Clear
Neat Name woven in Fast Color it
easily sewn on.
Prices: 12 doz,7/6-6 doz. S/--3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all best Drapers.
A Great British Product
2 1 /i, 5 and 8
Horse-power
å
ă
ą
ǻ
Stationary,
Semi-Portable
Portable.
(Runs on kerosene.)
The Reliable and Economical Power
for Driving Industrial and
Agricultural Machinery.
OVER 20,000 BEING
SUCCESSFULLY USED TO-DAY.
Made by PETTERS, LIMITED,
Yeovil, England.
Australian Representative:—■
LEE K. MURRAY, A.M.I.Ae.E.,
DALTON HOUSE,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents
BRISBANE: The Intercolonial Boring Com-
panv, Ltd., 4 50-4(50 Ann Street.; ' ,
SYDNEY: The Crudo Engineering Company,•
3 Barrack Street. '
MELBOURNE : The Kidd Milking Machine Co.,
Ltd.. 495 Bourke Street.
ADELAIDE- The South Australian Farmers’
Co-oper.-U”e Union. Ltd.., 3P Frapklin St.
m
/
s
lA
*
m
■zx-
*s=r
1
Lubricating
Australia’s Industries
The development and improvement in imple-
ments and machinery during the past ten
years have aided the farmer immeasurably in secur-
ing bigger yields from each acre of ground.
Farm implements and machinery mean farm prosperity.
The most important single factor in keeping such equipment
•t its highest efficiency is scientific lubrication.
During the past 25 years the Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Limited has
worked hand in hand with the inventor, the manufacturer, and the farmer in
raising the the standard of lubrication, so that the mechanical operations on the
farm could be accomplished smoothly, efficiently, and with a minimum of repairs
and depreciation.
Inventors and manufacturers generously acknowledge the help given by
this Company in solving their lubricating problems.
Farmers accept the name of the Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd. on a
package as an assurance of correct lubrication.
The work must go on.
Ask your storekeeper
lor free booklet,
“ Petroleum on
the Farm.”
æ
Vacuum- Oil Co 4
Pty. Ltd.
Lubricating Oils
MSA
A grade far each type of service
r. VACUUM OIL COMPANY PC PTI
LEYS
“After Every Meal**
WRIGLEY’S used regularly after every
meal will facilitate the process of assimilation.
It will make your food do you more good.
It aids appetite and digestion. It helps to
keep the teeth clean, thus preserving them
from decay.
Athletes prize it for its tonic effect on nerves
and muscles. Doctors and dentists approve
it. In many hospitals it is given to convales-
cents for its helpfulness in mouth hygiene.
WRIGLEY’S is made from the
choicest of pure materials obtainable
in a new and immaculately clean
factory in Rosebery, Sydney.
WRIGLEY’S is manufactured
from the sap of the tropical Sapota
tree —this is called chicle. To this
is added pure cane sugar grown in
Queensland, and refined Australian
maize syrup, together with the won-
derful WRIGLEY flavours that
last and last and 1-a-s-t!
Finally, this thoroughly clean and
wholesome product is wrapped by
machine in waxed paper and sealed
to keep all its goodness in and all
impurities out.
On sale wherever confections
are sold, or send three penny
stamps for a trial packet to
WRIGLEY’S, Ltd., Box 2602
G. P. O. Sydney.
3d. per Packet of Six Big
Bars. Cither Flavour.
Wrapping by Macninery
The Most Economi-
cal Sweet
you Can
Buy
fßte
WRIGLEYS^
Hi:
the PERFECT GUM r
2
m
“Michael Fagan” : “Verbiage is the unfail-
ing sign of mediocrity,” says Peter Airey in
a Bed Page article; “the fa mlty of condensa-
tion is the hallmark of genius.” Therefore I
condense: —•
’Tis the hen lays the egg,
But the rooster who crows;
Though the mouth drains the beer,
The nose grows the rose.
I’m writing this lay
But my wife draws the pay!
Sydney’s oldest fire-fighter, John Ford, is
about to retire. He came to Australia in
H.M.S. Wolverine in 1877, joined the bri-
gade in 1884, and has, therefore, had 38
years’ service. He has been at every big
fire in Sydney for 30 years, and gained the
King’s medal for rescuing comrades at J. K.
Love’s premises in 1900.
“Tasmaniac”: “Camelero’s” Diggers with
peculiar tastes in souvenirs (B. 12/l/’22)
brings to mind one I met in Sutton Yeny in
’l9. He had a small tobacco tin containing
a couple of qunces of gold fillings, which he
told us he intended to have melted down and
made into a brooch for his tabby. He had
been on an exhumation job.
“Motacoche”: Motor transport for
funerals has knocked west all the old tradi-
tions about funereal pace. The limit was
probably reached when a N. S; Wales pas-
toralist was buried the Sydney the other day.
He left directions in his will for a motor-
funeral, and set out that the speed of the
cortege was to be the maximum allowed by
the regulations.
“Jim Carew”: When the railway from
Wallerawang to Mudgee (N.S.W.) was first
opened no driver was able to run to schedule
time, and the train used to arrive in Mudgee
anything up to an hour late. To test the
schedule “Hell-fire Jack” (Dolph Beverley)
was put on the run and given instructions to
let her go. He pulled into Mudgee half an
hour early—and was promptly fined for
beating the timetable.
The herd of Jersey cattle built up by the
late Pete? Wood since 1909 on his Linden
estate, just outside Adelaide, has been dis-
persed. It was a great day for Cow, most of
the States (but especially Vic.) being repre-
sented among the buyers. Maid of Tara-
ganda, who made a record for S.A. last year
with 13,5211 b. of milk, went to the Chirn-
sides for 166 guineas. But Beischer, from
Bendigo, paid the highest price of the day—
-215 guineas, for a four-year-old cow.
“Bill Bowyang”: As “FY7” (B. 26/l/’22)
doubts my statement that the ancient swords
ploughed up near Mackna.de Mill (N.Q.) were
similar to those used by sailors on Dutch
warships in bygone days, tell him that in
1919 a Townsville resident named Wilson
sent one to the British Museum. The reply
from that institution was that the relic was
undoubtedly a sword similar to those used by
the Dutch about 1650-1690, and I reckon
we can take their sword-expert’s word for it.
“Jackeroo” : The slaughter of poddies in
Queensland isn’t so bad as the destruction
of bulls. At Goodar station recently 200
fine bulls were yarded and the knife was
used on 162. Two years ago these bulls
were worth £3O each. A Maranoa grazier
stated the other day that fat bullocks 400
miles from the railway were worth nothing-
it didn’t pay to shift them. Theodore and
co. used to boast from the soap-box that they
would make the beef barons squeal. No
doubt they are satisfied now.
“The Moralist” : Here’s another working-
bee performance. At 6 a.m. on Feb. 18, at
Harlaxton, near Toowoomba (Q.), 20 car-
penters, several plumbers and numerous en-
thusiasts, with the assistance of a portable
Sawbench, borer and planirig-machine, ripped
into a big stack of hardwood and sundries
previously collected. At sundown a church
capable of seating 150 was declared weather-
tight. Evangelist Burns organised the pious
stunt, and formally handed the building over
to God next morning. The evangelist be-
longs to the Church of Christ, and, like many
more of that creed, comes from the U.S.A.
Probably that explains why this sect hates
starting off with a loan. At any rate, several
of its Australian tabernacles have been built
by -working-bees.
“Jobber” meets Dick Turpin, jun.:—
There are still old-timers in the Binda (N.S.W.)
district who remember and speak affectionately of
bushranger Gilbert —“Happy Jack” they call him.
When Gilbert was horse-breaker and station-hand on
Oak Park, Binda, some strangers in the district
engaged him to muster a mob in the Abercrombie
ranges. While on this job Gilbert was told that his
employers were “duffers,” that the horses had been
stolen, and that the police were after him for being
implicated. This put the wind up the young fellow,
and he cleared out to the western side, where he met
Ben Hall and “went bush.” Although ha “did” the
country round Oak Park, Gilbert swore he would
shoot the first man who molested that place, where
he had been well treated by the Oakes family. It is
counted in his favor that he never robbed a small
settler. His grave at Binalong, on a bush hillside,
is well cared for, and looks neater than many in the
big cemeteries. Oak Park, by the way, was taken
up by Francis Oakes just about 100 years ago, and
the’ old freehold is still in the family.
“Tarwoona”: “The Wallad” is wrong
when he says (B. 2/2/’22) that bounties
were paid by the Imperial Army to the
winners of the V.C., M.C. and D.C.M. only
if and when they were subsequently commis-
sioned. A man winning the D.C.M. has the
choice of (1) taking £2O down or (2) a
pension of 6d. a day for life. In the last
rumpus most men took the twenty quid.
They had their doubts about living long
enough to collect over that amount at the
rate of 6d. a day. The V.C. carries a pen-
sion of £lO a year, but there is no money
at all hanging to the M.C. (or M.M.). Per-
haps “Wallad” has got himself muddled over
the grant to men commissioned for bravery
on the field. In the Imperial Army the
ordinary kit allowance to a newly-commis-
sioned officer was £5O; to one promoted for
gallantry it was £l5O, the extra hundred
being, added .not as a sort of prize for
bravery, but on the assumption that the man
would have very little private means. Of
course,, in the old days of scarlet jackets,
etc., neither- allowance was adequate.


A v v-
-11 p I iffPii rl
; ISSf^ : ' -§&fl
| i
...
■
W
i 1 1 111
iii
Hill
II
HHHH
:
■HI
IlliS ' ' I
"l
Hi?
HHB '
;.• •• '• v \ - :: -
mm
I
HHi
•’•*•. g®s
!» s
■
m
I n
«
■
; lIHI
n
ME
m
1
■: a:
II
mm*
pfi
m
" :* | *
: i ; Sw
H
mrnmmtmK's,
am ;: =
It* • -
iV : :
■
mm
«
n 1
gs™§iiBsg
■
■
■HBWife-.
■ --
: -
. / a'
a-a
Wmm
\ :
..;
‘One more s election before we go / ’
The aesthetic appeal of the A Jew Beale Player-Piano is very great. By
its superior performance it appeals to all—in especial to the cultivated
musician who has keen appreciation of the subtleties of tone control.
; i , ■ . ’ |
This New Player has features not common to the usual run of player-instruments—
evices for interpretive control which give the untrained musician not only a facile
technique, but a control of that technique far in excess of that of many good musicians.
The New Beale Acccessible Player-Action” is the name of a Booklet
just published which gives photographs and facts of interest concern-
ing this uncommon Player-Piano. Sent post free to any address.
Showrooms :
340 George Street
SYDNEY
BEALE § COM PANY UP
Head Office and Factories
41-47 Trafalgar Street
AN NAN DALE
N.S.W.: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle and Goulburn.
Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston.
W.A.: J. A. Thomson Co., Limited, Perth.
Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne
S.A.: John Evans, Ltd., Adelaide.
Qn Q? _ BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED,
Queen btreet, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay.


Hotel c/e Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAT/RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per iay, or from
4J4 Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
ǽ
If neglected may bring
about serious disturb-
ances to health. Head-
ache and Indigestion
are often traceable to
thii cause. Get relief by
taking tht ever reliable
*SSE
Imitations are being
of 'ered. The genuine
Kruse’s is made by
Felton, Grim wade &
Co. Prop. Ltd., Melb.
à
All B S.A. part•
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
RIDE A
BICYCLE BUILT OF
B*SA
FITTINGS
THOUSANDS of cyclists rep-
resenting nearly every country,
testify to the value of bicycles
built of B.S.A. Fittings.
The health and pleasure of trouble-
free cycling, enjoyed when using
a good machine, will very soon
repay you your initial outlay. All
usage after that (including your
numerous business callsand holiday
touring) is a handsome bonus or
dividend derived from your wise
investment.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH
The searching tests and careful
analysis to which every component
of the B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle is
subjected, eliminate the possibility
of poor material,bad workmanship,
or a flaw in the finished article.
ILLUSTRATED HANDBOOK
FREE ON REQUEST TO
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian BuildingSj
MELBOURNE.
m
I
01
> .
APPLIED TO INTERNAL
SURFACES WITH A BRUSH
CONTAINS NO OIL.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET.
HALVES THE BOILER SCALING BILL.
SYDNEY: The Austral Engineering Supply Co., Ltd., 490 Kent St.
BRISBANE: John Reid & Nephews, Charlotte Street.
MELBOURNE: The British-Australian Engineering Co., Collins St.
ADELAIDE: E. Treliving, Grenfell Street.
PERTH: W. Adams & Co., King Street.
res
JkjaMt
<Sb
The hard-wearing
qualities of COLO
TYRES testify to
the high quality of
their construction
your Garays
The Colonial Rubber Co. Ltd.
Head Office, 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney.
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St. Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Melbourne* 54 Market Street. Perth; 47 King Street.
Brisbane; 98-100 Edward Street. Auckland; Albert & Swanson Streets.
The Sign of a Pipe Supreme
GBD on a pipe is more than a brand —it is
an assurance of satisfaction to the smoker.
Every GBD pipe is the work of an expert
—made from genuine French Briarwood
thoroughly matured —carefully shaped
and well finished.
With your favorite tobacco and a GBD
you can depend on a cool, sweet smoke
at all times.
Many
Popular
Shapes
from
8/6
On
Sale
Everywhere.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
In Adelaide cricket the East Torrens
Club remains unbeaten, and is gradually getting back
to its old strong position of having most of its team
selected for inter-State honors. It provided just half
of the 12 picked for the final Shield match against
Vic.; and these included two new men, Jack Kymill,
a hard-hitting left-hand bat, and Morton, a very
young fast bowler.
* * * *
• “Ando”: How’s this for the ardent-
cricketer stakes? Recently F. C. Morse, a 50-year-
old settler in the north-west of N.S.W., travelled to
St. George (Q.) and back —350 miles —to take part
in a cricket match between Mungindi (a border
town) and St. George. Incidentally, he had to
chase the leather to some extent, as the home team
made 318 runs ; but he had the satisfaction of com-
piling a half-century off his own bat when his turn
came.
• * * •
Murray Bridge Rowing Club, which has
dominated S.A. rowing for the past 10 years, is ask-
ing Adelaide to lend a hand in the matter of finance.
A handful of enthusiasts on the river have worked
up to a standard which is higher than the city’s ; so
that commonly—as the two styles would hardly com-
bine well —the Bridge crew is sent bodily to represent
S.A. in inter-State races. But they haven’t the
money behind them that Adelaide clubs have. Among
other present needs is an elevated boathouse that
won’t be liable to floods.
* * * *
“Pat Bushie”: “C.W.G.’s” poker-player,
who got a routine flush twice in one round of deals,
is not alone in his glory. We were playing bob
rises and the blind man bought two cards to ace,
queen, ten and made a royal flush. Three hands
later he repeated the performance, and each time
on hearts. I remember well, because I had fou<
eights on the first and a small full the second time.
Nearing the end of the same game I bought the queen to
a royal flush of diamonds. Then we played an ace-
pot to finish, and on the fifth deal (there were six
players) I got the same royal flush pat, and finished
up winning £B. We had played only a little over
seven hours.
* * * *
Wish Wynne, who won the Oakleigh Plate
at Caulfield, was second in the Futurity to Euryth-
mic, and streaked into second and third places in
the Doncaster and A.J.C. Epsom Handicaps, has
proved a profitable investment for her owner-trainer,
J. W. Cook, of Kensington (Sydney), who bought
her as a yearling three years ago for 25 guineas.
Buyers must have been looking the other way when
the animal was auctioned, for her pedigree is pretty
good. On her sire’s side she is a direct descendant
of Musket, the father of Carbine, and her dam,
Parameter, is by Ruenalf, son of Grand Flaneur.
Cook, the owner of the profitable mare, is a son of
an old trainer, now over 70, who as a youth rode
for the sporty Ma State Governor, Hercules Robin-
son. As a trainer, in 1888 he landed the A.J.C.
Metropolitan with Lamond, and scored again a
couple of years afterwards with Little Bernie.
* * * *
South Aus. Cricket Assoc, is going to put
some of its Test-match profits into new pavilions on
the Adelaide Oval. The old ones have remained un-
altered for years, the war having come just as plans
for a new stand had been approved. The new plans
are larger and far more expensive— probably
£16,000 when complete. The idea is to move the
two low “smokers’ ” stands from the north end of
the reserve to the south, and use the space for an
extra pavilion for members only, with committee
rooms. This will avoid the reproach that a member
has not the slightest privilege which may not be
stampeded on big occasions. The terracing of the
mounds round the ground is another pressing work.
As the Oval is in the happy position of having all
the big cricket and football, besides a good deal of
other sport, the Cricket Assoc, will simply have to
find whatever money is needed to bring it up to
date. The Footbali League has lately renewed a
contract to play all big games on the Oval.
* * * *
“0.K.”: The life of a horse-trainer is so
healthy that John Porter was not reckoned a
remarkably old man when he died the other day at
84. He had been in the business since the ’sixties
and trained for Sir Joseph Hawley in the time of
Blue Gown, who won the Epsom Derby in 1868.
The owner had three triers in that race, and
“declared to win” with either of the other two —•
Rosicrucian or Green Sleeves —in preference to Blue
Gown. A declaration, those times, was accepted as
a quite honorable warning to the public that if two
horses belonging to the declarer were in front at
the finish the less fancied one would be eased in
favor of the owner’s choice. But it was also a device
for throwing dust in the public eye. Long after
Hawley’s death the Duke of Westminster started a
racing stud under Porter’s care, and won the Derby
with the unbeaten Ormonde, and again with a mare
named Shotover. It was in those days that John
Porter asserted his respectability by ordering one
of his employers off the premises. Fred Gretton, a
partner in Bass’s brewery, had some horses in train-
ing at Kingsclerc while the Duke of Westminster
was running his top-holers as straight as the prover-
bial die. Two of Gretton’s. Fernandez and Preston-
pans, acquired an evil reputation for getting scratched
for important handicaps after figuring for some
time in the betting market. One day the brewer
gave John Porter instructions to prepare the notori-
ous non-starters for a coming event. Porter asked
him whether he intended to run the animals when
they were ripe. Gretton replied that what he
intended to do with his own was his own business.
Thereupon “honest John” gave the brewer two days’
notice to quit, on the ground that his scratching
tactics were damaging the reputation of the stable.
A success from his very young days, Porter came
to be recognised as the whitest and wisest man at
the game, and when King Edward took to racing
under his own name he chose Porter for his guide,
philosopher and trainer.
* * * *
Australian cricket grounds, as described
hv Sir Home Gordon in a new sporting novel, “That
Test Match”
“Paul, like the rest, learned in practice what
batsmen’s paradises the perfect wickets ‘out there’
are. Days of alternate rolling and watering bind
the pitch until it is something to dream of, but
a nightmare to a bowler. The Adelaide ground
is probably the longest in the world, and a great
piece has to be roped off to prevent an excessive
boundary, whilst the scoreboard is unrivalled, even
in Australia.... The Melbourne oval seems always to
recall Lord’s to English cricketers. The peculiarity
is that double deck-stands are all built some 25yds.
away from the boundary, and as there is a slope the
impression is rather like playing in an amphitheatre.
Sydney always tries to outdo Melbourne, in the
same way as Manchester thinks ahead of London.
The Sydney ground is one which it would be im-
pertinence to praise, so fire is it, and from the
slope thousands of the public can watch the match.
It is an inspiring locality, fraught with great
memories. By the way, spectators in Australia are
never allowed to walk on the playing spaces duriti|g
intervals. Though the behavior of the big crowd
was more noisy than in England, and distinctly more
personal, it did not in the least affect Paul, who
saw they were thoroughly appreciative of good
cricket, and more audibly derisive of what they
disliked even in their own representatives than are
our own spectators, who are reticent, as a rule,
when disapproving, and whose barracking is solely
over-strained patience.”
And Home Gordon is a large authority on
such matters. It was he who wrote the
memorial W. G. Grace volume. That was pub-
lished in 1917; his “Cricket Form at a Glance”
came out 15 years earlier, and he has been writing
industriously about the game in all the years be-
tween. Yet he has a large business to look after,
did a tremendous lot of war-work, and was on the
National Committee of Employers and Employed in
1918-19.
(Continued on page 53.)


y
u
I
-
m
m
■ ■
MMN
wm
m
m
m
BI
■
HB !
m
B
■
I
lllii
I
mm
HH
:,vl
Faster Work—Lower
Costs-Longer Service
Three important factors
in the Successful Machine-
shop to-day.
KEMPSMITH UNIVERSAL MILLING
MACHINES stand for all three—fast, accurate
work, economical operation, added to strength
and rigidity to cope with the severest strains
imposed by modern milling methods,
SOLE AGENTS:
PARKE & LACY
CO. LTD.,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney
Wherever there are hills people habitually
refer to the Hupmobile as a remarkable hill-
climber. The hig'her and harder the hills the
more widely and the more favorably the
Hupmobile is Known for its unusual power.
IMPORTANT FEATURES:
Extra strong, rigid frame.
Two carburetter adjustments.
Pressure oil system feeding oil direct to bearings.
Soft operating clutch, with adjustable pedal.
Extra-long change-speed lever, with short, easy
throw.
Extra-long, semi-elliptic springs; chrome vanadium
leaves.
Semi-irreversible steering-gear; strong construc-
tion.
Detachable engine-head; easy to grind valves or
remove carbon. ’
Extreme roominess of tonneau and driving com-
partment.
Completeness and quality of equipment.
!• PIIIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 114-122 Pirie
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY AIOTOR CO., LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED, 105 Macquarie
Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurch,
N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, N.Z.
Hupmobile


A. Saunders’ Gold Watch, ■ Expanding Wristlet, set
double-cut Diamonds, £25. Larger Diamonds, £3O.
A. Saunders’ fine-quality, double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £B5.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold patent Expanding
Wristlet . Watch, , fancy dial, full-jewelled lever
movement, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, £l5.
EXCLUSIVE DIAMOND JEWELLERY
'-V
p&m
Vc
.ft
•Vi
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Diamond
Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’
Gent's Single
Stone Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5.
A. Sai(nder,s’;.
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster
Expanding Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ 9_ct. solid Gold Hunting Keyless
Waltham, lever movement, £l5.
extra-jewelled movement,
£2O, £25, £3O, £35, £4O, £5O.
A. Saunders’
,-double-cut Diamond .
Marquise Ring,
18ct. Gold, £5O.
Set in real Platinum.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Necklet,
loct. Gold, £5O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
all Platinum Ring,
£9O.
WRITE FOR OUR FREE CATALOGUE.
WE SEND ALL ORDERS PER REGISTERED POST FREE.
A. Saunders’ Gold Expanding Watch Wristlet, set
4 Diamonds, full-jewelled movement, compensation
balance, £l7/10/-'
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £lO.
A Saunders’ fine Diamond Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£3.
A Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Trefoil Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Emerald and
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18et. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold Wristlet Watch, Silh
Bracelet, solid Gold Catch and Mounts, full-jewelled
lever movement, £lO.
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A n-
m
c ßrighten Up the Home
Renew the varnish on your woodwork, floors, furni-
ture, &c. , with an application of Johnson’s Prepared
Wax —the polish that imparts a hard, dry and bright
lustre, that protects, and covers mars and surface
scratches. A soft cloth and Johnson’s Prepared Wax —
all that is needed for easier dusting and brighter home.
JOHNSON’S
Liquid and Paste
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste is the most conven-
ient and satisfactory form for use on floors of all
kinds—wood, marble, tile, linoleum, See. Floors fin-
ished with this are easily dusted and polished with a
soft cloth or Johnson’s Light Floor Brush.
There is also Johnson’s Prepared Wax Liquid that is
especially recommended for furniture, phonographs,
pianos, woodwork and motor-cars. It contains no oil
and cannot catch or gather dust. It is clean to use
and durable in its effect.
Include a supply of these Johnson Products
with your next order from your local dealer.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.


Amusements.
SIUNK Y’S CHI E F THEATRE S.
J. C. WILLIAMS;»V, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE MERRY WIDOW.
CRITERION:
NICOLA .
(Magician anti illusionist).
ROYAL:
GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERA.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTI)., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
MAUDE FANE in
A NIGHT OUT.
THEATRE ROYAL.
LOUIS BENNISON in
JOHNNY GET YOUR GUN.
KING’S THEATRE.
ISOBEL BROSNAN in
PADDY THE NEXT BEST THING.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
BEN & JOHN FULLER. LTD.. MELBOURNE.
PANTOMIME ATTRACTIONS.
PRINCESS'S THEATRE,
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN and JOHN FULLER present their Great
Spectacular Pantomime,
BLUEBEARD.
Popular Prices.
Matinees Daily.
H
HYT’S
Til EAT RES, M ELBOU UN K.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURICE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
HOOT GIBSON in
ACTION,
THE SHEIK.
A Paramount Super feature.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
H. B. WARNER in
WHEN WE WERE TWENTY-ONE
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
• RITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
M*
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s, films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
ivnur n and SELZNICK.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SIIAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
Australian Tour:
MELBOURNE—PALACE THEATRE.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
' 17 The Banking House. Pitt Street, Svdnev.
AVAgJ
cjuau
Mis
a
Model 1889
Cal. .22
Savage Supremacy
NEARLY a quarter of a cen-
tury ago the famous .22
savage Hi-Power model 1899
Rifle blazed a new trail. It sped
a cartridge 2800 feet a second with
unfailing precision. It revolution-
ized firearm construction and
made possible the great SAVAGE
institution so well known today.
SAVAGE guns cover an infin-
itely wider field today and con-
tinue to hold the respect and ad-
miration of the world’s leading
sportsmen. The various models
are made in an adequate range of
calibres and should receive the
careful consideration of purchas'
ers of sporting arms.
The Savage Model 1899 calibre .22
Hi-Power Featherweight Take-
down Rifle has a specially tapered
20-inch round barrel. Its weight ia
6Vz lbs. Velocity 2800 feet per sec-
ond. Chambered for calibres .30-
30 and .303 and in calibre .300,
but with a 24-inch barrel only.
Sold by dealers carrying high-
class firearms.
Exclusive Representative (or Australia and New Zealand
A. ASHER SMITH
P. O. Box 966 Sydney, N. S. W.
SAVAGE ARMS CORPORATION, Utica, N. Y.. U. S. A.
Export Office: 50 Church St., New York
is
Missing: Friends.
'T'O WILLIAM GODFREY ROBINSON formerly of
Teniora New South Wales laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife Dora Ruth Robinson
has instituted proceedings against you for a divorce
on the ground of desertion. Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court at Melbourne on' or before the
twentieth day of April One thousand nine hundred
and twenty-two the case may proceed in your absence
and vou may be ordered to pay costs.
SNOWBALL & KAUFMANN, of 49 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
INSTATE of MARGARET SCOTT, late
1J of Tasmania. Brother, John Scott,
believed deceased. Niece, Ethel McLean.
Next-of-kin please communicate with
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Business Notices.
’V-
(TS
Re/x
REX—the Duplicator
100 copies in a few minutes.
Works like a £lO machine.
Price 25/-, Foolscap size.
Postage 2/-
Write for particulars.
H. DIBBS & CO., Dept. B,
18 Bridge Street, Sydney.
hawai I
H g THt YtAR 'ROUND PLAYGROUND |
ENJOY JULY
and AUGUST
in America’s Mid-Pacific Paradise. The
cruise offers a holiday of unusual pleasure
—-splendidly appointed liners, calm
waters, blue skies, summer breezes.
Then the isles of your imagination:
á
Gorgeous scenery,
tropic fruits,
trees, flowers;
continuous recreation
including golf, swim-
ming and surfing ; and
incomparable Kilauea,
living volcano. • Ask
your nearest travel,
tourist or steamship
agency for new book-
let, or write direct to
Department B,
Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.A.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEUBY, 91 Caile
S. Antonio, de Padua. St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
MONARCH
i\-; C'J
r' il
1 fSm
y
YOURS—
FOR A BETTER SMOKE!
Better, because every
Monarch cigar is hand-
made. Every leaf of the
filler used in its manu-
facture is high-grade
Havana, blended to pro-
duce a satisfying mel-
lowness that you will
appreciate.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6a.
each.
Special sampling
cabinet containing
10 cigars, 6/-; 25,
12/6; 50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Post free to any address.
Craigs Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil Cigar Factory.
It’s a Pleasure
to Shave
with the
UPLEX
URHAM
Safe Razor
You shave with all the
freedom of motion of the
old-style open razor. No
chance of cutting yourself.
â
V
SK
All Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to yout dealer to-day—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it in
your hand —see how it balances- —then take it
home and shave with it. It’s a revelation.
Reduction in price of the
NEW EDISON
We are pleased to be able to announce a general
reduction in the price of all models of the
world’s greatest phonograph—The NEW
EDlSON—consequent on a favorable move-
ment in the rates of exchange.
ã
å
With these reductions, no home
need be without this famous Re-
Creation instrument —the one
machine of them all that has repeat-
edly undergone the acid test of
direct comparison—side by side—
with the original artist. The NEW
EDISON is backed by the world’s
greatest inventor—it is praised in
high musical circles.
Illustrated is the Moderne Cabinet—
an example of the many genuine
Period cabinets that house the New
Edison, one of which will match
your own furniture..
Hear the EDISON before you choose
your phonograph—without the famous Dia-
mond Disc records you will miss much of
what is best in music—they cannot be
played on any other machine.
Catalogue free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
J. M. KEYNES’S NEW BOOK.
A Revision of the Treaty, being a
Seouel to “The Economic Conse-
quences of the Peace.” By J. M.
KEYNES. 7s. 6d. net.
Daily Chronicle : “Mr. Keynes’s new book is
written with the same masterly lucidity and
the same touches of brilliant and sardonic
humor as his first book.”
A Short History of British Expan-
sion. By JAMES A. WILLIAM-
SON, Author of “The Foundation
and Growth of the British Empire,”
etc. With 21 Maps (8 in color).
255. net.
Macmillan’s
Empire Library.
NEW VOLUMES, ss. EACH.
HUGH WALPOLE’S NEW NOVEL.
674. The Young Enchanted. By
HUGH WALPOLE, Author of “The
Secret City,” “The Captives,” etc. !
673. Vera, a New Novel. By the
Author of “Elizabeth and Her Ger-
man Garden.”
Thomas Hardy’s Works.
UNIFORM EDITION. 23 vols. Crown
Bvo. Cloth gilt, 6s. net each.
POCKET EDITION. 22 vols. F’cap
Bvo. Cloth, 4s. 6d. net; limp leather,
6s. net each.
The WESSEX EDITION. 22 vols.
Cloth extra, Bvo. 10s. 6d. net each.
MACMILLAN’S 3/6 LIBRARY
(New Vol.).
The House of Mirth. By EDITH
WHARTON. 3s. 6d. net. \
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth .
ss. net.
Annual Subscription, 20s. post free
LEADING CONTENTS FOR DECEMBER.
THE WASHINGTON; CONFERENCE.
The Standpoint of Japan.
The Case of China.
IRELAND
CURRENCY AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE
PROBLEMS.
THE AFTERMATH OF VICTORY:—
Europe To-day—Upper Silesia —Repara-
tions —An Alternative Policy.
AMERICA AND THE CONFERENCE.
Also Articles from “Australia,” “New Zealand,”
“United Kingdom,” “Canada” “South Africa”
and “India.”
3rd EDITION, REVISED.
A Textbook of Zoology. By the late
T. J. PARKER, D.Sc., F.R.S., and
W. A. HASWELL, D.Sc., F.R.S.
Illustrated. Third Edition. 2 vols.
50s net.
2nd EDITION, REVISED.
Introduction to the Mathematical
Theory of the Conduction of Heat
in Solids. By H. S. CARSLAW,
Sc.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Mathe-
matics in the University of Sydney.
Second Edition, completely . revised.,
30s. net.- '■ , . .
NEW EDITION.
The Commercial and Library Chart
of the World. (72 x 54 inches.)
£2 ss, net, mounted on cloth and
rollers, and varnished.
[W. & A. K. Johnston, Ltd.
The new edition of this Chart, invalu-
able to the business man, shows, in addi-
tion to the latest political World
boundaries, detailed information as to
railway and steamship routes, coaling
and oil-bunkering stations, cables, etc.
In,set Maps give the great Trans-Conti-
nental Railways, and the Panama and
Suez Inter-Ocean Canals.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.


Virginia Cigarettes
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6
fragrant, made
from perfectly
mellowed and
ripened leaf
from Virginia, “ Prince Ckarmmg
tkorougkly deserves to ke called tke
Prince of cigarettes. Money cannot
kuy anytkmg ketter.
Manufactured by GODFREY PHILLIPS, Ltd., London. England.
\
V
< JjD
GS
2
%-
1
wi**s
V,
S.
ms
12
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Merry Widow”
Criterion Nicola
Royal Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Johnny Get Your Gun”
Her Majesty’s “A Night Out”
King’s “Paddy, the Next Best Thing”
Princess’s “Bluebeard”
Palace Shakspeareah Productions
Hoyt’s Die Luxe k Lyceum . Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba ..... 4 Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
A motion-picture studio
(Johnny, Get Your Gun!)
Whence melodrama blessings flow;
Amidst the freaks that come and go,
A boorish hero, white as snow —
Johnny Get Your Gun!
A house where dwells a snobbish dame
(Johnny, Get Your Gun!)
Who rvants her niece to change her name
For one of English ducal fame ;
The hero to her rescue came—
Johnny Get Your Gun!
Sing hey the artless hero white—
Johnny Get Your Gun !
The oaf who shines in virtue bright,
And makes remarks most impolite,
He puts the bogus Dook to flight—
Johnny, Get Your Gun!
Oh, bullets should be made of lead,
And justice should be done;
The sin lies on the author’s head —
If blood of sinner must be shed
Go, get your gun and shoot him dead,
But slay riot Berinison.
* * * *
“Johnny Get Your Gun” seems likely
to thrive at Melbourne Royal. Written around
the weird compound character that Louis
Bennison plays, it depends tor success on the
actor’s personality, and Bennison is the right
.sort of artist for the undertaking. If he were
less of an artist or any other sort of person-
ality, he would not be so capable of making
the absurdity go. There are moments when
the naivete of Johnny Wiggins, a cowboy-
cum-film actor, visiting an extraordinary
“home” in the false character of an unknown
brother who desires to break off his supposed
sister’s engagement with a spurious comic-
relief Duke because his young friend Bert
wants to marry the lady himself —there are
moments when (having got our breath) the
triumphant gawk reminds one of Tully in
“The Man from Toronto,” although his part
keeps him hovering between seeming stupidity
and farcical theatricalism. Nothing in , the
play is conceivably possible. The imposition
worked by an emaciated johnnie who is
really a duke’s valet, and therefore should
be a tactful person; the credulity of an
aggressively snobbish aunt and her weak-
minded niece; the behavior of a family lawyer
who helps scare £50,000 out of a thieving
speculator under the stai;e directions of
Johnny Wiggins aforesaid; the silken, sheeny
maid-servant who combines the charm of
virgin simplicity with the sweetness of a
wedding-cake decoration—all belong to the
world of melodrama. Seriously considered
“Johnny Get Your Gun” is a roaring joke,
which radiates from a highly theatrical pro-
logue wherein the unparalleled hero asserts
his nobility of character by slapping a stage-
manager across his noisy face with a custard
pie. The show depends on Bennison, and his
mixture of diffidence and brazen impudence
takes your fancy. In a preposterously situ-
ated character he maintains a pleasing pre-
tence of naturalness. He is naturally
humorous where Leslie Victor, as the Dook,
is an amusing creature of conventional fiction,
and other people seem but puppets. To state
that Bennison thwarts the matrimonial scheme
of Leslie Victor and his lady conspirator,
Diana Wilson, by lassoing the impostor from
a motor-car while he is eloping with Doris
Kendall, is to explain that comment on the
acting of the co. is not called for.
* * ❖ *
In “The Taming of the Shrew” Allan
Wilkie was more kindly than O. Asche and
less boisterous than Henry Kolker, the most
recent Petruchios in Melbourne’s recollec-
tion. Nothing marred Wilkie’s conception
of the character barring an occasional ten-
dency to speak a light passage in a heavy
manner. In behavior, however, he was con-
sistently buoyant, and he didn’t lose caste
through a liberal allowance of low comedy
in his and Grumio’s get-up for the marriage
with Katharina. Both master and servant
had looted a rag-tip for their wedding suits ;
and Grumio, pleasantly oafish in the hands
of Felix Bland, had nailed a good euchre-
hand to a stick to make a plume for his
battered cap. The use of playing-cards in
this- way must have shocked the Bardolators
present, for it is the sort of thing that Phil
Smith or Frith would think of in less august
theatrical circles. Miss Hunter-Watts, strik-
ingly handsome as Katharina, simply tore
a nice voice to tatters in an attempt to do
the vixen in the grand manner. But her
shrew was only half-felt. Its artificiality
was palpable when she resumed her normal
tone. Lorna Forbes, as Bianca, hardly justi-
fied the wealth of passion for her society
expressed manfully by Lucentio (Leslie
Manners), fatuously by Hortensio (J. Roy
Workman), and with senile lugubriousness
by the doddering Gremio (Hamilton Henry).
Augustus Neville played the parent of the
two girls with a complete outfit of grey
whiskers and a suggestion about his middle
distance that he was well in the running
for the Gaud Mayoralty of Padua. On the
other hand the aged Vincentio of Jack Len-
non was distinguished by a diction and a
countenance more suitable for the Ghost
in “Hamlet.” The bogus Vincentio by Wil-
liam Lockhart was. excellent, but the only
notable feature of Plumpton Wilson (Bion-
dello) was that his legs seemed to be shrink-
ing from publicity. “Romeo and Juliet”
and “Merry Wives” have also had their day
with Wilkie; and on Saturday he darkens
his countenance as Othello.
* * * * |s;
“Paddy, the Next Best Thfe 1 now re-
moved to Melbourne King’s, is apparently
expected to travel on its thin fjibefnian dis-
guise. The advt. announces that the drama
will please you “even if you are not Ijflsh.”
In the event of your being Irish you will
doubtless be struck by the exuberance of,Miss
Brosnan’s brogue, which distinguishes her
from the rest of. the family and is perhaps
due to the pertinacity with which everybody
calls her Paddy. Greenaway continues to
be the innocent cause of further dramatic
misunderstanding between Charles Court-
neidge and the auburn girl of his heart, and
anyone dropping in at about 9 p.m. will catch
Meta Pelham in the act of laying down the
sparkling epigram that “happiness is a won-
derful thing.” The path of social converse
in “Paddy” is strewn with such gems.
** * *
The last nights and matinees of “Blue-
beard,” at Melbourne Princess’s, are not yet
numbered, but they soon will be. Thusfar
they have totted up to 115.
** $ *
At Melbourne Majesty’s the sudden appear-
ance of a pretty woman has lost none of its
disastrous effect on Kellaway, father of the
four fair flappers. Beauty when partly un-
adorned is still striking him pink and
less, and probably the vision of an angel in
the altogether would reduce him to eternal
silence. As it is, the poor man can hardly
look around without stopping to gibber, the
show being full of charming girl and respect-
able gaiety. Its original French disrespecta-
bility is, alas, no more.
** * *
At Melbourne Tivoli the horse that Bert
Gilbert bought from the shafts of a coal cart
will go on winning the hurdle race until
further notice.
** * *
Hoot Gibson, another cowboy hero with
an ingratiating gun and the smile of an
angel, is at Hoyt’s de Luxe, Melbourne,
this week. Gibson’s vehicle is called
“Action,” and a siren with a silver-mine is
responsible for a title which only half-ex-
presses the hero’s pugnacity. “Getting
Mary Married” is at the same house: it has
nothing to do with the family at Windsor.
“Paddy, the Next Best
Thing,” at Melbourne
King's.
Charles Courtneidge
as the lover.
At Hoyt’s Lyceum
“The Sheik” is
giving an extended
view of a desert
passion which loses
its mustard and
drops into blanc-
mange at the
climax. Majestic
audiences are eye-
ing “Lahoma,” a
tale of Oklahoma,
which bristles with
the three prairie
R’s —Riot, Revol-
vers and Romance.
“John Forrest
Finds Himself” re-
cords a terrific
battle between a
spiritual nature
and spirituous
liquors in which
the former wins on
points. At the
Britannia “Sowing
the Wind” shows
Anita Stewart de-
clining the spot-
light, so that it
can be turned
on to Broadway’s
haunts of vice.
“E x perience”
d o c e t s everybody
who can spare a
silver coin at the
Melba. It is a
sort of “Every-
woman” tale with
beauteous females
appearing as sundry temptations.
* v -i- *
Melbourne discovers a new showman: —
Carlyle Jackson, who is making his first appear-
ance as a water-colorist at the Melbourne Athenajum,
is reminiscent in his best aspects of Hilder and
Eldershaw. “The Peal” (No. 43), which, hv the
way, is a bargain for four guineas, might almost
be called a clever parody of the Hilder manner.
It shows the. same sensitiveness to an impression
and much of the same enchanting color-skill that
give Hilder’s work a unique place in our affections.
Other good studies, like “Foreshore, Sydney Har-
bor,” suggest the Hilder influence in a less emphatic
manner, whereas “The. Road to Liverpool would
not be unworthy of J. R. Eldershaw. Admittedly,
these are very pleasing,; hut they do not reveal the
real Carlyle ‘ jackson. If one is not mistaken, he
is groping for expression in sundry views of Heidel-
“THE GONDOLIERS.” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
John Ralston as Luis.
berg which are interesting in the eases of “lleidel-i
berg Downs” (No. 54) and “Harvest Time” (No.!
72), but include several of less than average per-
formance.
** * *
Jascha Spivakovsky gave his first Austra-
lian. concert at the Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday night, and had the audience;
that good advertising deserved. That he is
already a fine pianist there is no doubt in :
this critic’s mind; but he gets his effects
at such a physical cost that surely every
bone in his body must ache after the per-
formance. Often he jumps from his seat in
his excitement; the next moment he crouches
over the piano until he is bent double. His
beautifully-groomed black hair looked, after
the last movement in the Brahms Sonata
in F minor, as if he had just been through
a cotton gin. But he is very young, and
perhaps in years to come he will be less
emotional and not make so much fuss ofer !
his job. Still, it is better to have him
as he is than it would be to have him dull.
* * * ■*
The concert opened with the Bach-Busoni
“Chaconne.” The opening phrase, stately
and organ-like, was beautifully blended with
the delicate pianissimo passages, and at
the end of the number the artist Was re-
called again and again. Next came the
Brahms Sonata in F minor, Op. 5. The
andante movement and the brilliant presto
were both finely handled. The next group,
the Chopin numbers, were perhaps the most
popular. They included Ballade in F major,
Berceuse and two studies—G flat major
(“Butterfly”) and C minor (“Revolution-
ary” ). The latter, which opens with a dis-
cord like a flash of lightning, thrilled the
audience. Both, studies had to be repeated.
The concert concluded with Schumann’s
Carnival, in parts very brilliantly executed,
and in response to the applause the pianist
came forward with a smile —the first that
had shown itself during the evening—and
added Mendelssohn’s Scherzo and a Gavotte.
* * !j! *
“The Merry Widow,” at Sydney Majesty’s,
continues to be not as merry as when her
weeds were greener. There is an atmo-
sphere of old age about the clothes, and the
scenery creaks at the joints. Gladys Mon-
crieff, whose speaking voice becomes more
and more like a Gregorian chant, has not
the sparkle for Sonia; she makes heavy
weather of it. Wisely enough she cuts the
original movements of the famous valse —the
forerunner of the banana-slip and the bunny
hug—and side-steps with Leslie Holland
where Lily Elsie and her immediate succes-
sors used the knee of their debonair prince
as a rocking-horse. On Saturday night a
spectacled spinster in the d.-c. refused the
lure of “Vilia,” and placidly continued to
knit a singlet, murmuring “Plain—purl” to
an nccomnaniment of muted violins and
the Moncrieff B in alt.
** * *
Having exhausted Italy, the company that
is playing Gilbert and Sullivan at Sydney
Royal is visiting Japan for four nights as
the guests of “The Mikado.” A trip to
Fairyland follows, but will last only two
nights. However, you can see a lot of
Fairyland in two nights.
Allen Doone, who has been hearing the
river-horse snort in Africa, is due at Sydney
Palace on Saturday in “Broadway Jones.'’
“B.J.’’ is an Irish comedy made in America
by a man called Cohan.
* n; * *
Sydney is still registering its approval, at
current rates, of Nicola and Co., at the
Criterion. But Nick and his smiling con-
federates will shortly be seen in their Great
Disappearing Act, for “The Babes ,in the
Wood” are booked to arrive next wetk. The
infants are to be chaperoned by a K.B.E.’s
lady in tights.
* * * 1 *
Rod Quinn’s story, “A Stripe for Trooper
Casey,” enters into the realm of Silent
Drama under the title of “The Gentleman
Bushranger” at Sydney Crystal Palace. On
the whole, the picture is a fair advt. for the
home-made movie, though in between thrills
some of the actors only just manage to hang
in place. Ernest IJearne is a dashing hero,
Tal Ordell a villainous Peter Dargin, John
Cosgrove a humorous Ah Sin, and heroine
Dot McConville a superb horsewoman, at
any rate. The Methodist Conference at an
end, the Lyceum’s calico sheet is again in
use, this week’s chief offering being J. M.
Barrie’s “The Little Minister.” Although
Cupid and industrial unrest run amok, there
is not a close-up of a Divorce or Arbitration
Cohrt. An opposite-sex candidate for
mayoral honors, Connie Talmadge, is on the
hustings at the Strand. Put Tom Mix
astride a horse with an evildoer disappear-
ing over the horizon, and he’ll carry you
this, week to the Empress. Ployt’s have
“Shadows of the Sea,” with Conway Tearle
ploughing up the waters a foot or so ahead of
the police. That finished, Marie Prevost gets
in a tangle with a woman-hater.
* * * *
The caravan that calls itself the Sydney
Tivoli continues to travel smoothly along
the road of really-worth-seeing vaudeville.
Its passenger-list at the moment is top-
heavy, for, with Rickaby there already, the
Two Rascals boarded the vehicle last Satur-
day and climbed to the summit. These two,
though masquerading as men, are really a
pair of quick-firing guns who sing, crossfire,
hammer out jazz from a piano and turn
themselves into caricatures. Other first-
appearances are Reno and Arta, xylophonists,
and Clifford Morgan, who sings Kipling’s
Tommy ballads. And an accommodating
lady still allows herself to be sawn in halves
for a living.
m * '# *
A one-man show in Sydney:—
A. E. Newbury’s paintings at Horderns’ Galleries
make the best and most refreshing one-man show
Sydney has seen for some time. His 72 exhibits
include only two that ought to have been left at
home. Per contra, another two —“Reflections” (No.
56) and “The Pier, Cowes” (No. 19) —would, in
spite of their small size, grace the walls of any
of our galleries. Newbury is a realist, little coh-
cerned with demonstrating his soulfulness or
technique, and though he fails sometimes to convince
through over-emphasis of some contrast, or by his
slight tendency to pretty color —this is most often
seen in the treatment of skies —his work is solid
enough to give us in most cases a remarkable illusion
of the space and atmosphere of his subject.
* Si! * *
Adelaide finds “The Babes in the Wood”
a charming production by a happy party
short on the vocal side only. The variety
shows, King’s, Exhibition and A'dstral
Gardens, are much the same as they were a
week ago. So are the pictures, in which
American thrills mix with views of crowded
local events.
** * *
The performance of Paul, the “mystery
man” on the Fuller circuit, can be cordially
commended to the notice of artless citizens
who consult clairvoyants for guidance or
for pastime. Paul apparently does in a
wholesale way all that the best of the private
clairvoyants ever do retail in a back parlor.
A hundred or two questioners are supplied
with slips of paper, on which they write
something, under any initials and number
they choose to give themselves* Blind-
folded, Paul doesn’t see these papers, but
the inquirers continue to think so hard of
what they have written that the showman
when he comes on the stage is practically
swimming in a sea of thought, and his mind
grabs at whatever happens to be floating
on top of the nearest wave. Having spotted
a number, with initials attached, he gets
a confirmatory “Yes” from the person who
wrote them, and as the question is almost
simultaneously “telepathed” to him he
hazards an answer which may or may not
prove prophetic. He astonished a Melbourne
interviewer, just as Baldwin did a Bulletin
man 25 years ago, by telling him what
question he had in his mind, and giving
him a correct answer to it, the answer
also having been designed as a test.; It
was a feat of mental receptive power. The
answer called for no pretence of reading
the future, but if it had demanded the
naming of a distant date Paul could have
made just as good a guess as any Madame
who professes to get a revelation in a
trance.


I have not joined a Safety Razor Union
t
WJ\&/ET
o
!//////,,„
§(f jjfjC M M MM ‘ Wf
Although I am a safety razor I never ca’canny. My job is to see that you
get the maximum output of shaves from every Valet blade.
My method is simple—just stropping, wonderfully accurate stropping—and
I do it myself, so that I know the job is properly done.
You will find that a razor which strops itself is as great an improvement as
a motor car which starts itself. It is even better because it means more
“mileage” per blade.
Stop at the next good razor shop you pass and ask the man behind the
counter to show you the “Valet” Auto Strop Razor, then 111 show you how
I strop myself.
THE SIANDARD_SET No. X consists of heavily silver-plated, self-stropping "Valet” Auto Strop Razor. 12
“Valet” Blades and “Valet" Strop, in handsome case, lined velvet and satin -
27/6
a
VALET
Safety Razor
Made in England.
Obtainable from all high-class dealers.
* VnUl "
Razors. St robs pod Blades indicates the cenuine broducf of the AutoSlrob Safety Razor Co.. Ltd.. 197-207, City Road, London, Eng,
a
(CAST LEM AIN E)
Proprietary Ltd.
Telegrams and Cables
THOMPSON’S,
CASTLEMAINE.
ENGINEERING WORKS,
CASTLE MAINE, VICTORIA
BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113,
We Specialise in the Desig'n and Manufacture of
Pumps &. Pumping' Machinery
and Complete Installations
under guaranteed efficiencies for
Capacity 17,500 gal. per minute
against a total head of 96 feet.
Efficiency of pump 82 per cent.
L etc
Send
us
your
Enquiries.
AGENTS
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L. Hiiiks & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co.
of Aust. Ltd
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd,
PERTH:
Brown & Dureau Ltd,
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes,
Penchurch Street.


%
§k
A
ii
i
w
i
%
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
NSW WONTdePJETE
T 4 CcistlerecKtfi St. Sydney. 74
Phone City
Capiidl §. 300.000.
Joseph. IV. Hill.
Genera! Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.
Branches at
29 King: St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney;
POVERTY
POINT
Model & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHANPAGNE
Exquisite
“De Oriel”: A conjurer lately at Mel-
bourne Bijou called for the assistance of a
small boy. Having secured one he asked,
“Have you ever seen me before.' 1 ” “No,
father,” dutifully replied the nipper.
“Thorold Waters”: If Marguerite Gard,
the Tasmanian, has had a real success as
Carmen at Monte Carlo, as cabled, she will
be the first from these parts to make good in
that luscious role in any big European opera
temple. Covent Garden and other opera
directorates made many attempts to find
someone who could take the place of Calve,
who was the despair of conductors because
she tore the great god Tempo to shreds.
Zelie di Lussan was the nearest approach,
but did not magnetise on the Calv 6 scale.
Then came Maria Gay. Ivirkby Lunn also
“THE MERRY WIDOW.” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Nisch (Arthur S tig ant,) and Baron Popoff
(Phil Smith).
essayed the part, but she was too massive
and dispassionate. You’d think sunny Aus-
tralia would supply just the right kind of
temperament for the Spanish hussy, but
vocally our girls are too self-conscious. They
forget to throw their cherished “production”
to the winds, and never allow the character
itself to carry them along.
“G. Tessero” : “J.H.F.” asks (8.23/2/’22)
if the stories ,are true that the great Ristori
snored during the sleep-walking scene in
“Macbeth.” She did not; but sue breathed
very heavily, as a person would do when
asleep under the influence of a terrible night-
mare. Ristori was my aunt, and, as her
agent for very many years, I saw her play
the part time after time.
“O. Blin”: Louis Bennison tells us
through his press-agent that his character
in “Johnny Get Your Gun,” at the Mel-
bourne Royal, is based on a certain remark-
able cowboy who, judging by the descrip-
tions of his dress,. is identical with the
famous Pill-driver Ed, whom O. Henry and
I encountered in Southern Texas some years
ago. We were sitting in a saloon when in
clanked Ed on an apparent mission of de-
struction. Rattlesnake Joe was playing faro
with a couple of greasers at a nearby table.
Recognition was instantaneous, and in the
sudden whine of metal I have no clear recol-
lection of what happened. However, when
the smoke cleared there was a sight I shall
never forget. Rattlesnake- was in his corner
weeping brokenly into his Colt, Which was
choked to the muzzle with lead. Leaning
against the bar was Ed, nonchalantly swing-
ing bis gun on his horny forefinger, and say-
ing, “If you want any more, Rattlesnake, I
kin do it again.” Then he explained. He
was just a second quicker on the draw than
the other, and before the latter could pull
the trigger Ed had emptied his ammunition
down the enemy’s gun-barrel. This became
a cruel trick of his, and in the end the local
sports committee had it barred.
“Banshee”: Regarding the apparent
neglect of the Aus-
tralian musicians
Percy Grainger
and William Mur-
doch by local man-
agers, Percy is no
longer attracted by
his homeland and
has changed his
flag for the Stars
and Stripes. He
is now officially a
foreigner. William
Murdoch is also ip
no haste to revisit
the country that
bore him. Nego-
tiations for a sea-
son were made,
and it was ar-
ranged for an
English violinist
named Salmonds to
accompany him,
but the tour has
not come off—and
it isn’t the man-
agement’s fault.
Emphatically Aus-
tralian musicians
are not conspicu-
ous for their
patriotism when
they get abroad.
“Paddy, the Next Best
Thing,” at Melbourne
King's.
Fred Cambourne
fiddles a jig for
"Paddy.”
“Floater” : Allan Wilkie’s staging of the
balcony scene of “Romeo and Juliet” is, I
think, to the disadvantage of Romeo. The
balcony is placed at the back of the stage,
where Juliet can exhibit all the throes of
her girlish passion with the “spot” full on,
whereas Romeo has to woo the lady with
his back to the audience, and must, there-
fore, appear as a very wooden suppliant,
whatever the feeling that is warming his
voice. Generally the balcony has been in
one of the wings, thus enabling both lovers
to be seen in profile. I remember that the
late Thomas Kingston and Tilda Brune
canoodled in this fashion, and the pictorial
effect was striking. In that production, by
the way, another veteran, Mrs. G. B. W.
Lewis, was an excellent nurse.
“Cadenza”: “Cremonensis” (B. 2/3/’22>
is getting rather reckless in his attempt to
damn Spivakovsky. For instance, he quotes
an allegedly depreciatory comment from the
Musical News (London), but that doesn’t
help his case much, for the same journal
has also placed it on record that “at the
third of his pianoforte recitals Mr. Jascha
Spivakovsky confirmed the opinions ex-
pressed in these pages, and, at the, same
time, deepened esteem and admiration of his
interpretative and executive abilities. The
readings were instinct with understanding
of their character, independent thought ex-
oressed and impressed with masterly execu-
tive skill.”
“Gordon E. Sunter”: The Adelaide Con-
servatorium didn’t import W. H. Foote, the
wood-wind expert (B. 2/3/’22). He came
under contract to the executive of the S.
Aus. Orchestra, which felt that the essential
preliminary to an orchestra was a school
of wood-wind players. Foote teaches at the
Con. now, and also directs the M.T.T. Band
by arrangement with the orchestra.
“T.W.”: Another proof that the hatchet is
getting rusty in England is that Fritz
Ivriesler, of Austria, played at historic 10
Downing-street a few weeks at one of
Lloyd George’s dinner parties. Ivriesler did
some actual front-line fighting for his coun-
try, and perhaps that is the reason why
Llovd George prefers him to some of the
British fiddlers and pianists who sheltered
in the Grenadier Guards Band and stayed to
defend London with euphoniums, piccolos
and other instruments they had never played
before.
“Te Pana” : The result of Maoriland’s first
ambitious attempt at film production is
flickering' on the screens of the Dominion
“The Birth of New Zealand.” The picture
commences at the period when Captain Cook
landed the first pig and fades out about the
time Bill Massey was adding his signature to
the Peace Treaty. Wallingford Tate and
Harrington r Reynolds, junior, produced the
picture and made a fairly good job of it.
“Hamfat”: As a set-off to what Australia
pays annually to America for films, Austra-
lian pictures are beginning to make way in
Yankeeland. Following on the success of
“The Sentimental Bioke” and “Ginger
Mick,” “The Blue Mountains Mystery” Las
made a hit, and its exhibition value in
U.S.A. is assessed at £20,000. This sort of
encouragement is what the local picture-
making industry badly wants.
“T. 0.1.” : Tussaud, in his book just pub-
lished, makes a reference to Rignold. Once
George appeared at the Queen’s Theatre,
Long Acre, in “Cromwell,” a drama by W.
G. Wills. The play was the successor to
“Charles I.” by the same dramatist, in
which Irving had played the King. A bar-
gain had been struck that if “Charles I.”
succeeded, Wills should write “Cromwell”
for Coleman, manager of the Queen’s. Be-
fore the play was produced Coleman asked
Tussaud’s to supply a figure of Charles I.
so that it could repose in a coffin on the
stage to stimulate the imagination of Rig-
nold when rendering a long oration delivered
by Cromwell in the presence of the dead
monarch. The model was furnished with every
requisite detail of clothing, and was nightly
harangued by the redoubtable George. But
although “Charles I.” had' been a distinct
success at the Lyceum, “Cromwell” was a
comparative failure at the Queen’s.
“Wiifrido” : In the interval at a farewell
concert given by the Yerbrugghen Orchestra
in one Maoriland city the Mayor made a
speech. When he had touched on the wool
market, the tariff, water power and other
subjects the crowd became restive, so he
switched on to music, and suggested that,
the local orchestra and Henri’s should join
forces. Then he lectured Verbrugghen for
not giving more popular stuff, and was just
congratulating the audience on the patient
manner in which it had listened to the music
when there came a disconcerting burst of
applause that continued until the mystified
speaker sat down.
“Second Murderer”: When the present
season at Sydney Royal peters out, the co.
will go on tour, first to Brisbane, then to
Maoriland. Strella Wilson and her husband,
Ralph Errolle, drop out, and Charlie
Mettain and Patti Russell take tenor and
•’.opratio leads respectively. Other' principals
wall bellowettWorster, Jack Ralston and Bryl
Walkely, with Molly Tyrrell for character
parts, and Charles H. Workman as humorist.
A repertoire of nine operas wall be carried
—“Yeomen of the Guard,” “Dorothy,”
“Merrie England,” “Pinafore,” “Gondoliers,”
“Mikado,” “lolanthe,” “Pirates of Pen-
zance” and “The Chocolate Soldier.”
"Noswad”: A remarkable thing about
the recent Sydney shark tragedies was the
eagerness displayed by supposed civilised
people to view the slaughter of the shark —
or Diver Jackson. When it was announced
that the diver would attempt to fight the
shark, armed only with a sheath-knife, tens
of thousands flocked to the spot in the hope
of seeing the struggle. It was Sydney sliding
back 2000 years to ancient Rome or to Spain,
with a shark taking the place of the lion or
the bull.
“Joanna”: The orchestra-man who plays
the native drum during the “Pearls and
Savages” picture at the Strand (Melb.) ought
to study the screen. He wrnuld then observe
that the native thuds the parchment with
the pads of his finger-tips and has a peculiarly
loose curve of the wrist. A practised piano
player would get the idea easily. The
orchestra-man bangs the instrument wfith a
nerve-wracking sound, apparently produced
wfith the flat of his Dalm. The Papuan’s
drum is.not exactly musical, but the sound
is weird, and even at close quarters is curi-
ously distant and muffled. Probably the
finger-tip business does the trick.
The tale of the cook whiile the boat
hugged the wharves near the Melbourne gas-
works -
I wass ze good cook ip ze eat-a ’ouse in San Fran-
ceesk, and I jug’ weez ze carve knives when eet issa
not too bizzy wiz ze work. I become ze ver’ cleffer
jug’. I trow ze-a knife oop and catch-a heem mos’
wonnerful. Zen Charlie he say: “Go to ze vaudeville
maka ze pile.” Charlie iss ze-a washer-oop, but he
know, and he make me good show. Ze manage of
ze vaudeville he catch on kweek. So I play da towns.
“Professor Gabrielle Bodio, da most wonnerful
artist to make play wiss ze knives.” Charlie he
come wis me, my wife Lucia she too help. Eet is
four year when I find about Charlie and da little
Lucia. She loof him, and Gabrielle iss—what-a you
call eet? —ze poor mug, yes. Charlie stanna gin da
board. I trow-a da knife all round heem. Zat
night I am determine. No more Charlie. I steeka
da knife troo hees neck. Eet iss all ieenish. Nothing
I say, nothing I look; but I know I weel trow so
hard, and in hees ’eart I weel sticka da knife.
Sweet-a refenge, and eet iss all a slip, no one to
blame. He iss at ze board. I trow-a da knife. I
laugh in my own soul. Soon kweek I keel heem.
I trow da knife never so close before. Eet toueh-a
da skin. But when eet coome to hees ’eart, no, no!
“THE GONDOLIERS,”
AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Chas. Mettam as
Marco Palmieri
and Victor Prince
as the Grand Inquisitor.
I trow so close eet pinch, but I cannot drive for
hees ’eart. “So,” 1 say to me, “in ze neck then.”
I come to ze neck. Ah, I cannot heet heem! I
trow so dose to his neck as you put ze pin. I can-
not do ze sing' I weesh, I am so train I cannot
do eet, no. Ze audience he cheer so wild, call
“Bravo! Bravo!” Charlie he take me at ze ’and;
he say, “Superb ! Superb! lam never so confident
of you.” 1 walk out, I go away. I never go-a
back. I never tfow-a ze knife again. Eet is not
pos. I never see Charlie again ; I never see Lucia; I
come to be ze cheap cook for ze dirty sailor.
“J.F.11.” (Lond.) : The Daily Mail critic
has seen 100 performances during the season,
and says Norman McKennell’s latest rOle,
Bloyds, is the "finest bit of acting of the
year.” A. A. Milne, of Punch, the author
of the play—“ The Truth About Bloyds”
he sums up as a “young dramatist meriting
the closest attention.” Miss Clemence Dane
is also placed high in the list of promising
playwrights. Among the outstanding features
of the season he notes the reckless discard-
ing of tights and stockings by the beauty
choruses in the revues, the short shrift
to wordy and discursive plays, the revival
of hooting by the pit and the gallery, and the
successful transplanting of the American
“thick-ear” type of drama, of which Gerald
Du Maurier’s “Bulldog Drummond” is the
most conspicuous example.
“Nella”: My first spin under the J. Cl
Williamson house-flag was at Melbourne
Princess’s, in Belasco’s “Sweet Kitty Del-
lairs,” in 1909. Our star, Nellie Stewart,
had just returned from London, bringing most
of the principals with her, and she top-lined
a cast of 35 people. George Musgrove was
in charge, and he spared neither himself nor
us. We toiled like Kanakas through many
trying weeks of rehearsal slavery. Muzzy
would have everything just so —he even
brought a perruquier from Gustave’s wig-
shop in Long Acre. When the dreadful
night came at last everyone concerned, from
call-boy to second trombone, was keyed up
and nervy. The gallery queue started to
line up at 11 a.m., and it was “house full
at 6.30. It was a great night. I rfelt
sure the meticulous Muzzie was somewhere
in front, nervously picking holes in an almost
perfect production. I was wrong; and 1
got the shock of my young life when I dashed
upstairs to the wardrobe-room during the
show, and discovered Muzzie in his shirt
sleeves making Irish stew over a gas-ring
for Sweet Kitty’s supper. He had put the
show on and it had to run on its merits. His
troubles about seeing it!
“Coot”: “Hamfat’s” reference to brutal
realism (B. 29/12/’2l) recalls an incident
in Melbourne’s earliest theatre, the
Pavilion, in 1844. The play was “Guilde-
j-oy,” and Boyd, the hero, was wont to dis-
charge a pistol at a gaoler. This night the
blunderbuss misfired, and, apparently upset
by the ironical laughter, Boyd drew a dagger
and stabbed the gaoler in the breast. Ihe
uniformed one staggered a step or two, then
fainted, and the curtain came down, the
weapon had penetrated about three inches;
but as it turned out the gaoler only suftered
from a painful wound and loss of blood.
THE ELDERLY IDOL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is questionable whethe) any boosted American
beauty actor has been as strong a draw on his per-
sonality as John D. O’Hara, who travels on the old-
darling ticket.” — P. Point, Feb. 16.
If you’re too old for Romeo,
My friend, do not despair,
But let your ringlets freely grow-
A lot depends on hair.
Your white locks you must never lop,
But let them round your collar flop,
And wear a look for all to see
Of elderly benignity.
If possible contrive a skin
That’s very smooth and rather dark ;
You will indubitably win
Affection which a younger spark
Might well despair of. You will find
The damsels neither cold nor blind;
And dames show an adoring mien
To elder gents who’re nice and clean.
Play sweet old uncles who adopt
Their beauteous daughters (never sons) ;
The attitude must not be dropped
Of him who dotes on little ones,
Preserving, mark you, all the while
A kind, ingratiating smile;
And there are girls in thousands who
Will flock to make a pet of you.
The pretty actor-boy can win
But such regard as cleaves to man,
Where nice old darlings garner in
The love that flows to Auntie Ann,
And grandma, too. Do not get shirty
If you’re not lionised at thirty—
Just grow a mane, as you’ve been told,
And be a lion when you’re old!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


The Australian General Electric Co., Ltd.,
as authorised representatives of the Inter-
national General Electric Co., Inc., New York,
desire to give notice to all persons desiring to
do or doing business in the Commonwealth of
Australia that all electrical incandescent lamps
using wrought tungsten as a filament not made
by the General Electric Co. or their Licensees
infringe one or more of the patents of the Gen-
eral Electric Co., or International General Elec-
tric Co,, Inc., that have been duly granted by
the Government of the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia.
Attention is drawn in particular to Aus-
tralian Patents Nos. 19269-10, 10439-13,1204-16,
6637-18.
The wrought tungsten patent in the United
States (Coolidge No. 1,082,933), and the gas-
filled lamp patent in the United States (Lang-
muir No. 1,180,159) were sustained by the
United States Courts.
The above patents cover incandescent electric lamps
generally used and sold to-day. The Australian General
Electric Co., Ltd., hereby give notice that only licensees
under these patents for the Commonwealth of Australia,
or those handling such lamps as authorised distributors
of the Australian General Electric Co., Ltd., are entitled to
sell such lamps in the Commonwealth of Australia.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Distributors: ISUJtNS, PHILP & CO., liTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
whirry;:
MAKERS
£53
m
;; . <*>
ywins
#§/cKi
■■.
R 8
«3
i'Vi
NEW RIFLE.
.22 LONG-RIFLE AUTOMATIC. Bv
the famous BROWNING F.N. firm. Fires 8
Long-rifle Cartridges as fast as you can pull
the trigger. The cheapest and most effective
.22 cal. rifle produced. PRICE 95/-
The same as above, made to fire 11 Short .22
Cartridges, ...... r . 807-
GUNS D.8.8.L. Hammerless, by ARM-
STRONG, 12-g. Chambered for. 2J Cartridges.
Pistol Grip Stock £27/10/.-
D.8.8.L. Hammerless, 12- and 16-g., bv, famous
BROWNING F.N £27/10/-, £3O
AUTOMATIC, 12- and 16-g. 5 Shots, by
BROWNING F.N. The best by far, £l5/107-
CARTRIDGES for all Guns and Rifles.
Repairs done on the premises.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
C/d-
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St. f near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS _
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Pay.
The Newmarket Handicap, as far as on-
lookers could judge, was won by Rostrum from the
jump. : The jaunty son of Roseworthy got away
ahead ’of Elkin, St. Speed, Battleplane, Demetrius
and Coleus, and although Lisnavane, Braehead and
Blue Gross moved into the picture before half-a-mile
had been covered, and Whiz Bang threatened the
leader ! as they passed the distance post, backers of
the favorite never lost faith. At the post Rostrum
came to 4 to 1, while Eurythmic receded to 9 to 2,
nor did his had luck in the draw for positions seem
to lose Rostrum any friends. Apparently the crowd
in general has not yet been convinced that an
outside position in a large Newmarket field gives
the drawer a decided pull over the fellow that
draws Number 1 marble, especially if the going
be not. too firm.
That both Rostrum and Whiz Bang, his nearest
rival, should have been placed on the inside (Num-
bers 3; and 4 in the draw) was merely one of those
exceptions that prove the rule. They were more
than tail enough to make light of their disadvantage
in the luck. The
J. FLANAGAN,
the well-known
South Australian
owner.
bunch that followed
them home —-Battle-
plane, Coleus, Blue
Cross, Jack Findlay
and St. Speed—were
all in the outside divi-
sion, marbled from 21
to 30. The four long-
priced ones, Coleus,
Battleplane, St. Speed
and Jack Findlay,
yere among the six
closest to the outer
rails at the barrier,
nearly the full width
of the course stretch-
ing between them and
Rostrum. The chances
are that if the posi-
tions of the outside
ond inside lots had
seen reversed the
supremacy in speed of
the winner and runner-
up would have been
more pronounced.
Eurythmic stood nearer the middle of the course,
and his moderate performance can only be attri-
buted; to comparative slowness at the outset. For a
moment the freak horse looked to be making a
commanding run, as usual. But the effort was more
than he could maintain. He failed in the sprint, as
he failed m the Melbourne Cup of 1920, when there
was no interference to account for the disappoint-
ment. Carbine ran in two Sydney Cups, tw 0 Mel-
bourne Cups, one Australian Cup and one New-
market Handicap for three wins, two seconds and
one third. Eurythmic (now retired from handicap
racing, it is said.i has a record of a half-win in
the Perth Cup, a win in the Caulfield and Sydney
Cups, two nowheres in Melbourne Cup and one
very -shabby performance in a Newmarket. And
compare Wakeful’s consistent excellence with the
uncertainty of Eurythmic in races where the oppo-
sition has been numerous and the weights against
him. The mare scampered away with a Newmarket.
Then ...she carried 9st. in the Caulfield Cup, and,
badly ridden, made every inch of the running,
but was finally pipped on the post by Hymettus.
She won the Sydney Cup with 9st. 71b. aboard, and
ran second for the Melbourne Cun with lOst. up,
failing only in the attempt to give 48 pounds to
Lord Cardigan. Two years earlier, it is true,
Wakeful ran a nowhere in the Melbourne Cup, hut
it was the year when she hadn’t been specially pre-
pared for the race, and would not have been started
had her owner not been persuaded to give the public
a run for their money, though he made n 0 disguise
of the fact that stable-companion Revenue was cer-
tain to beat her at the weights. Carbine and Wake-
ful lived in times when w.f.a races were not the
rich, soft snaps that Eurythmic has found them.
An owner who wanted to beat the stake-money record
had then to let his champion hustle in the most
important handicaps as a matter of course. Euryth-
mic, who carried but Bst. 91b. in the Caulfield Cup
which he won, and 9st. 41b. in the first Melbourne
Cup which he lost, got undue credit for his Sydney
Cup victory with 9st 81b. up. It was as though
the more versatile Carbine and Wakeful had never
done the same thing, carrying 9st. 91b. and 9st. 71b.
respectively. Eurythmic’s lost. 71b. in the Futurity
the other Saturday was a big performance but not
relatively immense. The mare who ran him to a
neck was carrying 9st. 41b., and two of the other
starters had to hump lOst. and more.
The principal disappointments in the Newmarket,
next to Eurythmic, were Braehead and Dunwil. John
Wren’s horse was regarded by his sanguine owner
as a cert, for the Hawksburn Handicap at Caulfield
when Rostrum beat him so handsomely, and even
then excuses were found for him. The gallop, it was
said, would enable Dunwil to turn the tables on
Rostrum, and although the books took it to be
conclusive proof that the beaten horse was over-
rated they didn’t need to, offer, more than 20 to 1
against him last Saturday. Braehead remained at.
12’s up to the _ start. The Sydney horse was the.
proverbial “rod in pickle.” His form in the Futurity,
where he ran wide, was “good enough to win halt'
a dozen Newmarkets.” He was to fly so fast up
the straight six that they—the vague, mysterious
“they”—would never see the way he went. But
there was really no public form to justify this
blowing of the Braehead trumpet, and in the test
he ran nohow in particular.
A strange mistake thrilled the crowd at Fleming-
ton immediately after the Newmarket. Everybody
had seen the duel between Rostrum and Whiz Bang
on the near side of the course —the side furthest
from the judge’s box —and everybody wondered
whether it was possible that Lisnavane, running close
to the box, could have caught the judicial eye ere
Rostrum got home. There was no question as to
Whiz Bang having done the trick, for he was running
pretty close to the leader, and their relative positions
admitted, of no reasonable doubt. The red jacket
with black sleeves was well in front of dark blue,
red hoops, sleeves and cap. Yet the number of
Wish Wynne : (6) was promptly hoisted from the
judge’s box, as though the man inside, mistaking
Whiz Bang’s colors for the dark blue, yellow sash,
red cap of the Sydney mare, had placed them ahead
of Rostrum’s red and black. If the judge be. sup-
posed to have mistaken Whiz Bang (5) for Wish
Wynne (6), how is it that Rostrum ever came
to get his number placed at the head of affairs?
Numbers 5 and 6 admitted of confusion, but neither
of them resembled Rostrum’s colors. hlumber 6
was unplaced, was hoisted in glaring mistake and
subsequently taken down, whereupon number 5,
whose color resembled number 6, was placed second
only to number 20. Explain the error.
Stare’s performance in the valuable Essendon
Stakes was a strong contrast to his sick showing at
.Caulfield a fortnight earlier. Nevertheless, his start-
ing price—B’s—was rather amazing, seeing that
he was meeting a bunch of Australian Cup acceptors
on better than their handicap terms. The perform-
ance, however, was hardly so impressive as the win
of Mufti in the last race of the day. Mufti takes
after her father, Almissa, in personal insignificance
combined with solid merit.
Evidently the books -expected that slashing mare
Furious to be worn down by Harvest King in the
Leger, but as the race was run the lady could
hardly be beaten. The time was so slow that it
practically reduced the race to a sprint over the
last three furlongs. The colt wanted one good
gallop at least to get him fit for a gruelling
struggle in the Australian Cup. On his return to
the birdcage Harvest King’s legs were wet with
honest sweat, and his chance of winning the Cup
with 7st. 91b. looked none too good. But the race
improved him, though he receded in the betting
for the Cup. In that event, going out at 16’s
(20’s in some cases), he scored handsomely from
game Sister Olive and Purser.
The field for the Australian Cup was the largest
and most interesting that had started for the ancient
event since the days when it ranked as high in
sporting importance as the Sydney Cup. The long
race seemed to have been losing favor with owners
these last 20 years. It got a bad advertisement in
1901, when hot-favorite Revenue,-the Melbourne Cup
winner, was so cruelly dealt with that he never again
carried silk.
* * * *
“Hamer” : That Saturday night when we
heard that Eurythmic had robbed Carbine of his
stake-money record I met a well-oiled citizen in a
quiet suburban street. In strict confidence he told
me that he had spent the evening punching the heads
of people who said that Ole Jack’s record had been
beaten. I hastily assured him of my firm conviction
that Carbine’s actual racing record could never be
excelled. He shook my hand with deep emotion,
leaned his head on my shoulder and wept. After all,
he said, the Germans might as well have, captured
Australia. He didn’t know how Ole Jack would' take
it, but he had a mother there himself (I think he
meant in Heaven) and was sure she would be kind
to him. Deepening his confidence with the deepening
of the night he mentioned that he had been bank-
rupt before, and expected to be bankrupt again, and
that his wife was leaving him, but never in his life
had he had such a blow. As the only way to get
rid of the mourner I edged him towards the house he
said was his; and there he sat down on the steps,
still sobbing bitterly, and, taking off his boots,
handed them to me, “Keep ’em till the morning for ,
me,” he wailed, “I might drop ’em going in, an’
I can’t face the wife with thish newsh; it would
break ’er ’eart!” When he had found the keyhole
and gone in I gently dropped his boots in through
an open window and fled.
* * * *
There was some brilliant riding and Some
horrible muddling in the Australasian cycling
championships at Sydney. The mile went to the
nuggety Springbok, George Thursfield, who streaked
away from A. E. Hannan (N.S.W.) and H. G. Broad-
bent (Vic.)'in 2min. 23 2-siseo. In the first heat, after
“no-race” had been declared because the competitors
didn’t follow the pacer, H. Kaltenbrun (S’Africa)
and C. Burness were left at the post. That gave the
crowd a chance to boohoo, but unfortunately they
hooted the riders instead of the officials. The five-
miler was delayed nearly half-an-hour while officials,
riders and public wrangled as to whether W.
Madigan was entitled to start as an extra rider
for N.S.W. Ultimately Madigan was ordered to
withdraw, N.S.W. having six starters, Victoria
four, Queensland three and S’Africa two. In the
last lap of a finely-contested race Kaltenbrun took
the lead, but W. Coppins (N.S.W.) with a great
-effort passed him in the last 25 yards and won by
half-a-length in llrnin. 51sec., with road-champion
Mick Little (3ST.S.W.) third. Queensland’s crack,
L. Munro, was an absentee owing to a bad spill in
training during the week. Another missing quantity
was Alan McDonald, the Victorian, who came over
to compete, but wasn’t allowed to do so on the
ground that he hadn’t taken part in the tests.
McDonald left Sydney a sore man. Where the crowd
was densest the illicit bookmaker was busy, and there
were allegations of teaming, which caused unpleasant-
ness, and considerable talk of stoush. In fact, it
was a tempestuous meeting altogether.
* # ♦ •
There was only one achievement of note in
Melbourne district cricket on Saturday. Sandford,
of M.C.C., playing against P’ran, got 180 on a
slow, dead wicket, and with the help of 59 and.
'.58 front Vaughan and Cussen the side reached 308.
The next-best itaiings of the day was University’s
188 against Richmond. There were few flashes of
brilliance, the best hands coming from Porter (56)
and L. Fremantle (40). . Sindrey (5 for 75). and
Podmore (4 for 51) were the chief scalp-getters
for Richmond, who are now 1 for 34. Park’s 65
was the only bright, spot in South’s 186. The enemy,
’Roy, are 3 for 45, and their departing champion,
McDonald, who has taken an English job after all,
is leaving behind him a brief innings for 10 and
a bowling average of 4 for 73. Ryder (5 for 45)
and Griffiths (4 for 38) had Saints almost helpless,
and the Magpies, with none for 13, are now only
102 behind the seasiders’ score. Hawthorn-East,
with 6 : for'lo4, are already 1 ahead of Essendon on
the first hits, but they will need some luck and
manoeuvring to get the straight-out win they are
hankering for. Yet two old inter-Staters, Baring
and McAlister, are still not out, and if Rayson
repeats his form with the ball —he captured 7 for
51 on Saturday—Hawthorn-East may pull it off.
Stan Hastings s 70 n.b. was the brightest innings
for Carlton, who, without O’Keeffe, totalled 167
against Nortlicote. The latter, whose score is 1
for 4, entrusted their offensive principally to Hart-
kopf, who finished with 6 for 09.
*** , *
With a few bright exceptions the batting
in the tenth round of Sydney grade cricket was
dull. On the first day there was the excuse that
rain had affected the wickets, but Saturday’s cricket
was played on perfect pitches. Staleness may
account for the indifferent form displayed. Fewer
clubs would lend more interest to the competition.
Sixteen- —the present number —are too many ; only
about half of them can muster decent sides. At
present- North- Sydney are leading by one point
from Waverley, and Manly are at the foot of the
ladder. The only thrilling finish on Saturday was
provided by Balmain and Randwick. With Shea,
the, last man in, Randwick required two runs to
win. Unluckily for Balmain, Merchant (50 n. 0.),
the only batsman who had played the ex-Victorian
Ironmonger with: confidence, was let off after walking
into a trap set by Dr. Campling, and the required
runs were obtained. Ironmonger secured 6 for 70—
all clean howled. In reply to ’Varsiity’s 198
Paddington succumbed for 45, Garner collecting 5 for
14. Central Cumberland downed Manly, for' whom
Mailey .took! 5 wickets for, 52 ; and Mosman carried
too many guns for Glebe. Sydney made a spirited
attempt to pass Petersham's 250, but lacked - 18
runs when the,last wicket fell. The match between.
North and Marrickville, for whom Scott, the fast
bowler, got 6 for 40, ended in a draw ; and Waverley
heat Western Suburbs on the first innings by 50.
* * * »
iFast-bowler McDonald has accepted a,n
engagement with Nelson, the Lancashire League
club, and leaves for England immediately. Nelson’s
first offer was refused by the Fitzroy (Vic.) crack,
but the clirb was keen on getting him and cabled
additional inducements. Perhaps,- he is wise in com-
mercialising his talent, for the indications are that
he won’t have it very long. Armstrong nursed him,
but inferior i captains have grossly overworked the
man, and in recent matches he has slowed down con-
siderably.
* * *
By trouncing S. Aus. in Adelaide, by an
innings add 232 runs, Victoria -went through the
Sheffield Shield series with an unbeaten record.’ N.
S. Wales won two matches and lost two: S. Aus.
lost all four. The result in runs, for and against:—
Victoria.
For.. .. 2344 for 58 wickets —average.. 40.41
Against .. 1956 for 80 wickets —average.. 24.45
Plus margin . . .. 15.96
N. S. Wales.
For. . .. 2-286 for 7.4 wickets—average. 30.89
Against . . 2423 for 74 wickets —average.. 32.74
Minus margin . . . . 1.85
S. Australia.
For.. .. 2238 for 80 wickets —average.. 27.97
Against .. 2489 for 58 wickets—average.. 42.91
Minus margin .. 14.94
“Adelaide”: We are disgusted with our
cricket in the final Shield match. The rest of the
season has been quite good, from the point of
view of our present weak bowling side. We led
on the first innings in each of- the two N.S.W. games,
and■ might well, have won in Melbourne if a very
dubious - decision had not been given in ‘.Ryder’s
favor "early in his big innings. Yet now, meeting
Victoria without McDonald, Ryder or Armstrong, we
went out for 160 and 233 against Vic.’s 625. There
was no excuse for it.
**, * * *
“R.P.’s” cricketing conundrum :
A left-handed bowler is bowling round the wicket
and is not breaking either, way, nor is he swerving.
Two batsmen, one right-handed and one left-handed,
are given out l.b.w. to balls which were not full
tosses. Was the umpire’s decision correct ?
It was correct in the sense that whatever the umpire
says goes. An old international to whom The
Bulletin submitted the question thinks that the left-
hander may- have been out and the right-hander not
out. But since he wasn’t» a witness he wouldn’t
dispute the decision in either case.
The opening of the M.C.C. Autumn tennis
championships was not marked by brilliant play.
The best match of the day was between Roberts and
Schlesinger _ for s the Champion Singles. Roberts,
whose rustic appearance gives green opponents a
lot of false confidence, dropped the first two sets
and seemed numbered with the slain, but picking up
gamely and showing more accuracy and punch in
his : ground - strokes, he to Q k; they.next three sets,
O.Hara wood and Mrs. Hope (formerly’ Hiss Schle :
singer) weren’t greatly worried bv Yencken and Mir-
Rendall in the Mixed Doubles, though Yencken shot
some beautiful balls at Wood’s’ feet, and Miss Rendall
scored down the alley on two or three occasion- N
Heath and Miss Bury had a harder job to wallop-0,
H. Fitts and Miss Winter-Irving. it went, to three
rets (2-6, 6-4, 6-4) and was lost to the latte'
pair through the weakness of Miss Winter-Irving
who is really too hampered by her hyphen and lies'
beauty to make a successful tennis-plaver. The
cleverest, ladies with the racquet are usually plain
and well-muscled dowds without an ounce of feminine
charm. In the Men’s Doubles. Fitts and Melnnes
look like giving a lot of trouble. Their smashing
defeat, of Wilkinson and Sanger on Saturday in
three straight: sets, in which the opposition collared
paly - three games,-suggests that they will go fa.’
before they are outed.
TOM LUC KEY,
clerk of the
course, Randwick.
Tom Luckeiy
is one of t h'f
sportsmen wlio
refuse to grow old.
Years ago, when the
cry of the hounds wps
heard every Saturday
afternoon about Parra-
matta, Tom was hunts-
man, and between
whiles he trained a few
horses that won over the
sticks. Afterwards he
was clerk of the
course at metropolitan
meetings; and when
Tom Watson resigned
from Randwick to go
to the ponies, Luckey
sported the red copt
at all registered
courses. There he
has become a cheerful
fixture.
* Sydney swimmers decided a shoal of Stgte
championships last week. At the Domain enclosure
the 100yds. was annexed by Keith Kirkland (’Var-
sity), who headed W. Longworth by 6in.. with Sid
Beck the same distance astern third, and Hay, who
- holds the Australian title, unplaced. The time was
58sec.—4 l-ssec. outside Kahanamoku’s best fpr
the event. Moss Christie, the 20-year-old pride of
Drummoyne, easily won the 880yds. championship
from Kirkland and P. Smith, but the time (12min.
2-ssee.) was poor. The 220yds. breast-stroke title
went to R. Chalmers (Sydney), with W. Furness
("’Varsity)- second, and S. Fletcher (Sydney) third.
The time was 3min. 22 2-ssee. R. Eve (Manly), a
nephew of Dick Cavill, retained the diving title
with points to spare from H. Wann (Sydney) and
K. Kirkland. At Cromilia, Mina. Wylie lifted stjll
another championship, the 50yds. back-stroke, in
38sec. This has' been proclaimed a world’s record,
but apart from the fact that 50yds. is not a recog-
nised world’s-record distance, Ethelda Bldbtrey
splashed over the journey at Noo Yoik on Mar© l 1?,
1920; in 35sec. Dora Lewis, the 17-year-old Mosman
mermaid, caused a mild sensation at the Spit by
doing,soyds. in 29sec., thus equalling Fanny Durack’s
best time. Another excellent performance was that
iOf C. Stuart, aged 15, who annexed the 10 n ’'’-
"championship ■ of the Northern Suburbs in the slick
time of 62sec. The plunsre championship. ’•'»•-•
tated after a lapse of 12 years, was again lifted-by
Dr. C. N. Smith. The doctor made the wonuerill
come-back effort of 72ft. jllin., just an . i/nch
less than J. Strickland’s record, which has stood 42
years.
*,* * *
In Sydney on Saturday the Albert Gold
Cup. sailed fdr under the Royal Prince Alfred Club’s
hunting, went to Oenone (28min.) with J. M.
Brunton up. The venerable Magic (22min.) lifted
second 'money from Sunbeam (22min.) and Scotia
was next: ' It was Oenone’s third victory to date.
Gumleaf (J. Alderton) registered her sixth win by
annexing the 21ft. restricted class contest, after an
exciting thrash back to Steel Point, from the G.-G;’s
Corella (Don Taylor) and A. 11. Davies’s Cherry-
Too.' The State 10ft. dinghy championship was
lifted by Cornstalk (It, Graham), with 2-jmin. to
spare from Niwre (J. McDonald). Kangaroo, the
Australian champion, turned turtle. Sydney Sailing
Club’s 18ft. handicap was won by Sydney (3fmin.),
excellently piloted by N. Blackman from Crescent
VIII. (31min.) and Swastika (2jmin.). Mascctte,
off the honor mark, got a few pieces of silver
and has won’ £lOO in prize money this season.
* * * »
Fifteen-year-old Les Waters, who went to
scale at Bst. 311 b., got a decision over Bobby Gray
—a pound heavier and three years older —in the
Sydney Stadium’s week-end scrap. He was a, shade
cleverer and a lot more aggressive than Gray, who
overdid the defensive business. At the Hippodrome
two nights later Pat Mills belted .Suddington out of
the ring in two rounds. Suddington had previously
been k.o.’d in three by Bourke, a country boxer
of whom Frank Griffin, the Maoriland welter, had
made short, work. ’ Griffin, for all the promise he
has shown, can’t get a mill in Sydney. Suddington,
being an importation, has had two fights in Sydney,
one in Melbourne and one in Brisbane.
' ,Tim *Semmens, of Melbourne, is heavier,
taller and longer in the reach than George Storey,
the Sydney bantam, and making good use of his
advantages he gave Storey the daddy of a walloping
by Yarra’s banks on Saturday night. Once or twice
it looked as if the visitor might do to the long ’tin
what Goozeman did, but Storey hadn’t the Vank s
ruggedness, or punch. Semmens finished his man m
the eighth. It was his last fight in the bantam-
weight class, which he has outgrown. #
Billy Alderson, known on every green in
the State, has got a leg-in for the N.S.W. single-
handed bowls championship by defeating F. A. Kelly-
Ex-champion Harrv Moses was umpire; but his JOP
was easy, as William won all the way. Scores
31—13. He has now to meet the country champion
to settle the matter.
THE GAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two girls there are, one dark and tall,
In clinging gown of silver white;
The other fair and slim and small —
In truth, a golden, young delight.
Each has a racket. All day through,
And when the mellow evenings fall,
iThey toss between them —what'think you?
‘ ’Tis something very like a hall.
The tall, dark girl she is most dear,
- The loveliest of her mortal Iliad;
The fair, small girl has not her peer,
She dazzles me, I am half-blind
When she is nigh. And still they play
: | Their cruel game nor hope impart.
The ball they’re bandying all day
With subtle cunning is my heart!
VICTORIA.
DEUCE.


SOME DAY YOU’LL BE SORRY
that you cannot box. When you find
yourself facing the bully your size
and strength will not help you—but
SCIENCE will. Don’t envy others for
their coolness and confidence in a
scrap. Be envied yourself. Think
how humiliating it would be to be
beaten by a man smaller than your-
self ; think of the jeers of the on-
lookers and the taunts of your pals.
When the day comes it will be too
late for regrets.
Learn Boxing
by Post.
Our system is simple, practical and thorough; it
embraces every punch, guard and counter known to
ringcraft. The student has personal advice and super-
vision just as if he were intending the classes in
Sydney.
Hundreds of enthusiastic students testify their
confidence in the Baker Course.
ă
ą
If you want a copy of the
interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” just
write your name and address
across this advertisement and
mail it with three stamps to
cover postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS,
63 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
=RYNOCH=
AMMUNITION
|||||||jg| 22 RIM FIRE.
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALU BRITISH
CAILLE PERFECTION
MARINE ENGINES.
SXs*
MM
m
mm
h
m
m
i
mm
I
We illustrate a genuine test of the ignition system
which is fitted to our Single-cylinder Heavy-duty
Engines.
It is the only reliable one for use in heavy weather.
We have sizes from 2 to 14 horse-power in stock
for immediate delivery.
PRICES ARE RIGHT.
Benson Brothers Ltd.,
73-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
The Broken Hill Proprietary
Company Limited
Mine Owners :: Iron 8 Steel Masters
MANUFACTURERS OF
Pig Iron (Various Grades)
Ingots Billets
Rails and Fishplates
Blooms Beams Structural Steel
Merchant Bars
Reinforcing Material from Jin. to IJin.
Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
Head Office : Equitable Building,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
MOTORISTS!
Here’s the DUSTCOAT
YOU NEED.
Every man who owns a ear or
drives one needs a good Dust-
coat for protection trom travel
stains and dust, and there isn’t
a garment that could suit you
better —ns to QUALITY,
STYLE and PRlCE—than the
“LS. Special
In DRILL
or
CRASH
30
A?ell Tailored in High-
grade, Dustproof Fawn
and Brown Drill or Crash
—light and cool, guaran-
teed to wash ' splendidly
—available in either
Double-breasted or Single-
breasted Raglan styles—
with lapel or Russian
collar—ample pockets,
all-round belt or plain—
these are practically pre-
war value at our prices:
30/-and 35/-. White
Drill, 27/6, 35/-;
Dark-grey Checks,
32/6, 37/0.
CALL or
WRITE.
WE PAY
FREIGHT
and
GUARANTEE
SATISFACTION.
m
29
*2
V
• a
iVi
i
"~7i
I
nr
m
p»
«K
A^/VAg
SEND FOR OUR MOTOR-CLOTHING BOOK-POST FREE.
LINCOLN STUART 8 Co.
“MOTOR-WEAR SPECIALISTS,”
244-54 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ltd.


The New Stetson Hats
at "The Store for §Men.”
Farmer’s recently received the first consignment
of the new Stetson Hats for Autumn wear.
These soft felts, with bound, cut, or turned
edges, are now obtainable in the favoured
shades of pearl, slate, olive, fawn, and brown.
Priced at ... 57/6
Also Stetson Velours, first of the new Season’s
styles in shades of black, slate, and natural.
FARMER’S
SYDNEY
Box 497, G.P O.
eg
BREW yOUROWN BEER
NON - INTOXICATING
If it isn't
It's Better
A tin of '‘BEVARA BEER” contains
the exact quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast,
&c., with instructions to quickly and easily
make TWO GALLONS of the purest
and best Beer. No chemicals whatever.
Failure impossible.
Six varieties, viz., Ginger, Hop, Pale, Malt,
and Bitter Beer and Stout. The PERFECT
drink for Men, Women or Children. The
BEST proof is that ONE family last season
drank 100 gallons of •‘BEVARA.”
Price 1/6 from all Grocers and Stores
rVplfn R^ IC R r 1 th * ‘ r! 1 shops) Civil Service Stores, Anthony Horderns, Lassetters, MarkFoy’s,
and coHntry^ 0 "or/' , ostage n Sh<>PS) * SaVage StoreS > and all leading St ° re#
M. R. GREEN, Manufacturer, CARLTON, VIC.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[P]
MISSESE MONKE DOVLE
Phones central 1533, 11609.
_ The Newmarket on Saturday started the
Flemington ball rolling. The G.-G. and
Forster, wlth a full hand, went out
and had a luncheon party, but his Ex
rushed off later to sail his yacht in the St.
Kilda regatta. He had his boating duds in
the car. The State Governor saw the meet-
ing out with his squad of aides.
The frocking was ultra-smart. Mrs. Pat
Osborne, over from Sydney, showed a very
slim silhouette, and the various piump Mad-
den sisters are keen to know the trick. The
Miller dame w r as elaborately frocked in silk
and chiffons under a smart cape. Paseall
of the Cadbury-Fry-Pascall combine in the
Speck, turned up with his wife and daughter,
who have newly arrived from England ; they
showed some Bond-street tailoring. Officers
of the Melbourne and Sydney were thick
as currants in a cake. Mrs. Sam Mc-
Caughey and Mrs. Fred Grimwade combined
as hostesses for a jolly tea-party, which
included Mrs. Ken Niall and Mrs. Le Roy
Burnham. Consul Teppema and his wife,
just back from the East Indies, had a re-
ception to themselves on the lawn. Miss
Hunter-Watts drooped about the stand in
artistic frocking, and Allan Wilkie was keen
on theiracing game. The Donald Fletchers,
from Bananaland, had a tea-party to round
up their Melbourne friends. Mrs. Walter
Bayles and. the Ken McWhaes tore their
luncheon chicken jn the presence of a Too-
raketty group of racing people. Mrs. Fred
Row was out with daughter Mrs. Richards,
from Colombo; and Mrs. Stodart (she was
Betty O’Hara) had some sensational checked
duds on exhibition.
The Stradbrokes cleared the Stonington
decks again on the 3rd for a fox-trotting wel-
come to the visiting naval officers. There was
a full house, the invitation lists having been
presumably drawn up in a spirit of let-’em-
all-come. The vice-regal pair, however, prac-
tically confined their attentions to one little
lot, instead of following the lead of Hope-
toun, of happy memory, and circling the
room.
Lady Stradbroke, her dark head weighted
with a diamond and ruby coronet, was in
black velvet and gold tissue spread with
floating tulle draperies and a wispy velvet
train. Daughter Betty (otherwise Helena)
wore mauve georgette fixings, with a pink
rose in her belt and a paste ci’own upon
her brow. A new _ gent.-help with a black
moustache, roared himself hoarse announcing
the arrivals from the back-verandah steps.
Fox-trotters whirled to the melodious jingle
of banjo, mandolin and piano, the players
of which turned deaf ears to the vulgar
encore habit. A chucklesome fact was that
matrons in the 50’s and 60’s filled their pro-
grammes, while Twenty and Thereabouts
froze, to the wainscot. The male dancer
simply must whirl with his elderly hostesses,
you know—girl is cheap and champagne
scarce these days.
Little Lady Digby glittered in black jet
panellings over chiffon, and had a wide pink
band round her head. Mrs. Pitt Rivers was
a classic vision in blue satin draperies edged
with silver. Lady Loughborough, chiffoned
in pink, puffed a cigarette on the verandah
with the vice-regal host. Dame Nellie defied
the chill night with an ermine wrap which '
cuddled lovingly over pointed skirts of cloth-
of-silver, and her dark head was hooped
with diamonds. Dame Mary Hughes nestled
in a pink and silver shot cloak, which flut-
tered over black chiffonery. The Edward
Miller dame might have stepped out of a
late-Victorian photo with her trailing petunia
draperies and accentuated waist-line. The
Donald Mackinnons’ chick Nancy, just back
from a Paris seminary, sported an early-
Victorian frock of shot blue silk hooned
with black all the way up, but with a 1922
straight-waist effect.
A number of blue-and-gold sailor-men
headed by Admiral Everett helped to color
the scene effectively, and a solitary red-
coated marine officer looked like a lonely
lobster. Supper of the hock-cup-and-ice-
eream variety was spread in the dining-
saloon. and the garden-beds, outlined with
electric lights, bloomed with couples between
dances.
The Bishopscourt garden party was
washed out of its original date by a tropical
storm, and on the postponed date, February
28, it fared little better. A depression of
dampness was over everything. The thing
couldn't be postponed again with Lent ap-
preaching; yet what was to be done with
the thousand guests if they could not play
in the garden? Bishopscourt was practi-
cally unfurnished. The new archbishop’s
household sticks are still at sea, and he
and his wife are taking refuge at Govern-
ment House until their goods arrive. So a
marquee was hurriedly put up in the garden
for tea, and a few salvaged chairs went into
the drawing-room. The rest of the house
was smothered in flowers to hide its naked-
ness, and Mrs. Arch fluffed in an agitated
way and said she hoped to see Everybody
there as soon as she was settled and had
the carpets down and all that sort of thing.
Still, it was a pleasant party. The con-
gregation was mostly in sensible tailor-
mades and heavy woollens. The Governor-
General came, and his lady climbed out of
a dove-grey velvet enveloping cloak, and
showed a dark satin frock. The clergy
stood in the rain at the drive entrance to
welcome the G.-G’s. The Stradbrokes were
storm-stayed at Macedon. Mrs. Lees braved
everything in tender banana-colored cloth,
and the uncurled feather in her hat defied
the dampness. Mrs. Hindley was tailored
severely in black cloth with the weather-
proof “frogs” that are coming into their own
again. Mrs. Hart snuggled into dark navy
velvet cloth. The U.R.S.S.I.L. band —a fine
crew—were tucked into a sheltered corner
of the verandah and cheered things up with
bright music. The Archgaiters pushed his
jovial manner into top gear, and everybody
stood up to the party in a determination
to ignore the rain and the dearth of chairs.
Enid Derham, M.A., is our new Associate
Professor of English at Melbourne ’Varsity.
She had a similar job in Westralia as
Associate to Prof. Murdoch, but it will be
“harder going” in Melbourne. Of the regula-
tion five lectures two could be repeated at
evening classes in
Perth, but that won’t
do here. Women are
getting a hold on
’Varsity billets. Miss
Derham counted up.
“Yes, that’s right—
there are .37 of us
now on the staff-
including the import-
ant woman who runs
the Food Depart-
ment.” Before she
went to Westralia
. Miss Derham was
a Workers’ Educa-
tional Association
lecturer in Victoria,
and she will now
resume some of that
service. And even
that won’t exhaust her activities: for in-
stance, she has a paper, on criticism for the
next meeting of the Shakspearean Society.
Lafayette made this picture of the cultured
and charming lady.
“The Taming of the Shrew,” at the Palace,
drew an idolatrous Shakspearean house. Miss
Plunter-Watts’s Kate begins \ ith tawny
clothes and a tearing temper, carries on
in seed pearls and flowing white bridal garb
(this lasts through three scenes until it is
muddied and ripped to rags), and finally is
allowed to wear an adorable lettuce-green
gown brocaded in gold. Petruchio Wilkie
follows an Ascheian color scheme, and fin-
ishes in the glory of purple and fuchsia
colors at his pacific supper-party.
Governor Stradbroke has put down a
bowling-green at Stonington. When open-
ing the Malvern green as patron of the club,
he made his first attempt to grass a bowl,
and after several ends he.got within 10ft.,
of the jack. Then the Countess took to the
game like a duck to water ; so that decided it.
Brig.-General G. S. Clive, whose breast
is a rainbow of ribbons when he has his
official coat on. has been visiting the G.-G.
before going on to see his brother at
Hobart. After that he passes to the Ma
State on the I'eal business of his trip—to
look after his interest in some station pro-
perty.
Acting-Governor Nicholls has the Tas-
manian fishing fever in an aggravated form.
He has just been to the Mountain Lake with
Adrian Knox, Chester Lord, Tom Murdoch
and some other sufferers.
W. J. Carre Riddell, Chairman of the
Board of Works, is back after a year’s
tripping abroad, during widen he supervised
the conversion of a loan of £l. L-10,000 While
he was away the Government tried to push
through a little clause in (lie bill relating to
borrowing (and other matters) which would
have increased Riddell’s salary from £l5OO
to £2OOO a year; but the Assembly wouldn’t
have it.
Di\ Stan Argyle, M.L.A. for Toorak,
doesn’t, after inquiry on the spot, think much
of the much-paragraphed Wellington (M.L.)
method of milk distribution. If applied in
Melbourne it would, he predicts, be a disas-
trous failure. As a med. who has taken a
special interest in milk, and as one who has
had experience as chairman of directors of the
Willsmere Milk Supply Co., Argyle ought to
know what he is talking about. Wellington,
he found, has a much cooler summer than
Melbourne, and the problems of supply trans-
port and distribution require a different
solution for each city. The best he can say
for the Wellington scheme is that it is an
incomplete experiment.
Pianist Cahill and tenor Brooke are in
the boom with Ella Shields, and they are off
with her to Maoriland for a couple of
months’ tour. They have postponed their
departure to England from May till July,
as they have a Haymarket Picture Theatre
engagement in Sydney on their return from
the Ricketty Isles.
, Hugh MeCrae, whd , jffits his hlihaor into
his black-and-white dnd his romance into his
Poetry, is returning to Sydney with his
fatally shortly. Daughter Mahdi, who is
now getting her drawings accepted, repre-
sents at least the fourth generation of this
family to show artistic talent. George Gor-
don McCrae, her grandfather, who is still
hale and hearty, is now writing his remin-
iscences. His mother, Mrs. Andrew Murison
McCrae, who painted miniatures, was a lead-
ing figure in the early social life of Mel-
bourne.
Gellibrand, our ex-police chief, who belongs
to a fine old Tassy family, is spoken of as a
likely candidate for an Apple Island seat in
the Federal Reps.
A girl’s P.S. from London:—
An Australian who is getting into the public’s
best eye as a dancer is Vere Tewksbury, daughter of
the old Victorian gold-dredger, whose limousine
taxis Sydney knows so well. Her professional nanie
is Eleanor MoVette—whether that has anything to
do with the taxis I don’t k now. She gave a great
exhibition at the London Country Club before 1500
people, and looked charming—in a billowy gown
of the palest salmon pink shading to apricot, and
rimmed at neck and waist and pointed skirt with
the finest ostrich marabout. It suited her perfectly.
An anonymous donor supplied money to
build a new wing to St. Martin’s Home
for Boys in Burwood-road, Auburn, and
Dame Nellie opened it the other day. It
is called the Nina wing, and holds a recrea-
tion hall, some sleeping-rooms and a new
chapel. Money being now needed for fur-
nishing, Melba there and then took round
her hat for donations. Hundreds of visitors
turned up at the affair, and Archbishop Lees
and his lady looked in. Mrs. R. A. Staugh-
ton, Mrs. Agar Wynne, Mrs. Ross Soden
and others served tea.
_ Mrs. Dick Richards, of Colombo, formerly
Jessie Row, of Melbourne, has joined her
mater, Mrs. Fred Row. in Melbourne, for
six months’ holiday. She has, it appears,
developed a fine voice and' a talent for
acting, and for some years has been leading
lady, in the Ceylon Amateur'Dramatic Club
at Colombo. Quite lately she scored a
success in “The Yeomen of the Guard’'’ as
Phoebe Meryll. Her husband, who is a
tea-buyer, took the part of Sergeant Meryll.
Free frota the narrow circle of politics,
Donald Mackinnon is becoming optimistic,
or his trip abroad has renewed his youth.
At the Cricket Association sbivoo the other
night he advocated the substitution of sport
for war, and envisaged the Germans in the
near future taking up cricket. A Fritz
eleven coming to, Australia with an urn to
collect the ashes suggests a joyous picture.
Hubert Ennor, feted at a farewell supper
given by the Hoffmann clan in East Mel-
bourne last week, is now off to London,
whe r e Kennerley
Rumford is waiting
to introduce the
young baritone to the
highest circles of
song. Rumford heard
the voice a few
months ago and
declared it fit for
immediate e x p o r t.
Melba, who was
introduced to it at
tiie Austral Salon,
also patted it on its
back. Ennor’s warble
is understood to be
suitable for oratorio
and grand opera, and
he has been heavily
trained for both by
Mary Conly and
Caccialli. To these line ccacuers he-owes
all he knows of singing and interpretation.
If he ever “arrives,” he says, their complicity
in his success will not be forgotten. Born
in Bendigo, he was a boy chorister there,
and subsequently put in a couple of years
at the Uni. Gonservatorium. This photo of
him comes from the Monteath Studio.
An Adelaide Polo Club team has been over
playing a series of games against Western
District fours, and found that there had
b 'en a great revival in the game at Cara-
mut and Camperdown. Manifolds, Afflecks,
Cummings, Mo flats, Reids and Bells all got
into their silks again, and had their relays
of ponies polished to a nicety. The women-
folk of the homesteads arranged lunches
and teas at the scenes of battle, and there
were several jolly little dance-dinners. The
round finished in time for a general descent
on Melbourne for the Flemington race
frivols.
The elder Everard Browne daughter
Gwynned gave emphasis to the angularity of
her lengthy outline at Flemington on -Satur-
day. Her yellowy reddish knitted silk frock
barely shrouded her knees, which served as
stern reminders that it takes delicately-
moulded curves plus a baby stare to carry
the nursery pinny effect. ' Miss Gwynned,
by the way, is preparing to trip across SeaS
under the .Wing df little Mrs. Mauficb GibbbS;
who is going fob the bmpteenth time tp see
her parents, Baronet William Gordon Cuin-
ining and his wife.
Marie, the dark, volatile daughter of W.
G. Higgs, M.H.It., is promised to James
Bell, son of the A. H. Bells, of Sandringham.
Miss Higgs is an only daughter, and is well-
stocked with accomplishments. It is said that
she will stagger her man with her wonderful
cookery and soothe him with sweet music
if he wants a pick-me-up afterwards. Inci-
dentally, she is rather athletic and plays a
good game of tennis.
There is great gloom in the J. C. William-
son offices over the expected departure of
Alfred Frith for England two or three
months hence. The Firm will have a
hard job to produce a comedian a§ good — l
especially since Hugh Ward has “resigned’*
to start a rival concern.
Clarence Weber has nursed a mild griev-
ance (the handsome giant is incapable of
bitterness) against this lettek.for neatly a
year, ahd. pe. is rbfoinaed _df it by the ap-
proach bf his. pupils’ Physijcal-chlture dis-
play. due on the 30th. Last year the “de-
portment steps” of his girl-trainees were said
to be not specially remarkable for poetry of
motion. He protests that he is not a danc-
ing-master, preparing pupils for the ballet
or a mannequin parade in a revue. Girl-
graduates at the Health and Strength Col-
lege are mostly out of health when they come
to him. and his business is to make robust,
well-poised Cissies of them. That and no-
thing more. The conversion of an ordinary
slip of young womanhood into one with a
figure better than the average and a walk
that testifies to her physical culture is the
triumph of his system. He will have two
of his own paternity in the coming show —
two of seven young Australians with whom
he was left a widower while still in his
thirties. His present wife was a young
war widow with a little son.
Miss Adelaide Allan (daughter of. Geo.
Allan, of the music firm) is organising a
working-bee under the Red Cross banner
to furnish and equip the ward now being
added to the Queen Victoria Hospital. The
idea was well launched In the Ben Nathans’
RippoU Left pa.tior, thq Uther day.. Ip Cdse
you art) inciihbd to lend a hand, Miss Allan!?
address is Eurobin, Denbigh-road, Armadale.
A line or two from 'Adelaide: —
The Federal Government is indulging in another
moral spurt. This time it is out to nip clandestine
correspondence in the bud. No longer is it possible
to address a letter to “XYZ,” .G.P.O.: —you must give
the addressee a name. As though that was j) hurdle
the furtive correspondents couldn’t negotiate 1
On Wednesday of last week his Ex. played in a
cricket match against the land brokers. By the time
he sets sail in the Osterley next month he will have
hit to leg the representatives of every section of
the community.
The optimistic City Council has just launched its
campaign against" mosquitoes, and believes that in
three years Adelaide will have heard its very last
buzz. P’raps. In the meantime everyone seems to
be most concerned as to whether the other fellow is
taking the prescribed precautions. Apparently people
hate being bitten by the skeeter from next door.
That same City Council, by the way, will soot)
have to open a museum of Its own. Relics are being
showered upon it. Sir Charles Wakefield has just
■ sent from London a copy of an oil-painting of “Open-
ing of London Bridge by William IV., August i.
1831” ; and Councillor Angas Johnsdn, who has made
many gifts in the past, lias added a copy of th ?
proclamation issued in I§so in connection with the
prevention 6f the spread of infectious diseases on
arrival -Of oversea vessels.
R. fi. Bush, a London director of Dalgety and Co.,
arrived by the Orvieto. During the war he turned
his lovely home in Bristol into a hospital for Aus-
tralian soldiers, and did the washing-up himself.
He hopes to renew many Digger acquaintances.
The linotype plays odd tricks. The Register the
other morning made Michael Collins declare that
“we who accept and uphold the treaty are returning
to Ireland. We will stand by its terms and cycle
along King William Road, North Adelaide.” And
(oh, this shocking!) a violinist was made in her ad.
for pupils to offer “special instruction in Love
Production, Bowing, etc.”
The Y.W.C.A. is washing its hands of the Adelaide
Girls’ Club which it launched a year ago. The
Club’s objects are sound enough—rest-room, writing-
room, good, cheap meals, etc., for women and girls
working in the city—but for some reason it missed
its mark and has been running at a loss. Negoti-
ations are now afoot for transferring the management
to a committee of club members. Meanwhile the
Salv’army has opened a women’s hostel that will
take in 50-odd boarders and has been duly blessed
by the Kidman dame.
The Orvieto brought back Mrs. Humphrey Marten
from the Cold Land, whither she had tripped for the
marriage of daughter Jean to Leonard Linden.


Rexona Shaving Soap-
A High-class Product for
Men of Discrimination.
/ v
"4 4
Oy
y>v >
.'< >. 4>
■ <'
VA
«/.
æ
Here is a new idea in Shaving Soap—another Rexona triumph one is
which will be appreciated by men wherever beards grow. Rexona aving
contains the same Oils and Essences that have made Rexona famous. e wor >
and is made on the Rexona formula, and thus makes a Shaving Stick w ic
soap and lotion combined.
There’s Comfort
in Every
Shave.
Rexona Shaving Soap makes for comfort
and hygiene in shaving, and tempers the
skin against wind and bad weather.
It will be found the most economical
Shaving Stick on the market, but care should
be exercised not to dip the Stick in the water,
but wet the face and apply the Shaving Soap
dry. A few applications with the shaving
brush will quickly produce a thick, creamy
lather, which lasts and thoroughly softens the
beard, leaving the skin in a healthy and
hygienic condition after the shave.
Everyone should use a Medicated Soap
for shaving, for after going over the face with
the razor and removing the beard, the skin
needs a protection from the germs carried by
the dust, which everyone has to face.
Rexona Shaving Soap is the highest
standard of Shaving Soap that it is possible
to produce, and a good Shaving Soap means
everything to a shave, for if the beard is
properly lathered a shave is a delight, but if
the beard is not properly lathered, but is stiff
and harsh, it is not only severe on the user
but hard on the razor.
XONA
A
Re
UCT
ppOD
proP^
Re*° na
al' a
AU^tr
<2
Try a Rexona
Shave. You’ll
Like It.
In half a minute Rexona Shaving Soap
softens the beard, and the lather will remain
on the face with all its softness for twelve
minutes, but Rexona shavers do not require
this, for Rexona Shaving Soap makes the beard
so soft that a Rexona shave really takes not
more than two minutes.
A Rexona shave is a luxuriant yet an
economical shave, for the lather is over 150
times as great as the Soap used, and a 1/6
triangular stick is sufficient to last the average
man at least 150 shaves, which makes over
eight shaves for a penny. Then, too, consider
how much easier Rexona Shaving Soap makes
the beard on the razor, and how soft, smooth
and antiseptic it leaves the skin, and protects it
from all weather conditions. Being an anti-
septic Medicated Soap, it has a tendency to
quickly heal any cut you may have the mis-
fortune to get, and if troubled with pimples
or blotches of any kind will daily tend to
improve them-
Men! Try Rexona, the new triangular
Shaving Stick—we can promise you a new
satisfaction.
ǽ
its >
11-:M‘r' V -V'
», '■!“ i i
'»
>
ttV't/v ■
y
a
Rexona Shaving Soap is something entirely new in
every respect. Watch for the triangular,
enamelled box, for Rexona Shaving Stick
is not round, like the old-fashioned kinds,
but triangular, and packed in a triangular
enamelled box, tasty and neat, easy to
hold sind dainty in every respect.
Rexona, the Triangular Shaving Stick, is sold
everywhere at 1/6, or will be sent post free upon receipt
of the price by the Rexona Proprietary Company, 131-5
Clarence Street, Sydney.
vx
'r, •*
~ /
N)A-
'A. i
A\ ,
%>>.V <v
■»
£
SK
■
m


Under
Royal
Warrant
à
A 3iUC®r)
'WH 01
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsierk;
W a %
Champagne
'^'iesllcidsicffc
Reims
nary
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydnay.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
N.B.—The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiety
-Tbe nuptial flutter of the week was the
wedding of Dr. Jack Bean and Mrs. Isabel
John. It is the lady’s third venture, and
the youngish doctor’s first. She is short,
plump and dark; he is tall, slight and
blonde. Both bride and ’groom being Theo-
sophists and members of the Liberal Catholic
Lhurch, there was a positive riot of gor-
geous vestments, with clouds of incense as
dense as a duststorm back of Bourke, within
the church next door to the Mortuary
station. The ceremony, which wears a close
resemblance to the R.C. Nuptial Mass, was
performed by Bishop Leadbeater, who must
have been weary under the weight of vest-
ments stiff with gold embroideries and fringe,
and a crimson cassock that flowed in sweep-
ing folds to the floor, completely hiding the
ugliness. of booted feet—an aesthetic touch
this which the R.C. clergy have neglected,
there was another mitre before the altar,
worn by the impressive Bishop Maxell. In
addition there were eight gorgeously-clad
clergy (or elders or something), 16 red-robed
apolytes, mostly with beautifully-kept bare
fpet, and two other elders or ushers in moon-
hght-blue cassocks and a perfect Marcel
wave in the hair.
In the front middle-aisle pen stood the
bridegroom, heartily joining in the hymns,
with a shining morning face and rapt blue
eyes. Next to him stood historian-brother
Charley, looking a little more of the earth
earthy; next stood Mrs. Charley, in navy
tailorings and a navy-satin hat; then came
brother Monty and his wife in brown jersey
silk. Further to the right was the bride
dressed in soft satin, the grey-blue of a
mountain haze, supported by Mrs. Hilliard
in mastic georgette. After the gospel, when
everybody within the sanctuary had been
separately censed several times, and the
acolytes had massed, formed and broken
many Raphaelite groups, the 'marriage cere-
mony was performed by Bishop Leadbeater,
with the rich-voiced Mazell as chief helper.
There were other barefoots beside the
acolytes. These feet showed no sign of care,
but many black smudges. Their grubby
owners had wandered from Surry Ilills to
give their beloved Dr. Bean a parting cheer.
The little girls had a deeper intent. They
fluttered around the young man in the bright
sunlight like a flock of pigeons, and it was
only after he had kissed the last little mite
that he was allowed to join his bride in the
waiting taxi.
Dr. Bean is the second son of the Rev.
Edwin Bean, who kept a prep, school in
England before migrating to Australia.
Ihe Rev. Edwin used to speak of his family
as “my son Charles, dear old Jack and poor
little Monty.” But little Monty has turned
out to be a successful engineer.
Dame Margaret Davidson came down from
Sutton Forest during the week to preside at
a meeting at Government House to arrange
for the performance of “Quinneys” at the
Playhouse on March 30 and 31 and April 1,
to help the Bush Book Club. The Club
needs money very badly, and up to now,
apart from gifts of books, it has not had
much help from the general public. So
here’s a chance, for the play under Gregan
McMahon’s direction is sure to be worth
while. Before the meeting was over Mar-
garet Wmdeyer lifted up her forceful voice
to recall that Princess Mary was being
married that day, and she felt sure the
bride had the best wishes of all for her
happiness. And the meeting said she certainly
nad.
His Ex. and Dame Margaret alight at
Bathurst on March 19 to open a soldiers’
memorial and attend the local race meet-
ing. They leave for Goulburn on the 24th
to open the show; and the dav after is ear-
marked for the Goulburn Soldiers’ Club and
the Presbyterian Ladies’ College.
Anyone able to pay a guinea to hear
Melba and yet anxious to save 16s. will
have to put on her oldest clothes and dis-
guise her face if she is to be successful.
On the first day of the sale of tickets
several well-known people of means applied,
but a stern manager gave them a set-back.
“No,” he said, “these concerts are not
intended for you who can afford to pay a
guinea; they are for those who but ' for
this concession might never hear her.” And
John was adamant. The wonder is that
those to whom a guinea means so little
should be lvilling to stand for hours in a
queue on the chance of getting a ticket at
quarter the usual price. But there are
some women who simply live for bargains.
The Sydney Mhsical Association brought
a big crowd to Farmers’ on Friday night
to give the glad hand to Jascha Spivakovsky,
toe just-arrived Russian pianist. A dainty
mumcal programme was provided—Messeas
with Ins cello (and Dorothy Gibbs at the
P l .^ o )- Julia Caroli in the grand aria from
Aida, supported by her Italian husband
as accompanist, and Dagmar Thomson,
whose violin never sang better. After the
music the guest, who wears his thick black
hair brushed straight from his low fore-
head, shook hands—and what a grip! The
usual speeches were given over the coffee-
cups; then, in fairly good English, helped
out with telling gestures, the guest expressed
the usual hope that he would come up to
expectations.
Those who were responsible for the ar-
rangements for the annual meeting of the
Benevolent Society took a risk in having
chairs placed in the open. The sky, which
had sulked all the morning, threatened to
deluge the gathering, but, after all, did it
m only a half-hearted way. The Governor,
who presided, very determinedly declined to
allow a well-meaning man to hold an um-
brella over Ins hatless head. President Wil-
liam Cooper, who looks the part and cer-
tainly plays it, had much to say about the
great institution which assisted during the
year 78,094 individuals. Close on to 7000
babies were born in the Paddington Hos-
pital, and the other agencies connected with
the society include the Renwick Hospital
tor Infants at Summer Hill; Scarba, the Wel-
fare Home for Children, Bondi; and the
Outdoor Relief and Stores Department in
Thomas-street. Few who make it a prac-
tice of attending these meetings failed to
miss a familiar face—that of James Muir,
who through ill-health has resigned from
tlm Board. His vigorous speeches in the
richest of brogues were always refreshing.
Ex-president Neville Mayman stressed the
fact that a £40,000 overdraft was a big
weight, and to carry on the good work more
money must be got somehow. The Governor
said he wished some others would follow
the good example set them by Mr. and Mrs,
Longworth, who had contributed £lOOO to
the Hospital for Women. Dr. Constance
D’Arcy, with her jolly smile, was at the
meeting, and Mrs. Neville Mayman arrived
with a lovely rope of jade beads. Mr. Uhr
wandered among the crowd carrying a bound
book of songs under his arm, which made
one wonder if a musical programme had
been provided. The explanation, however,
was that the book contained a song com-
posed 64 years ago by Mr. Uhr’s father (or
was it his grandfather?) entitled “You Love
Me Yet”—dedicated to “the ladies of Syd-
ney.” The proceeds were devoted to the
Benevolent Asylum, and as the song was
sung by the then-famous Sara Flower it had
quite a vogue. Mr. Uhr had just picked it
up at a second-hand shop.
Mrs. Arthur Hunter has lately produced
two more musical-comedy successes—“ The
Girl of Gotten-
burg” for the Rail-
way and Tramway
Institute and “The
Waltz Dream” for
the Rockdale Musi-
ca 1 Society : a s
Katie Potter she had
taken part in both
of them with the
Royal Comics.
There are not many
musical societies in
this State she hasn’t
“produced” for.
Bathurst and Goul-
burn know her
work, and Bris-
bane has called for
her services many
times. Her choice of profession was made
when Gerard Coventry had to produce "La
Mascotte” and “Dorothy” for J. C. William-
son. He had no knowledge of the original
“business,” and Mrs. Hunter, who knew the
tricks from her own and her husband’s asso-
ciation with the Royal Comics, gave him
a hand. Thereupon Coventry strongly
advised her to take up “producing” as her
life-job. Her first venture was “The Casino
Girl” for the Beale Society, and on this
occasion her guide and philosopher gave her
for luck his own original marked script. The
flourishing Petersham and Mosman societies
both owe much to her directing hand.
The medical Donald Frasers collected a
bunch _of beauty and intelligence in their
tall slice of a house in College-street the
other night to hear Walter Kirby sing. The
Voice, exquisite in its light 'and shade,
poured itself out in “Butterfly”
and “Tosca,” and in songs of a beautiful
simplicity. The Melbourne tenor has been
in Sydney for some weeks now, and is gener-
ously interested in the new singer Sidoni,
whose faultless top C’s and D’s sent Walter
into an ecstasy when he first heard them
in one of the upper rooms of Carnegie’s. Here
Jean Drummond and the tenor nearly lift
the roof and burst the walls of the tiny
space practising their oncoming Tivoli
scenes with the vehemence of youth.
Ella Shields waved a temporary farewell
to Sydney from behind a deck-lord of flow-
ers on the Manuka. For her gc ng away
she chose a cornflower-blue taffc La sr.it, a
rainbow-striped blouse with a white collar
reaching to her knees, and a blue silk pull-
on hat stitched with silver. "I sail for
Home on May 24, but I am goi g to have
a fortnight at the Australia be-ore that,”
she promised.
The Roland Fosters had a merry party at
their home on Saturday afternoon in honor
of Rosa Alba, and the musical programme
was high above the tea-party average. Mrs.
John Storey and daughter Bessie were
among the many guests.
It is just 16 years since N. S. Wales
got its blind barrister. Mr. N. G. McWil-
liam doesn’t remem-
ber what the world
looks like: he lost
his sight in early
infancy. But his
handicap only
spurred him to en-
deavor : he matri-
culated at 17, and
at 20 gained his
B.A. with honors in
Philosophy. Then,
maintaining himself
mostly by coaching,
he studied law, and
at 23 took a degree,
and next year held
his first brief. Since
then he has prac-
tised in every juris-
diction, but ‘as the
years have passed has rather specialised in
industrial cases, and in the days of wages
boards he settled the pay and conditions
m a dozen industries. He is married, with
two children.
Knot-tiers were kept busy on Feb. 28
it was the day chosen by Princess Mary
tor her wedding; besides, it was the last
day before Lent. At St. James’s Kathleen,
daughter of the C. W. Kings, met Kenneth
Ashwin Bennett in a billowy frock that
sent sparks of silver lace through white net
and had. pale pink for background. The
trai ll showed pink ninon underneath,
bordering of cloth of silver.
Weather and orange blossoms were wreathed
round the head, from which flowed the long
tulle veil. At the reception, in the Aus-
tralia, members of some of our oldest fami-
lies were among the guests.
Freda Robertson-Cuninghame, of Welling-
ton. Vale, Deepwater, will say “I will” to
Major Blackburn Greenshields, M.C. at
St Mark’s on March 14. Enid Mac Kay
will be first bridesmaid, and Arthur Tennant
best man. A large amount of stationery
has been expended on the invitations, and
the . taxi-parade will finish up at the Aus-
tralia. L reda met her Major when return-
ing from England a few months ago.
Jocelyn Carson and Jack Campbell will
take the. pledge on March 22. Sister Haidee
Carson, is kept busy catching the mails to a
fiance in England.
At the Seotehbvterian Church at Manly
°? Wednesday of last week Stanley Leitcii,
of Gtlenlee, Leeton,. said for ever and ever
to Marion Killen. of Merribee, Barellan,
whose dad is making it so hot for Mr.
\\ earne.
Eeo, youngest son of the late E. W.
O Sullivan and ex-artilleryman in the Big
War, who .grows sheep and wheat near
June'e, has just slipped five diamonds on to
the right finger of the left hand of Dorothy
Brown, of Junee, a daughter of the late
Mat Brown, man of law, who died some
years ago.
At a recent wedding here Mr. Rollinstone
gathered Miss Moss. Which shows how far
astray some old sayings can get.
Tom Quinlan, last seen in Australia as
manager of his own grand opera co., will be
here again directly as manager of the Sistine
Choir.
A proud old lady with reason for her
pride is Mrs. Phoebe Newton, of St. Peters,
Sydney. The other day she had her photo
taken with her great-great-grandson, ,hjs
mother, grandmother and great-grandmother
being also in the picture. Though still only
<B5, she has 61 great-grandchildren. But so
far there is only the one of the fifth genera-
tion.
Mrs. F. E. Robertson entertained a party
at the Cavalier, with theatre afterwards,
to wish bon voyage to her nieces, Flo and
Phil Lynch, who are taking themselves and
their voices to Europe. Ella Shields,
Tootles W illiamson and Dorothy Bourke
were among the gay chatterers.
The other day somebodv advertised in an
Adelaide paper for a lost cat—“marked like
Souter’s Bulletin cat.” It reminded a
friend of Souter’s of a time when he and
the artist were taking a morning stroll in
Melbourne. A woman leaned over a bal-
cony and called “Souter! Souter!” Natu-
rally, Souter looked up. having friends all
over the shop. But she was not a very
desirable dame to look at, and the artist’s
very respectabie friend gave almost a sigh
£ When She turned t 0 somebody in
the balcony room and said “That * oat
is after Mrs. Nextdoor’s canary again !”
In the Cavalier last week, Thea Proctor,
at the invitation of Sydney Ure Smith, made
e acquaintance of some fellow-artists and
w 1 ??' Jamieson, Mrs. James Burns,
i?ir and ls wife* Lionel Lindsay.
Elliott Gruner and Leon Gellert were there
to meet the charming painter of fans who
has now added lithography to her accomplish-
ments.
Professor Gilbert Murray doesn’t forget
his kinsfolk on this side. By last mail came
an invitation from him to the Aubrey
Murrays to pay him and his wife a long visit
and be his guests from the time they leave
Sydney. some years ago a similar invita-
tion came and the acceptance gave all con-
cerned great joy. Recently Lady Carlisle
(lied and left tons of money to her family,
the Professor’s wife, a daughter, benefiting
considerably. Judge Murray, of Papua, is
another brother, but he is far too busy a
man to take a pleasure trip. Aubrey is differ-
ently placed—he recently retired from his
Government job here.
Young Eric Raymond, who disappeared so
mysteriously a few weeks back on the eve
of his marriage in London, is the son of a
well-known family here, the Raymonds of
Greenwich. His grandfather was Judge
Raymond, and his great-grandfather was
an old-time Postmaster-General. After wait-
ing eight weeks for tidings of the missing one,
the relatives are mourning him as lost. The
hand of fate has been heavy on this family
of late. The youngest daughter, who
married Dr, Dark, died after her babe was
born, and Mrs. Raymond passed out shortly
afterwards.
The vivacious young widow is busy prepar-
ing Howard Vernon’s reminiscences for the
printer. .Her mother, by the wav, is a
Countess in her own right—the Countess de
\ llme-liautmont. Left a widow some years
ago, this sweetest of old ladies lives a very
retired life at Snails Bay, and in her little
cottage one sees many evidences of former
splendor.
While the printer is putting this letter
vr to P* n k kimmy much-tra veiled
Mrs. Charlotte Cameron is saying au revoir
to her friends in the Blue room of the Aus-
tralia. She goes off by the Demosthenes on
the 11th.
Dorothy Gregory, the soft-voiced secretary
of the Mayor of ’Frisco, came to Sydney on
the Sonoma to visit relatives. A sister, Mys.
Hooff, resides here, and a brother-in-law.
Charles Griffiths, lives in Melbourne—his
wife, Miss Gregory’s sister, died last year.
The visitor is a smart-frocker. and favors th*
new Capuchin sleeve and the pill-box hat. She
has a grip full, of admiration for one Mary
Morgan, of ’Frisco. “She’s a regular dandy
woman. On our Board of Supervisors—
you’d call them aldermen—she sits with 17
men and manages the affairs of the city.
Marv was elected over a number of men
candidates bv the citizens, and she has held
her job for four years.”
Came into Svdney last week by the
Sonoma. R. C. Phillips, head of the Ameri-
can Rolling Mill Co., of Middleton, Ohio. On
pleasure and business bound, he gives von
the impression that he wants to see‘all
that’s good and turn a glass eye on any-
thing that isn’t. He throws bouquets at
us, to begin with, for our Burnside orphan
homes, at Parramatta—-says he hasn’t seen
anything better anywhere.
How many deaths in a family justify the
relatives going into mourning? At a race
meeting the other day the offshoots of one
doubly-bereaved clan were among the cheeri-
est smilers and the most variegated dressers.
But that’s beaten by a family in the tropical
end. of Australia. They were a swagsrer
family and were up to the ears in the drive
of the local season when the prodigal uncle
returned, and was inconsiderate enough to
die on the morning of the biggest social fire-
works. The climate being what it is, the
undertaker had to be called in on the spot,
and uncle was neatly coffined in a side room
while his sorrowing relatives bustled off to
the ball. “On with the dance, let joy be
unrefined.”
A Brisbane postscript:—
Captain Harry Hammond is engaged to Kathleen
Mansfield, a Melbourne girl, daughter of the Mans-
fields of Montalbert.
Have, you met the “coin afternoon” before? One
day last week Mrs. Reg King and Mrs. Harry Clarke
arranged one in aid of Queen Mary’s Babies’ Home.
Quite a tidy sum was raked in.
There is something unusual about the visit of
Dr. W. H. Symes, of Christchurch (MX.), who is
in Brisbane studying filaria. He has retired from
practice, after 50 years’ hard work, and now, instead
of settling down to rest and rust, is engaged in
tropical diseases research work in the hope that a
life’s experience, brought to bear on new problems,
may yield something of value to the world.
Died last Friday, Mrs. W. E. Graham, who was
Jean Murray, elder daughter of John Murray, once
our Minister for Education.


iraw* m
mm
A
.. n
m
i
egg
s 3
m
SEP*'
RUMMOND’S have just added to their large
selection of Solid Silver and Silver-plated Ware
a selection of extra high-grade Quality Cafe
Trays and Salvers. These are particularly
suitable for Wedding Gifts and Presentations, and are
represented in a variety of sizes and chaste designs.
OTBm. Urummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
That was
some shave!
You can enjoy a shave
close enough to leave
your face smooth and
soft all day without irri-
tating the skin if you use
/r\
r>
'The New Improved
SAFETY RAZOR
THE FULCRUM SHOULDER
THE MINOR FLEXURE
' OVtK-.—'!GING
CAP |
THE MAJOR 1.
FLEXURE
The Fulcrum Shoulder, Channelled Guard
and Overhanging Cap give you the full
benefit of the perfect Gillette
Blade and make each blade
give many more shaves. Price,
30/-
The Gillette Safety Razor Co. of Canada Ltd.
Montreal, Canada
W’sale Distributors: S. Koffnung & Co. Ltd.
Sydney Adelaide Brisbane
(MOWN THE
wosu) OV9
iiiiiiuiiiHiiiiuiniuuumiiiiiimnuiHiiiiiiiiiiii
Era'mHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIITm
am
sty:
m
HR
/9PW
rff ; •■ - j
m
m
m
JlujL
i®' l
as
HULI
ad
J
eg
"His Master’s Voice'
in many guises, but only
one quality—the world's
greatest and best/
The wide variety of models
available in “His Master’s
Voice’’ makes it possible to
suit any style of furnishing—
from the very plainest to the
most elaborately ornamental.
Yet in all those points which constitute it the greatest
musical instrument in the world, it never departs from
the highest standard of excellence. The perfect purity
of tone, the exact reproduction of the original music, the
exquisite precision of modulation, are always there.
That is why “His Master’s Voice’’ gives you the art of
the world’s greatest celebrities—the most famous stars.
They refuse to record with any less perfect combination
than “His Master’s Voice’’ Instruments and Records.
Instruments range in price from 1 1 Guineas to 85 Guineas.
Write for Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists and name of nearest dealer.
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.
163 Pitt Street Sydney.
“Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.
“His Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-marl:.


Learn to Draw
1
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
bv HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,'
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet —
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
117 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
lAUNDRENA
TtieDednfy Womans Tavou rite Starch
Ideal for delicate fabrics,
fine linens and lingerie.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE &C°L TU SYDNEY.
9%e
a
gIRfIfKGBOU)
WORK
SHIRT
124 e/
0T 3 f0r 35 / -
An exceptionally strong work shirt
that forgets to wear out. Colors are
guaranteed—PAST ! Comfortable to
wear, hard to wear out. Plain
Shades and Stripes. Offered at the
new low-level price.
ORDER YOURS TO-DAY 1
pikeßrolhers
A Limited
TOOWOOMBA- BRISBANE • TOWNSVILLE
PLEASE WRITE TO DESK “W.
If you are
languid and
weary, you
need a light
stimulant,
such as
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
which has a sure
yet gentle action
on the Kidneys
and Bladder.
It is as good for
women as for men
and is the purest
of all drinks.
Obtainable in
LARGE AND SMALL
BOTTLES
POLO
WRITE FOR OUR FREE POLO
BOOKLET, CONTAINING the RULES
and ILLUSTRATIONS of GEAR USED.
Practice Sticks, 6/6.
Match Sticks from 10/6.
Balls, Willow or Bamboo, 17/6 dozen.
We have the largest assortment of Polo
Sticks in Australia.
WRITE FOR OUR FINE SADDLERY
CATALOGUE.
J
A
K’burra Whips Post Free for Cash.
WHEREVER THE WHIPS ARE CRACKING
“K’BURRA” WHIPS LEAD THE WAY.
KANGAROO LEATHER RIGHT
THROUGH, WITH PLAITED BELLY.
PLAITED BY EXPERTS.
Thongs 6ft, 7ft. Bft. Oft.
12-plait 17/- 19/6 22/6 21/6
16-plait 19/- 22/- 25/- 28/-
20-plait 23/6 27/- 31/- 35/-
Handles to Match, 16/6, 18/6 and 21/6,
but if for 9ft. thongs add another 1/6
for loading.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.
SADDLERS & POLO SPECIALISTS,
395 George Street, Sydney
á
CAREFREE AND HAPPY
in the knowledge that she looks well, and that her,
shoes —than which no article of dress is more likely to
be criticised —are smart and fresh looking'.
BOSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSINGS
ensure that “just-out-of-the-box” smartness, and at the
same time add life to the shoes. For Bostock’s
Products- —whether Dry Suede Cleaners, Liquid Suede
Cleaners, Creams, Pastes or Liquid Dressings—are
Quality Products, made under the supervision of their
expert Leather Chemists. As Bostock’s are world-
renowned manufacturers of high-grade Footwear, it
is imperative that every article under the Bostock
label should be up to Bostock standard.
MEN’S
WRISTLET
WATCHES
are the most approved fashion
at present. An awfully sensible
idea, too, especially for evening
wear.
We only want to add that we
carry a very large stock of
them, and cased in various
metals.
Our famous “Fx & It” move-
ment will go to within 10
seconds in a month, and is
guaranteed for 15 years.
Our prices for watches are
the lowest in Australia.
Absolutely
Watch, in
reliable fully-jewelled Lever “Super Fx & R”
Nickel Case, £4/4/ Silver Case, £5/5/-:
Gold Case, £lO/10/-
Complete with buckle and strap.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 HDNTER STREET.
ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If
the liver is active and well, good health
and happiness prevails. If you allow
Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Biliousness,
Constipation, Headaches and Melancholy
to assail you, they will result in lack of
energy, loss of memory and ill-
Small Pill
Small
Dose-
Small
Prico
mum
$ll Id
2J3AI
31UI i
health; but
remember
Carter’s Lit-
tie Liver Pills
touch the liver
and cure all
liver ills. Try
them to-day
and see how
much better
you will be
to-morrow.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic— 3B per cent. Na2o.
SULPHURIC ACID —1.83 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID-
Guaranteed chemically pure
Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
AVORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Yaf: You must be a dear, unsophisticated
old soul not to know what an “uncle” is in a con-
nection of that sort... .Tryit: The Bulletin loathes
the par. that fears to mention a person’s name and
tries to dodge the libel law by indicating him without
naming him. It is just as libellous as the plain-
spoken sort and has a streak of cowardice in it as
we 11... .H.P.S,: You’ve got the material. Take it to
pieces and rebuild it.. .Ecce: Bit too thin.. .E. 5.8.:
That’s pretty good stuff; but another got in ahead
of you with something a little better.... Rolls:
Hardly. More like machine-made Ford... .T.W.W.:
Thanks. But he was right as to the spelling....
Joe: You’ll have to make it more interesting....
Ivy G.: “Rain Magic” nearly managed to get there.
... .F.T.W.: See article on “Labor as the Sole Source
of Wealth” in last week’s Bulletin. .. .G.V.: We’ve
buried the dried bones of that controversy....
English: Afraid there ■is no one book that covers
the whole subject. The only thing to be done is
to study the best models... .Mondaine: “Degrada-
tion” doesn’t convince us....Carew: They all cling
to the very ordinary A.D.M.Q.: None of them...
P.B. (Lindfield) : Next time you feed a small bird,
try to do it in less than three and a half pages....
R. : You’ve got a vowel too many in the god’s
name and a thought too few in the lines....
i A.P.R.: That ground Ijas been worked very often
and your historical back-cloth is only middling....
G.8.M.: The ghost has no interest... .0.L.A.: Not
quite... .N.S. (Hobart) : Not badly done, but doesn’t
take you anywhere F.G.8.: Nowhere near
G.E.T.: Please don’t try to rhyme “store” with
“1aw.”... .Bellerive: The poor but honest stone-
breaker shall have a place even if we have to
squeeze out our poem on the Princess’s wedding:—
No pensions then for grey old men.
The hammer he did sway,
Breaking stones to earn a crust
From morn till close of day.
Too poor to shirk the heavy work,
One summer afternoon
He sank beside a heap of stones,
Unconscious in a swoon.
’Twas the warning of the end.
Before a week did glide
He’s trials were o’er for evermore,
He’d crossed the Great Divide —-
A pioneer of the early days,
Who’d faced rough ordeals game;
Greed for self he lacked for wealth,
But bore an honest name.
....Hope: “Warriors of the Desert” is not verse at
all; and “What Will Be the Rest” is lame in its
feet and lamer in its ear... .W.J.D.: True enough
as a picture, but it isn’t a picture of anything that
matters R.0.X.: That metre is pretty bad when
well handled, but when eked out with “all” and “so”
it is horrible... .T.H. (Hobart) : Brightly enough
done, but the point is too 5ma11.... EL'!; : “Grey-
hound” has the stuff, but it is far too long.. . .Cecil
M.: Not enough there Embar: Too crude and
confused. Only great skill will carry a narrative in
the present tense... .R.G.S. : “The Bridge of Love”
is a terrible structure Dinkum O.: Moves Very
wearily R.S. (Roma): The “Love Song” jolted
out one of our best teeth H.W. (Ipswich): You
deserve to lose a lo,ve or two if you address them
in that sort of commonplace Russell M.: Terrible.
Kiakorai: You must get a better idea of verse
movement... .B.H. (Lameroo) : Too crude....
F. : Rather late in the day to try to get that in.
Ernest C.: The makings of a yarn, but it is
not made Tom M.: Five miles off Pat: Ten,
y0u.... Little Scotty: Too loose and long for us.
The marrow of it would go in a tenth of the space.
... .Tarlton R.: Verse so rough we’ve got bruises on
both ears.... Wee B.: “Sutherland” varn isn’t as
good as the rest... .G.A.H.: No earthly use
E.A.N.: Yarn scrawled on both sides: of the paper
is too difficult. New eyes are terribly dear this
year A.R.P.: Wild melodrama... .T.H.W.: “The
Shreds” is not for us A.S. (Lake’s Creek! :
Extravagant yarns baldly told are worse than decent
yarns extravagantly told Michael F.: “Sonnet'"
and “Threnody” both fail.... P.J.1. : Too much
liked corned beef and cabbage.... Grace T.: Get rid
of the idea that you can write about nothing and
you will do better.... Ceils: Badly constructed and
with a lack of thought. .. - Noswad: Full of crudities.
. ...J.N.M.: Just wobbles along from one common-
place to another C.C.M.: If you haven’t got the
lilt of verse in you it can’t be put there, though
good reading may supply a very fair mechanical
substitute H.W.8.: Not for us 8.E.P.: Slight
and rugged... .L.0.J.: Doesn’t strike us as worth
while.... Bettie R.: They all get near, but only just
near enough to look over the fence. You can do
better. .. .Jean E.: Not enough in the “Dream”...
Collo: The verse doesn’t carry it... .E.K.J.W.
Neither is up. .. .A.J.M.G.: “The Tower” has a
small idea, but those long, loose fourth lines kill
the metre.... Hilda M.: Dreadful C.H.U.: Sorry;
not up Hollow Legs: Very poor. .. .K.H. (Nor-
tham): It made us 5ad....0.5.: That question has
been pretty well covered; but we shall be glad to
hear from you again P.M.N.: No, you didn’t—
unless the man who told the same yarn in The
Bulletin years ago was a liar Vika: Subject too
recently discussed... .S.A. (M.L.) : Both topics
closed; try again... .R.S. A.: Too long for interest.
... . W.P.L.: Hopelessly wordy.... D’R.C.: That
whiskers yarn has whiskers itself G.H.N.: Admir-
able sentiments, but they have all been expressed
before. . . .Tipp: These miss; have another shot... .
Fruit Picker: Send it to us and we will do our
best with it.... Bertha B.: We’d hate to give you
our candid opinion. And if we gave it candied it
would do you no g00d... .S.N.S.: The first of the
commandments is “Thou shalt not be dull.”
W.L.R.: Stuff in that lazy, loafing style just burbles
on mile after mile; when once a tiny thought you’ve
found, you write a line and turn around, then give
your pen another run—so back and forth until
you’re done, rhyme chasing rhyme and letter letter,
with nobody a whit the better 8.5. R.: Bad
enough for a dreadful example; but the subject
bars the way H.D.T.: But you don’t think you
can buy an ounce of gold at the old price, do you?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.J.W.: Yes, if they’re up to the mark
J.E.A.: Bathing togs reveal lots of things, including
your bad drawing E.A.N.: Idea wobbles at the
knees J.W.: Nothing in it... .Karnie: Ditto
P.W.: An amazing blob of ink....J.8.: 01d....
B-B: Below the mark... .H.S.K.: No life there....
G. : Very patchy drawing. .. .N.T.8.: All
inclined to be wooden E.H.L.: Better send along
a specimen of your work H.H.: To publish that
caricature of a pug. would be dangerous—for you...
S. : Woeful drawing..J.C.Y.: Scratched
J.T.P.: The worst of the 10t... .H.A.R.: Makes no
impression.


SlilpiMng;.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cnhines-de-
Tjiixe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
OIRIKNT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel - c “y 4246, 2, 4, 6 Spring Street,
48io! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, APRIL 14, 1922,
VENTURA.
10,090 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO„
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Hanking, Public Companies. Jtc.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 799,243 0 0
lteserve Fund .. .. .. .. 325,000 0 0
Jntermiliable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 a
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; • Hon. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C. ;■ James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart,
Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OPPICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised .Capital.. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E., Chairman,
George J. Sly, LL.D., Frank N. Yarwood, F.O.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jauo Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Caiison. 1
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places ir,
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector {or Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: It'. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director ; A. Dodds Fairbai.RN
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 620,000
£1.245,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625.000
£U870,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 89 Branches and Agencies in that State.
Liondon Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about £2,273,000
Accumulated Fund* £44,000,000
Annual Income £6,375,000
The Society Transact* Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
U. W. AI’I’EKLY, F.S.b., General Manager.
Shipping, e*g.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, .FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, 16th MARCH, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 20th APRIL.
San Francisco Royal IVlail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 6th APRIL, 11 a.m.
MARAMA, 4th MAY.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
â
island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3i TO 4h WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—-
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve I'uiul
Reserve Liability
Directors
- £5,000,000
- 3,500,000
5,000,000
£13,500,000
The lion. Sir Charles 11. Macllellar, 11.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
liobei't L. Fni'thfull. Esq., MID.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buclcland, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and C< respondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
Capital paid up ... £2,909,025
Reserve Fund .. £2,360,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,269,025
ã
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager
11. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C. v
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank, Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Hotelliosciusßo.
Winter Sports in Australia.
In order to meet as far as possible the hitherto unsatisfied demand for accommodation
at the Hotel Kosciusko in the Winter Season, arrangements have been made to reserve
certain rooms for parties of gentlemen or parties of ladies from four to ten in number.
Large Bed-sitting Rooms with cheerful open fireplaces have been furnished at considerable
outlay in order to meet the requirements of such parties.
Comfort is guaranteed, and anyone interested is recommended to apply for full
particulars of bookings for the coming winter season to the Manager, Hotel Kosciusko,
or the Acting-Director, Government Tourist Bureau.
Special concessions on ordinary rates for travel and accommo-
dation are offered in the case of parties of six or more.
FULL PARTICULARS AND BOOKING AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturer*:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St,, Melbourne.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Iteading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
Information without charge.
Shipping,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Huddart ParkerLiM
Magnifioent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SWA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney IS days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney. >
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Bums, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. 3Ltd,
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., litd,,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd-, and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. k 0. S. N. Co,
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co), New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Ganadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S,.Co,
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd,
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co,
BRANCHES AT. Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun*
dnberg, Bowen and Cooktown.


SHEFFIELD’S BEST
* n a full range of tempers.
Large stocks of Best Warranted Crucible Cast Steel in tempers
suitable for every purpose, and in a high, quality representative
ot a Sheffield product at its best.
"An Eagle on a Globe”
Crucible Cast Steel
p o
o» k &v
5^
is a Carbon Tool Steel of even, high quality through-
out stocks. Highly reputed in Australia for Turn-
ing, Planing and Slotting Tools, Milling Cutters,
Chisels, etc., wherever a high-grade carbon tool
steel is required. Any size order filled. Indicate
the use of tlie steel with your order and we’ll
advise the correct temper. Get details from
nearest address.
THE EAGLE AND GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital
High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street,Sydney; 342-8
Swanston Street, Melbourne ; Cliff
Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder
Road, Kalgoorlie ; Paul & Cray Ltd.,
Scott Street, Newcastle; H. L. Mil-
ligan, 32A Argyle Street, Hobart;
John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Char-
lotte Street, Brisbane; Charles
Atkins & Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie
Street, Adelaide.
111
'-I
■.y
~^=s=da.^
A well-filled luncheon-basket and a “ Decca” ensure the success
of a day’s outing.
The compact, handy little “ Decca” can be carried anywhere
without inconvenience or fatigue. It is ready, to play perfectly,
immediately opened, any make and size of Record.
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
3 Models—*
Leather Cloth £lO/10/-
Fibre £l2/10/-
Cowhide .... £l6
Obtainable all over Australia from All Music Dealers.
'Wholesale Distributors • Stanley E. Green Ltd., 579. Kent Street. Sydney.
prennsn
sHflWriG
CftSftlif
ITHcmnnen
conpftnv
HoitrßMU Oimion
AFTERSHAVJNG
USE
nennsn
STs
trie t/n for neM
3®SS
V ?2e
_ r»
Min Min
SHOIMNQ
Will give you a
quicker, cleaner,
more pleasant shave
than you have ever
known.
Be good to your
face to-morrow and
use Mennen's.
KEEP BABY WELL
AND CONTENTED
Use ....
MIFEGUARD
Condensed
ITS QUALITY HAS
MADE IT -POPULAR
Your Grocer Has It!
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
TENNIS
REQUISITES.
\jt2i
RACKETS.
Special School Match...
C. 8.8. Special Practice
Haymarket
Haymarliet Special
Haymarket Extra Special
Spalding’s Greenwood
Spalding’s Vantage
Spalding’s Tournament
Spalding’s Continental
Spalding’s Gold Medal
Ayre’s Sandown 30/-; Handicap
Ay re’s A 1 40/-; Champion
Ayre’s Matador 55/-; S.N.D
8/6
17/6
80/-
40/-
70/-
25/-
45/-
49/6
55/-
70/-
37/6
50/-
87/6
Bussey’s Sandown 25/-; Standard 25/-
Bussey’s Conqueror 30/-; Handicap 32/6
Bussey’s A 1 35/-; Invincible 50/-
Slazenger’s .La Belle 27/6; Player 30/-
Slazengrer’s Renshaw 45/-; Demon 55/-
Whitehouse 63/-; Classic 80/-
Slazenger’s B.G.M. 85/-; Doherty 87/6
Slazenger’s Imperial 77/6; Stadium 90/-
Slazenger’s I.Z 95/-; Patterson 95/-
Prosser’s Improved Phenomenon 95/-
Davis Riseley Hexagon 87/6
H. C. Dee’s Seneca 55/-; Spartan 70/-
H. C. Dee’s Church 99/- Monogram 105/-
(Rackets, 50/- or over, post free. Postage on cheaper rackets: N.S.W.. 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
RACKET REPAIRS a Specialty.
TENNIS BALLS
Each.
Dunlop Regulation Grey . .... 1/4
Dunlop’s Champion, 1921. ......
Doz.
15/-
16/6
Each. Doz
2/2 25/-
2/9 32/-
Ayre’s Court .........
Ayre’s Champion, 1922
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
SLAZENGER’S Championship, 1922 (airtight tins) . 33/-doz.
(Postage on one doz. : N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Champion (square) Posts, pair . . 100/-
Tennis Court Markers .... 37/6
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle 1/-
Each.
Racket Covers • • 2/6, 6/6
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books J/6
Racket'Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6, 6/6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-
ILLUSTRATED
TENNIS PRICE LIST FREE
ON REQUEST.
BOXING
GLOVES
i-*W
\ tff \
&
»
£
dbessk
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. get of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value.. 12/6
■ C. 8.8., Fighting, tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 13/6, 18/6 21/- 23/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz.,* 25/-,' 30/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 35/-, 40/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively used by
Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by Mr.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
BOYS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed ........ 8/-
„ Leather „ „ laced palms .; 9/-, 9/6, 12/9
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Postage 3d.) 7/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, English Leather, extra light, weight (Postage 6jd.), 15/6, 17/6 pair.
PUNCHING BALLS.
SL
Wm
THE
ARMY
the
PORTABLE
THE EXPERT
ARMY, Swinging Ball, reg., for fast work, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable
and perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for floor and rope for ceiling.. 12/6, 15/6
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light.... 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings, ’
(Postage on Army, or Expert; N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.) 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTABIiE BAIjL, strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and bladder
complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) 105/-
AU above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
SUNDRIES.
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6, 5/6 each.
Double-action Swivels 6/6 and 10/6 each.
Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pair. Punching Platforms, 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each.
SPORTING REPAIRS a SPECIALTY
1C
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; Edward St., BRISBANE.


REXONA SOAP
FOR HEALTH and
BEAUTY.
IpISIpiSpIII
im
1 :
:
1
w
MISS LOTTIE COLLINS, Jun. (from a photo.)
The fame of Rexona is world-
wide. The Leading Beauties of
Australia, America and England
are all Rexona Girls, and one Of
the most beautiful is Miss Lottie
Collins, jun., daughter of the
famous Lottie Collins of “Ta-ra-ra
Boomdeay” fame, and sister to
Miss Jose Collins (Lady Robert
Innes Ker). Miss Collins is an
actress of renown, having starred
in America and England. She
writes us as follows:
“On the way out to
Australia from England I
found the climatic condi-
tions exceedingly trying
on both my skin and hair.
Through the tropics and
as far south as 40 degrees
is very severe on the com-
plexion, I can assure you,
and when I arrived here
what a boon I found in
Rexona and Rexona Soap I
I think there is simply
nothing like them.
“I have had one of your
delightful little triangular
tins of Rexona handy by
me ever since, and I find
Rexona invaluable for the
skin, and Rexona Soap is
simply perfect. I use it
three times a day, and can
assure you I will never be
without it again. I have
never come across a soap
like Rexona before, so lovely for the skin and so delightful for the hair,
and I am a Rexona girl for all time to come.
* “You can always count on me to recommend Rexona and Rexona
Soap to all my friends.
“Wishing you the success which you deserve with these excellent
products, “I am, sincerely yours,
“ (Sgd.) LOTTIE COLLINS, Jun.”
REXONA, THE ARISTOCRAT OF SOAPS.
That natural beauty of skin and hair, which cannot be imitated, can be obtained’
by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert
this influence. Many of them
contain free alkali, which
tends to dry the skin and
destroy its delicate texture.
Even the best of such soaps
can only cleanse; they cannot
heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the
same soothing, healing, anti-
septic balsams as Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, the value of
which in the treatment of
skin affections is known
throughout the world. Simply
use Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap regularly once or twice
a day, and see if it does not
ouickly soothe and cleanse
the pores, lessen the tendency
to pimples, and leave the
complexion clear, fresh and
velvety.
Price 1/- per tablet.
I
I
1
mmm
dj WiaiM-a/jauw
MEDICATED SOAP
Proprietary Company
W Sydney. N.S.W.
r-
i
m
o
7
. .
Sr
•m
m
n
Hillier’s
Chocolates
Packed always in red boxes.
Mailed to you on the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in
Australia.
162 PITT STREET,
And Corner George & King Streets, SYDNEY.
In Cumberland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN Cumberland the roses grew,
When I was turning twenty-two;
When all the earth was fresh and green
And Someone Else was seventeen,
In Cumberland.
On clayey roads I see again
Tired horses plodding through the rain
And coachmen drinking at the bars
Before the days of motor-cars
In Cumberland.
<jn sunny hilltops stately smile
Old homesteads “in Macquarie’s style,”
Whose English oaks and carriage ways
Proclaim the “wild colonial days”
Of Cumberland.
An eastward blur beyond the crown
Of Prospect Hill is Sydney Town—
Old Sydney Town that seemed to be
The Faery City by , the Sea
Of Cumberland.
I doubt me not that lilacs still
Have scented blooms by Castle Hill,
That yet the orchards green in Spring
When magpies to the sunrise sing
In Cumberland.
I love to think that wood-fires glow,
When western winds in winter blow
From cold Blue Mountain ranges o’er
The breezy downs I hunt no more
In Cumberland.
I like to think that linger yet
By early crossroads snugly set
Those ancient inns to offer cheer
Of good roast beef and bitter beer
In Cumberland.
And when in summertime the thorn
With white defiance scents the morn
On fallowed flats the panting hare
Hears dappled Death upon the air
In Cumberland.
Mayhap some youthful b; ‘d afire
With yearning for his heart’s desire
Still hears the hound with dew-wet nose
Make huntsman’s music as he goes
In Cumberland.
Oh, well for him if, too, he hears
The warning Voices of the Years,
That bid him gather while he may
The ripened fruitage of To-day
In Cumberland.
For you. dear lad, their red and gold
The perfumed roses now unfold;
The moon and stars, for your delight,
O’er silver trees will burn to-night
In Cumberland.
And, ah! the red and golden wine,
The draught eternal and divine,
That sweeter than the honey dew
On lips of love awaits for you
In Cumberland !
All ways are one in Life, I ween,
But Twenty-two and Seventeen ! '
The Cup of Youth is yours to drain,
The Cup ye may not fill again
In Cumberland.
victoria.
E.J. BRADY.
“Pore Cow Me!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CENTRE of one of Australia’s great-
est granite occurrences is Quart Pot
Creek, once a great tin-producer,
now dwindling to extinction. Its fan-
tastic superficial conditions —granite ris-
ing in abrupt mountains; granite swim-
ming to surface in flat sheets; granite
weathered to dolmens and cromlechs;
granite piled in boulders of a hpndred
or a thousand tons in weight—supported
the hasty verdict of early men who labelled
its soil valueless. When they so labelled it
they libelled it. A few stubborn Australians
who insisted on finding out proved the sum
first, and stated it afterwards. The “Crown”
had sold much of it at 2s. an acre before
the few experimentalists had established that
the decomposition of the felspar in the
granite had made a soil rich in potash;
and they did it by growing to perfection
the vine and the apple and the peach and
the pear, incidentally giving the great rocks
new beauty in the season of bloom. Now
in a thousand clearings ramparted by granite
framed with pines there are orchards and
vineyards—the kindliest and most human of
all tillage won inch by inch from the forests
and the rocks.
* - * * *
Worn out with his half-hearted attempt
to stem the bush-fire w T hich had burned its
way from the granite hill of its origin
through his high-grassed and neglected
orchard, and into and through the unkempt
ragged building he had called a house,
Cleghorn sat him down upon a rock clear
of the fire track. He would have wept but
he hadn’t the energy. He had collected such
of his furniture as he had time for and
stacked it on a great granite outcrop in the
bush-track which the Shire Council called
a road.
Black of face and bloodshot of eyes Cleg-
horn turned his long, melancholy count-
enance on his family, which was as despair-
ing almost as himself—all but one. The
wife, a shapeless, slovenly woman, thin and
grievous, but providing a queer stoutness
at the waist by rolling the tops of her skirts
over and over so that they should stay on her
body, nursed a fat and contented baby, the
youngest of six. The others rose in grada-
tion—a two-foot-high boy of three, and a girl
of five vears three feet high; then another
hoy of eight, and another girl of 11; and at
last the eldest lad, Jimmy, a quiet, hard-
working, hard-thinking boy—a boy of fore-
s’ght and observation, rising 14 years, his
protective love of his mother growing with
contempt for his father’s shiftlessness.
Cleghorn was talking of his bad luck and
snivelling over it. The silent lad watched
the tire withering the oldest peach-tree, and
his lips quivered as he saw the red of it
shrivel the pink of the last bud. That tree
was the first promise of the orchard begin-
ning to bear, and it hurt him.
“What’ll uncle do? Where’ll we put him?”
asked Mrs. Cleghorn helplessly.
“Nev’ mind him,” replied Cleghorn wasp-
ishly. “Livin’ on charity, that uncle o’ yours
—he’ll take pot luck. What’s good enough
f’r us is good enough f’r hint. Lot luck.”
“We ain’t got no pot,” said Millie, the
scraggy girl of 11, but already with a hint
of good looks whose origin none could trace
in father or mother; in her Australia was
at its work of bettering the type.
“No pot?” echoed Cleghorn, looking first
at the fire and then at the household goods
the family had salved while he directed
operations. “No pot!” he said feebly, see-
ing that all the kitchen utensils had been
given to the flames.
“Uncle ought to be here t’morrer.”
“Then he’ll take the luck without no pot.
Good enough f’r him—ole loafer!”
“Don’t say that about my uncle.”
“I”
“Never mind rowing,” interposed Jimmy,
who was the only man of the house; “let's
get things together. All the pine logs I got
for the new fence will do for the new house.
It might be worse.”
“Might be worse!” said the beaten father.
“Might be worse! Gord ’elp us!”
“We’ve got the fowls all right. Bluey
yarded ’em. There’s Bluey and the chooks.”
He pointed to a bend in the track where
Bluey, the dog, was working the fowls as
if they were sneep.
“Nev’ mind the chooks,” said the incon-
solable father. “Where’s the cow?”
“I’ll get on her tracks and find her,”
said Jimmy. “And I’ll get a loan of a tent.
You cut the tent poles, and we’ll get mother
and the kids under shelter.”
Cleghorn, used to taking orders from any-
body of initiative, groaned, stood up and went
to search for the axe as Jimmy started on
his circling of the orchard and paddock to
pick up the tracks of the escaped cow. His
action had been anticipated by the children,
all their energy called up for the work of
reconstruction; secretly enjoying the
break in the drab monotony of life. They
ventured almost into the ashes, their bare
feet apparently salamandrine, or like to
the feet of those steel-backed beetles which
walk in the edge of camp-fires and seem to
like it. There were little shrieks telling the
joy of discovery—the finding of the camp-
oven and the gridiron by the boys ; and by
the giris of the washing of the family spread
to dry on shrubs which had miraculously
escaped the fires. Then the boy of eight
went to the well and cried out his discovery :
“The bucket’s right. It’s in the well. Ain’t
that bonzer?”
Cleghorn groaned and attacked a belt of
saplings with the gapped and blunt axe,
true sample of Clegnorn’s habit of mind
and all that was Cleghorn’s.
* * * *
The big black horse ran down the hill as
if he feared the tilted cart behind him,
trotting up opposing rises and galloping down
the hills ; splashed through the little creeks
in the heavy granite sand, and then steeple-
chased the wheels over granite boulders.
Whereat Denny Deneen, smoking his pipe
on the near side of the cart, cr.ed to the
long thin boy who drove the hairy horse:
“Shteady! D’ye want to break every damn
egg ?”
Micky, the thin boy of the small head and
the young child’s face covered with a min-
iature down that threatened to beard him to
the eyes if it could live long enough to
strengthen into hair, pulled on the reins,
and the hairy horse slowed to a walk so
quickly that the change of pace almost
amounted to the shock of a collision.
“D’ye dhrive like that always, me lad?
No wonder the half-dozen chaney cups and
saucers was broke on me lasht week. Do
ye? An’ the poor horse wit’ the w’iskers
about the feet of ’im shweatin’ like a druv
pig!” '
"I didn t break the cups and sorcers,
squeaked Micky in his very childish treble that
was almost falsetto. “It was Puttifoot, but
if y’ don’t fuss this horse he’ll stop on yer
—middle of a hill or middle of a crik it’s
all one to him. He’ll shut up like a knife,
and lay down with yeh.”
“Will he then now?” said Denny Deneen,
greatly interested in this zoological curiosity.
“Will he? ’Tis the deliberate animal he is.
An’ what’s he doin’ now?”
“He stops like that alw’ys if y’ don’t keep
fussin’ him.”
“Fush him then ! Hit him on his tail, so
he’ll put that foot down that he’s houldin’
up in the air.”
Micky very deliberately struck the black
horse on the root of his tail, and the black
horse leaped so that he threatened eggs and
crockery and all his load. By judicious
whackings and “fussing”—said fussing being
endless jerking of the reins—the horse
steadied into his run down hill and up again.
On the top of the next hill Denny
Deneen sniffed up the wind in his broad
nostrils in the manner of an excited rabbit
suddenly scenting a dog. Micky imitated
him. and put Denny’s thoughts into words.
“Burnin’ in the pines. An’ that’s some-
thin’ else. Smells like a orchard. That’s
what it is—bush fire took a orchard.”
“Now, who would that be, Micky? Not
Davern ?”
“No fear; he’s got fire-breaks ploughed.
An’ his orchard’s clean o’ grass an’ —an’
—an’ everything. It’ll be Cleghorn’s.”
“Dear, dear, will it be that? A shiftless
man, Micky, an’ a good wife near kilt her-
self bein’ man and mother too. Don’t say
it’s Cleghorn’s because he’ll never get up
again. Poor woman! Poor woman! And
that Jimmy lad do be the only man there.
God help us, then. He owes me twenty-sivin
pound for shtores. God help us!”
“Jimmy’s good—better’n his old man.”
“Twenty-sivin pound! God help us!
Mercy there, w’hat’s that?”
The black horse had drawn the cart to a
little creek before Micky stopped him. The
air was no longer pleasantly aromatic with
the smell of the burning pines: they saw the
smoke above the next rise : the air was be-
come pungent. Micky and Deneen did not
notice this change immediately; their atten-
tion was given to a lesser tragedy of tha
(Continued on next page.)


WORRIES BRING AC
Life to-day brings many worries, and worrying is apt to bring on kidney
troubles, so the medical men say.
It’s easy, of course, to say, “Don’t worry,” but it can’t be helped when
things go wrong constantly. However/ make it a rule never to worry over
trifles, and when there is reason to suspect kidney weakness, help the
kidneys before anything more serious can happen.
Kidney weakness usually shows itself in backache, pains when stooping or
lifting, or lameness in the morning, headache, dizzy spells and urinary
disorders.
To strengthen weak kidneys, use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This is a
reliable, safe remedy that acts on the kidneys only. It can’t hurt sound
kidneys, and it does help sick kidneys. SYDNEY people say so. Two
interesting cases are published here.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. F. Schroder, Oberon Cottage, 14 Oberon
Street, Randwick, Sydney, says:—“For a good
while a member of my family _ suffered from
rheumatism and backache. The pain was often so
severe that it was torture to move about, especi-
ally stooping. We felt sure the kidneys were not
working properly, as there were several other
marked symptoms noticeable, but backache and
rheumatism were by far the most painful. One
day we had Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills recom-
mended to us, so sent for some, and I am pleased
to tell you they acted splendidly, three bottles
making a complete cure- Some years have elapsed
since then, but there has been no return of the
trouble, so we feel safe in saying the cure is a
permanent one.”
Four years later, Mrs. Schroder says:—“The
cure referred to still holds good, a fact that speaks
volumes for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They
are a splendid kidney medicine and will always
have our hearty recommendation.”
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. A. B. Cowell, Sutherland Street, Mascot,
Sydney, says:— “Some months ago I was suddenly
seized with a terrible nain across my back, just
above the kidneys. It did not go away, as I
thought at first it would, but, on the contrary, it
got worse, and I was soon so bad that I was bent
almost double. I was completely crippled, and
even at night I got very little rest from the
constant pain. I could not turn over without
suffering acutely, in fact, no position was comfort-
able for long. My secretions were affected, being
thick and cloudy with a red sediment. I tried
different remedies, but they gave no relief what-
ever. One day a friend suggested I should take
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and it proved to be
good advice, too, for three bottles cured me com-
pletely, driving the pain out of my back, regulating
the secretions, and banishing every other distress-
ing symptom of kidney disorder. I feel splendid
now. and my recovery is due solely to Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills.”
'EL
n
a
CL
W
n
r
Every
Picture
Tells a
f
F
♦»
Sforr
BE SURE YOU ASK FOR
DOAN’S.
ä
a
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
fire—the carcase of Cleghorn’s only cow
which in her stress and terror had slipped
her calf and was now lying dead beside it.
“Twenty-sivin pound he owe,” said Denny
Deneen. “God help us! Dhrive on, Micky.”
Cleghorn, with a dozen saplings cut, left
the timber and came to the track as Micky
stopped the horse, and Mrs. Cleghorn and
the children hurried to tlie cart. Cleghorn
sighed and dragged himself over to it and
leaned against the offside shaft.
“Lou’ve bad luck, haven’t you?”
“I dunno what I’ll do. Bore cow me!”
said Cleghorn.
“Bless you for cornin’,” said Mrs. Cleg-
horn, changing the baby’s burden from the
right shoulder to her left arm ; “we’ll want
everything,”
“Twenty-sivin pound is the bill, mind
you.”
“Gord help us!” said Cleghorn. “Pore
cow me!”
“God help me, too, for me twenty-sivin
pound. What’s the matter with you and
your loock?”
“I don’t know,” replied the despairing
Cleghorn. “I never had no luck. When I
was on the west coast of Tassy I had no
luck either. I came here to change it, and
this is what I got. Irish blight there and
fire here. Pore cow me!”
“Why didn’t you feed y’r blighty shpuds
to pigs, an’ make your shpuds walk to
market as bacon?”
Cleghorn’s drawl became saturated with
tears. “Ye gotter work night ’n’ day feedin’
pigs. They’re the greediest cows y’ ever
see. Spuds was all right. There’d be
swagmen cornin’ along doin’ y’ ploughin’;
and then more swagmen ’d come when it
was time tp hill ’em up; an’ more when y’
had to dig ’em. But pigs y’ got to be alwiz
workin’ for. I nearly killed meself with
pigs once. Pore cow me!”
“God help you—an’ God help me twenty-
sivin ; pound, too. Why couldn’t you have
fire-breaks, an’ clean the long grass out of
your orchard—tall as threes it was?”
“We didn’ have the time.”
“The time? What are ye? You ain’t
Oshtralian !”
“Hinglish. Born in Tassy I was.”
“An’ as Cockney as your grandfather that
never left London. God help us—you poor
misforchints. What can I do for you at
a n?”
“Y’ might lend us some money t’ get a
noo house.”
“Money! I lend you money? Blasphe-
mious way ye talk. Money! I can’t talk
to you, Blasphemious man wit’ you—‘lend
me money’! Twenty-sivin pound ye owe me.”
He heard the sob the woman tried to
smother; and his lifelong habit of money-
holding, born in the cruel poverty of the
little, village that bred him, was forgotten.
That other habit of being generous with
help or food replaced it.
“Don’t you cry, good wife,” said Deneen.
“Leave the twenty-sivin pound for the
better times, and give your order to Micky.”
He; turned to the back of the cart to see
the Cleghorn children ordering for themselves
in advance —one at a tin of biscuits and an-
other with finger and thumb picking at a cut
cheese. And the elder girl eating a roll of
ribbon with eyes that rarely saw finery so
close or its temptations so near.
. “Take the order, Micky,” said Denny. “An’
give them kids a biskit, two or t’ree. Go you
to the back of the cart, woman, an’ get your
sh tores.”
Mrs. Cleghorn, murmuring thanks, placed
her baby right end upwards and went to the
back of the perambulating store, where Micky
waited—salesman and floorwalker in one.
Generosity being thus ordered, Denny
Deneen looked over the desolation; the last
flames from tree-butts burning thinly in the
sunlight; the spirals of the blue smoke resolv-
ing into the bluer air; and, lastly, Bluey, the
cattle-dog, faithful to his job, keeping the
fowls corralled in a triangle of granite rocks
and dijving back the shrieking hens that tried
to break the cordon.
“That’s a good dog there, then,” said Denny
cheerfully.
“He’s not too bad,” said the despairing
Cleghorn, grudging the praise. “But he goes
inter the bush chasin’ rabbits.”
“An’ y’ think he sh’d stay an’ plough for
you, do ye? I s’pose it was the poor dog’s
fault y’ had no fire-breaks, was it?”
“Oh, no; I don’t expect him to do no
ploughin’. But the rabbits is his fault.”
“You wouldn’t feed him —is that it? An!
th’ poor dog have to purshue rabbits for liis
brekquist, haven’t he? You’d tell me the
poor dumb animal would take a fire-shtick
an’ fire your little house, will you? Blame
yourself that the fire could come nigh. you.
The, poor fire that cooks your meat for your
dinner don’t know where to shtop. An’ you
have got chooks, an’ you should have y’r
eggs.”
“Got whips o’ fowls,” said the chronically
despairing Cleghorn, adding in a tone of
resignation under bitter injustice, “But the
dam’ things lays away.”
“Why don’t you built them a house and
yard them, then?”
“We’d have to feed ’em.”
“Can’t you grow a shtrip of maize, then?
Oh, you’re a poor man, and ’tis a poor coun-
try where you’ll ever be. If you went to
Paradise ’twould grow but weeds and t’istles.
Why, ’tis great land this; but a tired man
will make the sea run dhry. God help you,
an’ God help me twenty-sivin pound!”
A long silence followed, and at last
Denny, finding it irksome, cried : “Micky, me
lad, have you made out that orthder;
Micky ?”
“Yes, Mr. Deneen,” squeaked Micky’s fal-
setto, “nearly done —butter an’ eggs, an’
flour, an’ jam an’ spuds an’ bacon an’ sorse
an’ biskits, one reel number six, two yards
insertion, one pound pork german, two
pound onions, half-pound cheese, half-pound
bacon-soda.”
“An’ t’row in that piece o’ calico, Micky.
Poor woman .would be burned out and
nothin’ to cover the childer. An’ we’ll send
’em blankets an’ beddin’ an’ a lamp, Micky,
an’ karaseen. Put that down. An’ cookin’
pots—put that down, Micky. An’ here’s
Jimmy cornin’, an’ the best of ’em all he is,
an’ will win a man’s way.”
The eldest son returned limping and weary,
but not discouraged. His father scarcely
turned as he spoke, asking him “Where’s
the cow?”
“Can’t find her,” replied Jimmy. “I’ll go
the other way dreckly.”
“Youll have to find her before Uncle
comes,” said his mother. “Uncle can’t drink
tea without milk.”
“Why don t he stay away, then?” com-
plained Cleghorn. “Another mouth cornin’.
Bore cow me!”
“Y’ needn’t go far,” said Denny Deneen.
“The crik there, over the hill. Dead she is,
and shlipped her calf.”
The mother, completing her purchase at
the back of the cart, broke down at that,
and yet, with the tenacity of her latest
thought, her sorrow took the form of bewail-
ing the impending disappointment of “uncle.”
“The cow dead ! Bore cow me!” moaned
Cleghorn.
“Cheer up, woman! Is your uncle that
ould man Baynes with the little white
whiskers an’ the pious eye they call the
Bishop, an’ would shkin flints, and not give
you the sliteam off his breath on a fhrosty
mornin’?”
“That’s him,” said Cleghorn. “Brings us
a loominated text for the kitching an’ eats
us down to the last raveilin’s o’ flour in the
sack.”
“Then be easy. Y’r uncle kem to the
town lasht night, and in the hospittle he is
with a poisoned fut.”
“What’s poisoned?”
“His fut.”
“.Oh!” replied Cleghorn disappointedly,
as if the poisoning of a mere foot of Uncle
was not sufficient for his satisfaction. “So
he can’t come ’ere?”
“He can’t, then.”
“The Lord guv an’ the Lord took,” said
Cleghorn piously. “Blest be His name.”
Denny, his eyes twinkling, looked at the
weary eldest son, and the boy looked back
and smiled. Denny, as if heartened by that
interchange, spoke cheerfully to the despair-
ing father.
“In the hospittle, he is then. So ye have
somethin’ to draw the breath with thanks
in you.”
Cleghorn’s settled gloom returned to him.
“But the cow’s dead,”- said Cleghorn.
“Pore cow me!”
“And God help me twenty-sivin pound!”
added the disgusted Denny.
The black horse, properly “fussed” and
correctly encouraged, ran up the hills and
down the hills and splashed into the creeks
and out again, carrying calico, biscuits,
cheese, soap, clothes-pegs and other commod-
ities to the next settler and the next.
“God help Cleghorn, an’ me twenty-sivin
pound!” said Denny Deneen as they rattled
over the leaves of granite and threshed
through the granite sand. “But mark you,
Micky, Jimmy Cleghorn he can grin with
his sore feet hurtin’ him and his eyeballs
raw wit’ the bush-fire. Ye’ll hear of him,
Micky; there’s a great man’s heart in his
torn pants without a seat in them. ’Tisn’t
his waster father can keep Jimmy Cleghorn
from being a man. Keep that horse up to
his collar, Micky. Fush him wit’ the
shtick.”
Micky “fushed” the black horse and the
store-on-wheels proceeded on its lawful
occasions.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Dreams.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WITHOUT, the great noon, flame-wise,
rears
A sheer white wall of blinding
light;
Yet, sick at heart, my hopes and fears
Call to the shy and silent night.
How softly croon the drowsy doves!
Sense they beyond noon’s golden bars
The lilac light, the gloaming loves,
The soundless music of the stars?
And every leaf grown lax with heat,
Yearns it not, too, ■ with dumb desire,
Through hours of barren flame, to greet
Skies purpler than the webs of Tyre?
The day is dazzling gold and white,
A courtesan to every sense,
A fire of beauty and delight,
Beneath the high cloud’s windy tents.
Yet I, though Day be leopard-fair,
A tawny thing of fire and sun,
Gold-eyed and lithe, with amber hair,
Grieve till her sensuous sway be done.
I shall find joy when night is come
And dusk-winds die, and stars are still;
When all the love within me, dumb
And day-imprisoned, has its will;
And, free to seek its mate in dreams
When Night bends close, my heart shall go
Where one cold, white star-poppy gleams
Down olden lanes we used to know.
Then that dark, silent house of hers
Shall yield her up to my embrace —
God! how the mist of passion blurs
The starlit sweetness of her face!
The lips of, pansy-hearted Night
Shall sing to us from boughs above
The strange old gardens of delight
That fringe the misty street of love.
And that blind longing and unrest
That spurs life’s hawk with wearied wing
Forever on a barren quest
Shall find content and ease to sting!
Yet surely as the dawn-smile burns
Within the eyes of wak’ning Day,
And my sad splendid dream returns
To its dream-Aidenn far away,
So surely must we wake to pain,
With every dappled dawn that gleams,
O lost, lost love! For to us twain
Love bears no blossom save in dreams!
The day is dazzling gold and white,
A courtesan to every sense,
A fire of beauty and delight,
Beneath the high cloud’s windy tents.
Yet, heart o’ me, would dusk were here!
Though day burns, flame-wise, gold and
white,
Athirst for you each hope and fear
Turns still to shy and silent night.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLWAY


*
: ii i
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Offioe—9B Queen Street. Melbourne.
WEST, N. S.
HMiuimiiinimii itiiiiiiiiiiiitttimnittiitDiHitntiMiiiitirifm
xmiuiuumuun 11 1
A Shirley Brace Made
for Every Labor
In the large variety constituting the
SHIRLEY family of Braces is in-
cluded a great range of webbing and
trimming.
The same degree of workmanship and attention to
detail is given to the wearer’s comfort and the brace’s
quality no matter what SHIRLEY MAKE BRACE
one buys.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guar-
antee label:
“SHIRLEY MAKE”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
it
AKE^
In these days we all have
1 ■■■■■- — 1
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Belief Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
à
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars .posted on application
to The Manager.
■m
waiannii
»_
■
15 Short or
11 Long or 10 Long>
Rifle Cartridges
May be loaded in the magazine of the ..2 2 Remington
Repeater.
After the first shot, just slide the fore-end backward and
forward which operation ejects the empty cartridge case
and passes the next cartridge instantly from the maga-
zine into the chamber—ready for another shot.
The Remington .22 is light, splendidly balanced and
easily taken apart for cleaning and carrying.
m
A Splendid Rabbit Ride !
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
G* P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
v 6
Profit by the Experience
of Others
Cleanse the system of impurities,
stimulate and regulate the organs of
digestion. Prevent headaches, indigestion,
constipation and bilious attacks. Keep yourself
in top-notch condition. Feel stronger, and go at
your work with a clear head and steady hand.
Clear your complexion and brighten your spirits.
Become healthy, happy and wise, get real vigor and
strength and accomplish this, by taking that reliable
medicine
Beecham’s Pills
Both health and happiness depend upon the condition of
your stomach, liver and kidneys. When these organs
are not acting properly, nature’s demands are not being
met and obeyed. Beecham's Pills are nature’s own
remedy, for they drive out poisons from the system
and are entirely efficacious in the numerous
ailments arising from defective or irregular
actions of the organs of digestion. Buy a
box of Beecham's Pills to-day for
they will help you as they
Have Helped Thousands
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled 10 Ad., ls-l|d and 2s-9d. (original English prices.)
R. G. WATKINS CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.
Refrigerating 8 Ice-making Machinei
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularitv. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, arid the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
&
LTD.,
Alliance
97 Pitt
ney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland. N.Z.
m
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk',
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
In 3 sizes of all Chemists
and Stores.
u
*
ks-
fdALTFDMlfic
HORUCKS
MALTED MILKC®
SLOUGH. BUCKS
EMO.
£2700 for lb
BLACKHEATH SOLDIERS’
. MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee.)
dell OO First Prize valued £IIOO
£SOOSecond Prize valued£SOO
£3OO Third Prize valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 26th. Winning
numbers published on 31st May, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/-Only
R" 15 ''ot 1 /2—Two or more Post Free.
FRANK BURROWS, Queen st., Glebe, N.S.W.
Tickets obtainable from N S W. Bookstall Co.,
Hairdressers, Newsagents, etc. through the
State and Samuel T. Green, Hon. Secretary,
Council Chambers, Blackheath, N.S.W-
Wire Strainer
á
Post Free
iMiTTTCTffMJMIEn
(Patented)
M
12 /fi
JL mt I
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
m
The simplicity, lightness and excellence ol tha
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


■
h
m
c
&
m
s
'
•>?>
m
m
■<
§8
Si
Only Five Weeks to Easter!
Be Murdoch
Tailored.
DD to your Easter Enjoyment!
A Murdoch Suit of distinction costs but
4 Guineas, because the Cloth comes
direct from the mill—no middleman can
tack on his profit, and this great saving
enable Murdoch’s to give you far
superior fabrics and trimmings with the
highest paid skill in construction.
The first proof is the QUALITY of the fabrics. You
can test this without the trouble of stepping over the
doorway. Simply post the Coupon shown below and an
excellent range of
Reliable Quality Australian
Woollen Tweeds.
wi
of which as illustrated
cost or
here will come to you by return
All clearly priced as follows:
Your Suit Tailored
To Measure
84/
Other
sfs
A Hat Special.
The finishing touch to your
Easter Outfit. This Smart Soft
Felt has cut or stitched brims
2iin. wide. In shades of Fawn,
Beaver and Cuba, Grey, Slate
and Steel, with Black Band and
Bow; Black and Brown with
Self Bows. The value of this
smart model is far in excess of
MURDOCH’S PRICE:
1916
ANOTHER SPECIAL! Fox Indigo Cheviot
To Measure,
ã
ä
Any firm can quote the above low
prices, but the Murdoch Suit
stands supreme for value at the
price.
Murdoch’s confidence in this is
clearly demonstrated in the
written guarantee which accom-
panies each Suit. Here it is:
GUARANTEE SENT WITH EACH SUIT.
We guarantee this Suit against flaws in
the material or making, or against any
imperfections in the fit, and if it is not
satisfactory we will make another Suit
Free of Charge or refund the full purchase
price. Murdoch's
WE PAY POSTAGE.
ADDRESS YOUR LETTER TO DESK R.
MURDOCH’S
in Park Street Ltd., SYDNEY.
“THE WORLD'S LARGEST MEN'S AND BOYS' WEAR STORE.”
mm
; :'«V :••
,'5- -V
g,, ..'* *gj«j
- * 1 *>„ *•• #■
INN*
- i
.
■
H
¥$ fcJllwl
v
PPljf
i'll
II
-
COUPON.
Doslc jR
MURDOCH’S in Park-St., Ltd., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Please send me free of all
cost a nice range of your special Suiting
Patterns, prices as advertised in Bulletin
9/3/’22.
NAME
ADDRESS
