

Battery
Station
PROSPERITY OARAGE
Ik
hi
i 4»
i*wi
n '*/ >
*2N
'Mli
2: 'V':'V’ »4
iw*i
V* /»• ••--•'■*
y ; - : 'T v • • ■
.
¥k^-W\
:.V?
m.
mm
Mv-x->K
«
-■U
llSfii?
ivt
*»>.;>•» •' -
•V
**§&
C.f: i J ••'■•.'r- .;/;
rv*--V Vi -
v & !..<?£>
; tfc-tV:Jh*.
> - « r. Av-
'pi .
;jf".
‘V\ ' r ' V"
-
WM A
4 ’’ £
HP
$*,43
git
;, v . /;V 3
/:■*
~Sa
//
E*»
OmifrH (
Julius
jKiJioj
A Profit-Maker for
Public Garages.
TUNGAR is a simple, low-priced and highly-
efficient battery charger. With it storage batteries
can be charged from any alternating current supply.
Just turn the switch—the TUNGAR will do the rest.
There is the four-battery set for garages, which does
battery charging merely as an accommodation; the
ten-battery set for the small service station, and the
twenty-battery set for larger service stations.
Write for leaflet PBC-1.
A.
35 45 WENTWORTH yWENUE
SYDNEY~
m
116 QUEEN STREET
Phone ; City 3510 Box 2517 G.P.O.
Phone : Cen. 2646 Box 538 G P O.
: SIN 3
ac-.
BRISBANE- -The Engineering Supply Co. of Aus-
tralia Ltd. (E.S.C. A.) corner Edward Charlotte Sts.
TAS.—Oliver QC Oliver, Hobart and Launceston.
s Atkins 6£ Co. Ltd.. Currie St
PERTH—Charies Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Umited
'Mazda” House, 894 Hay Street.
The Bulletin
Yol. 43.—N0. 2192.
Thursday, February 16, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


Have you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ABCADE. T/TD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt.
MELVILLE & MULLEN PTY. LTD.
(Mullen’s Library)
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PTY. LTD.
(Robertson’s Book Club)
HAVE AMALGAMATED
under the name of
Robertson & Mullens Ltd,
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street
and will carry on as before the business of
LIBRARIANS, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOKSELLERS,
SOCIETY AND COMMERCIAL STATIONERS, SCHOOL BOOK
AND REQUISITE SUPPLIERS, DIE SINKERS, ENGRAVERS,
CARD PLATE PRINTERS AND FANCY GOODS MERCHANTS.
Please call and inspect the huge and varied stocks.
The new premises are in Elizabeth Street, just opposite the Block Arcade
and near “ McEwan's.” ,
££££
SB
m
a
Mangrovite for Hard Wear.
Mangrovite Leather or Raw-Hide Belting proves
its worth under hard conditions of manufacture. It
operates efficiently and successfully, withstanding the
vagaries of fluctuating loads, abnormal atmospheric
conditions and high temperatures. Mangrovite Belt-
ing is impervious to oil. Its pliability, durability
and sustained, tenacious grip ensure its popularity
among experienced manufacturers. '
MANGROVITK BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUOOWICi, Managing Director,
4-9 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
TASMANIA : Henry Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Onoto Ink—Best for all pens
Ask to see the
New Streamline Model
The Aristocrat of Pens. 1
The Pen de luxe.
The Pen for the man or woman ot taste,
of refinement, of Discrimination.
ib
mm
THe A 1
ritisK
icu-juatuK
ret.
LIGHT CAR
The Car lor the Owner-Driver.
Comfort in keeping with its appearance
of quiet elegance are features of the
Standard Light Car that have won the
favour of the Owner-Drivers throughout
;s :: the world. :: ::
2 and 4- Seaters supplied.
Standard Motor Car Co., Ltd.,
Coventry.
Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
168-171 Elizabeth
Street, SYDNEY.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
the powder is distributed
mustdie:
NON POBiIWCKC POWDER
TKCCRMT INSECT OeSTKOWR
( Flies.
J n “ a '
) Bugs.
\ Mosquitoes,
1 -
more effectively, and we
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
•destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P=O„
Sydney. i®
The Red Page
‘Boil it Down”
One of the earliest and most frequently-
repeated bits of advice given by The
Bulletin to its aspirants was to “boil it
down.” Anybody can snin it out. Verbiage
is the unfailing sign of mediocrity, while the
faculty of pithy condensation is the hall-
mark of genius. “I apologise,” wrote the
witty Frenchman, “for writing you so long
a letter, but time was short. Had I been
more at leisure 1 would have given you an
epistle of half this length with a great deal
more in it.” Probably no English poet is
more assured of immortality than Landor,
whose joy.it was to fashion a verbal jewel of
from four to eight or. a dozen lines —lines
which “on the jewelled forefinger of Time
sparkle for ever.” Everybody knows “Rose
* Aylmer” and her dainty kin; but who ever
reads “The Curse of Keliama,” “The, Excur-
sion” or “Peter Ball” V Life is short to-day
—shorter, perhaps, than ever it was, and the
singer who wishes to be heard must aban-
don his idea of chanting the Song of the
Ages and content himself with giving us the
Trill of the Lark. In return for which con-
sideration we will lend him our ears for a
gracious half-hour or so, and then get back
post-haste to our delightful game of dollar-
hunting. The great Goethe’s finest work
lies in the magnificent collection of pithy
sayings, of rhymed apothegms, of short
rhymed (and unrhymed) golden gleanings
wherewith he has divinely dowered a most
un-divine and degenerate people. In the
estimation of Edgar Allan Poe, no mean
critic, a “poem must be short.” Tennyson
speaks of “all the charm of all the Muses
often flowering in a lonely word” ; and Kip-
ling’s finest effects in hi« most vital verses
often depend on a word or two without
which the music and the glamor were gone.
Witness:
.... the sludgy, squdgy creek,
W’ere the silence ’ung that ’eavy
You was ’alf-afrai'd to speak.
But no nation in its literary manifesta-
tions has been so insistent on the value of
condensation as the Chinese. Nothing do
they appreciate so highly as that subtlety of
expression, whereby the maximum area of
thdught is covered with the minimum expendi-
ture of vocabulary. If you were to quote
to a Chinese litterateur that Horatian tag
that says, “I labor to be brief, but become
obscure in so doing,” he would tell you in
all probability that obscurity is also a virtue
in poetry, wherein “the meaning should lie
beyond me Words, so that the reader would
hare to think it out’—a sentiment that
would delight the adorers of Browning.
Four-line stanzas, of either five or; seven
words to each line, are great favorites with
Chinese poets. At the public examinations
before the recent Revolution, the candidates
were required to write poems limited to
twelve lines of five words each. If a poet
cafinot say his say in that compass China
has no time for him, Japan follows the
Ohjinese fashion in literary matters, and the
nujnber of three- and four-line bards in
Nippon is prodigious. The Mikado himself
is (or formerly was) a performer on the
abbreviated lyre, and Japan finds it not un-
fitting that he should so distinguish himself.
Herbert A. Giles has put into English a
number of' specimens of Chinese verse; and
the general effect is very fine. Kai-Chia-
yuh, voicing the feelings of a wife whose
husband is away at the wars, sang:
Drive the young orioles away,
i Nor let them through the branches play:
Their chirping breaks my slumber through,
And keeps me from my dreams of you.
Chang Chin-ling put the woman’s sentiment
into a fine quatrain:
Since my lord left —ah me, unhappy hour!—
The half-spun web hangs idle in my bower ;
My heart is like the full moon, full of pains,
Save that ’tig always full, and never wanes.
Many a Chinese reaching his home-land after
a long stay in Australia might appreciate
the words of Ho Chih-chang in “The Exile’s
Return” :
Bowed down with age I seek my native place ;
Unchanged my speech, my hair is silvered now.
My very children do not know my face,
But smiling ask: O stranger, whence art thouf
The Wise Man’s cry of “Vanitas vanita-
tum!” found a far echo in this cry:
Fix not a golden collar on thy neck;
Be not with chain of jade in service bound ;
Pure heart and few desires: earth’s dust shake off—
And happiness is found!
Kao Chii-men was evidently a kind of Mon-
golian Omar Khayyam, for he summed up
life this way:
Let him whose fortune brings him wine
Get tipsy while he may,
For no man, when the long night comes,
Can take one drop away!
Yang Ta-nien soared high mdeed:
Upon this tall Pagoda’s peak
My hands can nigh the stars enclose;
I dare not raise my voice to speak
For fear of startling God’s repose.
Nor does the literary Chinese always con-
fine himself to effusions in his own tongue.
That well-known diplomatist, the Marquis
Ts@ng, no sooner gripped English than he
dived into poetry. Only one of his efforts
survived —more’s the pity. It runs :
When we reach the mouth of the river,
See how the ocean red!
Very glad to meet you
And talk on the captain’s bed.
The Marquis handed this quatrain with
evident pride to a journalist travelling on
the same steamer with him. Luckily the
latter had the good sense to preserve it.
Of late years there has become visible a
great change of attitude on the part of
Europeans towards the Chinese. Thirty years
ago it was fashionable to write the sons of
Han as eternal “children of Gibeon” —
hewers of wood and drawers of water, spirit-
less and slavish. But to-day the tone is
altered. It is recognised that the race is
pre-eminentlv tough and vital, intelligent
and much-enduring. The alleged conquests
of China have always resulted in the subdual
and absorption of the conquerors by the con-
quered, and the history of our own times is
no exception to the rule. The lands reft by
Russia from China are mainly peopled and
wofked to-day by Chinese;. Germany has
been expelled and Japan will probably leave
to-morrow; while in towns like Hong Kong
and Singapore the Chinaman is the back-
bone of commerce. And it is not impossible
that Chinese literature may also, by virtue
of its vital and enduring qualities, profoundly
influence European letters and ways of
thought. In ;tny case the Chinese tendency
towards condensation in verse is well worthy
of imitation. Neither is the Chinese extreme
care for polish and form to be despised in
these days of axe-hewn cantos and vers Hire.
As a Westerner tersely put it long ago:
Life is rough.
Sing smoothly, O Bard.
Enough, enough
To have found life hard.
No record Art keeps
Of her travail and throes;
There is toil on the steeps,
On the summits repose.
P. AIREY.
Sheila Kaye-Smith
It does not seem to be going too far to
say that Sheila Kaye-Smith* who has made
Sussex the background of her tales, is the
most conspicuous woman novelist writing
in English. Her yokel types, doomed by
their earth-passion to ponderous lives, and
belittled by every imaginable frailty, are not
the brilliant impromptus of a hurried tourist,
but the vivid portraits of a patient observer
with the narrative faculty strongly developed.
The singular effectiveness of her work is
shown by the fact that she has no romantic
prejudice in favor of any of her characters.
They are not heroes and heroines with the
conventional attributes of blamelessness and
vacuity. If there is any distinction, it is
merely that some are more important than
others.
Take Reuben Backfield in “Sussex Gorse.’’
Reuben, married to the soil, and the father
of a family whose happiness is darkened by
epilepsy, tuberculosis, crime and prostitution,
is no pattern saint, and not even a film-
picture producer could clear his record of
its meannesses and brutalities; yet he stands
out of the book by the very ferocity of his
limitations. Reuben, owner' of the farm
property called Odiam, wants to acquire
Boarzell Common, and he broods and broods
on it until his hunger becomes a lust. An
uncommon and savage theme when there is
no relenting by the authoress towards Back-
field and his children, and it is only artistic
sincerity that keeps each life in that disagree-
able household ordered by an implacable
destiny. “Sussex Gorse” is a remarkable
study of the coarsening of civilised instincts
by an almost idolatrous love of the earth, and
in that respect it is a fine, achievement—her
best in its luminous description of the supers
in the tragedy.
Next to “Sussex Gorse” I place “Joanna
Godden.” Here is a different farm, failing
to rejoice in the big and blustering rule of its
owner, Joanna, who has the emotions of a
child and is as miich an eyeaehe in her Sun-
day best as the limited stock of a Rye draper
wiil permit. Yet she is socially and physi-
cally attractive- —a glaring scarlet dahlia
beside the. drooping violet represented by her
sister, the college : educated Ellen —and a ter-
magant or siren just as the temper takes her.
But again there is no palliation of the foolish-
ness and super-confidence that wreck her life.
Vigorous and dominating, a monstrous and
sexless lightning-calculator in any ordinary
market-deal, she falls to the first man who
pays her the compliment of recognising her
animal resplendence. He is only a Cock-
ney lover, whittling away his substance in
casual amours, but the manner of his vic-
tory over Joanna, the unapproachable idol of
naif and clumsy neighbors, is detailed with
a half-ironic pity without any attempt to ex-
tenuate her surrender by granting her the
role of “victim.” The novel closes with
Joanna waiting at 38, disillusioned as re-
gards her own treacherous feelings, but liv-
ing in glamorous expectation of a baby. The
book is distinguished by the same veracious
characterisation and curiously enlightening
dialogues in dialect.
Another story, “Green Apple Harvest,”
introduces the same Sussex scenery and pre-
sents the result of religious mania and un-
requited passion on a dim rustic intelligence.
Bob Fuller, enamored of a gypsy, Hannah
Iden, goes through all the throes of lame
yokel infatuation, is sent to gaol for an
alleged attempted assault on the girl, and
emerges only to turn into a roving holy
man committed to the regeneration of his
familiars, if not of Sussex and the rest of
the world. He perishes through a dreadful
loutish joke—another egotist, like Joanna
and Backfield, suffering humiliation for his
superiority over his species. But the supreme
egotist of Sheila Kaye-Smith is Edward
Moneypenny of “Tamarisk Town.” He
takes the moribund seaside town of Marlin-
gate and turns it into a flourishing resort.
Dejected by the trend of an old affaire and
his incapacity to revive his early ardors —a
climax that causes the suicide of the lady
—he starts to ruin Marlingate by craftily
cheapening its popularity. His death at
the hands of an unruly mob is a somewhat
theatrical but not incredible curtain, and is
one rare instance where the lady has deviated
her high literary purpose into unconvincing
melodrama. Indeed, a good deal of “Tam-
arisk Town” is rather overwritten. Its
pulse beats feverishly. Its Moneypenny
strikes one as a mixture of a Poor Law
Guardian and Woodrow Wilson. Perhaps a
not improbable man for a tedious adultery,
but a papier mdche figure for such a per-
former as Sheila Kaye-Smith. Popular as
it is “Tamarisk Town” seems to be a warn-
ing to the novelist to dedicate her heart
and brain to her village communities.
C. E. BRADISH.
Woman and Some Books
A woman’s honest criticism of certain of
the world’s great books would make an
interesting and profitable study. The epithet
honest is used with intention, for. though
from time to time woman has ventured into
this domain, she has always kept to the
track laid, down by man, and' her work has
been valueless because insincere. Sincerity
is the basis of all criticism, and criticism,
as Wilde has nointed out. is a mode of auto-
biography. Realising these two facts,
(Continued on pope 27.)


Ciaijjoiujflocdei&s'foje
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SALE
FINISHES SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18
Irresistible Blouse Bargains.
IX722—A Particularly Attractive Style in
White Voile, has a square neck, outlined
With Val. insertion, and Val. insertion in-
let in front, which are also daintily em-
broidered. The bell sleeves are also
trimmed with Val. insertion. Usual Price,
13/11. Reduced to 12/6
IXBS—A Smart and Practical Blouse in
Striped Fuji, is fashioned in shirt style,
with roll collar and rever fronts. Pearl
buttons are a finish to the collar, and three
of them fasten the blouse in front. Usual
Price, 19/1 1. Reduced to 17/11
IX4O9—A Dainty White Organdi Blouse,
cut on Magyar lines, with three-quarter-
length sleeves, has a long collar edged
with crochet edging and extending the full
length of the blouse. Turn-back cuffs
are edged to match, and rows of hem-
stitching are a further finish. Usual Price,
14/11. Reduced to 12/6
Bargains in Hosiery.
Plain Fine Pure Silk Hose, seam at
back, double lisle suspender tops
and soles, in shades of Champagne,
with Black clox and Tail with
White clox. Usual Price, 1 2/6,
Reduced to 8/6
Plain Black, White or Champagne
Spun Silk Hose, full fashioned, I.
and R. Morley’s, double lisle sus-
pender tops and soles. Usual
Price, 9/6. Reduced to 6/6
Plain Colored Pure Silk Hose, f silk
leg, seam at back, double lisle
suspender tops and soles, in
shades of Beaver, Smoke, Pearl,
Grey and Black. Usual Price, 1 3/6
Reduced to 6/9
Plain Black Pure Silk Hose, full
fashioned, I. and R. Morley’s,
double lisle suspender tops and
soles. Usual Price, 12/6.
Reduced to 8/6
Handbags Reduced.
Black Morocco Handbags, enve-
lope shape, poplin lined, and
purse and mirror. Usual Price,
35/-
Reduced to 32/6
Velvet Calf Handbags, envelope
shape, poplin lined, and purse
and mirror. Usual Price, 42/6.
Reduced to 36/-
Art-leather Envelope-shape Hand-
Bags, suede lined, fitted with
small purse. Usual Price, 29/6.
Reduced to 26/6
Suede Purses, with note pocket.
Usual Price, 3/11.
Reduced to 3/3
Black Calf Vanity Cases, fitted
and lined silk-mixture brocade,
stirrup handle. Usual Price,
5 7/6.
Reduced to 47/6
Two-and-a-half shopping days
remain in which to take advan-
tage of unequalled saving oppor-
tunities and to choose your needs
from the manifold Bargain
Offerings of 60 departments.
These last days will be memor-
able in the value-giving history
of The House of Economy, for
these are final clearance days
and means have been taken to
make the clearance complete.
Sensational reductions are the
method —your complete satis-
faction will be the result. Shop
to-day and save money.
Remarkable Manchester Bargains.
Unbleached Sheeting, heavy make, solid value, 72 inches
wide. Reduced to 2/9, 3/2, 3/6 per yard.
White Sheeting, dependable wearing qualities in both plain
and twill, 72 inches wide.
Reduced to 2/8, 3/6, 3/11 per yard.
CREWDSON’S LONGCLOTH.
No. 100 200 500 600 700 800 900 1000
Usual Price:
1/10 2/2 2/6 2/8 2/9 2/11 3/3 3/6 yd.
Red. to 19/6 19/11 21/6 22/6 23/6 25/- 26/9 28/6 doz.
White Turkish Towels, a useful range of towels for all
general purposes. Reduced to 2/6, 3/6, 4/6 each
Extra-Special Quality in Unbleached Damask, 70 inches
wide. Usual Price, 7/11 yard. Reduced to 6/11 yard
Grey Striped Towels. Reduced to 2/9, 3/9 each.
Special Value in Christy’s Towels, size 1 7 x 32 inches.
Reduced to 1/2 each
Hard-wearing Harvard Shirting, only a few more pieces
left. Reduced to 1/- per yard
Travelling Requisites.
FIBRE ATTACHE CASES.
The “Banksia” Lunch Case, tan
fibre—
Size.... 8 9 10 1112 in.
Usual Price:
1/10 2/- 2/3 2/6 2/9
Red. to 1/8 1/10 2/- 2/3 2/6
SUIT CASES.
The “Flemington” Tan Leather,
cloth, metal frame, nickelled
Size. . . 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
Usual Price:
13/6 15/- 16/6 18/-
Red. to 12/6 13/6 15/- 16/6
LEATHER SUIT CASES.
Cowhide Suit Cases, plain cor-
ners, lined cloth, body straps,
2 locks
Size. . . 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
Usual Price:
42/ 46/- 50/- 55/-
Red. to 38/- 42/- 46/- 50/-
Optical Goods Reduced.
“Uni” Prism Binoculars, magnify-
ing 8 times, rack focussing.
Complete in case. Usual Price,
£l3/10/-
Reduced to £l2/10/-
“Palace” Prism Binoculars, mag-
nifying 8 times, separate eye-
piece focussing in case. Usual
Price, £B/10/-
Reduced to £7/10/-
Compasses sn Nickel Hunting
Case, floating dial \ auto-
matic stop. Usual Price, 21/-
Reduced to 17/6
Reading Glasses, diameter,
nickel rim and black handle.
Usual Price, 5/-
Reduced to 4/3
Horn Folding Pocket Magnifiers,
three lenses. Usual Price, 3/6.
Reduced to 5/-
Folding Pocket Nickel Magnifiers,
one lense. Usual Price, 1 /6.
Reduced to 1/2
Bargains in Underclothing.
Cotton Vests in Fine Ribbed, fancy front,
full sizes. Usual Price, 2/3.
Reduced to 1/6
Dainty Camisoles in Madapolam, trimmed
with Nottingham laces and insertions.
Usual Price, 5/6. Reduced to 3/11
Fine Madapolam Nightdress, square neck
and sleeves trimmed with wide Val. lace
and finished hemstitching, Magyar. Usual
Price, 1 1 /6. Reduced to 8/6
All-Wool Bathing Costume in Navy Blue,
only, Canadian shape, size S.W. and W.
only. Usual Prices, 15/11, 16/11.
Reduced to 12/11
White Madapolam Underskirt, with deep
frill of Swiss muslin, 2 hemstitched tucks
finished with embroidery edging. Usual
Price, 7/11. Reduced to 5/11
Bargains in Footwear.
White Nubuck Lace Shoes, welted
soles, low covered sports heels,
smart shape. Usual Price, 30/-
Reduced to 277-
All Patent Lace Shoes, welted soles,
leather Cuban heels. Usual Price,
30/- Reduced to 21/-
Ladies’ All Patent Lace Shoes, plain
front, sewn soles, leather Cuban
h pp I q
Reduced to 19/6
Ladies’ Black Glace Kid Lace Shoes,
plain fronts, broad toes, sewn
soles, low leather heels. An ideal
matron’s shoe.
Reduced to 14/3
Ladies’ Grey Calf Lace Shoes, plain
fronts, pump soles, covered Span-
ish Cuban heels, taper toes. Usual
Price, 30/-
Reduced to 27/-
Household Utilities.
Kenrick’s Cast-Iron Oval Boilers,
tinned inside—
Gallons 4 5 6 7 10
Usually 39/- 45/- 47/6 57/- 79/-
Red. to 35/-40/-43/- 57/-71/-
Kenrick’s Cast-Iron Preserving
Pans, enamelled, white inside:
1 Bin.
Usual Price .... 55/-
Reduced to .... 52/6
Cast-Aluminium Kettle
4 pints. 6 pints.
Reduced to . . 21/- 27/-
Mrs. Pott’s Sad Irons, set of 3,
with handle and stand. Usual
Price, 18/6 set.
Reduced to 15/11
Grey Enamel Stewpans, with
enamel covers.
2 3| 5 7 pints
Usual Price:
5/3 5/9 6/9 8/6 each
Red. to 4/3 5/3 6/- 8/-each
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limiied.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
9440.


Tshe House of Quality
For years we have served
the trade, building' up our
big' business on the firm
foundation: Quality First.
We are proud of our record and of
our established place in the industry.
In perfect fairness compare
Meg'g'itt’s Oils with any others.
They stand the test.
Guaranteed absolutely pure
and thoroughly matured.
You can buy Megg'itt’s Aus-
tralian-made Linseed Oil
cheaper than imported, and
its quality is unequalled.
V
at
m.
m
o
1
Cl
\
o
\\
\\\
Australian Made for Australian Trade—MEGGITT’S
c^i/Le^
HEAD OFFICE UG KING ST 6'Yl^EY^)rks:Tkrramatta)
nKOITT L’“
fWftRAMATTA
Vheboy on the bag
guarantees quality ”
AGENTS — Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic.; Messrs. William
Adams & Co., Ltd., King Street, Perth; Messrs. R. S. Exton d Co., Ltd-, Queen Street,
Brisbane; Messrs. F.W. Heritage & Co., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston; Messrs. Johnstone d Co.’,
Ltd., Featherstone Street, Wellington, N.Z.; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
<yAe boy on
guarantees quality


PINKETTES
For
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com-
plexion with pimples and blotches.
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
a
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
21/- FOR a limited period.
Full Directions with Every Machine.
Send a. Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Austialasian A cents.
If you are
languid and
weary, you
need a light
stimulant,
such as
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
which has a sure
yet gentle action
on the Kidneys
and Bladder.
It is as good for
women as for men
and is the purest
of all drinks.
Obtainable in
LARGE AND SMALL
BOTTLES
TbrlfieScMKiddie
m
©
%/M#
purser
YM
SJA
Keeps the scalp free from nits
and all other troubles that school
kiddies are liable to get. / lways
keep a tin in the home It will
be found invaluable! From all
chemists, 1/-, or address below.
NURSERY
POMADE
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, PTY. LTD.,
349 Flinders Fane, MELB. [3
©
The Best Truss
is not too good for the ruptured person who plaecs
a proper value on his health.
Avoid experimenting with appliances that are
unproved and unknown to you. Let the reputation
of Denver’s Elastic Truss be your guide to satisfac-
tion. for to-day hundreds of ruptured persons appreci-
ate the comfort and security offered by this special
safeguard. In your own interest have the best
Rupture Safeguard obtainable —THE DENYER
ELASTIC TRUSS.
SINGLE, 30/-; DOUBLE, 40/-
Send for our free Truss Pamphlet.
Tv XT TWT 'V ITT' T"> X2T) Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
UlLlNllttV DKUo., Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1
L
SPOT-REVO
?icilo
Just slip the connection in an ordinary electric lamp
socket, switch on the current, and in a minute this handsome
iron is gliding along, producing a beautiful glossy surface
on your starched linen, etc. Then when you come to tucks,
frills, edgings, etc., you find the “Spot-Revo” particularly
suitable, for at its point is the greatest heat.
Don’t swelter every ironing day with old-fashioned flat
irons. Get this most modern adaptment of the most modern
ironing methods.
Every “Spot-Revo” is guaranteed for 3 years.
Obtainable electricians and ironmongers.
SOLE AGENTS:
HOME-WOOD
& O’NEILL "o v :.
Head Office: 172-176
William St., Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1:
Somerset Place,
Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2:
Ferrars Street,
South Melbourne.
Sydney Office:
375 George Street.
r
11l
ttiiS
J
Missing Friends.
A NYONE knowing the whereabouts of
THOMAS WALTER SAMPSON,
please communicate with F. SAMPSON,
Wallaroo Mines, South Australia.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
,
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Some corner of
Great Britain has
a warm place in
your heart.
à
The
Over-Seas Daily Mail
Weekly Over-Seas Edition of The Daily Mail —Britain’s great National
Newspaper.
TELLS YOU IN FULL.
Post Free 10/- 52 weeks
SOME OF THE CONTENTS ARE:
Our London Letter —a wonderful pen-picture of life in the great Metropolis.
An account of all the week’s happenings in every part of Great Britain and Europe
—political—social—sporting.
A selection of the special articles which have appeared during the week in The
Daily Mail.
A Serial Story.
A Fashions Feature for women readers with illustrated designs by Miss Bessie
Ascough, the famous Daily Mail artist.
Complete results of all sporting events —Football, Cricket, Racing, Boxing, Lawn
Tennis, Golf, Athletic Meetings, etc.
In addition, the following Commercial Supplements are included free, week by
week: Engineering, Textile, Motor and Cycling, Building and Furnishing, British
Agricultural Machinery and Farm Requisites. These Supplements supply a
constant stream of British commercial intelligence and are invaluable to Over-Seas
buyers.
Send Your Order To-day to Your Regular Newsagent
or to
GORDON & GOTCH (A/sia) LTD.,
Barrack and Clarence Streets, Sydney,
who will transmit your instructions by the first Mail Boat.
The Over-Seas Daily Mail will then be posted weekly direct to your address
from Carmelite House, London, E.C.4. No extra charge for changes in address.
A FULL Service of British News for 52 Weeks for 10/- post free.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Supplication.
O God, make haste and let the sunlight run
Electric with swift life and passion spun
From an eternal furnace where the clouds
Writhe in a futile protest in their shrouds —
Unloose the rainbow’s ribbon once again
Above the hills, the valley and the plain.
O God, send quickly white stars from their
tent
To spill their lustre on the day just spent
With darting beams of sheer prismatic blue
That make the twilight tremble through and
through;
Set them like tapers burning all the night—
The dark is lonely and I need their light.
O God, give me To-morrow. Not till now
Have I beheld the silver on my brow^ —
I did not think the vears could end so soon,
This is December and I dreamed it June!
O God, put back the constant turn of Time,
The tide at ebb, the clock about to chime!
N.S.W.
LOLA GOUNAEL.
At Bondi.
Deserts of sand and clear green sweeps of
sea;
Fierce white advances of the churning foam
Restless beneath the dun rocks mastery,
Guarding the coign that keeps a red-roofed
home;
A girl asleep among the cradling sands,
Holding brown summer in her folded hands.
A latticed rest-house where the wind has
swept
Thick drift of dunes, and clustering pines
that cap
The rise ns though, regretfully, they kept
The memory of mountains in the sap
Of wearied boughs, which ocean breezes
fanned
To no forgetting of the loftier land.
A monument upon a barren height;
A laughing toddler, reckless at the brim
Of foam-laced waters ; in unbroken light
Three grey birds flying. Seawards, on the
dim,
Elusive sky-line, where the smoke scarves
trail,
Adventure voyaging in every sail!
N.S.W.
M. FORREST.
Green.
When my eyes have wearied of reds and
purples and yellows
I come back again to the green that is
soft and good.
Noonlight to hazes of evening the hot day
mellows,
And westering banners of light flame over
the wood.
So I turn my back on the glory barbaric
and rude,
Walking east where the oaks are stooped
under rusted wimples,
And every wattle has lace of jade for a hood
Hidiug and showing by turns her emerald
dimples.
Soft at my feet the low grass murmurs
and rimples
Her carpeted spears that tiptoe to darkness
steal.
Here is the world’s garden of herbs and
simples,
Each with the balm of power to soothe and
heal;
Here the great puritan-trees with sighings
over me lean,
Saying, “The mother-color of quiet is green.”
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Hesperus.
Ah, the far sunset spreads a couch for sleep,
If one might lean one’s head
Where, all one glowing fire-heart, ruby-deep,
The west is softly red.
Ah, soft to sink, as though on plumage shed
From some ensanguined wing!
Never was summer-rose so tender-red;
No hidden thorn-points spring
About this loveliness that knows no sting,
Whose grave serenity,
Wedding our sorrows with a flaming ring,
Most strangely sets them free.
Does it not conjure dear divinity
With bared and glowing breast?
Ah, here are wide embraces, like the sea
That gives immortal rest.
Nor man’s nor woman’s love, O burning
west,
Makes beautiful your fire,
For you are the far end of every quest,
And every heart’s desire.
Here is swept every string of the soul’s lyre;
Here perish all alarms;
And here are timeless strengths that cannot
tire;
Fervors and swoons and calms.
What wafts of spices and of eastern balms
From your red altars rise !
How widely flung your long-desired arms!
And half the throbbing skies
Show forth the wonder of your pinions’
dyes.
No angel spreads such wings—
No Hermes-messenger whose morning-eyes
Have dwelt on deathless things.
Fairer this couch than any bed of kings,
And broad as half the world.
Here the winds breathe as though o’er muted
strings,
And here their wings are furled;
Here, at the heart, eternal peace is curled;
Earth’s weary loves are blest,
Caught up from warring tides in chaos
hurled:
An everlasting breast
Holds Sappho and Iseult in equal rest.
Deep lamps of ruby shine
Before the smoking altars of the west —
A world-wide shrine
■Where Love is one with Sleep, and both
divine.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


£555
£695
£845
THOSE figures indicate respectively the new prices at which you can
purchase the new 1922 model LIGHT SIX, SPECIAL SIX AND BIG
SIX STUDEBAKER CARS.
Former 1921 model prices were £735, £875 and £1075. The new prices,
therefore, represent a saving of £lBO on the Light Six and Special Six
models, and £230 on the Big Six.
An analysis of 1921 sales’ facts shows that STUDEBAKER broke its every
former production and sales’ record, and during that high-priced period
outsold all others with the exception of “Ford”—being, in fact, the only
manufacturers who reached or showed any appreciable gain over former
sales’ totals.
It is evident that 1921 model Studebakers afforded the pre-eminent values
of the year, and now lower wage schedules, material costs and greater
production enable a tremendously lower price on new 1922 Studebaker
models.
THE LIGHT SIX sells at the price of a four-cylinder car; it
is infinitely more satisfactory and efficient and truly cheaper to
maintain.
THE SPECIAL SIX is larger, but still exceptionally economical.
At its price no car near its size comes close to equalling its value.
It possesses a luxurious imported body and five cord-tyre equipment.
THE BIG SIX, of great power, is the most economical car in
the world for its engine size, and it, too, is fitted with a beautiful
imported body and five cord tyres.
All Studebaker cars have full Timken bearing their gear-boxes
swung on a sub-frame amidships, magnetos, and five tyre equipment. '
They are made throughout of the finest materials that money can purchase.
Come, look them over part by part—compare them to anything made for
material, quality or modernness of design—try them with us in any
sort of test —ask the 1921 owners!'
This will he a Greater Studebaker Year.
Cayce-Paul Motors Limited,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2102.
THU US DAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1922.
Price 6d.
THE SUITOR.
"France hag become the irreconcilable element in the nations' efforts to secure the world against future wars.”
CIVILISATION (to France): “'We sympathise with you. placed as you are; but don’t DON’T take HIM for your lover!"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man."
anc * Polished by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
b°., 214 George Street, S.vdnev, N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly!
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 135.; S months, 6s. 6d.
To any address OvEnsEAS: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 165.; 3 months, 7s. Od.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently. stamped letters are liable to be
rei used.
The contents of this paper arc copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
jhe h'ditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOQ words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
n 0 mill be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. 1 Vhen MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Thb Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or .transmission of MS.
'To Amateurs in Black and Whltfe.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid fot as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received me those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IT. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London L.C.’i;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; ‘‘The British-Australasian,” 61 High
llolborn, London, 1 V.C.1.
South Africa.— Hie Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. 6th Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle. Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Singapore.- —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; It. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.- — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Neivspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z.. lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz.,’lhd. ; Bloz. to 10oz.,
.Id.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 40z., lid., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
ffiteTSßxxlljeZvrL
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1922.
THE DECAY OF THE VILLAGE.
Some preliminary census returns are avail-
able, and they show that Australia is mak-
ing poor progress as a self-governing insti-
tution. When a country is empty and has
a fair show of fertility a reasonable test
of good government is its tendency or
otherwise to fill up. If it is a raw-
material producer, as Australia is alleged
to be, it should fill in places where the raw
material grows. If it is naturally agri-
cultural, which Australia is accused of
being, it should not be a vast, costly struggle
to beguile people to accept land, and make
their fortunes thereon, and live happy ever
after. A willingness to live happy ever
after comes natural to humanity. The best
evidence that a country is well ruled is that
people regard it as a good place to live in.
and unfortunately each census reveals that
most of Australia, in point of area, is con-
sidered only a first-class place to keep or
get out of. The census figures made avail-
able so far cover only municipalities with a
population of 3000 and over. Places with
populations of between 3000 and 5000 are
mostly agricultural, though a few coal-
mining suburbs are included. There were 87
of these little incorporated towns scattered
over the Commonwealth at the 1911 census.
In the figures for 1921 only 49 are men-
tioned. The missing ones haven’t been pro-
moted to the 5000-10.000 class, for that
category has also diminished—from 68 to
51. This latter class also is largely agri-
cultural, but is more suburban than the
smaller fry. In the next two categories
(10,000-20,000 and 20,000-50,000) there is,
on the other hand, quite a boom. There
were 58 such municipalities scattered over
the Commonwealth in 1911, and no less
than S 5 in 1921. But all save 17 are sub-
urbs —just hangers-on of one big city or
another.
Fading country towns in N. S. Wales
include a number of those in the North—
the slow but well-meanine: area which is
.making so little progress with its New State
that there may be no one to put in the New
State when it arrives. The old cathedral
city of Armidale is passing away. It
wasn’t much of a city save for its dignity,
hut it had 6530 people in 1911, and it has
lost 1221 of them. Tam worth, Grafton
and South Grafton, Inverell, Moree,
Singleton and Casino are in the same cate-
gory. These homes of moth and rust have
not only shed all the natural population
increase of a decade, and their share of
. the increase by immigration, assisted or
otherwise, but their own old people are
leaving them. The few towns that claim
an increase are merely in a state of arrested
decay 7. Not even the best of them shows
figures which suggest that all its own babies
have stayed in it, let alone that one immi-
grant settler has come its way. Others —
Cobar. Coonamble, Grenfell, Gunnedah,
Narrabri and Wyalong—-are no longer on
the list at all, the inference being that
they have decayed below even the 3000-
population mark. Victoria has its list of
derelicts, too, but in that case there is the
redeeming feature that Victoria doesn’t
spend so much loan money as the Ma State
to put people on the land, so it doesn’t lose
so much if they aren’t on the land. The
Victorian places that are slowly passing
in their checks include Castlemaine, Ararat,
Hamilton, Daylesford. Eaglehawk, Eebuca,
Maryborough, Stawell, Wangaratta, Shep-
parton, St. Arnaud and Ballarat. Such Vic-
torian outports as Port Fairy, Port Albert
and Portland have no decay charged against
them in these preliminary census figures,
any more than have the' N.S.W. seaports
of Jervis Bay, Twofold Bay and CofFs
Harbor. These excommunicated hamlets are
too small for mention.
Queensland occupies a better position in
this matter. In many respects it has slith-
ered fast downhill—-slithered so fast that
it has changed from owning the best-paying
railway system in Australia to being burd-
ened with almost the most money-losing one
in the world. It has also the biggest deficit
per'head and the heaviest taxation per head.
Yet something was done in Queensland long
before the present Misgovernment was heard
of which has kept it freer of the curse of
centralisation than any sister-State. It has
eight ports scattered along its coast which
call for inclusion in a census list dealing
with places of 3000 and more inhabitants —
Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Cairns, Mackay and
Southport—and however bad things are with
the mining and agricultural districts they all
show large increases of population. N. S.
Wales, with nearly three times the population,
possesses only six—Sydney, Kempsey, Lis-
more, Grafton, Wollongong and Newcastle—
and they are not all gaining population. Vic-
toria, with almost twice Queensland’s popu-
lation, has three ports that count —Mel-
bourne, Geelong and Warrnambool. Queens-
land’s two leading ports apart from the capi-
tal—Rockhampton and Towmsville—show
vastly greater progress than the leading out-
ports of the other two big States—Newcastle,
Wollongong, Geelong and Warrnambool. One
explanation is that each of the eight Queens-
land ports has a fairly long railway connect-
ing it with its hinterland and bringing the
trade thereof to its wharves, while even such
minor specimens as Cooktown, Bowen, Nor-
manton and Innisfail have a pretence of an
independent railway and a little territory of
their own to exploit. Except in N. S. Wales
some scraps of local control are permitted in
port, harbor and shipping matters. Thus in
Queensland five harbors manage their own
affairs, and at least contrive to make the
towns grow. Little Tasmania has seven such
bodies—even Circular Head has a sort of
marine autonomy. In Victoria only Mel-
bourne and Geelong are trusted with Home
Rule in this sense, and they are the only
ports with a shadow of prosperity. Portland
has long been only a name, though the State
began there and not at Melbourne, and the
other places are in process of silting up.
N. S. Wales once had two independent harbor
authorities —at Sydney and Wollongong. But
terror seized on the Central people at this
mad decentralising tendency, and the Wol-
longong affair closed its uneventful career in
1894. Even Newcastle, despite the large
sums it contributes to the revenue, has to
appeal to Minister Estell to have a shovel-
ful of mud removed from the fairway—New-
castle isn’t to be trusted with anything so
valuable as a shovel. Both it and Wollon-
gong are viewed as necessary evils which coal
has forced on the community.
♦ * * *
Rockhampton, Brisbane and Grafton are
sister ports. Each is rather too far up a
river. When the advantages and disadvan-
tages are summed up the N'. S. Wales town is
probably the best, as well as the oldest and the
smallest and the one that is pegging out. The
reason why Rockhampton (population 24,182
and showing an increase of 8731 between
censuses) is not Brisbane (population
210,032) is that, though it has its own
harbor authority and its own railway extend-
ing 427 miles west to bring commerce to its
wharves, it isn’t the capital of a State. The
reason why Grafton (population, if North
Grafton is added. 6075, and with a loss of 24
between censuses) isn’t Rockhampton is that
it has neither Harbor Board, western railway
nor metropolitan status. A similar parallel
might be drawn between Queensland’s third
port (Townsville, fed by a line stretching 550
miles west, and with a population of 21,348)
and N.S.W.’s No. 3 marine town, Lismore
(8679 inhabitants, and therefore a marvel of
progress when compared with old Eden, Port
Macquarie, Jervis Bay, Port Stephens, Coff’s
Harbor, and other of Ma’s waste places).
But too much inference makes a plain tale
over-long.
THE TRUST THAT CAN NEVER BE.
“It is abundantly clear to the trade-union move-
ment of this State, and equally clear to me, that
there is taking' place throughout the world to-day a
concerted offensive by the employing class against
the wages and the already-reduced standard of living
of the workers. The N.S.W. Board of Trade action
[in foreshadowing that the State basic wage may be
brought down to £3 15s. per week] is the concrete
expression of the intense propaganda for lower wages
and longer hours conducted in and out of Parliament
for the past few months. To this drive towards a
coolie standard for Australia, the workers must
instantly organise their strongest opposition.”
These remarks were made by Minister
Me Gibe, of N. S. Wales, but they might
have come from any other Labor politician
who fancies there is political capital to be
got out of pulling the workers' collective
leg. Hundreds of ambitious men, who are
fools unless they are frauds, keep repeating
to the unions a creed which is false on the
face of it, namely, that unionism is in a posi-
tion to fix its own wages and get them, and
that the sole lion in the path is the local
employer. To appreciate the weakness of
this doctrine it is only necessary to consider
it in relation to one of the other organisa-
tions for money-getting. For years the
American Meat Trust has been trying to
tell the world what it shall pay for the
articles the Trust has to sell. The Big Five,
with their hundreds of subsidiary con-
cerns, control in the U.S.A. not merely meat,
but eggs, cheese, vegetable-oil products, and
all the favorite meat-substitutes; and it is
their stated ambition to get command of
every class of foodstuff. Australia’s pre-
war Labor parties, Federal and State, under-
stood the menace to this country, and for
that matter to the whole Empire, which was
involved in the policy of the Yankee meat-
packers, and were solidly behind the Fisher
Government scheme to amend the Constitu-
tion so that an effective Anti-Trust Act
might, be put on our Statute Book. As
The Bulletin repeatedly pointed out dur-
ing 1912 and 1913, the great food Trust was
in Australia not for the relatively paltry local
trade, but because it could never control the
London market until it had some measure of
Australasian control. No matter how
firmly U.S. or Argentine supplies might be
held, there was always the possibility of a
“blackleg” consignment arriving from the
Commonwealth or Maoriland and smashing
the artificially-created prices in the Smith-
field market. Australasia has in this mat-
ter been putting up a fight for Britain—
with little or no comprehension of it on the
part of the bulk of the British people—for
the past 10 years; and it is only just begin-
ning to taste defeat in the matter. W. M.
Hughes said the other day in Melbourne:
For good or ill the Meat Trust is in Great Britain.
As for Australia there is an outside combine engaged
in keeping down the prices of meat against the Aus-
tralian producer, ap'd apparently an inside combine
keeping up the prices against the Australian consumer.
At present both producer and consumer are helpless.
* * * *
Now, the American Trust magnates have
achieved this partial success—and that it is
only partial is shown by the complaints of
the Trust representatives over the anti-trust
measures of the M.L. Government —under
exceptionally favorable conditions. Meat
is one of the easiest commodities to corner
in the world to-day. It comes in bulk from
only . four countries, and the big Chicago
Trust had two of them—the U.S. and Argen-
tine—in its grip long before the delegates of
the constituent powers (Swifts, Armours,
Wilsons, Morris and Co. and the Cudahy
Packing Co.) conferred in London in the
spring of 1914. When Labor leaders talk
about the trade-union movement, and when
the average worker thinks on the subject,
they conjure up a vision of an all-powerful
institution. They picture an 0.8. U. as a
Colossus, and when it comes to the concep-
tion of a world-association of unionists words
fail them. The trade-union movement has
gained much for the workers in Australia,
more especially since 1891, when the orienta-
tion of unionism to politics definitely began.
But there was no suggestion of predatoriness
about the methods of the men who won for
Labor such reforms as the Factories and
Workshops Acts and the Workers’ Compen-
sation Acts. Their ultimate strength lay
not in threats, but in arguments based on a
solid moral foundation. As none knew bet-
ter than their own leaders, they were not in
a position then to apply to the public the
coercive measures of a great trust, the
excellent reason being that 30 years ago the
unionists throughout the length and breadth
of Australia numbered barely one per cent,
of the white population. They are in a
much stronger position to-day. The move-
ment is formidable in moral, comprising as
it does, along with much else, the cream of
the working-classes. But in numbers it is
nothing like so strong as the uninstructed
might think who listen only to the talk of
persons of the McGirr type. No more than
about one Australian in ten is a trade
unionist ; and this in the country, beyond all
others, where trade unionism is strong. In
the U.K. trade unionists number less than
one in 12 ; in Denmark one in 20 ; in Holland
and Switzerland one in 30; in the U.S.A.,
where so many factors have combined to
keep organised labor weak, little more. than
one in 50. Outside these preserves of privi-
leged workers (large, some of them, in a
sense, but tiny in every case if viewed with
a due sense of proportion) are hordes of
“free” white workers clamoring for a job,
and hundreds of millions of adult Japs,
Chinese and Indians, a proportion of whom
are highly-skilled tradesmen. What humbug,
in the circumstances, for Labor leaders who
consider that truculency suits their oratori-
cal style to suggest that the industrial union-
ists, many of whom are passive unionists,
can do out of hand what resolute commercial
unionists whose armor is almost flawless
have still to accomplish—that is to say, take
what toll they consider desirable not only of
their own nationals but of the world !
* * * *
If Labor demagogues were less concerned
to delude the workers for Party ends they
would state the industrial position in Aus-
tralia for the eventual benefit of the workers
in some such terms as these: —
The stuff we have been shouting at you about
bowelless capitalists is all bunkum: no one section
of the community is more bowelless than the other.
Your troubles arise, not from the wickedness of your
employer, but from the fact that the greatest war
in history is just over. It is profitless, at this time
of day, to speculate as to who was to blame for
starting the tragedy; but it is necessary in the
interests of industrial peace, without which we must
go under to the Asiatic races, that you should
realise the effects of those years of extravagance.
Suppose all Sydney suddenly went mad and began
buying things without reference to price or any
other consideration but that of the urgent necessity
of getting the articles. And suppose the business-
places agreed to take lOU’s for the goods where
money was not available. And, finally, suppose that
an immense proportion of the most valuable of these
articles was immediately burnt, or blown up, or
sent to the bottom of the sea. Plainly, as the goods
became scarcer and the lOU’s more numerous,
prices would go up. Gresham’s law that “bad
money drives out good money” would have operated
to the extent of sending nearly all the gold to those
places which were unwilling to exchange their
products for Sydney’s paper. It would be understood
presently by the citizens that, unless they intended
to revert to the social standards of the Stone Age
they would need to (1) stop the issue of lOU’s and
(2) produce goods in quantity to be sold abroad for
real money. But such goods would not sell perma-
nently at lOU prices. They would have to come
down in cost or be undersold by the products of
those whose exchange was better or whose workers
were cheaper. That is the stage the Commonwealth
has now reached. The war has been won but the
Empire has hardly begun to pay for it. Some nations
survive the danger and temptations that follow
success in a big war, and emerge from them greater
than ever, as Germany did after 1870. Some, as the
saying goes, cannot stand their oats. The chief
factor in the ruin of the Roman Empire was the
loafing, cadging spirit engendered by the winning of
the Punic Wars. To sum up, trades unionism, which
is a very sectional affair when all is said and done
cannot help you to fight world conditions. Get what
you can out of your employers, but before causing
trouble that may ruin you both and your country 'as
well, get an understanding of the problems that he
has to face.
T here is a reason why the swashbuckling
political bravo never talks in this way to
the workers. The war-extravagance for
which we are now paying was largely politi-
ca , and the politicians who buy votes and
hold by extravagance want it to con-
tinue. It they were sincere they would
denounce the capitalist not for his flinty
heart which is usually a myth—but for his
vulgar display in the way of imported and
other superfluities. And, above all, they
would preach the gospel of national economy.
They would stress the fact that there is only
one reliable way to increase or maintain the
basic or any other wage, and that is to work
honestly and with the minimum of inter-
ruption, and to restore the value of our
currency by paying off a proportion of the
nation s debt (Federal, State and muni-
cipal) of £.828,000,000. It is because they
are Party politicians above everything that
they never put it that way.
AN ALTERNATIVE TO BRIBERY
AND BLACKMAIL.
One of the sinister 1 results of State social-
ism as practised in Australia, and particu-
larly in those parts of it which have reck-
lessly pursued the ideal of giving everybody
an easy billet, is the political importance of
the Government employee. An impression
exists in both political camps that Govern-
ment employees are dominated by bread-and-
butter politics, that their block vote can turn
elections and that it is up for sale to the
highest bidder. So, when an appeal to the
country is decided upon, the papers begin to
nil up with items like the following:—
As a result of awards and agreements made during
the past few months, the public servants are receiv-
ing from the Government an additional £830,000,
besides £314,250 in back pay. The Government
has no intention of reducing salaries 3s. a week,
as provided by the Board of Trade. It has resolutely
stood out against retrenchment, and will refuse to
create a surplus at the expense of flesh and blood.—
Attorney-General McTiernan (A'.iS.TF.).
Thousands and thousands of citizens are vitally
concerned in the standing of public servants. To
this large section of the population nothing would
be more terrible than a Black Thursday. Another
thi ee years of Labor Government on the present lines
would most certainly bring a Black Thursday in its
tram. But a National Government, by making
proper adjustments in the financing of the State
elsewhere, can maintain the public service unim-
paired.—Opposition-leader Fuller.
* * * *
It is instructive to compare these fervent
bids for the departmental vote with the
statement of Motherhood Minister McGirr,
uttered before the election was thought of,
that it would cost nothing to administer
the motherhood endowment measure be-
cause the work could be done by officials
already on the salary list. That informa-
tion, he said, had been furnished by the
Public Service Board. Asked how the
barnacles in question contrived to convey the
impression that they were working for their
living, McGirk said he hadn’t the slightest
idea; but he supposed the departments were
overstaffed because the Nationalists, when in
office, had provided sinecures for all their
friends. Of course, neither Fuller toor
McTiernan would dream of proposing to
free the taxpayer from the burden of sup-
porting this horde of loafers. That would
be against the rules. It is part of the game
as played in N. 8. Wales and Queensland to
shift hundreds of Government laborers into
doubtful electorates to make them safe for
the crowd in office, and to impress swarms
of unemployed into service as voters by put-
ting them on such pre-election jobs as the
city railway. It is likewise permissible for
bodies of State servants to point a gun at
either party when an election is in sight.
Thus the railwaymen’s union in N. S. Wales
is demanding a shoal of concessions, includ-
ing a Commissioner of its own and an all-
round 44-hour week (there is talk, also, of
exacting free passes over the inter-State
lines for all railway and tramway employees)
as the price of its support. But there being
no votes in administrative economy it is
never dragged into the argument. Elections
have been won in Britain on a programme
of retrenchment and reform, but no Austra-
lian party leader would think of going to
the country with such a policy, so mortally
do the whole pack of them fear the Govern-
ment employee vote. Yet Goo knows that the
need of retrenchment and reform —more
especially in those States where the services
are stiff with friends of Labor politicians,
appointed because they could be trusted to
vote the right ticket—is great enough!
The subject was discussed at the recent con-
ference of the Ma State Public Service
Association. “There is a great amount or
ignorance in the public mind regarding our
conditions,” said one speaker. “We are a
much misrepresented class and should be
represented in Parliament.” So they should;
but his proposal that a gentleman in the
Width of Tyres Department should be eli-
gible to stand for Bulloeky Creek is open
to obvious objections. A better plan would
be to give all Government employees repre-
sentation, as the Universities of Oxford and
Cambridge are represented in the House of
Commons. Let them return their own mem-
bers in proportion to numbers, the thing
being so ordered that on a man getting work
—any kind of work —under the
his name would be transferred from the ordL


nary electoral roll to the roster of those en-
titled to vote for the service M’s.L.A. This
would be fair representation of an impor-
tant interest —but not the most important.
It would be more satisfactory than the pre-
sent system to the official who is trying to
do a useful job usefully in circumstances
that are often unfavorable —overmanning,
the curse of most Government departments,
leads to many a good man being underpaid
—and infinitely more satisfactory to the
general body of electors, for whom politics
are complicated and corrupted by the intru-
sion of such issues as departmental hours
and pay. And it would rid the political
atmosphere of a spreading taint. For in
States where every ninth or tenth citizen is
in a Government job, and where no party is
thought any worse of for buying votes with
public money, general elections tend more
and more to become repulsive competitions
in bribery and blackmail.
“SETTLIN’ ON THE LAND.”
In one of his letters about the “million farms”
Joseph Carbuthers says that during 1895
to 1899, when he was N.S.W. Minister for
Lands, he “placed 8155 settlers on residential
holdings covering 6,581,000 acres, and the net
cost did not exceed £25 per man to the
state. Mr. Carbuthers might have gone
further and said that the cost to the State
was nil. In fact, that the State made a profit;
for in the time of Joseph selectors were
charged 4d. (or more) per acre rent, paid
their survey fees in advance, likewise Is. per
acre deposit on the C.P. and a year’s rent in
advance upon the Conditional Lease. But
the statement in the letter that will stir up
the most woeful memories among those who
selected during his reign is that he settled
8155 on the land. They settled on the land
i n _ spite of him and his Department. And
this is the story of one of them, told mainly
that the public may judge whether Mr. Cah-
rutiiers is the right brand of Moses to lead
a million newchum farmers into the wilder-
ness which good Australians, given a chance,
would have occupied so many years ago.
Juggins had decided to be a joint in the
“backbone of the country.” Having a capital
of £lOOO he visited the Sydney Lands Office
with every confidence. There he met one
who believed there was some country open
for selection near Oaky Creek. Juggins was
rather staggered to find that his destination
was 150 miles from rail; nevertheless he leit
in search of it. Arriving at Oaky Creek he
made for the local (Crown) land-agent’s
office. The agent dashed a pile of maps on
the counter and invited Juggins to pick out
any land he could find that was open for
selection. After an hour he gave it up, and
asked the agent to help him. The agent
pointed out that a space marked “Resumed
Area” was open for selection ; but when Jug-
gins inquired how the blank space could be
found the was annoyed. He didn’t
know what sort of land it was, nor whether
it had water on it: couldn’t say whether it was
sheep country, and it wasn’t his business to
tell even if he knew ; didn’t know what area
was contained in the block marked “Resumed
Area” ; in fact, wasn’t sure that any of it was
left for selection, as his maps had not been
charted up for four years. Juggins lost his
temper; whereupon the official thrust some
blue forms into Jugglns’s hands and dived
behind his screen.
In 24 hours all the inhabitants of Oaky
Creek knew Juggins as “the bloke looking
for land.” His host at the Last Chance
Hotel advised him to employ a “layer-on,”
as he would only be wasting his time at the
lands office.. The layer-on was, as Juggins
soon found out, an unofficial land-agent, who
made a good living by settling men on the
land. He would, for a consideration, pilot
a client all over the resumed areas of neigh-
boring runs, and peg out the boundaries of the
required selection. The consideration was
£ls—£s down and the balance upon the day
the selection was “confirmed.” Juggins de-
cided to employ a layer-on, by whose advice
he disguised himself in a shabby suit.' If they
met anybody Juggins was introduced, as a
shearer looking for a stand, a cove looking
for strayed horses, a pianoforte tuner —any-
thing and everything but a small capi-
talist who wanted land. Finally a
tree was “blazed” and an application
drawn up for 2560 acres, more or less.
The following Thursday Juggins was wait-
ing for the Lands Office to open in case he
might be forestalled. The agent informed
him that his application was not in order, as
it included land already secured. Juggins
had been tutored by the layer-on. Putting the
necessary cash-deposit down he informed the
agent that the Land Board would decide that
point—all the agent had to do was to receive
the papers and the money which he left on
the counter. The layer-on smiled, and in-
formed him that if he (Juggins) had not
done so old Woolyface, the lessee, would
have had a dummy on that block in a day or
two.
Juggins thought his troubles were over,
but they were only just beginning. First he
had to wait a few months before the Land
Board visited Oaky Creek. But his rent
started from the day he lodged his applica-
tion. Meanwhile the lessee’s sheep were busy
on his grass. After five months’ idleness he
received notice that his application would
shortly be dealt with. And after a cross-
examination that made Juggins feel he was
in the dock instead of the witness-box, he w T as
informed that “survey would be directed.”
Juggins’s rent had got a long start- of him
before he received notice to attend another
Land Board meeting. He went in joyfully,
expecting his case to be finalised, .so that he
might get to work. But he was informed that
owing to some delay his application would
be adjourned until the following meeting.
Juggins retired to his gunyah for another
four months to ponder over the facilities
offered by Joseph , Carruthers’s Land Act
for settling yeomen on the land. At his third
attempt he was shown "the plan of his hold-
ing, and asked if he accepted it as surveyed.
He wanted to know first what rent he would
have to pay for the C.L. portion. The Board
informed him that the rent would be declared
the following day. Would Juggins accept
the land—Yes or No? Juggins said he had
already wasted 12 months applying for it,
’Sy ou l < i see it through. Then an officer of
the Crown read the following:—
Inspected the lease applied for by A. Juggins and
louna it very mountainous-—chiefly stony country,
timber ironbark with a little pine, shallow soil, red,
and poor in quality The land is totally untie ior
cultivation, too rough for breeding sheep, but fair
grazing country if ringbarked—would cost about 6s.
to kill the timber —carrying capacity when ringbarked
five acres to a sheep. Assess the capital value
at 10s. per acre.
Juggins expected to get a refund of Id. out
of the 2d. per acre he had deposited as pro-
visional rent. It seemed strange to him that
the inspector should value land at 10s. for
which he paid 20s. per acre. He was still
more surprised when his rent was fixed at
4d. per acre. Juggins wanted his money
back. But there was nothing doing. He
could have withdrawn his application when
the first six months of his wasted time ex-
pired, and it often suited a dummy to avail
himself of that clause in the Act when the
application was only put in to head off a
genuine selector. But he had missed that
chance.
The fixing of the rents after the applicants
had bound themselves to take the land was
a rotten device. For 12 months Juggins
wa« paying rent for nothing. Then, when
he finished fencing in his block, the squatter
mustered his sheep on it and took them out
of the gate, leaving him a bare paddock. He
had to wait more months to allow the grass
to grow. Meanwhile the Land Board kept
him occupied. Every meeting saw Juggins
in the box going through the old perform-
ance : application to enclose roads that only
existed on a map ; application for a road of
access (15) ; application for exemption from
fencing land already fenced; application to
enclose an alleged water-course—-applications
and declarations that swelled the bank
accounts of agents. Juggins was re-
quired to pay for a tottering old fence
erected in JOHN Robertson’s time; but for
the use of Juggins’s, four miles of new fence
the Land Act didn’t require the squatter to
pay a cent. When Juggins started to bring
his first llock of sheep home by the nearest
road of access, according to the Act, the
squatter brought an action for trespass-
damages £2OO. A merciful Judge awarded
the squatter £lO.
Juggins was advised to forfeit his selec-
tion, but he determined not to let the Gov-
ernment rob him at both ends by allowing
the land to revert to the Grown. So he “did
his time,” and then sold out, at a loss, to
the squatter.
One of the first persons he met in Sydney
was a politician who took a great interest
in settling people on the land, and had
advised Juggins on the subject. He asked
him how he liked being on the land. “I’m
just off it, thank God,” was Juggins’s
emphatic reply. It would be interesting to
learn how many of the balance of Car-
butheks’s 8155 selectors regretted their
obstinacy in pushing their way on to land
where they were not wanted. The thousands
of abandoned selections throughout the coun-
try may give the answer.
There is room for a strong Minister for
Lands who knows- one who will not have to
rely solely upon his understrappers, who
never vary. But there is no room for
Joseph Carrutiiers in any closer settle-
ment scheme, unless the leopard has changed
his spots as no other leopard ever did.
G. C.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Washing Day.
First the N. S. Wales Government began to
nominate members instead of having by-
elections. This reversion to an idea aban-
doned in the middle of last century was a
case of man going back to the ape; but the
new Laborites would go back further than
that for a consideration. Later McGirk
suggested that the general election might
be done without, the same as by-elections—
in other words, that the N.S.W. Assembly
should simply re-appoint itself in an indefi-
nite sort ot way, or “prolong its life.” Next
came an attempt to interfere with the Labor
voter’s right of pre-selection, which is really
of more importance, as things go, than his
legal polling right. It was suggested not
that the objectionable system should be abol-
ished, but that the present Labor members
should, to all intents and purposes, pre-select
themselves per medium of the A.L.P. execu-
tive. This was another evidence that the
Laborite in power regards the electors as a
common and no-account herd, whose pretence
of a claim to interfere with his salary and
vested interest suggests a humble citizen
named Smith criticising an early Bourbon
king. Fierce ructions followed, and most
persons involved exposed the utter baseness
of most other persons. After that Mother-
hood Minister 'McGirk, fleeing from the
country, appeared at Sydney, and secured
top place on a ballot. The returning-officer
reported, like the one who supervised the
ballot for the selection of Labor candidates
for Sydney Municipal Council, that the
ballot was a swindle, which seems to be the
rule nowadays in Labor quarters. A report
that 300 women had cast 500 votes among
them was a mere bud on the forest of recrim-
ination. . At the risk of having its neck shat-
tered and its bleached skull left on the door-
step when McGirk got into his stride, the
executive annulled the whole business, and
made its own selections, casting out McGirr.
The struggles of that rich and combustible
party in the doorway were tremendous.
Thereupon all parties gave their opinion of
all otlier parties all over again, and it was
worse than before; and finally the execu-
tive swallowed itself by a nairrow
majority and decided to have another
ballot to see if this time the Labor
selectors would select the right people. The
pay (£875 for the rank and vile, and about
£2OOO for Ministers),, has become such an
inducement that more money is spent in
grabbing for it than it is worth; in fact, the
salary is so much that , unless it is made
much more ruin is liable to supervene. Amid
all the fuss the interests of the country, and
the fact that the country has any interests,
and the fact that there is any country excent
for voting purposes, are overlooked.
-—-
A Thing of Fogs and Patches.
Dear Bulletin, —Some kind-hearted but
unsatisfactory soul has enriched me. with a
copy of the N.S.W. Nationalist programme,
and I am filled (not to the top, but a gbod
way up) with indifference. There are good
points in it, certainly, but too much of it
is written with a hesitating and noncommit-
tal hand. Some of the good points are the
abolition of three- and five-member constitu-
encies ; no more nominees in the Assembly;
abolition of the Board of Trade, the Basic
Wage Commission and the Fair Rents Court;
and the shifting of as many other frills as
possible. It is also proposed that, as in
England, a. unionist may, if he pleases, be
a trade-unionist and nothing else, neither
buying the union paper nor taking account of
its politics. There is a word about abolish-
ing that tough old iniquity, the low
freights on goods coming by rail to
Sydney as against the high freights if
they go any other road. And it is even pro-
pounded that Government enterprises should
he debited with all the rates, taxes and ex-
penses that they would have to pay if pri-
vately owned, so that faking and falsification
of accounts to make a good showing and a
lying profit shall be things of the wicked
past. Hopeless ventures are even to be sold
if the harmless necessary ass can he found
to buy. But despite all this there is too
much haze surrounding the Nationalist docu-
ment. One comes on remarks like these: —
Efficient and economical management of the State’s
finances, and reduction of taxation.
Loan moneys to be applied only to urgent and
reproductive works.
lie-establishment of sinking fund.
Reduction of members’ salaries.
No increase in members’ salaries.
Opening up as quickly as finances permit of addi-
tional southern and northern ports,
The construction of further cross-country railways.
Reduction of railway freights and. fares.
All these well-meant generalities move one
to ask for more light. Thus it seems that,
in view of the fact that expenditure is far
ahead of income, and the immediate struggle
is to avoid a big increase of taxes, freights
and fares —all three of them —it might he
better to keep the rates up till the situation
isn’t quite so desperate. As regards the
application of loan money solely to urgent
and reproductive works, various questions
arise. For instance: How much loan is to
be spent in a year? Does the term “repro-
ductive” mean that the affair is to pay full
interest, which nothing is likely to do with
money at the present ruinous price, or that
it is to reproduce anything it conveniently
can towards interest, which is just the old
profligate iniquity, and no reform at all? If
the payment of full interest is meant —and
that is the only honest reading—what is it
proposed should be done if a work proves,
by misfortune, not to be payable, after all,
or if it ceases to pay through ill-luck or
through the loan having to be renewed on
disastrous terms? The obvious remedy is to
pay off sufficient of tie debt out of revenue
to put the job back on the solvent list; but
the Nationalist programme lacks the grit to
go into details on the point. There is a lack
of news about how the money is to be raised
to pay for works that are necessary but
not reproductive, or to contribute to those
that are necessary but only productive in a
small way. And it is a hilarious and un-
seemly jest that these two items should
appear in the same policy, but not, as they
should do, side by side: —
Loan inoneys to be applied only to urgent and
reproductive works.
Special local loan of £1,500,000 to make good
roads.
That is a case which suggests that nobody
concerned had much live interest in, or
many strong convictions about, the policy,
and that it was mainly a matter of slinging
nice-sounding platitudes together. Then-
information is scarce to the point of famine
and destitution about the amount to be paid
into the re-established sinking fund, or what
precautions will be taken to prevent it going
the old road of swindle and embezzlement.
The opening up of new ports is obviously to
happen when superfluous money is lying
around and begging to be taken in—which
will be never. It isn’t classed as urgent,
though it is ten times more so than the city
railway, which gets a mention, of course, or
the good roads, which local authorities should
look after. And it is a million times more
essential than Canberra, which comes in for
this cryptic remark :
1. Parliament to be transferred to Canberra at
opening of next Federal Parliament.
2. Yass Junction —border of Federal Capital area.
That would seem to mean that the N.S.W.
Legislature is shortly to shift from Sydney
to Yass Junction, but it is hard to tell.- —
Yours in the bonds of fog and the gall of
dissatisfaction, Henry Horsecollar.
♦-
Prohibition for Profit.
“Prohibition as such in America, according to Mr.
Walter Leitch, C.8.E., who was Director of Muni-
tions during the war, is a failure and a farce,
because anyone who knows the ropes can get a drink.
Speaking, however, to men who were large em-
ployers—even mep not prohibitionists—they said
they would vote prohibition. It was found that the
men were more efficient when there were no saloons.
Big captains of industry had told Mr. Leitch they
would rather have prohibition than return to the
conditions that existed prior to prohibition.”
In the eye of the typical Yankee Walling-
' ford this item from the Sydney Telegraph
constitutes a smashing argument for pro-
hibition. What can possibly be wrong with
a system which enables more work to be
got out of some of the men, while not
interfering with the pleasures of any of
their masters? The U.S. workers may be
docile enough to permanently undergo this
Spartan discipline in the service of efficiency
while knowing that no such sacrifice is
required of the heads of their industrial
system. But British working-men are not
built that way, and a probable effect of
introducing such a cynically one-sided
arrangement to Australia would be to pre-
cipitate a row which has been brewing here
for some time. The, scandal of the unen-
forceable law is already an affair of consider-
able dimensions with us. Six o’clock clos-
ing, for example, has been dead for years
in gvdney and Melbourne to the extent that
in many. of the big hotels it has been
possible during that time to buy liquor
until midnight or even later. Latterly the
less expensive hostelries have begun to
follow suit. But it is only the humble ones
that are raided. The discrimination against
the poor and in favor of the rich in the
administration of our anti-gambling laws
is another example of class inequity to
which those whom it prejudices are verv
much awake. And the same tendency is
noticeable in other directions. If it is
admitted that this kind of thing is not only
unjust but socially dangerous, it follows
that the first test Australia should put to
a revolutionary change like prohibition is
not “Will it make a certain percentage of
workers drinkless and so produce more.
but “Is it capable of being enforced uni-
formly against ail classes of the commu-
nity?” One of the chief relaxations of the
English used to be bear-baiting. _ They
turned from it, and the rest of the civilised
world presently followed suit. Witch-burn-
ing, the ostracising of lunatics, and various
other customs and diversions have been
made illegal in England at different periods,
and because the conscience of the nation
was behind such changes they were honored
by all classes. All that the Yankee
prohibitionists are able to say to Australia
at present is: “To a great extent we have
been able to prevent the working-class buy-
iii"- drink, with much benefit to the pockets
of"the ricn.” But the claim that Australia
wants to hear made is: “Drinking is as
dead in New York as cock-fighting is in
London. A hundred million people, high
and low, are satisfied that it is wrong, and
so they have banished it.” Until tha'l
day comes the rest of the world will be
likely to regard the prohibition problem
of the TJ.S. with something of the same
respectful sympathy it accords to that
great country’s nigger problem.
■
“Testing for Credit.”
“ ‘lt’s about the cruellest piece of business I have
ever seen,’ said Judge Scholes, displaying great
indignation at the cross-examination of a female
witness by a solicitor at Sydney Quarter Sessions
on Thursday. The solicitor: ‘I consider it my duty
to my client to ask these questions.’ His Honor:
,‘I don’t believe it. You are not helping him at
all.’ ” — Sydney Telegraph.
Tiie lady in question was being “tested for
credit.” An attorney or barrister tests tor
credit by putting to a witness, as facts, any
allegations, true or false, which have been
suggested to him by his employer. Very often
they bear no relation whatever to the only
sort of credit which is at issue in the case.
Thus a man who proposes to enter into a
commercial partnership with another does
not make a point or ascertaining if the
latter’s domestic relations are satisfactory:
what he is concerned about is his man s
probity in business. But if the two go to
law one of the first things a certain class of
counsel rakes up is any rumor, or shadow of
a rumor, concerning plaintiff’s (or defen-
dant’s) relations with women, his partiality
for drink or drugs, or anything else of an
irrelevant nature calculated to inflict perma-
nent damage whichever way the suit goes.
The practice is known jocularly amongst
those who specialise in it as “giving the
client a run for his money.” The inevitable
result is that hundreds of people decline to
come forward as prosecutors, and in conse-
quence many crimes, and notably blackmail,
are rendered comparatively safe. A citizen
mav be libelled or slandered; but knowing
that, in return for a possible verdict, he is
likely to have aspersions of a ten thousand
times worse nature cast upon his character
by counsel, he decides to forego his legal
tights. And witnesses in any case
which looks like being fought out bitterly
are increasingly hard to get. Their attitude
is: “Yon may force me into Court on a
subpoena; but I will give no ‘proof’ before-
hand, and I will say as little as possible
when I get into the box” —the outcome be-
ing, of course, that justice is frustrated in
yet another direction. If Brown, K.C., put
it to Jones, the prosecutor in an embezzle-
ment matter, that he (Jones) was an adul-
terer, and if Jones countered with a
similar or worse charge against Brown,
it would be contempt of court, And
if Jones continued to state, as facts, the
rumors lie had heard about Brown, he would
be committed to prison. The only way the
Bench will end a scandal which is becoming
flagrant is by applying this admirable rule
both ways.
: ♦
Surfers and Sharks.
A surfer’s rhapsody :
Often I think gratefully of the unknown bene-
factors —brave soldiers, surely, in the war for
the liberation of humanity-—who, in spite of Puritan
slander and persecution, established the institution of
surf-bathing. How it has confounded the predic-
tions of the benighted creatures with unclean minds
in unclean bodies who fought against it with every
weapon in the wowser’s armory! In place of the
moral destruction of which it was to be the cause,
it is helping to evolve a noble breed of men and
women—frank, healthy, rational and splendidly-
developed. The occasional hog who ventures on the
beaches is an accident, like the degenerate you will
sometimes meet in a church choir, and on the whole
does as little harm. But nothing could be more
inspiring than the traditions of courage and self-
sacrifice that have grown up with surfing, and which
were so finely exemplified in the rescue of Milton
Couqhlan by Jack Chalmers at Coogee (N.S.W.).
Great praise has justly been the portion (and great
has been the rush of the self-advertising section to
share the glory) of the modest Digger who fastened
a rope around his body and plunged into the shark-
infested water; but no less heroic was the conduct
of the 18-year-old Coughlan, an Australian of the
third generation, who swam fast to warn his com-
panions that sharks were approaching, coolly fought
the monster that was mangling him frightfully, and
then, when Chalmers came up—in agony though
the lad was, and dying—threw himself into the
position prescribed by the life-saving code for per-
sons overcome in the surf. In truth, two magnifi-
cent specimens of Australian manhood. Sharks are
So prevalent this year, and surfing has become such
a national habit, that the prevention of appalling
affairs like that at Coogee is worth considering. It
ought to be possible to net deeply-indented beaches
such as Coogee and Balmoral against sharks, as
Suvla Bay and the Channel were netted against tin-
fish. The cost would no doubt be considerable, but
if the job were securely done it would be worth the
money. Again, the collection of data regarding the
varieties and movements and feeding habits of the
sharks that visit our coasts might enable the authori-
ties to issue warnings in season, and thus help to
save life. It has always been a puzzle to me why
bathers on the Westralian coast are never attacked.
I have seen them swim out furlongs into the Indian
Ocean, not once but scores of times, while visitors
from Eastern Australia stared in amazement. On
the Swan River, also, a three-mile swimming race
is held every year, and the Swan is as salt and as
open to the sea as Lane Cove or the Parramatta.
Yet there is no record of any bather, in the Swan or
at Cottesloe, Fremantle, Rottnest or Bunbury (all
Indian Ocean beaches), having been taken by sharks.


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES EXCEED £700,000.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS £300,000
ASSETS EXCEED ------ £1,100,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, South Africa.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
7 SELBY P. WOOD. J.P., Governing Director.
AUBREY E. WENDEN, Managing Director.
Full Time, Part Time and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
One theory is that the supply of marine food is
abundant in those parts and that the shark (like
the man-eating lion) will only tackle human beings
when he has been rendered desperate by hunger.
Anyhow, the fact is sufficiently remarkable to be
scientifically investigated.
♦
Why Not Church Pubs?
A padre raises the question:—
After the Reformation it ceased to be respectable
to drink beer. In pre-Lutheran days the word “ale”
Was synonymous with a parish festival. No part
of Christendom but had its “church-ales.” At the
time of the patronal or other great festivals, fre-
quently on Sundays, churchwardens would erect stalls
or booths ill the churchyard for the sale of beer.
In some places a house was set apart for the pur-
pose. The people of the Middle Ages saw nothing
incongruous in using such inn-signs as “The Name
of Jesus,” “TCte-Dieu,” or “God Encpmpasseth Us,”’
nor in a properly-conducted hotel should such a sign
be out of place even now. Came the Reformation,
and with it the loosening of ecclesiastical discipline.
Inevitably abuse of an otherwise harmless custom
arose, and by 1603 it was found necessary to pro-
hibit Church-ales altogether.
Now every returned soldier can be called as a
witness to the perfect decorum of the Continental
caffs, where a man may take his wife and family
and spend a social evening. The writer was present
at a Confirmation in a tiny Belgian village in 1917.
It took place at 3 o’clock in the afternoon. After the
ceremony the Bishop, the cure, five small girl candi-
dates and their parents adjourned to the estaminet,
where Madame served a light wine to them all, in-
cluding the writer and two Diggers. The Bishop
addressed a few parting words of advice to the
candidates and went. That may sound very shock-
ing to most of our church people, yet if they could '
only have seen it for themselves they would agree
that it was' all absolutely natural and decent.
If the energies of the Prohibition party, the local
optionists and the advocates of State control were
diverted from advancing their particular nostrums
to restoring the respectability of drinking in public
by the evolution of an Australian equivalent of the
Continental cafe or estaminet, the problem of intem-
perance could be solved as far as is humanly possible.
And why shouldn’t the church itself establish
licensed houses? Two or three returned padres, with
a directorate and staff of returned soldiers, could
furnish the necessary experience and managerial
ability.
—— *
Dear Bulletin, —In the rambling and
round-and-about discussions as to whether
North Australia is "a white man’s country”
one point seems to have escaped observation.
It is this. Because the ancients discovered
that the sun never shone perpendicularly
upon the earth except between two imagin-
ary lines drawn round the sphere, more or
less parallel to the Equator, and because
they called the area within these lines the
tropics, many people who are fairly well
educated in other respects appear to think
that when you are “in the tropics” you are
subject to climatic conditions causing, among
other things, diseases innumerable, failing
health, inability to do any manual labor (and
very little other). and gradual degeneration
of children, unless you are black or yellow
or some other fancy color. These weird
and childish ideas appear to rise from
the fanciful notion that climate is con-
trolled by oarallels of latitude. Thus the
word “tropical” in the mind of the igno-
ramus connotes malaria, yellow fever, hook-
worm, leprosy, scurvy, cirrhosis of the liver
and general paralysis of the insane. The
simple fact is that the travellers and settlers
of 100 vears ago knew for the most part
only those portions of the 'tropics where
these and many other complaints were indi-
genous, together with typhoons, hurricanes,
cyclones and the much-dreaded monsoon
which we have been revelling in this summer
in Adelaide. So a deadly climate and intol-
erable weather are “tropical” ; ergo, mutatis
mutandis, the tropics have always deadly
climates and' intolerable weather, and are
“not fit country, for a white man”!
Rhodesia, Peru and Brazil are in the
tropics. No one says white men cannot live
and work there; and yet their climates are
not to be compared with that of North
Australia. Cape de Verde Islands are in
the tropics, and the climate is heavenly.
But London and New York and New
Orleans and Cairo are not in the tropics,
and what about their climates, compared
from a hygienic point of view, with that of
our tropical Australia? One is almost
ashamed of laboring the point, but there
it is. As loug as thoughtless persons use the
plain English word “tropical” when they
mean to imply that the place referred to is
a hotbed of disease and its climate injuri-
ous to white men and only to be tolerated
by blacks (many of whom live in frigid coun-
tries), so long will other ignorant people
agree with them. —Yours, C. H. Souter.
From a lady in the business: —
Premier Mitchell, a typical Southern politician
who knows nothing of the subject at first hand, has
been boosting pearling as an occupation for Sydney
boatmen and the like. Among other things, he is
reported to have said that “to embark on the indus-
try a man needs very little capital, and no other
experience than that of managing an ordinary sail-
ing craft round Port Jackson.” In point of fact, a
pearler can dispense with such experience. Ilis
diver knows that part of the business from. A to Z,
else he wouldn’t be a diver. He also knows many
things the inexperienced owner doesn’t know, viz.,
where to locate pearlshell beds, where the reefs are
dangerous, where the water deepens dangerously, the
best shelters, the best time to lay-up, the. best way
to handle a crew during, lay-up, and how to extract
pearls without the boss’s knowledge. Actually there
are no inexpert master pearlers now. The writer
should know, having been personally interested for
12- years. And the alleged prosperity of the indus-
try is a myth. Except in rare cases boats haven't
returned expenses for two years. Pearls are prac-
tically unsaleable this year; baroque and shell like-
wise. I know five young returned soldiers who
have had to quit; and they had been in charge of
luggers before the war. In those days the game was
fascinating, and it paid. As a rule the price of
shell was highly profitable, and • there was always
a chance of a gem. But since the Japanese canard
about the propagated pearl was circulated —by in-
terested parties who wished to get control of (he
industry—the pearl market has slumped grievously.
Culture by' injection is, of course, possible, for every
pearl has its nucleus of foreign matter round which
the oyster deposits the nacreous layers, but it can
never be an industry. For these reasons, among
others—(l) the oyster’s abiding-place is the sea-
floor, (2) its habits are peripatetic, and (3) nine
times out of ten a young oyster-artificially opened
dies. Again, even when a perfectly globular nucleus
is found within the pearl the result is not
always a gem. A globular nucleus may be so
covered with the deposit that it becomes lopsided,
THE OPTIMIST.
“The cost of government in this country was higher than it should be. And the Government was
looking for a system that would reduce The cost without reducing the body of employment.”—N.S.lP.
Premier Dooley.
DOCTOR DOOLEY : “You're sick all right—sick as the Devil But don't worry — I'll
probably think of a cure sooner or later."
PATIENT ( feebly ): “Maybe I'll think of one myself on election day.”
pear-shaped, and flattened ; or again it may be poor
in lustre, or in color, or both. The perfect pearl
will always be as rare a thing as the perfect
woman. But 1 am hoping Princess Mary will
revive the fashion in pearls, for the industry has
never passed through such a spirit-crushing crisis
as during the past two years.
—T
“T.R.H.”: Many committed men await their
trial in gaol because they cannot get bail.
Money-bail bears hardly on the poor. The
man whose friends can bail him out has a
much better chance of preparing a defence
than the man in gaol. I was riding on a
tram this morning at 8.30, and two men
mentioned that they always caught that car.
If I were arrested for a crime which was
committed while I was on that car and I
were out on bail I could hunt up those two
men and prove an alibi. If I were in gaol
I could not write to them, as I don’t know
their names or addresses. Why not do away
with the money bond and make the bail 12
months’ hard labor? The well-to-do friends
of a criminal may be quite willing to let
their pal abscond and forfeit the bail money,
but anyone would think twice before abscond-
ing if he knew that he had a certain 12
months’ hard to do for failing to appear for
trial.
“Can-can” : Here is one reason why the
Expropriation Board doesn’t pay its way.
With copra costing close on £2O a ton to pro-
duce, the Commonwealth Government insists
on the Board shipping to Sydney, though
the ultimate market is London. This may
profit certain firms in Sydney, but it’s rough
on the isiands Meanwhile Commonwealth
ships lie idle and a private shipping firm
extorts exorbitant freights both ways. A
good part of the merchandise absorbed locally
is of English origin, coming to us via
Sydney with duly increased cost. Copra
sacks arrive via Sydney from Calcutta; and
the Asiatic goods, which form the biggest
part of the stocks of the numerous Chinese
stores, are also purchased via Sydney. Why
not a service of Commonwealth ships to
England via Rabaul, picking up on the
return trip copra sacks and other Oriental
goods for New Guinea and cornsacks for
Australia? If successful (and it ought to
be) this arrangement would (1) relieve
the New Guinea planter of the incubus of
the Sydney middleman; (2) bring down the
shockingly high cost of living in New Guinea :
(3) bring in a little extra revenue in freight
profits to a needy Commonwealth; and (4)
break down the existing shipping monopoly.
What is stopping the Government from
giving it a trial?
A tew days ago a woman of 31,‘ described
as highly educated, was produced at the
Sydney Central Police Court as an “idle
and disorderly” person. She pleaded for
another chance and offered to sign the
pledge, but she got a month’s hard labor.
Could anything be more futile? What
purpose can be served by sentencing such
a woman to a month’s hard labor unless it
be to confirm her in her grudge against
fate? In the light of modern knowledge
is it not about time that the Department of
Justice called medical . and psychological
science to apply corrective treatment in
such cases? No one can reallv believe that
any woman, educated or uneducated, would,
of* her own free will, choose to live in the
dirtiest hovel in Sydney and drink herself
into the lowest depths, if she had any
stamina of mental or physical health. There
lies the heart of the matter. Such cases
must be taken in hand by the police, but
the corrective treatment should be on patho-
logical lines in healthy and cheerful sur-
roundings. While the best treatment we
can offer is “a month’s hard,” then there
doesn’t seem much hope that either the
derelict or society will gain any benefit
from the arrest.
From an old roundsman :
The police position in Victoria has just about
reached deadlock. That it needs reform the public
as well as the Government well knows. But the
Government wants the job done without paying for
it. Yet money is inevitably part of the only
cure. The poor pay of the Vic. bobby is a by-word ;
it is the lowest of all the States. The fact is
revealed in the class of man the force is now
attracting. The fine constabulary of the ’eighties
may be said to be saluting before it dies.
In his attempts at reform Steward merelv
tinkered. Talk in police circles shortly before
Gellibraxd's withdrawal indicated that he' intended
to tinker, too. The - reformer who “went for" the
force and with ruthless hand weeded out the duds
and the slackers and cast them upon the rubbish-
heap to be carted right out of the service, would
earn nothing but respect and would command the
liveliest allegiance'; but both Steward and Gelli.
brand merely poked a stick into,that dearest-loved
part of police machinery, promotion by seniority,
making small changes in rank which improved the
running very little, yet set the whole service sim-
mering. A section of the detective branch is known
to be rotten, but instead of slinging out the dodgers
there was some weak “transferring” and superseding
which merely shifted the rot.
The force prefers as chief one of itself. He may-
know too much in that he is able to anticipate dodges
and meet them before they appear; but he also
knows too much to be lured by political and Parlia-
mentary amateurs to attempt innovations that are
merely disturbing. As a man who has had to work
and wait almost a lifetime to secure the plum of
the service, he could appreciate the feelings of the
plain, hard-working constable 15 and 20 years in a
bush station who finds himself superseded in seniority
by a youthful John in Melbourne to whom the wider
chances of the metropolis give opportunities of spec-
tacular incident and lucky advancement.
“0.K.”: Tiie weather summaries issued
monthly and yearly by the Government
Meteorological Department are not convinc-
ing. One practice is to compare the mean
temperature, so called, for (say) January
with the normal temperature, so called, for
the past 65 years. Why, in the first place,
strike an average for the whole period since
statistics first were registered? If there
is anything in the contention that Melbourne
has "very little summer” nowadays as com-
pared with grandfather’s time, the average
summer temperature for the past 20 years
should be compared with the normal for the
first 45 years of the records. And the first
45 years should be divided into two periods.
To keep on striking an average for the whole
period, from the very beginning right up to
date, is absurd. The very hottest day on
Melbourne record was 60 years ago, the
very coldest was in July 53 years ago, which
facts do at least suggest that seasons were
more defined in grand-dad’s time than they
are now.
——* •» ■ • -.
“Rio”: According to . Sydney Telegraph
“Mr. Massy Greene, who went to the
Defence Department completely new, is
already beginning to institute big reforms.”
One of them is mentioned :
Rifle clubs are to receive a further 50 rounds per
efficient from June 30, 1921 (making 150 rounds in
all). New members will receive an additional 25
rounds, making a total of 75. The intimation has
been received with gratification by riflemen.
As the world-war drew to a close ail the
nations reduced their rifles by two-thirds,
and replaced them by Lewis and Vickers
guns, Stokes mortars, bombs, gas and tanks.
Sniping became almost the only use to which
the rifle was put. But a country like Aus-
tralia will always produce marksmen foy
this purpose without Government assistance.
In the circumstances it was expected that
one of the first Defence economies would be
the abolition of the already large issue of
free ammunition to the clubs. The riflemen
would still be left their' ranges, equipment
and rifles, with ammunition and travelling
at reduced prices. Yet with army, navy
and air estimates reduced to danger point,
the men of the rifle clubs, two-thirds of
whom did not enlist, and who already have
100 rounds of ammunition yearly free, are
actually to have their ammunition issue in-
creased ! Of course, the mostly elderly gentle-
men who go in for this form of soldiering
like it as much as most of the compulsory
trainees dislike squad drill. In other words,
there are as many votes, probably, in en-
couraging the sport of rifle shooting as there
are in cutting down the training of the
lads who_ prefer cricket or surfing to mili-
tary service. But does it justify, at such a
time as this, the expenditure of an extra
£50,000 per annum? No one is likely to give
an affirmative reply but a rifleman—or a
politician.
-— :
“Jay Kay” on the way we educate -
A late edict of the classical shellbacks at Sydney
Uni. reads that “all candidates who have failed to
qualify for matriculation on the Leaving Certificate
examination will be required to take all the subjects
of the matriculation examination, in accordance
with regulations.” Two typical instances from a
secondary school illustrate the preposterousness of
it. One boy matriculates with B passes in four
“required” subjects. The other, who wishes to
enter the engineering school, secures three A passes,
two honors, one B and a pass in the special general-
knowledge paper set for engineering candidates;
but, as he failed to clear the Latin hurdle, be must
sit for all subjects at matHc. It is bad enough
that a budding engineer, who scores honors in
mathematics and physics, and a first-class pass in
mechanics and modern history, should be obliged
to pass in any language other than his own, but
that he should be compelled ■to take the whole
matric. exam, instead of the subject in which he
failed, is an infliction on ‘ the boy and an absurdity
generally.


inear
AN APPRECIATION.
The Ingliston Consols Extended G. M. Co., Western Australia, bought two "Curvilinears.”
After thorough test the company bought seven more.
The three first buyers in South Africa gave repeat orders for these remarkably successful Tables
and recommended them to their friends. Such evidence of. merit cannot be gainsaid.
Manufactured only by the Patentees,
à
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney.
Melbourne Office: 440 Little Collins Street,
MINING AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Seeing that the new voting system in N.
S. Wales mattes the Labor party’s chances
equally good whether it runs five or 25 can-
didates for five seats, pre-selection only sur-
vives as a dodge whereby a sharp fraud may
secure a seat at a dishonest private ballot
which he couldn’t expect at a fairly honest
public one. But when the monumental ln-
capables in charge are paid for a ballot and
supply only, a. fraud—well, the aspirant who
buys that kind of pup with his last com
has a right, to be cross.
The sinking ship had better keep an eye on
the crew. John Arthur Fihelly leaves
Queensland to take up the ‘Agent-General-
ship, and approaches (absolutely uninspired,
of course) are being made to induce Premier
Theodore to contest a N. S. Wales seat in
the Federal Labor party’s interests. Ques-
tioned about this matter by the Press, Theo-
dore was at first -blandly non-committal, but
wound up by saying: “At any rate, I shall
remain in State politics until we negotiate
the next Queensland election.” The Liberals
may just as well realise that the dirty job
of cleaning up will soon be on them.
For a long time the steel works at New-
castle paid moulders 19s. 6d. per week more
than the legal rate; but bad times came,
and low prices, and it was intimated at last
that the bonus was no longer possible. No-
body said “Thank you” for past favors. The
strike just opened on the spot. The ques-
tion at issue is: If it is possible to pay £0
a week wages for making goods that sell at
£7, does it follow that it is possible to pay
£6 when the same goods sell at £5? Dooley
and McGirr say it is, but then they get
£4400 a vear for. saying it, and they wouldn’t
get anything like as much for saying any-
thing else.
Prime Mystery Hughes has his own way
of doing things. He recently made a thrill-
ing statement about the profits of the Com-
monwealth shipping line. But the account
doesn’t seem to have been debited with the
losses on the wooden anomalies that were
born during the war, and died of premature
old age next day. Also, of the last 11
vessels launched on the backwash of the boom
it is said that seven have never gone to sea,
and that six older ones are laid up for lack
of trade, making 13 in all; and if they have
, been written down to replacement, value let
alone use-value —the public hasn’t heard a
word about it. But, then, what has the
public got to do with it?
Even if it has to clamber over its own
dead body the Dooley Government says it
will keep up the present basic, wage. The
selling price of the nr oods made in return for
the wage—the fund out of which the wage.is
paid—may go on falling till it breaks its
neck and both legs, but Dooley and McGirr
intend to stick. And if they only had the
power to issue paper money they could do
more: they could raise wages. A college
professor, escaped from Russia, told recently
how his wages went up in Petrograd till he
got £350 (nominal) per lesson. Unfortu-
nately the river senarated two lessons, and
the ferry fare was £4OO (nominal). The ferry-
man had his basic wage also. And with it
all the pundit and the boatman hadn’t the
value of a loaf between them.
With five months to go the Westralian
deficit for the current year amounts to
£718,000, which is £147,000 more than Pre-
mier Mitchell’s estimate for the 12 months.
And he can’t plead this time that a railway
strike has made hash of his calculations.
But the magnitude of the monthly debit
balance never causes Mitchell a moment’s
concern. He. regards it as unemotionally as
he would gaze on a stranded cat-fish, phleg-
matically refusing to either increase taxation
or reduce expenditure.
Apropos the beauties of Communism and
its filter-creeds, Higgs, M.H.R., tells a
story which he fastens on to Lane’s New
Australians. Somebody made five of the
pilgrims a present of a piglet apiece. Four
'of the recipients decided to have roast
sucker forthwith ; the fifth resolved to keep
and rear his bacon. But when the swine
grew big, the community betrayed a shame-
ful lust to share in the fat pork which
their brother’s abstinence had brought to
maturity. What happened then Higgs does
not say; but no doubt the pig was “nation-
alised” unless the owner was a dour Scotch-
man with an axe.
It is quite legitimate for Treasurer
McPherson, of Victoria, to blow liis loud
pibroch over the facts that his State carries
the least debt per head in the Common-
wealth and is run with 28s. less taxation
per head than N. S. Wales, and 545. less
than Queensland. But, being in that happy
position, it would be much better if McPher-
son, who is .still borrowing, put £1 per head
ISHMAEL.
“Mr. Levy, the N.S.W. Speaker, has been refus ed the Nationalist selection for Sydney."
oil to his tax bill, and either-stopped raising
new loans, or else provided a great deal bet-
ter for the repayment of old ones. Mcl her-
son is a bright and shining light among Ins
contemporary Treasurers; but, after all, it
isn’t much of an achievement to look bright
and shining on a shelf of pots and kettles.
It is now asserted by the proud A.W.U.
bosses that they control the destinies of
113,163 unionists. Which, considering that
a mere 22,538 voted recently on the 0.8. U.
proposal, suggests that there is a want ot
enthusiasm in the organisation—or it may
be of arithmetic. The 0.8. U. idea is fer-
tile of opportunities for ambitious young
officials. But to the miner at Chillagoe ( Q.)
or the shearers’ cook on the Gascoyne (W.A.)
the prospect of being called out at any
moment by a perfumed seigneur of the new
aristocracy to support a strike of sand-
shifters at Botany (N.S.W.) offers feu
attractions.
In the last (or latest) Sydney Labor
selec':ion-ballot tl e wealthy McGirr topped
the poll and the wealthy M'inahan was among
the chosen five. The victim discarded in
the interests of these pushful representa-
tives o£ the plutocracy was Tom Buckley,
M.L.A.,- who, before he entered Parliament,
was a railwayman. Which recalls that when
the Dooley-McGirr Government rushed 16.
Labor nominees into the House that it used
to talk of abolishing, all the miners, shearers,
railway men, engineers and, so forth in the
State were turned down in favor of a solici-
tor, a brewer, a draper, a commercial travel-
ler, a stock and station agent, and the mana-
ger of a rich company.
A batch of unemployed has just left oft
building new railways for Dooley because it
insisted on £6 10s. a week. Even at £0 a
week it would take a million a month to keep
the existing N. S. Wales unemployed in rail-
way work, and at £OOOO a mile they should
produce 2000 miles of new railway per
annum. N. S. Wales is the proud owner of
2071 miles of-line which lost ±205 per mile
in 1021, and will do worse this year. lo
add 2000 miles more to that heap is travelling
at very high speed. Better set the unem-
ployed building Pyramids. They have no
running expenses.
To start the session with a wrangle on «
no-confidence motion and _ end it with a
count-out seems to be growing into a sort or
habit with the Speck Assembly. At any
rate, something like that has happened in
two successive sessions, with tne result that
the traditional dignity of “the high couit ol
Parliament'’ begum to look like a mouse
drowned over-night in the milk jug. Tne
latest proceedings pretty plainly indicate that
Premier Lee doesn’t hanker after a lull-
dress Parliamentary discussion on the sub-
ject of Leg. Council powers in regard to
money-bills, not improbably holding the
opinion that the eve of a general election m
a most inopportune time for starting a con-
stitutional tight. So, in order to postpone
the trouble, he is de" rinined to clap a stopper
on the voice of Parliament by the simple
expedient of a premature prorogation. This
may not be a very noble or dignified atti-
tude, but who ever heard of a party poli-
tician who could afford to seriously consider
anything but party solidarit”? And, that
being so, what sort of a political leader
would he be who set 17 Assembly National-
ists fighting 17 Upper House Nationalists
over the question of which 1. should have
the last say in money measures?
Startling remark of a Brisbane daily :
Mr Theodore hoped shortly to submit proposals
which, if translated into legislation, would practi-
cally abolish unemployment from the State.
Isn’t it time Theodore invented a fresh
bunch of carrots?
After being nearly two years in office the
N.S.W. Premier boasted the other day that
he had found work for 70,000 male unem-
ployed. That there should be an army like
.that, crowded out of self-supporting indus-
try, and to be provided for on mostly unpay-
able loan jobs which are charged up against
the infant, is the worst thing that could be
said of the Dooleys.
Barring a wet Sunday at Manly there is
nothing more dreary than the newspaper
headline “Mr. Dooley in Reply,” unless it
is Mr. Lang in the same thing. Both ot
them would address a column to a beetle.
On a recent day they shouted at Treasurer
McPherson, of Victoria. Lang scuffled about
to demohstrate that, despite all statements
to the contrary, taxation in N.S.W. is really
lower than in Victoria. The matter doesn t
require .any verbiage. Lang should simply
put up. a bright new precedent by suing the
Federal Statistician for libel. What Dooley
bounced into print to prove was that hi?
unemployed are really Victorians who came
across looking for jobs. So, presumably,
works at Newcastle, Broken Hill and else-
where haven’t really shut; and everything
that looks like closure is merely optical
illusion.
The wholesale slaughter of the Queensland
cow’s baby on its arrival in this vale of tears
Was foreseen by all concerned save the great
Two-Up Government; it was inevitable as
soon as really bad. times arrived. The bul-
lock pays no annual dividend like the sheep.
It pays nothing for three or four years. But
the Government reckons it as income as soon
as it arrives unless it is killed, and collects
on it by instalments. It is valued at £3,
and, with the meatvorks practically gone
out of the cattle business, the full-grown ox,
with years of compound interest his head,
fetche* only £4 IDs. net —if he can be sold
at all. So, to escape taxation, which they
haven’t the mone” to pay with, graziers
are mow anxious to sell yearling steers for
£l. Some people think that there is no limit
to the taxation the people can meet. They
ought to ask the Queensland grazier his
opinion. ,
A sto:y of the pre-selection farce: — .«■
The N. S. Wales Nationalists were holding a pre?
selection bee in their Sydney caucus-i-ooms the other
night. A hideous rumor was suddenly brought to
one _of the candidates by a supporter. “They’re
spreading it about that you’re a Cathlick,” he said.
“The unscrupulous liars!’’ exclaimed the can-
didate. “Everyone knows I’m nothing. Haven’t
been inside any church since I was married.
I’ll explain publicly that it’s a libel!” The old
campaigner who was in charge of the proceedings
drifted along and learned of the intended repudia-
tion. “You’re mad,” he said shortly. “You’d lose
every R.C. vote in the room if you did such a
thing. Leave it to me.” He called for silence.
“Mr. Bloggs here,” he said, addressing the gather-
ing and pointing to an exasperated suburbanite —“Mr.
Bloggs here has just brought to my notice a rumor
of an exceptionally dastardly nature. The slander-
ous story has been circulated that he is an atheist.
Gentlemen, I am authorised to give that an unquali-
fied denial. He is a faithful son of the Anglican
Church, a regular communicant, and” But the
rest of his speech was drowned in hearty cheers.
Ten minutes later it was proclaimed that Bloggs
had topped the poll.
Tom McCristal, one of the Sydney indus-
trialists who refuse to have any truck with
the A.L.P., maladroitly suggested the other
day that there was an entente cordiale be-
tween the party and Booze. Certainly pub-
licans were well up in the scramble for
Labor nominations and at least one enthusi-
astic liquor reformer was plainly told that
he wasn’t wanted as such. But in the con-
verging assault on the tart-shop employees
of the State fish-foundries were, appropri-
ately enough, even more prominent than
Bung. There is about the present-dav N. S.
Wales Labor party, with its many startling
points of resemblance to Tammany, an un-
mistakable aroma of fish.
They are saying that Farrar was not
nearly so keen as Oldham to cut up
Victoria into 11 metropolitan and nine
country divisions for the Iteps. He pre-
ferred 10 metropolitan and 10 rural. Lang
seems to have sided with Oldham, who then
got a reluctant consent from Farrar. The
law justifies Oldham in having more regard
for voters than for territory, but if he had
been a politician swayed by sentiment for
country interests he would have fixed up the
ten-ten scheme. The ; F.U. and A.W.N.L.
executives are protesting, but the metropoli-
tan dailies are apathetic, for the redistribu-
tion suits Liberal party purposes.
While the Melburnians south of the
Yarra are barracking for State high-schools
(there are already four public-schools' and
47 other registered technical schools) they
are reluctant to cash up to the extent of
finding a site of five acres and a contribution
of £5OOO a school. Their modest demand is
for expensive buildings, with no fees to pay
till the pupils are 15, and £0 a year after
that. The Government prefers to spend
whatever money it can spare for State col-
leges on country districts, and that is the
beginning of wisdom. Hope dawns for the
State whose Government leaves off thinking
that any old thing is good enough for the
country.
The usual shindy is raging over St. Pat-
rick’s Day proceedings in Melbourne. At the
moment the procession is banned by the
City Council, but anything may happen
before Saturday, March 18, the day sug-
gested for the parade. A sub-section of
Section -197 of the Local Government Act
gives the city dads power to “regulate” pro-
cessions but not to prohibit them. The word
“prohibit” is used expressly in other sub-
sections, either separately or in connection
with “regulate,” and it is therefore con-
tended that, if the procession takes place and
a pi’osecution follows, the validity of the
council by-law can be challenged. The State
Government doesn’t want to he drawn into
the row, but won’t be able to kee- out of it
if the police have to be given orders . Mean-
time the Eight Hour people have put in tlicir
claim to procesh. And the council is hedging.
PASSING IT ON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The N. S. Wales loan of £7,000,000 will be worth
about 0A p.c. and will be repayable in 1930 and
1940.”-
Whereas it may be strictly true
That lots of loans are falling due
Which in the past were freely lent
At only four or five per cent. ;
And though it’s up to us, my lad,
To meet the bills incurred by Dad
At rates comparatively low
Sorui quarter-century ago;
Which he, in turn, took up with glee
To pay for dear old Grandpa’s spree
Of fifty years ago, or more,
When money was well under four,
We’ll not despond—no, no, indeed !
The Lord provides for every need;
As He renewed the widow’s cruse
No doubt Re’ll help us with the Jews.
For loans in one unbroken line
Have something in them half divine;
Grandfather —father—now to son—
May we not hope to pass them on ?
So they, in their turn, shall assume
The burden of the vanished boom ;
For into slavery they were sold
When Grandpa lavished borrowed gold.
It is a pleasant state of things
Which pious consolation brings:
When ordinary comfort fails,
Look on‘the loans of New South Wales l
QUEENSLAND.
MONTY PEER


THE FINISHING TOUCHES.
Now, my daAf
tie’ll probably
like a cup
tffa wilt* J>iS
break^Ast* Tbi&
t s bow you
irsilk lha
Cow . "
' Av»d vf ha, should like & loft ojA seed -
Kara’s «k flood recipe ?
I dwayS patcl) your
f»o. r-’s paint’s ba/ore
•Hxty £0 too ”
** WitH tV-ad «•*»■»«.» yoo most
. . rcmfttnb&r how IHaif v/eu .»*«.
A rnj»*-ri ed wowaw,"
*' you sc.fi-, yow most
vv«.n into the corners *
It y bcL a little
jprce.)mAfura., loot* tbis
IS p2>.tt<Z.t*rt cyf +f»<ff
pinr»y 1 irnacla. Vov-
tha."V J\jr*ny litHa,
t-oaw’s
baby ."
Always
tna-ka.
your
Y>osbe«d
cbojg H>a
wood # n


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Dunedin S Lyttleton.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
announce their association with the famous Sheffield Firm,
HADFIELDS LIMITED
The New Company—HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED—is
specialising in the manufacture of Steel Castings and Forgings in Carbon
and Alloy Steels to any specification, Machinery Spares, Stone-Breaking
and Ore-Crushing Plante, Mining Requisites, etc., etc.
Note the new name and address: —
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED,
Mitchell Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1911. . £14,393 10p.c.= £9,371 £5,022 £42,632
June, 1912.. 14,237 10 „ „ 9,083 4,554 47,186
f Asset's written up. Reserves trans-
Dec., 1912 4 furred to capital, £82,687.
[ 28,611 10 p.c. ~ 11,989 16,622 63,808
Reserves transferred to capital, 4163,000 808
June, 1913.. 12,885 7p.e.= 12,848 37 845
Dec., 1913.. 13,652 7 „ „ 13,876 621
Dec., 1914.. 28,229 6J ~„ 26,596 1,633 2,254
, —Shares.—,
“A” “B 1 ’ Total.
Dec., 1915.. 31,164 64% 6% 29,912 1,252 3,506
Dec., 1916.. 32,178 61 ~ 6 ~32,320 3,364
Dec., 1917.. 24,962 5* „ 5 ~26,283 2,043
Dec., 1918.. 48,592 8 ~ 8 ~42,054 6,538 8,581
Dec., 1919.. 46,118 8 „ 8 ~43,757 2,361 10,942
Dec., 1920.. 43,620 8 „ 8,,44,054 10,508
Dec., 1921.. 46,294 8 „ 8 ~44,054 2,240 12,748
If the £20,000 or so provided annually in
recent years was a reasonable set-off against
the wastage of assets, then the latest div.
was not earned; for on this occasion only
£15,000 has been taken from income under
the provision of the Gas Act which enables
regulated cos. to charge against revenue
an amount equal to 3| p.c. on the capital
outlay on buildings and plant for “special
purposes and depreciation.” The following
comparisons, besides explaining how profits
in the introductory table Were arrived at,
show how additional expenses have out-
paced increasing revenue: —
1918. 1919. 1920. 1921.
Gross receipts £197,480 £215,548 £256,8}2 £278,895
Total outgoings 120,546 140,501 183,684 207,007
Gross profit £76,934 £75,047 £73,128 £71,888
Less interest 8,126 7,614 7,864 10,594
Depreciation 20,216 21,315 21,644 15,000
Net profit £48,592 £46,118 £43,620 £46,294
Since 1918 receipts have advanced £81,415
(41 p.c.) ; outgoings, apart from deprecia-,
tion and interest on temporary capital,
have increased £86,401 (71.7 p.c.).
From an investment poiht of view, so
long as capital is adequately protected
against assets-wasfage, ihe slender margin
of surplus profits nowadays ip nothing to cause
concern. N.S.W. gas co. divs. are limited to
8 p.c,, and if a management cannot earn
that much for shareholders and at the same
time put aside sufficient for depreciation
it is given the right to go to Court and ask
for a readjustment of prices. A continu-
ance of the standard dividend rate for share-
holders thus depends on keeping a watchful
eye on any increase in cost of production.
This co. has succeeded very well in getting
to the Court in time to maintain the balance
between income and outgo. But dear money
markets have handicapped extensions: the
8 p.c. divs. have not been sufficient induce-
ment to investors to provide new capital,
though at the time the 1912 Gas Act was
amended, to enable that rate to be paid,
8 p.c. seemed high. However, the abnormal
conditions which made money dear are
slowly passing, and given good seasons and
favorable markets, and provided Govern-
ments keep out of the loan markets, the 8
p.c. should again become more attractive. Also,
in future there should be less risk of cos.
not being able to make that much for share-
holders. Costs should begin to ease, while
new consumers in the rapidly _ expanding
northern suburbs should help this co., not-
withstanding that there is .competition from
the City Council electric enterprise. By
the way, the £78,175 allocated for deprecia-
tion and general purposes during the past four
years has not all been written off: £69,104
of it is still shown as a live reserve. But
it is not an accumulation in which share-
holders can have any interest. Even assum-
ing that the 3i p.c. on fixed assets which
the Act allows the co. to lay aside is too
liberal, the most the accumulation can do
is to help the earning of the standard 8 p.c.
During the past three years £llB,OOO-odd
has been-added to assets employed in gas
production, but this expansion has been
assisted by only £25,247 from shareholders.
The co.’s ' position has consequently altered
‘' this way : „„„„
1918. 1919.
Debentures .. . • £140,000 £160,000
Temporary loans.. .. 6,125 13,575
Consumers’ deposits .. 12,768 16.007
Bank overdraft.. .. 2,448 8,233
Other debts .. .. 6,309 28,431
Total liabilities. . . . £167,650 £226,246
Liquid assets (inc. stocks) 44,246 82,402
Excess liabilities.. .. £123,404 £143,844
The £143,844 excess of liabilities over and
above all more or less liquid assets was, of
course, increased by the £22,027 final divi-
dend.
* * » *
The Australian Mercantile, Land and
Finance Co., Ltd.
Written Re-
June, Profits Dividends. Off. serves.
1908. £102,933 12$ p.c.= £65,000 £6,680 £406,079
1909.. 51,631 124 „ „ 65,000 7,012 385,698
1910.. 78,177 124 „ „ 65,000 8,304 390,571
1911.. 189,319 12$ „ „ 65.000 8,828 506,092
1912.. 108,824 124 „ „ 65,000 22,394 527,522
1913.. 103,365 15" „ „ 78,000 27,975 524,912
1914.. 177,125 124 „ „ 65,000 10,609 626,428
1915.. 61,352 10" „ „ 52,000 30,000 605,780
1910.. 58,051 10 „ „ 52,000 100,000 511,831
1917.. 134,671 10 „ „ 52,000 26,000 568,50?
1918.. 87,071 15 „ „ 78,000 5,000 572,573
1919.. 84,976 15 „ „ 78,000 579,549
1920.. 79,287 12$ „ „ 65,000 21,554 572,282
Internal reserve disclosed £25,000 697,282
Lass.
1921.. 32,726 10 p.c. = 60,000 504,556
Accounts are made up to June 30 each year,
but are not presented to shareholders in Lon-
don until towards the end of November. By
the time they reach Aussie they are still more
belated. The co. had a shocking time during
the 12 months to June; not since the ’nine-
ties has it had a lost, like that experienced
last year. No wonder the co.’s aged chair-
man was moved to tell shareholders what a
wretched country this is for the poor absen-
tee capitalist. “Australia,” he wept, “is a
land of extremes, droughts, floods and noxious
animals, such as rabbits, dingoes, blowflies
and mosquitoes!” lie omitted to add that,
despite all the curses which have afflicted
the co., it had grown so fat in the past that
though the year’s accounts showed a loss of
£32,723 the directors did not hesitate' to
hand out £30,000 (10 p.c.) to shareholders.
All except £7728 of the year’s loss was
covered by a shake of the sleeve which
brought to light £25,000 of profits which,
besides those visibly stored in the past, had
been shoved away out of si%ht. Also, whereas
in past years profits had been called upon to
make good the depreciation of public seeuri-»
ties in the market —£21,554 was written off
in that way in the 1920 financial year —-dur-
ing 1921 securities appreciated £23,OSS, and
that “profit” was not taken credit for. So
the only hole made in the balance-sheet has
been due to the payment of a div. which was
not earned. A co. Which for 14 years has
averaged a little more than 12 p.c. p.a. divs.
has nothing to squeal about if things don’t
go all its way now and then.
- Anyhow, the old gentlemen who study
Australian weather reports in London are
not at all sincere in their bitter reflections
on the Qpmmonwealth’s back - country
troubles. As evidence was the avidity with
which £280,000 of new capital issued at par
was snapped up during the past financial
year; shareholders were evidently quite satis-
fied to send good money after bad. Also in
the same period it was decided that Austra-
lian prospects, were so promising that the
business should be extended by acquiring the
old Hill-Clark Co. This extension of inter-
ests when Labor Governments are afflicting
both Queensland and N. S. Wales recalls the
time a dozen years or more ago when the
Labor partv for the first time got control of
the Commonwealth Parliament. The A.M.L.fi ,
was so scared that it decided to get a footing
in Argentina. But it found South America
much more difficult than it had anticipated,
and the directors have very little to say
about that venture nowadays.
The published balance-sheets are not at all
informative; the co.’s station properties,
mortgages and fixed deposits are tied up in
one parcel. But this comparison can be
given for what it is worth: —
6 1915. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities .. £408,660 £414,527 £338,094
2,413,047 2,240,307 2,339,967
Advance on pro- 128,112 179,344
Book debts .. 154,376 170,669 108,867
Ca ments nd 645,680 679,464 675,369
Premises ’.. .. 204,263 225,897 275,724
With a half-million of reserves to support
£780,000 of capital the co.’s position is de-
cidedly snug. Profit-earning is also helped
by a lot of cheap petpetual .stock; nearly
£1,900,000 carries no more than 4 p.a.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd. (Melbourne),
manufacturers of counter-sales books and
other commercial stationery :^ wardg
Oct. Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1910. .. £3,380 8 p.c. = £2410 £970 £6,476
£l2OO transferred to capital .. lbio
1911 4 448 8 p.c. = 2410 2038 5,638
1912" 4640 8„ „ 2410 2230 3,408
1913.. 4,202 8„ „ 2410 1792 1,616
£6O net added to goodwill items 1,67 b
1914.. 3,467 8 p.c. = 2822 645 1,031
Added to goodwill items, £l5 .. 1,040
1915.. 2,750 6$ p.c.= 2418 332 714
Added to goodwill items, £l5 ..
1916.. 3,638 8 p.c. = 2976 662 67
Reserves.
1917 3,732 8„ „ 2976 756 689
ms" e.iso io ;, ;; 3720 2410 3,099
1919.. 6,103 12$ „ „ 4650 1453 4,552
Added to goodwill, £2OO .. 4,352
Premium on new shares, £1792 6,144
1920.. 15.193 10 p.c. = 5811 9382 15,526
1921.. 3,947 10 „ „ 7500 11,973
The accounts show a net profit for the year
of £6590, but that was after extracting
£2643 from reserves to pay Commonwealth
and State taxes. In previous years current
revenue had met all taxation calls. Also,
the -reserves of £11,973 are subject to cur-
tailment by £2648 “in order to meet writing
down of stock values.” though the directors
seem, from their report, to have devoted most
of the amount so withdrawn to other pur-
poses. The balance at P. and L. after
ing the 10 p.c. div. they show as £325, to
which they add the stock depreciation provi-
sion of £2648, giving a total of £2973. But
they cut into this amount for £1666 to
reduce goodwill to £1334, leaving a balance
of £1307 in the P. and L. account. So that
account is no longer in a position to meet
the writing down of stock to the extent of
the £264S mentioned. However, these are
minor movements only, and the striking off
of portion of goodwill in an adverse trading
period is to be commended. Everything con-
sidered. the co. did not do badly in its latest
financial year, and it had been well fortified
in previous terms to stand up to harder
knocks than it received: when business
boomed and gave handsome profits the man-
agement set aside £BOOO in a reserve for
taxation and contingencies, and after recent
tappings £1209 still remained there. With
this and other accumulations the co.. after
payment of the final div., still had £86,973
of assets, apart from goodwill, to represent
the £75.000 of paid capital. Besides, the
financial position was wholly satisfactory
at the balance, as this comparison shows: —
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities .. ..£4,148 £7,311 £23,193 £6,048
Assets: —-
Premises.. v. 4,004 11,252 18,751 18,851
riant . . . . 10,244 13,498 23,815 24,134
Stock . . . . 6,833 10,755 40,064 30,603
Hook debts, cash,
etc 7,331 9,407 27,767 23,183
Over the course of the table capital has
grown from £28,900 to £75,000. At October
31 the co. owed only £4198 on current trad-
ing accounts; that and a mortgage of £lB5O
on Sydney premises make up the £6048 of
total liabilities. More or less liquid assets
amount to £53,786. This cosy position is
due partly to less capital being tied up in
stocks now that prices have dropped—paper
is a big item in the business —and also be-
cause the directors deferred building a new
factory in Sydney. The £1334 balance of
goodwill will disappear from the next
accounts: the Perth end of the business
has been sold, and that amount has been
received for goodwill. But Lamson Paragon
will hold a controlling interest in the West-
ralian co., and possibly portion of its scrip
therein may still be represented by intan-
gible assets. Anyhow, the amount of funds
represented by goodwill has been reduced to
insignificant proportions.
* l * * *
The Executor, Trustee and Agency Co.
of South Australia (Adelaide) :
Written Added to Ite-
Sept., 'Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, serves.
1911. . £5.472 8 p.c. = £1486 £364 £3t>22 £29,616
.1912.. 5,421 10 „ „ 2285 200 2936 32,552
Premiums on new shares . . 182 32,734
1913.. 5,314 10 p.c. = 2287 3027 35,761
Premiums on new shares .. 125 35.886
1914.. 5.359 10 p.c. = 2318 3041 38.927
1915.. 5,874 10 ~ „ 2322 1000 2552 41,479
Premiums on new shares .. 125 41,604
1916.. 4,388 10 p.c. = 2330 2058 43,662
Premiums on new shares . . 307 43.969
1917.. 5,729 10 p.c. = 2358 1500 1871 45,840
Premiums on new shares .. 63 45,903
1918.. 7,892 10 p.c. = 2380 1500 4012 49.915
Premiums on new shares .. 312 50,227
1919.. 7,177 10 p.c. = 2413 1000 4764 53,991
Premiums on new shares .. 5825 59,816
1920.. 10,884 12 p.c. = 4478 1000 5406 65,222
1921.. 10,333 12 „ „ 6000 1160 3173 68,395
In 10 years the annual div. has quadrupled;
but meantime paid capital has gone from
£22,850 to £50.000 by cash-paid issues on
which substantial premiums were asked. To
assist the £50,000 of paid capital there are
now reserves of £68,395, so there is really
nothing very fat about the 12 p.c. Interest
from the co.’s funds alone produced £5227
last year, and the safe deposit gave a profit
of £515. So only £258 had to come out of
dead men’s shoes’ to make up the £6OOO re-
quired for divs. The co. is thus very well
placed to show handsome returns on capital.
Commission earnings last year were £17,755;
expenses took £13,164. The book value of
estates under administration has doubled
in 10 years and now exceeds 4£ millions.
The latest was the co.’s 42nd year, so the net
addition to trusts during the past 10 years
has been as large as the total on hand when
the office had reached its 32nd year. The
funds protecting clients are all they should
be. Assets totted up £121,642 at the bal-
ance, and only £146 was owing to outsiders.
There was £86,179 in public securities and
cash assets.
* * * *
The Producers and Citizens’ Co-op.
Assurance Co. of Australia, Ltd. —The
first accounts put out by this infant were
presented to shareholders in December, but
the period covered by them was only to
July 31 last. The management had at that
date been writing business for just over 12
months.. but the accounts cover the period
from incorporation in May, 1920.. The co.
hitched itself to the Farmers and Graziers’
co.-op. produce-handling concern, an arrange-
ment having been made for the country
staff of the producers’ co. to hawk life poli-
cies as a side-line. In this way the Pro-
ducers and Citizens’ hoped to get a large
business at low cost. It certainly got the
business: 1946 policies assuring over _ a
million, and giving an annual premium in-
come of £34,786. That is easily an Aus-
tralian record for first-year policy-writing.
But all the prospectus talk about low costs,
and the anticipation that “within six months-
of flotation this co. should be working on
a profitable basis,” proved, as the “Wild
Cat” expected, so much hot-air. Apart from
outgoings charged to an organisation and
extension account, “expenses of manage-
ment” took £36,303, which was £3730 more
than total premiums collected. Put another
way, instead of the business being on a
profitable basis, 12 months after the start
not a penny of the premiums was available
for establishing an assurance fund to pro-
vide for liabilities under policies. Besides the
management exes., £lB,lBB was spent on es-
tablishment, etc., including £7318 brokerage
and commission to coax in £48,465 of cash-
paid capital. At July 31 last the co. had
got to this stage: the whole of the year’s
income and £21,394 besides had been spent,
and as £14,000 of the £62,465 of paid capi-
tal represented gift-scrip to the promoters
there was a deficit of £35,394 to be made
good. In addition there was also the
liability under policies to be covered.
For the protection of policy-holders there
was. of course, £27,071 of paid capital
still intact, and a lot of uncalled capital
which might be squeezed out. The 127,000-
odd of funds in hand were, no doubt, ample
protection at the time, from an actuarial
point of view, for policy-holders. But obvi-
ously the concern was very far from being
“on a profitable basis.” Operations have
been extended to other States, and arrange-
ments similar to those in N. S. Wales have
been made with the Victorian Producers’ Co.
and Westralian Farmers, Ltd.
* * a *
Australian Aerial Mail Services, Ltd.
—Several ambitious air ventures have been
before the public in recent years, but they
have either crashed or never developed
wings. Capt. H. J. Larkin unfolds another
scheme whiqh has a stronger appeal. The
little Larkin Aircraft Supply Co., Ltd., got
the ear of the Commonwealth Government,
which has undertaken to pay subsidies
totalling £29,000 for the maintenance of
aerial mail services between Adelaide-Syd-
ney-Brisbane. So the Larkin Aircraft is
now promoting an aerial Cobb and Co. to
take over the contracts and cater for pass-
engers and light freight on the mail routes.
The capital required is not large* the public
is invited to subscribe 15,000 £1 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. (ranking with ordinaries to 10 p.c. if
profits permit), and 30,000 £1 ordinaries.
For passing over the contracts, etc., the pro-
moting co. is to be allotted 15,000 ordinaries.
It is proposed to put into commission three
Handasyde monoplanes, two De Haviland
biplanes and a Wallaby biplane at a
total cost of £23,500. Spares, equipment,
hangars, etc., are estimated to take nearly
£9OOO .more, and flotation exes. £ll5O.
These items tot up £33,650, leaving, if both
lots of shares are fully subscribed, a good
margin of working capital. The prospectus
gives an estimate of working exes, based on
the experience of similar cos. elsewhere.
Including operating costs, £4OOO p.a. to the
Larkin Aircraft as managing agents, and
providing for insurance, replacements and
depreciation, expenses are set down at under
£28,300, which is «. few hundreds less than
the Government contracts to pay in the first
year. The prospectus puts it another way:
it includes 8 p.c. on £60,000 of capital with
costs and shows that only £4066 of revenue
has to be won from passengers and freights
to make that rate of div. possible if the Gov-
ernment continues its subsidy on the scale
fixed for the first year. A feature of the
float is that there is to be no outlay on
aerial surveys, etc.: the fleet will use the
Government landing stations. The pro-
moters may, nevertheless, experience some
difficulty in getting the capital, not on
account of the failure of other floats, but
because the demand for the £30.060 ordin-
aries may not be brisk while £15,000 prefs.
with rights to 10 p.c. divs. are offering.
• * * *
Mount Elliott, Ltd. —The accounts to
June 30 last, showing a loss for the year of
£22,178 after £9058 had been provided for de-
preciation, do not call for much attention.
Interest now centres in the revival of the big
concern which will follow the raising of
£360,000 new capital. Details of the scheme
have so far not been made available, but an
agreement has been come to with English and
French groups to take up equal portions of
this new issue and also to provide more funds
later on. When the war began reserves were
petering out in the old mines; in the Elliott
and Selwyn there were 5750 tons going 11
p.c., a probable 28,000 tons more of the same
grade in Mt. Elliott and Consols, and pros-
pects of a half-million tons of low-grade sul-
phides in the Elliott. In 1915 Mt. Oxide was
taken over, and in the following year the co.
undertook to spend £120,000 on plant, refin-
ing works and development, and also take up


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and arp free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old •style. It coats but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to' be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
ompany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne.— Advt. [2
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [1
The longer Pioneer Wood Pipe has been in-
stalled the more it shows its worthiness. Size for
size it has a greater carrying capacity at first than
metal, and this does not decrease in any way with
time. Its smooth interior allows no accumulation of
sediment; it neither rusts nor corrodes,'and remains
unaffected by electrolysis or frost. This satisfactory
durability reduces maintenance to a minimum. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. NkWton, Patent
Attorney, Pink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035, And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.mson k Co., 433 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants; coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models’’—“National’’ suction-gas engine!
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- tc
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Qua\
(East). — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assai
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s k Oertling’’
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun'i
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowes
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B Selbv ,V Co
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter nod Bom
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., havi
opened a new and commodious showroom at 34'
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientifii
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatui
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biologica
goods.— Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com
panv, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lif
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes o
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build
ing, 14 Martin Place; Sydney.— Advt.
R. G. WATKINS CO.,
107-100 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS. Auctioneers and Valuators.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
ALL CLASSES MINING MACHINERY AND CONTRACTORS’ PLANT AVAILABLE.
Write us for information on Machinery; It will pay you.
4 mU
ra«*
m
The Largest Driving Belts
in Australia.
The illustration shows portion of the
Broken Hill Proprietary Company’s
Bod Mill at Newcastle, equipped v. : th
three 34-inch and one 48-inch
“Pioneer” leather belts —the largest
driving belts in Australia. These w’ere
specially manufactured for the purpose
by J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, Ltd.,
Pioneer House, . 117 York Street,
Sydney.
AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, (Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
£30,000 of Queensland Government deben-
tures, on the Government agreeing to con-
struct a railway to Dobbin.
Mt. Elliott has now a string of new im-
portant producers. General-manager Cor-
bould five years ago reported that there were
45,000 tons of 20 p.c. ore developed in Mt.
Oxide, and that there were probable reserves
of 50,000 tons going from sto 9 p.c. That
show_has developed so well that, instead of
the 95,000 tons of ore in prospect in 1916 and
reckoned to contain 12,500 tons copper, Cor-
bould to-day talks of 300,000’ tons giving
30,000 tons copper. In addition are the
offerings from the Consols, Great Australia,
Dobbin, Argylla, Crusader and Lady leases —
making a “magnificent group of mines capable
of earning very large profits,” says the chair-
man. On that subject, Corbould testifies that
from the ore already developed two millions
of profits should be won with copper at £BO,
while there are “great possibilities” of finding
“many millions of tons” more ore. Mt.
Elliott paid its last div. in 1913. Inciden-
tally, since its inception the co. has spent
£206,017 on machinery, plant, buildings,
water-supply, etc.; much of the plant has, of
course, been scrapped, but the book value of
all these assets nowadays is only £36,020.
Meantime the development account has also
been written down hard: £138,696 has been
spent, and the balance-sheet entry is only
£6S,OSS. Development outlay has repre-
sented Is. per ton on total ore reserves averag-
ing 4.6 p.c. copper.
* * * *
The attempt to effect a complete partner-
ship between Maoriland’s two biggest insur-
ance cos. —the South British and the New
Zealand—has failed. Negotiations have
been proceeding for months, and in August
last shareholders in both concerns were noti-
fied that, subject to their approval, a pro-
visional agreement had been entered into. To
get the two cos. on a level footing it was
considered that all that was necessary was
for the South British to «-et in some addi-
tional capital. A circular issued to share-
holders from Auckland on the Bth inst. ex-
plains why the scheme has been abandoned —■
During the negotiations it has become apparent
that the partnership contemplated and desired would
involve greater capital adjustments by both cos.
than were originally contemplated. The directors of
both cos. have reluctantly come to the conclusion
that, having regard to the present financial outlook,
they would not be justified in recommending the
shareholders of their respective cos. to enter into the
suggested partnership at the present juncture, and
they have accordingly mutually arranged to proceed
no further with the proposal.
Whilst jpgretting that the object desired has not
been achieved, the directors are pleased to inform
shareholders that the friendly relations which have
hitherto existed between the cos. have not been in
any way impaired.
* * * *
At the Sulphide Corp. meeting in London
further figures were presented to show how
working costs at the B. H. Central mine
have soared in recent years:—
Production Cost per ton
crudes (tons), lead concentrates.
19X6 .. .. 182,000 £6 19 0
1917 .. .. 167,000 '8 1 4
1918 . . . . 123,000 9 0 5
1919 . . . . .113,000 9 5 2
1920 .... Nil
1921 . . . . 64,419 12 9 5
Production every year since 1915 has been
affected by some strike or other —not always
at Broken Hill, of course. But the table
tells very convincingly the effect which
smaller output (normal production used to
be about 200,000 tons’ per annum), higher
wages and fewer working hours have had on
costs. The cost of producing lead-concen-
trates from crudes last year was even higher
than indicated by the figures in the table.
The mill-feed during the period included
12,000 tons of dump slimes of high value
which prove amenable to treatment along
with crudes. The Corp. has 175,000 tons
more of this stuff to fall back upon in
future operations, and that is going to be a
big aid to overcoming difficulties. General-
manager Courtney estimates that if only
crudes had been put through the Central
mill last year, every ton of lead concentrates
would have cost £l5 17s.
Though the Sulphide Corp.’s zinc works
at Seaton Carew (Eng.) had a “most diffi-
cult and unsatisfactory year,” the directors
still have hopes that that enterprise will
keep its head above water. Thus Ivintore, at
the annual meeting :
It would have been a tragedy for the English zinc
industry if the war, which it was thought would
wrest the control of this metal from German hands,
had resulted in the destruction even of the small
share in its production which before the war belonged
to this country. I am glad, however, to be able to
say that this is not now likely to occur, as, under an
arrangement with the Board of Trade for the supply
of Australian zinc concentrates, our works, and practi-
cally all the other English works, will shortly resume
operations on a basis which at any rate gives them
a hope of successful working. The arrangement come
to is only a temporary one covering about six months,
but there is good hope that before it comes to an
end a more permanent arrangement will be made with
the Board of Trade covering the whole period of the
Government purchase of Australian zinc concentrates
up to 1930.
As forecasted by the “ Wild Cat,’’ the little
syndicate which, since July, 1920, has been
prospecting to the south-east of Lucknow
(N.8.W.) is to blossom into a no-liability co.
Not for years has a N. 8. Wales gold-mining
venture looked so promising. The syndicate
was formed locally to test Government
Leoiogist Harper s belief in the southern ex-
tension of the field which had given about 90
tons gold and was one of the richest for its
size in the world. Not until the close of last
year was the syndicate rewarded, though
meantime work had shown the existence of
factors necessary for gold precipitation. Hav-
ing at last found a joint, driving got on to
the first colors; later arsenical pyrites were
met and a winze was commenced. A first
sample went over the ounce; 12 to 14 feet
down the winze the shoot widened to 24ft.,
and a Mines Department assay went over
12oz. Ahead there are indications of another
spur and more arsenical pyrites. Having
proved the continuation of the Lucknow joint
and the repetition of gold-bearing spurs, the
syndicate is now being got into shape to
tackle development.
So a prospectus is in draft for the South
Lucknow N.lj, of £52,500, in 300,000 shares
of 3s. Od. It is an almost unique document:
money invested at the beginning, it says, “will
be spent below ground on mining work, and
not frittered away in big salaries and costly
office and useless surface expenditure.” There
is no cash consideration in the float, no stiff
promoters’ cut; even directors’ fees for the
first year are to be paid in scrip. As a basis
for flotation the 40 acres are valued at
£24,000, and the valuation given development
work, which has taken £l6OO of the syndi-
cate’s cash, is £3500. For this total of
£27,500 scrip paid up to £26,003 is to be
made available for the syndicate, and the
balance of £1437 (in scrip) goes to direc-
tors in lieu of fees and for helping the flota-
tion. All this scrip is not fully-paid : 100,000
shares will be paid to the full 3s. 6d., the
balance of £lOO,OOO being paid to 2s. That
will leave 100.000 contribs. to provide work-
ing capital. Syndicaters have first call on
these shares for 14 days from date of issue of
the prospectus, and it is unlikely the public
will have much opportunity to become inter-
ested. The shares are offer d at Od. to begin
with, two calls of 3d. to follow at intervals of
three months. Allowing £5OO for registration,
the co. will have about £4500 cash to play
with in the first .year. Incidentally, the syn-
dicate is donating 250 of its fully-paids to
the Orange Hospital.
* * * *
Cope’s Creeji (N.S.W.) went back £6095
last year, £2449 of it representing the loss
on the past six months’ run. So The office
is not permitted to print even a poor little
balance-sheet or a manager’s report. Still,
a lot could have been said. The loss was not
due to poor ground or to the metal market.
It arose from the cost of recovering barges
washed away and sunk when the big floqds
came. This is the first time in 20 years the
co. has had bad luck, but others have had
to face such misfortunes over and over again
and yet have not wept so copiously. What
hurts is that the co. can’t expect to get rid
of its loss so long as tin is below £225 a ton.
As the outlook for that price is dismal, calls,
which the well-fed crowd abhors, are the
alternative. Still with a life- of 10 or 12
years ahead, and a fine divvy record behind,
why grizzle?
#** ’ *
“Alumina”: There are other uses for N.
S. Wales bauxite besides those mentioned
by the “Wild Cat” (B. 12/l/’22). Refrac-
tory bricks are being extensively manufac-
tured elsewhere in the world from bauxite
which is in no respect superior to the local
stuff. Perhaps our steel-makers are not yet
aware of the deposits at Wingello and else-
where in N. S. Wales. When they over-
come their own troubles they might look into
the matter of giving another loyal industry
a helping hand.
* * * *
J. Malcolm Newman has a final say:—
I am interested to learn from Mr. Atkinson
(B. 9/2/’22) further facts about Vegetable Creek,
and note that he has not found either tin or porphyry
in the present floor of the lead. I aih, however;
not disposed to accept at this stage conclusions
based on this negative evidence, but would repeat:
the fact, stated by Mr. Atkinson, that the grade of
wash has been about the same for a length of many
miles appears to me a fatal objection to the theory
that the tin has come from a distant source. Grad-
ing analysis from different points along the lead
would be of great assistance in determining the
origin of the tin.
The market is being prepared for another
flutter in Ives Reward (W.A.). The State
battery recently installed on the field is
crushing parcels from numerous parties, and
because one little lot of 44 tons from Cor-
ney’s Find has averaged nearly 3£oz. and
most other parcels have given good returns
the public is expected to be on the bite again
soon. Ives Reward drew, last place on the
waiting list, fiut 100 tons go through the
battery this month, and the co. will have
another turn with a much larger parcel of
ore in May.
Work is about to commence in earnest at
Freney’s oil (W.A.). The Government hav-
ing agreed to lend a hand, assistant-Govem-
inent geologist Blatchford has set out for
Kimberley to begin survey work. He will
be assisted by H. W. Talbot, who was
formerly a Mines Department geologist. The
co. has also leased State boring plants
capable of getting' down 4000 ft. The West-
ralian Government has decided to allow lease-
holders to dispose of part of their big hold-
ings, and a Sydney group has succeeded in
getting a concession of 1000 sq. miles adjacent
to Price’s Creek, where the Freney Oil
intends putting down a bore. This area will
probably be offered in a Sydney float, but
Freney’s will get a big scrip interest.
*•# * * *
Another speculative Westralian oil float,
with ex-Attorney-General Robinson and one
of the squatting Darlots as directors, is
announced. Others are hanging fire owing
to Professor David’s warning against ex-
pecting economic results at Kimberley too
quickly. He, however, reiterates his belief
in the ultimate success of the field, and' on
the strength of this some outside dealing is
being done in Perth and Adelaide in
Freney’s, Okes and Australian Petroleum.
Vic. Mines Minister Barnes has let out
the opinions of his geology staff on oil pros-
pects in the Cabbage Garden. At the South
Aus. Oil Wells meeting some of the big guns
talked so confidently that, if heated gas tells
of the nearness of oil, petroleum should have
flooded Queen-street. Instead, the local
market boom has burst, and Adelaide and
Perth are left to carry on as they did with
Hampton Plains. Boola Boola aspirations have
to face the statement that the Department
has sunk 156 bores in that area and adjoin-
ing parishes to depths varying from 100 ft.
to 1770 ft. without getting a sniff of petrol.
The geology staff has counted up 8700 bores
of all sorts sunk in the State without petro-
liferous material being met.
G. M. Powell, inventor of the plant,
operating at A. J. King’s Nawng Pet, writes
from Federated Malay States:—
In reviewing the Trang consolidated prospectus
(B. 24/11/’2l)' it is stated that I consider the pro-
perty ideal for my method —that is, by the Powell
Suction Elevator. 1 wish to state that that is all
I do know. I have no knowledge whatever as to
water-supply, dump, values, etc.
Mr. Powell is under a misapprehension. No
statement whatever, as ty either water-
supply or values at the Trang Consolidated,
was credited to him. The “Wild Cat’’ made
it clear that the particulars about the new
property were from A. J, King’s report
put out at flotation, and except for the
mention of the proposal to equip the prop-
erty with Powell elevators, Mr. Powell was
not associated with the float.
* * * *
Sydney, which holds a lot of the scrip,
has lately been uneasy about prospects at
Nawng Pet. There had been talk of a
Christmas div», but that did not eventuate;
and the absence of information as to opera-
tions at the mine since the announcement
that the Powell elevator had, in develop-
ment work, shifted 49,000 c. yard at a record
low cost of ,4d. per yd., hias produced a
severe market depression. The doubts
concerning the Pet are not as to the tin
values in the property • the question is
whether the Powell process will produce
so successfully as was anticipated. It might
—if the show had the resources of the
Sydney water-supply. Malayan experts are
satisfied that with adequate water-power
ground can be handled more cheaply by the
Powell plant than by any other process.
The chief difference from an operating
point of view between this and other plants
is that, whereas the latter can lift materi 1
only from a sump immediately beneath the
pipes, _ the Powell process- -includes horizon-
tal pipes which can shift material within
a radius of 23 chains. The Pet has a dam
at an elevation of 700 ft. giving a pressure
of about 3001 b., and that cannot provide
sufficient water for continuous work by
the Powell process. Unless the water-
supply is fed bv heavy rains or floods it is
doubtful whether continuous work will be
possible, and it is considered that during the
dry season the co. will be lucky if it can
run tb° plant a week.
* * * *
Malaya is depressed and suspicious nowa-
days; so when South Taiping had its second
annual roll-up recently the directors were
bombarded with questions. One shareholder
wanted to know- whether the Board would
publish particulars as to acreage and values,
but all he was told was that that information
had been given to shareholders at the statutory
meeting. But has anybody outside- the South
Taiping Board-room ever seen the bore re-
sults? If the area is all it was claimed to
be when floated, why should shareholders not
be given full details of the property? The
co. placed an order in the Commonwealth
for a dredge to cost £72,000; now, owing to
higher costs, it finds that it is to be billed
for £90,000, which is considerably more than
the subscribed capital. Construction has also
been delayed, but it is doubtful whether the
directors have been very anxious to com-
mence metal winning with tin prices at low
ebb.
* * * »
The one busy spot on Cloncurry is the
Mount Cobalt mine, which two years ago
had only a couple of prospecting shafts. It
now employs about 50 men. The new con-
centrating plant should be ready next month
to make a start on the low-grade ore of which a
large tonnage is either blocked out or at grass.
The lode has been opened along No. 1 level
for 250 ft., with every indication of large
reserves ahead. Much of the ore taken out
is pure cobaltite, which can be bagged and
stripped straight away. The hanging-wall
country carries a crushed strip seamed with
the sulphide and arsenate of cobalt, which
should pay for concentration and thus
largely increase the prospective supplies of
low-grade ore. As the two ’Murkan cos.
which have controlled the production and
price of cobalt for many years failed to
secure an interest in this Queensland mine,
it is on the cards that a sudden drop in
cobalt prices may be their declaration of war
on the upstart.
* * » »
Wedderburn, one-time famous for its rich
mining, and later brought into prominence
through being the home town of Jaclia, V.C.,
is making an endeavor to revive gold-mining.
Fone’s Albert Jacka Gold Mines, at Burke's
Flat, a few miles out, is to be registered with
a capital of £56,000, and other cos. are talked
of.


ANOTHER DRUM BUSTED!
“Mr. Hughes’s Round Table Conference on the industrial question is likely to be abandone. The Trades Hall has declinded to send delegates."


1
i
n
i
’00777?,
2
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
I Simeon Store fVI 102 Daking House,
LcUIIiMHI Service V/U., Svdney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor 200 High St., Christchurch
W A.-H. Little S- Co.. 851 Hay St., Perth
\
“The drink of Good Taste.”
f
Serve your
week-end
guests with
the best!
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
S2SI
LIGHT
SGEWO%
** extra high grade* "
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2] li. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
SIR WILLIAM ALLARDYCE, who says
he can’t afford butter for his crust on
the allowance given him as Governor of
Tasmania, and has consequently left the
job.
Of the McGowen Ministry, the first to
represent Labor in N.S.W. (1910-13), not
one member remains in the Leg. Assembly.
And only McGowen and Flowers are in the
Leg. Council. Macdonell, Trefle and Dacey
are dead.
Died in Sydney on Tuesday, after a brief
illness, Bertram Stevens, close friend of every
Australian poet and artist who has blossomed
during the past quarter-century. Born at
Inverell in ’72, Stevens developed his literary
inclinations with the old Sydney law-firm of
Allen, Allen and Hemsley, and meantime col-
lected and edited the memorial edition of John
Farrell’s Poems and “An Anthology of Aus-
tralian Verse.” For years from March,
1909, he had charge of The Bulletin’s Red
Page, and for some time afterwards was
editor of The Lone Hand. With Syd
Smith he then established Art IN Australia,
the best review of pictorial art yet attempted
in the Commonwealth; later the quarterly
Home was started. These two ventures had
both been got on to a sound commercial basis
when the end came. Generous and self-
sacrificing to the last degree, Stevens will
be better remembered for the assistance he
gave to others than for anything he did with
his own pen.
Seen his last edition to ftress, Walter J.
Jeffrey, managing-editor Of Sydney EveninU
News, who collapsed at his post on Monday
and died next morning. Born at Portsmouth
(Eng.) 61 years ago, he was for a time at
a liaval college, then did some Voyaging in
sailers ahd was in the Trinity IloUse ser-
vice before taking to the Inky Way. He
came to Australia in 1886, joined the Even-
ing News in 1888. and a few years later
saw him the executive head. Jeffrey col-
laborated with Louis Beckj in several books
JOE DARLING, now an M.L.C. of Tas.,
who took three Australian Elevens to
England.
and turned out a number from his own pen.
He carried a whiff of the sea till the end,
but beneath his bluff manner there was a
likeable personality. A widow and one sur-
viving daughter are left.
Charles Goode, the just-dead Adelaide
merchant, sat in Parliament with Adam
Hindsay Gordon. It was the American Civil
War which made him resign his seat, be-
cause it was damaging his cotton business.
He was one of the founders of Adelaide
Advertises, and at one period of its early
ri r /wf' es it: outright—purchase price
ioULHJ, as he liked to recall in its later boom
days.
I)i. Earle Page, leader of the Country
party in the Reps., has won his way by his
°J n r *°£ d **/£?*« His father, a coachsmith
at Grafton (N.S.W.), had no cash to spare
toi a superior education, so the youngster
had to make a series of bursaries his step-
ping-stones to higher things. He was a bril-
liant youth, flashing through college to the
Uni.., and carrying thence a name for dili-
gence which soon made his practice
lucrative.
Architect G. H. M. Addison, of Brisbane,
nnally laid down his pencil on February 6.
Born in 1857, in Wales, the son of a York-
shire Anglican parson, he did Government
work in S. Aus. as a young man, crossed to
Melbourne to Terry and Oakden (afterwards
Oakden, Addison and Ivemp), and then
moved on to Brisbane. Many of the best build-
ings in Bananaland’s capital are his. He lost
a son in the war and never seemed the same
after. Addison’s thrust at a bullying bar-
rister who was cross-examining him as an
expert witness is historic. After a series
of insulting queries Fees asked : “You were
the architect of my private house, were vou
not/” “That is so,” said Addison. “Ah',
then you will recollect an error vou made in
the building. Is that so?” “Yes,” replied
G.H.M. reflectively, “I do recollect a serious
error I made in connection with that build-
ing.” “Ah!” said the gent, in the- wig.
“Gentlemen of the jury, please listen care-
fully while this expert .witness admits that
he made an error, a serious one, in my little
house, then judge of the value of his evi-
Now, sir, what was this error you
made?” “I designed it as a gentleman’s
residence,” said Addison quietly.
Fihelly, as Queensland Agent-Genera], is
to have the job for five years, at £1250 a
year, plus £5OO for residence, etc., £2OO for
motor-car hire, and £6O for entertaining.
The genial young man’s £6O for “entertain-
ing’’ will go in the first month or thereabouts.
Adelaide has lost one of its best-known
journalists by the death of William Wedd.
He Was the first editor of the Daily Herald,
Labor’s pioneer venture in daily journalism in
the capital cities of Australia ; but the handi-
cap of working with a committee of which
each member wanted to show who was boss
proved too big. In his last years Wedd
was almost blind; but he learnt to use a
typewriter and wrote from touch.
Nihe Australian artists are now elected
members of the Royal (London) Institute,
the Royal Academy’s rival. They are Street-
on, Power, Leist, Quinn, Coates, Dora
Meeson, Burgess, Bryant and Isaac Cohen.
The number of.R.l.’s is so limited that the
Australians make quite a force within the
charmed circle. Streeton, by the way. has
just sold the N.S.W. Committee of the
Princess Maty Fund a £6OO view of the
Harbbr. It is t,o be the principal wedding-
gift Of the MU State ladies.
Arthur Griffith* the big man of the new
Irish Free State, used to be a diamond-miner
in the Transvaal. After he got back to the
homeland he was the spirited producer of
the United Irishman, an organ that blazed
with his peculiar brilliancy as a phrase-maker
and had a very large circulation. But it
was Sinn Fein, started in 1909, that estab-
lished his reputation as a hard-hitting con-
troversialist with a wealth of learning behind
him. This was an afternoon sheet and did so
well in a propaganda way that it was sup-
pressed in 1914. , Griffith, broad-faced, smil-
ing and rather shortish, isn’t an idealist like
De Valera, and would have nothing to do
with the disastrous Dublin rising of 1916.
J. C. L. Fitzpatrick, who provides most
of the snap (what there is of it) in the
N. S. Wales Nationalist -party, had his
60th birthday on Feb. 12. In July he
will have been an M.L.A. for 27 years. "An
adroit tactician, Fitz. has several times
saved his party from blundering into un-
pleasant. situations, but his uncontrollable
sarcasm hasn’t helped him in its inner
councils.
The Lawson Government has decided to
keep speculation alive regarding the new
Police Commissioner until March 28. The
postponement is to enable the Government
to get its wind after the recent criticism, and
allow any aspirants for the job to send in
their lists of qualifications. Some members
of the Cabinet have been toying with the
idea of importing a chief from Scotland
Yard, but kites show fhat it won’t do.
Acting-Chief Commissioner Nicholson has
some weeks to dig himself in, and that helps
to make his chances look rosy.
E. J. Brady is now buried in a tent on a
portion of his estate at Mallacoota (Vic.)
writing movie scenarios with great fury. He
hasn’t definitely decided to go to California
to- learn the art of movie production, but in
his present vein of enthusiasm for the busi-
ness he should be packing up for Universal
City during the next few months. Mean-
time his home has been converted into a
hostel for tourists under a competent mana-
ger, and soon the papers will be asking for
lodgers capable of appreciating the sea, air
and foliage in that sunlit part of the world.
Clifford Nash, who is to lecture on metal-
lurgy and metallography at the Melbourne
Varsity while A. J. Higgin is tripping this
year, is a young Australian who gained
his first metallurgical honors at the Balla-
rat School of Mines and then picked up a
few more diplomas at Freiberg (Germany).
For the last few years he has been at
McKay’s Sunshine Harvester Works. Nash
was the first Australian to tackle the metal-
lurgical problems involved in the manu-
facture of copper and brass tubes, and it
is to his credit that practically all the ships
of the Australian-built fleet are equipped
with Australian-made condenser tubes.
Dan Levy’s grievance against the National-
ists who set a mark on him mostly centres
in an organiser, one Kohan. Kohan (known
as “Hoppy” when he was a Laborite) used
to publish the Newsletter when John
Haynes ran it, and was Sancho Panza to
Haynes’s Quixote. He had a few attempts
at Parliament himself, as a Laborite, one of
them being at Petersham in opposition to a
man of the same tribal designation as himself
but spelt Cohen. There is a strong infusion
of old-time Laborites in the Nationalist
Association. For instance, J. C. Watson
was chairman of the meeting which dealt
with the Sydney selection, and he has
acted in a similar capacity in other consti-
tuencies.
. Farson Hal D. A. Major, who is the vic-
tim of a heresy hunt by the Bishop of
Oxford and his pack, is a Maorilander by
birth and education, having graduated at
Auckland University College. He has filled
the pulpit at both Westminster Abbey and
St. Paul’s Cathedral. A brother, once an
Inky Wayfarer, is now chasing Costs in dry
Master ton.
J- Fitzmaurice, of Abbotsholme College
(A.S._W.), didn’t wait to learn whether the
Bondi life-saver Chalmers was married
but forwarded a cheque for 10 guiheas to the
fund and an intimation that, if he had a son a
HARRY GULLETT, boss of Commonwealth
immigration at this end, now busy ex-
plaining that Australia is not getting an
excessive disproportion of jockeys and
typistes.
free scholarship awaited him at Abbotsholme.
Fitzmaurice has a habit of scattering scholar
ships in recognition of admirable deeds. He
has already told the Repat. Department that
he is prepared to give 100 deceased soldiers'
sons scholarships, which, include free board.
He is that rare bird, a pretty well-to-do
schoolmaster; but that doesn’t detract from
his generosity.
' John Morgan Worthington will carry the
mace no more in the Vic. Assembly. An
Order-in-Council cutting him off the pay-roll
was put through last week; the Board, which
sifted his association with the War-bonds
incident, having recommended that he should
be bo.wed out of the service. x\s to his suc-
cessor, Croll, Registrar of the Council of
Education, Gray, Chief Clerk of the Labor
Department, and Digger Gale, M.C., private
see. to Peacock, are mentioned; but if the
Government wants to economise it can, of
course, abolish the job without making even
a crack in the blessed foundations of the
State.
11. I. Cohen, K.C., M.L.C., has got ; some-
thing. He has been appointed what John
Gavan Duffy called a Keeper of the Great
Seals a trustee of the Melbourne Exhibit
tion and aquarium. Cohen’s friends would
have had him in the Cabinet in place of Lay
Canon Merritt, or on the bench instead of
Macfarlan, if they could have had theif way,
but the Ministry decreed otherwise. If Baillieu
leaves the Council the House will be forced
back upon Cohen as unofficial leader, and
them he will'be a factor in politics.
“First”: Dr. Dwyer, present Bishop of
Maitland, was the first Australian-born R.C.
bishop, having been consecrated Coadjutor-
Bishop in 1897; but the late Dr. Stretch, of
the Anglican See of Newcastle, got ahead of
hinx by more than a year. 'Fred Johns re-
cords in his “Notable Australians’’ that Dr.
ktretch was “consecrated Coadjutor-Bishop
of Brisbane in 1895, and was the first Aus-
tralian born and bred to attain the Episcopal
Bench.”
(Lo ? d -) : Passed out at 80, H.
• Hyncj m an, founder and - leader of the
British Social Democratic Federation, and
sometime leader-writer for Melbourne
Argus. But it was after his return to
London from his vagabondish world-wander-
was converted to Karl Marx.
v\ hile Hyndman was writing leaders for the
Argus he had as a contemporary George
Ugden, a wild and woolly democrat, who
used to spout revolution from the steps
the G.P.O. in Bourke-street. They pro-
bably never met in Melbourne, but in after
years they became brother-preachers and
propagandists of socialism in London. Both
tried unsuccessfully to get into Parliament
several times on the advanced democratic
ticket. Hyndman’s father made a big for-
tune m the slave trade, and possibly in re-
pentance bequeathed £150,000 to religious
institutions.
DEDUCTIONS ALLOWED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I travelled home from Oceanville last night upon the
tram;
A lot of other folks were on it too,
And, like the keen observer and philosopher I am,
I studied them as I am wont to do.
A dignified old broker with his nose in Dun’s
Gazette,
A shrewd young clerk with pimples on his chin,
A pasty-looking student, with a Turkish cigarette,
A flapper who had never learned to grin ;
A self-possessed young lady with a glance that seemed
to chill,
A woman with a Addle and a frown'—
A stolid lot of folk, it seemed, came home from
Oceanville
Upon that tram that brought me back to town.
A sober lot of folk, and yet 1 noticed as he went
The broker shed an atmosphere of rye,
And as the cool young clerk above his “last edition”
bent
1 saw a smudge of powder on his tie.
The pasty-looking student with the Turkish cigarette
Then stamped upon the butt and rose to leave;
A bashful individual he seemed to be, and yet
An auburn hair was trailing from his sleeve.
The flapper with the solemn eyes was next to leave
the car;
I noticed that her coiffure was a wreck.
The breeze perhaps had tossed it so (you know what
breezes are),
But what about the tooth-marks on her neck ?
The self-possessed young lady with the calm and
steady gaze,
Who held a “movie” programme in her hand,
Just happened, as she passed along, my overcoat to
graze,
And on it fell a stream of silver sand.
The lady with the fiddle-case then turned to pay
her fare;
Perhaps she once had played a violin;
The case had held a fiddle once, but I’m prepared to
swear
I heard the clink of bottles from within.
I travelled home from Oceanville last night upon
the tram;
A lot of other folks were on it too —-
Old Smug Respectability, Hypocrisy and Sham,
Deception with the lining showing through!
I found it entertaining, coming citywards last night,
Such fields for nature-study are so rare;
Detecting human weakness is a source of real delight.
To-day I found some grass seeds in my hair!
VICTORIA.
VAIBEN LOUIS.


u
HireeCa”-^
Ggaretto
h o-yOh
* v «lia) LidSy“
S
1
Heavy Weiohi.
s
irue io-cfay
li's just
as
siime
?
c
H
«s
l\
%
u
y,
i
m
Si
\
¥
THE-
■'JtRGINIKNS
Thrr
Co flips
V/y
1
/I
!
m
&
////
1
%
m
w
m
4
if
pi
£
fT*
Lin
u
There’s no sweeten Tobacco comes fromYipginia
and no betten Bnand than the Three Castles.”
7fie /kmous jbraricf of W.D. off.O.Wzlte. Thackcpccy. TRieA/irginiansr


A Strong Boot for Outdoor Wear.
Men whose work takes them out-of-doors in all weathers
appreciate the strength and comfort of this serviceable
Black Mineral Hide Cossack offered by Peapes’ at
18/6
Even in this working boot the influence of Peapes’
quality is plainly noticeable. It is a boot that is most
durable, being stoutly made and neatly finished.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
PLEASE STATE SIZE.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
ã
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Bath.s-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
“Jim Carew” : This Australian is a mate
on a windjammer, and was engaged to a
typiste in Sydney. When he arrived in port
a fortnight ago he was told that Edna had
been consoling herself in his absence by fly-
ing round with a young clerk in her office,
and that there were reasons why consoled
and consoler should get married. Instead of
looking for his deposer with a whip or a gun,
Bill got the pair together, inquired as to
their finances, which were painfully meagre,
made them a present of sufficient money to
start them in their married life, saw them
BUBBLES.
“Excuse me, but aren't you Miss Smith?”
“Yes —if you like.”
safely hitched up, and then went to sea
again. I’ve only heard of it since Bill
sailed; but I’ll be waiting to shake hands
with him when he gets back.
* * * *
“X2X” : There is no telling what a bullet
will do once it gets on its way. I had a case
in which a missile fired from a revolver
went in a few inches above the elbow of a
man’s right arm and came out in almost the
same spot on the left arm, having travelled
nearly parallel with both humeri, across each
axilla and along the shoulder blades. But
against all erratic bullets I am prepared to
back the case which occurred a few months
ago in a Central Queensland toAn. The vic-
tim was accidentally shot at a range of 22ft.
with a high-velocity sporting rifle which fired
a conical-shaped nickel bullet. The missile
struck him fairly and squarely in the mouth,
which was closed at the time; but instead of
blowing his head off it merely smashed every
front tooth, then wedged itself between his
cheek and some of his back teeth, from where
it was later dislodged by the doctor who was
called in—my brother. Beyond a few lacera-
tions of tissue and minor injuries to the in-
side of the patient’s mouth, he suffered no
harm.
* * * *
“Corio”: You can’t beat the wonderful
bush-women for grit. One living in this
district of Victoria has so far had 17 chil-
dren, and when the last addition was about
seven months old the mother got a poisoned
arm. It was 11 miles to the nearest medico.
Without any fuss she put her bad arm in a
sling, and, taking up the baby on the other,
walked into town. The arm having been
attended to she set off to walk 1 ick, but a
kindly pub-keeper insisted upon her resting
and having dinner, and then provided her
with a pram in which she cheerily pushed
the .youngster home.
* * * *
From an Adelaide court:—
Albert Smith and Olaf Olsen were deckhands on a
River Murray barge, and Smith cut Olsen’s head
almost off with an axe. He had previously told
several persons that he.intended to cut Olsen’s head
off, but as he had'been .drinking he was not taken
seriously. After the crime he weut to the police-
station and gave himself up. To the doctors who
visited him in his cell he was quite frank about the
killing, and said he often felt that he must kill per-
sons who made him “terrible wild.” At the trial in
Adelaide one doctor testified in his favor that he was
suffering from “impulsive insanity” at the time of
the crime, and that the act would not then appear to
him to be one which he ought not to do. On the
other hand, two prominent alienists gave evidence
that the man was sane at the time of the crime, and
that, though he was of a primitive type of mentality,
he was capable of' distinguishing between right and
wrong. Justice Parsons directed the jury that “im-
pulsive insanity” is no defence in law. He left to
the jury two questions:
Was accused at the time suffering from such a
defect of reason due to disease of the mind as not to
understand the nature and quality of his act?
Was accused at the time conscious that the act
was one he ought not to do?
The jury said guilty, and he was sentenced to. death.
The result (though, of course, the death-sentence
will not be carried into effect) would have been
quite agreeable to Forbes Winslow, the great Eng-
lish alienist. A man once consulted him, telling
him that he (the patient) felt an irresistible im-
pulse to kill a certain person. What would happen
if he did? “Well, I. know what shall happen so far,
as I am concerned,” replied. Winslow. “I shall be at
the trial doing my.best to get you hanged,” There
was no murder after that.
* * * *
“Mrs. Lance Rawson”: During the Palmer
Rush in 1875, while returning to Mackay on
the Baldutha, which was crowded to the port-
holes with daggers and others (mostly others)',
I was hauled from my berth one night by a
scared stewardess and an infuriated skipper
who wanted me to assist a young Australian
into the world. After one of the wildest
scenes imaginable, on the deck of the small
steamer, among a crowd of men who were
playing cards and two-up with their backs
towards us, we succeeded between us in intro-
ducing the new arrival to the world and to
his mother, a young girl, who had come on
board as a stowaway in boy’s clothes, with
a lad a trifle older. Incidentally, a parson
insisted on marrying them within lialf-an-
hour. .
* * * *
“Herodot”: W. J.' Cassidy (B. 2/2/’22),
who is going to put a tombstone over the
grave of the New Guinea girl who helped
him to escape a cannibal feast in which he
was to be on the menu, isn’t the only white
man so aided by a native lady. Some years
before the war a German and
paradise-bird hunter in the Eitape district
was in just such a predicament, when a girl
made a hole in the side of the house in which
he was locked, crawled through and unfas-
tened his bonds. He made for the coast and
fell in with a patrol of native-police under a
German officer. The girl was saved during
the subsequent slaughter, and she went back
with the party to the district station at
Eitape, where a missionary married her to
the man whom she had saved from going to
pot. The German Administration used to
discourage black-white uniops, ' but in this
case it made, an exception and the lady was
accorded almost the status of a European.
She was educated by a mission at Rabaul,
being kept separate from the other natives
during the process. Then her husband topk
up land close to Morobe and subsequently
became the father of five children. After the
Armistice, when her husband was sent hack
to Germany,'she and the youngsters- (six by
then) went with him, and they are living
there now.
* * * *
“Kismet”: They were out to kill, no doubt
about it. The Jap had spilt water on the
Malay cook’s very clean kitchen floor, .and
when Saiman, the cook, swore at him he pur-
posely spilt some more. That began it. A
fight at 5 a.m. and no drink behind it means
blood. When they were both grey in the'face
and the Jap had -Samian's thumb between his
strong white teeth and was biting it off, and
the Malay had his other thumb in the Jap’s
eye and was gouging it out, and the conval-
escents were getting a sick feeling, the little
matron in a pink kimmy dashed in. She
dragged the Malay’s thumb out of the Jap's
eye and smacked the Jap’s face till he let
the half-gnawed-off digit go. Youematsu, the
Jap, was taken to court and fined and bound
DOMESTIC ECONOMY.
“It's costing us as much to live as ever, and everything
is down thirty-three per cent. "
“Of course, you silly beetle —when things are cheap you have to buy a lot more of 'em,"
over to keep the peace for three months—
which he didn’t. Late that afternoon wheh
the matron Was having tea On her Verandah
out of the eorbei- of her eye She saw the
Jap slide past and make for the cook’s
quarters, which adjoined the'outer Jap ward
about 50 yards from the main building of
the Thursday Island hospital. Out she slid
after him, and took a loaded revolver from
him —he had it tied up in a handkerchief
with some bananas. Then he was gaoled
well and gobd. And the matron —a little
handful of. a lady from the South, and still
flower-like. All going to prove how women
wilt in the North.
* * # *
“S.N.T.”: A boy at Rozelle (Sydney)
celebrated New Year’s Day by swallowing a
penny. How he got it down is a mystery ;
but a chum helped him by punching him in
the face while he had the coin in his tnouth.
Smaller coins, up to the size of a shilling,
have frequently been swallowed, but a penny
seems an outsize meal for a child. The Safe
deposit is inspected at intervals by a doctor,
but at time of writing he was still holding
and suffering no apparent ill-effedts. His
younger brother, who has a half-share in the
coin, is really more put oUt about it.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig” On marred memories: —
Charles Larsen, a Digger, of the 2nd Division, when
he was buVied by a shell on the Somme in 1917 had
his tin hat pressed heavily on his head by the weight
of the earth, and after his recovery suffered from at-
tacks of dizziness. On Boxing Day he was bathing at
(jQOgee, when a “dumper” flung him on the sand,
and -he was picked up unconscious. When he. re-
gained his senses it was found that his memory had
been mislaid, and he had even to be taught how to
feed himself. The memory came back suddenly on
February 7. Head cases were always weird. Oh@
man who had a plate inserted in his skull in place
of some broken bone, apparently bore no ill-effects and
was returned to the. line. Rlit the weight of his
tin hat, after it had been , borne for a very little
time, induced a strong mental excitement always
associated with loss of memory. This landed him
in trouble, which would have led to a court-martial
but, for the indignant protests of his mates. One
officer carried on without his unfitness being detected
until one day he forgot about .his company. . He had
halted the men for a spell while on the march to a
new camp, and suddenly marched off by himself,.
Those who saw him go thought he would return ; but
he didn’t. He duly reported at the night’s camp-
ing ground, having remembered his instructions,
while forgetting all about' his men. But there was
a more tragic side to this officer’s illness. He mar-
ried in England, and afterwards could never recall
the circumstances.
. i . * *
“Gregor”; Not all the mysteries the
sea are of 1 the supernatural kind. Some
months ago a tramp steamer arrived at
Newcastle- (N.S.W.) from U.S.A. with a
story of strange happenings on the voyage.
During one fortnight of the trip, whenever
any member of the crew stood on one par-
ticular part of the deck aft, he instantly
broke out in painful and irritating spres on
his face, hands and neck. It was at first
thought that the germs of some unknown
disease had got aboard, but the explanation
was quite different. Part of the vessel’s
cargo consisted of sulphur, which had been
stbwed ciosft ib the hunkers and boiief-sbace:
Thb heat changed some of the sulphbr ,td
sulphur trioxide, which was wafted upwards;
and on coming into contact with the atmo-
sphere was converted frito ordinary sulphuric
acid through the excessive humidity of the
air, the ship being then in the tropics.
Owing, to the sulphurous cargo being stowed
amidships, only those in the after part of
the vessel got the acid on them, and when-
ever a drop touched their skins it instant’y
caused what was really a burn. The forma-
tion of the fiery liquid ceased when the
steamer passed into cooler latitudes.
* f « 9
“Spare Corp”: There are 108 officially-
recognised blinded soldiers in the Common-
,Wealth ; 'and that means totally blinded men.
Some have lost more than their sight; ten
are short of at least one limb.' A more cheer-
ful side of the picture is the-restoration of
partial sight in several Cases which Were sup-
posed to be blind for good. It is! to the Coal-
monwealth’s Credit that the men are not In
hped. Besides their pensions of £8 per fort-
bight; With Corresponding allowances for dC:
pendants, such enterprises as the ;Blihded
Soldiers’ Tea Co. earn them dividends; and
they have special concessions in the way of
free travelling and, often, free housing. The
least well-served men are those whose troubles
A PROPHECY.
“Fred plays a perfectly rotten game.”
"There! I told him what would happen if
he kept on neglecting golf for his busi-
ness.”
ore not at all spectacular—men, for instance,
whose heart or lungs have been spoiled by
gas, and who in most cases are liable to fits
of horrible depression. They are lucky if
they get 15s. a week.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE GENTLE IRRITANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Drawn on at first, Love turns from reticence;
’Twas ever thus since clothes came into fashion;
To keep Man’s love Eve holds it in suspense,
But if long waiting purges it of passion,
Why, then, of his incentive quite bereft,
The man grows weary and the girl is left.
Love lives on hope till hopes evaporate,
Like water boiled in a neglected kettle;
The suitor slinks away and shuts the gate.
The question that he long was keen to settle
Disturbs him not. Does woman’s “No” mean “Yes”?
He leaves it to another fool to guess.
Love must be fed with sudden sweet surprises;
Denied all dainties, sick of cold dissent,
The suitor seeks a she who sympathises
And tempts with trifles of encouragement;
Then, if unwisely lured and overfed,
Love falls asleep and is as good as dead.
When waked again, Man mostly is a wanderer,
Once more in quest of fugitive delights—
A philosophical, profound philanderer,'
Eccentric in his whims and appetites,
And true to nothing save the charm of sex,
Which loses glamor if it cease to vex.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


' ■■? s •
vw.-jf*' »r * • 2
’ ■' .
S&dsi* v-* -'’"H
v >
| Jig §§ | £ §§ - . § 5 ' ; f IM
.
an i
I ialill: AflfeS * **
KM
•m : : : m;:,m:
tv Ml V *
v > -
m
§
i
' ~ J
\, . -:,. M
; II:
HM
.' *qSgB
. .
, s ' ':
■” ■•■'■'■ ■ :
'
V: iv'* * . *
W.?w
■
ss
i:
? .
■
w m&m** ,
I'T • A’fc: JH
* ' M
4 ft
\r.M3h m
a. •=*“■ m
X V 3J
K KM K;;: : . : M:M: :y. ;: . ; M: ; ;
Kg^
i . ,■» S *v' %
‘ * v 3*
%2L„ IS!
«S|
m
«4
_ . r
.::
m i
MM-:- ■'
aBECk ■*$&
m .
i , _ ■&
"<w«f"•*.„«»*
» ■
|W
y
f /
m
, >r
'
’J 1 ' :
■m
__ _ ■
* ■
*3M
tiwW
■
as
«,iij
,I%'-
' •:
•M
ä


K372.—Elegant Diamond Brooch, set plati-
num and 15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
No. 114. —Three-
Diamond Crossover
lting,. set Platinum
and 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
Kiii. —Four-Stone
Diamond half-hoop
Ring, set Pure
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £3O.
No. 160. —All Diamonds, set Platinum
Brooch, £3O.
GIFT DISPLAYS.
These illustrations represent New and Exclusive
Designs selected from our varied stock of Artistic
Gift Jewellery. We cordially invite you to
inspect at either of our two Sydney Establish-
ments.
Wristlet Watches in 9ct. Gold, with Expanding Bracelet* Prices-
£4/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
Stewart Dawsok & @cw.)Ltd.
*Jwo Sydney gsfahlis/nents:
185 -187 PITT ST. HEAR, KII\G ST.,
CORKER -4>12 GEORGE S'fLd
K37u.—Fashionable Diamond Brooch, set
Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £B/15/-
No. 129. —Seven
Fine Quality Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold, £l4/10/-
Two-Stone Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, set Platinum
and 18et. Gold,
£l4/10/-
No. 155. —Five-Stone Diamond Brooch
£l5/10/-
fi i /® r f g 0” •f Q ODe °f his books John Mase-
nelcl tells us that during an interval in a
heavy bombardment of the Ovillers-la
Boisselle line the English troops saw a
woman walk the parapet of the German
trench. Later, in ’l6, a unit of the Ist Aus-
tralian Division was reported to have un-
earthed jody of a woman, in uniform, at
Le bars, a few kilos behind Pozieres. Early
in 17, while we were chasing Fritz off the
bomme, I saw what I took to be a girl
between 18 and 20 years dancing a wild can-
can on the parapet of a trench a few
hundred yards ahead. It turned out to be
a Digger, who had found a Jock’s kilt that
had been souvenired and left behind by a
1 ritz in the evacuation. There may be some
connection between that kilt and John Mase-
field’s woman, or a similar incident, acted by
a German in front of the Tommies. But
the dead woman in uniform could not be
impersonated. Did any Digger actually
see that body?
A DIRTY TRICK.
DOLLY: What has she Quarrelled with him
about?”
MOLLY: “He played a mean trick on her.
After she had been pretending all the
morning to let him teach her to swim
he got carried out and she had to go and
rescue him.”
From an old gaol surgeon:—
Each class of criminal of the recidivist or habitual
kind is nearly always cast in a special physical mould.
Housebreakers and burglars are mostly short and
stocky, while the false-pretences and valueless-cheque
artists though of varying height, are generally
thinly-built, with hatchet-like features. Pickpockets’
characteristics are a lack of brow and an abundance
of ear. The low average of mentality among
dips” and “hooks” is notorious, the chances being
that they are the class of human which comes
closest to idiocy, in spite of the fact that their pro-
fession requires a certain amount of nimbleness. The
assault-and-robbery merchant mostly possesses a flat
nose a.nd thick ears and lips, and the more brutality
one of this breed employs, the more accentuated are
these features. Although one school of criminologists
says that there is no such thing- as a definite crim-
inal type, born as such, the police, who are fairly
NOT COMPLIMENTARY.
NEIGHBOR: “I sent the minister round to you, Mrs. Birt. I hope he said something
nice and consoling. "
WIDOW: "No, and indeed he did not. He said Jim was tetter off!"
keen criminologists and psychologists, say that there
is, and the relationship of physical characteristics to
mental ones suggests that they are right; also that
the criminal class is nearer to the purely primitive
and animal than any others.
, Re unexpectedly-colored chil-
dren (B. -6/1/ 22). Nature sometimes takes
into- her head to play a similar
joke with a family in which there
is not the slightest trace of color.
About 25 years ago there was born
into an Australian family of more
or less social prominence a boy of
a brownish-black color, though with
pare Caucasian features. Micro-
scopic examinations of sections of
his skin showed the phenomenon
to be due to inexplicable changes
m some of the cells. Specimens
ot the skin were sent to scientists
in London, New York, Berlin and
Jraris, and the consensus of the
opinion was that the change was a
metabolic one and that although
the child might become white as
he grew up, there was not much
chance of it. By the time the boy
"ii 1 ®. 10 the parents had given up
ail hope.. Children born later were
puite white. The colored youngster
was educated by tutors, and when
he attained his majority he went
to .London in the hope of finding'relief from
his curse there. He is still in England, and
almost a recluse.
* * * *
“Hamer”: A small pal of mine told me
to-day all about the arrival of a little baby
brother. Where did it come from?” I
asked. God sent it,” he said seriously,
lhen he thought for a moment, and looked
earnestly at me. “God doesn’t know about
teeth,” he remarked.
Russ : A boy of 13 recently celebrated
his Devils number by burgling a Melbourne
suburban church of some trashy plate worth
a few shillings. This he “popped” at a
pawnbroker’s and went on the spree with the
proceeds. But that night his conscience
pricked him and he could not sleep ; so he
got up, broke a window of the three-ball
shop recovered the plate and replaced it
m the church. It was while climbing out
of the window of the tabernacle that he was
caught by one of the elders who was troubled
with insomnia. There was no prosecution,
The youth was the good man’s son.
“Y.Z.”: The Bulletin has told of more
than one sudden-jerk proposal, but here is
an entry that defies competition. Two old
people in a Melbourne suburb let two upstair
1 rooms to a man of about 30, a leather-
: worker, who toiled at home. On a recent
Saturday the daughter of the house, who
was in service, came home for the first time
since the arrival of the lodger, and was soon
complaining bitterly of her place. “If there
was something else to do,” wailed the girl,
** n ? ver go back.” Then came a suggestion
through an open doorway: “What about
getting married?” It was the voice of the
lodger, whom the girl had never seen and
who had never seen her. They are now
walking out.”
* * * *
“Kismet”: Arturio is a young Greek from
an island in the He and 600 of his
confreres came to Darwin —rumor says the
Commonwealth took them to oblige an ally.
I hey were supposed to go on the land;
instead, they huddled together in kerosene-
tin shacks on the outskirts of the town and
joined the unions. Arturio took a job at a
Commonwealth “State” hotel. The
rest of them loafed at Vestey’s.
Artuno signed on as an “extra.”
He swept the verandahs and when
Along, the other outlander, was
having his day and a half off-duty
or relieving the Greek chef or
Greek second cook on their days
off, he helped generally. For this
he came in under the waiters’
ticket. His pay . was, therefore,
io 17s. a week, with quarters and
tins. I-Ie spoke no English. To-
day Arturio came smiling up to
me in George-street, Sydney. He
is glass-washer now at a Dago
oystery, and draws £3 15s. a week.
He still has his day and a half
off weekly and works but 44 hours.
Y\ hen he was in the same line of
business in his own country he
rose at 4 a.m. and scrubbed out
the saloon and cleaned up gener-
ally. and worked like the dickens
for 18 hours out of the 24, and
never had a day or even an
hour off. For this his wage was 12-s. a
week, out of which 3s. 6d. went for roam
rent. “And what do you do with all the
money you get now?” I asked. “Oh,” he
said, ‘ I take ticket: this week I buy 20.”
* . • * »
A cry for help from a Digger:—
“X2X” interests me and many others when he
speaks of moving tattoo-marks (B. 5/l/’22). When
' L W Zr? S and /°° lish 1 was to submit
wLn h a k° Wh ° Should have been smothered
uhen he was born. Will “X2X” give me the oil
: as to how I can get rid of my atrocities? As for
leaving scars that doesn’t matter a darn, for Fritz
and Jacko, between them, punched me as full of
holes as a colander, so two more won’t, matter.
Aod “X2X” has been wiling to oblige:—
thPv h th l ldea P revaili "g that tattoo-marks,
once they have been made on a person’s skin, are
theie to stay, the operation of removing them
comparatrvely simple and easy, and is not attended
with danger to the patient, although I would not
“, end th ® of a,, y of the patent removing
p eparations that one sees advertised occasionally
The process consists of painting the area with a solu-
tion made by dissolving silver nitrate in distilled
water distilled water is essential, as the common
01 tap variety frequently contains foreign substances
that are precipitated by the nitrate—to the strength
ot 10 per cent. (48 grains to the ounce), and re-
peating this until the blemish has disappeared en-
tirely. Each application should be put on lightly and
then allowed to dry. The skin, wherever it has been
touched, will turn black in about an hour or so
and shortly afterwards will begin to peel off in
small “flakes,” under which the tattooing will re-
main, but somewhat dimmer after each application,
until it has gone altogether. If the solution is made
so strong that only a few paintings are needed—
the strength given is about as great as it is safe to
use—a smooth, white scar, not unlike that of a burn
which has not gone very deep, generally remains,
but if time is no object and a weak solution (say
about 5 per cent.) is employed, a greater number
O' applications are required and scarcely any blemish
i> left. It is impossible to say how long the opera-
tion will take; but, as a rule, the period varies
from three weeks to a couple of months. If the
area to be treated is fairly large it is better to do
it bit by bit. Asa final word of warning the solu-
tion should be kept where children are not likely to
get hold of it.
* * *
bixenate’ : The careful suicide has again
made an appearance—at Redfern, Sydney,
this time. When he cut his throat he leaned
over the bath, so as to cause as little mess
as possible; and in a note to his landlady he
apologised for the trouble he was going to
cause her.
ANOTHER NAME FOR IT.
THE CLUB SKITE: “ You know, Jones, every
time I have a row with my wife I enter
it in my diary.”
JONE: “ Oh, I see — a sort of scrap-hook.”
MEMORIAL PARK, GRAFTON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ho named you named you well, Memorial!
hen m the failing- dusk I venture here
To rest awhile, you give me back a pal
Slt by me ’ and bring the distant near.
me few who wander aimless through the stile
.--ee only one, and quickly pass us by •
So we may rest alone a little while
Between the fragrant earth and drowsing sky ;
T ° se " d , ° ur thoughts together winging back
o elds of Picardj', where poppies waved,
And placid ’midst the battle’s swaying rack,
The narrow Somme its fertile valleys laved;
To wander once again in noble France,
In summer’s meadow lands or winter’s snow •
lo hear the peasants’ parting wish: “Bon chance!”
And know they meant their wish, and, knowing,
We tread the cobbled roadways once again.
Ihe ways that liellward led from Amiens •
No pipes nor drums to boom a fighting strain,
We march as we had marched, to ribald song.
And when the day draws dreary to its close
We find our billets in a restful wood,
lo eat our scrap of food, and seek repose—
The next day’s end may he as bad or good.
So soon we leave our sheltered fields behind—
a h< L fair ’ clean face of Fj, ance is mottled here—
And through morasses wooden pathways wind
To where the winds the shell-burst’s smoke-clouds
veer.
A week, perhaps another week, and we
Brag aching limbs from out this stinking hell,
lo find a field and rest beneath a tree,
And think, but seldom speak, of those who fell.
So on and on through changing days we go,
Until the bullet came that took you Pal'
Now come you back where Clarence breezes'blow—
Who named you, named you well, Memorial!
K.S.W.
CECIL MANN.
THE EXCUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear girl, I don’t believe
You’re angry, truly,
Because on yester eve,
I was unruly.
It is a nice pretence,
My kiss resenting;
You’ll drive the anger hence
On my repenting.
And then, when you are kind,
You’ll look so winning
I shall, I think you’ll find,
Repeat my sinning.
The anger you assume
Is most beguiling ;
Behind each frown and fume
I see you smiling.
I have, to salve my soul,
Excuses plenty:
For every kiss I stole
I gave you twenty.
The moon, the magic night,
With beauty bound you;
I put, thralled by the sight,
My arm around you.
Then (for the fault we shared
The blame is owed you),
You asked me how I dared,
And I just showed you !
N.S.W.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.


å
as
t e*f
iP
A
ss
n
o
m
S
V
A*
W
Add New Life
to Your Battery
Before you buy a new battery, let us
make sure it is necessary. Every day
batteries are discarded that we could eco-
nomically put into condition to give much
longer service.
No matter what make of battery is in
your car, we are equipped to repair it skil-
fully and at reasonable cost. It will be
made to last as long as possible, until you
are ready to replace it with an Exide
the long-life battery.
Invest a few minutes in a call.
ā
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND ... ... Howard Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEW SOUTH WALES Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA . ... ... Sutherland & Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra St.), Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA. Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA . Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND r . . . Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, Wellington.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-120 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-860-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. 8. ft A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH, AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St. f near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
,p«r Pay,
Bed and
Breakfast
King GeqrgeW
11111 -®-WHISKY
The TOP NOTCH"scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Dananlen”: What sth Divvy Digger of
’l6 does not remember the swallows’ nest in the
rafters of Bat. headquarters’ messroom at Wye Farm
in front of Fleurbaix? This nest was right over the
mess table, and some intelligent Digger had hung a
steel hat under it, and thus saved the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Swallow. Their only means of entry
and exit was by the door. It became necessary to
strengthen the roof of headquarters, and an R.E.
bloke carefully cut out the rafter carrying the nest
and replaced it, three eggs and all, without causing
the inhabitants much alarm —-which shows what
hard-hearted blokes some of us learned to be in
France!
* » * *
“Half-pint”: On a recent Sunday after-
noon I heard Dave, a Gippsland cow cocky, trying
to do a little missionary work. Dave’s staff consists
of one youth, a ward of the State, an 3 with the idea
of starting the kid on the narrow way he hailed
him: “ ’Ere, when yer’ve finished them cans come
over to the stable. Yer growin’ up like a blanky
dawg; it’s time I learnt yer some religion.” School
being in, Dave produced a battered Catechism and
opened up with: “ ’Ow many Gawds are there?”
The youngster wasn’t sure, but took a chance on
two. “Two, be blanked!” said Dave. “There’s only
the wan.” Just here the old chap spotted me behind
the chaff-bin, and, the lesson ending, Mephistopheles
breathed freely again.
# * * *
“C. Coral”: Sharks have recently been
taking a heavy toll of the pearl-shelling and bSehe-de-
mer fishing boys. Several of the Torres Strait
islanders have been attacked with fatal results, and
some of the Japanese swimmers have also been sent
west. Is the tiger becoming more daring or the
colored man less cautious? Or is it, as one boy put
it, “Dat one he kai-kai meat belong we; he like
plenty now!”
“Moonraker”: The other day I came
across seven furry green and black caterpillars about
llin. long trekking in the usual head-to-tail fashion.
Being curious as to the order of their going I men-
tally numbered them off from the front, and then
transposed them so that in the new order they laid
5-6-4-7-1-2-3. After a minute or two of nosing
around No. 1 led off past No. 7 with 2 and 3 close
up. Passing No. 4 the latter fell in behind, and
when 5 and 6 had been headed these also fell into
position. Then the leader appeared to be in a bit of
a dilemma, and after nosing right and left, doubled
back around No. 7, givihg the latter its opportunity
to tack on behind No. 6, and the interrupted journey
continued.
* * * *
“Mirool”: “J.G’s” tail-biting cattle-pup
(B. 19/l/’22) is most likely suffering from tape-
worm, which irritates the tail from base to tip. I
have cured my dogs with areca nut, which may be
obtained from any chemist. As much as would cover
a threepenny-bit is a dose, and it should be given on
an empty stomach, either in a little milk or dry.
A tablespoonful of castor oil the following day aids
in clearing out any remaining particles of the
worm. If this doesn’t cure Darky “J.G.” had better
shoot him—a much more humane course than letting
him devour himself.
• » • •
“Barcoo”: If “Big Bend” (B. 19/l/’22)
will come out to Charleville (Q.) I will put him on
to seedling mulgas in five minutes; but whether
the bush will stand transplanting is a bird of an-
other hue. Personally I hae ma doots. It is not
in every soil that the bush will spring from seed-
lings or come to maturity, and the season seems to
have to be particularly suitable—extremes of wet
or drought are both apparently disadvantageous to
the growth of young mulga. Where the young trees
come to a thick growth from 2ft. to 3ft. in height
starving bullocks turned into the paddock will fatten
in great style; and when stock are fattened on
mulga the condition will last, even through hard-
ship. When slaughtered the beef shows a very light-
colored flesh and the caul-fat is a particularly
sickly yellow.
* * * *
“S.T.”: The irrigation pump at Renmark
(S.A.) is one of the most successful fishermen on
the Big Trickle. Twice lately it has sucked up a
big Murray cod, becoming choked in consequence,
and having to suspend operations while the catch was
chopped to bits. The last was a 70-pounder.
* * * *
“Steve Hart”: I can’t have “Yarrum’s”
assertion (B. 26/l/’22) that the death-adder won’t
bite when he has his foot on it. I have often found
adders lying in the dust asleep, and have hit
them lightly to see how high they can jump. Im-
mediately one is hit head and tail meet, and the
adder jumps 2ft. or more in the air, falling back
outstretched as before. I have tapped them several
times, and always with the same result.
* * # *
“FY7”: “Bill Bowyang’s” N.Q. black-
fellow who was punished for his co-respondence by
having all his hair plucked out (B. 19/l/’22) was
lucky. The usual practice was for the offender to
face the ordeal of having spears slung at him by
all hands with only a throwing-stick to ward them
off—that is, if he was not killed by the gentleman
he had wronged. Further south, on the Barcoo and
Diamantina, Don Juan was sometimes let off with
ham-stringing, if the petitioner could catch him,
and spent the rest of his life getting about on all
fours. The lady’s tendency to gad about was also
checked by ham-stringing or having one of her knee-
joints smashed with a nulla. If similar methods
prevailed among the civilised variety of savages,
imagine the lame ducks I
“Billy T.”: Three of us lived in the rooms
at the back of the cobbler’s shop at Pilgrim (Vic.).
Broom was a trucker at the Home Paddock, and on
the miserably wet, cold Sunday night on which he
was expected to go on at 8, with a mate, to pump
the water over the incline at the end of the main
drive, so that the workings might be dry for the
TOO UPPISH ALTOGETHER.
“What are yer fussin’ about? Yer'd think butter was flamin' well three hob a pound
instead of a blinkin’ sevenpence."
facemen due at 1 on Monday morning, he was
sitting at the big fire, assisting his friends in the
consumption of hot, spiced port-wine and egg-nog,
a quaint mixture bearing out the theory that men
in the country will drink any old thing. Utterly
disgusted with the fate that drove him forth on such
a night on such a task, Broom left for work at
20 to 8, He was back in 10 minutes, his trousers
ripped from top to dead finish. Tally’s dog
Ginger, being in an unusually bitter mood, had
caught Broom making the short cut through Tally’s
property. Broom borrowed my second-best pants,
took some more egg-nog, and dashed into the night
again. A few minutes later we heard him calling
for help. A big gate opposite had fallen on him
when he tried to climb it, and he could not free
himself. There were no bones broken, and after
another tumbler of egg-nog, Broom made another
dash at it. A stoker from the Disraeli brought him
in. He had been fished from the Disraeli dam in a
half-drowned condition. We put him to bed, and
gave him a glass of hot wine. It was Paten brought
the news early in the day. There had been a fall
in the main drive at the Home Paddock. Wells,
Broom’s mate, who had been compelled to work the
pump alone in Broom’s absence, had been borne
down and drowned or smothered. The question is,
why did an inscrutable Providence that took so much
trouble to head Broom off do nothing for poor
Wells, who had a wife and five children?
A SOFT, DEGENERATE AGE.
“What, Dad swimmin' again!”
“Yes, Vs gettin’ too many new-fangled
notions. He won't bathe in the tub in
the kitchen lately.”
“Mitchell”: “Echap” (B. 26/l/’22) evi-
dently has not been among ’roo shooters much, or
he would know that most of them use the hollow-
pointed bullet that expands on striking, and not
the solid lead bullet. When shooting for a living
before the war I used the .32-40, but, getting used
to the high-power rifles over there, I bought a .22
high velocity when I came back. After three
months’ trial I gave it up and took on the .32-40
again. The chief reason was the cost of the .22
ammunition, which was seven times as much as my
own loaded .32-40 cartridges. The grass was long
on the country I hunted over, and most of the ’roos
were shot through the chest. The bullet would
generally go right through and leave a gaping hole
in which you could put your fist; but when this
didn’t happen small pieces of the bu”et, in most
cases, came through the skin over a large area. I
don’t think Roosevelt mentioned his .280 Ross riff-
in his African book. His favorite rifles there, if
remember rightly, were the .30 Springfield for small
and the .405 Winchester for medium game; but I
believe he had a .32-40 in his armory.
“Werrimee”: A lot of good material is
wasted in kangaroos and wallabies. Properly treated
and used as a basis the meat could supply the
demand now filled by huge importations of potted
pastes. Kangaroo ham is very palatable. In early
days the meat was sold in Sydney shops at 4d. a
pound, and the tail, considered a great delicacy, was
exported to London. I think it was the pioneer of our
meat-export trade. During the 1902 drought ’roo meat
was retailed in Broken Hill shops at 44d. a pound,
and numerous families were glad to get it. There
seems to be really more prejudice than anything
else against its general use.
* • * #
“A.Z.”: Tell “Te Whare” (B. 19/l/’22i
that the pallid cuckoo will deposit its egg in any
small open nest from which the owner is absent. I
have often found its egg in the nest of the white-
fronted chat, or tang, as it is commonly called.
I have never found two cuckoo’s eggs in one nest,
although it is quite possible for two to be deposited
at different times. I have often found an old blue-
wren s nest with a clutch of deserted eggs under a
lining of grass and feathers. The blue-wren seems
to be the brainiest little bird we have. It must
know that later on its young ones will be ousted
from the nest by the young cuckoo, so, instead of
hatching the brood, it covers the eggs over and
lays again.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”; Near Sackville Reach,
Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.), I recently saw an
alrnost-general bush belief proved untrue. An uncle
and I found a black snake lying asleep on a bare
patch of ground. I stretched a thick rope in a wide
circle round him without disturbing him, and then
stood about ten yards away and threw a small clod
of dirt near him. The snake woke up suddenly and
made tracks for home and safety as fast as he could
wriggle, crawling over the rope as if it wasn’t there.
(Continued on page 22.)
AFTER THE STORM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
There’s a white cloud or two floating high in the
sky
And a feeling of damp in the air,
For a downpour of rain has - freshened the plain,
Though the ridges are barren and bare;
Where the slieep-paths are guttered the gilgais are
full
And are rimmed with a margin of green,
And bullfrogs are croaking where water is soaking
In the holes where the yabbies have been.
Wild lilies are blooming sweet-scented and fresh,
Pale yellow and purple and white;
They have broken the ground in a circle around,
And have budded and bloomed in a night;
The sandhills are mantled in scarlet and black,
Where the pea of the desert runs wild,
'With long flounces flinging and red fringes clinging,
Like the cloak on the back of a child.
There’s a sash of green ribbon entwined in and out
That circles the base of the hill;
’Tis young herbage growing where water was flowing
As it followed the poison -cart rill;
It wavers and curves around burrows and trees
In the way that all poison-carts go;
And down at the end there’s a flourishing bend
That has fashioned a kind of a bow.
There are footprints of beasts and the birds of the
bush
And the small things that move in the night;
There are dog-tracks and fur where some renegade
cur
Has put a young ’possum to flight;
“The Apostles” are noisily building their nests
(They mate at the break of the drought),
And faster and faster knead mud into plaster
As they chatter and clatter about.
A bushman rides up in the track of the storm
On a horse showing plenty of bone,
He is sunburnt and rough, low spoken and gruff,
For years he has ridden alone;
TAKING CHANCES.
MISS SCRUB-TIT: “Really, Mr. Ostrich, I
shouldn't he here with you without a
chaperone—you know how these scan-
dals start!"
He drops from his horse as he halts for a yarn
Flat-chested and wiry and tall—
He’ll report to the banks on the state of the tanks
And the length and the breadth of the fall.
Where the main road runs straight from the bush to
the town
And the red-soil breaks off at the plain,
‘.By the side of the road there’s a bullocky’s load
And his waggon is bogged in a drain;
A mile or two on where the sky meets the earth
A vehicle crawls into view—
” Tis his Majesty’s mail, at the pace of a snail
For the black-soil is sticking like glue.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.
Bill Bowyang”: I’ve read about these
post-splitting and jumbuck-barbering champions, but
how’s this for a cane-slogging record? Quill’s gang
of eight men entered a cane-field at Mossman (N.Q.)
in 1919, and, working eight hours on September 4
and one hour on the following morning, cut and
loaded, besides laying down portable rails, 73 tons
of cane. The work was done in a crop going under
20 tons to the acre.


s
r
r
1
A
i
FOOD
Q
V
'tJ
*«!
s-e>
f
rWi r
r
A PICNIC PARTY
HERE YOU SEE!
Right handy to the deep blue Sea. Comely girls are
Sue and Mabel, together spread a tempting table.
“Rex”
Camp Pie
and Cakes and Fruit are just the
things Boy’s tastes to suit. Take
Cue from Sue and dainty Mabel,
spread a tempting picnic table with
“Rex” Camp Pie, it’s such a treat,
compounded of the choicest meat.
Serve it cold from out the tin—for
Sandwiches you slice it thin. A
Salad will enhance the flavor. But
anyhow it wins your favor.
Include “Rex” Camp Pie on
this week’s grocery order.
Foggitt Jones
Ltd.
r.u. 140
If you want a Post-card size Camera, which
is inexpensive and is yet so good that both
expert and novice are pleased with its
performance, see the
Ansco Junior No. 3a
<2
m
For Roll Films —
Daylight-loading.
Takes pictures 3i x inches
(post-card size).
A handsome camera, with
seal grain leather covering and
genuine leather bellows. May
be had fitted with Single
Achromatic, Rapid Rectilinear,
or Modico Anastigmat, F 7.5
Lens.
PRICES:
With Single Achromatic Lens
Rapid Rectilinear Lens
F 7.5 Anastigmat Lens
Postage within each State, 1/3.
£5 10 0
6 5 0
7 17 6
ă
|TO
The House for
Good Cameras.
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne. 41a Rundl<? Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane. 144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z
W ** 42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
CHILDREN LEAVE THEIR GAMES
TO LISTEN TO THE
BEHNING.
ip*
4
XL
i
Branches:—
NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, LISMORE,
TOOWOOMBA, ROCKHAMPTON.
A BEHNING PLAYER PIANO will bring the
best and brightest music into your home, it
has already made thousands of homes happy.
A. new shipment of these famous instruments
has been opened and they are all that is
claimed for them: “the pinnacle of per<
fection.”
WRITE OR CALL FOR CATALOGUES
AND PARTICULARS OF OUR EASY TERMS.
THE BEHNING IS A
REAL PLEASURE BRINGER.
ą
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.


Honestly now, would CLEMENTS TONIC still be maintaining
its popularity-after thirty years—if it did not fulfil its advertised
cairns. CLEMENTS TONIC does relieve insomnia, weak
nerves, impaired vitality and similar blood and nerve ailments,
ry it either with water or soda-water.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
<< *
“Cubbon-Budgeree”: In the Territory
north of Victoria River, and including all the country
drained by that stream, there is a “Cheerio” missing
which is at once apparent to the newcomer from the
South. It is that early morning glory of Southern
country life, the magpie. In these regions from
VVyndham (W.A.) to the Katherine (N.T.) I have
not seen one. There is no apparent reason for the
absence of this cheerily assertive fellow, and I con-
clude there must be a magpie “devil-devil” some-
where out this way—unless the fat politicians have
really convinced him that settlement of the Northern
Territory by dinkum Australians is futile.
* * * *
Alex”: How’s this for a bit of “go
slow”? My mate and I dug 40 post-holes with a
post-hole digger in 60 minutes. Soil, heavy black
mixture of the consistency of putty; locality,
Bowen (Q.) ; season, summer.
ii * J * *
“Ophis”: “Colub,” in writing about New
Guinea venomous snakes (B. 5/l/’22), failed to
mention the death-adder ( Acanthophis antarcticus).
There is also a species of Pseudechis, very closely
allied to our black snake—in fact, it may be called
the New Guinea form, and is known as Pseudechis
pupuanus. It has not the red belly of our fellow,
being black all over with the exception of the chin’
which is white. Our grey whipsnake ( Diemenia
psammophis) , a crawler which reaches quite sft.,
also inhabits New Guinea, and there are several
other well-known species, such as MacGillivray’s
snake (Glyphodon tristis), which grows to 3ft. or
4ft. This fellow is dark brown or black on the
upper parts, the scales being sometimes edged with
a lighter shade. The belly is yellowish or whitish,
and the color under the tail is dark brown in front
and yellowish behind. “Colub’s” white-bellied water-
snake is most probably Fordonia leucobalia, a form
known also to the mainland of Australia. This
species is not one of the front-fanged snakes, but
carries its fangs well back in the jaw, there being
several small teeth in front of each. That this
wriggler could cause the death of a human being
through the effect of its poison I doubt, as very
few of the back-fanged snakes are sufficiently
venomous—the only ones known to be so are Afri-
can. The fact that a nigger died from its bite
proves nothing beyond the fact that niggers die
very easily from fright. I saw a New Guinea snake
in a bottle the other day, and learnt that a nigger
A VALUABLE ACCOMPLICE.
THE MERRY ONE: “Yes, me dear, I been to
town and bought a pup so’s if I can't
find me way 'ome (hie) 'e can.”
had been bitten by it and had died despite all
efforts to save him. This crawler was no other
than the common green tree-snake (Dmdrophis
calligaster) , a species with solid teeth and no fangs
or poison apparatus or any signs of venom.
“Wandi”: I saw two Devon bulls fighting
outside a dairy yard near Tomki (N.S.W.). For
seveial minutes it was an even go, both pushing and
sparring, and each striving mightily to turn his
adversary aside to get the horn in. Then one slipped,
PRESERVING HIS STATUS
COUNTRY SPORTS SECRETARY: "Here you are Mac. Ten-bob prise for the event you
won."
MAC.: "Na, na mon. I'd lose my standing as an amatoor. I canna take cash. Ye'll
have to give me a trophy to the value of it. Postage-stomps will do."
and in trying to get away fell on his side. Without
attempting to get up he started to bellow frantically
though the other bull was not within reach of him.
He simply chucked the sponge” as if he recognised
that to lose his feet was the end of him. When the
(airyman rushed up and saved him from the
knock-out belly-rip, all his pugnacity had evaporated.
He was a cowed bull.
* * * *
“Fraoch”: The jack-snipe, provided the
season is right and the swamps are full, reaches
Southern Riverina
(N.S.W.) at the be-
ginning of September
and departs ifor his
Siberian residence any
time in February. I
always thought he was
a nocturnal traveller
until one afternoon I
was standing on a
pub verandah at
Finley (Riverina),
when one fell from the
blue in front of me,
stone dead. The tem-
perature was about
115 degrees, and this
was my first evidence
of a bird in the wild
state dying from nat-
ural causes. His mates
were not visible. It
is remarkable how
effectually this bird
calls the roll when
shifting ground. Thou-
sands may be found
T . scattered over an area
i P T haps a m . lle , or tw ° on e day, and the follow-
ing day there isn t a single bird to be found.
** l ' *
12/V’S) S 6 <Pick ” advises me (B.
vent an beer.bottle to pre-
ent martins building under the verandah. Would
a tomato-sauce bott l6 do as well? It is more easily
pi ocurable. The nearest pub is 50 miles away and
e 'i ° nly SeemS t 0 carry well in bottles for
about five miles, so no bottles full or empty get this
“Macßee”: I was lying on the bed in an
upstairs room reading when I heard the throaty
twitter of a young starling on the window-sill.
Thinking one had fallen from its nest in the gable, I
peered through the curtain. To my amazement’ I
wi ?n 0t a S^ r ! ing ’ but my half-Persian cat Basil,
head thrown back, mouth wide open, and tongue well
down in the back of his throat, emitting perfect
imitations of the twittering in the nest above. His
intended victim was apparently Ma Starling. When
she would be lured to within sft. or so of the
sill Basils muscles would become tense with expec-
tation, his eyes mere slits. When she flew up again
to the nest in the eaves the tension relaxed, but the
vocal efforts were continued with renewed vigor. At
this point I quietly brought my brother-in-law and
sister in to witness the strange performance. They
were so astonished that their remarks made known
the presence of onlookers, and the exhibition suddenly
ceased—Basil sat sphinx-like on the window-siil
gazing into the sunset.
* * * #
~ “ Co ° ralco ” : Bet me once more bring ud
the subject of the birth of the kangaroo in order
to quote an absolutely authentic case
as witnessed only a few feet from
the observers. A pair of kangaroos
(Macropus rufus ) had been kept in
a small enclosure for four years with-
out any mating having occurred. They
were both quite small when caught
On April 16, 1921, the female was
seen cleaning out her pouch. This
was done in a sitting posture, with
the tail running to the front between
the hind legs. Soon afterwards the
young one was seen to be born on
to the root of the tail; a quantitv
of blood being lost in the process.
The mother bent forward and used
her fore-paws to turn the edge of the
pouch right down, thus exposing the
inside. She then picked the joey up
With her lips and placed it in the pouch. The
young one did not leave the pouch until the end of
October.
* • * •
Silas Snell”: We had a real arboreal
mn at Yam. His name was Sam Rogers, and he
had made his home in a huge dead gum, a two-
storeyed establishment, the top room, which he had
floored across with slabs, being the bedroom. The
ground floor had a sod chimney and a door, and was
fairly roomy. Above the incommodious bedroom soared
about 150 ft. of a dead stem, which, as everybody
assured Sam, would come down on him nn«
windy nights. Rogers, who was a L *
heed to the warnings, and true enough, earlyon"
morning, strained beyond endurance by a north
wind the stick fell. Yam heard its fail and
could see that it was old Sam’s residential ’eum th 3
had collapsed. There was a rush for the “scene of
death and disaster, and it was found that the butt
had given away at a huge knot-hole about three
feet above Sams bunk, and the affair had so dis-
turbed the sleeper that he was the only ma n in Yam
not yet out of bed. Sam roofed his stump over lZ
bark, and continued to occupy it. “But,” be bitterly
complained one day, “these dam’ lan’lords always
makes you pay fer improvements, even if you make
em yourself. Here’s Adams bin an’ put me rent
w t0 ,.. ar T f a , C !° Wn a fortni S ht ” “What was it
before. I asked. “Nothin’,” Sam explained; “an’
he goes an’ puts it up to ’arf a crown. How many
hundred per cents, is that?” (Here Sam sighed pro-
foundly.) It clean blocks any idear a man might
nave had of gettin’ married,” he said.
# ** * *
“Kirk”: If “Hecagus” (B. 15/12/’2l)
smears the parts affected by scrub-jtch with kero-
sene, the little red devils will throw in the towel.
But don’t rub the remedy in, or it may be worse
than the disease.
* * *
“Wandi”: Wayback Binghi has a variety
of water-carriers. One of the handiest is a small
hollow log. Filled with water and blocked at the
ends, it can be carried on the shoulders, dragged by
a human team, or rolled along. When fairly big
it is stood up at camp like a water-butt. In
central parts the kangaroo-skin holder is common
The skin is opened only at the neck and extremities
and the carcase is taken out in bits, after which
the openings are tied or sewn with sinews. The
skin is tanned with coolabah bark. Another water
carrier is a short length of thick bamboo, and this
one was generally used on hunting expeditions over
dry country.
# * # ’
IY7 : Tobacco is probably indigenous
to Papua (B. 26/l/’22) just as it is to Australia.
Rvery Western Queenslander knows the “wild
tobacco” with its white flowers. Like other varie-
ties which occur in Australia this plant has been
shown to be capable of improvement by cultivation.
The mountain tobacco of New Guinea was years ago
reported upon by De Vis, the then Queensland State
botanist, as cigar leaf of very high quality. Before
the war it was being made into cigars by an old
Port Moresby German, who turned out a very fine
article indeed in a small way. The old theory that
tobacco’s original home was America has long been
exploded. If any aliens introduced the plant to
New Guinea they were probably the Malays. The
plant’s preference for the Papuan hills would in
that case be accounted for by its inability to flourish
in sour wet soils of the littoral.
* * * •
Coot : There’s no doubt about the shag’s
appetite. Two cormorants shot a little while ago
at Tintaldra, Upper Murray, were opened, and in the
stomach of one were 34 fish, while the other bird
had 30. The fish were from lin. to 2in. long, and
as they were quite fresh had evidently just been
eaten.
* * * *
“Camelero”: I always thought that frogs
lived on worms and insects, but the other day I
vvatched a sparrow land in my front garden and be
instantly pounced upon by a frog, who had concealed
himself in an old flowerpot. It took the frog eight
hours to swallow his meal. Since then my next-
door neighbor informed me that some time back he
heard sounds of distress coming from his fowl-house,
and proceeded to investigate found a green frog
with a chicken partly swallowed.
NOT A PARTICULAR POLICEMAN.
HOUSEWIFE : “I'll not give you anything.
Do you know who I am?
TRAMP : “No, mum.”
HOUSEWIFE: “Well, I’m a policeman's wife,
and if my husband were here he would
take you, and quickly, too.”
TRAMP : "I believe yer, mum. Your hus-
band 'ud take anybody.”
LIFE AT ITS BEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Away with these crowded places,
Market and street and lane,
Their folly of painted faces,
Their fever and fret and pain!
°h' me the gift of elbow-room at dawn on a
saltbush plain!
The life beloved of the rover
Lures, as it lured of old ;
To live it again, live over
Its splendid moments and bold,
Were sweeter than wine and honey, and better than
heaped-up gold.
To toil in the shadows, and slumber,
Dreaming of sorrow and strife,
T o stoop under woes that encumber,
With care at our hearts like a knife—
Oh, surely not this were we planned for, and o-iven
the wonder of life !
Weary of park and pavement,
Market and lane and street,
Where, heedless of his enslavement,
Man trudges with shackled feet,
I long for the wide, wide spaces, where the winds of
freedom meet.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


THE, CAR THAT KEEPS FAITH.
INCE its introduction to the Australian public a few years
ago, the Chandler has gained a host of friends by reason
of its absolute reliability. It does not claim to be a freak
or a stunt car, but it does undertake to transport you FROM
ANY ONE PLACE TO ANY OTHER expeditiously
and in comfort, and thus justifies the slogan that it. Keeps Faith.
We also claim for it that these cars are of such a high standard or
uniformity that what one Chandler can do each and every Chandler
will do.
No more acceptable gift could be devised than one of these
delightful cars.
Ring City 2567, and arrange a demonstration.
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES;
MARCUS CLARK « CO. Ltd.
GARAGE AND SHOWROOMS:
147-51 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
■ ■ ■■jiiibii ■■■■■■!!■ ■■■■■!!!
!iiHiHi[[i§ii!!!i§iii!iSi!!isss(i;ii;ji
lEI B Ji BIIfIaBBIBIIISIIBIIIIIIIIIEIIQaaiaifII
■ außMßiaiaHßaaßßiiaßißaßßaaiiaaeaaaaaaßißßi
aaaaaaßßßßßDaßaaaaßaaßßßßßoaaaaa>aaaaaaßai
iiHHiiiiian ■■■■■■■ BBiaßiaiaaßßßaaaaaiaa i
BHißiaaißßiiaaiaißßaaiiikiii
iiaiiniii<a«niM ■ « ■
■ BiBBaBBBBBBBIIBBBBBnaBlBBB«BIBBB«BBBaBIB
■ BBBBiaßßßßaaßßiißßßaaaiiiiiaiiiaaiMi J
BBiaßßaiaflßßßiaßaßßßiiiißaißiaaaiaaiiiß
■ BBaaaiaiBBBIBBiaaaBBBBBBBBB'aBBBB BB 88111
BBBBBBIBIBBBBBBiaBBBBBSIIIBBBBaBBBBBIBI
■ aiBBiaaaBBBIBBfIBBBBBIBIBBBIBIBBBiaBI
BBIIBBBIBBBBBIBDBBBBBBIBBBBBBBBBBBaBI
a btb ■ ■ b a b b a a i ■ ■ ■ a b b a a i a a i a ■ a a • a a a a a a
IUtUBBEBBBUIBBBBUaiBIBaaiBBBBIia
ULIABJLB 818 B 1 UlBBiaaill IJia ÜBIBBBBBBI
!Sb!!ibbbb!bb!'hbSb!b!!bbb!bb3bbb jaai
«S!!i:SSSSSn:SSS:KSS!!SSHSSSSU2


U.S. Nobby Treads
A phenomenal record of the valuable
throughout Australia, proving that they
The Federal Government’s North-South Railway Survey travel
across Australia’s desert wastes from Melbourne to Darwin, and
return successfully on NOBBY TREAD TYRES.
r*
■
At Oodnadatta —ready for the road.
: . >-
. !
i
* E\''l I
•Ac*.
a*
Crossing the Finlce River,' Central Australia.
w
m
m
m
m
■
* -
mm
.
-
W
The road to Roper River .
warn-'
mUi
. - »■■■ i
Crossing a sandy creek, Central Australia.
Early in 1921 the Federal Parliament decided to
determine the best possible route for a railway across
Australia, and accordingly the Public Works
Committee arranged to send three members of
Parliament, three officials, three drivers and a cook,
provided with three powerful cars. Since there
were no roads the tyres chosen had not merely to
provide good road service, but the roads themselves.
After many inquiries and much consideration,
United States Nobby Tread Tyres were selected for
the work. One of the cars weighed 2\ tons and the
other two 2tons each when fully equipped for the
track, carrying in addition to rations, supplies, etc.,
38 gallons of water each.
The route followed was the main road, Melbourne
to Adelaide, and railed to Oodnadatta, 700 miles
from Adelaide and 1200 miles from Darwin.
To give an idea of the nature of the country that
had now to be passed through—stony tablelands were
only wastes and water —all transport by camels and
horses had been suspended—the cars travelled 16
miles off the beaten track to avoid trouble. Sandhills
80 to 100 feet high were crossed by means of steel
band “duckboards.”
During the whole of the arduous journey to
Katherine there were not half a dozen stoppages due
to tyre trouble of any kind amongst the three cars,
although they were bruised by quartzite boulders,
but only in one instance was the fabric penetrated,
and with a dead weight of over two tons.
At Wave Hill, 300 miles from Katherine, N.T.,
Vestey’s pastoral inspector had his car fitted with
Nobby’s—no other tyre would stand the racket.
After many trips, over 5000 miles altogether were
covered, the cars returning to Melbourne on the 9th
November, and one of the original covers fitted in
May was still in use, and is now at the Melbourne
Office of the United States Rubber Company.
A member of the party states that the trip
was one of the worst that could be made in Australia,
ail kinds of hardships had to be contended with.
However, like an army, the expedition looked first
to its boots, and United States Nobby Tyres certainly
met all engagements.
SPECIFY NOBBY TREAD
OBTAINABLE


are Good Tyres
service these tyres are rendering'
are supreme in every way.
Satisfied users of Nobby Tyres are legion, and are in all parts
of the world. The following Australians find Nobbys an economical
proposition, as many others do..
Robinson Bros., Ltd., of Grafton—large users
of Nobby Tyres—require 10-Bcyl. Cadillac Cars to
maintain regular service between
Grafton—Macksville,
Bellingen—Dorrigo,
Grafton—Glen Innes, *
Grafton—Lismore.
Their garage is probably one of the best equipped in
New South Wales, and they are able to do almost
any car repair necessary.
The extent of the Motor services will be under-
stood better by stating that the cars run about 5000
miles per week.
Peters’ American Delicacy Co., Ltd., Redfern,
Sydney—known throughout N.S.W.—operate a fleet
of 20 trucks, several of which are equipped with U.S.
Nobby casings and are giving every satisfaction.
Their deliveries are extensive: 3000 miles
week approximately is covered by this fleet.
per
Bartlett’s Cadillac Motor Service use 6 Cadillac
Cars in maintaining a regular service between
Katoomba, Blackheath, Mount Victoria and Jenolan
Caves. They are fitted with Nobby Tyres and have
given splendid results over gruelling roads and under
trying conditions.
'
m
UUMOTME
■
New England Motor Company, Lismore, have
20 cars in daily use over various routes. Sixteen of
them are large Cadillac cars fitted with Nobby Tyres,
as they have stood up to the severe tests.
A regular service is maintained between Tenter-
field, Casino, Lismore and Ballina, a distance of 127
and ROYAL CORD TYRES
EVERYWHERE.


mm
• . ■<■■■•" ■
a
for Us elf
MOTHER WAS RIGHT
rfXJi
"
1
/
n
‘jipiu
dmncL ‘c6unc£‘dninct
ry s
Ml
-fI.MPD OJ .TdfPAL puv-
-with*
e
m
ilie old-fasmoned waii-
□□
□
, A***
Ncvwon<l<*rwe women tmwt
and day!
work
~-"X
a.
u
71
*lll
«W«
Dad! what wt>neei
i?- Delco-Li'dlii!
w
no-
ds
ipiSj
m
Jab-’-.
?r
mm
%L
M
MOTHER WAS RIGHT
Mo£h<?i* was
—-
m
1°
as
ill
AEET
lPn»-»T.-ii iinp**i i
It dives me the shivers
Ishake with alarm
S
V
NS
'V
m
1 : r
! We need
iaC3HT!
BE
>*
2£
Mother kvas !
“ tK.
t fT
x.ircT^'
r
rn
- .
■ * .'■' ' -
a
à
QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WEST AUSTRALIA. .
NEW ZEALAND
.Smellie & Co., Ltd., Rrisbane.
.Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
.Gilberts, Ltd., King Street, Perth.
fA. D. Riley & Co., Lambton Quay, WePington.
I Farmers’ Co-operative Association, Christchurch.
FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS: W. A. Crowle, Limited, 161-163 Castlcreagh Street, Sydney.


Tkc
Purest
Spirit
in tKe
world.
a
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's schna?^
STANDS ADO^®”
THOMPSON 8 CO. W
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA,
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
Vertical Triple Expansion Quick Revolution Engine,
650 b.h.p., at 400 r.p.m.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Rtd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & DeekeSj Fcncburch Street.
woman has deemed it safer to walk the
well-worn paths rather than venture into
the undiscovered country where, as she
knows only too well, she will reveal the one
weakness she has striven with such match-
less art to hide from man.
There can be no question of the helpful
criticism woman has given upon some works.
The great books both she and man have
admired both have helped to elucidate, and
in doing so have revealed themselves. Why
is it, then, that woman cannot appreciate
Rabelais, “Don Quixote,” “Tristram Shandy,”
Petronius’ “Satyricon,” “Tom Jones,” Bos-
well’s “Johnson,” Pepys’ Diary, etc.? Let
the blue-stocking protest as she will, the
fact remains that these books are anathema
to woman. By man they have been ear-
marked, pencilled, memorised and even
copied out in full in his own handwriting for
the sheer delight of lingering over them,
because to him they are so companionable,
so vital. Even in the privacy of her own
room woman does not read these for plea-
sure, They are books with which she has
no sympathy. The great Dr. Johnson fills
her with disgust; sne sees nothing of the
herp in him, but simply a dirty, assertive
boor, while the delightful Boswell is beneath
her contempt. Man has lauded Boswell’s
book time and again, and the honest woman
has often paused, not to express her opinion,
but to .ask herself Why? Her honest
expression of opinion would be profitable
because it would give man an understanding
of, and, perhaps, sympathy with, much in
her that still remains a mystery. But she
realises this and seems determined to retain
one, at least, of her secrets. He can, there-
fore, only attempt a solution of her obvious
hypocrisy towards some books, and leave
her to confirm or repudiate his deductions
—if she dare.
The reason for her dislike is not to be
found in the answer that woman is a prude,
nor that she is still sheltering behind the
dusk of mid-Victorianism. She long ago
emerged from those shadows to look the
facts of life full in the face —at times even
more frankly than self-centred man. But
with man she has journeyed to the shrine of
Art, and has worshipped before the ever-
lasting monuments of all that he has termed
great, fearing to utter what her heart felt
as she knelt before some of the tombs: “I
shall worship these ra longer just because
you insist that I shall. I detest them and
shall worship as I please.” In this one
respect man leads and woman follows; just
this one!
Man finds a reason for her attitude in
the fact that these books depict man as he
really is—in all his colors, gay and drab ;
not the man of glory and romance, but man
with all his faults and foibles, a weak
creature, enjoying life to the best of his
ability, taking with a grin or a growl the
good and the bgd as it comes to him.
Woman dislikes them for this reason.
She dislikes Life; she loves Romance.
She is unlike man in one respect. He has
never grown up, but still enjoys the vigor-
ous horseplay he gloried in when in knicker-
bockers ; she has become artificial, and her
heart has aged prematurely. She sees man
not as he is but as she wants him to be,
the creature of the drawing-room, the hero
of a thousand battles, the incorruptible
statesman, the singer of innumerable love
songs and the fashioner of a thousand kisses.
From her childhood she has been painting
on her heart the portrait of her ideal man.
Quickly she outgrew the childhood when she
romped with her brothers and the kid from
next door. No longer could she laugh
heartily at their jokes which they relished
as much as ever. She had a grander task
now—the preparation of her “soul” for the
ideal man who was one day to come along.
He came and she secured him only to find
that he, during the period before marriage,
had only posed—because he knew she wished
him to. He put on peacock feathers to
dazzle her, and discarded them with as
much speed as possible later on. He wished
to get back to real things. She stopped his
visits to the club, and discouraged as much
as she dared the visit of male friends to
her house. Then she discovered that he fell
back for enjoyment on those books she de-
tested. But she was too wise to destroy
them, fearing to lose him altogether. She
expressed hpr displeasure by remarking
casually that “they were written in such a
coarse age; no decent people could tolerate
such situations and conversations now.”
He only puffed his pipe the harder, for he
also did not want a quarrel.
Finding her mate for life all that she had
not hoped she fell on that vast field
of fiction which the cunning Dells and
Glyns have poured into the world to satisfy
her want. _ Here, at any rate, she can have
mental liaisons with splendid fellows. For
appearance sake at the feminist club she
can discuss Shakspeare (but not Falstaff)
with her friends and deplore man’s low
taste. Next week she wall read a paper on
that remarkable book, “The Adventures of
Ursula Trent” —“very outspoken, quite up-
to-date, a fine study, you know.”
And man is satisfied for her to have her
dreams and her “problems.” He hopes the
time will never come when she will admit to
herself that she has been wrong. She
would, then be no longer woman, so desir-
able in her perversities; and the result
would be chaos.
G. NEWBON.
English as She is Wrote
Chief Justice Irvine, in his capacity of
orator-in-chief at several Victorian school
speech-days, made slipshod English “as she
is spoke” the subject of his censure and its
rehabilitation the burthen of his advice. No
one, whether of high degree or low, put in
a plea for the rescue of English “as she is
wrote from the slipshoddiness into which
it is falling. Councils of Education, con-
ferences of inspectors and directors, and the
like, are too busy cultivating educational
fads, flirting with sectarian controversies,
and posing as omniscients to notice the
drift. School-teachers, clerks in Education
Departments and Ministers of Education
have for the most part already drifted, and
so are hardly competent to notice. Hope
lies with the newspapers, especially the in-
fluential daily ones, which, entering between
them every home in the Commonwealth, may
by their example do something towards
restoring written Australian to something
near its old purity. It is a purity worth
having, for commonplace yet cultured Eng-
lish, not pecessarjly Chesterfieldian, is a
very beautiful thing.
All daily newspapers adopt what they
term “style,” and most issue a style-book
in which adherence to several laws of Eng-
lish grammar is strictly enforced, but more
often much is made of the need on a particu-
lar paper to write “lenity” for “leniency,”
“question” for “query,” and so on—’mere
oddities, for Murray and other authorities
agree that the words are synonymous and
correct. Yet with all their adherence to
“style” the columns of daily newspapers are
pocked, equally with headmasters’ reports
and Education Department ukases, with
examples of faulty English—so much so,
indeed, that Australia bids fair to establish
a written English of her own, as she is, un-
fortunately, through indifference to the study
of English in State schools, establishing a
spoken English with “lie done it!” as its
motto.
In any issue of an Australian newspaper
will be found unsubedited (because the sub-
editor does not know, or does not acknow-
ledge the construction to be wrong) sen-
tence after sentence ending in a preposition.
Awkward prepositional phrases, all unneces-
sary in a tongue so wealthy in words and
phrases as English, abound. “Arrived at” is
a dear familiar friend; so is “gone on with” ;
it is only a step to that American grammati-
cal gem, the verb “to be over with”! From
leading article to police-court par. “while”
(sometimes, indeed, “whilst”) will be acting
as a conjunction, ousting “and” and
“though.” “In the vicinity of” or “in the
neighborhood of” will be the wordy substi-
tute for a simple adverb qualifying time.
“Either” for “each” seems to be accepted
as a rule; the established rule of “neither-
nor,” on the other hand, has been scrapped.
The last-named of a string of units is glibly
written the “latter,” and no one cares. Super-
latives like “perfect,” “full,” “unique,” “com-
plete” are daily compared or qualified.
“General” is accepted for “widespread”;
“universal” for “common.” The infinitive
is split to such an extent that almost is a
search party required to rejoin the frag-
ments. In every column things are “differ-
ent to” others—yet how may one differ any-
thing but from another? Or “averse to”—
yet who yet averted ill anywhere but away
from one self? Comparatives become daily
more “as compared with” others, yet who
but those jargpnists, the compilers of
“official” documents, could explain whence
came that redundant “as”? Friends of Mr.
Jones are more often than not “friends of
Mr. Jones’s”—friends, it is presumed;
though writers do not mean it. All the
foregoing are examples not of faults in
style, which is an elastic thing governed
more by pious hope than by fixed rule, but
of errors in elementary grammar. They
have none of the justification colloquialisms
have, for they do not make writing more
facile, more intelligible; in fact, nothing to
the cultured reads more harshly than the
prepositional phrase and the misplaced
“either.”
Apologists for the slipshod talk of “elas-
ticity” and of progress in written soeech
mention the adoption by the United States
of an English of its own as evidence of
advanced thought. I notice, however, that
the better-class magazines and authors of
good standing in America (not the “best
sellers,” of course, for they write the New
Jargon), dip still in the “well of English
undefyled.” Did ever English write home-
tongue better than Mary Johnston, of Vir-
ginia?
Victorian State schools do not introduce
their scholars to study of English until they
reach upper grades, by which time use of
past participle for past tense has become
ingrained. In any case, what type of Eng-
lish can be expected then? I have beside me
a letter from a head-teacher in which he
writes “different to” and “either” for each,
uses two unnecessary prepositional phrases,
and finishes his letter upon “of”—“taken
advantage of”! And his school was Class I.
Slovenliness in English is trowing.
Schools appear to be either powerless or un-
willing to remedy it. Only the other great
educative influence, the Press, remains. The
alternative is that Australian-Ensrlish, already
the subject of gibes by the cultured, will
become as pitiful a thing a" the alleged Eng-
lish written in the American best-sdler.
N. CLIFFWELL.
Governor Phillip
E. M. Greene, a lady apparently, gives
us some interesting notes in the United
Empire on Governor Arthur Phillip. Aus-
tralia knows but little of her first satrap out-
side official records, and Mrs. (?) Greene
supplements public knowledge to some
extent. Phillip served at the outset of his
career under a Captain Michael Everitt,
who remained his life-long friend, Everitt’s
house being Phillip’s home when he was not
at sea. Everitt’s daughter married a cer-
tain John Lane, a man of substance, who
became Lord Mayor of London, and is men-
tioned in Phillip’s will as “my dear friend,”
receiving a sum of money from the de-
ceased seaman by way of legacy. From
the Lane family Mrs. Greene derived her
information. There are some weak places
in these traditional particulars, however.
For instance :
Phillip set sail and in due course reached N. S
Wales, and was met by angry natives at the mouth
of the Yarra Yarra River, who pelted him with nug-
gets of gold. These nuggets he picked up and brought
home. My mother has seen the sketch of this s'cene,
probably made by Phillip himself. On his return
to England Phillip had this gold made into a chain,
which he gave to the daughter of his patron, Harriet
Lane, and it was said to be the purest gold ever
brought to England. In the course of time it came
to my great-great-uncle, Captain Charles Gayton, who
inherited the Lanes’ house at Peckham"; and his wife,
at the time of Queen Victoria’s jubilee, had a
morocco case made for the chain and offered it to
her Majesty, stating its history. The Queen thanked
her, but returned the chain, frying she could not
receive presents from persons unknown to her. Mrs.
Gayton offered it again to King Edward at his
coronation, with the same result,
One wonders why the aboriginals at Yarra
mouth should have selected gold nuggets
with which to pelt Phillip, and why they
did not pelt Batman and Fawkner, too. Mr.
Bernhard Wise, one-time Agent-General of
N. S. Wales, advised Mrs. Greene, it seems,
to write 'a life of Phillip dealing especially
with the personal element, hut his death
broke off the project. Still it may be done
yet; and meanwhile it is of interest to learn
that, previous to his first official journey,
Phillip had made a voyage in a privately
fitted-out frigate—a fact that throw’s some
light on the reasons that impelled the Gov-
ernment to select him for the leadership of
the colonising venture. Obviously,, how-
ever, all the alleged facts call for close sift-
ing. There would certainly be great in-
terest in a sketch, done by the Captain him-
self, “representing the naked natives rush-
ing towards him at the mouth of the Yarra.”
And it would be equally interesting to get
on the track of that chain made of the nug-
gets thrown at Phillip’s head by the pro-
testing blackfellows. It would link us up
delightfully with our early Marco Polo and
his first fierce adventure.
On the purely personal side there may
here be much of genuine historical value:
in, for instance, the story of Captain Phillip
having a wealthy friend in a Lord Mayor
who fitted up for him a vessel wherewith to
do his voyaging when the Admiralty turned
him down, and but for which we should
never have had the gallant sea-dog steering
his Mayflower full of convict pilgrims to
start a fresh New England in a southern
land. Mrs. Greene speaks in one passage
of the close intimacy between “Admiral
Phillip and John Lane,” and remarks fur-
ther that the latter “advanced ten thousand
pounds to Phillip” ; and it is quite possible
that the money had existence even if the
naval rank conferred on the captain didn’t
—at any rate, not till years afterwards,
when he became rear-admiral. Amongst
much dross Mrs. Greene evidently has mat-
erial and sources that ought not to be
neglected, and it is to be hoped we shall
hear further from her.
P. L.
The Seach for Shakspeare
David McKee Wright’s answer:—
T • « „ nln T, oox u ’u v • , • ,-u •
Louis Esson (R.P. 2/2/ 22) builds his faith in the
reputed author of Shakspeare’s plays on a very
slender foundation. There certainly was a William
Shakspeare, of Stratford, who lent money, prosecuted
a defaulter for failing to pay two shillings, and left
his second-best bedstead to his wife; but is there
any proof whatever that this person, who had once
had a momentary connection with the theatre, was
even known to Jonson and the rest? Records, which
ar e very ample, of the visits of big touring companies
to the provincial towns, give the names of all the
«* «* ** *•'?•» 7
no Shakspeare mentioned. Edward de \ ere had spem
his huge fortune on actors and theatrical ventures ana
had been associated with the stage from its raw
beginnings. He was known by his pen-name of
“William Shakspeare”; and none of those affectionate
friends of his regarded its use as a hoax. A noble
be Court could not in his own proper person stroll
w ith mummers and write stage plays. They all knew
■ , ~ , b , !,, L ,
that. That he probably bought the name Shakspeare
for a price would account for the fact that the Strat-
ford illiterate, who could, barely write his own name
and never signed it twice alike, came into something
like affluence long before he could have done so by
any legitimate stage connection. How many writers
to-day are familiarly known by their literary pseudo-
nyms? Is Fiona Maeleod a hoax because William
Sharp was the real name of the author? Ben Jonson
knew all about it and was hoaxing nobody. The
only tolerably authentic portrait-of William Shaks-
peare bears the features of the Earl of Oxford, the
boon companion of rare old Ben. Is it’possible
that Ben would have had a boon companion of the
sor t that could prosecute a debtor for two shillings?
f s it. conceivable that the daughter of the man who
wrote “Macbeth” and “Lear” should to the end of
ber life have signed documents with a cross, as did
the daughter of William Shakspeare of Stratford? The
pj a j n f ac ts are that the authentic record of the Strat-
ford money-lender fits no part of the fragmentary
s t ol .y 0 f the great dramatist, while every part of the
history of Edward de Vere- dovetails into it in such an
exac j. manner as to make a harmonious whole.
The Inky Way
„ g TS „. Dear> dear> dear! Latest number o( t he
hitherto fearfully decorous London Punch contains
wo “damns” and one “hell.”
port Mac Donnell (S A } got busy over the restora .
on j. be pj n gi e y ji e j t cottage in which Adam
Lindsay Gordon once lived. The State bought it,
bu t the district must look after it. So the neighbor-
hood turned out, helped by a contingent of about
150 from Mount Gambier, and in one day the sea-
side home was placed in fair repair, with new gates
£2*3^3,
bouse j s be usec j as a museum to hold ail avail-
ab j e objects connected with the hard-riding poet,
who was at one time complimented with the quite
unsuitable position of M.P. for the district,
“W. F. Schrader”: Red Page review of Dr. Hubert
Parry’s biography of Johann Sebastian Bach (B.
26/i/’22) conveys a wrong impression of the
old masters financial circumstances. Considering
be re i a tj ve value of money 200 years ago and to-day,
g acb ma y be considered to have lived in comfortable
affluence. His salary at his first appointment (1703)
as organist, aged 18, in Arnstadt, was 73 dollars a
year; in Miihlhausen (1707) it was 74 dollars, with
three measures of corn, .two cords of wood,. six
bundles of brushwood and 31b. of fish (the last an
annual gratuity to all employed by the town council).
At -Weimar (1708-1717) the salary began at 156 florins
and rose to 264. At Leipzig (1723-52), according to
a statement made in a letter to his friend Erdmann,
b ; s income was 700 dollars a year, which, taking the
dollar to be the equivalent of. a pound to-day alto-
gether refutes the idea Of Bach having created suen
jjcpQgjng monuments of musical genius in the midst
0 f p enur y.
“Peter”: The amalgamation of the two big book-
selling firms of Mullen’s and Robertson’s in Mel-
bourne is a sort of reunion after half-a-century of
separation. The original Mullen was am employe
jj in th^’fifUes 0 wfth’the fiitention of
work j ng together. Some sort of trouble happened
] a t er which caused Mullen to start on his own
account; but so far as they could see neither affected
the other’s trade to'any extent. Mullen s have left
K'ocZS* Si, »“STSta*k<,S& s h S
= tow P ering premises in Elizabetb-street; and
Charles H. Peters, the smiling diplomatist who
directed Mullen’s, has taken the helm at the new
address.


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
1~l b ro I i r&
4&J
Cost Less than
Weatherboard Houses
Build -j'our new home —exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings with Hardie’s
Australian-made “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and Roof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made in 3G sizes.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d'gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
540-942 Little Cotlins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Stockmen!
Silence may be golden—Sometimes. But the
energetic efforts of Winchcombe, Carson’s
auctioneers at the yards catch buyers’ atten-
tion and produce good results for sheep and
cattle senders.
Hence the top values secured by Winchcombe-
Carson clients.
Rail Stock:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebnsh Yards,
Sydney.
or
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
SKANDIA
MARINE MOTORS,
4-5 h.p. and up to
500 h.p.
4-5 h.p.
The latest type of Semi-deisel Oil Engine.
Specially constructed to take the place of
benzine engines. Runs on Crude Oil at a
cost of about twopence per hour. No
Magneto—sparking plug or electrical
devices. Average starting time only thirty
seconds.
All particulars and prices can be obtained
from
Nelson & Robertson,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Berth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
We will
show
a
shape.
every
week.
i
m
m
£
F.L.C. Pipes
are made by
French Diggers at
St. Claude (Jura), France,
and only the finest flawless
Briar is used in their manufacture.
98 Smart Shapes, Plain and Silver-mounted.
Ask your tobacconist for one, or send a postcard to
Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne, and we will tell you where to get one.
THE WORLD’S BEST PIPE.
NON-CRACKING CORSICAN BRUYERE.
nw
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS
Against Cracking or Burning.
Any F.L.C. doing so within that
time will be replaced FREE.
Illustrated is Style 502,
Silver-mounted,
15/-
‘THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
EL E Y
AMMUNITION
<c Always Reliable ”
For Shot-gun cartridges in all
gauges, loaded with high grade powders.
In case of difficulty
refer your dealer to :
ALBERT
Broughton House,
Clarence Street,
à
ADAMS
SYDNEY.
For the shop whose needs call for a machine to cut a variety of
spur and bevel gears, clutches,
sprockets, etc., we offer
BROWN & SHARPE
No. 13 & 13H Automatic
Gear-Cutting
Machines
These machines are a
favorite in the average
shop because of their
adaptability to such a
large range of work. They
will accommodate spur
and bevel gears up to
24in. in diameter, 6in.
face, which adequately
fills the ordinary de-
mands.
á
AUSTRALASIAN AGGNTS:
SCRUTTONS LIMITED,
161 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dept. “G.”
Business, Robbery, etc.
“The Moralist”; Notwithstanding fair
rains and good feed prospects, horses are go-
ing dirt-cheap in places. At Tenterfield
(N.S.W.) recently, good useful kinds changed
hands at ss. each. In one case Is. 3d. was
the highest bid for a nag that was able to
stand up unsupported. The owner couldn’t
see the joke and refused the money.
it * * #
“Vandorian” (London) : Has the Aus-
tralian hen acquired the fivepenny habit?
Or is she still able to do herself fairly well
at, s.ay, twopence? Here, in a Surrey vil-
lage, eggs oft the nest are sold over the next
hedge at fivepence each. In London food
prices are perceptibly falling—at last.
Foreign competition is responsible. The
Danish hen contributes an excellent sample
at twopence ha’penny to threepence. Meat
is beginning to look less like coin of the
realm ; and M.L. mutton is slowly resuming
business as what it is, instead of being
masqueraded as English lamb at 3s. a lb.
* * * *
“0.K.”: One of my forlorn hopes is that
I may live to see a Chow laundry proprietor
convicted of poisoning the linen entrusted
to him. Brief life is now the portion of
any sound shirt or collar that Ah Sin has
to do with. In the cleansing or starching
process he employs some deadly agent which
impoverishes the garment—and charges 100
per cent, more than the pre-wab price for
doing it. A merciless fiend is Ah Sin, the
laundryman. If the law against food adul-
teration were extended to soap and starch,
his crimes could be shirted home to .him,
and I would be in favor of letting his punish-
ment fit the crime. Something with boiling-
suds in it.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: In the Ancient Sydney Business
Stakes a good runner-up to Horderns’ and
Lassetter’s is “Mrs. Kirby, the Undertaker.”
Close upon a century ago Thomas Shaugh-
nessey, who had been a Government House
servant in Macquarie’s time, was well
established as an undertaker in Hunter-street.
Towards the end of the ’thirties he had as a
neighbor one James Curtis, a handsome,
portly gentleman, the very antithesis of the
conventional undertaker, and when Shaugh-
nessey went west Curtis took up. the trade
and pursued it for years on a site now covered
by the C.I.D. in Hunter-street. On Curtis’s
death the business fell to Patrick Kirby,
whose widow and son still carry on.
* * * *
“Jobber’s” northern idyll:—
The Innisfail light railway as described by
“Hecagus” (B. 29/12/’2l) reminds me of the train
from Eaton to Mapkay (Q.) on a Saturday night
in the cane season. My mates and I used to go
into “town” at the week-end, and got on the train
at Wallingford, an unattended siding. If the cara-
van happened to have a full load, a notice would be
on the front of the engine: “Train full; another
following.” Very often the vehicles would be
trucks with seats round the sides, but sometimes
we had dinkum carriages. Before we got far the
guard would come ' along and take money for the
tickets. Further along the track he would come
back with the tickets and the change. It did me
good to hear him say, when he got to our carriage,
which was always full, “Anyone in here got to get
change?” Very often the reply would be “No”
but perhaps one chap might say “I give you ’arf
a quid,” and he would promptly get his silver.
I never once heard of the guard being scaled.
* * * •
“Bris”: One of the reasons why the
Queensland railways are “going” a couple
of millions this year is the enthusiastic pre-
ference of the population for other means
of transport, when available. For that there
are many reasons, but the terrific charges
made for very inferior service count for
most. The 12-mile run from Brisbane to
Sandgate costs 2s. 7d. return 21st class and
Is. 9d. return 42nd class. For forwarding
to Sydney a cocker-spaniel bitch with a litter
of pups three days old, in a wire-netted
whisky-case, the extortioners demanded £4
18s. 6d. A man who sent two cases of
pineapples from Roma-street to Armidale
(N.S.W.) had to pay 14s. 9d.—the package
weighed only ljcwt., and the cost of the
fruit, cases and all, came to less than the
railways exacted. These three items (out
of 300,000) help to show how the Depart-
ment is able to keep 3179 superfluous card-
players and horse-racing authorities on its
pay-sheet without losing more than about
1J million a year.
“AFTER SEEX.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wine-bar bubbles with talking,
The glasses clatter and shine;
Luigi, stealthily stalking,
Brings reinforcements of wine;
Life takes a mystical glamor,
Ecstasy flushes the cheeks,
When a Voice o’er the joy-ridden clamor
Cries, “Gen-tel-men, after seex 1”
“After seex!” Can you beat it?
“Clock’s fast a quarter,” we say;
Daytime—no hope to defeat it —•
Gallops when people go gay!
“No matter, there’s time yet to sink a
Last round, so we’ll just dip our beaks!"
But the voice cries “No more-a to drink-a!
Gen-tel-men, after seex!”
Yes, gaze at the clock-hands’ endorsement
Of edict that saddens the heart,
Like man and his wife in divorcement,
Fixed firm at their farthest apart;
As swift as a crafty old mouser
On little scared rodents that sneaks,
Time pounces upon us—the wowser—
With “Gen-tel-men, after seex!”
Now hushed is the chatter of Fiji,
Of Rome, war and women and love.
No longer old faithful Luigi
Steals round like a swivel-eyed dove;
Enforced is our thirsty repentance,
And sealed, as a shrilling voice speaks
Like the end of the world in a sentence,
“Gen-tel-men, after seex !”
So up to the daylight per stairway
We totter like ghosts to our graves,
Where tram upon tram in the fairway
Rolls home with its burden of slaves;
And wonder, like Omar, what treasure
They buy, these Italians and Greeks,
So precious as our debarred pleasure—
The wine of the land, “after seex."
N.S.W.
WILLIAM WINEBARREL.


ss
Save your Flocks
from blowfly losses
wi±k a. COMET
SHEEP JETIER
irrccjr '(
S\v>
N
NO matter how destructive a solution may be it cannot be
effective when used in dipping and spraying methods, because
it can never get to the root of the trouble. But imagine a
deadly arsenical solution forced into and through the wool under
high pressure! That’s Jetting, the real means of combating the
blowfly, the proven method of destroying present infestation and
preventing further attack for from 2 to 4 months.
JETTING OBVIATES GRUTCHING
The elimination of crutching is a point that should recommend jetting
to every pastoralist. Jetting is economical as well as effective. One man
can handle as many as 1500 sheep per day, and jet thoroughly at a cost of
about l/sth penny per sheep.
For successful jetting you need a constant, evenly-mixed solution, a
handpiece under instant control of the operator, and a working pressure for
every degree of infestation. A “Comet” has these features —and many
other points of recommendation. Send us your enquiries and ask for special
illustrated folder, post free.
Sidney Williams & Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville.
S.W. 310.
An even mixture is important.
The “COMET” maintains it.
“Ruthven Station/' Isisford, August 13, 1921.
“The ‘Comet’ Sheep-Jetting: Plant yon sent
this station has given every satisfaction, and I
consider it in every way a very complete and
np-to-date plant that requires little or no atten-
tion beyond keeping: it cleaned and oiled. The
agitation in the tank being continuous and
revolving there is no danger of the mixture
altering when using.
“(Signed) H. M. RA3IAGE, Manager.”
â
Every new Hupmobile placed in an owner’s hands makes a new Hupmobile friend.
Hupmohile owners everywhere are Hupmobile enthusiasts. This means some-
thing to a careful buyer. We predict for the present Hupmobile a popularity
even greater than that accorded to all previous Hupmobile models.
IMPORTANT FEATURES:
Extra strong, rigid frame.
Two carburetter adjustments.
Pressure oil system feeding oil direct to bearings.
Soft operating clutch, with adjustable pedal.
Extra-long change-speed lever, with short, easy
throw.
Extra-long, semi-elliptic springs; chrome vanadium
leaves.
Semi-irreversible steering-gear; strong construc-
tion.
Detachable engine-head; easy to grind valves or
remove carbon.
Extreme roominess of tonneau and driving com-
partment.
Completeness and quality of equipment.
L PHIZACKERLEY,
1 §9-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
ã


Headache
H. T.vfl*
THOUSANDS of women suffer miserably
from periodic attacks of headache, never
dreaming that permanent relief may be
had by the simplest means. Headache nearly
always results from some disorder of the stomach,
liver or bowels. Chamberlain’s Tablets will correct
these disorders and do away with headache.
lx
V. V..tf;S!r:
a . ® ** ® ®
MORRIS-BUILT
for longer service
J
9
o
Fig. 1,
Fig. I—“ Herbert Morris”
Suspension Type Patent
Electric Hoist Block, with
top loop to hang from hook or
shackle. Made for any cur-
rent. Sizes ito 5 tons. Just
one representative type of a full
range of “Morris-Built” Elec-
trically-operated Hoists for use
in fixed positions or attachment
to overhead runways and bogie
trolleys.
Fig. 2—The famous “Her-
bert Morris” Triple Gear
Chain Pulley Block. An
engineering masterpiece denot-
ing perfection in lifting tackle.
Sizes 2§ to 20 tons.. All gears
are machine-cut and completely
enclosed for protection against
dirt, dust and damp. All parts
are interchangeable. We stock
snares,-
748 A
Fig. 2.
All Lifting and Handling Equipment built
by Herbert Morris, Ltd., England, is rated
on British ton capacity of 22401 b. and tested
with 50 per cent, overload before leaving
the works. Every “Morris-built” product
represents the limit of achievement in lifting
and handling equipment. Years of success-
ful service have proved “Morris” quality.
We invite enquiries for Herbert Morris
Triple Gear, Worm Gear and Spur Gear
Blocks; Patent Electric Hoist Blocks;
Engineers’ Jacks; Portable Jib Cranes;
Elevating Trucks and Transveyor Systems;
Overhead Cranes and Runways, etc.
Write nearest address for particulars.
NOYES BROS
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; and
17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; Darling Building, Franklin Street, Adelaide, and corner Elizabeth and Collins
Streets, Hobart, Tas. Also from J. R. W. Gardam, 138 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
ST.G. 414
Trevdee . A bouss in a Melbourne
suburb has had four families living in it
during the last five years, and their respec*
tive names are Swan, Hawke, Dickie aDd
Crowe. The street calks it the aviary.
“Country Bachelor”: While on coinci-
dences. here s mine. In a hospital in
Iverang (lie.) last February, a woman and
her daughter gave birth each to a girl-child
on the same day and in the same room.
J. W. K. Freeman has left off being
sheriff as well as Inspector-General of Vic
Prisons, and is now a P.M. only. J. T
Miller has been made sheriff, and given the
job, among other things, of seeing that a
hangman is always available.
By taking W. R. Birks, B.Se., an in-
spector of Agriculture, from the Ma State
and making him principal of Dookie, Vic. is
getting back a bit of its own. N. S. Wales
lured Potts away from the southern State
to Ilawkesbury. The runner-up for Dookie
was Mullett, B.Sc., chief field-officer of the
Vic. Agricultural Department. Richard-
son, Vic. Supt. of Agriculture, was lifted
from S. Aus., and it was from the same
State that N. S. Wales got Birks.
“Ivopai” : It probably will do those West-
ralian boys good to tour the eastern States.
But methods adopted in giving the lads a
good time were rather embarrassing, and
probably accounted for what appeared the
cavalier treatment of the visitors by the Mayor
of Melbourne and the Vic. Premier. Requests
for help were issued freely, and the invitation
I saw from the organiser of the tour besought
provision of a meal for the party, and con-
veyances wherewith it should see the sights
of the town. As there were 220 hoys, Lit
including managers, etc., hospitality meant
expenditure of some £2OO, and my town
jibbed. The managers made it look as though,
after arriving in the East, the party was
now “sundowning.”
“Sierra” : I can give “Light the Binnacle”
(B. 26/l/’22) a sail for his money with a
slow ship. In June, 1894, I left Vancouver
(8.C.) in the four-masted barquentine Xan-
tippe (900 tons), and arrived at Cape Clear
(Ireland) in December, 182 days out. With
all the wind we wanted, she started south
from Cape Flattery, pushing the Pacific
before her, as the men said, doing 10 knots
for’ard and five knots aft. We sailed for
four months without sighting a sail or land
(surely a record), and were then overhauled
by a crazy-looking Norwegian barque. The
Scandinavian skipper was so pleased at
finding something he could pass that he sig-
nalised the occasion by sailing round us. A
dose, of scurvy for all hands was one result
of our trip.
“G.P.”: I am afraid that doctors who go
in largely for organo-therapy, and who are
in the habit of prescribing tabloids made in
Waterloo, Sydney, and which, for that reason,
can be supplied at very reasonable rates —
a desideratum in these days of horribly
expensive drugs—will have to adopt means
to protect their patients from chemists who
are not satisfied with a fair profit, but attempt
to put the screw on to the extent of over
1000 per cent. A Sydney doctor a few weeks
back in the Australian Medical Journal
reported that a chemist charged 3s. 6d. for a
small phial of horse serum which he had
ordered for a patient, and which could be
obtained at the Commonwealth supply depot
at the Quay for Is. 9d. I have a patient who
was charged 3s. by a suburban chemist for
25 tabloids of thyroid gland which cost him
Is. 2d. per 100. If this sort of thing goes
on I can see that doctors will have to lay in
a stock of the tabloids in common use, and
pass them on to the patient at cost price.
“D.”: Vasos Zographon, who was fined
£lO at Melbourne City Court for selling a
Health inspector gummy-shark as Murray
cod, had an ice-chest full of the rubbish, and
also owned up to using the stuff for “oyster
soup.” It is hard to know which to admire
the more —the nerve of Zographon or the
gastronomic hardihood of his patrons. King-
fish for snapper is understandable: they
taste colorably alike. And leatherjacket as
“sea-trout” is excusable. We have no sea-
trout in Australia and the scavenger of our
coastal waters travels under so many aliases
that one more or less is neither here nor
there. But Murray cod is about the most
individual, as well as one of the most deli-
cate, fish, in the matter of flavor, that the
Commonwealth possesses. Many travellers
consider it the equal of the North Sea turbot.
And shark, _ whether large or small, is as
rank as it is dry and coarse. If the local
communists can only establish that a fair
proportion of citizens consumed shark as
Murray cod without complaint it will con-
stitute an extremely powerful argument for
the Lenin creed. Bolshevism will hold few
terrors for a race than can thrive on such
fare.
“Gregor” on chemical waste:—
Please tell “Whitebait” (B. 26/l/’22) that I stick
to my statement that nowhere in the Commonwealth
is there a coal-tar distillation factory erected speci-
ally for the purpose, and now run as such. A few
small plants produce negligible quantities of com-
pounds such as he mentions, but, excepting a couple
working on a small scale, they are producing them as
by-products, and not as the main product of a process.
Why does Australia import such quantities of chemi-
cals and drugs that are procured from coal-tar? Why
also are thousands of gallons of benzol, one of the
main products of distillation and the starting-point
of scores of different synthetic processes, brought
in from foreign parts, where different ideas as to
what constitutes waste prevail? And, most signifi-
cant of all, why are enormous quantities of coal-tar
to be seen running to waste at almost any gas-
works in the country ? During the war, when benzine
was worth its weight in diamonds or pearls because it
was used extensively in the manufacture of nearly every
kind of explosive, the British Government implored the
Commonwealth Government to do something about the
waste of coal-tar in Australia. In the early month?
of the war large quantities were suddenly exported
to the U.S.A., a country which normally utilises every
drop of tar it can get, but it was net until some
time afterwards that the Australian Government voice
up to the suspicion that sonic of the tar was being
fired at its own soldiers in the form of trinitrotoluol,
and therefore prohibited its export to neutral
countries. Later on, at the instance of the British
Department of Munitions, small quantities were
treated for the extraction of benzine and toluol only,
but when the war ended this ceased, and at present
the quantity distilled anywhere in the Commonwealth
probably amounts to about one one-hundred-thousandth
part of the volume available, the remainder being got
rid of for asphalt or allowed to run to waste.


A. Saunders’ Floral China
Biscuit Barrel, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, 32/0.
A. Saunders’ Sugar Scuttle and
Scoop, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, daintily engraved,
50/-
A. Saunders’ Teapot, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, engraved “Butterfly” design, 60 /«
A. Saunders’ Fruit Salad Dish and Spoon, pure Silver*
plated, cut crystal glass, 50/-.
TABLE-APPOINTMENTS.
A. Saunters’ 4-cup Egg Stand and Spoons, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, hand burnished, 50/-
SEND
FOR •
OUR FREE
CHRISTMAS
GIFT
BOOK
A. Saunders’ Fruit Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly burnished, detachable tubes, £lO/10/-
ä
A. Saunders’ Break-
fast Cruet, pure Sil-
verplated, A 1 quality
frame, crystal glass
bottles, 50/-
A. Saunders’' Hot-water Jug,
pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
engraved “Fern” design,
ALL ORDERS
BY POST
WE
SPECIALLY
ATTEND TO
AND POST
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, pierced design, highly burnished,
£B.
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, cut crystal glass
bowl, £3/10/-
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
ustraUcx’s
, ‘Tirst ’
imndmill
<4?
ivas erected in 1808 on the Appin Road, near the old
town of Campbelltown, N.S.W. It was built of dressed
stone, with centre shaft, gear-wheel and pinion made of
hardwood. It would cost as much to erect now as a
brick villa. A great contrast to the scientifically-
constructed
“BILLABONG” Mill
of to-day, made from steel and iron, with steel ball-
bearings, silent in action and regulating its speed to
any breeze by its own combined Speed Regulator and
Governor.
This exclusive patented contrivance prevents racing,
adapts the speed of the wheel to the wind, and pulls it
out of the gale w r hen it becomes dangerous to pump.
Other points are: massive main castings, automatic
lubrication, centre lift, and split bearings, which can be
replaced without removing any gear. All safeguarded
for wear, pumping and from damage by gales and storms
by the patented Speed Regulator and Governor. The
practical Mill at a moderate price you
will decide to buy.
Write for the Billabong Book.
I
m
-•>
r/c.
m
y
*3
sfe
23
'■H
8
2L
DANKS' •
John Daaks C*sor\ Pry It*?
fififcS!"* - PAJENJEES . 391-403 BourkeSt
SYPN&£? • MELBOURNE
Power for Nothing.
That water running to waste past your place day and night may be
saved for soil, man or beast, and with the aid of a
G
*AIU\ERS
CLd.
“Billabong”
Hydraulic
RAM
be made the power for lift-
ing itself up the hill to the
tanks. All that is required
is a slight fall or head of
water from creek or dam,
even as low as three feet.
The falling water
works the ram; no
h a n d-, wind- or
engine - power re-
quired. A cheap way
to continuously re-
olenish reserve tanks
and dams from the
lower levels.
Just mention the fall, height and distance to which water is to be
delivered, and quantity per day reqmired, and we will tell you the
correct ram to use, and the cost for same, and the necessary pipes
and fittings. N
ECONOMY PRECEDES PROFIT.
Make your creek work.
WRITE TO-DAY.
JohnDanks c,SonP^W
324 330 P iii *Si_ S'yciTte'y
391'405 Bourke Si .Melbourne


Hotel de Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre? Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/--per tay, or from
4=\l& Guineas per week.
CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.Y3ool, 3002. Apply Manager.
Vacc<n ation
To mitigate the suffer-
ing which follows on
vaccina ion, and to
allay feverish condi-
tions. give the little
ones a smail dose or
two daily of
Kruse's
Majji
Cooling and healthful
Take no risks with imi-
tations. The genuine
Kruse’s is made by
Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Prop. Ltd., Melbourne
fluid
[0513
\
/
THOROUGHLY BRITISH
Ride a bicycle
built of
0
n
m
<§>
□
FITTINGS
A MODEL TO
SUIT EVERY RIDER.
Whatever your need, there is a
bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
to meet it. The well illustrated
B.S.A. Fittings Handbook covers a
wide and varied range of bicycles.
k
THIS
TRADEMARK
APPEARS ON ALL
BICYCLES BUILT OF
B.S.A. FITTINGS.
Illustrated Handbook
post free on request.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
\
/
THE SUPREME
SUNBEAM
SUNBEAM
COATALEN
AIRCRAFT
ENGINES
100-900 h.p.
A South African Owner says: —
“• . . After all, spare parts for Sunbeams
are seldom wanted, because they never
seem to wear out.”
Mail for particulars.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR C« I™.
Wolverhampton, England.
EXPORT DEPT.
12 PRINCES STREET
HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.l.
Cable Address : “Subeamoco,” London.
mm?
\\\\\y^vv
WNWWW
llliDMWMWffi
$
lull
liuniih
24 h.p. 6 cyl. SPORTING MODEL.
Sole Agents for New South Wales: WILLIAMS BKOS., LTD., 822 George Street, Sydney.
✓
mm
&
xs
/
WheneverkbuDrink
order a glass of
Pure,Refreshing and InvßjoratinaJ.
R!cn IN CURATIVES -CONTAINS LIME, 9
SQDA.LITHIA & MAGNESIA.
AGENTS-ROWLANDS PIT L”
MELBOURNE. BALIARAT
AND SYDNEY -
Purveyors to Vice -Rotjdliru -
ALaxU
skjuJ’XsCdLLci'
;; 3 "
I
Reduced Prices
EFFECTIVE Ist JULY, 1921
Covers Tubes
Others in Proportion
Colo Covers and Tubes are
Guaranteed 4000 Miles
Your Garage supply
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD., HeadOifies: s^7'Barrack St..Sydney
Also at ’
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 88-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 11-13 Twin Street-.
Perth: 33 Barrack Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets
and Wanganui'. (N.Z.).
SPORTING NOTIONS.
'Jobber : John Power, ex-goldminer, and
now green-keeper for the Tumbarumba (N.S.W.) Golf
Club, only took on the royal and ancient game a
few months ago, he being 87 at the time. Clubs are
expensive, so the old sport began with a home-made
driver. Then the members gave him one, and he has
now acquired a mashie and putter as well. If there
is any record of a man taking up a game later in
life I’d be interested to hear of it.
* * * *
Until the latest visitors from Westralia
have proved themselves in Victoria there will still
be a doubt re the quality of Westralian horseflesh
in general since Eurythmic left the State. Easing-
wold r.ow appears to be one of the very best at
Perth, whereas he was one of the worst at Melbourne
four months ago. Possibly the colt’s failures were
entirely due to change of climate, and on the other
hand it inay have been change of company that he
was suffering from. Or a little of each.
* * * #
Wallis Myers, English tennis veteran and
writer, has again had the pluck not only to pick
but to place the world’s best 10. He grades them
thus; Tilden, Johnston, Vincent Richards, Shimidzu,
Patterson, Anderson, Norton, Alonso, Williams and
Gobert. From his last year’s list have been dropped
Kingscote, Parke, Brookes and Laurentz in favor of
the younger men. Gobert has changed places with
Patterson—and the list was out before Patterson
did so well in the Melbourne tournament. But the
most striking thing in it is the nearly-top place
given to the young American Richards.
Ned Sheridan, now living in Brisbane, is
probably Australia’s oldest first-class cricketer. Born
in Sydney 80 years ago, in 1865 he was 12th man
for N.S.W. against Victoria. The following year he
visited Victoria with the N.S.W. team. His last
game in Sydney was against Vic. in ’7B, and his
play won the match. At the end of it the hat went
round and 1140 was handed to him. He was selected
to go to England in ’7B, but declined owing to the
very recent death of his mother. In his day the
veteran played against • Spofforth, and he still carries
on his legs the scars where the Demon hit him.
*,* * *
For tlie first time in its history the
Oxford-Cambridge Rugger match was played, not at
Queen’s Club, but on the Rugby Union’s ground at
Twickenham. Oxford won, 11—3, before a crowd
of 30,000. Three Australians played for the winning
side —Forsayth, of King’s, Parramatta, at full back
(he is also the Scottish international back) ; Lawton,
of Brisbane Grammar, five-eighth; and Rowe, of the
Game school, forward. When Lawton went up as a
Rhodes scholar there was an idea that he might be
barred as a pro. He had played the Rugby League
game in Queensland, his reason being that, the Union
game being dead in Queensland, it was a case of
League or nothing. In point of fact he was not
even asked to explain.
* * * *
During M.L. swimming championships at
Wellington a week or so back Paula Hoeft, an Auck-
land Amazon, downed Gwitha Shand, of Christchurch,
in the 100 by 2ft. The time was a record—
-67 4.55ec., or 1 l-ssec. slicker than Miss Shand’s
previous figures. The improvement in the swimming
of the Maoriland girls is marked. In 1919-20 Violet
Walrond established a Dominion record by covering
the 100 in lmin. 11 2-ssec. Last season Miss
Shand cut that down to lmin. 9sec. And now enters
Miss Hoeft. Annette Kellerman considers her a pros-
pective world-beater. Anyhow her latest effort was
1 4-ssec. better than that put up by Mina Wylie
in Sydney Domain Baths., on the same day—a per-
formance which enabled the latter to retain the N. S.
Wales crown against Lily Robertson.
* * * *
In Queensland the other day Beaurepaire
took the 220yds. Australian championship, and Kirkland
the 100yds. back-stroke event; so that N.S.W. again
holds the Kieran Memorial Shield. The Ma State’s
tally is 8 firsts in 10 tries, Bananaland. getting the
remainder. Beaurepaire, who has for the third time
swept the Australian championship board from
220yds. to one mile, is on the figures a better man
to-day at 32 than he ever was. His times for
the various events in 1908-09 and 1921-22:
1908-09. 1921-22.
220yds. .. 2min. 30 3-ssee... 2min. 29sec.
440yds. . . sinin. 33sec. . . smin. 24 l-ssec.
880yds. .. llmin. 36 2-ssec.. . llmin. 33 l-ssec.
1 mile .. 24min. Bsec. ..23min. 46 2-ssec.
* * * *
“Fax”; Some words are bi-sexual in
horse-nomenclature. There is talk just now of the
brood mare Cranbrook, imported fo Australia for the
Tyes after she had Been mated with Polymelus in
England. The offspring of Polymelus is the natty
little colt Polytheist, that won a race for Eric Con-
nolly at first time of asking, and the other child of
Cranbrook —a foal at foot when mother was im-
ported—is a four-year old named Torbrooke. The
name of the brood mare sounds odd to old racegoers
who remember the late James White’s Cranbrook in
the long ago. A notoriously big son of Chester, he
won the Newmarket Handicap for White in 1888.
The Flemington straight was right into his hands —or
legs, and with Sst. 121 b. up he did the six furlongs
in lmin. 144 see., a record for some years. The
next big horse to win a Newmarket under a big
weight was Bungebah, but even Bungy was smaller
than Cranbrook.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Stipendiary stewards are un-
known in England, and turf critics are remarking it
is time the autocratic Jockey Club sanctioned the
innovation. Why the Jockey Club does not con-
descend to discuss the question of stipes is because
—haw ! —the dignity of lordly stewards might seem
to be impaired by the appointment of hired officials
who might do something useful for their living.
There were no stipes when horseraeing was almost
entirely confined to titled “mugs,” leavened with a
few noble blacklegs, and their employees and para-
sites. Therefore stipes are not required. The
Jockey Club will blow cold on any proposal to
lessen th 4 official importance of honorary stewards
until at lhst the outcry against the existing rule of
roguery is, too loud for even dukes to remain indif-
ferent to it. Then, perhaps, the high-tqned authori-
ties will adopt the suggestion that the stipes should
.he four in humber, one of them at the starting-gate,
two others at different points of the race, and one
acting always as policeman in the betting-ring, that
he may warn his brethren beforehand of the nags
expected to show signs of “stiffness,” or of having
the road made easy for them. Meanwhile it may be
pleaded for Jockey Club do-nothings that they can
point to stipes in other countries as having done pre-
qious li+He towards nurifying the Sport of Kings.
Horseracing at Melbourne’s down-the-line
meetings gives humorous illustrations of the Turf’s
“glorious uncertainty.” The Age quite gravely re-
marked: “There were eight starters for the Aspendale
Plat?. C. T. God.bv .started Elkin and Australian
Sun, while N. D. Godby was represented by three —
Rahda, Gold Coin and Manderston. Not one of
these five was supposed to be forward enough in con-
dition to have a chance of winning, and Elkin, who
opened at 3 to 1, gradually lengthened to 16 to 1.”
The idea of five out of eight starters .being supplied
by two closely-related stahles for the mere purpose
of giving the nags an outing doesn't seem to have
shocked the daily press a little bit. It was all
quite right and sportsmanlike. The joke came in
when Elkin proved sufficiently forward in condition
to win by a head, stable companion Australian Sain
being only a head behind the intervening animal.
The incident was as instructive in its way as the
first victory of Eurythmic in Melbourne, 18 months
ago, when he also was thought to be so short of
winning condition that he went out at 20 to 1. The
cutest of trainers are apparently slow to be con-
vinced that a horse in good health can win races
without being robbed of all his superfluous flesh, and
is in some cases all the better for ndt being strung-
up. In Elkin’s case the course was only six furlongs
and the test of fitness was not severe.
(Continued on page 53.)


Amusements.
SYDNG V’S CHIEF TIIEAT It E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE BOY.
CRITERION:
NICOLA . .
(Magician and illusionist).
ROYAL:
DOROTHY.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTI)., MELBOURNE
attractions.
THEATRE ROYAL.
MAUDE FANE in
A NIGHT OUT.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
BABES IN THE WOOD.
KING’S THEATRE.
JOHN D. O’HARA in
THE LAUGHTER OF FOOLS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
BEN Sc JOHN FULLER, LTD., MELBOURNE.
PANTOMIME ATTRACTIONS.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE,
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN and JOHN FULLER present their Great
Spectacular Pantomime,
BLUEBEARD.
Popular Prices.
MatinGes Daily.
H
OYT’S
Til E A T R ICS, M ELliO U It N E.
Also SYDNEY.
nw LUXE. BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
OLAFF FONS in
THE DEVIL’S KINGDOM.
HARRY CAREY in
BULLET PROOF.
Prices as usual.
M
ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PAIHE,
WORLD and SI'.L7.N»CK. ___
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
Australian Tour:
MELBOURNE—PALACE THEATRE.
Season Commencing SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Hanking House. Pitt Street. Sydney.
m
\V4
M
A'//
m
m
m
s■//.
CS/
SSB
ASZ
m
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-Print which maintains
health a d strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK'S daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Mi k. Wheat and
I’rrley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 20
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK S MALTED MILK CO.
6LOUGM. BUCKS, ENG.
K
Tn 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
å
ā
ă
ą
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and
hopeful thoughts arc required. The man
•who it despondent or irritable always
fails. Low spirits and irritability ct
temper arc often caused by a dull, torpid
liver. Wake up yo«* liver with
Carter's Lit-
tle Liver Pills
and start the
day with a
bright cheerful
face. Both
yourhealthand
businesf will
benefit. Good
for old and
young—purely
vegetable.
Small Pill —
Small
Doie-
Small
Price i
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
“Fx & FT
SPOONS and FORKS
are the most heavily
plated.
They are plated on
white, hard, nickel
bases.
They will wear like
silver tor forty years.
THEY ARE PRACTI-
CALLY HEAVY
SHEATHS OF SIL-
VE R, COVERING
THE HARD WHITE
BASE.
They engrave like solid
silver.
They are the best, yet
far away the lowest
in price on the
market.
They all bear the “Fx
and R” brand, which
is always a guarantee
of best Quality at
lowest price.
6
“Fx & R” QUALITY.
Table Spoons and Forks,
87/6 per dozen, less
20% discount, 707-
Dessert Spoons and
Forks, 72/6 per
dozen, less 20% dis-
count, 58 7-
Tea Spoons, 35/- per
dozen, less 20% dis-
count, 28/-
We can supply single
pieces if desired.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Fisufes.
[ Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Amusements.
|y|A.)ESIIC THEATRE. 31 El. HO DUNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
JANE NOVAK in
KAZAN.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
p KIT AN NIA Til EAT UE, iIEIAJOUIINK.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements. ■
WIRTHS' OLYM PJ A HALL.
Princes Bridge, Melbourne.
COMPLETELY RENOVATED,
MELBOURNE’S LARGEST AMUSEMENT HALL
now available for
DANCES, CONCERTS, FETES, etc.
Fancy-dress Ball, Saturday, February 18.
qN TOUR. DIRECTION LIONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OP THE MOUNTAINS.
Presented by arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Lta.
Now Touring Tasmania.
100% Efficiency UiSSilStSiS’.ia'tK Ideal Power Lawn Mower.
SOT
The “IDEAL” MOWER will cut and roll five to seven acres in eight hours witn
unskilled labor on a gallon- of petrol. _ . tf>
If you are up-to-date and prize efficiency and economy you will add your name to
this list of discriminating users: —
U.S.A.
THOMAS EDISON.
JOHN . I). ROCKEFELLER.
ANDREW CARNEGIE ESTATE,
MARY ROBERTS RINEHART.
AUSTRALIA:
T. TURNER SHAW, Esq., Cheltenham.
J. VAN COOTII. Esq., East Malvern.
OSWALD SYME, Esq., Macedon.
PHILIP RUSSELL, F,sq., Beaufort.
The “IDEAL JUNIOR” is specially made_ for pdvate_lawns :
Sole Australasian
A grants:
Over 8000 “IDEALS” in use.
v;.
•-
c. J. WHITE & SONS,
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVES WANTED.
172 Little Collins 3t. f
MELBOURNE.
Guaranteed &
in order for two years free
CRAIG & AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE 51 SYDNEY,
555 T
-
to
v
SJD 00 SATISFYING SHAVES RAZOR
Throuqhout
(^^Australasia
LhUYTHIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the;
liomfort that shave after shave of satin smooth:
i-ness brings to users of THE PLUHRAZOR^.
Pair iN^agresentationCase
25/Past Free
Public - -Notice.
BRITISH AUSTRALIAN WOOL
REALISATION ASSOCIATION
LIMITED.
Redemption of £5,250,000
Priority Wool Certificates*
ttOLDERS of PRIORITY WOOL■ gJfWlg™
rl in this Association are notified that the balance
due on such Certificates will . b « be
1922. After such payment the Certificat
retired.
PRIORITY WOOL CERTIFICATES (but not
Shire Certificates) must be forwarded to the Asswna-
tion’s Office, Melbourne, for endorsement before final
paymeftt can be made. .Early receipt of 1 nonty
Wool Certificates will facilitate payment.
No checiue will be posted unless the Association
haf firstTeceWed the Priority Wool Certificate to
which such cheque relates.
THERE IS NO NECESSITY TO APPOINT AN
AGENT, but in exceptional cases where the regis-
tered holder of a Priority Wool Certificate desires
that a bank, woolbroker or agent should receive the
moneys so due, he should have the Priority Wool
Certificate transferred to the name of such nominee
so as to facilitate the distribution.
In all cases cheques will be forwarded by post
direct to the registered holders of Certificates, and
the Association should be at once notified ofany
change of address, so as to avoid misdirection of
J. M. HIGGINS, Chairman.
G. F. PARKES, Acting Secretary,
540-542 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
10th February, 1922.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visitiug London
should.read the British Australasian,
Ud weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian lieadmg-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where’they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
I* MU,
m
’KH
as
mi
m
m
mm
mwsm
wmmM'M
mm
S>*
Q*.Z.
V7/-JJ.
m
tzr
Ml
't i>ii)
%
nr
Mi
i
e.v
k>i
W 1
s®
m
%
m
i Sa
il't
m
>j\{
ffif
iiy.ir;
1
&
ft/>,
♦VI
mMt
n=r
n
m.
1 !.\
Y -
L. O
M
m
TO \\\^
sr;<s?
•pm?
2T*
Gold Seal
(oNGOLEUM
V?
GOLD
SEAL
GUARANTEE
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
„ OR YOUR MONEY BACK. ,
REMOVE SEAL •
DAMP CLOTj
No More Household Drudgery
—No more dusty carpets to beat,
—No more back-breaking
scrubbing
—No more of that “never-finish-
ed” feeling.
House cleaning is not a weary-
ing task when the floors are cover-
ed with Gongoleum Art Squares.
A damp mop removes in a flash
every speck of dirt from the firm
non-absorbent surface of this handy
floor covering.
This ease of cleaning is only one
of the many features that have
made Gongoleum Art Squares so
popular with the busy housewife.
Handsome appearance, long
service, convenient sizes, low
price and comfort are but few of
the advantages offered to the Gon-
goleum purchaser.
And all these are backed up by
the Gold Seal guarantee on every
square.
Made in the following sizes’
9 ft. x 12 ft.; 9 ft. x 10 ft. 6 in.;
9 ft. x 9 ft.; 9 ft. x 7 ft. 6in;
9 ft. x 6 ft.
At all leading stores
or write
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Cr. King and Kent Streets,
Sydney
Congoleum Representatives for Australia


FULL FASHIONED 8 MOM SEAMED
HOLEPROOF SILK HOSE
Is appreciated more when it brings with it freedom from the BOTHER
and DRUDGERY of DARNING.
FOR MEN AS WELL AS WOMEN.
' ■ ■ ."V ' . s
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DRAPERS AND MERCERS.
u£G>
vO.
I I
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Boy”
Criterion Nicola
Royal “Dorothy”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “A Night Out”
Her Majesty’s ‘‘Babes in the Wood”
King’s “The Laughter of tools’’
Princess’s “Bluebeard”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic ... Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Allan Wilkie had to work hard fop his
money during his recent M.L. tour, but he
did gather it in. Six different Shakspeare
plays per week was the usual order, and
the reward was a profit of £7OOO or more.
Now the indefatigable disciple has leased Mel-
bourne Palace for a term, and it rests
with his local following to bring the house
into highbrow fashion. Not badly situated
—right on the Bourke-street tram line —it
will probably serve Wilkie’s purpose well
when he has noised abroad the fact that
he is fixed there. He should have support
from everybody who complains that the
quality of theatrical entertainment has
deteriorated under the Combine’s manage-
ment. If he doesn’t get it there will be no
apparent reason why they should ever be
offered better brain-food than “The Sign on
the Door” or “The Laughter of Fools.”
#.* * •
Allan Wilkie announces that for a season
of two months at the Palace the bill will be
religiously changed twice a week. The season
begins on Saturday (18th) with “Julius
Caesar,” and on Thursday “Twelfth Night”
starts a pair.
** * *
For only seven more nights will John D.
O’Hara call the odds against Mabel at Mel-
bourne King’s, and bemoan his awful inability
to attend an auction-sale without making
bids for the propertv. John is farewelling
in “The Laughter of Fools.” In a minor
tone of voice the advt. mentions that Frank
Freeman also is farewelling, and as Free-
man’s type of young gentleman (introduced
to Australia in “Tilly of Bloomsbury”) is
really nicer and more probable than O’Hara’s
type of old gentleman who first maundered
in “Lightnin’,” it really looks as though there
must be a screw loose in the ancient proverb
that “Youth will be served.” Criticism owes
a kind word to Frank Freeman, for when he
wasn’t cast for the part of an unobtrusively
sweet young man he was rather neatly adapt-
ing himself to the part of the bearded bounder
whom the Maid of the Mountain loved.
When John and Frank have made their last
appearances in such different-sized type, the
King’s will give shelter to “Paddy the Next
Best Thing,” but not until that much-
travelled comedy has put in a week at the
Royal.
4e * 4c 4=
“Bluebeard,” at Melbourne Princess’s, is
reducing its speed this week. Twelve goes
a week are cut down to eight. But the end
of the section is not yet in sight, seemingly.
Thus far there have been 90 bafflings of
Bluebeard’s latest matrimonial design by the
Fairy Queen, who fights on the side of
“DICK WHITTINGTON," AT SYDNEY
OPERA HOUSE.
Walter Whyte as the Rajah of Cigarette Pal.
Nellie Kolle, no doubt because that vigorous
principal boy has plenty of good solid flesh
about her. In another week Fullers’ panto.
will achieve its century, and then it may
begin to talk about going out.
** * *
Ere the next issue of this paper is born
the J.C.W. production of “Babes in the
Wood” will have ceased to be at Melbourne
Majesty’s. Its legs, clothed and otherwise,
have only six more nights for gambolling on
their native heath; and the two pairs of
applied-art curtains that play so large a part
are making their last appearances. The
Dame, who strives so hard to excite infantile
interest in the refrain of “There You Are,
Then,” will be repeating his exertions in
Adelaide on the 25th. which date has also
been dedicated to a transfer of “A Night
Out” from the Royal to Her Majesty’s.
* » * *
Meanwhile “A Night Out” continues its
Anglicised modifications of good French
giddiness at the old address. With people
of larger artistic importance in at least
two of parts the performance would he
more interesting, but the show as it stands
is well able to run. In fact, it is quite
capable of the jump requir 'd of it. In
place of the late panto “A Night Out” will
seem bright indeed.
Ik 4c $ >£ $
After this week Wilkie Bard will slosh
the soapsuds no more on Melbourne Tivoli
stage, nor will the Night Watchman be
again banged on his bald head with the
bladder of a bibulous warrior. Carrie Lance-
ley and her maids of melody changed their
items last Saturday, otherwise the hill was
the same as experienced a profuse perspira-
tion on the Saturday previous.
* 4s * 4c
“Merrie England” having disappeared
from Sydney Royal in a b..rst of melody, the
Firm is briefly reviving “The Yeomen of the
Guard,” and thereby enabling Muter and the
Old Bean to make triumphant comparisons
between the new comic opera and the old.
Ma and the Ancient Pot will h. ve another
innings on Saturday, when “Dorothy” is
due.
4c 4c 4c 4e
“The Boy,” now in his ninth week (a
long run for these
times) at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney,
will desist from his
nefarious practices
on February 24.
On the following
night “The Merry
Widow” will at-
tempt to bring back
some of the color
and warmth of a
dead world.
** * *
The American
professor of leger-
demain who calls
himself Nicola is
back in Sydney
with an outfit of
new tricks and
others which are**
still entertaining,
although the bloom
of youth has faded
with the inexor-
able years. A
brisk showman is
Nicola, and very
versatile. He does
bewildering things
with cards and
crockery, billinrd-
balls and bracelets,
rings and ropes. He
captures a cute
blonde, crams her
into a basket and
The Panto, at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
W. S. Percy as the
Baron.
passes his sword through the parcel with such
fiendish deliberation as apparently to destroy
her irreparably—and doesn’t harm her in the
least. He hypnotises an Indian Princess,
places her on a table, raises her by his black
art until she seems to be reclining on the
circumambient atmosphere, whisks away a
sheet which has momentarily concealed her
from the intimate gaze of the ..adience —exit
Princess! He conjures girls from empty
cabinets, makes a ghost do the shimmy-shake,
imoresses a ball into the fortune-telling busi-
ness, and patters for the most Ti art agreeably
enough, though not exempt from the ten-
dency to overdo it, which is the weakness of
the necromantic craft. Nicola has an assist-
ant whose work is as droll almost as that
of the dumb humorist who used to help
Cinquevalli: and a “lightnin e-sketch artist,”
whose art isn’t quite so vivid as lightning,
and two nice girls who dance energetically
and sing pardonably help things along. The
Criterion is the Sydney home of this smart
and cheerful show.
* * * *
The longer Ella Shields stays at the Syd-
ney Tivoli, the louder will be the clamor
when she talks o f packing up. Bert Gilbert,
in “Knuts and Madeira,” continues to be a
seasick passenger, and Brooke and Cahill,
Con Moreni, Togo, and the Musical Shirleys
are still short-odds favorites. Maurice Stern-
dale, the Springbok jazzing violinist, re-
enters, the programme and helps this house
in the springtide of its popularity to creep
a few inches higher. Yet catgut-scratching
must be a precarious existence, for Sterndale
still retains the dilapidated garments that
he wore on his first appearance, months ago.
* * * *
Sydney Hoyt’s and the Piccadilly are draw-
ing not with a single hair, but ■with a whole
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Nicola mystifies his assistant.
blonde head-full, the wearer being Miss Hu
Pout, and, according to the film’s publicity
man, Helen of Troy would have run a bad
second to her in any Suuday-paper beauty
competition. In the film story “the World’s
most beautiful blonde” emerges from, the
chrysalis of a small-town belle into the “Rage
of Paris,” and eventually finds bet heri-
tage of love and a strong shoulder on which
to lay the blonde head amid the burning
sands of Africa. As full of thrills as a pot
of pepper, “Tol’able David” keeps the Strand
and the Haymarket screens quivering with
excitement. James Kirk wo d becomes tangled
in the dual roles of “The Great Imper-
sonation” at the Lyceum and Lyric. Kirk-
wood is alternately a German spy and an
English gentleman. But the one tries to kill
the other, and that makes a good yarn told
in the best Oppenheim manner. At the
Crystal Palace Anita Stewart is a poor
“Plaything of Fate” who is rewarded for a
bigamous marriage with love and a title
instead of the usual hard labor in Long Bay.
And at the Globe incomparable (or there-
abouts) Matheson Lang makes “Carnival”
the big shadow-play of the week.
** * *
A Sydney paint show: —
The just-over exhibition by R. S. Wakelin, at
Anthony Horderns’ Galleries, wore a sombre aspect;
but, since he has had only the week-ends for paint-
ing and most of the pictures were produced in the
recent 20-odd wet week-ends, his show would have
been a poor one had it looked otherwise. Though
very uneven because of the inclusion of work of
earlier periods, his best, “Newport Sketch,” “Land-
scape,” “Purple and Green” and “Passing Shadows,”
reach a standard not often met with in “local”
shows. After many adventures in the exploration of
modern color and other theories in his exhaustive
search for what is right in art, Wakelin has dis-
carded all schools and come back to Nature, hat in
hand, a confirmed realist. His best work in this
show, and especially “Newport Sketch,” a simple
statement of two rather bare trees against water,
with a hill behind, gives a decided illusion of space;
in a greater or less degree it has all the elements of
good art. Australia loses for the time being a very
promising painter by Wakelin’s departure for Europe.
*# * *
Adelaide shows continue to be just a lot of
song and dance. At the Royal the Frolics
of 1921 present a mixed bill, and Adelaide
gets some unaccustomed Grand Guignol
tragedy sandwiched in with the fun. Panto-
mime is threatened. The King’s has Antonio
Notariello, a fine tenor, the attractive Mack
Sennet girl known professionally as Cherie,
and the “mystery” called Phrozo, an old
idea. Humphrey Bishop has a picnic party
at the. Exhibition Gardens, and the English
Pierrots are across the terrace at Austral
Gardens; both freely introduce dramatic
turns. In pictures, the Australian “Child
Thou Gavest Me” has a sure emotional
appeal which is running it triumphantly
through an encore week. West’s and the
York respond briskly with American attrac-
tions. but the Majestic is taking the count
for the present.
* * * *
“Dorothy,” which is to have a revival
at Sydney Royal, had its Australian pre-
miere on August 20, ’B7, at the New Prin-
cess’s, which Melbourne had seen opened a
few months before. The opera ran till
September 23—30 performances, for Uiatin6es
were unknown. Leonora Braham was the
Dorothy, and Aggie Kelton, Ida Osborne and
Alice Barnett —the Savoy heavyweight—
were in the cast. The principal men were
Woodfield, Frederici and Billy Elton. Harry
Musgrove was treasurer, and he is still with
the Firm. Johnny Wallace was the stage-
manager; he, too, is still or deck. There
were strong counter-attractions to “Doro-
Emilie Melville was playing Peg
\\offington to Wybert Reeve’s Triplet in
Masks and Faces ’ at the Bijou, where the
Majeroms had just finished a season of high
comedy—“ Corsican Brothers” and such
Bignold, who had been starring in
The Two Omhans” at Her Majesty’s Opera
House (now the Tivoli), and running Her
Majesty s Hotel in Swanston-street as a
side-line, was followed by the Broughs, with.
Fanny Robina and Teddy Royce iu “Little
Jack Sheppard. Wirthf Circus was
fit the} Alexandra. (now tleir MiiiestV’sli
?**.„*£ ™ Ucc . eed £ d .Carrie « whiff
iu Uncle Toms Cab.ti, r ’ Phil Day waS
Bobcicault as
Mike; The New Italian Opera Co ; uffdei-
J£ a Just about .to start at the
Theatre Royal, where Maggie Moore and
V' 1 ..- Pv farewelling once
H a 1" t? ln ■ i Oil-” Maggie then joined
the Royal Comics at the Princess’s in “Les
Cloches. The Oogills were at St. George’s
Hall, and Frank M. Clark, who is still
appearing nightly all over Australia in the
Seiii" films, was in his second year of “Silk
Stockings" at the Victoria Hall. Clark, like
IDgnold. also ran a Swanston-street pub,
the Fnrl of Rosphery. His particular
counterblast to “Dorothy” was the firing
of a ladv from what he said was an 80-
ton gun—perhaps it was; all the theatrical
guns seem to have been of great tbnhaie
Just
“Barry Ltipino”: I found in the Prop.
Book at the Hippodrome, Belfast, the other
da!?, a leaf frohi Moonshine, dated Nov. 8,
1884, with this down in one corner:
Mr. George Darrell, “actor-author,” produced his
highly-exeitable Anglo-Australian drama, “The
Sunny South,” last week, at the Grand Theatre, and
played with effect in the character of Matt Morley,
enabling him to use his mawleys very frequently.
The diama is of the old-fashioned type, based upon
Charles Reade, the late Grecian Theatre, and many
a popular novelette; the characters handle the re-
volver pretty freely, and generally behave in a
Cockney-Australian hilarity, much to the satisfaction
of the volatile audience of the Grand. Miss Alice
Raynbr and Miss L. Harwood aided with feminine
piquancy the well-selected company, and “Sunny
South”, will go a long way to brighten the murky
days before Christmas.
“Stargazer”: I used to take delight in
sitting out a play with any chance theatrical
acquaintance who happened to be loose. It
was sheer pleasure to hear him pick holes
in the play and the playing, and he never
failed to do it, no matter Who he was. The
most bitifig criticism on actors came always
from these brother-pros. The opinion of
one leading man on another who had tem-
porarily taken his place was so gorgeous
that I shall always suffer keenly from the
fact that it is unprintable. The worse the
actor on the stage the happier the actor
in the audience. Of one veteran now dead a
younger comedian once said: “I would
always walk five miles to see Jimmie act.
He makes one feel so superior.” Another
comment from a popular Hamlet: “A pecu-
liar thing about these actor-managers is that
they can get on with anybody but actors.”
I think it may. be accepted as axiomatic
that nothing delights an actor like bad act-
io?- Which recalls the old incident of J. C.
Williamson finding George Coppin in his
dress-circle one night. “Hello, George, what
are, you doing, hero?” said J.C.W. jovially,
delight in bad acting,” replied George.
Ah, concluded J.C.W. with a smile—
always well pleased with yourself.”
“Hamfat” on petticoated pioneers:—
When did actresses first take women’s parts on
the English stage? Pepys wrote on Jan. 3, 1661:
‘To the theatre, where was acted ‘Beggars Bush’
which was very well done ; and here, for the first
time, I saw a woman come on the stage.” But
before, this, on December 8, 1660, “The Moor of
Venice.” was staged, with a. woman as Desdemona;
and a special prologue was written by Thomas Jordan
ti introduce her. Mrs. Marshall, Mrs. Betterton,
Mrs. Hughes, and Mrs. Coleman were 51 variously
credited with being the woman, but Betterton states
that it was a Mrs. Morris. It. was probably Mrs.
Hughes, who was taken off . the stage by. Prince
Rupert and established in' a £20,000 mansion.
Actresses were mentioned as appearing in Vienna in
1611, and they soon became popular in France and
Italy. In 1629 a French troupe with women players
showed at a playhouse in Blackfriars and were
“hissed, hooted and pippin-pelted from the Stage.”
In masques at Court ladies were allowed to play,
but their appearance upon the public stage appears
to have been regarded as immodest; yet in “The
Court Beggar,” written in 1632, appears the line
“The boy is a pretty actor, and; his mother can
play her part. Women-actors now grow in request,
sir.” Perhaps elderly women #s actresses were
not objected to. It was not until 1660-61 that
women for women parts became an accepted thing.
In 1664, Killigrew’s comedy, “The Parson’s Wed-
ding,” was staged at the King’s House by a company
of women who played both male and female parts.
But Pepys, indignant, called it an “obscene, loose
play.”


SUBSIDISED BY FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
Australian Aerial Mail Services Limited
( Incorporated tinder Companies Act 1915, Victoria.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL s £.180.000
PRESENT ISSUE:—
30,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each. ... \
15,000 8 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each (participatmg up to 10 per cent.;.
H. S. HOWARD SMITH
L. M. MACPHERSON, M.
Melbourne.
H. J. LARKIN, D.F.C., C.
Dt RECTORS!
(Chairman), Shipowner, Melbourne.
E., E.E. (late Aircraft Production Dept., London). Grazier,
de G. (Managing Director), Melbourne.
& NANKIVELL. Queen
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. MALLESON, STEWART, STAWELL
Melbourne. REGISTERED OFFICE:
Aberdeen House, 524 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Street,
OBJECTS OF COMPANY.—To take over and carry ©ut two contracts with the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia, whereby
the Company agrees to establish and maintain aerial mail, passenger and light-freight services between ADELAIDE, Mildura, Hay, Narrandera,
Cootamundra, SYDNEY, Newcastle, Kempsey, Ballina, Grafton and BRISBANE.
These contracts provide that the Commonwealth Government will pay the Company—
SUBSIDIES TOTALLING £29,000 PER ANNUM.
NOTES IN BRIEF.
1 This Company is going to establish fast, regular aerial services between Adelaide,
' Sydney and Brisbane, via the Itiverina and East Coast, on sound businesslike liues,
with modern machines, proved pilots and complete ground organisation.
2 This is the first time that a service on these lines has been inaugurated in Australia.
3] The route is lined by nearly 3,000,000 people, who lack efficient means of communica-
tion at nresent. , . , . ,
4 Handasyde Rolls-Royce Monoplanes of 360 h.p. will be used. These machines which
provide luxurious accommodation for six passengers in addition to mails, luggage
and light freight, have just been designed for use on the London-Paris Service.
5 Insurance Policies covering damage, fire and third party risk will be taken out.
6 The pilots are all well known for their reliabilityF. S. Briggs, Roy King, D.b.0.,
' D.FC., G. C. Matthews, A.F.C., and F. L. Roberts.
7 Only mechanics with expert Rolls-Royce Aero Engine experience have been engaged,
a The Government has surveyed the whole route, and landing grounds are being pre-
pared at short intervals. -
9. The fare from Sydney to Brisbane is arranged at £l5!, and the total travelling time
(including intermediate landings) is only 7 hours. Sydney to Adelaide—flying time —
8 hours 85 minutes. Fare, £2l. _.. ,
10. The London-Paris Air Service is running at 100 per cent, efliciency despite adverse
weather conditions, and it is not unusual for 20 or 30 passengers to be turned away
daily. .
11. The weather and geographical conditions of Australia are more favorable for aerial
. transport than in any other part of the world.
12. The Nationalist, Labor and Country Parties in the House of Representatives have all
declared that they wish to encourage commercial aviation, and they are doing so.
13. The motor industry, wireless telegraphy, the moving picture industry, and all modern
inventions with commercial possibilities have “boomed.” The next great “boom” is
now developing in the aircraft industry, and it shows promise of eclipsing all previous
“booms.”
14. Commercial aviation will provide an invaluable arm of defence for Australia.
TKe prospects of this Company are above the average, and investors seeking a good return on their capital should apply for full Prospectus to
Alban Gee & Co., Sharebrokers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney;
Corrie & Co., Sharebrokers, Brisbane;
or Office of Company, Aberdeen House, 524 Collins Street, Melbourne.
mm mam
Tan
Puttee Legging,
Correct Cut and Style.
Just the one to wear with
our Boot. Easy on the
purse, light on the leg. A
wonder for hard wear.
22/6
Carriage Free.
These will Satisfy the Requirements of the Most Exacting Horsemen,
Lassetter’s
have had both Boot and Legging made to their own Specifi-
cations, and can consequently guarantee absolute satisfaction.
The Perfect Riding Boot
(As Illustrated).
Post Free AH Over Australia.
Leather is selected soft calf, no
seams, light standard screwed soles,
elastic gussets, fitted with leather
strap to prevent undue expansion
and ensure long wear.
Lassetter’s
Georg'e Street, Sydney
'j*. 7/


A MERRY THOUGHT.
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
Sparkling Muscatel,
EXTRA DRY.
Asti-Spumante
and Vermouth.
Sold by all the Leading Hotels and
Civil Service Stores.
AGENTS:
F. LUBRANO & CO., LTD.,
48 Young Street, Sydney.
Good To The
LasT DroiL,
15!
A
ABBOTS
LAGER
Tfi(?3 per jv/ffloc// <3
73r<?Woffrom PureTtaltilfoprOnly
Visitors to Sydney will
find that the bed and
breakfast tariff system
at the Hotel Sydney
considerably reduces
the cost of their stay in
the holiday city, while
giving greater freedom
of movement for busi-
ness or sight-seeing.
400 Guests.
Hot and cold water in every Bedroom.
Delightful Roof Garden.
Write for Tariff Card.
Management: E. T. Cheeseman.
POVERTY
POINT
“Thorold Waters” : It will be interesting
to see whether modest Alberto Zehnan, by
far the best resident conductor Melbourne
has seen for many years, will fare better
in the crowded Cold Land than two or
three more pretentious characters have
done. The big Conductors’ union there is
about as strong as anything of its kind in
the world, and even Elgar had no end of a
job to force his way in to conduct his
own works. Albert Coates bore the musical
ring down by dint of his vast Continental
experience, and Thomas Beecham by reason
of his tremendous money power; but those
are about the only two who have really
wedged in and stayed. It is the same on
the Continent, as our Germanophile Mar-
shall Hall found to his disgust when he tried
Berlin after he failed to get hold of a stick
in England.
“Fax”: Fullers’ “Bluebeard” panto co.
at Melbourne Princess’s offers evidence of
the physical fitness practically exacted from
principals and ballet-chorus by the twice-a-
day system. The show had arrived at its
75th performance before any one of the
understudies got an opening. Then the prin-
cipal girl (Fifi de Tisne) fell sick, and
at the Monday matinee the understudy—
Edna McColl —got a chance to make good,
and grabbed the opportunity. _ The others,
seemingly, had all been thriving, or even
fattening, on their hard work.
“Cremonensis”: The future of the N. S.
Wales State Orchestra is still on the lap of
the gods. The driving power left with Ver-
brugghen, and even the ordinary routine
business seems lax. It took John Lemmone
three weeks to get an answer to a letter
which he sent to the Con. regarding the
engagement of the orchestra for the Melba
concerts. I have had a reply in less time
than that from the P.M.G.’s Department.
“Hamfat”: The Williamson musical
comedy “Mary,” to make its appearance at
Easter, is bringing back Bobby Hogue, a
brother of the late “Trooper Bluegum”
(Oliver) and of Tien. He made his first
appearance on the stage in Sydney, and
played in “The Blue Moon” and “The Cin-
galee,” but he has been in America and Eng-
land for some time. He is called “Bobby”
because his names are John Roland.
The reflections of “0.1 v.”
Nellie Morlyne told a Melbourne interviewer the
other day that the late Nat Goodwin was a wonder-
ful actor, “the most perfect comedian” she ever
supported. I remember that the late J. O. William-
son, himself a good American actor, talked in the
same strain. To the mere spectator it is all un-
accountable. Goodwin seemed incapable of sincerity
—incapable of the emotional feeling necessary to
self-delusion on the stage; incapable of being
“carried away.” He had a certain perfection of
technique, and his finesse and resource on the stage
were doubtless far above the average; yet Australia
made no mistake when it refused to accept him as
a great actor in “A Gilded Fool.” He starred
successfully in the comedy in N’Yavk; but the
mock pathos that goes as the genuine article in
U.S.A. is apt to fall dead tint in this cbuJ.try. When
professing, for instance, to be shaken i\»tl, emotion
as he realised the humiliation of being called “a
gilded fool,” he was the. most «.h»!«»us of actors.
The ring of truth -.vas rot in '..ls *..!• e any more
than it is in the accents of John I). U’lUru when he
tries to get tears into them. Later, as the artless,
unselfish sheriff of “In Mizzoura” lie was merely a
restrained hero of melodrama acting with consum-
mate ease and confidence, but with an entire absence
Of nervous force; and his Bob Acres in “The Itiyals”
was just an American caricature of a classic old
English comedy character. One had to be an actor
to be greatly impressed by his acting, even as one
has to be a puinw-r to rave over the work of a school
of art which picsenlly fizzles cut because the honest
public sees only the artificiality of it.
“Fax”: It is a question whether any
boosted American “beauty actor” has been
as strong a draw on his personality as John
D. O’Hara, who travels on the “old darling”
ticket —with an accent 1 on the old. Next
Monday night at Melbourne King’s every
woman present is to receive an autogiv.nhed
photo of John, anu that publicity man knows
his business,
Bernard Shaw explains the failure of his
“Heartbreak House ” :
The expense of running a theatre is very much
greater than it was, while prices of admission
remain what they were. Nobody dares to raise
highbrow prices, because many of the old highbrow
purchasers of stalls are now going to the gallery,
and the brows of the people who made fortunes out
of the war will require building up for some years
before they can find any pleasure in such stuif as
“Heartbreak House.”
Which being interpreted means that the
darned thing didn’t pay.
“Baarmutha”: With the passing of
“Prof.” O. A. White on February 6, at
Sydney, there went the last of the notables
of the original Fisk Jubilee Singers, a
dusky troupe that for 36 years has at inter-
vals been making melody in this continent.
White’s grave at Waverley is near that of
Orpheus McAdoo, under whom the colored
combination for some years dropped the
“Fisk” and was known as McAdoo’s.
“C.R.8.”: The Firm lately made a big
offer to induce Guy Bates Post to return
to Australia; but he couldn’t be persuaded.
The dollars are rolling in—from the same
old thing in which he has been playing con-
tinuously since he was here four years ago.
“Smike”: Sol Bloom, who used to capture
all the A.N.A. championships in Melbourne,
is now using his voice in the U.S.A. He
lately made a hit in Cleveland in O’Neil’s
“Beyond the Horizon” and in Chicago had
a fine audience for a reading of Dennis’s
“Sentimental Bloke.” Bloom, who intended
to practise law in Victoria and made an
heroic attempt to unseat Labor-leader
Prendergast in the 1912 election for the Vic.
Assembly, was one of the first to get into
Uncle Sam’s uniform when Wilson declared
war against Germany. He was in the 10th
division as sergeant of a trench-mortar
squad.
“Norbell”: We lad to double and quad-
ruple parts in the good old days. I was
touring the Melbourne suburbs once with
Grist and Cullinane. (Harry Grist, scenic
artist, is still on deck; Frank Cullinane is
dead after a long spin with Allen Doone.)
We played a different suburb every night of
the week, and had our regular pitches, be-
ginning with the Royal Hall, Footscray, on
Monday and winding up,the week with St.
THE PANTO. AT HER MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
Mel Ward as the Scarecrow.
Ivilda. We were doing “The _ Relief of
Mafeking” at Collingwood one night, and I
was the gallant leader of the Highland Bri-
gade. I was also several other people dur-
ing the evening, including President Kruger.
For the purposes of one scene I made up
only the top half of myself as Oom Paul, my
lower and Scotch half being masked by a
trailing table cover. I was sternly interro-
gating a British spy who had just been cap-
tured. He was our comedian and an incor-
rigible joker. In a passionate Rule Bri-
tannia outburst in defiance of Kruger and
the whole Boer army, this miscreant
snatched the tablecloth from the table, and
the unhappy Kruger had to exit hurriedly
L. in his black flogger and belltopper and
kilts! Even the gods of Collingwood could
not forbear to cheer.
“Permanent Blot”: Lee White and Clay
Smith, recently here on the Tivoli circuit,
have returned to the Winter Garden, New
York, where they are head-lining after a
big hit in London. They have been engaged
by the Schuberts to appear in a production
specially written for them by Harold Atter-
idge.
“DICK WHITTINGTON,” AT SYDNEY
OPERA HOUSE.
Captain Adams making himself popular
with Odiva's seals.
“Meataxe”: Not often two brothers enter
the one town together as managers of rival
shows. But it happened at Hobart in
Cup week, when Frank O’Sullivan was
minding J.C.W.’s “Maid of the Mountains”
at the Royal, and brother John was at the
Town Hall with Amy Castles. The O’Sul-
livans are natives of the Speck. Theatrically
the public first heard of them in connection
with the Pollard Lilliputian co.
“1.L.C.” (Lond.) : At time of writing
(27/12/’2l) there are 10,000 actors out of
work in London. Theatrical failures have
been rife this season, many plays closing
down almost as soon as started. Concert
aspirants would do well to give England a
wide berth at present; and to be a star in
musical comedy or revue it is necessary to
have money or influential backing. This
section of the business is in the hands of the
Jews, and in it real art plays but a small
part. The D’Oyly Carte Gilbert and Sul-
livan co. is chiefly composed of pupils, and
here the play is the thing and not the playei-s:
an artiste whose experience demands a decent
salary has little chance, the women being re-
quired to do little more than walk through
their parts.
“C. Ockney”: That J. W. Tate whose
death was mentioned in the cables the other
day was the maker of the maudlin “Broken
Doll” melody with which Minnie Love
sought to break our hearts. He may be
forgiven when we remember the catchy
numbers he contributed to “The Maid of
the Mountains.” At the end he was only
47.
“Chelsea”: Now we know why Bill Dyson
has turned out little worthy of his talent
since returning from the war. He has been
devoting himself to perfecting an invention
in which he saw a considerable fortune.
His idea is for the manipulation of plastic
figures for the production of comic films.
He had arrived at satisfactory results with
one phase of his idea over a year ago, when
an American inventor got in just ahead
of him. This started the Australian off on
a new tack, and after arduous work he
has got there. The work entailed the most
meticulous care in the manufacture and
working of small plasticine figures, invested
with the peculiar brand of humor that is
Bill Dyson’s. London producers will put
the results on the market immediately.
“Lud”: Ambitious and untiring Matheson
Lang, who was voted no “great shakes” as
a leading man when he visited Australia
with Clarke and Meynell, is forging ahead
in London and rivalling Oscar Asche in
versatility. His latest production, at the
New Theatre, is a dramatisation of. Blanco
Ibanez’s novel “Blood and Sand,” with him-
self in the star part and Lillah McCarthy
“playing opposite” to him. In addition to
staging the piece Lang designed the scenery.
He had no hand in the writing of the play ;
it is an Amurkan adaptation and very talky.
“Peter”: The social, political and artistic
lights of London are working vigorously to
save the “Old Vic.” (B. 26/1/22). It is
reckoned that £30,000 will be required to
make the ancient edifice agreeable to the
London County Council, and the hat is be-
ing passed around among the Best Houses.
Asquith, Bonar Law, Lord Dunsany and
Arthur Pinero are some of those who are
interested.
“Dr. Nil”: Not long ago we went to a
vaudeville matinde specially to see a clever
“code” thought-reading turn. But before
that came on a young man appeared in a
“Rocks” suit carrying a violin. His face
was vaselined to look like alcoholic perspira-
tion. His eyes boggled and goggled and his
mouth sagged and twitched as he chewed
gum. He commenced to play as he slouched
and staggered and tottered and loped and
nigger-walked about the stage waving the
neck of his fiddle in figures of S and Z. At
first I didn’t understand. The management
would never have allowed him to perform if
he were really horribly drunk, and yet he
was evidently doing his best to seem so.
“Suddenly it dawned upon me,” as the boy-
reporter says—he was playing Dvorak’s
“Humoresque” and illustrating it! He was
playing it really well, but the sight of his
epileptiform spasms and his dank American
hair flopping over his leering visage made
us ask one another what we had done to
deserve it. I. said long ago that fascinating
ladies with lovely arms should only play the
violin in public behind a screen. I see now
that there are other players who should keep
out of sight.
“Lud”: Pinero is to break a long silence.
A new play of his is down for production
this month at the London Duke of York’s.
Meyer, who was Oscar Asche’s business
manager in Australia, is running the new
piece in conjunction with the excellent lead-
ing man Owen Nares, who also ranks high
as a matinde idol.
“Gibson Young” : Sir Henry Wood has at
last been presented with the Philharmonic
Society’s gold medal, a coveted honor amongst
musicians. British music has no dought.er
champion. A conductor with more than the
usual amount of Anglo-Saxon emotion, he is
enough of a showman to know the value of
the graceful gesture, the attractive manner-
ism. And yet such a superb musician that
his mental balance is never lost. No other
conductor that I know is so fussy at re-
hearsals, and yet no one could be so solicitous
of the players’ comfort nor so jealous of each
one’s musical reputation. Many modern
British composers have served their appren-
ticeship with Wood and the Queen’s Hall
orchestra, but by far the most distinguished
of them is Eugene Goossens. He made his
ddbut as conductor while still playing among
the first violins of the Q.H.0., Sir Henry
calling on him to conduct his “Variations on
a Chinese Theme.” This was in 1913. Goos-
sens was then 19. He and I had just re-
turned from the wander in Scotland which
inspired his “Five Impressions of a Holiday”
for string quartette. Whilst still in his
twenties he is hailed as the finest living inter-
preter of the ultra-modern idiom.
King George has an up-to-date taste in
variety shows. For the latest “command
performance for a benevolent fund, he struck
out all the veterans and elected this lot:
Billy Merson, Ella Retford, the five Petleys,
Melvin, Malcolm Neil, Milton Hayes, Fred
Silvester and boys, Rende" and Godfrey.
Rebla, Blaney and Farrar, Marcelle and
partner, with Squire-Fairney-and-Jones and
a quick-change effect from a revue.
“Lond”: London has its usual crop of
annuals for Christmas. “Peter Pan” has
been seen for 17 successive seasons, and
“Alice in Wonderland” is a steady rival.
“The Blue Bird” is now putting in a claim,
but even mote regular is “Where the Rain-
bow Ends,” a fantasy which, it is said, Aus-
tralia has never seen. Quite different, but
an equaily hardy annual, is “Charley’s
Aunt,” which is now 30 years old, but tours
the provinces continuously and drops in on
London for Christmas.
“C. Ockney”: A. A. Milne, author of the
Marie Tempest comedy, “Mr. Pim Passes
By,” wrote that amusing piece originally for
Mrs. “Dot” Boucicault (Irene Vanbrugh'.
He has recently supplied the same actress
with another starring vehicle which he calls
“The Truth About Blayds,” staged at London
Globe in December. “Dot” was once again
producer, and also appeared as one ot
the Blayds—Mrs. William Blayds-Conway.
Another Milne play is to follow the present
revival of Barrie’s “Quality Street at the
Haymarket—“The Great Broxopp.’ Milne
has “arrived.”
“Lucius”: “Muzzie’s” par. (B. 19/1/2-1
can be extended. Herbert G. Shaw followed
R. Lewis James as editor of the GeeJomr
Advertiser, Vic.’s “oldest morning journal.
James is in Cannes nowadays, hobnobbing
with his fellow-Welshman, Lloyd George,
and others; Mrs. James, _ who wrote tne
dramatic and musical critiques for tne
Advertiser, is touring America with n<
daughter, Madame Valcli Mellor, a moderate-
sized star on the concert platform.
DISCORDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two of a kind they said we were,
A pair of song birds, we,
And she was young and very fair,
The girl who wed with me.
She in the choir soprano sings,
A bass Fate gave to me.
This gift of song, they told us, brings
The sweetest amity.
Where is our happiness, and where
The hope that we’ll agree?
Whene’er I want to sing to her,
She wants to sing to me.
When good friends in the house rejoice,
My anguish is acute,
For though I’m in»the best of voice
You’ll find me sitting mute.
Two voices so extreme don’t wind
In pleasing melody,
Or else in duets we might find
• Compatibility.
’Tis strange how inharmonious
The musical can be.
She’s moving further from me thus
Adrift on her high C.
Birds in their nest above a ditch
Agree. I praise their choice:
The male bird sings. A scheme in which
The lady has no voice.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


.
%
m
-
i
i n
(MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH CABLE MAKERS
: A
m
wzyt
.V •• '•
W '4i 1 &
■M
*
„
v : mm.
m
v :
msßNm
H
1
f
„
* *
?* > ■«
i «-a£*
»rr
E
AERIAL WIRES
AND CABLES- “
Bare or Braided
r?,
Copyright
L. B. Atkinson,
Exclusive
Licensees
Members of
the C.M.A.
TELEPHONE WIRES
AND CABLES
PAPER
PINIONS
Electric Insulated
Wires and Cables.
Flexible Wires, Lead=covered
Wires and Cables, Braided
Aerial Wires and Cables,
House Service Fuse Boxes, etc.
Metal Manufactures Limited,
PORT KEMBLA. N.S W.
Bare Copper Wires h. Cables.
Hard or Soft Drawn ; Copper Rods and
Strips. Cotton-covered Wires, etc.
INSTRUMENT WIRES
Covered
Silk Covered
Enamell <?d
FLEXIBLE
WIRES
PPBPDI
m.
TROLLEY WIRES FOR
TRAMWAYS
ms»
3J l
FUSE BOXES
INSULATED WIRES
AND CABLES
ǻ
SYDNEY:
171 Clarence St
'PHONE, CITY 912,9180.
BRISBANE:
Edward and Marxj S*
PHONE 160.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
m
"VALLO”
WEED, SCRUB BTREE KILLER
(For the Eradication of Noxious Vegetation).
II
V£ LLO Weed Killer is the Cheapest and Most Concentrated
Killer on the Market. 31b. makes 50 gallons of Solution costing less
than one penny per gallon.
In Powder Form—Mixes Readily in Cold Water.
PRICES: 561 b., 70/-; 151 b., 21/3; 71b., 10/6; lib., 2/-; £lb., 1/3.
Postage within the State:llb., 9d.; ilb. t3d. extra. Interstate: lib., 1/2; 41b., Bd. extra.
Obtainable All Stores and Florists, or direct from the Manufacturers.
A. VICTOR LEG GO & CO.,
Manufacturers of "VALLO" Brand Chemicals, Sheep and Cattle Dips
and Orchard Sprays.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Branches—SYDNEY: 7 Hamilton Street. BRISBANE: 239 Elizabeth Street.
Correspondence invited.
If Eurythmie goes for the Newmarket
Handicap, as he probably will, the sprint is bound
to be a greater gambling event than usual. His
burden (lOst. 31b.) is a few pounds less than some
people expected, and although the freak horse has
never been one to shoot off the mark in longer races
he is suspected of being quite disposed to make an
efirly start when required. As a 3-year-old, in West-
ralia, he began the season by winning races at 6 and
61 furlongs, since when he has never been asked to
travhl a shorter distance than nine furlongs in pub-
lic, whereas Solfanello and Mermin from M.L. are
recognised sprinters, and Biplane in his time has
wanted a. lot of beating in a struggle to get away
quickly. A well-treated one is Rostrum, who ran
second in the Newmarket last year. Aged Blue
Cross has been raised 81b. for winning, but Rostrum,
who was only a three*year-old at the time, has got
only 111 b. more. His Newmarket weight, 7st. 81b.,
is two pounds less than the A.J.C. handicapper
gave him for the Epsom, but the influenza he caught
in the spring put him out of action for months.
And the handsome Braehead, with 7st. 91b., has an
undoubted chance.
* * * *
In allotting weights for the Australian
Cup the handicapper showed a measure of disrespect
for the last. Melbourne Cup “form,” also for the
latest Westralian ditto. Earl of Seafield carried
7st. 41b. to victory in the Perth Cup, and is not
required to do better than that at Flemington next
month. Sister Olive certainly gets 171 b. more in
the Australian than she had in the Melbourne Cup,
but as a young mare she ought to be almost that
much better in the autumn than she was at the
beginning of November. The Rover and Amazonia
are penalised only 31b. each for being placed behind
Sister Olive, whereas Purser is raised 71b. for run-
ning nowhere, and David gets 51b. for the same
offence. On paper The Rover would look well-
treated save for his in-and-out disposition. Last
year he ran away with the Australian Cup, carry-
ing nothing to speak of. He was the proverbial
cert.
* * * *
If Violoncello has “done hisself in” by
straining a tendon he is following in the steps of
three other imported nags that won the Caulfield
Cup within the past six years. Shepherd King, King
Offa and Lucknow had their final win in the Caul-
field Cup, and were seeh no more in public after
the Melbourne Cup three weeks later. Shepherd
King certainly went near to winning his Melbourne
Cup, but it was his final dash, as with the others.
* * * *
Australian Sun hardly improved his Aus-
tralian Cup prospects by just failing to win the 11-
furlong event at Williamstown. Compared with
other Cup candidates in the field the imported five-year-
old had a lot the best of the weights. His final
effort to catch runaway Terekia was good, but in-
sufficiently brilliant, and unless he is capable of much
improvement before the day the Godbv interest will
want something better than Australian Sun to do the
(rick.
*** . *
There is a span of three weeks between
the Oakleigh Plate at Caulfield to the finish
of the V.R.C, Autumn fixture, so punters
who confine their turf mania to the big
meetings are about to start an orgy of horse-
talk. The first half of the V.A.T.C. meeting will not
be as instructive as the second Saturday, when the
Newmarket strength of Braehead, Mermin, Euryth-
mic, Wish Wynne and others will be more or less
revealed in the Futurity Stakes, but it will bring
a few ideas into full bloom and blight a number of
others. The Oakleigh is a scramble where luck
counts and money talks. If a home-grown sprinter
is to win it may turn out to be Lisnavane, but the
preference is purely provincial and not at all strong.
Squid : The V.A.T.C. ought not to per-
sist in its endeavor to acquire a bit more land in
the neighborhood of . the Caulfield racecourse. A
scheme of alterations inside the course would pro-
vide the club with all the space it requires. At
the same time the attempt to give it marching orders
strikes one as being unreasonable. The V.A.T.C.
acquired its racing rights away back in the ’seventies,
when Caulfield was a wilderness of swamp and
heath. The first houses in the neighborhood were
put up by trainers, and the resultant success of the
racing business brought the railway, which in its
turn proved an inducement to suburban householders
to buy cheap allotments and furnish the nucleus of
the agitation to blow the club to a more distant
address. The racecourse land is mostly damp, and
very of it is suitable for building purposes.
Barring 15 days in tire year, when the reserve is
required tor racing, the course is free to the local
inhabitants. Also it is kept in good order by
26 groundsmen provided by the cluo, which also,
after every meeting, cleans up the streets
though this is properly the work of the local council,
r urtherniore, without any legal compulsion, about
£5OO a year is paid to the municipality in rates.
" ere the club to depart, much more than that
amount would be necessary to keep the park drained
and m proper condition, and the upkeep would be
a further burden on the backs of the ratepayers,
who are now howling so desperately for a change.
All doubts as to Gloaming’s form were
dispelled at Taranaki (M.L.), where he beat Silver
Link in the Stakes. She has a big reputation
locally as a sprinter (in 55 starts she has beeu
placed 47 times), and she defeated Anomaly and The
Hawk at Christmas time in the Auckland Railway
Handicap (6fur.) in lmin. 13 2-ssee. This mare
is the only one of the older division who is con-
sidered at all likely to extend the champion at
w.i.a.
* * * *
Solfanello, great weight-carrying
sprinter, arrived in Sydney last week. He is in
the Newmarket with 9st. 121 b. Eurythmic
(lGst. 31b.) has alone more pudding to hump in the
big Flemington sprint. At Wellington, before cross-
ing the Tasman, Solfanello was third when The Hawk
put up his six-furiong record in the Waterloo Stakes,
and later he ran second to the same nag in the
Telegraph Stakes (six furlongs), with lOst. up.
Poilu, a big five-year-old brother to
Poitrel (St. Alwyne-Poinard), humped top-weight
(9st.) in a large Maiden field at Warwick Farm
(Sydney) on Saturday. He was easing down with
eight lengths to the gopd at the judge’s-box, his time
for the 6 furlongs being lmin. 14|sec. On this
showing he should be more than a possibility in
important handicaps, but he is the possessor of a
temperament.
* * * *
Carlton had an exciting win against
North, though O’Keeffe, who was tumultuously
applauded as he walked to the wickets, departed
l.b.w. for 10. Thanks chiefly to the first-wicket men
Sutherland (94) and Stan Hastings (50), North’s
236 was bettered by 11 runs. Patterson (5 wickets
for 32) did the trick for Souths against ’Don. Not
forgetting the amazing Woodfull, whose 156 (n. 0.)
in the first innings had enabled his side to declare
with 290 for 5. St. Kilda and Hawthorn East drew
after the former had declared at 401 for 3, and the
latter had lashed up 315 for 5. Cohen and Hotchin
for Saints, and Baring and Rimington for the oppo-
sition, were the centurions. Fitzroy was another
side to declare in its match against ’Cote, Cody,
having contributed a clinking 152 (n. 0.), McDonald
took 6 Northcote wickets for 87, but thanks to a remark-
able ninth wicket effort by Burley (62) Northcote
only lost on the post by 137. Collingwood gaVe Mel-
bourne a terrific doing, winning by five wickets
and 185. L. Keating, whose 144 (n. 0.) was the fea-
ture of the match, gave a great exhibition of all-
round cricket which included a sixer and a dozen
fours.
* * # *
“Cover Point”: The hostility shown here
and there in Melbourne to the Vic. Cricket Assoc.,
and to secretary Bean in particular, is getting a
little over the odds. Bean
has always been an object
of attack because he repre-
sents the element in Vic.
cricket that has destroyed
the domination of the
M.C.C; but lately the
resentment against him and
his fellow selectors has
been expressed in puerile
criticism regarding the
Assoc.’s want of courtesy
to visiting teams, and so
on. It was contended, for
instance, that teams had
visited Melbourne without
being met by rtps. of the
Assoc., but this is scotched
by documentary proof of
hospitalities showered on
players from other States
and England. Also there
was a howl over the "lVeed
exclusion of an M.C.C. bats-
man from the Vic. second
eleven that met a similar
side from N.S.W. the other
day. As a matter of fact,
the cricketer aforesaid had
not only been invited to
play but had accepted the
invitation.
FRED LINDRUM.
the billiardist.
Sydney grade cricket was resumed on
Saturday, after a three-weeks’ spell; and It was
chiefly the bowlers who came Off. Everett, of Peter-
sham, took seven wickets for 26 runs, and Mailey
(for the opposite side) six for 64. M. A. Noble,
aided by an occasional swerver, collected five for 52.
The Melbournite Moyes made ah inglorious debut for
Gordon against Glebe, Oldfield snapping him almost
at once. However, the left-hander got 46 at his
second venture when he went in fifth wicket down;
and this was easily top score in his side’s 138.
Taylor and Macartney failed. Glebe have seven
wickets in hand and 38 runs to get. All the Rand-
Wick bowlers took a hand in outing Wests for 95.
Randwick, thanks to Parnell (4 for 49) and Bight
(5 for 34), were worth only 10 runs more. Jenkins
contributed 43 of them. Comber rolled into the
opening ’Varsity batsmen. Nothling top-scored with
30, and Comber’s four wickets cost but 55 runs.
The Boneyarders have lost one for 108; Dwyer (54)
is not out. Sydney are very weak in bowling, and
had to rely on Wright (4 for 30) to get St. George
out. Hughes for the latter club ran up 74 in three-
quarters of an hour. Sydney are in a fair position;
43 runs behind with six wickets intact. G. Thatcher,
1 usedale and Scott Were Whitty’s victims in his hat-
trick for Paddington against Harrickvilie. A. Thatcher
(42 n. 0.) was top-scorer in MarrickviUe’s 176. The
behavior of the Village wicket was unsportsmanlike;
it both kicked and hit below the belt. In conse-
quence the match was nearly finished in the one day.
Petersham got 196, and Manly could only offer 64.
Emery (5 for 41) and Everett were responsible.
Asked to show what they could do at a second try
the Villagers immediately lost three for 24, the same
bowlers taking the wickets. The Balmainiacs fielded
wretchedly against Norths, so that the latter ran up
282 for eight. Pratten (87) was repeatedly let off,
but Punch's 46 was faultless. Buckle was steady,
on the whole, in piling up 103 n.o. (the only cen-
tury of the day), although he did get a couple over
the fence. ’Main tried six bowlers. Folkard was an
absentee. The scoring was evenly distributed in
Mofjjnan’s 231 against C. Cumberland. Cranney (4
for 66) got the best bowling figures.
* * * *
Frank Iredale’s rain-spoilt testimonial
at Sydney yielded, with gate, £1740, and contribu-
tions, just under £2OOO.
* * * *
O’Keeffe’s 177 and 144 for the Rest v. the
Australian XI is the only double ever scored against
an Australian XI. Trumper (v. Essex in 1902), Bards-
ley (v. England in 1909) and Macartney (v. Sussex
in 19X2) have all done the trick for Australia. The
Victorian's average for his successive efforts v. N.S.W.
and the Test team is 121.75.
* * * *
Police-constable “Bill” Cannon, of Fitz-
roy (Vic.), has played his last pennant game, having
transferred to Maffra. He started googling for Fitz
in 1909 at the age of 45, and won the club bowling
average Six years in succession. In pennant cricket
he has taken nearly 500 wickets at an average of 18.
He repiesented Vic. eight times, his best performance
being against N. S. Wales in 1913, when he took
6 for 107 in an innings of 477.
* * * *
‘Brolga”: While pn the subjects of cricket
records and the enervating North, what about this
achievement which was mentioned recently by Rock-
hampton (Q.) Bulletin ?—**•“A feature of the game
vtas the batting of A. Black, who made the first
century of the season. He stayed at the wickets for
three and a half years."
* * * *
Reg O’Keeffe brother of Frank, the
cricketer, recently skipped 12.265 revolutions in lhr.
27nnn. at the Bondi Baths. An English achievement of
11,810 revolutions is the worst hitherto recorded.
* * * *
A O- Anderson is a champion all right.
At the Albert Ground, Melbourne, on Saturday, after
Gerald Patterson had won the second and third sets,
the Sydney man took advantage of the interval to pull
himself together, and dominated the former world’s
clwmpion in every aspect of the game. At two sets
all Anderson asked for new balls—Patterson protest-
ing-—got them and started to go away at once. Pat-
terson was serving great guns, and the Sydney crack
was foot-faultihg a lot. He was also deadly tired.
Still his skill stood to him, and he finished up a
meritorious winner, 6—4, 4—6, 2 —6. 6—3, 6 —4.
Patterson and O’Hara Wood easily took the doubles
from Anderson and Brookes. The spectators departed
with the conviction that, given a shade of luck, Aus-
tralia has a fair fighting chance of being there or
thereabouts in the next Davis Cup contests after all.
* * * *
H. Kaltenbrun (S’Africa) put up a great
ride in the 10-mile N.S.W. championship at Sydney
on Saturday. A dozen of the Ma State’s best turned
out. Thursfield chucked it at seven miles, but up
to the last lap half-a-dozen looked to have a chance.
Then Kaltenbrun unwound a lap sprint of 27 4-ssec.
(a track record), which left Mick Little and A. E.
Hannan gasping in the rear. The full time was
25min. 5 l-ssec. Kaltenbrun is certainly the finest
amateur seen in Australia for many yfears.
* * * *
Walton Hunt, of Sydney, appeared for
Redfern in a challenge match v. St. George on Satur-
day, won the 100yds. (10 2-ssec.), 220yds.
(23 4-ssec), and quarter (56 l-ssec.), and was third
in the 120yds. hurdles. As “Slip” Carr is abandon-
ing the sport under doctor’s orders, Hunt will be
N.S.W.’s chief rep. against the Springboks in the
sprints.
# # # #
D. R. Leathern (S’Africa) took the 880yds.
handicap from scratch at Wanganui (M.L.) on Satur-
day. His time —lmin. 59 l-ssec.—was only lsec.
behind the M.L. record. The tourists won the mile
relay in 3min. 45sec. —their sixth successive victory
in this event. In the 120yds. hurdles, H. E. Wilson
accomplished 15 l-ssec. as against George Keddell’s
15 3-16 sec. put up in 1911.
Motor-cyclist C. Wood, with C. Sainty in
his side-car, did the Sydney-to-Melbourne trip in
18hr. 15min. last week on a 7-h.p. Harley Davidson.
This was 2hr. 23min. better than the previous best,
which was Fred Kerry’s property.
• • « »
There is to be a gathering of chess heads in
Melbourne at Easter in connection with the Austra-
lian championship, which has not been contested for
seven years. A. E. N. Wallace, who beat Spencer
Crackenthorpe by half a point for the N.S.W, cham-
pionship, will-be one of the Ma State-representatives.
Crackenthorpe, by the way, with the idea of making
himself thoroughly fit for the fray, intends to walk
to Melbourne. Gunderson, the Vic. crack, is a doubt-
ful starter.
• • • *
Mina Wylie won the 880yds. N.S.W. cham-
pionship title at Bondi on Saturday. Mattie Mealing
was next, 110yds. away, and the winner’s time was
13min. 52sec. A feature of the race was the effort
of 14-year-old Ethel Carrett, who swam fourth in
16min. 44sec.
* * * *
At Wellington (M.L.) last week Gwitha
Shand, of Christchurch, won the 440yds. swimming
championship event from Paula Hoeft. of Auckland,
Who had downed her by 2ft in the 100yds. on the
previous Saturday. She put up the world’s record time
Fenlm,' ni 6 -L sseC .‘ J he rec oB'n>sed best hitherto was
Ethelda Bleibtrey s 6mm. 30 l-ssec. Fanny Durack
'{ « • ’ „ 16 ’ the journey in the amazing time
of 6min. 3 2-ssec. Though absolutely genuine, a
suggestion was made that all record conditions had
not been fulfilled, and she did not get it recognised.
?• y ■. Cunnold (Auckland) took the men’s quarter
« , 5m , ln - 2-ssec., which lops 3-5 of a second off
Malcolm Champion’s previous Dominion best. The
Intermediate Boys’ 100yds. title went to Fairerav
(Auckland! in 62 4-5 sec. N. S. Batchelor was alain
semmd. Fairgray’s time is a record for the event
and 1 l-ssec. better than N. S. Batchelor’s previous
best.
ERNIE SYMONDS, who met Packy
McFur[?] at Syancy Soutium on
Saturday night.
Ihe betting during the week was all in favor
of Ernie Syraonds stopping Packy Macfarlane at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. Indeed, many a
misguided speculator was induced to wager that the
hard-hitting Englishman would account for Garcia’s
Jute victim inside ten rounds.' Our pallid visitor gave
his admirers considerable encouragement for the tost
three minutes. He hit the good-looking little New-
castle boy hafd and often, and the latter’s admir-
able straight left seemed to be demobilised by sheer
anxiety. During the next session,., however, Britannia
ceased to rule the ring; Albion’s chin became un-
covered to an absolutely improper extent, and the
Australian youth presently hit it a left-handed wal-
lop that must have been audible to the lovers in
Rushcutter’s Bay Park. The principals, for the
extra fight which the management kindly put on,
were stripped and ready for action before Ernest
of England ceased to ask wildly where he was and
what had happened.
* * » *
Jamito added another American scalp to
his collection when he met Garcia at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night. It took him 20 rounds
to do the job, but he did it so thoroughly that nobody
disputed the referee’s decision. The inexhaustible
Manilaman won all the way. He could have sum-
marily ended it after the 15th round, but magnani-
mously permitted the rattled Mexican to go the full
distance.
* ¥r * *
The single-handed bowls championship
of South Aus. had an exciting finish. Cherry (Adel-
aide) met Williams (Alberton). The game, 31 up,
latsed from 20 past four till seven, and took the
record number of 39 ends. The score was 30 all,
and Williams won by a single point. It is his first
win; but Cherry was on top eight years ago, and
was beaten only in the final last year.
* * * #
Sam Cockcroft writes from Wellington
(M.L.) : “I was reading The Bulletin of July 10,
1919, to-day—they never destroy their Bulletins
in this country—when my attention was drawn, as
the objurgated politician has it, to a Sporting
Notions par which refers to me as ‘the late.’ This
is to say I am not. Though no longer so active a
footballer as I was 40 years ago, I am as alive in
all the essentials as ever I was.”
* * * *
George Bruce, who has just won the
single-handed bowls championship of Victoria, is
like Clem Hill, who nearly won the bowls champion-
ship of Australia, an ex-athlete. Before chasing
“Kitty,” Bruce, with McGregor and Kennedy, made,
for the then invincible Carlton, the best centre-line
that ever played Australian football. Old hands still
talk of his pre-eminence as a winger.
**» ' »
Alderton’s Gumleaf, of N.S.W., with Stan
Stevens in charge, annexed the Forster Cup for
restricted-class yachts last week with two wins,
representing 20 points. Lakatoi, the Sydney-built
Bananalander, was runner-up with Colin Clark (who
piloted his specially-built 18-footer Vision to victory
in last year’s Australian championship) in command.
Her tally was 1 win and 1 second = 14 points.
Maroombah, the second Bananalander rep., skippered
by old-time Tom Goodall, : was never in the hunt.
Lakatoi nearly had to forego her wonderful ssec.
win from Inez on the second day. She was disquali-
fied by the sailing committee for shipping, in Billy
Dunn (the crack open-boat skipper), an alleged pro.
However, the G.-G. got the ban lifted, and Clark
credited with winning about the finest yacht race
ever seen on Port Jackson.
* * * •*
“J.” : The cabled news that the old Sun-
beam, down whose hatchways the late Lord Brassey
fell so hard and often, has been sold, recalls that
great yachts, like great horses, often come to sticky
ends. Valhalla, for example, has just sunk off Cape
St. Vincent in the capacity of tramp steam'er. She
was carrying oranges for a French firm. Yet at the
end of last century the late Lord Crawford’s famous
yacht was the pride of Cowes, and one of the most
luxuriously appointed vessels that ever went round
the world.
* » « *i
“C.W.G.” : Playing poker, five-handed, the
other night in the Speck, the old man drew one
card, the 8, and filled a routine consisting of the
6,7, 8, 9 and 10 of diamonds. Two hands after-
wards on the deal (not the old man’s) the 6,7,
8, 9 and 10 of diamonds were dealt pat to the same
player.
ENTER THE SEVEN-DAY WEEK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The failure of Messrs. Collins and Griffith to
secure the release of the kidnapped Ulster hostages
shows that the 1.1t.A. is not completely under their
control. It is stated that the hostages will be held
ur.ti 1 Ulster releases the team of footballers, includ-
ing officers of the 1.1t.A., who were arrested while
motoring to play a match in Derry because they
were carrying revolvers.”— Cable.
five days a week all Irishmen industriously fight ;
On Sundaj's they acclaim the Prince of Peace;
While Saturdays (and this was once a greatly cher-
ished right)
Are kept for sport. The week-day battles cease,
And North and South pursue a ball upon some
Ulster field
Where twenty-four hours previously their stricken
armies reeled.
The Unionist from Antrim and the Loyalist from
Down
Go south on Friday night to Sinn Fein Meath,
Or hasten to The Curragh where they watch, with-
out a frown,
While Dublin horses race; and then they breathe
The usual anathemas and hurry north again,
All eagerness to start upon another week’s campaign.
1
Such is the custom of the race—or, rather, it ivas so ;
Until Reformers started to protest
And argue that a five-day week was too like “going-
slow.”
The latest view is that it would be best
To cut both sport and. worship out, as ethic’ly un-
sound ; i
Thus giving Irish lads a chance to fight the whole 1
week round.
N.B.W.
10-2-4.


ID mm
The Spirit of
INDUSTRY
Industry is the only key that
can unlock the door of pros-
perity. The world has urgent
need of more than it has, and
Industry alone is the source of
supply. And after all, life with-
out work and a purpose would
be as lacking in true enjoyment
as conviviality without
Beware


Gentlemen’s Manicure
Rooms specially fitted, and conveniently situated
near Men’s Boot Section, Ground Floor, Market Street.
EXPERIENCED manicurists, using thoroughly up-to-
date and hygienic appliances and methods, provide a
= service to meet with the approval of well-groomed men.
Prompt attention is assured, but, if desired, appointments
may be booked, to suit patrons’ convenience, by ’phoning,
"City, Eleven Thousand.”
HOURS: Daily,9 a.m. to6p.m.
Sat., 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
FARMER’S :: SYDNEY.
" The Store for £Men.”
ǽ
— WATER-
SUPPLIES
This illustration shows Three 25ft.
Alston Windmills on 60ft. Towers,
fitted with lOin. Pumps, pumping
water for the town supply of Donald.
They have been in use for many years,
giving every satisfaction. _ .
We manufacture Windmills in all
sizes, from sft. to 25ft. diameter, ana
have the largest works in Australia,
devoting its whole attention to wind-
mill construction.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use
through Australasia. , _ .
Expert advice and Illustrated Cata-
logue free on application.
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS
PTY. LTD,,
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne. Australia.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cent 1533, 11609
Princess Mary has suggested that .our
wedding-present fund should endow a cot in
Great-grandmother Victoria’s Memorial Hos-
pital for Women and Children in Melbourne.
The Governor announced this and it galvan-
ised the fund. But the white-satin-box brig-
ade,. who have been squabbling over the rival
merits of an opal frame and a hardwood
chest, are flattened out by the horrible blow.
More than one of the pushers had even
hoped to be sent to England to carry the
bauble.
The Stradbrokes’ fancy-dress two-step on
Friday night was by way of a send-off to
their naval son, Lord Dunwich. The Ston-
ington front hall and parlor were used, as
the two-thousand-a-year villa doesn’t run to a
ballroom, so the small dance was fancy-
dressed to make it go farther, and the clothes
positively succeeded in their purpose. The
vice-regal pair, who had thawed all their
official ice for the evening, seemed to get as
much joy out of it as their guests did. The
reception was picturesquely staged on the
wide back verandah, overlooking moonlit
lawns and terraces outlined in colored lights,
reinforced by a huge illumination of the royal
coat of arms. Naval gent.-help Haggard, as
a cheery dark-blue Pierrot, perched half-way
up the verandah steps to cry the names. His
Ex. side-stepped fancy rags, but Lady Strad.
was a vision as Eleanor of Castile in fuchsia-
colored draperies over gold, with her little
head swathed with white, sose-pijnk and
purple chiffonery. “Early this afternoon,”
she whispered confidingly, “my dress was a
cushion-cover and a curtain.” Daughter
Helena was a sweet thing in Juliets. Lord
Dunwich made a handsome Spanish bull-
fighter without a head-dress; gent.-help De la
Corn* was a white-clad Dago fisherman (per-
haps), and Iveppel Palmer something in green
velvet trappings.
The banjo, mandolin and piano orchestra
earned three cheers. It was a refreshing
change to be able to throw your partner
a word without shouting yourself hoarse.
During the earlier part of the frivol every-
one was trying to find out what everyone
else was. Lots of them didn’t know. A few
women had seized the great opportunity
to slioav their legs, which mostly deserved
hiding. One pair of spindles was topped
by brief pink ballet petticoats over little
spangled and frilled drawers. Among the
men none was more conspicuous than
Norman Bayles, who stood up all the even-
ing in knee-breeches and lace ruffles worn
bv his wife’s late father, Dr. James, in
1807. The breeches were too tight to take
any risks with. On the other hand Norman
Brookes bad laid aside his tennis flannels
to climb into n late Georgian suit with a
blue tie. It. billowed a trifle, having been
built in his more fleshy days.
Light supper was set out in the dining-
room. Lady Stradbroke, who commanded
that no one was to leave early, confided to
a few elders that she had twice put Back
the clock.
Our ex-G.-G. Lord Novar , lias given a
little boost to Australian art in Scotland by
presenting to the Kirkcaldy Art Club one of
Heysen’s guintree studies. It seems to have
caused a little flutter in Scottish art circles.
The Earl Governor will open the Eastern
View-Lorne section of the Great Ocean Road
on March 18. He and his Countess will
week-end at the Lome Hotel for the event.
Hitchcock, Mayor of Geelong, is taking a
big party out and will dine them at Erskine
House; and the Automobile Club is prepar-
ing to go in force.
The Stradbroke cards of invitation to
last Friday’s dance were the last word in
plain economy. Printed for dinner purposes,
the original wording had a red line ruled
through it, the substituted summons to the
dance being typewritten. One could fancy
the make-shift being submitted to the hostess
with a “Will that do?” She would presum-
ably hesitate a moment ere deciding that
it would do —even in these days when it is
almost fashionable for the Really Best
People to plead poverty.
Lord Charles Fitzgerald, who vegetates at
Riddell’s Creek, on the way to Gisborne,
has seen another Duke of Leinster, a nephew
this time, pass away. Little is heard of
Lord Charles these days. Thirty years ago
he was a temporary clerk in the Vic. Civil
Service, and was attached to the central
staff of the Education Department. Then
he took up a bit of land and settled down
to the bucolic life.
Mrs. John Gavan Duffy, widow of a
former Vic. P.M.G., has passed to Shadow-
land. Her husband, one of the wittiest
and most cultured men who have sat in the
Assembly—the only one who has ever
addressed his father in that House as “Mr.
Speaker”—died about five years ago.
Much-travelled Mrs. Charlotte Cameron
found plenty of entertainment in Melbourne.
The Mackinnons had her staying at their
Sorrento cottage before she went to the
Speck, and she is to be their guest at Toorak
before she returns to England. Prof. Bald-
win. Spencer entertained her one day with
lunch and much talk about Central Aus-
tralia. The authoress has booked up for
the Demosthenes in March.
It’s in the blood. Recently a two-year-old
had his right hand crushed in the cogs of
a sausage machine. While the doctor was
dressing the awful wound the little chap
kept up bravely, and in a few hours was the
life of the hospital. “Captain,” they called
him, after his uncle, Albert Jacka, V.C.,
whose name he also owns.
Among the scientists from afar who will
trek to Australia for the eclipse of the sun
in September are Prof. Trumpter and
Dr. Campbell, of the University of Califor-
nia. Campbell and his assistants will arrive
in July or August; Trumpter will come in
April.
Reg Clay and a pack of artists gave Pen
Boyd a farewell dinner at the Grand Hotel,
Warrandyte, a few nights ago. Boyd is
off on another spin to the Cold Country,
and Jimmy MacDonald, son of the late
solicitor MacDonald, has taken over the
Warrandyte bungalow until his return. Mac-
Donald intends to resume in earnest the
paint-brushes he set aside to go Fritz-hunt-
ing.
Ethel Webb, pictured here by Nancy Weir,
is an enthusiast in women’s movements.
Alwavs in the background when there is
public speech-making
to be done, she has
nevertheless been
a force behind
many women’s-work
committees. She ad-
mits herself greatly
concerned at present
about the Australian
girl’s back. In every
hundred ’ she ’ finds
only a few perfect
spines, and the imper-
fections are rarely
due to the, natural
build; mostly they
are caused by care-
lessness in standing,
walking or lounging.
“Make a girl’s back
perfect,” says this
enthusiast, “and you scotch at the beginning-
hundreds of evils which beset the average
woman.” Miracles can be done with a Back-
bone caught young. Miss Webb disapproves
of men trainers for girls’ physical-culture
classes, and is putting her energies into
founding a Woman’s Training School in Aus-
tralia,.which will turn out Australian women
to teach Australian girls. A strong com-
mittee is being formed- —it will include ’Var-
sity professors, women doctors and leading
school-bosses —to control the work. For
the present the school is to be at the roof gym.
at the Auditorium, and residential quarters
are planned for Inter-State or country
trainees.
Australian Bessie Tobin, Marchioness of
Conyngham, who divorced her Marquis last
year, is to be married again, this time to a
fascinating airman who did much work aloft
during the war. He is also a wealthy timber-
merchant and sits in the House of Commons
for Islington East. The wedding is booked
for June.
Pianist Daisy Willoughby’s brother, Digger
Wilfrid Jenkinson, was married a few days
ago to Miss McCarthy, a fine Irish colleen.
Mr. and Mrs Jenkinson gave a wedding party
in the evening at their Collins-street flat,
whereat Water Kirby sang some cheerful
songs.
“The real reason I went for a seat in the
House was to give the men a fright,” said
Mrs. Cowan, the Westralian M.L.A., to a
meeting of the A.W.N.L. in Melbourne. The
A.W.N.L. doesn’t exactly approve of
M’s.P., and when the League gave a recep-
tion of honor to Mrs. Cowan (as Westralian
representative to the Women’s National Con-
ference) the President told her so. Mrs.
Cowan then made a strong appeal to the
League to revise its ideas on the subject.
“Until four weeks before the elections,” she
said, “I resolutely refused to nominate. At
that critical time the members treated so
casually several important suggestions put
forward by the Women’s Council that I sud-
denly decided to jump in along with the
other four women candidates and try hr a
place where we would be heard. That I
succeeded amazed no one so much as my-
self.” Mrs. Cowan retailed a lot of back-
chat she gave to electors who wanted
to laugh her down. “Women members could
never get through an all-night sitting,” mut-
tered one of them. “Why not?” asked the
lady. “Haven’t I sat up all night 5. hen my
husband was sick —haven’t your wives done
the same for you?” Someone who had dined too
well asked her if she approved of “miched
sjuries.” “I don’t approve of mixed liquors,”
snapped the lady. When a discussion raged
round the giving of Mary Ann a wages-boa. I
status, Airs. Cowan declared that wives would
have to be included also. “It would be.
revolution!” wailed a voice from the benches.
“Yes, there will be a revolution if you put
silly, stupid things like that on the statutes,”
said the bon. memberess. "Fancy having to pay
your help double overtime if her mistress were
sick and she got baby’s bottle in the night!
And just fancy an inspector'walking into your
house at any hour and upsetting .things with
silly questions!” The discussion was
shelved. “Do not think it’s any pleasure
being a member,” says Mrs. Cowan. “It’s
just horrid. All the same, I see more
clearly than ever that they’ve got to have us
there.”
Jim Faifhairn went to the Stradbrokes’
fancy-dress frenzy as “Macßath,” kilted in
turkish towelling and with a loofah for a
sporran. He had side-stepped sister Betty’s
flapper whirl at the Fairbairns’ South Yarra
shack, an affair at which Betty’s big sister,
Mrs. Wheatley, saw that the young things had
a good time. After carrying round a broken
arm-hone which refused to knit for four
years, Jim Fairhairn can now wave it grate-
fully.
The Leslie Stuart matron, who with
her flapper chicks, Nan and Pie, has been
sun-baking on the Sorrento seashore, is
preparing a smart fancy dress dinner-an’-
danee at Logan House in farewell to little
Fifi Irwin, who is to be married to the Hon.
Nigel Somerset in March and then flack
off with him to the Cold Land.
Colonel Mclnerney, the ; big gun of our
Military Police during the Great Rumpus,
heads for Nippon next month, leaving his
legal doctor-brother to keep a protective
eye on his pretty lady and her school-bov
and -girl, who are the apples of dear old
uncle’s eye.
Melbourne is no longer to he musically
starved; fashionable youngsters are now
wearing tiny silver bells on their garters.
Belling the calves, so to speak.
In the revived craze for bracelets, an
Aussie girl has dug out a queer old armlet
that belonged.to her great-grandmother. It
was made of hair from an elephant’s tail
mounted in gold. G.-grandmother was an
Anglo-Indian, . and the hair from Jumbo’s
rear elevation was considered a charm. The
girl has decided to wear it on race days
and go one better than squatter Uncle
Jim, who always carries a kangaroo-foot In
his waistcoat pocket along with his betting
cards.
The relatives of a lady who married a Mel-
bourne man after he had secured a divorce
from his wife somewhere in the U.S. are
never allowed to forget that the divorce and
the marriage are not recognised in the Com-
monwealth. The other day the Newlywed’s
mother found the gentleman’s first wife facing
her in the tram. There was a moment of
freezing recognition. Then the first wife
leant over and said in her naicest voice:
“How do you do, Mrs. Blank, and how is
your daughter getting on with my husband?”
This is Spencer Shier’s idea of Harold
Browning, an Australian who is not with-
out honor outside his own country. A
letter from Jacques Bouhy (Paris) seems
worth its weight
in gold, and London
critics have sung
his praise, his Wig-
more Hail reci'al
having apparently
roused these blase
concertgoers to en-
thusiasm. Browning
hails from Heathcote
and went to London
by way of Dunedin
(M.L.). He will
make his Melbourne
debut at the Ass-
embly Hall on
March 6, with a
programme of
modern British , art
songs. A crusader
against the foreign
invasion, he nevertheless has to -admit
that of the four most enjoyable singers he
heard in England only one, John Coates,
was an Englishman. Mrs. Harold Browning,
who plays her husband’s accompaniments, is
an old M.L.C. girl.
Some quiet-working, generous women run
a committee to look after the affairs of
Santa Casa, the home at Queenscliff for deli-
cate children, where any poor youngster
who needs a change and convalescent nurs-
ing is cared for by the Nuns of the League
of Mercy. The nuns do not charge rent
for housing them, but each child costs 10s.
a week to keep. At a committee meeting
the other day the secretary, Miss Cleary,
said 910 children had been cared for since
the foundation of the home in 1918 ; —some,
of course, for many weeks: yet the expenses
have amounted to only £1558. Mrs Maurice
McGillicuddy is president of the committee,
which includes active -workers like Mrs.
Pohlman, Mrs. Burke and Mrs. Alston
Recently there have been some generous
donations of cots which cost £l2 10s
complete; and the committee is now arrang-
ing an Easter-egg raffle—last year’s netted
£2OO.
Urgent wire from Adelaide:—
To the _ Editor of the Ladies’ Emergency Columrt.
Sir or Madame: —
We have patented a pneumatic elbow-pad for
office ladies who don’t forget that when they walk
down the street at lnncheon-tiihe anyone can spot
them, if they wear short sleeves, by the callosities
on their olecranon processes. Not all the powder-,
balms in Gilead, creams, cleminaxes or staxolites
will disguise the fact that the lady with the dark
brown hard lump on the point of her elbow spend*
most of her time leaning on it. There are only
two ways out of the difficulty. One is to never
wear sleeves that expose the elbow, and the other is
to use Dr. Nil’s pneumatic olecranon protector.
Yours per and pro, Dr. Nit and Co.
Dear old Mrs. Kendal, the English act-
ress, has been lecturing the girls for extrav-
agance. In mid-Victorian days, she says,
girls used frugally to “take a piece out of
the front of a frock and replace it with
another piece.” But surely they are. even
more economical to-day. They take a piece
out of the front of the frock (and out of the
back too,' for that matter) and don’t re-
place it at all.
Social reporters find a curious change in
the attitude of Mr.s. Among-those-Present.
At one time the reporter found it tactful to
give the lady a new frock at every second
sassiety shivoo, even at the cost of using the
imagination in renovating an old gown. To-
day sassietv shudders at being called rich.
Mrs. A.-T.-P. says “Hush!” at the fuss over
a new rig-out. “My dear,” she wails, “that
was not a new dress; I’ve worn it dozens of
times. As for my husband, the poor old
dear has not had :* new dress-suit for ages.”
The latter part does not surprise the seasoned
reporter. Mr. A-T-Present is used to hang
ing on to his old duds unless he takes a tr ! p
to London or N’York, and then his lady
suddenly eyes him over critically, sees that
her background is not up to date, and insists
that he visit a suit artist.
Watkin Mills, whose superb bass used to
reverberate in concert halls here 15 years
ago, is now residing in Winnipeg (Canada).
He has lately been elected president of the
Manitoba Music Teachers’ Association.
Adelaide is getting readv to stage a sen-
sational divorce scene, The lady in the
case was a Melbourne girl who married a
South Australian, and three co-re’s are
chattered about.
Adelaide drops a line : :
Summer is back again, hot and strong—
quite a godsend to the shops which are
getting rid of their airy fabrics, but not
so propitious for the Melbourne firms, which are
arriving en masse with their expensive winter novel-
ties to tempt weak women.
Charles Goode, the G.O.M. of S.,Aus., who passed
out the other day at 95, was a poor source of income
to the medical profession, as up to the age of 80 he
had never known ache or pain and was still enjoying
dumb-bell exercises every morning. He attributed
his longevity to a pint of hot water night and
morning, and olive-oil in his porridge!
Although we have several legally-qualified lady
practitioners none of them had ever conducted a
case in court until a few days ago, when Miss D. C.
Somerville surprised the Bench by announcing: “I
appear for the plaintiff, your Honor.”
S. Aus. has never had such a genial sport for
Governor as his present Ex. He patronises imparti-
ally every show in the city. At the Garden Theatre
the other evening Joe Brennan, garbed as a gent,
who had seen better days, remarked “1 used to
smoke the same cigars as the Governor, but I dont
know where he throws his butts now.” At the end
of the song his Ex. sent Brennan up a cigar with his
compliments—a touch that tickled the crowd
immensely.
One of our most-talked-of engagements is that of
Professor Henderson, of the Adelaide ’Varsity, to a
charming visitor from America, Professor Anne Abel.
The lady, who is English-born, had come to Aus-
tralia in search of historical records of the early
days. She is returning to the'Stars and Stripes for
a brief period and later will make her home here.
One of our war widows, Mrs. Willie Strachan, has
again embarked on the sea of matrimony. No. 2 is
Captain Ayliffe, who also did his bit at the Front.
They have gone to Tasmania for their honeymoon.
Valdimir Holtz, son of the late Dr. Holtz, formerly
Director of the Botanic Gardens, is in Adelaide
taking his first holiday for 18 years. He has for
41 years been connected with the Overland Telegraph
Department and stationed at Daly Waters, mid-way
between Alice Springs and Darwin. To get here he
rode 200 miles to the Katherine, travelled a similar
distance by train to Darwin, thence voyaged by
steamer to Sydney, and so on here.
Margaret Thorp, who has been lecturing through
the eastern States on the distress in Russia, having
recently returned from a visit to that country on
behalf of the Friends Famine Committee, is seriously
ill and with her parents in Hobart.
Violet de Mole has returned to Adelaide after two
years in Paris, where she has been studying Frencn
phonetics. The war, she says, has certainly forged
a strong link between Australia and France, which is
being maintained through the various “adopted
villages, though our interest in these seems to br
more sentimental than practical.


*3\ X W*K i
ipii *,
v **' **
, •*
Hi
-
\.r
11
. »
- . *< •
mx
m
-
,■■■■". '
:
liPf '■'
WflW *Sf*\
g?-S 3|
_ SM S
Ihh
■
»st: '■
m
SEST |
H ■'• ■ -
SflKlrC^.- " ' -
My- •
K t Sv
It- :
s S
>~
•*. v .
-> : 'y
OR
■ ■;■
>■
H
*
j
SBiK
(fl - o * 1
111 , j
I
:
. $
NRwsNp#whb»Pß
.
US
,
■
*■<>, *
W~l w
'
V ':
? .*m, ;
SSI
if
inigf
.
itifllpK
EM
1
:
E
m
£:A-,j
J
||g| B g||S W
w
/
■■i
*■ ■ ■
.
i
4g...
I ;rT
.. ..;
1
a a
. .
E
ISIS
\ * -* A
m S -
iilHiil
l:--.
■ ■ ■■ :'
, wfc'/Y'zWrx
t wm
MMI
■ .
Wmmmm
\S'-
IBM
<•••;;
M
m£hi
rm
\m ■•
'H
r
■ im
■
■■
:"■ -?:E;- : :
i:'
WM’
Wwti' <.-/ - •" '
m
mm .
V£;r fy;: .
P;e i
I*
‘ : -*■•J ■ ■■ -
.■ ■ ■
. ” ■ '■■■'■ ' ;■■■::
| ,/ - M • * M
S H I KjT S
i(j
CJ/uxpLi)''
have an es-
tabli s h e d
reputation
amongst men
who demand
Correct Fit,
and there are
No Substitutes


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1911
CBfflMffi'
NE PLUS ULTRA
tnr.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT £ COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
wngnmarer
□
imfe
Wt
\
Sn
7/i
m
4/o
<b
#
w
2S^K
PURL COCONUT
OIL BLEND
y/t
d
S 6
-—/
UAwrianfr-*
g
%
&
See Hus brand
on each shirl’.
20
9
ws.
The wear-
ing qualities
superior fit and
finish of Thistle Shirts
will win your instant approval.
Sold by all Clothing Stores.
Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers :: Brisbane & Sydney
AS 45
el
is
hir.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holepref
Horlery
Last week’s cabled news that “no Euro-
pean royalties are to be invited to Princess
Mary’s wedding” is almost as superfluous
as an intimation that no whales are expected
in Bourke this year. The Hohenzollerns,
Hapsburgs and Romanoffs are all exiled,
bankrupt or dead ; the Greek Royal family
would stand a good chance of being chased
out of England ; and the British have never
taken to the Dutch or Balkan royalties.
To invite the tiny residue of solvent and
relatively solid potentates such as Alfonso
of Spain and the Belgian couple would be
an intolerable affront to the scattered bat-
talions of poor relations who are scratching
for a crust in every city from the Baltic to
the Caspian.
Major Macgregor Knox came to Sydney
early in the week to make straight the path
of the G.-G’s lady in the matter of her
appeal for “stricken Europe.” Mayoress
McEllione hostessed a preliminary meeting
in her rooms at the Town Hall, and the
Major stood between the rows of women on
each side of the drawing-room and talked.
Afterwards Mary Gilmore, back in town
after 11 months in Goulburn and already
an active worker on behalf of the foodless
children of Austria, passed her own neat
little vote of thanks to the talk military man.
Two days later Lady Forster launched her
appeal in the vestibule of the Town Hall
from a platform weighted with the Miller,
Braddon and Vicars knights. Dame Mar-
garet will be president of the N. S. Wales
branch of the Appeal.
Dame Nellie Melba came across from Vic-
toria a few days ago, and stepped off the
train at Moss Vale to visit sister Mrs. Box.
In smart brown tailorings, the skirt cut suf-
ficiently short to display the dainty Melba
understandings, also brown clad, and with a
large red silk hat, the Dame didn’t give the
impression of one just arisen from a night-
journey.
Marguerite Dale rushed off by train to
Melbourne last Friday night to join up with
the beautiful white Swedish boat Yngaren,
of Gothenberg, which had been lying off Kir-
ribilli for some days. This vessel is driven
jy the largest motor-engine ever used in sea-
*raft; and the voyage is in the nature of a
time test. The passenger accommoda-
tion is limited but luxurious; there
is a Swedish chef aboard, and Mrs.
Dale’s problem is going to be how
to “eat and grow thin,” for most Swedish
dishes are cooked in butter or oil. Mrs.
Dale leaves the boat at Dunkirk to go to
Paris; Miss Petersen, who travels with her,
goes direct home to Gothenberg. In addi-
tion to her MS., Mrs. Dale carries a letter
from Elizabeth Baker to poet Drinkwater’s
father, who is a great authority on the plac-
ing of plays.
Mrs. Aubrey Withers was at home one
afternoon last week for the first time this
season as President of the Lyceum Club.
The lion was Miss Stella George, who has
just returned from India, where she was the
guest for three weeks of poet and teacher
Tagore at his School of Peace. The lady
carried in one hand a gorgeous sunshade
lined with, feathers, the outside of peacock-
blue satin ringed at intervals with the proud
and some say unlucky plumage; the ribs
and short handle of ivory. The other hand
clasped the precious bag which held a signed
photograph of the great theosophist. Tagore,
who has been lecturing or teaching in
America and Germany, is considering a
visit to Australia within the next few
months. If he comes, Miss George will hand
aver her flat at Neutral Bay for a resi-
dence.
The Dickens Fellowship gave the novelist
a birthday-party last week, and nearly a
hundred members made the tram journey to
Rose Bay, where the Master held court at
the home of Aubrey Halloran, the president.
Through the windows of the ballroom, where
the enthusiasts were gathered, could be seen
a young moon rising higher and higher,
trailing an ever-lengthening silver scarf
across the harbor. Here and there in the
listance will o’ the wisps danced, but they
turned out to be only the lights of the
arawners seeking a large catch for next day’s
aony-meeting. There were several P.ViP.
P.P.C.’s at the party, and in case you have
’orgotten your Pickwick those mystic letters
stand for Perpetual Vice-President Per-
petual Pickwick Club. Souvenirs and
•elics of Dickens came in everybody’s pocket
—some brought original letters, one a signed
daguerreotype, another an original edition
of the Christmas Carols. One man’s father
had been a schoolmaster of Dickens, an-
other one’s grandmother had been a personal
friend. In between reminiscences, in which
stories of old-time member F. G. Crouch
("Pickwick”) figured largely, there was good
music and singing, the programme being
guided by Dr. Halloran, whose particular
Vice, apart from plumbing ears and noses, is
piano-playing. Later on the party divided
itself between the lawns, where it talked the
moon over Rose Bay, and the reception-
rooms, where it drank coftee and heard more
music.-
Armidale’s show-station rippled in the
joy of a fat season for the wedding of the
youngest Jenkins sou, Victor, who was mar-
ried to Evelyn Rayner by Bishop Went-
Shiels, - Archdeacon Johnstone and
1 adre Clive Dickens in the family’s private
chapel at Herbert Park on Wednesday of last
week. Hazel Berry-Hay (whose father is
M.11.R. for that part of New England) and
V afinai and Maud Jenkins were bridesmaids,
in colorful frocks of apricot georgette girdled
with brick-colored -daisies. The bride’s
frock was built of the softest white satin
on a primrose foundation ; to give the much-
desired ivory effect. A Juliet girdle of
crystal and dull gold, and wide lace sleeves,
were the only accessories. Brother Richard
supported the bridegroom, groomsmen W. F.
Rayner and Frank Davies rounded off the
wedding group, and the choir was formed of
the eight prefects of the New England Girls’
School, of which the bride is a not-very-Old
Girl. A wedding party that included all
the notables of the district was held at Her-
bert Park. Bridegroom’s father was the
eldest son of Dr. R. L. Jenkins, of Nepean
Towers, and came of a long Welsh line. His
mother was a daughter of the Hon. It. C.
Herbert, brother of the Earl of Powis.
Judge Murray, the Administrator of New
Guinea, married one of the Jenkins girls—
the doctor, whose fine old home used to be a
show-place of the Parramatta River, had a
numerous family. The nest of the new
pair will be at the bridegroom’s station.
Tara ; but there’s a honeymoon in Maoriland
to come first.
One evening last week at Urallh, Myee
Vickers, of Goldsworth station, became Mrs.
Baker, of Leura, Bundarra. Both bride and
bridegroom bring gilt-edged securities to the
romance ; and the honeymoon is being spent
in luscious Honolulu.
Captain S. M. Menzies, the only son
(among a quiverful of daughters) of Colonel
Menzies (the Colonel is nearly, if not quite,
the oldest inhabitant of the Warrigal Club),
has persuaded Ivitty "Macdonald, just now
of Neutral Bay but generally of Collaren-
ebri, to accept a fascinating engagement-
ring. Young Menzies’s place is Eulabury,
Glen Innes. An exquisite diamond brooch
is Kitty’s souvenir of the Colonel’s delight
at his good-looking son’s choice.
It has been decided to hold the British
Empire Exhibition, in which the Prince of
Wales is playing the lead, at Wimbley,
North London, at the end of 1023 or the
beginning of 1924. A mission to fix up details
leaves London shortly: Major E. A. Belcher
is in charge, and he brings an agricultural
adviser and a financial adviser with him. They
will arrive at Fremantle on April 20, and
will complete their work in Sydney about
June 10. The rest of their itinerary is not
settled.
lhis is the photo of Lily Robertson, the
new star in this year’s N.S.W. ladies’ swim-
ming championships.
Her burst has been
exceptional, and in
the 50yds. she sur-
prised her friends by
cleverly defeating
Mina Wylie. In the
100yds., however,
Mina turned the
tables, but there was
little to spare in the
victory. The new
champion, who isn’t
yet old enough to
record a vote, taught
herself to swim. She
uses the American
crawl stroke. The
photo of the flapper
mei'maid is by May
Moore.
i Sydney will one day be proud of Clarice
Coleson, writes Clara Butt in a handwrit-
ing as large (never more than three words
in a line) and generous as the thought behind
the letter. Clarice is the contralto who
stirred the Dame and Kennerley Romford to
a dizzy enthusiasm. A cheque for 30 guineas
accompanies the note ; and the big lady is
making arrangements with her own former
teacher, Miss Rowe, to include the Australian
girl among her students at the famous Crom-
well-road college. The Rowes, by the way,
were at one time station-owners and social
leaders in Melbourne, but lost most of their
wealth. The family’s social standing, how-
ever, helped Miss Nellie’s undoubted talent
in establishing her school of singing. Now
she wants to show her gratitude to Victoria
for something that happened over 30 years
ago, when the no longer affluent girl set out
to make a career for herself. Melbourne
gave her what she still thinks was a wonder-
ful benefit concert that enabled her to go to
Paris and study under Marchesi; and now
she has authorised Melba to choose a Vic-
torian singing girl, and offer her a scholar-
ship at the Rowe school.
Every sailor-man who has been to a con-
cert at the Ravvson Institute within recent
years will recognise
an old friend and a
jolly entertainer in
Enid Deloitte. Ever
since the Clever and
generous 'girl ./ore
ankle-strap shoes she
has never failed a,
Ra-wson Institute
concert. She plays
the violin and piano,
and uses a prettv
mezzo-soprano voice.
Added to that she
has a way with her
on the platform' that
wins the heart of
every man who fol-
lows the sea. Per-
haps that’s a bit of
grand-dad Deloitte
coming out in her, for the captain sailed his
own ship into Sydney Harbor is far back as
1833. May Moore took the picture.
Agnes Murphy and friend Aimee Moore
paid a rush visit to Sydney last week. Miss
Murphy has come through her terrifying ill-
ness of last year all to the good; the hair
which had to be cropped close is now a inass
of snow-white curls. Quinlan and Dan
Carroll are anxious for her to do the herald-
ing of the Sistine Chapel Choir. And there
is no one better fitted for the job. After she
left Melba, Miss Murphy trumpeted the
Quinlan Opera Co. through Australia and
Maoriland.
And here’s a bit of trumpeting to start
with. When Hugo Giirlitz, the husband of
Amy Sherwin, brought the celebrated male
choir of Vienna to London, King Edward
and the Marquis de Soveral, the Portuguese
Ambassador, were discussing the new attrac-
tion. His Majesty said to the ambassador :
“No music can ever efface the memory of the
Sistine Choir. I consider it the glory of
Italy and the envy of the woild.”
There was a quiet gathering of the Dangar
clan a week or so back at Mrs. Clive Dan-
gar s station-home, Gostwyek, for the conse-
cration of the church she has had erected on
the estate in memory of her late soldier-
husband.
The Millions Club entertained the male
member of the Benjamin couple last Friday,
Mrs. Benjamin, who was Miss Duffy, of Mel-
bourne, having crossed the border to her
home-town on Thursday. The Benjamins
are now New Yorkers whose doors are
always open to Australians. Mrs. Benjamin
was the U.S.A. godmother of the Castles
sisters: it was from their New York home
that Dolly was married to Dr. Finn, and the
hospitable family board furnished the wed-
ding breakfast.
The Dormers, mother, father and the chil-
dren are about to sail back to the four
hundred of Nairobi, the capital of British
East Africa. This will leave Mrs. Toohey
very lonely, for the two grandchildren have
been within coo-ee of her for the past two
years, and Mrs. Dormer has been in Sydney
for several months. Nairobi, although only
a _ stone’s throw from the Equator, enjoys a
climate something like our early summer, only
the nights- are cooler; for it is perched
5450 ft. above the sea, and (a thing some silly
people won’t remember) climate is governed
by elevation quite as much as by latitude.
The Kikuyu Hills, which surround the town,
are filled with big game, so that when the
complex lady in the problem play refuses the
hero, and he goes off big-game shooting, you
are safe in betting ten to one lie’s booked
through to Nairobi.
Little Goodie Reeve is a widow. The
pretty, graceful creature married Dr. Reg
Macgillicuddy just at the close of her Mel-
bourne Tivoli season, after she had broken
off her engagement with cartoonist Bruce
Bairnsfather. Young Dr. Macgillicuddy
developed T.B. and got a post at a sanatorium
in North Queensland, whither Goodie accom-
panied him. He died suddenly a few nights
ago, leaving his young widow with one child.
Pupils and admirers of Lardelli, one of
Sydney’s leading voice-producers in the years
gone by, will be interested to hear that son
Luigi, now a successful sugar planter in
North Queensland, is visiting Sydney and old-
friend Jack Brownlow, of Paling’s.
After Gladys Verona (Bourke) left for
London and musical culture her old teacher
at this end received word that his former
pupil had become engaged. But the lady
herself, who should have the most definite
information on the subject, writes to say
that the story is untrue.
The Hardy Wilsons, who are going to
England, have sold their artistic home on
th e North Shore line to W. Hoskins, of
the steel works firm.
Film-actress Bernice Vere, who left Aus-
tralia m company with the Heifetz family—
her last local appearance was in Harrison
Owens "Blue Mountain Mystery” i«
J jo ? An p le f> appearing as Sara
t?., P ucass Abraham in a set of
Biblical pictures that the Laskv firm i 8
making. Her sister, Dean Talbot’s wife who
gAted violinist, intends soon to pack her
Eddie tor 1 ans and a year’s study. “Self-
expression for wife as well as for husband”
is her reverend husband’s slogan.
rpi The . p| so Kings left for England on the
Themistocles, and when Mrs T. II Kelly
gets back from her visit to Loudon and the
Swiss Engadine she and her husband and
family will move into Quambi, the insurance-
man s house. The Kellys have been homeless
ever since Glenyarrah—now Gladwood—was
sold to the Bruntons. The last place they
rented was Charlie Fairfax’s old home on
Bellevue Hill.
Australia has a further association of
a sort with Princess Mary through her future
husband. Lord Chelmsford’s new son-in-
law. Captain Lascelles, is a kinsman of
the heir to the Harewood title. The young
man is private secretary to the Prince of
Wales.
The Lady Carrington, with a light load
ot passengers and a heavy one of refresh-
ments, pottered about the Harbor on Satur-
day afternoon, following the course of the
yachts straining every bit of sail to win the
B orster Cup. Doran’s Inez, after promising
early in the race to snatch the victory, was
overhauled by Alderton’s Gumleaf, while the
G.-G.’s Corella ended fifth. And that
prompted an irreverent schoolkid to ask his
neighbor “Why was Moses disqualified?” and
the answer was “Because the Lord said
‘Come forth,’ and he only came fifth.”
Singing girls Lorna Gowland and Eileen
Shettle are off to England by the Ormonde.
Lorna has been lifting her voice with the
“Maid of the Mountains” company.
Here’s a funny backwash of the trouble
John McCormack fell into down south.
The U.S.A. has been so enraged over its
artists being forced to sing and play the Eng-
lish National Anthem when touring British
Dominions that they are insisting on all Eng-
lish artists opening concerts with “The Star-
spangled Banner.” The third verse is an
awful hurdle in the way of the English singer.
The fourth and fifth lines are impossible.
Dame Clara Butt, for one, declared she
couldn’t and wouldn’t sing them, so her
TI.S.A. dates are cancelled and she tours
Canada only.
Old Masters and priceless antiques have
become quite the rage of Elizabeth Bay and
Darling Point, and the demand has created a
suspiciously plentiful supply. Probably
future generations will handle the Botany
pieces of great-great-grandmamma with the
reverence we extend to Sheraton or Chippen-
dale. The really rich are having whole flats
furnished and decorated in the one period
or style, and one artistic house-furnisher who
favors the Chinese style has had the beautiful
old oak doors in her flat red enamelled to
get the effect of Chinese lacquer! Another
lady who haunts Art shows ordered the
house decorator to paint the ceilings of her
new home with white enamel. The original
owner had had the rooms panelled with
cedar. But, as the present owner says, white
enamel is so much more cheerful!
One dear old lady in Sydney is emphatic
about man’s ingratitude. It has been her
custom, to visit the Coast Hospital with
fruit for the patients, and the other day she
offered one, of them a couple of bananas.
Instead of taking the fruit he yelped at her
and told her to feed the someth in g-or-other
sharks with them. Horrified, the good
Samaritan fled before anyone could excuse the
poor chap. He had been admitted with a
broken ankle through slipping on a banana-
skin.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Nancy Maenaughten, the Judge’s pretty daughter,
has gone to Sydney to study singing at the Conser-
vatorium.
The Governor went to Preston House on a recent
morning to see Stanhope Hobday’s water-colors.
Then he lunched the Europe-bound A. H. Whitting-
hams at the Government humpy. He has since been
spending a few days at Warwick as the guest of
the Barneses of Canning Downs.
Leila McLelland, 8.A., an English girl who has
just joined St. Margaret’s School as maths, mistress,
lived for 11 years in Russia, then went to Dublin
and got her 8.A., did war-work for seven years, and
was on the staff of the Inter-Allied Delegation sent
by the Reparations committee to Austria after the
war.
G. H. M. Addison, the architect, who died here
last week, was formerly in practice in Melbourne,
where he helped Tom Roberts, McCubbin and others
to found the Art Society. It was in 1886 that he
came to Brisbane, and thenceforward he did great ser-
vice to art in the North. Among others, Jesse
Hilder had to thank him for much. He was chair-
man of the Advisory Board of the Queensland Art
Gallery, and there is in the Gallery a pen-and-ink
sketch of his which was exhibited in the Royal
Academy.


Gem Brooches.
Hardy Bros. Brooches are noted for their exclusive
designs, perfect setting, and fine-quality gems.
Selections are forwarded on approval at the
Company’s own risk, and a copy of their
illustrated catalogue sent on request.
Platinum and Gold Bar, set Diamond How
£lB.
Platinum and Cold
Circle Brooch set
Diamond,
£3O.
Diamond and Sapphire Bur Brooch,
£4B
Pearl and Diamond
Circle Brooch,
£BO.
Platinum and Gold Bar, set with Diamond
and Pleonaste Square Cluster.
Platinum and Gold
Circle Brooch, with
Pearl and Diamond
Spray,
£9.
Diamond
Boomerang Brooch
£6O.
Pearl and Diamond
Circle Brooch,
£3O.
Five per cent, discount for cash.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
J J 6-118 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
à
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
W ' w i. s*; <.'/’
...... 1
'I
i
-
■
'
. - ■ ■•■:. ' : :
'u'zjm&s.
L
# JiH
: 'SI
<= '■'
: \. ■ •
/■• ■ **
• ■ ? . .v..r '
,\
I ' ;/-v
x
'
SRK^ai
m
iP
V
1«
i
f.
r :. :
ar**
; *
...
! j
'"Jj *.
' • - . . >. • .
<4- :*' ' i
*', i
msmm
i s.p;:k
i
.
..
.... /
PACKED IN
.
lib AIRTIGHT
/ '
' mm I
Each
Postaqe 6 D extra
sent to anq address
In Australia
162-166 PITT St
& CrGeorge &Kinq Sts
- SYDNEY -
“Tasteless
in tea.”
3
//
sy
fruschen Sale
pr
» a teaspoartul rf thisJJJ
Wood _ rv^
sgasafttsa
v® useful x,
**«« be laten fora^jS
to assure as fun efo’ dcp
to*
HCghSTto-
Start your day
the “Rruschen Way
TAKE Kruschen Salts every morn-
ing— not an occasional heavy
dose, but as much as will cover
a sixpence in your first cup of tea.
Kruschen Salts is quite TASTELESS
IN TEA. Put only as much in that first
cup as will lie on a sixpence. There’s
no taste; you won’t know you’re taking
Salts; but this daily pinch of Kruschen
will keep your eliminating organs work-
ing regularly and naturally, and you
will enjoy clean, joyous health, keen
appetite and sound sleep at night.
Begin this healthy habit to-day, and say
good-bye to headaches and depression,
irritable nerves and disordered digestion.
Kruschen will keep you young because
it will keep you healthy. Prove this to
your profit.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
All Chemists—2/6 per bottle
Enough for more than two months.
Kruschen Salts have been proving their great value as
a remedy and corrective during more than 160 years.
Sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism, Lumbago, Eczema,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Disorders find in
Kruschen Salts a sovereign remedy for these distressing
ailments. Kruschen Salts are gentle yet thorough in
their beneficial action.
For relief from these maladies take “half-a-teaspoon-
ful” of Kruschen Salts in warm water every morning.
The improvement in your general health from this
small but regular dosage will astonish you.
Australia.—Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
H. and W. Grear, 119 to 123 York Street; also at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth.
Direct Indents executed by the manufacturers
through London Buying Houses.
New Zealand.—Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are
stocked by Fairbairn, Wright & Co., Christ-
church, Wellington, Auckland and Dunedin.
Note.—Kruschen Salts are made in Manchester, England, by
E. Griffiths Hughes, Ltd., established 1754, in
the reign of George the Second.


Why Not Learn to Draw?
m
< * w
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
You can
do it
easily and
quickly
without
drudgery
b y following
the Weston
method.
It is just as easy to
LEARN BY
MAIL,
and you have the
advantage of the
personal aid and
helpful criticism
of Mr. Harry J.
Weston, Australia’s
leading commercial
and poster artist.
The Harry J. Wes-
ton Postal School
of Drawing will
develop your latent
talent and put you
on the road to
making big money.
Send your name
and address, with
three stamps to
cover postage for
the book, “There’s
Money in the
Pen,’’ which tells
all about the "
course, fees,
etc., and gives
examples of the
lessons and students’ work.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
112 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
S/Irue Ease i^Writing
2&<? ;THE BRUCE”
STEEL—^
SHELL
á
PEMS
and recommended by
JBruce. "Writing Specialist,
and Writing Master to the principal >
Schools of Sydney,N.S.W. & manu/actured
by the celebrated Pen makers.
Joseph Gillott & Sons. Birmingham.
cfo/ct by a/I Stationers
mj esale Alex . Cowan & Sons. L td
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE
EVERYBODY DOTES
Unelelobv’s
VOATS/
A delightful breakfast food
The “COMFORT” (Self-heating) IRON
%
Lights in half a min-
ute. Costs 3d. for 4
hours. Simple, safe,
clean, beautifully nick-
e'.led, double-pointed.
Finest iron made.
Burns Benzine.
Price,
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Eveivßeady
Safety
i'll -
m:
This little Waroet
in a box will shave you
wherever you are.
wherever you go , as long
as you live , for 4/11
Outfit Complete yvith 8 Blade* 4/11. Extra Blade* 2 6 dox.
POST FREE from
nmw ISLES&C?E?
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
â
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you havfe any
WOOL or SKINS
to soil.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ã
U3NNIM V 39 SAVMIV HIM 90A
if you can box scientifically. You
never know what moment you will
have occasion to use your fists, and it
would be a mighty uncomfortable
experience if you got a thrashing.
Your SIZE will not protect you if
you’re untrained —SCIENCE will
come out on top every time. The man
who knows the art of Scientific Box-
ing has it “all over’’ on his opponent.
WE TEACH
BOXING BY POST,
teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. The methods are simple, practical and
thorough. You cannot fail to progress rapidly and
quickly, and you will learn all the “hits,” “stops,”
and “moves” of the world’s most famous boxers.
Write for the interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in Your Home,” which will be mailed FREE to any
address. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement and post it to us with three
stamps to cover postage.
m.
m
I
i
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS,
49 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
That “just-out-of-the-box”
freshness lasts—
Provided you use
Bostock’s
Dry Suede Cleaner
COLORS: White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne, Brown and Nigger Brown.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., Sydney.
ä
£2700 for 17-
BLACKHEATH SOLDIERS’
MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee.)
£IIOO First Prize valued £IIOO
£sooSecond Prize valued£SOO
£3OO Third Prize valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 26th. Winning
numbers published on 31st May, 19i2.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
R’- Post 1/2—Two or more Post Free.
FRANK BURROWS, Queen st.. Glebe, N.S.W.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W, Bookstall Co.,
Hairdressers, Newsagents, etc. through tho
State and Samuel T. Green, Hon. secretary.
Council Chambers, Blackhkath, N.S.W.
COUGHS § COLDS
CAUGHT IN SUMMER
are apt to be particularly obstinate.
These Summer Colds are also highly
infectious, and are very often like
Influenza in character. Peps are
the sure, scientific treatment for
mid-Summer colds. Dissolved on
the tongue, the germicidal fumes
from Peps disinfect the mouth,
soothe the throat, allay
inflammation and soreness
in the lungs, kill the in-
fecting germs, and .restore
the chest to sound health.
IJ6 and 3/- of all
chemists.
å
AT LAST
A PERFECT
SANITARY SYSTEM
for the unsewered home. A long-felt want has been
supplied by
THE “WALBOW”
SANITARY SYSTEM,
■which enables everyone whose house is outside
sewered areas to have perfect sanitation, to combat
the fly and mosquito pests, and minimise the risk
of disease.
1
oTOMATIC
TORY SPRAYE
Showing action of Spray
(seat removed).
■rvfc
Showing method of
removing Pan.
Simple, self-contained, and with working
parts that CANNOT GET OUT OF
ORDER, it is a wonderful benefit to
country homes.
The “Walbow” sanitary sprayer, Avith
“Walbow” Disinfectant, instantly neu-
tralises odors and destroys germs. The
lid close's automatically. It does aA\ay
with every annoyance.
Write or call for full details.
PRICE £5 COMPLETE.
The Walbo w Sanitation Co.,
53 Rose Street, D ARLINGTON.
City Show Room, 45 York St. Sydney.
TEE.: CITY 7799.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken o] communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Sidweelan: Afraid if we printed that
much we should have to also say that he was a
sly-grog shanty-keeper, among other things Last
Post: Surely that doesn’t need arguing at this time
of day Wild Oat: Thanks, but really too horrible.
Prohibitionist: The B. has no more love for
drunkenness than either you or Mr. Hammond, lhats
a principal reason why it dislikes your scheme, and
prefers one that won’t produce vile sly-grog to poison
people, degrade public and private morals and ruin
homes Resby: That sort of verse shouldn’t be
sent to us in summer. In winter we don’t so much
mind digging to find the hidden meaning in every
phrase.. . .A.R.V.: You haven’t put the grip into it.
R.D.P.: “Nightfall” fails. Use simple metres
and get something real to say... . W.E.8.: The chest
full of gold which the reformed bushranger refused
to use or give up is hard tack even for the hungriest
fiction-eater. .. .T.D. (Landsborough): Doesn’t strike
us as anything but heavy commonplace. .. .T.G.K.:
Horrible C.B. (Renmark) : The moon “veiled in
a timbrel of gold” is unusual even in chopped prose
that masquerades as verse. .. .W.J.W.: Doesn't get
near G.P.11.: “Subtlety” is a bit too subtle
L.N.C.: Not up to print-level Eva 0.: They are
all built of easy and well-worked commonplaces
Jacaranda: Instances you quote are not related to
the spirit-plavmate pars.. .*. Gagi: Ditto. .. .Sr.: May
use one 5.D.8.: Your “first attempt” is a joke
feeble with age H.E.Iv.: Tombstone par uselecs
without clipping in verification. .. .Slcyno: Similar
incident paragraphed some weeks ago. .. .Gumsucker:
Not pithy enough E.J. (Albert Park) : Shocking
affair! Dingo: Very rugged. .. .L.C.R.: Doesn’t
make a yarn... .E.M.E.: “Holiday” starts fairly
well and then goes to pieces... .L.L.8.: A thin echo
of ideas that are much overworked... .M.E.S.: The
“copyright” maiden is not likely to be pirated....
Robie: Very slight Waratah: Doesn’t hit us hard
enough. .. .J.A.M.: No g00d... .J.B. (East M.) :
“Naldrick” doesn’t make us believe it’s true....
Iv.W.S.: They don’t get near A.G.H.: Crude in
thought and manner. .. .R.A.S.: The “Wild Geese” are
likeable poultry, but they will stand improving. A
rhyme like “seas” with “cease” jars W.S.G.K.:
Ridiculous. ... .Walad: Too rugged; and except for
very special purposes a quatrain demands two pairs
of rhymes. .. .Douglas C.: It’s on the way
W.J.S. (it mightn’t be “S,” but it’s our best guess) :
“The Yank” is too wobbly and clumsy... .J.8.M.:
“Country philosophy” is dull stuff. . . .lilaney: “Don’t
find it very mirthful. .. .Adrian L. (or Z.) : Nothing
in it. .. .Maina I.: Not quite bad enough for a
shocking example. .. , V.H.G.: Lame in all its legs.
... ..Jim the Painter: No good. . . .R.G.S.: Sorrowful.
....Walter It. D. : Commonplace in bad verse....
C.C.M.: Too slight, but it shows you can write if
you have something to write about. . . .Bellerive: The
tribute to Shackleton is very fine: —
In the past at the Antarctic
The flag he had unfurled,
■When news of he’s brave adventures
Echoed round the world.
Amidst snow and shimmering glaciers
Grim dangers he did face,
A loyal and great explorer
Of the Anglo-Saxon race.
While again as a fearless leader,
On the route to the polar clime,
For the honor of graphic science
He perished in he’s prime.
Sad was he’s sudden exit,
He’s heroic task was o’er;
The light of he’s soul expired
Away out where the breakers roar.
.... Alex. W.: If that’s the best yarn you’ve heard
we suspect that you’ve been living in a deaf-and-
dumb asylum. .. .Elsy M.: No Use. . . .Saaedi: There’s
promise; but it can’t come to much till you read
some good stories carefully and see how they are
constructed... .P.J.G.: Not much of a yarn and
rather woodenly told. .. .Edwin K.: Nothing in it...
The Pearl: It shows a hint of rhythm and feeling,
but your first need is a better acquaintance with
grammar. .. .J.McC.: Lack of fresh thought behind
the torrent of ill-chosen words condemns it....
Double-six: Verse poor; the telling of the yarn
deserves a better subject. . . .T.E.L.R.: Too many loose
lines.... JjLJ.IL: The verse throws down its hands
and falls over its feet.. . .M.A.B. : What is mainly
“wrong with it” is that it is about nothing, is
1 clumsily thrown together and is offered in shocking
handwriting... .Ivat: We can’t let your good inten-
tions go to waste: —
If I had a million to spend,
I’d treat slum kids to no end ;
I would pack them in a train
To the country, where milk and honey flow.
The cows and bees they watch, and know
Nature, and learn its refrain.
I would camp some by the blue lagoon,
Where they could watch through willows the moon
Rise over the hill, and shine
On wild ducks swimming in placid waters,
Around the water-lilies, that are divine.
Their hearts will be light, the slums’ sons and
daughters.
Some I would camp on green mountain, top,
The air tune they breathe and never stop;
They watch and wonder where mountains streams go
And look at purple valley below,
They will sing, jump and hop
The coming into view the morning rainbow.
.. . . A.V.11.R.: Off our track. But let’s hear from
you again. .. .R.McL.: Too uneven. .. .M.M.: You
don’t break any new ground ; and the old ground has
been too well harvested.... Gamu: Better leave it to
the specialists—the writer of the original par is one
of the most experienced of them. . . .E.L.: Much ink,
little point. .. .Patidh: May use one or two; you’ll
drop into it directly McG.: Admirable if only it
meant something L.V.T.: That claim is already
pegged out. .. .P.R.W.: Get your ear mended.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS. •*
J.H.: That gag has been going the rounds some
time... .L.R.W.: If the plague is as awful as that it
ought to be prosecuted.... A.C.E.: Out again....
S.C.: Both jokes 01d...,H.L.: Drawing below par...
5.8.: Nothing in it.... Fantome: Needn’t trouble to
illustrate. Ideas are quite as saleable without any
drawings at all as with bad ones.
“124”: Informant in the assault case,
telling his story in the witness box, referred
to liis assailant in the dock continually as
“Mister Ellis.” “Mister? • Mister?” said
the Police Magistrate, testily. “You mean
the accused.” Witness apologised, excused
himself 'on the grounds that he was unused
to the ritual of courts —and substituted
“Bill.” The Magistrate sighed, started a
sentence, and subsided. “Bill” it was until
the end of the case.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Calines-de - j
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
nrivate Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates.- and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Ltd..
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
48io! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MARCH S, 1922,
SONOMA.
10,0(10 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; pasr.enger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Tare, ‘including :
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/- "
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and' modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For. further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE.STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PIIILP
& CO., LTD.
Banking, Public Companies, Jbc.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 799,243 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 325,000 0 0
Interminable' Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; lion. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C. ; Janies Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart,
Esq*; A. C. Luya, Esq.
Gekerai, Managf.h—M. G. DAYMEN.
Manac.eii at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughput Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. '..£'2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. ... ..£1,200,000
Reserve fund .. .. .. .. £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E., Chairman,
Gkorc.e j. Sly, LL.D!, Frank N. Yarwood, F.G.P.A. ;
' George E. TOdman llo'ii.' F. JAcio 'Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Ofiices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Drown.
Manager: G. 11. llowell.
Branches and Receiving Ofiices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
A -y* Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street),
Manager: R. T. Hoodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. JeNkins.-
London Director:; A. Dodds Fairbaiiin.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking. Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
PRAMTQ 0,1 Australia, New Zea-
bliftn I O Uil#\r I O land. Fiji, Samoa. Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS S, d 'SS.S
transact; ;11 other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provide at Society
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. ..£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. £6,375.000
The Society Transacts Kvery Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W, APPEiII.Y KS S , M n "e r.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQTJIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
MAKURA, 16th MARCH, 11 a.m-
NIAGARA, 20th APRIL.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing’s to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palis, etc.
SAILINGS :
MARAMA, 7th MARCH, from Wellington.
TAHITI, 6th APRIL, from Sydney.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply'
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
y
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 31 TO 4i WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
"scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 aiid 14,000 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £Ol to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4S to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
Only One Class Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUE VIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
• Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES 11.250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
'SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
'DIOGENES 12,500 tons
-New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WAi.F.S
Established 1817.
Taid-up Capital
reserve J'und
reserve Liability - -
Directors i
£5,000,000
3,500,000
5,000,000
£13,500,000
The lion. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Jiohm L. I'nithtnll. Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq.
The lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Ksq.
(Jcneral Manager: Oscar Lines.
London Office —29 'i’lireadneedle Street, E.C.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. .
358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTRFCT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
aowao avaH
qjpMUouuuoj)
ā
Bank ot ßuotmlm
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 8019 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300,
jAEViES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Governor.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from tile Manufacturers:
•‘TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 rattle Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
ă
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Caile
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Huddart ParkerLiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
SXEAMEIIS TQ NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA— From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers. .
For full particulars applv HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge' Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGBTY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BIUSBANE.
Cable address:
“IllOQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
I Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and l’itzro.v Estates, Ltd.
IJlackiieatii Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co. 4 , Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktowu,
ą
THE FAMOUS
COD LIVER;
OIL
EMULSION
and Washing
Disorders
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


/
Xa L£ ON> °
Special All-British
Motor-car Steels.
The two vital demands of motordom, Safety and Bong
Service, can be fully satisfied only when high-grade steels
of proven resistance to shock and strain are used. Such
high-grade steels are branded
“An Eagle on a Globe”
S.D. 12. —Air-hardening Nickel Chrome Steel, for gears, etc.
S.D. 16.—Special Nickel Steel (to case-harden), for Gear Wheels, Gudgeon
Pins, Sliding Shafts, Countershafts, Ball Races, Cardan Shafts, and all small
stampings.
SD. 21. —High Tensile Chrome Vanadium Steel, for Back-Axle Tubes,
Axle Swivels. Crankshafts, Transmission Shafts, Swivel Arms, Stampings,
etc. (Specially heat treated.)
Let the “An Eagle on a Globe” be your guide to economy and better service.
Write or ’phone nearest address for prices and particulars.
THE EAGLE § GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD. f
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co. Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-8 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; Cliff Street, Fremantle; 4(1 Boulder Road,
Kalgoorlie. Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street, New-
castle; H. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street, Hobart;
John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street, Bris-
bane; Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-00 Currie Street,
Adelaide. Jr
O <S"
\ £ Qli> &v
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £200,000
(with power to increase to £1,000,000).
ESTABLISHED FIFTY YEARS IN AUSTRALIA, 1872-1922.
The First Fire Office Established in Australia
on the Mutual Principle.
DIRECTORS:
SYDNEY H. CARY, Esq., Chairman.
JOHN F. RQFE?, Esq.; ARTHUR WIGRAM ALLEN, Esq.; JOHN VICARS, Esq.;
J. P. JOHNSON, Esq.
INSURANCES EFFECTED: Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s
Compensation, Burglary, Guarantee, Plate Glass, etc.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
The Total Funds of the Society, amounting
to £364,654, are invested in Australia.
HEAD OFFICE: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WILLIAM G. BROWN, Secretary. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
MONARCH
THE CIGAR FOR QUALITY.
Has the flavor and aroma only obtained with high-grade
Havana leaf. ,
Special sampling cabinet containing:
10 Cigars, 6/= ; 25, 12/6;
50, 23/9; 100, 46/=
POST PAID
TO ANY
ADDRESS
sws
All Hotels
and
Tobacconists.
6d. each.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
Your home needs music—
choose The NEW EDISON
Without music a full home-life is impossible.
Enjoyment of music is one of the keenest of
all delights—because music has the true
jM
<9®
emotional appeal—it is food for
the soul.
In the New Edison you get real music-—not
an imitation, but a Re-Creation of such fidelity
that no human ear can detect a shade of differ-
ence between it and the original artist’s voice
or instrument.
Be sure to spare a minute to write for further details
of this wonderful instrument. A minute now many mean
the enriching of many years of your life.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
• ‘MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE. ’ ’
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
TENNIS
REQUISITES.
ǻ
RACKETS.
1 Special School Match
C. 8.8. Special Practice
Hay market
Haymarket Special
Haymarket Extra Special
Spalding's Greenwood
Spalding’s Vantage
Spalding’s Tournament
Spalding’s Continental
; Spalding’s Gold Medal
Ayre’s Sandown 30/-; Handicap
Ayre’s A 1 40/-; Champion
Ayre’s Matador 55/-; S.N.T)
8/(5
17/(5
30/-
40/-
70/-
25/-
45/-
40/(5
55/-
70/
35/
50/-
87/6
Bussey’s Sandown 25/-; Standard 25/-
Bussey’s Conqueror 30/-; Handicap 32/6
Bussey’s A 1 35/-; Invincible 50/-
Slazenger’s La Belle 27/0; Player 30/-
Slazenger’s Ilenshaw 45/-; Demon 55/-
„ Whitehouse 03/-; Classic 80/-
Slazenger’s E.G.M. 85/-; Doherty 87/0
Slazengrer’s Imperial 87/0; Stadium 90/-
Slazenger’s I.Z. .... 05/-; Patterson 95/-
Prosser’s Improved Phenomenon 95/-
I)avis Uiseley Hexagon 87/6
H. C. Lee’s Seneca 55/-; Spartan 70/-
H. C. Lee’s Church 90 /- Monogram 105/-
(Rackets, 50/-' or over, post free. Postage on cheaper rackets: N.S.W.. od.; other States, 1/2.)
RACKET REPAIRS a Specialty.
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Rnrolation Grey 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion, 1921 —— 16/6
Each. Doz.
Avre’s Court 2/2 25/-
Ayre’s Champion, 1922 2/9 32/-
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
SLAZENGER’S Championship, 1922 (airtight tins) 33/-doz.
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Champion (square) Posts, pair . . 100/-
Tennis Court Markers 37/ 6
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle 1/-
Kach.
Racket Covers 2/6, 6/6
Tennis Ratchet , 7/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books J/0
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6, 6/6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-
I ILLUSTRATED
TENNIS PRICE LIST FREE ON REQUEST.
limn
BOXING
GLOVES
1
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiriimfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiitiiimii
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES.
Set of 4.
real leather, special value 13/6
0.8.8., Fighting, tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 13/6, 18/6, 21/-, 23/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz., 25/-, 30/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 35/-, 40/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively used by
Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended "by Mr.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
BOYS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed , 8/-
„ Leather „ „ laced palms 9/-, 9/6, 12/9
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Postage 3d.) 7/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, English Leather, extra light, weight 3ioz. (Postage did.), 15/6, 17/6 pair.
PUNCHING BALLS.
« THE
fi ARMY
St
THE EXPERT
wisr~~
*1
ARMY, Swinging Ball, reg., for fast work, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable
and perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for floor and rope for ceiling. .12/6, 15/6
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.) 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and bladder
complete (Carriage extra on .portable balls) 105/-
All above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
SUNDRIES.
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6, 5/6 each.
Double-action Swivels 6/6 and 10/6 -each.
Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pair. Punching Platforms, 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each.
SPORTING REPAIRS a SPECIALTY
. 7mc£ Simmons ffl
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY. |
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; Edward St., BRISBANE. j


REXONA SHAVING SOAP
FOR MEN OF DISCRIMINATION.
\.3
\ i
"••••*:•
T/A\ NORMAN LEE {from a photo').
Mr. Norman Lee, the jpopular
actor who plays the part of the
Queen’s Fool in the Musical Pro-
duction “Merrie England,” at the
Theatre Royal, Sydney, is a strong
advocate for Rexona Shaving Soap,
and writes us a^follows: —
“I have enjoyed shaving with
Rexona Shaving Soap so much
that I have decided to drop you
a line telling you how much I
like it. I am very particular
in regard to the kind of Shaving
Soap I use, and I have found
Rexona Shaving Soap to exactly
suit me.
“It lathers freely, and makes
shaving a delight. I think the
triangular stick quite a novelty,
and I am sure I get a lot more
shaves out of the Rexona Stick
than any other I have ever
tried.
“Good luck to Rexona Shav-
ing Soap.
“Yours very truly,
“(Sgd.) NORMAN LEE.”
REXONA SHAVING SOAP
THE TRIANGULAR STICK.
Rexona Shaving Stick (Medicated) is Rexona Soap specially treated so as to
produce a thick creamy lather which will soften the heard and improve the skin
at the same time. It is delicately perfumed and medicated on the same principle as
Bexona, and not only produces a lasting lather, hut purities and leaves the skin
in perfect condition. Being an antiseptic Medicated Soap, it has a tendency to
quickly heal any cut you may have the misfortune to get,
and if troubled with pimples or blotches of any kind will
daily tend to improve them. Rexona, the Triangular Stick
is sold everywhere at 1/6.
SHAVING STICK
æ
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHBISTOPHEIi
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
I'or quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
iiazor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
CJ
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street,_Sydney^
ǽ
ft
Reduce
Fuel
Consumption
—and at the same time increase
production by substituting the
power-wasting plain bearir gs in
your shafting and machines with
S fIC-PSU. Ball-Bearings
They will save 60% of the power usually lost in friction, and 60%
to 80% in Inbrication costs. No binding chains, no hot boxes,
perfect alignment, and no sticky, dirty, greasy belts. Many other
,dvantages also. __
GARDNER, WAERN
& Co. Pty. Ltd.
Showrooms —369 Flinders St., Melbourne
Distributing Centres at Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
SKF
Sl}[
Aaron’s Pass.
(The tragedy of “Lost Cattle Pup ” as told by
John Lee while dying in the Coast Hospital, N.S.W.)
[Fob The Bulletin.]
u A ND that is all. Well, Father Flynn,
I’m glad you’ve come at last;
Sit there and take no notice while
I babble of the past—
The nurse would think it nonsense from a
mind that runs too fast.
“And thank you for the whisky (it will keep
the spirit clean) :
I’ll hide it safely somewhere when the visi-
tors have been —
The Devil be between us and all harm (the
Saints, I mean).
“Two bush girls worked and sobbed by turns
amongst their pots and pans;
One was a gaol-breaker’s girl, and one a
‘mounted’ man’s;
We all were schoolmates long ago, and
planned our little plans.
“The perky soldier-birds came in from out
amongst the grass
To get the crumbs beneath the seats where
sat the infants’ class—
The old bark schoolhouse used to stand in
sight of Aaron’s Pass.
“From Aaron’s Pass to Granite Teak, from
Granite Peak to Bourke,
And round to all the southern seas the sym-
pathisers lurk ;
And close at hand the harborers are waiting
for their work.
“They help a member of their class, as was
the primal plan,
No matter what his nation be, nor what his
creed or clan—
It is enough that he’s a gaoled or bound or
hunted man.
“There was a boy when I was young—and
both our lives were marred
In that dull, dusty cowyard world of shut-
tered souls and barred —
Who played a wild but manly prank, and he
got two years’ hard.
“He was but sixteen years of age, a madcap,
winning lad;
And we were proud, hard-working folk,
which made the thing so sad.
His father died of heart disease. His mother
—she went mad.
“There was a man, while I grew hard and
shared a sister’s fears,
He took what one had robbed us of —they
gave him seven years;
And in the neighbors’ sympathy I thought I
heard the tears.
“Some go away and change their name in
terror of disgrace;
But for the younger children’s sakes we
worked about the place—
As he’d have done for us, the one most loved
of all our race.
“And he escaped and led them far by flat
and mountain’s brow,
Till he was caught at Talbragar—asleep,
the troopers vow.
We heard the news without delay—go, ask
our sister how.
“The mulga-wires went whispering round
where people knew of him,
Behind the peak and through the gap and
down the gully dim—
The very creek-oaks seemed to sigh in pity:
‘They’ve got Jim.’
“I sent the word (no matter how) to only
one or two —
The laws of men have many friends, the
laws of God so few.
And I rode east to do the deed a brother
had to do.
“And yet again the mulga-wires went flying
round about,
So touched with lawless pride you’d think
’twould rise into a shout
Amongst the hills —‘His brother Jack and
both his mates are out!’
“I met my mates by moonlight on a misty
ring-barked flat,
Where nothing seemed to live except the
spotted native cat—
We’d only muzzle-loaders then, and two were
cheap at that.
“Three mounted men rode up the range (I
see as through a glass) ;
Three mounted men rode up the range and
through by Aaron’s Pass
To where three men who had not slept lay
waiting in the grass.
“And one rode crouched (I see the scene
as gypsies see such things),
One rode between with handcuffed wrists
strapped to the pommel rings—-
The heat and dust and flies gre in the hatred
memory brings.
“I strained my eyesight as I rose and stood
behind a pine
To make sure that the man they’d got was
kith or kin of mine—
I wonder if he had not been would I have
made the sign?
“But long before they reached the ridge a
something not of earth
Told me I knew the prisoner well and loved
him for his worth.
His feet were fast to cords that ran beneath
the saddle-girth.
“The mounted troopers paused abreast where
rocks had formed a cup.
In that dry. haunted gully’s head thev called
Lost Cattle Pun.
I raised my arm. and at the sign our leader
bawled ‘Bail up!’
“One trooper turned and galloped back as but
a coward can.
The other drew bis Winchester and faced
us like a man:
The hard blue glinting eyes of Law along
the barrel ran.
‘‘l heard the shot and saw the smoke, and
felt my shoulder burn ;
And from the grass a Greener gun barked
out and smoked in turn.
The Law fell in a heap and rolled face up
amongst the fern.
“His wall-eyed chestnut reared and pawed,
man-killer through and through;
He glared the murder from his eye as wall-
eyed chestnuts do;
■ And, lest he’d strike us with his hoofs, we
had to shoot him too.
“I noted all the simple things, as men at
such times must.
I saw his crimson blood turn red and blacken
in the dust,
The shoe-marks from his death kick on the
road’s hard metalled crust.
“A pine cone fell, dead gum-leaves turned
and rustled in a breeze;
I saw the parrots flash from red to crim-
son in the trees:
’Tis strange the mind at such a time takes
hold of things like these.
“A great grey kangaroo crashed out and
thudded down the hill;
The parrots dropped into the road and ran
about at will —
The old coach-road. . . .and it seemed strange
the trooper lay so still.
“It might seem cowardly, and mean, and
foreign to our breed
To say, for other men to hear (and some
perchance to read)
That, thanks to one who loved me well, I
did not do the deed.
“A half-wit lad who loved me well, as one
loved Maypole Hugh,
Because he thought me strong and kind, and
brave and good and true,
Had fired the shot that found its mark and
left no more to do.
“In haste the prisoner’s bonds we cut and
told him where to go,
With every tree a telephone to let his
brother know.
He raised his head and nodded once; then
rode from friend and foe.
“About the body in the fern we moved with
chastened tread;
We covered with his trooper’s cap the white
face of the dead;
And straightened decently his limbs, lest
brutal words be said.
“The half-wit softly knelt and prayed, as
madmen sometimes pray ;
He broke two bronzing fronds of fern, the
while the east grew grey,
And crossed them on the dead man’s breast,
as is the Christian way.
“A mind will run at such a time on unex-
pected lines.
I hoped the children left at home had gone
to ‘Granny’ Pines;
I wondered if the ‘dicky-birds’ nipped off
the pumpkin vines.
“Two girls sobbed in each otheFs arms when
daybreak shamed the sky;
And one was a policeman’s girl, and one
an outlaw’s spy—
Oh, yes, there was another girl, but that’s
long past and by.
“We all were schoolmates long ago and in
the infants’ class:
The little soldier-birds came in without a
fee or pass—
The schoolhouse stood for forty years in
sight of Aaron’s Pass.
“We went where papers seldom go, where
quest and search are vain,
And most men go with haunted pasts to
suffer and remain—
The other two were buried there, and I
came home again.
“And no one ever questioned me nor hinted
of disgrace;
But stranger things , had dulled my mind—
the world seemed commonplace.
The hunted man we never saw till years
had changed his face.
“He came into the ward the day that I was
stricken lame,
With blucher boots and bowyangs on and
bore another name—
Greyer than I, but in his breast the boy’s
heart beat the same.
“The sea is very calm to-night, and will
not let me rest.
The old sad things I should forget I still
remember best.
Nurse, help my friend to turn me with my
face.... towards.... the west.
“From Aaron’s Pass to everywhere the sym-
pathisers wait
To help, whatever fault there be, a brother
or a mate —
To help the hunters to go wrong, the hunted
to go straight.”
The priest stood up. and bending low above
the sick man’s bed,
“The bush holds greater mysteries than
yours, my son.” he said —
“The man you left on Aaron’s Pass that
day was far from dead.”
N.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
Dobbit’s Double Escape.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was a boisterous night over the
Pacific; and the E.A.N. Company’s air-
liner Silafyna, San Francisco bound,
was. flying dangerously low to evade the
electrical disturbances in the higher regions.
Within the long, lighted cabin, with its
rows ofi twin lounge-chairs running down its
length on either side, were 40 passengers,
including short, stout Sir Henry Dobbit,
timber importer, and his large, pale, pudgy
wife, with the absurdly small hands and
feet, an inflated doll in general outline.
Sir Henry and his lady had been wrang-
ling fiercely ever since they joined the air-
liner at Rockhampton. Every time a clap
(Continued on next page,)


(j&CcC&tij
Hanclu”
eep
am
u
g ECAUSE Zam-Buk is a unique herbal healer
of unequalled soothing and antiseptic power,
a pot should be kept handy in every home and
workshop—in city and country —for the prompt
treatment of those accidents and skin troubles
so numerous and so frequently sustained during
the activities of life. Zam-Buk makes sure
first that the flesh is medicinally cleansed before
healing begins. The wound that is dressed with
Zam-Buk never festers.
Likewise, Zam-Buk gets to the root of skin
disease, and there are no “breakings-out” again
where Ulcers, Eczema, Blackheads, Blotches and
Skin and Scalp Disease have been properly
treated and cured by the Zam-Buk method.
These are distinctions that stamp Zam-Buk
as the genuine skin healer.
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is specially prepared to meet the
needs of those who suffer from an irritable or diseased skin,
especially during the hot weather, and is invaluable when used
with Zam-Buk for the cure of skin troubles
LITTLE GIRL’S POISONED
HAND HEALED.
Nurse S. Francis, of 109 Harris
Street, Pyrmont, Sydney, says:— “My
little girl, Sheila, started with blood-
poison. She had a fearful hand, and
in the doctor’s opinion the only wa}
to prevent worse developments was to
amputate the finger, This I would
not consent to, but decided instead
to treat the child myself. Zam-Buk
surpassed all expectations. It was
magical in reducing swelling and ex-
tracting bad matter. I continued with
Zam-Buk until the obstinate sore
completely healed. -
“In my profession as a nurse I have frequent occasion to use Zam-Buk for my
patients, and I cannot speak too highly of its wonderful healing qualities,”
i .y
v MHM
K-
/
WORKER’S BAD
WOUND.
Mr. W. Simpson, Annerly
Road, South Brisbane, writes :
“My right hand got crushed
by a log. and the little finger
was split open to the bone. In
spite of hot fomentations the
finger went blue-black and
swelled to twice normal size. At
night the constant throbbing
pain prevented sleep, and as the
poison spread up into the arm
painful hard lumps began to
form. Thus I was disabled for
a fortnight, losing £lO in wages.
‘‘How much longer I would have been off work I can't say, as, fortunately, 1
was persuaded to try Zam-Buk. It did me a world of good. Zam-Buk not only
drew out all inflammation and corruption from the wound, but it seemed to put
new flesh into it at the same time. In two weeks Zam-Buk had so perfectly
healed the finger that there was scarce a mark to be seen. It was splendid.”
1/6 and 3/6. of all Chemists and Stores, or direct,
post free, from C. E. Fulford (Aus.), Ltd., Sydney.
n
n
■ •. ' .
‘
of thunder caused the untravelled wife to
clutch her spouse's arm with a peevish
whimper, that gentleman’s short, yellow-grey
w’hiskers bristled angrily; anil ue yearned
for the courage to snake her off scornfully.
-Meanwhile, he just glared grimly in front of
him, to where Professor Jefferson, of the
Agricultural Department, bound for one of the
mandated territories on a iong term of duty,
was enjoying the company of Miss Celia
Spargo, a smart, attractive, darkmyed, olive-
skinned young lady, with noticeable red lips
and a kind of fearless vivacity that was very
trying to older married women. And Jef-
ferson- —who should have known better for,
his age—was actually placing a chocolate-
walnut between those lips with his own
fingers!
With folded arms and bitter thoughts
Henry Dbbbit scowled heavily and turned
his gaze to the’ floor beneath their seats.
And there liis eyes rested musingly upon a
dainty, slfim, silken-hosed ankle that pro-
truded out on to the fiisle of the cabin as
the owner turned to receive another choco-
late-walnut from her ridiculous admirer.
At that moment there sounded a long
metallic wail like the rending of a big sheet
of tin, and the floor at Sir Henry’s feet sud-
denly broke up with a tremendous clatter.
Then the entire lighted cabin seemed to leap
away from him up into the heavens, leaving
him behind in the outer darkness. He had
a glimpse of two light-spots, which might
have been the soles of Miss Spargo’s or his
wife’s shoes ; but they dwindled away to pin-
points and vanished with the rest of the
cabin. There followed a rush through dark-
ness—with a dozen uevils pursuing and
thrashing him;with heavy sticks. Then sud-
denly Sir Henry found sleep.
When he awoke it was morning and the
air had all the keenness of a high altitude.
He felt very cold, sore and confused. Open-
ing one eye cautiously he beheld a strange
scene of smooth water surrounded by a circle
of hills. Aiding their tops the trees moved
as though a strong wind raged; but down
in the basin where he found himself, the
luscious tropical foliage around the lake
was quite unruffled. He also noticed that
a faint mist hovered over one corner of the
water, where it reached the distant, steep,
rocky shores. And across the main sur-
face was a long trail p.f;Still, floating wreck-
age leading from where he sat.
As he dropped back wearily upon the
sloping bank of grey, loamy soil, his eyes
noted that the branches of a tree directly
above him were; broken in places as though
a heavy body had fallen through. And
some fragm6nts cf cloth hanging thereto he
recognised as a sleeve and part of his coat,
and the major portion of his trousers.
Whereupon he sat up, rubbed a tender spot,
on his bald head, and regarded his bruised
and semi-naked • limbs thoughtfully.
After a while he sighed, rose painfully,
went down to the water’s edge, and fished out
a half-submerged travelling-bag with
“J.W.J.” stamped upon it. As he looked
dismally about him, he espied a pink 21b.
E.A.N. Co.’s chocolate-walnut box lying
against a tuft of reeds on the banks. Feel-
ing very hungry and lonely, he sat upon the
late Jefferson’s bag, and ate chocolate-
walnuts, while he wept for the unknown
fate of their late fair owner.
He had quite forgotten Lady Dobbit’s
existence.
By midday Sir Henry was hungry again—
and the chocolate-walnuts were all finished.
He examined the contents of the bag, and
found a large number of canisters containing
seeds and some sodden books on horticul-
ture. He opened two canisters and found
that one contained wheat-grains. Filling
his handkerchief with some, he arose and
walked gloomily along the shore, chewing
the seeds and feeling terribly like Robinson
Crusoe.
Once he passed by a large area of flat,
half-submerged rock covered with dark-grey
shellfish. And he still felt hungry. Half-an-
hour later he reached the steep part of the
shore and found that, where the waters
wound in amongst the crevices and fissures
in a rocky promontory, a lot of mist was
rising and the air was warmer. He ex-
plored one small cavern to a distance of 20
yards underground and discovered pools of
boiling water.
Being a very practical little man, Sir
Henry Dobbit explored no further. He
went back to where ho had started from
and returned with the late Professor’s travel-
ling-bag and deposited it in the cavern that
he had decided to make his home for the
time being.
While standing outside his cavern that
evening he nervously lashed out with a stout
stick at some movements in a massjof creener
covering a face of rock. A small animal like
a ’possum fell to the ground with a broken
back. After much trouble he had it skinned
and cleaned, and cooked it in one of the
bubbling hot springs. Next morning he
inspected the Professor’s books and learned
that the seeds of sharp-pointed glasses were
non-poisonous—and a lot of other similar
useful things. So he spent the rest of the
day armed with the books, seeking non-
poisonous berries, wild fruits, roots, yams
and other commodities arounu the snores of
the lake.
Three weeks later Sir Henry had, with
that far-sightedness for which he had been
noted in his business-world, made consider-
able provision for a long stay in his aerial
domain. For, having one day climbed to
the top of the surrounding ridges, and hav-
ing almost had his remaining clothing blown
off by the wind, he had progressed sufficiently
far over its extensive crest to see that there
was nothing but thin air beyond, with a
faint* line of light in the immeasurable dis-
tance, that might or might not be the
glint of the sun upon the sea. So he re-
turned to the heart of his mountain island
and found half an acre of flat land project-
ing sufficiently into the lake to permit of a
channel being dug at its narrow end to cot
it off by water from any marauding animals
on the main shore. This he planted with
rice from the Professor’s canisters.
On one momentous occasion he set out to
explore that reach of the lake on the far
side of the rocky promontory, in search of
further land for planting. He had travelled
half a day, when, about sunset, he discovered
a steep, narrow pass in the surrounding wall
of hill, which apparently led out to the un- ,
known beyond. ~ Full of excitement he
entered the defile, and had proceeded about
Ml yards, wnen he stopped suddenly, and
fell against a rock almost prostrate with ner-
vousness and excitement.
In a depression on its loamy floor was the
imprint of a naked human foot!
It is difficult to account for Sir Henry
Dobbit’s subsequent actions. Maybe he was
beset with visions of cannibalistic savages.
Anyhow*, he turned tail and fled, and reached
his cave in a state cf tremendous unrest.
That night he lay awake, thinking the mat-
ter over. And it occurred to him that the
fateful footprint was perhaps not as large as
had at first appeared. Allowing for the
breaking away of the dusty soil around it,
it was probably only as large as that of a
woman. But did native women have feet
any smaller than their men folk?
Next day he returned to the pass; and
further examination of the impression con-
firmed him in the belief that a woman had
passed that way. So he explored further
until he came out on the other .side of the
hill, and found himself on the edge of a
steep, rocky decline with an expanse of flat,
wooded country fully 2000 feet below.
When he at last turned to go he espied a
small, light object lying against a tuft of
grass lower dow*n. He descended fearfully
—and found it to be the worh-out remains of
a dainty feminine shoe.
For the next few days Sir Henry Dobbit
haunted the locality with wildly-mingled emo-
tions. All the romantic stories of castaways
on desert islands that he had ever read came
back to him, and somehow hopelessly upset
his equilibrium. Clad mostly in long strands
of white vegetable fibre that he had culled
from a small palm-tree, he returned through
the pass on the fifth morning, and, on emerg-
ing on the outer side, was amazed to dis-
cover that some extraordinary events were
in progress on a spot somewhere down the
precipitous slopes below. For above the
tree-top a long bamboo-like pole had appeared
—with some white, lacy female garment
flutterfhg therefrom as a signal in the breeze.
And lower down a dense column of smoke
was rising from the hillside.
Sir Henry at last recovered himself, and
with trembling knees sought till he found a
precipitous track that led down the hill.
In a few minutes he reached a ledge of rock
that overlooked a shelf, on which the bamboo
pole stood and now reared its dainty signal
but a few yards above his head.
Leaning over, he saw that the natural
rock-shelter below had been extended on one
side by the addition of a sheet of. metal ap-
parently salvaged from the cabin of an .aerial-
liner. The ledge beneath was jittered with
the rinds ahd stones of various wild fruits
of the kind that he too had been dining upon
in lonely state for the past six weeks. And
hear by was a half-emptied biscuit-box. with
the E.A.N. Co.’s initials stamped thereon.
And further down several of the same com-
pany’s pink chocolate-walnut boxes littered
the bushes into which thev had been thrown !
Breathless with excitement Sir Henry
edged further over to one side of his rocky
eminence until he at last had a view of a
section of the cave beneath where it joined
the added shelter.
He could see the half of a large heap of
fibrous material similar to what he himself
was wearing as clothes. Resting above
this primitive bed covering, and projecting
sufficiently below the edge of the metal awn-
ing to be within his range of vision, was a
dainty wrist and hand, the latter holding a
book, which Sir Henry would have recognised
as one of the E.A.N. Co.’s time-table guides
had he not been so excited. And at the
end of the fibrous heap, where it projected
more boldly out on the shelf of rock into the
sunlight, two tiny, silken-hosed feet were
peeping.
With little thrills of excitement chasing
over the surface of the chirk, pent-up waters
of his starved and lonely soul, Sir Henry
coyly produced a crushed and faded pink
chocolate-walnut box from somewhere in his
miscellany of attire. He was about to drop
it shyly down on the ledge below, beside its
natural partner, whe ; n a movement under the
fair one’s fibrous coverings stayed his trem-
bling hand.
The .flushed look of pleasure on his face
suddenly gave way to one of white terror.
For the bedclothes of Vegetation were heaved
aside, and a stout, corseted, dishevelled
female form arose to a sitting position ; and,
with one finger fixed on a date iti the E.AX.
time-table, looked expectantly past the whirl-
ing smoke signal, out to the distant sea;
Henry drew back fearfully against thfe
hillside. It was Lady Dobbit.
* * * #
That night Sir Henry Dobbit lay down
again in the safety of his cavern by the
shores of the hidden lake. As the poor little
man went off to sleep he muttered a prayer
of thanks for liis deliverance, together with
a resolve that on the morrow he would plant
the rest of the Professor’s canisters of grain.
TED COLLES.
Sonnet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Should slow Sleep fold me up as a lone scroll.
And, listening for my voice, you should but
hear
The late wind in the leaves we loved
breathe fear,
Do not disturb with tears my whispering
soul;
Nor, when your sad, familiar feet shall stroll
Tile ways of chaste remembrance, start and
peer
For my lost face, by absence grown So deilr.
In some known spot where once my shadow
stole.
I have been patient: I have learned from
you
The peace of quiet days I had forgot.
Should Rest be mine, and you, perchance, re-
main.
Troubled with al] the senses’ pangs I knew,
Suffer my love for you, and haunt me not,
Lest woman-weakness make me dust again.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


a
à
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
an visvivuisnv jo ’oo
3Mvao asnoHOHixsiM ani
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
S-
?
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches; Stroke of Piston 2inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from G to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Bails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
á
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE
Ti
%
r-'-'v
u
3s
Help Your Tailor to Help You
Braces form such a small article of clothing that one is
prone at times not to notice the very important part
they play in the sum total of dress.
The very finest tailor cannot make a suit hang right
unless there are proper braces to support the trousers
gracefully. SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES are
recommended by tailors in all countries.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
irs
•K;
' BE
Your Money’s Worth
in Genuine Satisfaction
THE price you may pay does not always
determine the value—inferior cartridges
are dear at any price.
“Wetproof” shotgun cartridges
are endorsed by sportsmen all over the
world because they may be depended upon
to give satisfaction in all kinds of weather.
You are certain of good results when you
know that the cartridge will do its “bit”
when your aim is true and you have pulled
the trigger.
D-3
Zgmmgtm “Wetproof” shotgun cartridges are
supplied in four trade marked brands: ARROW,
NITRO CLUB, REMINGTON and NEW CLUB.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
p. o. Box 686, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
â
imuuiiil
\m
%
%
%
sP
TAKE
g ENJOY
COOD HEALTH
mMLllli I in iitttlttsßMia
PERFORATED SHEET METAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For Mining, Harvesting, Flour Milling, Fruit and Seed
Grading, Road Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
PERFORATED ZING.
D. RICHARDSONS SONSPTY.LTD.,Footscray,Vic
kVTTL£\6'mNfS'cfiEW RtATE '
STOCKS 8 DIES for Engineers 8 Motor Mechanics
as made by
THe Greenfield Tap & Die Corporation
are. the very best.
This Corporation is an amalgamation of the formerly separate firms of
WELLS BROS.,
WILEY & RUSSELL,
F. E. WELLS & SON CO.,
A. J. SMART MFG. CO.
ã
SWANS LIMITED. 304 Pitt St., Sydney,
The House for Motor
Engineers’ Supplies.
ä


.ffl
EsiflisiMiaiisil
'• <<
*
k . j
k
«•
Pllll
r*- -
rp,
.x
: : :': : : : : : : : :v
1
1
v:i:v:|
•XVA
■v'v
*x4{; : x
»»
'
X
3
w,
f
’
•,. • •;
1
I. f.x
- ‘ $ V
■:■:■:■: ■
p’ l • ••; ..
;SsBi:
*t*£7 X
■:■:•:•:■
£*s
*■
m
\ ...
is
■./
jtfo:-
XL;
f
m
■
«*' rn t
.
-■a
■
m
■'
—^
zl
$
MU
w
X;
*•>
w
ssss
II
7?
iwx
Hi
.
.. 7 •
•111
y_ : -
X*: 1
L..."
=
IT
Australia
Self-Contained
It has .many times been contended that Australia can be a
self-supporting nation-that Nature supplies at least the raw material
for her every need, and that it is only left for enterprise to place
Australia absolutely independent of “outside** supplies -in very
truth a self-supporting country.
A verification of the truth of this contention is instanced in the Iron
and Steel Industry as carried by the Broken Hill Proprietary
Company Ltd. securing its ore from its own Australian deposits,
treating it in its own Australian works, carrying it in its own Australian
ships, an 3 its works manned by thousands of Australian workmen.
To-day it is possible to secure in Australia
S tcel o/a Grade
Equ&l to the Worlds Best
The Iron and Steel Industry Means the distribution of enormous
sums of money in wages hitherto not paid to Australians, and it will
mean still bigger things one day, for, with the natural resources of
supplies Australia must, and will, become ofte of the world’s
greatest iron and steel centres.
MANUFACTURERS OF
Pig Iron (grade.) Rails and Tishplates,
Ingots, Billets, Bloomsjees, Rounds,
Plats, Squares, Angles, Structural
Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, &c.
Tl1 ’Broken Hill
Proprietary Company Lt?
_ Head OPFice
Equitable Buildinq, Collins Sr. Melbourne
lIP
