

z
m
mm
rA
I
I
m
w
W£
52
%
p
1
%
THE SERGEANT: ‘‘The defendant is charged, your Worship, with taking six bottles
of Clements Tonic.” '
THE MAGISTRATE: “Tut-tut! I’ve often taken a bottle or more myself.” (Case
dismissed.)
If ill-health is robbing you of enjoyment resort
to CLEMENTS TONIC and recover normal
health, strength and vigor. For thirty years
past people in every walk of life have relied on
CLEMENTS TONIC as a safeguard against
weak nerves, insomnia, anaemia, impaired
vitality and similar blood and nerve disorders.
Purchase a bottle of CLEMENTS TONIC, take
it with water or soda-water—either way it** is
palatable and invigorating.
For Your Health’s Sake take
uifiimmii
illlllllHi
'liiiiiiiii
mini
'"SS
lIIIIIHI 1 ”
•iiifmmnj
I Mil!
“It puts the‘Vital’into Vitality.
»»
lenient* Tonis, LtG.,
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2189.
[Thursday, January 26, 1922*
Price 6d»
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Have yon had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOOK’S BOOH ARCADE, LTD., 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431. — AdvT.
harness your pulleys
with a belting that will convey every ounce of
power generated to yOur machine ajid by its immense
” s ,°« y £
MANGROVITE LEATHER
or RAW-HIDE BELTING
Made from the centre cuts of flawless ox-hides
and specially tanned for toughness. Out expeits
.are at your service.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD*,
CHARLES LUDOWiCI, Managing Direotor,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 3 Ji Little
Collins Street, Melbourne. .....
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
TASMANIA : Henry Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
E 3
MANGnOIfITt
S 3!
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application tp
JOHN LYSACHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
In every business —
the pen is a necessity. Use Waterman’s Ideal
and make it an economy. Waterman’s Ideal
saves time. It also ensures neater work and
better-kept books.
Three Types,—“ Self Filling,” “ Safety and “ Regular.” Nibs
to suit all hands. Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ltd., Comer
Kingsway, London, England.
Australia : Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney
'IBS'--
m
i2yk
t>
Jk
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
11 5*
Send for Eczema Cure
r— TO-DAY!—|
Medical men endorse the
efficacy of LIGMOL-
LIENE CREAM as a
cure for all skin diseases.
1/6 sent to the manufac-
turers will secure a
sample tin, or procure
full-size tin from your
chemist. Be sure you
set LIGMOLLIENE—-
the finest and most sooth-
ing remedy.
- - ' .9
. H. MALYON & SON,
STURT STREET, BALLARAT.
(MEYER)
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
sdf
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & "
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
4
“ THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL <& THE WAVERLEY PEN.'*
4 LL X USTItALIENS visiting London
X3L should read the British Australasian,
Ud. weekly—an illustrated paper, containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, WX„
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge. ________
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
sd
f
sdf
KILL THAT FLY.
MUSTDIE
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
Sold Everywhere;.
PRICE 1/- < 7
Sonnets of Pedantry
The Red Page
I.
When old men sit in heavy, doddering thought
Thumbing dull words to shape a common-
place
That, being common, commonly is taught
As precious and a means of present grace,
I, in my hot rebellion, rising, scorn
A false allegiance to the bloated shame
That chains the will before the mind is born,
And fetters all discernment to a name
Some other name has named as worthy
praise.
Let each have fame for all of worth he
spoke;
But I am free as he of words and ways
And will not wear the meaningless, cold
yoke
Of those who think all ink must be divine
If splashed by him who wrote some golden
line. ;
it.
If one should find Will Shakspeare’s well-
darned hose,
Full-proved of mildewed brown antiquity,
And set the garments in the foremost rows
Of the world’s mart for all who read to see,
Offering the relic at the highest price.
Worship would seethe to its last futile
dregs
And crowds run far to see the sage device
A poet used to hide his sacred tegs;
Yet while they gazed in awe with hard-held
breath,
Intoxicated with the wild display,
The dust would still lie heavy on Macbeth
And worms upon their shelves eat Lear
away.
Fools! To see Shakspeare’s trousers filled
again
I would not walk a furlong in the rain.
hi.
O sacred timber of the loaded brain!
O holy sawdust of its sifted thought!
How excellently will ye still explain
The lessons that divinest mud has taught!
Is there some mattock that might ope your
skull,
If wielded with the force and weight of
truth V
Could ye be made to grasp how drear and dull
Is half the song ye hammer into youth?
Three-fourths of Wordsworth is but food for
cows—
Cows of some heavy, beefy, British breed —
Two furrows out of five our Shelley
ploughs
A sandy waste that grows but dodder-weed;
Yet these, at worst, are bright compared with
some
For whom ye beat with zeal a broken drum.
IV.
The noblest poets do not always sing.
Even our greatest—thought and rhythm
gone lame,
And rhyme like old, cracked bells that will
not ring—
Blunder through darkness till they find
the flame
Of inspiration burning bright once more,
Then leap to the fine ecstasy of song
With clear words circling upward as they
soar
And raining echoes that our dreams pro-
long.
The pedant turns the verbiage with a spade,
Digging straight forward heedless of the-
gold, „ ,
But careful that each ounce of clay is
weighed
Because the claim had great repute of old.
So, bored with platitudes, the students shirk
Beauty as mere examination work.
v. .
Then comes the catalogue of “great” and
. “greater”
With agricultural tests for kings of mind,.
“Major” and “minor” classes, second-rater
Marked against some who set a lonely
wind
To music in a valley of clear sight
And gathered bounty of a golden hour •
To make an endless fragrance of delight
In the. small round of one delicious flower
For which all gardens sighed through all
lost days.
Is the rose more than the first violet,
The trumpet worthier than the flute of
praise ?
Dull, patient gentlemen with tasks to set,
Your major poets listen well and long
To the great singer of the little song.
VI.
Most of the teachers of our English tongue,
Though versed in nouns and verbs and
* moods and tenses,
As moulders of minds plastic, brave and
young - "
Obtain their money under false pretences.
Not one in a full thousand knows the way
Along the woods where he aspires to guide.
Seen with his eyes, a colored world is grey;
And all sweet things run far in haste to
hide
From his destroying breath of explanation.
Only the rebel spirit here and there
Looks for himself and finds with exultation
A hundred rainbow ends in golden air
Beyond the honeyed wood; and gives God
. ' thanks
That trees are trees, not annotated planks.
VII.
The joyless ‘Soul whose mind is closed to
I rhyme,
i Whose blood can tingle to no rhythmic
i. march,
Who cannot feel the sudden tears of time
Gather to one great sob, as if the arch
Of sparing language broke upon a thought,
Who ,v‘knows no magic of the jewelled
•phrase.
No lustre of fine dreamings subtly caught
•In browns of evening dusk and silver-greys
Of sandalled dawn awake upon the hills.
Though he may know the poets by their
Tell how they worried over household bills
And own their books supplied with leathery
notes, . ,
Yet he it is, to the great pain of truth,
Who robs the new mind of its singing youth.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
Bitten Off Too Short
The Australian reader to whom Austra-
lian lyrics have givyn infinite pleasure often
feels like resenting English critics’ lack of
enthusiasm for the bulk of the work of the
Australian poets. But it would be foolish to
assert that their opinions are quite ground-
less. The fault lies rather with the lyrical
nature of the mass of Australian verse. I
would therefore plead that among Austra-
lian poets greater thought be given to the
epic and dramatic forms.
It has been said of Edgar Allan I'oe that
he did not reach a very great place in Eng-
lish literature because he wrote no long
poems. Arid though this may lead to rather
an over-estimate of their importance, it is by
the longer works' of a poet that his fame is
generally determined. The short lyrics and
lyrical passages of longer works we remem-
ber and quote, but it is not by these that we
rank the man. Our appreciation of Dante,
Shakspeare, Milton and Browning testify to
this. The reason is natural enough. The
lyric, by nature short, must rely on the
reader’s outside knowledge .of the circum-
stances which brought it into being. Such
knowledge we may expect of people of the
same generation and surroundings as the
author, but to other times and other scenes
the best of lyrics will grow vague. People
without other education than their own read-
ing on general subjects, but with a genuine
appreciation of such good poetry as they can
comprehend, have often complained to me
that they “did not know what the author was
driving at.” - They could appreciate to the
full when the circumstances that surrounded
the piece were explained; and we cannot
expect the priblic to consider poetry as any
more than a madman’s dream when what is
acknowledged to be .a poet’s best work seems
utterly meaningless. A poein like John
Sandes’s “With Death’s Prophetic Ear” loses
half its meaning when one does not know
that it is the dying Boer, with all his rough
ideals and stern theology, who is speaking;
once that is understood it vibrates with life
and emotion. For the same reason Barcroft
Boake’s “Where the Dead Men Lie” occupies
a much more insignificant place in Australian
literature than it would if it had been intro-
duced by some epic or drama dealing with
the hardships of the early stockrider’s life
outback, to which it would come as a final
expression of the author’s feelings. Then it
would occupy the same position as the clos-
ing lines of Shelley’s “Hellas” —lines which
would be remote to-day without the drama
that leads up to them and renders them im-
lhortal.
Yet it is not only for its lyrical passages,
though it is largely these which are quoted,
that a long poem is valued. The surround-
ings of its characters and the workings of
the human heart, rather than the impressions
or emotions of the idoment, find a place in
the drama, and the epic that they do not hold
in the lyric. Neither lyric nor short ballad
could tell the story of Cordelia’s fidelity to
Lear; Shakspeare put the theme into drama,
which was its place. Great poem though Ken-
dall’s “Mooni” is, the scenery it describes
and much more besides could have been
brought more forcibly before the reader in a
dramatic epic which dealt with humanity and
the part which that beautiful corner of Aus-
tralia played on those under the stress of
emotions such as Kendall felt. The class of
people who read fiction thoughtfully, and
who read verse, look for the mental attitude
of types with which they have come into con-
tact. But the poet, bv reason of his greater
impressionability and deeper emotions, is any-
thing but typical of the people one meets in
daily life; and the lyric is so often, and is
expected to be, the expression of only the
poet’s feelings, that it cannot hold the reader s
sympathy like the reproduction of a charac-
ter he knows. This, I would venture, is one
of the reasons why the lyrics of Lawson and
Paterson, excellent though they be, did not
make the same immediate impression as
Dennis’s works, despite that the slang terms
of these are even now passing out of exist-
ence.
DOUGLA S CA MPRELL.
Henare and the Paleface
In Maori and Pakeha (Whitcombe and
Tombs) A. W. Shrimpton and Alan E.
Mulgan have compiled a narrative of out-
standing events and movements in the his-
tory of Maoriland. They begin the story
with Tasman and finish with Massey, bo
far as the mere narration of events is con-
cerned they have done the job well. And
it was a good job to do, for there was need
of a book of the kind. Anyone reading
“Maori and Pakeha” should arrive at
a very fair idea of surface happenings since
the white man’s first arrival. Arid some of
the chapters should provoke further in-
quiry. To some extent the authors write
with that object. • This is particularly the
case in respect to those portions of the book
in which Mr. Shrimpton handles the story
of the old New Zealand Co. and Edward
Gibbon Wakefield. Inquiry over a wider
area might convince the that Mr.
Shrimpton approached his task in a par-
ticularly indulgent frame of mind. . He
glosses over too much-excuses and palliates
to excess. There is room, of course, for
difference of opinion—and Mr. Shrimpton
has been hampered for space to adequately
state his case—but, personally, I think he
has been much too charitable —ait times
ridiculously so —and that the Wakefield
family has been extolled far beyond its
deserts.
Mr. Shrimpton compresses his narrative
very adroitly. lie tells the story of the
early settlements excellently, and his com-
ments upon the first Governors indicate a
shrewd judgment. Mr. Mulgafi carries on
the narrative from 1853, when Responsible
Government commenced. TJp to the aboli-
tion of the provinces his contribution is hap-
pily written. The chapters on the Maori
wars are excellent. Anyone wanting a suc-
cinct review of those spacious days may turn
to “Maori and Pakeha” with confidence. But
(Continued on page 25.)


u
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SALE
The Savings Event of the Season.
Bargains in Blouses.
%
y.
EC 730
1X730 WHITE
VOILE BLOUSES
with round necks
or roll collars,
embroidered and
trimmed with
lace and inser-
tion, £ or long
sleeves. Usual
Price, 12/11.
Reduced, to
11/6 each.
1X706 WHITE
VOILE BLOUSES
with high col-
lars, tucked and
trimmed cotton
filet lace and in-
sertion. Usual
Price, 16/11.
Reduced to
14/11 each.
T XBO3
DAINTY
WHITE
VOILE
BLOUSES,
square neck,
tucked, em-
broidered and
trimmed Val.
insertion, £
sleeves, Jnartly trimmed. Usual Price, 21/-
Reduced to 18/11 each.
IX4O6 —WHITE ORGANDI VOILE BLOUSES,
hemstitched, smartly trimmed insertion and
pin tucks, square necks, f sleeves. Usual
Price, 15/11. Reduced to 14/6 each.
Skirts Greatly Reduced.
320—EFFECTIVE SKIRTS, in Striped White
Sponge Cloth, patch pockets, novel belt, and
pearl buttons; women’s size only. Usual
Price, 17/6. Reduced to 14/ll each.
2864— DAINTY WHITE VOILE SKIRTS, panel
front, finished hemstitched /folds at side,
women’s size\ only. Usual P«ce, 1® W* ,
Reduced to 15/11
507 —USEFUL SKIRTS, in White Cotton Gabar-
dine, finished side empiecements and cable
stitching; women's
317— SERVICEABLE SKIRTS in White Sponge-
Cloth, trimmed patch pockets, pearl butto .
„C wide H.; KTifSh.
1512—NEATLY-CUT SKIRTS, in White Pique,
eased across back, finished n^T° w ’
women’s size only. /tl each.
3080 —STRIPED FUJI SILK, side_ empiecements,
nattilr d or b fawn a groun e d, vaTioufc’olored stripes;
women’s size tO 39/11 each.
294— SMARTLY-CUT SKIRTS in Cream Cotton
panel at aid..,
J 1«.„ S 1 "™»VedacS to S/. each.
Under vests Reduced
w
Ac
LADIES’ RIBBED
COTTON VESTS,
round necks, short
sleeves (as illus-
trated). Usual Price,
2/9 each.
Reduced to
2/6 each.
EV 2 0 2 LADIES’
RIBBED COTTON
VESTS, fancy front,
square neck, no
sleeves. Usual Price,
3/9.
Reduced to
3/S each.
E V 2 0 3 LADIES’
RIBBED COTTON
VESTS, fancy front,
square neck. no
sleeves. Usual Price,
3/9.
Reduced to
3/3 each.
EV2O4—LADIES’ FINE WOVEN WTTON
VESTS, V neck, no sleeves. Usual Price, 3/9.
Reduced to 3/3 each.
EV2O5 —LADIES’ RIBBED COTTON VESTS,
low neck, no sleeves. Usual Price, 2/9.
Reduced to 2/6 each.
EV2OO—LADIES’ RIBBED COTTON VESTS,
long neck, no sleeves. Usual Price, 1/11.
Reduced to 1/8 each.
E2OI—LADIES’ RIBBED COTTON VESTS,
fancy front, square neck, no sleeves. Usual
Price, 2/3.
Reduced to 1/11 each.
This is an occasion where liberal spending is an economy instead of
an extravagance. For you can save on every need by shopping
NOW at The House of Economy.
Every department has its reductions to claim and hold your attention
and approval. Economy seekers must know what that statement
means when applied to Anthony Horderns’, where ordinary values
are so keen and selections so wide. So shop NOW and save much.
Write for the Sale Catalogue. A copy will be posted free on request.
Linoleums Reduced.
“GREENWICH” INLAID LINOLEUM,
6ft. wide.
No. 1 No. 2 No.-3 Quality.
Usuallv 25/- 23/- 19/- per running yd.
Red. to 21/- 19/- 15 /6 per running yd.
“STAINES” INLAID LINOLEUM, 6ft. wide.
No. 1 No. 2 No. 3 Quality.
Usually 27/6 25/- 21/- per running yd.
Red.'to 22/6 19/6 16/6 per running yd.
LINOLEUM SQUARES, special quality, smooth
finish.
9ft. x 6ft. 10ft. 6in.x 7ft. 6in. 12ft. x 9ft.
Usually £3/2/6 t
Red. to £2/15/- £3/19/6 £5/15/-
PRINTED LINOLEUM, wide range of des.gns,
6ft. wide.
No. 2. No. 1. Special Quality.
TTsnallv 11/6 12/3 13/-
Red. to 9/6 10/3 11/9
Savings in Carpets.
AXMINSTER CARPETS, for Halls and Stairs.
22*in. 27in. 36m. wide.
Usually 17/- 18/- 27/6 yard
Red to 15/6 16/6 25/- yard:
TAPESTRY STATR CARPET, plain Green or
Grey Centre, Red Borders.
18in. 22*in. 27in. 36m. wide.
Usually •«/9 7/9 8/9 12/6
Red. to 5/9 6/6 7/6 10/6
Grass Rugs Reduced.
“DIXIE” GRASS RUGS, woven
3ft. x Ift. x 6in. 4ft. 6in. x 2ft.
Usually 2/6 4/6
Red. to 2/3 4/-
7ft. 6in. x 4ft. 6m. 9ft. x 6ft.
Usually 17/6 26/-
Red. to 15/- 23/-
“KANSAI” GRASS RUGS, very
sft. x 2ft. 6in. 6ft. x 3ft.
Usually 7/6 10/;
Red. to 4/6 6/-
10ft. x Bft.
Usually „
Red. to 32 / 6
in one piece.
3in. 6ft. x 3ft.
10/6 each.
8/. each.
12ft. x 9ft.
55/- each.
47/6 each,
closely woven.
9ft. x 6ft.
27/6 each.
19/6 each.
12ft. x 9ft.
57/6 each.
42/6 each.
Furnishing Drapery
Reduced.
Holland Blinds.
Stock size, 3ft. x oft. 6in. .finished. Color: mid-
Art Green. Fitted complete with Hartsporn s
best lin. rollers, and cord and tip. Usual
Price, 9/3.
Reduced to 7/6 each.
Air Travelling Cushions.
IN SUEDE -LEATHER, complete with Pneumatic
Filling, with Leather Handle and Pockets.
Size: 12in. x 18in. Usual Price, 26/-.
Reduced to 19/6 each.
CREAM CASEMENT CLOTH CURTAINS, 7 ft.
long, with Valance 6ft. x Ift. 6in., with Panel
of Cretonne at base of Curtains, and between
pleats of Valance. Usual Price, 50/-
Reduced to 42/6 set.
Special Value in Shadow Tissues.
31in wide in Beige grounds, with Trailing design
in Blue, Gold or Red flowerings. Usual Price,
4/6.
Reduced to 3/6
31in. wide, assorted designs and colorings. Usual
Price, 4/9
Reduced to 4/3
Cretonnes for Curtains, Loose Covers,
Cushions or General Upholstery
Work.
36in wide in Jazz colorings, effective designs.
Usual Price, 3/9.
Reduced to 2/11 yard.
31in. wide Block Stripes, in Mauve and Blue,
Green and Blue, and Biscuit and Green
Stripes. Usual Price, 4/-
. Reduced to 3/- yard.
Cricket Sundries
Reduced.
0 DUKE’S No. 4 MATCH LEATHER BALLS.
Usual Price, 17/6 each.
Reduced to 15/- each.
44 WISDEN’S ' MATCH LEATHER BALLS.
Usual Price, 17/6 each. ........ .
Reduced to 10/- each.
FULL-SIZE 6-SEAM 54 LEATHER CRICKET
BALLS (“Marathon”). Usual Price, 7/6.
Reduced to 6/9 each.
FULL-SIZE ENGLISH 6-SEAM LEATHER
BALLS. Usual Price, 14/6 each..
Reduced to 12/6 each.
Tennis Requisites.
PROSSER’S EXTRA SPECIAL RACKET. Usual
Price, £4 each. , ,
Reduced to £3/10/- each.
GOLDSMITH’S “ARLINGTON” RACKET. Usual
Price, 37/6 each.
Reduced to 32/6 each.
F. H. AYRES’ . “CHAMPIONSHIP” HIGH-
GRADE Racket. Usual Price, 90/- each.
Reduced to 80/- each.
GOLDSMITH’S “FAIRFIELD” RACKET. Usual
Price, 29/- each.
Reduced to 25/- each.
ENGLISH MADE STEAM TARRED
TENNIS NETS.
42ft. x 3ft. 6in. WHITE TOP.
Usual Price 30/- 36/- 42/(5
Reduced to 27/6 32/6 39/6
WHITE TOP WIRE LINE, Special Quality. Usual
Price £3/18/6
Reduced to £3/10/-
Bargains in Bicycles.
Gent’s Marathon Bicycle.
Built of British Standard Fittings.
Complete with Tool Bag, Set Tools, Oil-can,
Inflator and Clips. Usual Brice, £ll/15/-
Reduced to £lO/17/6
If fitted with Coaster Hub. Usual Price,
£l2/15/- Reduced to £ll/17 '6
Or with Eadie Two-speed Coaster Hub. Usual
Price, £l3/lfi/- Reduced to £l2/12/6
LADIES’ MARATHON BICYCLE, 20/- extra.
With-Dunlop-Tyres, 10/- extra.
THE BOYS’ MARATHON BICYCLE.
16in., 18in. and 20in. Frames. Specifications as
above, but with smaller wheels; fixed wheel.
Usual Price, £ll/5/-
Reduced to £lO/15/-
With Coaster. Usual Price, £l2/5/-
Reduced to £ll/15/-
Bicycle Sundries.
Bicycle Lamps.
LUCAS “ACETA MAJOR.” Usual Price, 22/-
Heduced to 17/6 each.
POWELL & HANMER “REVENGE” ACETY-
LENE LAMPS. Usual Price, 15/6.
Reduced to 14/- each.
POWELL & HANMER “PANTHER” ACETY-
LENE LAMPS. Usual Price, 12/-
Reduced to 9/6 each.
LUCAS “KING OF THE ROAD” PLATED
* ACEYLENE GAS LAMP ,No. 260 E.; 7in.
! high, 30oz. weight, 3iin. lens. Burns 3i
i hours. Usual Price, 32/6.
Reduced to 27 /6 each.
LUGGAGE CARRIERS, 13in. x 7in., with stays.
Usual Price, 5/6. Reduced to 4/- each.
BLUEMEL’S CELLULOID INFLATORS (“NO-
WEIGHT”), 15in. x -Jin. Usual Price, 6/9.
Reduced to 5/9 each.
Smart Millinery
Reduced.
to;
\
'24
H 24 —LARGE PIC-
TURE IIAT OF
SILlv ' CRINO-
LINE (as illus-
trated), trimmed
Lace, Ribbon
and Flowers,
Colors: Black or
Brown. Usual
Brice, 55/-
Keduced to
42/- each.
H 2 S— SMART DROOP OF SILK CRINOLINE
(as illustrated), trimmed Narror Ribbon and
Fruit Posie. Colors: Black, White or Brown.
Usual Price, 39/6.
Reduced to 30/- each.
H 23. GENUINE ITALIAN LEGHORN CAPE-
LINE. trimmed trail of Mixed Flowers and
Fruits, and narrow Ribbons (as illustrated).
Usual Price, 45/- Reduced to 37 / 6 each.
Hosiery Savings.
FINE SUEDE MERCERISED LISLE, I. & R.
Morley’s, perfect seamless feet, double soles.
Usual Price, 4/3. Reduced to 3/6 pair.
BLACK, HIGH LACE ANKLES, full fashioned,
British manufacture, high spliced heels, double
soles. Usual Price, 3/6.
Reduced to 2/11 pair.
PLAIN BLACK, full fashioned, I. & R. Morley’s,
best sanitary dye, high spliced heels, double
soles. Usual Price, 4/11.
Reduced to 3/11 pair.
PLAIN LISLE, medium weight, I. & R. Mor-
ley’s, full fashioned, in White with Black
Silk Clox, and Black with White Silk Clox.
high spliced heels, double soles (R 96). Usual
Price, 7/6. Reduced to 6/3 pair.
PLAIN WHITE, full fashioned, British manufac-
ture, high spliced heels, double soles. Usual
Price, 4/3. Reduced to 3/9 pair.
PLAIN TAN, extra fine, full fashioned spliced
selvedges, double heels and soles. Usual
Price, 5/9. Reduced to 4/9 pair.
PLAIN TAN, good medium weight, full fashioned,
I. & R. Morley’s extra wide tope, double soles.
Usual Price, 6/11.
Reduced to 4/11 pair.
PLAIN CHAMPAGNE, mercerised lisle, medium
~-pi'o-ht. double suspender tops and soles. Usual
Price, 3/3. Reduced to 2/9 pair.
PLaiJN CHAMPAGNE, mercerised lisle, double
su ,pender tops and soles. Usual Price, 2/9.
Reduced to 2/4 pair.
Footwear Reduced.
FINE GRADE BLACK GLACE KID LACE
SHOES (as illustrated), with flexible pump
soles, plain front, half Louis heels, perfect
fitting, all sizes stocked, Usual Price, 33/6.
Reduced to 30/- pair.
PLAIN-FRONTED WHITE .BUCK LACE SHOES,
• r>n T "P soles; sizes, 4,5, 6, 7. Usual Price,
32/6. deduced to 29/6 pair.
BEST GRADE WHITE BUCK OXFORD’S,
welted soles ; sizes, 2 to 7. Usual Price, 59/6,
Reduced to 50/- pair.
BEST GRADE WHITE BUCK LACE SHOES,
welted-soles ; sizes, 2 to 7. Usual Price, 70/*
Reduced to 60/- p.air.
BEST GRADE WHITE BUCK OXFORDS, pump
soles, smart extended last; sizes, 2 to 7. Usual
Price, 70/- Reduced to 60/- pair.
PLAIN FRONT WHITE BUCK OXFORDS, pump
soles, taper toes; sizes, 3,4, 5, 7. Usual
Price, 60/- Reduced to 52/6 pair.
PLAIN WHITE KID COURT SHOES, pump
soles, Louis heels ; sizes, 3 to 6. Usual Price,
52/6. , Reduced to 47/6 pair.
Carriage Paid on Family Drapery, Fashion Goods and Footwear in N.S.W., and to the nearest Port on Interstate Orders
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
. ... • -
Telephone: City 9440.


Ay.
VOGUES Sj-feARjj.EM | VANITIES
CoCKAyNIy
a
A Curious
Fact.
It’s a curious fact that quite a large number of people almost enjoy
discomfort as the preliminary to a holiday. ‘‘Yes,” you hear Mother
B. say, triumphantly, on her return to Stodgton, “yes, my dear, we were
sixteen in a carriage, and Nellie in my arms, and Mr. B. carrying Alev :
but it was worth it, every minute of it. So bracing the air. is at
Buckup, we’d do it again to-morrow, if we got the chance —we should
really.” And she would and all her family with her; and there are
hundreds and thousands of others with the same peculiar idea of what
constitutes enjoyment of a holiday.
Tastes Differ. So kind of Providence to provide for differing tastes
or, rather, to legislate for differences first and
provide for them afterwards ! When you come to think of it, the little
matters of travelling and extortionate landladies, and high prices, and
the unnatural objection to letting houses to folk with families exhibited
by women, themselves the mothers of families, and a few other trifles
of that kind apart, it’s possible still to enjoy—yes, positively enjoy—a
holiday in any part of Australasia.
Even the most everyday
objects have an interest for
Kodak owners.
L.i_ttle son’s progress can be
faithfully recorded with the
help of a Kodak.
And People, Of course, there are people whose lives,
Too. to all appearances, are one perpetual
long vacation. The first suggestion of
approaching boredom witli Melbourne or Sydney sends
them flying to the country; tire same reason accounts
for an abrupt departure to St. Kilda or Manly, and an
equally unexpected return to town. Very nice, no
doubt, but there are ways and ways of enjoying holidays,
and the kind of people mentioned above are hot monopo-
lists of the “all-the-year-round” holiday feeling—not by a
very long way. Shakespeare, wasn’t it, who had some-
thing to say about the influence of thought on our outlook
in life, and he wrote it, long before Kodaks were born or
thought of, so to speak, and photography had come along
to comfort the majority whose holiday is limited to a
brief fortnight, or three weeks, or month in the year.
Are You a
Photographer
I hate hobbies,” some disgruntled reader may murmur; and he or
she probably honestly believes it to be the truth. But after all.
there are very few people indeed in this much-maligrmd
world who have no interest or occupation of 'any kind, and the interest or the
occupation that a Kodak won’t make doubly and trebly interesting and
absorbing has yet to be found. For photography is a jolly, pleasant,
adaptable sort of amusement that good-naturedly fits in with anything
that’s doing! And the beauty of the cameras prepared by Kodak is
that they suit all pockets as regards their financial side, and fit them
in the literal sense of the word into the bargain—it’s a miserable pocket
that won’t take a little contraption, Iby2§by 4f inches. Don't make
the mistake of supposing that this is the only size available: this par-
ticular vest-pocket camera is mentioned merely to soothe the fears of
those who may be thinking that photography entails the purchase of
cumbersome paraphernalia of the kind with which no ordinary holiday-
maker could possibly contend.
camera helps to bring:
back happy moments.
Catch and Hold
It.
Happiness is popularly supposed to be a fleeting thing. Haven’t
poets and other writers emphasised the fact over and over again?
But that’s the worst of poets and other people with fixed ideas.
Once they’ve decided on a statement, they work it to death in an
endeavor to bring others to their own point of view. All of which leads
up to the fact that a Kodak, besides being a camera, is a joy-prolonger;
and there’s not so much in the way of happiness about that those who
add to it need experience any sending coals-to-Newcastle kind of feeling.
But to return to the holiday-all-the-year round sensation. The prescrip-
tion is perfectly simple, and consists of the single word, Kodak. Exactly
how you use it depends on yourself. Personally, I suggest, as a pfelim-
inary, a firm resolve to “take” nothing but pleasant pictures. It mav,
at the time, seem intensely humorous to photograph the head of the family
just when lie’s realising the painful fact that a wasp has stung him on
the cheek, or a bull-ant has got him by the toe or finger; but the finished
picture is hardly likely to conjure up happy memories when seen at a
later period. On the other hand, a series of pleasant photographs of
places, or picnics, games of golf, or incidents in a day on the river, are
invaluable aids to good spirits during the months that elapse between
one holiday and the next. ' A pictorial record of joyous happenings is the kind of thin
calculated to have a tonic effect on the most jaded indi-
vidual;'and, goodness knows, we want all the cheering up
we can get these times.
So Easy. But memories are short, and very often
the most trivial incidents, carry the
happiest associations. But the Kodak people have pro-
vided for that by the autographic attachment now fitted
to every folding Kodak (except the Stereo) and folding
Brownie. This is the way of it. At the back of the
camera is a species of door (it lies down flat when not
opened for use), fitted with a pencil. When you are so
fortunate as to be in a position to photograph Edwin in
the act of winning the egg-and-spoon race for boy.s under
six, organised by the Surf Club, it’s only natural that
k :
v> V
i-t*
Provided you keep pictorial
records of them, holidays last
all the year round.
you should wish to place the event permanently on record. The camera does that
all right. But memory is a tricky thing. It’s hardly likely Edwin’s
prowess will be forgotten, but the date or the place may possibly not be
so easy to remember. This is where the autographic attachment comes
in. Open the afore-mentioned door, take up the hard pencil, and write
down such particulars as you think fit. Hold the writing to the light
for a few seconds, so that it may get impressed on the sensitive film, and
until you destroy the negative the writing will be there to testify to
Edwin’s skill as an ogg-and-spoon racer! There are other advantages.
Kodaks can be reloaded, and the negatives developed and printed without
the aid of a dark-room, and the lenses enable instantaneous photographs
of moving objects to be taken with complete success. In fact, if space
were not exhausted, very much more might be written on the subject..
asters M>ice
“Merrie England”
Composed by EDWARD GERMAN on
His Master's Voice
Conducted by, and recorded under the personal direction of EDWARD GERMAN.
asters’Vbiee
SOLOISTS AND CHARACTERS:
EDNA THORNTON,
contralto
( Queen Elizabeth.
1 Jill-all-alone (a supposed witch).
JOHN HARRISON, tenor
BESSIE JONES, soprano
GEORGE BAKER, baritone
Sir Walter Raleigh.
Bessie Throckmorton
(Maid of Honor to the Queeni
May Queen.
Walter Wilkins.
| Big Ben.
CHARLES MOTT (the late), baritone The Earl of Essex.
ERNEST PIKE, tenor j £
f A Tinker.
EDWARD HALLAND, baritone -j A Butcher.
I Long: Tom.
Chorus of Liords, Ladies, Townsfolk, Soldiers, etc.
In eleven 12-inch double-sided records, 12/- each.
ACT I.
, T . . ~ LIGHT OPERA ORCHESTRA.
T .! lntro<iuc tion—:Rustic Dance and Jig.
DlB '. ‘ . . . FULL CHORUS.
L Opening Chorus, Act 1., Part I. Sing a-down. a-down.
, . . __ . „ BESSIE .JONES.
(a; Opening Chorus, Act 1., Part 11. Now choose me two men
| (with chorus).
! , GEORGE BAKER and EDWARD HALL AND.
|(b) Duet and Chorus—AVe are two proper men.
Da H EDNA THORNTON.
(a) Song and Chorus—O, where the deer do 'lie.
-JOHN HARRISON.
(b) Song and Chorus—That every Jack.
I GEORGE BAKER,
f Song and Chorus—l do counsel that your playtime.
EDNA THORNTON, BESSIE JONES, CHARLES MOTT (the late)
ERNEST PIKE and EDWARD HALLAND.
Quintet. —Love is meant to make us glad.
I BESSIE JONES,
f She had a letter from her love,
noi J JOHN HARRISON and BESSIE JONES.
1 “ 1 Duet—Come to Arcadie.
I CHARLES MOTT (the late),
f Song and Chorus—The Yeomen of England.
D 22 \ PULL CHORUS.
I Long live Elizabeth.
EDNA THORNTON.
{ Song and Chorus—O, peaceful England.
D 23( GEORGE BAKER.
L Song and Chorus—King Neptune.
D2O (
EDNA THORNTON, BESSIE JONES, GEORGE BAKER,
EDWARD HALLAND (Soloists) and FULL CHORUS,
f Finale, Act 1., Part I. It is a tale of Robin Hood.
I EDNA THORNTON, BESSIE JONES, JOHN HARRISON, GEORGE
D24| BAKER, ERNEST PIKE, EDWARD HAEEAND (Soloists)
and FULL CHORUS.
IFinale, Act 1., Part 11. We are four men of Windsor.
EDNA THORNTON, BESSIE JONES, JOHN HARRISON
, (Soloists and EUEE CHORUS,
f Finale, Act 1., Part 111. My troth is plighted.
T)ok I ACT 11.
] EDNA THORNTON (Soloist) and FULL CHORUS.
I Opening Chorus, Act 11. The month o’ May.
EDNA THORNTON, BESSIE JONES, CHARLES MOTT
(the late) and ERNEST PIKE.
\ (a) Quartet —In England, Merrie England.
rwftJ (b) Quartet and Male Chorus—The Sun in the Heavens.
] EDNA THORNTON and JOHN HARRISON.
[ Duet —It is the merry month of May.
JOHN HARRISON.
f The English Rose.
D 27 -j CHARLES MOTT (the late) and ERNEST PIKE.
I Duet and Chorus —Two merry men a-drinking.
BESSIE JONES.
D2B -
Waltz Song—O, who shall say that love is cruel.
CHARLES MOTT (the late) and trio: EDNA THORNTON,
BESSIE JONES and ERNEST PIKE.
(a) Song and Trio—W T hen Cupid first this old world trod.
EDNA THORNTON. BESSIE JONES, CHARLES MOTT (the
late) and ERNEST PIKE (Soloists) and FULL CHORUS.
(b) Finale, Act 11. Robin ‘Hood’s wedding
The Complete Opera in a beautifully-decorated Album, £6/17/6.
Write for instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest dealer.
Hi * Master’* Voice
Re.f/d. Trade-mark.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
“Gramophone”
Reffd. Trade mark.


PINKETTIS
FOR KIDDIES
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant, and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
01/_FOR A LIMITED period.
** / Full Directions with Every Machine.
Send a Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence street, Sydney.
Sole Australasian Asrents.
IHPOL
THE FAMOUS
COD LIYERj
OIL
EMULSION
;3>mp |jink
and Washing
L Disorders J
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Caile
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
Sm : Jt .
•r
Wm
CHARMING
WALNUT HAIR
All admire that exquisite
shade of youthful Walnut
vhi eh is so simply and easily
obtained with
DR. ALLEN S
WALNUT STAIN
Perfectly harmless to even the
most delicate skin. Assuredly
Permanent and Waterproof.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
EUDtN
/
A Better
Tooth Paste at
a Smaller Price.
In Eudenta you have offered you a high
quality combined with economy. Moreover,
it is a locally-made article, so you demon-
strate your patriotism when you buy it.
Your Chemist
sells it
ECONOMY and EFFICIENCY
Time, a highly important factor in each job, can be saved by every firm that uses
“ULTRA-OAPITAL” HIGH-SPEED STEEL
FOR TOOL HOLDERS.
These pieces have merely to be ground to shape—preferably on a wet grindstone.
Flintlike in their hardness, the most strenuous use makes very little impression
on their cutting edge.
Try a sample order. Prices, etc., promptly supplied on request to Department
“A.” Telephone City 9863, or 7819 if that’s handier.
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO., LTD.,
ASSOCIATED COMPANY, ARTHUR BALFOUR & CO., LTD.,
Manufacturers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
378-381 Kent Street, Sydney. Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Cliff Street, Fremantle, and Hay Street, Perth.
Charles Atkins & Co., Etd., Adelaide.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Paul & Gray, Etd., Newcastle.
R. E. Milligan,
32a Argyle Street,^
Hobart.
irtin
mnmm
mill
■
■
REQUrRESTMNDinC
ONLY
READY FOR I
The Eagle
USE
Steel Co, Ltd.
> tMCuotfr
Globe
CAPITAL
Quality Pipes
Made from Century-old Briar
in all popular shapes.
The upper pipe shows the famous MARCEE
—one of the renowned GBD family.
Made from selected French Brisr —beauti-
fully marked and fitted with silver mount
and superior vulcanite mouthpiece. Unique
value at the price quoted
10/- each
All Tobacconists and Stores.
M
w
c
K
The lower pipe features the famous
MARCEE-DE-LUXE. The briar used
for these pipes is over 100 years old.
Subjected to suecial hardening and
seasoning processes which emphasise
the beauty and blachness of the
matured briar
15/- each
All Tobacconists and Stores.
If you find it difficult to obtain
these pipes—send remittance to Box
502 G.P.0., Sydney, and your order
will receive prompt attention.
mm m
IIHIIIIHiImu
3
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CIIItIST O P H £ K
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor,, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
£.GISTE^
cj
%
Oe
sd
Price 10/6 o
ror>resenfrati'’<
all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
Norman Baker <fc Lonuhurst. 50 \ork Street. Sydncj?".
VARIOVS VERSE
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lot Sixteen, Bankstown West.
The widespread panorama you glimpse where
climbs the height;
The twining road of beauty that leads to
buutn mean light;
The harboi; gemmed below you, with chang-
ing color spread,
To end in bays of mystery where wonder-
thoughts are led;
The spired walls of Sydney thrown up to-
wards the west ;
The terraced headlands with their trees where
red roofs have their nest;
The sky above where cloud-boats sail, color
alive and rare;
Splendor and glory spreading far and sun-
shine everywhere—
Oh, I have loved such scenes as these, but
now 1 hold as best
The view I get at Lot Sixteen, Bragg’s-road,
in Bankstown West!
She used to go along with me—when you’ve
a girl to share
The beauty of a spreading scene it all seems
your affair!
We’ve toured the Illawarra, and done the
Manly coast —
But what’s the need to specify, when it might
be a boast
That God, with thoughts of beauty, set out
to deck the world,
And stumbled, passing Sydney, and down the
load was hurled!
Yet now we’ve left the other scenes, and once
a week we go
Along a road where bricks new-piled are not
a lovely show,
Until we reach the place we seek, and there
we camp and rest,
To feast our eyes on Lot Sixteen, Bragg’s-
road, in Bankstown West.
It’s just another hea* l of bricks, stacked tim-
ber and some tiles —
There’s not a more ..compelling view for us
in 50 miles!
For, though the ground is messed about, a
wall has grown man-high,
And soon a terra-cotta roof will show against
the sky.
Untidiness of half-laid bricks to us is mat-
ter small:
We have sweet visions in our eyes that beat
the best of all.
Though others may not view it yet, a garden’s
glory’s there, t ,
With roses growing on the porch— she has
one in her hair!
Within, a hearth of happiness, where Peace
at Joy has smiled,
And near us, in the fire’s glow, the cradle of
a child.
N.SAV.
HAMER.
Parenthesis.
As one by one I watched them smile and go
(Each silently and unregretful pass,
Those dreams and hopes that I had nurtured
so,
As blooms above the Winter’s withered
grass —
One joyously I’d loved through ways forlorn;
So shy, yet proud, this dream, and fearless
too —
Of song, that should aeolian be borne
From out my heart Life’s wind-swept
gardens through ;
But one by one they passed me, while I clung
Unfalt’ring to the song-dream in my heart,
Until black Failure’s pall was round me
flung),
’Twas then Hope smiled, to see my dreams
depart.
VICTORIA.
M. B. PATON.
By Moonlight.
Because the land lay strangely still
Beneath a round and mellow moon,
I climbed last night a timbered hill
That overlooks a lone lagoon.
As through the trees and flowers I stepped,
And o’er dead leaves and bracken trod,
It seemed to me that Nature slept,
And sleeping dreamed a dream of God.
To me it seemed, as heart and mind
Strange peace beyond all telling found,
A Presence as of something kind
And beautiful dwelt all around.
No wind arose with rowdy gust
To put the noiseless calm to rout;
A sense as though of utter trust
The dreaming trees and flowers breathed
out.
And through the bush and under all
The moonlit roof of leaves I heard .
The sweet and kindly comfort-call
Of drowsy bird to drowsy bird.
As down and westward moved the moon,
Her long light fingers eastward crept;
Afar upon the still lagoon,
Head under wing the black swans slept.
Beyond tall sand-dunes, white as ice,
A psalming ocean rose and fell;
Near by a cricket chirruped thrice,
As though to show that all was well.
Wrought inwardly by all her charms,
Her sounds, her silences, her gleams,
I said: “Who sleeps in Nature’s arms
Sleeps well, and knows no evil dreams.”
It seemed to me if men could feel
The trust of bird and tree and bloom.
The world no more would rock and reel
With doubt and hate and dread of doom—
Tb°t war mVbt rase and ruin sweep
O’er ravished town and reddened sod,
Yet leave their souls, unmaimed, to keep
The faith that Nature f»els in God.
R.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


The Spirit of
Perfection is the crown of all
effort. It represents a finality
of worthiness that only unity
of brain and labour can attain.
The two things are inseparable
and interdependent. And one
supreme masterpiece of their
unison is that which brings
contentment to the mind and
health to the body ~
Betoars


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transit ission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 43—No. 2159.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 1922.
Pbice 6d.
AT THE GRAMOPHONE PARLOR.—MAKING THE RECORD.
“The Premier said that Caucus would be consulted about his Policy Speech.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street. Svdnov. X.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Oeeice : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUriSCRTRERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address is Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 135.; 3 months, 6s. 6d.
Tq any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 1C.;. ; 3 months > Is. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to he addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itiack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-draivn—will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received ate those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch,Ludgate Circus; and I!'. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon Ilouse, Breams Buildings, London E.C.i;
E. T. Hole, [lolerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; ■“The British-Australasian,” 31 Digit
Dolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana Douse, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada.— G. S. Forsyth and Co., Bastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: lluland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City.
Egypt, — Jacques. Dorn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Dong Kong.
Singapore. —-John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Ilarry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Haori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route ,
IGoz., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet—otherwise: Soz., lid.; Sioz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, ioz. , lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 1922.
THE UNALTERABLE LAW.
When the Pacific fortifications clause came
up for discussion at Washington last week
the British spokesman was able to save
Australia from the possibility of an intoler-
able humiliation:—
He speeificall - asserted that Australia and Maori-
land were never subject to limitation of fortifications.
Australia was no more subject to limiting the
fortification of her coasts than the United States.
There was no reason why she should be. She was
a sovereign Power, with a fleet of her own, and
so was Maoriland.
The U.S.A. has now swallowed this, which
is the Balfour view r ; and at the instance
of the same diplomatist it has further swal-
lowed the Smuts formula. According to
the S. M. Herald’s Capetown correspon-
dent (20/l/’22), ‘‘the Treaty to be made at
Washington will be signed on behalf of
South Africa on an equal footing with all
the ether nations”—to the discomfiture of
Hertzog’s painter-cutters, who “have been
arguing that since the United States re-
fused to recognise S. African status, that
status was not worth the paper upon which
it was supposed to be inscribed.”
These concessions, not merely to the dig-
nity of the Dominions, but to their right
to secure themselves against attack, would
be more gratifying if they did not rest on
such insecure foundations. The U.S.A. is
still thinking evidently in terms of the
Great War, when the S. African Union put
well over 100,000 white men into the fight-
ing line and an army of blacks into the
Labor Corps; when the Commonwealth
offered four times as many whites as S.
Africa, and had the same number of soldiers
killed as the U.S.A. with its population of
close on 110 millions. “She was a sovereign
Power with a fleet of her own.” What
cheerful cynicism in view of the fact that
the Washington Conference was assembled
to discredit fleets—to limit them in the
present, and set before the world the ideal
of eventually wiping them out altogether!
And yet how profoundly logical! We are
all idealists in theory. But the most stain-
less idealist the world ever knew was cruci-
fied. and that, in one form or another, has
been the fate of every individual and com-
munity that made a serious etiort to follow 7
Ilis rule of life in its entirety, w 7 hile the
heroes of the nations have invariably been
something of a vastly different order—a
perjurer and a degenerate like Frederick
the Great; a lunatic like Peter the Great;
one who battened on women like Marl-
borough ; or an Alexander or a Napoleon
who broke every law 7 of honor and morality
as it is understood by normal people. In
other words, all that the world in its pre-
sent stage of mental and moral development
defers to in the last resort is Force. There
are many countries of importance—some of
them once supremely great—which are
barely listened to even wlien the world’s affairs
are settled in conference. Ocean shipping
is tremendously important in the inter-
national sphere; and Norway has 1,315,592
net tons to Australia’s 357,687 tons.
Australia has, by way of dependencies,
I apua and Norfolk Island; the Netherlands
own rich colonies containing a total popula-
tion equal to that of the United Kingdom.
The commerce of Australia for 1920 totalled
("imports and exports) £148,564,523; that
of Switzerland £300,792.972. The popula-
tion of Brazil is 30,645,296 against Aus-
tralia s 5,430,352. But Brazil’s most modern
warship was laid down 15 years ago; the
Republic took no part in the late war, and
its army of 54,000 indifferently-trained
officers and men is negligible except for police
purposes. Switzerland's field army is only
140,000, that of the Netherlands’ 260,000,
while the Dutch navy has been no more
than a police fleet for many years, its most
formidable vessel to-day being an obsolete
7000-ton cruiser. Spain, the Argentine
Republic, Denmark —these, like the foregoing
countries, differ widely in culture, in popu-
lation, in commerce and in wealth ; but all
of them have one characteristic in common.
They kept out of the late war; and they
are not equipped to assert their rights. Aus-
tralia is benefiting now by the momentum
of the defence effort it embarked on in 1911.
In the eyes of the world its 500,000 trained
soldiers still represent an expeditionary force
in being of the highest order, and the R.A.N.
is still a fleet worth considering.
* * * . *
If a nation could hold its own on memories
Spain and Holland would still be great.
What invariably happens, however, is that
the moment a people enjoying great posses-
sions begin to slacken in their hold on them,
some predatory neighbor begins to consider
how long it will, be before he can safely put
in his claim: and that claim is advanced
sooner or later id accordance with the speed
at which the once-powdrful nation declines
from strength. A country is esteemed as an
ally for one of two chief reasons—-for its
strategical position, or for the man-power or
ship-power it is capable of throwing into the
common pool. No talk about "the crimson
tie of Empire” or "the obligations of
brotherhood” can relieve a self-respecting
people of their duty as regards defence. For
one set of Britishers to expect another set
of Britishers to assume this responsi-
bility for them is an example of effront-
ery on a par w 7 ith that of some
sturdy tramp who asks to * be kept in
idleness for life. So that Australia
must continue to play the part it
assumed 12 years ago unless it is
prepared to drop back from the position
of a country which has definite fortification
rights, immigration-restriction rights and tariff
rights, to that of one of the servile (because
helnless) States which occupied such an un-
happy position throughout the war. Long before
the R.A.N. arrived, the British taxpayers were
wearying of our over-smart patriots who per-
sisted in poling on them for the Common-
wealth’s defence in the name of Imperialism ;
and with their present monstrous war-debt,
coupled with the evidence the Diggers gave
of the affluence of this country, it is certain
that the people of the U.K. will never again
stand the old arrangement. Australia has
also acquired a mighty debt—upwards of
£550,000,000, or nearly £l6O per head of the
population. But fortunately we have suf-
ficient good coal in sight to meet all require-
ments for perhaps another 1000 years, and
our iron-ore deposits are large. Every metal
used in manufactures —copper, tin, lead,
spelter—is here in quantities. We have wool,
timber, leather, rubber and almost every
other class of raw material which most of our
rivals have to transport for thousands of
miles before returning them to us as finished
articles. What it all means is that Australia
is in a position, if it goes the right wav
about it, to acquire quickly that population
which industrialism can alone provide. With
the wealth thus achieved the Commonwealth
will be able ultimately to pay its debts, and
in the meantime it will be a good risk in the
financiers’ eyes; and it will be able also to
present the same formidable front, in the
military and naval sense, as it has done of
late years. But if the world once understands
that we are no longer in a position to present
such a front, or lack the will to do it, as is the
case with the Persians, the Portuguese, the
Spanish, then we must become an increasing
burden to the rest of the Empire until such
time as we yield all that is worth taking to
a more self-respecting and vigorous race. It
is a universal law which no Conferences will
alter.
THE ETHICS OF THE BOYCOTT.
There are two forms of boycott. One of
them has been generally accepted ever since
trading began ; the other has been as gener-
ally condemned, in British communities, at
any rate. The latter form originated, as a
set policy, amongst the Nationalist Irish in
the early part of Queen Victoria’s reign,
and was eventually made an offence under
the Crimes Act. The basis of it is in an
agreement to prevent a person who is within
the law from buying or selling things. Bord
Erne’s Fenian tenants were able by the use
of it to nearly ruin the best-known land-
agent in history, and it took a battalion of
soldiers to enable him to assert his Common
Law rights. “Exclusive dealing,” on the
other hand, is common in everv commercial
sphere—a b’g club takes all its fish or poultry
from one dealer, a “tied hotel” can only
sell Blinker’s beer and so on. The “block”
system of selling newspapers is in this cate-
gory: one agent gets the right to deliver the
newspapers in a given area, and to that ex-
tent ail others who might like to sell papers
there are boycotted. But the absence of any
sinister motive is as clear here as is the
benefit the system confers, not only on the
newspaper proprietaries and their agents, but
on the public. The difference between “ex-
clusive dealing” and the action which the S. M.
Herald and Telegraph have taken against
the Sydney Daily Mail may best be under-
stood from the following typical statement of
a news-vendor:—
On Thursday, January 5, I was approached at my
stall by Messrs. X. and Y. of the Herald and Tele-
gram q respectively. 1 had been an agent for their
papers for some considerable time. They asked me
if it was my intention to stock the Daily Mail. 1
told them that I had promised the proprietors of
the paper some time ago that 1 would, and that 1
would keep my word. “Very well,” they replied,
“we shall have to find a fresh agency for our
papers.”
And the man alleges that he has had his sup-
plies cut off accordingly.
It may be admitted at once that the
Herald and Telegraph are entitled, in law,
to cut the throat of a possible rival in this
fashion. We have no legislation similar to
that which was levelled against Ireland’s
rack-rented tenants in the 'eighties of last
century. Australia’s position in this respect
is on all-fours with that of the U.S.A. when
Rockefeller found that the introduction of
pipe-line oil transport offered him an oppor-
tunity to acquire a monopoly of the new neces-
sary of life. His scheme Was to buy the land
around any small property on which oil had
been struck, and then make a modest offer for
the enclosed area. If it was refused the re-
calcitrant had no means of getting his oil to
market profitably. The Sherman Anti-
Trust Act, which W. M. Hughes wished to
introduce here as a Federal law (he was
blocked by the High Court’s reading of the
Trade and Commerce clause), and which W.
A. Holman intended, if he had been spared
politically, to import for the benefit of
N. S. Wales, made all such transac-
tions illegal. How does the joint action
of the Herald and Telegraph differ in
principle from that of the Irish pea-
sants who refused to sell food to Captain
Boycott because they wanted to shift him
from his job, from that of the Yankee oil
magnates who refused to let a farmer lay
pipes across their land, acquired for the pur-
pose of blocking him, and because they
wanted to shift him from his holding? There
can be no objection to the class of information
which the Daily Mail disseminates. The
established dailies are given valuable railway
and tramway concessions by the State on the
grounds—vehemently asserted whenever one
of their privileges is threatened —that news
has an educational value. But a large class
is unable to afford 2d. a day for its ration of
newspaper culture. And it is for this class that
the Daily Mail, published at a penny, chiefly
caters. So the objection to the new paper is
purely a business affair. It threatens to in-
fringe a monopoly, as the agents of Lord
Erne, Lord Clanricarde and others threat-
ened, to infringe the Irish tenants’ age-old
right' to pay no rent. It is a cheapening
influence, like an extra-Trust oil vendor. It
introduces what is known to the Cobden
school, of which the Herald and Telegraph
were once members, as the “fred air of com-
petition.”
The public is interested from at least three
aspects. On the score of population and
literacy Sydney is ripe for two, perhaps
three, more daily newspapers. But they will
have to be Id. papers, and probably, when
the market for news-print eases further, a
half-penny paper will be as successful as any.
If, however, the campaign against the Daily
Mail succeeds, N. S. Wales will be wedded,
perhaps for many years, to the twopenny
“thunderer.” In the second nlace, a win by
means of the boycott is always undesirable
from the standpoint of the public. A boy-
cott is a game which any fool can start, but
whose end not even a genius can see. Once
let the morning dailies give the efficacy of
the boycott the splendid advt. which the
destruction of the Daily Mail would repre-
sent, and they and the State at large are
likely to have enough boycotts on their
hands to last this country a lifetime. But
the chief objection to a boycott is that it is
opposed to the whole spirit of that Rule of
Law on which all our rights rest. The “free-
dom of the Press,” of which we hear so
much in newspapers, is, in a. sense, a myth :
that is to say, the press has no more free-
dom than any other institution or than any
individual citizen. But it has had a right
to as much ever since the Licensing Act
lapsed at the end of the 17th century. Sup-
pose some millionaire trader decided that
the activities of one of the religious or politi-
cal sects was opposed to his interests. With
his wealth it would be possible for him to
buy up every hall in which its preachers
proposed to speak, and engage people to
break up all the enemy’s open-air meetings.
A millionaire of decent feelings would recoil
in horror at the thought Of playing such a
trick. But the fact that equally admirable
citizens have not recoiled from trying to
pursue a course calculated to have the same
result proves the existence of some hazy idea
that a newspaper is not entitled to the same
consideration as an individual member of
society. And yet it is so entitled; and it
will be a black day for the whole Australian
press if anything different is established.
MOTHERHOOD ENDOWMENT AND
ITS AUTHOR.
One of the minor controversies now raging
in N. S. Wales Labor politics, but obscured by
the dust of the McGirr-Dooley conflict and
the showers of mud distributed by Catts and
Boote, is concerned with the authorship of
the policy or scheme or bribe of motherhood
endowment. There are votes in motherhood
endowment, and swarms of self-advertising
citizens, hungry for jobs in Parliament at
£875 a year and pickings, are contesting
selection-ballots; so, from the point of view
of candidates with colorable claims to the
distinction —there seem to be scores of them
—the matter is important. On the evidence
of Cruickshantc'. a small-fry Labor M.L.C.,
the man who first recommended the notion
to the Labor Caucus was O’Halloran, one
of the members for Eastern Suburbs.
CruickshaniC’s testimony is corroborated
by no less a person than Loughlin, the
Minister of Lands. In the absence of wit-
nesses to the contrary, whatever kudos (and
votes) there may be in the business must
therefore be assigned to OTlalloran, let
envious opponents, who will no doubt sug-
gest that he put Cruicksiiank and
Loughlin up to advertise him, rail as they
please.
» * * *
The mentality of OTlalloran is worth
studying. He is an interesting example of
the type of legislator that the poorer quar-
ters of the big Australian cities produce.
His political mind is dominated by three re-
lated principles—party, benevoience and
votes. An observer from youth upwards of
the penury and wretchedness incident to an
overcrowded city which, without regular
loans and an unceasing centralisation policy,
couldn’t carry half its present population, he
burns to alleviate them in some splendid
way at somebody else’s expense. He sees
effects clearly enough, but causes are be-
yond him. He moves intellectually in a
little world of squalor bounded by mean
streets, where the normal condition of the
inhabitants is poverty tempered by soup-
kitchens and gifts of old clothes. His heart
throbs with pity for the children of misfor-
tune he meets in his wanderings, and one
day the thought comes to him that weekly
dolfes from _a Treasury dimly imagined to
be overflowing would materially brighten
their lot. lie carries his suggestion to
Caucus, which is boisterously enthusiastic,
perceiving its infinite possibilities in the
way of votes. Thus the motherhood endow-
ment policy is born.
* * < *
As the proud begetter of the proposed new
poor law OTlalloran is fond of enlarging
on it in Parliament, where he modestly poses
as a paladin of philanthropy. In one of
his exuberant expositions he was interrupted
by an Oppositionist, who wanted to know
where the money was to come from. The
orator replied hesitatingly that he wasn’t
quite certain, but he supposed it would come
out of revenue. As a matter of cold fact,
the financial situation is such that the funds
required to finance the dole (£1,600,000 a
year according to the unreliable McGirr, but
the more trustworthy Piddington’s estimate
is £3,500,000) would have to be borrowed.
There is no way of dragging an amount so
enormous from the already-badgered tax-
payer. Lang, the Treasurer, made that
clear when introducing his 1920 Income-tax
Bill. The impracticable Dr. Arthur had
argued that several 'additional millions of
revenue, sufficient to start the motherhood
endowment scheme right away, could be got
by doubling the income-tax. Lang’s reply
was that, with the addition he was then
imposing, the State and Commonwealth
rates on large incomes amounted to 10s. 7d.
in the £, and they couldn’t be doubled “with-
out taking from those taxpayers more than
they earned.” He added that “in Great
Britain, where they are confronted with war
difficulties, the limit of income taxation is
125.” Considering that the Dooley Govern-
ment was £445,000 short last year, and
anticipates another deficit of two millions
unless it is permitted to exact a correspond-
ing amount by the income-tax route before
June 30, it looks, as if the British limit will
be exceeded in the Ma State without putting
a penny aside for motherhood endowment.
Many economists are of opinion that post-
war taxation in Britain has been pushed too
high. The Chancellor of the Exchequer has
been told that excessive imposts are one of the
causes of the trade slump, and is confidently
expected to give the taxpayer some relief in
his next Budget. Be that as it may, a rich
creditor nation like Britain is far better able
to stand high rates of income-tax than N. S.
Wales. The idea that a heavily-taxed and
heavily-indebted State, with sick industries
and shoals of unemployed, can find 30s. per
head per annum for motherhood endowment
out of taxes which, burdensome as they are,
fall short of the expenditure by £1 per head
per annum, is the very delirium of ignorance.
VALEDICTION.
Floating up to Pago in the lazy sea I
begin to know again all a man loses when
circumstance makes him lose Australia, even
if only for a time. Almost the last mem-
ories are of a hilly road after the overnight
storm—every gum and wattle newly washed
and scented; dogwood in bloom of cream,
kookaburras' laughing in the gums, haze on
the far blue hills, king-beetles floating in the
air on wings of golden bronze, a million
cicadas singing the glory of the sun and
the blessing of the heat. For the brave and
noisy singers there is the manna of the
turpentine gums, and the honey of the white-
gum bloom that is their restaurant. These
locusts have deadly enemies, and die of their
own song. Boys capture and shake them
until they sing themselves to death ; and the
cicada’s cry of happiness in the heat at-
tracts to himself death by the w r asp. This
vile thing, anxious to seize the cicada's
body to be incubator and provender for the
wasp’s young, cannot successfully attack the
cicada but from beneath. Weight brings
the cicada to earth, and once upon his back
the wasp stings to paralysis the throat of
the victim and drags off the poor singer to
be eaten while alive. I saw one so attacked,
put my foot upon the killed and killer, un-
able to save the joy of life, but crushing the
wowser-wasp too. The nonsense talked
about the survival of the fittest needs
a mean place on the scrapheap. Here
is the green locust singing in the leafy
shade, and the banded-orange murderer de-
stroying him; and it makes me wish for
time to go through the bush and kill all its
cruelty—snake and wasp and all such things
that be.
As the train rushes through the sand-
stone you see the civilised uglifiers of life.
In the news-sheets they howl and bray that
life is an evil thing. There are quaint
advertisements inserted at great expense
shrieking “The Bridegroom is Coming”:
and on a sandstone cliff that was ancient
before it wms lifted a thousand feet above
the sea that laid it down, this cheerful
statement: “The Wages of Sin is Death,
when as everybodv knows the wage of all
things human is death, anyhow. Australia
is the best country on earth, and because
it is the good countrv it is all the social


wasps must be held from stilling the song
in it —chief among them, the sectarians and
the wowsers, who would prohibit even sex if
they could, leaving us a community of
neuters further discounted by jaundice and
indigestion.
Right from the tragedy of the wasps and
the cicadas and the cliff of sandstone in-
sulted by “The Wages of Sin is Death”
I came to Sydney, where the wowser pastes
his texts and pleadings to be saved from
happiness on the walls of outhouses. It
was in Martin-place that I sighted a hairy
saint guarding a little table. He requested
me to sign a pledge to vote for only a pro-
hibitionist, and on pressure admitted that
this interference in Australian politics was
the work of a voteless foreigner who had
helped to bring prohibition to America and
hau now decided—opt of the fullness of his
heart and in the necessity to appear to
earn his salary—to make Australia a nation
of law-breakers also; as every community
must be against any law not based on com-
monsense, because it is the duty of every
sane community to break stupid laws, gener-
ally and systematically, so that they shall
be self-repealed.
It would naturally be a man from afar
who would attempt our regeneration. Aus-
tralia is cursed with these foreign reform-
ers—reformers from England which itself
needs speedy reformation more than Aus-
tralia ever can; Freetraders who would
leave us naked to our enemies; oversea sen-
timentalists pi-eaching against White Aus-
tralia. ; imported wowsers who first talk re-
publicanism. to get a hearing. Add to these
the politician, mostly imported, whose pro-
gramme is sectarianism and nothing more,
and the imported I.W.W. reformer who re-
tards industrial reform by his gospel of
mean service or-no service at all, and you
have most of the ingredients of anarchy
ready and mixed in the pot that has death
in it also. For equally all these forces are
anarchistic—not the gentle, altruistic, theo-
retical anarchy possible when all men shall
so conduct themselves that they shall be not
out of law but above it; but the selfish
anarchy of the money-hunting Tory, the
anarchy of the “reformer” by force —whose
reform can be maintained only by force—
and the . anarchy of the bloodless wowser—
malevolent, narrow, hypocritical—who would
drive a community to law-breaking by , mak-
ing laws impossible of obedience except to
his own section, and who would if he could
burn the unorthodox with good pine logs in
the market-place.
Of all these destroyers of song and the
sunlight the wowser is the worst wasp; for
all or most of the other undesirables adopt
him, and give him countenance and the
publicity which is the breath of his nostrils.
Whenever the wowser and his cousin the
Tory attempt to oppose Democracy or to
forge new shackles for it, they use as a
favorite bogey and example the P’rench Re-
volution in the Days of the Terror. Re-
volution was a thing born of the highest
ideals, conceived and cradled by the highest
brains and the kindest hearts of France;
and it did not degenerate to mob rule Until
the wowsers of the time had shown the way.
Before they could show that way the Democ-
racy that had made the Revolution had to
disappear, and its disappearance by way of
the guillotine was the work of the wowsers
of the Revolution. Of these two were dic-
tators, prompters and eneouragers of the
mob rule which the wowsers of to-day de-
plore—Robespierre and Marat. Robes-
pierre, incorruptible, narrow, righteous,
malevolent; murdering the Girondins who
were the brain and the soul of the Revolu-
tion, demanding human sacrifice and re-
ceiving it. How like the modern wowser
whose religion is of the Old Testament
rather than of the New! Marat, mean-
souled and infirm of body; cut off from
almost all human affeeftion by his phy-
sical repulsiveness; sending the repub-
lican spirit to the guillotine that he
might become dictator, and ransacking the
Bible for justification and finding it always
for his bloodiest crimes; making deadly in-
juries to man less than the merest slight
to his god of sacrifice. To him unorthodoxy
were more horrible than murder; and, as
in all times, the unorthodox suffered while
criminals went happy. How like the wow-
ser of to-day—as the wowser of to-day is
like the wowser of ancient times! Indeed,
the type never changes. Wowsers destroyed
Jesus, despite Pilate’s gallant attempt to
save him; and the same wowsers said that
“Christ suffered under Pontius Pilate” —
as they would that the Girondins suffered
under the Republic, whereas they suffered
under the wowsers Robespierre and Marat.
Later wowsers of a corrupted church up-
held war and slavery, and piled up moneys
and pomps in the memory of Christ’s pov-
erty ! Only wowsers did all this; the mean
and narrow men who regard as an enemy
any differer in opinion, and who read the
crimes of history but as words. Marat and
Robespierre had opportunity for the full
exercise of their malevolence —that is the
only difference; otherwise, they all had and
have just sufficient religion to hate and
not enough to love.
The. long and bloody trail of the Intol-
erant is over all the earth; in Europe more
than in any other country, and in Australia
least of all, not because of the lesser mis-
chief and malevolence of the Australian
wowser, but because our country is more
youthful, more tolerant, more free. We
have seen the wowser Wilhelm prating of
his god and making the world spit blood:
history has heard the wowser in all ages
shrieking for the blood of all who disagreed
with him. He is the wasp in the cicada.
Let us not trample him underfoot, for
that would but be copying his own intoler-
ance ; let us rather teach him that poison-
ing song in the sunlight is full of danger
for the poisoner. But, speedily or tardily,
he must learn.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Unifying the Gauges.
A thoughtful British syndicate, anxious
to do us a good turn, and filled to the brim
with bowels of compassion, offers to alter
the Australian railways to a uniform gauge
for whatever it may cost with a mere 10 per
cent, added for its own profit. It is willing
to take payment in bonds, knowing, of course,
that there is no ghost of a chance of pay-
ment any other way. The principle is the
one N. S. Wales Premier Holman, that
gushing Skimpole of finance, was taken by
in the disastx-ous Norton-Griffiths agree-
ment. The contractors are paid for extrava-
gance, for every extra million they can
run the country into means an extrtt
£lOO,OOO for themselves. It is the same as
a Treasurer being paid according to the size
of his shortage. The scheme is crazy enough
to fill a lunatic asylum, but already the roar
goes up that it would “provide work for the
unemployed”—that sorry mass of mostly
tradeless people whom the villainous policy
of restricting apprenticeship has reared to
helotry. The uniform railway gauge is
necessary, but it is quite as necessary to
get it with the utmost economy. At the
best it is reckoned to cost £57,000,000; but
it will probably cost 20 millions more if
done as relief work, and an extra seven or
eight or more millions if done by arrange-
ment with a syndicate that is paid special
rates for extravagance. Every extra 10 mil-
lions it costs means at least a ha’penny per
bushel added to the bill the farmer has to
pay for getting his wheat to market ; and
that he can’t stand many more farthings of
burden is proved clearly enough by the con-
stant flow of men from the farms to the
cities—over 5,000,000 acres have gone out of
cultivation during the past five years; that
is to say, nearly a third of the area then
under crop. So far, it is pleasing to kn<*v,
the Federal Government doesn’t look kindly
on the syndicate which wants to be paid
according to the amount of debt it can let
this country in for; but the Hughes Min-
istry hates to see a loan wandering about
homeless, and it will be very hard to keep
it in its honest frame of mind.
The Urgent Demand for a Capital.
One Federal Minister lately left and two
were pushed, and their successors, Treasurer
Bruce in particular, are reputed to be of
the anti-Canberra faith. Prime Minister
Hughes often reveals the cat-like habit of
approaching his object sideways, and a pos-
sible inference is that he is himself weary of
’Berra, and all the trickery connected with
its origin, and the insolence and self-seeking
of its supporters, and the parochial narrow-
ness of everything connected with it. It
is difficult for any man to have a great in-
spiration and a bilious attack at the same
time, but Hughes is versatile as well as
dyspeptic. Yet even if Canberra is killed
one of these days and its ghost is thrown
into the sea with a ton *of Hansard tied to
its heck, Australia will still want a capital,
for fit is absurd to suppose that the Govern-
ment of a continent can board and lodge in-
definitely. It isn’t sufficient, then, to be anti-
Canberra, which is as far as most opponents
have gone because it saves work and respon-
sibility and brain-fag, and anyhody, even the
lower animals, can be against things; it is
necessary to be pro some sane variety of
site and get a move on. The inertia of Aus-
tralia makes this difficult, of course. After
the careless manner of the folk whose simple
watchword was “Brother, your tail hangs
down behind,” the Australian drops things
and passes on. The ideal of a White Aus-
tralia, and especially of a White North, was
for long this country’s outstanding example
of purpose and adhesiveness, but no one
stuck to the subject long enough to build
the necessary railway to carry white men to
the North- In the same way Australia
drifted into the Canberra fraud, and until
it has a long rest it can neither build the
place nor swear off it and demolish it, nor
get another place. The thinking section of
the community begins to realise that it will
be a laughing-stock if it furnishes itself
with a capital in two fragments 140 miles
apart, situated on an obscure branch of a
bankrupt branch line, surrounded by the
territory of the most arrogant of the States,
dependent on that State’s roads and rail-
ways and forbearance for entrance to and
egress from its own house, and grudgingly
allowed by its big vassal a kitchen-garden
of land to build its isolated “port” upon.
If Prime Minister Hughes proposes to get
rid of it he has one of the inspirations of his
life. But it must be replaced with some-
thing better: it is not enough to merely
pigeon-hole the capital business and let the
Commonwealth live on as a lodger.
■——— *■ ;
Getting Rid of the Foreign Capitalist.
Before John McWhae, the new Yic.
Agent-General, boarded his London boat at
Fremantle, he made these pertinent remarks:
Victoria is the one State that has not increased
its taxation since the beginning of the war. In
1885 the deposits in the Savings Bank were but
£850,000 ; now the amount is £43,600,000. W r e
expect that in a few years the deposits will reach
£80,000,000. when the policy of the State will be
to bring in all overseas liabilities. Then, as regards
borrowed money, Victoria will be self-contained.
Actually, the process of making the mort-
gage a family affair has been going on since
the inception of the Commonwealth. In
1901, as McPherson, the State Treasurer,
pointed out in his last Budget speech, 89
per cent, of the Victorian debt was owed
to the British investor. By June 30, 1921.
that person’s holdings of Victorian securi-
ties had got down to 41 per cent. On that
date Victoria’s debt to Britain was
£40,325,912, or nearly three millions less
than the amount standing to the credit of
Victorian depositors in the State and Com-
monwealth Savings Banks. So that, were it
possible to call in all the savings bank
advances, Victoria has the wherewithal to
acquire every bit of Government paper held
abroad. Conversely, could the whole of the
savings bank deposits in N. S. Wales,
Queenslafid and Westralia be applied to a
similar purpose, London would still have
a first mortgage on the bulk of their imper-
manent and unreproductive works. While
the three big Labor-socialist States have
gone in for drunken borrowing policies with
their inevitable accompaniments—a huge
inflow of goods that could and should be made
in the country, a swelling outflow of gold
and mortgaged produce to pay the interest
bill and a thumping increase in taxation to
meet the chronic deficit on parasitic loan
works —the small State that never had a
Labor Government, except for 10 minutes
or so, has be°n living cleanly and eschew-
ing sack. It has borrowed sparingly,
taxed lightly and saved enough to redeem
British loans as they fell due. Under this
prudent sort of administration business has
prospered and moneyed citizens and finan-
cial institutions have been encouraged to
buy back foreign-held securities. Thrifty
itself, the Victorian Government has been
the cause of thrift in others. And the con-
sequence is that the Cabbage Garden, its
relatively modest resources notwithstanding,
is in a far stronger situation, financially
and industrially, than any of the States
which have made a loan-fed Government
ownership their joss. It isn’t handing a
third of its revenue to the foreign money-
lender as Westralia is doing, or draggirtg
£4 19s. 9d. a head from the State tax-
payer (£2 2s. 3d. is the Victorian figure) as
in Queensland. Neither is it reduced to bor-
rowing a million a month in a dear market
to find jobs and doles for its supporters,
nor to rushing up the income-tax at the
rate of £1 a head per annum, as is the case
with N. S. Wales. Not having been run
by bright young Labor financiers, Victoria
has never staked its solvency on a wild
gamble in State enterprise, nor scattered
loan money about with systematic prodi-
gality merely to keep unskilled laborers
going. As a result, it is in a fair way to
deliver itself from the foreign capitalist,
whereas the two heavy-borrowing and high-
taxing Labor States whose Governments
make a special boast of being anti-capitalist
are almost hopelessly in pawn.
Privileges in Our Time.
“We ought to consult the generale goode of them
and all the people in the kingdome. That’s the
question, what’s for their goode, nott what pleases
them.” —Oliver Cromwell.
This pronouncement of the Protector is
likely to be endowed, as a general proposi-
tion, by most men with a big stake in the
country. Apply it specifically, say, to the
prevention of burglary or embezzlement, and
the propertied citizen is sure to become
almost lyrical on the subject of its wisdom.
But so often as a would-be reformer tries
to carry the principle to its logical conclu-
sion, the privileged classes, though their
members have most to gain by certain cour-
ageous departures from tradition, are to be
found on the side of reaction. The best
argument for prohibition in America was
the saloon—as it is here. The American
saloon fought drink control and drink re-
form to the death—-its own death, as a legal
entity. Most rich people believe in drastic
anti-V.D. measures—in respect of the poor.
When it is pointed out that a Government
cannot discriminate between free men and
women in this connection, the wealthy go
cold on the whole business. The N. S. Wales
V.D. Act was kept inoperative by the Hol-
man Government for nearly two years at
the instance of the “respectable classes”;
an 1 Mr. McGirk gave it its quietus by abol-
ishing the compulsory-notification provision
in the same interests. There has been dis-
satisfaction for some time past with the
workings of the jury system; and certain
minor alterations were actually embodied in
the Victorian Act to make it more difficult
for professional jur.v-squarers to get at their
prey. Of course, jury-squaring, like V.D.,
alcoholic poisoning and many another ruin-
ously uneconomic institution, still flourishes
and will continue to do so until Privilege
appreciates that half-measures are useless,
and that the question for them is “what’s for
their goode, nott what pleases them.” Just
as nothing banished the plague from Aus-
tralia 20 years ago but heroic sacrifices all
round, Mid just as nothing but heroic sacri-
fices will banish V.D.. so sacrifices are de-
manded If jury-scpiaring is to be stopped
and the fear of the Law put into the heart
of the well-to-do criminal who at present
knows only a very modified form of that
emotion. The one certain cure for jury-
squaring is the urisquarable jury. But most
of the exemptions are based on the 18th
century patronage theory which took it for
granted that influential citizens should not
be required to undertake onerous and ill-paid
jobs. The best juror, other things equal, in
a complicated financial case would be a man-
aging director or manager or other officer
of a bank. They are all exempt from jury
service. No class knows more about crim-
inals than the clergy; and most of that
cloth are able to take a more human view
of wrong-doing than laymen, while retaining
their sense of proportion. Yet they are
never summoned on any jury. Barristers
and solicitors, physicians and surgeons,
schoolmasters and mine managers—all these
are peculiarly fitted by training to dissect
and weigh evidence and judge character, and
they are all exempt from jury-service. In-
stead of them the small shopkeeper, the arti-
san and the laborer are summoned—men who
are just as hard hit by the sacrifice of a
day’s work; who are not so well qualified
educationally to act as jurors; and who, by '
their very financial circumstances, are more
liable to be tempted or coerced. Conscrip-
tion, imposed with fair impartiality, on the
whole, won the world war, and nothing less
will win the war against crime, disease and
the rest of society’s enemies. The old order
under which those with money could rely
on being relieved, of all unpleasant duties has
passed away.
The Simple Matter of Settling the
North.
James Edmond offers some remarks:—
Because the Northern Territory 1 has been in pro-
cess of settlement by word of mouth since 1863,
and hasn’t been really settled yet, the cry that only
discolored immigration will meet the case has resumed
business as a decomposed howl from the tomb of
the mouldy past. In a similar frame of mind,
I would like to point out the impossibility of
f building the Sydney-North Shore bridge without
colored labor. The matter of settling a vigorous
Asiatic population at Canberra (as white folk
don’t go there and the place has fewer inhabitants
than it had in 1916) should also be looked into.
Premier Barwell (S.A.) is one advocate of the
old device, tried in the Southern States of America,
and Natal, and Fiji, and Portugal, and elsewhere
till it became a busted calamity. Melbourne Age,
whose capacity for backing the dead horse amounts
now. to a Heaven-sent gift, is another. One of
their ideas is apparently that the introduction
of niggers will be a cheap substitute for the rail-
way, just as the introduction of cactus might be.
Unfortunately the cases of India, Burmah, Egypt
and other dark places show that the colored person
also requires railways to make him a paying in-
vestment, and the white person finds the railways.
There is also the idea that filling a country with
niggers makes more room there fox' white men—-
underneath the nigger or on top of him. In that
case the white population of Beloqchistan should
be denser than that of Englajnd, but it isn’t.
According to all Australian precedent and evi-
dence and experience the question of how to settle
Tropical Australia, and various regions that are
not tropical, was made as clear as daybreak long
ago. A problem certainly exists in the minds of
fools, and the plentifulness of fools has been often
commented on. As matters stand, the railway from
Adelaide to Darwin and the Sydney-North Shore
bridge have been “in the air” for the same
number of years, and if one can only be saved
by nigger labor the argument applies to the
other also. No climatic question is involved, save
that, as the death-rate in North Australia is rather
less than that of North Sydney, the latter possibly
needs colored labor most. It is apparently unfit
for white habitation. Then Canberra has had
almost as much spent on it as has been expended
on the Northern Territory railway, and gets as
much spent on it in a month as the Territory
does in a year, and almost as much per acre as
the great Federal property does per mile. As a
result the Territory has gained very few people
since 19!"?, but Canberra has lout people. If there
is anything in the resuscitated colored-settlement
theory as regards, the Territory, then I hold that
the only hope—the only dog’s chance—-for Can-
berra to come to anything lies in making it a
nigger settlement too. For White Australia to have
a metropolis of imported browns and blacks might
seem strange. But it would be To stranger than
the tale about the North being a “problem.”
I also have a suspicion, after reading Premier
Barweli, and the Ace, that someone, may dis-
cover the unification of the railway gauges to be
only possible with the aid of Asiatic and African
labor, under capable Chinese supervision. The
white man has failed over the uniform gauge for
as long as he has failed over the settlement of
the Tropics and has made a worse failure, because,
not content with being comparatively torpid, he
has spent vast sums on doing things which it will
cost vast sums to undo. The Australian really
has a marvellous knack of incompleteness and post-
ponement. First, he is intensely resolved to do
something—to build a'bridge or open a new port.
The more anxious he is to do it, the more he
doesn’t do it. When he has left it over 20 years
he has grown so seared at the dimensions of it
that he leaves it for 40 years. By that time it
has become a myth and an impossibility, and he
begins to talk miserably of colored labor, or of
giving up the ghost. When once some simple
job like a harbor tunnel, or the filling in of a
railway gaj> a few miles long on the Queensland
border, or a paltry bridge over the Big Trickle be-
comes a popular and mummified institution about
which everybody is resolved and on which every-
body’s heart is set, it might as well be dead. I
believe it is through perpetually waiting for the
loan that the Australian has acquired this waiting,
listening, hunted expression.
The infallible law of Mainland Australia —in-
fallible so far, anyhow-—is that, when a fairly long
railway is built from the interior to a favorable
point on the coast, that point proceeds to collect
itself from 160,000 to 900,000 white inhabitants —■
always provided the point is made a political
capital, and controls the railway, so that it is
worked for the local benefit. The area attached to
the capital may measure 80,000 square miles or
90,000 —the scheme works. If this isn’t settlement
it is at least a colorable imitation. The method
has been tried in various climates, on good sites
and ill-chosen sites, all the way from Brisbane to
Perth, and' it has never failed. Everything else has
failed. Whether the population drops from Heaven
or arrives some other way doesn’t interest me. Let
us try this hardy old device on selected spots round
the Northern coast, and give up moaning in self-
pity and despair, and leave the idea of suiciding
with nigger immigrants for a century or two. The
nigger will keep. There are always niggers—like-
wise rabbits and cactus and other filling material.
State Enterprise.
If, say, 1200 farms on the Yanco irrigation
area can cost the State £471,399 in a year,
how much could Joseph Carruthers’s Mil-
lion Farms cost it under the same sort of
management? It looks like £40,000,000; yet
the amount sounds excessive. In the pre-
vious year (to June, 1920) eight of the 12
subsidiary Yanco industries were great
money-losers, but four showed a speck of
profit. This last year the whole dozen were
sinks for public money. The only visible
grain of comfort is that, though they may
lose more in the future, more of them can’t
lose. The biggest single loss is in the fruit-
canning factory, but in a fruit-growing set-
tlement, with no city near it to eat its pro-
duct raw, the fruit must be canned. It
would be too luxurious food for pigs, and in
any case the N. S. Wales Government can’t
even kill a pig at this unfortunate settlement
without such heavy loss of money that it
might be cheaper to pension the beast off.
It costs half the swine to slay the other half.
The Government even contrived to lose
£9923 inside a vear on the simple, homely
job of selling sleeping accommodation. It
lost £12,515 on its house property, though
it didn’t apply its own Fair Rents law to
itself; if it had it would probably have lost
its houses altogether. Evidently there is no
kind of job at all on which it can’t lose
money. And the reasons why it does at
Yanco what it is so well qualified to
do are obvious. The Murrumbidgee settle-
ment is far from a market, as almost
all the Ma State is. It is overloaded
with employees—a recent official investi-
gator spoke of five adults doing two
girls’ work—but the Cabinet prides itself
on not “victimising” anybody (except the
taxpayer), and especially not victimising
anybody whose vote seems fairly reliable.
Wages, with allowances and sundries, are in
some cases three times the minimum wage;
but, then, the Thirteen boast that they are
not a wage-reducing crowd, and that no mat-
ter how the value of produce may go down
the cost of production must’ go up. And
when anything is said about slow or low-
quality production, it transpires that the
Thirteen are not a sweating combine either,
and would scorn to oppress a fellow-creature.
No greater enemy of State socialism and co-
operative effort ever lived than this Labor
Government. Under its management there
is not a State enterprise left which doesn’t
make the people poorer for its existence.
What was once a policy of reform has become
the last refuge of thieves; and it exists now
merely for the benefit of the people who live
on it.


The Farmers’& Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
• Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand*
Fie, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
The Blessed Revolution.
The report of Sydney Labor Council for 1921
is so bleak a document that anyone who took
it to bed with him would be found frozen
stiff in the morning. “It is not our task,”
it says, “to submit evidence of the Revolu-
tion, but to carry the Revolution to a suc-
cessful end.” At the .same time evidence
of the Revolution is submitted with a great
deal of pride. “The system of world-exchange
of commodities which is the vital necessity
of the existing order has,” it appears,
"broken down completely,” and, the incapable
Revolution having nothing with which to fill
the gap, great suffering has ensued. “Surplus
wheat,” it further appears, "is piling up in
the TJ.S.A. and Canada, totalling 13 and 12
million quarters respectively”; so these capi-
talistic countries have more food than they
can eat, while, in the thrilling language of
the report, “many millions of workers in
Central Europe and Russia are literally
dying of starvation.” Some people would
think it a most horrible advertisement for
Garden's Revolution that two strenuously
anti-revolutionary countries, both of which
put folk of Garden’s way of preaching in
gaol while the war was on, should wallow in
25 million quarters of superfluous victuals,
while one very similar in climate and size,
which has pursued Garden’s Revolution
with dog-like fidelity for four years, should
be dying of hunger. If the Council had
pointed convincingly to Revolutionary Rus->
sia and Hungary as places of wealth and
happiness, while Wall-street magnates were
being lunched on by haggard millions of New
York, it would have seemed less like the
humorless act of pasting the infallible-pill
advertisement on the hearse of the best-
known customer. And, though it hasn’t got
so far, the tendencies are in exactly the same
direction here. There are 40,000 unemployed
in N. S. Wales, mostly dating from the day
when, in some big trades, the 44-hour-week
idea added one-twelfth to the cost of produc-
tion, while wages stayed up and the value
of the output dropped. Public bodies, and
it is believed the Government itself, are send-
ing orders to Victoria or abroad because
there is so much loafing time to be paid for
in N. S. Wales and Queensland that prices
are out of reach. Total deposits in N. S.
Wales banks were £3,300,000 less in Decem-
ber than three months earlier, and almost 10
millions less than they were a year earlier.
Among the great portable industries —banks,
insurance offices and importing businesses —
not much has yet been done in removing the
headquarters out of N. S. Wales to be away
from the Dooley-McGirr jurisdiction, for
Dooleyism has been regarded as a mere pass-
ing calamity. But if, owing either to Dan
Levy or Damn Lunacy, it shows signs of
permanency after the coming election, a
movement may certainly be looked for.
Queensland has already had one. Out of
the three banks belonging to that once most
hopeful State, two have shifted to small,
effete, capitalistic Victoria. The Sydney
Labor Council admits that its own member-
ship is dwindling, but it puts its faith in
Motherhood Minister McGiRR to do some-
thing really mad, especially in the basic wage
line, and make work impossible. The Minis-
ter, being more of a rent-collector than a
producer and an employer of artisans, can
raise wages almost as lightly as Secretary
Garden himself —an ex-preacher and an em-
ployer of nothing save figures of speech.
What these Revolutionists never say is what
they propose doing with their Revolution
if and when they get it. Upheaval isn t a
destination. It is a phase or a door, and
when people pass through it they have the
humdrum world and the dreary wilderness
of time ahead of them, and their burnt-out
disturbance behind them. If the disturbance
is an end in itself, as seems to be the case
with the men who stop works but start none,
it rather suggests suicide for its own sake.
Commercial Aviation in Australia.
A professional view of it: —
Hitherto the trouble in Australia has been lack
of organisation. Since the Armistice numerous re-
turned flying officers have been catering for the joy-
ride trade and for cross-country flights, and in most
cases there were not even the rudiments of organisa-
tion. Brown’s paddock was the aerodrome at one
town a racecourse was used at the next, and so
on until eventually a pilot would reach a place
where there was no suitable landing-ground, and
would chance an unsatisfactory field. Result,
crash. Petrol tanks would be filled in the open by
means of four-gallon tins and a petrol funnel, a
process which admits of foreign matter, such as dust
and grass seeds, gaining access to the petrol tank and
eventually to the carburetter. Hangars being few
and far between, machines were tethered in the open
without a cover—hence damp magnetos, corroded
metalwork and warped woodwork. This is not
commercial aviation. I say deliberately that until
these conditions are improved joy-riding should be
absolutely prohibited.
Organisation is as essential to the running of com-
mercial aeroplanes as it is to the running of steamers.
Only instead of charted bays, rivers and ports aero-
planes require prepared landing-stations, known as
aerodromes. Instead of lighthouses, buoys and life-
boats, they require emergency landing-grounds at
regular intervals, to permit safe forced landings.
Like steamers, aeroplanes must be regularly in-
spected, and depots capable of effecting repairs must
be established where necessary. The crew should
be carefully selected and stringent regulations gov-
erning safe flying should be rigidly enforced. The
choice of routes is also of vital importance. Who-
ever selected the line between Geraldton and Derby
(W.A.) was guilty of a sinful blunder, for manage-
ment over such a long stretch of sparsely-inhabited
country is extremely difficult. In the Riverina there
are several reasonably large towns which contain
well-equipped garages and workshops, motor trans-
port, telegraphic communication, a large floating
population and comparatively close proximity to
headquarters of the Civil Aviation Department;
moreover “gypsy” flying has enabled a number of
pilots to become familiar with the country. For
these reasons the impending aerial mail service be-
tween Adelaide and Sydney via Riverina has a much
better chance of success than the melancholy West-
ralian experiment.
It is not the aeroplane’s job to open up new
country. The machine can assist this operation by
hastenijng the transport of passengers and of light
freight and mails, but until it is possible to carry
livestock, .wool, dairy produce, etc., by air, it will
be of little use for attracting settlers to unoccupied
areas. There is, however, enormous scope in Aus-
tralia for aerial services as adjuncts to existing
means of communication. Properly organised, the
aeroplane will carry business men, tourists, packages
and valuables, and, in some eases, urgent messages
at a speed hitherto unknown. Given the efficient
management which any means of transport requires,
APPEALING TO HIS GENEROSITY.
“Germany,” he stated, “must pay to the utmost of her capacity. Justice demanded it, but they
must consider to what extent judgment and execution could be made effective.” —Lloyd George.
MANAGER LLOYD GEORGE: “Come now, Frits, be reasonable. At least pay for the cigar."
it will do its job. Unfortunately the Australian S.O.’s, the inspections which occur in Sydney and
Government has paid more attention to machines Brisbane during Show weeks and so On.
and pilots than to management.
Cut Out the Dead Wood.
An economy offensive has been ordered in the
Permanent Forces as elsewhere; and it
has been begun by the discharge of a
number of w.o’s. (temporary) who have
had varying periods of war service and
who are temporary on that account.
Meanwhile, those who were in the Per-
manent Forces before the War, and who,
for one reason or another, did not volunteer,
and those who answered the call of Empire
by joining the local instead of the expedi-
tionary forces, are being retained. In the
technical units an order has issued that all
men below 7 the rank of sergeant are to be
discharged as their term of engagement ex-
pires. (Before the war a permanent soldier
signed on for five years, after which he wms
re-engaged every three years, the understand-
ing being that, so long as his service was
satisfactory, his health good and his age
within the regulation limit, his job was safe.)
But while ex-Diggers on the lower rungs of
the military ladder are being shot out whole-
sale, not a single general has, so far, been
retrenched. Now, prior to the great war
the Citizen Forces consisted of a__ large
number of men of military age, while the
Senior Cadets were being rapidly absorbed.
By the end of 1914 many a militia brigade
looked so like the real thing that it took an
expert to tell the difference. At that time
Australia boasted but one General —-at H.Q.
in Melbourne. To-day the adult soldier
has entirely disappeared, and the boys
who remain are being trained in physical
exercises. And to supervise such work there
are nine Generals at H.Q. as well as many
more in other parts of the Commonwealth.
If a superfluous General merely sat down
and drew his salary he would be costly
enough. But he has to put up a show of
earning the money, and this makes him far
more expensive without adding to his
usefulness. He feels that he must get about
inspecting and taking an interest in things,
which means travelling expenses; and he
also has to write orders and instructions, and
make suggestions, and issue messages of
encouragement or rebuke, and all these
activities mean stamps and stationery and
the pay and keep of clerks who might be
employed in reproductive work. Here is an
economy programme which may not appeal
to the average senior officer, but which would
benefit the taxpayers’ pocket and incidentally
improve the efficiency of the Service: —
(1) Place most of the Generals on half-pay or
• pension, beginning with those who are medically
unfit for active sendee or who saw no fighting
during the late war.
(2) Retire those officers and W.O.’s who through
old age or medical disabilities are incapable of
taking the field (giving them half-pay or a pension)
and as regards the remainder apply the principle of
preference to ex-Diggers in its entirety.
(-S') Cut down the clerical staff by 75 per cent.
The 25 per Cent, would not be overworked if sug-
gestion No. 1 was carried into effect.
(4) Reduce the absurd removals from one State
or station to another to a minimum. This must cut
the ground from under such costly institutions as
the annual Melbourne Gup week conference of
(5) Call in a non-military business-man to re-
organise from top to bottom the inefficient and
criminally wasteful Pay and Ordnance Branches.
In pruning a simple policy is pursued: the
dead or useless wood is cut out and good
stuff left. Why an exactly reverse system
should be adopted when pruning is ordered
in the Army is a problem that none but a
military mind can understand.
Amidst a cloud of weird ideas that obscured
the sun of common sense while the Melbourne
police hunted for a suspect in the matter of
the Eastern Arcade murder was a suggestion
that. the reward for discovery of the crime
should be something ranging from five to fifty
thousand pounds. The unconscious wicked-
ness of the proposal was apparent to anyone
conversant with the habits and ways of this
district, which the dull stupidity (or worse)
of Melbourne City Council has created in the
very heart of Melbourne city. There are
lots of people in that area who, for a
reward of £5OOO, would conspire to swear
away the life of their poor old mother. For
£lO,OOO they would be prepared to sheet the
crime home to an alderman. Still, in that
act of perjury there would at least be a grain
of poetic justice. Had the Council dealt
ably and honestly With the Melbourne
Eastern Market property no Eastern Arcade
kind of outrage would have been possible.
~ «
The point of view of a student who has just,
got through :
The solution of an ever-nagging problem does not
lie, I think, in the abolition of the written examina-
tion. No man could be expected to judge imparti-
ally and accurately of the individual capabilities
! of each member of a class of, sgj7 40 or 5.0 mem-
bers, some clever but “cheeky,” some idlers but
quick to pick up whispered suggestions, some solid
workers but stolid, many neither quick nor clever
but with personality, or winner's of! the Bluffstakes
; The only real alternative to the written exam, is
the oral. This, too, is open to the charge of poten-
tial tyranny. So, till something better is sug-
: g-ested, I am forced to conclude that the abolition
of the present system would leave things worse
rather than better. The only real solution lies in
increased frequency of examination. The chief evil
under the present system is not favoritism, as many
think, but chance. Frequent examination—say, once
a quarter in Universities or once a month in schools
—would eliminate chance, and serve an additional
good purpose in driving out of the younger students
that devil, Exam. Nerves. The frequent torture
undergone by the genuine student on Seeing every
phase of a course dealt with in an examination
paper except that which he has made his special
study, or, worse still, unnecessary emphasis given
to some one particular phase in which he has not
thought it worth while to delve in detail, would
also go. Personally I think the ability ’to find
knowledge is frequently more useful than the neces-
11 i ly resti icted accuiacy of knowledge dependent
upon memory alone. And for that reason, in the
universities, at any rate, the written examinations
might be held in such a manner that the students
would have reasonable recourse to data books, text
books and especially the students’ own notebooks,
laiticularly does this apply in such subjects as
Law. A successful Sydney lawyer has told me that
the last person he would choose to “look up stuff”
for a case would be the memory student, the man
who had it all in his head—or thought he had.
■ : ♦
S.S.S.”: Where did Mr. Harwell get the
information that white children born in the
tropics are without stamina? As matron
for 16 years of various Government hospitals
in Thursday Island, Papua and Darwin I
was well placed to judge the effect of climate,
and the finest and healthiest children I.have
seen in any part of the Empire were three
born and in process of being reared 200
miles inland from Pine Creek in the N.
Territory. Their mother was a girl born
at Pine Creek, and she had been away
from it only for a few months when a child.
The father was born on the station where
they all now live. Also, two of the prettiest
girls in Australia are Darvvinites. It is gen-
erally acknowledged that children do well in
hot places till they are eight years old:
then they should get away for about five
years, or they shoot up too quickly and be-
come weedy. Yet some of the finest child-
ren I have known have never left the Ter-
ritory. Health in the tropics is much a
matter of good milk and fresh foods. Tinned
foods are most often the cause of ptomaine
poisoning and the dreaded intestinal
troubles so often imputed to tropical dysen-
tery. My own little girl was never well in
Sydney, Brisbane or England, and when
I took her to a wildly-expensive Harley-
street specialist he said, “Take her back
to the tropics; very often children born in
hot places do better there than anywhere
else.” We went back to Darwin, and my
little girl is a credit to it. As to colored
labor, I admit that from a housewife’s point
of view it is pleasant to have a good Chinese
or Malay houseboy; but what a lot of idle
time it leaves on a woman’s hands ! On the
outback stations and homesteads, among the
i real pioneers, the work of thf> household is
done by the women of the family, with desul-
tory help from a black gin. yet they seem
very happy, and are rarely ill. In small com-
l munities where one buys everything, and
i there is little doing outside the home, it is
l a fool’s policy to be idle — Satan so often
. steps in.
—♦
“Tauwarra” (Port Moresby) : I wish I
could agree with The Bulletin contributor
' who asserts (B. 8/12/’21) that the white
f sinabada in Papua is “entirely free from im-
1 proper overtures on the part of the native
' population.” Such a claim is perhaps justi-
fied as regards the outlying parts, but it is
; untrue as applied to the sophisticated niggers
5 about Port Moresby. The modern coon who
, affects trousers and a wristlet watch, and
5 has been demoralised by association with the
5 wrong kind of white man, has little respect
{ for tribal custom, and none whatever for the
r European, male or female, who does not
r “keep him in his place.” The facts admit
3 of no argument. There are two cases pend-
( ing in the local courts of attempted inter-
1 ference by natives with white women, and
t the police records here show that such at-
p tempts are now by no means uncommon.
e Bulletin readers can accept the statement
of W. M. Hughes that natives in New
Britain have been flogged for similar offences.
The pity of it is that the officer at Rabaul
who, in defiance of the law, administered the
only punishment a native is capable of under-
t standing, suffered for his courage by losing
- his job. He has the sympathy of the white
■' women I know.


A SPECIAL VALUE BOOT BY PEAPES
To meet the demand of men who want a
smart serviceable boot of superior quality at
a very moderate price, Peapes have produced
the Dark Tan Willow Calf Oxford quoted
here.
It is finely stitched, has close welts, medium-
weight soles, canvas lining, short round toes
and neatly-designed caps.
Sizes 5 to 10, as illustrated 30/-
Or in Black Box Calf 27/6
A boot of excellent appearance
and exceptional durability.
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size.
ďf
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
ITALY’S
BEST.
sdf
Complete with 5 detachable
steel wheels and tyres.
Model 501.—Economical in cost and up-
keep. Simple, light and swift; easy to
drive and control.
Italian Body, £650.
Colonial Body, £675.
Model 505. —The happy unison of all the
advantages of the small and large car.
The dependable touring car “par excel-
lence.”
Italian Body, £975.
Colonial Body, £975.
Model 510.—The perfect development of
the six-cyl. motor. The ideal car for all
purposes.
Colonial 7-passenger Body,
£1155.
TERMS ARRANGED.
GARRATTS LIMITED
173-175 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ALICE McNEIL, General Manager. Telephones: City 582-3-4.
POLITICAL
POINTS
stout importers are high priests and cookies
are the worshippers. Recently an exhibi-
tion of Maoriland manufactures was held
and thousands of citizens were astonished
to see what was being produced in their own
country. A week after the exhibition closed
Massey’s Tariff Bill was read, and there was
not an ounce of protection in it for any of
these manufactures, seriously menaced
though many of them are. The Trime Min-
ister’s excuse was that he was out for
revenue—he must have money to carry on.
Of course he must; but he is away north at
present with his trusty Minister of Works
to open an unnecessary branch railway line
to Waiuku, which, incidentally, is in
Massey’s electorate.
The Brass Hats are said to be already dis-
covering that Defence Minister Greene is
not so amenable to pressure as his predeces-
sor, and that, in fact, the new man conceals
a stubborn will under an amiable exterior.
Despite strong opposition he has alreadv
saved the Commonwealth a big annual rent
by shifting the Navy Office to Victoria Bar-
racks in St. Ivilda-road. The Aircraft people
have been requested to turn over their rooms
to the sailors and take up new quarters in
Defence premises which, according to the
aggrieved birdmen, haven’t a single redeeming
feature. There are the makings of a fine
row over this interference with the comfort
of an underworked department, but Massy
Greene may be left to settle it.
From the Federal Gallery-man:—
The Nationalists are not perturbed over the re-
arrangement of Federal boundaries in Victoria.
In the first place the two Farmers’ party constitu-
encies of Grampians and Corangamite have been
scrapped, and the Indi roll has received 12,000
voters which are more Nationalist than Cocky and
may shake R. Cook’s doubtful hold on the seat.
Also Labor’s grip on Maribyrnong has been weak-
ened, and Fawkner, which has provided neck-and-
neck struggles between Nationalist Maxwell and
Laborite Hannan, has gained a slice of East Mel-
bourne and may now be regarded as a gift for the
Except that the springs of verbosity dried
up in a day and a half, the latest Premiers’
Conference-trick was like all the others.
That is to say, a large assortment of well-
fed politicians travelled in style to Mel-
bourne, recruited their flagging powers at
the best hotels, talked round one or two
general subjects copiously introduced by
Hughes, and went back home, having decided
nothing. The same results could have been
achieved for the expenditure of two bob in
stamps and stationery. But in that case >a
bunch of provincial legislators would have
been deprived of a cheap holiday, and that is
what Premiers’ Conference-tricks (they
occur every two months now) are for.
Victoria has now the second biggest rail-
way deficit in Australia: it has to tax its
people some 9s. per head per annum to
make good the loss, which is pretty
moderate compared with Queensland’s
appalling record of nearly 50s. Victoria’s
trouble is Queensland’s in a milder form.
Someone decided that work isn’t in the same
street with pony racing, and it was eased
off so much that in 1920 it took 27,233
employees to do what 19,926 accomplished
in 1918. There is always a great deal to be
said for increased wages taken out in money.
But 50 per cent, increase in two years taken
out in time (a good deal of it mere loafing
and spitting time) is a very different sort
of proposition.
Nearly as much fuss is being made over
the exclusion of seven Germans, proposed to
be brought in to supervise the erection of the
£100,006 briquetting plant for the Vic. Elec-
tricity Commissioners at Morwell, as was
kicked up over the six hatters in 1902.
Hughes says with an air of finality that the
Immigration Restriction Act, 1920, won’t
permit of any Germans coming in for five
years. But £>tate Attorney-General Robin-
son argues that >a certificate of exemption
can be granted, and protests that Hughes
and /m are inconsistent, considering that per-
miss on was given to import the plant, and
that trade relations with Hunland are to be
resumed in August. All sorts of imputations
are flying about. N. S. Wales political in-
fluence is suggested, among other things. But
Vic. Ministers are not nearly so much put
out as some of them pretend. A few of them
scoff at the idea that no Australian mechani-
cal engineer is equal to the task of erecting
briquetting machinery. It is curious, any-
how, that a mechanical engineer was not sent
to Germany, instead of a geologist, when the
plant was being bought.
Ex-soldier Andrew Russell is to stand as
an Independent for the Hawkes Bay seat
at the M.L. general election next December.
Only ill-health prevented him from fighting
the same district last elections as a
Massey supporter. Russell carries influ-
ence : so his desertion of the Massey cause
looks serious for that party. The trouble
about Farmer Bill is that manufactures
are being sacrificed on the altars whereat
WAR WEALTH.
PATRONISING PERSON: “What do you think he's worth to-day?
DAMAGED DIGGER : “Well, considering when and how he made it , I should thinlc about
seven years and a flogging.?
Hughesiliers. Further, a change in the contours
of Ballarat will probably compel McGrath to make
room for barrister Coldham at the next election.
And of course the new seat—Deakin probably—com-
prising the best motah-cahs of Malvern and Toorak,
will be as safe for Nationalism as its two well-
bred neighbors, Henty and Kooyong.
The worst thing that has happened to
Barwell is that the Argus has rushed to his
rescue. But lonely as he finds himself on
the black-labor issue it is questionable
whether he will respond with alacrity to the
invitation of Granny to
Rest in this bosom, my own Stricken deer ;
Though the Jierd have fled from thee, thy home is
still here.
Such protection must make him very doubt-
ful.
The latest McGirr intrigue having splut-
tered out as usual, the Ma State’s Dooley
Government has resumed its trappin’. “In
view of the urgent necessity for providing
increased transport facilities,” to say nothing
of votes, 500 plck-an’-shovel men are to start
on the city railway. Lang, the Treasurer,
said that at the week-end. Likewise McTier-
nan went along to a gathering of public ser-
vants and thoughtfully reminded them that
the Government was presenting the service
with £830,000, “as a result of awards and
agreements made during the past few
months” (applause 1. besides £314,250 in
back pay (prolonged applause), that it
wasn’t going to reduce salaries os. a
week as provided by the Board of
Trade (terrific applause), and that it
had resolutely stood out against retrench-
ment, not wanting to “create a surplus at
the expense of flesh and blood.” W hich re-
calls McGirr’s statement in Parliament that
it would cost £30,000 a year to administer
his motherhood endowment scheme, but the
community needn’t worry, for he had it
from the Public Service Board that the work
could easily be done by officials who were
drawing full-time salaries for borrowing each
other’s matches, or something of the sort.
But there was no, sign of a general election
then.
Governor Nathan has applied the acid of
common sense to a piece of nonsense that
has crept into the recommendations of the
Queensland Teachers’ Conference. The
Teachers’ Association owns an energetic
minority which dallies with Bolshevism,
coquettes with soviet notions and dabbles in
internationalism. These people want
Esperanto to be added to the school curri-
culum, the idea being of . course that the
adoption of a common tongue will promote
unity and blot out war. The Governor
drew the teachers'’ attention to the fact that
the U.S.A. spoke only one tongue when it
burst into civil war, and that Ireland has
spoken the same language as England for
600 years.
It is now estimated that, the Government
cold store at Hamilton will when finished
cost Bananaland a cool £300,000; and the
produce cos. have announced definitely that
they will not use it. In fact, they are
arranging to build their <swn stores at. New
Farm, having calculated that it would cost
more in railage in 15 years to use the
Hamilton store in connection with the New
Farm wharves than they can build a place
of their own for. Naturally the Acting-
Minister for Agriculture is annoyed and
wants to know why the Government wasn’t
warned about all these objections to its
white elephant. As a matter of fact, the
Government was warned time and again,
but it isn’t much use warning an adminis-
tration that still talks of swamping
£3,000.000 in a Bowen steel works at a
time when the big Newcastle works are
finding life a desperate struggle in the teeth
of foreign competitors who have turned up
their sleeves to the job.
One of the bouquets which Dooley throws
at himself is that he didn’t take the N.S.W.
Agent-Generalship. He scorned the job and
its filthy lucre. It is interesting to observe
how the whole Dooley Government scoirns
the Agent-Generalship. When the new crowd
came in, proud of its youth, and its strength,
and its bare majority, and its incivility, it
sacked Davy Hall from the billet even
before he reached London, not being bound
by its predecessors’ signatures on an ap-
pointment. Then the old crowd observed
that when it came back its man would be
reinstated if he so desired, and any usurper
found in his place would take a header down
the stairs. And for a politician to give up
his iob that he might be A.-G. and then be
recalled by wireless on the high seas because
Dan Levy had let the Ministry down, and to
flee back to learn that nobody had saved a
constituency for him, would be bathos and
wormwood. So Ma has done without an
A.-G. and done very well —with Timothy
Coghlan’s help.
Sydney Worker explains lio\v it comes
about that McGirr, Minister of Motherhood,
sinks the boot into his leader Dooley, and
why Catts, M.H.R., remarks of certain un-
specified comrades that they are festering;
with “vice, corruption and criminality”:—
We are a live Movement. We have faiths, we
have ideals, we have principles of action. We are
desperately in earnest. We are bent upon bringing
about social changes that will go right down to the
foundations of things. And we are human beings.
It reminds one delightfully of Mr. Chollop
and his Americans :
You are not now in A despotic land. We are the
intellect and virtue of the airth, the cream Of human
natur’ and the flower Of moral force. Our backs is
easy ris. We must be cracked up, or they rises and
we snarls. . We shows our teeth, I tell you, fierce.
We are a model to the airth, and you’d better crack
us up, you had.
“H. Horsecollar” disapproves of D. Levy:
Every man to his liking, but I would have ex-
plained things differently if I had been Dan Levy.
First the Sydney Telegraph said that Dan had said
he would resign the Speakership if the Government
met Parliament again instead of supplying the
promised dissolution. Daniel promptly denied that
he had promised to throw his valuable job away in
any such reckless fashion. The reporter then swore
an affidavit that Daniel, in the course of a late-at-
night conversation in a tram, had said what he now
denied or repented of. Whereupon Daniel merely
said some confused things. In such a case I always
say it was a case of remarkable resemblance and mis-
taken identity, and that my image, being evidently
a humorist, had snatched at the opportunity to do
some agile leg-pulling, for which he deserved great
credit, I have got out of several awkward state-
ments that way. In the case of a casual brief con-
versation in a dint light it goes very well, especi-
ally with a usual-looking and easily-duplicated person
such as Dan or myself.
Uncle Sam, who is a robust debt-collector
(as Queensland may find), talks of present-
ing a sort of ultimatum to France. The
proposition is that a country which can
afford as many submarines as France wants
authority to maintain must be a rich place
and able to pay its debts. Yet there is no
evidence that France is anything more than
a badly-threatened place. It has a strong and
rich and wholly unrepentant Germany gnash-
ing numerous teeth at it across the feeble
defence of a streak marked on level ground,
while the League of Nations, if such a thing
exists, hasn’t even a policeman to help with.
The new crowd at Sydney Town Hall is
asking for a Parliamentary inquiry into the
doings of the o!d crowd. It isn’t likely to
get anything of the sort from the Govern-
ment, which badly needs to be inquired into
itself and hates the prospect; but another
Ministry may not only investigate, but also.
compel the people who blackmailed the muni-
cipal employees into giving good money for
perpetual bonds that bore no interest to
redeem their rotten securities in full. Not
that the municipal employees were the real
sufferers: they had things in a general way
made up to them by higher pay. In other
words, it was the ratepayers who were com-
pelled, by the backstairs device, to provide
this corrupt party’s fighting fund. And
the inquiry might be extended to other
places besides Sydney. In the past few
years Political Labor has become a curious
mixture of Karl Marxism, anti-work, anti-
Australianism, pony race and three-card
trick, and its accounts badly want an over-
haul.
THAT NEW STATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Although we like the harbor, and think its scenery's
fine,
And we do like George-street on a Friday night;
And though the thought of Manly in summer makes
us pine,
And we find the Zoo a most inspiring pight;
And although we feel quite rural when we hear
the clanging trams,
And busy Martin-place fills us with awe ;
And it puts us in a flutter when the Pitt-street
traffic jambs,
And we marvel at the everlasting jaw
Of the hurrying pedestrians who speed along the
street
(All so mighty different from our native town,
Which is miles away from Sydney and the haunts
of the elite),
And we do acknowledge Sydney’s just renown,
We don’t like sending all our goods 400 blanky
miles
Because the railway only runs to Sydney ;
We don’t like paying ever-soaring, never-dropping
freights—
Freights fixed at just whate’er they please in
Sydney.
And when we get our waggons stuck in half-a-yard
of mud,
Well, blow, not to say damn, your motor-roads
round Sydney!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
REG FAIRBROTHER.
THE CASE FOR NATIONALISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Did the State ever before behold such a lotting
fen of savage intrigue, venomous jealousy, ignoble
greed and sinister ambition? That Labor polities
have been thus allowed to fall into the swamp, the
garbage-tip and the sewer, is an insult to the de-
cency and honesty of millions of workers.” —Purple
patch from Sydney Sunday Times.
We’ve had our little scandals, like most ultra-
righteous folk.
Before the War we specialised in Land;
And some retired from public life, and some went
stony-broke,
And one or two acquired a felon’s brand.
But Sinister Ambition— No! Emphatically, No!
That was a length to which, thank God, not one of
us would go.
The War arrived: we waved the Flag; we cheered the
marching fleet
Of soldiers speeding off to risk their lives ;
And then we turned to other work—our leaders’
deals in Wheat
Still anger Digger-farmers and their wives.
And some went mad, and some forgot, and some
cleared out in ships—
But none, thank God, fell into Sewers, or Swamps, or
Garbage-tips.
We claim no credit for a virtue praised in ev’rv
age-
Stark honesty comes easy to us all.
No Hungry Factions split our ranks; no office-
hunters rage;
Levy and Love pervade our Caucus Hall.
We boast of none of these, as might some Labor
miscreant;
One point alone we like to stress —our total lack of
Cant
H.S.W.
J. B. D.


HAMLET BRUCE.
“The new Commonwealth Treasurer (Mr. Bruce), welcoming the South African ati letes at the House of Representatives, suggested that they should feel flattered at meeting
members of the Federal Parliament, who were ‘the flower of Australia’s intellect.’” — Age.
“Oh, what a piece of work is a politician! How noble in reason, how infinite in faculty! In form and moving how evnress and admirable! In action how
like an angel! In apprehension how like a god! The beauty of the world! The paragon of animals!”


\W\
gm
m
COSMOS
X
Sv^
zifl-nhcAi''
/ill L '
GIVE A
CLEAR
SOFT
WHITE
LIGHT
21 Elincibot’b Sh
Melbourne
ECONOMICAL
STRONG
AND
LASTING
304 Kent-
Sijdnpy
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety c usg
Detonators
Cartridges
A RECORD OF PROGRESS.
TRUST FUNDS, 1805
£5,758,000.
TRUST FUNDS, 1915
£1 l,8i)0.000.
TRUST FUNDS, 1921
£18,400,000.
INCREASE FOR THE YEAR 1921, £1,940,000.
There is no better evidence of the Confidence in which
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
is held by the Public than the growth of the Trust Funds committed to its care, as
illustrated above.
The Company is EmpoAvered under Special Act of Parliament to act as
EXECUTOR UNDER WILLS : TRUSTEE : ATTORNEY, etc.
Write for Explanatory Booklet.
Nos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Mapacer.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The National Mutual Life Associa-
tion of Australasia :—*
Ex- Writ- Added
Sept*, Income. Claims, petises. ten Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1909.. 1,043,801 449,967 167,147 427 436,270
1910.. 1,122,667 441,323 168,511 3640 509,193
1911.. 1,198.148 514,596 176,344 4,44 509.464
1912.. 1,281,364 620,249 174,664 2016 587,43.)
1913.. 1,395,866 511,046 175,031 709.790
1914.. 1,479,109 691,062 177,491 710,556
1915.. 1,655,268 697,173 165,655 —692.440
1916.. 1,663,128 763,001 168,805 731,322
1017.. 1,770,371 846,497 182,271 741,603
1918.. 1,921,765 876,989 204,737 840,039
1919.. 2,116,562 1,063,275 237,716 - 810,571
1920.. 2,352,957 832,177 275,846 1,244,934
1921.. 2,519,203 912,321 262,925 1,343,957
The feature of the latest entry in that table
is that, though income for the year was
£16(3,246 greater than for the previous 12
thonths, expenses were £12,921 less. The
explanation lies in the smaller volume of
new business handled. In 1920 16,89.1 new
policies assuring £6,496,606 were written;
last year 14,160 policies for £5,508,165. New
business under the most favorable policy-
writing conditions is expensive; and the
falling-off has had this effect: —
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905. .£lB 2 9 p.c. 1917.. £lO 5 11 p.c.
1910.. 15 0 3 „ 1918.. 10 13 1 „
1914.. 12 0 0 „ 1919.. 11 4 7 „
1915.. 10 13 0 „ 1920.. 11 14 6 „
1916.. 10 3 0 „ 1921.. 10 8 9
Only on two previous occasions in the
society’s career has income been won at
smaller cost. Still, such comparisons are of
little value unless the volume of new busi-
ness is also taken into account. Assuming
that old business has cost 7 p.c. of renewal
premiums, and allowing 3 p.c. as the cost ot
handling single-premium business, then the
new-business record over many years has
been as follows: —- '
Exes. New
Chargeable Business
New to New Expense
Sent., Business. Business. Bate.
1900 .. £40,939 £64,767 158.2 p.c.
1910 . 114,195 119,426 104.6 „
1915 .. 118,357 97,229 82.1 „
1916 .. 126,850 . 96,229 75.8 „
1917 .. 134,198 105,278 78.4 „
1918 .. 176,518 123,430 69.9 „
1919 .. 226,503 151,038 66./ „
1920 .. 250,796 176,694 70.5 „
1921 . . 210,909 153,264 72.7 „
This method of calculating new business
costs is, of course, arbitrary and cannot be
taken as giving precisely accurate records
of performances, but results are near enough
for purposes of comparison. r i he table makes
it clear that the National Mutual is writing
its new business cheaply—much. moxe
cheaply than some of its big competitors.
The society is singular in several respects.
It does no ‘industrial business whatever.
Also nearly 20 years ago it decided on a less
stringent medical overhaul of insurers tor
small amounts and for limited terms than is
customary in life offices. The actuary has
on several occasions reported that in this
class of business the ratio of actual to ex-
pected claims has not exceeded the ratify ot
the whole business, and the policy has
resulted in carving medical costs m this way :
Proportion of Medical Exes, to New Premiums.
New Medical
Premiums. Exes.
1903 .. £68,456 £7,503 10.9 p.c.
1912 .. 120,518 7,265 6.0 „
1913 . . 122,897 6,737 5.4 „
1914 . . 121,015 6,241 5.1 „
1915 .. 118,357 5,091 4.3 „
1918 .. 176,518 7,110 4.0 „
1919 .. 226,503 9,531 4.2 „
1920 .. 250,796 12,379 4,9 „
1921 . . 210,909 9,862 4.7 „
That is only 'half the cost incurred by some
of the big offices, and is a factor helping to
lessen new-business costs.
While exes, were kept down the society
was last year also favored by a low claims-
rate: losses by death were £399,124 com-
pared with £381,154, but there was probably
an additional five millions or so at risk. The
mortality rate worked out at 8.12 per 1000,
the lowest since 1913. The year’s sumlus
got past the 11-million mark for the first
time, and those for the two years 1920-21
together exceeded the combined surpluses for
the three preceding years. The National
Mutual has grown very rapidly: income has
practically doubled in nine years. As a result
of the accumulation of the extra funds in-
vestment earnings have been helned consider-
ably, while the improvement of interest-
rates has assisted in this way:—
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900.. £4 13 2 p.c. 1918. . £4 19 9 p.C.
191 D. . 4 12 3 „ 1919. .5 3 5,,
1914. . 4 16 8 „ 1920. .5 3 8,,
1917. . 4 17 3 „ 1921. . 5 4 5,,
These calculations are based on net interest
earnings, rates and taxes having first been
deducted as shown hereunder:
Gross
Interest Rates Net liiter-
and Rents. and Taxes, est Return.
1909 .. £266,250 £8,527 £257,723
1914 .. 418,326 13,624 404,702
1918 .. 597,218 34,330 562,888
1919 .. 653,939 27,160 623,779
1920 . . 709,761 28,550 681,211
1921 ... 791,589 38,062 753,527
Investments are giving gross £373,000 more
than in 1914, and £348,825 more net; and
of the latter amount £54, iOO was the result
of the improvement of interest rates by 7s.
9d. p.c.
When the actuary last made his investiga-
tion, as at 1919, though the society had
experienced a very unfavorable mortality
rate as a result of the war, a surplus of
£789,488 was disclosed. The nejct investiga-
tion is due at the close of the current year,
and if things continue to co as favorably as
they have in the past two years actuary E.
J. Stock should be able to produce a very
cheerful report. Visible funds now exceed
15 millions, and there is in addition a
reserve of £89,000 against the depreciation
of public securities, not one jienny 0 f which
should be lost if anything like normal con-
ditions are experienced. The National
Mutual plunged pretty deeply into Common-
wealth War Loans, and has still £413,090 of
prospective surpluses mortgaged to acciuire
the gilt-edged, high-interest stock. No doubt
the whole of this liability will be met during
the current year—£BBs,ooo was owing on the
account 12 months previously. On the other
hand, this method of acquiring firsLclass
securities has no doubt so appealed to the
management that it may Iv tempted to go
into the forthcoming Commonwealth loan on
the same instalment plan. This shows the
changes which have taken place in the in-
vestment policy since War Loans came on
the market: —
1900. 1910. 1914. 1920. 1921.
Public secu-
rities .. 3.4 p.c. 5.1 p.c. 6.9 p.c. 39.9 p.c. 40.5 p.c.
Mortgages 50.5 ~ 55.1 ~ 59.3 „ 34.8 „ 31.8 „ .
Foreclos-
ures . . 4.4 „ 1.3 „ 0.6 „ 0.2 „ 0.1 „
Freeholds 12.7 „ i 2.8 „ 9.9 „ 6.0 „ 5.6 „
Loans on
policies 14.3 „ 9.8 „ 9.4 „ 7.8 „ 8.4 „
Other as-
sets . ,14.7 „ 15.9 „ 13.9 „ 11.3 „ 13.6 „
At September 31 there was £7,320,000 in
public securities and cash.
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.,
Melbourne (in this table goodwill, £198,000,
is not reckoned as an asset) :
r~ —Dividends——^
Pref. Written
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ord. off. Deficit.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1910.. 38,857.7500 12 p.c. = 15,000 2,741 106,7,45
1911.. 41,567 7500 12 „ „ 15,000 2,675 90,353
1912.. 42,859 7500 12 „ „ 15,000 2,549 72,543
1913.. 7500 12 „ „ 15,000 13,313 72,456
1914.. 42,028 7500 134 „ „ 16,875 6,650 60,453
1915.. 47,157 7500 144 „ ~ 18,125 9,766 48,687
Transferred to capital, £125,000 .. 173,687
1916.. 54,201 7500 8 „ „ 20,000 4,881 151,867
1917.. 47,181.7500 8 „ „ 20.000 6,122 138.310
1918.. 29,035 7500 7 „ „ 17,500 5,754 140,031
1919.. 56,573 7500 9 „ ~ 22,500 10,359 123,817
1920.. 60,048 7500 10 „ „ 25,000 5,484 101,753
1921.. 61,438 7500 114 „ ». 28,750 5,836 82,401
Deficit (capital not represented by tangible
assets), £82.401. That is one way of stat-
ing the position of this very successful Mel-
bourne newspaper co. Another would be to
show nominal reserves of £115,599, made up
as follows: —
General reserves .. ... .. £50,000
Dividend equalisation . . .. 20,000
Contingency fund .. •• 45,0,00
P. and L. balance .... . • 599
When the present co. took over the Herald
and Weekly Times £198,000 was paid for
goodwill. It proved to be worth all that:
since the co.’s establishment in 1902 it has
not only paid handsome divs. on its original
shares, ‘ but has accumulated £240.599 of
surplus profits. Six years ago £125,000 of
the then accumulation was converted into
scrip, and ordinary paid capital was doubled.
Thus £82.401 of the present ordinary capi-
tal of £250,000 is still represented by good-
will, the actual value of which, in almost all
businesses and particularly in the case of a
newspaper, is something that cannot be
accurately measured and is likely to vary
with changes of management and the whims
of a fickle public. So the investor who de-
mands assets which are visible to the nak d
eye to back his cash will not fancy Herald
and Weekly Times scrip. Lately the co.
has been showing considerable activty: it
has had a new building programme in hand ;
a bov’s paper, Pals, has been “successfully
established” ; and staffs have been strength-
ened to make the news-sheets “in all respects
progressive and worthy of the oommur’Pv.” -
The Herald, Melbourne’s one and only even-
ing newspaper, has once more been threat-
ened with competition, this time from a for-
midable concern, the Sydney Sun, with
which it has hitherto shared an independent
cable service and exchanged inter-State news.
Judging by the experience of Sydney Even-
ing News since the Sun rose from the ashes
of the old Australian Star, Herald share-
holders need not regard all as lost even if a
rival does appear: tli.re should be ample
room in Melbourne for two evening papers.
Profits in recent years have been fat. De-
spite the very high cost of paper, additional
w rk ng exes, and all oth°r troubles, during
the past three years ordinary shareholders
have averaged slightly more than 10 p.c. p.a.
(v hi oh means 20 p.c. on their 1915 Capital)
and £57,600 has gone to reserves. Balance-
sheet movements over two six-year periods
are given in this comparison:—
1909. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Stock '. . .. £9,381 £38,119 £108.087 £92,959
Book debts, etc. 10,371 18,926 56,890 65,829
War Loans, etc. 4,909 2,600 70,489 24.438
Cash . . ■ • 43,234 50,677 27,621 28,833
Liquid assets . . £67,895 £110,322 £263,087 £212,109
Liabilities . . 3,653 2,963 91,782 100,553
Liquid surplus £64,242 £107,359 £171,305 £111,556
Freeholds .. 50,182 60,9.24 <3,640 131,98 e
Machinery & plant 26,463 46,155 45,796 67,805
Net'assets £140,887 £214,438 £290,746 £311,349
That shows a book improvement of £73,551
between 1969-15 and of £125,111 during the
past six years, and in the latter period about
£35.090 more was distributed in divs. than
in the former. During the past year £50,060
or so of War Doan was marketed to finance
new premises and additional plant : £38,343
was added to property account and £27,84,»
to machinery. But all except £32,200 of the
£125,000 of 6 p.c. prefs. was represented by
the surplus of liquid assets over and above
all liabilities (including final divs.). That
left fixed assets with a book value of almost
£167,600 to represent the quarter-million of
ordinaries. What counts more in a news-
paper venture, however, is its earning capa-
bilities : during the past half-dozen years this
one has paid £133.750 on its doubled ordin-
ary capital of £250,000, and meantime a
visible £91,286 has gone into reserves, profits
available, for the ordinaries having averaged
15 p.c. p.a,
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd.,
woolbrokers, etc. (Sydney) :- — -
To Re- Re-
Scpt , Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1909.. £17,721 Bp.c.= £B,OOO £9,721 £44,287
1910.. 23,295 10 „ „ 10,000 13,295 57,582
1911.. 20,074 10 „ „ 10,000 10,074 67,606
1912.. 18,019 10 „ „ 10,000 8,019 75 075
1913.. 18,559 10 „ „ 10,000 8 559 84,234
1914.. 15,198 10 „ „ It),000 5,198 89,432
1915.. 13,181 10 „ „ 10,000 3,181 92,613
1916.. 14,154 10 „ „ 10,000 4,154 96, i(si
1917 15,619 10 „ „ 10,000 5,619 102,386
1918.. 18,496 10 „ „ 10,000 8,496 110.882
1919.. 23,650 10 „ „ 10,000 13,650 124,532
1920.. 18,494 10 „ „ 10,000 8,494 133,026
Bonus (16| p.c.) distributed, £25,000 108,026-
1921.. 8,932 7 p.c. = 10,500 106,458
The directors in their report drew attention
to the fact that the £16.500 distributed to
shareholders was “the largest amount of
dividend paid by the co. since its formation.”
That, however, was not a performance call-
ing for cheers: the year’s earnings fell £1568
short of the amount required for the div.,
and it was the only occasion for 17 yeans
when the term’s profits did not fully pro-
v.de the div. Like other agency cos. IL, J.
and D., Ltd., had a very poor year: the col-
lapse of the world’s markets curtailed com-
mission earnings, and, as no relief was got
from high working exes, and overhead
charges, profits were the poorest for 20
years. Still the co. could well afford to dip
into reserves for a few pounds: by keeping
the div, rate down over a score of years
£117,000 of surplus profits had been stored
prior to the cash bonus distributed early in
the past financial year. The latest div. has
also to be considered along with that special
bonus. Paid can tal was former’v 60.600
in 50,000 £1 fully-paids and 100,000 con-
tribs. paid to 10s. each. The directors
thought to capitalise some of the large re-
serves. but eompl’cations were encountered
because of the two classes of shares. After
some argument and threats of litigation they
decided, instead, to call up the 10s. on the
contribs.. making the 150,000 shares fully
pa d, and distributed a cash bonus of 3s. 4d.
on nil shares. So the old fullv-pa'ds got
£8333, ard the contribs. put up £50.000 ard
received in '-eturn £l6-667. The net result
was fbo.f -T50.0'00 of rew capital whs got. in
and £25 600 of reserves distributed, leaving
the co. with £25 060 more funds than before
the re-shuffle. Th ; s shows how balance-sheet
figures have moved :
1015. 1919. 1920. 1921.
Mortgages . . £45.000 £45,000 £57,750 £56.750
Other debts' .. 74,117 189,436 164,420 137,447
Freeholds . . 143,113 149,894 170,598 171,565
Leaseholds', lets
reserve .. 10,486 15,608 15,109 14,609
A dvarces, etc. .. 164,131'268,466 253,076 250,009
War Loan . . . - 30,000 21,413 20,473
There have been other changes since the bal-
ance. Two years ago a building site for
a new store was acquired at Pyrmont, the
directors hnv’ng decided to sell the city
property. They recently found a buyer,
but how the pr'oe compared with book values
has not been disclosed.
The co. has been very successful in., the
past, and in view of the fact that there are
visible reserves of £106.000 to aid the
£150,000 of paid capital things will have
to "-o badly if a fair dividend rate cannot be
maintained in future. Funds have to earn
only 6 p.c. to give a 10 p.c. return on capital.
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co. (Dud
edin, M.L.) : Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1910 £9 845 6 p.c. = £5007 £4,500 £338 £17,844
1911. 8 466 6,, „ 5007 3,000 459 18,303
1912.. 11'827 7,, 5842 5,500. 485 18,(88'
1913 - " 10'428 7 5842 4,500 86 18,874
1914.’. 9 450 7.::, 5842 4,000 - 18,482
1915 12*937 7 ~ 5842 5,000 2095 20,5 11
1916" 24 607 9 7511 7,510 9586 30,163
i9i7." IMI2 9,::: 7511 6,500 -
1918 22 828 10 ~ 8346 9,719 4763 00,92;
1919" 22 959 10 8346 8,338 6275 37,202
19V0 ’ 22 631 11 9180 6,400 7051 44,253.
1921.. 2ib149 11 ), „ 9180 4 0,500 2469 46,722
In" pre-war days this 40-year-old Maoriland
woollen mill, which had been established
by a grand-nephew of poet Bobby Burns,
“wasna fou, but just had plenty. _
since khaki orders began to flow in and
the Maorilander became more loyal to his
own manufacturers, it has had a gay time.
This helps to explain how the handsome,
profits were derived :
Working Exes. Charges,
Manufac- and Plant Salaries
luring Profits. Maintenance, and Taxes..
1910.. .. £21,212 £2,090 £ 5,191.
1915.. .. 25,932 3,162 5,482
1916.. .. 40,307 4,133
1917.. .. 36,542 4,231 in’iiis
1918.. 56,185 7,805
101 9 . . 52,480 5,750 10,0^1
1920.. .. 58,012 8,017 21,472
1921.. .. 59,041 10,419 22,002
The co. lias done much better than the
reserves in the introductory table indicate.
A feature of that table is the extent of the
writing-off each year. During the pros-
perous years considerable additions were
made to plant, but the allowances for depre-
ciation have been so liberal that, whereas
in 1910 the mill had a book value
of £61,644, and though £44,163 has since
been spent on additions and renewals, the
book value is now only £42,710. Last year
£11,618 was snent on new machinery: no
less than £lO,OOO of latest profits was allo-
cated for depreciation. A more satistactory
view of the progress made by the co. is
given by this comparison of the balance-
sheet figures:— .
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities . . £18,953 £12,345 £32,071 £28,999
Plant & property . . 71,639 66,633 47,091 fn’rn--
fioods 44.809 42.987 69.150 40 500
Book debts •• 8,605 10,293 27,500 31,910-
Cash, etc 208 2,308 47,234
Capital has remained stationary at £83,457
23,845 £5 shares paid to 70s. each. Between
1910-15, after paying an average 6| p.c. p.a.,
surplus liquid assets expanded by £8074.
while plant had been maintained in good
order. During the past six years divs. have
averaged fbj- p.c. p.a., extensive machinery
additions haye been made, and meantime the
liquid surplus has grown £47,407. When
the latest div. had been extracted the surplus
of stocks, book debts, War Loan and cash
over and above liabilities represented 68s. 4d.
per 70s. paid share; In the one item of
cash and public securities (written down to
market value) there was £37,300. There
is probably not another woollen co. in Maori-
land or the Commonwealth so comfortably
off. The management, instead of rushing up
the div. rate, directly or by reconstructing, or
capitalising reserves, has so strengthened the
co. that it is excellently placed to face what-
ever the future may bring.
* * *
The City of Brisbane Building
Society :
Dividend and To Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1908.. £314 5 p.c. = £296 £lB £ll2
19094 . 360 5 „ „ 332 28 140
1910.. 427 5 „ „ 404 23 163
1911.. 476 5 „ „ 459 17 180
1912.. 530 5 ~ ~ 510 20 200
1913. . 610 5 „ „ 537 73 273
1914.. 668 5 ~ „ 606 62 335
1915.. 573 5 ~ 544 29 364
1916.. 569 5 „ „ 549 20 384
1917. . 600 5 ~ „ 570 30 414
1918.. 576 5 „ ~ 547 29 443
1919.. 629 5 ~ „ 552 77 520
1920.. 571 5 ~ ~ 551 20 540
1921.. 529 5* „ „ 520 9 549
*Paid-up members 6 p.c.
At September 30, 1920, the only outside lia-
bility was £4. During the past year further
funds were required to finance advances,
but instead of inviting deposits on its own
account it called in the middleman, and at
the balance the Bank of Queensland had lent
it £ll5B of its deposits. Little profit can
be expected from transactions financed on
that basis. The year closed with £lo€o-odd
more loaned to clients, but apparently the
new business was written towards the close
of the term ; gross interest earnings were £33
less than in the previous year, and the net
profit was also smaller. Paid-up members
have put iu £BO5, and investing members
£0565, The former have had their d’V. raised
a point to 6 p.c., and the latter still get the
usual 5 p.c. After making these delicate
little distributions practically nothing was
left with which to strenahteu reserves. The
City of Brisbane is a very poor relation.


Dalgety 8 Company
-Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cable Board
REST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
.. 3,. V,
New Zealand.. 41 d.
Canada .9/4 1/9 j 7d. (minimum
Canada .. „/4 1/Z / 11,8,20 words)
u.s.a:.. ..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies. Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 Georg's Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346
(3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084
J. MTT.W UiD. Manager in the Pacific,
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
&
boord^son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift &• Company AnM A stents 26 SO Clarence St.. Sydney _
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
cJ
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED,
Brisbane,
23d Elizabeth Street.
Do you use soldering irons in your business ? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and, re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasned close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney and. corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne. — Advt. [2
* * * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There- are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [1
* * * *
Progressive Engineers who have had extensive water
service experience consider Pioneer Wood Pipe to be
the most genuinely successful water, conduit on the
market. Not only is it cheaper in first cost and
maintenance, but it is absolutely reliable and lasts
infinitely longer. Write for our deeply interesting
illustrated book. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove. — Advt.
* * * »
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
York arid Wynyard Streets,. Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & llassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain' Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M, Newton, Patent
Attorney, Kink's Buildings,. Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson k Co., 4S3 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
* ♦ * *
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and. contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants; coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt,
“1921 Models” —“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. immediate delivery from , Sydney stpck.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East).- — Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertiing’s
Balances, Weights. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Cal! or write for particulars. II. B. Selby & Co-,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.—Advt
How Maoriland feels now that the war-
flush has passed, as told by chairman
-Beauchamp, of the Bank of New Zealand:—
Farmers are feeling the pinch severely. Particu-
larly is this the case with those who paid inflated
prices for their land, and are loaded with a dead
weight of mortgages, and also with those who, not
content with tueir holdings, have added to their
liabilities by taking up more land. Apart altogether
from these cases, however, it must be recognised
that the all-round drop in prices, and the incrceased
c.iuiges for handling, have seriously affected the
whole of the producers, and they are finding it diffi-
cult to ; accommodate themselves to the altered cir-
cumstances.
Improvement in the methods of handling our pro-
ducts and reduction in the relative costs are highly
important factors, and deserve the most earnest
consideration. Increased production in the most
saleable of our commodities is of equal moment.
’I he culling of unprofitable cows and improvement
hi our dairy herds should, for example, be regarded
as a matter of paramount importance.
The prospect of exporting frozen beef on a profit-
able basis is most unpromising. No doubt a great
extent of country, hitherto used for fattening bul-
locks, can be turned to profitable account by dairy-
ing, so that in future butter and cheese may become
the most important of our exports. This matter
is mentioned here to illustrate one way in which
nroduction can be increased. Scientific methods of
farming and treatment of the soil are also factors
which must receive careful attention.
The very high prices obtained for our primary
.products during the war years led to a quite un-
justifiable increase in land values. Land was valued
and trafficked in as if these abnormal prices had
become stabilised. Little or no thought was given
to the inevitable fall, and, unfortunately, instead of
liabilities being reduced, financial responsibilities
were often largely increased. It is reallv a case of
history repeating itself, and disillusionment fol-
lows as a matter of course. It is quite clear that
many farmers will not be able to carry on under
present conditions, unable as they find themselves
to pay interest on their mortgages, or even land
tax on their land. Adjustments will have to take
place; many properties will fall back into the hands
of vendors, and in time conditions will once more
revert to what is known as “normal.” Meantime it
would be more than unwise to ignore the fact that
a very difficult period lies ahead, and that the co-
operation of the whole community is required to
help things along.
In the light of experience, what are the values of
sheep lands and dairy lands to-day? Are they worth
50 per cent, of the values placed upon them during
the land boom ? It seems to me impossible to value
lands at present on any reliable basis. Land is
worth not only what it will produce to-day, but
what it may reasonably be expected to produce in
normal times. To base values entirely upon the
income produced to-day would be as unreasonable as
to base them on war-time returns. Normality must
be looked for somewhere between the extremes,
guided by pre-war experience and the circumstances
of the day.
It is essential, however, that land values be
brought back to a safe., level, having regard to the
conditions which now prevail. To ascertain. what
the actual value is, intending purchasers should go
as carefully into the transaction as if they were
purchasing a business. A vendor of a business pro-
duces his books showing his turnover and profits,
etc., for a period of years. A farmer should also
produce his books when disposii g of his holding.
The rough and ready method of land deals which
has hitherto prevailed should become a thing of the
past.
There is danger at the present time of ill-con-
sidered schemes and panic legislation finding favor
with the masses of the people. That has been the
experience of the past, and must be guarded agairst.
There is no easy road to prosperity, no short cut
out of our present difficulties. Hard work and
economy are the sovereign remedies for our present
ills, and the more constantly and thoroughly they
are practised the sooner and the more complete will
be our recovery. To dwell upon the prospect of our
produce prices recovering to war levels would be
merely the resort of a people despairing and bank-
rupt of resources. The chance of such recovery is
altogether too remote to warrant any such expecta-
tion. All the economic conditions point in an oppo-
site direction. The tendency of commodity values
is downwards, and the very circumstances of the
people of Europe make that inevitable. They are
too poor to buy at high prices, consequently values
must drop to a point at which the commodities will
he brought within the purchasing capacity of con-
sumers. To bring down the costs of production,
wages, as one very material element in these costs,
must fall. It would, however, be quite unfair to
expect the workers to submit to reductions except in
relation to thfr lowering of the cost of living. The
decline of commodity values will doubtless be some-
what slow,' because of the natural disinclination of
producers and manufacturers to accept lower values
and also because the new Customs tariff will, in
some cases, operate to maintain prices at the higher
level.
**' * •
Invincible Colliery, Ltd., Cullen Bullen
(N.S.W.)
To Re-
Loss. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1914.. £1,599 £1,599
Net Profit.
1915.. 373 £373 1,226
Reserves.
1916.. 2,860 2860 1,634
1917.. 7,508 8 p.c. = £8,320 822
1918.. 7,882 5 „ „ 5,200 2682 3,504
1919.. 4,513 4 „ „ 4,160 353 3,857
1920.. 14,832 10 „ „ 10,400 4432 8,289
1921.. 23,810 20 „ „ 20,800 3010 11,299
The original Invincible Colliery Co. began
in 11106, but it was a small affair. Howard
Smith’s became interested in 3913, and the
co. was reconstructed. The big shipping- and
coal-agency concern was appointed managing-
agents for the colliery, development methods
were improved, and in two years the mine
became profit-earning. Output was increased
from 70,400 tons for 1914 to 134,000 tons for
1918. In the earlier years profits were small,
but with a powerful marketing organisation to
help, and an obliging Government which pro-
vided means whereby the owners and the
miners might combine to take a bigger bite
out of the public, the Invincible has had two
**ery fat years. The table does not give the
full measure of net earnings. For instance,
while £11,299 of general reserves have
accumulated, £12,349 has also piled up in an
accident insurance reserve: £3223 net was
added to this fund last year. Including the
additions to the accident reserve during the
past five years the accounts' admit profits
of £70,894, an average of slightly more than
131 p.c. p.a. I)ivs. have averaged slightly
under 91 p.c, p.ia. The accounts do not dis-
close the extent of the allowances for
depreciation, etc., and whether they have
been just adequate or over-liberal cannot be
ascertained. But movements of some of the
balance-sheet figures since the colliery got
into its stride are significant:—
1916. 1920. 1921.
Liquid assets .. £10,410 £45,860 £59,605
Liabilities .. 3,588 6,989 12,266
Surplus . . £6,822 £38,871 £47,339
At the latest balance £47,000 of the paid
capital of £104,000 was represented by the
surplus of liquid assets over all known
liabilities, compared with a surplus of only
£3641 in 1914. That has been good going,
particularly as several thousands have mean-
time apparently been spent on mine improve-
ments. The hoard as at September has, of
course, been cut into by the final 10 p.c. div.
(£10,400) . Even so, : just more than 7s. per
£1 share is in surplus liquid assets.
Vegetable Creek general-manager J. Atkin-
son discusses the Emmaville (N.S.W.) leads :
J. M. Newman’s views on alluvial-tin deposition
(B. 19/l/’22) are of interest, but I am of opinion
that they do not hold good so far as Vegetable Creek
is concerned.
This lead takes cover immediately to the west of
the town of Emmaville, and was \vorked prior to 1910
for a distance of about 34 miles along the lead. From
the source for 2| miles the rim rocks consist of
porphyry traversed by veins of tin stone, and a num-
ber of tributaries feed into the lead. At this point
the contact with the slates occurs, and one low-grade
tributary only comes in for the remaining J-mile.
Over the whole of this distance about 6000 tons oxide
was won—an estimate only, as old records are incom-
plete.
Since 1910 the Vegetable Creek Co. has worked a
further 2f miles of lead, the rim rock throughout
being slate, which is not a source of tin, though one
or two small, very low-grade tributaries carrying
angular, unworn oxide have been met with, dissimilar
altogether to the main-lead tin. ■ There can be rio
question that practically the whole of the .2500 tong
of oxide won has come from the porphyry.
As one would expect, the yield of oxide per mile
has fallen, though strangely 1700 tons were won from
the mile of workings lowest down the l on d. wi it -s-
-certain that this did not come “from the denudation
-of a rich shoot, or group., of-shoots in close, proximity
to the rich pothole,” but has been Transported at least
21 miles.
Below our workings the lead was worked again
in the ’eighties' for about a .third of a mile, .with
payable results, tbe v-ede. of the wash beinp- similar
to ours. At this point the lead has either been,
faulted or gone over a fall, and was too deep for the.
old hands. Our boring has been done below here: the
lead is there, and some low-grade wash, carrying the
same class of tin, has been recovered; but to date
no rich values have been encountered.
The facts that the grade of wash Showed no change
to the point last worked, and that the wash is con-
tained in a series of potholes with absolute blanks
between—and so making it possible for the lines of
boreholes put down to date to have missed the wash
bodies—are both in favor of further work, and, if
successful, it is, I believe, the main hope for any
considerable rejuvenescence for Emmaville. As argu-
ment against, there are undoubtedly the facts (1)
that the lead is getting away all the time from the
source of its tin, and values must fall away, and (2)
the lack of success of boring up to the present. About
24 miles further down, the Graveyard lead junctions
and the porphyry again comes in as the rim rock on
one side.
* • * * •
Adelong Greek (N.S.W.) has straightened
out financial troubles since November. Its
six months’ campaign to that date landed it
in a loss of £221, compared with £1650 in
the previous term. That a month’s good run
has again put it on the divvy list is proof
that a sharp eye is kept on finance. Both
dredges got through the half-year without a
serious break-down, and repairs were so
watched that a div. was saved in that
quarter. That often means penalty in heavy
charges in succeeding terms, but manager Jas.
George isn’t likely to run his plant to a
standstill. When at Bright he had a
reputation for making the most of the last
link in a bucket band. The stuff he has
hauled lately averaged only 2.02 grains per
cub. yd. for No. 1 dredge, and 1.68 grains for
No. 2. These averages meant 4.09 d. and
3.30 d. respectively, and as costs were 4.40 d.
and 3.39 d. obviously a working loss was
made. But the gold premium came to the
rescue. At November 30 the co. showed low
firewood stocks, but a fair supply of stores
and a cash balance, and liabilities of only
£5OO. Plants have a book value, of £18.989.
with a reserve for depreciation of , . £9OOO
against them. Adelong Creek has five or
six years’ work ahead, and with an improved
outlook ever since the dredge worked up to
the elbow in the creek.
Christmas Gift, Cootamundra (N.S.W.),
has decided to sink its main shaft another
lOOft., and tenders are being called for the
work. There is also to be a change of
management; managing-director M. Wasley,
who has been supervising operations, is mak-
ing way at the mine for a resident manager.
Recently the Westralian Chamber of Mines
cited cue gold-mine workers in and around
Kalgoorlie to appear before the State Arbi-
tration Court in regard to wages and work-
ing conditions. The Chamber seeks a reduc-
tion of the minimum pay per shift from 16s.
to 12s. 9d. The unions meantime are pre-
paring a counter claim for all-round increases
on existing rates. The men claim that the
reduced cost-of-living figures relied on by the
Chamber are all moonshine. They admit
that there has been a big drop in many
wholesale prices, but hold that there is no
appreciable benefit to the consumer after the
middlemen have had their cut. The gold-
fields’ experience, the unions claim, does not
support the statisticians’ records of declining
prices.
* * * *
Hampton Properties, Ltd., holds 20,400
Celebration shares and has £30,000 in cash
assets. At the recent shareholders’ meet-
ing held in Edinburgh, chairman Slater gave
an encouraging account of developments in
the co. s various holdings. Lease 81 on
block 50, he says “looked like turning out a
payable mine’’; the Celebration is “con-
sidered a good investment”; and Carmen’s
lease on block 45, is “the most promising
thing” the co. possesses. Also the Celebra-
tion Junction, which was thrown up in dis-
gust by a local option syndicate, was de-
clared to have been “abandoned prematurely.”
It is proposed to prospect this property from
the bottom levels of the adjoining Celebra-
tion, and the Board hopes that the con-
tinuation of the rich patches of ore met with
in shallow ground will be picked up at
depth. Mining-superintendent Godden de-
clares that justice was not done the Junc-
tion by the option syndicate. He says that,
although the lode dipped west out of the
shaft at 100 ft., all the driving at that depth
was done on the east side. Generally he
describes the work done by the syndicate as
“disgraceful.’’ The shafts are stated to be
“all shapes and sizes, and crooked,” and the
crosscuts “low and narrow.” Operations in
that show were conducted under the super-
vision of some of the best-known mining men
in the State, and it would be interesting to
know what they think of Godden’s report.
* * * *
Westonia (W.A.) intends to put up a big
fight to get Mines-Minister Scaddan to assist
the Edna Central in adding to its pumps so
as to cope with the water. The proposal is
that shareholders should guarantee three 6d.
calls, and the Government put up £4500 on
a £ for £ basis. The Central should never
have paid its last div.; had it not done so
it would not now have to seek Scaddan’,s
assistance. Central’s trouble is to get a
crowd who, having the cash, believe in the
show sufficiently to find the calls. If that
be not done, then Edna Deeps may be able at
the No. 6 or 7 level to get into the lode under
the water zone to see if the gold carries
down. It would be risky work, but nothing
unusual for Stuckey: he has battled with
risks ever since he cut off Edna May water
on the boundary.
-* * * *
Westralia’s latest gold discovery is six
miles from Bullfinch. Already several
options have been , taken for re-sale in
Adelaide, and the prospectors’ holding, for
which £5OOO is asked, has been twice in-
spected by Dorrie Doolette on behalf of the
Bullfinch Trop. The find is in countrv well
known to local prospectors, but the forma-
tion itself was missed. .So far values are
said to have been got for a distance of nearly
two miles,, and several.. parallel reefs are
talked of.
Freney’s Co. has asked for the loan of
Assistant Government Geologist Blatchford
to assist in its operations. The Okes crowd
also want a geologist of standing. The
former co. has appointed Freney managing-
director at £750 a year, a secretary at £5OO
and several directors at £l5O each. They ate
high salaries for a venture which is merely
setting out to find whether it has any justifi-
cation for being on the Earth.
* * * *
Jim Clements, hero of the old-time Pit-
field (Vic.) flutter, is out with a plan and
a budget of facts about the Madame
Hopkins deep-lead. Such alluvial die-hards
as Joe and John English, Tom Dibdin. Jonah
Ward and Sam Body all had a kindly word
for the locality, but they wanted someone
else to undertake preliminaries. Where the
gutter was entered the lead is a second
Langi Logan for .size, and water was fear-
some. No one has gone under the basalt for
the gutter near its source. Geologists plump
for its origin near Ballarat, 20 miles away.
Clements, an old hand at deep-lead work,
who bored the ground himself in the
ihi«ty past, thinks the source is much nearer
and in the Dividing Range. No one believes
that a tithe of the wealth in the big pre-
historic rivers of Victoria has ever been
collected, even with the Berry lead thrown
in. The difficulty is to trace out the ground
under the crust of basalt. Clements is in
the way to get cash to poke about for the
gutter, but check bores should go down and
shallow ground should be sought. All the
best gold in the Cabbage Garden came from
near the source of leads.
* » * »
Eaglehawk Golden Mile Syndicate has been
formed in Eaglehawk and Bendigo to reopen
the Snob’s Hill group of mines, comprising
the Catherine Reef, Williams’s United, South
Catherine, York and Durham, Belmont and
Saxby, Ellenborough, Acadia, Catherine,
Princess Alice, and Shadowa leases. All
of them were famous as gold producers
in the Bendigo boom period (1870-80)., It
is also proposed to float a small co. to operate
an electric dredge on the Eaglehawk Creek,
and to prospect on the Lightning Hill and
Miller’s line, in the precincts of Eaglehawk.
* * * *
During the first fortnight of the New Year
Ulu Yam’s big dredge tackled the overburden
of that new Malayan tin show in earnest.
Altogether 17,200 c. yd. were shifted, and
three tons oxide were won in the process. The
plant has bottomed and commenced running
full time. The management anticipates a
yield of 16 tons for the month.
* , * * #
Vailala (Papua) is a quiet spot these days,
the Anglo-Persian Oil Co. having removed its
staff to the more promising bore site at Popo.
Machinery for the new drill-rigs is rapidly
being assembled, and the bore itself is almost
ready for the first section of casing. The
rig is being erected, and within a year or so
Australia should know whether the venture is
worth while. Papua, in the midst of the
slump in her raw products, burns joss sticks,
and hopes strenuously that the bits will bite
into a decent field. A gusher would mean
everything to the 1000-odd sturdy, but dis-
franchised, Australians who, owing to the
non-preferential tariff, are prevented from
providing their native country with coffee,
cocoa, sugar, tea, kapok and other things.
* * * *


TV-*!':, is our ry>ost -typical scahery b<z.c-z».«>s<z. w<a.
have Koorce. rr»i Ic. a o/ it tf>A.r> *.r>y kirxd
Ip
Or, \Ai<2. se.faot kxrauty
Spots . "Our Harbour" / or
ir>sta»«c.2. •
Ortiy a.
' £,old fr&ma.
would Suit"
this ,
B«JT w<z send "two pictora-S , the. ott><2.f
"to foLtfrura. tha Aust*ra>.li2)»r» woods .
Svjr*«.ly +Va!s is AusYra*-! l ik.'o ,
But it 2*ir
vu«zi>AH» 2uod contc.r»tVr><2->)t'
tharf" tK’iS
E*6+ VU2-W .
TV.s is distinctly
-
VJ by not* a, v!aw
of one <=f ou**
Busy Ci+i as . *
wh».t about "this , ■frbJrrxzA ir? , lror. .T
PRINCESS MART’S WEDDING GIFT.
Another contributor writes: “The suggestion of a handsome suite of furniture is splendid. It would be an ideal gift. My own suggestion would be to give our
Princess an oil painting by one of our Australian artists. An Australian scene, such as ‘Across the Black Soil Plains,’ or something equally Australian, to be framea in
Australian wood. Give the Princess something she can with pride place in her home, and something typical of the country from which it was sent.”- S. M. HERALD.
Whereupon “The Bulletin” artist contributes his mite in the shape of some suggestions of typical scenery.


Visitors to Sydney will
find that the bed and
breakfast tariff system
at the Hotel Sydney
considerably reduces
the cost of their stay in
the holiday city, while
giving greater freedom
of movement for busi-
ness or sight-seeing.
400 Guests.
Hot and cold water in every Bedroom.
Delightful Roof Garden.
Write for Tariff Card.
Management: E. T. Cheeseman.
11l
i§
w-
mi
m
ggj
*-*<>2.
When You
ask. for
Lager-
!
'The Beer
without
a Rival”
fsd
sdf
Scientific Perfection
at
The New lu2l Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successfu l result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT ATP TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fullv explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard's Buildings.
3»7 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
February birthdays:—
Prof. Warren (Sydney), 70, on 2nd; Geo. Swin-
burne (Vic.), 61, on 3rd; Arthur Allen (Sydney),
60, and R. P. Blundell, M.H.R. foi; Adelaide, 50, on
4th; Brig.-Gen. Forsyth, 55, on 9th; Colonel Jas.
Burns, M.L.C., 76, and R. R. Garran (Federal Solici-
tor-Gen.), 55, on 10th; J. M. Chanter, M.H.R., 77,
and F. W. Bamford, M.H.R., 73, on 11th; Major-
Gen. Rosenthal, 47, A. J. Gould (ex-Pres, of Senate),
75, E. N. Wittenoom (W.A.),68, Prof. Ewart (Melb.),
50, on 12th ; Edward Lucas (S. Aus. Agent-Gen.), 65,
on 14th; A. B. Paterson (“Banjo”), 58, and Bishop
Shiel (Rockhampton), 48, on 17 th; Queensland-
Senator Adamson, 65, and Archdeacon Barnwell
(S.A.), 61, on 18th; H. I. Cohen, K.C. (Vic.), 50,
on 21st; Justice Starke (High Court), 61, on 22nd;
Norman Lindsay, 43, Tom Gill (late Under Treas.,
S.A.), 73, and O. C. Beale (Sydney), 72, on 23rd;
G. F. H. Schiller (Age), 69, and H. W. Apperly
(A.M.P.), 61, on 24th; Astronomer P. Baracchi, 71,
on 25th; Premier Barwell (S.A.), 45, on 26th; Dr.
<T. W. Barrett (Vic,), 60, on 27th. And if there
were 29 days in this February, which there are
not, Justice Dulfy would have a birthday, too —his
70th.
Among the 25 candidates for the Eastern
Suburbs (Sydney) Labor selection is
Percy Coleman, of the Australian Clerical
Association, who
holds the record of
secretarying
a union from
which lie was ex-
pelled. A party of
disruption had
arisen in the
union, and for
writing to the
press to draw at-
tention to what
was taking place,
a resolution of ex-
pulsion was passed
against him ; but it .
was subsequently-
wiped out. Cole 1 '
man is only 30,
but has been con-
nected with unions
since he started as
a clerk in the Sea-
men’s office at 15.
Captain A.
LAWRENCE.
A.D.C. to his Ex.
the G.-G.
War-worry killed Pope Pius X and short-
ened the life of his successor. Constitution-
ally delicate and worn to a shadow by years
of anxiety, Benedict XV caught a chill
which developed into pneumonia, and the
feeble spark flickered out at the week-end.
Benedict, a little Genoese of aristocratic
descent, was a Liberal of the Rampolla
school. He was elected Pope four months
after he had got- the red hat, his elevation
being universally regarded as a snub to the
Austrian interest. In the Holy See he
strove nobly to restore peace to a distracted
world, and succeeded in mitigating some of
the horrors of the struggle. His pontificate
will always be remembered for the re-estab-
lishment of diplomatic relations with jl ranee
and England a striking tribute to his genius
foi inspiring confidence in foreign Govern-
ments with a tradition of anti-clericalism,
k ought his last right, fine old warrior Peter
As S °of tf , AU vi Corps <jf Veterans.
As one of the Black Watch, he fought in
J-gypt in lSBland after; and lie went right
through the Boer War. When the lfite
troubie broke out he was at Broken Hill, but
got to Adelaide at once, lied gloriously
aoout his age, and enlisted m tae lotn
though two ot his sons were in other re»i-
ments. But Fate has no regard for
pluck, and Mollov lost both legs at “Gallipoli,
feince then Adelaide has given him every
fn?v°f„ l nev tS i P °T? r ’ encLllg with a great mili-
taij funeial. He never got any higher than
sei^eant; but it is probable that he had col-
trafia medals than ar kvone else in Aus-
Tf T rol bi i te p h ir rd which has fallen on
Bt.-Gol. A. G. Farr, Sydney Repat.’s Deputv-
Gom mission or, whose only remaining son was
recently killed in a tram accident in Mel-
bourne, has roused wide sympathy. Dieters
even those with a heavy grievance, "have
always had a big confidence in “the Colonel ”
tervie 2 1 n- he ' V £ ol . I,d get n personal in-
adiusted' Wlth hlm their troubles would be
A man who has watched a city grow
around him is D. s
O. Davidson, who
over (JO years ago
went to live “in
the bush” in what
is now Dowling-
street, Moo re
Par k, and is
still camped on the
spot. He was a
superintendent for
the Water Board,
and found it con-
venient to live
there at a time
when Sydney’s
supply was drawn
from the swamps
in what afterwards
became Centennial
Park.
GEORGE
EMERY , head of
the State Savings
Bank of Vic.
The groat old Bryce has reached the end
of the chapter. Born in Ulster S 4 years
ago, he represented the Scots-Irish type at
its best. One of the most learned men of
Ills time, a historian of eminence and an
authority on civil law, he placed his high
talents at the service of democracy, which
had no saner or kindlier adviser. He was
the most successful ambassador that Britain
ever sent to Washington, and he lived to
see the consummation of Home Rule for
Ireland, a cause for which he had labored,
in his philosophic way, throughout his public
career.
Prom a monetary point of view the Vic.
Supreme Court Judgeship that has been
given J. R. Macfarlan will be no immediate
B' a n to him But it is a steady job, at
£2500 a year, with a pension at the end. To
a large degree he carved opt, his own fortune.
His father had the small job of electoral
registrar for the northern and southern
divisions of Carlton Assembly electorate
from ISSB till he died in 1898. Brilliancy
marked the course of the son at Wesley and
the Uni.; and at the Bar he won prizes in
the bull-dog class. There were some people
whose hopes were raised about their friends
Judge Wasley (of the County Court) and
Cohen, M.L.C. (who took silk the same day
as Macfarlan) ; but their present official jobs
hindered rather than helped that pair.
Raymond Barer, who piloted the wonder-
ful 2oG days’ ilight from England to Aus-
tralia, has yet to make his mark as an in-
ventor. With a little luck he is bound to
do it. As a boy he made models and designs
or engines generally and aeroplanes in par-
ticular. When, as a big bov of 22, he en-
listed in the A.F.C. at Point Cook as a
mechanic, his head was full 0 f ideas re a
new engine which was to revolutionise avia-
tion. The war blighted his inventive pro-
gress by requiring him to study the art of
nying on obsolete machines. And then he
was “chucked,” the authorises at Po'nt Cook
assuring him that he would never make an
aviator. Lat'r on. when ho had impressed
a brass-hat with his qualifications, a medical
authority decided that he ought never to be
allowed to fly very high on account of his
heart. The excellence of his heart has been
proved since then; but how about that re-
markable young head of his? Will Australia
see that it gets proper employment?
“First”: A par. (B. 12/1/22) re just-
dead Dr. Kelly haying been the first Aus-
tralian-born bishop is onlv true with a quali-
fication. According to Fred Johns’s “Not-
able Australians,” Dr. Dwyer, the present
Bishop of Maitland, was “the first Austra-
Lan-born Roman Catholic bishop.” He was
chosen coadjutor and consecrated in 1597.
The late Dr. Kelly was consecrated first
Bishop of Geraldton in 1898. So if a co-
adjutor bishop is a bishop, Dr. Kelly wasn’t
the first. As a matter of fact, Dr. Dwyer,
s : nce he couldn’t be made an Australian
bishop just then, was named Bishop of
Zoara—Zoara being a small seaport in Tri-
poli which probably doesn’t know that it
ever had a prelate.
Medley Wright, a Tasmanian, has been
sent by the Edinburgh College of Physicians
to the Pasteur Institute at Paris to study
tuberculosis. A son of Inspector Wright, of
the Speck s Education Department, he tore
through the course at the old High School
at Launceston, and at 18 was B.A. Then
Edinburgh attracted him, and he did some
practical work for his third-year course in
the thick of one of the Balkan scraps. After
he had bagged the M.B. and Ch.B. degrees
he put in 2U months at the front in France,
a year in Ind.a and a year in Persia. He
celebrated demobilisation by becoming an
M.D., and last year was admitted a Fellow
of the Royal College of Physicians at Edin-
burgh, and had the job of Assistant-Super .n-
-tendent of the Research Laboratory handed
to him.
Adelaide lias news of the death of a very
old journalist, W. R. Lawson, in England.
He was private sec. to squatter J. H. Angas
over half a century ago in S. Aus., when the
newly-started Adveruser, under J. xi. Har-
row’s leadership, was making things hot for
the pastoraLsts. Angas put Lawson on to
loply thiough the Register, and presently
he went on the staff, having had experience
with a Dundee paper after leaving Edinburgh
University. Be was a great leader-writer,
and the Argus, S. M. Herald and Courier
in the other capitals took monthly letters
When the Franco-Prussian war
of 18 <0 broke out Australia could not hold
Lawson, who knew German well and made a
nist-class correspondent. He became sub-
editor on London Standard, and later was a
recognised authority on money-matters, being
connected with the Financial News and
lINANCIAL Times in turn, with expeditions
to America aud other countries as represen-
tative of various great financiers.
Theodore’s_ Government has had only two
newspaper billets to give away since the
singing of peace, and ex-A.I.F. men got both.
Chester .Reynolds, who won a commission as
captain in the Big Row, has been appointed
editor of the Mining Journal. A few
months previously Lieut. J. F. F. Reid, from
the Ma State, was put in charge of the
Agricultural Journal.
Digger Russell Clarke, of Rupertswoccl,
who .may well be forgiven for wearying of
the \ ic. Uppah Chamhah, in which he sits
(occasionally), is ambitious to enter the
Senate, and, Fairbairn having decided to
retire next year, has got in early with an
announcement that he will ask the Yic. N.F.
and A.W.N.L. to put him on the list for
selection. He is the eldest son of the second
marriage of Baronet William Clarke (to
Janet Snodgrass), and most likeable. Enter-
ing the A.I.F. as a private, he took his share
of. potato-peeling at Broadmeadows while
being broken in, and won a lieutenancv be-
fore he finished.
Charles. Ross, F.R.FI.S., fruit-culture in-
structor in Bananaland, who I ’., retires on
account of reaching the age liinit, was a
Yorkshire orchardist and seedsman before he
landed in Brisbane in ’7B. He was in the
propagating department at Brisbane Botanic
Gardens for . a while, and then spent 18 years
growing things on the Darling Downs. After
managing the Hermitage and Westbrook
State Farms, he got his last appointment
in 1910. For 40 years the leading Q. agri-
cultural and horticultural societies have
known him as exhibitor, organiser or judge,
and he led several collecting expeditions into
the mountainous regions of the State.
L,. A. (“Dicky”) Adamson, headmaster of
Wesley College (Melb.), just back from a
trip to the Cold Land, is so well endowed
with this world’s goods that only a love of
boys keeps him in the game. His father was
a seneschal in the Isle of Wight, with a
mansion in Portland-place and a country
seat in Northumberland. Large ironworks
interests ran in the family. “Dicky” was
called to the Bar at the Inner Temple in
18S5, and became a Melbourne barrister
three years later; but he never practised. He
has no need to work, and he doesn’t—he
slogs.
“T. 0.1.”: Captain Bayer Spain, whose
steamer recently struck trouble during a fog
in Bass Straits, belongs to a family that
has helped to make history. His grandfather,
W • S. Spain, was for some years private
secretary to English Priminister Lord
Palmerston. Eightv-odd years ago he went
to Maoriland as Commissioner to settle
disputes between the Maoris and the land
companies which had established themselves
under charter and bought up from the chiefs
large tracts of the best country. Spain com-
pleted his work in 1844 and came to Sydney,
where he practised as a solicitor. For a
while, about 1850, he was Chief Commis-
sioner of Police. Bayer Spain, a young man
stm has bad 20 years ot deep-sea sailing,
for 11 of which he has held a master’s
certificate, and he never had a mishap until
the Ivantane was befogged in Bass Straits.
w f UCy , M h j ßurns > of Paddington
(N.S.W.), reached her 98th milestone the
other day. Her husband, John Fitzgerald
?S, WaS r T T rea f Ul ;?'u away baek in the
Ministi'es of Jack Kobertson and Parkes
and, being in office when the Barrier silver-
held was discovered, his name was <>iven
to the village that was
surveyed on the
N.S.W. side of the
border where the
track to Adelaide
crossed it. It is still
on the plans; but no
town ever grew there.
WILL SMITH, who
secretly left his office
as general secretary
of the Australian
Railways Union to
attend the Inter-
nationale at Moscow.
and who recently
returned to Australia
to say three things:
(1) that this is the
best country in the
world for the worker:
(2) that the. Russian
Revolution had,
except in spots, very
poor results; (3)
that Germany is
working so hard and
at such low wages
that it is going to
put tens of thousands
of workers in other
countries out of a
job before long.
(Smith's made-to-
measure suit cost
him less than 30/-
in Germany.)
Frank Tudor had a splendid memory. lie
could give the exact date of most of the prin-
cipal happenings in the two decades of the
Commonwealth Parliament, and mention the
sequence of events in a political turmoil
without reference to Hansard for support.
One night a few yeavs hack his nowrs
proved fatal to the dignity of a brother
Laborite who was interjecting from the
benches. Tudor affirmed that some bill or
other had passed the third reading on a
certain day, a nd his tormentor asked him
how he couid remember it. “Remember it?”
answered Tudor. “That occasion is in-
grained in my memory by the fact that on
the same date the honorable member paid me
back a quid which I’d said good-bye to
weeks before.”
From a Federal Gallery-man :
The Federal Parliament has a Tailor Jim, too.
Our Jim—Matthews, M.H.R. for Melbourne Ports—
is also podgy, and likewise grins, though his face
has been straightened of late by a painful . knee-
trouble. His native amiability fortifies him for all
the 1 ows of party politics, and he has to receive a
severe jolt in debate to lose the expression of good
tidings that he wears on his countenance. Most
Gallery slaves despjie Jim for his Volubility, but
I find in him a patriotism extenuating his doubtful
debating qualities. Jim has' a fine belief in Aus-
tralia and the Australians, and the strength of his
simple regard for his country was shown by his
fight on the Tariff. When many a professed Pro-
tectionist was meeting urgent deputations in the
bai or billiard-room, Matthews was on his feet
pushing the cause of the Australian manii-
facturer with a pertinacity that nothing could
affect. They called it “stonewalling” when he pro-
tested against the Government grovelling to the
Freetraders in the Senate, but he kept at it—often
to empty benches feeling that his creed was worth
talking about to the utmost limit of the Standing
Orders.
John Donovan, formerly member for West
Ilf j W * n House of Commons, who has
glided off to Shadowland, just as Castle rule
was being superseded, used to chuckle over
an incident that occurred while he was a
guest of the late Archbish. Carr in Mel-
bourne. Just as they were about to go out
tor a drive in the archiepiscopal coach a re-
porter arrived and asked the prelate if he
would comment on an attack on him by a
ColLns-street Baptist parson the previous
night. The Arch, said lie would prefer to let
the rev. gentleman retain whatever satisfac-
tion he had got out of his sky-rocket.
But,” said the man of ink, “surely you must
answer one heinous charge. You are accused
of the awful crime of being hospitable to re-
porters when they call.” Carr’s eyes twinkled.
It’s sorry I am that I’m going out,” he
said, “but perhaps we could go inside for a
minute or two,” and he turned from the car-
riage to lead the way to his reception-room.
But the pressman wouldn’t have it. “No,
your Grace,” he said; “I can’t allow the
gentleman part of you to lead astray, twice
m one week, the archbishop part of you.”
HOPE ETERNAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When my ship comes back from the Fortunate Isles,
The ship that I sent when the day was young,
I hope, good fellows, you’ll join with nte
And drink “Good Luck” when her flags are flung
And her guns peal out o’er the ocean blue,
And we catch “Heave-ho”' from her seamen true;
From the Golden Isles on the westering rim,
Where the stars die down and the moons grow dim,
When toy ship comes back.
For many a year in the Fortunate Isles
She has lingered mow since I bade her speed ;
But she’ll come to me laden with spice and pearl
And rubies rare for a Sultan’s need ;
And I can’t complain if her crew were fain
To rest them after the tempest’s pain,
And Life is golden and sweet out there;
But they’ll load me with treasures rich and rare
W’hen my ship comes back.
My hair was black when my ship fared forth,
S'ilvery-sailed to the Fortunate Isles ;
My hair is white as the snow to-day ;
And yet Hope lingers and points and smiles.
She whispers low: “When the west winds blow
And the sides at eve have the ancient glow ,
You will glimpse white sails as the sun goes down
And the clouds are wearing a rainbow crown
For your ship come back!”
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.


si
I
w
& -
n
m
> 2^
§§gg
S=s£
PJ
S>
m
),v
&
N.
=£
?ssr§sg
Z
©
fi?s
IM
§zmt'Western Sparfiiin^Wines
PzfjfL.
IMPERIAL RESERVE
(The Champagne of Australia).
V,


Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
“The drink of good taste.'
T. B.
LIGHT
ALE
Keep a bottle or three on the ice for those
unexpected occasions when a pal calls round!
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & COMPANY, LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
CoroNA
ms-
The Personal Writing Machine —the one you
can fold up and take with you anywhere.
A brand new CORONA costs only
£l7/17/-
including attractive carrying-case.
Other makes of typewriters for sale or rent.
Lowest prices.
Easy monthly payments if required.
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
17 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Society
“Exul” varies the viewpoint :■ —
The B.M.A. has no rule preventing a second doctor
from giving relief to a patient that the attending
doctor is too tired to visit. But to prevent causes of
friction among brother medicos —not to support a
monopoly, as “Lex” (B. 5/1 /’22) alleges—it has
wisely decreed that no member shall visit profes-
sionally a patient already under the care of another,
the interests of the public being safeguarded by the
proviso “unless the patient shall have informed the
WHEN THE CUPBOARD-DOOR WAS
OPENED.
“I believe she's got a very doubtful past.”
“Not now. It all came out in her divorce.”
first doctor that his services are no longer required.”
There is another law, written or unwritten but
well known, by which, when the patient tells the
second doctor that the first one is unable to come,
No. 2 may give temporary treatment; but at the
earliest convenient moment he must inform the No. 1
of what he has done and advise him when, in his
opinion, No. 1 should visit the patient again. I
have done this dozens of times, and have received
the thanks of my fellow-practitioners and half the
fee; and a high official of the B.M.A. tells me my
conduct was perfectly ethical. It is as well that all
doctors and the public should know these points
so that such an iniquitous and unethical happening
as “Lex’’ describes may not occur again. “Lex”
used inverted commas when he wrote “too tired.”
Well, doctors do get too tired sometimes. I have
not been able to undress or even lie down from
early Thursday morning till the following Monday
night, by which time I’d have gone to sleep if the
earth itself had got appendicitis, and I was the only
surgeon on it.
“Borom”: The ethical rule forbidding in-
terference with another doctor’s patients (B.
5/l/’22) is founded on good grounds. I
wouldn’t attempt to defend the mass of tra-
dition and custom which constitutes the
ethics of the profession, but this particular
rule is as much in the interest of the patient
as in that of the doctor. Certainly it would
be most dangerous for a patient to take two
doctors’ treatment simultaneously. One in-
explicable thing about the case “Lex” quotes
is why the second doctor, the personal friend,
did not get the consent of the first, who
would actually have been guilty of unethical
and unprofessional conduct had he with-
held it.
* * * *
“Coot”: She had just been to her first
Sunday-school, and we asked her what she
had learned. “God made the world in six
days and was arrested on the seventh,” she
lisped.
* * * *
“Moonraker”: When at Wynyard, on the
north-west coast of the Speck, in March,
1920, Birdwood laid what was to be the chief
stone of the first soldiers’ home in the dis-
trict. There was all the usual red, white
and blue talk about nothing being too good
for the soldiers, and pictures were drawn of
each with his own little palace. Meantime,
the local branch of the R.S.L. let the waiting
hero have the “use of a couple of rooms ad-
joining the club premises pending the build-
ing of his home.” He is still there, and has
removed Birdie’s foundation-stone to the
back verandah, that he may sit on it o’
Sunday mornings and muse upon the wonder-
ful ways of the w orld.
“White Australienne” : The Bulletin’s
remark (12/l/’22) that small peoples like
those of Australia and Portugal don’t take
long to “go nigger” reminds me of what is
happening in Java to-day. The' Dutch seem
to think nothing of marrying a native or half-
caste, and often it is difficult to tell at a
glance whether a tall, fair Dutchman is
pure Dutch or has the tar-brush. A white
girl from Australia is rash who goes to
Java and marries without knowing a good
deal about her future husband’s family. And
over there it is wise to use the word “native”
very carefully. In the rooms next mine at
the Hotel des Indes in Batavia was a doctor
with his wife and family on the eve of de-
parture to Europe ; and I was startled when
I learned that the “little native boy” play-
ing with the’r children was their very own
youngster. Yet to look at them casually you
would say that both parents were white.
Everywhere you meet cases like this, so that
when a new infant arrives there the first
question liable to be asked about it is as
to its color.
* * * *
“Exul” meets an old friend: —
An old panacea for ills, from diabetes to a broken
leg, has been recently revived, and is having another
run. It is the drinking of milk soured by allowing
the bacillus bulgaricus, or “milk-germ,” to grow in
it. These .lactic-acid-producing bacilli grow in
large clusters not unlike the heart of a cauliflower.
The treatment was
advocated by Metch-
nikoff as productive of
longevity through the
displacing of the
harmful colon bacillus
by this microbe. The
use of milk thus
soured has a high
repute among Orien-
tals as a hygienic
measure. It is chiefly
valuable when the
illness is due to the
alkaline condition of
the bowel contents
permitting increased
protein putrefaction
and absorption by the
body of these toxic|
products. If the
trouble be due to in-
creased carbohydrate
fermentation the treat-
ment will only do
harm. Before taking it the faeces should be tested
with litmus paper.
On the education-by-travel business; —
A couple of hundred youngsters from Westralia
have been exploring certain wildernesses of brick
and stone on the eastern side of the continent. They
are engaging kids, and their visit has excited a wild
howl, in which Mutch, Minister of Education, joined,
for an east-west expedition of N. S. Wales school-
boy's, the Government to furnish the needful, of
course. The youths from Jarrahland are paying
their own expenses. To get the money many of them
went out working before and after school-hours, but
the idea of anyone toiling when there is a Labor
Government to cadge from fills politicians like Mutch
with abhorrence. This edueation-by-travel business
is a good thing in moderation, but it can be over-
done. It was overdone by the very organisation to
which the travelling Gropers belong, the Young
Australia League. In an ambitious moment the
League once arranged a trip to America, the boys
being biHeted on friendly Yanks and raising the
dust by means of band concerts and nigger-minstrel
shows. The venture was unexpectedly prosperous —
too much so, in fact. It converted the Y.A.L. for a
time into an agency for the promotion of trips
here, there and everywhere by methods closely
NOT HIS DAY OUT.
“A two-hundred-pound motor-like for a shilling.”
“What on earth would I want a motor-bike for?”
“ Oh , take a chance—yon aren't likely to win it.”
resembling charity. Life for the Y.A.L.-ers be-
came one long holiday after another. This sort of
“education” was no good to boys inclined to be
indolent, and not a few of the barnstorming brigade
drifted into dead-end occupations like land-jobbing
and music-hall singing. Presently reciprocal tours
on the same principle were undertaken by youths
fi'om Western America; on one of these occasions
a party of Californians blew-out at Sydney and had
to be helped home by a “benefit” in a boxing-hall.
The outbreak of war found the Y.A.L. organising
another journey to the U.S.A. In defiance of public
opinion, which insisted that it wasn’t a time for
husky young fellows to go picnicking (a fairly large
percentage were of military age), the plans were
carried out, and the trippers spent part of 1915 on
the Panama Exhibition front. When they returned
the eligibles among them made good time to the
recruiting dep6t. Apart from that the League
boasts a respectable honor-roll. But it has taken
ii years to live down the unfriendly feelings
aroused by that misguided jaunt.
A CONFIDENT YOUNG MAN.
“He seems pretty sure of himself!”
“He is. The doctor told him when he was
ill that he was going to die, and he im-
mediately commenced taking lessons on
the harp!”
“P-C. 001”: Some -of the gentlemen we
have to deal with have a pleasing sense of
humor. One magsman, who confessed that
the business of changing notes into gold was
being ruined by amateurs, was lately charged
with a pretty little job at the expense of an
unsuspecting sheep-grower. Being required
to state his occupation he didn’t hesitate.
“Put me down a pigeon fancier,” he said.
“William E.”: That capacity to grin in
the face of Tragedy still crops up. A news-
boy had one of Lis legs crushed by a lorry
the other day at Redfern (Sydney) and was
hurried to hospital, where it was found
necessary to at once amputate his foot.
When he came out of the anaesthetic and
learned what had happened he meditated
solemnly for a moment, then, “Well, I sup-
pose I’ll have to sell my bike now,” he said.
* * * *
“Snell” : Bendy went up to Scott, engine-
driver at the Hand in Hand, and, addressing
him in a somewhat petulant tone, said: “I
hear you bin lickin’ Tom Holland.” “Yes, 1
have,’ admitted Scott with some warmth.
“You knew Holland had lured away mv
wife?” continued Bendy. “Yes, I did.” “Well,
all I can say, Scott, is it wasn’t the right
thing for you to lick Holland. What’ll
people think? It ain’t on me own account so
much I’m complainin’, but it wasn’t fair to
the lady.” Then, having done his duty as a
man and a husband, Bendy went his way.
He paused at a distance of ten paces to
repeat with keen reproach: “No it wasn’t-
it’ll get her talked about, you see.”
(Continued on page 18.)
THE ASSIGNATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The summer night was coming down;
I heard the curlews call
Beyond the little dusty town.
In shadow of a wall
The slinking fellow hid his head ;
His covert ways I saw ;
I heard the fearful words he said—
He seemed as one who’d cause to dread
The minions of the law.
His hat was drawn about his eyes;
Oppressed with shame or fear,
He seemed to shrink to half his size
Did anyone draw near.
He looked upon the darkling sky,
He cursed the evening breeze,
And whistled when the men went by
So jauntily—Oh, he was sly,
Yet very ill at ease!
From where I lay by him unseen
I heard the curses drip,
I saw his black and brutal mien,
And eke his twisted lip.
What crime he dreamed, what action vile
I scarcely dared to guess,
For, oh, his soul was leaking guile,
And bitter, bitter was his smile,
And awful his distress.
He leaned against a twisted tree;
His eyes’ infernal glow
In deeper shadow I could see—
The worst j soon must know.
There came a maid. The vicious youth,
His features wreathed in hate,
Confronted her, and muttered “’’Struth!
I thought yer wasn’t cornin’, Ruth—
Yer twenty minutes late!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
THE IMPERFECT ABLUTIONERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In Melbourne mixed bathing is not allowed,”
When Angelina goes to swim
Accompanied by brother Jim,
His manly form, her figure trim,
Suggest no impropriety.
But Mrs. Grundy, sour and grim,
Looks jealously at her and him
Beneath her glasses’ narrow rim,
And shudders with anxiety. '
She’s shocked to think a shapely limb,
That tapers to an ankle slim,
Should through the water flash and skim,
In masculine society.
Her views are finical and prim—
She loathes a man, but loves a hymn;
So, at her pharisaic whim,
Mixed bathing is impiety.
x.s.w.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


n
L X
OT
st
tt
m
m
m
'ft
7
T/
O/
f/
i
S/
m
a
c/
Man vs. Machine
Have you ever thought that figure work is purely mechanical? Seven shil-
lings and thirteen always make a pound, and 18/6 taken from a guinea must
invariably leave half-a-crown. Why not entrust mechanical work to machines?
Look at your bookkeeper as he bends over his
paper, figuring such calcufations as this in long
sequences through all the dreary columns of the
day’s work. He is wasting a trained mind. Do
you wonder that results come slowly and that
errors sometimes will creep in?
I," ■ ■ :
A man’s brain is not made of steel cogs and dials
precise to the thousandth part of an inch; he can-
not rival the speed and accuracy of a machine,
which never gets tired, never becomes confused,
never gives a wrong total.
Contrast the man who works with the Adding;
Machine, lightly depressing a few keys, and auto-
matically getting the totals, no matter how big
the figures or how long the columns. His books
are accurate and his work quicklv done.
This is a machine age. In production and distri-
bution we more and more rely on machines; why
not machines for keeping our records also? A
Burroughs in your Bookkeeping Department will
save time and money, and release your book-
keeper from mechanical routine.
Burroughs Machines are made by a Company with a
capital of £6,000,000, with factories at Nottingham,
England; Windsor, Canada; and Detroit, U. S : A., and
sales and service offices in the principal cities of the world.
SOLE IMPORTERS:
IRA L. ®. A. C. BERK,
Challis House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington,
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Hobart.
Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.
Christchurch and Dunedin.
4316
| Adding-Bookkeeping-- Calculating
Machines
fsd
fsd


Usher’s Hotel ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SAFETY FIRST!
LIFEBUOY SOAP
X LtVtRX
m
KILLS GERMS IN THE WASHTUB.
"For Ever Best/'
STAS
LASER
TOOHEY'S.
“Ron H.”: Some years back a police-
magistrate, two Outback J’s.P. and a ser-
geant of police were motoring from Wil-
cannia to Cobar (N.S.W.). It was a hot
and thirsty day, and because of that they
had taken aboard a cargo likely to meet the
case. On Outback roads gates are known as
“pubs,” because of the refreshments taken
when one is opened. By dusk they had
opened many gates, and all were feeling fit.
The P.M. was driving, and the speedometer
was dancing round the 35 mark when a
splintering crash suggested that they had
touched something in passing. “Good Lord!”
ejaculated the sergeant, “that was a gate.”
“Yes,” replied the P.M. calmly, “but we
can’t stop now—there’s a real pub a bit
further on!”
* * * *
“H.F.L.”: What a woman’s heart the
Bush has! A couple of years ago I was at
a C. of E. service in the far west of Queens-
land, conducted by Bush Brother Davis, re-
cently made Bishop of Carpentaria. In illus-
trating a point, he was telling of the agony
of suspense suffered by the family of a man
who was dying of the ’flu in Charleville.
Though he had been piling on the agony, it
didn’t occur to him to say what happened to
the man in the end —it wasn’t necessary to
the argument —and, after making his point
and driving it in, he was passing on. But
that wasn’t the way of the Bush. It
couldn’t leave a man like that. So to the
Brother’s momentary surprise a breathless
question was shot at him —“Yes, yes, but
did the man get through it?” Davies saw
what was the matter. “Yes,” he said, “he
got through it.” “That’s all right, then-
now go on,” said the voice of the Bush. And
Davis went on.
* * * *
“Pantin”: A lady-editor of my acquaint-
ance the other day received a gem in wed-
ding reports. Her correspondent wrote:
The bride carried a bunch of harem lilies
with the storks tied with white ribbon.”
HALL-MARKED.
“But I don’t know whether we should.
What’s their social standing?”
“Oh, they must be the real thing. They
owe money to all the best shops in
town.”
“Sierra”: I was third mate of a wool-
clipper approaching Sydney Heads after a
three-months’ passage from London. We
were prinking her up for port, and old Jack,
slung over the bows in a bos’n’s chair, was
polishing the brass letters of her name. The
job must have stirred his curiosity, for, look-
ing up at me, he said: “Beg parding, mister,
but what might be the name of this ’ere
’ooker?”
“FY7”: “Bill Bowyang” need not be in
a hurry to ascribe the old sword ploughed
up in the Macknade (N.Q.) canefield (B.
5/l/’22) to long-forgotten Dutch sailors.
Swords and cutlasses were part of the ordi-
nary equipment of the pioneers in N.S.W.
and Queensland. I have a vivid recollec-
tion of an old storeroom at Northampton
Downs, on the Barcoo, which was piled high
with ancient muzzle-loading rifles and car-
ONLY ONE ENCUMBRANCE.
SOLICITOR : “And — er—was there any issue
of the marriage?”
CLIENT: “My oath! A blinkin’ mother-in-
law.”
bines and even smooth-bore muskets, while
swords of all shapes and sizes were there by
the dozen. Most of these last ultimately
found their way into the possession of the
station kids, and may be dug up some day
to have an ingenious theory tacked on to
them.
• # # *
“D. 11.5” : The A.F.C. had some miraculous
escapes. Few pilots are living who have
been through a collision
in the air. One of them
is Lieut. Cato. He col-
lided with another ’bus
at 8000 ft. and had a
wing broken. The other
machine spun to earth,
killing its occupant. The
only thing for Cato to
do was to keep his en-
gine going at full speed,
and he had thus to face
a landing at 120 miles
an hour as the one alter-
native to certain death.
He survives to dream
about it. Lieut. Val
Rendel, one of the
pilots who attempted the
flight to Australia, was
also in an aerial colli-
sion ; in his case the two
machines were safely
brought to earth locked
together. Another whose
guardian angel proved
dinkum was Lieut.
White, D.F.C., who was
shot down from a height
of 14,000 ft. and found a
river ready to break his
fall. A canal similarly obliged Lieut.
Jock Goodson when he was brought
down. And, if they are still what they were
when I knew them, they’d all be ready to
take another chance if needed.
* * » «
“Squills”: Australians keep on being
casual. A train was held up for a few
minutes at the Homebush (Sydney) station
while a youngster made his entry to the
world the other day; and a few days before
that an infant was born in a shop at Mort-
dale. A suburban “social,” at Woollahra,
had a similar sensation just about the same
time; and in that case the mother, who
owned her own car, insisted on going home
within a couple of hours of the event.
“Ron H.”: Is this a record? She is the
wife of a grazier in the Scone (N.S.W.)
district, and was married at 16. At 22
she was the mother of six healthy young
Aussies—and there were no twins or trip-
lets.
**■ * *
“Spare Corp”: In spite of the tendency to
rely on the Government to supply assistance
in all phases of life, there are still some
Diggers’ dependants who have refused to
claim the rights to
which they are en-
titled. One widow,
with five children to
think of, had already
got down to the busi-
ness of self-support
shortly after her hus-
band went away, and
when he was killed
she had to be
prompted several
times before she would
make a move to get
her pension. Even then
she steadily refused
to accept any other
form of assistance;
and when told that
she could get educa-
tional allowances for
her children she de-
clared that she was
able to pay for their
education herself. An-
other woman, who
works hard on a farm
left her by her hus-
band, for long re-
fused to claim her
pension, and only ap-
plied for it recently,
in order to secure
money to assist cases
o f distress among
Diggers in her neigh-
borhood ; and she re-
ligiously applies the
money to this pur-
pose. The idea be-
hind these objections
to take “assistance”
is a mistaken one.
But the sturdy inde-
pendence that underlies it is an asset in a
country all too ready to lean upon “the
Government.”
* * * *
“Roma”: Mateship is a thing that beats
all known rules. Archie, an active, highly-
strung chap, and George, a decent bloke of
the heavier type, have been pals for years
and often go gay together. After
four or five George invariably de-
cides that he has had enough and
“must look after Archie.” From
then on he drinks soft stuff, while
Archie proceeds to get mad drunk.
The fun begins when George tries
to take his cobber home. Archie,
when sprung, possesses marvellous
strength, and to my knowledge has
given George two broken ribs, sev-
eral chewed ears, innumerable
black eyes, and once, on running
to George’s cry of blue murder, we
found Archie sitting on his chest
rolling a spur down the side of his
face. George was a mass of stick-
ing-plaster next day, but the friendship was
as. strong as ever. Still, George has a
grievance.. “The blanker never apologises,”
he says.
* * * #
“X2X” on a gruesome test :
“Mirza’s” mention (B. 12/l/’22) of the attempt
made in France to restore life to the head of a
guillotined criminal recalls a similar happening in
the same country which did at least produce some
definite results. Immediately the head dropped into
the basket it was placed in a receptacle in which
the normal temperature of the body was maintained,
and then physiological salt solution was injected
into the main blood-vessels, and a number of other
expedients resorted to in order to preserve any
flicker of life that might be remaining. Something
like 20 minutes after the head had been severed
the expression of the face changed completely and
in such a way as to preclude the possibility of its
having been due to a contraction of the facial
muscles. It was said to be more like a look of
“agonised appeal” than anything else, followed by
a slow settling down of the features until they bore
a fixed expression almost of complacency. Those who
witnessed the experiment were all of such scientific
and professional eminence that their statements could
not be doubted, and the majority of them were satis-
fied that for a certain period a slowly-diminishing
consciousness remained in the head. The brain is
not wholly dependent on the pulsation of the heart
for its consciousness, but only to the extent that
it must have a continual supply of fresh blood;
so that when the heart stops beating this conscious-
ness may continue until what blood there is in the
cerebral capillaries is exhausted of its content of the
chemical compounds which are renewed with each
process of changing the venous blood to arterial
blood. When this exhaustion is complete the last
spark of consciousness disappears, and the subject
is then as dead as it is possible for him to be.
But until it does take place there is no reason why
a person should not be dimly aware of what is
going on around him. The hypothesis, of course,
does not apply in cases of death by sickness or acci-
dent, for here other factors enter to complicate
things.
* * • •
_ Mr®-, Lance”: Re spirit playmates (B.
5/1/22). Joe, a small boy who spent the
last two years of his life in a North Queens,
land hospital, had an Aberdeen terrier,
“Teddy,” from the time its eyes opened, and
the two were devoted to each other. When
Joe was dying he told the doctor and nurses
that Teddy was going with him, and that
he’d never stop in his grave without him. He
died with the dog beside him, and at the
funeral Teddy jumped into the grave, and
cried pitifully when removed. Then it was
noticed that at night he would make off with
an old cap of Joe’s in his mouth. A week
or so later, the doctor, driving past the
cemetery, heard the dog barking as if at
play, and on going to investigate saw him
racing round the grave, the cap in his mouth,
and acting as though Joe was playing with
him. He paid no heed to the doctor’s
whistle, but kept on with his game. This
went on for some days; then Teddy became
very thin and weak. One night while a
nurse had him on her lap he suddenly sat
up and listened, looking towards the door,
after which, barking joyfully, he jumped
down and ran as though to welcome and
fawn upon someone in the centre of the room.
Then, with nurses and doctor looking on, he
passed out of the door and down the veran-
dah steps, and, still leaping and barking,
disappeared in the direction of the cemetery.
He was found there dead next morning.
The doctor’s explanation was that the dog
was sick and his mind abnormally excited like
that of a sick child, who will often imagine
he sees objects and people not present.
* » * »
“Bouragi” on chastising niggers:—
When “Hanno” (B. 5/l/’22) says the New
Guinea native is a child and must be corrected as
a child he is voicing the simplest truth, even if the
humbugs who habitually hand out hidings to their
own children shut their eyes to the fact. It is a
queer anomaly that the wowser whose voice is
always lifted in protest because a remote and erring
cannibal gets half a dozen cuts with a yard of
lawyer-vine, invariably leads the chorus which
demands the cutting to pieces with a cat-o’-nine-
tails of some wretched pervert in our own gaols.
In cold truth the average youth brought up by
“strict” parents gets many a worse hiding than
CONDITIONALLY.
“Do you think you could reach something
off the kitchen cupboard for me?”
“Yes, Gran’ma —if it isn’t the castor-oil.”
any thieving or insubordinate savage in the islands
nowadays. Old Sir William Macgregor’s methods
Of handling the native races are often quoted
approvingly, yet Macgregor had as many sinful
darkies walloped as any man who ever sweated in
B.N.G. He made no bones about hanging them,
either, when occasion justified this extreme course.
When he first ascended the Mamba, a prominent
darky grabbed a tomahawk from the whaleboat
and bolted. Macgregor gave the runner 20yds. to
think it over, and then let him have both barrels
from a handy shotgun. The native in question
was Busi-mai-mai, much paragraphed in later years
as a “chief,” and he carried the marks of the
shot to his dying day. What sort of an explosion
would Hughes hear if a similar occurrence was
reported nowadays ?
CARNIVAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Some clearing showers with thunder on the
coast and tablelands.” —Weather report.
The wind-girls and the thunder-boys
Are sporting in the sky;
The clouds are full of heavy noise
The sharp gilt lightnings fly.
Each strip of rain comes whistling down —
A long and shining pin—
And when it meets the garden brown
The thunder drives it in.
The drunken gum-trees reel and shout,
The sally-wattles sway
And toss confetti all about
The ferns new-wed to-day.
The blue kingfisher’s shining wings
Dart swiftly through the shower;
And merrily a cow-bell rings
Because the milk is sour.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.
DOMESTIC D.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“What oc. ?”—Any census paper, any voting card.
I don’t mind telling them my age
Nor what religion I profess,
Where I was born, my weekly wage,
How much a year I spend on dress;
But till I’m dead two words I’ll dread,
At all my scruples fine they’ll mock—
When fate’s decreee enforces me
To give an answer to “What Oc. ?”
And there it is in black and white
For all the passing world to see,
Though I would keep it safe from sight—
My “oc.” is plain “Domestic D.”
They rub it in, this venial sin,
Whose knowledge to the world I grudge;
In every land sufficient brand,
“Domestic D.”—Domestic drudge.
N.S.W.
TEMPE.


rro
.n
m
\
8
y<
l
a
5S
sf
4>
\\\>N
<r
k
ft o
( <9
r^
Palmolive—the fragrant bond between
Australia and ancient Egypt
IT was because the climate of Egypt
and the rest of the Levant was so
severe on delicate skins—so hot and dry
and harmful—that Palm and Olive oils
were esteemed so highly by the Ancients.
Palm and Olive oils were the great
cosmetics of Old Egypt—the salvation of
the charms of the regal beauties of that
romantic land.
It is because the climate of Australia is so
severe on delicate skins —so hot and dry
and harmful —that Palmolive Soap, con-
taining those very Palm and Olive oils,
is so valuable in this country also.
The Australian woman who neglects her
skin pays a tremendous price for her
neglect. The skin soon dries and quickly
ages. The woman who uses Palmolive
finds in the mild, soothing creamy lather
her finest ally and surest safeguard.
Wash the face gently with the velvet,
creamy lather of mild Palmolive and
massage it softly into the skin. When
this foam is rinsed away, it carries off the
impurities which clog the pores and are
the foundation of
skin infection and
disfigurement.
Palmolive is at once
a cleanser, a tonic
and a balm. Though
so thorough and
beneficial in action,
it is as gentle and
mild as a zephyr.
Palmolive cleanliness
is different. You will
appreciate it.
Sells everywhere at 1/3 per cake
PALMOI
The guest-size cake of Palmolive Soap
will be sent post free on request by The
Palmolive Company (Australasia) Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence St., Sydney.
m
<m A
lAwiift 1 ;
*/b*


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
vflGfflfOßffj
JfEJCTRAHIfiHGBADri
ReadyrubbQ)
3] B. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
A Signal Success
orge IV
TheTOP-NOTClTScotck
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
QUITE UNNATURAL.
“How'd yer like Sydney, Bill?”
“Well, it gets me.”
“Awful big place, ain’t it?”
“Yers. But it ain’t that. Why, there’s
blokes there wot shaves every blanky
day of the week!”
“Echap”: “Bendee” (B. 22/12/’2l)
misses the point (the soft lead point) in his rele-
gation of “Small Bore’s” gun to the amateur class.
Comparison of this arm with any military weapon
illustrates nothing, for the .22 high-power bullet
has a naked point of very soft lead, and his Digger
pal would not have run a yard had he been hit
through the brain —or any other portion of his
anatomy—with this metal. “Bendee’s” suggestion
that “S.B.’s” “clean misses” might have been hit
through the bingey and galloped a mile before
taking any notice of the wound shows that his
experience with the .22 H.V. is not very extensive.
At 50yds. I have hit ’roos in the commissariat
with a .22 H.V. (where a .32-40 would only make
them gallop faster), and the result has been instan-
taneous death. No particle of the bullet penetrated
the hide on the far side; an examination showed the
entrails, paunch, liver, etc., mangled almost beyond
recognition, and all that remained of the bullet
was a few tiny scraps of lead and nickel distributed
right through the mess. As a test of shocking force
I fired a .32-40 and a .22 H.V. into the same piece
of wood at point-blank range (12yds.), and found
that the .32-40 penetrated 6in. and remained in one
crumpled-up piece, while the .22 H.V. required
sifting from the sawdust at the base of its sin.
hole, thus illustrating that the whole of its shock-
ing force (1140 foot-pounds) was collected in less
penetration than the mere 770 foot-pounds of the
.32-40. P.S.—For grizzly-bears (where you not
only require a skin for every shot, but must get it
or lose your own), Roosevelt favored a Ross .280, the
rifle with the highest known velocity—3looft. per
second —and a soft-pointed bullet exactly similar in
construction to the .22 H.V.
* * * *
“X.Y.”: Reverting to those insanitary
cows (B. 17/11/*2I). I once saw, in the cowshed
of an ingenious friend, a device which made the
cows clean by compulsion. Above the cow in the
bail, and about midway along her back, he had a
framework like a window sash running in guides.
When a cow was to be bailed up it was hauled up out
of the way, and when the bail was fastened the
frame was let down till the lower portion was about
one inch above the middle of the cow’s backbone, and
a pull on a lever locked it in that position. Then
if the cow attempted to misbehave herself she
promptly bumped her spine against a solid 3xl hard-
wood rail, which formed the lower side of the frame.
The remedy was instant and complete. My friend’s
device was an elaborate but anyone may
prove the value of the idea by fixing a strong, narrow
rail about an inch above the cow’s back by any
means a t hand.
“5.16”: His name is Jack Lovell, and lie
has been for a lot of years an orchardist and small
fruit-farmer in the Speck. When he was splitting
shingles he could start at 8 a.m. and with help only
in cross-cutting the logs he could knock off at
4 p.m. with his 4000 15in. x 4in. shingles, three
to the inch, split ready to cart. Recently we wanted
5000 30in. x sin. shingles, and we asked Jack about
it. “Well,” he said, “it’s 20 years since I handled
a paling knife, but if you can get someone to cut
off the logs for me I’ll do it.” And the job was
done in five days. Later he cut 1500 in the one
day for a Port Huon job. Jack is SO years young
and has only one hand, t’other being a hook; he
is not much over sft., is as thin as a whipping-post,
and it will take an axe to kjll him.
“Bouragi”: Re scrub itch (B. 15/12/’2l),
in B.N.G. we always found that rubbing with a
paste of a well-known brand of coal-tar soap did
the trick, and it was advisable to treat the ankles
and shins with it before setting out through the
scrub in the morning. In the days of the Gira
goldfield a Samarai storekeeper took his bride a
trip up the Kumusi to a store he was running at
Bogi. Owing to the launch stranding, the lady had
to walk half a mile through the jungle, and only
prompt and heroic treatment with the soap ail the
store saved the situation. Carbolic soap is just as
good, the main idea being to kill the little bur-
rowing red spider which starts the trouble under
the skin.
* M. „
* *
Dido : Jack Taunton and Geordie Spence
had gone missing on their way home from the pub
on the Saturday night. When it was found that
the mates had not stayed at the hotel all night
Glunes took alarm. The miners had to go home
across the flat by the creek, a flat honeycombed with
old shafts. It was Taunton’s dog located the hole
late on Sunday. Yells drew a feeble response from
below, a rope was slung over a log, and Best
was lowered. He fastened Spence on first, as the
most injured, and Geordie was hatfled to the sur-
face. Taunton came next, mud to the eyes and
soaking wet, but quite unharmed, whereas his mate
had a broken thigh and fractured ribs. Taunton
explained: “Geordie fell down the shaft and I walked
down after him.” “You walked down?” “Yes.
Couldn’t leave the man there to drown.” “But,
hang it, man, you couldn’t walk down one hundred
and fifty feet of shaft.” Jack looked the doubter
coldly in the eye. “You could, mate,” he said, “if
you was as drunk as I was.”
* * * #
“Colub”: Cases in which the fangs of a
venomous snake have grown again after extraction
are numerous and well authenticated. Some years
ago I helped to remove a black snake’s fangs. Three
months afterwards, when the reptile was ana:s-
thetised and its mouth examined, there was not the
slightest sign of fangs, the only mark to indicate
that it had ever possessed any being two slight but
healed scars. Nine months later two projections
had developed, and these grew, until at last they
began to assume the definite form of fangs, with
ducts. In another case that I heard about the fangs
grew again within 12 months, but without the ducts,
although I should say that such a happening would
he more likely to be the exception than the rule.
Apparently the fangs originate from cells that are
able to reproduce.
» * * *
“Pick”: Wholesale bird-slaughter barred,
who can better these shot-gun performances? In a
kangaroo drive at Bonnie Doon station, near Lake
Bathurst (N.S.W.), Tom Styles, with a single shot
from a muzzle-loader, killed six ’roos and wounded at
least two more, from a mob crossing a glade in the
scrub. At Dalgety, on the Snowy River (N.S.W.),
Fred Murrell, lying in wait for hares beside a crop
of wheat, killed nine with one cartridge, as they lined
up along a track, before passing in to supper. Jack
Trapp, on Mt. Dromedary (N.S'.W. South Coast), so
effectually crippled seven full-sized snakes with one
shot that he was able to further deal with the lot
before they could wriggle into their home crevice in a
rock a few yards away.
“Theo. D. Lite”: The escape of a Vic.
youngster who dangled his feet from an overhead
bridge on to the electric-tram wires the other day
reminds me. When we were re-establishing the old
boundary of Royal Park (Melb.) we had to chain
into the railway cutting. I went down, and as the
HE NEEDED IT.
BUNG (angrily): “Here! What's the game? You rush into this bar and say: ' A
woman's been knocked - down by a motor-car. I haven't any money, but for
God’s sake give me some brandy!' And when I give it to you you start to
drink it.”
THE WRECK ( reasonably ) : “Well, certainly. Wouldn't you want a nip of brandy if
you'd seen a thing like that?”
boss was throwing the end of the chain to me the
wind flung it against one of the overhead wires.
When I re-climbed the bank I found him flat out
to it and about 2ft. of the chain burnt. If it
hadn’t .been that it was a five-chain tape, with about
four chains lying on the wet earth behind him, he
would probably be running traverses down the
eternal subway with an asbestos jigger now.
* ■*■ •* #
“M. 8.”: Recently while walking through
the bush with the local sergeant of police I saw on
a patch of smooth grassland a circle about 10yds, in
diameter, almost as perfect as if described with a
compass. The grass all round the circumferencr
was quite dead and in places worn away, while else-
where it - was green. The sergeant reckoned it was
“a hares’ racecourse,” and said he had seen hares
racing round similar tracks in pairs for an hour
at a time without intermission. Does the Abo. Coun-
cil know anything about it ?
OVERWEIGHT.
“But I gave you some cake only a few
minutes ago.”
“Yes, mum. But I tried it on yer aucks an’
they've all sunk.”
“McNorth”: The old problem of how
tobacco came to Papua is agitating certain English
scientists again. On the coast native tobacco is not
grown, though, as white planters have proved, con-
ditions are suitable, and, presumably, smoking was
unknown till introduced by early European or
Asiatic explorers. But in the mountainous interior
every village garden has its tobacco-patch, and the
people have knowledge of curing processes. Travel-
lers have found the weed among natives who could
not possibly have been in contact with whites
before; .neither had they any communication with
the coast. I saw cultivated tobacco on the slopes
of Mount St. Mary’s, 18 days’ walk from the coast.
The people did not know whence it came; they had
always had tobacco, they said, just as they had
always had sweet-potatoes and yams. These folk
smoked the leaf in the form of cigars. In the 'Snow
Mountains of Dutch New Guinea naturalist R. S.
Meek found not only' tobacco but crude pipes. Un-
doubtedly he was the first white these people had
seen. The theory that the plant was introduced
from America at some forgotten age falls down
before the fact that it reached the interior without
leaving a trace of its passing on the coast. The
only conclusion is that it is indigenous. Inciden-
tally, the tobacco is of good quality, a kind of cigar-
leaf,' and, even when crudely cured by natives, smokes
well.
* * * *
Set-screw”: I can go one better than
“Hayband’s” chaffcutting tally of 864 bags, under
open-air conditions (B. 29/12/’2l). On F. Agar’s
farm, Laverton (Vic.), Joe Vincent and Martin Cal-
laghan rung, sewed and stacked 960 bags in 9J hours.
Haybands were used to sew the bags, which went 21
to the ton, so the lot works out at 46 tons. All of
this chaff was loaded on the waggons during the day ;
so the actual cutting time was no more than eight
hours. The machine used was a Buncle, 12-inch
mouth, 5-inch lift, owned by Nick Newton, of Werri-
bee, who patented a safety-feed attachment for chaff-
cutters, which if fitted to all machines would be the
means of saving many an arm, hand and finger.
Jim Carew”: That muscovy duck
“Malua” (B. 29/12/’2l) writes about doesn’t take
the large-family prize, though she gets very close
to it. A farmer near Bathurst (N.S.W.) got a
surprise the other day when a white-leghorn hen
that had been posted missing for nearly a month
proudly marched home at the head of a family of
31. All doing well, thanks.
* * * *
“Orney”: T’other day in the cellar I cut
a snake in halves with a spade as he was disappear-
ing down a hole, lopping off 3jft. of what appeared
to be about sft. of wriggler. Three days later I
found a head and 2ft. of maimed snake wriggling
on the third rung of the cellar-steps.
(Continued on page 22.)
MUSTERING SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, give me the hills
And valleys and rills,
A bit of birch bush here and there,
Four dogs for a pack,
A good-tempered hack,
And call me Dick Devil-may-care. -
I care not a jot,
What anyone’s got,
I don’t care for fashion or togs,
But life’s just a dream
When I know I’ve a team
Of the best of the come-to-heel dogs
With a curse and a frown,
I’ve bid them sit down
On many a well-beaten track;
On Glynn Wye and Lochiel,
I’ve called them to heel,
And mustered Skiddaw front and back.
On St. Helens I’ve camped,
The Hossack I’ve tramped,
I’ve ridden St. James wet and fine;
There’s scarcely a run
That I haven’t now done,
From the Hope Valley Tops to the Brine.
I’ve sworn at the curs
On the hills and the spurs
Of Tekoa and Montrose as well;
Don’t mind if I boast —
It’s the dogs I want most
When I start the last muster through Hell.
So give me the hills
And valleys and rills,
A bit of birch bush here and there,
Four dogs for a pack,
A good-tempered hack,
And call me Dick Devil-may-care.
MAORILAND.
RON DUNCAN.


ADVENTURE NOVELS
in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST FICTION LIBRARY.
OVER 100 VOLUMES BY FOREMOST AUTHORS.
SALES EXCEED TWO MILLIONS.
1/3 each. 1/44 posted.
“THE MAKER OF PEARLS” - - - - by S. W. POWELL
An excellent Islands story,
“YELLOW SILVER” ----- by EDWARD MERYON
Adventure in the Backblocks of Western Australia.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH” - - - by DON DELANEY
A great Australian bushranging story.
“THE KNIGHT OF THE MOTOR-LAUNCH” r r
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER” - - - by RALPH STOCK
ADVENTURE NOVELS OE THE NORTH.
By jack McLaren?
“THE SKIPPER OF THE ‘ROARING MEG,’ ” “RED
MOUNTAIN,” “THE SAVAGERY OF MARGARET NESTOR.”
‘THE
By BEATRICE GRIMSHAW:
CORAL QUEEN,” “QUEEN VAITI,”
“WHITE SAVAGE SIMON.”
Over 100 novels to select from in the “Bookstall” Series.
Obtainable from all Booksellers and Bookstalls in the
Commonwealth.
WHITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE (FREE).
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney.
9
LEVIATHAN
“SQUARE DEAL” SALE
Featuring
LEVIATHAN
TAILORING
At Great Reductions.
New Shipment of
ENGLISH AND ,
SCOTCH MATERIALS
Square-Deal Tailoring enables you to
have a “Quality” Suit to Order in
selected Imported Materials, abso-
lutely the Latest Shades, combined
with the Leviathan Distinctive Out.
Our “Quality” Suit to Order is cer-
tainly an excellent saving proposition.
Priced at 7 guineas.
SQUARE DEAL SALE,
£5/19/6
11GN. NAVY TWILL SUITINGS
Indigo Dye, Guaranteed Worsted
Twills, London shrunk. These materials
are worth 30 per cent, more than we
are charging. A Super “Quality’
Navy Suit to Order, with best linings
and finish throughout, is undeniably
the last word in Smartness, Newness,
and Correctness. Worth 11 guineas.
SQUARE DEAL SALE,
wr%
&
m
' JBSk
Wmm
I
i
w
m
Ha
i otm
m
Leviathan
pty. LTD. (
Cr. Swanston and
BourKe Streets,
Melbourne.
V
a
S*
ScSK.
V
\V
V •£
4'
x v v^
0 o'
- t
M
\ ''
L
TILTH
TELLS!
“The extra cultivation at the
moment of planting counts for
much in the resultant crop.”
The “Suntyne” Drill Cultivator Combined
is THE Implement.
CATALOGUE POSTED FREE ON REQUEST.
V • " ’ „ r,- -■ . * ' ‘ •
H. V. McRAY PTY. LTD., Sunshine Harvester Works, S\lHShil\C
BRANCHES:
Comer COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
102-105 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Comer YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
36 PIER STREET, PERTH.


FULL FASHIONED 8 HOCK SEAMED
HOLEPROOF SILK HOSE
Is appreciated more when it brings with it freedom from the BOTHER
and DRUDGERY of DARNING.
FOR MEN AS WELL AS WOMEN.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DRAPERS AND MERCERS.
Ls£>
I
“Murkah”: “J.J.D.” asks (B. 12/l/’22)
why whirlwinds occur only in the daytime. All
winds result from differences of atmospheric pressure
caused by differences of temperature. Should
for any reason these differences become marked the
rush of colder air from all sides to replace that
rising produces a rotary motion, thus producing the
familiar willy-willy. With the setting of the sun
the primary reason for acute local differences of
temperature passes. Which explains why the breeze
so often dies away at sundown.
* * * *
“Edo” : I was walking in from the Carr-
Goe mine, a few miles up the Goulburn from
Nagambie (Vic.), when I came upon him and his
home. He was a small, unkempt, unwashed scamp
of a man who said he earned his living as a rouse-
about at the vineyard across the river. He had
built his home so that he could almost dip a billy
into the stream from his front door, and never had
a Ballarat East Ghow a more dilapidated resting-
place. The hut was just river drift piled together,
with bark thrown on for a roof; but a damaged
ankle made me glad of any shade in the wilderness
of heat till Yeoman’s boat came along. I com-
mented on the roof. “Yes,” he admitted yawn-
ingly, “it lets the rain in. But it ain’t no use
mending it. If it rains anythin’ worth mentionin’
the river comes up an’ washes me out, so where’s
the sense in mendin’ the roof?”
* * * *
“Morob”: “.Country Ped’s” statement (B.
15/12/’21) that the spur of the male platypus can
inflict a poisoned wound is probably correct, but
does not prove that the spur is a poison-spur. What
happened when “Country Ped’s” youthful relation
was given a poisoned hand was most likely that
he was infected by the organisms which produce
blood-poisoning or a septic infection. The youth
might have received a similar injury from the claws
of a dog or a cat, both of which probably teem with
streptococci and staphylococci, the organisms in
question. As a matter of fact, from “Country Ped’s”
description of the wound, this is far more likely
to have been the case, for had a poisonous fluid
been injected one would expect general effects rather
than local ones, while with strep, and staphy. the
reverse is the more probable. Apart from this, care-
ful dissection of the spur has failed to reveal any-
thing even resembling a venom gland.
CONSEQUENCES.
“So she winked at you, eh? And — er—what
followed?”
“ I did.”
Echap”: Among the abos. in this (W.Q.)
district I’ve got the reputation of being a white
bone-pointer. Some nig. had pointed a bone at
my best black stockman, and, though he was in
perfect health, he was proceeding to die, as no one
could find the fatal bone and bury it—the only
known antidote to the magic it represented. I
argued and bullied, but to no purpose j Jimmy went
on dying. When the thing got critically serious I
decided to pander to superstition. I unearthed a
bone I had seen “planted” with due ceremony a
few weeks before and took it back to the camp.
Heie, I yelled to Jimmy’s gin, proffering the
bone (a kangaroo’s shinbone, supposed, “for the pur-
pose of the act,” to be a human forearm bone) —“take
him bone and bury him, then Jimmy get all right
quick-fellow.” She looked at it, she stared at it,
then her eyes bulged from their sockets in horror.
“Ow!” she screamed. “Nah, nah! Two fella die!
I know ’m thad one bun. Marra bin point ’im
longa me w’en I bin leave ’im an’ go longa Chimmy.
Nah you bin dig ’im up. Ow!” —and she dropped
stone dead from fright. There wasn't a live nigger
on the station at daylight—only the smoking ruins
of their humpies. Nor will any blacks ever come
within a day’s walk of the place while I’m here.
* . * * *
Te W.” : I have yet to meet an owl which
utters the “too-whit-too-woo” of the storybooks.
The boobook has a call something like the sound
of his front name, while the powerful (or eagle)
owl shrieks like a lost soul, and the delicate
(Australian barn) owl simply hoots. A half-caste
aboriginal’s name for the friar-bird is “Mother
Yorky,” the latter syllables being fairly well descrip-
tive of one of its curious calls. But the fowl which
speaks most distinctly is the brush-wattle, or little
gillbird, which inquires anxiously “Did you walk it ?
Did you walk it?” Its big cousin, the gillbird,
on the other hand, has one common note which
SATURDAY.
“Where you going this afternoon ?”
“Not going anywhere—going home.”
recalls the sounds that emanate from passengers on
a steamer when the sea is rough. The black fantail
(willy wagtail) reminds us, chiefly on warm moon-
lit night, that it is a “sweet, pretty creature”
which some translate into “Kitty Fisher,” and call
the bird by that name. Gould considered that of
all Australian birds the channel-billed cuckoo’s voice
was the harshest, and described it as a “frightful
scream. ”
“Jim Carew”: I can’t enter for “Jobber’s”
labbage-planting championship (B. 22/12/’21), but
1 can quote a cauliflower-planting tally that will
• & ke some beating. On the Macquarie Flats, just
out of Bathurst (N.S.W.), four Chows put out 24,500
plants in one day. Certainly they worked from
jackass to mopoke, but the results that year justified
it.
* * * *
“Twilight”: An old hand told me that he
saw a tall, thin chap ride at a three-rail fence, which
the horse struck heavily. The rider was thrown,
and, after a stride or two, the prad came to a stand-
still. When the mob ran up the fallen man was on
his back between the front and hind legs of the horse,
with both feet caught in the stirrups, and the saddle
had not shifted. There is only one way it could
have happened—the man must have gone over the
horse’s head and the neddy must have jumped between
his legs as he fell. Then a young hand told me that,
while riding a half-broken colt, it bolted down hill,
and struck a five-strand wire-fence, the posts of which
had been burnt half through at the bottom. When
the colt hit this he flattened out a chain or so,
turned a complete somersault, landed on his feet and
galloped away minus his rider.
“W.A.” r We were talking about liars.
“Yairs,” said Bill Wirewhiskers, “that last rouse-
about of mine was the best I ever met. Why, after
he’d been with me a week the flamin’ pigs wouldn’t
come to their tucker if he called ’em.”
“Caley” : Standing in the elay-pit of a sub-
urban brickyard the other day I felt what I took
to be ants crawling up my legs. They turned
out to be fleas —big, fat, soft ones. The foreman
assured me they come out of the grey-black shale
at the bottom of the pit, and that each charge of
fracteur releases a fresh lot. Has my leg been
pulled as well as bitten?
* * # *
“Veronal” (B. 8/12/’2l) makes
wrong deductions re the jungle-fowl or mallee-hen.
The bird builds a very large round mound in which
to lay the eggs, each succeeding generation adding
to its size. The mound is opened out in April and
May, to receive the maximum amount of moisture
during June and July. The birds, with their wings
and legs, sweep along the ground a large quantity
of leaves, bark and other vegetable matter, and stack ■;
it neatly in the centre of the basin, slightly raised
in the middle. In August and September the sides
of the basin are partly filled in, the vegetable matter
being covered with sand, and in the last week of
September or early in October the first egg is laid
and the mound is completed, all the sand being
beautifully rounded up over the decaying vegetable
matter. This produces the heat to hatch the eggs.
These are thin-shelled and about the size of a goose-
egg, and are laid end up in the sand just over the
heating apparatus in such a way that no egg will
interfere with the free exit of chickens from other
eggs. Generally they are arranged in a perfect
circle. The hen when going to lay flattens the
nest all round down to the level of the eggs (these,
as a rule, are about a foot above level of the sur-
rounding ground), and afterwards builds up the nest,
leaving it as it was before. During six years in
which I closely studied the habits of the mallee-hen
I saw this performance once only, and then the bird
sensed that someone was watching before completing
her task and stole away. She worked at the build-
ing-up with one leg and wing of the same side, and
at intervals changed to the other leg and wing to
get a rest. These birds lay one egg every five days,
the period of incubation is eight weeks, and the
most eggs ever in a nest where one hen lays is 11.
Where nests have been disturbed by the scrub being
rolled or burnt several birds may lay in one nest, and
I have heard of 30 or 40 eggs being found in a nest,
but I’ve never seen it. The chickens are not released
by the old birds (though some may be, accidentally,
when the birds come to lay), but I have found the
chickens half-way, and more, to the top of the nest
fighting their way up to the outside air, on their
backs. As soon as released they start to scratch for
a living, and evidently expect no mothering. They
are full-fledged and can fly a chain or so immediately.
Opening a nest once I got a chicken just hatched. He
was, of course, quite wet and was most uncomfortable,
whereas had he come up in the ordinary way his
feathers would have been dry and clean through con-
tact with the warm sand. The birds lay from the
end of September till early in January, the earliest
egg I discovered being on Sept. 25, and the latest
fresh one on January 13. When the chickens scratch
they do not do so like a domestic fowl, but make a
dozen or more strokes with one leg, and then repeat
the performance with the other, if necessary. I
presume it is a kind of training for the future mound-
building.
“Cardos”: More lightning pranks. Down
in Gippsland (Vic.) a man was riding when his horse
was struck dead. The rider was not injured by
the lightning, but the nails in his boots were fused
HARD WORK.
“How's that newchum getting on at your
place?”
“Well, 'e broke two shovel 'andles this week.”
“Wot, workin' that 'ard?”
“No —leaning on 'em.”
to his stirrup-irons, and when the horse fell he
had his leg broken. A still more puzzling thing
happened to a friend of mine. He was wearing
a light rubber-lined coat when he was struck. He
was not injured, but the coat was cut to pieces,
fragments about two inches square being taken clean
out.
* * * •
“Dunederra”: “Sir Spen’s” abo. (B.
5/l/’22) was certainly more religiously educated
than our black boy Peter. The missionary tackled
him with, “Who made all this country, Peter?”
“Dunno,” says Peter; —“was here when I come.”
“Well,” says parson, “who is it makes the rain?”
Peter knew that all right. “Ole Hughie,” he
answered promptly.
* * * *
“Yarrum”; A death-adder won’t bite
when a man has his foot on him. At Catherine Hill
Bay (N.S.W.) 1 once came upon a fine specimen,
30in. long, and tried him—but not with my foot.
1 put the point of a stick upon his back, and instead
of striking, as they are supposed to do, the critter
lay perfectly still. Then I removed the stick for a
second and he struck—and got it. If ever I find
myself standing upon one I intend to keep my No.
10 there until I can be sure of jumping clear of
the danger zone.
* * • •
“Mac.”: I have noted the various replies
to “Cayley’s” (B. 10/11 /’2l) inquiry for a cure
for sore shoulders while horses are working. I.et
me say that in 20 years’ experience I have found
the only satisfactory treatment to be the use of
a false collar, which consists of a single thickness
of leather (worn under the ordinary collar) smeared
with castor-oil, and the dusting of the shoulders
with lime when the horse is unharnessed. I have
this way cured a bad “sit-fast” on a mare’s shoulder
in 10 days.
* * * *
“Murkah” : Near Numurkah (Vic.) a man
lies buiied 130 ft. deep. Though an experienced man
and well aware of his danger (it is “rotten” coun-
try) he kept in pursuit of the water that probably
fills the porous strata lower down. The shaft closed
up, and it was considered impossible to recover the
body.
THE RECOLLECTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was an old inhabitant—we met in the Domain—
And he was very bad with recollections on the brain.
I’ve struck some reminiscent fiends in fo’c’s’les and
ashore,
But never one to try me like this recollecting bore.
He recollected incidents of many years ago—
The day that Chester won the Cup they buried
Uncle Joe;
He mentioned streets where in his youth the cattle
used to graze,
And spoke of journeys north and south in rumbling
bullock-drays.
A fine familiarity distinguished his remarks:
Of course, he’d known “Jock” Robertson and also
“Harry” Parkes;
When “Jimmy” Tyson came to town he always
called on him,
And many were the useful hints that he had given
Jim.
He recollected this event, he recollected that—
The sticking up of Doolan’s pub, the row at Lambinsr
Flat;
The rush at Vegetable Creek, “wot’s now called
Emmaville,”
The floods and droughts and record shouts he recol-
lected still.
He kept on recollecting in a most alarming way;
A faint “My word!” or “Fancy that!” was all that
I could say,
Until at last the clock struck eight, when, jumping
to my feet,
I recollected that I had a bit o’ skirt to meet.
N.S.W.
J. H. T.
IN THE MACPHERSON RANGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mute is the bellbird and still,
While the mist scatters and rallies •
Only the crack of a whip
Startles the hills and the valleys.
Dimly the pine-trees loom out,
Mist from their sombre tops shaking;
Only the creaking of wheels
Tells of life stirring and waking.
While the mist, pearly and pink,
Wreathing, grows pearlier and pinker,
Stripped of its limbs and its leaves
Goes the great log on the jinker.
Hushed the green hollows and hills,
Splendors within them abounding;
Silent the teamster, the team,
Only the whip-crack resounding.
Yoked two and two crawls the team,
Straining o’er roots, ruts and boulders,
’Gainst the stern task of the hour
Pitting the might of their shoulders.
Mute are the bellbirds and still,
While the mist, fairy-like, changes;
Only the crack of a whip
Strikes through the hush of the ranges.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


One of the chief attractions about a motorcar is
the fact that it does not call for a rest. During
business hours it materially assists in hundreds of
ways in the commercial progress of this country,
yet, when the day's work is over, is ready to take
its owner for a run in the cool of the evening or a
more extended journey.
Don't let your car stand idle in the garage at
the week end, for that’s just when you can get the
best out of motoring. The seaside, the mountains,
the run into the country, all offer you rest and
change in their most beneficial form. With a
reliable car and “Railroad”
DUNLOP TYW
fitted, you can take any journey with the utmost
confidence of having a very pleasant outing. The
wonderful wearing qualities of “ Dunlops,” coupled
with their freedom from cuts and bursts, means
much to motorists, and tens of thousands of carists
show their appreciation of their value, economical
service and great mileage, by. always using them;
and it pays them-for "Railroads” have earned a won-
derful reputation for long and satisfactory service
over all classes of roads. All garages can supp y.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD
all states
AND N.Z.
:v
V
/
.-3*
ttm
■
|/;/s}'// '•<■ %&*' -w, ~ x #/>' y .t feX 5-
iMI *',.^«»»»W"- > gg| * ,
aaari
♦ -
■
:
. ss§»3
& II
. .
*
:
wwxx. m **
-
■-■ - : ■". ■
i
.
m
s iiiiiaiißit ii its
I I ■'■'■' 111
:
*
PI
r **
r. ff
•^u
;
.:r t
■
*
•* ■
!
§»
V ,
S" < -
4
I# , I
1 >
x<**
SS
_»«*>... , '
■lllgKKs
'
SiJ
>
m
'
s» m ' m
3HMg ! ’*%>3jgjg
La.*. *3


. # iJsisOifS]
MOTOR OIL
■ ■ '
I
In Every Grade fSr Every .^ervicg
Shell Motor Oils
are the highest expression of scientific
lubrication. Do the mere letters of the
alphabet denote to you in any way what-
ever the consistency of Lubricating Oils?
We think not. Your car requires an oil of
either light, medium or heavy body, and
to simplify identification Shell Lubricat-
ing Oils are graded accordingly. Ask for
Shell Motor Medium—or whatever grade
of Oil our Recommendation Chart advises
for your car. You 11 then get maximum
power with minimum wear and tear.
Leading garages stock Shell Oils.
/ SHELL Reliability is Proverbial !
The British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
All States and New Zealand.
Shell
Motor Spirit
1904 was first intro-
-1905 duced to the Aus-
-1906 tralian public, in
1907 quantity, in 1904.
1908 Since then count-
-1909 less contests for
1910 speed and en-
-1911 durance held in
1912 every quarter of
1913 the globe have,
1914 year by year,
1915 added to its fame.
1916 The records that
1917 really count, how-
-1918 ever, are made in
1919 long, hard, oft-
-1920 repeated tests—
-1921 in the daily run-
-1922 ning of your car.
SUPREMACY
Leadership is the natural result
of the faithful application of
thorough knowledge. On this
principle is based the engineer-
ing service of Messrs. J. Hop-
kinson & Co., Ltd., England.
Over seventy years ago Messrs.
Hopkinson began manufactur-
ing their Patent Safety Boiler
Mountings and Valves. Since
sdf
then their products have nevei
been surpassed in design and
materials—factors upon which
safety and power conservation
depend. Leading engineers
everywhere know Hopkinson
fittings for their reliability and
splendid service wherever high
pressures and hard-service con-
ditions maintain.
“HopKinson” Steam Specialties
create safe, steam-tight plants!
mm
Wi
m
RENEWABLE SEATS AND DISCS OF PLATNAM
METAL.— Hard as nickel steel, and eliminates all
scoring of valves and seats. Exclusive designs and
high-grade workmanship.
HOPKINSON MAC VALVE for high-pressure steam
and hard waters. Straight through and angle types
with screw or flange connections. Inside or outside
spindle. Stock sizes up to 3in.
HOPKINSON FERRANTI PATENT STOP VALVE,
accepted universally as the finest valve for high-
pressure work. Easily surpasses the full bore valve.
In cast iron or cast steel from 4in. upwards.
HOPKINSON PARALLEL SLIDE BLOW-OFF
VALVES, ISOLATION VALVES & STEAM TRAPS.
The latter have been adopted extensively by Aus-
tralian Government Power Houses and large steam
users.
We have large stocks. Get Catalogue of your engineering
requirements from nearest address.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; 125
Adelaide Street, Brisbane; and 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle. (MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501
Bourke Street, Melbourne; Darling Building, Adelaide;
and corner Elizabeth and Collins Streets, Hobart.
Also from J. R. W. GARDAM, 138 Murray Street,
Perth, W.A. _ N ; G V 4I2
The Rose in the Wilderness
ii ~\ jW RS DESPARD,” announced the
|f I maid. For the minute the name
was unfamiliar; then, as a very
perfectly-tailored girl came into the room, I
laughed.
“Why, Ruth, I was just wondering who
the stranger was. I always forget my
friends’ married names. Tea, Marie, and
hot, buttered toast. Well, how goes it,
Ruth?”
The firelight flickered on a pretty face
that was momentarily hardened in rather a
worried look.
“Fairly well,” she said, as she loosened
her furs. “Fact is, I’ve come to say good-
bye. I’ve had a cable from David, and he
wants me to go over to Canada to him on
the next boat. Of course, I’ll love to see
him again, but it’s all rather uprooting isn’t
it? I have never lived on a ranch in my
life, and I think I shall be rather homesick
at first.”
I sympathised, and we talked for some
time. Then she said : “You know I’m rather
worried about the frivolous problem of keep-
ing my looks. David told me that what first
attracted him was the fact that I looked so
different from most Canadian women. But
under Canadian conditions, shall I be able
to keep it up? For example, I have my hair
washed and waved at a hairdresser’s every
fortnight: that will be impossible in my
new life. And I look hideous with straight
hair.”
“Why, that’s easily solved: take over a
supply of silmerine with you. You only
want to damp your hair with it slightly and
put in slides or a curler or two, which can
easily be concealed under a boudoir-cap. Get
your hair accustomed to silmerine treatment
on the voyage over; then by the time you
land it will probably have developed a dis-
tinct natural tendency to curl, and will only
occasionally need damping. Of course, it
is much better for the hair than to sap all
its gloss and vitality with hot irons. For a
home shampoo I think you cannot beat stal-
lax. A teaspoonful of stallax granules to a
cup of hot water will make the most deli-
cious foaming lather, which cleanses the
hair splendidly. You’ll be able to dry it in
the sun in no time in that gorgeous climate.
If I were you, I should always keep some
reliable tonic in the house, for you never
know when your hair may require a little
stimulating. Yes, boranium and bay rum
is excellent: I always use it. Also, I think
it would be a very wise plan to keep some
tammalite by you; dark hair like yours has
a very disconcerting habit of turning grey
in patches. If your hair does show a ten-
dency to fade, you have only to dissolve two
ounces of tammalite tn three ounces of bay
rum, and you have a wonderful hair-restorer
ready for use.”
“Why, that seems too good to be true!”
exclaimed Ruth. “I must write that down.
Now, Estelle, I’m going to worry you some
more. What kind of complexion-cream
should I take? I want something that lasts,
that doesn’t take up much room, and, above
all, that really does keep one’s skin in con-
dition.”
‘‘The answer to the riddle is mercolised
wax,” I replied. A tin such as chemists
usually sell lasts for three or four months; it
is solid, compact and not wasteful to use,
and it’s the finest complexion-beautifier there
is. Its great merit is that instead of making
the skin dull by clogging the pores with
grease, as too many face-creams do, it gently
absorbs the dull, outer tissue which gets
coarsened by hard water, dirt and so on, and
reveals the dazzling freshness of the new
skin below. Of course, in a hot climate,
where the sun and dust tend to ruin even
the prettiest skins, it will be simply invalu-
able. I’ll give you another useful tip: be
sure to provide yourself with some tablets
of stymoi ; then, if you happen to have a
blackhead, you have only to melt one tablet
in a little warm water, bathe the blackhead,
and you will be able to remove it without
the slightest difficulty, with a clean towel.”
“Thanks so much. I’m sure I shall be as
grateful to you when I’m so far away. Of
course, I shan’t need powder, because since
I discovered cleminite I haven’t needed it.”
“No, you couldn’t do better than carry
on with cleminite,” I assured her. “I can’t
think why more women don’t give up the
old-fasnioned messy powder and use that
nice lotion instead. Well, Ruth, I think
you’ll blossom in the desert all right, if you ■
are wise and take care of your looks.”
“I hope I’ll be able to,” she said, “be-
cause however much one loves adventures
and roughing it, I don’t want to become a
masculine-looking woman. After all, David
liked me as he found me, and it’s up to me
to try and stay the same.”
“I must go,” she said, rising. “I don’t in
the least want to, but there are so many
people to see. Will you come and see me
off? I sail on Friday fortnight. Good-bye.”
“Good-bye, Ruth, and the very best of
luck to you both. Write to me, won’t you?
Good-bye.”—Advx.


Spirit
iritke
\Vbrld.
sdf
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's schnaS^
“ X T STANDS ADO^®-
Auster Kerosene-Oil Engine
WHY IT SHOULD BE
USED ON THE FARM:
Because
IT costs less to run than other engines.
IT runs without attention.
Low prices. Made in Australia.
Will sell AUSTER ENGINES on terms or cash.
Another Good Line to Save Labor 8 Money
Hi
'.fill
WADE
One-Man Drag Saw
WILL cut 11 tons of Bin. wood per day.
WILL crosscut a LOG Ift. per minute.
WILL fell trees.
WILL drive pumps or other machinery.
W. C. WATSON 8 CO. LTD.
279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Tel.. City 9.967-8-9,
in dealing with the later political develop-
ments he was on treacherous ground, liis
style then becomes cramped; his narrative
disjointed. His diagnosis of Seddon seems
to be a mere repetition of prevalent street-
corner gossip and the conventional rubbish
of daily journalism. Seddon was a big man,
it is true; but he was also a little man in
many ways. It is, in fact, a debatable point
lvhether his so-called genius did not rest upon
his mediocrity. Mr. Mulgan’s picture leaves
out the wart on the hero’s nose. But that
may pass, lie has written about the early
days of Responsible Government in a way
that should make his countrymen grateful.
Yet, however carefully a narrative of
events may be strung together, it may con-
ceal outstanding facts —or, at any rate, give
no more than a glimmering of them. This
happens in “Maori and Pakeha.” In Maori-
land’s history there are two conspicuous fea-
tures. The first is that the land has been
the governing influence over men and affairs,
from the appearance of the first settlers and
the agitation for self government until to-
day. The other is the wave of Radical poli-
tical opinion which swept the country 30
years ago. It was desire to despoil, the Maori
of his land that led to the Maori wars; it
was anxiety to add to the value of the plun-
der that involved the country later on in
the waste and profligacy associated with the
expenditure of millions on public works.
And it was in the poverty, social injustice
and industrial stagnation caused by land
monopoly that Radical opinion was nurtured
—that opinion which for a time swept the
once powerful squatting interests into the
political discard. Thus, the coming of what
was called by Reeves “the new Liberalism”
and by frenzied Conservatives “the seven
devils of socialism” sprang out of circum-
stances associated with land-holding that
had long been iD the making. Land monopoly
had caused dire suffering to the bulk of the
people between the ’fifties and In
the early ’nineties they were ripe for enforc-
ing drastic changes in the system. They
expected Parliament to make such changes.
In the towns and villages and in some of
the newspapers the talk about land was in-
comparably more inflammatory than anything
heard since about capitalism. How it came
to pass that the public turned from its
purpose—how it swallowed the crude reme-
dies of John McKenzie and Seddon and Ward
and built up, in the glad days of Ward’s abom-
inable “cheap-money” boom, a system that
reeks with evil and will surely bring the
Dominion to calamity—is not elucidated in
“Maori and Pakeha.” It would be outside
the scheme of the authors. But it is not be-
yond the region of inquiry upon which most
readers of the book should embark.
F. K. J.
The Priest and the Woman
The first agriculturist was probably a
woman who, carrying home a basket of col-
lected grains, accidentally dropped some at
her hut-door, where the soil had been fertil-
ised by the insanitary conditions of primi-
tive family life. Observing these to grow, she
tilled the ground with a digging-stick, and
gratified her man with the delicious taste of
grains, milled between stones and roasted
with bits of meat into a sort of cake. The
brute responded by inventing the plough and
making her drag it. Later he substituted
his cow, as being stronger, less easily dam-
aged and less given to “back-chat.” Still
later some genius discovered that after a
comparatively simple operation—probably
undertaken for some reason that we should
now call religious, like circumcision—certain
calves grew up into very strong and gentle
oxen rather than into savage bulls; and
these became the true slaves of the plough.
Woman was an object of terror and mys-
tery to Neolithic man. There was gener-
ally one old woman in the village who per-
sisted in saying that she had borne him in
travail—even his lordly self, incredible
though it might seem. She was different
from all other women, inasmuch as she
tended to slobber over him whenever he
would let her, and defended him with pecu-
liar venom against ignorant fellows who
made a mock of him. Then there was his
own woman who, ever since he had been
driven by some witchery to lead her into
his house, had taken to producing pink,
squalling, useless brats for no earthly reason
that he could discover; of these she seemed
idiotically fond, even defending them sav-
agely against himself. Some of these brats
grew into decent farmers; but others he
observed to cast a spell upon fine young
fellows of the village, even as their mother
had cast her spell over him; and these
youths seemed to rush gladly upon their
doom. Neither mother nor daughter paid
any attention to his opinion upon the mat-
ter —indeed, his daughters did not show
him the respect that was his due in any-
thing. Clearly there was magic afoot,
black and terrible ; and the poor muddled
fellow walked mazed in the toils. Every-
where he saw the vision of an awful Earth-
mother ; everywhere Motherhood, awful and
mysterious, seemed to rule the world. A
veritable McGirr among men, he, obsessed
with Motherhood! It was useless for him
to struggle; by no means could he con-
trive that a man should be a mother. There
was no use in pulling the creature’s hair
or in blackening her eye, for she would but
cast her spell over his crops as she had
cast it over himself, and then he would
get nothing to eat; even turning her up
and spanking her in the good old way was
useless, for she was ouite capable of run-
ning weeping to the village witch-doctor, and
then the Devil only knew what horror might
be in store for him—that is, if the witch-
doctor with all his magic could add to her
terrible power, which was doubtful.
You will find some of these ideas ela-
borated in The New Stone Age in Europe,
by Professor J. M. Tyler, of Amherst Col-
lege, Massachusetts (Bell and Co., London).
From this conception of the Earth-Mother
grew primitive religion, and it was largely
owing to this belief of the common man
that it ultimately overpowered the Olym-
pian religion for a time so popularised by
the Homeric poems. The success of later
religions appears largely to depend upon
the degree to which they were able to adopt
this popular belief; though Professor Tyler
might find it difficult to explain the enor-
mous success of Mohammedanism, in which
woman is put emphatically in her place, as
seen by the sensual epileptic Mahomet.
Probably its extreme simplicity was the
cause. “There is no god but God, and
Mahomet is his prophet” is a theology that
everyone could understand.
But in some such way as I have described
no doubt arose that alliance between priest
and woman which, even more than the ter-
rible alliance between man and horse, has
influenced human history. When on Sun-
days we see men sitting in stiff collars who
would much rather be playing tennis we
know that they are vicariously expiating
the spankings inflicted by their Neolithic
ancestors perhaps ten thousand years ago;
their wives have driven them to church, and
woman, as usual, has the last lt
was Motherhood that was the appalling
mystery, not Virgin Motherhood, which was
probably a touch of the marvellous intro-
duced much later, when people had begun
to observe physiological facts and to notice
that presumptive virgins seldom bore child-
ren. Till recently there were savage tribes
which were said not to know why women
conceive until white men enlightened them.
The Neolithic world, in which lay the
roots of many modern institutions, seems to
have been a peaceable, happy and industri-
ous world of small farmers. It has left us
few weapons and apparently no cracked
skulls. It took probably half-a-million
years for the palaeolithic world to evolve
the bestial man of Neanderthal and the
great wonderful artists of Cro-Magnon, who
in some ways have never been surpassed
(R.P. 31/3/’2l). Then man took the
wrong turning. For about ten thousand
years Neolithic men worked steadily . aS|
village farmers, till into their peaceful lives
came the Achmans and Dorians with bronze
swords, introducing Government, Glory,
War, Fortification, Cities, Heroes, Riches
and other attributes of civilisation. All
this you can read into Homer as regards
Europe; but is it possible that the story of
Cain and Abel may be a reflex of the horror
with which the Neolithic world heard that
man had taken to killing man? With the
introduction of iron, civilisation progressed
with terrible strides till it culminated in
the Great War. So far, this is its greatest
achievement; one dares not even guess at
its next.
Apart from a certain American sentimen-
tality and “gynecolatry.” Professor Tyler
has written a good and exceedingly, read-
able book, which is not without epigram.
Doubtless unintentionally, he leaves one
with the impression that man has not pro-
gressed in the essentials—pence and happi-
ness—since the Stone Age. Rather, indeed,
he has retrogressed.
C. McL.
Einstein and the Vorticists
A worthy scientific person named Ein-
stein has put forward a new explanation
of certain puzzling astronomical facts. His
theory presupposes that space is really cir-
cular and recurs like a repeating decimal,
income-tax or agent for the rent; so that
what we fondly imagine to be straight lines
have actually a slight curvature, and if pro-
longed a terrific distance will finally return
to the point from which they started. What
would happen to a line with the exact oppo-
site curvature (say, a ray of light) the Pro-
fessor does not state. Being actually
straight (according to his theory) it would
travel right out of space altogether, and
there being nowhere else to go would pro-
bably go mad, file its schedule and commit
suicide. Still the theory is a fascinating
one, and as it shares the limelight in Europe
at present with psycho-analysis and music
founded on Bolshevik scales, it is high time
our pioneers in art movements took notice.
Space is an integral element of all pictorial
representation, and a new idea of it neces-
sarily calls for a revision of formulae.
The first result will no doubt be the whole-
sale slaughter, suicide or death from acute
disillusion of all the Cubists, Triangulists
and Post-Impressionists who have discarded
Nature as being “too d—-d circular.” Forced
to realise that all the bewildering spider-
webs of straight lines with which they have
defied her are merely portions of immutable
curves, after all, they will refuse any longer
to exist on the scoundrelly circular planet
circling round a circular sun travelling a
circular path in circular space. Their future
will be appalling. liudyard Kipling (who
speaks as one with inside information) has
told us that painters after death will be put
to painting canvases several universes broad
by ditto high, with brushes made of comets’
tails, for ever and ever. On such a huge
scale the curvatufe of all straight lines will
be horribly apparent; and the Nevinson
school, doomed to spherical patterns worse
than the unfortunate leaves and whorls of
despised Nature, will experience all the tor-
tures of a Post-Impressionist inferno.
Then consider Futurism. One of the
earliest tenets of this sect was that Space
really had four dimensions—length, breadth,
thickness and duration. Consequently, all
art hitherto, which had expressed merely
the first three, was abortive, as it had not
represented the varying aspect of the sub-
ject in the time taken to paint it. As a
result the elect produced those weird kaleido-
scopes on canvas representing motion —the
puzzle ballroom, “The Street Flows Through
the Cab,” weird portraits with an eye on
the coat-collar and several ears wandering
over the top of the head. There is much
to be commended in this theory. Unfor-
tunately its adherents missed its obvious
conclusion. The only logical method of ex-
pressing duration in a painting is to com-
bine sculpture with it, and gain another
dimension. Thus the portrait of a famous
personage would be a large, somewhat-
cylindrical block of varying dimensions com-
mencing with his aspect as an infant and
ending at the far end with his visage in old
age. About the middle of the sculpture there
would be luxuriant hair on the top, but the
ends would be quite bald. To get his aspect
at any age, cut a slice out of the work of
art at a measured distance, and color accord-
ing to taste. But now Einstein’s theory of
circular space comes in. We must curve
the sculpture, add a set of ancestors one
end and descendants the other, and finally
join them in a closed circle. These stone
circles of logical Futuristic art, hung on
nails, would form elegant additions to subur-
ban drawing-rooms, and could be used as
weapons of offence in domestic differences.
Then take the pillar-box colorists. Hav-
ing denounced natural coloration as a mean,,
low-down effort at hiding emotion on the
part of trees, dogs, clouds, nudes and other
common objects of the landscape, they have
adopted that brilliant scarlet which was so
modish for feminine attire last season as
an expression of dynamic force, energy,
speed and general Vorticism. lienee the un-
fortunate flayed nudes painted in pillar-box
red with violet shadows, the blood-stained
apples, the scarlet cows under a streaky
sky (‘‘streaks represent sultriness”) and
the toy red dog looking for lost bones in
an ocean of pea-green cockroach-poison.
Alas, Mr. Einstein steps in right here and
upsets the gory applecart. “A vortex,” to
quote a high priest of the cult, “is
a hole in a hurry.” But there is nothing
scientifically speedy about pillar-box red.
In a journey of a few billion miles through
space the red component of light is left far
behind by the blue and indigo rays at the
other end of the spectrum. If a canvas
with a full range of color were taken once
round space by a Vortex, he would re-arrive
with a pattern in blues and violets only,
the red and yellow chunks being left behind
in the constellation Capricorn, four uni-
verses and some billion centuries back. Pro-
bably the Vorticists, once convinced of their
false logic, would die of starvation. .But,
except for their immediate relations, it is
doubtful if humanity would worry very much.
Again, take the deformity-lovers. Mr.
Augustus John has come to the conclusion
that skulFboxes elongated vertically and
compressed sideways will be all the wear in
the next decade. It is not quite clear
whether this is an attempt to get awav
from “form” —that bugbear of the enlight-
ened painter—or a return to primitivism, or
just a delight in astigmatism and strabismus
generally. Savages never wore glasses, any-
how, and look at the rock-paintings they did
‘+—almost up to Van Gogh between lunatic
asylums. Apparently space is deformed in
one direction, and the Johns and Orpens
have just begun to notice it. But if all
objects run together at the top like this,
deforming “shape” generally, Einstein’s
theory falls to pieces, based as it is on
spheres and circles, and space being appa-
rently a kind of sphere, though nobody can
ever look at it by climbing up on the outside.
How much better, then, if we must have this
dernier cri in Art, to deform everybody and
everything by a slight curve to the off-side —
curve the mouth under the ear, say, and
j’otate the left eye to the whiskers! The
face is really straight, of course, but looks
otherwise owing to the curvature of space.
Much could be done to educate the public by
enforcing the sale of space-distortion spec-
tacles and teaching a new geometry in the
public schools based on the fundamental
principles of the corkscrew,
Finally, there is the soul-shattering
thought that perhaps even Time itself may
b e a circle, and we are doomed to a com-
plete circle of movements in Art, recurring
every time the celestial clock-hands have
gone once round the dial. This is a noble
thought. An eternity of Poynters perpetu-
ajiy drowned in a wave of Whistlers fol-
lowed by an ocean of Cezannes knocked on
tlie head by cave-men, and so upwards again
through slow appreciation of form, perspec-
tjve an( j co i or to the great masters. If this
jj e rea iiy S 0; an d if, as it seems at present,
we have run the w hole gamut recently and
are now hmTyhig back to primitivism like
a h om i n g train, an opportunity offers for
co u ec ti n g one complete series and then pre-
venting further waste of effort in a circle by
knoc ki ng a n artists on the head at sight,
p roba bi y this idea will meet with a certain
amount ' o f opposition from the artists them-
selVes. but as these people count for very
little in tlle scheme of things, the matter
be very rapidly and quietly carried
trough
& '
ANTON DENNING.
A Satchel of Books
r/ „ Ilighland Hcst> by Arthur Fet terless (Black-
wood). It was Fetterless who wrote “Battle Days,*
and « The Highland Host” is another study—or,
rather, book of studies—of war psychology. AH the
characters come from the little Highland village
of Kilbrae, and an absorbing lot they are: foremost
among them the family of Dunrachan, including
Hugh » the mystic and dr eamer, who is marked out
foi , tbe church, but presently goes off to the war
too . and Gle story of what this sensitive divinity
student felt amid the horrors of France is one of
the best things of the sort the war has given us.
The tartan will be carried a little more proudly than
ever after its wearer has read this admirably-written
stor r v _ and will deserve to be .
, _ , , _ ni,
Johann Sebastian ItcLch, by Dr Hubert Larry, inis
gympathetic biogr apher shows us the great organist
urrdn g composition after composition—some-
times with only days elapsing between—with never
a trace of hurry or slackness manifest anywhere;
all copied by his own hand, while he fulfilled sundry
duties, worse than wearisome, for the paltry sum
of less than £lO per annum, enhanced by a few
measures 0 f corn, two cords of firewood, some brush-
wood and three pounds of fish! We are indebted
t 0 j),._ p ar ry for this labor of love. Not only is it
a detailed analysis of the German’s colossal works,
It is a tender tribute to the great musician, “who
represented a phase of rebgiious expression which
devotionalism and mysticism found their expression
ip him _» Pre-eminently a book for the student and
i over Q f music, nevertheless the chapters not dealing
with the purely analytic aspect provide deep reading
for the inquiring mind. “Convergences, ’ for in-
stance, is full of matter for thought. Little side-
*n Germ an 18th-century life increase the gen-
interest, illustrating how petty princes and
municipalities all had their share in building up
the prestige of Art, by making every State and civic
function an occasion for a musical inspiration. It
is a lesson in the evolution and perfection of an
earnest soul, through sheer industry and concentra-
where luok nlayed no part, and fortune was
certainly nothing at a ll. And if at the close we are
ind j gnan t a t the sheer indifEerence of a callous
world, which allowed a loving wife to die in the poor-
house, the pain is somewhat allayed by the aureole
that now surrounds this father of organists.


Weigh
Your
Stock
Results
in the balance.
Do you feel
quite satisfied
you are secur-
ing fullest mar-
ket values? If
tl\
m
mm
mi:
aw
not make your next draft a trial lot.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Sheep and Cattle Salesmen,
Sydney or Brisbane. You will find Wincli-
combe-Carson results on top levels.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
df
THE BARKY STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
represents the most considerable for-
ward step yet taken in the design and
manufacture of a steel split pulley.
The BARRY is Electrically Spot Welded by
the latest and most improved methods. Weld-
ing is the strongest possible means of joining
metals, presenting many .advantages over the
old-style riveting. There are no rivets in a
BARRY Pulley to work loose or shear under
strain. The BARRY is made of special steel
and formed in accurately constructed dies.
Write for Free Illustrated Descriptive
Catalogue “BJ*
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
540-542 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
SKAKDIA
The Semi-Diesel Oil Engine
with a Record.
Specially constructed to use as fuel, Low-
grade Kerosene, Heavy or Residual Oils.
MARINE, STATIONARY, PORTABLE,
eminently suitable for Electric Lighting,
Pumping and Industrial sets, and all classes
marine motor work. Ship and Contractors'
Hoists.
HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL TYPES.
Constructed according Lloyd’s Surveyors’
requirements. Has no water drip, batteries,
valves or gears to get out of order. We
invite inspection.
All particulars can be obtained from
Nelson & Robertson,
11-15 Loftus Street, Sydney
Sole Agents, Australasia and South Sea Islands.
ALDE-RDICE.
Brassfoundry, WARRNAMBOOL.
Prompt Delivery
Plumbers’
Requisites
Windmill
Pumps
'Medium Bibs, Stops, etc., £in., fin., lin.
Standard Bibs, Stops, etc., -£in., fin., lin.
Hose Cocks, Ferrule Cocks, Straight
Ferrules, etc.
Tank Cocks, fin., lin.
Well Pumps, Bore Pumps, Artesian
Cylinders, Check Valves, Ball Valves.
[2
The Famous Non-Cracking Corsican Bruyere
FLC
Made at St. Claude (Jura), Franc*.
We \
will
show
a
shape
every
week.
1
O.
&
w
yv
F.L.C.
Pipes are
made by French
Diggers from the
flnest-grade flawless
Corsican Briar Boot in 98
Smart Shapes—plain and
Silver-mounted. Every pipe sold
carries a
Twelve Months'
Guarantee.
Any cracking or burning within
be replaced Free.
Illustrated
802D.5.
Silver-mounted,
18/-
Ask your tobacconist for F.L.C.
or send.a postcard to Box 934
G.P.0., Melbourne, and we will
tell you where to get one.
[4
The Fragrance of
the Flower itself
Zenobia Perfumes faithfully reproduce the delicate
and lingering fragrance of sweet English flowers.
They give a charm and personal daintiness unobtain-
able by the use of ordinary scent. Delicate, yet last-
ing; elusive, yet distinctive; subdued, yet refreshing.
Three favourite perfumes are :
Zenobia Lily of the Valley, an exquisitely delicate fragrance.
Zenobia Night-Scented Stock, a sweet bewitching perfume.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom, the original scent of this name.
7ENOBIA-
are obtainable at most high-class Chemists, Perfumers and Stores.
Manufactured only by Zenobia, Ltd., Lough boro’, Leicestershire, Eng.
Sole Agent for Australia
(Wholesale only)
KENNETH BUGKMASTER,
15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for New Zealand
(Wholesale only)
NEWSON & CO., LTD.,
P.O. Bpx 1162, Wellington.
/
A TOOL-ROOM NECESSITY
Australasian Agents
Toolmakers declare this
machine to be of the greatest
service and indispensable to a
well-equipped shop.
For grinding hardened dies
and punches, truing the legs of
jigs and similar work, you will
find the
Brown U Sharpe
No. 2
Surface
Grinding Machine
just the machine you need.
If you desire further informa-
tion we will gladly send our
catalog, so that you can buy
intelligently and realise the
many superior features that
this machine contains.
Scruttons Limited,
161 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Aragun”: If N.S.W. trades unions are
out to beat the profiteer, why not begin at
home? Last year my Meat Packers’ Union
ticket cost 255.; this year I have to fork
out 28s.
* * * *
“Bill B.”: Two trochus fishermen have
lately been in Townsville (Q.) fitting them-
selves out to cure the skin of “stingarees,”
which are plentiful along the coast. They
say the hide produces a tough, durable, good-
looking material, and some of the largest
fish yield from two to three square yards of
waterproof leather.
“Hayband”: Among curious hotel names
let me enter The Seven Sisters, in a Vic.
mallee town. It literally grew its name.
The family of the proprietor expanded till it
numbered seven, all girls. Then he and his
wife died. The seven sisters carried on, and
the name came to be so generally applied
that the drinkery was re-labelled.
“Missus”: My latest attempt to get rid of
the duchess who does the washing and loafs
on the ironing for 10s. 6d., a hot dinner,
morning and afternoon tea and everything
she can borrow when she is leaving was the
customary dud. I told her mendaciously
that the family was shifting 14 miles up the
line. “Too far for you, Mrs. Sprigg, of
course,” I said. “No, it ain’t,” rejoined her
Grace, with all the calmness in life. “But
you’ll ’ave ter pay the fare. First-clarss
both ways—l couldn’t think of travellin’
second. You never know ’oo yer meet in
them trains.”
* * * #
“Whitebait”: “Gregor’s” jeer at the back-
wardness of Australian chemical manufac-
turers (B. 5/l/’22) is based on either igno-
rance or misinformation. He says “there
is not a single tar-distillery in the Common-
wealth, which in consequence is forced to
import each year millions of pounds’ worth
of chemicals that could be obtained from this
by-product.” There are actually about a dozen
tai’-distillation plants in and around Mel-
bourne, and four firms—there are probably
more—treat the bv-products. The particu-
lar firm I’m speaking for produces benzol,
toluol (one of the ingredients of T.N.T.),
solvent naphtha and other substances. Fel-
ton-Grimwade ■ and others in Sydney and
elsewhere produce pyridine, naphthaline,
crude carbolic and cresylic acid, etc., on
quite a large scale.
* * * *
“Josef”: A neat swindle was worked in
our town (Vic.) recently. The teller of a
bank forged a customer’s signature to a £5O
cheque payable to bearer, and then cashed
it for. a confederate, who promptly disap-
peared. The cheque went through the hands
of the ledger-kqeper and cashbook-keeper,
was checked by the accountant and the
manager and finally put away in a bundle.
The customer called in during the week and
denied all knowledge of it. When we looked
into the matter the cheque was missing, so
there was no evidence of any sort, and
nothing happened. The teller left the ser-
vice suddenly—for other reasons—and then
his confederate gave him away. She was a
girl.
* * * *
“Light the Binnacle”: I served my time
on the barque Compadre (799 tons). She
was a flier. Just 37 years ago (Jan., 188*'
we left London for Brisbane, and we did
the trip in 160 days. Then we went from
Brisbane to Portland (Oregon) in 94 days,
and from Portland to Maryport. England,
in 170 days. With half a gale on her
quarter she would do eight knots easily
without straining herself and no list to speak
of. We used to do the round trip in 18
months (11 weeks in port). Can anyone
beat it?
“La Trove”: A friend of mine told me
quite angrily the other day that Diggers
were “blanky thieves,” and he sought to
back it up with a personal experience. He
had a weatherboard house in a Melbourne
suburb, and as he was going to Sydney on
business for three months he let a Digger
occupy it while he was away. When he
got back he went out to shake his'Anzac
friend by the hand—and found on the pro-
perty nothing but an outhouse and the re-
mains of a shed. A neighbor told him, that
the Dig. _had auctioned the furniture and
sold the House for removal. And removed it
was.
I EATS ME PIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I hummed a zack—she was an easy mark,
That kind old jane; me fer a busted swell !-r-
An bought two pies, an’ eats ’em in the park,
An’ that’s my issue for the day. Ar, well,
I ain’t for swappin’ with the silly crew
Wot can’t see loafin’ is life’s biggest prize.
Amongst the crowd there’s some wot once I knew—
They pass, goin’ ’ome from toil. With pityin’
eyes
I sits ’ere eatin’ pies.
There’s Peter in ’is brand-new motor-car.
We starved together ’leven year ago,
Till some flash coot ’e worded in a bar
Made ’im a spruiker in a picture-show.
The movies boomed, and Pete, who weren’t no dunce,
Rose, too —’e now owns six new shows of size;
Ar, well, pore beggar, we was cobbers once.
’ls car goes flashin’ steady up the rise.
I sits ’ere eatin’ pies.
An’, cripes, there’s Bill! Of all the stuck-up coots!
’E used to stoush one well-dressed bloke a day
Becos they washed their necks an’ brushed their
boots;
Then some’ow ’e got muckin’ round with clay
An’ started mouldin’ shapes, an’ quit the booze.
An’ now ’e’s took a forchun by surprise
A-makin’ models—them wot drapers use.
’E “dines” each night in evenin’-dress disguise.
I sits ’ere eatin’ pies.
Poor cows! They pass me as a “down-an’-out” ;
An’ yet for all their coin I wouldn’t change;
For Peter gets terrific spells of gout,
An’ Bill’s young wife- — I’d sooner have the mange.
Thank Gord, I got no wealth nor ache nor wife,
And, much as sneerin’ passers may despise,
Their wealth can’t bring them ’appiness from life;
I gets the one thing money never buys,
An’ sits ’ere—eatin’ pies.
N.S.W.
DAN DOMAIN.


SiCAUSE theßeale Player-
Piano has a technique far beyond
the demands of the most difficult
piece of music ever written, and because
it possesses devices for the intellectual
control of that technique, in no sense
detracts from it as a piano for use by the
manually proficient musician.
To overlook this aspect of the Beale is to
neglect what is possibly its greatest attribute. The
better musician you are the more you will appreciate
the New Beale.
c A Booklet descriptive of this wonderfully human player will be
tent post free to any address.
Showrooms:
340 George St.,
SYDNEY
BEALE § COM PANY IT?
Head Office and
Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.,
ANNANDALE
BRANCHES—N.S.W.: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle and
Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launces-
ton. S. AES.: John Evans, Ltd., Adelaide. W. AUS.:
J. A. Thomson Co., Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.
sTomnXJ" v
sKmr#H£\i4r
■
r
'fc
W™
;i
J
y<r:
'■f >[ ?■' '®<. •' \ v
MMIm
hhHb
.
%K’''
* ®
in m§m
■ ■ • . ■ ■■
v;' - f -i-
I
. .. ; ;
.
-■aaiggii—r*
f 11 j^jjjil
I | . , '« ;
r : .'
mmmmm : ||illil||pii
11 Hnllil! | ||g |||||||
*■
- m, ImMm
hhf % _ j - <l^
M 1
HM
•MMMMH .fis®!.»-*...'V. ;.
I|*S
1 Hffi " §
iliilii
lias: illillii
;■ *' - r ''
;/*if
MIBm
■ ‘
BS»ssS»«tf a
Iljl
wu
/
i' ' ' ' 1
IflU
f*
:j
■ » *.
. ■
’■■■;•
■•:' 'CYY, ':
. it
■ . ■
illSiifll
H
■ ■
■1
Wmm
■
: :£:; ,;
v-:®, ■;/.■:
m gig
lii
ggiii
mm
m
I
i
illii
'
msm
" l'Y -
;■-...
V ' . .'.
■
■
®4*-< ~ , <,*,"& ~ &
mm
B&EM
■
IW
> < vj.
5 : .-'W-*
. \ \ 5
s\7>Nxv
hi I
Hi
I
i


LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If
the liver is active and well, good health
and happiness prevails. If you allow
Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Biliousness,
Constipation, Headaches and Melancholy
to assail you, they will result in lack of
energy, loss of memory and ill-
Small Pill
Small
Dose —
Small
Prico
dsf
CARTERS
health ; but
remember
Carter’s Lit.
jtle Liver Pills
| touch the liver
and cure all
liver ills. Try
them to-day
and see how
much better
you will be
to-morrow.
/ , < X g. " .
/■ > *,' ”
/y\
Z/\
■
2
£'•
a-
A
3.5. A.
Goodness !
“ Not until five minutes ago did
I remember that you closed at
6 o’clock. Thank goodness I had
my B.S.A. handy.”
Learn from the experience of
others and—
Ride a bicycle
BUILT OF
3
FITTINGS
All B.S.A. parts are guaranteed
interchangeable. This means
elimination of all unnecessary
waste of time should you lose or
damage any part of your bicycle.
Illustrated Handbook
post free on request.
D- Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
A Great British Product
2%, 5 and 8
Horse-power
Stationary,
Semi-Portable
Portable.
! mti
P m E R
"mu,
efi*
"uu
JUNIOR
Oil
(Runs on kerosene.)
The Reliable and Economical Power
for Driving Industrial and
Agricultural Machinery.
OVER 20,000 BEING
SUCCESSFULLY USED TO-DAY.
Made by PETTERS, LIMITED,
Yeovil, England.
Australian Representative:—
LEE K. MURRAY, A.M.I.Ae.E.,
DALTON HOUSE,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents:—■
BRISBANE: The Intercolonial Boring Com-
pany, Ltd., 450-460 Ann Street.
SYDNEY: The Crudo Engineering Company,
3 Barrack Street.
MELBOURNE: The Ridd Milking Machine Co.,
' Ltd., 495 Bourke Street.
ADELAIDE: The South Australian Farmers’
Co-operative Union, Ltd., 36 Franklin St.
JkjcuXt
<£>
j4ia /d\AxJLi£X.
The hard -wearing
qualities of COLO
TYRES testify to
the high quality of
their construction
Aslc your Garagt
The Colonial Rubber Co. Ltd.
Head Office, 5-7 Barracß Street, Sydney.
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
“TCave you 9ried
zthe
neu)
PLUMEspKJt
Easy starting, sweet running, more miles.
The new Plume is some-
thing different —something
better than we have
marketed hitherto.
The new Plume is a particularly
high-grade Motor Spirit, made from
choice crudes and has the correct
percentage of low boiling points to
ensure easy starting on the coldest
morning, even when King Frost
spreads his nippy mantle.
The new Plume is highly volatile,
every drop is instantly and com-
pletely vaporised making a perfect
explosive mixture.
This means sweet running and
full mileage for every gallon used.
Another striking feature is its
instant acceleration, an important
factor where a speedy pick-up is
necessary. The only sure test of
Motor Spirit is a trial in your own
car under every-day conditions.
Try the new Plume in your car
for easy starting, sweet running and
for mileage.
Order a Trial Case To-day
yuim e
>
&TOR sp\*s
T^w^,
m
69869
Vk_,
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PP L T - D
THE
K
::,
.V-3
«
- J£Z
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED
1858.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up.
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
£5,000,000
£2,000,000
1,320,000
£3,320,000
828,000
£4,148,000
Directors ; —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER. Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager: E. 11. WEE FORD. _
Deputy Chiei Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Sub-Manager: L. C. Me CON .NT AN.
Manager: A. E. ECOLES.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St. Manager: R. S. GREGSON.
George St. City Office, 350 George St. . „
Branches in Victoria. South Australia, Western Australia, New South wa,e
Brisbane — Manager; WM. TIVEY. LONDON OFFICE: 7 i-othbury,
“Kelantan”: Re quick-fire families (B.
13/10/’2l). What about quadruplets the
first year, triplets the second year and trip-
lets the third year, making in all 10 in three
years? What has happened since I don’t
know and have been afraid to ask.
“Ex-Dig.”: None of the ancient warriors
quoted recently beat by much W. H. Gil-
christ, now 73 and still hearty. A veteran
of the Soudan and S’African wars, he
dropped his sergeant-major’s stripes to enlist
in 1914, and served m New Guinea.
“Wagtail”: “Ron H.’s” Broken Hill giaht
(B. 5/l/’22) is beaten by Jim Kelly, ex-
policeman, whose boots have to be made to
order and are 21 in. long. For years he did
police duty in Bendigo, _ and was often seen
in the loop with the police tug-of-war team.
I saw him at a sports meeting tear a three-
penny-bit in halves with his fingers—a re-
markable performance for a man with such
huge hands.
Sydney police have struck a new use for
the aeroplane. From a height the sea be-
comes transparent, and objects some dis-
tance under the surface can be plainly seen;
so, after a double drowning affair at Botany
Bay the other day, a ’plane acted as eyes
for the launch narty dragging for the bodies.
One was quickly recovered; but the other
failed to come to light. As Botany Bay is
full of sharks there is probably a reason.
“Dr. Nil”: “S.S.S.” tells of a parson’s
little daughter who is supposed to have
played with the “spirit” of a child, just
buried, whom she had never geen, and asks
“What is to be made of that?” The details
are not sufficient to “make” anything of it.
But we can presume several things. One
is that the parson’s wife forgot to say that
she had been talking about the poor dead
kid with its mother while her own little
four-year-old was listening. This is a kind
of thoughtless cruelty all too common with
parents.
“Kismet”: Re that Melbourne boy of 17
who could neither read nor write (B.
5/1/'22), I know a clergyman (a graduate
of Cambridge and an M.A.) whose daughter
was taken from school at 10 years of age
and made a little household drudge, and
whose sons went to the State school till
they got their leaving certificates, and were
then turned out into the world to make their
own way. The mother was an unschooled
woman who could just write her own name,
end “wasn’t going to have her children look
down on her” bv educating them. Which
maybe accounts for the other case, too.
Hobart’s Mount Wellington had a narrow
shave of being named something else. The
French set it down in their plans as Plateau.
John Hayes tried to give it the name of
Skiddaw. Un to a century ago it was down
in official documents as Mount Table, and in
private letters as Table Mountain. Finally
it was dedicated to the old warrior states-
man, whose name went also to a city of
M.L., and would have gone to the capital of
South Aus. if old King William had not,
less than a month before his death, substi-
tuted the name of his wife, Adelaide, to the
great disgust of Wakefield and the city’s
other founders (on paper) in London.
“Roma”: “J.H.M.” (B. 5/l/’22) says he
can obtain a light by placing a funnel above
the Glenmanyie bore (Q.). Similar indica-
tions, together with the fact that gas previ-
oiusly came up in large quantities, induced
the Queensland Government to spend a
couple of fortunes on the Roma bore. The
bore supplying Roma with water and the
oil bore are not 200jrds. apart, and gas was
first discovered when boring for water.
“J.H.M.” may be daily walking over a for-
tune, and should he desire to obtain a sample
of the gas to test its petrol contents here’s
the Roma method: Fill a bottle with water
and sharply tilt the mouthpiece into the
bore, holding on to the bottom. The gas will
replace the water, and he will soon have a
bottle full of gas. Withdraw the bottle
bottom upwards and cork it in that position.
Should there be any doubt about the gas
being in the bottle, put a match to the mouth
-—but take out an accident policy first.
“G.D.M.” holds a gilded review:—
Years ago I heard a lively discussion between two
Scotch squatters named Robertson and my father,
who as a bank’s gold buyer weighed and paid for
more gold than any other man of his or perhaps any
other era one million ounces. The three Scots were
lapping whisky toddy, and the conversation was
made up of sheep and gold and the quickest way
to amass money. The elder brother said cattle-
breeding was the easiest; the younger squatter
plumped for sheep, and the banker voted for mining.
This ancient recollection recurred when I read
an article by Dr. W. H. Lang, the V.R.C, handi-
capper, about the Chirnsides. That family acquired
85,000 acres, buying dribs and drabs between the
Werribee and Geelong (Vic.). There was nothing
romantic in the story, because it is only the tale of
two Scotch peasants who came here early with cen-
turies of desire to own their own land permeating
them. Nearlv all the pioneer squatters of the
Western District were Scotch or Irish shepherds and
farmhands who knew a little about sheep and farming
and nothing at all about geology or land values—-
else why did Tom and Andrew Chirnside pick upon
the bluestone or lava plain, with a thin layer of
soil overlying a sheet of impervious rock through
which water cannot percolate? During the “hot”
days on the “diggings” Tom Chirnside bought
Sheep on the deserted stations of the Western Dis-
trict for 2s. 6d. a head and sold them elsewhere for
a pound. Jimmy Tyson did the same thing because
he also understood sheep prices. Tyson in 1853,
when the gold rush to Bendigo and Castlemaine
was at its apex, went to the Warrnambool district
and bought 6000 sheep at 2s. 6d., which he sold in
Castlemaine at 30s. a head. But mining has pro-
vided more and bigger fortunes than squatting. The
fortunes made by most of the early Australian
pastoralists came from the increased value of their
land due to railways and population—those fortunes
won by the mining of gold, copper, silver-lead and
tin were far more quickly made and in bigger
chunks. What squatter ever raised 12 tons of gold
in ten years as did J. B. Watson, of Bendigo, from
the Kentish mine? And George Lansell must have
handled £5,000,000 from quartz-mines in 25 years.
From Mount Morgan (Q.) W. K. D’Arcy and the Hall
brothers must have got at least four millions. Three
families owned most of the £5,000,000 of gold
produced by the Long Tunnel, of Walhalla (Vic.).
And then there are Bowes Kelly’s Mt. Lyell (Tas.)
million, and the Broken Hill (N.S.W.) fortunes
falling by magic to Harvey Patterson, William
Jamieson, George MacCulloch, W. R. Wilson and
W. P. MacGregor.


STORAGE
BATTE
Hr
Willard Threaded Rubber
Insulation permits “bone
dry” shipment and storage
of batteries, so that no mat-
ter how long the dealer
keeps them in stock they
are brand new when they
go out of the door on his
customer’s cars.
STORAGE
BATTERY
sdf


sf
he largest selling
quality pencil in
the world
VENUS
Vpencils
sd
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Hotel do Lux o.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Road from
3fosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Pishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiard*.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per lay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE 'AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3008. Apply Manager.
This is the BEST
Way® to Mark
all Linen
w
I
[CASHS <& NAMES'
Are so Easily Sewn On.
Your Clear. Woven Name in Fast Color is
always ready to attach to any Garment or
Material. CASH'S WOVEN NAMES
offer protection and individuality and are
a Boon in every household.
Prices —12 doz. 7/6 —6 doz. 5/-—3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH
85 CUBITT ST., RICHMOND,
PTY.
LTD.
VIC.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK.
If neglected may bring
about serious disturb-
ances to health. Head-
ache and Indigestion
are often traceable to
this cause. Get relief by
taking the ever-reliable
Kruses
fluid
Majjnesia
Imitations are being
of cred. The genuine
hrase’s is made by
Felton, Grimwade &
Co. Prop. Ltd.. Melb.
The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
DEPOSITS - -
WITHDRAWALS
INTEREST
Accepted from 1 /- upwards.
Payable at any Branch or
Agency.
Paid at 4 per cent, on every
complete £ up to £5OO, and
at per cent, on any
excess up to £lOOO.
147 Branches and 509 Agencies throughout the State.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts opened.
©
©.
-
©
©
@
1. The lid.
2. The spring steel
leaf.
3. Iron lever.
4. Spring controlling
pump and seat.
C. Galvanised- iron
tank.
6. Filling cap.
7. Solid brass pump,
cannot get out of
order, and lasts
a lifetime.
Perfect Sanitation
for Unsewered Districts!
Have the comfort, cleanliness
and convenience of the City in
your home by installing a
“WALBOW
The “Walbow” Sanitation Sys-
tem has no complicated
mechanism. Cannot get out of
order, and lasts a lifetime.
It prevents insects breeding,
and is safe, simple and con-
venient.
l*he only perfect sanitary system for
unsewered districts.
Price £5 complete, plus 3/6
for crate and packing.
Write or call for full details.
THE WALBOW
SANITATION CO.,
53 Rose Street, Darlington, Sydney.
City Show Room, 45 York St. Sydney.
TEL.: CITY 7799.
1
m
Use Australian-made Plummer
Blocks and Hangers fitted with
SKF BALL BEARINCS
and so reduce, by approximately 60 per cent., the power
that is usually lost in friction in transmission.
For example, tests have shown that 140 feet of shafting
with pulleys can be turned with no more effort than is
required to wind a watch. Other advantages are —saving
oil, wages and upkeep, and considerably greater life of
SKF as compared with plain bearings.
We invite you to discuss YOUR power problems with us in
the light of this proposition.
GARDNER, WAERN
& CO. PTY., LTD.,
Head Office: 384 City Road, South Melbourne.
Sydney: 225 Clarence Street.
Distributing Centres also at Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth
and Hobart.
“Aragun”: One Howland, a Crimean
veteran of 88, lias just thrown in his job at
a Pyrmont (Sydney) iron foundry. The en-
terprising youngster attempted to stop a bolt-
ing horse in Bridge-road recently.
When the St. Kilda Council and Elwood
Progress Association (Vic.) launched a pro-
secution against a couple for “misbehavior”
on the foreshore, it was in accordance with
the fitness of things that the prosecuting
police-sergeant should be Dainty.
“Deirdre”: These modern boosters don’t
leave much out. I find in the November
issue of the South American that “Buenos
Aires is a wonderful city... .Beautiful parks,
avenues, a remarkable cemetery, and the im-
morality of the Argentine men always im-
press a foreigner/’
It really shouldn’t be necessary in this
62nd year of its publication to either praise
or recommend Sands’s (N.S.W.) Directory.
There is no better directory in the World,
so far as The Bulletin has been able to
discover ; and there is no office in the State,
or which does business with the State, that
is half-furnished without a copy.
“H.V.E.”: In spite of “Whitehall’s” pic-
ture of ex-Lord Chancellor Plalsbury (B.
2y/12/’2l), the great lawyer had some feel-
ing. As Sir Hardinge Giffard he defended
Governor Eyre, of Jamaica, who was alleged
to have been a bit too severe in putting down
a black rebellion. At one point in his address
he suddenly burst into tears, crying “O
God, is this justice?” That was the Eyre,
of course, who did such fine exploration work
in South Aus., prior to starting his career
as a “colonial” Governor under the wing of
his friend “Hori” Grey.
When feeling was running high during the
first Conscription campaign Tudor, who was
an “anti,” suffered a lot of anonymous abuse,
and one day a Parliamentary official found
“Traitor,” or words to that effect, written on
the Labor leader’s official door at Federal
Parliament House. The matter was con-
sidered serious enough to mention to the
police, so a couple of bloodhounds were sent
up from Russell-street and an awe-stricken
audience watched them get on the trail. But
they didn’t get far; Tudor said to a friend,
“Well, it was silly of him—he shouldn’t have
done it. But he probably really thinks I
am.” And the hunt was called off.
“Sixenate” : Chidley is not dead. In an
old house in Berry’s Bay, North Sydney, the
simple life is led by a small community who
follow the tenets of their chief as to dietary
and clothing—the last, however, only when
they are at home. The establishment is run
on a communistic basis, the leader being
Shirlaw, who used to be secretary of Chid-
ley’s committee, and on his chief's promotion
to glory made a sensational appearance in
the Chidley rdle. His one-piece garb not
being ready for his advertised appearance,
Shirlaw borrowed one of his landlady’s sheets,
and, with this wrapped around his loins,
turned up in the Domain to conduct the usual
meeting.
“Kotaretare” : A M.L. nomination for the
In Memoriam Stakes, from the Auckland
Herald (23/12/’2l) :
BLANK. —In sad but loving memory of our dear
son and brother, Edwin Blank, who died in the
Hamilton Hospital, December 23, 1920.
’Twas in the cool of the evening,
As the lambs began to skip,
He felt in his youth he would like to go,
Just for a * little trip.
So he mounted his iron horse,
One which he loved so well,
But ere he had gone the length of a mile
His front wheel slipped, and he fell.
And just at the dawn of another .day,
His bright life had passed away.
—lnserted by his loving father, and brothers and
sisters.
“Roma”: The burglar’s burglar (B.
29/12/’2l) is not confined to the city. A
few years ago four W.Q. duffers had a dispute
as to. raiding a certain lot of eleanskins.*-
Two of them eventually decided they would
“give it a go,” and on partibg company made
uncomplimentary remarks about the "yellow
streak in the other two. The raid was suc-
cessful, but while the cattle were being driven
along in the small hours two mounted police
and a blacktraeker came galloping up. The
duffers went for their lives with the con-
stabulary discharging revolvers in the rear.
The police, however, soon gave up the chase,
and, returning to the cattle, drove them to
their own paddock and got busy with the
branding-iron. They were the two yellow-
streak coves.
“Mack” : A little while ago someone wrote
of the variety of occupations some men try
before settling down. Here’s mine. I’ve
been farm-laborer, gold-miner, concrete-
worker, road-builder and painter; done all
branches of railway-construction work, in
charge of gangs as well as laboring; been
ship’s steward, canecutter, meat-worker;
then back to the railway as fettler, guard,
fireman and night-officer; worked next in
coal-mines as bricklayer, carpenter, road-
layer, shot-firer, wheeler and miner; then
scrub-falling and timber-getting, and left
that to be in turns plumber, cabinet-maker
and fitter. Next I ran a billiard-saloon and
newsagency, with watch, clock and general
repair-shop, and for the last three and a
half years I have been shift electrician in
a sugar-mill, looking after a 750-kilowatt
plant. And I’m not yet 30 years old. Be-
tween times I’ve gone in for photography,
first-aid . work and entomology, and have
dabbled in chemistry.
“Paudh”: Maoriland’s retiring Police
Commissioner John O’Donovan is known to
his familiars as Shaun, yet he is said to
have sacked an indiscreet young John Hop
for asserting that Terence McSwiney was
a martyr. The Force loses in him an able
advertiser. It became highly unpopular
during the war because of the husky young
eligibles who were supposed to have taken
refuge in it; but when two decent men in
blue were sent west by gunmen Shaun saw
his opportunity and delivered a magniloquent
graveside advertisement in justification of
John Hop’s existence and in correction of
crude popular notions about his “safe” job. It
was starred in the press and a printed copy
hangs in every police den (by command).
O’Donovan busted all precedents by promptly
squashing a subscription-list going the
rounds prior to his retirement. He was too
gentle a man to handle big, brawny Johns,
and will now probably interest himself in
Sunday-schools or crSches.


©
Z TL
UL
r
r
This car was planned and built with the one idea of having the buyer get
out of it, in comfort of mind and body, all that the manufacturer put into it
in time, and thought, and care, and money, and experience.
IMPORTANT FEATURES;
Extra strong, rigid frame.
Two carburetter adjustments.
Pressure oil system feeding oil direct to bearings.
Soft operating clutch, with adjustable pedal.
Extra-long change-speed lever, with short, easy
throw.
Extra-long, semi-elliptic springs; chrome vanadium
leaves.
Semi-irreversible steering-gear; strong construc-
tion.
Detachable engine-head; easy to grind valves or
remove carbon.
Extreme roominess of tonneau and driving com-
partment.
Completeness and quality of equipment.
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS' CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
Hupmobile
Electric
Light
A Real Necessity
on the Farm or
Homestead.
i
rt
USX
■
m
mm
m
A
YOU must have plenty of good light on
your farm most mornings and every
night throughout the year.
Either the “LALLEY” or "PLIX” Lighting
Sets shown here will provide you with a
constant supply of the cleanest, safest, most
convenient and best artificial light procurable
—an abundance of good light for your house,
outbuildings, grounds and entrances.
In addition to lighting, the “LALLEY” or
“PLIX” Lighting Plants will furnish power
for all kinds of electrical do mestic appliances.
They pi ace the conveniences of modern city
life at your disposal.
Both plants are so simple and perfectly con-
structed that a child can operate either with
perfect ease and safety.
Byswig
LALLEY
STMTS ■ LIGHT
“LALLEY”
Electric Lighting Plant.
1000-Watt Capacity. 40 to 50
16-c.p. Lights continuously.
Illustrated literature, giving full descriptions of the
“LALLEY” and “PLIX” Machines, will be gladly posted
to you on receipt of your name and address, or we’ll be
pleased to give you an actual demonstration if you can
find it convenient to call at either of our warehouses.
'JOHN
& SON-Pi y. Ltd
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“PLIX”
Electric Lighting Set.
1250-Watt Capacity. 60 to
16-c.p. Lights continuously


A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Open-face Lever
Watches, stem set, adjusted balance, key-
lcr-s i-plate, 30/-
Jewelled compensation balahce, 40/-,
50/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Neck-
let, 15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
GIFT SUGGESTIONS
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch, 15et.
Gold, £7/10/-. Smaller Diamond, £5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Neck-
let, £7/10/-
s^;
m
i
a
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Hunting Key'
less Lever, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-
Gold-filled Waltham or Elgin, £5.
20-year ease, £7/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO.
25-year case, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Lever Watch, Gold Expanding
Side Bracelet and Leather Strap, £5.
Wider Bracelet, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Necklet, set Aquamarines
or Rubies, £2.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Links,
set pure Diamond, £3/15/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Aqua-
marine or Pearls, 25/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Ring, set Aqua-
marine or Tour-
maline, £2.
A. Saunders*
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £B/10/-
Darger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold
Links, 25/-; heavier,
30/-
15ct. Gold £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Set. Qold Bar Brooch, set Pearls,
£2.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold
Necklet, set Pearls and
Aquamarines or Peridots,
£3.
K. Saunders’ Gold, Diamond-set Expanding Watch
Bracelet, full-jewelled lever movement, £2O.
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Cluster Bracelet, 15ct.
Gold, £l5; Larger Diamonds, £25.
WRITE FOR OUR XMAS GIFT BOOK.
WE SEND ALL ORDERS PER REGISTERED POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
ws u
2-:
*lO
• 9
4-.
r-8
5A
r>, • <T»
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £lO. Others, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £l3/10/-,
£l5. Guaranteed.
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY,
j iMumi
w.
fx
;1
:5c
/
m
brighten Up the Home
Renew the varnish on your woodwork, floors, furni-
ture, &c., with an application of Johnson’s Prepared
Wax —the polish that imparts a hard, dry and bright
lustre, that protects, and covers mars and surface
scratches. A soft cloth and Johnson’s Prepared Wax-
all that is needed for easier dusting and brighter home.
JOHNSON’S
Liquid and Paste
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste is the most conven-
ient and satisfactory form for use on floors of all
kinds—wood, marble, tile, linoleum, &c. Floors fin-
ished with this are easily dusted and polished with a
soft cloth or Johnson’s Light Floor Brush.
There is also Johnson’s Prepared Wax Liquid that is
especially recommended for furniture, phonographs,
pianos, woodwork and motor-cars. It contains no oil
and cannot catch or gather dust. It is clean to use
and durable in its effect.
Include a supply of these Johnson Products-
with your next order from your local dealer.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.


Amusements.
SIDXE Y’S CIII K F XIII2AT It E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE BOY.
CRITERION:
SINBAD THE SAILOR.
ROYAL:
MERRIE ENGLAND.
PALACE:
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
u
N 1 O N
ICTUK IS X II IS A T 11 IS S
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
Hons XJJt EATRESS, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
CARMEL MYERS in
THE KISS.
MARION DAVIES in
THE BURDEN OF PROOF.
Prices as usual.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
MAUDE FANE in
A NIGHT OUT.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
BABES IN THE WOOD.
KING’S THEATRE.
JOHN D. O’HARA in
THE LAUGHTER OF FOOLS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
BEN & JOHN FULLER. LTD., MELBOURNE.
PANTOMIME ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE,
BLUEBEARD.
PALACE THEATRE,
THE BABES IN THE WOOD.
Popular Prices. Matinees Daily.
IVI
AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
UP IN MARY’S ATTIC.
PRODUCED BY APOLLO.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
> It IT AN NIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
IVI
ELBA
THEATRE,
.MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SET.ZNICK.
IN TOUR. DIRECTION LIONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Presented by arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
Now Touring Tasmania.
rHE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
Tasmanian Tour:
NATIONAL THEATRE, LAUNCESTON.
Season Commencing SATURDAY, JANUARY 28.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
McLEAN, FRANCIS AND WILLIAM.
THE Trustees Executors and Agency Co., Ltd., 412
Collins Street, Melbourne, require information of
the present addresses, if living, or the place and date
of death, if dead, of Francis McLean and William
McLean, sons of William Edward McLean, deceased,
and Anne McLean, deceased, late of Heidelberg, Vic-
toria, and North Adelaide, South Australia, who were
last heard of in Carnarvon and Murchison districts,
Western Australia.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
THOMAS WALTER SAMPSON,
please communicate with I. SAMI»-HN,
Wallaroo Mines, South Australia.
ALLUVIAL GOLD
MINERS
may get the highest price for
gold from
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
. „ << if . « Established
Australian Mutual
nmS%m Provident Society
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. •• £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class Of Ordinary
and industrial Assurance Business,
fl. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. Generai Manager.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOUFER HOUSE,
359 Idttle Uonsdale St., Melbourne.
fsd
fs
CRAIG & AITKEM,
654 George St.,
SYDNEY,
The Plum Rufcov
FOR A SMOOTH SHAVE.
Our many years practical experience has
brought us razor knowledge that enables us
to offer a perfect shaving blade in “THE
PLUM,” so sweetly smooth and keen is its edge, no
beard, however tough and wiry, can withstand it.
n • 1 o /a PAIR IN PRESENTATION Og /.
Price 12/6. case, post free,
Blades §in. and Jin. set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free.
Re-Creation-
not imitation.
rngsarm.
jnEDCon
That is what the NEW EDISON renders
—a Re-Creation so complete and satisfy-
ing that it is impossible to distinguish the
artist’s voice from the instrument’s. Other
machines may imitate, but the NEW
EDISON alone Re-Creates.
"i he accompanying drawing is made from
an actual photograph of Guido Ciccolini
singing in direct comparison with the
NEW EDISON—one of 5000 similar
tests that resulted in the decision “NO
DIFFERENCE.”
Let us send you, post free, further details of these
£ tests —they make fascinating reading.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
>64-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND,
j WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(Wellington Registry.)
! No. 2422 in Divorce.
| BETWEEN ELLEN PHCEBE IRESON,
( Petitioner.
(And JOHN HENRY IRESON, Respondent.
To JOHN HENRY IRESON, formerly of
Grey town, in New Zealand* Photographer,
but now of address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand, citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of Ellen Phoebe Ireson, of Greytown,
Married Woman, wherein she prays for a dis-
solution of her marriage with you on the
ground of desertion, and such Citation inti-
mates that in default of your so doing the
Court will proceed to hear the said Petition
and to pronounce sentence therein notwith-
standing your absence:
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are within
ninety days after the date of this publication
to attend in person or by your Solicitor at
the Supreme Court Office at Wellington and
there to enter an appearance and file an
Answer without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage
of the proceedings.
A Copy of the said Citation and Petition
will be supplied to you on your applying for
the same at the Supreme Court Office at
Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this 23rd day of
December, 1921.
(Seal.) G. S. CLARK,
Deputy-Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
Gordon Graham Gibbes Watson is the
Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the Office of Chapman, Skerrett,
Tripp & Blair, at 20 Brandon Street, in the
City of Wellington. _____
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“•"w
srs:
££?
&
* 2 ■
S
Made in the following sizes:
9 ft. x 12 ft.; 9 ft.
6 in.; 9 ft. x 9 ft.
7 ft. 6 in.; 9 ft.
x 10 ft.
; 9 tt. x
x 6 ft.
GOLD
SEAL
■/T:
GUARANTEE
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
OR YOUR MONEY BACK ,
REMOVE SEAL WITH
DAMP CLOTH
S ° !9iQ CON&OLtO^
They Make the Room so Cheerful
Of course they do! The rich,
warm colorings and refreshing
patterns of Gongoleum Art Squares
make any room more pleasant.
The beautiful tones of these ideal
floor coverings harmonize charm-
ingly with furniture and draperies.
You will be amazed to find how
beautiful these squares really are,
when on the floor.
And besides being handsome
they are sanitary, waterproof,easy-
to-clean and low in cost.
You can lay them yourself —they
lie flat on the floor without fasten-
ing of any kind, and never kick up.
The Gold Seal identifies genuine
Gongoleum. See that it is on every
square you buy.
Gold Seal
(oNG OLEUM
At all leading stores
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney
Perth
Congoleum Representatives for Australia


(
Virginia
Cigarettes
yHE PRINCE CHARMING'
cigarette is the Prince of all
cigarettes, and sets a new standard
of excellent quality in either popular
priced or expensive cigarettes. Perfect
tobacco, manufacture and packing go to
the making of this Charming cigarette.
lO for 9d.
20 for 1/0,
Manufactured by GODFREY PHILLIPS, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
'!
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Boy”
Royal “Merrie England’’
Criterion “Sinbad the Sailor”
Palace “The Private Secretary”
Hoyt s . .. .Moving Pictures
union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
■^ OYAI ' “A Night Out”
Her Majesty’s “Babes in the Wood”
King’s “The Laughter of Fools”!
Princess’s “Bluebeard”
Palace .............. “The Babes in the Wood”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
If there is anything in the reaction against
unmusical comedy of the jazz-and-cocktail
school, "Merrie England” should prosper at
the Sydney Royal. Taken by and large the
music is beautiful and the librettist i.s en-
titled to an acquittalon the ground that he
has done his best. By a shallow river which
meanders through a romantic forest, melodi-
ous girls like Strella Wilson sing madrigals,
and the droll Workman (in his Elizabethan
duds he looks strikingly like a 16th century
Edmund Duggan from "Our Selection”)
regales the multitude on chestnuts. Also
there is a joyous and hardworking chorus
which, in the language of the high gods, is
boshter.
** * *
“The Boy,” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, has
hit the taste and fancy ,of a populace
struggling with a heavy weight of wet days
and dry politics. It is a never-failing haven
of refuge from Doolery and Fullerism and
progressive Wearness.
** * *
Two of the leading attractions at the
Sydney Criterion, where “Sinbad the Sailor”
nightly drags its slow but not tedious length
along, are Jennie Hartley’s legs. There are
other legs besides Jennie’s in the panto—
indeed, it ispan age of legs—but Jennie owns
the underpins on which the wandering eye
most frequently rests. They are much more
interesting than some of the songs she sings.
For the rest Jack Cannot remains an incorri-
gibly cheerful circumstance in a programme
of unequal merit. Phil Smith is sometimes
funny (and sometimes he just misses),
Gracie Lavers makes effective play with her
orbs of vision and her top note, Hassan’s
cat is as humorously clever as ever, and
Edgely and Dawe’s act would go 25 per cent,
better if there was 25 per cent, less of it.
The return to the old six-four-three-two
tariff is helping Walenn, George Blunt.
Maggie Moore and others in their task of
putting new life into the dry bones of “The
Private! Secretary.” at Sydney Palace. And
now the public is wondering how much
longer other shows will try to avoid the
unavoidable.
** * *
The sprightly Ella Shields’s first-rate im-
personations at the Sydney Tivoli make the
uvnutes fly. She brought to livht two more
screams on Saturday night: “The Isle of
Man” and “Do You Want Coal?” Bert Gil-
bert’s moke continues to live up to his
owner’s dream ; and the extensive collection
of funmakers is lengthened by the addition of
Cm Moreni, an old Harry Rickards favorite,
and the popular Claude Dampier and his
cheery partner Attenboro. The future theatri-
cal historian will have to write of this period
in the Tivoli’s career in red ink.
The run for the Archibald prize:—
Taking it nil round the work submitted in com-
petition for the first annual £4OO prize for por-
traiture bequeathed by the late J. F. Archibald is
very disappointing. The tendency is to concentrate
on the head and let the body go, which may be
an “artistic” practise but leaves the picture uncon-
vincing. The essence of good portraiture is realism,
and how can a man look real and living when from
the collar down his clothes appear to have nothing
in them?
Of the 30-odd pictures sent in, only one echoes
what the Great Painters made of portraiture. Two
are fairly good examples of what modern art has
made of it; another six fallow closely; a dozen or
more are just ordinary; the rest are anywhere, except
for a half-dozen amateurish attempts on Lloyd George,
Andy Fisher, a Brisbane musician and others, which
by contrast with their more painty neighbors on the wall
suggest Shy old bushmen wearing home-made togs
in a roomful of city swells. Their only right to
be shown lies in the fact that in the matter of
color they are more sane than the portraits of some
much more capable painters, notably Florence Rod-
way and Mary Edwards, whose theories are freakish.
Max Meldrum’s “Self Portrait“Desbrowe Annear,”
the prize-winner, by W. B. Melnnes; and “W. P.
Hurst,” by H. B. Harrison, are the three best pic-
tures. Meldrum’s portrait is a remarkable likeness.
It is lifelike, though not greatly more so than the
other two, and for its painting it is the most capable
work. There does not appear to have been a single
stroke misplaced ; the form, tone and color are satis-
fying because they are so nearly true. And truth
is, after all, the first and last virtue in portraiture.
Owing to his rigid adherence to the principle of
painting- no more than he is certain of, his picture
lacks so-called “finish" ; moreover, it appears to have
been painted in a subdued light, and is, therefore,
at a disadvantage beside the more extended range
from black to white of most of its neighbors on
the wall. Herein, no doubt, lie the reasons that it
failed to catch the eye of the trustees. Meldrum’s
technique is decided by his subject throughout, which
is as it should be, for it is therefore not obvious.
In the winning picture, which is very good in
spots, Mclnnes has decided the technique for his
subject, and made a bold display of it, with the
result that it is impossible to forget the paint. The
picture depends largely for its attractiveness on a
wcll-paintcd blue pot and cretonne chair-back; but
ii has nevertheless a decided .illusion of space, a
quality which is also fairly strong in Harrison's
picture, between which and Mclnnes’s there is little
to choose, save that it is more uniformly good,
painted like Meldrum’s with no more paint than
necessary, and, except for a suggestion of leather in
the texture of the flesh, contains no part that leaves a
doubt as to what you are looking at.
*# * *
“Bluebeard” is still raging at Melbourne
Princess’s. Since the mercury leaped to
summer level, several heavily-clothed people
are beginning to wish they were the cause of
the diily-season discussion on the meagreness
of sundry garments in other pantos. Blue-
beard could easily shed three robes and a
whole cataract of blue whiskers, and still feel
ready to face a blizzard.
sic »\i si: $
The Fuller production of “Babes in the
Wood” continues to make Go-Slow impos-
sible in the treasury department at Mel-
bourne Palace. The daily matindes are
crowded with infants, and the “House Full”
sign makes the evening sessions monotonous
in one respect, at any rate.
* * * #
Interest in the J.C.W. “Babes in the
Wood” has been stimulated by an opportune
newspaper controversy re the propriety of
the costumes and the morals of bare legs.
In the course of the discussion word has
gone forth from the chorus ladies that they
are not to be confused with Hussies or mis-
taken for Minxes. Also, the principal boy
announced that she personally is a firm be-
liever in tights, while the two sisters who
deliver intoned remarks about Hortense are
anxious to have it generally known that the
make-up for their legs is laid on with a
trowel. One way and another “Babes in the
Wood” is getting lots of indirect advt.,' and
there is doubtless more to follow. When its
influence for good or evil has been fully dis-
cussed bv the Press, the Pulpit and the
Petticoat it will be time for the panto dame
to analyse the popularity of the scene where
she is understood to swallow 10 nips of gin
in 12 minutes after requesting the Baron
not to let her glass be more than full. And.
finally, Naughton and Gold may be induced
to go into the family history of their oldest
jokes.
* * ¥
“The Laughter of Fools,” transferred
from Melbourne Itoyal to the adjacent
King’s, continues to present .J. D. O’Hara in
a strangely unpaternal light. His silvery
grey hair and vivid green apron may deceive
the unthinking into belief in his benevolence,
but the fact that he does his best to burst
up _ his daughter’s pardonable matrimonial
designs on a nice young man with a nice
large income seems to explain why the old
chap is not a bit popular in his own home.
ELLA SHIELDS AT
SYDNEY TIVOLI
SINGING
“BURLINGTON
BERTIE
FROM BOW.”
His habit of crying 10 to 1 against Mabel
suggests a venomous disposition; and
although he flukes a profit of £2OOO on an
awful act of folly, he doesn’t clear away the
suspicion that the unpleasantness of his
family is the natural result of the stupidity
and petty spite of the elderly waster who
pays the rent.
At Melbourne Tivoli the nights of The
Frolics are numbered. They will endure
until Feb. 1, and then Wilkie Bard will re-
turn to Melbourne for a little while. He
will seem a very particular blessing in the
circumstances.
Adelaide has had a New r Year fare of
variety shows, the Prince of Wales having
dropped its drama season with a final trial of
“Uncle Tom.” The Royal has a steady suc-
cession of good people ; Ella Shields and Bert
Gilbert were followed by Clifford Morgan,
with Kipling selections, and the Trees with
mental telepathy, and now Wilkie Bard is the
“MERRIE ENGLAND," AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Victor Prince as Silas Simians.
top line. The joyous “Mile. Mimi” Diggers
are at the King’s; also Berg and English
come with a claim that they do the risky
athletic stunts in Los Angeles which are
credited to better-known film artists. Two
circuses have come and gone, Worley’s and
Colleano’s. In the open air (except when
driven indoors by storms) are the English
I'ierrots. at. Austral Gardens, and across in
the Exhibition garden the Humphrey Bishop
Co. The competition keeps both of them
active, and the latter fias got as far as an
“Ali Baba” pantomime and an “East Lynne”
burlesque, with Joe Brennan as leading lady.
The p ctures most attractive have been Bar-
rie’s “What Every Woman Knows” at Won-
dergraph, and Frank Hurley’s “Pearls and
Savages” at West’s.
* * * *
The star item at Hoyt’s Melbourne house
for the current week is “Living London,”
pictured in 4QO scenes, and showing, accord-
ing to the advt., “throngs of palpitating
people at work and play.” The principal
dramas are “The Burden of Proof” and “The
Kiss,” in which Marion Davies and Carmel
Myers have sentimental outings and over-
work their faces in the warmest phases
thereof. Also there is the Australian,
Boyd Irwin, overflowing with sagacity
as Dexter the Detective in “The Fatal
Sign.” At the Majestic the mixed bill,
with Frank Wignall trying his voice on
“The Old Mariner,” is a continued success.
Wignall appears with Edwin Lester and a
rivht uipner. Lucille Jonas, in a picturesque
orologue heralding the Maiestic’s principal
Aim, “The Old Curiosity Shop.” The pic-
ture is well done, and the acting in places
makes the favorite old classic live again.
The follow-on is a mile or more of “The
Inner Chamber,” affording further close-ups
of Alice Joyce.
Lute Drummond’s account of a new
Italian play :
The queer title is “Six Characters in Search of an
Author” (“Sei Personaggi in Circare d’un Autore”),
and it is by Luigi Pirandello. Its three acts have lately
been received by a first-night audience with whistlings
from one side and cheers from the other, as is the
Latin way.
When the curtain goes up we are on a dark stage,
at the hour of rehearsal. The comedians enter jocu-
larly; the director joins them'; The rehearsal begins.
At this moment six figures, half-real half-unreal, make
their shadowy appearance, with the features of their
faces spasmodically strained in the effort to find ex-
pression. The six characters are a sad, elderly,
bald-headed man; a woman no longer young, in
mourning; a girl, also in mourning, but with a bold,
defiant face, which expresses disgust at herself and
all the world besides; a youth, grave and taciturn;
a thoughtful boy and a little girl. These intruders
declare themselves to be characters —characters of a
drama, intuitively felt but not yet realised. They
have within themselves the tormenting force
(labor-pains) which they would represent or express.
They ache to live this drama, to find in it their
entity, perhaps even their eternity. They are seek-
ing for an author who will draw them out of their
nebulous limbo. Does the principal comedian per-
haps know one? Or can he himself, listening to
them, watching their actions, construct a cornedv
according to the manner of his art? They suppli
cate. They insist. Cries of their passion: frag-
ments of their story, escape confusedly now from
the mouth of one, now from the mouth of another
Gradually their story becomes clearer, falls into order’
as a succession of events, but not yet as an artistic-
triumph. It remains in the condition of a rude
truth. It has not reached verisimilitude. It is
formless matter, almost shocking in its brutalitv.
That is the so-called comedy. Now for the
drama.
The elderly man became aware that his wife (the
woman in mourning) was a little soul, in-
capable of mental understanding. A son’ was
born of their union, but this was not enough to
constitute a tie between them, as there was neither
concord nor equality of intellect between the couple.
The husband discovered that one of his dependants
was in love with this wife—innocently in love,
because they resembled each other in their simple
goodness and their mental nothingness. The wife
returned the feeling. The husband then created, one
might say, the sin of! these two souls. He wished
them to be united, to go away together, to found.a
family, irregularly, naturally, but quietly, docilely,
passively contented. The wife left ,his house, leav-
ing her son, and with her insignificant lover had a
new family of three children, the other three charac-
ters in search of an author. The lover died. The
unfortunate woman, in black, returned to the city,
where her legal husband lived. Desolate and poor
she returned. Her elder daughter, driven by misery
and temptations, sold herself to the highest bidder.
One day she was, without knowing it, in the act of
selling herself to her mother’s husband. The wife
arrived just in time to avert this. The husband,
full of anguish and remorse, took his wife and her
children to his home for good. Then and there com-
menced a life of bitter strife. The legitimate son
looked on these intruders with hate. His mother
had abandoned him. The father felt that, from the
moment he accosted the daughter in the street—a
lapse which was only a moment in his. whole life, a
fugitive episode—he was judged by his bizarre family
as a roue, while in truth he was full of high ideals.
The mother, who only had eyes for her first-born,
implored him for just a loving glance. In vain. The
girl suffered from the shame of the -circumstance
under which she had been brought into this house,
and accused everybody and everything. The youth,
feeling- himself neglected and cast aside, killed him-
self, and the little girl threw herself into a well
in the garden.
This should be the drama. The six characters
want it so written. Thus, they urge, do their
natures work out. They live it under the eyes of
the chief comedian and the other actors —fragmentary,
unartistic. But when the actors rehearse tlie scenes
which the- characters have indicated, the- six charac-
ters don’t recognise themselves any more. They don’t
recognise their drama. They see it generalised and
false. They feel themselves dis-individualised. And
so it goes on till, suddenly, this struggle to get ex-
pression is broken by a violent stroke—the pistol-shot
of the youth, who commits suicide. Thus every-
thing is destroyed. The artistic creation is ren-
dered for ever impossible, and the six characters are
relegated to that obscure world of beings not born
and incapable of being born.
The whole thing is a symbol—symbolic of the
author whose ideal is greater than his powers of
expression ; who is impotent to grasp that fulness of
form which implies not external beauty but the ex-
pression of the soul—which takes the idea, reclothes
it, without renouncing the truth, and sends it forth
in a mysterious newness, miraculous and perfect.
Symbolic also of the vast drama of human life. Jt
is not only artistically that we lack expression. In
the close intimacies of everyday life how many mutual
incomprehensions are generated! “Not understood!”
The drama of the “eternal triangle” has had its
day. This is one of the new plays that illustrate
the new trend of thought.
“T. 0.1.” dodges the spotlight:—
I had a notion once, being young and stage-
struck, of adopting the profession, but the experi-
ence of two friends who tried to get on the stage
deterred me, though the late John Bennett, a life-
long friend, offered to put on any piece I might
select, and he would see me properly supported. In
the mid-’sixties the late Peter Mansergh, who had
made a hit as an amateur, got an engagement from
James Simmonds, the lessee of the unlucky Hay-
market Theatre (late the Duke of Edinburgh) in
Bourke-street, to play Irish comedy for 12
nights at a fee of £ 50. He selected “Handy
Andy’’ for his d(?but. Ned Holloway was leading,
the stock co., and at rehearsal the new actor was;
boycotted, every member of the co. cold-shouldering
him. On the opening night the boycott was noticed;
by the audience, which hooted loudly. Six nights;
sufficed, then Simmonds broke the engagement.
Mansergh sued and got a verdict, though Holloway
and others swore that Mansergh was no actor and
never would be. Yet he did well up till his death,
which occurred early, and one of his engagements
wa3 a country tour with Montgomery. The second
instance was at the Victoria Theatre, Sydney, in the
early ’seventies. John Bennett was -lessee, and
Connor Roach, who, like Mansergh, had been suc-
cessful as an amateur, got an engagement to play
Irish comedy. The late William Andrews was one
of the recognised stage Irishmen in Sydney, and was
in the co. At rehearsal Roach was treated as Man-
sergh had been, and so glaring was the boycott that
he refused to appear on the opening night and
Andrews filled the part. I don’t know what became
of Roach ; but I have congratulated myself often on
having abandoned the idea of the professional stage.


■
- • -
M - If r
,f
:•> ;
fi
• :: •
%
I
i . •
-
■ ■ ■■•-•-■'■■"
sH
/
r"T>
i- '■
;
i ■
i -
m
hi
f> f=?
i
Mmßm i
r-r
*-i 1
■ .
M——
;;.'\
: :
Your Chin as Smooth as a Child’s.
What you need i* a perfect shaving edge. The edge of the
“ Valet ” blade is the sharpest possible, and by means of a simple
device built right into the razor frame that perfect edge can be
renewed, in 10 seconds, before every shave. Just slip the strop through the
head of the razor, and the blade reversing automatically “ strops itself.”
THE STANDARD SET (No. 1) consists of heavily silver-plated, self stropping
“Valet” Auto Strop Safety Razor, 12 “Valet” blades and “Valet 6|) !/££.
strop, complete in durable case lined velvet and satin - * • Jg j xQ)
“Valet” on Razors, Strops and Blades indicates the genuine product of
TROP SAFETY RAZOR CO., LTD., 197-207 City Road, London, E.C. 1.
The word
THE AUTOSTROP
Made in England. Obtainable from all high-class dealers.
Develop the Love of Music in Your Children
m
<7«
—// m
MUSIC is an essential factor in the lives
of all of us, but particularly in the life of
a child. You owe it to your children to
make their lives beautiful—to surround
them with the best of music at all times.
Do this with a
BEHNING PLAYER PIANO
It places at your command the entire
world of music. It provides you with the
means to develop their musical taste and
to train them to a full appreciation and
mastery of good music.
The children will love it: Nursery Rhymes
played in a key to suit their childish
voices, Games, Stories and Dances are
there to delight them.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE,
PRICE LIST AND DE I AILS OF
OUR EASY TERMS. A SMALL
DEPOSIT AND THE BALANCE
SPREAD OVER A PERIOD OF
YEARS.
Itl
338 George St.
SYDNEY.,
And at—
BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
TOOWOOMBA
ROCKHAMPTON
LISMORE.


X*
1
1
m
i
«
a*
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
N SW MONT dePIETE
D.£ ■ . COY. LTD.,
74 St. Sydney. 74
ooooocs rw"v
Joseph. W. Hill.
Genera/ Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I, Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
[?] Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
POVERTY
POINT
“Cadenza” : The Taits have booked the big
contralto, Marguerite d’Alvarez, who is
alleged to have sung in more opera houses
than any other living songstress—at Covent
Garden, the New York Manhattan and Metro-
politan, La Scala (Milan), and various other
less notable musical boxes in most of the
European capitals and the principal cities of
the two Americas. D’Alvarez, who poses as
a pure-blooded Spaniard, and has acquired
Melba’s delightful habit of adoring the people
she is appearing among, is really a native of
Lima, her father being an alleged notable
light in the Peruvian diplomatic service. All
the same, “d’Alvarez” sounds to a Spanish ear
much like “de Smith” in English. But at
any rate it will give the musically cultured
something fresh to try their tongues on.
“Hamfat”: Another old theatrical friend
is revisiting Australia in the films. Nance
O’Neill is the star of “The Mad Woman,” a
picturisation o f
Bolshevik Russia.
Nance is even
more massive than
of old; and
although some big-
gish actors have
been selected to
play with her, one
or two of the char-
acters look out of
drawing by com-
parison, The pic-
turesque O’Neill
was never suited
to violent action.
On one trip over
from M.L. a hard-
drinking actor, de-
prived suddenly of
liquor by he r
order, was seized
with jim-jams,
and, bounding on
the deck in his
shirt and brand-
ishing a razor, let
out a blood-curd-
ling yell. Nance,
imagining that he
was after her, un-
rolled herself from
a deck-chair and
coursed the deck in
an elephantine gal-
lop, with the liquor
maniac whirroo-ing
behind her. Those
who saw the per-
formance given by
Nance in her run-
“A Dark White
Horse,” at Sydney
Tivoli.
Bert Gilbert as Willie
Bleat describing a win
by his horse.
ning shoes put it far ahead of everything
else she ever did.
“Banshee”: With two theatres back to
hack in Bourke and Spring streets, the Ful-
lers have a unique opportunity of showing
what economy can do. Merely running their
adjoining pantos with the one stage staff
seems like absurd extravagance. Mabelle
Morgan, principal boy at the Palace, could
easily add Bluebeard’s work next door to her
not over-strenuous responsibilities. The
heavyweight Fairy at the Princess’s might
disguise herself as the bad Baron and send
the Babes to their doom at the Palace. The
possibilities, in fact, are tremendous; and
if the scheme were fully carried out the
wages-sheet might begin to resemble John
Wren’s list of donations to scientific re-
search.
“Blake”: “Sugref” (B. 19/l/’22) asks if
anyone else noticed that the last words
uttered on the stage by the late Villers
Arnold were “Hangs this life by a thread —
no more.” Dean Talbot referred to the
coincidence in his address at the obsequies
in St. Andrew’s.
"Lond.” : Ella Shields has attained to at
least one pinnacle of the variety artist’s
greatness. While she is in Australia “imi-
tations” of her (and of Marie Lloyd) are
being given by Clarice Mayne in London.
“Marlow” : Frank Thornton’s first appear-
ance in G. and S. opera was as Major Murga-
troyd in “Patience” in 1881, and “E.T.” (B.
12/l/’22) is wrong in saying his name
“figures in the original easts” of “Pinafore”
(16.8) and ‘.‘Pirates” (1880). Apropos the
rehearsals of “Patience,” Gilbert always took
extraordinary precautions to conceal from
the public the story of a new production until
the first performance, but the plot of “Pati-
ence” leaked out, and he was furious. He
assembled the co., and, after upbraiding them
collectively, mentioned “a little cad whose
name began with T.” Poor little Thornton
was much distressed, but in a day or two,
when he had been cleared of all suspicion, he
had the courage to refuse Gilbert’s half-
hearted withdrawal and to insist on an
apology before a second assembly of the whole
company.
“E.M.K.” : A meteorological disturbance of
some magnitude recently passed unnoticed by
the Observatory.
At one of the
Melbourne pantos
the counterweight
that kept the orb
of night in place
in onescene
broke loose, and
out of a deep
purple sky a pale
amber moon
rushed to earth.
The earth indig-
nantly resisted the
invasion and the
moon bounced off-
stage. What hap-
pened to it after
that isn’t re-
corded, but pro-
bably it went to
the pay-office, got
its cheque and left
in disgust.
“DIAMOND
GEORGE ”
ROBINSON,
stage-doorkeeper
at Melbourne Prin-
cess's. who started
with Emilie Mel-
ville at the Prin-
cess Theatre 40
years ago.
“0.K.” : “The Arcadians” is to be screened
shortly, and if the Screener be a man of
imagination that brightest of comic operas
will make one of the most. poetic of pictures.
The opening scene offers wide scope for a pro-
ducer. Aicadia, previous to the arrival of
Smith on an aeroplane, can be presented in a
way not possible to the opera. So with the
conversion of Smith into Simplicitas at the
bottom of the Well of Truth. The journey
from Arcadia to Goodwood (or Ask wood .as
it is called in the opera), under the direction
of Father Time, wall doubtless be a striking
feature of the film, and in the doings on the
racecourse, where the horse objects to Peter
Doody, but allows himself to be talked over
by Sombra before Simplicitas takes the mount
in a race which has been fixed up among the
gees, the opportunities for humorous super-
naturalism are obvious. The picture, will
end, of course, in the return of a disillusioned
Sombra to the land of innocence. In “The
Arcadians” the mingling of picturesque farce
and phantasy is right into the eye of the
camera, so to speak.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Does Florence
Baverstock (B. 19/l/’22) remember the
burlesques at the old Melbourne Royal and
the old Match-box, the Princess’s, when
George Fawcett (Rowe afterwards) por-
trayed Dr. Alexander Hunter, an eccentric
Collins-street medico who represented East
Melbourne in an early Parliament—he who
first advocated on the hustings “eight hours’
labor, eight hours’ recreation, eight hours’
rest”? He always wore Hessian boots with
gold tassels. .Tack Dunn made a study of
John Thomas Smith, seven times mayor, and
did him to the life on the stage. Charles
Jardme Don, the first Labor man elected to
an Australian Parliament, was also hit off.
Comedian Greville, though not a caricaturist,
was famous tor his gags in burlesque. When
Cohen and Coppin were elected for East
Melbourne he made play with “the two. C’s.”
Rose Edouin (Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis, still in
London) also had an Akliurst jingle:—
Cohen and Kyte got in all right,
And better men or truer
The country round could not be found
To be a blessing to her,
For Cohen alone is a precious stone—
A regular Koh-i-noo-er.
Why doesn’t some modern manager give 'a
trial to the old plan—highly popular—of
thus localising pantomime or burlesque?
“Namoi” : “A Child of Flanders,” by Cecily
Hamilton, produced at the Lyric, Hammer-
smith, introduces yet another Digger to the
London .stage. It was written to amuse
Tommy behind the lines. An Englishman,
an Australian and an Indian mr at a
French peasant’s cottaae on Christmas Eve.
Returning to their units, they lose their way
and stumble into a household where a new-
born babe receives their gifts—a muffler, a
handkerchief and a mouth-organ. They sleep
and dream of the Nativity and see the Vir-
gin accept their gifts as gratefully as the
Magi’s. The trifle is greeted as a first sign
of a revival of the miracle play.
“Paree”: France has got in ahead of
America with an authentic film version of
“The Three Musketeers.” It took six
months to make, and will take 12 hours to
play; it is said to have cost three million
francs. The idea was to forestall Doug.
Fairbanks in his attack on the character of
D’Artagnan. London is just getting it at the
rate of two reels an evening; but one or two
passages considered too French have been
cut out by the English censor. By the way,
a melodramatic item in a new revue bu'e is
called candidly a “danse brutale” —and it
lives up to its name. As presented by
Mistinguette and a male partner on the first
night it brought some hisses from even a
Parisian audience.
“Baldy”: The posters of the new William-
son show at Melbourne Royal invite us to
“*A Night Out,’ with Maude Fane!” “Oh,
Lady, Lady !”
“Lud”: Please tell “Orb” (B. 12/l/’22)
that there’s still a chance for Dot Boucicault
and Cyril Maude to be sirred, but the other
member of his trio, Weedon Grossmith, is
out of the danger zone. He died.
“Hamfat”: “East Lynne” provided a
recent “In Memoriam” tag in the S. M.
Herald. A lady advertising her grief in the
death of her few-weeks-old baby added:
“Dead! And never knew that I was his
heartbroken, his sorrowing mother.”
. “Thorold Waters”: London’s “Old Vic.”
is threatened with extinction because the
County Council finds structural faults in it.
Most English musical artists of standing
have lent a hand at the Old Vic., and many
who dabbled in grand opera have obtained
valuable experience, there. You got no ela-
borate rehearsals- —it was taken for granted
you would be part-perfect for the one run
through, which generally consisted of the
most dramatic sections of the operas chosen
at random, the middle of the last act first,
and so on. Singing Walther in “Tann-
hauser” and other intricate parts for the
first time, they gave me less than half-an-
hour’s preliminary canter; but fortunately
the other artists were mostly helpful old
hands from Covent Garden, the Carl Rosa
and Moody-Manners shows.
“C. Ockney”: Whether it was that its
over-long first night proved a bad ad. or not,
certainly Shaw’s “Heartbreak House” (B.
12/1/’22) was the cause of heartbreak houses
at the Court, London. After a few weeks
manager Bernard Fagan announced that, “as
the public does not seem disposed to support
adequately the most brilliant play in Lon-
don,” he was taking it off. The public
again! If it goes to the show it is lectured
by Shaw, and if it stays away it is lectured
by the management.
The latest song title from America:
“They Wanted a Songbird in Heaven, so
God Took Caruso Away.”
“Lud”: London will have none of the riot-
ous cabaret shows with which the American
movies have familiarised us. George Gros-
smith, for long- associated with the Gaiety
as actor and manager, wanted to produce an
entertainment to be known as “The Midnight
Follies” at the Metropole Hotel between 11
p.m. and midnight, while the guests were at
supper. The performers were to appear on
“a low stage” at the end of the hall, in the
course of the show making use of the space
down the centre of it. He was careful to
add that the performance was “entirely in-
nocent” and that the artists would be “for-
bidden to look at the audience or associate
themselves with the audience in any way.”
But the London County Council turned the
proposal down, its committee’s recommenda-
tion that “the .number of performers do not
exceed six and that no stage costumes or
scenery be used” being carried.
“T. 0.1.”: “Ingomar the Barbarian” (B.
19/l/’22) was first staged in Melbourne in
the ’fifties, by Clarence Holt, father of Bland,
at the old Royal, his wife being the Parthenia.
The elder Holt was excellent in such charac-
ters as Ingomar and Belphegor. When in
partnership with Hoskins he wished to play
Shakspeare ; but “Old Bill” put him off with
“We’ll try Belphegor the Mountebank.” In
Brooke’s time Holt played Othello to G.Y.’s
lago, but his Shakspeare was hard, and lacked
the mellowness of Brooke and Hoskins.
“MERRIE ENGLAND,” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Ralph Ervolle as a debonair Sir Walter
Raleigh.
“C. Ockney”: When theatrical stars strike
a bad failure in “the legit.” in England they
go and lose themselves in the ’alls for a
month or two. Thus Cyril Maude, whose
last production in London was of the frostiest
character (the piece was “Timothy,” by
Dave Belasco, of America), has since been
topping the bill at provincial vaudeville
palades. His vehicle is a one-act piece by
Edward Knoblock, of "Kismet” and “Mile-
stones” fame, called “French as She is
Spoke,” which Maude bought from the author
long before he had made a name—when, in
fact, he was employed by a London theatri-
cal management as play-reader.
“Norbell”: Once in Ballarat with Charles
Holloway s co. i went on as Levison in
"East Lynne” in place of the regular villain,
who was a.w.l. I got along all right until
due to be pinched by Constable Bullock.
Levison, of course, has committed every crime
from murder to mesalliance, and the bucolic
Hop and the acidulated Miss Ooriiey heap
opprobrium on him, which he counters with
rude personal gibes. I couldn’t remember the
precise insults to hurl at Corney, so I im-
provised a few and recommended her to let
the gin-bottle alone. When I got off, the
lady, a conservative old-timer, was highly
indignant—perhaps I’d touched her on the
raw\ She gave me a slating for daring to
gag in such a classic, and put the lid on
with, “Remember, with all his faults, Sir
Francis Levison was a gentleman!”
“Snell”: A half-dozen of us went in from
the mine to see Dan Barry in “The Lady o|
Lyons” at the Mechanics’ Institute at Gor-
don (Vic.). The version of “The Lady”
was Dan’s own for use in the small towns,
and it was a quaint production—quaint in
scenery, quaint in properties, and quaint in
the matter of costumes. It was Dan’s own
dictum in those days that “much could be
done with a colored tablecloth.” I fancy
Claude Melnotte was wearing the hotel’s best
bedspread in the heyday of his fortunes. The
acting was very humorous, and the play’s cele-
brated author would have been astonished at
the merriment it provoked in our corner. In
response to applause that we wojild not let
die, Dan came forward at the fall of the
horserug or tarpaulin (I forget which) on
the second act, and gave us a little speech.
He was more than gratified at our generous
reception of the nlay—glad for his own part,
glad on behalf of his company, and particu-
larly gratified because of the pleasure it
would give Lord Lytton to learn how highly
Gordon appreciated his efforts. “I may tell
you,” concluded the speaker, “that his Lord-
ship was kind enough to write this part of
Melnotte expressly for me, and in the hope
that I would first play it in Gordon.” And
Daniel backed off amidst thunderous ap-
plause. ‘TIow did you dare say it?” he was
asked late that night in the bar-parlor. Barry
assumed a grave expression. “I would not
have dared to say it if it had not been true, ’
he answered without the flicker of a lid.
LEGS AND THE GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“My personal opinion is that tights are more
attractive than bare legs. The covering makes for
a better effect.” —Nor ah Delaney.
Bare legs look well if dimpled knees
Are only half-displayed in action.
Limb nudity hath power to please—
For boys, maybe, a strong attraction.
But old men find in veiled charms
Much matter for a mood reflective:
A sheath of netting o’er the arms,
And silken tights are more effective
Than flesh whereof consideration
Leaves naught to the imagination.
Oh, linked sweetness, long drawn out,
Enclosed in tights discreetly tinted !
Oh, grace of outline clothed in doubt
Where padded curves are faintly hir.tedl
No nobler theme for minstrel’s song-
Than panto legs was e’er invited—
Not bare and painted nude and strong,
But pale and gleaming, silken-tighted.
Oft naked truths look gay and festive,
But well wrapped up they’re more suggestive.
A costume that too much reveals
Affronts the baldheads with its boldness,
Whilst silken sheen makes soft appeals
And gently chides a cynic’s coldness.
E’en when neat understandings bare
Seem suited to warm summer weather
One is not pleased; one would not care
For ballets in the “altogether.”
Unless a dainty fact be hidden
It lacks the charm of fruit forbidden.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


BEST IN
LONG RUN
G
n
tAcyKO'*'
WoiU°,
YOU ARE
BUYING RUBBER.
KEEP THE
GOODRICH
TRADE MARK
IN TOUR EVE "
Mr. Boyd Edkins writes us: — ,
“You will be glad to know of the behaviour of the Goodrich Cord
Tyres, 33 x 4, supplied to me for the Brisbane-Sydney Contest.
“Since fitted to my Vauxhall, a few weeks before the Contest in
August last, they have been on the car continually, and have now
covered over 3000 miles without much appreciable sign of wear. 1
think I can expect to get at least another 3000 miles before retreading
the casings.
“I am particularly delighted with this result, considering that the
distance covered includes a great deal of fast work.
“The tyres have behaved remarkably well.
“Wishing you every success,
“Yours truly,
“(Sgd) BOYD EDKINS.’*
GOODRICH Tyres
DUVAL & CO., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane.
THE “RUWOLT” CAST STEEL STANDARD ROCKCRUSHER.
TYPE RA, SIZE 16in. x in.
ALL AUSTRALIAN MADE.
THE “RUWOLT”
STANDARD
ROCKCRUSHER.
Made in Two Sizes.
THE LIGHTEST, STRONGEST AND
MOST EFFICIENT ROCKCRUSHER
ON THE MARKET.
ALL the Essential Parts, including the
MAIN FRAME, PITMAN and SWING-
ING JAWHOLDER are made from the
finest-quality Toughened CAST STEEL.
The JAWS are made from our high-grade
MANGANESE STEEL.
Hundreds of these Jaws in use.
INSPECTION INVITED; SEND YOUR INQUIRIES TO THE MANUFACTURERS:—
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London, as Manufacturers for Steel Castings.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHIL.P & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED. Redfern. Sydney.
OUftNE & SYDNEY.
3\-
$
iea
Hu r
brand
each
Shirt'
m
Mafl
«
iiti/m
I
*r i
Shiris
Join the ranks of
\ satisfied Shirt buy- [
ers by asking for
THISTLE SHIRTS.
Thistle Shirts and
Pyjamas are sold by
most clothing stores.
Aexander Stewart & Sons
Limited
Makers-Sydney &. Brisbane
A.S. 3 i
“taw** Cartridges.
The left-overs from last season’s shooting are
too risky. For good results you must have
fresh-loaded ammunition. That is why “A.P.”
Cartridges are the best. Loaded to your order,
with Smokeless Powder and Chilled Shot.
“BLUE SEAL,” 21/- 100. “KILOS,” 22/- 100.
Cartridges leaded with Amberite. Ballistite
and Smokeless Diamond Powders, 23/- 100.
“INFALLIBLE,” a great all-round Cartridge,
6 24/- 100.
“A POID,” THE CARTRIDGE. Deep brass
gas-tight cases, 25/- 100.
“A.P.” SPECIAL.” The hardest-hitting Cart-
ridge obtainable. Deep brass gas-tight cases,
loaded with Ballistite powder. 25/- 100-
MATCH 2§-inch Cartridges, 27/6
Cartridges for 24, 28, 410, 20, 16, 12, l
Gauge Guns. , , o
A REDUCTION of 6d. per 100 allowed on orders
of 500. WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
L
'jMce
Gunsmiths & Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“ON TOP” WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
A long-priced one again took the A.J.C.
Challenge Stakes on Saturday. How strong an order
Vaccine was may be gauged from the betting at
the death —5 to 2 the field, 10 to 1 bar one and
20 to 1 bar five. Anyone anxious to do business
outside the favorite had no reason to grumble
about the market. Vapcine had won handsomely
at Hosehill the previous week and had galloped
brilliantly over half-a-mile on Thursday morning.
He drew a choice place at the barrier,, hopped oil
well, and was fourth at the end of a furlong.
Towards the finish of the proceedings Greenstead,
who was not in the first ten at half-a-mile but made
up a lot of ground on the turn, closed on Alfort,
and, shaking him off, tackled Galtee Maid. Vaccine
also moved quickly up on the same mission. Mean-
while Greenstead, untroubled by his lOst. 81b.,
stuck bravely to the job, and, settling Kelso’s flyer
yards from home, looked a sure winner. Just
as backers of the old champion were fumbling for
their tickets, a black livery borne by a low-galloping
brown hor?e was 'detected .coming like lightning
astern. There was .a -wild yell of “Sir Maitland!”
as the 16 to 1 hope of Newcastle swooped up and
joined in a gruelling finish in which he eventually
mastered the gallant topweight. Galtee Maid (third
in the Carrington) was next, with Vaccine fourth.
He had not been good enough to come on.
State welter-weight BILL SCROGGINS
who beat Englishman Pat Mills on
points at the Sydney Stadium.
“Students of form” cursed the result as
an outrage, but, in point- of fact, form worked out
unusually well in this race. In the Flying at Tatt’s
New Year meeting Sir Maitland and Vaccine, carry-
ing- the same. weights ;as in the Challenge Stakes,
finished first and second, Sir Maitland winning by
a length-and-a-half. The explanation of the New-
castle horse’s win then was that he liked mud. The
colirse was fetlock, deep. But in November at Rose-
hill Sir Maitland showed he was at home on good
going by winning over six furlongs, with XOst. 21b.,
from a fairly useful field. On Saturday, heavy rain
having fallen the night before, the course was dead ;
still it was firm- Waracre, who had been suspected
ox being a likely winner, was not a runner, the
stable relying on Greenstead. It also supplied a
rider for Sir Maitland—young Cracknell, who had
steered Greenstead to the front in two of his three
wdr.s this season.
\\ hen John TV ren’s two-year-old Little
I-lovver won a juvenile event at Tatt’s last Randwick
meeting- the happening was attributed to the mud.
At the A.J.C. meeting- oil Saturday the lady again
staited, and while the public was stacking up cash
on 1 rimacre one of Booth’s—John’s friends were
helping themselves to all the fielders had to offer
about Lit tie flower at 8, and 6 to 1. Evidently
they didn t believe in the mud theory—and collected
accordingly. The filly, a shapely daughter of Garlin
who won the Doncaster for John, ran the five fur-
longsin only “J” over the minute. She cost £llO
and has won over £5OO in stake monev.
* f * *
Last season’s racing in England is abso-
lutely the worst for favorites ever known. Cram-
an Bran won the Two Thousand at 100 to 6, and lose
the when aoout the hottest favorite ever known
—7! to 1 on. And the price of the One Thousand
winner was S 3 to 1: the favorite finished 12th.
vvith such things happening in the classics, the
upsets in handicaps can be imagined. The Lin-
colnshire Began it with a broken-down horse in
bandages winning at 33 to 1, the Hunt Gup at
Ascot was 50 to 1, and near the end the Ciesarewitch
winner paid 100 to 8 (the mare Tishy had been
thought unbeatable for this, and Abe Bailey, her
owner, disgustedly announced his retirement from
tie t-urf after losirg). In only two big races in
the whole season did the favorite win.
* * * *
: Rumblings are heard in Mel-
bourne of what will eventually be a storm of public
protest against the continuance of metropolitan race-
h°hrses, even as suburban as Caulfield. The A.J.G.,
V.R.C. and V.A.T.O. will have to change their loca*
toons eventually, it £oes without saying. Their busi-
ness or noxious trade is established too near the
heart of the city. As for pernicious pony meetings
which form cancers within easy walking distance of
the G.P.0., the wonder is that the wowsers have so
long missed the chance to sweep awav the scandal of
them. The expansion of a big city demands the
removal of racecourses, sooner or later. Within my
recollection three or four prosperous London subur-
ban race grounds have been built on, the law having
compelled their suppression as gaming places; for
it is the doom of every racecourse within the metro-
politan radius of a thickly-populated city to be
swamped by blackguardism. It is only a question
of how long it will take for the riff-raff to develop.
Just now the V.A.T.O. is negotiating with Caulfield
Council for the acquisition of more land, which will
involve alterations in the approaches to the local
railway station. And, of course, there is a certain
force of local opposition. “Conditions have changed,”
as somebody remarks, since the racing club was
given certain rights over the public park reserve.
They always change where suburban racing clubs
are concerned. The occasional race meetings help
populate a district, and the new population contains
the germ of an outcry against the suburban course.
Probably Plemington, which has the Agricultural
Showgrounds on the opposite side of the railway line,
will outlive Caulfield; nevertheless it is unthinkable
that the Melbourne Cup of 50 vears hence will be
run within three miles or so of ‘the G.P.O.
* * * *
The Wellington (M.L.) Racing Club fan
through its Summer Meeting on Saturday and Monday.
The Ivilbroney gelding Insurrection scored a good
double, beating G. D. Greenwood’s mare Egotism in
the _ Wellington Cup mile) 011 the first day, and
taking the Racing Club Handicap, a furlong shorter,
from Rude and Sycorax on the next. Thespian added
a further win to his score by downing another celt
by Absurd—-G. D. Greenwood’s Farceur, out of Our
Lady.
* * * *
Oldham downed the ’Roos in the snow
last week (they were minus Copies and Fraser) bv
15 points to 5. Oldham’s tuckers got to work front
the boot-off, and piled up the points. Play whs
very strenuous, Vest being knocked out for the day
shortly before half-time, while Harder had to retire
for temporary repairs. The last match of the tour
was against St. Helen’s Recreation, and the glass-
blowers went down by 16 points to 5. Except that
Laing, the Maoriland stand off half, played vici
Border on the wing, the ’Roos fielded their best
side. Cartwright, the English rake, was beaten for
the leather by Prentice in 30 out of 52 scrums. The
Aussies’ share of the proceeds of the tour is expected
to amount to something like £22,000.
* * *■ *
Although the touring Kangaroos lost the
football /ashes to England, they were “up” ill ’test
points, Scoring- 21 to 14 (5 tries 3 goals to i tries
and 1 goal). Fourteen Tests have been played under
Northern, Union rules, and England leads with 7 wins
(171 points) to 6 (186 points). The other match
was drawn. The N.U. won four in Australia and
three in England; Australia won four at home and
two in England. The late tour was worth £21,550,
but exes, will chew up £15,000, The League Is
expected to hand each player a £2OO bonus. The
weekly allowance on tour was £4 ss.—and all exes,
paid, of course.
* * * *
The final financial results of the Austra-
lian XI. in England and S’Africa are out. The gross
gate was £35,713; and the expenditure amounted to
£17,976, leaving £17,737 as profit. The player*
get £466 and £3OO bonus apiece, and manager Sid
Smith takes £6OO and bonus. The Board of Control
is paying off old debts to State Associations, and when
it has divided £lO,OOO equally amongst the six
States it will have £1325 left. The “gate” money
and the disbursements both constitute records.
* * * *
The finish of the eighth round of Sydney
premiership cricket on Saturday again emphasised
N.S.W.’s poor batting form on damaged wickets. G.
Williams (Manly) alone took the long handle, and
in 68 not out hit a sixer and- seven fours. Albert
Scanes (Petersham), who got a game with the colts
v. Douglas’s XI. last year, rattled Up 47 v. Mosman,
and Charlie Macartney (Gordon) had second innings
practice with 46 v. Central Cumberland. It was
a great clay for the bowlers. S. Shea (Randwick)
took 6 for 12 off 72 balls v. University, and made
his 22 wickets this season, worth only 13.04 each;
11. Hooker (Mcsman) got 6 for 44 v. Petersham
and Harold Cranney (C.C.) 5 for 35 v. Gordon’.
Hard luck was in evidence in two of the three
matches that were called off. Waverley needed only
seven runs with eight wickets to fall to defeat Mar-
rickville; and Balmain with 1 for 84 were within
eooee of Paddington (112). The day’s play, however,
brought the clubs closer together in the premiership
tables. Norths are still on top with 20 points, Wests
and Paddington have 19 each, Waverley, Balmain and
'Varsity are next with 18, and MoslfUh and Mai'i’ick-
ville have 17.
* ♦ # *
The feature of Melbourne premiership
erieKet on Saturday was the thanceless 182 (mo.)
banged up by Brown, for Coll.ngwood v-. FitifoJ';
Brown began slowly against McDonald's fe*prfesS6s»
but onae his eye was in neither the Test champion Uor
Liddicut could do alivthing With him. in the course
of liis; wonderful knock he straight-drove McDonald
for a sixel\ Collingwood the winner by three wickets
and 160 runs. Prahran, who are head of the premier-
ship list with 15 points, met Uni., whose tally is nil;
and dei lared after getting 34 runs ahead of the StlitifentS’
first innings’ total. Only four Uili; WiCkets Were
down (for OS) at the drawihg Of stumps; Richmond
drew with Melbourne, who hall amassed a first innings
score of 320, RiehartlSdrt (85) ahd Dean (64) were
the saying factors, and Dave Smith hit up a brilliant
40 before he was run out. Thompson, one of the
colts, lifted Armstrong for six. The NorthcOte v.
Hawthorn-East Melbourne match was all Hai'tkbpf: he
made 58 and took seven for 48. HaWthdfn-Eilst had
no hope of bettering ’Cote's five for 874 (declared),
and merely tried to stay there, a feat they blight have
accomplished if either the champion all-JoUndei - or
Halfpenny had been absent. The latter was Uncanny
behind the sticks. Rimmington batted well for 90,
Essen.don had a runaway win over Saints, whose bats-
men could do nothing of merit against the bowling of
Adams and Moyes. Norths played an Unexciting fl aw
with Souths, the most conspicuous feature Of the
game being Gilchrist’s sound bowling and Norths’ poor
response to it in the field,
•» * « *
Warwick Armstrohg is retiring fra in first-
class cricket for positively the iast time after the
Frank Iredale benefit match at Sydney nfekt mOritfi;
Here Is h!s record ill England:—
RAttlNti;
Not Highest
Innings, Out. Runs, Score. Average.
1902 51 10 1087 172* 20;5l
1905 .. 48 7 2202 303* 48.82
1909 .. 43 9 1480 110 43.52
1921 . . 40 8 1405 182* 43.90
188 84 8174 So 3 4i.fi
RoivuXo.
Huns. Wickets, Average.
1902 .. 1410 81 17.40
1905 . > 2288 130 17.60
1909 .. 2046 126 16.23
1921 ~ 1555 106 14.66
7299 443 17;93
Roth Jack Rlackham and Syd. Gregory were in
seven teams and retired after captaining the eighth;
and M. A. Noble retired after being in three and
skippering the fourth. Of the 15 Australian Xl’s
to go to England, Murdoch captained four, Joe
Darlwe three, and Dave Grego-v. h J Scott P S
McDonnell, Rlackham, Harry frott, M. A. ’Noble-
Syd. Gregory and Armstrong One each;
The trouble With the RrfeSent-day style of
*: uJL k i e t? u si 1 * A 1 ] 0 is, being- imported to Australia
is that he stakes his all on his punch. Unless the
other party to the engagement leaves his chin wide
open to U haymaking right or left swing, the visiting
champion loses oil points, for the reason that he knows
little and Cares less about the art bf the great game,
that was hpw Frankie Monrbe, who is featherweight
champion of the Pacific Slope, came to go down at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night to the manage-
ments reliable old trial horse Jamito, Nb one ever
hits Jamito on the chin since Criqui took him in hand
and if any hormal person did it probably wouldn’t
matter himh-. Monroe is an ascetic-looking youth
with a pretty taste in embroidered Satin pants', but
looks and drfess alike belie hifri. He fights on “rough-
house” lines, and has no bigoted objection to an
occasional, foul, Shortly after the half-way mark
was passed.he lost heart or something, and from then
to the end of the 20th session the Filipino com-
pletely dominated the situation. It was explained,
in mitigation of the star’s pobr showing (the betting
during the Say was 3 tb i on him), that he had dis-
located a finger in, oiie of the early rounds.
* * * *
At Melbourne 6'n Saturday ,Jiiaht the inex-
haustible Stone stopped Doughboy O’Brien’s trot of
victories over pugs in the lightweight class. Lack-
ing the necessary wallop, he didn’t stop O’Brien,
but by ducking, back-moving and side-stepping the
Texan’s ponderous punches, and coming back with
quick lefts and rights, well-directed if deficient in
powder, he established a clear lead on points, and
the referee gave it tb Israel. Whereat the crowd
cheered profusely, for the old -un is a favorite. Me
never shirks a fight with anything on two legs. The
heavier they are the better S4one likes them, and he
invariably gives the public a fair return for its
money,
* * * *
The (T.-GAs Yeulba notched her third Vic-
torian win Pii Saturday. Starting off the limit
mark (iOihin.) she annexed the. “A” class Handi-
cap of the Brighton Yacht Club with 12fmin. to
spate from Heather (lOmin.). Next Saturday-
. Yeulba will be a starter in the 30-mile event from
Williamstown to Geelong.
* * * *
Amateur wheeling is booming in Victoria,
while the pro. bodies—-the League of Vic. Wheelmen
and the Inter-Club Cycling Assoc.—battle to see who
shall rule the orher side of the game. On Sat-rdav
night the lilv-whites foregathered at Melb. Exhibition
oval. George Thtirsficld (S. Africa) won the Vic.
quarter-mile 'championship by two lengths f-om Tom
Ling (Vie.) and Arch Brown, the Vic. and Australian
sprint champion, in 31sec. This is a Vic. record.
In the match race between Thursfield and Herb
Broadbent (son of Geo. B oadbent, the fo-mer inter-
national rider), the Victorian took all three scratch
events. Broadbent won the quarter-mile by half a
length in 36sec. In the half-mile, he jumped Thurs-
ficld at the bell and got a length break, at which
stage the Transvaal ehamp’on woke up, chased like
furv after the South Suburban rider, and got within
half a wheel of him in lmin. lOscc. In the final
(one mile) Broadbent. who seemed to have the Afri-
can’s measure,- finished with a half a length to spare
in 2min. 18 3-ssec. In the 10-mile International
scratch race H. Kaltenbrun, the long-distance cham-
pion of S. Africa, though closely watched by a bunch
of Victorians, had to practii allv paddle his own
canoe for a good part of the journey. Then Tom
Vandcrsluys; in true sporting fashion, carted the big
Dutchman till half a mile to go, when ’B~un opened
out and, sprinting remarkably, won by a good length
from Broadbent, with Vandersluys third. The
watches showed 27min. 2sec.
, ®\ e appeared a t Otaeo
(M.L.) championships on. Saturday in the rain
H. P; Kinsman, the chit fmrrt v„+ i raill,
the 120yds; championship by 4yd™ from^Yw 06
laak and Bukefe. Time: 12 iW L r. o ? 9 '
; handicap (2yds.) in 24sec Iri the Aui'
ttalasian championships. Kinsman was second to Caif
th , e ibOyds.i dnd third to Carr and Gaie in the
220yds, Ocsterlaak was second in the lOOvds hantii
cap, but Str&med a tendon, as he did ih the Ah i
tralasian thampionships. At Wellington earlier hi
the week It. Johnson, ahother of the ’Boks* wbn the
quarter-mile baild.ieap in 50 25seC.j which has nnlv
OncC b§en beatbn in the bominionj when 0. L Parker
(Arhenca) did it ill 49 l-sseC: A’igel Batket
(tf S:W.) has the best Australasian figures <
T ? nl *alone h professional effort at Ballarat
(47 3-oseCi) has been best on the “bobk” since 1884:
Though admitting that they are impressed
; th t performances of our schoolboy peds., the S
African atnletes Khd rCCciitly appeared iii Adelaide
and ivleloOuhic declare
that the oy n :
tinent oKns a future
world’s star in Toby
Betts* the youthful
Transvaal Champi'Crb
Betts, who, like Aym-
OOsterlaakj is a nativfe
Of Pretoria* has floite
the iOOyds; in idsCC.,
which is the Vit ; .
school record put up
by J. Troup, Of Scotch
Cbllege, in 1911. But
the African has
chipped a second off
Vic.’s previous best
for thC 440yds. and
half-mile* the former
(Slsec.) standing: to
the: credit Of. Cricketer
Hartkopf- since 1909,
and the latter (irtiin;
sseC.) being the un-
approached perform-
ance of R. Watson, of
Melbourne Grammar*
in 19i0 ;
OOSTERLAAN.
the S'African
sprinter.
Only fotir started in the R.S.Y. Squadron*#
ocean event for the Gascoigne Cup—Oenone; 36mirii
(J. M. BruntOn) ; Aoma, 2omin. (J. S. Palmer)]
Bdna; llmin. (Len. Patrick), and Rawhiti, sdratcit
(A. Marks); With the wind fresli from the sou’-
eastj Oenone led to the ocean , mark, which she
rounded 74hiiii; ahead of Aortia; About here Bona’s
stick fractured in two places—-just above the deck
and at the houiids aioft—and the falling gaff knocked
Len. Patrick insensible. Albert’s Rawhiti simply
ate the blow on the punch back to the Heads,
entered the harbor first; and woij by 20ihin, froni
Aoma. The Gascoigne Cup lids been woh by 19
yachts td date; but the Conditions are that before it
becornes the property of any yachtsman it ihust be
won bv the same boat and owner three timCS:
Walter Marks has gone nearest; he has lifted it
thrice with Culwullas L, 11. and III;
* * * *
Half a dozen of Sydney's 21ft. restricted-
class boats started for the Thelma Plate, which is the
first ocean event so far tackled by these craft. The,,
G.-G.’s Corella was first over the mark, followed by
E.O.J. (J. L. Milson). The punch back to port saW
Inez, which had been fifth at the mark; sailing
a wonderful boat. At the heads she had bested all
but E.O.J. and Boomerang. But once inside the
harbor Doran’s generalship got free sedpe. He
worked the eastern shore, whilst Milson floundered
across the ebbing tide on the Chowder side, and
eventually he brought down the flag after a great
race by 19sec. E.O.J. headed Boomerang by SJinin,
* * * *
Beaurepaire lifted two more . champion*.
ships last week. He won the 220yds. State on
Wednesday night without effort from Kirkland aild
Christie, in 2min. 29see. —or 2 4-ssec. slower than 1
his own Australasian record for the furlong on the,
same occasion. A. (“Boy”) Charlton, the Manly
14-year-old, won the 440yds. first-class scratch race;
for swimmers who had never been placed in a Statjp
championship. Charlton’s time, smin. 45sec., is_ bnt-
26see. worse than Kierari’s State record; and it is
claimed as a worlds best for one of his years. On
Saturday ; in the 440yds. Australian championship
Beaurepaire licked Christie ,by 25yds.. with Kirkland I
another 7yds. away third. Another interesting:
happening was the swimming of lO’Oyds. in
by Lily Robertson.
* * * *
Keith Kirkland (Uni.) knocked Kealoha’s r
100yds. Australian back-stroke record endways last
Friday. Swimming in the Sydney Domain Baths
his figures were lmin. 13 3-ssec., or 1 l-ssec. better
than the Hawaiian’s effort in Hobart on Feb. 12 last;,
*• * * *
G. Watson, who won the singles cham-
pionship at this year’s N.S.W. country tennis carnival
at Sydney, is a cheery young padre and a finely-built :
athlete, whose safety play and short grip of his
racket startled some of the orthodox. In the final
he defeated F. Kalms (6 —4, 5—7, 7—5); but the,
loser had orlv just beaten R. Spencer (14 —12, 6—4)
in the semi-final. In the doubles the Spencers outed
the Grogans, of Harden, by B—6, o—4. Miss Cox
won the lerlies’ Ripples. sb-irrd the doubles, and was;
runner-up in the mixed doubles.
, * * *
Acting on the maxim that virtue is its
own reward, the Vic. Treasurer refuses to in-
crease a measly grant of £75 which the Govern-
ment distributes among the life-saving clubs of ‘
Port Phillip. They are engaged in a popular
pastime, says the Treasurer ; they just love rescuing !
a drowning person. In short, virtue rewards itself
so liberally that members of the society would doubt- ,
less be prepared to pay handsomely for admission
if called upon, and then the £75 a year from the
Government would not be required at all. Well,
there are quite enough people who love politics to \
fill Parliament for nothing. What about applying.
the same rotten rule there?
THE REJECTED PRIZE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘A good afternoon’s pigeon shooting, took place at
the Northcote Club on Saturday. The events' were
Keenly contested, and a case of lady’s perfumes was
won by Blank.” — Argus.
■‘No, take them back!” the lady cried,
Abhorrence in her eye.
■‘They make me think of spaces wide,
And small, soft things that, quaking, hide
Before they rise to die;
The guns, the traps—l see them all;
The shattered bird, its crashing fall.
“The fragrance which they spread abroad” —
She gazed upon his gift—
“ Suggests that Nature’s fairest hoard
Has yielded all it could afford
With careless lack of thrift.
Yet ’mid the scent of flower and bud
I seem to catch the reek of blood.
“They’re for Remembrance? Yes. And so
I give them back to you.
For me your scent-tilled bottles glow
A garish red, because I know
There’s anguish in them too.
Jo take them back ! Their Spring-tide breath
Is but a synonym /of Death.”
x.s.w.
10-2-4.


BUILD UP YOUR STRENGTH AND
IMPROVE YOUR HEALTH.
■
ll:
: ' X r-
■
It is natural for you to be healthy—but you cannot retain your
vatural, healthy state unless you aid Nature by keeping your
system thoroughly toned up.
In your daily hacits there are certain groups of internal
muscles whi.you scarcely eier use. Nature intended you to
use them, or ti.ey would not be there.
Unless you do use them they'll wither and become useless, and
unable to perform their natural functions- —you will ha e a
chronic feeling of weariness and lack of energy and ambition.
Imagine how much better it is for you to have your weak
spots strengthened—especially when you can so easily and
pleasantly do it by means of the HEALTH EXERCISES which
we teach by post.
The Baker Method of Instruction by Post
will strongly appeal to you on account of its simplicity
anci the rapid results it secures. It aims at building up
Jie muscles (both internal and outward) in a thorough
and systematic manner. No one part is built up at the
expense of the other, but YOUR WEAK SPOTS will
have attention.
Write for a free copy of the booklet, “Health and
Strength from Seif-Culture.” Send three stamps to cover
postage. Those who prefer personal tuition are invited
to call and have a chat with us about their needs, when
we shall be happy to show them over the modern and
perfectly-appointed establishment. Advice and consulta-
tion free.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
“ The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,’’
50 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
AMMUNITION
df
■22 RIM FIRE.
sdf
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALL BRITISH
s
N'
h
1
■m
: #jn
<*ss
2£
! i ill 1 ' * I i«ii » ,
BETTER RIDING
BREECHES
AT LOWER PRICES.
In guaranteed materials, specially
selected for Saddle Service—cut and
made in that absolutely flawless manner
winch is the result of years of experi-
ence in the production ot Correct
Riding Garments— featuring the Extra
Full Military Out (all strapped), these
L.S. Riding Breeches offer certain
saddle satisfaction, at prices that mean
definite savings.
FINE BRIBES, in a service- 1 "f
able green shade /
STOUT BEAVERTEEN. in a 3,2/&>
well-chosen brown color.. !
DOUBLE TWIST TWEED, in £SQ;'-
grey and brown shades... <
CALI- OR WRITE.
WE FAY FREIGHT.
LINCOLN, STUART
§ CO. PTY. LTD.
“Specialists in Riding Requirements.
244-54 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
“There's
Money
in
the
Pen.”
J 9
mas
Learn to Draw
BY THE WESTON METHOD
SIMPLE—RAPID—EFFICIENT.
'Wouldn’t you like to be able to make bold, free sketches of the people and scenes that
surround you every day?
Wouldn’t you like to properly develop your talent for black-and-white work?
Wouldn’t you be pleased and proud to know that an illustration of yours had been accepted
by an editor?
OTHERS HAVE DONE IT! YOU CAN TOO!
The simple system of the Weston Postal School of Drawing will enable you to rapidly realise
your ambition, without any tedious drudgery. It shows you clearly and concisely all the principles of
drawing in the simplest and most effective manner.
IT TEACHES YOU THOROUGHLY
because it has been prepared by the man who is recognised all over Australia to-day as the leading
poster artist and commercial designer—Mr. Harry J. Weston. Each lesson reveals the master hand
of this versatile artist, and each student has the helpful stimulus of Mr. Weston’s PERSONAL
CRITICISM AND CORRECTION of all his work. It’s simply a matter of correct training in HOW
to place the lines to gain the desired effect.
THE FASCINATION OF DRAWING
is very real. Apart from commercial considerations, you can provide endless pleasure and
amusement for your friends, by bright, snappy sketches.
The Weston Course takes you by easy stages from the rudiments of Art to the point when
you can with confidence make finished pictures.
IT TEACHES YOU TO DRAW—NOT TO COPY!
Send three stamps to cover postage, and we will forward Mr. Weston’s enjoyable and interesting
booklet THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN,“ which tells all about the course, and gives examples
of lessons and speicmens of students’ work.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
108 UNION HOUSE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
■
t\
,v;>
x
/
l
(A
/
r > •


o
H
Natural Charm in
Transformations.
When Nature fails, Art faithfully takes
her place at the shrine of beauty.
Women who find it difficult to make
the most of their hair, can overcome
this deficiency in a charming manner.
Transformations are now obtainable that
“ hold the mirror up to Nature.” They
cannot be detected from growing hair.
Particulars of Full and Semi-Transformat ons can be
obtained by pe sonal inquiry at the Hairdressing
Salon, Third Floor, Pitt Street; or on wiitten request.
Farmer’s» Sydney
Box 497, G P.O.
BREW YOUR OWN BEER
NON - INTOXICATING
Ifkisn,
Its - Better
A tin of “BEVARA BEER” contains
the exact quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast,
&c., with instructions to quickly and easily
make TWO GALLONS of the purest
and best Beer. No chemicals whatever.
Failure impossible.
Six varieties, viz., Ginger, Hop, Pale, Malt,
and Bitter Beer and Stout. The PERFECT
drink for Men, Women or Children. The
BEST proof is that ONE family last season
drank 100 gallons of "BEVARA.”
Price 1/6 from all Grocers and Stores
Including Mcllrath’s all shops'. Civil Service Stores, Anthony Horderns, Lassetters, MarkFoy’s,
Green Bros., Balmain Co-Op., Moran and Cato (all shops), Savage Stores, and all leading stores
in suburbs and country Or postage paid 1/9 from
M. R. GREEN, Manufacturer, CARLTON, VIC.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Canl 1533, 11609
Rupertswood, the mansion and grounds
in which Baronet William Clarke took so
much pride, has now passed from the family.
Rupert, the present baronet, inherited it
from his dad, and brother Russell acquired
it from him. For the last year or so
brother Frank, Minister for Public Works,
has been renting it, but apparently it was
too big a proposition for him to take over
permanently, and the new owner is Hugh
Victor McKay, of the Sunshine harvesters.
To maintain the old-fashioned traditions and
the “style” fostered by Janet Clarke, he
will presumably keep on the old servants, if
his passion for super-effic : ency doesn’t get
the better of him. He will have plenty of
elbow-room, for in addition to the 233 acres
surrounding the house he has bought from
Rupert Clarke 734 acres of Kismet, the
adjoining estate.
Our Earl is again suffering from eye
trouble, and is being treated by the knightly
Barrett.
The feature of the meeting at the Town
Hall to raise a wedding present for Royal
Mary was the shouldering aside of Mrs. F.
G. Hughes, the president of the A.W.N.L.
Every suggestion she made —three, to be
precise— t-was turned down. The Countess
suggested February 10 as the very last
day for receiving a bob each from sub-
scribers. Mrs. Hughes wanted 18 days longer,
but found herself in a minority. Then the
meeting followed the lead of the Countess
rather than of Mrs Hughes as to the form
of the gift. It is to be a casket of wood,
holding an address and a cheque, the latter
to be used, probably, for a charity. Finally,
Mrs. T, G. Ellery, the town-clerk’s wife, led
the meeting as/ against Mrs. Hughes in
deciding that Jack as well as Jill may throw
a shilling into the hat.
The Bay boats—the Hobson’s Bay boats,
not the Commonwealth’s new liners—are
like ferries these days, swarming with people
going to and from seaside homes and board-
ing-houses. , It is the long vac. for school
youngsters, and mum, dad and auntie come
aboard laden with bundles and lunch
baskets. The motors of the Mighty flock to
the Port Melbourne pier-head, but baggage
must be lumped over a weary stretch of
wharf. At Queenscliff and Sorrento, the
gateways to dozens of ocean-beach places,
cars and cabs and coaches and yelling drivers
are at the end of the pier; but the family
parties arrive at the other end, and they
have to stagger with bulbous dress-baskets,
bursting"kit-bags and mountains of rugs and
cloaks over half a mile or so of jetty. They
view the straggly youths and maidens already
established on holiday with hostile eyes.
“What is there in it?” moan the newcomers.
The youths, flannel-clad and tanned, look
happy, but the girls show fiery red necks
and arms, hair straggled with much sea-
water and sandshoes heavy with the dust
of the Esplanade. “Heavens!” think the
mothers, “there won’t be a decent skin left
to help the girls along after this doing.”
One weird sight is the Sassiety miss with
her head and hat tied up in two veils guard-
ing her “complexion,” while half an acre of
neck, back and arms is exposed to all the
winds that blow. A few of the Naicest do
make a careful bathing or esplanade toilette
and challenge the sun with parasols; but
the average Aussie girl—Sassiety or not—
is too keen on sport to care about sunburn.
Guvment House, since the episode of the
saltcellar that was pinched as a souvenir,
might take an example from the tea buffet
on these Bay boats. A huge bowl of sugar
is fixed in one corner of the buffet table, to
which a solitary spoon is attached by a long
chain. You sugar your tea and jab the
spoon back for the next comer. Simplicity
itself- —but some sugarers sip a spoonful to
see if they’ve sugared enough.
Dulcie Lucille Cooper, the only chick of
the Merson Coopers, of Cliveden, is engaged
to Xavier de Bavay, eldest son of the Glen-
f-ara de Bavays, of Studley Park-road. She
is a dainty little girl, adored of her people,
and the trousseau should be something to
make Melbourne stare.
Contralto Mary Mack is booked to say “I
will” to Jim Gillespie, son of St. Kilda-road
0.8. E. Gillespie, this (Thursday) evening.
The statement will be made at Scots Churcb
at 7.30, with nourishment at Scott’s Hotel
afterwards. Mary will renounce concert
engagements and teaching once the knot is
tied in deference to her husband’s wishes.
Father McGee, of Sydney, struck a
long-needed clerical note in denouncing
the imbecility of confetti on w’eddmg
occasions. The priest was chiefly con-
cerned with the practice of heaving
scraps of colored paper at couples as
they pass through church doors, but the
public is more interested in the litter that
makes slippery the damp pavements outside
photographers' and restaurants where neAvly-
Aveds have gone to eat or get their photos
taken. The only thing to be said in defence
of confetti is that it rarely or never blinds
anybody, whereas rice was apt to blind
brides and ’grooms for life when it didn’t
penetrate their ear-drums and leave them
deaf. Also confetti may, perhaps, be
credited with a reduction in the practice of
old-shoe throwing which has done much
mischief in its time. Nevertheless the quality
of being more merciful than rice or old boots
is a very negative virtue. Confetti is a silly
nuisance, meaningless, untidy and dangerous
to foot passengers in AVet weather. If a
happy pair must have annoyances showered
upon them at the outset of their married
career, why not pelt them with orange-peel
or, banana-skins so that mother-in-law —the
old inevitable mother-in-law of low comedy
tradition—might fall down and fracture her
skull or Avhat not?
Dr. M. F. H- Gamble has thrown up his
£B5O-a-year job of medical superintendent
of Kew, to enter into private practice. He
is not entitled to a pension, but, as he feels
quite youthful at sfi, he thinks it good
enough to risk what may happen. Doubtless
the death of Beattie Smith and the passing
on of one or two other specialists have
made room for him in Collins-street.
After being in harness for 10 years Maisie
Maxwell, who has done the female gossip
page in the Herald, is shortly to pay a visit
to London for six months on full pay.
Prior to taking the Inky Way Miss Maxwell
was in the theatrical profesh—-that was in
the days of Bland Holt and Bill Anderson.
During her absence from Melbourne Freda
Sternberg will tell Herald readers how
scones should be baked and when Mrs.
Brown-Jones will return from Woop-Woop.
While holidaying at St. Helens, in the
Speck, Judge Moule, senior County Court
Judge, hurt his knee rather badly, and it
may take him till March 1 to recover.
Bendigo is mourning Hugh Deravin, one
of a family of six meds., who has fallen a
victim to pneumonia. Arthur, while serving
as a war surgeon, joined the brave who went
beyond. Hugh was a good all-round sport,
identifying himself particularly with racing
and golf. He AA?as 58 and a bachelor.
Many high-class concert programmes have
borne the name of Gladys MacDoAvell. The
young contralto, who peeps from this picture
by Lafayette, 1
sung frequently at
the Lady Nol’thcote,
Municipal and Chap-
pell concerts, and a
while back appeared
in Sydney with the
estimable Verbrug-
ghen, Nine years
ago she won a Mar-
shall Hall scholar-
ship at the Albett-
street Con., and a
couple of years in
that useful institu-
tion made the voice
fit for a Liedertafel
debut ' which was
memorable enough
to blot out the recol-
lection of many later
successes. Gladys, who probably owes her
talent to her dad, an amateur tenor with a
warm interest in all forms of music, “did”
Australia with Ellen Terry in 1914. It was
the songstress’s job to warble in the inter-
vals between the aged actress’s recitals of
“Shakspeare’s Women.”
Archibald Strong is to be succeeded At the
’Varsity by Enid Derham, M.A., as Lecturer
in English. She was Lecturer in English at
the Perth Uni. last year, and for over five
years has been holding a similar job for the
Workers’ Education Union in Melbourne.
Australian born, she had a brilliant scholas-
tic career —took first-class honors in classics
and modern languages at Melbourne, and
won the Sliakspeare scholarship besides. She
produced a book of verse, “The Mountain
Road,” in 1912, and also wrote a morality
play for children, which was staged in
pageant form at a Melbourne theatre.
The J.C.W. ballet at the panto, is dis-
pensing Avith fleshings and resorting to
bare legs. Whereat a howl is going up in
Melbourne on the score of indecency. As a
matter of fact, uncovered shanks are not
so indecent as ugly, with their knobby
knees, aggressLe sinews unsoftened by silk
and. worse than anything, in some cases
hairy, obviously hairy, calves. The ballet
is youthful; not so very long ago it was
allowed to run about in very short infantile
frocks with socks shielding an inch or two
of ankle —and the Australian sun and north
winds got to work and grew Hair. That’s
the reason half Sassiety plumped for the
fashion of stockings and sandals w>th bath-
ing dresses —not for decency’s sake, but to
cover embarrassments.
There is a girl in Melbourne who threads
pearls for a living, and she has as much work
as she can do. There must be a royal
wealth of pearls in the place. The stringer
goes to the houses of the Rich, and mostly,
at the worker's own request, does the job
under the eye of the jealous owner. Pearls
are a property that give no end of bother.
Safety demands that they should be re-
threaded every three months. Also, the
things must be often worn (and next the
skin, like flannel) else they mope. They
are realiy more trouble than poodles or
poms. Some folk are said to be so bored
with their wealth of pearls that they hand
them over to their trusted maids to wear—
concealed under uniform, however. Sea-
water does them a power of good. Paris-
iennee (those careful guardians of anything
personal) wear their ropes along with their
bathing gowns and let them share the surf
dip.
Melbourne Institute of Arts at last boasts
of a restaurant run on Bohemian and
economic lines, and the sounds of spaghetti
and high-brow conversation may now be
heard any luncheon hour at the top of
Bourke-street. R. A. BroinoWskt and
Gibson Young entertained there iast week
a cafe-warming party, which was, inciden-
tally, asked to drain a welcome bowl to Mr.
and Mrs. Harold Browning, latest arrivals
from London’s art circles. The Institute
flourishes under Edward Ravenna Vidler,
and ’hiost all who think or call themselves
artists boast membership.
At'intervals Melbournitee get run over
by their cable trams. It can’t be the fault
of the trams, because a man in one of the
suburbs was once run over and thoroughly
killed by a steam roller, Crowds ( stroll
leisurely across the streets, the gi’ipman
rings his bcli frantically ahd hurls his tram
into their midst at about eight miles per
hour, and men, women and kids hop, step
and jump across its bows and land in safety
with inches to spare, The idea of being
struck by the tram would only make them
smile. Then one day they step alohg as
Usual, slip on the greasy blocks and someone
is uhder the car. A second or so to the
good would have meant safety, but the
margin has been reduced to half-seconds,
and the result is a case for the hospital or
the morgue, and an excuse for people in
other States to mention that Melbourne
people aren’t fast enough to get out' of the
way of caterpillars. No one need be fast
to ‘cross a line in safety anywhere. The
main thing is to start the journey in good
time and keep going.
The panto, at Her Majesty’s is going with
a great swing. Seasiders find time to motor
up to it in force, and the stalls and circle
preset:' a Varied array of sunburn. The
linos of bathing gowns and evening gowns
should be cut exactly alike, otherwise you
have that awful water-line of tan against
white flesh. The dressing oU the Stage runs
through all the seasons. Thus Norah Delaney
muffles in fox-furs and velvet in one scene
attd in another wraps herself in a fringed
silk shawl—a wonderful millinery parade
altogether, The daintiest thing in the whole
panto, is done by the Australian Amerys. If
Phyllis and Maudie had arrived in the last
few weeks from, say, N’l’ork, their turn
would be a Boom. Their twin dance and
song is delightful—a futuristic idea of the
demUre Quaker method. Their frocks are
crinolined in shades ranging from amber to
orange, and big black and orange pom-poms
rest on the spread skirts like baby birds,
while the flat hats tipped over their dear
little noses are copied from grandma’s
portrait.
Touching the question of ex-soldiers some-
body writes to the Herald concerning girls
engaged in the Defence and Repatriation
Departments, who go to work in glad
raiment, suggestive of jazz or garden-
party. Of course the pea is for Digger
clerks. But if there r i be women-clerks,
there are hospital sisters ; :k from the War
in shattered health, who add be thankful
for the billets which beep these wedding-
cake girls in silk stockings. What have they
done to deserve remembrance?
A suspect gets a great show in this
country, where the idea that a man is held
innocent till he is proved guilty provides
one of our cant phrases. On the night of the
day on which Ross was arrested for the Gun-
alley crime, people going into town found
the streets re-echoing with the yells of the
newsboys: “Arrest of the murderer! Arrest
of the murderer!”
A quaint experience has fallen to the lot
of a moneyed Hebrew who resides in St.
Ivilda. He went to the theatre' per tram and
boot rather than call his chauffeur from a
delayed meal, and coming home was run
down at the intersection of Bourke and
Exhibition streets. When he had been
picked up and dusted down and felt over
for broken bones, he was able to give a little
attention to the aggressor. A policeman was
holding the car down, and at a glance the
good man recognised his chauffeur and two
maids from his house. It was a joy-riding
party, and the car was his own.
There are two wards for children at the
Homoeopathic Hospital, but one is out of
action because funds are not available to
carry it on. Which leads up to the remark
that the Homoeopathic is now appealing for
£25.000 —the first appeal it has made in
donkey’s years.
The Herald has started to build its new
home in Flinders-street at the corner of
Exhibition-street. For a few weeks the
future was in a haze of doubt, but a hive of
workmen is now making things hum.
This little 17-year-old is Veronica Mans-
field, a Westralian who was the only War-
si t y candidate i n
the whole of her
big State to gain
honors in singing.
Professor Davies, the
examiner for this
year, declared that
she “showed excep-
tional promise”; but
the young lady has
already a rather re-
markable record. In
1919 she got the
gold medal for
junior honors violin,
and in 1920 the
gold medal for in-
termediate h o n o r s
violin, while so far
fo r 1921-22 sh e
has bagged honors
3n junior singing and theory ot music,
honors in intermediate pianoforte, hon-
ors in intermediate harmony, _ pass in
intermediate singing, honors in senior
pianoforte, honors in senior violin, non-
ors in senior harmony, honors in counter-
point and several other things—a formid-
able list for Seventeen. She is the only
daughter of J. E. Mansfield, of Subiaco, and
gets her harmonious make-up from her
mother, who, as Carrie De Mamel, used
to he prominent in musical circles m Alburn
and Northern Vic.
Secretary McDougall is busy getting the
furnishings for the new nurses home at the
Alfred Hospital—something of a contract
seeing that there are 100 bedrooms and
several sitting-rooms to be fitted out. Lloyd,
of Buckley and Nunn, has generously taken
over the complete expense of one room, and
other donors are following his example.
The Albert Park committee of manage-
ment is demanding of golfers a guinea a year
—nearly fi’pence a day, mind ye—for the
right to go into the park and knock about
a wee bit ball. Did ye ever hear the like?
It may be true that ithers, sic as cricket
and football players and rowers on the
lake —faugh ! —have to stump up fees, but
what o’ that? It is the invasion of free-
dom they object to; but freedom, they are
told, will not keep parks in order. The
most the" unfeeling committee would do was
to make the minimum fee 7s. 6d. if the privi-
lege of golfing in the park is wanted for
only three months.
Adelaide sends some gossip:—
Things are much quieter socially than they were
last summer, especially among the younger generation
—a fact largely due to juvenile officers having
exhausted the gratuity cash they flung about so
freely on dinners and theatre-parties. Incidentally,
too, many of them have married. At the same time
Adelaide has never been such, a theatre-going
community as it is at present.
The party given by “Sunshine James” resulted in
an avalanche of youngsters, mothers, aunts and
grandmas. Tanks of tea and 9000 buttered scones
vanished in a twinkling, and seven tons of ice
cream followed suit. The affair was not without
incident. Six perfect ladies had climbed on a seat
to get a good view, when two mothers whose infants
were clamoring to see what was going On came up .
and asked that the youngsters be given a peep. *
There was no response, so the mothers grabbed the
ends of the form. “Will you get off, or be thrown
off?” they challenged. The perfect ladies snorted.
There was a dramatic pause, then the form and its
living cargo were heaved over. After that the little
ones saw everything.
Captain Frank Hurley lunched at Government
House the day after his Ex. attended the first
screening of “Pearls and Savages."
Dr. and Mrs. Cecil S. Mead arrived in the Malwa.
The former has been doing missionary work in East
Bengal for 28 years, but a breakdown resulted irr
the doctors sending him back home.
Veteran philanthropist and merchant Charles
Goode, now in his 95th year, is showing signs of
failing, and has for some been invalided in
a rest home.
George Brookes, of the silvery tenor, and little
Teddy Cahill, the Brisbane pianist, who were big
attractions during' their season at Theatre Royal,
have now gone on to Sydney. They have had so
many letters of introduction given them by vice-regal
folk in all the States that their way should be well-
smoothed for them when they get to London.
Australian ’cellist Lauri Kennedy is doing wonder-
fully well in London. After running round here with
Harry Lauder and touring with John McCormack, he
made for the other side, and the fact that he has been
appearing on the same programme with Chaliapin,
considered the world’s greatest living singer, and also
with Joseph Hislop, the remarkable Scotch tenor,
gives a hint of the size of fee that is coming his way.
He has the help of his wife, Dorothy Mcßride, an
Adelaide girl, at the piano.


VV'V-i'
Pr>/K Q
%
fv?
0?
A
*v(%r
*#
>«r
rP V
T.
3<S
"U.
%•'
>: ,-\.
&>
4H
/
>—i* *>
6
9s
PM
P
ss
B<*/i
9
OX
a
Q
O/l
%3?
*0
NK^W
3^
r c v f
*
l'-'-V.
■JB
-: '
SC:
&
v*
O- .
7
-
<aN
£
2
CITROEN
/
K
Ji
- mm M''riirir^
w
.V
HUP
rr 7
CITROEN
RECORDS,
1921.
\
bility Trial held by
Royal Vic. Auto-Club
V
The unique design of the Citroen is the apex of Frenc
skill. Simplicity and accessibility of parts combine
with strength in a car unequalled for economy of
operation. 38 miles to the gallon of petrol, year in
and year out; 12,000 miles to the set of tyres—that
is the performance of the 20,000 Citroens now in
daily use.
ENGINE. —The cylinders are cast “en bloc” 65 x 100 m.m. Effective
H P over 18 H.P. Pressure-fed lubrication, even to gudgeon pins and
cam-shaft. Helical timing-gears are employed, thus ensuring absolute
silence. High-tension magneto.
TRANSMISSION. —Propeller shaft fitted with two cardan joints. Back
axle mounted entirely on ball bearings. Citroen chevron gears for
crown bevel and differential.
COOLING.—Thermo-syphon system. The radiator is of ample size
for the engine, and the cooling is extremely efficient.
SUSPENSION. —The front springs are fitted free from shackles and
their lubrication troubles. Back springs in the form of four half-springs
shackled on to the top and bottom axle tube. This system has proved
very excellent owing to the maintenance of very rigid alignment, and
ensures very sweet running, comparable, in fact, only to that of large cars.
AGENTS—
N. S. WALES —Bradley Bros., Ltd., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND —Webster Motor Co., 86-90 George Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA —Preston Motors, Ltd., Clifton Hill, Victoria.
NEW ZEALAND —New Zealand Farmers’ Co-op. Association,
Christchurch; Leyland Motors, Ltd., Wellington.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Moncrieff Engineering Co., Ltd., Light Square,
Adelaide.
TASMANIA —Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart.
Factory Representatives:
W, A. Crowle, Ltd., Crowle House,
161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


Under
Royal
Warrant
CHAMPAGNE
To H.M.
George V
(#l%
lil
CHAMPAGNt
CharlesHeidsie*
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Do you know that you can
DINE IN THE PALM LOUNGE
of the
Wentworth Cafe
and from its green and cool seclusion watch the dancing in the ballroom—
joining it as the whim takes you?
Dinner dances nightly. Special dinners Thursdays and Saturdays,
TRY OUR BUSINESS MEN’S 3/- LUNCH.
PHONE CITY 9931.
/the name
fis IMPORTANT
: /x
D
DBOO
:rl*
OP''-'"
vjt*sS
fkO^-
«to*
Twon acid Q!
l P*e
s>o*
m
Lot'S
0^
PWMBVBtO
ro?-
CM 1
R^t
fjOO
US'-
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
Generally speaking it was Chauffeurs’ Day
'at It mid wick on Saturday, and for the rest
the Anniversary meeting was like a cheap
leg of mutton, small and scraggy and un-
trimmed. The usual morning’s foot or so
of rain had left the exiles from Bong Bong
in doubt as to clothing, and an umbrella
and a raincoat were every woman’s escort.
Consul Segaert was there betting on his
principle of picking all. the outsiders. He
was chaperoned, in the absence of Madame,
by Cousin Elsie Segaert and Mrs. Tyson (of
Hay) ; and he buttonholed everybody to tell
them of the arrival of his daughter Henriette
in March- —and Henriette is IS! Voyager
Mrs. Charlotte Cameron was another whom
the big picnic races hadn’t lured from town;
she gladdened the outskirts of the ring with
a smart black-and-white satin outfit. Mrs.
Herbert Clayton wore a sweltering-looking
blue cloth cape over a navy frock, and a
bad-weather patent-leather hat; and Mrs.
Pat Kenna’s profile under a picture hat
added joy to one of the most “off” days
ever known at Randwiek.
The hero of the Bong Bong meeting was
Mr. McDonald, who was on the winner of
almost every event worth lifting except the
Cup. One of the Eivingstones, of Mun-
gindi, took that on Baumalto. Most of
the pre-war pig-skin artists were present,
but chiefly in the capacity of onlookers.
Colin Stephen has a home at Burradoo, and
he and his wife entertained a party of
young people. Elwyn Blomfield, who, with
his tall brother Frank, was a great horse-
man in his time, is now the energetic sec-
retary of the club; and he and his wife
were conspicuous figures at the gathering.
Ken Austin steered Jack Garvan’s Clan
Robert in the Bracelet, but he went down to
the all-conquering McDonald youth. Pat
Osborne was another of those present who
used to ride but does so no longer. All the
local people turned up, the Horderns, Venour
Nathans (she was a Maddrell), Westmacotts
(an English family which is connected by
marriage with the Gibsons, of Tirranna),
and the Katers and the Bruce Smiths, who
have an enormous home in the locality and
a chronic servant problem. There was a
shortage of Osbornes on the first day owing
to the death of Ben Osborne. He was a
quiet, well-iiked member of the big family
who did some good work during the war in
connection with the shipping of horses to
England. Gertrude Dix, the Prince’s Mel-
bourne partner, came over, and other well-
known girls at both the races and the balls
were Barbara Laidley, Helen Noyes, Pauline
Watt and the Rolin sisters. George Lam-
bert liked Tirranna so much that he was
persuaded to do it all over again at Bong
Bong. There were several cheery private
dances in addition to the two big ones, but
the Bowral' Golf Club Ball had to be post-
poned.
The Y.A.’s who went to Tirranna to earn
£lOO for their beloved Digger by waiting in
the gunyaiis and tents of the festive hosts
have returned from the hospitable up-country
wearing a thoughtful look. The girls volun-
teered splendidly, and Mrs. Redmond Barry
chaperoned a flutter of young things to the
country meeting—some of them perhaps not
quite so young or light-hearted as the.v were
seven years ago before the only boy in the
world gave up his life at Suvla or Lone Pine,
but all in all a splendid bit of young Aus-
tralia that country hosts and hostesses' might
have been expected to greet with a shower
of invitations for the week’s cyclone of jazz.
But the dear things weren’t called upon to
spend the price of a tuppenny stamp to reply
to ball invitations, and the evening frocks
they had tucked into their suit-cases remained
in their wrappings till the wardrobe at
home claimed them again. Even when the
trophies Were given out the little Y.A. was
erased from the landscape; she was left to
stand guard over some sumptuous one’s case
of champagne or to cool a flagon of Johnny
Walker under a tap.
Anybody strolling into the Art Gallery
during the week-end to endorse or criticise
the judgment of the Gallery Trustees in the
matter of the Archibald prize for the best
portrait of the year found only the winning
picture on view. Alongside it Longstaff’s
soldier son stood like a hound scenting the
quarry, but that, having already been bought
by the Gallery, had lost the sense of novelty.
Artist Melnnes, the winner of the £4OO,
depicts his subject, who is Melbourne
architect Desbrowe-Annear, interrupted in
the act of designing a bungalow at St.
Ivilda, or maybe a cathedral. There’s a
great sheet of drawing-paper on the table,
kept steady by a weight that looks like a
cow-bell. The thumb of his right hand is as
upright as a Roman citizen’s when sparing
the vanquished, though the hand is grasping
something that from the distance one feared
might be a knife sharpened with intent to
do injury to the artist, but which the
gallery-attendant when questioned closely
averred was only an implement of the
architect’s craft. An ordinary sort of suit
finds relief against a background of chintz-
patterned chair, and a light blue polka-dotted
tie leads up the color rhythm to the rhapsody
of the tobacco-jar on the table.
Mrs. Walter Watt, the good-looking widow
whose husband died about a year ago, leaving
her a couple of hundred thousand pounds, is
engaged to be married again. The lucky
man is Dr. Clive Smith. lie served through-
put the war in the A.M.C., and at I’. »' end of
it took his F.R.C.S. While at Sydney Uni.
lie was eminent as a runner and played in
the football XV. The marriage is to occur
in April, and in May they will go to Eng-
land, where the young man proposes to learn
•all there is to be known about children’s
diseases. Mrs. Watt is an aunt by marriage
of the late Colonel Watt, and of Ernest
Watt.
Eileen Knight, daugHter of the Knights
of Tambua station, Cobar, is amongst the
latest engagees. Her choice is Stan Fairfax
Davis, third son of Mrs. T. R. Davis, of
Mosman.
At Marguerite Dale’s party to Elizabeth
Baker (Mrs. Allaway) last week, the bright-
eyed English writer with the straight gaze
brought her husband, who carried a straw
hat the facsimile of the one Willie Hblman
carried to Buckingham Palace; and the pair
wore pleased though heated faces at the
adulation which Sydney’s Repertorians paid
to the authoress of “Chains.” Perhaps it
was in compliment to her guest that the
hostess twined herself in the coils of an
amethystine necklet, over black and white
embroidered taffeta. Mrs. Dale sets about
conquering London next month with
“Secondary Considerations” and what she
calls a “commercial comedy” with a star
part that is a skin-fit for Iris Hoey or Fay
Compton.
Mr. and Mrs. Allaway, after getting used
to being steamed in Sydney, are off to
Raratonga to grow oranges in that garden
of Eden where a native boy assured
Marjorie Quinn there are no snakes and “no
wild animals except wasps.”
Phyllis McDonald, pupil of the Golden
Grove Convent, takes her magic fiddle with
her to London in
March, after a reci-
tal on February 20
in the Conserva-
torium. She goes to
take advantage of
her thre e-y ear s’
scholarship at the
Royal Academy.
This youngster has
been a Trinity Col-
lege medallist four
years in succession,
a Sydney College
medallist, and is
now the Royal Aca-
demy gold medallist.
All told, the small
Australian has
something like 28
gold medals to pack
among her luggage. She has a voice, too,
and has a whole harvest of first prizes won
at local eisteddfods.
Muriel Carter gathered in an armful of
utensils last week at the Marv Elizabeth on
the eve of becoming Mrs. Keith Bain. Mrs.
Stuart MacPhai] had sent out the SOS for
the aluminium ware, and the results more
than justified the trouble. A day or two
later Muriel was the spot-light figure in a
pink wedding that cheered up St. Mark’s, at
Darling Point, in a rather slow matrimonial
week. Suiting her own diminutive darkness
rather than Convention, she wore pale-pink
satin made with an old-time pointed bodice.
A large black velvet hat bore the blushes of
one pink rose on the right brim, and a sheaf
of pink water-lilies swooned in the crook of
her arm. Tiny white-clad niece Elspe-th
Macpherson was the only bridesmaid, while
bridegroom Keith, who is a great chap, six
foot odd, had a full-grown man, H. R.
Treacy, to help him face the music. The
party was held in a marquee at Duntroon,
the Macpherson home —Mrs. Macpherson
was a Carter —and the flowers spilling and
trailing their pale and deep pinks from their
gold baskets suggested the lining of a sea-
shell, or a bride’s blush, or any old-fashioned
thing like that.
Staniforth Smith is wearing the Cocked
Hat of Papua while Judge Murray is in
Australia, and, like the human whirlwind he
is, he runs the Agricultural Department as
a spare-time job. Work seems to be this
good Smith’s .specific for the tropics, and the
more of it he gets the better he seems to
flourish,
This is head-hunter Judith Fletcher’s
picture of George Collingridge de Tourcey;
and he's the most once-upon-a-tmie man Syd-
new owns. He came to Sydney to work on the
Illustrated Sydney News, and then was a
founder, if not the founder, of the Royal
Art Society, which put the Academy of Art
out of business. It was at this time that
Collingridge dropped in on Henry Parkes
one morning and won from him for the
R.A.S. an annual grant of £4OO. That £4OO
later on swelled to £5OO and was for many
years a bone of contention beween the
R.A.S. and the schismatics, now known
as the Society of Artists. Not that George;
Collingridge thinks much of that these He
would rather talk of the time when he was
studying the line arts in Paris under the
guidance of Harpignies and Corot; when, as
a youth, he sat beside the Master in the
woods bathed in the “dog and wolf” end of
the day beloved of the half-light painter. Or
again he will tell you with vivacity of how
he and his brother fought Garibaldi in
defence of the Papal States. Three English-
men, two of them Collingridges, and five
Irishmen jumped to
arms in response to
that first SOS sent
out by the Pope—
later on, when the
successes of the
Papal Zouaves began
to assume an almost
miraculous aspect,
volunteers to the
Pontiff’s banner
flowed in from the
ends of the earth.
Canada sent 500
and George Colling-
ridge was their drill
instructor; but by
that time most of
the fighting was
over, and the tall
brother who had
worn the broad red sash of the Papal
uniform so dashingly, lay dead of 14 wounds
inflicted by Garibaldi’s red shirts. Then
there are gorgeous recollections of his
summons to Madrid to act as chief wood-
engraver for special prints of the marriage
of the King of Spain—not the one we know*
but his father. In his travels the once-upon-
a-time man has picked up seven languages,
and to these he has grafted Esperanto. He
has written a book called “The Discoverer
of Australia,” which deals intimately, with
De Vega,, and cost the writer a small
fortune in research. His newer books are
the quaint “Alice In One Dear Land,” and
a voluminous “Round and Round the
World,” the latter now under way to publi-
cation. George Collingridge belongs to a
French family that crossed to England
centuries ago, and went back when an
ancient Duke of Buckingham gave the family
notice to quit its rented manor lands after
the family purse had nearly emptied itself
in making improvements. Nowadays he is
art-teacher at Barker College.
Mrs. Momerie, widow of a distin-
guished Professor of Metaphysics and Logic
at Cambridge, is living at Mosman, in a flat
filled with art treasures. The furniture is
mostly Louis Quinze, Sheraton and Geor-
gian. A jardiniere, a card-table and the
most exquisite occasional table and a china
cabinet of buhl belong to the noted French
period. A tall Dutch marquetry secretaire
rubs shoulders with a slender-legged Shera-
ton writing-desk. The cabinet is loaded with
Hungarian and Bohemian glass and Cole-
port Worcester china. Another joy is a
richly-carved Jacobean table, around which
many a loyal King’s man has drunk a health
over the water. A tallboy from a Sussex
manor keeps company with a square dress-
ing-table mirror of Georgian days. Perhaps
in its dav it reflected the beauty of Lady
Hamilton herself, for curving to its sides
are carved dolphins’ tails holding squat brass
candlesticks. The rooms seem thronged with
ghosts of gay Pompadours playing bezique;
perhaps it was over one of these buhl tables
that Madame de Maintenon made her witty
remark about a certain basket of cherries.
And what ■ gentle loyalist fingers fumbled
dizzily at the spring of the secret drawer
(all the writing-cabinets have them) thrust-
ing from prying eyes evidence of a flying
husband’s fealty to a Cause it had become
treason to name. Mrs. Momerie was one of
the good-looking Redcliffe Cannings, of West-
ralia, before she became Mrs. Hern and re-
turned to England with her first husband,
who was a water-colorist and art instructor
to the children of King Edward. An in-
teresting: photograph in the lady’s flat is
one of the very youthful Mrs. Hern in all the
panoply of the Court dress of Queen Vic-
toria’s regime.
Commonwealth Commissioner Mark Shel-
don. left Mrs. . Mark in America, while!
his daughters are seeing England from the
headquarters of a London flat.
Another Royal Red Crosser has been
given the job of Assistant Matron of Sydney
Hospital—sweet-faced Sister Pidgeop, a
North Sydney lass who was trained at the
Macquarie-street pile, and left for her five-
year war service with Dr. Fiaschi and the
3rd Australian General Hospital. She
served in Lemnos, Egypt, England and
France, and got her R.R.C. in 1918.
Tiie consolation stakes for Dr. Dwyer,
over the i-iguori litigation, amounted to
£9900, which the bishop says he will lay
upon the memorial-stone of his new
cathedral at Wagga. The ex-sister is said
to be writing a book.
Last Wednesday pretty Tootles William-
son celebrated her 19th birthday with a
monster matinee and tea party.
The Hugh W ard home, Bellevue, was
blazing with electrics on Saturday night to
greet the cdming-of-age of Hugh, junior. The
party began in the early afternoon with a
swimming carnival in the Bellevue baths,
went on to a dinner party and thence to a
dance, where theatrical managements, in-
cluding contingents of Fullers, were numer-
ous. The Belgian Consular Segaerts were
among the guests ; and also present in the
flesh was Mrs. Grundy.
Dr. Mary Booth and Brenda Mitchell are
anxiously waiting for your subscription
towards the Soldiers’ Memorial Fountain
at Woolloomooloo wharf gates. The com-
mittee has £lBO in hand: when this mounts
to £2OO the fountain (designed by Budden
and Green well) will be commenced, and
before it is completed the collectors hope to
have the necessary £4OO in hand. Dame
Margaret as president is giving the appeal
a push in the hope that the fountain may be
finished by next Anzac Day.
Longstaff’s young son Jack, who has been
on the land in Queensland, has now taken
up a banana farm on the North Coast.
Ella Shields, at the Tivoli, draws her audi-
ence as much by her tailorings as by the per-
sonality that comes wheedling you across the
footlights and has crept into a corner of your
heart before you know what this immaculate
young dandy with the tiny voice is up to.
“Wonder where she got that suit made,” said
one envious Digger to his cobber in the stalls,
Cobber shook his head sadly. “Those pants
were never made,” he said. “They were in-
spired.” Another winner on the bill is Bert
Gilbert, one-time husband of Ada Reeve. His
chief support is Ivy Ray, a clever Australian
girl who used once to brighten up J.C.W.
shows.
There is a sister of Fergus Hume, the
“Mystery of a Hansom Can'' man, settled
quietly in Sydney, and indulging in the
peaceful art of building health corsets.
Both Miss Hume and the mystery-weaver
are natives of Dunedin (M.L.), where
Fergus as a youngster went to the Otago
Boys’ High; , and the sister promised to
bring world-fame to the city of hills as a
contralto until a driving accident caused an
illness that lasted for years.
Who has met the little zoo between the
covers of “Anne’s Animals”? It is a book
of perfectly useless and adorable rhymes by
Professor Murdoch, illustrated, with animals
that might have walked out of a pantomime,
by Mrs. Arthur Streeton. The elephant is
brother to the one whose praises Jack
Cannot and the entire Criterion audience
chant nightly. But the Criterion el-e-funt
has only one tail behind and one in front.
The baby el-e-funts which are still attract-
ing thousands of youngsters to the Zoo have
four.
Talking about artists recalls that Roy de
Mestre has been exercising his talents as a
landscape gardener and interior decorator
up Moss Vale way, Mrs. Box, Melba’s sister,
having, among others, given him the resetting
of her home. But the easel is still in use,
and he descended to town last week with two
luscious still-lifes.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Capt. George "Reid, M.C., who was with the 47th
Battalion,, is now honeymooning with Edith, only
daughter of the E. G. Whites. The bride wore navy,,
blue georgette and a hat of navy ribbon. Gladys}
Reid was bridesmaid, and Major F. R. North next-
best mail.
Another wedding which took place at Southport
made John Cay, son of Mrs. Sholto Cay, of Too-
woomba, responsible for the frock-bills 6f a pretty
daughter of the squatting McLeans, who have a
summer residence at Southport.
Mrs. L. M. Bond (she was a Miss Groom, of
Toowoomba) and Mrs. R. G. Wonderley are leaving
for England at the end Of the month. Each is
making a pilgrimage to the grave of an only son in
France.
The Brett-Brabazon wedding was duly celebrated
at Elderslie, Winton. The bride wore an ivory
satin and silver lace frock with silver-threaded tulle
veil and all the usual trimmings. Dod Edkins, of
Longreach, the only bridesmaid, wore pale blue
georgette relieved with a sash of pale cherry.
Bridegroom Basil, who was an artillery lieutenant
and an original Anzac, was best-manned by Herbert
Bennett, also late of the guns. The whole outfit
reeked of pioneers. The ’groom is a grandnephew
of late knight Arthur Palmer, and on the maternal
side he is a Ross of Tarangaba. The bride’s maternal
grandfather was one of the early pioneers of Vic-
toria. The Brabazons were on the Darling Downs
when that country was only a series of sheep and
cattle runs. The best man’s grandfather was Dr.
Bennett, once well-known in Sydney’s scientific
circles; and the bridesmaid’s grandparents were
among the first squatters on the Gulf. As befitted
the descendants of pioneers, the wedding was held
on the station, and the spree embraced all hands
and the cook.


I
1
1
1
1
I
1
1
I
I
1
1
I
II
1
i
i
I
1
1
I
9
%
%
I
to
1
Li I
JSJ O
from'
Jan. 20
7 Until
Feb. 11.
Sydney’s Supreme
Bargain Event.
End of the First Round !
The great Money-Saving Carnival commences
the second week with a myriad of fresh
Bargain attractions drawn from the vast reserve
stocks.
EVERY LINE REDUCED AT LEAST 10 %
Great Stocks Clearing at Half-Price.
Seed for the Sale Catalogue—it is free for the asking,
and' will save you pounds in the Dress xlill for Men
or Boys.
Postage Paid to all parts of Australia.
Kindly address your letter to DESK It.
MU RD OCH’S
In Park St, Ltd., Sydney
"The Largest Men’s and Boys* Wear Store.”
Diamond
Cluster Ring,
6et in Platinum.
£lOO.
Diamond-set Bracelet Watch, Finest Brilliants,
set in Platinum, £4O.
Diamond
Cluster Ring
set in Platinum
£3O.
All-Diamond
Circle Ring,
Bet in Platinum,
£22/10/-
Diamond and Platim'm Flexible Bracelet,
£175.
Diamond
Cluster Ring,
set in Platinum,
£25.
Diamond Twist
Ring, Platinum
set, £25.
Fine Diamond and Platinum Brooch, exquisite
design and workmanship, £B4.
Five-stone
Diamond Ring,
set in Platinum,
£25.
New designs are continually being added to the Firm’s
large selections of Diamond and Gem Rings, Jewellery
and Watches. These are of exquisite quality and the
workmanship is of the very highest orde/. Every ring,
and every piece of jewellery included therein, is made
entirely in their own workshop and is of a standard of
excellence not surpassed by even the choicest importations.
Ring or Watch Catalogue will be sent post free to
any address in the Commonwealth.
lle Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
the restful light.
Texaco Kerosene, “Light of the Age,” burns with the soft
brilliance that’s safely restful.
Safe, because the Texaco refining process rigidly maintains v
the “high-flash” Kerosene that’s worthy of your confidence
—always.
Restful, because the peculiar softness and color of the light
from pure Kerosene removes the eye strain so commonly experi-
enced with many forms of artificial illumination.
Use Texaco “Light of the Age” for your evening’s relaxation,
work or study. It’s the light that has the satisfying qualities you’ll
enjoy.
Thu TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.
Head Office, Auto House, 143-145 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRA ASIA.
Temco
'tT@2&£i<S©
Hillier’s
Chocolates
Made entirely in Australia.
Packed always in red boxes.
Just
/ote/u
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- and 30/»
Post free to any address
in Australia.
162 and 164 Pitt
Street, and corner
King and George
Streets, Sydney.
t i
i I
'
U
m
0
3 : :;


ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
EVERYBODY DOTES
UncleTobvs
VQ^S/
A delightful breakfast food
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
Potastrop
sdf
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
Send Your Best Friend
one for CHRISTMAS.
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURN
sdf
8/6
The
14 SANTWILL ** it
without doubt the
Toughest Work Shirt
vet introduced at it 9
jPrice. Not onfy sturdy
in quality, but sturdy in
color as well. The Sand color defeats the efforts
of dust and giime, and looks Clean and Present*
able all the time. Also in White—same price !
Well Muile. 80 Strongly Semi, the Huttons ar©
24/-
llic Muscles to I»luy in Comfort.
New Low-Level Price
each cr three for
No Skimping ! Non-gaping f
Buttons Sewn on to Stay /
PIKE BROTHERS
Carriage Paid
BRISBANE
TOO*OOMI»
rowNtvau
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances ?! Te .^ ed onall , ciub £ es ° £
• Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks Merchandise,
i Hulls of V essels, I reignts.
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN lIAIGH, General Manager.
Fine diamonds, set
in platinum,
£l7/10/-
Two choice dia-
monds, set in
platinum,
£2l.
Reduced Diamonds
Purchase.
We have again made a large purchase of
loose Diamonds at the enormous reduction 42
per cent, on the original cost price.
They are all superb blue-white Jagerfontein
gems, and were sent out by a diamond mer-
chant to a Sydney agent. He got stuck with
them. Could not sell them. Too good for most
houses. Too high in price. We heard of them,
cabled an offer and bought them for cash.
They enable us to offer the finest diamonds
the world know's of, viz., Blue-White .Tagers, at
prices unheard bf during the last eight years.
Rings, brooches, pendants at far below Lon-
don prices.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Phnn Furores. 25 8 25 HuiltSr Street.
Cash uni>.
5
THE "BOULIA”
STOCK SADDLE.
A High-grade Saddle Appeal-
ing to the Man who Likes a
Dippy-seated Saddle.
The tree, in this saddle is our own made “Fouright,” a first-
grade tree with forged steel stirrup bars. Note how the pads
in this saddle come well up the rider’s thighs, giving wonderful
security for rough riding. Fitted with folded girth, bevelled leathers
and solid nickel stirrups.
Freight Paid for Cash with Order to any
“ Station on the N.S.W. Railway System.
Write for Price delivered to other States, and get our fine catalogue.
POLO STICKS.
PRACTICE STICKS WITH
BAMBOO SQUARE OR
CIGAR HEADS. Good, strong
canes that should stand several new
heads. 6/6 each. Freight extra.
Bamboo Polo Balls, 1/6 each.
Write for our Polo Booklet, showing
English Sticks and Gear and Playing
llules.
sdf
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers 8 Polo Specialists, 395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
psroq^
k
Right on Your Uppers
is where they shine. A brilliant, lasting shine, mind you,
pins 100% wear from your shoes.
BOSTOCK’S SHOE CREAMS
(In Bottles and Tubes).
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Nigger Brown,
Ox Blood, White, Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
SUMMER GOLDS,
COUGHS & CHILLS
are fairly prevalent just now,
owing to the frequent and sud-
den weather changes.
The best and safest
remedy is to be found
in I’eps, which, dis-
solved on the tongue,
give off powerful
fumes that disinfect the
mouth, throat and
bronchial tubes, allay
inflammation, soreness,
irritation and coughing.
1/6 and 3/-. of all
chemists and stores; or
from C. E. Fuljord
( A/sia ), Ltd., Sydney.
I
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
w
Club Reil
- k ■ : " ' ■— •• -S-'*• •• i
Smokes Right-
Tastes Right!
Just Try One. Yo;’ll
Like It.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d
EACH.
sdf
BOX PRICES
—POST FREE.
Tins: 10 cigars,
5/6;
50, 23/9.
Boxes: —
10 cigars, 6/-; 25,
12/6; 50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Craig U Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil Cigar Factory.
The Jointing that
adjusts itself to the job.
It does not matter how rough or pitted the faces of pipe flange 9
are, you can make a thoroughly satisfactory joint quickly and
easily if you use
MATERIAL
This moulds to the surface irregulari-
ties of the two opposing members and
forms a permanently leaktight and
rustless metal-to-metal joint that will
withstand the highest pressures and
temperatures. Pressure may be
turned on immediately the joint is
made.
Get a tin to-day, and try it on your
most awkward joint—it trill never
want re-making.
Oil
N
■a*
4.Q
U
<
S'
/v
. '
Cl
The Austral Engineering Supply Co., Ltd.
490 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
.Vo notice (except oj a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Hume and address must appear on the MSS. A'o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A.D.C.: No, not at all presumptuous. But
you leave it a little too plain that you’ve dragged
in a remark here and there for the sake of a rhyme.
. ...Bowri: Too rough. ... Findon: We can make
time any day to attend the funeral of the contributor
who closely types his stuff on tissue-paper... .T.M.:
A our humor is as skittish as a ton of elephant.
....Edward S.: if it does nothing else this visit of
the plague will have produced your valiant effort to
fiid a rhyme for “garbage”:—
liake up the back-yard garbage
And keep the dust-tin clean;
And let there be no harborage
For the plague-rats we have seen.
As for the rest
We grieve we can’t print more, Ted,
About the rat and flea ;
But may they both be thwarted.
Amen. So let it be.
. ...1i.8.K. (and others): If we don’t bury that
Shakspeare-De Vere controversy soon, it will bury
us. So we can't let any more pugilists into that
ring. ~ .Y.A.G.: Please don’t talk about “contented
Javanese” unless you’ve been in the Dutch Indies
during the last two or three years. Every morning
now the Dutchman wakes up to wonder how much
longer he can hold the place.... F. Le G.: Much
obliged for suggestion. But there are difficulties, not
the least of them being that the supply of material
of that quality is very limited. T.W.W.: Lazy stuff.
.... Mussel: You’ll have to get a new ear before
you write verse.... Admirer: “Stripper” wants your
address.. . .Percy V.: Far too colorless... . Verri: This
is a poor market for pretty, half-rhymed verse about
an overworked English landscape.. . .H.Y. (Lithgow) :
Too long for their interest... .Tom-th’-Devil: Verse
like that is worse than death.. . .J.P. (Calirigiri) :
The yarns are rather obvious and long drawn out. . . .
M.J.M.: Not nearly enough in it.... The Artist: Too
crude. Cut out or otherwise indicate the par, with
date and page, and send to the accountant. .. .Way-
side Loiterer: The verse is bad and makes out a
poor case. .. . J.S.H.: It’s Kipling drowned in water.
...Rolling Stone: Not enough in it... Wattle Bark:
Too rugged and gets to nothing... .A.M.B. : Robbery
yarn is wooden. ... Skipper: A general appreciation
of “The Digger” is a few years too late... .Edward
K.: Hasn’t a suggestion of anything real....P.S.
fKatoomba) : Not up to the mark Oliver B.: The
preliminaries of a fight were never described like
that before:—•
It was a wager. No doubt most of them knew;
Come for miles to see this brawl
For a silver cup, not new ;
There was some talk, and pretty tall.
There was betting going on, too,
On this big, coming event;
Not only the men, the women (oohl)
They did come out, the money they spent.
Of course, the time went, money went;
We knew only one could win ;
Some borrowed, some lent,
They all wanted to see this spin.
Time’s up. In comes the referee,
In comes the pugs;
Now what won’t we see,
As the referee lays the rugs?
....Norman C.: “When I Am Dead” fails heavily.
....Jack K.: The idea and'movement are good, but
the lines only make a noise. .-. .A.D. (Balmain) :
“Voices” is a fair sonnet, but the thought is as
thin as fourpenny flannelette... .J.W.S.: Not very
badly done, but not worth doing. .. .Warradulla:
Those willows are the most uninteresting vegetables
we have met since we had pork-and-beans in France.
....Bill W.: Not much chance while you rhyme
“maudlin page” with “dank herbage.” Only a very
evil ear could pass that. .. . J.M.C.: You have a long
way to g 0.... Lilian F.: Doesn’t strike us as wort.i
while.... Ecce: Not up... E.M.E.: “Michael” isn’t
much of a yarn... .Magnum: Makes a very fair pas-
sage, but doesn’t quite arrive. ...R.E.8.: Nothing
there. .. .Charles L.: No use... .G.C.P.: Painfully
thin... .Deirdre: Why not put it aside and try some-
thing else?.,.. .Wanderer: No use to us. .. . A.N.A.:
Only skin and bone. . . ..J.F.T.: The pies are not .well
enough cooked.... The Rumpus: Can’t get enthusiastic
about that clock Mary N.: The yarn has no snap.
W.K.K.: Charity tale doesn’t move us. .. .June A.:
Don’t care for it... .E.R.D.: Not even the wild
appeal to your love to have a second glass can carry
it through. . . .A.E.W.: Amazingly dull. . . .N.R.Y.:
You build up your lines with print-worn common,
places.... Gilbert O.: All t'.’.at has been often said in
better verse. .. .Picko : Very poor stuff. . . .A. A. A.:
Can’t find the alleged mirth... .L.N. (Adelaide):
“Telepathic” doesn’t appeal to us.... The Outcast:
Manner and matter both very p00r.... Joan B.:
Solemn questioning as to who sins hardest could only
be matter for humorous verse. .. .V.L.Q.: One thril-
ling stanza:—
There’s a black cloud overhead, many tears will yet
be shed ;
Many babies in their bed will be numbered with the
dead.
Oh! The dreadful martial tread and the bodies
filled with lead.
Ere another day is fled all the field is stained red,
And each warring nation bled that the Lord of War
be fed.
Why should noble lads be bred for a fate so cruel
and dread? *
Can the nations ne’er be led to find a better way
instead ?
....X.: Not enough in it. .. . John-Oh: Been told
before.... Mopoke: Impossible to do anything with
it... .Kat: Much space and Tittle point... .Doubtful:
Out of The Bulletin’s orbit ... .E.M.K.: Theatre
yarn needs to be more specific, ... Plain Country: No
interest in it. .. .R.P.W.: Much obliged; but the
interest isn’t general enough. This paper has to
write with one eye on the gentleman at Thursty
Island and the other on the lady at Doodlekine. ...
V. 8.: “Strike” is hammered out much too thin....
Margaret M.: There are lines in “Renunciation”
that almost persuaded us to forgive some others....
Pedro R.: Pretty cheap. .. .Omar K.: No meat in it.
And, after all, why expect the story-tellers of one
country to know much about the verse-writers, of
another country? Or, the story-tellers, for that
matter? They don’t write because they read. They
write because they must.... Rebus: The work is
fair; but you’ll have to get an idea that hasn’t
so many old cobwebs on it. . - .Ishmael: “Politician”
wants gingering up in a few' places. Try it again.
C.C. (M.L.): (1) Punch still lives; Albert
Place, Collins St. (2) It seems to have dissolved.
...Unionist: You’re right. It’s doggerel.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
O.B.: Bad drawing G.S.: Nothing in it for
reproduction. .. .D.lt.: May do as a suggestion. .. .
C.P.H.: Ditto. .. .Bab.: In years to come always
remember that it was you who called it “a drawing.”
. ...T.H.G.: Clean off the target. . . .C.W.: Irish
baby won’t d 0... . A.G.F.: Below par. . . .8.W.: Too
scratchy... .N.E.B. (S.A.): If you’re ever to do any-
thing it will have to be on bigger and broader lines.


Shinning:.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
OitIRNT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4247
48io! - ’ Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, FEBRUARY 8, 1922,
VENTURA.
10,0(10 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.'
MACARTNEY; Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M G.
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
Condon Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863;
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. ~.. 799,243 0 0
Reserve Fund 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C-.; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart,
Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
Brandies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. - ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund ... .. .. £250,000
Directors: • Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E., Chairman,
George J; Sly, LL.D., Frank N. Yaravood, F.O.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Cahson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon,
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places ir.
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodif..
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds FairbaiiiN.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares. 1 . .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS URAFTS tW'JK&EVSS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
fixed periods, and
transact: all other -usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 106 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital £625,000
Reserve Fund 620,000
£1.245,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625.000
£1,870,000
Heap Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 89 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping;, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
NIAGARA, 16th FEBRUARY, 11 n m.
MAKURA, 16th MARCH.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 2nd FEBRUARY, 11 a.m.
MARAMA, 7th MARCH, from Wellington.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION lIOU'SE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
m*r
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3| TO 4k WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817-
WALES.
l’aid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors ;
- £5,000,000
3,500,000
5,000,000
£13,500.000
The Hon. Sir Charles li. Maclvellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
liohrvt T,. b’nithfiilJ: Eso., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker
Franc B. IS. I'alkiner, Esq
The Hon. Reginald J. Blai '
Thomas BucUland. Ksq.
i, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar. Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Thread needle Street, E.C.
358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and
Agents and Cirespondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid tip .. £2,909,025
Reserve Fund .. £2*360,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,269,025
df
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman,
lion. H. E. lvater,- M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England; The Londbn County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
Jenolan Caves
NEW
SOUTH
WALES.
Nature’s Masterpiece For a Delightful Holiday.
SPECIALLY ORGANISED PARTIES LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY.
Luxurious travel by speedy train and touring motor through enchanting forest and mountain scenery.
3 DAYS’ TOUR £4/17/6
4 DAYS’ TOUR £5/14/-
5 DAYS’ TOUR £6/10/6
Covering first-class rail, motor and hotel expenses en route. Accommodation, dancing and enter-
tainment at Caves House, and Daily Caves Inspections.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
BOOK AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
Personal.
\\T P. J. McKIXI-AY. —Tf the husband
W • of Ernestine McKinlay, who re-
turned to Sydney 25/6/’l9, on s.s. Devanha,
does not communicate w'th her at the under-
mentioned address, he will be taken by her as
dead.. “Cornwell,” Kingham, Oxfordshire,
England.
Missing Friends.
TTTILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of JOHN
vv . ROBERTSON WILSON, last-known address in
1907, Cyanide Chemist, The Mount Hope Mines,
Mount Hope, N.S.W., please communicate with
F. PENNEFATHER,
98 Raglan Road, North Perth, W.A.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings'.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer. [ Nlelbonn'e, I A S entS -
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN.
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Huddart ParkciLiS 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly”. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full nnrticidnrs apply HUODART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co,, Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
■i Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; pasr.enger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
Tlie speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE,) TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,.
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE. .
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd.*, and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS'* FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.


If you shave you need
the most perfect shaving
device ever invented—
The New
Improved
Gillette
SAFETY RAZOR
| THE MINOR FLEXURE \
w
The wonderful new discoveries
—the Fulcrum Shoulder, the
Overhanging Cap and the
Channelled Guard—give you
ALL the luxury of the finest
shaving edge in the world.
The New Improved Gillette is
now obtainable everywhere.
Price . . 30/-
If you want shaving ease and
comfort for a lifetime, see the
New Improved Gillette to-day.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR CO. OF CANADA, LTD.
Montreal, Canada.
Wholesale Distributors: S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
(*•
10
Supper to be
Served in a
Hurry, Eh?
Let REX CAMP PIE, the
daintiest concoction of the
Rex Chefs, help you out of
your difficulty.
Never tried it? Why
Rex Camp Pie
is the most tempting all-meat dish you have
ever tasted. You serve it straight from the
tin. A tasty salad will give it an added
charm. Spring it as a surprise on your
family any night. It’s sure to be in prime
request after that.
A din makes a good meal for five. Order
from your Grocer.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F.J. 83
«ssr,
foods-
flu
i!!!i
lrLE5
a
a
We carry the finest range in Australia
Kindiy send your Gun License
when ordering.
d
“A marvel at the price.”
lil. Steven's Little Scout Single-
shot Hi fie. 22 calibre. ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Alb
(Postage—N.S.W., ?./3; other States, 2/2.)
26/-
sSm
_ '‘Simple and extra strong in construction.”
lilQ. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy rouDd steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over., all. 374 in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tin
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
Freight Paid. 57/6
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
fd
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rif*, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim Are.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing tile tliumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight 33/-
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
fd
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 High Power calibre, 6
shot, 20in. round taperecf barrel, take down, weight 611 b., muzzle velocity,
2Sooft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; freight js * A t a i
paid
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
fsd
“Shoots toith guaranteed accuracy .”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 16-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about oilb-
£6/0/-
sas
•‘A cheap and reliable weapon
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, K.F.,
rouiid barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(.Postage —N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
45/-
fsd
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the marlcet.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight sill>. i
Freight paid, m
MYRROHL
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath, and checks dreaded Pyorrhoea. An Ideal Dentifrice for Smokers.
Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
f
df
df
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Darrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel ‘. Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 18si2 Model,
25/20*, 32-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine.
20in. round barrel, weight about sflb Freight paid,
£B/15/-
£9/10/-
£7/17/6
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
. 7l(iie£ Simmons M
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


MISS IVY SHILLING
is the Original Rexona Girl.
y
I •
The Rexona Girls now
number many thousands,
and Miss Ivy Shilling, who
is everywhere recognised as
Australia’s greatest dancer,
is the original Rexona Girl.
Why not be a Rexona Girl
too? Use Rexona and
Rexona Soap—it means
health and beauty.
“I have much pleasure
in recommending your
Rexona, for I have been
using it constantly for
some time.
“As a rub-down after
acrobatic dancing, and as
a magical reviver to
strained muscles, I have
found it excellent. After
surfing it is invaluable as
a protection against sun-
burn and freckles. It is
a wonderful healer, and I
always keep a tin of it
handy.
“Yours sincerely,
“ (Sgd.) IVY SHILLING.”
Miss IVY SHILLING (from a photo).
Rexona—the Surfer’s Friend
To all lovers of outdoor sport a dip in the
roaring breakers on a summer’s day is indeed
romance. Next day the sunburnt blistered
hands and scarlet face are painful realities.
This distress can be avoided by the applica-
tion of soothing, cooling, healing Rexona to
the face, hands and arms.
Try the following treatment after your swim,
and you will be delighted with the happy re-
sults:—First bathe tlie face, hands and arms
in tepid water, making a good lather with
Rexona Soap. Massage with this, then softly dry
and apply Rexona gently to the skin. If
this is done there will be no after-effects
from exposure to the sun, no regrets after
a happy day, for the skin, soothed by the
wonderful influence of Rexona, will quickly
regain its normal temperature and com-
fortable coolness. You will find Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap ideal as a shampoo
for the hair after your dip.
Rexona Soap and Rexona, in its dainty
pot, should stand on the toilet-table of ail
who indulge in outdoor sports.
1/6
■a
, doling.
'oolKmg. -
- Healing
•gnliseplic Oiniment
•? dbsolalely'
M T 6 Heals ) Reliable
Toxona
THE RAPID HEALER
3/-
Jr A Reliable Remedy for all eruptions and irritations of Ihe
Eczema. Pimples. Sores. Chilblains. Chapped Hands
Scialica Itching or Bleeding Piles. Cuts. Burns. Bruises. Scalds.
Bad Legs. slings of Insccls and all kinds of Inflammation
Sole Prooriefoi
STURDY BUILT TRIPLEWEAR FOOTWEAR
and Wearing Apparel for Out-door Workers.
'Forwarded by post with a Guarantee, viz: Complete Satisfaction or money refunded.
df
ARMY OFFICERS’ TAN
WILLOW CALF UNIFORM
BOOTS, solid
lined uppers,
sewn, oak-
tanned ll-
decked soles.
Worth 35/-;
Our price,
24/11
wearing, calf-
stout, solid,
df
LEWIS'S FAMOUS “PLUM”
BOOTS, heavy, black, water-
tight, satin kip uppers, imi-
tation stitched toecaps, heavy
sewn and screwed. “Kro-
mite” triple-wear solid/ soles.
23/6
Postage on
Boots
throughout
/- l-
■ i. • •
The Best Walking or Every-
day Boots made. High-grade
selected tan willow calf
leather-lined uppers; three-
decker oak-tanned solid sewn
soles, waxed linen stitching
throughout. Worth 32/6.
Now 25/-
HEAVY WEAR - WEEE
ARMY STOCKPORT
DRIER R I D I N G
BREECHES, well made,
splendid cut 25/-
Army All-wool Khaki Bed-
ford Corded Riding
Breeches, strapped knees,
lace at calf, Denim pockets,
bustproof, double seams.
Worth 90/-; N ow 35/-
Army Triple-wear Khaki
Drill Work Shirts that
will outwear three others.
9/11; worth 12/.
Black Waterproof Driving
Bugs, fleecy cloth lining.
■Worth 38/6.
Now to Clear, 22/6.
Tower’s Famous “Fish”
Brand Double Willow or
Black Oilskins, 45/-. The
Best Made.
Tan-polished, Smooth,
Cow-hide. blocked and
bound, ARMY OFFICERS’
PATTERN LEGGINGS,
■ 217-
WORK SHIRTS,
Made for Solid Wear. In
Heavy Blue or Black
Triple-wear Drill. 7/H
each, or 18 months’ wear;
3 for 23/6.
DOUBLE-WEAR WORK
TROUSERS.
Splendidly made from
Soft, T oug h-wearing
Cloths
“Palmerite Nap” Drovers’
Twist Tweed, dark greys,
16/11
Dark Grey Engineers’
Twist Holeproof Trousers,
that wear like steel, 16/11
m
Tan Regulation Army Boots, made
by Government contractor from
selected special high-cut 1-piece
watertight uppers ; triple-wear, sewn
and screwed, 23/6.
Black “Satin Kip” Naval
watertight Cossacks.
Gritproof bellow tongues,
standard screwed
“Ironkyde” soles,
light and comfy, yet
solid wearers, 16/11.
Goods Forwarded
V.P.P.
You pay your Post-
master on Deliver}'.
Branches :
J. S. LEWLV BIG bargain stores,
• Mall Order Department,
„ 1660 George Street, near Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
107 George Street West; 752 George Street, Haymarket; and 175 North Ceorge Street.
The Fields of Amaranth.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON the farther side of the Door of Death
(Ah, when will it open and let me
pass?)
The beautiful fields of amaranth lie,
Sweeter than summer on clovered grass.
I know, when the merciful hour shall come,
And the Door unclose, and my heart-beats
cease,
I will crouch down softly among the flowers,
And wait for you, oh, so strangely at
peace!
The light will be neither of moon nor sun,
But opaline, brooding, soft as love ;
the wonderful Door I wait beside,
White, ah, white as the breast of a dove!
And here the poppies shall be white, for rest,
Nor any of a smouldering, wounded red;
My quiet waiting will know naught of pain,
Who, by sweet miracle, at last am dead.
Bike insects’ murmur on a drowsy day,
Life’s clamors, muted by the mighty Door,
Scarce send a tremor through the flowering
grass,
Jewelled with purple blossom evermore,
lake faintest harmony the murmur comes,
All discords in one faery music met.
A music woven by Eternity
From the brief tumult of Time’s fever-fret.
Many will pass me as I wait and watch,
But I’ll not heed them. Others kiss their
lips,
And to their sight the fields of amaranth
Grow dim and vanish in love’s dear
eclipse.
But, soon or late, the Door will inward turn,
With music-murmurs as Life’s pain sighs
through,
And I’ll rise quickly and stretch out my
hands,
For standing on the threshold will be —
You !
Oh, then, dear heart, we’ll greet as others
do,
And hand will join with hand, and I will
lay
My lips on yours, not knowing doubt or
shame,
For here the veils of Life are torn away.
And all the flowers will vanish from my
sight
In the pure rapture of that first death-
kiss ;
And I shall laugh a little in your arms,
Rememb’ring the small griefs that brought
me this.
Then slowly through the fields of amaranth
We’ll go together; and the opal air
Will tremble like a living pulse of joy—
Ah, bow much fairer than my dreams were
fair!
Oh. we will taste adventure infinite
On strange seas darker than the sapphire
stone,
Or in deep forests steeped in sunset gold.
Where Wonder, crowned with starlight,
walks alone.
There, without words, you will know all my
heart,
And I’ll read love in your calm, level eyes;
And with immortal laughter on our libs
We’ll dare tlni uncharted coasts of Para-
dise.
On the farther- side of the Door of Death
(Ah, when will it oven and let me pass?)
The beautiful fields of amaranth lie,
Sweeter than summer on clovered grass.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
Previous Convictions.
DUCKS AND OTHER THINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD watched the Little Landlady
climb the water-tower hill on her way
to the township-; and when I went to
the front door Previous Convictions had
already done his fade-in, as he did his fades-
out, with his everlasting swag, whose drum-
like shape ’ and constant reappearance
had puzzled me from the first. He
couldn't have been afraid of Dotty “thiev-
ing” it, for Dotty had an idea that every-
thing about the camp had already been
thieved, and it would be merely silly to
thieve them over again, seeing there was no
place to take them to. But that was all soon
to be explained.
Half-a-dozen Muscovy ducklings, at that
stage when they really need three pairs of
legs, came round the corner of the cottage
to the front, followed by their big, old,
generously-hackled mother-hen, in a great
state of agitation. They made friends with
Previous Convictions, who played see-saw
with them and showed them flies to jump at,
while the old hen did something between a
“Blue Danube” waltz and a Highland fling,
and fell over her feet. Presently the duck-
lings went round the corner to see dog
Charley, and we heard their ridiculous and
superfluous foster-mother in dangerous hys-
terics there. Charley, who wanted a 'sleep,
“womped” at them, and they waddled away
—-just in time to save the old lady going
clean out of her mind.
“Them ducks would have been right into
Dotty’s hands,” reflected Previous Convic-
tions ; “he’d have got them to follow him to
camp, an’ carried ’em on the track somehow,
an’ brought ’em up an’ educated ’em right
to the stuffin’ and bakin’ stage. He'd ha’
looked after ’em all right. There’s his old
hat showin’ out from behind that tree along
the channel there; we’d best not let them
ducklings meander that way or vou’ll lose
some of ’em. It would be just lovely,” Pre-
vious went on, after a minute’s think, “to
have to take Dotty through the township
with all his ducks waddlin’ after him !
“But I like Muscovy ducks and Muscovy
ducklings,”, said Previous. “Used to rear
them once, about the stables and other
places. An old Muscovy drake is the biggest
two-legged brute and blackguard that never
had his neck twisted; but I like Mrs. Mus-
covy an’ the kids. - Other ducks are mischief-
makers and scandalmongers. Whenever
new poultry comes in you’ll see common
ordinary ducks bobbin’ their heads at each
other, an gossipin’, an’ tellin’ lies about the
newcomer, same as humans. ‘Oh, I knowed
all about her before she come here. An’ as
for 'ini’ —an’ that sorter thing.
“But Mrs. Muscovy attends strictly to her
own affairs. I had a old Muscovy duck once
that had a nest under some bushes between
the stable wall and the fence. When she
come oft her nest for tucker—bran and pol-
lard— sue d waddle round to the back gate,
an’ if it happened to be shut she’d flap
against the bars till she made me hear some-
how. Sometimes I d climb up an’ peep
through a high side window an' watch her
goin” back on to her nest. She’d come
round after awhile, an’ up the side way,
most mysterious like, squintin’ to left an’
right in case someone might be watchin’ her
unbeknownst, and pretendin’ she was just
goin’ out to the front to see if the postman
was connn . But just when she got opposite
l'er nest she’d turn sharp, at right angles,
and, with a flick first of one foot an’ then
the. other-—that was to knock the dirt off—
she’d be in under the bushes and on to her
eggs that she’d left covered with down,; an’
no one would ever dream there was a nest
there, much less a big Muscovy duck sittin’
on it.
When the little ducklings first break out
of their shells they com’e wrigglin’ home
through the grass after their mother of an
evening, just like a pretty little bright-
yeller snake. Later on they’re waddlers—
like what yours is; an’ so on up through
the flapper an’ the duck to the Sairey Gamp
stage. The young drakelings mostly ’reach
the stuffed and baked stage first, like young
roosters—Dotty’ll find the stuffin’ all right,
somewhere and somehow. But Ae/ts—well,
one hen will dig up your garden, plants an’
ail, quicker’n you could do it yerself; an’
it she gets into the kitchen, an you try to
‘shoo’ her out, she’ll scream all round
and through the place like a mad young
female whirlwind, and go ahywhere but out
of the open window or door; and if there’s
anything valuable to break she’ll break it.
I>ut if half-a-dozen ducks come into your
place an’ you tell ’em they’ve made a mis-
take, they’ll apologise, cheerful-like, an’ go
out through the same hole they come in by,
an’ never do no damage at all. And like
as not one’ll come back during the night an’
lay an’ egg on the garden path for your
breakfast to show there’s no ill-feelin’. But
you getter get up early to beat the milkman
to it.
“Still,” said Previous philosophically, and
as it he had perhaps done somebody an in-
justice, “no two two-legged pullets or hens
ever act exactly alike or bring up their
chickens just the, same. I knowed an old
hen tliat’d come into the kitchen an’ git
up on the dresser an’ sit on the plate of
breakfast eggs. You could lift her down
an’ put her outside, but she’d be there again
as soon as your back was turned. She
muster spent the best part of a year tryin’ to
hatch out the breakfast eggs. If she got a
scare when a strange man or woman or cat
or dog came to the kitchen-door, she’d tight-
rope round an’ fly an’ flop, an’ get out some-
how without shiftin’ as much as a cup.
So at last we left her there on a settin’
ot eggs, in a proper nest in a dark corner
ot a big old-fashioned dresser; an’ she
brought up her chickens and took ’em home
to the fowl-house, an’ they all grew up.
She wanted to lay on the dresser after that;
but we was full up of her an’ shut her up
m the fowl-house. It was no good; she
screeched an’ screeched all night, just like
a hysterical wife bein’ held back from killin’
her husband. (‘ ’Elp, neighbors; ’elp ! ’E’s
ill-treatin’ me agen!’) An’ she raked all
the other hens’ eggs out of the nest an’
broke ’em; and in the mornin’ she was dead.
“But to come back to your ducklings.
Don t you ever feel sorry for a hen that’s
set on duck-eggs? Look at the states of
mind she must go through! (I know—l’ve
got me previous convictions.) I suppose,
if we’d follered ’em, we’d see your lot tryin’
to make their old lady jump into the channel
after ’em now; an’ no doubt they bin doin’
it all along— except when they wafited her
for a blanket in cold weather. Ah, well,
it’s the way of the world!”
* * * *
“We’re goin’ west to-night, Dotty an’
me. along the Hay Canal”—it was Previous
Convictions who broke the silence we’d fallen
into- “so you won’t see me termorrer nor
yet the next day.”
He paused for reply, but I knew too much
to express either surprise or sorrow. Still
I thought I might venture on: “Why don’t
you wait and start in the morning, Pre-
vious ?”
“Well,” he replied, “the weather’s warm
an fine, and travellin’ by moonlight seems
to agree with Dotty—he’s less restless in
camp afterwards. Besides, there’s some in-
terest in wakin’ up in a new camp an’ seein’
what the new country looks like bv dav-
light. ’ J
“How about finding the way? Besides,
there s snakes about yet, an’ they might
be m the new camp and not have time to
get friendly with you.”
“Findin’ the way is easy enough,” said
previous. hor a start we’ve got to go back
six or seven miles on our old track, an’ I’ve
got the rest mapped out. And Dotty’d find
the way if I missed it—all Dotty’s sort can.
As foi snakes, you know very well we never
think of snakes when we’re campin’ even in
snake country, an’ this isn’t snake country—
a snake couldn’t get. down into it unless he
was a drill, with an Irish navvy drivin’ him
lou re .on’y talkin’ for the sake of talkin’.”
Previous’s reproof was called for; but I
wanted to draw him out about snakes. It
wasn’t hard to do.
“Anyway, talkin’ o’ snakes,” Previous pro-
ceeded, an Australian snake is mostly a
gentleman, an’ we haven’t any time for him,
an lie hasn’t any time for such as us.” (I
winced.) “You keep out of his track an’ he’ll
keep out of yours. He takes his tucker clean
an’ alive, with painless dentistry, for he
fascinates it first. But goannas now, they're
just what they look like. There was a
wreck off Gabo, and the Allans of Mallacoota
Inlet heard of some bodies of sailors washed
ashore on a beach a bit further down. It
was terrible rough country, no roads, on’y
cattle tracks: so old Dad Allan and his
brother an’ the eldest son took the bullock-
sledge, with two young workin’-bullocks they
called ‘the bunyips.’ and scrambled thromrh.
An’ when they got over the beach where the
sea-farin’ bodies was, the son sings out from
the top of the point. ‘Some of them’s alive,
Dad ! Some of them’s alive ! I can see them
movin’!’ But when they climbed down to
( Continued on next page.)


Tired,
Worn Out?”
'Every Picture
TdlssStorv"
Do you drag yourself around feeling *‘blue,” miserable
and ill? Sharp pains catch you with every sudden
move; backache with a dull, steady throb? All too
often sick kidneys are to blame for this unhappy state.
Overwork, hurry, worry, colds and chills, all tend to
weaken the kidneys. Then you have daily backache,
lameness, headaches, dizziness and kidney irregularities.
Don’t wait for more serious troubles. Get a bottle of
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day! This
time-tried, world-famous kidney remedy has helped
your friends and neighbors. It should help you.
TESTIMONY FROM SYDNEY PEOPLE.
Mr. Jos. Goddard, 6 Windsor Street, Paddington, Sydney, says: “For some
time my health was far from good, due to the fact that my kidneys were very
disordered. I knew this to be the case, as I had aching pains in my back, was
always tired and languid, and could not get proper rest at night. When I first
began to feel off-color I did not bother about it, thinking I would soon be all right
again, but this is where I made the mistake. I got worse instead of better, and
by the time Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were recommended to me I was
suffering a -good deal. A friend advised me to try these pills, so I got some, and
after taking them for a few days my health began to improve, and by the time I
had used five bottles I was cured. I feel grand now, thanks to Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills.”
Six years later Mr. Goddard says: “I am still well and have had no return of
my old complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me over six years ago.”
Mrs. S. Drew, 30 Briggs Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says: “Some time ago
my kidneys were in a seriously disordered state, and in consequence I suffered
terribly. My back never stopped aching, and I often used to feel I could hardly
bear it any longer. The pain took all the life and energy out of me, and I was
almost crippled with the ailment. Dropsical swellings showed on my legs ana
ankles, and there was puffiness under my eyes. The state of my health worried
me terribly, and as I had taken all sorts of remedies without deriving any benefit, 1
was beginning to think I would never be well again. However, to make a long
story short, at last I got Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and they proved a god-
send. The first couple of bottles eased mv suffering a little, and seven bottles of
the pills cured me completely. The backache has gone,, the dropsical swellings
have disappeared, and I feel splendid. I have pleasure in recommending Doan s
Pills to all kidney sufferers.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
d
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
f ? und ■ the big brutes of
t 3 *, l ad Sot at the bodies, an’—an’
'Phi a i i h t I , u;l<le them bodies seem to move.
flv,r l every goanna they saw after
that, and that s how I feel about ’em.
t But T~ to tillce the taste outer yer mouth —
I down on one of them beaches once,
when me previous convictions had scarcely
begun showing a civil-service Pommy round
i j commodation-house where I was
handy-man—and keepin’ from bein’ round
mc.se 11. it was snake country all right—
real black-with-red-brown-belly snake-coun-
try. YV e was doin’ a crawl off the beach
round a tussock hump, to see if there was any
black duck in a fresh-water lagoon there
when we caught sight of a six-foot black
snake about a dozen yards away, just gath-
erin himself up for business. The Pommy
he ups with his double-barrel breechloader—
he was a good shot. But 1 says, ‘Hold hard.
Mister. lie’s in his own country an’ on his
own track an’ we ain’t. Just wait a bit axi'
see what he’ll do.’ And the Pommy—lie was
a good sort he drops his gun; an’ I’m
blessed if that old snake didn’t uncoil and
stretch himself —I think he yawned—an’
went, takin’ it easy, over the opposite sand-
hill to his missus an’ kids, or whatever busi-
ness he had in hand. I could ha’ sworn he
waved his tail ‘S’long!’ while he was goin’
over the top. ‘lf we’d ha’ shot him,’ I says to
the Pommy, ‘his old woman would have got
us sure, either in camp ter-night or on the
track.’ An’ the Pommy he says, ‘Pom-me-
word! and that, s how 1 think the Pommies
got their name.
An a carpet-snake is a gentleman, too,
though he ain’t poisonous, exeunt when he’s
laid up in a rotten holler log all winter and
not looKed after his teeth. There was two
ole maiden sisters in a house I was once
gardner an’ milkmaid an’ pony-master to
in JNorth Sydney. They was ratty on ani-
mals —wouldn’t drown a kitten an’ they’d
spoil the best dog that was ever pupped.
There was a family named Ward that bad a
pet old Queensland carpet-snake named- Jim
James, about 30 foot long, that lived in a
palin’ an’ wire-nettin’ snake-house they’d
built for him. They fed him on sparrers mostly,
but were hard put to it to find him grub. Well,
th’ old maidens’ brother Jim come home to
get ready to go to ther war and sent ’em
away on a fortnight’s holiday to give him a
chance to fix up things. The# had an’ old
cat that they must take; but she had half-
a-dozen weaned, nearly-half-grown kittens
that they couldn’t take and wouldn’t trust
the brother to look after, so he spoke to the
Wards next door and they said they'd look
after the kittens. So the sisters packs up,
an’ hands the kittens, very carefully, one by
one, over the fence an’ went away happy,
You see, they knowed nothin’ aoout snakes
an’ their ideas of tucker.
“Well, the brother took the spare bed in
a back room with me that night—we’d got
chummy—and after we’d done smokin’ an’
pitchin’, an’ ’d dropped off dead tired, ole
Jim James broke out of his cage and come
over the fence in the moonlight, an’ in
through an open window over Brother Jim’s
bunk. He’d come to thank him for the
kittens, I suppose ; but when he seen he was
asleep he went under the bunk an’ coiled
himself up an’ wenter sleep himself.
"About eight or nine o’clock in the morn-
ing there comes a rap-rap-tap at the front
door. Jim gets up and goes out to see an’
pay off the milk, but it was one of the Ward
boys from next door, with his cap in his
hand.
" 'Please, Mister,’ lie says, 'have yer seen
anything, of our carpet V ’E’s broke loose.’
"Jim remembered he’d felt, or dreamed he’d
felt, something cornin’ in over him in the
night, so he brings the boy in to see, and
they ? finds Jim James under the bunk. I
didn’t like to interfere, so they took Jim
James out the front door an’ home yard by
yard. And I heard our Jim say to the
other Jim: ‘Why, damn you, Jim James, if
it had been larst night week you’d have give
me a —— of a scare!’ he says.”
Previous got up and went to his swag and
turned it on its side and had unbuckled
the straps when we heard a joyous whoop
from dog Charley at the side of the house.
“Co an’ keep her back for a minute!” said
1 revious. "Send her after the ducks.”
I went to the back and intercepted the
Little Landlady; and, having drawn her
attention to the alleged fact that the duck-
lings had taken the old hen into the back
channel at the far corner of the paddock, I
returned to Previous, who had his swag
strapped again and up.'
"I’ve altered me mind,” he said. “You’ve
kept me too late with your everlastin’ in-
terruptin’. I’ll take Potty back to the old
house we was campin’ in at Five Bough
Swamp, an’ make an early start for Hay
in the mornin’.”
HENRY LAWSON.
The Power of Speech.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fin TIE clear atmosphere seemed to sink
insensibly into the limpid, slack-tide
waters of the Endeavor Strait; there
was hardly a ripple on the sea to show where
the one transparency ended and the other
began. Nature was in one of those pacific
summer-dress moods she affects in the
tropics in winter. In the Straits in summer
she is distraught and turbulent; in winter
she is calm and diaphanous. On this day
she was as serene as a beautiful care-free
girl dressed in white.
The pearling lugger Hamlet was swinging
lazily at anchor near Prince of Wales Island.
The crew was opening, just as lazily, the
giant oysters on board the vessel and chip-
ping the edges of the gold-lipped and silver-
lipped shell. Parley was sprawled on the
deck near the stern, drinking deep draughts
of atmospheric wine—now gazing listlessly
over the side into the natural aquarium
below, now watching with a curious sense of
fascination the two Japanese and the Malay
who were opening and cleaning the pearl-
shell. He was a visitor to Thursday Island
and had been invited by Campbell, a friend
of his and owner of several pearling boats,
to spend a few days on the pearling grounds
in Endeavor Strait. He was entranced
with the placid tropical sea-life, and felt, as
Maeldune had when he visited the Silent
Isle, that “it was all of it fair as life, it
was all of it quiet as death.”
Campbell was used to life on the pearling
grounds and was content to recline against
a mast and let the sun make colored pictures
through his closed eyelids. Nakimoto, No,
1 diver and master of the lugger, who had
won a rich harvest from the Old Grounds
south of Prince of Wales Island during the
trip, was leisurely chipping the ragged edges
of the shells piled on the deck. The No. 2
diver was assisting him. Sambo, the Malay,
was opening the shells and removing the
flabby oyster-flesh from inside. The insis-
tent chip-chip from the shell-heap was the
only sound heard for a time. Then Farley
spoke.
“Frank,” he said to Campbell, "if you
worked week after week in my dingy otnce
in Pitt-street you would not waste a moment
of this glorious day with your eyes shut.
This is a God-sent morning and you are
losing it all.”
“Yes,” replied Campbell, "and if you had
spent week after week on luggers with black,
brindle and tan crews you would be less en-
thusiastic. I used to live on a pearling
schooner once, but, thank Heaven, I come out
on a lugger now only when I have a visitor.
The stench of dead pearl-oysters nauseates
me. The sight of the colored crew makes
me long for the white folks of Pitt-street.”
“But the crew is very interesting,” said
Farley. “Look at Sambo, for instance; he
has a magnificent physique and is a real
artist at his work. Stripped to the waist,
as he is, he looks the finest specimen 'of a
man I have ever seen.”
Farley had been watching the Malay while
expressing admiration of his glossy body.
Suddenly he sprang to his feet as if he had
received an electric shock, hurled himself
over Campbell’s prostrate form, and, picking
up a chopper from the deck with one hand,
grabbed Sambo by the hair with the other.
“Come on, my beautiful specimen,” he said.
“Sit on this block and let us talk.” He
pushed Sambo on to a chopping-block, re-
taining his hold on the thick black hair and
menacing the Malay with the chopper.
Campbell had known Farley for many
years arid was used to his mad moods. He
merely rose to his feet and said “What’s
wrong?”
“This is my litle turn. You watch,”
Farley replied. Then to Sambo: “Now, my
Apollo, do you know the Lord’s Prayer?”
“No,” snapped out the frightened Malay.
‘“Well, you say it after, me. ‘Our Father
which art in Heaven.’ ” He waited for
Sambo to repeat the words, but the Malay
was silent —his eyes opened wide with fear
and his face twisted with a look of utter
hatred. “Now, no nonsense,” said Farley
roughly. “You must repeat everything I
say. If you don’t I’ll hit you with this
chopper. Come on —‘Our Father which art
in Heaven.’ ”
“ ‘Our Father which art in Heaven,’ ”
mumbled the scared Malay.
“No mumbling.” yelled Farley. “Speak
up loudly. Say ‘Hallowed be Thv name.’ ”
“ ‘Hallowpd be Thy name,’ ” repeated
Sambo, rolling his words out slowly as
though they gave him great pain.
Farley took him phrase by phrase through
the Lord’s Prayer, the Malay faltering in
his speech, but resuming with an effort each
time Farley shook the chopper in his face.
"Come on, Frank,” said Farley to Camp-
bell. "Quote some poetry so that this bright
son of Mam can repeat it. I can’t remem-
ber any verse myself.”
"You said it was your turn,” replied
Campbell. "See it through, whatever it is.”
Farley squared his shoulders and looked
towards the white beach of Prince of Wales
Island as though he were searching for in-
spiration there. But he was a sharebroker
by occupation and could drag no verse from
the well of his memory. He made Sambo
recite a portion of "To be or not to be” and
of "Mary had a little lamb,” but was not
able to pour out a sustained flow of lan-
guage. He gave the Malay a few tag-ends
of choruses he had heard, but the efforts
were weak. Sambo smiled for the first time
during the encounter. He had been born
at Thursday Island and had gone to school
tliere —and he knew that his tormentor was
in linguistic difficulties.
"You ,” roared Far-
ley. Sambo repeated the words and smiled
derisively.
“Well, I’m jiggered,” said Farley in de-
spair. The Malay jiggered himself in a
mimicking tone.
And then Farley put the chopper under
his arm and felt in his pockets. His face
brightened up as he brought out a large
sharebroker’s list from an inside pocket.
"Left there by luck,” he said. “Come on,
Sambo, let us go through all the market
quotations. Now, ‘Abbey Hill, buyers, thirty-
three and nine ; sellers, thirty-four and six.’ ”
But Sambo did not quote. He looked to-
wards the long list and said, “How many
there ?”
“Hundreds and hundreds of words,” said
Farley, showing him the list, “and we’ll go
through the lot together.”
“No, I don’t want them.”
“Very well,” replied Farley dropping the
chopper and placing a cupped hand in front
of Sambo’s mouth. “Spit it out.”
Sambo put his hand in his mouth and
placed a small object in Farley’s palm.
“You !” he exploded as Farley re-
leased his hold —and then he sprang over-
board and swam towards the island.
“How much do you think this pearl is
worth?” said Farley, turning to Campbell
and rolling a lustrous bead across his palm.
Campbell inspected it minutely and re-
plied, “It’s a beauty—-worth about six hun-
dred. It’s the best I’ve seen for a long time.”
“Good,” said Farley. And then in ex-
planation : “I saw him pick it out of a shell
and put it in his mouth—-and I tried the
elevating power of speech. He kept the
pearl well held during the contest, but it
had to come. And I’m mighty glad, old chap,
that my visit has been profitable to you.”
“Yes,” said Campbell. “Fll share the pro-
ceeds with you—fifty-fifty.”
“No, you don’t. I want no share,” said
Farley with a smile. “I’m satisfied to know
that a sharebroker’s list was more effective
than all your high-class poetry. That little
list has made clients open their mouths be-
fore—but never w r ith such good effect.”
STANLEY WILSON


fft»i
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear— '
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO, OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Queensland Agents—HOLMES &. CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featliereton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office— 98 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
If I
iTTm
Ml
cud
vs
the
m£ PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
Li^
After a hard day's work—a quiet smoke and some music.
“Lift the ‘Decca’ down from the Shelf.” No sooner said
than done. In a moment, the handy little ‘‘ Decca ”is on the
table—filling the room with jollity, driving away dull care.
As clear and as musical as the largest phonographs, and can be carried
with ease anywhere,
3 Models —Leather Cloth .... £lO/10/-
Fibre £l2/10/-
Cowhide £lO
Obtainable all over Australia from All Music Dealers,
•*' •'j > ‘ ■■'
Wholesale Distributors : Stanley E. Green. Ltd.. 379. Kent Street. Sydney.
I _/
Wetproof” and Dependability
“WETPROOF” is a coined
word; it is a REMINGTON
word and stands for the special
patented process with which all
Remington UMC shotgun car-
tridges are now treated. Car-
tridge cases have long been made
of so-called waterproofed paper but
this exclusive “WETPROOF” pro-
cess is something different. It is a
forward step in the manufacture of shot-
gun cartridges.
The wetproof compound of special oils
is applied, not only to the body, but
also to the top of the cartridge after
loading, effectively sealing it against
moisture and giving to the contents that
protection which insures uniformity of
ignition, pattern, speed and penetration.
Sportsmen need hot fear the effect of rain
or damp weather on their shotgun car-
tridges if they use REMINGTON UMC
brands treated with this special, patented
‘‘WETPROOF" process.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian
Representative, Box 686,
G.P.0., Melbourne
r
7<v
arrow
Wltti
m
dliß
the
Ask to see the
New Streamline Model
The Aristocrat of Pens.
The Pen de luxe.
The Pen for the man or woman
of taste, of refinement, of
discrimination.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & 00.. Ltd.
Bunhill Row. London, E.C.I,
Onoto Ink —Best for all pens.
of Others
Cleanse the system of impurities,
stimulate and regulate the organs of
digestion. Prevent headaches, indigestion,
constipation and bilious attacks. Keep yourself
in top-notch condition. Feel stronger, and go at
your work with a clear head and steady hand.
Clear your complexion and brighten your spirits.
Become healthy, happy and wise, get real vigor and
strength and accomplish this, by taking that reliable
medicine
Beecham'sPiUs
Both health and happiness depend upon the condition of
your stomach, liver and kidneys. When these organs
are not acting properly, nature’s demands are not being
met and obeyed. Beecham's Pills are nature’s own
remedy, for they drive out poisons from the system
and are entirely efficacious in the numerous
ailments arising from defective or irregular
actions of the organs of digestion. Buy a
box of Beecham's Pills to-day for
they will help you as they
Have Helped Thousands
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, England.
r SoId in boxes, labelled 10£d., ls-lid and 2s-9d. (original English prices.)
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.
m'
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
Donularitv Even under the most severe conditions they eaii be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not oniv to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
L-TD
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
iMVkV' 0 '
Sw,.-"'
is
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-Drink which maintains
health and strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK’S daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Milk, Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK S HALTED MILK CO.
SCOUGH. BUCKS, ENG.
In 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
£2700 for lI-
BLACKHEATH SOLDIERS’
MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee.)
£IIOO First Prize valued £IIOO
£sooSecoad Prize valued£soo
£3OO Third Prize valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 26th. Winning
numbers published on 31st May, 19^2.
II- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post 1/2 —Two or more Post Free.
One Ticket may possibly win £2700.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
Hairdressers, Newsagents, etc. through the
State and Samuel T. Green, Hon. Secretary,
Council Chambers, Blackheath, N.S.W-
“Dreadnought
I o j£ each
JL mil V Post Free
Thousands in Use.
( Patented )
M
!9/fi‘ ach
\Qg \ V Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
I •» •>
The simplicity, lightness and excellence o! the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
v Norman by Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE,


British-Built SENTINEL Steam Waggons
Give lower ton mile costs
than any other heavy
mechanical road trans-
port, and in many cases
can save considerably on
railway freights and
deliver in shorter time.
FUEL COSTS
ad. tO 2d.
per ton
mile.
Cffol, IffiH
T#£ MET
i
■
mm.
m
■
■ •.
as
SSMSSPSpiSf
mmm&mt&m
5-ton “Sentinel,” with Hydraulically-operated End-tipping Body.
RUNNING
COSTS,
including
OVERHEAD
CHARGES,
approx. 4d.
per ton mile.
DELIVERIES.
Full Particulars from the Australian Representatives.
WILLIAM ADAMS S COMPANY Limited
SYDNEY:
171-175 Clarence St
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins St Cr.
BRISBANE:
Edward & Mary Sts.
PERTH:
35 King St
ADELAIDE:
Cor. Waymouth &
Morphett Streets.
NEWCASTLE:
Watt St
LAUNCESTON:
33 Cameron St
