

ABSOLUTELY!
The Highest Possible Value in Motor Accessories
is in the
The most universally used Accessories in Motordom to-day—the Stewart Vacuum Feed System, Searchlights, Speedometers,
Warning Signals, etc. —are first choice among Motorists throughout the world.
When you install a Stewart you are installing the best.
Obtainable from leading wholesale and retail accessory dealers throughout Australia, including the following Interstate distributors:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., 239 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie
Street, Adelaide; Arthur Christian, 806 Hay Street, Perth.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2211.
Thursday, June 29, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1022 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Posted free to any address.
DY.MOCK’S ROOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, City.
Some Coughs take a lot of “ shaking off ”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super -remedy
the improvement is immediate .
W. G. HEARNE & Co. LtdL
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY-
jl]
LSE3
\\
L
COUCHS
COLDS
D
mm
LUNG
TBOVBia
yo
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
LYSAGHTS
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the "Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSACHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
M
i
P
TO
LOW PRODUCTION COSTS
Dispense with belting maintenance costs by instal-
ling throughout your factory the celebrated power
conserving Mangrovite Leather or Raw-hide Belting.
Its powerful bull-dog 1 grip on the pulleys enables'
the machines to work full pressure on smaller power
consumption, and its dependability eliminates costly
stoppages and vexatious belting irregularities. Our
staff of belting engineers is maintained for your con-
venience. Send ns your belting- problems.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wyhyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Tlenrv Clark & Co. Ptv., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel k Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Made in Australia
THE BEST THAT
CAN BE MADE
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOU
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion ; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6. [6
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
2
mtm
■m
C. The Bronchial
Tubes; of Dissected
bung..
D. The Lobe of one
o! the Luiigss.
The Red Ped Page
An Island Tragedy.
The Case for Korea, by Dr. Henry Chung
(Georye Allen & Unwin).
The modern history of Korea is the story
of a buffer State, and the lot of such a State
can never be a happy oue. It must either
pay heavily for military preparedness, or,
eventually, fall into the clutches of one ox-
other, or —as in the case of Poland —of all
its more powerful neighbors. This is the
essential fact which Dr. Henry Chung has
missed in his new book. That Korea was
a kingdom as far back as a,d. 669; that
the ruling dynasty only changed twice in
1241 years; that Korea was a great and
civilised nation when Japan was un-
known, and actually taught Japan language
and religion, arts and science; that the
people are predominantly of Caucasian
origin,; and that the Hermit Kingdom had
treaties of amity and friendship with 13
Powers are all interesting facts, Out only of
historical interest. The outstanding laet,
which eludes the author, is that Korea
is the strategic centre of Northern
Asia, and consequently became the bone of
contention between, first, China and Japan,
and subsequently between Japan and Russia.
High as was the state of civilisation in
Korea under the dynasty of Sila, great as
was her naval and military genius, as shown
by her armored ships and explosive shells,
which smashed Ilideyashi’s armada and
drove his cohorts into the sea in 1592, by
the Nineteenth Century the conditions in
the country had declined to grinding poverty,
habitual inefficiency and chronic corruption
and intrigue. But her geographical position
could not be altered, and Korea’s political
importance increased as the problems of the
Par East developed. By the Chinese war
Japan lifted the suzerainty of Pekin from
Seoul, only to find that a greater than China
sought to control Korea. The Russian war
ended that menace, and Korea, fell into the
hands of Japan.
__ If the manner in which Japan acquired
Korea tarnished her reputation she has to
some extent redeemed herself by the intro-
duction of material improvements. She is
expiating the wrongs done to Korea by the
benefits of irrigation, harbors, banking facili-
ties, roads, railways and telegraphs. If pro-
gress means the progress •of the whole and
not of the individual, then, outwardly at
least, Korea is in far better shape to-day than
when annexed to Japan in 1910. But if
progress is the measure of happiness of the
individual, then Korea is no better off to-day
and the Koreans are very much worse off.
Chosen, the Japanese name of the province,
is administered by the War Office, and
Japanese War Office methods are German at
their worst. Colonial- policy, if it would fol-
low the necessities of a great empire, must
beTiberal. Liberalism and Japanese imperial-
ism -are antipathetic. Korea is over-run with,
spies. The gendarmerie have power of life
and death, loot and outrage. The Koreans,
especially the Christians, are persecuted as
were the early "martyrs. There is absolutely
no brake on the rapacity and cruelty of the
conquerors. As a nation the Koreans have
never admitted the lordship of Japan. There
is and always has been and always will be
an independence movement. Passive resist-
ance is persistent, as was the case in Finland
against Russia. The object of the Japanese
terror in Korea is literally fo stamp out
this patriotism, to obliterate it. That Japan
is seeking to achieve the impossible, that
only extermination will accomplish her aim,
she will not believe. So the campaign of
cruelty proceeds year by year, and since 1914
has become much worse owing to the pre-
occupation of civilisation elsewhere. From
March 1, 1919, to March 1, 1920, according
to Korean statistics, 7645 Koreans, mostly
Christians, were killed, 45,562 injured, and
49’,51l imprisoned. Japanese officialdom
admits that 36,026 were killed, wounded and
arrested, of whom 10,592 were flogged and
8993 sentenced to imprisonment. The Pres-
byterian Church records show that among Pres-
byterian congregations only from March 1
to October 1, 1920, 41 were killed, six flogged
to death, 3804 arrested, of whom 2162 were
flogged and 1042 sentenced to imprisonment.
From 1913 to 1918 294,000 Koreans w.ere
sentenced to flogging by the police, and many
morfe by the Courts. These statistics do not
include those beaten as a means of extorting
evidence and confessions. The usual flogging
sentence is 30 strokes on each of three suc-
ceeding days. Gangrene sets in after the
first, beating. Many die under the lash, many
more' as the result of the punishment, and
still more are crippled for life. Torture in
the prisons is a commonplace, and women
and children, as well as men. are freely sub-
jected to it. Education of Koreans is strin-
gently repressed. As is usual in all Japanese
settlements, prostitution is, actively encour-
aged. In Korea, as in China, Japan has con-
ducted a drugging campaign. It is from tlie
Opium Monopoly’s poppy-fields in Korea
that she supplies the demand she created,
and incidentally reaps a handsome revenue.
In a word Japanese rule in Korea, is “hell”
for Koreans and foreigners. It is a blas-
phemy of liberty and of right.
Dr. Chung’s volume gives chapter and
verse for every incident he relates. From
what his grim pages record and from what
we know there can be no doubt but that
Japanese rule in Korea emulates, even if it
does not excel, the bestialities of the Ger-
mans in Belgium. * - ,
The late Count Ofeuma used to delight in
talking of the “downtrodden races” of India,
and of the “300.000.000 people of India
waiting to be freed from the thraldom of
Britain.” by Japan. During the war vari-
ous Japanese agitators were deported from
Tndia, their eternal sermon being how much
freer and happier Tndia would be if gov-
erned by Japan. Indians may be very thank-
ful that they are not. A jrreat native prince
last January took occasion to warn the
extremists that if Britain were forced out
of Tndia, her place would be taken by the
Afghans in the north and the Japanese. As
Korea and Formosa, the world’s worst
examples of government, are to-day so would
India be then.
A Digger on War Words
Padre Green’s article on “AtyTar Words”
(R.P. 8/6/’22) oiieiis , up a ' diverting topic
for all students of tile'.English dictionary,
for all weavers pf the magic of the written
word and all Diggers. It must be borne in
mind that war words were primarily spoken
words, and the percentage grafted on Jo
that list of words used in writing was sm|ill
compared with the number in hourly use on
the other side. The Padre holds that the Aus-
tralian soldier was hot the swearer lie was
represented to be. He was, but not as a
rule in the sense that he used filthy or de-
based words. A careful observation led me
to the conclusion that 75 per cent, of the
most filthy-mouthed Diggers were Austra-
lian only by adoption, while' most of the
remaining 25 per cent, had the ’Loo
or Fitzroy of some similar neighborhood
on their personal records. Naturally, their
influence was felt, but it was only a trick-
ling tributary that was quickly swallowed
by the broad river representing the Austra-
lian’s own standard of etbues as regards
blasphemy.
The true Australian oath was a thing of
beauty, providing a speedy means of relief
for depression, exasperation, hard luck,
fussy C.O.’s, obstinate. mules, field court-
martial verdicts and lice. It was descrip-
tive, vigorous and decisive. It was intended
for use on special occasions, such as that
moment of trial when the battery sergeant-
major hauled you out of bed at 2 “ack-
emma” to cart munitions to the gun “pos-
sies.” It was seldom used in idle or casual
conversation. Because of that, it failed to
stick as a habit with many of those boys
and men "who were jettisoned temporarily
on the ash-lieap of war. Keith, who “wore
pyjama-suits ami cleaned his teeth,” has re-
turned to his counting-house, or his old
home (or, in many cases, to a new home
with a long-haired mate), with his old curs-
ing days as far behind him as Menin-road
or Pozieres. Like many of the Diggers
themselves, what the poor old swears did in
the Great War has been forgotten. 0»e of
our best gunners was a parson who had
discarded cloth for khaki, and, incidentally,
lie was one of our best exponents of the
healthy Australian curse. I have heard him
preach some excellent sermons since he took
up the holy work again, and his hold of
his congregation does not seem to have been
loosened by his temporary adherence to the
fascination of epithet.
The Padre’s view that the Australian’s
slang phrases, diminutives and apposites
excelled the distinctly British forms is cor-
rect. As hi» curse was more emphatic,
more descriptive, clearer-cut, so were those
many phrases which have persisted after re-
patriation. in contrast to the “swear” that
has vanished into oblivion, as far as hourly
use is concerned. When we compare the
expressiveness of the Australian appellation
“bonzer” (although that was not a war-
word) with the futility of the English
subaltern’s “priceless.” we can understand
the difference between the old Britisher and
the new. One demonstrated the inertia of
old stock ; the. other the- virility of the new.
And who would not prefer that poetry-in-one-
word—“cobber”—to the vapid equivalents
“<4d bean” or “old tliihg” or “old top”
of the Englishman? But the Padre is
wrong in quoting “cushy” (meaning ■ easy
or comfortable) as an Australian invention.
It is an English derivative, grafted on to
the language bv the English soldiers who
served in India, and was used in the same
sense by British soldiers in that country in
pre-war days. It is derived from a Hindu-
stani word, as is “Blighty” (war-name alike
for England and the wound that got a man
there).
I would like to plead for the inclusion in
our respectable Australian vocabulary of one
war-word-—“guts.” I know many genteel
hands will be thrown up in horror at
the inclusion of a word which means “en-
trails.” But to these dear folk I would like
to mention that the word “pluck,” now so
highly-esteemed a. word for the quality of
courage or gameness, means exactly the same,
as “guts.” Then why not “guts”? which is
purely Australian, with a more -expressive
sound than the older word, which, by the
way, is also a war-word. It first came into
general use after the Crimean War, during
which it was used in the same sense as “guts”
was in 19.1.4-18. I bar the use of the word
in the expression “Kick him in the guts,” or
in reference to the gorging abilities of a per-
son, but I think the word could live down its
horrid past and remain descriptive of that
quality which every man needs to rush a
machine-gun post, pull a fellow-creature
from a shark’s jaws, or marry.
WILL VERNON.
The Shelley Centenary
On July 8, 1822, a small boat—the Ariel
—set sail from Leghorn for the village of
San Terenzo, about 40 miles along the Medi-
terranean coast of Italy. It contained two
Englishmen and a lad of 18, engaged to help
in the sailing. One of the Englishmen was
Percy Bysshe Shelley; the other was his
friend Edward Williams. It was 2.30 and a
warm, close day. At least one man who
knew the climate advised delay. But both
Shelley and. Williams had been away since
July 1, and their wives were waiting for them
at the lonely and romantic Villa Magni,
which fronts the Bay of Spezia. So they
sailed—and none of the three was seen alive
again.
What happened? Nothing was known for
certain until nine days later when the body
of Williams was thrown up on the coast.
The next day (the 18th 1 the body of Shelley
was washed ashore at a point three miles
nearer.' his home. There is a letter extant
dated* Viareggio, 18th July,, 1822. in which
the governor, or mayor, of that coastal vil-
lage informs the Secretary for the Province:
Your Excellency,—lt is my duty to inform you
that this morning the rough seas threw up a corpse
which had been partly consumed.... We have no
information regarding same, but it is thought likely
to be one of the young Englishmen who are re-
ported to have been drowned on the passage thev
undertook as far back as July the Bth, in a small
brig-shaped launch which left Leghorn for the Gulf
of Spezia,. the sea having thrown up the other body
on the Tuscan shore.
Shelley had been living among these Italians
for the best part of four .years, during which
(Continued on page So.}


n
Incomparable Value in Billiard Tables
= at Anthony Horderns’
r
'A
Every day you do without a
Billiard Table you are depriving
yourself and family of the most
interesting home recreation and
enjoyment. Install one NOW and
ensure satisfaction and content-
ment in the home.
Anthony Horderns’ Billiard
Tables have reached the highest
state of perfection, for skilled
craftsmen and modern methods
have made possible the creation
of these splendid Tables at prices
impressively low. They are made
at our Redfern Cabinet Works,
and can be obtained in the most
desirable sizes.
BILLIARD TABLES OF QUALITY
Can be supplied in Maple or Mission.
The Beds are of Slate, covered with Genuine Billiard Cloth.
Fitted with fast, low built-up Cushions and brass-mounted Pockets, three
Balls, two Cues and Rest, Marking Board and Chalk. Rules, etc., are supplied
with each table.
Size over all —-
6ft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in. . £2B/10/-
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. lOin. . £34/15/-
Size over all—
-Bft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in., with four
6in. legs £43/12/6
9ft. Sin. x sft,, with six 6in.
legs . . ... . . . £56/10/-
Space Required for Billiard Tables
Size of Table. Room. Cue.
9ft. sin. x sft. Oin. 18ft. 6in. x 14ft. 3in. 4ft. 9in.
Bft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in. 1 7ft. Oin. x 1 3ft. 4in. 4ft. 6in.
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. 1 Oin. 15ft. 6in. x 12ft. 4in. 4ft.
6ft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in. 14ft. 6in. x 1 1 ft. 1 Oin. 4ft.
Miniature Billiard Table Tops
On six adjusting legs, to stand on an ordinary Dining Table.
These Billiard Table Tops have Slate Bed, covered with genuine
Billiard Cloth, fast Rubber Cushions, brass-mounted Pockets, and
are complete with three Balls, two Cues, Marking Board, Chalk,
Rules, etc.
Size over all—
6ft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in £23/17/6
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. 10in £29/10/-
Bft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in £36/15/-
9ft. sin.xsft. .. £44/15/-
Combination Billiard and Dining Tables
A Covered Dining Table, convertible in a few moments to a
Billiard Table, on which Pyramids, Pool, Snooker and other
games can also be played. Fitted with Semi-Auto. Lift and
Adjusters and QUEENSLAND MAPLE Leaves. Complete with
three Balls, two Cues, Rest and Scoring Board.
Size —
6ft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in ■„ . . .
7ft. 4in. x 3ft. IGin. ~ . .
Bft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in., with four 6in. legs
9ft. sin. x sft. •.
£35/12/6
£43
£53/12/6
£65/15/-
Jh
“TRIUMPH” BILLIARD and SNOOKER BALLS.
HIGHEST GRADE. TESTED AND GUARANTEED ACCURATE. COLORED RIGHT THROUGH.
Snooker Balls, sets of 22
Billiard Balls, sets of 3 .
Bonzoline Balls, sets of 3
lfin,
27/-
£B/10/-
30/-
37/6
2 in.
£l2/10/-
35/-
50/-
2 1-I6in.
£l6/17/6 set
47/6 set
70/- set
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
Telephone: City 9440'.


No. 1 Kodak Junior
was £4171-; is now 501-
a reduction of 37/-
X
m
Here is your opportunity to secure a high-
grade Kodak at a remarkable reduction in
price. The No. 1 Kodak Junior is a thor-
oughly reliable model of high efficiency, with
every essential for good picture-making, yet
so simple that even the novice will be
successful from the very first.
The No. 1 Kodak Junior is fitted with Meniscus Achromatic Lens and
Kodak Ball-bearing Shutter with cable release. It is small enough to fit
the pocket, makes pictures 2| x 8* inches, and is fitted with the Autographic
feature, which allows the photograph to be dated and titled as soon as it is
made. Price 50/-; recently reduced from £4/7/-
Call in early and get yours!
The new, complete Kodak Catalogue is sent post free to any
address ( except New Zealand) for 6d, to cover postage.
Of all Kodak deal:rs , and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
The Talley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders
Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner ”
corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
PHinter Evenings
at Home
are never dull if you possess
“His Master’s Voice.’’
This wonderful instrument
brings the world’s most en-
trancing music to you.
Through its agency the
greatest celebrities actually
sing and play for you. It en-
ables you to hear them at their
best, so perfect is the repro-
duction.
It is because “His Master’s
Voice’’ retains all the beauty
and clearness of the original
music that the most famous
artists choose it to record their
gifts.
Seek the guarantee of a
world-famous trade - mark —
look for the “dog’’ on the in-
strument and records you buy.
J
His Master’s voice
m
I i
fitii
u
e~
T/p'
'auM
Sr*
>s^l
o
' W/ >V
&&
fc
' &.‘5
m
4u:
A l
1
Master’s Voice” is available in
many models, ranging in price from
I 1 guineas to 9 1 guineas. Each one
is an example of natural expression,
perfect tone, clearness and volume.
IWrite for a Catalogue, Record Lists
and name of nearest dealer.
“His Master’s Voice”
Read. Trade-mark.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street -Sydney.
“ Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.


PINKETTES
An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help
your digestion and take care of
the over-load by taking one
Pinkette, the little sugar coated
laxative pill, after a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are greatly superior to old-
fashioned medicines which
over-stimulate the liver and,
when their use is stopped, leave
it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the
stomach or cause griping.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
lIT YOU HAVE NOT A
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER
BUY ONE NOW, when embroidery is
so much used. It works on ANY
MATERIAL.
Visit our SPECIAL INSTRUCTION
ROOM.
ALL WORKERS ARE WELCOME
21/- Complete Outfit.
Send a stamped envelope for FREE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agrents.
EVERYBODY DOTES
UnclaTobv’s
VOATS^/
A delightful breakfast food
X
Correctly Cut
RIDING
TROUSERS
57/© PAIR
To Your Own Measure
THE meticulous care in Tailor-
ing—the robust quality of
materials, and the approved fitt-
ing for Riding Comfort are the
] distinctive features of these
j Riding Trousers. They are
tailored from serviceable shades
j of Fawn, Grey, and Brown
| Garnett Gabardine of sturdy
j durability, an J possess remark-
! able resistance to wear. Write
! for Patterns and S. M. Form.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
d
a 3
n
GREY
HAIR, the
tell - tale
symptom of
old age,
need no
longer be
endu red.
Father and
son can be
i n d i stin-
guishable—
both hav-
ing the
same youthful WALNUT
HAIR. Perfectly harmless
and easy to apply. No in-
jurious effect. All chemists.
>ys
MEXICAN
i WALNUT STAINi
Its Charm is Irresistible.
With a delicate fragrance all
its own, Eudenta will satisfy
your desire for a Toothpaste of
dharin. Although so delightful,
Eudenta is antiseptic, too.
Ask Your Chemist
—He Sells It.
ffOOTH PASTg
jmxlleifif Chip
r
47/6
Safe —
Efficient—
Convenient
Reliable—
No matter where you live, Malley’s Chip Heater will
be of excellent service to you, providing hot or boiling
water for your bath or any domestic purpose, without
any cost, bother or delay.
Simply put in a few chips, old papers or some rubbish,
and tjie hot wafer will flow freely and quickly. Absolute
safety— even the children can use Malley’s Chip.
A specially descriptive, and illustrated folder will be sent
on to you, post free, if you attach name and address to
this advt. and post to Dept. B. If in town visit our
showrooms—-see Malley’s Chip in operation.
Buy the genuine Malley’s Chip, made by
jvCalleifif J&
86Li verpool St Comer Kent St
a, few steps from George St~.
o
the
o
o
Ask to see
the New
Streamline
Model.
The Aristocrat of Pens.
The Pen de luxe.
The Pen for the man
or woman of taste,
of refinement, of
discrimination.
SELF-FILLING SAFETY
ONOTO INK-BEST FOR ALL PENS.
Treat Your Face to a
iurhamj-iuple:
Safe Razor
Shave!
You’ll wonder how you got
along this time without one.
It’s better than you ever
imagined a razor could be.
sdf
?v
AH Good Dealers Sel! the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to your dealer to-day—ask him tt> show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it in
your hand —see how it balances—then take it
home and shave with it. It’s a revelation 1
VARIOVS VERSE
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Scarlet-flowering Gums.
Wantons ye are to madden so the bees
Drunk with your dripping sweetness
through long hours
Of shimmering honey-gold! There are no
flowers
Dappling the green of any sort of trees
Can match your blaze of scarlet ecstasies.
Wantons ye are, indeed, whom Nature
dowers
With greater wealth than heaped Old
Persia’s bowers
Or ripened for remote Hesperides.
In time to come (they say) shall trees no
more
Foam up in sudden beauty, nor the furze
With yellow flecks of it be scattered o’er.
Nor bees nor moths be Cupid’s messengers.
How in that day would tender souls be
hurled
Back to this era from a blossomless world !
VICTORIA.
LOUIS LAVATER.
Inland.
When I turn to these hills they are silent
straightway,
Elf and tairy depart;
I have never a pass for the guarded gateway
Unto their magic heart.
By cliff and harbor, by sea and river.
My heart has sung its song.
Where tides flow and ripples quiver
I have lived my whole life long.
My world is the world of waves beating
On cliffs shod in foam,
Where every wind sends spray as greeting,
And there have I found my home.
But here I am far from the great sea
stficiiiicrs
The tide that falls and fills,
And the port which seems a haven for
dreamers
Between steep, wooded hills.
These plains and flats of struggling grasses :
I know there’s a song they sing.
They shout it to every wind that passes
On a shadowy wing.
But they trust not me and from me ’tis
hidden,
Never a note revealed;
For a stranger’s ear ’tis a strain forbidden,
So every lip is sealed.
The great, gaunt ringbarked trees hiss:
“Danger!
Here’s a new face to scan.”
Wherever I go I am a stranger
Under the Stranger’s ban.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
In Conspiracy.
To-night in sweet conspiracy,
’Neath waning moon and star,
The w’ind is joining with the sea
To prove how kind they are.
How gentle is each little breeze,
How soft and cool and light,
That scarcely moves the flowers and trees
That scent the silent night!
Yet, oh, the sea how calm it is,
How calm and wide and deep!
The waves and ripples do but kiss
The sands and fall asleep.
Peace, peace, the first of God’s good gifts
To man breathes far and w T ide;
And yet—what’s this that shoreward drifts
Upon the making tide?
White-faced, with swaying hands and feet,
Upon the tide it lies ;
Look close, or, if death seem not sweet,
Look not, but veil your eyes!
Wave after -wave it washes in,
Free as the winds are free—
Kind, kind beyond all kith and kin,
It sought and found the sea !
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Leopard.
Spotted like a fenny snake,
Or a poison-lily blown
In some fatal-blossomed brake
Living man has never known,
Where the blood-fed orchids wake,
Satan-sown.
Lissom as a damsel young.
Trained in all a dancer’s art,
Suave as speech on woman’s tongue,
Swifter than a feathered dart
From a feathered blow-pipe flung
To the heart.
Eyes of amber, like the eyes
Of a perfect courtesan,
As in naked ease she lies
On a golden silk divan—
Dwindled pupils, deadly w T ise,
Cold to man.
Satin flank and cushioned paw,
Dappled leaf-light overhead,
Breadth of bough, retracted claw,
Creeper-flowers of venous red,
Life and death at silent war;
Beauty’s bed.
Watched by murder, watched by fear;
Every tremor of a vine
May betray that doom is near;
Topaz-trembling sunspots shine
On uplifted spike and spear,
Coraline.
Stands a shadow in the glade,
Free as air and nude as pain,
Seeking beauty unafraid.
Wondering at the sudden gain—
Lovely shadow* of a maid
Leopard-slain.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


%
■A.
TO
orme
»
MM
r
m
m
mm
■
m
jm
u
• i
M 1
: m
: m
•>
I
■HI
■
:: -
■
H
li
■
«'*>•'*
*
1
I
■
m
I ■
H
■
.
m
m
mmrn
■
ft
-■v
I
■
H
H
IffSIgSS
111
W
IS
ig
I P
'vf"'
The man on the land can now enjoy the convenience, safety
and comfort of electric light and power by means of the
G.E. Home Light and Power Unit
This is a complete plant for the generation and storage
of electricity and is compact, economical to run, safe
and easy to operate. It is of sufficient capacity to per-
mit the use of electrical appliances, such as vacuum
cleaners, sewing machine motors, electric irons, toast
ers, etc., as well as electric light in every room m the
house. Furthermore, the full horse-power of the
engine is available at all times for driving pumps,
grindstones, churns, and light machinery. The
.G.E. Home Light and Power Unit is a sound
investment that will pay big dividends of comfort.
Further particula s gladly mailed.
Australian General Electric QjtfL
CornerWenlworth Avenue i GoulburnSV
• • • SYDNEY •
B
Comer Queen £ Little Collins St?
• 'MELBOURNE'. •
Phone» Gty iflo Box 2517 G.P.O
Phone: Cen. 2646 Bos SJB G.P.CX
BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia,
Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
TASMANIA—OIiver & Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
ADELAIDE, S.A, —Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie
Street,
PERTH, W.A.—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd, “Mazda
House.”'B94 Hay Street.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Tiausn ission by Post as a Newspaper.
THU USD AY, JUNE 29, 1922.
Price 60.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2211.
THE RELIGION OF THE GENTEEL.
Dr. Purdy and Dr. Mary Booth, delegates from the Australian Association for Fighting Venereal Disease, told the Sydney Block Association that of those doomed to
blindness from birth 23 per cent, owed their affliction to preventable V.D. The smug, mock modesty which debarred many from attacking or even discussing this scourge was
chiefly to blame.
CHADSNIFF, M.P.: “Blind from birth, eh! It’s dreadful, of course, but not nearly so dreadful as that respectable persons like myself
should be required to discuss what made her blind.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street. Svdnev. N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 135.; S months, Is. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Specinl Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political , Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
THE Bulletin -will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. ivill be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. further, Ths Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance, Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i .e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
Suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
alter the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Luilgate Circus; and, IK. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.y;
E T Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,’ ol High
Ilolborn, London, 1 V.C.I.
South Africa, —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban: and others. ~, _ ~
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., hil Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B,C,
C.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland liay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley Neivs Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: oth Avenue
and 21 th Street, Now York City; Liberty Neivs Co,,
Seattle. Washington.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn <& Co., Ihe Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llono Kong. —Brewer and Co., redder Afreet,
liong Kong. , .
Sing apoue. —John Little nnd Co., Mevchaiits ,
! (seylon! —IK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo. . , _ , ,
Papua —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fi<ti ._/4. Barker, Suva ; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon & Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin <: registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: )oz.,
lid.: for every additional 20z., Id. United Kingdom,
A 'll Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States; ioz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: :toz. or part thereof,
THURSDAY, JUNE 29, 1922.
THE MAN WITH THE CLUB FOOT.
It has been said that there would have been
no European war but for the fact that tlie
Kaiser bad a withered arm. And Field-
Marshal Wilson would be alive to-day but
for a man with a club foot. The withered
arm and the club foot are symbolical: they
stand for degenerates whose frustrated lives
make them easy marks for hate-mongers.
Once the diseased mind which goes so often
with a diseased body has been made receptive
to the idea of violence the crime which fol-
lows logically on the idea is relatively easy
to commit. It is no more difficult physically
for a John of England, a Louis XI. or
France or a Wilhelm 11. of Germany to
sign a document committing hundreds,
thousands or millions, as the case may be,
to death, than it would be for a sovereign
of perfect physique and health to do the
same thing; and a revolver in the hands of
a cripple such as the one who helped to
slay the field-marshal last week is as
lethal as if it were wielded by a Dempsey.
These truths may seem almost too obvious
to be worth stating; and yet about 90 per
cent of all political and international crime
is due to the persistent way in which
healthy people disregard the problem of the
man with the club foot, and the correspond-
ing type of mind. Everyone knows he
exists" but it is not customary to act as if
he did, or even to notice that he is there,
till a great war comes, or a Frederick
Cavendish, an Austrian Archduke, a
Humbert of Italy, or a Henry W ilson falls
a victim to him.* #
Most of the modern political systems, and
more particularly the British one, are based
on legalised incitements to a breach of the
peace. Men say things to and about one
another under the qloak of Parliamentary
nrivilege which would lead to bloodshed m an
environment where the convention did not
|IV Kt The Parliamentarians know that the
charges and counter-charges, the statements
that So-and-so is betraying the country and
somebody else is robbing it, have no neces-
sary basis in fact; such slanders are part of
the game, and the more adroit a repre-
sentative is in inventing provocative issues
and exploiting them to inflame opinion in
the constituencies against the enemy on the
other side of the House, the more useful he
is to his party and the more likely to be
rewarded with office or a title, or both. The
more actually peaceful a public man is, often,
the more lie favors the similes of battle,
public or private. Clergymen fire conspicuous
offenders in this respect. Thus in N. S.
Wales, during the last few days* Father
Forrest, a South Coast priest, has inti-
mated that his fighting weight is 11 stone
(though, of course, he has no idea of break-
ing the peace with anyone), wffiile the Rector
of St. John’s (Father O’Reilly) has said
that, though he possesses no battle-scars at
present, he awaits them with equanimity-
meaning, presumably, controversial scars.
The annual Orange hate-feast is due, shortly,
and everyone who has read a report of such
a function in the past knows what to expect
—a platform filled with limelighting parsons
and vote-chasing politicians, and a flood of
blither about fighting Rome to the death,
strangling disloyalty, and making Protestant-
ism, the Empire and Civilisation safe by
resurrecting the frailties of 12th century
Popes. The people who deal in these imbe-
cilities know that they mean nothing; and
that the only effect of them on the Church of
Rome is to solidify local Catholicism. Their
object is to attract that large class which
will neither vote for a principle nor subscribe
to a church, but can always be induced by
propaganda to vote or subscribe money
against some political or religious belief.
This convention of annoying the other side
is followed, as a matter of course, by thou-
sands of good-natured people who do not
go nearly so far as the extremists on either
side, and who take the sound and fury of
sectarianism and narty politics even less
seriously .than those who live on such hum-
bug. However, there is another class, and
in these days of cheap education it is a
fairly big one, whose members read every
anger-insoiring word that is spoken or writ-
ten by the professional trouble-makers, and
believe all they read. And in their ranks
are to be found a oroportion of degenerates,
men afflicted by club foot or withered arm
minds, who, with the ruthless logic of in-
sanity, upon observing that lawlessness and
bloodshed are talked of approvingly by per-
sons of importance, decide to break the laws
and shed blood.
* • • •
The death sentence on Field-Marshal
Wilson was really pronounced 522 years
ago when Pitt, “by unlimited, bribery,”
obtained a majority for the Union in tlie
Irish Parliament, in that by no means lati-
tudinarian epoch Irishmen were so little
divided as regards political and religious
issues that Lord Sheffield, in a resolution
supporting the Union, was constrained to
Say (Union Tracts, vol. 6, p. 30) :
Nothing cah be more dangerous than a notion
that a coalition ot‘ (Irish) Churchmen, Dissenters
and Catholics cannot take place. The reports of
the Lords and Commons of Ireland, and what has
happened lately [he Was referring, apparently, to
Wolfe Tone’s Nationalist Society of Southern Catho-
lics and Republican Ulster Protestants] completely
prove that such a coalition is not merely possible,
but that it actually exists.
The party politician presently found
pedient to divide the Irish, and that policy
was pursued with satisfactory results to
most of those responsible for upwards of a
century. During all this time the breach
between the two sections grew wider and
wider; challenges and insults were exchanged
whenever the spokesmen of the rivals took
to the platform or the press; and in many
cases breaches of the law were recommended
or gloried in. The Molly Maguires of the
forties of last century and the moonlighters
of the ’eighties were criminals who were
heroes to the Southern Irish, just as Sir
Edward Carson was a criminal but a hero
to many Ulstermen when he said at Glas-
gow ( 1/10/5 912 ) : “The’feAttorney-General
.... says that my doctrines and the course
I am taking lead to anarchy. Does he not
think I know that?” And always the men
with the club foot minds, Nationalist and
Unionist. Catholic and Protestant, watched
and read and reasoned along the only lines
of which thev were capable. The whole
world is horrified when a brave and good
man who is also a field-marshal is assas-
sinated by one of these wretched beings.
The tall trees are the easiest seen, and so
the public sympathises with the grief of
the dead man’s widow and friends almost as
passionately as though the field-marshal
had been a personal friend. Few pause to
reflect that for years past, and with ever-
increasing frequency of late, other men not
so eminent, but just as dear to those w r ho
knew them, have been killed in just the
same way—on their own doorsteps and with-
out a moment’s grace or mercy. The spirit
that has led to the death of Sir Henry
Wilson was implicit in the policies and
tactics pursued by many generations of Brit-
ish politicians; and it may be that now,
so far as Ireland is concerned, it is ineradi-
cable. Tbe tragedy and senselessness of it
need no stressing, and yet it is this very
spirit -which, without a fraction of the excuse
that the old-time politicians of the United
Kingdom had. our party tacticians are trying
to introduce here. Nothing is more certain
than that they will succeed if they go on
trying. All that is needed is a steady in-
sistence in Parliament, and at social and poli-
tical functions outside, that there are two
distinct classes of Australians, that thev
can never come together, that it is their
duty to abuse, enrage and injure each other
as much as possible. The silent, deadly men
with the club foot minds, who are never
absent on such occasions, will do the rest.
THE PREMEDITATED CRIME OF
DEPOPULATION.
11l fares the land to hastening bills a prey,
Where debts accumulate and human beings scoot away.
—Hackneyed saying, partially repaired.
N. S. Wales’s Fuller Government is push-
ing on vigorously with the Sydney city rail-
way, as was only to be expected considering
the number of votes the undertaking repre-
sents. It is claimed that the railway will
“begin to pav in four vears”; but a work
which is called “State, while every stick
and nail of which it is built is paid for
out of borrowed private capital, all the capi-
tal being preference and bearing a very high
cumulative dividend with renewal expenses
added, and which will have years of piled-
up interest on its soul before the first
wnistle blows and the first ticket is sold, is
never likely to pay, otherwise than politi-
cally, except in the usual lying balance-sheet.
In normal pre-war times the London tubes,
built with cheap labor and materials, and
worked with sweated staffs, didn’t earn half
the average dividend that the Sydney metro-
politan contraption must unless it is to be
written down a gigantic loss. The reason
given for the resolve to go on with the rail-
way has a special, not to say, an ominous,
interest. It has been pointed out that the
traffic of Sydney is close to the same
“saturation point” as that of New York,
six times its size. And New York has got
to the necessity of fixing compulsory work-
ing hours which vary in different districts,
so that the inward rush of the morning may
represent Xerxes invading Greece in three
invasions, half-an-hour apart, instead of
throwing 1,800,000 troops on the doomed
land at the same instant, while the outward
rush of tbe evening may resemble Israel
exuding from Egypt on the instalment or
time-payment system. Before the dilatory
and insufficient railway comes to the rescue
it is held that there may be a block. No
more tramways will be possible, all the
streets being used. The homing citizen who
has luck will get a ride at the risk of his
life. The unlucky one will arrive at La
Perouse or Mortlake on foot and exhausted in
the small hours. Canvas dormitories will
be put up in the parks for bankers and
other eminent citizens to sleep in, and tem-
porary tin sky-scraper boarding-houses will
be evolved to bridge the emergency. There
are quaint possibilities ahead of a city which
expects next year to find that its narrow
ways have reached the limit of their traffic
capacity; which may not get any adequate
relief for 10 years (the preliminary scrap
of line from the Central Station to St.
James’s-square can hardly be called relief) ;
and which hopes to continue all these years
absorbing whatever immigrants may arrive,
in addition to its own natural increase.
-* * * *
The latest available census figures show
that the policy of Premeditated Congestion,
and its corollary, the crime of Premeditated
Depopulation, go on apace. Comparative
figures are shown for the country munici-
palities, which number 141. Of these 50
(fifty) were steadily dying out during the
10 years 1911-21. Thirteen more, though
they didn’t lose any of their numbers dur-
ing 1911-21, had fewer inhabitants than
in 1891 or 1901. These 63 towns had gained
nothing by immigration or any other form
of new settlement, and had lost all their
babies and some of the babies’ parents to
the hungry metropolis—or Molochopolis.
Places like Barraba (gain, 37 humans in 10
years), Broughton Yale (4), Casino (27),
Castlereagh (36), Grenfell (47), Hay
(108), Moree (91), Narrabri West (118),
Narromine (131), Nyngan (174), Picton
(90), Richmond (151), Shoalhaven (129).
Tamworth (118), Tumut (121), Ulmarra
(152), Warialda (65), Warren (it neither
lost nor gained a soul in the decade) and
Young (gain, 139) can’t be included with
the long list of the absolutely dying. Quite
a number of these are located in the rich
north of the State —the garden of N. S.
Wales. They include such places as Aber-
deen, Bingara, Coonamble, Grafton, Hill-
grove (the only one on the list whose decay
was caused by mine-failure instead of by
misgovernmenf), Inverell, Maclean, Man-
illa, Morpeth, Murrurrundi, Narrabri, Qui-
rindi, Raymond Terrace, Tenterfield, Uralla
and Walcha. It is noteworthy that old
towns pass off the census list faster than
new ones appear. New mining towns occa-
sionally form themselves, but otherwise the
town-forming habit appears quite dead.
Big loans, big immigration and settle-
ment and land-resumption schemes, big talk
by big-waistcoated men with big brass voices
—none of them does anything to stay the
rot, which goes on faster and faster, and will
presumably keep on doing so while the
policy of Deliberate Congestion lasts. The
sbires, embodying all N. S. Wales (181,140
square miles) outside the municipalities and
the unincorporated part of the Western
Division, should show some progress, as the
State resumed, up to June, 1920, 1,482,328
acres for closer settlement, and the process
has been even more furious after that, while
settlement on “Crown” land proceeded like
a devastating flood. There are two census
records of the 133 country shires (Ku-ring-
gai is an anomalous city shire). The return
shows that 54 lost population between 1911
and 1921 —gained no new settlers, but lost
some of their old ones, and sent their babies
to the city as well. Another 21 increased
their population to the average extent of
nearly 101 persons in 10 years—say, 10 per-
sons per year. They apparently got no new
settlers who would stay, and sent their
babies to the city, save one or two retained
as a pattern lest people should forget what
a baby was like. The North was ago in a,
great loser, presumably because the outlying-
agriculturist up North has a chance to be
further away from the one permissible and
usable nort than others, and a finer oppor-
tunity to be ruined by railway charges. In
addition to all the rest the unincorporated
part of the Western Division lost 3232 in-
habitants between censuses (a drop from
18.421 to 15,189). and it almost spoils the
symmetry of events that Lord Howe Island
gained four.
* * * *
N. S. Wales’s Statistician supplements the
story with estimates up to the end of 1920
of population by districts. There are 15
of these, and an island, and this is the re-
sult for nine years—this particular table
for some reason (possibly because the page
was full) going back no further:—
Nine Years’ Population Record of N.S.W.
Increase.
The Metropolis .. .. , . . . 276,203
Rest of Cumberland County .. .. 16,214
Total for Cumberland County .. 292,417
Hunter-Manning (the Coalfields) . . 51,963
Riverina ~ . . . . . . . . 12,502
North Coast .. . . . . .. 18,613
Central Tableland .. .. ~ 9,836
South Coast ~ . ... .. 8,466
South-West Slope .. . . . . 6,877
Central-Western Slope -. • • • • 2.721
Southern Tableland - . , . . .’ 2,100
North-Central Plain .■ .. 435
Decrease.
Northern Tableland . . • • . . 435
Central Plain . . . . • • ■ . 598
North-Western Slope .» . • • 3,172
Western Division (incorporated and wild') 10.366
That gigantic pauper, Yanco, helps out
Riverina. These miserable results were pro-
duced by the expenditure, in that brief
period, of as much loan and revenue money
on '‘development” as in 30 previous years, or
thereabouts. Of course the Congestion curse
had been invented long before. Now it is likely
to further accelerate, unless an honest states-
man takes the matter in hand, for the building
of ruinous railways to “absorb tlie unemployed”
and “develop the country” has created such
losses, and the losses have forced up charges
so high, that a time seems coming when the
squatter won’t be able to afford to squat
much further from the octopus city than
Penrith, and the wilderness will begin there.
The depopulation is done of set purpose, and
is the outcome of a conspiracy peculiar to
Australia and to be found more or less _in
all the States. The remedy for a condition
of things which every party hack deplores
(with his tongue in his cheek) is so obvious
that it is almost universally known outside
mental hospitals. Anyone who studies the
maps and a few simple records of England,
Scotland, France, Italy, the United States,
or a dozen other counti-ies, can see why it is
only in Australia that the typical metropolis
has swallowed half the population and is
swallowing the rest. In other lands the plain
business instinct is to connect anv port that
has possibilities by rail with its hinterland;
to give it local port government; to charge
by distance on the railways so that the show
may have a chance ; and then to let affairs
adjust themselves. If Glasgow, Naples,
Milan, Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Zurich, Basel
or Auckland chooses to eclipse the national
capital, or if, as in the United States, 13
cities do so and almost all the State capitals
are quite in the shade, it is the business of
no devastating fool to depress tbe upstart
town with differential railway rates and haul
it back to a rear position at the back of
Molochopolis. Australia will secure a new
lease of prosperity when it ceases to be the
one outstanding Congestion crank in a fairly
sane world. At present its lease in this
respect seems to be running out.
THE TRAGEDY OF JONES.
Jones Had no genealogy: lie was merely
Australian. Unlike tliose pillars of agricul-
tural empire, now being expensively imported
from the East End of London, the Cymric
father of Jones paid his own passage to Mel-
bourne, and might have made a fortune as a
market-gardener but for an accident. He
died when the Jones of this story was 14.
Until he reached his 29th year, young Jones
worked on a farm in Gippsland. His hours
were from jackass to jackass, and any other
old time between midnight and morning, lie
never received the basic wage; had pro-
bably never heard of it. From an unthink-
ably early age he had been animated by
a desire to go on the land. To smoke a fag
leaning against a Bourke-street lamp-post and
grow rich by picking doubles was beyond
his capacity, but he felt within his Celtic
soul that he teas capable of growing cab-
bages, and Victoria’s future at that period
seemed largely interwoven with cab-
bages. By going without cigarettes, Sunday
shirts, beer and feminine society for 15 years
he amassed £l5O. He bade his latest em-
ployer a respectful farewell, and, fortified
by local experience, his savings-bank book
and personal visions of penniless pioneers
who had become rich enough to own Rolls-
Royces, he presented himself at the door of
the Department for the Deportation of Vic-
torian Primary Producers at 10 a.m. one
morning in September.
The dew was on the lotus in the artificial
lake, and the Treasury Gardens gleamed in
respectable, restrained greenness, just under-
neath the window of the Inquest Room.
Standing, for long rhythmic periods on either
foot at the counter, Jones waited patiently
until an aristocrat in gold teeth and a shabby
office coat moved haughtily in his direction.
The air of this approaching overlord of Red
Tapes was so menacing that Jones instinc-
tively clutched his savings-bank book. In
order to inspire the supplicant with suffi-
cient humility, the overlord put acid scorn
into the demand, “Whatcherwant?” After
several inquiries of the sort it was made
manifest by our stammering yeoman that he
desired to “take up” a living area in Gipps-
land East. An official with a face like a
horse neighed from an adjoining stall to
attract the overlord’s attention. The over-
lord, the horse-faced person and a tubby
clerk from an inner room then held a con-
sultation. The fat clerk watched Jones
fiercely while they talked.
And all the time this consultation went
on, mayluip half-an-hour, Jones felt more
and more like a fugitive from justice, and
less and less like a pioneer in embryo. By
and bye the fat clerk detached himself and
waddled towards Jones in a truculent way.
Throwing suspicion, opposition and the pri-
vilege of kings into his demand, he asked
in the voice of the Holy Office, “Watcher-
-want?” Again Jones answered “Land.” The
outposts retired and took counsel with the
main body of official forces entrenched be-
hind glossy furniture. After a period, which
brought the luncheon hour within appreci-
able distance, a white-whiskered clerk, who
seemed to be the father of the family, floated,
pontifieally, towards Jones. That absurd
person stood divided between an instinct to
kneel down and a temptation to. flee, before
some incurable curse descended upon him.
Blending majesty with sacerdotal iciness,
the hierarch of that particular _ bastion
allowed himself to utter the cabalistic for-
mula: “What do you want?” Jones took
off his hat. He said quickly and in a whining
voice, like a dog asking to be let off the
chain, that he had thought of taking up
land in Gippsland. He had a hundred
and fifty pounds saved up, he iocs a native
of the country, his people were honest but
poor; he had lived hard all his.life: he be-
longed to a Rechabite Tent, Blue 9, No. 4567
—was of a marrying disposition, fond of
children, and prepared to work and wait; he
trusted they would not be too hard on him.
The heptarch in whiskers urged him to keep
calm. The overlord with gold teeth begged
him not to be too precipitate. The fat clerk
shook his head more in asthmatic sorrow
than in sympathy, and the horse-faced official
neighed in a deprecatory way. They then
passed the victim on to a cubicle hung with
maps. Here he was instructed to purchase
a map- After separating himself from the
necessary shilling lie was commanded to
mark on the map in red ink the locality


wherein he proposed to be allowed to apply
for an area of Crown lands.
Now, Jones had inside information from
a “bloke” who had shared the last farmer’s
bread and barn with him. He knew the
country between Mount Pilatus and the
Washlet where the good flats were. Jones
marked a spot on the map. A beetle-browed
inquisitor snatched the map from him and
scowlingly handed it to a lady-like young
man, who received it as the Lord Mayor
might accept a petition from the Operative
sanitary staff. Passing an embossed hand-
kerchief laden with French perfume over the
front and back of his head, the lady-like clerk
handed it on to a junior with an unwashed
heck Who compared it with a large office
map, marked in gaudy colors. The junior,
after a casual glance, rolled up Jones’s map
and said, “Poirple.” The lady-like gentle-
man accepted the scroll, and, passing it on
to the beetle-browed keeper of the seals,
observed, “Per-ple.” The beetle-browed per-
son pushed the map at Jones’s breast and
roared “Por-ple.” Jones recoiled like a
villein receiving admonition in the stomach
from the butt-end of his master’s lance.
Moistening his mouth wretchedly he pleaded
for mercy and enlightenment. Someone con-
descended to inform him that the purple
patches on the map indicated forest reserves,
and “were not available for selection.” He
did not know that —in order, presumably, to
keep settlement out—large areas had been
reserved for forests, and larger areas merely
marked off on the map which, from a com-
mercial point of view, were about as acces-
sible and valuable as timber along the canals
of Mars.
But Jones was of Welsh descent, a Celt—
tenacious, tearful, voluble. He explained
that his capital was strictly limited, that
lie could never afford to acquire an estate
by private purchase, and that his one and
only chance of becoming a landed proprietor,
as his ambition craved, was by taking up
Crown lands of the third-class under the
Victorian Selection Purchase Lease system.
Under this system, theoretically, any would-
be settler might acquire not more than 640
acres at 10s. an acre, payment by annual
instalments, extended over 40 years, plus
survey fees, shire rates aud improvements—
ecpial to 10s. an acre, to be effected within
six years of occupancy. In theory, nearly
all Gippsland was available. Feeble-minded
politicians came and went about the depart-
ments. They made low, buzzing noises like
blowflies around a safe. Officials crossed
dim corridors like inquisitors passing from
dungeon to dungeon, paying organised atten-
tion to prisoners. A self-important deputa-
tion now and then filed respectfully through
a Ministerial doorway; anxious-looking lay-
men waited outside other doorways, restless
but reverent. Jones, resting himself by
changing his feet, kept on explaining. He
was a simple bucolic creature with
a fist like a ham, capable of living on boiled
maize and smoked wombat if he had to, and
this was his first encounter with the’Cap-
tains of Red Tape. They had generations of
experience to assist them in the Art of
Obstruction. Jones had only a head of
bone and an hereditary nose for a bit of
good soil. Given the chance he had lived for
Jones would have gone with a calm, serene
soul into the uttermost wilds of Victoria,
and after dull years of privation and effort,
cleared perhaps 50 acres of swamp land,
’rung another 100 acres; married, bred as
many as 12 or 14 lean, tall, hard, lanky sons
with muscles of super-refined steel and eyes
like hawks. And every one of those 24 hawk-
like eyes looking along rifle-barrels would
have helped Australia in her hour of need.
The hour that must strike someday, may-
hap before the hand that guides this pen has
been added to the fleshless dust of a hundred
thousand years of men. Perchance post-
poned for 50 further years of Time, but
inevitable as the movements of the stars....
Let us get along with the sickly story of
Jones, the tragedy that precedes tragedy.
....At 1 p.m. that day the horde of non-
productives who constitute what is known
as a Department went out in twos and
threes and twenties to feed, according to the
promotion which long years of uselessness had
brought them. Jones had been informed by
the last Obstructor he interviewed that Mr.
Flicker, the Symposiarch of Rolls for the
Nth Division, would “see him after
lunch.” At 2 p.m. he was waiting outside
the door of the Symposiarch. At 3 p.m.
the Symposiarch, who had spent the inter-
vening hour nibbling the handle of a pen
and drawing nothing in particular on his
blotting-pad, informed a shabby person in
a faded blue suit with tarnished brass but-
tons that “he would see Mr. Jones now.”
The shabby person occupied an alcove adja-
cent to the sanctuary of Flicker, and was
some sort of janitor or outer guard to that
person and several other important persons
along that particular alleyway. Jones
gulped, pulled himself together and entered
the presence. Flicker was a sly little man
with a bad mouth and a bristling moustache.
For some reason—which will probably be
made clear at the Greek Kalends — Flicker’s
self-constituted (or deputed) function in
life was to kill applications.
Some he murdered by a slow, cautious
process.
Some he threw into the waste-paper
basket.
Some he impaled on files.
Some he fought with the tenacity of a bull-
dog retaining a bone.
Some he destroyed by diplomacy.
Some he crushed by playing the alleged
interests of one department against the
alleged interests of another —the nether mill-
stone and the upper.
Some he atrophied by effluxion of time.
Some he asphyxiated in the lethal cham-
bers of departmental regulation.
The majority he strangled secretly, with
cords of red-tape.
Others he suffered to proceed. But that
is another story
Flicker surveyed the respectful Jones
with the calm eye of experience. He
allowed Jones to fill in the time between
3 and 5 p.m. with a personal narrative ex-
tending from the moment his Welsh progeni-
tor passed over the gangway by Yarra
Bank, down to the time this heir to every-
thing-in-general had resolved to apply for
land. There were no other supplicants with
wnom to while away the afternoon. At 4.30
he kicked a chair towards .Tones and ordered
him to sit down. At 4.55, glancing at the
clock, he turned on the hero of this episode
and, speaking with calmness, deliberation
and authority, informed him that unfor-
tunately all the Crown lands of that par-
ticular region had been marked purple.
“But”- Jones began.
“ML Jones*” said the Great Symposiarch,
rising from his swivel chair and reaching
for his outdoor coat, “I am sorry. I recog-
nise that in you Victoria has one of those fine
pioneers who have made our litle garden
State what she is to-day, the last —I mean
first —in the Federal race, but unfortunately
the Forests Commission and the Minister for
Forests are opposed to the alienation of any
further Crown lands in this particular divi-
sion. Although, as your advisers may per-
haps inform you, the lands colored purple are
as yet only earmarked, as it were, by the
Department of Forests, the Lands Department
in this instance is powerless, powerless, Mr.
Jones, absolutely powerless” Flicker
was watching Jones under his eye. He
saw that the decrepit wretch before him was
a “shot bird.” He paused, pulled down the
lapels of his outdoor coat, pulled his hat
firmly over his forehead, and then, in an out-
burst of sympathy and understanding, fellow-
feeling, good old human nature, and the in-
herited right of the Mighty to patronise the
Mean, he put out one hand to Jones, and,
with another hand on his shoulder, led him
kindly, gently, to the door.
E. J. BRADY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Irish Mystery,
The troubled isle of -Brin secured a compara-
tively calm and lucid interval in which to
hold the Free State elections, and the inter-
esting verdict is that Ireland doesn’t want
any republic after all —not at present, any-
how. The republican party secured very
few seats, and would probably have secured
less than it did save for the fact that the
truculent De Valera was allowed to have
a number of constituencies without opposition
on condition that he kept his gunmen from
wrecking the elections. The comparative ease
with which the gunmen were then called off is
almost sufficient constructive evidence as to
the identity of the parties who sooled them
on previously to justify a conviction in itself.
Probably the Collins-De Valera treaty
would never have been entered into but for
the fact that the latter had become so
afflicted with swelled head that he imagined
a republican majority to be possible. As it
is, the question arises whether Ireland, as a
whole, wanted a republic any more four years
ago, when it returned an overwhelming
republican majority, than it did last week,
when Sinn Fein was turned into mockery
and derision, and its leaders were, to a
great extent, left at the bottom of the poll.
The theory, in 1918, was that Ireland, mad-
dened by getting the land back from the
old monopolists and driven to the last ex-
treme of fury by the* loan of f 100.000.000
from the oppressor at almost invisible in-
terest to set its small independent farmers
on the road to prosperity and happiness,
had resolved to do or perish. The other
theory is that a great wave of enthusiasm
can often be manufactured if a loud-voiced
army—an army which may be the merest
handful, but which keeps underground where
it can’t be counted-—-passes the word that
in districts where the popular decision isn’t
satisfactory, the increase in the death-rate
will be huge. Such a handful furnished
Jeff Davis’s conquered Confederacy with
a sturdy Democratic opinion which, after
half-a-century, is still good, sound and as
spontaneous as ever. People don’t even
grumble at coercion when no one knows,
when two are gathered together, whether the
other is a safe person to grumble to. The
election even raises the question whether the
old and comparatively mild Plome Rule
movement, which preceded the Sinn Fein up-
heaval, hadn’t been greatly weakened by the
recovery of the soil from the old land-owners
and the brutal insult of the £100,000,000
loan —whether it hadn’t become something
of a compulsory emotion, which many enter-
tained because it was unsafe to be without
it, just as it is unsafe to be at large by
daylight without clothes. In other words,
some doubt may have arisen as to the policy
of breaking too extensively with a tyrant
who had £100,000,000 loans to throw around.
Anyhow, the Free State campaign, which
was to be a pitched and exclusive scrim-
mage between Treatyites and anti-Treaty-
ites, proved nothing of the sort. A Labor
party, on friendly terms w'th Saxon Labor-
ites across the sea, butted in on a small
scale, putting its programme first and mak-
ing the Home Rule-Independence issue a
secondary matter. It met with such suc-
cess that it probably wishes it had displayed
a full hand of candidates, and tried to cap-
ture the Legislature on its side issue.
Whether business will now start peacefully,
or whether the infuriated gun-bearing hand-
ful wall attempt to deprive the Treatyites
of a quorum by shooting their members, will
be seen in due time. The kidnapp’ng of
political agents during the electoral cam-
paign and the seizure of some Dublin bal-
lot-boxes bv General Rory O’Connor and
a brigandish crowd of 12 apostles are not
promising events. Whatever happens the
situation is a trifle ridiculous for robustious
Australian “rebels” of the Mannix and
O’Reilly type. To rebel on behalf of a
place which refuses to rebel for itself might
almost be described as taking a liberty.
« .. „
Where Silence Is a Crime.
The Great War taught the world the uses of
propaganda. In these days of cheap news-
papers and enormous numbers of literates
(meaning those who are able to read, with-
out undue effort, the offerings of the cheap
papers), it is axiomatic that no change of
importance can be effected without propa-
ganda. With it a sovereign people may be
stampeded into supporting policies as fraudu-
lent as prohibition or sectarianism, as sen-
sible as liquor reform and religious toler-
ance. Those who have best reason to know
the power of propaganda—namely, the poli-
ticians and newspaper proprietors and editors
who live by it —are also aware of the
ravages of venereal disease in Australia.
The medical profession never wearies of the
struggle to get the politicians to speak and
legislate, and the newspapers to write on the
subject. Ministers. Federal and State, and
editors from one end of Australia to the
other, have been told by eminent doctors who
have all to lose, in a financial sense, from the
diminution of Y.D., that at present, between
8 and 10 per cent, of the adult population of
the Commonwealth suffer from it in one form
and another (only 2.5 to 3 per cent, of the
A.I.F. were so afflicted, even in Egypt) ; that
75 per cent, of all major operations per-
formed on perfectly virtuous women may be
traced to it; that it is crippling and blind-
ing thousands of innocent children every
year; that in lunacy, crime and lessened out-
put it is costing the nation as much as a
war. The politicians and pressmen listen,
more or less civilly, shudder violently, and
do nothing. Their shudders are inspired by
the mere thought of grappling publicly with
anything so unsuitable for discussion at one
of those suburban “evenings” where mayors,
aye, even K.B.E.’s and their ladies, occasion-
ally mingle in the throne. In more culti-
vated. less provincial parts of the world —
notably England, '-be U.S. and France-
many of the first-rate men and women
(writers, scientists, statesmen, women
teachers and university professors) have
formed associations to bring about the
overthrow of Y.D. Such conservative
dailies as the London Times and Morning
Post have opened their columns to these
reformers, and have helped with leading
articles. Dr. Mary Booth, speaking before
the Sydney United Block Associations the
other night, remarked that even an English
paper for women— The Ladies’ Home
Journal— had tackled this most urgent of
women’s problems to some purpose. But
the vast majority of our Australian papers
have yet to attain that stage of enlighten-
ment. They cater for a class of reader who
can stomach any number of obscene jokes off
the stage or off it without a, qualm, but, who
is affronted in every, fibre or his Home Prin-
ciples by the ventilation of certain wholes
some truths about Y.D. As for otir poli-
ticians, their activities are governed almost
entirely in regard to any given move by a
consideration of the number of votes it repre-
sents. The campaign against Y.D., besides
being unsuitable for discussion in any of
those genteel circles whose recurring Odyssey
is the latest outrage or murder, is Useless for
vote-catching purposes. In fact, it is a vdte-
loser, the tremendous extent of the Y.D, vote
being obvious to anyone capable of doing, a
sum in simple proportion. Theologists claim
that sins of omission may be as flagitious as
sins of commission. If this is so, ah ihfim
ential section in present-day Australia should
be given a particularly warm reservation in
Hades on Judgment Day—say in the fieigiv
borhood of the position allotted to HeRoP.
Plain Truths about the Territory.
A woman’s letter from a maligned region:
Where do the southern politicians get their mis-
information from regarding the N.T. ? Bar well, of
South Australia, asks for colored labor. Another
legislator says that the Territory is a living hell for
white women and children, since they are never
strong or robust. Yet here is what Knibbs
says, in his 1920 volume (no other avail-
able) : In the seven years 1913-1919 there were
525 births in the N. Territory. During that period
only 67 women died. Male deaths were 520, but
the males outnumbered the females by nearly four
to one. Compare the crude birth-rates per 1000 of
mean population:—
Common- Common-
N.T. wealth. N.T. -wealth.
1913.. 14.21 28.25 | 1917.. 13.92 26.51
1914.. 15.46 28.05 1918.. 21.03 25.25
1915.. 13.85 27.25 1919.. 22.05 23.78
1916.. 15.26 26.78 j
These were the rates of infantile mortality (under
one year) per 1000 births registered:—
Common- Common-
N.T. wealth* N.T. wealth.
1913.. 115.38 72.21 | 1917.. 43.48 55.91
1914.. 51.72 71.47 1918.. 28.57 58.57
1915.. 65.57 67.52 I 1919.. 66.04 69.21
1916.. 40.54 70.33 I
Of the 525 babies born in the N.T. during those
seven years only 29 died before their first 12-
month. The infantile death-rate for Darwin per 1000
births is 55.24, which is lower than those for
Sydney (69.66), Brisbane (75.10), Adelaide (72.19),
Melbourne (77.46), Perth (71.85) or Hobart 81.82.
In 1919' the crude death-rates in the N.T. were:
Males 22.23, females 2.68; the Commonwealth;
Males 14.66, females 10.98. As matters stand the
Territory is better fitted for white women to live
in than any other part of the Commonwealth. It
has a high birth-rate, and a low infantile and female
death-rate.
But, in a sense, the Jacks-in-office are making the
land a hell on earth for white women. They are
doing all they can to force out the white folks who
want to make homes here. All citrus trees have
been destroyed, whether healthy or diseased, in
order to stamp out citrus canker. The export of all
fruits and vegetables has been prohibited, though
the local market cannot consume one-tenth of what
is locally grown, so that settlers have now to see
their produce rotting for want of buyers. The
export of peanuts is prohibited, hulled or in the
shell. Settlers are advised to plant cotton, but its
exportation may also be prohibited. No seeds and no
plants may be sent away for fear of citrus canker.
Broom millet, equal to any that has ever been
grown elsewhere, has been cultivated, but it also is
under an embargo. All this produce is grown by
white labor; but sandalwood, which is mainly in
Chinese hands, is exported freely. Moreover, although
the export of fruits, vegetables, seeds and plants
is forbidden on account of the citrus canker, men who
have worked among cankered trees are permitted
to travel without let or hindrance) fumigation or
quarantine!
Meanwhile, men want work, but none is available.
Rations are grudgingly provided, but they are
advised to take advantage of the Government’s offer
and accept free passes out of the Territory. Women,
too, But we don’t want to go. We won’t go! Oiir
homes are here; we have borne children here; wC
want to make the Territory a country for white
men, white women and white children. We want
to stay. We want the railway, a straight line —not
a shabby subterfuge—free choice of markets for
our goods, decent educational facilities for Our
children; we want, in short, a square deal. That is
all we ask of Australia, and we have a right to
ask it. We are proud of the homes we have made
in this lonely outpost; Must we quit them ?
The Fund that Sank*
Weeping retrospectively as usual into the
jug that the spilt milk formerly occupied, the
Treasurer notes that N. 8. Wales has
£55,000,000 of debt which must be repaid
within about years, and £409,088 has, by
dazzling hindsight, been saved up to meet
the case. It is mostly 3 and 3-J per cent,
debt, and the renewal, if it is effected at 5}
to 54 per cent., which is a lucky figure nowa-
days, will add over a million a year to the
State’s expenditure, with nothing to show
for it save a gnawing rage at the folly of
the past. It would be necessary to increase
the income-tax and super-tax by one-quarter
to pay for the loss on this one little flutter
alone, and other flutters lie ahead. The
loans are old affairs on an average, and with
a sinking fund of 14 per cent, attached to
each at birth they would have been in a
position now to pay themselves off. Thus,
about 21 years hence N. S. Wales would be
able to look back and say that nearly one-
third of its debt had vanished; that it had
paid itself off; and that it had obliterated
itself for ever at less than one-third the
price that will now have to be paid for keep-
ing the old misery on the premises. An
annual contribution of about 5 per cent,
started then would have wiped off interest
and principal. It may now take an annual
and eternal contribution of more than that
to pay interest alone. It was in the Parkes
days that this particular bill had its begin-
nings. “There were giants in those days,”
and very bankrupt colossi some of them
were. The easy-going cackle of the giants,
whenever a sinking fund was mentioned, was
about the folly of laying up money to pay
old debts while the Public Works policy was
still incomplete ( they all talked as" if it
would be complete some day, after which no
one would drive another public nail or spike
till Judgment. Day) and while new loans
were constantly being incurred. The press,
almost all Freetrade and fat and complacent
and supercilious and devoted to explaining
how much better N. S. Wales was than Vic-
toria, followed suit. So the bill for direct
State taxation was about 7s. per head per
annum where it is now 705., and it was
agreed all round that “progress” was a good
thing to have about the house. Now, when
the community is being squeezed remorse-
lessly on unprovided-for old loans, and simul-
taneously on new loans that it lacks courage
to do without, it realises that the reputed
monsters of other days were really dwarfs —
a depressing discovery which is not unusual
in other than political circles. They in-
vented both the new loan and the blessed
faith in Providence as a safeguard for the
old one, and there was no foresight in them.
And while the Old Dwarfs let things slide
because it was too soon and superflu-
ous, the New Dwarfs do the same
because it is too late and hopeless. Of
course, every Australian State has a sink-
ing fund. But the Westralian fund, which
equals all the others put together, was, at
June, 3921, equal to £l5 11s. Bd. per cent,
(in the hands of trustees) on the whole
debt, and despite outrageous new borrowing
the provision against monstrous squeezing
on l-enewal day has resulted in the least-
promising and most indebted (per head) of
all the States paying far the lowest l’ate of
interest (£4 Is. sd. per cent, all l-ound).
And N. S. Wales has the most ludicrous
apology for a sinking fund (ss. per cent., or
a book entry to that effect, on its total debt),
so it paid £4 Bs. 6d. per cent, interest; also
it is known that the next accounts will show
it in a vastly worse light. If N. S. Wales
“statesmen” don’t face this situation now
and start making some provision for it in
advance, even at heavy cost, they will later
find themselves in the familiar position of
taking a back view of it at much heavier
cost.
The Church in Papua.
Ever since the Commonwealth Govern-
ment besran to mismanage Papuan affairs
from Melboui-ne the missionary bodies
have been battling for equal l'epresentation
of the Papuan natives on the Legislative
Council. They returned to the charge at
the recent quarterly meeting of the Austra-
lian Board of Missions. According to a
S. M. Herald report:—
The Board decided to support the efforts of the
United Missionary Council to secure equal represen-
Disillusioned.
“He had been sadly disappointed and disillusioned
when he had seen men come irito the House under
the influence of drink to insult and abuse other
members.”—W. P. Skelton, M.L.A at Newcastle.
He thought, it seems, his country’s legislators
Were wisdom’s cream and intellect’s elite |
He found uncouth galoots, all gas ana
gaiters,
Toughs whom no decent chap Would care
to meet—
So far are they removed from “clean pef-
taters’’—
Rising to palpably unsteady feet
To belch at one another such invective
As bullockies and gangers deem effective.
He looked to meet men full of learning
coded,
Incisive logic, sparkling rhetoric;
He found that singularly few were loaded
With anythiug less tangible than shick.
Most of the verbal crackers that exploded
Were prefaced or concluded with a “hie.”
For every rep. of broadcloth or of bluey
There seemed a brace who stood for Tooth
or Toohey.
He hoped to hear suave members dub their
fellows
“Learned” or “gallant friends,” as. use
allows;
He visualised a House and Speaker jealous
No stigma to incur of pothouse rows,
But when his ears were stunned by beery
bellows,
Fierce innuendos about crimson cows
And other items of Assembly sessions,
Doubtless he jettisoned those false impres-
sions.
Sore shocked he heard the venomed gibe
and cankered
Tossed to and fro with snort and howl
and stamp.
The least opprobious epithet was “blankard,”
The mildest term for any act a “ramp.”
Remarks galore smacked of the daytime
tankard.
But mighty few smelled of the midnight
lamp;
Whence sheer disgust lies like a dripping
pelt on
The disillusioned soul of Mister Skelton.
How could he know —what now too late he
savvies—
That where our ninety kings compound
the laws.
Drunks are not noticeably rarce aves
And. interspersed with laughter and
applause.
Are flowers of diction such as sozzled navvies
Hurl at each other from pugnacious jaw's?
How could he know? That question might
be answered
By asking why he never studied Hansard.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Tfe Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
tpfior. of the. natives of Papua in the Leg. Council.
The Government proposes that the white settlers
should have more representatives proportionately than
the natives, which the Board considers unfair. No
definite proposals were made by the Board as to
the mode of appointment of the representatives of
the natives.-
Now the natives are already represented on
the Leg. Council by several fiovernment offi-
cials. commencing with the Governor. On
top of that, Brown Brother has the mission-
ary nominees on the Council holding a brief
in h.is favor, the remaining members being
representatives of Papuan mining, trading,
planting and commercial interests. Not
even the most enthusiastic of missionaries
would advocate that Papuans should be
elected or nominated by the Papuans them-
selves. The Papuan is incapable of cohesive
effort or coherent thought. The vast native
community is split up into hundreds of little
communities, speaking hundreds of little lan-
guages, and before the arrival of Pax
Britannica they were unceasingly at war.
Such people are manifestly impossible
on any legislative body, and no one
knows this better than the mission-
aries. That is why “no definite proposals
were made by the Board as to the mode of
appointment of the representatives of the
natives.”-. But at previous conferences on
the subject such proposals have been made.
They are that the missionary should be
constituted the representative of the
natives, sufficient of him being returned
to the Council to prevent the white
settlers having “more representation pro-
portionately to the natives.” What methods
would be employed to induce the guileless
savage to select his ecclesiastical representa-
tive may be left to the imagination of any-
one who knows the way of a missionary with
his flock. This is said in no spirit of dis-
paragement of the much that is good in
missionary work in Papua, but by way of
protest against the intrusion of the Church
—any Church—into politics anywhere.
The missionaries will have their ow r n
representatives on the Council; to these will
be joined, if their dream comes true, a
much larger number of missionaries, repre-
sentatives of the natives, and of their mis-
sions above all. In other years Macgregor
found it necessary to curb mission ambitions
with a drastic hand. The good he did lived
after him, only to be frittered gradually
away by his successors. The white settler
has always had a hard time in Papua com-
pared with the lot of his competitors 'in
those lands where the coolies are regarded
ns money-making machines and little else.
But if the new Leg. Council is built accord-
ing to the plans and specifications of the
missionaries, he is going to be made to feel
that the bad old times were pleasurable by
comparison.
•
The Broad and the Narrow.
A defence of the broad-gauge railway from
a narrow-gauge State :
Everybody seems to think that the 3ft. 6in. gauge
is cheap. Why ? The initial cost of a line is deter-
mined by (1) the nature of the country, (2) speed,
(3) the adopted axle-load of the locomotives. The
only place in which the narrow gauge might be con-
sidered to show ifp to advantage is in range country.
There the first cost of the 3ft. 6in. will be less, pro-
vided that five-chain radius curves are adopted. In
other words, the flexibility will lessen cuts and fills.
But such curves always mean heavy grades, and, pre-
suming that 1 in 50 was adopted as a ruling grade,
to enable the engine to pull as much on a five-chain
curve as on the straight, the grade would have to
be dropped to 1 in 75; a 50 per cent, increase in
length. I have actually seen cases in location where
it was Shorter to put in the big curve.
The problem of railway location over a range
nearly always resolves itself into getting over a
saddle and on to undulations again. To climb to a
height of 700 feet using five-chain curves would need
at least 795 chains of platelaying. Using 15-chain
curves the same height can he reached in 600 chains,
an apparent saving of nearly three miles. Both of
these figures are for a rising grade of 1 in 50. It
now becomes a question whether it is cheaper to
build an extra three miles of line with lesser earth-
works and have a road limited to 20 miles an hour, or
to cut and fill heavier and have a road good enough
for 25 miles an. hour. I have set 25 miles as the
limit, for on such a grade there is a big chance of the
trains getting away. In level country 15-ehain radius
curves, even reversed, will stand a speed of 35 to 40
miles an hour, more especially if the curves are of
the transition nature. In Queensland, at any rate,
the answer is always in favor of the big curve, and
rightly, too. Lesser running expenses and smaller
maintenance renewals are the result. Of course
shunting and marshalling yards can he shortened up
a bit.
Apart from power, speed is limited by ballast,
spacing of sleepers and weight of rail. The actual
width of the rails does not matter an iota. But in
road maintenance the bigger gauge has the advan-
tage. A sag of a quarter of an inch will produce a
bigger car movement, owing to overhang, on the
smaller gauge, and this simply means that with a
given speed the 3ft. 6in. gauge must be maintained
more carefully, and therefore more expensively than
its big brother. The fact that people can “feel” the
difference when they change at the border is just
that inherent defect of the gauge.
Here the locomotive designer demands attention.
The cheap six-coupled engine (still in use in Eng-
land) has gone from Queensland, and the experi-
mental design for the next engine will have a pair
of trailing wheels Smaller than the coupled wheels
to carry the firebox. A 3ft. Cin. gauge means a
width of 2ft. 9in. maximum for the firebox, and this
on “Maorilander’s" figures (B. 4/5/’22) gives his
engines a firebox length of nearly 12ft. If M.L. has
adopted the trailing wheel design it simply means
that the loco, draughtsman there got up against the
grate-area-piston displacement problem a bit sooner
than we did.
The Victorian railways cost more per mile than
those in Bananaland, but had Victoria been content
with locomotives from CO to SO tons, and average
speeds of 25 miles an hour for its fastest train, they
need have cost very little more than ours. Anyhow,
level crossings, resumptions of land, station-buildings
and accommodation must have run into a great deal
more money in Victoria than in Queensland. Getting
down to brass tacks, I will wager that the 751 b.
road from Brisbane to Ipswich, over which the Sydney
mail is timed to do 37 miles an hour, cost about as
much per yard of roadbed as the ordinary 40-mile-
an-hour 801 b. road of Victoria, and Victoria will
throw in a much more comfortable ride as a make-
weight.
•
“Australia Yet” : “Can-Can’s” suggestion
(B. 16/2/’22), that the Commonwealth Line
should run a service between Sydney,
Itabaul and Asia, and, if practicable, to
England, is good as far as it goes. Improve
it by taking in the British Solomons on the
run, and you have a route made to order —
a continent as each terminal, with ample
THERE'S DEATH IN THE CUP.
freight offering at intermediate ports. Almost
weekly I see a China-bound steamer take a
bearing off Simbo Island, and sw'm lazily off
into the blue again without calling at any
Solomon ports. The copra trade of the
Solomon group is in process of being switched
to the IJ.S.A. American sailers call and
lift'copra which formerly went to Austra-
lia, with the result that Burns, Philp and
Co.’s Australian steamers are running to Syd-
ney with but a fraction of their former freight.
And the co. receives a subsidy annually of
£53,000 p.a. to carry mails to and from the
Commonwealth and provide certain Island
shipping services. By running a service via
the Melanesian groups to some Eastern
entrepot, or England, Australia would (1)
save the £55,000 per annum now paid to a
private co.; (2) give the Americans a run for
the Island trade; (3) provide work for the
idle ships of the Commonwealth Line along
a route with great trading possibilities ; and
(-1) gain friends in a zone where friends are
going to count some day. In the alterna-
tive, a service from the Islands via Sydney,
enabling planters to consign copra to Eng-
land on a through bill-of-lading, with right
of discharge at Sydney should better terms
offer at that port for sale, would be wel-
comed in the Islands. This scheme was used
by the planters in the German possessions
before the war.
“0.K.”: The popularity of women candi-
dates at next Federal election will not be
assisted by the record of Mrs. Cowan, who
represents the Sex in the Westralian Parlia-
ment. Where a woman candidate crops up
voters will probably be reminded by the
other fellow that Mrs. Cowan is in favor of
fixing wages and hours of work for wives,
and is the mother of a silly proposal that
wives should have entree to the Arbitration
Court on the same terms as “the cook, the
housemaid and the washerwoman.” Per-
haps Mrs. Cowan cuts no ice among her
sister,n in general, hut the fact remains
that she did talk well enough to get elected,
and she did propose a minimum wage and
limited hours for wives, as though husbands,
in their domestic capacity, were employers
of conjugal labor, instead of being compelled,
as they are, to put up with any sort of lazy,
thriftless wife who may fall to their re-
spective lot. If the average she-candidate
is as one-eyed and illogical as the Westra-
lienne, the prospect is not bright for a com-
ing reformation of public life by the influ-
ence of lovely woman. On the one hand is
a Mrs. Besant, or a Vida Goldstein,
obejecting to the enslavement of the “weaker
sex,” protesting against the inequality of
men and women, and screaming for the
liberty of all and sundry. On tlie other
hand is Mrs. Cowan, arguing that every
bride willingly vows herself to servitude, and
that respectable married womanhood entitles
her to the protection of Labor laws and the
Arbitration Court. How about oppressed
husbands, who do most of the dirty work
whilst Matilda runs the boarding-house?
Or husbands who take home the office books
at night in order that the -wife and daughters
may have glad rags to their back? No legal
commercialising of marriage could possibly
improve the position of women, for if con-
ditions were made more stringent for men
than they are already, no wise man would
get ,married at all. All of them would wait
for an unconditional surrender of the
avowed enemy. Dame Nature is no stickler
for equality of the sexes.
“San” goes down to the depths:—
A curse seems to rest on the Brisbane sewerage
works. Lying, as a good deal of the city does, not
much above high tide, the tunnel levels are far
below low water at Hamilton, and at Pinkenha, of
course, much more so. The plan is to pump the
effluent into the bay near Luggage Point. The course
was laid for a good deal of the distance almost imme-
diately under the main road from the city to Hamil-
ton, quite close to the river, and it was no great
surprise, to those who saw the black mud coining
up the shafts in buckets, when ominous cracks and
hollows began to show in the roadway near Booroo-
dabin bowling-green, then near the Toombul wharf
and at other places along the road. Deviations had
to be made further away from the river into more
solid ground. Action was taken by a contractor
against the city authorities on the ground that the
data given him to base his estimates on were incor-
rect. A period of general muddle set in. In the
retrospect, it would have been cheaper to cut through
tile solid rock of the hills further from the river.
The country actually pierced was id a great part
river sludge, and therefore quite unable to hold up
the sewer tunnel once it was disturbed, and the
river seepage got through. Costly shafts have had
to be filled up with rubbish where deviations have
been made; how costly they were may be imagined
when it is known that it took four men to handle
and mix a bag of cement. Begun more than seven
years .ago, the scheme has, of course, suffered from
the war disturbance and numerous strikes, and then
came the “skying” of cement. Often that com-
modity was unobtainable. How long it will be
before the Brisbane people are able to dispense with
the pestilent night-patrol no one is bold enough to
prophesy, but there are Jeremiahs who foretell that
the trouble will only begin then, as the outfall is
not far from inhabited spots, and the bay is omi-
nously shallow. Perth tried the experiment of pour-
ing the effluents from its sewerage into a shallow
river, and has repented it ever since. Heaven help
Brisbane if the engineers or engines should ever go
on strike.
•
The following repudiation of warranty
stares at the world from the catalogue of a
firm of Sydney seedsmen: —
CONDITION OF SALE AND NON-WARRANTY.
We believe that the seeds.... sold by us are of
the description and kind specified by us at time of
sale... .but we give no undertaking that such seeds,
etc., will correspond with the description under which
they are sold, and we make all Sales subject to this
condition. We further give no warranty, expressed
or implied, as to their growth, description, quality
or productiveness.... If the purchaser does not accept
the goods sold to him on these terms they are at
once to be returned to us, and any money paid to
us will be refunded.
Leaving flower seeds out of the question, a
word about the “Agricultural Seeds Act” of
N. S. Wales which looks after the buyer of
agricultural and vegetable-garden seeds. Sec-
tion 4 (1) makes it compulsory for seeds-
men to brand the name of the seed either
on the package or on a label attached to
the package, and Section 4 (2) says “such
statement shall constitute a warranty that
the purity and percentage of germination of
the seed are in accordance with this Act and
regulations thereunder.” The seedsmen’s
statement to the effect that “we give no
warranty, expressed or implied, as to their
growth, etc.,” can hardly be reconciled with
Section 5 (d) of the above Act, which runs:
“Any person who sells agricultural seeds,
the percentage of germination of which is
lower than is prescribed, shall be liable to
a penalty not exceeding £5O for the first
offence and not exceeding £lOO for each sub-
sequent offence.” To intimate that sales
will be effected only under these “non-war-
wanty” terms seems to be an attempt to do
business under false pretences.
•
“Bettgglesmith” : A comparison between the
Australian and Swiss Constitutions, as Con-
stitutions, is a familiar exercise. But the
form of government is not everything. On
page 518 of Dicey’s book on Constitutions I
find this :—•
The Swiss system of government is businesslike,
The affairs of the nation are transacted by men of .
capacity, who give effect to the will of the nation.
Contrast Australia ! Our system of govern-
ment is egregiously unbusinesslike. Our
affairs are either not transacted at all, or
hideously mistransacted by men of exemplary
incapacity who give effect to little but their
own love of office. Dicey goes on :■ —-
The most original Swiss conception. .. .is that the
existence of political parties does not necessitate the
adoption of party government.
You might as well tell an Australian poli-
tician or class-conscious voter that cutting a,
man’s throat does not necessitate the letting
of blood. Again :
The members of the Federal Assembly are pretty
constantly re-elected, and it is apparently one of
the most orderly and businesslike of Parliaments.
I was recently puzzled by a section of the
Federal Income Tax Assessment Act, 1916,
and in quest of light I turned up Hansard.
It was an amending Act, and it contained
several important and far-reaching provisions'.
Not one of those received the scantiest men-
tion. Instead, a provision that in'certain
cases an employer might pay his employee’s
tax, and deduct the amount from wages or
salary, drew forth an impassioned (but en-
tirely valueless) harangue on class tyranny
from the Labor side; and after Watt, who
introduced the bill, had sat down, nobody
uttered a single sentence that was in the
least degree ‘useful. Yet the “debate” driv-
elled on for dreary pages, and was adjourned
and re-adjourned, until I got tired of looking
for what I Would obviously never find there.
Apparently they do things better in the land
of watches and condensed milk, and it seems
to me that this is not entirely or even mainly
due to better political machinery. We are
suffering from the disease diagnosed by poli-
tical doctors as “debased public conscience,”
and its symptoms are most obvious in our
Parliaments.


More Half-Hose of Quality
Very Keenly Priced*
So ready was the response, when Peapes offered
these two lines of half-hose some time ago that
repeat orders were at once cabled to the manufac-
turers. These are now to hand, and Peapes can
quote smart clocked Half-Hose in Covert, Black
or Brown at
4/6 pair; 26/- half-dozen.
And plain Black Cashmere Half-Hose of good
quality,
3/9 pair; 21/6 half-dozen.
Both lines are all wool and made in England.
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
&
S*!
V
m
Standard Torpedo Body,
£595 complete.
De Luxe Torpedo Body,
£620 complete.
An Exceptionally Interesting Car
Bristling with Novel Features.
WHAT THE ENGLISH “MOTOR” SAID:
“Few Continental cars have attracted so
much attention as the Model 501 10-15 h.p.
FIAT, which was introduced two years ago.
"The demand for it has been phenomenal,
which is not surprising, for the whole car
bristles with interesting points, features that
appeal alike to the owner-driver and to the
expert who revels in getting the best possible
out of a car.”
We are pleased to announce that we can give immediate delivery of both tlie
Standard and De Luxe types in beautiful colorings, which appeal to the most
discriminating.
GARRATTS LIMITED,
173-75 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
.ALICK McNEIL, General Manager.
'Phones: City 682-3-1,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Some sanguine papers consider the result
-of the Irish election as showing that the
Free State Government could have carried
every seat if it hadn’t made a bad bargain
with De Valera to let his republicans return
so many members. On the other hand,_ it
might have been carried out a corpse like
Field-Marshal Wilson, and the gunmen or
Ku-Klux-Klan might have stopped the elec-
tion, and then the republicans might still
be able to pose as the majority they said
they were but aren’t.
The High Court struck a blow at one kind
-of free speech when it ordered A.W.U. offi-
cials to desist from advising employees to
disobey awards. That puts them in the
same category as the free-spoken person who
advises the street rowdy to show his con-
. tempt for the law by resisting arrest, and
.booting the constabulary. This. idea may
vet extend to job-controllers on ships, and to
who incite to a breach of all the
statutes at once in the name of revolution.
It was disconcerting for Hughes to return
to Victoria, after a comparatively placid tour
of the other States, and run into a drum-fire
of decayed vegetables from members of his
own party. Naturally Billy was very angry.
He always is on these occasions. Hughes
has a weakness for tumultuous depreciation
of his opponents. The very excess of his
-contempt, whether he is alluding to Earle
Page or a disaffected follower like Bob Best,
shows that he regards their references to
him as lese-niajestti. If the Pnminister
could only cultivate the same habit of
reticence towards political enemies that he
has developed with regal'd to Government
undertakings, his position would be stronger
than it is.
Jens August Jensen, who left the Hughes
Government (or the Hughes Government
left him) in 1918, and lost his seat next
year, is back in the Speck Assembly as
Independent member for Bass. He will be
the only Independent in the House, Darwin
having sent Whitsitt about his business, but
the balance between the Nationalists and
the Laborites—l2 apiece—will be held by
five Cockies. Jensen was an M.L.A. —-first
for George Town and then for Wilmot—-
from 1903 till 1910, in which year he went
to Melbourne as M.H.R. for Bass. He held
office in the 1909 Labor Ministry, which
lasted seven days.
The rumor that Queensland’s Theodore in-
tends curtailing Parliamentary salaries in
imitation of the Ma State’s Fuller is, hap-
pily, unfounded. Heroic measures of that kind
are reserved for capitalistic politicians like the
late Philp. In a time much less threatening
and oppressive than the present, Philp cut
down his own screw and those of fiis Min-
isters by 15 per cent., a proceeding ‘that
stamped him and his crowd as boodlers and
exploiters of oppressed wage-plugs rightly
struggling to be free. At least, so Labor
cried out in those days.
Clapp, Chief Vic. Railway Commissioner,
will have only a slight deficit on June 30.
By deferring a few items of expenditure in
the manner of State Treasurers, he could
show a surplus, but recognising how up-
hill a climb he would have next year he is
paying every thing that is legitimately due.
The production of a surplus, anyhow, would
mean a demand for a reduction of freights,
and the margin is insufficient to permit of
that at present. More particularly as both
Houses are disinclined to increase direct
taxation.
“Gallery”: The last session of the eighth
House of Reps, promises to be one of the
liveliest in Federal history. A subject about
which a storm will rage—Parker Moloney
will see to that —is the Kidman and Mayoh
shipbuilding affair. Then there is the “scan-
dal” anent the neglect of medical services
in New Guinea, on which point Norman
Makin is to work himself and others up into
a lather of indignation. Likewise, there is
the possibility of revelations by Dr. Earle
Page. Even Page’s good temper has been
ruffled by Hughes’s derisive comment that the
“dew of death is on the Country party’s brow,”
and if the Doctor' likes to open his mouth
about certain secret negotiations designed to
prolong Hughes’s tenure of the tart-shop,
the uproar will be memorable. Altogether,
Sneaker Johnson and J. M. Chanter, Chair-
man of Committees, will view the dying
House’s last spasm with considerable mis-
giving. Frail and elderly both, they cannot
handle “scenes” without considerable dis-
turbance to their nervous systems.
Scaddan, of Westralia, who was Labor Pre-
mier, Independent Labor candidate. National
Laborite, plain Nationalist and C.P., all in
three or four years, must be meditating
another shift. He has fallen out with his
Cocky associates by authorising, as Minister.
A SUGGESTION.
“It has been decided that the Commonwealth and the States should participate on a share basis in
the making of an Australian display at the British Empire Exhibition to be held in London in 1924.”
a tramway extension to a Perth suburb, to
“absorb the unemployed.” The Agrarians
point out savagely (1) that the said suburb
already has a Government ferry service
(Scaddan himself “nationalised” it, with the
customary result) ; (2) that both Premier
Mitchell and Scaddan undertook not to go
ahead with the extension unless Parliament
so instructed them, and (3) that not a tap
has been done on several country railways
approved of in 1914. Their paper, the
Primary Producer, is furiously assailing the
Government, and there is a danger of their
smashing the coalition, which has ruled
Westralia since 1917, unless Scaddan drops
the tramway scheme, or is himself dropped.
H.. G. Wells once wrote that the rever-
ence of the English Socialists for the Count-
ess of Warwick, when that Pink Peeress
was in the boom, had the obsequious quality
one noticed when Hodge apd Chawbacon
were addressed at the harvest festival by
Squoire. Not very different is the attitude
of the Ma State’s Labor delegates to their
rich Minahans and McGirrs. Minahan was
“expelled” in 1920 for defying the A.L.P.
executive, but being a free-handed Contri-
butor to the party funds he was hurriedly
readmitted, whereas an obscure individual,
guilty of the same offence but guiltless, of
boodie, was disarm'l tied for life. McGirr,
at the recent Sydn. y conference, stigmatised
most of his colleagues in the Storey and
Dooley Ministries as liars and traitors to
Labor. He even stooped to the meanness
of traducing the dead Storey, alleging that
Honest John, had he lived, would have gone
over to the Nationalists and taken his fol-
lowers with him. A committee of the con-
ference examined the allegations and found
them baseless, but no punishment is to be
meted out to the allegator. Punishment is
only inflicted on friendless “comrades” —
suburban aldermen and such —who haven’t a
feather to fly with. McGirr has money.
S.A. Supreme Court has vindicated the
reputation of C. C. Kingston, about whose
handling of his father’s estate unkind things
were said. The suggestion that the one great
S. Aus. statesman had not sustained, or had
induced the trustees not to sustain, the
trusts, was set aside by Judge Parsons as
unfounded. The question of costs in the
long action was held over, but the Judge has
told the claimants who made that sugges-
tion that they will have to pay, the costs.
Livingston, Alf Billson, Beardmore,
Everard, Groves and Deany, of the Vic.
country Liberals, and Allan, Weaver, Dun-
stan, Bowser and Carlisle, of the Cocky
party, had a pow-wow the other afternoon
to see if they couldn’t pull together on some
things, if a formal alliance were not pos-
sible. It must have amused the two old
hands, Livingston and Bowser, to sit back
and watch the amateurs of this new Vic-
torian Eleven trying to play the same old
game. Each side put up a bluff, and then
there was an adjournment for a fortnight, by
which time the Ministry’s sessional pro-
gramme will have been unfolded. If there
is to be any intriguing for a coalition to
make things uncomfortable for Lawson and
co. it will be done i.n the lobbies, and not
by formal conference.
“O. P. Hand”: Vic. politicians are not sur-
prised that Henley has got out of the Fuller
Cabinet. They knew something had to
happen to a Ministry of 13. after their own
experiences in 1920-21. The Cocky party
had 13 members, there were 13 new mem-
bers of the Assembly, and 13 in the
Cabinet, including the two whips. The
Cabinet was reshuffled, and Livingston ulti-
mately went out, the House was dissolved,
and the Hayseeds were reduced from 13 to
12. '* Fuller may thank bis stars nothing
worse than the loss of Henley has happened
to him.
“Sol. M.”: The talented Brooks, of N. S.
Wales Upper House, has explained to Syd-
ney Millions Club that £lOOO a year is
inadequate for a Federal member owing to
“the multitudinous expenses.” If the pay
was made £5OOO a year doubtless the further
multitudinousness of the expenses would
swallow that also. Brooks said it was neces-
sary to pay in order to retain good men—
or else to retain their hangers-on and black-
mailers. The M.L.C. and his fellow-clubbers
might ponder these suggestions. (1) That
pre-selection ballots, which are too costly,
should be made criminal like fan-tan or
selling drink on Sunday, and every pre-
selected person should lose his license. (2)
That no member should live in his own elec-
torate, where he is too handy to habitual
cadgers. (3) That it should be illegal for him
to subscribe to anything, even the Athan-
asian Creed or the Westminster Confession,
or to' anybody, in his electorate while he
represents it. (4) That it should be illegal
for anybody in his electorate to ask him for
anything, even the time, while he represents
it. With these few simple precautions a
member, unless made of lead, should keep
afloat on £lOOO per annum.
“Galleryman’s” explanation :—•
The reason why Anstey was preferred to Brennan
for the deputy-leadership of the Federal Labor party
is not as “Labor Supporter” supposes (B. 22/6/’22).
Anstey enjoys an enormous personal popularity. With
all his jests and mountebankery, he always speaks
with sincerity. Brennan, to my mind, never rings
true. I have heard him on numerous occasions in the
Reps, and in that cool, acidulated speech which he
affects so frequently he has rarely expressed
a sentiment which seemed to come from the
heart. I admit his skill in the invention
of devastating witticisms; recognise the astuteness
with which he discovers points in the Standing Orders
for an unwatchful Government to sit on; but that
he has the earnestness and the high courage associ-
ated with positions of responsibility, I strenuously
deny. The trouble with Brennan is that he has
never suffered the hardships of the common man. His
Laborism carries the stigma of an intellectual radi-
calism which is justly, or unjustly, suspected in tiie
party. His “bourgeois” prosperity—he has a fine
practice—starts questions regarding the real size of
his political feelings, despite the promise of Ids
sounding phrases. Anstey, on the other hand, has
hungered in Britain. He has personally experienced
the brutalities of industrialism. There is no doubt
of his superiority to Brennan in the eyes of his
colleagues and the workers outside. Anstey is one
of them, whereas Brennan actually belongs to what
is called in the best Red circles the “parasitical
class.” That distinction tends to disqualify Brennan,
whatever his merits in other directions.
The secretary of Mount Elliot, one of the
many copper corpses of North Queens-
land, has given the opinion that even
with high wages and low prices the
industry could struggle along but for the
poisonous idea absorbed from mostly im-
ported agitators by the sponge-like Austra-
lian that true liberty lies in doing little,
then in doing less, and, eventually, in doing-
nothing at all. The day-labor system,
which makes the slowest and worst work-
man who can keep his job set the pace;
the anti-apprenticeship craze, which turns
about live young Australians out of seven
into the mere burden-carrying animals from
whom the criminal classes are almost entirely
recruited; and the discovery of loans as a
substitute for work—they have all combined
to make a wonderful change in Australia.
In the year that closed on 30/6/’2l the
States added over £41,000,000 to their debts,
which beat the returns from mining, forestry
and fisheries by about a dozen millions. In
Queensland that year money received was,
in hundreds of thousands: From manufac-
tures (value added to the cost of raw
materials), 157 ; borrowing, 107 ; mining, 30.
So borrowing, which is largely loafing, is to
mining as three to one in the great copper
State. It requires 10 per cent, of metal in
the stone to make a Queensland copper-mine
pay expenses now. and that kind of show
is almost as rare as a brown sun. If agri-
culture was put on the same basis as cop-
per not an ear of wheat would be grown
in the Commonwealth.
Bulgaria, which was reported the other
day to be going Bolsh, has established a modi-
fied conscription of Labor. Every citizen
between the ages of 18 and 45 must give 10
days’ work to the State, the idea being that
bridges, houses and canals may be con-
structed without expense to the Treasury.
It is an expedient that would only be suffered
by a cow-like people—the Bulgar, like the
Russian, has a lot of Oriental fatalism in
his composition. Still it is more honest than
Australia’s fashion of borrowing 10 millions
to build two millions’ worth of railway and
passing on the bill to the baby.
“Pete”: It is the fashion to speak of
Queensland as the one State where the popu-
lation doesn’t crowd into the one big city.
But is this so? Queensland is three times
as big as N.S.W., and nearly eight times
the size of Victoria. Southern Queensland,
a province in itself, contains roughly 450,000
people, and you will find 210,000 of them
in Brisbane and its suburbs. Townsville
and Rockhampton—each the chief town in
what ought to be a distinct State—are vil-
lages compared with Brisbane. But plenty
of State enterprises will congest any city.
Showing more political nous than his pre-
decessor, Gellibrand. Nicholson. Vic. Chief
of Police, is asking the Cabinet to strengthen
the force by instalments. He has induced
Ministers to give him 55 extra Johns, to
authorise a motor patrol in the suburbs, to
crank up the C.I. branch by making
Potter superintendent and giving him a sub-
inspector-assistant, and to appoint more
senior constables. Gradually Nicholson will
get all the Digger General aimed :it. but
he will take a little longer. The £50,00P
Gelli. was after “at once” will be spread
over 21 years.
The Vic. Cold-teaites are angry with Lieut.-
Governor Irvine. Sneaking at a viticuitural
dinner the Iceberg said (1) that he prized
liberty more than temperance; (2) that the
pasteurisation of human nature would never
succeed, and (3) that he hoped Australia
would not submit to prohibition. These re-
marks have infuriated the Pussyfoots, but
they can’t hope to mop up every Chief Jus-
tice. They still have Stout, of Maoriland.
WHOLLY WILLY’S PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The National Government is in office by the grace
of God and a majority of the electors.... Thousands
of people get a living drawing cartoons of me. I
say of my critics and cartoonists —Why did God
make them?” —Recent remarks of Hughes.
O Lord, strike all my critics stiff—
Mean, miserable creatures !
And let cartoonists perish if
They satirise my features!
Guide Thou mine arm whene’er 1 strike
In peace or party scrimmage.
Make scoffers see to Thee how like
Am I, Thy chosen image.
O Lord, why were cartoonists made
To thus misrepresent me?
O Lord, why are they born and paid
To ruthlessly torment me?
O Lord, if artists must exist
Bid them improve their pictures;
Let editors no more persist
In pelting me with strictures.
O Lord, in thousands fools malign
Thy only politician;
... They know not that by right divine
I am the State’s physician.
O Lord, I fain would be the theme
Of mankind’s approbation:
Meanwhile they mock my self-esteem
And scorn my irritation.
O Lord, I am the Man to lead,
In Heaven’s name created:
The Man whom lesser mortals need,
Yet am I under-rated
Save by myself, who know my worth
And have my warm affection.
Permit me, Lord, to run the earth
And win the next election.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


PUTTING SUGAR ON ITS TAIL.


/. /
/4
// / ,
£
t i
'//a
s&
m
IF NOT THIS
THEN THIS
When you cannot go to the sea bring fresh, breezes into your
home or office by using “THE WHIRLWIND FAN”
Elizabeth St.,
MELBOURNE
MSEEa3£
—*^ tn LT|>
213
Clarence St.,
SYDNEY
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynam
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety c us*
Detonators
Cartridges
Australian Manufacturers of “MAGPlE”Specialties
Flour Sifters.
Gravy Strainers.
Wall Vents.
Spouting Brackets.
Watering Cans.
“Dreadnought”
Wire Strainer.
Shovels —Special Steel.
■ ..!i
D Gate Latches.
TINWARE.
Wire Nails.
Barbed Wire.
Routing and Ridging.
Sewerage Pipes, etc.
Sheet Metal Work
of all descriptions.
Fry Pans.
TITAN Manufacturing Co.
Normanbv Road, South Melbourne.
Telephones—C2l9l, C 2192.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Assurance and Thrift Association,
Ltd. (Sydney) -
Life and House Purchase Branch.
Expenses
(including Added Assur*
4 p.c. to ance
Mar., Revenue. Claims. Dividends). Funds. Funds.
1912.. £5,536 Nil £4467 £1,069 £1,202
Preliminary exes., £l4 .. 1,1.38
1913.. 9,598 £598 5518 3,482 4,670
1914.. 11,597 534 6355 4,708 9,373
1915.. 11,702 988 5572 5.142 14,520
1916.. 12,039 1821 5379 4,839 19.359
1917.. 13,021 1031 5756 6,234 25,593
1918.. 14,321 2258 5868 6,195 31,788
Transferred to contingencies reserve, £395 31,393
(Div. 5 p.c.)
1919.. 16,587 3041 5943 7,603 38,996
(Div. 6 p.c.)
1920.. 18,703 3031 7041 8,631 47,627
(Div. 7 p.c.)
1921. . 24,022 2718 8131 13,173 60,800
1922. . 21,473 2299 8382 ] n 700 70 599
Transferred to reserve fund, £lOOO ) ’ ’
Income tor tlie 12 months 10 March 31 was
less than the previous year's, wmcn hud
benehted by pronts irom tne sale or pro-
perty. But latest premium income at
±lt>,u2G was only ft 35 larger than tor 1921,
and tnat is slow progress. First premiums
on 32a policies assuring ±68,665 contributed
£2318 to the year s revenue, and at tnat rate
of policy-writing the Assurance and Thrift
would take many years to deveiop a business
ox impressive size. Nowadays there are so
many vigorous young offices policy-hunting
that it is becoming more and more difficult
for a steady plodder like this one to attract
new policy-holders at reasonable cost. As m
all other lines of business, the insurance
man can build up a big connection if he is
prepared to pay for it; most of the young
offices have been working on that basis, and
have proudly displayed millions of assurances
the initial cost of which in some in-
stances has taken about two years’ pre-
miums. As their premium tables have not
been designed to carry such a load, some of
them are almost certain to find themselves
in serious difficulties sooner or later, and a
crash or two is in prospect unless several of
the inexperienced managements realise, be-
fore it is too late, that a large volume of
expensively-purchased assurance business
may be a curse to a young office instead of
an achievement to be celebrated in gold-top.
Even if they do survive, many years must
elapse before bonuses to policy-holders or
divs. to shareholders can be honestly possible.
The Assurance and Thrift is a life office
in a different category. It started only a
dozen years ago, but has had a capable
actuary, W. R. Dovey, in control from the
beginning. There was no wild rush after
policy-holders; the business was developed
slowly without incurring heavy establish-
ment and organisation expenses. From
early in its career not only has the Assur-
ance and Thrift shown assurance funds
ample to protect policy liabilities which have
been calculated on the same conservative
basis as that adopted by its millionaire com-
petitors, but bonuses have been possible on
policies, paid capital has at all times been
intact, and dividends have been paid to share-
holders in every year from the beginning.
Certainly the div. rate until 1918 was only
4 p.c. p.a., but it has climbed to 7 p.c. for
the past two years. At the 1918 valuation
policy-holders received 20s. p.c. bonus, and
for each of the three years to 1921 325. p.c.
Portion of the profits, however, was derived
from land-dealing. The co. originally set out
to popularise house-purchase assurance, but
abnormal conditions upset plans; neverthe-
less, the co. made £16,000 or so from sub-
dividing a Newcastle estate which had been
acquired for garden-suburb purposes in con-
nection with its house-purchase scheme.
As a result of the conservative policy of
the management the Assurance and Thrift
is the most sound of the young offices, both
with respect to the protection for its policy-
liabilities, and the security for shareholders’
capital. The foundations exist on which a
much larger business can be built up, and
consequently the development of the new
business during the past 12 months is dis-
appointing. Life funds increased £9792 to
£70,592, and £563 surplus was shown from
fire and accident operations. In view of the
actuarial examination 12 months previously
both lots of funds were evidently ample to
meet all claims likely to be experienced in
normal circumstances. But, as additional
support, there was £18568 of shareholders’
paid capital, £37,135 more callable from pro-
prietors, and reserves of £4340. Owing to
house-purchase activities assets were not so
liquid as in most life offices, but the relation
of funds to liabilities and the conservative
methods of the management guarantee secur-
ity, which is the main consideration. At
March 31 £65,100 was advanced on property
and on policies, £20,172 was in freeholds,
and Government securities, cash, etc.,
totalled nearly £14,000.
* * * *
Robert Harper and Co. (Melb.), whole-
sale drygoods merchants: —
Reserves
(assets
Dividends. include
—AJ N £BO.OOO
“A” "B” of
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Good-
Mar., Profits. 7 p.c. 6 p.c. 4 i p.c. serves, will).
1914. . £17,084 £1671 £14.400 £291 £722 £7,638
Unexplained net additions .. 4,692 12,330
7 p.c. 5J p.c.
1915.. 29,380 8400 16,800 340 3,840 16,1<0
Written off, £3955 .. .. •• 12,215
8 p.c. 6 p.c.
1916.. 42,349 8400 19.200 496 1
Voted to Employees’ Profit Shar- ) 4,253 16,468
ing Fund, £10,000.. .. j
7 p.c. 51 p.c.
1917.. 29,838 8400 16,800 434 4,204 20,672
8 p.c. 6 p.c.
1918.. 39,517 9450 19.200 496 10,371 31,043
1919.. 39,105 10,500 19,200 496 8.909 39.952
1920.. 45,808 10,500 19,200 496 15,612 55.564
1921.. 38,125 10,500 19,200 600 7,825 63,389
1922.. 41,020 10,500 19,200 600 10,720 74,109
This old CO. not only got through the period
of collapsed prices with a handsome profit,
but meanwhile its affairs generally have been
made very snug. The public has been
interested only s nee 1913, when £150,000 of
7 p.c. cujn. prefs. were snapped up within
a couple of hours of the opening of the lists.
r ihe old proprietors took all ordinary scrip.
During the troublesome war years disclosed
profits were not quite so good as they had
previously been; but they were always ample
to give the prefs. their divs. and provide
handsome distributions for the ordinaries:
8 p.c. to the latter has been very sweet,
because £BO,OOO of their £300,000 of scrip
was issued for goodwill. Latest profits
were surprisingly good, considering the diffi-
culties of the period: on only two other
occasions have better results shown up,
though in those and other years provisions
may have been made for a possible slump of
prices, and thus good earnings were main-
tained when the crash did come. Another
striking feature of the latest accounts is
the shrinkage of some of the balance-sheet
figures and the piling up of cash assets: —
1914. 1919. 1921. 1922.
Mortgages. . .. £27,500 £35,733 £31,400 £8,500
Deposits . . .. 36,775 31,318 25,993 22,836
Overdraft .. . . 67,367 72,103
Sundry creditors.. 42,620 94,014 88,185 93,025
Freeholds.. .. 109,602 135,682 142,821 139,462
Plant, etc. . . 96,808 81,769 75,478 73,014
Leaseholds .. 1,110 400 200
Stock .. .. 150,564 234,710 152,182 119.240
Sundry debtors ..125,607 145,856 136,545 127,414
Cash, etc... .. 121 22,367 49,495 82,026
The co. was very fortunate in getting in the
pref. capital before money became dear, and
the result was that, though inflated prices
put a strain on cash resources for several
years, the management was able to keep
going withqut having to go on to the dear
money market with a new issue of shares.
Some cos. which issued new pref. capital
carrying 8 p.c. and more now find they have
no use for the funds. Harper’s latest stocks
are less than half those of three years ago,
but a hesitancy to buy heavily in erratic
iharkets may be partly responsible for the
smaller volume. The effect of the shrinkage
of both stocks and book debts has been the
reduction of liabilities from £233,168 in
1919 to £124,361 at the latest balance. Fixed
liabilities as well as current liabilities have
decreased since the first balance-sheet issued
after the public came in: in eight years
mortgages have declined £19,000, deposits
£13,939, and overdraft and trading accounts
£16,962 —a total reduction of nearly £50,000.
That shrinkage has been made possible by
£66,500 of profits which the ordinaries have
left in the business during the period, and
which, incidentally, has further strengthened
the backing for the prefs.. and at the same
time put almost sufficient into reserve to off-
set the goodwill item. At March 31 the
public’s £150,000 of 7 p.c. prefs. had the
excellent backing of net tangible assets with
a book value of £408,359.
* * * #
Home Recreations, Ltd., formerly
Heiron and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney) :
To Deficit
f Dividends —, Reduce (Good-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. Deficit, will).
Mar., £ £ £ £ £
60,000
1915. .12,289 6 p.c.=3220 8 p.C.= 4,800 4269 55,731
1916.. 8,858 6 „ ~ 3220- 6 ~ „ 3,600 2038 53,693
1917.. 9,793 6 „ ~3220 8 „ „ 4,8001773 51,920
Goodwill items added. £B7 .. 52,007
1918.. 9,988 6 p.c.=3220 8 p.c.= 4,800 1968 50,039
Goodwill item added, £5 ~.50,044
1919.. 13,470 6 p.c.=3370 10 p.c.= 6,000 4100 45,944
Goodwill item added, £65 . . 46,009
1920.. 22,432 6 p.c.=3430 20 p.e.=l-2,000 7002 39,007
Co. reconstructed. Inner reserves re- .
vealed and capitalised with other
reserves £lO,OOO added to goodwill.. 70,157
1921. .16,365 8 p.c.=8872 8 p.c.= 5855 ) 69 835
Reconstruction exes, written off, £1316 (
Added to goodwill items, £1133. 70,968
1922, .21,345 8 p.c.=9657 8 p.C.= 5,935 5753 65,215
This co. is the 1920 reconstruction of
Heiron and Smith, Ltd.,, which six years pre-
viously had amalgamated the Ileiron and
Smith and Alcock billiard-table firms and
a high-class furnishing business. Other
side-lines were added, including the Aus-
tralian Salonola mus.c-machine, which has
become one of the co.’s chief manufactures.
The old co. began with £60,000 of goodwill,
and in 1920 had 158,164 of 6 p.c. pref.
capital and £60.000 of ordinaries. But not-
withstanding the heavy goodwill the concern
had done so well that after the prefs. had
had their 6 p.c. regularly and ordinaries had
averaged 10 p.c. p.a. £21,000 of visible re-
serves had accumulated. The 20 p.c. paid
with ease on ordinaries in 1920 and the
glittering prospects of the growing business
prompted a reconstruction. The directors
decided to obtain a conservative re-valuation
of assets, issue pref. scrip for everything of
a tangible nature and issue a new lot of
ordinaries against goodwill. The old ordi-
naries in this way secured one fullv-naid
bonus pref. for every £1 of tangible assets in
excess of the amount required to cover the
old 6 p.c. prefs. The latter were hand-
somely compensated by having their cumu-
lative div. rate lifted two points to 8 p.c.
and with rights to accompany ordinares
up to 10 pc. People in other States also
came into the reconstructed co. —Allen’s, of
Melbourne, and Nicholson’s, of Perth. They
brought in some cash and also received good-
will shares in consideration for their selling
connections.
The co. has had a very successful year,
though conditions were not nearly so favor-
able as in the previous years of war-spend-
ings and trade-booms. Evidently the exten-
sion of manufacturing and of inter-State
activities fully compensated for any loss of
business resulting from the depression. The
yedr’s profits, after taxation had been pro-
vided for, represented 10 p.c. on the prefs,
and slightly more than 12$ p.c. on ordi-
naries. Both lots received 8 p.c.—a hand-
some return in view of the reconstruction
—so a substantial amount went into reserve.
Incidentally, a reserve iagainst buildings,
plant and machinery increased £1637. The
co.’s interests so expanded during the year
that greater strain has been put On its cash
position: paid cap : tal increased £3436, but
liabilities were £6725 higher. Stocks de-
clined £11,177, but £6938 net went into
fixed assets, and book debts were £21,272
larger. Much of (she co.’s trade is on a
hire-purchase basis, a, t.-p. system which
provides custom otherwise not possible, and,
incidentally, gives a handsome interest re-
turn. Further pressure is now being put
on finances by the purchase, for £41,500, of
new city showrooms. Assets at March 31
were as follows:
Fixed assets .. .. £44,880
Book debts .. .. 02,264
Stocks 66,703
Odds and ends .. .. 1,142
£194,989
Liabilities .. .. 62,295
£142,694
Appropriations for divs. and taxation have
since taken £9OBB, thus leaving tangible
assets with a book value of £133,606. The
pref. capital is, therefore, fully covered, but
goodwill iteihs represent nearly 17s, per £1
ordinary share.
* M * *
The CO-OPERATIVE INSURANCE Co. OF AUS-
TRALIA, Ltd., which began with £825 of its
capital absorbed by establishment costs: —
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£825
1919.. £630 £630 195
Additional establishment costs, £283.. 478
Reserves.
1920.. 7,178 7 p.c.=* £2lOl 5,077 4,699
Additional establishment costs, £1023.. 3,576
1921.. 18,025 7 p.c. = 3127 14,898 18,474
Additional establishment costs, £lOl.. 18,373
1922.. 14,344 7 p.c. = 3663 10,781 29,154
The year ended March last was not so favor-
able for the C.I.C. as the previous 12
months; a much larger volume of business
was handled, but both loss and expense
ratios were heavier, and consequently a
smaller net profit resulted. This comparison
gives another view of operations since the
beginning:—
Net Pro- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses., penses. Ratio. Ratio.
1920. . £14.235 £1,689 £6,477 11.9 p.c. 45.5 p.c.
1921.. 46,564 6,963 23,924 14.9 „ 51.4 „
1922 55,274 11,293 32,177 20.4 „ 58.2 ~
The, C.I.C. was started in 1918 by,the Gipps-
land and Northern and the Western District
Co-op. cos. of Vic. each putting in £15,000.
The Vic. Butter Factories afterwards linked
up, and then the S. Aus. Farmers’ Union
joined in. Last year the Coastal Farmers
and Berrima cos. and 70 butter factories in
N. S. Wales became interested, and gross
premium income has grown as follows: 1920,
£21,251; 1921, £72,302; 1922.. £105,759.
Net premiums do not show similar expan-
sion : the management has proceeded cau-
tiously, and last year nearly 48 p.c.. of gross
premium income was anplied to re-insuring,
compared with 35 p.c. in the previous year.
Expansion of business last year was, no
doubt, greater than even the gross figures
indicate: dairy produce values slumped badly
during the period, and that, of course,
affected premium income. In its three years
the C.I.C. has attracted a large volume of
profitable business at small cost. Altogether
£201,447 of premiums have been won, and
after writing off all establishment and ex-
tension of business costs and paying 7 p.c.
on paid capital each year, the management
shows the whole of that capital represented
by the best of assets, and has reserves of
£29,154, representing 53 p.c. of last year’s
net premium income. The co. has thus
made an excellent start in life, and the influ-
ential shareholding concerns which are its
agents should assure it a big business in
future.
Though the C.I.C. set out to be “truly
co-operative in character,” it is evidently
to be only partially so. To be genuinely
co-operative profits should be distributable
amontpindividual insurers in proportion to
their insurances, their business being handled
at as near cost as circumstances and the
necessity for providing for contingencies
warrant. In this co., however, the pro-
prietors—the co-op. farmers’ concerns—are
to get the distributable profits, and are ap-
parently under no obligation to make re-
bates to their individual constituents who
contribute to those profits. Dividends
to the shareholding cos. are to be not
less than 7 p.c. on their holdings, though
there is seemingly no limit to the rate of
div. which may be paid. Any surplus divi-
sible profit is to be distributed in this way:
(1) the portion of that profit estimated to
have been won from insurances of consti-
tuents in the shareholding cos. is to be
divided among the cos. in proportion to
the premiums they collected; (2) profits
from outside business are to be divided
equally among the shareholding cos. So
unless rate concessions are made, or bonuses
paid, to the C.I.C. policy-holder he will not
directly benefit. Still, the true-blue co-op.
farmer may get some satisfaction from the
fact that he is aiding his own produce-
handling concern to make a good profit on
its investment in the insurance co. instead
of feeding the city investor in insurance.
But that means that the co-operative char-
acter of the C.I.C. is very different from
that of the farmers’ cos., in which profits
are distributed on the basis of business
handled.
* # -*
Solomon Islands Development Co.
Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. Toßeserves. serves.
1911.. £1,294 Nil £1,291 £525
1912.. 1,613 5 p.c. = £2048 130
Premiums on new shares 5,993 6,12.3
1913.. 4,506 7$ p.c. £3265 1,241 7,364
1914.. 4,871 10 „ „ 4889 7,346
1915.. 2,308 Nil 2,308 9,654
Premiums on shares.. 53 9,707
1916.. 2,676 Nil 2,676 12,383
Premiums on shares.. 18 12,401
1917 . . 2,976 Nil 2,976 15,377
1918.. 4,227 Nil 4,227 19,604
1919.. 3,573 Nil 3,573 23,177
1920.. 10,450 Nil 10,450 33,627
1921.. 4,374 Nil 4,374 38,001
1922.. 1,941 Nil 1,941 39,942
Island products have not been in demand, so
though this co.’s copra.output has increased
rapidly with the coming into bearing of
younger plantings, income is smaller than
in the years of good prices:—
Copra. ' Rubber. Net Proceeds.*
1916.. 192 tons 4171 b. £3,703
1917.. 274 ~ 1414,, 4,078
• 1918.. 361 ~ 2589,, 5,696
1919.. 476 ~ Nil 4,868
1920.. 529 ~ Nil 11,426
1921.. 621 .. Nil 6,656
1922.. 833 ~ Nil 2,703
*Less production and realisation costs.
The co., a Burns-Philp offspring, holds
50,000 acres in the British Solomons, but
in seven estates altogether only 3082 acres
have been planted in 15 years. Develop-
ment has been retarded by labor difficulties:
the supply of local Brown Brother has not
been ample or efficient, and recruiting from
outside atolls has not been permitted. It
was originally believed that £lOO,OOO would
be sufficient to make the enterprise a good
profit-earner, but the seven estates have
already swallowed £124,021. _ Paid capital
has given £95,035 (£10,035 was raised
during the past year), and profits have pro-
vided the balance. Of the 3982 acres planted
all except 190 acres under rubber are grow-
ing cocoanuts. Rubber-tapping, was sus-
pended during the war, and, owing to the
very sick market since, has not been re-
sumed. The co. also at one time did a
little pearling, but operations proved un
profitable and diving was suspended over 12
months ago. The future depends almost
wholly on the copra market, and better
results are expected in that direction for the
current year. Meantime plantations are
in good order and the new capital has made
the co.’s affairs At March
31 liabilities totalled only £1576.
# * * #
Scottish Australian Mining C 0.,, the Eng-
lish concern which operates the Lambton and
Burwood (N.S.W.) collieries, shared in the
coal-trade prosperity last year,. For the 12
months to December 31 a net profit of
£54,313 was shown, compared with £25,895 for
the previous year. Divs. and bonus total-
ling 121 p.c. were naid on the quarter-
mUlion of canital. Nevertheless, the Eng-
lish directors lamented the “abnormally high
wages insisted on by the labor unions,” quite
overlooking the fact that the wage increases
have in every iustance been passed on by


When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth, — Advt. [2
* * * *
Whatever the conduit problem—Pioneer Wood
Pipe is the answer. Whether you must consider
first cost or not —-last cost is vitally important.
Wood pipe is cheaper than metal all along the
route, to buy, to transport, to install, to maintain.
But low cost is not the only advantage; Pioneer
Wood is clean, does not rust nor corrode, and
remains unaffected by frost or electrolysis. Write
for our interesting booklet. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.
—Advt.
• * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney; 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
» * * .
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
• » • »
Sijion-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors ior coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants :
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd..
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models”—"National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quav
(East). — Advt.
ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TUCKER i 00.. LIMITED. SYDNEY.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist bis executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAKVAN,
Managing Director.
w
&
L
3 o on
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
-Swift & Company 1,t<1., Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufactured Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
the Coal Tribunal, and in no instance lias
the poor colliery proprietor had to foot a
penny of the increase. On the other hand.
Commissioner Campbell found that in one
instance, at least, portion of the extra price
granted to cover additional working exes.
incidentally went to help profits.
* « • «
Muriel Tank (N.S.W.) gold rush seems
likely to fizzle out, as so many rushes in the
same region have done. The country has
been pegged for miles, in anticipation of a
boom; but apart from the prospectors’
claims no discovery worth mentioning has
been made. Reports generally have been
very much overdrawn, and so far there is
nothing showing to justify any assumption
of continuity or permanence. Neverthe-
less, the original claims are worthy of sys-
tematic prospecting.
* * * *
Adelong (N.S.W.) quartz reefs were dis-
covered in May, 1857. Records for
some years were equal to those of any
other field in Australia. Returns from the
Old Reef, for example, for two years to May,
1859, were 54,2380 z. from 7953 tons, an
average of nearly 7oz. of free gold. There
were 32 claims at work, covering a length of
2672 ft., and none had been worked below
100 ft. The consistency in quality of this
surface formation was remarkable, the highest
recorded yield being lOoz. per ton. As
“mundic” appeared in some of the claims at
40ft., and as up to that time it was all
dry-crushing, it is reasonable to assume that
the actual contents of the ore exceeded
lOoz. per ton. One public crushing battery
from 1860 to 1888 treated 51,159 tons for
84,6120 z than loz. 13dwt. per ton. As
an aggregate record from good, bad and
indifferent stone, and a lot of ‘‘tip,” from
eight lines of reef, this would have been
splendid had the ore been of free milling
quality, but it was a more significant record
than these figures would make it appear,
inasmuch as the percentage of auriferous
pyrites was from 8 to 16 p.c.—sometimes as
high as 20 —the gold contents of which were
not recovered. With the exception of the
Gibraltar these lines of reef have been prac-
tically deserted for 35 years. None other
than Gibraltar has been worked below 1000 ft.
The Great Victoria won a reward of £lOOO
for discovering payable ore below 800 ft., and
£5OO below 1000 ft., but there is no record
of any crushing from the latter—-the co.
pocketed the £5OO and soon afterwards went
into liquidation. The last line to be worked
was the Gibraltar; when it was taken over
by an English co. in 1896 expectations were
great, but they were not realised. The re-
turn for 1897 was good—-23,4050z, from
10,271 tons, an average of 2}oz., and a divi-
dend of 5 p.c. was paid. Next year’s return
was only 14,2120 z. from 11,997 tons, The
co. continued an unprofitable struggle until
three or four years ago; small lodes frozen
on to hard granite could not be made to
pay. The property is now being worked
by a Sydney co., which claims to have dis-
covered near the surface an intact parallel
lode which it is taking out for a width of
about 10ft. for an average of 14dwt. Within
the past few days a “make” of characteristic
Adeiong mineralised stone lias made its
appearance. Some of the stone shows gold
freely; a sample chipped off several lumps
of pyrites by a local assayer, from which any
particle showing free gold was excluded,
returned lOfoz. per ton. On current reports
the co. would seem to be on the fringe of
an important development. Should this
prove to be the case it may lead to further
testing of other lines, the wide formations in
which do not seem to have been properly
prospected, judging by such information as
is now available. The New Gibraltar co.
will want a fillip of this sort if it is to
“make good” ; it must have something better
than 14dwt. ore to make reasonable profits
with such appliances as it seems to have.
Last report states that the mill ran for 453
hours, treating 136 tons, or a ton per 3.33
hours! Do they run a sample-grinder, a one-
stamp mill, or what?
* * * *
How the Lucknow (N.S.W.) revival goes :
South Lucknow. —The level at 125 ft., to pick up
the arsenical pyrites shoot met in the 62ft. level, has
been driven about 40ft. Shortly after leaving the
plat, lodey material was cut, and thereafter a
defined joint became evident, but whether it is a
repetition of the “false joints” which led old-timers
astray is not clear. In the upper level, bearing of
drive was nearly south-west, whereas the lower level
is almost south-east, the normal strike of the Luck-
now joint. There have been evidences of arsenical
pyrites in some clinker in top of the face of the
125 ft. level, but the expected ore-body is still
unlocfited. However, there is plenty of ground to
prove before it can be said the shoot is absent.
In addition to working two shifts at the face of
125 ft. level, a shift is testing the ground to the
right, where lodey stuff was cut after leaving the
plat. The co. always has this up its sleeve, that it
can continue sinking the winze in which values were
found, and which the shaft has now drained com-
pletely, and there were also evidences of arsenical
pyrites in the 50ft. driving done beyond the 62ft.
level winze. What is happening at South Lucknow
is a repetition of conditions met in many of
the old claims. Winzes were used again and again
to locate the precise course shoots had taken. But
ore was cut when least expected.
Lucknow Pups— An important development is
occurring in the face of the joint drive, now in 50ft.
from the No. 2 crosscut at the 114 ft. level. Another
vein is making In from the west, showing gold. This
vein and the clinker material appearing in the face
have improved prospects in the Pups. Mr. Jacquet,
Chief Inspector of Afjnes, paid a visit to the under-
ground workings last week and suggests that steps
should be taken to put up a rise, or sink a winze, on
the first vein about 20ft. back from the face, and
which gave up to Boz. assays. After prospecting
thoroughly the healthy face conditions, Mr. Jacquet’s
suggestion will probably be followed. Prom the
veins and leaders passed through in the drive on
the joint a parcel of stone almost big enough for a
crushing has accumulated. Further ore being broken
should make it possible to put a crashing through in
two or three weeks. The last prospecting shaft of the
old Lucknow field, known as Bowyer’s, is to be
cleared out by the Pups and sunk deep enough to
catch at a deeper level the veins cut at the 114 ft.
level. This shaft is about 100 ft. south-east from the
Pups’ shaft and represents the fruitless effort of 15
years ago to prove the extension of the Lucknow-
joint, since located by the South Lucknow Co. The
depth attainted was about 95ft., and a level of 100 ft.
was driven.
Lucknow Mines. —This co. is managed by an old
Lucknow- identity, Harry Lawry, who survived a
disastrous bad-air explosion in Lucknow many years
ago. The co. appears to have developed possibilities
of importance. Intimate acquaintance with old
conditions enabled Law'ry to open up a fair body of
wash, expected to yield several dwts. Unexpectedly
a vein was open up. It is possible from present
appearances that the heads of many old veins remain
to be worked. Manager Law'ry at least deserves
credit for making an effective showing in ground
looked upon as cleaned up years ago.
South Lucknow Extended. —Geological opinion is
that the shaft is being sunk in decomposed basalt.
Evidence is that a change of ground will soon occur.
An asbestos seam has appeared in the bottom of the
shaft, and on the Lucknow field this is regarded as
an indication of serpentine at hand. If so, the
syndicate would seem to have chosen a position for
its shaft not very far from the Lucknow joint. Total
depth of shaft from brace is about 45ft. The syn-
dicate -will likely become a no-liability co. to obtain
funds for pushing ahead a wider plan of mining
operations.
Lucknow No. s. —This syndicate is almost ready to
commence operations on areas acquired beyond the
Extended’s ground. Beyond No. 5 areas the ground
on the expected extension of the joint has been
pegged almost to Shadforth, nearly three miles
beyond old Lucknow. There have been peggings on
the eastern joint, around the old workings, on
the north-west end of the field, and there have
also been various side-issue peggings. Mr. Warden
James is in for a busy time in administering Luck-
now field affairs.
* « * •
Associated Extended Tin (N.S.W.) profit-
sharing scheme showed very satisfactory
results for both parties on the first run;
then a weakness presented itself in the fail-
ure of the "happy-family” stunt. It was
demonstrated that even a co-operative party
must be guided by that obnoxious creature,
a supreme boss. A new agreement has been
entered into which makes provision to over-
come this difficulty, and sluicing operations
have been resumed with one shift, to be
increased, at the request of the working
partners, to two shifts on an effective boring
plant being installed.
* • • *
There was a rush in Melbourne last week
into the North Fingall float, which Tricks
and Hartrick placed before investors. North
Fingall, at Day Dawn (W.ja.), adjoins the
apparently worked-out Great Fingall, which
was one of the best performers outside the
Golden Mile. Great Fingall was mined 2000 ft.
down, and had a fine, regular ore-body. Sup-
porters of the mine were at one time badly
shaken by the poor zone met with between
200 ft. and 600 ft., but perseverance with a
policy of deep sinking brought a reward
only too rare in gold mining. Higher gold
values were met with at depth, and the
mine had a long and profitable career. The
lode was limited in length, and, although an
active management credited it with kaving as
many legs as a centipede, much probing and
prospecting on adjoining ground failed to
locate a payable continuance of it. Recently
two prospectors on North Fingall struck
a make that had been missed by previous
searchers, and it is hoped this has connection
with the main ore body. Melbourne formed
a small syndicate, and Jack Hartrick took
only a week to reach the mine and secure an
option. A week later he was back in Mel-
bourne to float the co. Preliminary oper-
ations for opening up the new find are to
be proceeded with at once. It is too early
to express an opinion as to the possibilities
of the strike.
• # t
Driving at the 100 ft level in Golden Hope.
Hampton Plains, continues to expose 4ft. of
15dwt. ore. Developments are not thrilling,
but seem as good as anything disclosed else-
where on the field.
* * *
The Westralian State Prospecting Expe-
dition. now on tramp, has stimulated simi-
lar effort. Many parties, some State aided,
are on the hunt over old and new ground. A
strong Adelaide, and Perth, syndicate of 10
members has been formed to search Broad
Arrow district with a view to ascertaining
if the old-timers left anything worth while.
Selected men have set out from Kalgoorlie
on good wages and with a guarantee of a
‘‘good cut” if anything worth while is
located.
* * * *
So far there has been nothing wrong with
the yields from the Gnow’s Nest, Yalgoo
(W.A.). During May bullion worth £3400
was won from 1050 tons. In earlier progress
reports the management talked of 180 ft. level
values in vague terms, and the latest report
states that the north drive at that depth
is in lower values. In extensions of other
workings values are not mentioned, nor are
widths of ore-bodv.
* * * #
Blair Athol coalfield (Q.), though it has
an enormous seam of 90ft., has sutfered two
years of depression owing to disabilities
of high railway freights and lack of loading
facilities at a port. When the trade slump
commenced this field was the first to suffer,
and promising contracts for Maoriland had
to be let slide. The B. A. Coal and Timber
Co., in order to get the field going again,
proposes to raise £75,000 by the issue of
debentures to work the seam on a large scale
by the open-cut system, and to develop an
export trade. This system of working had
the unofficial support of Professor David,
Who examined the seam last November. Even
with this it has little chance of capturing
Far Northern markets from Newcastle, so
Premier Theodore has signified his intention
of giving the co. a special rate, probably -Jd.
per mile, if a certain output is guaranteed.
At present the branch railway cannot take
more than 200-ton loads, so gradients will be
flattened and bridges strengthened to permit
trainloads of 400 to 500 tons. With this
assistance the co. hopes to regain contracts
in M.L., and participate in the Java
trade. The field used to produce 150,000
tons with practically only a local market.
•T. F. Hall, in 1918, estimated reserves of
260,000,000 tons in four sq. miles, and
mentioned that the freight to Port
Alma was an insuperable difficulty to
competing with Ipswich and Newcastle.
His idea was a heavy railway direct
to Broadsound, 130 miles away. as
against 278 to Port Alma; but Rock-
hampton does not like the scheme, though,
if a big export trade is to be built up, it
will be cheaper in the long run. When it
was first mooted Rocky objected that it
would take away the legitimate trade of its
comic-opera port. The Blair Athol coal is
very suitable as a bunker and export fuel,
being hard and non-friable. There is very
little clinker, and ru.n-of-mine coal may be
expected to go from 6 to 9 p.c. ash. To
work the big seam by open-cut. it will be
necessary to take out the top 7ft. seam, and
then there is 3ft. to 20ft. of sandstone and
shale to be shovelled out on top of the big
seam. Its maximum thickness is 91ft. with-
out a band, and is reckoned to average about
60ft.
» * # #
The Beaudesert (Q.) bore, in which oil
was stated to have been found, has remained
sealed up, but at intervals is being pumped
out. The Queensland Mines Dept, officials
suspected it of being a joke, owing to samples
corresponding with refined kerosene. How-
ever, owing to the importance of not neg-
lecting any possible oil occurrence, it was
decided to seal up the bore, and, by pumping
it dry occasionally, to see if the “oil”
kept coming in. This has been done, and
still samples of kerosene have been skimmed
off the water. Although it is still sus-
pected of being a hoax, the precaution is
being taken of keeping the bore sealed up, and
it is to be pumped out again this week. A
slight odor of benzine was stated to be
noticeable last week, and the authorities
have decided to continue checking the bore,
so as to come to a definite decision as to
whether the occurrence is a joke or a slight
natural seepage.
* * * #
Cloncurry (Q.) copper gougers have re-
cently had another sop thrown to them in
the shape of substantially reduced railway
freights to Townsville for parcels smelted in
Australia only. At the present market price
15 p.c. ore is worth only a little more than
£2 on rails at Cloncurry, which is certainly
not a payable proposition. So this rebate
is only an encouragement to go on robbing
shows of 25 p.c. ore and upwards. Thus copper
prospects, full of promise, which might have
a chance of becoming the stable mines of
the future, are having their chances men-
aced. Of course, many gougers would scoff
at the idea of spoiling a good mine by taking
out a few tons of tile ore or copper glance,
but then he does no development work, and
can hardly be considered a judge of what
his prospect is likely to develop into. The
gouger proclaims that he does not want
rations, which is charity, but it would pay
the State better to dole them out and give
these show's a fighting chance for the big
bodies of lower-grade yellow ore which in-
variably lie under the rich secondary ores
in copper show's.
# * * *
Blue Consolidated, Bendigo, is reported to
be developing splendidly. The intermediate
level at 154 ft., which is being driven on
the lode, has been in high-grade ore for over
400 ft., excepting a length of 40ft. which is
comparatively poor. For the last 70ft. the
estimated value is soz. per ton, and about
50 tons of this ore goes to the battery per
week. This drive has 400£t. to go to reach
the boundary, and indications point to the
probability of the lode continuing right
through. A chance shot put into the side
of the level disclosed a spurry formation in
sandstone, which has proved to be 70ft.
wide, and values so far proved average
lOdwt. Owing to the pitch of this forma-
tion it is believed that it will extend back
to the main crosscut, giving a total length
of over 1500 ft. The height of the formation
has not yet been definitely determined, but
it has been proved at one point for 60ft. up.
The main level at 1600 ft. is being driven
on the lode track, and it is expected that
the downward continuation of this pay-shoot
will be reached in about seven weeks. At
1700 ft. a level is being driven on the west
leg- of the North Blue reef, and in about
200 ft. more will reach a position where,
according to survey, good ore is likely to be
struck. In other directions exploratory and
development work is being done. Some san-
guine shareholders talk about 10 years’ mill-
ing work being practically in sight. That
may be founded largely on conjecture; still,
that which may be regarded as something
like proof of the assertion is the fact that
negotiations are in progress for a contract
for crushing 600 tons weekly for a long
term of years. It is the custom at Bendigo
to charge all expenses to working account,
in consequence of which working costs to
date have reached as high as 40s. per ton;
but an immediate reduction to 30s. will be
made, and ultimately it is said that about
255. per ton will cover the bill. Assuming
that an average of 12dwt. per ton can be
maintained (in a former run 70ft. stopes
averaged 14dwt. per ton for years) it needs
only a simple calculation to show that the
co. has a long term of prosperity before it.
Past fortnight’s return was 8690 z. from 787
tons, which would show a profit of over
£2OOO.
* * * #
South Blue adjoins the Consolidated. It
was one of Lansell’s famous mines some
years ago. The co. will have 300 ft. of the
Consolidated formation to work on up to
the main cross-course, beyond which it has
not been located. It is a feature of this
locality that where the lode-formations carry
payable gold in contact with the cross-
course, the latter has also good values for
some distance east and west. There is a
strong belief that this feature will disclose
itself in the South Blue. A level was
driven to the cross-course at 1840 ft. in
olden days without striking any payable
value. Advantage is being taken of this
level to rise to a point where the bottom of
the Consolidated formation should be met
with. This rise has to go 80ft., and is now
up 50ft.; so it cannot be long before the
South Co. will know its fate.
* * * #
A recent par. credited the old Central
Blue, of Bendigo, with having paid £750.000
in dividends; this should have been £150,000.
Only one Bendigo co. has exceeded (the
seven-figure mark in divs.—Garden Gully
with £1,050,848, against calls, £69,333.
Other records are: Great Extended Hust-
lers. dividends £865.550, calls £146,150:
Williams United £561,476, calls £167,526:
South Moon £524,000, calls £28,133; New
Moon £371.728, calls £11,560; Johnson’s
Reef £334,000, calls £140,700. All these
wonderful old-timers are now stowed in
Dyason’s B.A.G.


TV>«. Vi Haw r* difecovitvs 4b»e. «sc-ov-<z.+ f
wV»ict» pg/Vs -Hsa. htfoine in Wit powcf,
ikneJ mdiracHy - b<ur«Mo«L> o-d jPeJrh<z.r.
INTERVAL
*TP>C- is c.oi7>p)e.tv*.iy c.o»-to«.y-«.d -a+-x4 a*ba*-»cJor>* Kopcr
2>Y-» d
k>u+ me.ovi'r* Sk-^a i\>r> d
Lw<ts t>3»joJo||y
MISPLACED MERRIMENT.


QJour soft-spo.
K 7/w NOISELESS
\
1
§ I
HHHH
naan “^kssSS";:,
M&ffi
Before you buy a Portable Typewriter con-
sider the NOISELESS PORTABLE. We can’t
promise that you will hear anything, but you
will SEE a beautiful, convenient typewriter
that combines quiet with the speed, beauty of
work, durability and economy that only THE
NOISELESS can give.
Can be used anywhere at any time without
annoying anybody.
Full particulars on request.
NOISELESS AGENCY
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone B. 26G(i.
“Bull
Stout
(Extra Quality)
Equal , to the
best imported.
“Bull” Stout is brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Drink stout
during the
Winter months;
you’ll appreciate
its appetising
flavor and
medicinal value.
0
A
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The 'New lv2l Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 Georsre Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
“T. 0.1.”: Winslow, Darling Point, “the
original home of the Long Innes family” (B.
22/6/’22), was the wedding gift of old John
Smith, the wealthy squatter of Llanarth,
Bathurst and Gamboola, MoFng, to his eldest
daughtei-, Emily Janet. She married in
her 19th year, July 5, 18C5, Joseph George
Long Innes, Dis-
trict Court Judge
i n Queensland,
1565-69, and after-
wards a Judge of
the N. S. Wales
Supreme Cour t.
Mrs. John Smith
was one of the
three daughters of
“Parson” William
Tom, of Spring-
field, Orange. The
other two girls
married respec-
tively Edmund
Webb, M.L.C., of
Bathurst, and G.
H. Tempest, bank
manager, of Mo-
long. Parson
Tom’s sons were
associated with
Hargreaves in the
first gold find at
Summer Hill
Creek.
R. MITCHELL,
veteran housekeeper
of House of Reps.
“8.T.P.”: “8.R.C.” (B. 22/6/’22) is
mixing up somebody wuth somebody else
when discussing Prof. E. O. G. Shann, Vice-
Chancellor of Perth ’Varsity. The details
in the original par. (B. 15/6/’22) were be-
yond reproach. Shann w T on his scholarship
iiot “at Prahran State school,” but at the
Horsham (Vic.) school, where C, H. Mar-
tell was headmaster, and yours truly first
male assistant. “B.R.C.’s” yarn of Shann
writing in exercise-books improvised from
“butter-paper” is piffle. His clever old dad
came to the editor’s chair of the Wimmera
Stab (Horsham) from Nhill, where he
edited the Free Press, and the future prof,
arrived from that town of flatness with him
—and what editor’s youngster ever lmd to
write on butter-paper? Further, Shann was
not a “serious boy with an overhanging fore-
head” ; he -was a bright youngster, full of fun
and tricks and a lover of sport. He went
from Horsham to Wesley, and never looked
back. No particular school can crow over
that scholarship, for several had a hand in it.
An ex-Digger named Cross, of Atherton
(N.Q.), has just completed, wholly unaided,
a house ’2oft. x 14ft. on 6ft. blocks. His
right leg (or what is left of it) is Sin., and
the left a bare 3in., and be gets about in a
wheel-chair. His Sunday evenings are de-
voted to the Salvation Army, in w’hich he
holds the rank of Ensign.
“Heinrich H.”:—
Dr. Ratlienau, German Minister for Reconstruction,
who was assassinated last week, was only a politician
by the accident of revolution. Before the war he
was known chiefly as a writer of those speculative
and philosophical works which are often “best-
sellers” in Germany. He had given about 20 of
them to the world at the time of his death. Ills
greatest effort, “The Mechanism of the Spirit,” did
not go off well, but close on 100,000 volumes of
“The Kaiser” have been sold, and those figures
have already been bettered by “In Days to Come,”
though it only appeared last year. It seems odd
that Rathenau should have been murdered at the
instigation of monarchists, inasmuch as, though a
faithful servant of the Republic, he was a believer
in a monarchical form of government. He gave it
as his opinion in the very last book he wrote that
such a country as Germany “needs a consecrated
ruler, not a successful arrivist.” He be-
longed by birth and training to the Junker
class, and his reference's to the Kaiser and the
Crown Prince, whom he had known since boyhood,
were always kindly, in contradistinction to the abuse
heaped on these unfortunates in their hour of trouble
by men who had practically lived at Court in the
days of the Empire. As a financier he was amongst
the first half-dozen in Europe, and in that capacity
won great prestige during his late visit to London.
“Friday Island” : “Tiberias’s” list of Polar
medallists with the A.I.F. (B. 22/6/’22)
lacks the names of just-dead Dr. Archie Mc-
Lean, of Sydney, and Dr. John Hunter, who
now carries on the saw bone trade at Botany
(N.S.W.). Hunter was formerly a Demon-
strator In Biology at Sydney ’varsity, and
studied medicine in between demonstrating
and-South Polar week-enders. Another good
Australian to wear the snowy ribbon is
Lieut.-Commander Moyes, R.A.N. He was
a Bachelor of Science a.nd of Engineering
before he turned to the fleet, and if I remem-
ber aright he also did a bit with the A.I.F.
The first two were Mawsonites; Moyes was
with Shackleton.
The late Robert Philp used to tell how he
worked as a youngster for seven or eight
shillings a week and thought himself lucky
to get it. He was one of tbe few men among
O. poLticians who was never exalted unduly
by office; when Premier he was just as
approachable as w r hen he was a struggling
business man in a country town. For a
considerable time he was easily the most
popular poiit cian in Bananaland, but a suc-
cession of droughts bumped the State into
a train of deficits, and Philp’s downfall was
largely due to the fact that he endeavored
by taxation and economy to straighten th’ngs
out, thereby reaping much odium. He lived
down the unpopularity in a few years, and
when he died had won the liking of nearly
all his one-time adversaries.
From one who knew him:—
The last Lord Wallscourt, whose, barony, according
to Sydney Daily Mail, passes to a N.S.W. bank-
manager, was hot the type one would suspect of
the possession of relatives in the higher reaches of
sober finance. It was not only that he never by
any chance had any money. He was so eminently
destitute of a vestige of the quality that bankers
know as “respectability.” A short, dark, well-built,
straight-featured man, always scrupulously dressed
and looking years younger than his age, drink got
him down before he was out of his ’teens. When
under the sway of the cup that cheers he invariably
looked for someone to fight, and never in vain. He
had so many contests in “Jimmy’s,” the old Picca-
dilly bar, which was going strong when “Joe”
Blake (as everyone knew him) came on the town 25
years ago, that the management took his name off
the door, so to speak. His response was to fill up
elsewhere and then stroll round to fight the chucker-
out. Long practice and a stout heart had made him
a useful man in his class—he was a welter or there-
abouts —and he gave many a hefty middle and even
heavyweight unpleasant surprises from time to time.
He was cashiered during the great war, nominally
for drunkenness, but according to those who should
know the actual objection to him at G.H.Q. was
that he knocked* a Major-General clean out on the
steps of the Officers’ Club at Bailleul. Color is lent
to this suggestion inasmuch as, had drunkenness
been accepted seriously as a ground for firing an
officer into civilian life, the commissioned ranks
would have been decimated, or worse,
Soaforth Mackenzie, of the Federal Attor-
ney-General’s Office, who succeeds o’llal-
loran as principal registrar of the High
Court, went to New Guinea with the Aus-
tralian Expedition when the Kaiser ran
amok.. He wms Judge of the Central Court
at Rabaul for a time, and had two terms
as Acting-Administrator. In his spare
moments he is writing the N.G. section of
the official record of the war.
The Largs Bay brought back a man who
was determined to get home at any price—
bar work. His progress was in these stages:
(1) he went to England as a member of the
crew, (2) he was paid off in - London, (3)
on the return voyage he was found on board
as a stowaway, (4) friends and admirers
among the crew paid his fare, and he be-
came a passenger to Westralia. But this
didn’t satisfy him, for (5) between Fre-
mantle and Adelaide he was found again
“stowed away.” The S.A. police were wire-
lessed to gather him in on arrival; however
(6) when the vessel reached the Outer
Harbor this resolute patriot-economist unob-
trusively melted into the shore-going crowd.
ALEC CAMERON, chairman of the Mel-
bourne Tramway Board.
“T. 0.1.”: Mention of Pentridge (B.
22/6/’22) recalls the historic padre Dean
O’liea, who ministered there to a scattered
B.C. dock before' the goldfields era. When
the call of the diggings came many of the
fanners sold out their little bits of earth
to the Father, who said they could have them
back on their return. Few, however, did
return. The cleric held a good deal of real
estate in . the land-boom days, and was
approached by a syndicate with an offer,
it was said, of £40,000 —one-quarter down,
the balance on cutting-up and sale. He
closed w-th it, but the boom burst before
any sales were made. The syndicate there-
upon suggested a return of some part of
their deposit money, and the priest said he
“might think of it” if the property came
back as it had left him—straets had been
surveyed and lots marked out. Anyhow, the
£lO,OOO remained to swell the cleric’s bank
account. When too okl for active work he
was raised to the dignity of Monsignor. It
is related that Archbishop Carr once called
a meeting at St. Pat.’s to raise funds to
furnish the building. The Dean attended
and offered to subscribe £3OOO if nine others
would do the same, Said the Archbish.:
“Now, Dean, no conditions. Down with the
dust.” And the dust came down. It was
O’Hea who got the name of his parish altered
from Pentridge to Coburg.
BT-om a Digger S.O.: —
Field-Marshal Sir Henry Hughes Wilson was one
of the few prominent British soldiers who came
through the war without a stain on his professional
escutcheon. Like so many others who have gone to
the top in the Imperial Army—Kitchener, Roberts,
Wolseley, White, etc. —he came of middle-class Irish
stock. He married money, and greatly added to his
patrimony by investments (inspired, it was said, by
Leopold de Rothschild), and when his £lO,OOO
grant came he did not need it. His whole life
had been devoted to soldiering; and, lean as a rake
and hard as nails, he looked what he was, the per-
fect embodiment of the pre-war regular officer. When
Bottomley started his campaign in John Bull
against capital punishment for cowardice (a particu-
larly shocking case of the execution of a boy-officer
with shell-shock gave him a fine opportunity early
in 1918) Haig was disposed to yield. The feeling
both in the U.K. and in the army was strongly
against the business; and the people who continually
feel the pulse of the public in the interests of the
Dynasty were nervous of a disastrous outbreak unless
Bottomley was silenced or the death-penalty jetti-
soned. Wilson had' great authority with the French
leaders, having done brilliant work at Versailles,
while, in addition, he dominated Haig; and he was
adamant about the retention of capital punishment
and in favor of telling Bottomley to do his damned-
est. Eventually the Peoples’ Defender was Invited
to Q.H.Q. Overcome by his encounter with the
army chieftains, Bottomley abandoned his humbler
friends, and the firing-squads continued their matu-
tinal operations. Wilson, who had refused to meet
Bottomley in France, did so in the House of Com-
mons, and succumbed to his charm and ability. The
murdered F.-M., unlike many great staff-officers, and
notably Robertson, saw a good deal of real fighting,
though all his decorations were for work in back
areas. He was immensely popular socially, and with
those officers who met him, though he had Roberts’s
failing—-he dearly loved a lord. His brain was of
the calibre of Australia’s prince of S.O.’s, White,
whom he resembled somewhat in looks; but he is
said to have had more force of character and a
bigger stock of military knowledge.
One of the two candidates for the National
nomination for Macquarie (N.S.W.) next
Federal elections is Lieut.-Col. H. Paul, who,
by the way, is father of Mick, artist and any-
thing but Nationalist. The Paul family
belongs to Bathurst district, and the present
aspirant’s father was member for that city,
and a supporter of Henry Parkes, in the
long ago.
“Ike Hollar”: If the Australian Clerical
Association (once the Clerks’ Union) was
challenged to public debate, it could put a
team in the field. Holman, Arthur
Grimth, Campbell Carmichael, and a host
of other politicians are members; and so are
a few legal men like Cecil Coghlan, account-
ants like Cecil Turner, and the best of
Labor s debaters, who graduated through
uujon work to industrial law practices—like
Mick” Connington and “Monty” Henwood.
The man who is engaged in work that has
sqme “clerical” aspects, and wants to main-
tian his association with unionism, naturally
joins this association.
“Quasimodo” on a sick millionaire:—
Lionel Robinson, of Robinson, Clark and Co., share-
brokers, London, now dangerously ill, is a brother
of Arthur Robinson, Vic. Attorney-General, and son of
4. B. (“Alphabetical”) Robinson, who as commer-
cial editor and David Syme’s right-hand man, trans-
formed the Aoe from a merely political paper into
a business and financial journal. Lionel started with
H. H. Ker, who owned Donaldson and Co., a Melb.
firm of sharebrokers. As an operator he wasn’t
a patch on “Bill” Clark his subsequent partner,
but he was daring and ultra-speculative—a quality
which led to his financial knock-out. He once
told me that when he left for Adelaide he owed
£26 to his Melbourne tradesmen, so he left his
wdie and two daughters as hostages, and with
£6O from his father and a bank guarantee
for £lOO, landed in the Holy City with Clark,
who at the time was by no means flush either. Just
after they had collected enough to join the Stock
Exchange, London began to float companies at
Hannan’s (lialgoorlie), so they took off the gloves
and bought every share in sight—at a pound in Adel-
aide for selling by cable in London at 30s. The
bank trusted them, and if the boom had burst,
so might both the bank and the firm. “Robby”
went to London to spy out the land, did not like
the look of it, and nearly came home, but Clark
cabled “Will join you next month.” He did, and (lie
firm has never looked back. “Robby” told me he
once met Sir Christopher Furness, the shipping mag-
nate, at the Ascot Cup at Goodwood, and on tne
lawn made a put-and-call deal with him over 25,000
Bo lder Perseverance shares, for a deposit of £lO,OOO
cash. In three months “Robby” cleaned up £96,000
in the market from this deal. The firm made a
big punch out of Bullfinch shares, and they have been
in every successful underwriting deal in Australian
mining since.
“Lexite”: Old Jacob Selig, of Newtown
(Sydney), who was called to his Hebrew
fathers the other day, at 80, helped to found
the old .Druitt-street synagogue, and later
was a pillar of the Baron de Hirsch Syna-
gogue—both of which temples have now van-
is bed. At . New-
town he formed a
“Minyon” (a regu-
lar religious gath-
ering whi e li is
something less than
a congregation),
and conducted
most of its ser-
vices until it blos-
somed into a con-
gregation. Sel i g,
who was a Schles-
wi g - Holsteiner,
fought against
Germany in ISG4,
and it was after
the absorption of
his country that
he came to Aus-
tralia.
GEORGE HENRY
KNEEN, manager
in Australia of
the Common-
wealth line.
The appointment of George Morrison,
Public Service Commissioner, to be also
Deputy-Inspector of Prisons, has Gilbertian
possibilities. C. S. McPherson, as perma-
nent head of the Chief Sec.’s Department,
can order Morrison about in his capacity
of D.1.P., but at the same time Morrison, as
P.S.C., can completely ignore McPherson.
THE THINGS OLD MEN COLLECT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My shelf is crammed vvith broken pipes
And old tobacco tins;
The lapel of my vest is bright
With shining rows of pins ;
I fear that I am growing old
By signs that I detect,
For I am hoarding odds and ends —-
The things old men collect.
1 seem to love a shabby coat,
With elbows frayed and torn;
I have a dozen styles in hats
That someone else has worn;
And hanging round are shirts and pants
That all show some defect;
And here and there a walking-stick—
The kind old men collect.
I’ve tins of nails and bolts and screws,
And little coils of twine;
A score of keys for lock and latch
That fit no door of mine;
My shaving mirror lacks a frame,
It’s dim, and can’t reflect
Those lines and wrinkles on my face
That all old men collect.
I keep two old and faithful dogs,
And some domestic pets;
One likes to see these things about
The older that one gets.
I’d have them all inside with me,
But someone might object;
They do not know the joy there’s in
The friends old men collect.
Though time is quickly flying on,
Its haste does not annoy.
There’s lots of good things in the world —■
The things old men enjoy.
And life is passing fair to me:
I still can walk erect,
And have no hankering to rest
Where old men’s bones collect.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


It's jusias true zo-chy
Dean as in
V
£
fS
l\
7Z,
V
/■/.
J
Km
- ■
&
-
i THE.
Iffife \HRGIUI,WS V
3\ V/.
Itirea
l
aftiM
i Y
WAV
w m
!
%(
////
1
A
m.
4
&
4
w
%
Ml
m
i
9_ ■....;
There’s no sweeten Tobacco comes inia
and no bettep Brand than the* Three Castles’.”
Tfie famous £>/>&idofW.D. sH.O.WJJh. TZackenccy. “TheVirginians'


mm
ma
CHWEPPES
fw« T r»*»> *nal o-l>
Schweppes’ Essence
Competition—
Closing date 30th September.
Every bottle of Essence of
Vanilla, Ratafia, Lemon, etc.,
purchased has the chance of,
winning a Prize.
Prizes
£65
Each competitor must send in five labels.
The numbers on the five labels will be
totalled, and the aggregate highest numbers
of the five labels will be the Avinners.
Address to SCHWEPPES, LTD., 67
Foveaux Street, Sydney, and mark the
envelope “Essence Competition.”
Closing date No. t Competition, .*loth
September.
Ask your grocer for further particulars.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castleraagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
SOCIETY
_ “Uip” : The hospital ball committee iu a
N.S.W. Cow-country town were discussing
the price to be charged for “looking on” at
the revelries. A prosperous-looking indi-
vidual with a loud voice proposed that it be
2s. “We must keep the undesirables out,”
he said. The motion was passed without
dissent, the committee evidently reckoning
that the mover oup-ht to know. He’d done
a couple of years for cattle-duffing.
HIS SAD REMINDER.
“So you didn't return the engagement-ring, after all?”
“No fear. He wanted it back, but I said it would serve to
keep me ever in his memory"
“F. Slogger” : Most Diggers who used re-
volvers during the World War will have
been surprised at the accurate shooting of
the assassins who accounted for Field-
Marshal Wilson. They hit him several
times in fatal spots while he was moving
(he seems to have been rushing them with
his sword drawn when the last shot took
effect), and as they were behind a road-
repairers’ barricade, the distance could not
have been less than 30 feet. While fleeing
from the crowd the criminals got one con-
stable in the stomach and- another in
the leg. The amount of preliminary
practice and natural skill implied by this
performance may be imagined by any ex-
peditionary who recalls the feats of inepti-
tude he has seen achieved in revolver schools.
At the one I attended we were given nearly
three weeks’ tuition by an expert, in the
course of which each of us fired hundreds
of rounds. Tiie examination occurred in
the usual trench, from which dummy figures
of life-size Huns fell at regular intervals.
Out of a class of 24 no one got full
marks, or anywhere near them. Many
missed figure after figure altogether,
and one bright lad, losing his head,
nearly dropped the C. 0., who was directing
operations from the parados. Arrived in
Flanders, where few chances offered to use
a revolver even in action, most of us forgot
we had learned in England, and
at 50 yards would have been .none too sure
of hitting the proverbial house. But Wil-
son’s murderers were not primarily soldiers,
of course; they were gunmen—and Irish
gunmen at that. Their efficiency is a truly
horrible proof of the amount of practice they
must have had in the Green Isle, and gives
color to the recent Yankee pronouncement
that in the Belfast district (where nine-
tenths of the Irish shooting, Catholic and
Protestant, is going on) the rival champions
are “as quick ou the draw and as neat in
placing their shots as the worst of the Bad
Men of the Wild West.”
♦ * * •
The 11.A.N. heads held a court-martial
last week on some tricky W.O.’s who had
found an easy way of passing examinations,
and the question was sternly put to one of
the accused: “Would you be surprised to
know that your answer to that question
was word for word what the Encyclo-
pedia Britannica says about it?” The
examinee was not perturbed. “Well,” he
said, “I suppose the Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica is right”
* * # *
The housing shortage in M.L., and the
emergency legislation framed to meet it, has
filled the Courts with sorrow and scandal
—particularly the latter*. A Wellington
parson who had bought a house to live in
found the magistrate unwilling to make an
eviction order, two of the lady tenants hav-
ing impressed him by their “frightened help-
lessness.” But the Act of 1921 knocked
out “undue hardship” as a valid defence,
and the divine, renewing his application, was
successful. He did not, however, find peace.
His occupancy was continually disturbed by
nocturnal visitors, some of whom shouted
Words of greeting and good cheer from the
pavement, and, meeting with no response,
proceeded to clamber through the windows,
only to find that the lonely ladies were not
within. The new tenant and his wife are
still pondering as to how “frightened help-
lessness” is simulated for the satisfaction
of magistrates. In another case, a landlord
sought possession on the ground that the
tenant had annoyed and scandalised her
right-thinking neighbors by letting a room to
a couple who were rumored to be unwed.
The order was, however, refused, the beak
observing gloomily that if this were accepted
as a ground for emptying people out, the
Court would have to sit overtime.
...» * * *
“Santo”: Melbourne civic dignitaries de-
rive a lot of pleasure from the knowledge
that Sydney costs more to
clean than the Yarra-side
excrescence. Yet to a visi-
tor the reason is plain
enough. Melbourne simply
is not cleaned, and when-
ever it has been dry for a
few hours the dust flies
about in clouds, and Uni.
professors rush into print
on the subject of the pheno-
menon. Motor-sweepers are
now in use to little or no
purpose. The city’s one
hope of salvation, in the
sanitary sense, seems to me
to lie in powerful vacuum
cleaners. It ought to be
possible to rig an exhaust
motor on a very large closed
van, and motor along the
streets at night, thus remov-
ing the waste landscape in-
stead of merely dispersing it
among the trees and build-
ings. The falling leaves of
the imported elms, poplars
and planes must cost the
Council a lot. For the past
three months the streets
have resembled the aisles
and corridors of an old-
world forest. But it is
the chronic dust-problem
that is the real curse in the nostrils, eyes.
etc. ; of the residents, and Melbourne won’t
begin to be a really civilised city till it is
solved.
* * * *
“Coot” digs up some very early domestic
happenings:—-
Victoria’s popular seaside resort, Sorrento, was
the scene of the first birth and baptism, the first
marriage and the first death recorded among the
dominant race in what was then Port Phillip.
The white baby was the contribution of Mrs.
Thorne, whose husband was a sergeant in the
detachment of Marines forming the escort of the
Collins Convict Expedition. He was born on 25th
November, 1803, and three days later, under a large
gum-tree, was christened William James Hobart
Thorne by the Rev. R. Ivnopwood. Lieub-Coloncl
Collins, the Commandant, acted as sponsor, and the
record-maker lived to a very advanced age in
Tasmania. Three days after this birth the first
marriage took place between Richard Gairatt, a con-
vict, and Hannah Harvey, who had accompanied the
expedition as a free settler. The first death was
that of John Skilhorne, a free settler, on 10th
October, 1803.
* * * *
The departure of the Rev. R. B. Ham-
mond from Sydney, to bring back an enthusi-
astic report of the success of Prohibition
and its splendid moral effect wherever it has
been tried (the Turk, in particular, has been
a long-distance trier), is possibly a sign of
anxiety. An enormous number of letters
are coming this way, with the refrain that
Prohibition has raised the price and reduced
the quality, but left the quantity unabashed.
It is alleged that arrests for drunkenness
have greatly diminished, but that is natural.
SOULS AKIN.
“ Steady! I've had heart
trouble ever since I've
been a grass-widower.”
“ That's nothing. I've had
husband trouble ever
since I was married."
In other days men got tight in a “saloon,”
and were arrested on the way home. Now,
for want of a ‘-“saloon,” they are home first
and tight afterwards. This compulsory
indoor habit helped along the death of Vir-
ginia Rappe and the downfall of “Fatty”
Arbuckle. Deaths from alcoholism may have
decreased, but in a country where no
complete records are kept, it is hard to say
what a man died of, or even if he died at
all. Committals to inebriate asylums are
doubtless fewer, but, with drinking made a
home industry, the publicity which leads to
committal is often lacking. Supporters of
the new order include professional Prohibi-
tionists who won’t admit failure; illicit dis-
tillers ; policemen who are paid for their
silence —-a ..very saleable commodity .now ;
policemen who are not silent at all but
make a great noise explaining that, thanks
to their honesty and efficiency, the consump-
tion of liquor on their beats has become as
rare as the late lamented pterodactyl;
drinkers who swear that nobody ever sees
whisky even through a telescope; and
patriots who make it a rule that the integ-
rity of the U.S. eaeie shall be placed above
suspicion. But still visitors report a rich
aroma, which isn’t exactly Old Bourbon or
carriage-varnish, or Rose of Sharon, but
contains hints and suggestions of all three.;
* * * •»
“First Divvy” : What body of fit young men
had the cushiest jobs of the Great War? In
my view the officers of an English cavalry
regiment in France, who joined up after
trench warfare began. The average man in
a French base camp—Havre, Staples, etc. —
was not really pleased with himself. Too
many people knew the real position, despite
his letters home, franked “0.A.5.,” and all
the other devices employed to make the inno-
cent imagine he was passing through Hell.
That was. a big fly in the ointment of the
Base specialist’s comfort and safety. Now
the Lancer and Hussar regiments—take, for
example, those that were billeted along the
Somme between Amiens and Abbeville —
could always claim to be in the War, so to
speak, and yet they were never of it. No
gun could reach them, and the Boche ’planes
wanted all the offensive material they car-
ried as far as that for more important
marks. For years the cavalry officers'
lives consisted in riding, tin-hatted and
gas-masked, about quiet lanes, playing
bridge, football, cricket and other season-
able games: and visiting Douliens. Abbe-
ville and similar pleasant places by day.
(They had to be out of these towns long
before the hour at which the bombers came
over.) I met one youngster in England on
leave who, from the restrained daring of his
converse and the clamancy of his patriotism,
might have been a Murray or an O’Meara —
except, of course, that no Y.C. ever went on
in such a way. “Poor boy!” said his credu-
lous aunt. “He goes back to the trenches
next week. Oh! The pity and the horror of
it all!” “What’s he in?” “The Umpteenth
Lancers.” It was no good telling her that
her own danger from anti-aircraft shrapnel
was greater than his, from any enemy
source, and her food worse. For one thing,
she wouldn’t have believed if .v
“Lexito” on a venturesome bride:—
A Melbourne Divorce Court Judge has been unravel-
ling the tangled matrimonial skein of a young woman
who wanted two knots, untied, and yet wasn’t quite
sure that they were knots. She started her conjugal
adventures 11 years ago, being then 15. By the
time she was 20 her initial soul-mate had somehow
disappeared. She took a second. lie went to the
war and was reported killed. Another suitor arrived
and there was yet another wedding. But either the
lady must have talked in her sleep or somebody
gave her away, for presently No. 3 developed doubts
as to whether he had captured a genuine widow
and, with an aggrieved sniff, he vamoosed also.
Then the original husband turned up and initiated
bigamy proceedings. His consort was acquitted, but the
husband secured a divorce. Just at that moment
No. 2 (who hadn’t been killed after all) reappeared
and double housekeeping was resumed, the “wife”
being under the impression (she explained) that,
the first marriage having been dissolved, her new
position was legal. But the returned Digger, after
two years, suddenly announced that he didn’t regard
the chain as binding, and faded away. It was a
thoroughly bewildered lady, by this time, who sought
the assistance of the law to define what she was or
wasn’t, and it was rather a sympathetic Judge who
annulled the two subsidiary unions and gave her
full leave and license, should she' so desire, to put
herself in the way of being deserted some more.
HIS SPECIALTY.
ONE : “Wilson doesn't cut much ice as a
skater, does he?”
T'OTHER: “No, but he breaks a lot.”
A woman caught with a quantity of lace
in hey blouse in a large Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, drapery establishment the other
afternoon, and accused of purloining the
goods, put forward a plausible excuse.
“Stealing ! How dare you? I was merely
taking .these things home on appro.”
THE STRONG MAN’S TEARS.
[FOR THE BULL ETIN.]
Why do strong men always weep?
This question plagues me; when I sleep
Vast meaty men in dreams I see
Ail weeping, weeping copiously.
That tables groan I grasped with ease,
That love-sighs travel on the breeze
While hateful lies slink underground.
“A dim religious light,” I found
Did not refer to our mild parson.
And then in every case of arson
“The element of woe,” I learned
Was merely that which briskly burned.
“Pool!” “Swine!” 1 found were names one brother
M.P. addressed, unto another.
But stiff my problem baffled me;
No strong men 'vept that I could see,
Though dogged by me for many a mile.
One kicked me once remarking: “I’ll
Give her the proofs meself, if she
Wants a divorce without a D.”
And so I gave it up bereft
Of light. One only hope is left. / ■/
Perhaps where they have Prohibition , v ;
Strong Yankees without intermission ■/
Weep, as small, grubby infants cry,
At seeing everything so dry.
N.S.W.
HOUND OF CRETE.


sd
AU
FULL
rOM>B
Light & Power
Watch the waterfall —a great natural
force using its power ceaselessly and without
human intervention.
That’ S how the MATTHEWS FULL AUTOMATIC
Light-and-Power Plant does its work.
It goes all night' and day and WORKS WITHOUT
WATCHING.
Matthews FULL AUTOMATIC keeps the
batteries charged automatically. When the current is used
at a greater rate than the normal discharge of the batteries,
the engine starts itself, and the generator takes all the load.
If the load is still too heavy for the generator, the batteries
are automatically called on to help.
Any Plant not FULL Automatic is
out of date the day it is installed.
.
i
a
I
■ I
M
■
Hi
SH
SjK*'
iim
««n
r .. ... *,?. i, ,:
-
Duro Water System
Brings the conveniences of the city to
the farthest out-back Country Homes.
Gives water at pressure throughout the
homestead, works automatically by
electric motor or any engine.
:
m
i *
fiL I
n
v
£
;
in
SHIf
■
SOUTH BRITISH
BUILDIN OS
Deleg 7 \i ms "L&sga
Phort& B Z2PS
O’CONNELL ST
SYD N E Y


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
NDASIA
SHAVING CREAM
i
%
LEVER
TO
THE LAST WORD
IN SHAVING LUXURY
FOR MEN
AN ACCEPTABLE
GIFT
''For Ever Best/'
STA 6
LA6ER
TOOHEY'S.
Sydney Sun (21/6/’22), introducing the
first of Port Jackson’s winter fogs, made this
remarkable statement in its first edition:—
One hundred and fifty-two years ago a barque
nosed cautiously through the harbor. The captain
flattened his nose against a porthole and looked out
on a new land.
Of course, most people knew that H.M.S.
Endeavor passed Sydney Heads on her way
northward, on May 6, 1770, some three or
four miles out at sea, and one of the crowd
must have pointed this out to the Sun, for
in the next edition the following appeared :
One hundred and fifty-two years ago the barque
Endeavor nosed cautiously through the South Seas.
Captain James Cook flattened his nose against a
porthole and looked out on a new land.
Well, well! The Endeavor was a full-rigged
ship, and therefore couldn’t have been a
barque. It is true that she was registered
in the Navy list as “The Endeavor hark,"
and that contemporary prints represented
her as barque-rigged—but some eight years
ago, in an article in the late Lone Hand,
Norman Lindsay proved conclusively from
Cook’s private log, and that of Gunner For-
wood, that her mizzen-mast was square-
rigged. Also, that the term “bark” “was
attached to her because that was the common
MOTHER LOVE.
“If I should die, Jean, tell me what would you do ?”
“George, don't speak of such a thing. I can't tear the thought
of little Billie having a step-father."
definition of vessels of her build, and had
nothing to do with her rig.” The allegation
that Cook navigated his ship with his nose
flattened against a porthole suggests that he
might have been feeling sea-sick, which is
unlikely, as May 6, 1770, was a fine day off
Sydney Heads-—or that he took so little
interest in the unknown coast along which
he was sailing as to remain below, whilst
possibly Mr. Joseph Banks took charge of
the quarter-deck. That also is improbable.
Members of the Melbourne Club hold the
record for being the most continuous resi-
dents of Collins-street. In 1839 Captain
Baxter, the alleged postmaster, presided at
a dinner eaten by 20 presumably clubbable
citizens of that era at the Lamb Inn, which
stood on the present site of Scott’s Hotel.
The tavern, however, had “a tap” where
undesirables foregathered to drink 0.-p. rum
and imported beer.
Their uproar
grated on the finer
feelings of the
clubmen. II en c e
though the Mel-
bourne Club was
founded in that
din i n g-room, as
soon as opportu-
nity offered it
crossed the road to
a house vacated by
J. P. Fawkner, on
the corner of Col-
1i n s and Market
streets. Here the
club remained for
a couple of years,
when it took pos-
session of the
office of the Port
Phillip Bank, that
institution having
become defunct in
the early ’forties.
In the ’sixties the
third and last
move was made to
the building at the
top of Co 11 ins-
street. Inciden-
tally, while one of
the best-run and
most comfortable
clubs in the Em-
pire, it has always
been decades be-
hind the times as
regards modern im-
provements. It was
not even dreaming
of a lift years after
the Australian
Club (Sydney) had
installed one ; and
dim gas-jets Hick-
ered in the bedrooms when even the
Union Club had gone in for electric lights
from roof to basement. It is the incor-
rigible Tory of Club-land.
* * * w
“Moe”: On the staff of Melbourne Gaol
there is a warder whose job involves an
unusual side-line. He is required to attend
hangings, and, when necessary, to revive
with first-aid and brandy sensitive souls for
whom the spectacle has been too much. Look-
ing back over a career of 30 years or so and
an experience of about 25 executions, he is
of the opinion that spectators are becoming
either more hardy or less emotional. Accord-
ing to this official it was no uncommon thing
for the clergyman at a hanging to faint just as
the business was over, until about 20 years
ago. Reporters were sometimes similarly
affected, but nowadays both parsons and
pressmen are made of sterner stuff. So much
so that there has been talk, of late, of abol-
ishing the warder’s post as a sinecure.
* * * *
“Lip” : It happened at Tel-el-Ivebir after
the evacuation. The r.s.m. in charge of
the parade was a disciplinarian who had his
eye on a “pip,” and was striving to demon-
strate his martial
qualities to a brace of
brass-hats nearby.
Sighting some Diggers
with Boer War rib-
bons up that might
have been newly-pur-
chased in Cairo, he
roared : “The men who
saw service in the
Boer War, two paces
forward!” Six
stepped out. Five
sported the ribbons,
but the sixth’s chest
was bare. The r.s.m.
scrutinised him with
that air of truculent
abhorrence which is
(or was in T 5) one
of the marks of the
good soldier. “What
engagements were you
in?” he bellowed. The
Digger told him.
“Then why the Hell
don’t you wear your
ribbons?” The Dig-
ger said he thought it
best to dip them.
“Why?” “You see, I
fought with the Boers.” The r.s.m. didn’t
bother about the others.
* * * *
“T.R.H.”: “Norbell” (B. 15/6/’22) men-
tions the famous (or infamous) drink
“pinky” as having originated in South Aus.
Well, it’s emigrated since then. In Mel-
bourne a man well loaded up with the stimu-
lant will buy a paper to see what country he is
in. A Government medical-officer, anxious to
find what ingredients could produce so many
horrifying fantods, once bought a bottle and
analysed it. His only comment was that
“new, cheap wine at least contributes to the
revenue, but methylated spirits don’t.” Syd-
ney also has its pinky-palaces—“a glass of
wine, 3d.; a mug 4d.” The “mug” not
refer to the customer, but to. the shape of the
receptacle, which has a handle and measures
WHAT HE MISSED.
“D'you know, George, Professor Dryazell has teen lecturing on
this subject for eleven years."
“Gee whiz! I'm glad I went to sleep."
nearly half a pint. Six of those drunk
quickly, and you can see your way to make
millions of money—or, that failing, to
murder someone for having the wrong sort
of hair or insulting trousers or something-
else equally irrelevant.
* * * *
“Sir Spen”: Two convivial N. S. Wales
outbackers went after the same block of land
a few days ago, and their applications were
duly listed for hearing. On the appointed
morning No. 1 put in an appearance, but
No. 2’s agent requested a few hours’ respite
on the ground that his client was “slightly
indisposed.” A tolerant Bench adjourned
till 2 p.m. At this hour No. 2 had sobered
up, but the strain of waiting had so told
on No. 1 that he was now incapable of
doing himself justice. To even things up
the hearing was deferred till 10 a.m. next
morning. Unfortunately, when that hour
came, it was again delicately adumbrated
that No. 2 had miscalculated his carrying
capacity. As No. 1 appeared in court re-
freshingly sober, the Land Board, satisfied
that the points were in his favor, granted
his application out of hand.
* * •» *
“Herodot”: At the solar eclipse which is
due on September 21 next, the sun’s rays
will be entirely shut off from the earth for
nearly an hour. The first indication will
be the arrival of a shadow travelling at the
terrific speed of 186,000 miles a second, that
being the rate at which light passes through
the ether which fills up the vacant spaces of
the universe. It is this happening which
will afford astronomers and physicists a
chance unparalleled in modern times of
working out new calculations and verifying-
old ones. The official Australian observa-
tions will be made somewhere south of
Broome (W.A.). But the task of checking
the thousands of calculations worked out in
connection with Einstein’s Theory of Rela-
tivity is to be carried out in Brazil, in the
state of Sao Paulo, whither scientists are
already heading.
* * # •
“Y.Z.”: Speaking of the demonstrative
fecundity of Prahran (Melb.), I was in
Chapel-street the other afternoon and came
upon a lady with two youngsters sing-
ing a plaintive song on the kerb. One
child was on foot rattling the collecting-tin;
she carried another, and a third was well
on the way; and she sang “Under the Weep-
ing Willow-tree.” Her audience consisted
of three housewives, all flagrantly and un-
blushingly “like that,” and one more with
twins in a pram. The audience stood in a
semi-circle, and I heard the comments,
“Lord, it’s bad enough for men to do this,
but a pore woman!” The horror of a
woman doing it was left to the imagination.
A stout little body gave the singer three-
pence, and said, “Now. sing us a nymn,
dearie. Sing ‘Suffer Little Children to
Come Unto Me.’ ” The item was rendered
with great gusto, two of the ladies joining
in the refrain, and Chapel-street preserved
its accustomed gravity*
a s bght misunderstanding:
he Peanut King’s Farip” j s an object of interest
invariably pointed out to those visiting the Leeton
en of the Murrumbidgee irrigation areas. It looks
like any other section, except that there is nothing
on it but weeds. The possessor was a Yank, who
took up the block with the expressed intention of
showing Australians how to grow peanuts for the
of feeding them to hogs—-“as we do in
Kansas.” He would talk nothing else but peanuts,
and m fact nearly convinced some of the settlers
that there might be something in his plans. But
Australian-like, they let him try his luck first. The
local storekeeper’s co-operation was sought. He
readily agreed to supply enough peanuts to sow a
couple of acres, and in due course delivered a half-
hundredweight. “The Peanut King has sown his pea-
nuts” was a common remark in Leeton during the
next few days. But when weeks and moiiths went
by and nothing showed above ground, the P.K.,
tiring of Leeton’s derisive sympathy, gave it best
and cleared out. It subsequently transpired that the
peanuts the Storekeeper unloaded on the U.S. agri-
cultural authority were roasted.
* * ♦ *
Tekelo” : This is the story of a potential
divorce suit that was settled out of court.
Airs. Katioa, of Malaita, having quarrelled
with her spouse, sought to madden him by
surrendering her charms to the embraces of
Joe Luluana. But Joe was a Joseph, and
there was nothing doing. Thereupon the
dusky Lais trailed the virtuous youth about
the island, loudly deriding him, now as a
wowser, now as a weakling. Native virtue
succumbed to the dual assault of sarcasm,
and strong fella talk.” Joe ceased to be a
Joseph. When Katioa learned the hews
uproar broke loose on the plantation, and
eventually the white planter was brought
on the scene as judge and assessor. Katioa
demanded damages of his betrayer. Luluana
refused to pay, and counter-claimed on the
ground that Katioa’s wife “talk no good
along him.” The planter settled it to the
satisfaction of both male parties by ordering
Luluana to pay the dusky husband £2; the
latter then to pay Joe £2, on account of Mrs.
K. swearing at him.
* * * *
“Pat Bushie”: A certain outback N.S.W.
town has only one J.P. He was heard
to express the opinion, rather impolitely,
that the constable (also a lone warrior) must
be more attentive to sport than duty, seeing
that there had not been a court-case for
close on a year. The disparaging observa-
tion was carried to the John Hop, who
brooded over it for some days. At the end
of that time a summons was issued against
the amateur Lycurgus for having a motor-
car with a dirty, battered number-plate.
HARD TO PLEASE.
“Yow-ow! Wow-ow! Won't be good! Want
you to lie down wiv me in — ow-wow ! .—
in — in—in my own lirrel ted!"
“Digger’s Batman”: While on the subject
of “s.-i. wounds,” the central figures of all
the proven cases that I struck were large,
meaty individuals; and the same applied
to nearly all the instances where a con-
spicuous exhibition of chilled feet was given.
(They have a rude proverb in the Balkans,
by the way, which, roughly translated, reads.
“Large of stern, small of heart.”) My
theory is that the confidence of their vast
bulk nad relieved these men, in the ordinary
physical difficulties of life, from the neces-
sity of conquering fgar and controlling their
nerves. Fa ced with ' circumstances in which
the staff upon which they had been wont
to lean was useless, they were more or
less lost. The biggest cur I ever knew was
6ft. 2in. Apropos, one of Britain’s most
illustrious (and tallest and heaviest) gen-
erals is known to have bolted the first time
he went into action—and while leading black
troops at that. Nor did he ever see front-
line service again. On the other. hand, a
remarkably- big percentage of the A.I.F.
Y.C.’s were small or smallish men, such as
Storkey, Murray, Maxwell, Jacka and
O’Meara, while the Maorilander Freyberg,
who proved one of the most daring men in
the Imperial Army, is very diminutive in-
deed. “Fat” McCarthy and Bede Kenny
are about the only two really beefy heroes
I ever saw—and it wasn’t easy to find small
men in the Aussie Army.
A TEMPERANCE JAG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Canon Gradwell, at the Queensland Anglican Synod,
advised the temperance people of Australia to pur-
chase a brewery, with the object of securing a
sound and suitable drink to take the place of the
teetotallers’ unhealthy washes.
I know a little brewery,
Whereby the hop-vine grows,
And every customer you see
Displays a glowing nose.
I is here they make a brew of beer
By Rechabites caressed,
A brew of beer that’s thin and clear,
That will not put you on your ear,
But is confessed
A ripe, teetotal beverage much better than
the rest.
No more they swill the ginger-pop,
No more they drain the squash.
Ask for a milk-shake in a shop,
And sales-.girls , murmur “Bosh !
We’ve here in bottles rows on rows
Of liquor that’s divine,
To every temperance treat it goes,
And at tea-meetings free it flows.
It is a line
That has the virtues of new milk, the
properties of wine.”
They drink it at our Band of Hope,
And at teetotal lodges,
No more they get their favorite dope
By underhanded dodges.
The temperance brewery runs all day,
It works clear through the night,
And goodly men from far away
All come to see the fountain play,
And take delight
In beer that suits one’s taste and makes
one temperately tight.
VICTORIA.
E. V


Post Coupon for Patterns To-day
&
e
Let Us Induce You-by Our
Great Tailoring Event-
ToSave Money-and be Well Dressed
ii
99
Order a
Quality Suit
At SQUARE REAL PRICE
To
Order
£01916
Usually 3L7|17/6.
This Leviathan Offer may never be repeated— so Order
Now and avoid disappointment.
There is obvious quality in Leviathan Tailoring, the cut
combined with every detail of fit and finish receive the
most careful attention by an Expert Staff. The materials
include All-Wool English, Scotch, or Australian Tweeds.
You’ll be impressed, too, by our
SUPER-QUALITY SUIT,
Usual Price £9/9/-
Including our Special Range of
NAVY TWILL SUITINGS
At tHe Original Cut Price of £B/8/-
it
silt
M
f. V. x
=~s=^mMS3
*/17
Square Deal Sale —One Price Only —
To Order.
£71916
Our Super-Quality Winter Suitings feature a magnificent display of All-Wool Imported Worsteds and Tweeds of Fine Texture, in
handsome patterns of Greys and Browns for men of discriminating taste. This offer also includes our Special Range of Indigo Navy
Twills, which we have recently been supplying at the very cut price of £B/8/- the Suit.
Riding Breeches 8 Trousers at Genuine Reductions.
JUDHPORE RIDING TROUSERS. —In splendid hard-wearing, serviceable
Khaki Drill, useful style, combining design of riding trousers and riding
breeches, thus dispensing with the use of leggings. Well tailored
with cross pockets and belt and loops. Ready for-Service.
Usually 21/- SQUARE DEAL. . . .
RIDING BREECHES. —Smart cut, in Suede Drill, Olive or Khaki Shades,
splendid hard-wearing material, self-strapped and laced at knees, expertly
cut to ensure long service and comfort. Sizes 3 to 7.
Usually 19/6.
SQUARE DEAL
ALL-WOOL RIDING BREECHES.—Absolutely essential for
pair of our serviceable Whippet Tweed Riding Breeches, avail-
able in warm All-Wool Khaki Color, laced at knee. Usually 30/-
SQUARE DEAL
18/6
17/6
camping is a
26/9
FILL IN COUPON FOR PATTERNS NOW.
THE LEVIATHAN PTY., LTD.,
Cr. Swanston & Bourke Sts., Melbourne.
Dear Sirs, —Kindly send me patterns of
the above Suitings.
NAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin.
Cor. Swanston &, Bourße Streets, Melbourne.


CARLYON’S
Hotel Esplanade,
St. Kilda.
Melbourne’s most modern Hotel.
DANCE
at our own Ballroom De Luxe.
DANCING NIGHTLY.
Windsor 5330.
istle
SHIRTS
moan moi # o
comfort and
stylo. ]>o not
take a substitute
All Morcers
sdf
&£t
BRISBANE
AtVO
SYDNEY.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“B. O’C.”: At Burburgate station, on the
Namoi (N.S.W.), a turkey-lien was seen to deliberately
walk into the flooded river and swim across. She
probably had a nest, or chicks, on the far side. At
the next station lower down, Iturrumbede, a cat was
condemned to death, and a station-hand was directed
to drown her and her batch of five kittens, still at
the crawling- stage. He took them to the river,
about half-a-mile off, but, getting an attack of soft
heart, he rowed the lot across the stream, turned
them loose, and came back. The river at the time
was from 20 to 30 yards wide, with a fairly strong
current, and there was no possibility of an animal
crossing it, except by swimming or by one bridge at
Gunnedah, 12 miles up, or another at Boggabri, 12
miles down. Within a very short time —it may have
been the next day—puss and all five kittens were
back in the old quarters. No one knew how she
did it, and she wasn’t telling; but a walk per bridge
would have meant nine 24-mile trips (216 miles), and
carrying a kitten on each homeward stage. The
alternative was nine swims across the flood, five of
them with a living swag. For downright heroism
it takes beating.
* * * *
‘‘Enraac”: “Agricola’s” comments (B.
8/6/ 22) re the defunct cow recalls the experience
of a cocky near MorweH, (Vic.). Having laid
strychnine in apples for bunny he collected about
250 corpses and piled them against a convenient
stump in readiness for cremation. Along came
Strawberry and about 30 of her pals, sniffed the
heap appreciatively, sampled some, and finally
scoffed the lot, strychnine and all. The mob turned
up at the evening milking as usual, and are still
going strong. I had this from the horrified owner
himself, who had the obituary notices all ready.
*** * '
“Dinks”; Another four-footed toper used
to be a pet ewe at the Flemington (Vic.) abat-
toirs, who called in at the pub every time she had
to go to the salevards. This lady would not leave
the bar until some of her male admirers had bought
her three long pots. After breaking the drought
she would amble off to her job of leading other
woollies to the mutton-factory. At the same place
there was a big pet wether that could open any pen-
gate within reach. He used to have great fun let-
ting his pals out at night, and he caused a lot of deep
thinking and deeper swearing until somebody caught
him at it. Then he was sentenced to death. But
none of the local slaughtermen had the heart to kill
him, and a stranger had to do the job.
* * * *
“Byramine”; “Yes,” said old Ted Brierly,
as he squatted on his heels and sawed off alternate
junks of corn-beef and damper with the big blade
of a pocket-knife, “I’ve heard most of them tales
about mobs what rushed an’ took days to find, an’
them what rushed and took weeks to muster again ;
but the worst I ever see rneself was a mob of stores
off Carlton, back o’ Cloncurry. They took some
musterin’, I can tell yer, because what we got one
day we mostly lost that night. Wild! Yer never
seed anythink like ’em —and the wildest of the lot was
a big white piker with one eye an’ a stumpy tail.
Well, by talcin’ all sorts of care we managed to hold
on to ’em the first week on the road, and one nice,
clear moonlight night we was camped on a bit of
open flat behind the Argyilla Range. I was takin’
middle watch, an’ w T as settin’ quiet on my horse
while the mob was lyin’ bunched up ready for ‘off’
at any minit. Then I sees me noble Stumpy get up
quietly, stretch himself, an’ come dodgin’ out from
among his mates pickin’ a mouthful of grass here
and there quite unconcerned like. He had the blind
side to me, and the wind was blowin’ a little, so he
never smelled me nor nothin’, an’ he feeds along
quiet an’ peaceful, an’ me scarce breathin’ for fear
of givin’ him a fright. An’ blow me if he clon’t'
feed right up alongside me without knowin’ it.
Then, as 1 looks at him and sees his funny bit of a
tail stiekin’ straight out behind, some damfoolish-
ness comes over me as I couldn’t resist. Must have
bin the moon turned me dotty; but I reaches out
an’ grabbed his stumpy tail and shook it hearty-like
as I says, ‘How are yer, old man?’ Old Ted sol-
emnly shook the tea-leaves out of his quart. “It
was years before we got that mob together again,”
he said.
* * * *
“Bogan Bill”; I was once in court when
a Binghi, who had been on a roaring spree and
ended up by assaulting the publican, was sentenced
to two weeks’ hard labor. The magistrate asked
him if he had anything to say. “Yes,” said Binghi;
then turning to the arresting constable asked in a
plaintive voice, “Pleethman, where that whisky
belonga me?”
* ♦ * •
“Explorer”: A little while ago someone
wrote of a Proserpine (Q.) woman felling scrub.
There are two others in the same district doing men’s
work as mail-carriers. The first is Mrs. Grey,
whose husband was killed from his horse while
running the mail around the outlying farms about
nine years ago. The widow took -over her husband’s
job, and has been doing it ever since. The other
is Miss Bode, who has been running the mail to
another part of the district for four years. Both
ladies are very highly esteemed locally. Each uses
a sulky, and the only time they miss a trip is when
swollen creeks make the job impossible.
* * * *
“Old Timer”; That shickered billy-goat
(B. 27/4/’22) reminds me of a goose that used to
waddle up Regent-street, Sydney, and follow its
master into the Emu Inn. It w T ould wait patientlv
for its glass, and if not served would let out a loud
shriek that forced attention to itself. Both old
reprobates used to stagger home at closing time,
the feathered one leading the way. Sometimes the
man would crash, and the bird would mark time till
he upended himself again.
FY7 : As to the bibulous practices of
Pigeons (B 27/4/’22) ; all the wild ones do not
bieast the bar alike. Take the bronze-wings. The
crested variety (known out back as the “top-knot”) is
a tame and sociable fowl who travels in mobs. Com-
ing down before 6 o’clock, he lands right at the edge
of the water and sips gracefully, going through the
usual “Thank Heaven’’ motions. His cousin, the
solitary brown bronzewing, alights yards away, and,
after a survey, runs in little dashes to the water,
where he dips his beak in like a musterer’s horse after
a hot day, and sinks the dam-level perceptibly, never
lifting his head. Then, as you watch him, there is
a slap of the wings and he is gone like a rifle-bullet.
His cousin with the brushed-back hair, on the other
hand, will have a yarn and another spot or two before
catching the tram home.
THE FLIES IN THE OINTMENT.
“I think it is a shame that you sailors can
have a wife in every port and escape
punishment.”
“Why. look at all the mothers-in-law we
have!”
r>irre Gurra”: I enter the box to give
evidence before the Abo. Council that horses arc
not the only animals that Seek their master’s aid
in times of trouble. Two years ago I sold to a
neighbor a cow which I had reared from a poddy,
e milked her for a year, then turned her out in
(Continued on page 22.)
a paddock about four-and-a-half miles from my
place, where she was running for 10 months. One
night recently I heard a noise outside the humpy,
and on investigating found the old cow in difficulties
with her calving. She was not a “fencer,” yet had
pushed her way through five barbed-wire barricades
to reach me.
* * * *
“Bongo”: Another advt. for the vigorous
North. The South Burnett Times (2/6/’22) in an
obituary notice of “Lovely of Sunnyside,” a dairy
queen owned by Paul Moore, of Wooroolin, says:—
She had a record of 7.5311 b. of commercial butter-
fat and 12,021.211 b. of milk for 273 days, or nine
months. In 1918 she made a record of 1081 b. of
butter for 48 hours.
Lovely came to an untimely end by another milker
butting her. It has not yet been decided whether
this was sheer feminine jealousy or the assailant
was a “go-slower” acting in the interests of the
International Federation of Dairy-cow Unions.
* * * *
“P. 8.”: Re white girls marrying abos.
Years ago I knew a white woman who lived with
a big Binghi. I don’t know if the knot was legally
tied or not, but she had two children, a boy about
three, black as ink, ahd a baby girl with a skin
like a lily, though the mark of the black was all
over its poor little face.
* * * *
“D.F.” : Both “E.S.S.” and “Ivaitoa” (B.
8/6/’22) attack me for having asserted that John
Hilton Mackay, the late engineering prof, at the
Tasmanian Uni., invented a form of cow-bail which
they allege that they used in Macquarie’s time or
thereabouts. It was the W.A. Government which
gave the credit to Mackay, and if anyone else has a
prior claim he had better file it at Perth.
* * # *
“Jack Lyall”: Tell “Iv. Sped” (B.
8/6/’22) to stop scratching his poll over his motor-
bike that went without the magneto brushes and
have another look at his vulcanite elbows. Thev
are bushed with brass, to hold the magneto-carbons,
and the ends come within 1-16th of an inch of the
collector ring. The H.T. current easily jumps this
gap, and if Maggie is in good order she will perform
as well without carbons as with them. To secure
his ’bus against joy-riders next time let “K. Sped”
just swap terminals, carbons and all.
YARNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When kids get tired of rompin’ round
Their little world of make-believe,
They’ll settle down without a sound
As it with some enchantment bound,
\\ liile fairy yarns for them we weave.
An’ older folks with bigger minds
Still feel the pull of that old spell
That round their willin’ fancy winds,
Until it like a tether binds,
When someone has a tale to tell.
When men in camps sit round a fire
At night to smoke a pipe of peace,
They tell with tongues that never tire
The yarns that mobs like them admire;
S'pun straight from real merino fleece.
Such yarns are rough with burr an’ thorn,
An’ reddened here an’ there with blood,
But wear when finer threads are torn.
Such yarns were spun when sheep were shorn
In sheds that stood before the Flood.
Before the days of books an’ banks,
When wealth was all in flocks an’ barns,
An’ no one thought of cogs or cranks,
Men spun traditions into hanks;
An still we weave their ancient yarns.
A yarn don’t lose through bein’ old—
My best ones all improve with age—•
They don’t grow stale with bein’ told
Like stuff that’s written to be sold
With brand-new thoughts on every page.
An’ that reminds me! Years ago
I started in to read a book,
An’ stuck it for a hour or so ;
But found the pace so deadly slow
I chucked the leadin’ game as crook.
HIS CUT.
PARSON: “I am very pleased to hear that
you insist upon a long engagement for
your daughter with young McAndrews.”
COCKY: “Cripcs, yes. Why, I reckon I’ll
get nearly a year’s free work outer ’im.”
GOING DOWN IN THE WORLD.
JACKY (to sergeant on discovering that the Government has turned off blankets and
rations) : “No blanket! No tucker! By cripes, might as well be a plurry
white man!”
I’ve heard a parson bloke who read
A sermon lastin’ near a hour,
But ‘‘every blessed word he said
Just buzzed like blowflies round my head,
An’ didn’t seem to have no power
Until he reached “A certain man,”
An’ then a dinkum yarn he spun
That snags like me could understan’—
I’ve filled my belly with the scran
An’ met that nark, the “elder son.”
Wise men don’t use a smoth’rin’ fleece
The sinners’ souls or socks to darn;
They pull off just a tiny piece
An’ make the staple’s strength increase
By twistin’ it to make a yarn.
Of course there’s yarns an’ yarns all right;
Some makes us laugh, an’ some draw tears;
Some prickly ones are spun from spite,
While some are naught but noise and skite—
In fact, there’s yarns to suit all ears.
“Man’s life is as a tale that’s told”—
It’s hard to stop if once begun.
So still the thread of mine I hold
An’ twist away with fingers old—
Man’s life is like a yarn that’s spun.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


FIVE NEW NOVELS
If- each
BY AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS.
“THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.”
Adapted from the play by Bert Bailey and Edmund Duggan by Hilda M. Bridges.
An excellent novel of the popular play.
“A COLT FROM THE COUNTRY,”
by Arthur Wright
Another great story by the author of 14 popular Australian novels, whose
sales run into hundreds of thousands.
“ROGUES AND RUSES,” by Con Drew
Another excellent volume of humor by the author of “The Doings of Dave”
and “The Jinker.” “Rogues and Ruses” gives twenty-three amusing
incidents in which “crooks” figure with varying success in sporting and
other enterprises.
“THE PEARLS OF CHEONG TAH,”
by S. W. Powell
A new novel by the popular author of “The Maker of Pearls,” “The Great
Jade Seal,” “The Trader of Kameko,” “Hermit Island,” etc.
“THE BOSS OF KILLARA,” by Vance Palmer
One of the best Australian novels of recent years. A fascinating story of
the sheep-country.
"Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels
1/- each (1/2 posted).
All Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Write for Complete Catalogue (free) of
120 NOVELS BY THE BEST OF AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney,
THE Fiction-publishing House of the Commonwealth.
STAND ON
G'D
pRESfSrJM. A
TE W
Hjnufjctu^
works at
RORT HfXrttS,
CO
TE
Made by the Texas Company.
When you are considering a new roof for
your house, your barn, or any other building,
ask about Texaco Roofing. There is no better
prepared roofing material made.
It is the product of the Texas Company’s
roofing plant at Port Neches, Texas, North
America. It is manufactured of the finest
selected roofing felt, thoroughly saturated
with a 99% pure bitumen, and then heavily
coated on both sides with Texaco asphalt,
special tempered to withstand extremes of
climate.
Texaco Roofing does not become soft under
exposure to tropical heat. It does not crack
or become brittle in the snow and ice of
northern winters. It is tough, flexible and
durable —perfectly protective, weather-proof,
vermin-proof and fire-resistant.
It lasts for years—-that’s the important
thing. And it is easy to lay.
Texaco Roofing, in various weights to suit
your needs, is put up in rolls of convenient
size, containing 216 square feet (20 square
meters), all ready for the roof, each roll
furnished complete with an ample supply of
heavily-galvanized nails, two quarts of
asphaltic lap cement, and printed instruc-
tions.
THE TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited
Head Office—Auto House,
143= 145 Castlereagh St., Sydney
Branches throughout Australasia.
'u’assag®
Lagavulin Distillery and
Dunivaig Castle, Islay.
Home of “WHITE HORSE” and
of Macdonalds of the Isles.
Proprietors:
MACKIE & CO., DISTILLERS, LTD.
Established 1742.
'N
RSE
WHISKY
y- \r
V
1
&
m
m
j<- ;
> (• ■«
' ■s£
2^2
w.
! in i
i t
I 1111 111
p's/s/jumm jmA*//ss/tyMm ■
£ 2
y*/*Ap s
>W/
mmwm.
m
'mmwm
m
m
mmwm,
'memmm
//v/v;
I I
LliilJllU
2 X
riArsss/Ak
asms
LAGAV U UN
~
_ / '-^r
sdf


Every roll of genuine MALTHOID carries this label.
m
MALTHOJO
The Paraffine Companies, Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Sydney.
IP
m
f
ms
l{t‘
Ml:
wor the Summer Camp
Abbots
LAGER
THE BEER WITHOUTATtfVAkS
4698
“Pickles, J.P.”: The brick heaved at
“Wart” and “D.F.” (B. 11/5/’22) over the thyla-
cine or Tas. tiger was uncalled for. Probably in the
past a few of the animals were to be met with in
the wild localities of the Speck, but unless “D.F.’s”
very early days carry him back prior to the thirties
of last century Oxley’s statement holds good. The
parts mentioned by “D.F.” are not within coo-ee of
the south, but they are well within common range
of Mr. and Mrs. Stripes. I’ll grant I’ve never known
Stripes shine as a pugilist, still he may have a little
up his sleeve. In any case he wouldn’t' require much
to- enable him to meet the devil on even terms.
Every time I hear of the ferocity of the latter dirty
skunk it makes me smile. I’ve caught over 300 of
him, and never at any time have I found tiis
vaunted pluck worth a fistful of nuts. One lusty
tiger-cat of the Thomas sex would wipe up a barrow-
load of him. As to “Wart’s” remarks about dog-
and tiger-killed mutton; no man who ever took
particular notice of the way the tiger finishes off
his victim could possibly saddle a dog with the
murder. Respecting the cyanide poisoning, I have
doubts. My neighbor-sheep owners and I used strych-
nine liberally for years without poisoning even one
tiger that we knew of; and none of us ever knew of
an instance of a tiger returning to a kill for a
second meal. He always preferred his mutton warm
and fresh.
* -* * *
“Horatio Goatsluncli”: Poisonous snakes
never have more than six labial or lip scales, top
and bottom (B. 25/5/’22). But do not count the'
one scale square across the nose. Non-poisonous
wrigglers have seven or more labial scales, and they
invariably wear loreal scales between the ocular and
nasal scales, which the venomous ones never do.
**#•-*
“The Rumpus” : The bardie is a fatalist.
His track through a dying tree is an ordained
affair, and nothing will shift the borer from his given
course. Butter-colored and -as soft, except for the
tiny black-red points on his bull-shaped head,
he files away the timber with tremendous patience.
I have by me a piece of wood with one old man
bardie’s brazed trail runing clean through a half-
inch railway dog-spike which had been driven into
the tree. I’m prepared to blow out a match on
this statement.
“BIGGER GAME.”
“The Mahatmas are powerful and invisible. They
controlled and directed the late war.” —Theosophy
item.
SHE: “ Out with that beast Jones again!
Eh?”
HE: “Jones! Lirril Jones? Nosh at all,
mg dear. Met a Mahatma!”
“Bogan Bill”: It' has often been said that
a camel is the only animal that can’t swim. Well,
I saw a camel swim, and swim strongly, near Nyngan
in 1916. A lady camel on one side of the river
poked her tongue out at a bull on the other side. He
didn’t like the look of the intervening water, but the
temptation was too much for him, and he entered
and swapi across. At his crossing point the water
was over 20ft. deep.
“Friday Island”: Re “Ombak’s” (B.
l/6/’22) desire to catch turtles. In the mating
season in Torres Strait the armor-plated animals are
found in numbers floating in pairs on the surface.
The couples are then practically helpless, and
natives dive from boats, bend a line over the limbs,
and tow them alive into captivity in staked-in pens
on the beach. There they live until required for
BEER-MAD.
BEERHOUND BEN : “For Gor’ sake! Quick! Yer beer’s all runitin' out.”
ALCOHOLIC AUTOCRAT: “ Well — hie —whoosh beer is it?”
public feasts —and the native seldoms lacks an
excuse for a feast when a full pen of turtles is
handy. On land they are generally caught as they
waddle back to the water after depositing their
eggs in tha beach sand above high-water mark.
They are simply turned over on their backs one
after the other and later collected at leisure. Moon-
light is the best time for this manoeuvre. If turtles
are swimming in shallow water near rocks the
Torres Strait native spears them. The spear is of
hardwood, seven or eight feet long and ljin. in
diameter. It bulbs out towards the business-end to
give weight, and finishes off with a sharp spike. The
native generally crouches on top of a rock for pur-
poses of ambush and better leverage for the down-
ward thrust. The green turtle doesn't eat the eggs
of the hawksbill.
* * * *
“Jobber”: It’s not only when a cove is
bushed that he goes round in a circle and gets no
nearer his objective. The classer and I had a week-
end in Yantabulla, where they rise the sun with a
crowbar, and started back to the station after tea
on Sunday, both pretty well oiled. The shed was
about two hours’ drive from the township, and after
that time had passed we still seemed a long way
from the gates. Being the more sober of the two I
got out to investigate, and found that we had been
driving round the police paddock Since leaving
Buckley’s pub. We got home before the whistle
went next morning (I was the bloke who blew the
whistle) —but next time we hit the township we
heard all about our merry-go-round.
* * * *
“Longo”: Some guessing concerning the
dressed weight of the fat bullock at the recent
Murgon (Q.) Show. Correct weight, 805ilb; win-
ner, 8051, and three runners-up with 8051 b. At a
sports meeting in the same town a few months
previously three men hit on the exact weight of a
carcase and drew for the prize. There was only one
cattleman in the three and he missed the ’bus. I
know, for I was the cattleman.
•• * * *
“Nunquam” : Big Phil Garland, a selector
on the Barron (N.Q.), who passed out a while ago,
was popularly believed to be a one-time pirate. He
certainly had a way of his 'own in dealing with his
abo. employees. On one occasion two gins, sup-
posed to be picking corn for him, were improving
the shining hour by picking fleas from their pet
mongrel, squatted between them. Phil objected to
throwing his voice a quarter of a mile when there
was a simpler method of stirring them up. Grab-
bing his rifle and taking careless aim he shot the
dog. The gateposts in front of the Garland residence
were adorned with a pair of abo. skulls, and you
could make what you liked of that.
“Jim Carew”: These yarns about ducks
and other water-fowl carrying their young to water
in their bills from their tree nests would be amusing
but for their absurdity. When the mother duck
wants the youngsters down, she calls them from
the foot of the tree and the nippers jump. As soon
as they feel nothing solid beneath them they flap
their tiny wdngs, and although they can't fly the
winglets create enough resistance to allow them to
reach the ground quite safely. 1 have seen young
ducks coming from trees in this fashion dozens of
times.
“Te Whare”: I struck an instance the
other day of Nature apparently leaving her job half-
done. At the butt of a large pine-tree I noticed
scores of fly-like grubs, some about an inch long,
emerging from the soil and mounting on long legs
steadily up the tree-trunk. They were pursued, with
amatory intent, by black-winged flies a little larger
than the house variety. These I found afterwards,
on submission of a sample of both to W. TV. Froggatt,
N.S.W. Government Entomologist, were the husbands
of the unwinged females, and the creatures are known
to science as liorecid.es sabulata. The harassed brides
apparently took not the slightest notice of their lords
and masters, but with one accord climbed upwards,
resting at times in crevices in the bark. Meanwhile
the winged males continued to arrive mysteriously
out of space, and each proceeded to worry his
chosen lady. This strange matrimonial pageant
continued for several mornings until eventually a
couple of magpies (crow-shrike) spotted it, and
practically wiped out the colony of wingless flies.
So far as I am aware these grubs—whitish in body
with circular bands of brown —do no harm. Bar-
ring the want of aerial motive-power they are fly-
shaped in every detail. Why didn’t Nature furnish
these unfortunate females with wings?
“Golub” : “FYTs” description of the effects
of the venom of the stone fish (B. l/6/’22) is over-
drawn. The fish, which is also known by its more
familiar native name of “kito,” belongs to the
same species as many of the poison-fish of the Solo-
mons, and it has been asserted that, as with some of
these, the secretion of its venom is periodical, and
that there are times when it is comparatively harm-
less—although some investigators oppose this belief.
One peculiarity is the great amount of poison which
it secretes, the fluid being stored in a bladder-shaped
gland near the tail. This liquid is thicker than
most similar secretions and more viscid. The more
immediate effects are a swelling at the point of injec- :
tion, high temperature, dizziness and a tingling sensa- ‘
tion over the w'hole of the victim’s body, accompanied
by considerable pain. The precentage of deaths??
occurring among the victims of the kito is not
alarmingly high, and in the Solomons Group there
are to be found poisonous fish whose spines are much
more dangerous in this respect.
* * * *
“H. A. Nasy”: Owing to the dry grass
and a high wind, I did not light a fire, but asked at
a farm for a billy of hot water. The cocky advised
me to try at the next farmer’s place, “because,” he
said, “me and wife ’ev ’ad a Cornish whisper.” See-
ing my luck was out, I left, but —what the deuce is
a Cornish whisper, anyhow?
* * * *
“Wild Oat”: Some time ago an Abo.
described how a snake discarded his coat by biting
a hole in that garment six inches behind the head
and then slipping out. In all the skins I’ve seen
there has never been such a hole. The only ones
have been at the mouth, through which, I presume,
the snakes wriggled out. Most of the skins I have
examined were picked up just outside their winter
quarters.
* * * *
“Horatio Goatslunch” : Re mange in horses
iB. 25/5/’22). There are three families of “mange
mites”—the Symbiotes, whose habit it is to wander
upon the surface of the skin; the Dermatodectes,
which bore through the skin ; and the Sareoptes,
which bore through and make galleries underneath
the skin. It is easy to destroy the first, harder to
kill the second, and darned hard to skittle Mr. Sar-
coptes. In all treatment it is essential to first wash
the part with warm water and soap, to remove the
grease and scurf before applying the chosen remedy.
One part of flowers of sulphur to five parts of lard
or vaseline will fix the first two mites; but if the
Sarcoptes gent, is to be dealt with y ou ' a taV esacre
four per cent, lotion of carbolic acid , daily
ointment, one part to seven of lar ’ , part each
and going beyond the area of the a ff^t, rof £ope can
dressing. Only by the aid of the me suitable
the particular mite be identified, so t go
treatment may be applied. This accou » & help
many failures in curing mange, btatili g you
always. The remedies given are effective, ce
will not need to be covered by an accident
policy as “H2S.’s” treatment would suggest.^
“Puffin Guffin”: “Wart” (B.
says cattle or sheep will not eat she-oak vv 1 ®
is anything else handy. I don’t know , at w -_ s^ern
country “Wart’s” animals live in, but i n
Vic., where feed is usually fairly good, bo ■
and sheep will rush to a fallen oak and eat a
,can reach. As for young seedlings, they have
chance in open paddocks. But along the - 1 . .
the young trees soon make headway. Incic en * »
how long will she-oak seeds remain in the grou
before decay sets in? I knew a man who s* ll 1
enclosed and ploughed some land which bad e
open for 50 years. There was no she-oak lr P >e
within miles, yet the year after the land had ee
turned over young she-oaks appeared. I re S u ,'’l
stand on the side of “Cambronne” (B. 4/5/’2-.)-
ever I get enough land I’ll have a good paddock
served for she-oaks, lightvvoods, honeysuckles, watt es,
as well as eucalypts, and let them grow in. all then
native glory, and I’ll provide that that paddock sha
be kept for future generations to enjoy.
* * * *
“Burraby”: While shooting the other day
I came across a spurwing-plover which as it ran
smartly along the ground showed no signs of any
defect. When it took wing I brought it down, and
on examining it I found that one leg had been pre-
viously amputated, and on the stump there had
grown three fleshy projections which formed a new
foot. Are these birds like the crab, which can shake
off a claw and grow a new one ?
* * * *
“Pick”: Common adversity for the time
being puts an end to hostilities among the most
implacable foes. On a log that careered beneath
a bridge spanning the flooded Moruya (N.S.W.)
there huddled together two carpet-snakes, a tiger-
cat and two fowls. A Oandelo man, cut off by a
bush-fire on the Tantawanglo, took refuge in a water-
hole. Before the blaze trimmed the reeds that
margined his sanctuary, he had for close companions
II snakes, four wallabies and a dingo. At Rat’s
Head, a mining spur of Dromedary Mountain, my
hunting mate and I discovered at the bottom of a
shaft a tiger-snake, a domestic cat and an opossum.
The loose dirt sides of the hole gave them pts foot-
hold for climbing out, and their emaciated appearance
told of the time they had starved there without
eating each other. We dropped the end of a sapling
into the long-un’s corner, and left it as a means of
escape for his erstwhile mates.
EQUALLY FRIGHTFUL.
“I suppose you have to have a scarecrow
for your fruit trees?”
“Oh, no; the old woman is generally about.”
“The Moralist” explodes fracteur and
fallacies: —
Certainly I am not the goat who would accept
“Jumbo’s” invitation (B. l/6/’22) to hold a packet
of dynamite (or a packet of sherbet, either) with
a lighted fuse and caps stuck in it. Of course, the
cap alone would blow a man’s hand off. But I re-
assert that the explosion of litho-fracteur requires
rigid exclusions of oxygen—and that means air—
from the charge. When fracteur is exploded by
percussion with a hammer it will be noticed that a
ring of ash remains on the anvil, showing that while
the inner area of charge, from which air is squeezed
out by the descending hammer, is completely •con-
sumed and leaves no trace, the outer edge, which is
exposed to air at the instant of explosion, is merely
burned. On the other hand, a bunch of fracteur
sticks loosely tied together and fired, with cap
and fuse or by electric spark, will explode to the
last molecule if merely submerged in water to
exclude air—as any fisherman could testify. The
vital elements which are contained in all earthly
substances, the which comprise the major percent-
age of the bulk, are held apart by their particular
ratio of molecular vibration. The impact of hammer
or percussion cap does to them what in effect
a party leader does with his gang in politics, i.e.,
stops their separate songs and sets them singing in
chorus. When that occurs the explosive substances
rush together and immediately change form, ex-
panding into gas 4000 times greater in volume, and
it is that which makes the noise.
SUNRISE AT HOBART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dark before dawn; but in the east a gleam,
As with reluctant fingers, silver-bright,
Day slowly parts the curtains of the night
And peeps out shyly on the world a-dream.
The silent city sleeps. In front the bay
With happy laughter greets the morning breeze,
As Derwent faring forth to southern seas
A moment pauses on her stately way.
Day, growing bolder, rends the veil in twain;
And, lo! proud Wellington from night’s alarms,
Protects his love with strong, enfolding arms,
A mighty, ageless, ever faithful swain.
TASMANIA.
ERIC JEFFREY.


p
\ ”
&£ V-
: ' I m . 1
If-
:
A V* /:*• . •*
U, * ,’j#* > 1
Pf: ■
J
w%
wm.
■ 1
mm
'•
- longreach -
FROM AEROPLANE
m
v
*k
■.» •
««
ii
■
£
v 4 V ;♦*. • «***«„* * > •*
V-
-4&
f
u
■fix.
a,
M
%
%
%
4.
%
m.
&
mm
m .<■
■
■
\sm
'•«»
■
Rf • : ' - ' “-IV:
■■■HH
at Longreach!
Standing outside an up-to-date hostelry in Longreach (Central Queensland) on a
summer Saturday night one can hardly realise that he is not in a big-sized city.
Cars by the dozens heavily laden with passengers and luggage are to be seen.
The place pulsates with motors. Flashing headlights pierce the gloom as Car after
car glides away into the night many of them leaving for journeys extending hundreds
of miles out across the roadless and almost treeless plains. Motorists leave on a
500-miles trip as casually as a city carist would make a suburban run. It is a matter
of use and necessity. Longreach is the railhead 823 miles from Brisbane, and is the
“jumping off” place to the far west and north. Situated 450 miles from the coast,
in the centre of a gigantic plain over 100,000 square miles in area, this township is as
unique as it is hospitable. It is the centre of magnificent pastoral country, much of which
draws its water from artesian bores. The supply for the township is from a bore down 3700
feet that has been running some 20 years, supplying hundreds of thousands of gallons of
hot water daily. One pastoral property has some 30 of these bores, aggregating nearly
five miles of boring. Features of this western township are its buildings-mostly wood
and galvanised iron - and its 14 big hotels within a stretch of 300 yards. Goats roam the
streets by day, whilst hundreds of huge hawks patrol the air; at night, in the cool of the
evening, the residents parade the main thoroughfare, appropriately named Eagle Street—
but most striking of all to the stranger is the fine work being rendered by the Motor.
It practically dominates during the dry months—all traffic across the plains, the outgoing
tracks being indicated by grotesquely twisted telegraph posts, no straight timber being
available for the purpose. All told there are some 600 cars in the district. Motor services
run out hundreds of miles. One local motor and engineering workshop would put
to shame many similar establishments in our capital Cities. It’s a great district for
DUNLOP TYRE
—almost every motorist using these long service and dependable tyres—experience having
proved their undoubted superiority for long distance travel across the black soil rubbly
plains. During the wet season road traffic practically ceases—they had 22 inches of
rain in 48 hours just previous to the writer’s visit—and then things happen. The remarkable
thing is where the vast seas of rain water go to. It’s a sportsman s paradise—kangaroos,
emus, wild turkey, duck, etc., abound. Longreach IS unique. The illustrations will interest.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
ALL STATES AND N.Z.


m
r
o
;
hi
i
i
es
m.
LU H C
%
P
a
*
t^OcP
W;
fv
ft
l^ccvf
T
DKife
Cs
!<•
r “REX’*
Luncheon Cheese
Is Nutritious
and Appetizing
A taste for Luncheon Cheese
denotes an L.L.D. in Cheese
Education —the lover of “Rex”
Luncheon Cheese is invariably
a judge of good Cheese.
He eats it liberally for he
knows it is rich in nutritive
properties and that, apart from
its good value, it is such a won-
derful aid to good digestion.
So you, too, should insist upon
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese —as a
table delicacy or as a Sandwich
spread for Lunches, Picnics, or
any occasion where “something
different” in Sandwiches
is sought after.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F.J. 133
Thank
Goodness !
“Not until five minutes ago did
I remember that you closed at
6 o’clock. Thank goodness I had
my B.S.A. handy.”
Learn from the experience of
others and —
Ride a bicycle
BUILT OF
%
E 3
FITTINGS
All B.S.A. parts are guaranteed
interchangeable. This means
elimination of all unnecessary
waste of time should you lose or
damage any part of your bicycle.
Illustrated Handbook
post free on request.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE,
S?U , "• 1
tejv, '
Hr hIM \wBMif
ft
A
B.S.A
m
The attributes of reliability, long life and
economy for which Dodge Brothers Motor
Car is known everywhere, are universally con-
ceded to be the three qualities which should
first be demanded in a car.
That these three features stand out so prom-
inently in Dodge Brothers Motor Car can
only be due to the fact that it is very reli-
able, that its life is very long, and that its
saving of petrol and tyres is pronounced.
Any owner will attest these facts.
sd
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothera, Inc. ia a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
Violet Blue Eyes.
By “PHLOX.”
u T WAS a wallflower again last night,
I mother.”
1 “Most unfortunate, my dear, most
unfortunate. I can’t think who you take
after; certainly not after me. Anyway, we
must try and marry you oft'.”
“Suppose I don’t want to marry?”
“I’m not going to suppose anything of
the sort.”
“But if no man asks me?”
“Then, you’ve got to do your part, and
see that he does.”
“That I’ll never do.”-
“Then you’d better go into a nunnery.”
“No, mother; that wouldn’t suit me. * I’m
too fond of the joys of the world.”
“What about going to the Islands as a
missionary ?”
“And run the chance of being eaten?”
“Whatever you do in this world, my dear,
you have to take your chance.”
“Anyway, mine’s not going to be in the
Cannibal Islands.”
“By the way, Millicent, what are you
wearing for the dance on Tuesday?”
“I’m not going to the dance.”
“Not going! Why?”
“I overheard that horrid Talbot girl say
to Bessie Myers that my skin was blotchy,
and my hair like rats’ tails.”.
“How very rude of her.”
“Rude! I call it beastly. Anyway, I
have a grain of comfort. Jack Summers
says that I have lovely violet-blue eyes.”
“Of course you have.”
****•
Instead of going to the dance Millicent
had Jones drive her to the home of Mrs.
Douglas—a friend of whom she was very
fond.
“I’m delighted to see -you, deaf,” was Mrs.
Douglas’s greeting; “but I understood you
to say that you were going to a dance to-
night.”
“I was, but —er —well, I’m tired of being
a wallflower.”
“I’m sorry, dear. Did you enjoy that
book I lent you?”
“I did, indeed; especially where Trine
says that you can usually be what you make
up your mind to be. Now, I want to be
beautiful. Do you think if I desire beauty
long enough, and earnestly enough, it will
ever come to me?”
“It will, dear, if, as well as desiring, you
take practical means of assisting nature,”
“I would love to. I wonder if you would
be kind enough to advise me?”
“In the fii-st place you need a good cream
that Will nourish, and at the same time
remove the discoloration from your skin.”
“I did use a cream, and that horrid hair
you see on my face is the result.”
“So many creams do grow hair on the
face; but have you ever tried mercolized
wax?”
“No; I’ve heard of it. I thought, how-
ever, that it, too, might favor the growth
of hairs.”
“Not at all, dear. I’ve used it for quite
a long time. You’ve heard of Frenchwomen
going into retirement during Lent, and hav-
ing the skin of their faces and necks re-
moved by a painful process.”
“Yes; I’ve read about it.”
“Well, mercolized wax has the same effect
without causing any pain or inconvenience.
At night, before retiring, you simply wash
your face in warm water, using a good
soap—I always use Pilenta Soap—then
apply the wax to your face and neck.
Wash it off in the morning, and before
powdering rub in a little of the mercolized
wax, which is obtainable from most good
chemists. Instead of ordinary powder I
always use cleminite, which gives that soft
velvety bloom to the complexion.
“For those blackheads on your nose and
chin, stymol tablets are the best cure. Drop
a tablet in a tumbler of hot water, and when
the fizzing has subsided bathe the face with
the liquid. After drying you will find that
the blackheads have come out on the towel.
“For the hairs on your face there’s
nothing better than powdered pheminol,
which removes the hairs without disfiguring
the skin.”
“How very fortunate I met you, Mrs.
Douglas.”
“Now, for your hair. The first thing to
be done is to shampoo it with stallax !”
“Yes, I’ve written that down. But I don’t
suppose you know of anything that will
keep my hair in curl?”
“Yes, I do—something, in fact, that will
make it curl.”
“How marvellous !”
“It’s a perfectly simple preparation, called
silmerine, which you can get at the chemist’s
and you apply on retiring at night. Brush
your hair out in the morning, when it will
be beautifully wavy, hnd any short pieces
curly.”
“Oh, how lovely that will be ! You can’t
think what a load you’ve taken off my mind.
Now if you would only prescribe something
for my red hands. I’m so ashamed of them.”
t “I can, dear, give you a prescription that
I’ve tried myself with the best results. Add
bicrolium jelly to your list of wants from
the chemist. This pleasant, non-greasy sub-
stance quickly blanches the hands, removes
tan, clears out the dirt which soap cannot
reach, and makes the skin soft, white and
smooth.”
“How clever of you, Mrs. Douglas, to
know all these things.”
“I’ve just found them out by degrees.”
“Oh, there’s Jones for me. Good-night,
Mrs. Douglas; I don’t know how to thank
you.”
“Don’t, dear; but consistently use what
I have told you. When you have improved
.vour skin and hair you will be quite beauti-
ful, and should make many conquests with
those pretty violet-blue eyes.”
Prolactum Lip Salve for cracked lips—
your chemist has it. —Adv'L_^


Spirit
in tke
VU>rlcL
a
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
"to STANDS AT,OH®”
■
.111 :
ORIGINAL
BALATA
BRITISH
BELTING
Why is it that DICK’S Genuine Balata Belting is
specified for service on practically every drive where
the conditions of service are abnormal ?
The reason is found in the innate goodness of DICK’S Balata
Belting. It is specially constructed to ensure efficient power
transmission under the most adverse conditions. The Power
Transmission factor attained by its use is positive—the maximum
possible. It has pliability. It stands mauling by shifters and the
gruelling strain of huge main drives. It resists conditions of
exposure, steam and dampness that cause most belts to dis-
integrate.
Just ordinary belting is good enough on just ordinary simple
drives; but when it is a matter of hard, gruelling service under
the most severe conditions —SPECIFY AND INSIST ON DICK S
GENUINE BALATA BELTING.
FREE CATALOGUE SENT ON REQUEST.
JAMES HARDIE 8 COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY,
York and Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE,
581-83 Little
Collins Street.
ADELAIDE,
30 Currie Street.
QUEENSLAND: The Queensland Machinery Co.
Albert Street, BRISBANE.
he had written all his masterpieces, including
the “I‘roinetheus Unbound,” the “Epipsy-
chidion” and the “Adonais.” But they
did not know him any better than his coun-
trymen knew him. He was a young Eng-
lishman whom the sea had taken.
Time has had its revenges. The centenary
of Shelley, now at hand, is an event of
world-wide interest. His fame has passed
beyond criticism, His Work has become a
world’s treasure house. His memory is
something too precious foi- tears. Biographer
after biographer has dealt with his life and
dealt with it from every point of view. He
was a social rebel, of cburse, and like all
such —except those who are very rich or
very entertaining—was made to suffer for
his rebellion. He left England for the last
time in March, 1818; left it unnoticed by
all but the few persons who, having read
“Alastor” and dipped into “Queen Mab,”
thought him a poet of promise. But even
these shook their heads over his “wildness,”
while the reading fringe of the public, having
heard something of an expulsion from Oxford
and of a case of wife-desertion, felt quite
satisfied that England was well rid of him.
There was no “howl of execration” such as
is said to have followed Byron. There would
certainly have been such a howl—‘and a
united one—had he been better known.
“They learn in suffering what they teach
in song.” Shelley said many true things df
himself, not always meaning them for him-
self, but nothing truer than that. He had
to die before he could get a hearing. The
world had to kill him before it could forget
how he had defied it—before it could forgive
him and listen to what he had to say. It
has been listening with always increasing-
attention since. It has been bringing its
palms and laurels to lay on the ‘ sweet
place” in the Roman cemetery where % by
the grove of Cestus, his ashes rest. Very
few men have enjoyed such a posthumous
immortality and none has had so many tears
shed over him by the descendants ot a public
that kicked the livifig inaii out df dopi-S,
Vet there is ho heed fibw to Wish that it had
been otherwise. \Ve can sfefi inf 1022 what
no one could see in 1822, that Shelley s
social fall was the best thing that could have
happened to him—the best thing for nis
fame, and probably the best thing for his
happiness. Under English skies and in an
English social environment he could never
have developed as he did in the role of exile.
There is nothing new to be said about
Shelley; but thousands of people, amateur
critics and professional ones, will be saying
the old things with variations. Shelley is
too great to serve as a moral,” writes W. M.
Rossetti, than whose tribute to this ‘ drnnest
of the demigods” eulogy can go no further.
But can any man born of woman be too
great for his experiences of life to point a
moral? Obviously he cannot; and the
greater he is the more prominently does the
moral stand out. The lover of England s
greatest lyric poet, if he is sane and not
Shelley-intoxicated, Will admit that m its
treatment of the living man the world was
not unreasonable —on the facts before it. lor
Shelley had done his best to damage oi
undermine two chief buttresses of the social
system, He had proclaimed, as a young man at
Oxford, the “necessity of atheism. He had
defied the marriage law by deserting a Wife
of 10 a fad her child, to say nothing Of her
child Shortly to be born. Moreover he had
run away to the continent with a young gill
of 17 and had taken with him, on the un-
authorised honeymoon, that young girls
friend of the same age. If that had hap-
pened a few days ago in England would not
the most tolerant have Said that the you &
mall was over the odds? And PJ el ? I
present-day world would have hesitate
before asking him to dinner. « .j,t,
There is no need to accuse the British
public either of humbug of hypocrisy be-
cause it stood up for its institutions reli-
gious and social Lord Chancellor Eldon,
who refused to give Shelley the custody of
the two children of a deserted wife, did no
more than any Australian Judge would co
to-day. And public opinion would be with
the Judge. All that can be admitted. Attei
the lapse of a hundred years there is no
more need to blame the British public than
there is to make excuses for Shelley. Both
followed the light as they saw it I to
Shelley it was a rarer, more dangeious kind
of light, if it led him high on to the rocks
-well, he naid the penalty, and posterity
is still reaping the reward. It 1S , th f e “ ch . e , s *
reward that has ever been reaped fiom the
life work of a man dying before 30, and the
philosophy over which Shelley was so ter-
ribly in earnest, the atheism of which he
boasted (and subsequently more than half-
recanted), the reforms that he advocated are
not what matter now. There remains as
a permanent and priceless gift the senes
of lyrics which at their best are distilled
music—the music that can be heard in
secret, that is rarer and finer than any note
nf a Melba or a IVAlvarez, that is a free gilt
to oven one with ears to hear, that lmgers
in the innermost temple of memory and does
not pass away.
A. J. B.
Some Modern Novelists
The novel is so much a .necessity of every-
day life, either as narcotic or stimulant, that
it has become accepted as a completed form,
and all attempts to see or value it clearly
have been destroyed. Great novelists are con-
tinually being discovered and heralded.:
though these discoveries are robbed a little
nf their value bj* the fact that nobody has
the slightest idea of what a great novelist
would or should be. England has had one
novelist who. by the gusto and depth of his
to Life, is raised
above the ranks of the mere reproducers of
actuality^—Dickens. In what direction the
hovel has developed is to be seen by the fact
that it is Thackeray, the observer of but-
tons and hats, and not Dickens that has
been accepted. Sir Harry Johnston is doing
excellent work in bringing his wide and
varied experiences of an interesting period
into novel form, and he is carrying on one
aspect of Dirkens, having also some of the
effect of width and solidity of the older
novel; But of that element of humanity
represented by Falstaff, Panurge and by
Dickens when he lets his humor go almost
madly, we have almost nothing. The blight
of the Russian is over most of the serious
modern efforts at novel-writing. Russia
and France indeed have had a destructive
effect o,n English novelists; between the
devitalised primitivism of pity in Dostoiev-
sky, and of violence and hatred in Tolstoi,
the coldness of Flaubert and Turgenev, the
pestilence of Zola, it is a wonder that any-
thing worth while has come through.
In one case alone amongst the younger
novelists is there vitality—Compton Mac-
kenzie —-a man apparently hated by his con-
temporaries such as Swinnerton and Wal-
pole, that meagre-talented imitator who tried
to unfold (Or cfeatfe) some of the mystery
of that most unmysterious country Russia,
and then to import these strange depths Into
obscurd tillages of Cornwall and the souls ot
English schoolmasters. . Mackenzie’s earlier
books are not his best, fine though they are.
In those of the Sylvia-Michael group he
transcribed the decade of his youth, especi-
ally the Oxford elements of it, with great
delicacy and care. That period becomes, a
little wearisome in its Neo-Catholicism, its
attitudes coming very near to affectations;
while the tour de force of “The Passionate
Elopement” remains a tour de force, a bril-
liant resurrection of the Eighteenth Century.
Sylvia herself becomes a little too intro-
spective in the best modern manner: she is
never given vital life: we never desire hei
as we desire a Shakspearean or Wagnerian
heroine: she has no sex. These productions,
which have been attacked as erotic, tail tor
the very fafit that they arfe sexless. What
really remains in our inlnas after reading
them is not Sylvia’s questions of conscience;
or even her adventures; it is the tat out
woman of Mulberry Cottage, the boarding-
house-keeper she lived in Russia with, the
old gentleman who took her home when she
was dressed as a boy. They and their like
are the vital parts of the books.
When Mackenzie published Poor Rela-
tions” the critics heaved a sigh of relief;
thev were no longer tormented by an inability
to label or place the volumes. They chuckled
over the fact that the man who had been
trying to masquerade as the new and coming
novelist had shown himself in his true colors
as a mere humorist. However, he had
accomplished something that was of more
value than another luxuriant analysis ot an
Oxonian’s soul. In this book, remarkably
well constructed, with the various poor rela-
tions grouped round the central figure Ot. the
romantic playwright (“Rich Relatives is
very weak here, there being little connection
between the families except that the Same
girl passes through them), there is haidlj
a character not illuminated with genuine
humor, not given the gesture and intonation
as only a master can give it. hrom the
awful scientific child to the noisy children of
George, George himself, Lawrence, the
clergyman and dramatist, the rascally
younger brother, the architect, the talkative
mother of the secretary, even the Major m
the boarding-house, each is perfectly drawn.
But what is more remarkable is the careless
gay air of irony all through, the complete
lack of sentimental or moral attitudes. Ihe
author frankly loves the unrepentant forger
The book is free and hard and gay —tree
not because it revolts, but because it laughs
For it is laughter that preserves us from the
revolting “pity” of the Russians, the disgust
of the French. To have written that ex-
posure of generous emotion in the splendid
scene between the dramatist and the archi-
tect is to have done something no othei
modern novelist can. In this book Mac-
kenzie touches hands with Dickens.
J. L.
“M.D.”: The mania for collecting first
editions’ of Conrad’s novels is very violent
in the U.K. at present, the prices
having soared from £8 Bs. to £l2, and finally
to £lB 18s. The complaint has extended to
Australia, but it is only in a mild form as
Vet. I recently saw a battered and toi-
lorn-looking first edition of Conrad s Nigger
of the Narcissus,” which was marked £4 4s.
But I was not prepared to go further than
Harry Lauder’s subscription to one ol his
mates when he was in dire want—a couple
o’ bob. Stevenson came next m price, a
-first edition of “The Wrecker” being marked
at 30s. H. G. Wells was low down
on the list, and apparently friendless,
a first edition of “The Adventures of Mr.
Pollv” being dirt cheap from a collector s
point of view at 7s. Gd. Good finds seldom
drift into Sydney booksellers shops, but
when they do the cream of the stuff promptly
disappears from public view, especially it
it is anything spicy and French. lor in-
stance, a copy of Roger de Rabutm s (Comte
de Bussy) ancient and highly-seasoned “His-
toire Amoureuse des Gaules,” from which
Anthony Hamilton drew inspiration for his
less scandalous but more famous Memoirs
of "the Count de Gramont,” would at once
be sent to the London market, where it would
be bound to fetch a goodly sum. A few
years ago there would have been a fine to-
do if any adventurous publisher had at-
tempted to foist on the public an unabridged
English translation of the famous —or in-
famous, according to taste —“Memoirs of
Casanova.” They are best studied in French
or Italian. A publisher is not only doing
that to-day, but he is charging a fine price
for this “uplift” stuff, which is being eagerly
awaited. The edition is limited to 1000
copies, being in 15 volumes at monthly inter-
vals. The "price is £27 for the lot. Fancy
anyone in his senses giving this sum for a
work that could be obtained in French in
6 vols. at 2s. per volume! Here is a final
item that may interest admirers of Sir Rich-
ard Burton. ' A fond mother, whose educa-
tion had not kept step with her husband’s
capacity for making money, did not know
what book to give her son, aged 17, for a
Christmas present. A friend told her of the
popularitv of “The Arabian Nights,” so she
planked down *24 for an unabridged edition
in 15 vols. She is still of opinion that the
work has a high value*
The inky Way
Charles Dickens wrote to Miss Burdett Coutts in
1841: “If anybody should entreat you to have a
photographic likeness done-—don’t be prevailed upon
Oil any terms. The Sun is a great fellow in his
way, but portrait-painting is not in his bn®. 1
speak from experience, having suffered dreadfully.
“Friday Island”: The late Dr. Archie Lang
McLean,- Of Sydney, a member of the Mawson Expedi-
tion to Antarctica in 1911, edited and brought out
the AiiEbißj Buzzard, which helped to maintain good
spirits and kept hope from getting frozen during a
distressing period. Later he edited Mawson s Home
of the Blizzard,” concerning. which Mawson says:
“To him the book owes any literary style which it
may possess.”
“P.A.L.” writes: In fairness to my initials I
would like to be allowed to explain that what was
referred to as “the Drum yarn” in the Answers to
Correspondents column (B. 25/5/’22) was a yarn
dealing with a musical instrument and nothing
else. As you held that the effort was “both nasty
and dull” the evilminded might be excused for put-
ting a wrong construction on a perfectly healthy-
minded yarn whose actual title was “The Breaking
oi the Big Drum,”
“trlaiiiao” : The death of the ex- Emperor Karl of
Austria in Madeira as an exile recalls a passage in
Gibbons’s Autobiography. Alluding to the family
of the Earl of Denbigh and the Feildings (or Field-
ings) having a common ancestor with the House
of Hapsburg, Gibbon says: “The successors of
Charles V. may disdain their brethren of England,
but the romance of ‘Tom Jones,’ that exquisite pic-
ture of human manners, will outlive the Palace of
the Escurial and the Imperial Eagle of the House
of Austria.”
The March issue of the Round Table has the usual
impartial and detached survey of world affaire
and of the special problems facing the British
Commonwealth. The fact that this quarterly reaches
its readers. months after some of its contents were
written becomes now and then, in these days of
hurrying events, something of a handicap—for instance
the review was penned in mid-Jaunary and
the Rand has been bespattered with blood in the
interval; and the references to Genoa are read
with a full knowledge of how things worked out,
or rather didn’t work out, which the writer could
not prevision. Still, the Round Table, with its
Wide and dispassionate outlook, is easily the best
periodical for the average man who wishes to keep
in touch With the larger politics.
How a press life gets its followers down! Mel-
bourne Herald, at time of writing, is minus I'fOit.e
Taylor (who recently transferred from the Act to
be the Fink organ’s chief of staff), the trouble being
appendicitis. Police-roundsman Tom KelynacK is
home with an internal trouble; Lionel Batto’
the paper’s Labor chronicler, has been m
the surgeon’s hands; municipal-roundsman lie-
mearne is off duty with a “gammy” leg; and even
placid zoologist Charles Barrett has found the
scrutiny and description of the behavior of wombats
and garden-snails too nerve-racking.
“Macquarie Street” : I looked up the Vailima let-
ters to ascertain if Robert Louis Stevenson was as
poorly paid during his life as H. H. Champion vB.
1 /6/’22) would have us believe. They are, of course
full of growlings, such expressions as “There’s a hell
of a want of money this year” predominating, but
it must be remembered that R.L.S. was a canny Scot.
I can find but one allusion (he didn’t dilate on that
subject) to his earnings per year, but the Bum men-
tioned would scare an ordinary wolf from the door.
In a letter to S.C., dated December 1, 1892, he wrote:
“I must have made close on £4OOO this year all .
told; but, what is not so pleasant, I seem to have i
come near spending them.” That was not a bad t
income for a writer 30 years ago, who was handi-
capped both physically and geographically.
“Orb”: In one of the schedules appended •to the
“Tasmanian Electoral Act, 1907,” a specimen form
of ballot paper is set out thus: —
FORM K.
Collins, Wilkie.
Farraday, Michaek
Kingsley, Charles.
Kipling, Rudyard.
Le Quex, William.
Scott, Walter.
I want to know why it is that the name of our
very own poet, who presumably derived his nom-de-
plume from Hobart’s sleepy suburb, is not given
in place of one of these exotic writers. I refer, of
course, to the one and only “Bellerive.”
“Dido”: As an Australian freelance, I have and
hold it as a bitter grievance against Australian edi-
tors that they are irrevocably prejudiced against
matter that has been submitted to another paper.
If the MS. bears external evidence of having been
through other editorial hands, or under other editorial
pencils, it is doomed. The objection is a stupid one,
since it does not follow that the Screed unsuitable tor
one journal would be out of place in another. In fact,
the .attitude of the irresistible and immovable We is
not based on anything more reasonable than prejudice,
which is itself the outcome of vanity. Mr. Editor
won’t take the other fellow’s leavings, even if the
said discards are very superior to wh at he ordinarily
prints. The attitude implies a pitiful lack of judg-
ment on the part of editors, or, at any rate, a dole-
ful want of faith in their own judgment. This con-
dition does not prevail in London, where you can
send a manuscript round as long as it will hold to-
gether, at least confident that its chances ot accept-
ance are not prejudiced by the fact that some other
fellow doesn’t want it. London editors do not forget
that the fellow in question may be woefully lacking
in discrimination.
“B.” : Perhaps some expectation of an adverse
judgment induced the Hobart Mercury to make a
special effort to get the Ryan appeal to the High
Court struck out the other day. Anyhow, the
paper seemed terribly anxious to avoid further argu-
ment when it presented to Mrs. Ryan a bill for
£5338, and after negotiations, during which the
lady could not be shaken from her determination
to part up more than £lOOO, accepted that amonut
to let the case slide. Financially the settlement is
tantamount to a victory for the dutiful young
widow, and the moral effect of it will be greatly en-
hanced when it is known that the Mercury took
the cash under conditions which its Tory brethren
elsewhere omitted to publish. For example, it has
agreed to make no further comment whilst allowing
the other side the widest freedom on the matter.
Mrs. Ryan, of course, will not take advantage ot
this, and it is only mentioned here to show how
a haughty party organ will sacrifice its dignity to
its pocket.
THE EDITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sent to him some dainty lines —
Waited a week, and then,
As there appeared no hopeful signs,
I wrote to him again.
“Dear sir” —straight to the point I led —
“1 sent” (on such a day)
“Some verses, and I hope—I said—
They have not gone astray.”
“They have not gone astray at all,”
He promptly made reply;
“Your verses crumpled in a ball
Within the basket lie.”
So be it. I don’t care a curse.
What makes me rave and ramp
Is not that he destroyed the verse
But that he kept the stamp!
SCOfLAND.
W. H. O.


e~ ?%£&*
m *
Wool!
WINCH COM BE, CARSON
Even a sheep springs into activity at those words.
They are familiar and linked inseparably together.
Good work, good methods and good sales have made
the firm’s name pre-eminent in the wool trade. For
Top Values Consign Wool: .
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
Salesmen, Sydney or Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
fsd
MADE BY It. & J. DICK, LTD.
THE BARRY STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
represents the most considerable for-
ward step yet taken in the design and
manufacture of a steel split pulley.
The BARRY is Electrically Spot Welded by
the latest and most improved methods. Weld-
ing is the strongest possible means of joining
metals, presenting many advantages over the
old-style riveting. There are no rivets in a
BARRY Pulley to work loose or shear under
strain. The BARRY is made of special steel
and formed in accurately constructed dies.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
52t.53 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
£van in do days of I
indmothors
our
A
t
r APPS
■WOKFESfi
p ' a
jatuous household remedy
TTO Three Generations
throughout Australasia
the name ‘Wolfe’s Schnapps’
has been a Household Word.
Its Perennial Popularity is
due to its remarkable
oAttractions as a leverage
and to the fact that by reason
of its Unique Medicinal Attributes
it Stands Supreme as a Remedial
argent for Use in the Home Circle.
For Your Health's Sake
Always Have a Bottle in the House
WOLFE’S
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
d Blessing to Humanity ”
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
BliniN
mUMM
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zine
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terras of Delivery, address—■
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors the Board of Trade.
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PULVERIZED FUEL FIRING
Cuts Labor and
Fuel Bills.
Gives High
Efficiencies and
Capacities.
fsd
Send to us for
Bulletin No. 600
and all
Particulars.
Fuller Engineering Co.,
Australian Engineers’ Office, 79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
Elder, Smith. ®. Co. Limited,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, BRISBANE.
tIM(
\
m
oilier
■a
9
'a
V
n
"\
'r:r
4.
ili
W 1
Puhe
CQATJOEATSEn
/lakes Lovely. Cakes #
and Babies i'lmve on 1+
p
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed*
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
1] ;
SSEMSS
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
FLAG BRAND
Cutlery.
Never requires cleaning, and holds a good cutting edge.
Also Pocket and Pen Knives, with Rustless and Stainless Blades.
It unable to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Stret. Sydney.
SKANDIA
Crude Oil, Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
No
Magnetos
Sparking Plugs
Batteries
Carburetters
or
Electrical
Devices.
Unequalled in
Economy
Simplicity
Durability
and
Reliability.
jails
in
4 to 800
H.P.
Sole Agents for Australia
and South Sea Islands—
NELSON ROBERTSON,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Adelaide claims a new world’s record in
a useful sport. A reinforced-cement expert,
with a team of eight men, backed himself
to ‘ pour” the walls of a four-roomed house,
with bathroom, etc., in hours. It was
finished in 4 hours 40 minutes.
* * * *
Van Raalte, the etcher, now curator and
professional adviser of Adelaide Art Gallery,
told the public in his first lecture that the
pigments used by many Australian painters
at present are rubbish. “I know canvases
only 10 years old which are badly cracked
already, and may in another 10 be worthless.
The painter, who hopes to hand his work on
to posterity, is producing things which will
not last his own lifetime. Every painter
ought to be a chemist.”
# * # *
“Tiberias”: Couldn’t we learn something
from Chinese methods of egg-preserving?
Hunan, in China, has some very large
poultry-farming districts from which eggs
are distributed all over the country. They
are preserved by wrapping around each a
Coating of clay and salt mixed with rice-
hulls, after which they are sealed up in
large jars. Eggs treated in this manner are
said to keep indefinitely.
* * * *
“San”: “Silas S.” (B. 18/5/’22) com-
plains of the high prices of Melbourne meat,'
and he speaks of choice cuts at 2s: 4d. per
lb., and inferior at Is. 6d. In few suburban
shops that I know of can a sirloin be seen
marked higher than Bd. Ribs are sd. and
(id., mutton from old., chops (id. Altogether
the range is from 3d. to Bd. Perhaps the
complainant took the 2s. 4d. ticket to mean
per lb. instead of per round. To one who
came from a one-butcher town where meat
was of the worst quality and double its fail-
price, Melbourne butchers’ windows looked
like gift displays.
* * * *
“Cambronne”: “Ship Rock” (B. l/6/’22)
and two other ink-spillers tell me that some
Australian-made axe-handles are quite equal
if not superior to the best American article.
Glad to hear it; but if handles equal to the
best imported can be made in Australia, why
import them? If any enterprising Austra-
lian would start an axe-handle manufactur-
ing business and turn out handles equal to
the best American make, a sure fortune
awaits him. The wholesale price of best
American handles is about 3s. They are
sold retail at 4s. “Ship Rock” ends by
asserting: “There are a dozen Australian
woods better than the immature hickory
rubbish coming from America.” Could there
be a more disastrous confession of national
inefficiencv ?
*"* * *
“A.L.P.”: It was Crab the barman
who started _ it by casting doubt on
Potter’s claim as a pigeon expert,
“Look ’ere, young-fellow-me-lad,” asserted
the indignant authority on birds, “I
bred ’omers that never paid me to keep. I
couldn’t get rid of ’em.” “Don’t doubt that,”
murmured the beer-dispenser. The undaunted
narrator resumed, “I sold a couple of young
’uns to a bloke living 150 miles away, but as
soon as ’e let ’em loose they come back.”
“Who brought them?” asked the sarcastic
barman. Potter ignored the interrup-
tion and proceeded. “I gives ’im another
pair with feathers just starting to sprout,
but they ’omed as soon as they could fly.”
“Suppose you gave it up then,” interposed
Bung’s disdainful employee. “Not me,”
soliloquised the reminiscent fancier. “I
gives ’im a couple of the ’omers’ eggs and ’e
takes ’em ’ome a.n’ ’atched ’em out under an
’en, but as soon as the blanky young ’uns
could fly they ’omes too ; so I gives up the
game as ’opeless an’ gets out of the busi-
ness.”
* * ■ * *
Ettie Rout (from London) : For months
I have bought up sample lots of Aus-
tralian fruit here—and sometimes I have
felt inclined to weep over it. Certainly the
tinned stuff has improved. So has the jam,
but not nearly enough. I have recently
bought dried plums, peaches, apricots, nec-
tarines, apples and pears. They are splen-
did. The apples should be cored and peeled
a little more carefully, and the dust should
be kept off the pears when drying. I think
these dried fruits would be better if done up
in small packages, with directions and recipes
enclosed. They are best prepared when
soaked in syrup, not in water, and the addi-
tion of a little fresh fruit is a great advan-
tage. Interesting little pamphlets about
Australian fruit-farms, illustrated with
photographs and enclosed with the fruit,
would further advertise the article itself and
the country it comes from.
* * * *
“Hoppy” : I wish “Gregor” (B. l/6/’22)
would let some Melbourne municipal sur-
veyor know where that tar is running to
waste down a creek. Last season one Mel-
bourne firm imported from Sydney over
100,000 gallons; after distilling for oils it
was retailed to various councils at lOd. per
gallon at the stills. The tar stocks held in
Melbourne at the present time are about
one-fifth of next season’s requirements; there
are at least four municipalities with storages
of over 100,000 gallons each, which would
be glad to see any prospect of filling same.
I may add that there is a plant within two
minutes of Burney railway station, where
they treated 300,000 gallons last year for
by-products, and would have liked to get
twice the amount. Some of the by-products
found their way to the Cold Country and to
America.
“.Tack ITorner”: “S. Slipper” slips up in
his statements (B. 18/5/’22) about clear-
ing around Lake Bonney (S.A.). The De-
partment’s specification provides for the
cutting out of “all firewood 2in. and over at
the small end.” Stumps up to a two-man
hft are also saved, and the intention is to
handle the larger ones with mechanical
means. The stumps are burnt at /lie kilns
—not the pumping-stations, though there is
now talk of installing special means of hand-
ling these at the pumps. There are stacks
of thousands of tons of firewood at the Lake
Bonney and Loveday plants. If the roots
picked up by the “emu-bobbers” were stacked
on the blocks and the cost charged to the
Digger, that person would have a fit —in
fact, a succession of fits. The only parts of
a tree burnt are the leaves and the twigs up
to 2in. thickness. _ Has “S. Slipper” any
method not prohibitively costly of gathering
up, carting and stacking these?


Ml
::
* •
-
'I
m
m
■
MM?
Before the Dance
and after
Your skin requires special treatment
to keep it fresh, clear and smooth
SKIN aglow with, dewy
freshness, radiant with
light and life, a skin that
keeps its natural, clear
hlo om th roughout the
evening and on into the
“wee sma hours, 5
skin in perfect health.
is a
Skin health is the result of unremitting care,
and it is well to aid the natural functions of the
pores by the use of those gentle but most potent
cleansers, the oil of the Palm and the Olive.
Palmolive Soap contains these Bland and beneficial
oils, lotion-like in tbeir action, yet of such penetrat-
ing quality that Palmolive promotes more than mere
surface cleanliness Gently, but surely, it reaches
the minutest pores, cleansing and freeing them from
all impurities that impede the natural healthy
action of the skin.
Before tke Dance
Work up a soft creamy lather with Palmolive Soap
and pleasantly warm water; massage it gently but
thoroughly into your skin with a circular movement
of the fingertips, then rinse with clear warm water
and finish with a tonic dash of cold.
You can FEEL flie skin become soft and supple
from the effects of this swift, thorotfgh cleansing;
FEEL it revive, then glow with a new health and
heauty.
Your shin is now not only perfectly cleansed, hut
soft and smooth and ready for a touch of Palmolive
Cold Cream and for the application of power and
rouge if desired, for these cannot harm a shin so
perfectly prepared.
And After
At bedtime remove all tra-
ces of powder, rouge and
dust by simply laving but
not rubbing tbe skin with
the soothing latber of Palm-
olive and warm water, rin-
sing finally with cold.
In this way your skin is
thoroughly cleansed and
/ tfltyf
sootkech and the pores, freed from all clogging im-
purities, are able to perform their natural functions
while you sleep-
Prove also the Perfection of
Palmolive Cold Cream; Palmolive Vanishing Cream;
*’Violet of the Nile” and “Egyptian Rose” Talcums;
M Palmole” Face Powder; Palmolive Face Powder;
Palmolive Rouge; Palmolive Shampoo.
An Ancient
Beautitier
When Egypt was an Empire, the dany
ceremony or the bath amounted almost to
a ritual, and in Egypt the precious nat-
ural oils o ? the palm and the olive were
used to soothe and stimulate the skin,
Palmolive Soap contains these valuable
oils, whose effect now is even more
potent than in their earlier crude form,
so carefully are they prepared, so exactly
are they blended.
Sells everywhere at 1/3 per cake
D
U
m
The guest size cake oj Palmolive Soap will be sent post jrce, on
request, by the Palmolive Company (Australasia: Ltd., Bi oughton
House, Clarence Street, Syaney.
m
■ms.


he largest selling
quality pencil in
the world.
fcsoifi
r ENUS
PENCILS
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
%
>5 " O
Vf
7
v
*;0
° 0-.•-•■*
(V-'C^U'
SS£
(,«
./
m
N.-i
/
//!
i<:<
&u
UJ*
/L
r
7
<&>
jje’
C/a®
Nature has her
m oments of
sweetest charm,
not when a tropi-
cal sun scorches the soil,
but when the dew is on the
flowers in an old English
garden and their fragrant
breath lingers in the air.
Those “moments of sweetest
charm” are irresistibly recalled
by the three favorite
fs
Zenobia Lily of the Valley—a per.
fume with the unique grace of the
tenderest of blossoms.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom —the
original perfume which, in name, his
been widely imitated. Be sure to get
the genuine Zenobia.
Zenobia Night
Scented Stock —a
perfume as fascinat-
ing as the loveliest
garden by night.
Manufactured only
by
Zenobia Limited,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire,
England.
Sole Agents for
New Zealand
(Wholesale only),
Newson & Co.,
Ltd., P.O. Box
1162, Wellington.
Sole Agent for
Australia
(Wholesale only),
Kenneth Buckmaster,
15 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
ENO
jWL>y
the
VALLEY
rr
a
JL
iiZUSi&i
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
B U
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
Made in various
sizes and styles
from H-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
last alifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom,
df
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Strost, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A
PLUMBERS
BRASS WORK
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
Medium
Country
Melbourne
Sydney
Brisbane
Hobart
Perth
Adelaide
rßib Cocks, Hose Cocks, Gully Bibs, Stop
Cocks, Shower Cocks, Ferrule Cocks, Straight
. Ferrules, Path Cocks, etc.,
TANK COCKS, fin., lin.
WINDMILL PUMPS
ALDERDICE, Warrnambool.
[3
Science gives proof of the
Nutriment in
sdf
Everyone must have nutriment to maintain health
and strength, and the energy to live a useful life.
C 0& Liver on.
EMULSION
A Medical Scientist recently demonstrated that the
HUtHtious elements in Cod Liver Oil are consider-
ably greater than in a food so rick in fat as butter. .
This discovery reveals the secret of the phenomenal
success and popularity of HYPOL, which contains
50/ of the finest Cod Liver Oil from the Nonvegian
Fisheries, but blended so skilfully with the hypo-
phosphites of lime, potash and soda, and so en-
ticingly flavoured, that it is just as pleasant to take
as it is wholesome.
Doctors recommend HYPOL largely for the following
Complaints, and it never fails
Coughs
Colds
Bronchitis
Pneumonia
Anaemia
Debility
Influenza
Nerves
Measles
Rickets
Loss of Weight
Whooping Cough
There's some distinction and originality about HYPOL.
Substitutes are “not as good
INSIST ON GETTING HYPOL. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO. PROP. LTD., Melbourne.
N
trk
/
\V #
Well Satisfied!
(7ldU
PLUME
motor
(SPIRIT
Easy starling, sv/eei running, more miles.
Motorists who have tried
the new Plume Motor Spirit
speak in the highest terms of
praise of its easy starting quali-
ties, splendid pulling power,
mileage, and sweet running
under all road conditions.
They are well satisfied.
Because of its correctgroup-
ing of boiling points the new
Plume Motor Spirit is highly
volatile, every drop being in-
stantly and
completely
vaporised
ensuring a
perfect ex-
vutme
N^ORSPtf^
plosive mixture. This elimin-
ates any possibility of liquid
petrol working past the Piston
Rings and so breaking down
and ruining the lubricating
qualities of the oil used.
Test Plume in your car
to-day. Whenordering do not
say—“ Give me a fill up of
Petrol” but ask for Plume
Motor Spirit.
Forhighestpossible Engine
efficiency use the correct
grade of Gargoyle Mobiloils
for your Car, as specified by
Vacuum Oil Company’s
Chart of Recommendations.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PH L™
0.14. A.
“I>. Dotty” : Re the Billy Hushes doll of
“Trevdee” (B. 8/6/’22). A large lolly, also
shaped on Low’s conception of the immortal
William, is well established in juvenile favor.
‘'Billy Whos” is the .name under which the
sweets are camouflaged, but even the smallest
kid know's w r hom it represents.
“P.T.0.”: The other day I came across a
claim to an intestate deceased person’s estate
that seems a record in remoteness. It was
put in by an illegitimate son of the woman
with whom the departed had been living (as
the clergy say, “in sin”) for some years.
The claimant’s father was a gentleman that
the intestate person had admittedly never
even seen!
“Yamba”: Some of the “war words” men -
tioned by Padre Green (B. S/6/’22) are
obviously older than the war, although the
war doubtless gave them wider vogue. I
suggest that the ascribing of “putting the
wind up” to the British military phrase of
“being in wind,” i.e., unsupported or unrein-
forced, is quite erroneous. Over 40 years
ago I came across what I still believe to
be the origin of the expression. I have
heard it said satirically of a nervous public
speaker: “Oh, no, his legs aren’t trembling;
it’s only the wind blowing up his trousers.”
There you have the real inwai'dness of the
phrase; the other explanation is merely
ien trovato.
“Snell”: The faithful and intelligent tripe-
hound again. Weyman’s retriever brought
a chewed five-feet black snake to where
Weyman was eating his midday meal
in the bush near Pakenham (Vic.),
one hot afternoon about a month back,
and dropped the reptile in his master’s lap.
Before he realised what the fool-dog had
done, Weyman had attempted to push the
serpent away, and was bitten in the little
finger. He cut the finger off with a tommy-
axe on realising the trouble good old Towser
had brought him, and suffered no further
inconvenience. Then Towser had a burst of
savee, and towed the damaged snake by the
tail into the camp-fire, leaving it. to frizzle
while he curled up to die. The fool-animal
had been bitten in two places. Apparently
his dying anxiety was that come what may
his enemy should not escape. He twice
dragged the squirming snake back upon the
embers before he died.
“Flicker” on prisoner-shooting :
In corroboration of “Staff-Officer” (B. 8/6/’22) I
can give an instance of British troops having been
forced to kill men who had surrendered. It was told
me after the first “gutzer” at Gaza, by a British
W.O. of a Tommy regiment acting with us against
the village. His unit took a fair batch of prisoners.
Before long Jacko started to come back in a most
business-like fashion, and the position got too hot
to hold. “We got the order to retire,” said the
W. 0., “and I heard a lot of squealing. I looked, and
saw our chaps bayoneting the prisoners. What else
could we do? We couldn’t bring them with us, we
couldn’t leave ’em to hammer on our rear, so we did
the only thing possible.” The same W.O. was after-
wards an instructor to Aussie recruits at Moascar,
and I’ve heard him tell them the story in the teeth
of incredulous gasps from the “rookies” still wet-
lipped from the pap served out by the Aussie dailies.
With regard to Napoleon having poisoned his
wounded, that depends on the historian. Abbott,
w'ho considered the Frenchman a little greater than
the Messiah, denies it most vigorously.
Bunbury and Northam have provided
a respectable number of W.A. Premiers.
Bigjolm Forrest was the seaport’s first
contribution, he being a Bunbury pro-
duct as well as its Parliamentary repre-
sentative. Half-a-dozen years after Forrest
pulled out of State politics Westralia woke
up one morning to find another Bunburian,
Newton Moore, running it. The third
native of the town to reach the eminence
is Jimmy Mitchell. Unlike his two pre-
decessors, however, Jimmy never had much
to do with Bunbury beyond being born there,
and he has sat for Northam ever since he
entered Parliament. A previous Northam
citizen who was Premier, although only for
a month or two, was old George Throssell.
Tlirossell was born in Ireland, but he was
transplanted at a tender age, and he lived
so long in the agricultural centre under
notice that he was called the “Lion of
Northam” from his enthusiastic champion-
ship of the town’s interests. Oolebatch,
Mitchell’s fleeting predecessor and present
offsider, is, or was, a Northam resident.
He ran a newspaper there, and mayored the
borough till the dual forces lifted him into
the Leg. Council.
Gold, which was once a fixed substance at
£4 4s. per ounce (fine), rose to £6 2s.
4d. just after the war. The other day it was
£4 12s. Id., and apparently heading 'back for
the old figure. This helps to explain why the
Kalgoorlie mines employed .only 5843
workers at the end of last year against 9563
in 1916. As usual the quality of the ore is
poorer with depth, and when to that are
added high taxes, freights, wages (the cost
of living isn’t getting back to the pre-war
figure nearly so fast as the cost of gold),
new plant, etc., a lot of mines, like those of
Jo’burg in Africa, are nearing the point
where they may be worked for recreation but
not for profit. Mount Morgan is at present
eking out a crust on a Government subsidy.
The subsidy is charged against the Queens-
land railways; and their huge and growing
loss is charged to the taxpayer; and he
charges all he can to the loan fund; and
the fund charges millions a year interest.
The position of all these persons and insti-
tutions is similar to that of the traditional
character who dances on the edge of the
volcano; and the rumblings from below are
already audible.
An effort to interest Hughes in the secur-
ing of equal opportunities for Australians
in consular, diplomatic and other appoint-
ments in the Imperial service has ended in
the customary vacuum. The matter was
brought up by the Vic. Council of Education
in April, 1917, and a scheme was submitted
by Premier Lawson to the Priminister, who
formally acknowledged it. But, after that
exceptional display of energy, the gentleman
got tired. Repeated appeals through the
usual leisurely channels were answered by
a disrespectful silence, and the people behind
the movement, who include Dr. Leeper—
he has two sons in the Foreign Office—are
no further forward than when thev began.
They are now talking of renewing the agita-


am
IHIIIIBIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIimiI
m
mm
HH
■
H
K
U
i|§
H
m
m h
fast i
■
iilii
■ I HMHMM
Hi
n
hh gam
s
wmm.
:,
a
H
11
■
Hi
BHB
H
■
,
mM
■■
H
H
■ m
vi
■
I
n
■
.1
1
H
I
HlB Hj
m
mm
m
H
HHi
mi
/
H I
M
n
V;. ■•'
mm
: : •■:■■■ -
m
mmm
9$
a
■ ■ ¥■'
■
B
Mi
Wm
:iSV ;
■
H ■
m
%
I
mm
1111
m
■ : -M
mm
WWik
<: fflospLri£ is zitierjz/' Joetfond
irvfnieruze music.
THE greater extent to which music enters into the home and social
life, the more will we discover the "joie de vivre Herbert Spencer
states music to be the language of the feelings whose function is to
increase the sympathies and broaden the horizon of mankind.
The modern player-piano brings good music into the lives of those
who have no opportunity to develop musical skill. The Beale Player-
instrument, particularly, provides a facile technique in an instrument
of rich, sympathetic voice. It is equipped with interpretive controls
of greater aggregate effectiveness than any other player known
to us. It possesses constructional superiorities which make its
selection as much a matter of practicability as of discrimination.
Printed matter posted free.
Showrooms :
340 George Street
Sydney
BEALE
AND
UP.
COMPANY
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
Annandale
BRANCHES N.S. IV.: Bathurst, Lisriiore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victona ; Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.A.: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. IV.A.: J. A.Thomson
Co. Ltd., Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen Street (Opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane. Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rochampton, Townsville, Maclcay.
rs


Hotel r/e Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.5.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, R’ght on
the lIARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE O’ 1 '
eluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per jay, or from
4*4 Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOX, 3002. Apply Manager.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per (lay inclusive;
10/6 Red and Breakfast.
Under tlie management of P. Hennessy.
Uotastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
s
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
Broughton House,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
And COMMERCE H3USE, MELBOURNE
samA slown
The Strong Arm
OF PROTECTION
in MARKING LINEN
goes with Cash's Woven Names
because they protect your Linen
against loss —and remember
CASH’S Woven NAMES
excel any other method for mark-
ing linen—no trouble—easily sewn
on—fast color.
The Prices are moderate
12 doz.7/6, 6 doz. 5/-. 3doz. 3/6
Sold by all best drapers
Made in Australia by—
J. & J. CASH [J3;
85 Cubitt St., Richmond,
Vic.
WRITE FOR
STYLE BOOK
A!
I
m
m
tm
mm
lIS
LIGMOLLIENE
Ligmolliene Cream is a
scientific preparation for
the treatment of all skin
diseases. It has curative
properties that give instant
relief and finally effect a
permanent cure. Sold by
all chemists, or send 1/6 for
sample tin to
W. MALYON & SON Ltd.,
Sturt Street, Ballarat.
A SURE CURE
for ECZEMA.
Missing Friends.
ItTIIIJIt JOHN MILLEIt, horse-
trainer. Last heard of at Kimberley,
Western Australia. Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of the above is requested to
communicate with the undersigned
E. F. SKEWES,
Renmark, South Australia,
Solicitor for Edgar Pedley, administrator
To the large army of sufferers afflicted with
Rheumatism, Gout, Calculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the days
of youth and health. URODONAL will even permit you to eat meat and other
favorite dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, colchium and iodides (by
means of which temporary relief is procured at the cost of disastrous after-effects)
are entirefy superseded by URODONAL. Thanks to URODONAL the obese
regain their normal the weary take on a new lease of life, and the
worn society woman regains and retains a clear and liealtliy _cgjnplex io n, through
Te blood-purifying properties of this preparation. URODONAL is the great
discovery of the century, and is a boon to all; it is the secret of perpetual youth,
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims of urictema.
PREPARED BY ETABEISSEMENTS CHATEEAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 9/3.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists, throughout Australasia or from
CHATEEAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET, SIDNEY, Iron
whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing Medical Opinions. |1
■
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY Nation),
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
SOME MAGIC.
Playing Card to Matchbox 1/3
Haunted Ace Trick 2/-
Billiard Ball Trick 3/6
Linking Rings (pocket sze) .... J/o
Diminishing Pack of Cards *>/“
Chung Loo’s Fire Eater 2/6
SOME THINGS— „ ,
Grease Paints, Wigs, Beards, Masks,
Yentriloquial Heads.
.. : r' J
SOME BOOKS.
Simple Card
Tricks That
Anyone Can Do
With Ordinary
Cards, Without
Sleights.. 1/6
Up His Sleeve,
the latest book
for the profes-
sional .... 8/6
Funniest Four
Farces, in one
book .... 2/»
the Stage. .1/6
CATALOGS FREE.
How To Make Up, Guide to
THOMPSON S CO.
(Castfemame)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
• Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WIIXIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
Vertical Triple Expansion Quick Revolution Engine,
C5O b.h.p., at 400 r.p.m.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE: _ . .
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
agents.
SYDNEY:
Li. Hinlts & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PEBTH:
Brown & Bureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fencliurch Street.
“Jim Carew”: There has always been
argument as to who first landed in Australia
from the First Fleet. Colonel Johnson
(one of whose direct descendants, Lang-
loh Johnson, is a doctor practising in
Sydney) claimed to be the man. But
an extract from the Sydney Gazette
of June 20, 1827, seems to defeat
him. In the Supreme Court, James Ruse,
the earliest free settler, stated that he bad
carried the Colonel ashore on his back, thus
beating him for the distinction by a second
or two.
“Coot”: A Vic. cocky had one of his cows
killed in a railway accident. He got a form
from the local stationmaster, and managed
to fill in all the particulars required in a
claim for damage against the Department
till he came to the last item, “Disposition
of Carcase.” This bothered him. Ulti-
mately he laboriously indited three words
that to the best of his knowledge and belief
furnished all the information he could give,
relevant or otherwise. They were “kind
and gentle.”
“Dido”: I was in the Prahran street when
Collander ran out with the information that
his old wooden house was afire. He had
his insurance policy in his hand, and made
no attempt to rescue anything, everything
being well covered, no doubt. A gathering
crowd watched the flames leaping out of the
open dining-room window, and presently the
mussel-hawker at my elbow made him-
self heard. It was he who had
broken the glass face of the fire-
alarm. “If the blighted brigade is five
minutes longer it will be too late,” said he.
“Acli, wot it iss you say?” snorted Col-
lander, losing discretion in his great
anxiety. “If de prigade aindt fife minudes
late dey vill be too soon.”
“Billy T.” : He was wheeling a small, old-
fashioned Cousin Jack barrow along the road
running parallel with the railway line this
side of Morwell, heading west. Whatever
his barrow contained, it was certainly very
weighty. The wheeler stopped with a great
sigh, when he came where Cray was inquir-
ing into the true inwardness of his Ford by
the roadside, and, seating himself on the
handles of his barrow, mopped his moist
brow. Dennison, who was in the car, wished
him good-day, although the noon seemed
like a fair sample of old Tophet. “Where
are you making with that load?” Dennison
inquired sympathetically. “Melbin,” replied
the little man seated on the barrow. “Mel-
bourne?” gasped Dennison. “Do you mean
to say you intend pushing that thing all the
way to Melbourne?” The man on the bar-
row nodded. “My oath,” he said. They
tell me scrap-iron is bringin’ a nell of a
price in Melbin.” Then the battler resumed
progress.
“Veronal”: According to Henry Melville,
an early colonist of the icy island, the chief
currency of the Speck in 1826 consisted of
demand notes printed and issued by the mer-
chants and shopkeepers themselves, unlimited
as to number, and varying in amount from
3d. to fl. There was then very little minted
coin in the island. This scarcity of cash led
to some strange incidents. One builder, a
Scotchman, excused himself from immediate
payment of his men’s wages on the ground
that his printer was too busy to furnish him
with cash. The value of these notes (for
which traders gave goods in exchange) was
an unstable quantity, and a Treasury Bill for
£lOO was worth £l5O in notes. As might
have been expected, the men whose names
were on the paper sometimes failed, and the
holders suffered. The Bank of Australasia
had at that period a reserve of only £68,000,
and the Union Bank one of £85,000.
“Azrim” returns to the charge: “Bris-
tock’s” hypothesis (B. 8/6/’22) that the pre-
potency of one parent is the deciding factor
in sex-determination is not supported by
scientific observations. On the other hand,
Seigel’s dictum that the age of the ovum
is the determining factor (B. 11/5/’22) is
the logical deduction obtained from a care-
ful analysis of several hundred cases. There
is no argument from analogy which may be
misleading. Whether with age the ovum
undergoes some subtle biochemical change,
or whether there is some developmental
change, such as the appearance or extrusion
of an accessory chromosome, Seigel doesn’t
pretend to know. But what theory except
liis satisfactorily accounts for the birth of
twins of different sex? Here two ova are
fertilised possibly simultaneously, at all
events with only a small time interval be-
tween their impregnations. They are, there-
fore, subject to smilar conditions as regards
nutriment prepotency, endocrine-gland secre-
tion, etc. By every theory enunciated, bar
that of Seigel, homologous’ twins should re-
sult, i.e., both males or both females. Seigel’s
explanation is that one old ovum (female)
and one young ovum (male) have been fer-
tilised. “X2X” has suggested that injec-
tions of adrenalin (from the ductless supra-
renal glands) will determine sex; but this
can be promptly dismissed as impracticable,
since Thoma lias shown by actual experi-
ment that continuous injections of that drug
lead to a marked degeneration of the middle
or muscular coats of arteries, notably the
aorta, : the lesions being somewhat similar to
those of atheroma.
If there was one thing more than another
that the Queensland Government was proud
of it was its success in keeping the State copper
smelters at Chillagoe going amid general
stress —by paying the old rate of wages out
of taxation, storing up the copper, and put-
ting it in the balance-sheet at any price that
would make the business look payable. Most
people thought the arrangement was still
staggering along, but it now transpires thal
it burst quietly some time ago. The posi-
tion is that Chillagoe cannot be re-started
except on reduced wages ; and the same
thing applies in other industries. Theodore’s
State has 569 miles of unused and mostly
unfinished railway, on some of which not a
tap lqis been done since 15)16. These miles
earn nothing and cost £3lB per day in inter-
est. Many of them point towards some
copper-mine or other, and when these closed
because they couldn’t pay, out of £6O per
ton, the wages they paid out of nearly £l3O
the only substance worth pointing at them
was the finger of scorn. And yet there has
has been no lack of loan money. From some-
where or other enough was found to raise
tlie debt from £B2 per head in 1917) (when
Theodore took over) to over £lO4 last year
—which constitutes a State record.


Swaw?-
i.i.y
Kip-;
ia
r.i
; ■f-
Si
■spsl
MM
mm
tag
JWt
mm
ms
-
!&&&
mm
m
S^t
■;44'i‘§S
ißMtfii wiwiiirwinliwf I'iinmiiw iiwiWihi mmiffliiii wiiwiicti i iini
MpgHppHß
at*"' Jh<‘V »‘.y.v ; »r;/.*jv
§vr : fss
■*^BPBR
KS
Mpt
•• mßE>V£<vi
s*
kW5~v
r
s».j
■;^-S
®&SJ
m
in
C.’Jt'.J
> ;
sl*V-
Vros&
.V/;^
k '.vw%m r.Vri
11
<vv*
fMK|S
US
g m
mm
E •** . % y*| * / L**l
*t'C^Srvs.''i
*»»i**%-•»!'■
»Ts3kS>
•Ip
5&
-*»{-•.
r.y;
I. &
"Ifewr
*»«$»«*
*»«■&
£*sP
Wag*ttl *£
?*
K
a®
■■'«:-;■
35
v •
**v>
~
r'^ : >:
•*£«
.i'lV*
3nfBSl
passes*
'4 ia> v, *• >
***s
!*sppl
M
'Kvn>’
mil
m
? '1g»&r»•
aa^pisiPis*
S&ft&shV&i *8
2-sas*.
®s
s?***
ilyfev,?®
..V:“
Ay-r-fy':
.<?
w;
lit
he
; . :
I
m
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
A SAFE, SURE AND RELIABLE SPECIFIC FOR
THE ERADICATION OF WORMS IN CHILDREN
AND ADULTS.
The general symptoms of worms are a
tendency to pick the nose and a sensation of
itching in the anus. Other symptoms are
nefvous affections, such as fretfulness, irri-
tation of temper, wakefulness or disposition
to'excessive sleep, disturbed sleep and grind-
ing the teeth, sudden starting out of sleep as
if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, dilated pupils, per-
verted vision, temporary blindness and deaf-
ness. General convulsions are not infre-
quent in children, and symptoms resembling
water in the head have been ascribed to
worms and have ceased on their expulsion.
The long round or stomach worm is the
commonest kind of worm from which man-
kind suffers, and is of a light, transparent
color, resembling the ordinary ground worm,
except that the extremities are more sharply
pointed than the ground worm.
Young people are more subject to these
worms than middle-aged or elderly people.
They live in the bowels, and sometimes make
their way into the stomach and throat, caus-
ing sickness, vomiting and choking. Gener-
ally one or two would be the most a person
would be afflicted with, but sometimes a
much larger number is met with. The length
varies from four to eight inches, but young
ones an inch to two inches long are also
found. The first thing to do is to rid the
system of the worms, aud Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets, taken according to
directions, are an effective remedy for the
thorough eradication of the long round or
stomach worm —the common enemy of the
child, the youth, the middle-aged and aged.
A light, nourishing diet, out-of-door exercise,
and, if possible, a change of air will greatly
improve the- general health.
Threadworms or pinworms are of very
common occurrence in children. They are
very small, from one-sixth of an inch to half-
an-inch in length, and resemble cotton
thread-—they are sometimes called seat
worms, and reside in the lower bowel. The
chief symptoms of this worm are severe
local itching, restlessness and irritability, a
frequent desire to urinate, and picking at the
nose; loss of appetite and anaemia are also
observed. To get rid of the worms and their
eggs their nests also must be removed, and
that requires a specific remedy. Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets, taken according
to directions on an empty stomach, followed
by a dose of opening medicine, will succeed
where others fail.
To illustrate how widespread is the use
of this remedy a few of the many letters
received from various parts of Australasia
are published below :
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Rathmines,
Venn Street,
BUNBURY, W.A.
Dear Sirs, —My daughter Cora, when
two years of age, suffered with pin-
worms, and I decided, on reading
an advertisement in a weekly news-
paper, to obtain Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets, and noticed
a gieat improvement on her taking each
dose. I can confidently assert that Cora
was cured by these Pellets. I have fre-
quently recommended Comstock’s “Dead
Shot Worm Pellets to other mothers
with children said to suffer from this ail-
ment. Of course, you have my permis-
sion to publish this evidence of their
merit.
(Signed) Mrs. S. A. CUNNOLD.
NEW ZEALAND.
20 Catherine Street,
CAVERSHAM, N.Z.
Dear Sirs, —My child Phyllis was
troubled with stomach worms about two
years ago, and I procured Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets. The child
had become very thin, and restless in her
slumbers, but after taking a course of
the Worm Pellets the worms were ex-
pelled, and a general improvement in her
condition was very soon noticeable. You
may use these few lines for publication.
(Signed) Mrs. IVY PAGE.
TASMANIA.
Burnie Street,
STANLEY, TAS.
Dear Sirs, —I can testify to the effi-
cacy of Comstock's “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets. My children were bad with
worms for some time, when I decided to
try this remedy, and found after the
children had taken the Pellets that they
passed several stomach worms, and their
condition then became normal, since when
they have not been further troubled with
them in this direction.
(Signed) Mrs. W. WALSH.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are packed with full directions, and are for
sale by chemists and stores generall % at
3s. 6d. per packet, or six packets for 205.,
and if unobtainable locally will be mailed
post free on receipt of price. Prepared only
by The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; Parish Street,
Wellington, N.Z. If writing, please mention
The Bulletin.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, jewelled movement, £lO.
Others, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold. Neck-
let, set Aquamarine,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18et.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 30/-
15ct. Gold, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Nellie Stewart Secret Snap and Joint
Bracelet, 40/-. Lighter, 30/-. Larger, 50/-, 60/-.
15ct. Gold, £3/10/-, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Broeoh, set Pearls,
35/-, 15ct. Gold, £3.
A. Saunders’
four Diamond
King, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, ISct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet Strap Watch, jewelled
movement, 30/-, 40/-. Silver Case, £2/10/-,
£3, £3/10/-, £4, £5. Gold-filled Waltham or
Elgin, £5. 9ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
Saunders’ l6et. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Pearl, £2.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Scroll Brooch, set
Aquamarine, 35/-
mm
a am
Wm+a i«.sAUNDK*a
W&rf »»"•"
feS
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold Lever Watch, OolfT
Expanding Side Bracelet and Leather, Strap, £5.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s fine Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily en-
graved, 20/-. Heavier,
23/-, 30/-. loot.
Gold, £2, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Necklet, set
Aquamarines,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s high-grade, open-
face keyless non-magnetic Lever Watch,
40/-. Higher grade, 50/-, 60/-,
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Ring, set Aqua-
marine, 30/-
15ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Scroll Brooch, set Aqua-
marine, 30/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring,
207-
Lady’s size, 15/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Solid Gold Curb Albert, £3/10/-. Heavier, £4, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-
Gold-filled, guaranteed, 30/-. 15ct. Gold, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Hunting Keyless f-plate
Lever Watch, £4/10/-. Extra quality,
£5. 15 Jewelled, £6/10/-. Nickel
movement, £7/10/-
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
'"'A-';:'"' : ; ' ■ ’ °
w
k
\
r#
£
r£3i
gp
Ns
«►
teg,
9
111
4f*
2
ggjKB@2?f
Jslfes
WP
ssssmis
diZEEBtk,
■wbiogand Pr«s«n
S^rfac«i
JOHNSONS*
sate
p.
£2Hnson*.Son
v^SSR
cßgnew Your Linoleum
Is your linoleum dull and deadlooking ? Bring it back to life
and it will reflect a bright, clean, well-cared-for home. All you
need is Johnson’s Prepared Wax and a cloth. The Wax gives
a dry, glossy, dustless polish of great beauty and durability.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax brings out the pattern of linoleum
—preserves and protects it from wear. It doesn’t take long—
an ordinary sized floor can be polished in less than an hour
and it may be walked upon immediately. Waxed linoleum
and tile are easy to keep clean —they require but little care.
Paste—Liquid—Pondered
PREPARED
Polish all your furniture, wood-
work and floors with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. It forms a thin,
protecting coat over the varnish,
similar to the service rendered by
a piece of plate glass over a table
or dresser top. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches, and
prevents checking and cracking.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made
in paste, liquid and powdered form.
Use the Liquid Wax for polishing
furniture, woodwork, leather goods
arid motor-cars. We advise the
Paste Wax for polishing floors of
all kinds —wood, linoleum, tile,
marble, &c. The Powdered Wax
will give a perfect dancing surface.
Tour dealer has Johnson’s Wax— there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON &. SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.


Amusement*
SYDN IS Y’S CIII IS F TIIISAT l» E 8,
J. C. WILLIAMSON, I.TD., present
ITEIt MAJESTY’S:
A NIGHT OUT.
Cltl l KftlON :
THE GREAT LOVER.
ROYAL:
THE BAT.
PALACE:
THE FIRST YEAR.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPBAHEAN
PRODUCTIONS
NOW TOURING QUEENSLAND.
Australasian Representative: HUGH I). WILSON.
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street. Sydney.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTI)., MELBOURNE
* ATTRACTIONS.
TIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
NEW COMIC OPERA CO. IN
A LITTLE DUTCH GIRL.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE WHITE-HEADED BOY.
TIIE ORIGINAL ABBEY THEATRE COMPANY.
I NO'S THEATRE, M E L It O li R N 14.
EMELIE POLINI and FRANK HARVEY in
MY LADY’S DRESS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
PALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & J. FULLER. LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
A GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public yerdiet: “Better than the best.’
ADA REEVE.
“She has no .equal.”
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGHTON.
MatineCs Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o’clock.
Box Plan at Allan's.
QPY MY ILK AND LEE PATTISON
in
CONCERTS OF MUSIC FOR TWO PIANOS,
following their sensational success in Sydney.
MELBOURNE . . TOWN HALL, JULY 7
ADELAIDE .... TOWN HALL, JULY 26
|_| OYT'B THEATRES, MELBOURNE
■■ Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
CONWAY TEARLE in
A WIDE-OPEN TOWN.
“HOOT” GIBSON in
RED COURAGE.
Prices as usual.
g KIT.YNN IA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements.
M
A,IKSHC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
JAMES OLIVER CUItWOOD in
THE FLOWER OF THE NORTH.
MatinGes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
TO W N HA L 1., MEli B OCKN K.
Direction .. .. <T. and N. TAIT.
TO-NIGHT, JUNE 20,
Also
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY X.
I)’ALVAREZ,
THE SINGER WITH A VOICE OF GOLD.
Plan at Allen’s.
GI.ISA THEATRE,
M 101.15011 UN K
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN. VITAGRAPH, PATHE.
WORLD and SKLZNICR.
QV TOUR. DIRECTION LIONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
NOW TOURING QUEENSLAND.
Wanted to Buy.
Sawmilling: Machinery
WANTED TO PURCHASE.
One Simonson Log: Turner. «
One Double Iron Frame for 6ft. Circular Saw.
One Carriage, with Head Blocks and set works
complete. Live Rolls and pick-up skids.
One Gang Frame (open gate), to take in 36-
inch (depth of cut).
One Gang Frame (open gate), to take in 24-
inch (depth of cut).
One Gang Frame (open gate), to take in lo-
inch (depth of cut).
Apply to SAWMILL, c/o The Mercantile Exchange,
380 Collins Street, Melbourne, giving fullest particu-
lars and prices wanted.
1 ■ _ =
Missing Friends.
B STATE of SARAH ANN or SISSIE BOLTON, late
of Coogee, in the State of New South Wales,
widow, deceased, intestate. ANDREW REYER, the
son of Mar}’ Reyer, sister to the abovenamed deceased,
is requested to communicate with the undersigned.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee, 67 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
•‘TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
Public Notice.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
Eaglehawk
Golden Mile, N.L.
(Approved by the Eaglehawk Borough Council .)
CAPITAL: £30,000 in 30,000 Shares of £1
24,000 for subscription; 1/- application,
1/- allotment.
6,000 shares fully paid to £1 to the
Syndicate which provided the funds
to form this Company.
Brokerage to brokers and agents, 3d. a share.
Commonwealth bonds taken.
No cash payable to vendors or promoters.
Directors will be elected by the shareholders.
Local Secretary, Neil Walker, Eaglehawk.
Manager, Sir A. J. Peacock, 339 Oollins Street,
Melbourne.
Agent for Syndicate, G. D. Meudell, 9 Scott’s
Court, Melbourne.
OBJECTS.-—To mine.fiO acres at Snobs Hill, Eagle-
hawk, Bendigo, for gold. The ground has been
worked by 20 companies, which produced 447,5480 z.
since 1860. The greatest depth is 2300 ft., but the
Company proposes to begin mining in the upper
levels, where payable stone exists.
LOCALITY.—The plan shows that the mines and
shafts on 1000 yards in length run from Catherine
Reef to the Ellenborough Mine. The principal reefs
to be worked are the New Chum, the Red, White and
Blue, and the Nell Gwynne, which go through the
Company’s leases, while neighboring mines are- the
Constellation, Great Northern, Golden Pyke, Virginia
and New Prince of Wales.
SUBSIDY. —It is the intention of the Company to
apply to the Victorian Government for a £lO,OOO
grant on the £1 for £1 basis.
The Eaglehawk Borough Council has decided by
resolution to actively support this application.
TEN REASONS
Why Eaglehawk Golden Mile Shares should be pur-
chased as an investment- —
1. The Snobs Hill group has yielded, since records
were kept, 1,184,8280 z. of gold, valued at
£4,739,313.
2. Most of this gold came from shallow depths.
Deep sinking in later years on adjoining mines of
the group proved that gold' lived to a depth.
3. Every shaft sunk on Snobs Hill produced gold.
4. There are five known lines of reef in the leases,
and two of the most important have never been
worked on Snobs Hill —the Nell Gwynne and the
Sheepshead, or Red, White and Blue.
5. There is a known large body of 7dwt. ore in the
Williams United, with an average width of 80ft.,
which can be worked from the Catherine Shaft
immediately the mine is unwatered, and a cross-
cut extended.
6. The Golden Mile is a mining company initiated
by a municipality for the benefit of a community.
There are no private promoters or speculators
connected with the venture.
7. The Catherine Mine, from which the group can
be worked, is fully equipped with one of the
most modern plants on the Bendigo field.
8. The Borough Council of Eaglehawk will support
the Company in its application for a grant of
£lO,OOO from the Victorian Government.
9. To ensure a long life to the Company a reserve
fund will be created out of profits.
10. Finally, it is not a mere speculation, but a sound
commercial proposition. It is an honest com-
munity enterprise inaugurated bv the EAGLE-
HAWiv BOROUGH COUNCIL for the benefit of
a town and district, and merits universal sup-
port.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
SAVA d
QUAIJJY
Model 1904
Cal. .22
Savage Pride
THE acres cf buildings which
comprise the SAVAGE Arms
plants bespeak for themselves.
They confirm the tremendous
demand for SAVAGE Arms —a
demand based upon quality, ac-
curate construction, regular per*
formance.
SAVAGE Guns are made right
—to shoot accurately —to give
lasting satisfaction. The various
models are made in an adequate
range of calibres. There is a gun
suited to every purpose.
The Savage Single Shot Rifle
Model 1904 has bolt action
mechanism of military type,
18-inch round barrel, full form
walnut stock. Weighs about
3 lbs.
Sold by dealers carrying high-
class firearms.
Exclusive Representative (or Australia and New Zealand
A. ASHER SMITH
P. O. Box 966 Sydney, N. S. W.
SA\AGE ARMS CORPORATION, Utica, N.Y., U. S. A.
Export Office: 50 Church St., New York
Scot lands Cjlony through the Ages.
PETER
.DAWSONS
ill! niii
SCOTCH WHISKY
the brand of historic lineage,
HOLD an historic firm respon-
sible for the quality of your
guest s whisky by serving “ P.D.’ J
Scotch. No difference in price, but
a big difference in quality.
Everyone’s favourite
Scotch—everywhere.
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
Distillers, GLASGOW,
SCOTLAND.
fsd
I
&
V
/
y.
i
Bpuc( Monument
it nltncji


A Signal
Success
*3
King Cjeorge IV
The TOP-WOTCHScotcK
Cheap Fencing Wires
Pastoralists^ —Have You Yet Thought of Fencing?
We Offer ex Stock and for Early Delivery SUBJECT Sales.
BLACK 8-Gauge Plain, lcwt. Coils, £26/10/- per ton.
10-Gauge Plain, lcwt. Coils, £27/10/.- per ton.
GALVANISED.. .8-Gauge Plain, lcwt. Coils, £2B/10/- per ton.
10-Gauge Plain, lcwt. Coils, £29/10/- per ton.
12-Gauge Plain, lcwt. Coils, £3l/10/- per ton.
GALVANISED. . .BARBED. 12-Gauge lowa pattern, 4 points, Sin. space;
lcwt. Coils, £34/15/- per ton.
BARBED. 14-Gauge, lowa pattern, 4 points, 3in. space;
lcwt. Coils, £37/10/- per ton.
BABBIT-TRAPS: Lane’s Patent, 28/6 dozen: Griffiths’ 3 Star Specials, 28/6
dozen: Griffiths’ IXL’s. 26/6 dozen.
WIRE NETTING, GALVANISED IRON. STRYCHNINE,
WOOLPACKS and CORN SACKS.
Prices: Net Delivered to Rails or f.0.b., Sydney. TERMS: NET PROMPT CASH.
CHARLES E. CAMERON, Sydney.
Agents: VICTORIA: FRANK HOOPER & CO., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: AGENCIES, LTD., Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “A Night Out’’
Criterion “The Great Lo Jf e i,,
Royal w• • • “The Bat
Palace ,I The First Year
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOW’S FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Little Dutch Girl’’
Royal “The White-headed Boy ’
Palace “Spangles’
Kino’s “My Dress”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Town Hall .. D’Alvarez
Melbourne’s Mermaid Repertory Flay
Society justified a visit to the chill, forbid-
ding Playhouse last week by producing
Harold Chapin’s “The Marriage of Colum-
bine” in a sufficiently interesting way.
Nevertheless, the result was discouraging to
advocates of “literary drama,” in prefer-
ence to shows that seek financial profit for
profit’s sake. “Columbine” is a homely, un-
tlieatrical story (in four short acts) with
touches of human nature and eternal verity
in it, like the same author’s “The Dumb and
the Blind.” But its fragile plot is founded
on a fallacy which grows wearisome at the
finish. The heroine is an embodiment of
idealised innocence in womankind. She
has the young matronly simplicity and in-
genuousness that never were on land or sea,
and would rival plain suet-pudding in tame-
ness and sameness if they were. To keep
her in countenance the author invented a
husband —married or otherwise, but anyhow
the father of her three children —who stands
for incredible guilelessness in circus-clown-
ing and proprietorship, also a battered show-
man friend with a beautiful nature and a
lovely appetite. Servants attached to the
household are likewise above suspiciousness,
and so the way is cleared for a psalm-smit-
ing newspaper editor to come and elope tvith
Columbine (who bears her baby with her
in her flight to the next street) under the
allegation that he is saving her from sin
with a view to winning her virtuous iove
when she gets used to him. Columbine’s
disgust at being approached in amorousness
by the co-eloper who has married her, is
the comedy’s chief unconscious joke. It is
a clever comedy, quite charming until its
impossibility loses all veneer of naturalness,
but a public that stays away from such
literary plays is merely taking a Serious
view of educated outrages on commonsense.
Two reasonable characters in the piece are
a crack-brained old “tart,” mother to the
circus proprietor, whose love-stained past
has left ashes of disillusionment, in her poor
old nature, and a vulgar, light-hearted land-
lady who views the giddiest of appearances
on the face of them. Mrs. Apperly’s sweet
air of naivete carried her through the ficti-
tious character of Columbine, though her
lack of emotional force and want of variety
became noticeable
at the finish. Miss
Mary Curtain gave
a clever amateur
performance of the
querulous old
Venus - de - Arena.
Helton Daniell,
admirably made-
up, was an easy,
likeable friend of
the family, Nor-
man Simpson sug-
gested a stereo-
typed wowser in
an asininely hypo-
critical capacity,
and the other
people were very
capable amateurs
with one excep-
tion. The excep-
tion came late on
the scene, and had
better have forgot-
ten to come at all.
A curtain-raiser,
described as
“Soiree on the
Neva,” was saved
from open ridicule
by the performance
of a comely lady
who was said to
b e playing the
“Spangles,” at Mel-
bourne Palace.
Harry Gould as the
grocer.
principal part at emergency notice.
** * *
Madame D’Alvarez, a long-boosted “flam-
ing star of the concert world,” took the plat-
form at Melbourne Town Hall on Saturday
without at once convincing the local hemi-
sphere that her effulgence was all there. Her
opening number, Mozart’s “Lullaby,” showed
her smooth sopranoic-contralto voice and
clear enunciation at their best, and by re-
straining her tendency to ultra-melodramatic
mannerism, gave her artistry its due weight.
Many of her subsequent songs were only
moderately impressive, and her rendering of
the familiar aria from “Samson and Delilah”
(Mon Cceur), and the “Habanera” from
“Car-men” were disappointing. A vivacious
conversational warble of the “Sequedille”
from Bizet’s opera was capital, however.
Madame D’Alvarez, who sings, most of the
time, with knitted brow and head thrown
back, until, in her passionate moments, one
trembles for her balance, seems endeavoring
to make excessive pose and gesture do duty
for personal magnetism in voice and presence.
Her habit of shutting her eyes when she
opens her mouth grows monotonous. A fine
singer enough, with some deep notes of no
great volume, she “sings to the gallery,” and
adopts cheap effects of “expression,” so
called. Oscar Wagner, the accompanying
pianist, and Manucci, the ’cellist, are con-
trasts in dapper young men. Manucci is a
brunette with an exceptionally upright seat
at the instrument, and a remarkably unemo-
tional manner of playing, whereas Oscar has
an engaging smile and a resemblance to the
Prince of Wales. During the evening he
soloed in three trivial compositions, and his
“A NIGHT OUT.” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
Cecil Kellaway as Matthieu, an old gentle-
man whose legs tremble in the presence
of female beauty .
tricky technique and abundant smile made
him very precious to some of the young
ladies.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal something of a frost
has set in since “The White-headed Boy”
came to hand. The management has deleted
the words “Irish Players” from its advt. as
though the public in general were anti-Irish,
but the truth of the matter is that the g.p.
wants more than a study in drab of any kind
of life. The play at the Royal is interesting
to the critical, but too naturally drab. It
depresses rather than delights. And a drab,
cold play at the end of a cold, drab day is
not what folks in general are looking for.
*# * *
At Melbourne Majesty’s the last week of
“A Little Dutch Girl” is approaching,
though thusfar no shadow of the approach
has been cast in printer’s ink.
## * *
“My Lady’s Dress,” with Emelie Polini as
leading lady, will displace the Humphrey
Bishop co., at Melbourne King’s this week.
Meanwhile a rather unusual vaudeville show
continues to feature “The Gnat,” and Joe
Brennan, with wondrous old ladylike com-
posure, is still ordering all corpses to be laid
out in the library.
** * #
Wee Georgie Wood, at Melbourne Tivoli,
has for the present dropped the Black-hand
Gang and taken on “Thicker than Water,”
with the same Muvver (Dolly Harmer) as
before, in a humbler domicile. Also the
policeman of the former comedy is now a
family solicitor who brings glad tidings to
George and his beloved relative. The sound
theatrical pathos and Wee Woodian humor
of the sketch are another pronounced suc-
cess. The latest addition to a strong rest of
the bill is Harry North, who makes a con-
certina more than merely pardonable.
# * *
Hoyt’s (Melbourne) unleashed “The
Money Maniac” on Saturday, and the audi-
ence felt much travelled after following him
over , two continents. There is a good deal
of unnecessary activity in “A Wide-open
Town,” in which Conway Teafle is a gambler
with a high moral purpose, but Tearle’s
spirited heroism is always popular, especi-
ally when he is caught in a Bill Hart pose.
Hoyt’s third offering, “Red Courage,” gives
Hoot Gibson a chance to display a valor that
makes the title pale by comparison. Money
is also the absorbing theme at the Majestic,
where it is regarded as a “Miracle” in one
film and as very “Wet” in the other. The
latter picture devotes a long strip of cellu-
loid to a vivid fight over the treasure in a
sunken wreck. At the Melba Rudolph Valen-
tino is taking the beauty prize as the pic-
turesque “Moran of the Lady Letty.” At
the Britannia connoisseurs of feminine love-
“P®®® ai ' e trying to memorise the contours
ot Mae Murray. She is the titbit of “Pea-
cock Alley,” and is more spectacular as a
i ansian dancer than as the dutiful missus of
a wayback hero.
$
An unbalanced affection for color at the
expense of sincerity and naturalness is lead-
mg Charles Wheeler into all manner of ex-
travagances. Many of his latest canvases
at the Melbourne Athenseum are plainly arti-
ficial. His study of a lady in a black even-
ing gown demonstrates an effusive concentra-
tion on unimportant details, such as the gold
embroidery on the skirt, thus achieving a
fashion-plate effect that every honest per-
former should endeavor to avoid. “A Sunny
Smile” (No. 85) is almost Phillips Foxy
i-n the use of carmine in the child’s com-
plexion. In his numerous small landscapes
the artist plays tricks with clouds and sun-
light, and overpitches the tones of land and
water. An example of his method is the
forced high light in “The Bar of Silver”;
and Ins irregular behavior with clouds is
noticeable in “Near Lawloit.” “Chaffcut-
ting,” a snapshot of a barn-like interior, is
acceptable in its drawing, but it suffers from
excessive illumination. Several nicely-
drawn girls stare in vivid garments from ‘a
collection of frames, but they are not as
distressing as the dreadfully florid group in
‘A Lazy Hour.” Here again the draughts-
manship is excellent, but the colors of the
frocks suggest a nigger birthday party. -
$$ $ $
‘The Bat,” at Adelaide Royal, continues
to defy the. old maxim that audiences must
not be deceived. These audiences are kept
guessing all the time, and seem to like it.
Lmma Temple, as the strong-minded, middle-
aged lady who owns the house of crime and
death, has her best chance for years past.
Lisle Parkes brings the voice of her sister
but a quite different figure, Elizabeth Dunn is
resolutely funny in an unusual style, and the
men of the cast are thoroughly adequate. At
the Prince of Wales, Frank Gorman is offer-
ing a succession of plays about parsons, who
are apt to go wrong in early life but invari-
ably Turn to the Right—with, or without,
their former partners in sin—later on. The
King’s programme is much as before, but a
batch of new artists is just coming in. In
pictures, “The Sheik” has finished its record
run at the York. The management asked
tor love-letters from patrons to the hero,
and claims to have been “inundated” with
gush—or slush. The same heroine, Agnes
Ayres, is seen at Wondeia-raph in a Gilbert
I arker play; but more attractive is Marion
Davies as a modern flapper who needs a
tamer, and finds him. A big double bill is at
\V est s: a Gouverneur Morris romance of
Chinese fighting, at home or in ’Frisco, and
the delightful “Officer 660,” in which on the
real stage Sydney Stirling used fully to hold
his own with Fred Niblo.
** * *
The 10 star vocalists of the Sistine Choir
are being retained in Australia by Quinlan
and Carroll, and will form a concert organisa-
tion known as the Sistine Choir Soloists.
The Roman authorities have intimated that
they have no objection, and Emilio Casolari,
Monsignor Rella’s deputy, will be the- new
conductor.
® #
Sydney hasn’t been over-kind to Guy
Maier and Lee Pattison, the two-piano virtu-
osi from America, but in a sense it is their
own fault. Had they only thought to call
themselves Maierovitch and Pattisonski, and
announce that they had just escaped from
the Petropavlovsk prison after the Bolshe-
vists had wiped out all their second cousins
and maiden aunts, the Town Hall wouldn’t
have been large enough to hold the surging
throng. They would have been besieged in
their dressing-rooms by enraptured flappers,
as Twobitsky was—or was it Noisyswitch?
It would have been autographs and choco-
lates all the way for the interesting pair.
Lacking this appeal to sentiment, they have
tried to rely exclusively on their talent —
result, glowing criticisms, but exiguous
audiences. Yet the talent of the young men
is great, and their programmes are selected
with rare judgment. Most of their music
is modern and much of it is absolutely new
to Australia., Their playing of the Arensky
valse, the Debussy suite “In Black and
White,” and. Saint-Saens’s “Variat : ons on a
Beethoven Theme,” is a sheer delight. They
gave Sydney beautiful excerpts from Strav-
insky, Iljinskv, Franck, Raff and Rachman-
inoff, but Sydney was irresponsive. Per-
haps Melbourne and Adelaide will show that
they have better taste. If not, the visitors
will be entitled to conclude that the enthusi-
asm evoked in Australia by the Twobitskys
and N.oisyswitehs was 90 per cent, cant
and humbug.
At _ Sydney Criterion Louis - Beilinson
and his supports continue to thrill impres-
sionable audiences with the intrigues and
liaisons and jealousies and grand passions
that rend the breasts of the people who get
their living by appearing in grand opera.
With all these tempestuous affairs. ol their
own to distract them, one gets a glimmer at
the reason why grand opera isn’t alwaj’S as
successful as it might be.
$ 4= $
Malcolm Scott arrived at Sydney Tivoli
PERCY CRAW-
FORD, manager of
Musgrove’s Theatres
Pty., Ltd., who has
just finished 20 years
in the theatrical
game.
last Saturday.
This portly star
specialises in im-
personations of the
opposite sex. He
was not particu-
larly convincing as
Katherine Par r,
Henry VIII.’s last
matrimonial experi-
ment, and some of
his witticisms in
this i*6le verged on
the inane. The
Spanish senorita
turn went better,
and the coquettish
air and agile danc-
ing of the artist
were much ad-
mired. The Car-
ney quintette con-
tinues to purvey
Blighty humor,
and Claire Gooley
makes effective use
of a soprano voice.
:it :S *
Phillips Te a d
and Marjorie Ben-
nett are still hold-
ing up the mirror
at Sydney Palace
to the crucial
period in “The
First Year” of
wedlock, which
occurs after the
bloom is off the
honeymoon and be-
for it is on the layette.
A Night Out” continues to send the mad-
ding crowd surging into Her Majesty’s, Syd-
ney, to see Maud Fane, Alfred Frith and
the rest of a really telling musical comedy
cast.
* * *
The Bat” will descend upon Sydney
Theatre Royal on Saturday night, and
flutter, grip, baffle, mystify and thrill. The
apparition arrives well advertised and exten-
sively heralded.
& H< sSi #
More posthumous criticism :
Sydney seldom sees a one-man show which equals
the recent display by C. Hampel at Horderns’ Gallery;
but although his best works (“Golden Afternoon,”
“Damp Haystacks,” the two “Grey Evenings” and
a half-dozen others) deserve a place in any of our
National Galleries, his ability and knowledge might
have made the general standard higher. He revealed
in many of his landscapes a tendency to assess sky
and earth, not in relation to each other, but
separately, which resulted in a heaviness in
the skies, notably in “The Desert” and
“Dawn.” Both pictures were unconvincing because,
although the skies were carefully observed and well
painted, they appeared too strong in cloud contrasts
to fit in with the tone-scale of the landscape. From
Meldrum, Hampel learned the .secret- of recording
truth of light, a quality inseparable from great art;
but by his refusal to accept limitations,.and by appa-
rently painting more than he knows, he does not use
this knowledge to the best advantage. In the
matter of standard there is little between Hampel’s
best work and that of Newberry, who recently
exhibited here, but both, though they go far, might
go farther.
* * sj* *
The magnet at Sydney Lyceum is Geena
Owen in “Rack Pay.” Geena flees from coun-
try to city, from cider to champagne, as it
were; “but all comes right, thank God, and
she duly somersaults back to the narrow
track. The scenic helpmate is Constance
Binney in “Something Different’*—which, as
a matter of fact, it isn’t. “Polly of the
Follies,” as Constance Talmadge’s wraith at
the Strand is labelled, is productive of
general rejoicing, and Jack Chalmers, the
hero of the Googee shark tragedy, breaks
out as a star in “The Triumph of Love” at
the Empress. The Hay market features
“Truant Husbands.” “Arabian Love” (in-
spired, of course, by “The Sheik”)
is more stirring, if less erotic, than
the lurid presentation that the flapper
and her mother have been rushing all
over the flicker world. Hoyt’s, de Luxe
screens it; a 1 so the captivating Shirley Mason
as “The Ragged Heiress,” and Svlvia
Breamer in “The Moonshine Trial.? Chaplin
in “The Kid” gives the Crystal Palace over
on Saturday night next to that much-boomed
Inee production, “Hail, the Woman!”
Alwyn”: Young Reg Long, who was
on Paling and Co.’s staff before joining the
Taits for a stage career, has gone to the
Cremorne Gardens, Brisbane, to piroduce
sketches of his own composition, several of
which have been accepted by Harry Mus-
grove. Long came to Australia when a
child, but is an Australian in everything but
birth. He has contributed stories and verse
to various weeklies and magazines.


■3
■
m
5^
m
Belt Your Factory throughout with
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING.
Not only main drives, but the many smaller drives in every part of the
plant contribute to the efficiency of your factory; it. is just as important
that they should be correctly belted.
That is the reason why many hundreds of the largest manufacturing plants
in Australasia use Pioneer Leather Belting exclusively.
The illustration shows a portion of the enormous biscuit-making plant of
William Arnott, Ltd., Homebush, N.S.W., where hundreds of Pioneer
Leather Belts are giving satisfactory service, year in and year out.
You are invited to confer with us on your belting problems.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS —
VICTORIA: J. & R. E. Madder, 409
Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Fry & Co.,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Towns-
ville.
3. AUSTRALIA: John McKell,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
MAIZE.
. Here are some facts regarding experiments in the fertilisa-
tj° n °- MAIZE in New South Wales, proving beyond question
the immense value of Sulphate of Ammonia as applied to this
class of crop:—
“At MOUNT GEORGE, while the maize
crop was considerably damaged by magpies,
a mixture of ! 401 b. Superphosphate and 701 b.
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA per acre
yielded 75.7 bushels. The next best trial was
1401 b. Superphosphate alone yielding 60.22
bushels. The No Manure’ plot gave a
return of 50 bushels.”
(“N.S.W. Agricultural Gazette,” 1/1 1/’21.)
At TUMUT PLAINS, 1 401 b. Superphos-
phate and 701 b. SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA per acre returned I 03.52 bushels.
Second place in these trials was secured by
equal proportions of superphosphate and
bone-dust applied at rate of 2£cwt. per acre,
yielding 99.50 bushels. ‘No Manure’ plot
gave 86.48 bushels.”
(“N.S.W. Agricultural Gazette,” I/l/’22.)
At TILBA TILBA experiments in maize
grown for green fodder revealed that the
mixture containing a high percentage of
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA gave the high-
est yield of 34 tons to the acre, being 7 tons
more than the next best.”
(“Daily Telegraph.”)
INFORMATION FROM
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
EQUITABLE BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
The Sunshine Header Harvester
or Reaper Thrasher.
m
THE GREAT GRAIN GETTER
Gets the best possible result in standing crops or in fallen crops.
H. V. McKAY PTY. LTD., Sunshine Harvester Works
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide.


fa.
A
M
£
#i
m
m
■
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
N SW MONT dePIETE
DXI. COY. L-TO.,
T 4 St. Sydney. 74
000 oocs rwty
avoirs
Joseph . W. Hill\
Genera! Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doorr
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete I). and I, Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King; St., Newcastle, N.S.W
215 Swanston Streel, Melbourne
10 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagrli Street, Sydney
159 George Street West, Sydney
Thoet & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
POVERTY
POINT
“NorbeH” : It is unfeelingly suggested by
“Stargazer” (P>. 22/6/’22) that “Time has
turned my head.” This because I casually
stated that Emma Temple first made her boAV
in these parts in the Australian premiere of
“lolanthe” at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne,
36 (really 37) years ago. “Star’s” point
is that the auspicious eA-ent occurred at the
Opera House on the other side of Bourke-
street. The fact is that the Firm in those
days ran only the Royal, with an occasional
“The First Tear." at
Sydney Palace.
Edwin Lester as
Mr. Livingston.
outbreak at the old
Princess’s, and one
ortwo av i 1 d
splashes in the
little “Nugget" at
the top of Bourke-
street where the
Salvation Army is
now. Hence “lo-
lanthe” was first
produced at the
, Royal,'with Brough
: as Lord Chancel-
lor, Mrs. Brough
(Florence Trevel-
yan) Queen of the
Fair i e s, Emma
Temple and Lily
For d e the tAVO
principal fairies
Leila and Celia.
Woodfi e 1 d and
Boyle as Tolloller
and Mountararat,
St. Clair as Pri-
vate Willis, Broc-
coli ni as Strephon
and Nellie StCAvart as Phyllis. “Stargazer”
must have been moonstruck.
“0.K.”: The next J.C.W. panto. Dame
will be Australian born and tired. Joe Bren-
nan, noAV Avith the Humphrey Bishop Co.,
is the man on Avhom the rare distinction has
fallen, and his wife, Ida NeAVton, will be a
principal girl or second boy in the same
show. They appeared together in a panto
that Barry Lupino managed under the un-
combined Taits of the period. Having seen
service abroad and been given opportunities
to assert their individualities, Joe and Ida
will now he entitled to count as somebodies
on a J.C.W. bill. After many years the
native theatrical product is recovering the
position it enjoyed Avhen three Melbourne-
girls of untravelled experience—Flo Graup-
ner, Violet Varley and Florence Young—
were taking honors in the first production
of “The Old Guard.” The importation of
panto Dames has been a .T.C.W. habit. For
the next blessed Christmas annual only a
principal boy will be brought overseas. Of
course, it wouldn’t be a panto if Ave didn’t
import somebody.
“O. Blip”: During a tour of “A Royal
Divorce” in Maoriland Julius Knight Avas
sick for two or three nights in one toAvn,
with the result that J. B. AlholAvood, avljo
was giving a vmd etching of the innkeeper
in the production, Avas called upon to play
Napoleon. Athonvood had his OAvn pic-
turesque ideas of the Man of Destiny, and
his impersonation caused considerable verbal
controversy among those who suav it. One
of the people Avho disliked his version was
the ticket-clerk at the local railway station.
Unto him the Emperor came a feAv days
afterwards with head doAvn on his chest
and one hand thrust in the Bonaparte man-
ner. into his waistcoat. “A ticket, boy,”
said the Corsican, planking down a handful
of silver. “Yes, sir," answered the youth,
“but Avhere to —Elba or St. Helena ?”
“Orb": Bill and Tom Cosgrove, with
Wilfred Shine, Avere doing “The Serpent’s
Coil” at the Royal Princess Theatre, Ben-
digo. The thrill of the evening Avas the
appearance of the Serpent in Act 3. To
weird music he slowly upended himself out
of a big black box, and “fascinated” the
shuddering heroine. The snake was realis-
tic enough, being the long, supple right arm
of the property-
nian encased in a
dinkum skin, and
its sinuous move-
ments were very
effective. Bui
props got over the
l’limsoll on the
second night, and
not only waved his
right arm but his
left as well. When
the audience
shrieked with de-
light he sat up to
see what was
amiss, and the ap-
parition of his
blithered head dis-
pelled the mystery
of “The Serpent’s
Coil” for ever. The
heroine seemed
even more hypno-
tised than usual
that night. But
Wilfred S li i n e
dashed to the
rescue, exclaiming:
“This drunken ruf-
fian thinks he sees
snakes, but, by St.
Patrick, I’ll ban-
ish every reptile
that dares t o
CLAUDE FLEM-
MING, producer of
“The Little Dutch
Girl," at Melbourne
Majesty's.
cross yaw path !” Loud applause, and cur-
tain
“Buz Fuz" : Will someone please teach
the Melbourne Mermaid Players the art of
making-up? Distracting it is to watch a
palpable youth got up as a Russian Father
Christmas with a bunch of lamb’s avool
clinging precariously to an unlined counten-
ance ; annoying to have a lady representing
the facial wreckage of a bareback rider with
careless dabs of vermilion suggestive of scar-
latina. Another thing is the recklessness of
the Mermaidens in the matter of clothes.
The other night a potential Lothario with
a holy aspect tried to match a navy-blue
lounge coat and waistcoat with a pair of
evening pants that palpably belonged to a
much smaller man. If the society cannot
borrow a suitable wardrobe, let it cut out
its beautiful gold-painted programmes and
buy one.
“Nella”: Although, as “Fax” says (B.
22,/6/’22), J., C. Williamson re-named the
old Alexandra Theatre, Melbourne, calling
it Her Majesty’s, it was William Cosgrove
who first gave it tjiat. title. Bill, like scores
of others, essayed a season of gore and
ghastliness there, and re-christened the
theatre for the occasion, but its regal label
couldn’t keep the wolf from the vestibule.
The show died young.
“0.K.”: After all, there’s not so much
cause for disparaging comment on theatrical
managers who turn down a play which event-
ually turns out to be a big money-getter.
Many a popular novel in the past has been
rejected by several publishers, mainly because
it was first hawked around at an uupro-
pitious time. Luck counts in all things, and
in nothing is it more decisive than in the
early or late blossoming of a painter's repu-
taton. Apropos of the amazing London
boom of “Tons of Money,” a much rejected
farce, Robert Courtneidge writes to a friend :
“Those foolish people who wonder why
managers sometimes miss a winner should
have the job of trying to pick one. I read
anything from 10 to 20 plays a week, mostly
the merest rot. I was told by a reader for
a big agency that the proportion of possible
plays was one in 400, and I am ready to
believe it from my experience.” “Toffs of
Money,” by the way, was secured by Court-
neidge for Hugh Ward, who is now said to
liave bought the Australasian rights of
“Gabrielle,” a comic opera which Court-
neidge didn’t book to Ward along with other
selections, because ho had been his own
librettist and producer in the matter. An
Australian-born musician—one of the Clut-
sams—wrote most of the music for “Gabri-
elle.”
"Whitebait : Arthur Wontuer, who figured
in Australia with Julius Knight in “Resur-
rection,” “The Eternal City” and other
plays, has not lost his curious fascination
for the London public. Lately the populace
was Hocking to see him a& the bogus detec-
tive in “The Bat,” but he was not the rough-
toued and peremptory sleuth that Mayne
Linton is now doing at Melbourne Royal.
His smoothness and quiet deepened the dis-
guise, and even the highbrow reviewers on
the critical weeklies wont out of their way
to praise him.
“Norbell”: Yes, the slavish imitations of
London or American originals, insisted on
by mutton-headed reproducers (B. 25/5/’22)
have helped to squelch originality on the
stage here ever since I can remember. When
Julius Knight came along with “The Prisoner
of Zenda.” 25 years ago, the script was pro-
fusely illustrated with photographs showing
how the English cast looked and posed and
performed their little tricks. On occasion
I have been told in pained accents that mv
socks were not of the exact shade affected
by Mr. Hyphen-Howler “when he played the
part in London , dear boy !” One wonders
why these copyists don’t insist that Mac-
beth should be dressed as Garrick dressed
him, in a scarlet coat, gold-laced waistcoat
and powdered wig. Once at short notice I
took the place of a leading imported mum-
mer who had fallen ill. When he got well
again he came to see the show, and remarked
kindly, “You were quaite all right, laddie.
You made it a bit broader than the London
man, perhaps, but, of course, you never saw
him. But you were quaite all right, I’ve no
doubt—-for an Australian audience!” Then
there’s this obsession about “types.” You
might need a special type to play Napoleon,
for instance, although such dissimilar actors
as Robert _ Brough, Jimmy Atholwood and
Julius Knight have each done it success-
fully; hut where are your .special tvpes for
a First Villager, a Justice of the Pence, or
a cabman? Go to! AH types are in the
make-up box.
“Norbell”: I notice that Allan Wilkie
threatens Newcastle (N.S.W.) with a week
of Shakspeare. I hope he will be careful of
the graveyard scone in “Hamlet.” Dampier
used to tell how a careless props.. forgot
the loose earth for Ophelia’s grave, and, as
a last-minute substitute, borrowed a bag of
coke from the electric-light man. When
the miners saw the Ist Gravedigger shovel-
ling coke out of the open grave, it was
too much for them. One leather-
lunged patron yelled, “Buryin’ ’er in the
gasworks, matey?” Many theatrical mana-
gers look askance at Newcastle, especially
when they have Shakspeare on the menu;
whereas a huge tent devoted to belSow-
drama is nearly always a feature of the local
landscape. Goal-miners are no highbrows.
I remember Wilson Forbes announcing a
lecture on Shakspeare’s plays for a Sunday
night at , Wouthaggi, ( Vic.). Two men
turned up—-the caretaker, who wanted the
rent, and the lecturer.
“0.K.” : A theatrical critic lately said of
a popular vaudeville identity “No one in
modern variety can take the stage quite like
Marie Lloyd.” It is true. Australia re-
members Marie as an audacious person, who
had only two or three effective songs, and
was inclined to be “over the odds.” But
she commanded attention. She had the vim
that her imitators lack, and a certain aban-
don that was perfectly .original. The average
serio-chronic girl of vaudeville is not as
forceful as when Marie Lloyd was young.
She aims higher and achieves less than even
Peggy Pryde did, whilst Peggy at her best
was but a rough imitator of her mother,
Jennie Hill, the “Vital Spark.” Wish
Wynne, a line artist in a certain type of
song which harmonises with her personality,
lacks both the dash and versatility of Marie
Lloyd or Ada Reeve. Are there any girls
coming along who can mix their entertain-
ment and hold their audience like Ada? In
her broadest moments she is nearly as vigor-
ous as Marie Lloyd, and in her lighter
touches she has no equal on the variety
stage.
“Fax”: Our old friend Connie Ediss, at
latest dates, was playing the part of the
worried vulgarian mother in Arthur Bour-
chier’s revival of “Tilly of Bloomsbury.”
Bourehier is said to be admirable as the
bibulous broker’s man, and Connie would be
funny, of course, in the rehearsal of the
“gentility” scene in her Bloomsbury house-
hold, but one can’t imagine querulous-voiced
Connie being as likeable a matron as Emma
Temple was. Neither oL them, of course,
could ever appear more than superficially
true to nature in the character of adoring-
wife to a cultured scholar like Lueien
Welwyn. Supported by a “little lady”
daughter like Tilly the old man never could
have failed to impart a little refinement to
a fond wife and son. The cheery cockne,\
vulgarity of son Percy, and the hopeless
stodgy simplicity of Mrs. Welwyn were good
farcical comedy, like the hacking korf of the
broker’s man, but the characters were not
convincing. They were stage creations. It
takes all sorts of unreal persons to make a
stage world.
Field Fisher as Waiter Bulot.
“A FIGHT OUT,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
“J.F.H.”: Haddon Chambers’s posthu-
mous comedy, “The Card Flayers,” has
been produced, perhaps unwisely, at
London Savoy. The Australian wrote the
first two acts, which exhibit his familiar
qualities of neat construction, close observa-
tion, and witty dialogue, but a rambling
third act has been added by a ’prentice hand.
The current allegation that J. M. Barrie
was the miscreant is simply incredible.
“Dot” Boucicault was of opinion that the
play should have been presented as Haddou
left it, and the critics agree. Nevertheless,
Godfrey Tearle has achieved a triumph by
his powerful impersonation of the gambling
parent, and Mrs. Haddon Chambers, for
whom the piece was written, gives what the
Referee calls “a very charming and fascin-
ating picture of the sweet and gracious
heroine.”
“Sarc”: “Rondibilis’s” tirade against
modern music (B. 35/6/’22) is, like the
examples he quotes, unconvincing. Scria-
bine, despite his “mystic chords,” has pro-
duced music of enduring value: in fact, he is
universally acknowledged, except by “Rondi-
bilis,” as one of the greatest of modern com-
posers. The music of the modern French
school is contemptuously dismissed as “dim
impressionism,” but this vague generalisation
is stupidly inapplicable to the finest composi-
tions of Debussy and Ravel. The former’s
“Apr&s-midi d’un Faune,” and the latter’s
“Miroirs,” to quote two examples, are works
of distinctive beauty. Having dismissed the
Russian and French moderns, “Rondibilis” has
apparently exhausted his acquaintance with
contemporary music. Of the vigorous and
flourishing British school he makes no men-
tion. Yet the work of Ireland, Bax, Ban-
tock and our own Percy Grainger is char-
acterised neither by “mystic chords” nor by
“dim impressionism,” but by a wholesome
originality. These apart, there still re-
main the productions of Grieg, Sibelius.
Coleridge-Taylor and McDowell, none of
whom “Rondibilis,” obsessed by his Old
Masters, mentions. I repeat that the intro-
duction of modern programmes would not
only excite a healthy interest in music, but
would make concert-going a pleasure, and
not, as it too often is, a duty.
M. P. Adams, the slim impresario who
went to England with a Wild Australia show
in pictures, used to run a flicker entertain-
ment in the wilds of Victoria, going where
the pics, were hitherto unknown, and dis-
playing his films wherever he found room for
a screen, an operator and 50 people. One
night he was showing a sentimental Ameri-
can melodrama, the villain of which, harried
the beautiful heroine unmercifully, and pre-
sently a stalls patron, disgusted with the
bad man’s brutality and his callousness
towards the female in distress, rose up with
a horrid word, and hurled a large, over-ripe
pear, smiting the villain fair across the
mazzard, and leavgig a nasty big splodge
right in the fairway. Adams, a good athlete,
collared the offender, breathing vengeance,
but the fellow’s indignation against the bold
bad man was so genuine that no harm was
done him. “Bv cripes,” he said ; “I wasn’t
goin’ to let a sanguinary toff like that think
lie could do as he dam’ well pleased here in
Berrybong.”
THER PLAY MOT WARMED MY 'EART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
These parsing shows, they comes and goes —
The parsable or rotten —■
They makes yer tired, or soovos yer woes,
An’ soon they gits forgotten.
Yer sees a play an’ goes yer way,
For, avos it dull or funny,
A bloke Avot’s feelin’ sad or gay
Must keep on earnin’ niunny.
Each year as flies yer grow more wise,
And ’arder for amusin’ ;
For drainers full of luv an’ lies
Yer appetite you’re losin’;
A pantermime of old seemed prime,
I tliort yer couldn’t beat it;
But w’en yer gits it ’arf the time
A bloke carn’t sit an’ eat it.
I’ve gorn alone on Pat Malone,.
To plays I’d ’card wos “splendid,”
Gals torked abowt their “morel tone”
Like lots o' pussy men did.
Just tripe, I tliort: I like the sort
Wot Sends yer ’ome a-thinkin’ —
AYot lets the ’ero be a sport,
An’ speshulises drinkin’.
My mem’ries cling ter “Silver King,”
Gawd answered that bloke's prayer quick:
’E mopped ’is booze, and ’ad 'is fling,
Then did the millyunaire trick.
That morel’s fine; ’e luvs ’is Avine,
Yer sees ’im broke and slacker:
’E does a guy an’ strikes a mine—
All owin' to tlier liquer.
We git no play like that to-day
Yer interlect to nourish ;
Blokes must go wrong, it seems to say,
Before they starts to flourish.
An’ now I’m strate it seems too late;
Until I’ve gorn an’ drifted,
I tells the wife, she’ll ’ave ter wate
For me to git huplifted.
vrcToitu.
O. K.


P ; ' &
r m
1
'
mmm
mmm
70
isi
H > jib
3 L^rj
Cm
»
o
> jiiiiiifc
os r^S
m
■*
»
fW.
3*
30
VI
wv
>
**»■;.;
V ::
i
H= )
? •
AERIAL WIRES
AND-CABLES- -
Bare or Braided
i r > *'"i
PAPER
PINIONS a
FLEXIBLE
WIRES
□£}
FUSE BOXES
. —
t rr
E
ip
ii
Electric Insulated
Wires and Cables.
Flexible Wires, Lead=covered
Wires and Cables, Braided
Aerial Wires and Cables,
House Service Fuse Boxes, etc.
Metal Manufactures Limited,
PORT KEMBLA, N.SW,
Bare Copper Wires Cables.
Hard or Soft Drawn ; Copper Rods and
Strips, Cotton-covered Wires, etc.
r
T> -WV i a
HI
TELEPHONE WIRES
V AND CABLES
SJ
INSTRUMENT WIRES
Coffon Covered
S < IK Covered
En am ell <?d
711
! 1
m
m
FPBPEi
m
TROLLEY WIRES f OR
TRAMWAYS
min*mould
NSULATED WIRES
AND CABLES
ssei
1R
n wt
J-* ■% % '
I:
r,| t£t.
William Adams & Company Limited
SYDNEY:
171 Clarence Si
'PHONE, CITY 912,9180.
BRISBANE:
Edward and Mary
’PHONE 160.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.j Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
THE YEAR'ROUND PLAYGROUND'
9
Enjoy an outdoor vacation
in the land ot your dreams.
See Kilauea, world’s larg-
est living volcano. Swim
and surf in summer seas,
where there are
No Sharks,
and fish, walk, or motor to your
heart’s content. Good hotels of all
classes. Ask nearest travel, ticket,
steamship or Tourist agency for book-
let and information, or .write direct to
DEPARTMENT B,
Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.A.
FOX RIFLES.
WINCHESTER REPEATING RIFLE, 25/20
82 ; 88 and 44 Oal. Under lever action. Full
and half magazine. CARBINES and RIFLES,
MARLIN, 38 and 44 Cal. REPEATERS. Under
< action. Full and half magazine.
fo/10/- and £O.
ROSS .303 RIFLES. The cheapest and best
rifle obtainable. £6/10/-
BROWNING F.N. AUTOMATIC .22 Cal.
RTFLE. Fi-es 8 ordinary .22 Long Rifle Cart-
ridges. 95/-
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC, .22 Cal. A neat
and accurate rifle. £9/15/-
REPAIRS TO RIFLES AND GUNS DONE
ON THE PREMISES.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPELY
Chrysostom and Jolly Phast, both engaged
in the National, won over hurdles at Williamstown
last Saturday, whereas Fiscorn and the resuscitated
Bright Plume shaped discouragingly on the flat. Also
Gold Snow, from Sydney, blundered at a jump, as
Myownbay did, and at the end of the day the coming
National looked more than ever a pretty good thing
for Roisel —-with the proviso of a stand-up. Were
he a sure jumper uobody could fancy anything else
with confidence. The objection to Jolly Phast, apart
from his lOst. 111 b. burden, is the belief that he was
only a second string in the stable estimation as long
as Shivander promised to be a starter, and the ques-
tion concerning Bright Plume is as to whether he will
be the horse he was when he beat Fiscom at Fleming-
ton a month ago. Writing some days before the
event, when two or three of the possibly dangerous
ones have yet to do their final gallops in the
betting market, one picks Roisel because nothing
save a very bad jump or real bad luck can keep him
from finishing there or thereabouts.
• - • - • •
Backed for the proverbial ton of money, in
doubles with Roisel, is Grand Fleet for the Steeple-
chase. There again the jumping capacity is mis-
trusted, and the gee, moreover, is among the very
ancients. Six long years have passed since Grand
Fleet was expected to win. the Australian Cup, and
since then he has not been frequently engaged in
steeplechasing business. Should Roisel, or any other
favorite, win the Hurdle, old Grand Fleet will jump
to a false price for the Steeple, anyhow. This paper’s
preference is for Wooloo.
* # » »
Eurythmic wasn’t nominated for tbe big
Spring handicaps. Beauford figures in three of them,
and if he starts in any, which is doubtful, he will
have to carry lumps of weight. He has 9st. 131 b.
in the Melbourne Cup, lOst. 101 b. in toe Epsom and
lOst. 91b. in the Metropolitan. His Autumn Stakes
victory notwithstanding, Killick’s flier is probably
better over a mile than any other distance, but
1501 b. Is a tremendous burden to cany up the long
Randwick straight. Glenacre (9st. 51 j.) is another
Epsom candidate who has caught it hot. Whatever
Ins private reputation may be his public fonn is
nothing out of the way, yet he is asked to concede
age and weight to Elfacre (9st. 21b.), Syce Knight
(9st;), Tangaiooma (9st.) and Erasmus (Bst. 10lb.).
The last-named, if he can be got right, will take no
end of beating. And with only Gib. more than his
Doncaster weight, in which he ran a good second
to Julia Grey, Sir Maitland (Bst. 61b.) has been
given an undoubted chance. Other likely Epsom
candidates are Popaway (Bst. 51b), The Epicure (7st.
131 b.), and All Gold (7st. 101 b.). In the Metropoli-
tan nothing strikes the eye among the top weights—
it is a hard race for a heavily-burdened horse to win.
But Keneppil should have a show with Bst. 91b., and
Wirriway is hot out of it with the same weight.
Another possibility is Nautical (Bst. 41b.), of whom
the best has not been seen. But nothing reads better
than Baron’s steed Prince Sandy (7st. 61b.), who was
second to Laddie Blue in the last Metrop., a lightly-
framed handicap, and ought to have improved in the
meantime. Bitalli (7st. 41b.) is likewise on a good
mark. A detent double at this early stage would
be Sir Maitland and Prince Sandy, or Popaway and
Bitalli, if the punter has a preference for something
rough.
Dr. Lang hasn’t been hard on the Sydney horses
in the Caulfield Cup. For that race Salitros (9st.
31b.), Honey Bee (Bst. 71b.), Keneppil (Bst. 31b.)
and Prince Sandy (7st. 71b.) have all been leniently
treated, much more so than the Groper, Easingwold
(Bst. 121 b.), and Fair Intervener (Bst. 91b.). Accord-
ing to Westralian reports Brilliant Sunshine (Bst.
71b.) is better over the distance than either Easing-
vvold or Fair Intervener; he is an English importa-
tion owned by P. A. Connolly, who won the Mel-
bourne Cup with Blue Spec, and the Sydney Cup
with Dyed Garments and Lilyveil. Tangaiooma (Bst.
121 b.), The Rover (Bst. 71b.), Nautical (Sst. 51b.)
and Heir Apparent (Bst.), look the best of the Vic-
torian lot, and the S. Aus. pair, Repique and Cru-
sader, are nicely in—they both have 7st. 111 b. For
the Melbourne Cup David, with 9st. 31b., promises to
be one of the early fancies. It is not a prohibitive
poundage for a good five-year-old who has proved
his ability to stay and carry weight. Sister Olive
(Bst. 81b.) will also be supported by the winter
speckers. Others with winning chances on paper are
The Rover (Bst. 61b.), Heir Apparent (7st. 121 b.),
Keneppil (7st. 111 b.), Mufti (7st. 91b)., Kashmir
(7st. 81b.), Bitalli (7st. 61b.), King of the Forest (7st.
41b.) and Prince Sandy (7st. 31b.). At this stage
Salitros and The Rover looks a fair double. But
if Keneppil is reserved for the Melbourne Cup he
will give that race a shake, fit and well on the
day. He is undoubtedly a good horse.
• * * »
The most interesting- feature of the two-
day meeting at Rosehill (N.S.W.) was the form
shown by Erasmus. Carrying 9st. 31b., and going
out favorite at 5 to 2, the Linacre-Lady Capulet
stallion won the six-furlong Prince of Wales Stakes
in lmin. 144sec.'. after a thrilling finish with E. J.
Watts’s Aetes, who had led most of the way. Duke
Sterling, a winner on the first day, was third, and
Maltgilla was among the beaten division. Another to
show a glimpse of her early form was the four-year-
old Powhatan-Gossine mare Gossine Hatan, who,
finishing well, defeated a field of second-raters in the
nine-furlong Carlingford Handicap. She has 7st.
101 b. in the Epsom. A third winner, and a likely
Epsom and Metrop. candidate, was the promising
three-year-old Sea Risk, who, after getting a bad
run in a six-furlong race for maiden horses on Satur-
day, won in better company on Monday, coming
home on the bit. He is a full-brother, by Sea
Prince-Paper Money, to the more than useful Purser,
and has 7st. 21b. in each of the Randwick events.
* * * *
“Kay Emma”: At Cheltenham (S.A.) on
June 17 two full-brothers, Thrinax and Tagala, both
owned by C. L. Gardiner, trained by T. Matson
and ridden by B. Matson, won races. That doesn’t
sound surprising, but each race was over five fur-
longs, the times were
the same—6lsec., and
so were the dividends
—£3 6s. Any paral-
lel case? Two more
brothers, Kibano and
AJacasia, have earned
their oats at the
sprinting part of the
business, and a half-
brother in Falkland is
one of the State’s
best welter horses.
Still another relation,
a youngster, is show-
ing a promising turn
of speed. Pandanus is
the dam of this in-
teresting family.
E. O'SULLIVAN,
a leading Vic.
jockey. He rode
Sister Olive in
her Cup.
J-H- (London) : Frank Bullock and
Brownie Carslake, although rather slow off the
mark in the English flat-Facing season, have been
riding plenty of winners lately. They are both
artists in the saddle: Bullock the better over all
distances, Carslake sunreme in sprint races, especially
at Newmarket. Carslake can’t go to scale under
Bst. 51b., whereas Donoghue, his great rival, can do
7st. 71b., but the Australian rides a bigger proportion
of winners than any other horseman in England. He
is a marvellous judge of pace and unsurpassed in a
close finish. He is associated with. the powerful
Persse stable, which this year has carried all before
it. George Smith, another Australian, rides for
Persse when Carslake cannot do the weight. He has
had a wonderful run of success, his winners includ-
ing Crescendo (Prince of Wales Stakes, 11 mile, at
Kempton), Chivalrous (50 to 1, in the Chester Cun),
Silver Urn (in a big five-furlong sprint at Kempton
the day that Crescendo won), and Yellow Dwarf (Vic-
toria Cup, the big Spring sprint at Hurst Par*).
In 15 days the combination Persse-Carslake-Smith
carried off 16 races worth in stakes alone more than
£16,000.
* * • •
Clap tain Traill, a member of the G.-G.’s
staff, had a sporting interest in the Australasian
Waterloo'Cup, decided at Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) last
week. Two dogs, Jack Marsh and Aline, ran in his
nomination, and the whole entourage went along to
see one or t’other bring home the bacon, but both
had the misfortune to be drawn against the ulti-
mate winner. Jack went down in the third round
and Aline in the fourth. Victoria provided the
favorite, Comedy Achieved, reputed to be the fastest
dog south of the border, but he was downed in the
semi-final. Two bitches, Quick Sally (N.S.W.) and
Warilda (Vic.), were left to decide the destiny of
the rich stake. The most disappointing course of
the meeting resulted, the Victorian becoming un-
sighted after covering 200yds. Thus Sally had the
game to herself. The Waterloo Purse went to
Anticipation (S. Aus.) from Baringa (Vic.), who
was unable to run the decider through injuring a
leg in the semi-final.
* * * *
The visiting Maori Rugby Union team
redeemed the football reputation of their race, badly
dimmed by the defeats inflicted on the League side,
by beating N.S.W. at Sydney Show Ground on Satur-
day. It was a hard, bustling game in which half a
dozen players were temporarily laid out, and file
Maoris won by only 3 points—2s (4 tries 6 goals)
to 22 (6 tries 2 goals). Akuira, the Maori kicker,
got four of the goals, and great goals they were.
The game was interesting always, and exciting in
patches, especially in the closing minutes. To a
large extent it was a trial of strength between the
forwards on the soft ground, and the Maoris pre-
vailed. The Blacks introduced a new style of
scrumwork to Australia. Once the ball was thrown
in they began stamping and straining like draught-
horses. and with a heave their wedge-shaped scrum
(2—3—2 against the Ma State’s 3—2—3) drove
clean through. Their big men—Tresize, Bell and
Gernmell—were too hefty for the opposition, and
. J ac ob s » their captain, who had a roving* co’n-
mission, spoiled many N.S.W. efforts. Outside the
scrums, the Blues had the better of things. R. L.
Raymond, the right wing threequarter, gave an excel
lent exhibition, and got three of the six tries.
Johnny Taylor, the international cricketer, was great
in the centre. A. S. Walker (captain) did a hard
day s work behind the scrum, and stuck it out
though wreathed in bandages; and Nothling (full
lack) kicked ably. Among the forwards G. McKay
used his 14st. to advantage, and C. L. Pox did one
brilliant bit of work—the most dazzling of the day.
P. Blake (centre three-quarter), who has pace and
handles well, and the versatile Potaka (five-eighth)
were the pick of the Maori backs.
Having strengthened their lack division, the Ma
Staters gave a much improved exhibition on Monday
and won a fine game by 28 to 13. On this occasion
the Maori forwards found their hefty work of little
avail against the nippiness of the Blues. But
N.S.W.’s kicking for goal was atrocious: although
five tries were scored only one was converted. Johnny
Taylor was the best man on the Blue side, and the
Maori star was little Peina, who played a magnificent
game.
* * # *
The Rugby League matches in Sydney
on Saturday were not particularly interesting.
Much the best was the Glebe-Newtown argu-
ment on the Sports Ground. Glebe won
by 4 points—l 3 to 9. Western Suburbs, who
are at the bottom of the list, made a manful attempt
to will another match, but Eastern Suburbs defeated
them by 6 points to 2. North Sydney’s backs were
too strong for South Sydney, and were the chief
factors in an easy win—2B to 6, However, Wearing,
South’s three-quarter, proved fleeter than Blinkhorn,
the Northern crack. St. George ran rings round
University, scoring 45 to 2. North Sydney and Glebe
are still leading in the premiership competition, and
will each finish the first round with one defeat. On
Monday the Maori Leaguers were routed by a Metro-
politan XIII, who rattled up 38 points (10 tries
4 goals) to nil. However, the Kangaroos and Rest
of Australasia provided a great go. The ’Roos were
not at full strength, Pearce, Vest and Caples being
unavailable. The Rest included Richards, the
Bananalander, and four Maoris. It was a splendid
exhibition up to the spell, but after that the tourists
were top dogs, and in the end they won by 82
points (8 tries 4 goals) to 24 (6 tries 3 goals). It
was a fine exhibition of the League code.
With nearly half the first round of Vic.
League matches played the struggle grows keener,
and on Saturday casualties were plentiful. Rich-
mond, too late, have been scouring the State for
talent and have captured five alleged stars from the
country. One was pushed into the unroar on Satur-
day, and did as well as could be expected from a
’bailer wearing the name of Maclsaac. But he
couldn’t save the Tigers from another defeat, inflicted
bv Carlton—B3 points to 66. After the tragedy a
yelling horde of Richmond barrackers “got to” the
umpire. Mounted troopers had to protect the small,
red-headed official from clods, mud and other insults.
Collingwood’s great run of victories was brought to
an end by Melbourne, who notched 67 points to the
Magpies’ 59. The South Melbourne-Fitzro.v scrim-
mage was responsible for most of the day’s accidents.
When all was over South owned 56 points to ’Roy’s
67. St. Kilda pleased their supporters and disgusted
Geelong’s by returning from the seaside with 65
points to Geelong’s 54. Saints are battling hard to
get into the next round.
• * * *
“Winkle”: Last on the premiership list
(they were first in 1921) Richmond included Angus
Maclsaac, from Mooroopna. in their team on Satur-
day. But he didn’t get in without a protest, for
a section of the committee tried hard to give a local
player the preference. In the middle of the argument
the chairman called the disputants to order and rmt
the question: “Who is in favor of Maclsaac?” “Not
me,” said a staunch battler for local talent. “Gimme
the tote every time.”
* * * *
“.T.A.F.M.”: “Tracker” Forbes, Essendon’s
great follower in the ’eighties and ’nineties, has
taken his last high mark. A blacksmith by trade, he
was all muscle and sinew, but he never made an
unfair use of his strength. No more genial humorist
ever played the game. His tall frame, surmounted
by the “’arc! ’itter” that he wore always on the back
of his head, and his quaint old dial, from which
issued a stream of witty remarks, will be missed
from Melbourne football grounds. Essendon discovered
him when he was playing with a iunior team "known
as North Park, and he was a find indeed.
* * * *
~ “JTBS”: For the match arainst Victoria at
Melbourne on July 8 the S.A. se’ectors have chosen
a team without good forwards and full-backs. Nor-
wood. whose average for the season is 100 points
scored against 434, and whose goal-kicking record
is 91 goals 64 behirds against 35 gcnls 51 behinds,
ha’-pn’t a_ forward in the 18. But when you have
eight club delegates picking a team instead of, say,
tnree ex-players, dissatisfaction is inevitable.
. Grime, though featherweight champion
of N. S. Wales, can’t get a fight in his native
capital, and has to travel long distances in search
of matches. In the course of his travels he called
at Melbourne, where a more discriminating promoter
sent him against Semmens, the best local boxer at
me weight. The dispute was decided on Saturday
night, and Grime gave an excellent account of him-
self. Semmens was awarded the decision, and justly
so, but he had to go for his life to get it.
* * * *
The multitudes of Sydney people who have
dropped the habit of spending Saturday night at
the Stadium are re-
ceiving even' encour-
agement to keep on
dropping it. With
Dwyer Bradley,
Holmes and other
proved lightweights to
pick from the man-
agement dug up a for-
lorn novice, one Jim
Ryan, to send against
the hard-bitten Yank,
Hunefeld. The mis-
guided youth shaped
np a hopeless bundle
of nerves, and Hunn-
fcld knocked him silly
in half a round. Then
the small band of
heroes that had paid
the iniquitous tariff
(21s. Bd., 10s. 10d.,
ss. sd. and 3s. 3d.)
howled for their money
back. Which they
didn’t get.
WILLIE HVNE-
FELD, the V.S.
lightweight, who
knocked out Jim
Ryan in one
round.
nr(tw a ?" n ® ver read of a schlenter mill
h j recalling the trial of strength aiid endurarce
a , nd Harrison. The pair had quarrelled
tnnt bet and dec . lded to fight it out. The combat
tookplace one pay afternoon and everyone had a wager
on the result. The first round proved to be a series
01 tremendously misdirected blows on the part of
10th gladiators. The crowd began to get sarcastic,
o ! ur o° r circulated that Hogan had backed Harrison
and Harrison had backed Hogan. In the second
round, all the punishment being still reserved for the
atmosphere, backers grew thoroughly annoved, and
the impression that each combatant was trying to lose
deepened. It was confirmed when Harrison ran up
against Hogan s fist and went down. He stopped
down, and the ten-seconds-check (whose money was
on llogan) began briskly counting him out. Hogan
looked surprised, then worried, but when seven was
called an inspiration came to him. He walked across
and kicked Harrison where it would do the least
harm, remarking, as he did so, “Get up and fight,
you cow. The referee, who had backed Harrison,
promptly disqualified Hogan.
The result of the first battles for the Davis
Cup leaves Britain, France, India and Australia to
continue hostilities, and on the plav described by
cable the ultimate challenger is still hard to pick.
Britain *d so well against Italy without the help
of nycett that its chances seem immensely improved.
Kmgscote and Riseley, both veterans, played brilliant
tennis, and Lowe, the old-established base-line plugger,
never showed a hole in his defence. France outed
Denmark without much trouble, and the Fyzee bro-
thers of India settled the pretensions of the ever-
rated Mishu, a familiar Wimbledon figure and the
mainstay of Roumania. The Australians struck wet
weather against the Belgians at Scarborough, hut
Patterson and Anderson w T ere evidently niore at home
than_ the enemy, Patterson scoring freely against
the Brussels champion, Washer, with his great service
and his favorite drop shot. This stroke would have
no terrors for an active player on a hard dry court
but on wet turf its apparent innocence makes it an
embarrassment to the man who tries to hit it.
Anderson, cabling to the Melbourne Herald, men-
tions. casually that Patterson’s backhand still causes
misgivings. In fact, Washer scored off it frequently,
forcing the big fellow to reply with those soaring
little loop shots that are so easy to kill. Watson,
Andersons first opponent, is a 45-year-old Irishman
long resident in Brussels, and his small record of
games in three straight sets gives no indication of
the strenuous fight he put up for every point. In
fact, he inveigled Anderson into numerous rallies
and had the umpire calling “Deuce” again and again.
Anderson and O’Hara Wood won the doubles contest
(and with it the match), but the Belgian pair took
two sets and were only beaten 7-5 in the fifth. In a
subsequent exhibition match Patterson and O’Hara
Wood downed them 6-2, 6-3, 6-2. Which is more
satisfactory.
# # * *
For the second successive year the British
open golf championship has gone to a professional
from the U.S.A. Hutchison, the Scotch-born - scien-
tist who is domiciled at Chicago, won at St
Andrew’s in 1921 ; and at Sandwich, last week, Hagen
took delivery of the 1922 blue riband with a score
of 302, one stroke better than Duncan and Barnes
who tied for second money, and two strokes ahead
of Hutchison. The fourth round was intensely excit-
ing. Duncan, playing on a damp course in'squally
weather, went out in 34, and home in 35—a
wonderful performance under the circumstances. Had
his last shot been successful he would have been
level with Hagen, but it stopped two inches from the
hole. Ivirkwood, who is being overboomed and
shows signs of being affected by it, finished in the
ruck, his score (313), being the same as Malcolm
Scott s. He talks of bringing Hagen to Australia
towards the end of the year. The pair are great
pals, and are planning a round-the-world tour.
* * * «■
, , w - Stevenson was unmercifully licked
by Walter Lindrum, but had his revenge on brother
Fred. Showing much improved form the veteran
stylist ran out in a 16,000-up game, played in Sid-
ney, when the terrier-like Australian was 12 626
The red-ball stroke was restricted, which suited the
Englishman, and he gave a fine exhibition of top-of-tbe-
table nlay. His best break was 348. Lindrum’s was
a brilliant 350. But Fred always was a player of
moods.
THE EARLY BIRD MORALISES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“After Gazomp's poor show at Caulfield his
trainer, Norman Godby, expressed the view that there
must be something wrong internally with the winner
ol last year’s Australian Steeplechase. Veterinary
advice was sought, and it was discovered that
Gazomp was suffering from a broken rib, the result
doubtless of his fall in the Hopetoun Steeplechase at
the V.R.C. meeting on June 3. Since then Gazomp,
doubtless in great pain, had taken part in the Steeple-
chase at Moonee Valley on Saturday week.” —Daily
press.
A crash come ’e in a steeplechase
Thro’ makin’ a forlty jump,
An’ O, the sense o’ that slight disgrace
AVos felt by the brave Gazomp:
Yus, 'e felt the tumble at Flemington
Since fame ’ad come to the ’orse —
The fame ’e won in the race he run
On the easier Caulfield course,
W’en hup ’e stood on ’is pins again,
’E sez, does ’is shaken Nibs,
“I’m quite orlright, ’cept a narsty pain
In the regiun they calls me ribs:
But I sharn’t complain o’ the pain, by Gawd i
Me boss mustn’t fink I’d shirk;
For I’d seem, by Gawd, like a blanky fraud
If I arst for a rest from work.”
Then ’e goes ter work in the same old way
On the track in the early morn:
The pain gits wusser from day to day
’Twixt set o’ the sun and dorn—
But never a word ’as Gazomp to say,
Though he never injoys ’is corn:
For the grousers they is of ’uman clay,
An’ to silence Gazomp wos born.
So down at the Valley ’e does ’is bit
As well as ’is ribs knows ’ow:
’E carries some oof, for ’e looks quite fit,
An’ ’e runs like a blanky cow.
The crowd, wot sniffs w’en the favrits fail,
Sez “Wot d’yer fink of this?”
They waits till ’is tail gets near the scale,
An’ some of ’em gives an ’iss.
“It’s ’ard, dam ’ard,” finks poor Gazomp
“They reckons me form ain’t troo:
In me eyes there’s tears, in me froat a lump:
But wot is a gee to do?
I carn’t complain o’ the pain, by Gawd!
A kind o’ stitch in me side;
’lssed by them blighters I’ve ’eard applaud,
An’ Gawdby knows as I tried l”
Agin ’e runs an’ agin ’e fails,
Just lobs in, one o’ the larst;
By many a blighter wot ’ugs the rails
Mean snotty remarks is parst.
For none is aware of the ’orse’s woe,
An’ the tears on ’is nose so wet,
As ’e finks, “They will know why I ran so slow
If they sends for me friend the Vet.”
Ah, now they know why the ’orse run bad,
Ah’ ’e really is ’ome an’ dry,
An’ the four-legg.’d angels is feelin’ glad
In their glorious relems on ’igh—
Them relems on ’igh where they useter Sigh,
For it gives ’em the gawdly. ’ump
To fink as an ’orse couldn’t give the lie
To them as supposed ’e’d runned a bye,
Wen the sportin’ old motter wos “Do or Die’
Wif that broken-ribbed sport Gazomp.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


/ have not joined a Safety Razor Union
o
.ff//////,,,
mm
Sc
SK
im
m
n
L
Although lam a safety razor I never ca’canny. My job is to see that you
get the maximum output of shaves from every Valet blade.
My method is simple—just stropping, wonderfully accurate stropping—and
I do it myself, so that I know the job is properly done.
You will find that a razor which strops itself is as great an improvement as
a motor car which starts itself. It is even better because it means more
mileage per blade.
Stop at the next good razor shop you pass and ask the man behind the
counter to show you the “Valet” Auto Strop Razor, then I’ll show you how
I strop myself.
JHE STA NO ARD SET No 1 consists of heavily silver-plated, self-stropping ‘Valet” Auto Strop Razor, 12 orr /«
Valet Biases and Valet Strop, m handsome case, lined velvet and satin - - - . _ /f O
“VALET”
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australasia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The word ' Valet” on Razors, Strops and Blades indicates the genuine product of the AuloStrop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, Eng,
BECOME A “DARK HORSE.
Learn the art of Boxing from
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker, and
be ready to hold your own
against the bully and the tough.
The points of ringcraft are
easily mastered b? our simple
series of illustrated
Postal Lessons.
Id all parts of Australia successful pupils
have quickly learned the hits, moves and
counters that make a scientific boxer. Each
lesson is based on “Snowy” Baker’s personal
experience in the ring.
Write your name and address across this
advertisement, enclose three stamps for
postage, and we will forward “Snowy”
Baker’s booklet, “Scientific Boxing in your
Home,” which tells all about the course and
gives examples of the lessons.
WSM
•W-x
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
*' The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AXD PBOTHERS.
129 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY (Cr. Crown St.).
KY
AMMUNITION
kynochW’
•22 RIM FIRE.
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
All British
BURBERRY
The All-Weather Coat
for the Well-dressed Man.
THE COAT TO GET
NOW—for Comfort and
Protection in All Weathers
—is the 1922 “Burberry.”
Of all-sufficient warmth—never
a burden to wear nor to carry—
RUBBERLESS, yet Completely
WEATHERPROOF, Faultless in
Workmanship, Distinc-
tive in Style, and a
recognised LEADER of
FASHION throughout the
civilised world-—the
“Burberry” is the All-
Satisfying Coat for the
discriminating Dresser.
THE LATEST MODELS IN BOTH
MEN’S & WOMEN’S “BURBERRYS”
ore now available (at lower prices than
have been possible for years) at Lincoln,
Stuart’s, the properly appointed and
AUTHORISED “BURBERRY” AGENTS
for MELBOURNE.
CALL OR WRITE.
WE PAY FREIGHT.
iu|W
im
m
m m
' Si /'
mm.//
S
■
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co.
PTY.
LTD.,
“Appointed ‘Burberry* Agents,’’
244-254 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.


Big Reductions in
Keith’s Famous Boots
Usually 79/6, Cash Bonus Sale Price, 63/-.
Saves 2j- in £ for cash.
fsd
Carriage n aid.
Box 497, G.P.O.
This aristocratic footwear is so well known
by discriminating men that they will instantly
realise its convincing value at the Sale reduction.
It is very smart in either the Derby or Balmoral
shape, being made of finest-grade tan Russian
Calf, with light-welted soles—faultlessly finished
to satisfy the appreciative. In full and half
sizes. Usual Price, 79/6. Sale Price, 63/-
u Less 21- in the £ Cash (Bonus.
FARMER’S
SYDNEY.
WATCHMEN'S TELL-TALE CLOCKS.
We are showing the latest and most improved
form of Watchmen’s Tell-tale Clocks.
They are fine specimens of good clockwork,
strong, accurate, dependable, fool-proof, and
impossible to tamper with.
They will last a lifetime. We guarantee
them.
A clock to register for (i stations costs
£7/10/-
A clock to register for 12 stations costs £B.
ST
Tlie Best Tell-tale for
stations, £7/10/-
They are the best tell-tale vet evolved, as far as we know, and our horological
knowledge is of every land. uoiuiugiuu
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figures.
Cash onty.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
'V
• 16 J? e Bavay-Cooper wedding, at St. Pat-
rick s Cathedral on June 19, was a great
affair. The bridegroom is a young man of
scientific achievement, and Dulcie Lucille,
the bride, one of the chief ornaments of
the set that habitually eats in public. They
have bolted to Honolulu for a short .honey-
moon, and actually had to motor to Seymour
to board the Sydney express there, in order
to escape the alarming fuss their army of
friends were preparing as farewell. Could
anything be more delightful?
( The wedding repast was at Cliveden, as the
Coopers’ own fiat refused to hold the multi-
tude. The menu cards, with white satin
bows, set forth a feast of 20 courses; the
wine-list had a whole page to itself, and the
wedding party feasted on a dais. So there !
The slender little bride looked like a
pure-white snowflake. The bridesmaids were
dazzling in deep amber chiffon velvet, draped
classically in straight lines from their shoul-
ders. Mrs. Merson Cooper, the bride’s
mother, wore a yard or two of brocade spun
out of silver threads and silk, and embroid-
ered with roses, while the wings of a bird-of-
paradise were clasped tightly round her small
hat. Mrs. Geoff Syme evolved a beautiful
black headpiece, topped by spreading ospreys,
and her daughter Hilaria had a tricky green
velvet contrivance crushed down on her curls.
Her frock was a wisp of blue satin. Mrs.
Murray Morton also had an inspiration in
the way of hats that went well with her low-
cut peach silk frock. Mrs. Tom White made
a lovely headgear of leaves, and wore a fur-
trimmed gown. The Leslie Stuart girleens
had thought-out black lace thatches to show
up their rose-embroidered dresses. Tall,
cheery Sam Hordern came over from Svdney
for the event, and several of the Baillieus
were there: also. Mills, of Gippsland. and
most of the wealthier racehorse-owning world.
The father of the happy man was one of
the speech-makers, and, speaking with much
deliberation and distinction, he remarked that
his wife allowed him to speak of anything
but the “an-ti-quity of my family,” which
apparently harks back to the time before
anyone thought of writing history. The He
Bavays came originally from Belgium. An
orchestra in the lounge lured the young folk
to dance, but the breakfast (or supper) and
speeches drifted into the small hours.
When it was all over Mrs. Merson Cooper
had to see to the packing and storing of the
presents. One room at Cliveden looked like
a silversmiths’ warehouse and a jeweller’s
shop combined, and a real detective—surpris-
ingly like the one in “The Bat”—slept in
Hie room with a fringe of revolvers round
him.
The new Parliament in Tasmania has
three Murdoch members, all brothers, and
Melbourne is interested in Thomas, of the
Council, because be carried off pretty Lesii-
Tope as a bride. The little lady was always
a great help, in an unostentatious way, in
any charitable appeal in this part of the
world, and she has carried her energies into
philanthropic organisations in the Apple
Tsle. Her husband was formerly Belgian
Consul for Tasmania.
The Speck has bad a previous case of
three brothers in Parliament, bv the way.
in the persons of Lambert, Alfred and
Henry Dobson. One was Chief Justice, an-
other Solicitor-General and the other Pre-
mier, all at the same time.
The Ernest Austin daughter, Lenore, of
Borri Yallock station, Skipton, is wearing
a diamond ring that was put there by Ken-
neth Darnton Watson. He is the ‘son of
the late G. D. Watson, of Bendigo, and Mrs.
Watson, of Clovelly, Toorak.
Speaker Mackey and his lady are broad-
casting cards for an at-home after the open-
ing of the State Parliament on Tuesday.
„ The Cafe Chantant for the Broadmeadows
Foundling Home was a crowded event at
the Oriental Hotel on Friday afternoon.
Every nook and cranny on the' ground floor
was thronged with people spending money.
Miss Macßae gave the tea. Crowds of
artists (including Ada Reeve and Walter
Kirby) made music, and Mrs. A. J. Wil-
liams helped look after the card players.
Lady Stradbroke sat at tea with the presi-
dent, Mrs. Benjamin Hoare, and Mrs. James
Alston and Mrs. Downie. The Broadmeadows
foundlings are cared for by the Little Sisters
of St. Joseph, each little sister having 25
babies to look after. The welfare committee,
full of energetic dames, is out to get the
Home proper water and lighting plants, and
this caf£ chantant was the initial effort in
a string of entertainments planned for the
next few months. Flowers and sweets were
sold, and the takings surpassed expectations.
Mrs. Curtain and her daughter, just back
from a jaunt abroad, had put in some weeks
making sweets and packing them in fancy
boxes, and these they presented to the party
for sale. Dame Nellie Melba came from a
lunch party at the Occidental across the
way, and brightened the scene with a won-
derful suit of pearl-grey cloth edged with
astrakhan. Daughter-in-law Mrs. Armstrong
was with her, and D’Alvarez floated down-
stairs for half-an-hour looking very magni-
ficent in black. Several private parties
merged into this remarkable rush to help
the babies, and during the afternoon a multi-
tude of new members was added to the wel-
fare committee—among the crowd being the
Hennessy dame, Mrs. Stan O’Keefe, Mrs.
D’Ebro and Mrs. James Dennen.
Daughters of Eve are never so much cats
as when they quarrel about clothes. I over-
heard a tiff based on drygoods at a popular
ball at St. Ivilda Town Hall recently. It
was an ancient hate, I fancy, but was ex-
pressed anew in terms of drapery. Mrs.
Claw had said something derogatory to Mrs.
Tooth’s frock, and the latter set out to get
her word in. “That wrap you are wearing,
Mrs. Claw,” she said. “I had one exactly
like it last year, and they told me there
wasn’t another to be got in all Australia.”
“Well, as. a matter of fact, I bought this
from a friend a week ago,” said Mrs. Claw.
The other seized the opening like a flash.
“I got sick and tired of mine,” said she,
“and gave it to the washerwoman.”
Governor Stradbroke. being eager to learn
some jazz steps now that the cotillion, the
varsoviana and the alberts have definitely
taken the knock, sought private lessons re-
cently from the Misses Hyams, who have been
teachers of dancing for donkeys’years. His Ex.
was asked, “Must we treat you as the Gov-
ernor or as a pupil?” “Oh, just call me a
pupil,” said the genial Earl. His teacher
made the pace tpo hot at the start, so his
Ex. asked permission to remove his coat, and
he finished under the lighter weight at least
three lengths ahead of the field and showing
no signs of distress.
Reading front left to right in this photo
by Monteath yon have Betty and Esther
Paterson, whose drawings figure so fre-
quently in The Bulletin. Members of an
artistic elan, whose brightest light was the
late John Ford Paterson, they never lacked
encouragement, and, in fact, grew up in an
atmosphere of paint, inasmuch as their dead
father, Hugh Paterson, was also very handy
with the brush. Esther inherits her father’s
daintiness in water-colors, but Betty’s talent
in the drawing of adorable babies apparently
has no family source. Actually, it developed
unbidden when she was studying music at
the Uni. Conservatorium, and her first two
or three efforts were knocked off more in
the way of relaxation. Some of her pen-
children in black-and-ivhite and color, to-
gether with numerous decorations and land-
scapes by her sister Esther, will be placed
before the populace at a joint exhibition com-
mencing at the Queen’s Hall next Saturday
afternoon. Prime Minister Hughes, an old
personal and political friend of the artists’
father, has promised to prise open the pro-
ceedings.
The Countess allowed herself a little dig
at local snobbishness when talking recently
to high-school principals and representative
teachers at the Town Hall on the Girl Guide
movement. She declared that she had found
far more class distinction in Vic. than in
England, where the most capable girl auto-
matically became leader, the squire’s, shop-
keeper’s and laundry lady’s daughters being
all equal—in the movement. Her sentiments
received much commendation, though there
were carping wretches who muttered that
I nncess Mary was for some reason a very
important Guide, just as her princely
brother is fortunate enough to be a fuil
colonel in the army.
Writing to the Education Department the
other day about swimming in his village, a
head teacher referred to his committee’s
intention to “throw a concrete damn across
the creek.” The Department, being in a
festive mood, wrote back for information as
to how the things were made, as it required
a stock to heave at its critics.
The Ambulance Ball was an affair of
great moment.. One flapper on the balcony
said she had never seen so many bald
heads of the frankly improper type or
such an array of those rather patheti-
cally camouflaged ones which have a
few long hairs brushed across the gleam-
ing desert of scalp in wispy streaks. These
heads meant there was money in the house.
They always go with wonderful wives in
marvellous dresses. The assemblage repre-
sented the highest altitudes of Society, and
titles were scattered about as thick as violets
in March. President the Countess of Strad-
broke was handsomely frocked in black, and
the committee presented her w-ith a vivid
pink posy. There were numerous smart
black dresses—a result of the recent vogue
in Paris. Lady Betty Rous came with
mamma and glowed in orchid-pink georgette
with a lot of beads on the bodice. Miss
Currie joined the vice-regal party, and wore
about five thousand steel beads on her black
net frock. The Steward and Clarkson ladies,
who had worked hard at the organisation,
were both in black, and Mrs. Gordo® Lyon,
an active committee woman, sparkled in
crystals on black chiffon, while secretary
Miss Rennie came up freshly after her ardu-
ous toil in jade green and gold.
After having had an eightpenny feed with
JIOO railwaymen at the luncheon-room
attached to the Newport workshops, our
Earl is quite satisfied that our down-trodden
proletariat do themselves well. Thrown in
as free extras were the music of the work-
shops band outside and a vista of trim lawns
through the doorway. Clapp, Shannon and
Miscamble, the Commissioners, and Barnes,
the Minister, helped his Ex. to consume the
food. Unlike the Parliamentary refreshment
rooms, this foodery pays its own way and
demands no subsidy from the people’s
pockets.
The memory of the brilliant William
Shiels is to be perpetuated in Casterton by
an avenue of trees. Verna and Norman
Peebles, two of his grandchildren, planted
the first of the two lines the other day. It
is just 30 years since Shiels was at his
zenith. He took office under the brightest
promise early in 1892, and a couple of
months later astonished the State by sus-
pending Speight, Ford and Greene, the Rail-
way Commissioners. As 1592 waned so did
Shiels, and he went down before Patterson
in January, 1893. He came again, but only
as a second man under McLean and Irvine.
After that, retirement and the grave.
Last week Prof. Baldwin Spencer opened
in the Athenaeum a huge exhibition of
history specimens organised by the
Field Naturalists’ Club. Miss Raff, on the
Biology staff of the ’Varsity, had an exhibit
of planktons. These beasties, which can be
seen only through a microscope, have never yet
been really tamed, but they have an awful lot
to do with our water reserves, and fresh-
water fish are put into the reservoirs to
keep the planktons in their place. Ordinary
folk gazed in awe at the intrepid Miss Raff,
who handled the planktonic hordes with
easy familiarity. Mrs, Coleman herded a
more recognisable exhibit of Australian
orchids—lovely things with a faint, exotic
scent. The Botapic Garden sent in a num-
ber of wild flowers in the transition stage of
being tamed iqto garden flowers, and there
was a fine exhibit of Australian fern, of which
there are 80 kinds in Victoria. Chapman,
of the ’Varsity, talked about Australian
stones from the centre of many specimens,
and also introduced some fossils from British
Columbia, which were 80,000,000 years old.
He did not make it clear whether any
had M.L.C. attached to their names or not.
Club-President Oke concentrated on beetles.
He had 600 specimens, all perfectly good Aus-
tralians, yet a fearsome exhibit for any beery
stranger who might drift into the show by
mjstake. The Field Naturalists are wax-
ing mightily behind their mild spectacles,
and they are finding the Athenaeum Hall far
too small for the enthusiasm they have
evoked.
The Swansons, who have developed a habit
of civically welcoming imported artists of dis-
tinction, so greeted D’Alvarez at the Town
Hall. Robert Best and J. K. Merritt helped
to throw verbal bouquets at the star. She
looked lusciously superb in black velvet hang-
ings tipped with silver tassels and edged
with sapphire blue, her head being crowned
with a gargantuan black velvet hat. The
Lady Mayoress was in nigger-brown tailor-
ings, with gold brocade on her upturned head-
toque. D’Alvarez declared she already felt
she did not want to leave Australia. Cham-
pagne, reinforced by the cup that cheers, etc.,
flowed as freely as the speechmaking, and
everybody felt thoroughly pleased with every-
thing.
This year’s Dental Ball happened at the
St. Kilda Town Hall the night after the
Ambulance hop. Mrs. Tuckfield, in white
satin and lace, w r as one of the hostesses, and
Mrs. Dr. Martin, in a spangled moonlight-
blue gown, looked after the debbies. These
were a well-tutored set, who walked sedately
through the lancers —a quartette of young
white things and a couple of tender pink-
and-blue ones. Glac<s silk is the latest craze
of the flapper jazzers. One little person was in
vivid lacquer red glac6 corded out like a
lamp shade, and Mardi Syme’s miniature
crinoline was of sea-blue glacA Doctor Isihil
came along with a newly imported nephew
from England—woolbuyer Coate. The copi-
mittee and grown-up guests absorbed turkey
and speeches at a sedate supper, but the
jazzing youngsters could spare no time for
more than a sandwich and cup.
Both outfits of vice-regality attended the
first D’Alvarez concert. State Governor
Stradbroke and the Countess (in her distin-
guished cloak) arrived in the outer hall a
little ahead of the G.-G. party, and stood
basking in the beams of Finkelsteiu until
the vice-regals could make a general entry.
Lord Forster paired off with the Countess
at one table, whilst the State Ex. exchanged
musical remarks with Lady F. on the west-
ern side of the carpet. Probably they all
felt their positions keenly whenever the
Town Hall draught was blowing in, but the
aides and the specially invited Consuls and
their wives who sat nearer the doors, were
worse off. It w r as a great and wintry night.
D’Alvarez may have suffered from weather
more than her exalted hearers. Her garb of
blue and silver tissue brocade, with gauzy
blue trailing from the shoulders and a girdle
suggestive of curtains, was not particularly
becoming. Madame looked rather like one
not well pleased with herself, in spite of the
outsti'etching of her over?plump arms and
other profuse expressions of thanks. She
got a ti’emendous lot of applause from re-
mote regions of the hall. The ox-gan gallery
was full of Choral Society in white uniform,
and other associated souls who discounted
the value of their applause by enthusing
over Oscar, the young pianist. In point of
fact, his conti'ibutions were no more valuable
than one can get at any time at a suburban
party. Still, they did their best to encourage
Madame whenever she came on to bow before
going off with the fixed determination to
return some more. At the end of the spun-
out concert the vice-regals waited patiently
for the D’Alvarez to be finally encored, then
the rush for wraps and overcoats set in.
Wee Geordie, at the Tivoli, “gets” an
absorbed audience every day and night.
When the (apparently) Small boy’s troubles
dissolve in tears there is not a woman in
the house but yearns to mother the poor
lamb, and not a man w r ho doesn’t feel like
dad when he says: “There—go to your
mothei’, old son.” The house comes to itself
with a self-conscious jerk to find it has been
leaning forward in a hypnotised way ready
to help . the. sobbing kid. One woman said :
“It’s his little chubby knees that get me.
and the way his cropped hair sticks out
at the back of his head—and no grown-up
owns such a trembly pointed chin and snubby
nose.”
The nursing staff of the Homcepathic Hos-
pital had an impromptu dance the other
night in one of the vacant wards—a venue
which emphasises the present appeal for
that hospital, for there are wards waiting
funds for the furnishing and upkeep of beds
while the city’s sick-list increases with its
growing numbers.
A line or two from Adelaide:—
The Moulden dame has gone on a jannt to Colombo.
Her final effort was a football match (as organiser,
not player) for the Children’s Hospital. The football'
wasn’t thrilling nor the crowd immense, but for
all that £5OO or so goes to the hospital’s banking
account.
The Red Cross Society, having met and duly enti-
tled itself to vice-presidents, has hoisted Miss Murray
and Sir Joseph Verco on to the brand-new pedestals.
News comes that Adelaide’s artist, Bessie Davidson,
has been made a member of the Paris Socit-te des
Beaux Arts. She first went abroad to study in
1906, and she put in most of the war years nurs-
ing at an auxiliary hospital in Paris. The local
gallery possesses only one of her pictures, “Portrait
of Miss G. R.”—the youngest daughter of the late
Walter Reynell, who has studied art to some purpose
herself.
Mrs. Langsford, a pillar of most of the eastern
suburbs’ social and philanthropic enterprises, is under
doctor’s orders to forsake her committees for a while
and take a long-overdue rest.
Socially this is the flattest season since the riot
of Edward P.’s visit subsided; but Unley rose to the
heights of a military ball the other night. It was
a 27th Batt. shivoo, and was run by Col. and Mrs.
Slane (he was in command for the later years iu
France and put up a record that won a D.g.0.)
and half-a-dozen other officers. There were five debu-
tantes, all of them duly paired with bemedalled
colonels or majors for their special opening dance.
The older generation is grieving at news of the
death of Miss S. H. McMinn, one of three sisters who
kept school here in the ’eighties and ’nineties, and
who went to make their home in England about £0
years ago. Small boys as well as small girls, were
among their pupils, and one of them is now Parsons, J.
Orchestral music is booming. A concert by tb-'-
Con. String Orchestra, with W. H. Foote as con-
ductor, filled the Elder Hall to overflowing the other
night. This is the first time S. Aus. has produced a
students’ orchestra fully organised and systematically
trained that could carry through a programme o-
classical music.


iX
n
Si
si
rt
IS
WORLD’SLARGEST
MENS k BOYS'
WEAR STORE.
Hi
\
) M
di
M
in
n
Pi
101
if
11
X
fisr
1R
r fr
Hr
Murdoch's Famous
Red Spot Sale
June 23 to July 15
E ND of the first round!
Murdoch’s do things whole-heartedly, and
second-week reductions, both in Men’s and
Boys’ Wear, will mean a lot to folks who find it
necessary to spend carefully.
Every Line Reduced at least 10 per cent.
Many Lines Clearing at Half-Price.
SEND FOR THE BARGAIN CATALOGUE
—costs you nothing, and will save you pounds.
Address your letter to Desk R.
WE PAY POSTAGE on all Sale Goods to all
parts of Australia.
MURDOCH’S
In ParKSt. Ltd., Sydney^
The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.
fs
The Perfect Pencil\
jg VERSHARP is as distinct from
the average type of pencil as is
the finely made fountain pen point
from corroding steel pen nibs.
Eversharp's patented rifled tip
grips the lead firmly, prevents wob-
bling, and insures a point that is
always sharp without ever being
sharpened. Every Eversharp has an
eraser protected from dirt by the
pencil top.
It is made in various metals, with
pocket clip or chain ring, and in sizes
and patterns to please every taste.
For Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York U. S. A.
Be sure ii‘s an
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HOARE, Ltd.,
Remington House. Liverpool St., Sydney
&a
I
THe good reputation enjoyed by Hupmobiles
everywhere is not due to cbance. It is the
result of the painstaking' care exercised over
every part and operation that enters into the
car’s construction, from the making' of the
first drawing to the tig'htening of the last nut.
IMPORTANT FEATURES:
Extra strong, rigid frame.
Two carburetter adjustments.
Pressure oil system feeding oil direct to bearings.
Soft operating clutch, with adjustable pedal.
Extra-long change-speed lever, with short, easy
throw.
Extra-long, semi-elliptic springs; chrome vanadium
leaves.
Semi-irreversible steering-gear; strong construc-
tion.
Detachable engine-head; easy to grind valves or
remove carbon.
Extreme roominess of tonneau and driving com-
partment.
Completeness and quality of equipment.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney.
DALGETY & COMPANY. LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 112-120 Pirie
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tas.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurth,
N.Z,
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, N.Z.
Hupmobile


Under
Royal
Warrant
df
To H.M.
King
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Hsied
mmiMß
cr l
Champagne
'larkslieidsieo^
Reims
fcAj/foitt***
"*lll wGP
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT-& COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
N.B.—The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9931.
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
soaps
Powders
A big push was given to the Violet mat-
iufie m aid of the Crown-street Women’s
Hospital by the.G.-G.’s lady summoning all
interested to foregather at Admiralty House.
Society and near-Society so crowded the big
reception-room that rows of straight-backed
plebeian chairs had to be added to its nor-
mal supply of cushioned seats. Her Ex.
has a quiet sense of fun which she let loose
once or twice, but she conducted her meet-
ing on such business-like lines that it and
the subsequent tea-drinking were over in
an hour and a half. Mrs. Pitt Rivers
almost purred satisfaction from the depth of
her dark furs, as did Mrs. Tony Hordern
who is helping Mona Daley ivith the secre-
tarial job. Denison Miller is to be the
treasurer —a man with a bank of his own
is so trustworthy. Mrs. Waley, who was
present in handsome tailorings, is giving the
programmes, Mayoress McElhone is supply-
ing the violets, and Farmer’s the sweets to
be sold during the matinge. Even before
the meeting was called a retinue of Syd-
ney’s busiest business men were racking
their brains for ways to help the likeable
organiser to success. Sam Hordern and
Dame Nellie Melba have taken boxes at 25
guineas apiece, but it was left to Mrs.
Sargent to rise to a 30-guinea bid for seats.
The ordinary bloke who owns neither a
voice nor an emporium nor a pie-factory
can pay anything from one guinea tb five
bob for a chance to see Mrs. Pamela Pitt
Rivers pursued through three acts on July
20 under Gregan McMahon’s direction.
The Alliance Frangaise placed a book-
marker in its French-English dictionary one
night last week, then wriggled into its
dancing-shoes and made for St. James’s
Hall. The wonderful Miss Soubeiran was,
as usual, the dominant note at the function,
though Miss Gurney and clever Mrs. Arthur
Jewett ran her a close second. The hall w T as
gay with the allied flags, and on the walls
wjis a display of interesting but heart-rend-
ing posters showing devastated cities of
Northern France. The blonde and childlike
Zoha D’Arcy, from the Paris Opera House,
was the guest of honor, and Playousts,
Leverriers, President-of-the-Alliance Doncet,
the Belgian Consul Segaert and daughter
Henriette, the Fiaschi couple, tall Gladys
Marks and such-like enthusiasts added to
the joyous babel.
You can’t beat some of these country
centres for undiluted loyalty. At the Gun-
nedah Hospital Ball the Leslie Wills-Allens
arrived rather late with Sheila Lough-
borough. A lightning glance on the part of
the musicians satisfied them that a titled
person of an authentic description (no mere
K.B.E.’s lady) was in their midst, and, reso-
lute to do the correct thing, they struck up
“God Save the King” ! Leslie Wills-Allen, who
was a major in the Light Horse, took the
salute, as it were, in a practised manner,
and all present agreed that the town had put
a highly creditable little episode to its
Imperial account.
Phillis Walford (daughter of Leslie Wal-
ford and his former wife-—a Hordern) went
back by the Ormonde after three months in
Sydney, during which she saw very little of
her parent and lived with him not at all.
She stayed with her mother’s brother, Libby
Hordern, and as her grandmother bought
her a car as soon as she arrived she had a
very festive time. Her mother brought her
out to Australia, but sped back to London
a few minutes afterwards, in a manner of
speaking.
Other passengers on the big liner were
Mr. and Mrs. Jenkins (she w T as Hazel Hay),
who have been staying at the Wentworth
since their marriage. They both have rela-
tions in England, and her father, mother
and aunt are following her there as soon as
affairs have been fixed up at Burdekin
House.
An interesting pair of visitors to Sydney
from India are Mr. and Mrs. Andrew M.
Pooley. Amongst other books he has writ-
ten “Japan’s Foreign Policies,” which was
published last year by George Allen and
Unwin, and hailed in England as a classic
on the subject. Not so in Japan, however.
The publication of this ruthlessly frank
study of the national manners and customs
automatically made it impossible for Mr.
Pooley ever to go back to the Mikado’s
dominions.
Almost everyone, old, young and infantile,
in that Sydney section which lives chiefly
to amuse itself, is taking part in
the show at the Theatre Royal next
week in aid of the Children’s Hospi-
tal. In the tableaux, which George
Lambert is arranging, Mrs. Tony Hordern,
Mrs. Ernest Watt, Mrs. Pitt Rivers, Mrs.
Jim Burns and Mrs. Seppy Alison are to
be seen. Then there will be a short play
(Stephen Haughton’s “Phipps”), in which
Mrs. Pitt Rivers, Captain Fealces and
Ernest Watt will appear, followed by a
Grand Ballet arranged by the Misses Scully,
and produced by Grega.n McMahon. In the
last event practically every good-looking
Government House of the gentler
sex will be seen in action, thus affording
Warrawee, Strathfield and other districts
which “would not bother to go to Govern-
ment House, my dear, if asked,” an inter-
esting opportunity for comparison, and, may-
hap, pleasantly scathing criticism. Tireless
in well-doing, the same band of altruists is
putting on “The Pursuit of Pamela” at the
Royal on July 20 (Mrs. Pitt-Rivers in
Gladys Cooper’s part, and Ernest Watt in
Denis Eadie’s), and they also are arranging
a ball on behalf of the Returned Soldiers in
August.
Lewis Evans Webb, an artistic contri-
butor to The Bulletin years ago, has just
arrived in Sydney with the flowing tie of
Bohemia replaced by a back-to-front collar.
He was initiated into Holy Orders as a
deacon in 1915. When the war-drums
sounded he fell in behind them, but after-
wards resumed his studies at the Brother-
hood of S. Boniface, Williams (W.A.), and
was there ordained priest of the Anglican
Church. He is at present hunting up old
Bohemian pals between sermons in suburban
churches.
Public-spirited Grace Seobie again feels
the urge of her country’s needs, and she
is now putting the
whole of her weighty
punch behind the
New States League, of
which she is a secre-
tary. A daughter of
Robert Seobie, of
Menindie, on the
Darling, she put for-
ward two years ago a
claim for the poli-
tical cloak dropped
by father, but as the
Soldiers and Citi-
zens’ candidate her
figures were not so
impressive a s his
were when he once
scored 95 p.c. of the
votes in his district.
Grace, who earns
her daily meat by inspecting for the Labor
Department, is pictured here for you by
May Moore.
The Heroes’ Ball for the Sydney Hospital
Nurses’ new home didn’t bring an outsize,
gathering to the Town Hall on Friday night
-—in fact there were stages in the proceedings
when a game of bowls might have been
played down the long expanse of floor with-
out endangering the progress of the Prodigal
Son or the fatted calf. However, even when
the Town Hall looks like the deserted vil-
lage it can still garner a tew nunctred pounds,
so the organiser smiled cheerfully even in
view of the forked-lightning visit of vice-
royalty. His Ex., who had promised to
come to the party, was detained by a rendez-
vous with influenza, and Dame Margaret,
who is not yet quite through with the same
persistent caller, came huddled in ermine
wraps to take the debs.’ curtseys, and then
dashed back to her own fireside. Her sup-
ports were aide D’Apice and Sir Walter’s
new secretary, Miss Henderson. The Grand
March of the Allied Nations bore a severely
rationed look, some of the Allies only rally-
ing sufficient strength to send one representa-
tive. However, Matron Kellett, in her
A.A.N.S. uniform and her decorations, was
an eye-arresting figure. Italy, under the
direction of Dr. Fiaschi’s wife and the
Consular Marano lady, staged some fair
daughters in the national vendettas and
camisolas, or whatever they are, and Helen
and Kathleen Barlow looked like daughters
of old Castile. General Herring brought his
lady, who wore black lace and satin, and
Mrs. Otway Falkiner was another who sup-
ported sable hues; but secretary Mrs. Leete
cheered the vice-regal enclosure with rosy-
hued sleekness crusted with a glitter of
sequins, and Mrs. P. J. Horton, who was
responsible for the pink rosebud and smilax
decorations, fitted in cosily against her own
color-scheme in china-blue tones. Visiting
prima-donna D’Arcy flung a jet of colatura
notes into the air, and wore a white satin
frock cut with almost conventual simplicity
and a cloak of dull old-gold brocade that
carried a small fortune in its sable collar
and cuffs.
Mrs. H. Vale, of Cheyne, Strathfield. has
been elected secretary of the Strathfield
centre of St. Luke’s Hospital Auxiliary, re-
placing Mrs. C- Backhouse, who has flitted
to Manly with a floating flower-bowl under
her arm—the gift of a sorrowing committee.
Maude Hanaford has gone back home.
Home is Amurrika. She told a friend
at the boat that nothing would please
her more than to bring her people
back and go in for the study of Australian
Politics, “which are wrong in every way,”
the ladv added. Maude was thoroughly dis-
satisfied with the roles she had in Australia,
and hopes for better luck if she comes again.
She aspires to play “real women’s parts—
not ingenues or flappers.”
The Lindsay ladies in the Painter-Etchers’
show are still shivering with indignation
over being unable to follow half the
remarks that were passed about them
the other night when the Modern Languages
Association let loose the tongues of the earth
in the Education Gallery. To have one’s
original costume criticised in the living lan-
guages is bad enough, but when even dead
tongues are resurrected for the purpose it’s
a bit over the odds, as they say at “the
ponies.” The babel of sound started at
eight, and everybody enjoyed himself in
French, German, Italian, Russian and
Spanish till the Turkish coffee and the Ewp-
tian cigarettes were passed around. Mrs. Ver-
brugghen added some charming French songs
to the variegated waves of sound, and Bel-
gian Consul Segaert declaimed poetry with
fiery eloquence. Mr. Franck and Gladys
Marks, the little French Vice-Consul, Lute
Drummond, the new Mrs. Frank England,
the Frank Wrights and the divers-tongued
Mr. Penneh.v (whose particular apartment
in the Babel skyscraper has “Gaelic” in-
scribed over the door) were some of the
enthusiasts of a crowded party.
The raflv-ronnd the first shoots of the
Violet Matinee at Admiralty House inter-
fered with the roll-up to the meeting at Gov-
ernment House on the same afternoon that
had the Soldiers’ Pottery as its protege.
However, the artists under Albert Collins
resolved with one Amice to give their “Four
Arts” Ball a violent push ; and art-treasurer
de Groot has secured a lien on Dardd Jones’
exhibition-room, where he Avill display and
sell any of the family objets (Tart you care
to donate to help finance the expenses com-
mittee.
Charlotte Cameron, the novelist, is back
in England re-discovering London. She
finds red hats fashionable, paradise plumes
and ospreys the millinery affectation of the
moment, and money cheap. She is booming
Australia all she can, from a pink-and-wliite
suite at the Hyde Park Hotel.
On July 26 Prince Alfred enthusiasts will
stage a jazz revel at the Wentworth, when
glittering prizes will be distributed for every
conceivable sort of head-dress in and out
of history. Mrs. Kater, and the Anderson-
Stuart and Vicars dames are the treasurers,
and Mrs. Arthur Mills and Mrs. Fenner the
secretaries.
The Wesley Collegians raised their annual
dust at the Wentworth last week, and the
big ballroom was so interlaced Avith purple
and gold that it might have been a Spanish
tOAvn en fete for a bullfight. Each fair Avas
. presented Avith a wristlet of purple velvet
embroidered with a gold daisy. (And the
wristlet of to-night may be the jazz garter
of to-morrow. Such is life.) Senior Col-
legian Blakemore gave the welcoming hand
and the cordial eye to all, but the jazz
gar—wristlets were attached to their owhers
bv private enterprise. Dr. Garnsey, the
Barffs, the Mackays, and Miss Williams, of
the Women’s College, f occupied the seats of
the mighty.
This is Dr. O’Reilly, rector of St. John’s
Avithin the University, who has created a
stir in Sydney by
filling the ever-com-
plaisant Telegraph
with historical re-
ferences to show
that Orangemen are
not, and never have
been, loyal. (Creat-
ing stirs is his speci-
alty as serving
chickens was that of
Field Fisher in “The
Girl in the Taxi.”)
The feat is held to
be more or less
equivalent to rob-
bing a blind man
of his dog, and it is
understood that
Tummas ’Enley has
resigned from the
Fuller Ministry and resumed his Comforts
Fund uniform, sword, spurs, etc., in order
chiefly to achieve leisure to study up the
whole question and reply to the Doctor’s
aspersions, at the approaching ,12th July
rejoicings. When not employed Henley-
baiting Father O’Reilly is a 6ft. 2in. Irish-
man with an English accent (he had the
misfortune to be educated in the land of the
Oppressor), a permanent smile and a pas-
sion for leg-pulling. He is a Greek scholar
of some eminence; has published several
books and a good deal of verse; and is known
throughout the diocese as “Mawruss” —the
Sydney method of pronouncing his front
name.
Sydney Town Hall the other night housed
a Catholic Ball, which proved no different
in its main features from any other kind of
ball. The great god Jazz remains unmoved
by the sectarian raiment of his devotees.
Mauve and purple wistaria rustled around
the galleries, and here and there giddy oink
roses flirted about white lattices and peeped
at the Dulcineas who sat alott —me galleries
were as crowded as the floor, on which 1200
optimists struggled for dancing space. The
stage was like a mammoth horticultural show,
anu hundreds of electric lights were entwined
in ropes of foliage that ran trom the pillars
of the hall to the big central illumination,
whose rays shone lotos-like through gauzy
shades on which birds of black plumage dis-
ported with great cheerfulness. The Arch-
bishop was the big fish of the evening, and.
supported by two clerical aides, he extended
the episcopal ring to 25 debs, who looked
like fluttering subjects for confirmation
rather than aspiring belles. The fascinating
group included a beauty called Molly Con-
don. Mrs. Deakin, whose husband was presi-
dent of the dance, and Mrs. O’Neill, both in
sleek black plumage, did the presentation
trick. Mrs. Trefle brought daughter Kath-
leen in her deb. fittings, and Dr. Fallon’s
wife’s frocking was deep blue with heavy
gildings.
Farmer’s June mannequins were all
dressed up last week, and glided along an
avenue of palms in the big dining-hall, and
circled among the tea tables where Suburbia
quaffed tea at 3s. 6d. a head while keeping
an alert eye on the latest Parisian chiffon
architecture. A bronze and scarlet georgette
delight carried all the flame of autumn in
its folds; there was a bridal rig-out priced
25 guineas, and a wonderful rhapsody, a
burnt-orange grenade dress, across which
was slung a jade-green evening wrap.
The Daily Telegraph, in a note about
the _ new book, “Safe Marriage,” by Miss
Ettie Rout, remarks that “it would promise
better if the author were Mrs. Somebody,
but eminent doctors endorse Miss Rout.”
Which suggests that the D.T. doesn’t
know that the lady, through whose fearless
war-work thousands of young mothers hold
healthy babies in their arms to-day is mar-
ried, the name of the lucky man being
Hornabrook. Mrs. Hornabrook is a Maori-
hinder, and the French Government thought
so much of her labors that it bestowed on
her the premier decoration for women, the
Reconnaisance Franqaise.
As Commodore of the Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron, the G.-G. will be one of the hosts
at the Kirribilli club-house on July 1, when
it is expected that one of the most attrac-
tive balls of last season will be repeated.
Mayor McElhone’s lady, in sapphire-toned
frocking and millinery, had a Town Hall
tea-party one recent afternoon to the glory
of pianists Maier and Pattison and their
sparkling wives. Mrs. Guy Maier is whis-
pered to be as fine a pianist as the husband
with whom she studied, and Mrs. Lee Patti-
son is also an artist of sorts. The Richards
and Rosenthal ladies came to the party, at
which the good-looking Lathlean young man
and Melba’s contralto Lilian Gibson poured
out soothing notes.
Marie Bjelke Petersen, the Tasmanian
novelist, has no fault to find with the read-
ing public. Her last book, “Dusk,” came
out towards the end of last December, and
by April it was in its fourth edition —an
edition a month !
J. H. Morton, the Maorilander who de-
signed the dehydrator of which a sample is
now in use at Kendenup (W.A.), is about
to skip off for a three-months’ holiday among
his native geysers. As a sort of parting gift to
Australia, he is leaving behind a recipe for
a dish for the isolated bushwhacker. This
is steak-and-onions dehydrated. It sounds
quaint, but he is perfectly serious about it.
Dehydrated onions, of course, are already an
article of commerce, but Morton claims that
his dehydrated steak can be rehydrated and
cooked with satisfactory results.
The Medical Society gave a jazz-party at
the Union Hall the other night, and the
blue and gold of the ’Varsity flapped every-
where, and chaperons were nowhere —unless
you class Bill Matheson and Dr. Lathlen as
such. Pretty Enid James affected old rose
georgette—something the shade of the one
she wore when Edward, of Wales, gave her
the glad orb at a Government House sizzle.
Tiny Isabel Fraser, whose youthful brother,
Don, and Ken Maddox were responsible for
the flutter, was like a particularly smart
French doll in silver lace and green ribbons.
Two o.ther good-lookers were Enid Douglas
and the Wheeler child from Manly.
Scots’ College Old Boys’ Union has rented
Sargent’s ballroom for Saturday, July 8.
and the first round of the yearly ball is timed j
for 8 o’clock. Old Scots still iacking tickets
can buy them from L. M. Drummond, 350
George-street. At the same address on July
11 St. Vincent’s ex-pupils hold their dance,
and the proceeds of that go to adding an-'
Other block of stone to the extension of St.
Mary’s Cathedral.
Edward Alfred Parker, the Anglican par-
son of Peak Hill (N.S.W.), who threw up
his job because of insufficient pay and took
to barbering, came originally from Maori-
land. He got his ecclesiastical education
at Bishopsdale College, in the Nelson diocese,
and helped to keep the Devil out of Have-
lock and Reefton until he drifted across to
Australia. He went to Peak Hill from the
poor and tough parish of St. David’s, Surry
Hills. The ex-cleric is not unknown to the
Abo. page of The Bulletin.


J m
V'.» 0
J/£
§L
vi
1
I
3f
/or
CONSISTENCY OF
Q.UALITY”
R. A. SHOW—I 922.
AWARDED
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for HOCK
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CHABLIS
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CLARET
14 FIRSTS, 2 SECONDS,
4 THIRDS
Against All Australian Competition.
£)ferlin
Jierlino
3< (v'er-
S-3-O
Wedding Gifts a Specialty.
Gold and Silver Ware.
Tortoiseshell Ivory and Silver
Toilet Articles.
Fitted or Unfitted Suit Cases.
High-grade Leather Goods.
Jazz Fans. Vanity Cases.
JEWELLERY
Diamond and Gem Rings.
Fine Pearl Ropes and Necklets.
Gem Brooches and Pendants.
Expanding Bracelet Watches.
French Gold Chain Bags.
Prismatic Field Glasses.
Clocks of Every Description.
Wm. Drummond & Co.,
Jewellers, Silversmiths, Goldsmiths,
344*46 Collins St., Melbourne.
Sfesatoai,
52
THE
MODERN HOME
is not fully equipped unless there is
some musical instrument installed
in it.
These days it is almjjgt an absolute
necessity to be "possessor of a
Piano or Player Piano
yr.
Vj
* *
Music is now part of one’s education, and every child should he given the opportunity of
becoming a proficient musician.
PALINGS
Stock of Pianos and Player Pianos is selected from the World’s Best Factories—Quality has
been our main feature since the inception of our business, which extends over a period of
nearly 7 0 years.
If you cannot call to inspect our stock write for an illustrated catalogue and price list, showing
our Easy Terms. These will be sent you post free.
SINCE 1853—OUR KEYNOTE—“QUALITY.’*
sdf
THE BEJT KJIOWfI
muxic rtouxE
IN fIUXTMLIfI.
EASY terms,
9
CATALOGUES FREE
SELLING THE /
bejt Piano/& |
PLfIyER PIANO/.'
r


2\
CuticuraPromotesGoodHair
Treatment: At night rub Cuticura
Ointment into partings all over the
scalp. Next morning shampoo with
Cuticura Soap and hot water. Re-
peat in two weeks.
Soapls.,Ointment Is.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.. Sydney. N.S.W.”
SBWBF**Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Learn to Draw |
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
The
above is
the title
of our book-
-1 e t, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing—
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARRY J. WES-
TO N, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
successful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet—
-THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
119 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY,
Legal Notices.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND
x WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
IN DIVORCE—No. 2305.
To MAUD HAYLEY the wife of Arthur Leonard
Hayley of the City of Wellington Clerk.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Wel-
lington citing you to appear and answer the petition
of Arthur Leonard Hayley of the City of Wellington
Clerk wherein he prays for a dissolution of his mar-
riage with you on the ground of mutual separation
for three years and upwards and such citation inti-
mates that in default of your so doing the Court will
proceed to hear the said petition and to pronounce
sentence therein notwithstanding your absence
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within 60 days after the
date of this publication to attend in person or by
your Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at Welling-
ton and there to enter an appearance without which
you will not be allowed to address the Court at any
stage of the proceedings.
A Copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same at
the Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this 14th day of June 1922.
(l-S.) G. S. CLARK,
. Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to her the foregoing advertisement.
C. B. O’Donnell is the Solicitor for the Petitioner
whose address for service is at his office at 200
Lambton Quay Wellington New Zealand.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND.
x WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(Wellington Registry.)
IN DIVORCE—No. 2310.
To BERT LACEY formerly of the City of Wellington
but now of parts unknown Hotel Porter.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued out
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Wellington
citing you to appear and answer the Petition of
Robert Moles of Wellington wherein he prays fof , ’";a
dissolution of his marriage with Ellen Moles on the
ground of adultery alleged to have been committed
by the said Ellen Moles with you and such Citation
intimates that in default of your so doing the Court
will proceed to hear the said Petition and to pro-
nounce sentence therein notwithstanding your absenre
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within sixty (60) days
after the date of this publication to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at
Wellington New Zealand and there to enter an
appearance without which you will not be allowed to
address the Court at any stage of the proceedings.
A Copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same at
the Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this 14th day of June 1922.
(1.5.) G. S. CLARK,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Co-respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing advertise-
ment. Ernst Peterson Hay Esquire is the Solicitor for
the Petitioner whose address for service is at the
office of Messrs. Mazengarb Hay and Maealister 39
Johnston Street in the City of Wellington New Zea-
land.
\V\'
wm
m/m
JmmiL'
mail
THE GENUINE
BALLARAT
COLLAR.
BUILT FOR
ENDURANCE.
This is a Lined-top, Double-strap Collar, Hand-stuffed with Rye
Straw. See how the rim is laced to the body side, away from
the hames, and greatly increasing the strength.
ONCE YOU BUY A BALLARAT YOU WILL
BUY NO OTHER STYLE FOR HEAVY WORK
Price 57/6 up to 20in. Over 20in., 1/6 per inch extra.
Black Collars, 1/- extra.
Kangaroo Hames, unbreakable, 22/6. Hame Straps, 2/- each.
Freight paid on Orders over £3 for Cash. Write for our Illustrated Saddlery & Harness Catalogue.
Walther U Stevenson Ltd.
Saddlers,
395 George Street, Sydney
The PCumß azov
sd
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St.,
SYDNEY:
HAS THE REAL SHAVING EDGE.
Made from the finest Sheffield Razor Steel,
tempered and ground to perfection—set and
finished ready for use by our own experienced
tradesmen.
Blades
Price 12/6 PAIR IN presentation pe /
rr,LC CASE, POST FREE, / “
jin. and fin. set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free.
That “just-out-of-the-box”
freshness lasts—
Provided you use
Bostock’s
Dry Suede Cleaner
COLORS : White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne, Brown and Nigger Brown.
BOSTGCK’S POLISHES, LTD., Sydney.
fsd
AUTOMOBILE
ENGINEERING.
--
/// /
' \
/ //>£*'
MACHINE TOOL
ENGINEERING.
TYPICAL ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES USING
Tessops
v # STEELS
PINE TOOL WORK.
A
etwii
Every important Engineering
Industry uses Jessop’s Steel.
Crafts such as Machine Tool-
making and Automobile
Engineering each find that the
special grade of Jessop’s Steel
evolved for their particular needs
does its work more satisfactorily
than other steels.
Jessop’s Steels are tough,
wear-resisting, dependable steels,
specially graded for those indus-
tries which not only appreciate,
but demand, the very best in
steels. If it’s a steel problem let
Jessop’s Engineers co-operate
with YOUBS.
MAILLER & QUEREAU, Atlas Buildings, 406 Collins
AGENTS FOR
WM. JESSOP & SONS, LTD., SHEFFIELD,
St., Melbourne,
ENGLAND.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
•Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Kame and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
S.T.S. (Adelaide) : In the words of the
writer of “Journalistus Jubilatus” (B. 15/6/’22) : “A
‘King’s Man’ is the title arrogated to himself by
a fairly common N. S. Wales type —one who orates
loudly of his loyalty in places like Sydney Millions
Club, but does dam-all to prove it. Adelaide -'s
fortunate if it is free of this class of citizen”....
Ii.X.J.: Not up. . . .Grass Tree: Too slight... .A.8.C.:
“The Telegram Boy’’ whose “jaw” rhymes with
“floor” is abhorrent to u 5.... Howard W.: N 0....
Gabrielle du C.: Verses too mixec(.... P.O’R.:
Very slight and weak. .. .Kangaroo T.: Wanted
stronger handling. .. .J.J.L.: If you realise that you
“can find no words” why attempt the job? T.M.:
“Daft Dick” misses.... Phil H.: Poor imitation of
worthless verse.... Frank D.: There is good in it —
but too much bad.... Becky: The “Rushes” are too
imitative... .C.J.W.: “War-storms that furrows
churned” is an extraordinary image. Why not the
“ploughed butter of battle” ?.... Cyty: “Dawn”
doesn’t strike us. .. .Chatterton: The verse is not bad,
but practically the same thing has been written 50
times... .Elaine: Not up. .. . 11.L.R.: Not well enough
done... Robert G.: Terrifying verse.. .Plodder: Held
for inquest. . .Kemo: Just misses. . .Edie E.: Fails. ..
Irene W.: Very heavy C.A.H.: Dull and futile.
... .Evelyn: Not our sort; and not much good of their
own sort. . . .J.B. (Herbertville) : “The Tyro” is coo
rugged. .. .1.T.8. : It says nothing except that the
day started and ended.. .Stanley C.: Not nearly up....
E. Kip: Young and thin. . . .J.W. (Summer Hill):
Commonplace in poor verse P.8.P.: Thousands
have said it better. .. .A.M.S.: A poor story made
very tedious in the long-winded telling. .. .Ivlaney:
Horrible. .. . J.J.F.: Not up. .. .W.E.J.: Full of jolts
and lumps G.P. (Miller’s Point): “Peter” doesn't
move u 5.... Elsie M.: After that write an essay on
darning socks and begin by explaining that the habit
grew out of the fact that there were holes in them.
. . .Irene C.: You have a very inaccurate view of Omar;
and the Fitzgerald translation alone won’t help you
to a much better one.. . .Bellerive: The “Philosopher”
does it: —
Sparrows twitter to and fro,
Softly sigh the fanning breeze,
While I muse upon the grass,
’Neath the shady garden trees.
Greedful men doth rack their brains
To addeth to their money roll,
Get indigestion from the strain,
And other ills, ’pon my soul.
I hear the city’s wafting din
From my calm, secluded nook :
Life is bustle, grasp and sin;
Thousands shun the Holy Book.
Sparrows twitter to and fro,
Softly sigh the fanning breeze,
Lulling me to drowsy sleep
’Neath the shady garden trees.
. ...V.H.: About the most commonplace fairies we
have met. ... J.11.H.: Very dull statement of general
experiences in poor verse.... Bessie R. : Wobbly
verse with no lift in it R.M. (Gympie) : Doesn’t
get to anything Victor L.: Not for us
E.W.M.T.: Too long and loose and wordy.... M.P.F.:
Not up. . . .The Prodigal: Hardly enough interest. . . .
Pussyfoot: A heavy sort of jest in lamentable verse.
.. . .W.E.8.: Can’t believe in that moral and respect-
able group of thieves.... John S. : Not enough inter-
est in “Loading Copra”... .P.R.D.: Yarn too thin.
.... R.L.: Good enough verse, but doesn’t say
anything. . . .G.8.L.: It jig-jogs along to nothing. .. .
K.1.D.: Too feeble. .. .T.E.M.: Picture-show fooling
goes heavily Jack A. W.: It’s a thrilling frag-
ment :
Quoth a swaggie to a publican: “You’re wily and
astute,
You have always food and shelter, and a warm
expensive suit;
But your person is too portly, a measured mile to
walk ;
Why, you deem it quite an effort to draw a bottl-
cork ! ”
Rubbish.” rapped the publican, “behind the time-
you lag.
Matted are your whiskers and obsolete vour swag
You wouldn’t buy a push-bike like a shearer up to
date ;
To perish in a motor smash shall never be your fate
Through the bushlands you will trampeth demanding
your keep ;
Begone, or I’ll have you afront o’ the Beak!”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPON DEN IS.
F.T.: Weak drawing and old gags A.M.: Not
up. . . .G.H.: Still out. .. . K.F.: Not enough in it. ...
C.D.: A long way off publication standard....
G.V.C.: Pencil sketches useless C.McA.: May use
one as a suggestion... .J.E.8.: Some promise, but
drawing weak J.L.M.: Awful W.0.H.: Both
off the target V.S.: Misses.
“C. Ockney” : Has Pinero “done his dash”
as a dramatist? None of his later pieces
have hit the bull’s-eye. His last, “The En-
chanted Cottage” (an attempt to enter the
fanciful domain of J. M. Barrie), was done
wi„h at the end of seven frosty weeks. On
the other lia.nd, Galsworthy (himself no
chicken) goes from success to success. St.
.a* , s > Condon, has been drawing crowds
with ins Loyalties”—an even bigger box-
olhce attraction than “The Skin Game”—
and Windows,” described as “a play for
idealists, is being staged at the Court.
“Pam”: The “Wild Nor’-West” picture is
strU earning currency for M. P. Adams in
the English provinces. When Britain has
been exhausted the film is to be exhibited in
Prance, Belgium and Scandinavia, also the
National Geiigraphic Society of Washington,
U.S.A., has invited Adams to bring it along
towards the end of .1922, mentioning that
the honorariums will be “suitable.” Until
Adams arrived the film had reposed in a
London safe for quite two years. The boss-
cocky of a leading British picture company
turned it down as having no commercial
value.
“Stargazer”: What has become of our fine
Australian choruses? We used to delight in
the opinion of travelled experts that our
light- and grand-opera choruses were the
best in the world, but it is quite a time since
I heard a fine, powerful example of massed
singing. The choruses in “A Night Off ”
which has just finished a highly prosperous
career at Melbourne Majesty’s, were the
weakest and least satisfying I have heard
for years. Their thinness was painfully not-
able in comparison with memories of full-
throated, swelling choruses of a few years
back. The decadence is general. Have man-
agements become careless in securing good
voices, or is the disappearance of this native
product another evidence of the inefficiency
of the Hughes Government?


Ship Dins.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-G Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days.
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JULY 12.
SONOMA.
10,0U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Hanking:, Public Companies, &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 800,000 0 0
deserve Fund .. . . .. .. 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.001,069 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. G. W.
Gray; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. lIAYMKN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OI 1 ' PICE ... HItISIJANE.
Itranclies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS TIIUOUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WOULD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,480,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1921 . . £12,813’129
Directors : Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman ; Herbert R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; George F. Todman :
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
BRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 650,000
£1,275,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,900,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,502,572
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. •• £2,575,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. •• £47,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .• •• £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, eta.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BEIWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, 20th JULY, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 24th AUGUST.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Hie Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MAUNGANUI, Oth JULY, 11 a.m.
TAHITI, 10th AUGUST.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET'! MELBOURNE.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
l’ni<l -ii i» Capital
deserve In ml
deserve Liability
fsd
s
£5,000,000
3,000,000
5,000.000
£13,600,000
Directors •
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidlev, Esq.; A. G. Miison, Esq.
.Robert L,
The Hon.
Franc B.
The Hon.
Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
James T. Walker.
S. Falkiner, Esq.
Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
General Mananer: Oscar T.itics.
Head Office—George Street. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street E C
300 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, ar.d drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834,
Capital paid up .. £2,909,025
lieserve Fund .. £2,360,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,269,025
ii
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. 11. 1-;. Kater, M.1..C.,
Deputy Chairman.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow,
.lion. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas'A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
IT. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Hircliin Bane, E.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WOULD.
MONARCH
m
YOURS-
FOR A BETTER SMOKE!
Better, because every
Monarch cigar is hand-
made. Every leaf of the
filler used in its manu-
facture is high-grade
Havana, .blended to pro-
duce a satisfying mel-
lowness that you will
appreciate.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6
d. each,
Special sampling
cabinet containing
10 cigars, 6/-; 25,
12/6; 50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Post free to any address.
Craig&Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil Cigar Factory.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting .London
should rend the Bkitisu Australasian,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
The Worfds
Greatest
HEALER
SKIN-CURE
ai
m
Get a pot to-day : your Chemist or
Storekeeper stocks it, s/6 and j/6.
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
Mellvvraith,
j McEacharn’s Line
61 Pitt Street.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s Line,
01 Pitt Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd. & Reduced.
350 George St.
Melbourne S.S.
Co., Clarence and
Barrack Sts.
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
*Brisbnne, Mackay (passengers only), Townsville
and Cairns.
t.BrMcine, Port Alma ("passengers only), Mackay,
Bowen and Townsville.
Huddart ParkerLlM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-.
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Co line Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from Sydney only 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m.; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. BURRINGBAR SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/6/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailing's Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address :
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Collierj
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Eitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackhealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown,


dfs
British Made.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers —
from 10/6 to 35/-
PEN
“Better than Tatts.”
(and all others)
LAST WEEKS
of the
KATOOMBA
THOUSAND
ART UNION (No. 2)
Prizes valued
£4OOO for 1/-
In aid of
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial
Hospital, KaioOmba Soldiers’Memorial
and Showground Improvement Fund
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General of N.^.W.
" The truest way to mourn the dead is to
care for those they leave behind. "
FIRST PRIZE OPEN ORDER £lOOO
SECOND PRIZE OPEN ORDER £5OO
THIRD PRIZE OPEN ORDER £250
238 other Open Orders, total
value £4OOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 1922
Winning Numbers published all States*
September 16 th, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS l/-Only
By Post, 1/2. Three or more. Post Free
In this Art Union. 5 Tickets for your 5/*
Each with a chance of winning the whole
of the Open Orders valued at ,£4OOO.
NOT Gambling, but a Co-operative effort
Ticke s can be obtained from any Hairdresser
and Tobacconist in rew outh Wales, and all
branches of the N .W. Bookstall Co. Ltd., or
direct from—
EDGAR BOOTH. Hon. Sec .
Cadzow. Warrega-street. Katoomba.
SKETCHES
Ibat
SELL
V
V
fcANC
are easy to draw if
you learn by the
right method.
If you are fond of drawing you
easily be 1 aught how to make money in
your own home. There is such a constant
demand for new sketches that persons of
very moderate ability earn good fees.
But to get the best results you should
learn direct from a successful artist.
Under Mr. J. C. Bancks, the well-known
cartoonist and caricaturist, and by his easy
system of lessons by post, many persons
of both sexes are now being trained to
do money-earning sketches.
Mr. Bancks liimself supervises every
student’s work and personally corrects
and advises them by letter on each lesson.
Why Don't
YOU Learn?
Tlie Bancks School gives the finest prac-
tical instruction to be had in Australia,
and the terms are very easy.
Send your name and address (with 3d.
in stamps for postage), and the booklet
“Art that Pays” will be posted to you. It
tells you all about the School. If you can
already draw a little and you like to send
a specimen of your work (either original
or a copy) Mr. Bancks will be very pleased
to write you his opinion of it — free.
But write for the hook now, and judge
for yourself.
J. C . Bancks School oi Sketching
(postal only)
2 Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W.
Missing Friends.
WILL HARRY STACEY, formerly of
Port Elizabeth, South Africa, kindly
write home. Aged father and mother Aery
anxious to hear from him. For further in-
formation write Miss J. Wiseman, Ilippo-
drome, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Public Notice.
NOTICE.
T AM prepared to take prospecting parties to any
-*• part of the Northern Territory. My plant consists
of any number of camels up to 30, including saddles,
etc. My headquarters are at Oodnadatta. Have had
25 year’s’ experience in the Northern Territory.
Address all communications to
W. FOX,
c/o Fogarty & Co., Oodnadatta.
Terms reasonable.
Edison Amberol Records
AH
for June.
There are so many excellent numbers in this month’s
list that music-lovers will find it easy to make some
pleasing additions to their library.
The Royal Purple “By the Waters of Minnetonka”
(Freida llempel) will be first favorite, but it will be
followed closely by “Isle of Love” and “Dearest One” —
two charming Duets. Then there are five of the latest
dance tunes, a whistling number (Bird and the Saxo-
phone), several humorous records, a good trio and an
equally good quartet.
Read through the list—make your choice at your dealer’s.
Royal Purple Record.
29076 —By the Waters of Minnetonka. Soprano. Freida Hempel.
Blue Amberol Records.
4297 —Bird and the Saxophone. Whistling,
orch. ace. Sibyl Sanderson Fagan
4304 —Scene on the Old Plantation.
Billy Golden & Empire Vaudeville Go.
4319—Moonbeams—Fox Trot, for Dancing.
Green Bros.’ Novelty Band
4329 —Moonlight—Fox Trot, for Da noting.
Max Fells’ Della Kobbia Orchestra
4331—Down Yonder. Male Voices, orch acc.
Premier , Quartet
4341-—Good as ; Gold Waltz, for Dancing.
Max Fells' Della Robbia Orchestra
4346—Robin Adair (Old Scotch Air).
Jules Levy's Brass Quartet
4348—Tw0 Little Girls in Blue (introducing
“Oh Me! Oh My!” and “Dolly”)
Medley Fox Trot.
; Harry Raderman’s Jazzs Orchestra
4353—Sonnyside Sal. Tenor vith Sojirano Obli-
gato, (orch. acc. .
Vernon Dalhart and Gladys Rice
4359 -She's, the Lass: for Me. Baritone, orch.
acc. Glen Ellison
4360 Sinner and the Song. Bass, orch, acc.
Fred East and Mixed Chorus
4361 Carolina Lullaby. Soprano, Mezzo-
Soprano and Contralto, orch. acc.
Homestead Trio
4362 — Make Believe Medley (introducing
“Moonlight”). Piano. Kay Perkins
4367—151 e of Love. Contralto and Baritone,
orch. acc.
Helen Clark and Joseph Phillips
4369 — Dearest One. Soprano and Mezzo-
Soprano, orch. acc.
Betsy Lane Shepherd & Elizabeth Spencer
4370 — Valse Caprice. Losey’s Orchestra
4371 Ain’t Afraid of Nuthin’ Bat’s Alive.
Orch. acc. Ernest Hare
4374—5a11y, Won’t You Come Back? Tenor,
orch acc.
Jim Doherty and Girls’ Chorus
4376—Stand Up and Sing for Your Father an
Old-time Tune. Baritone, orch. acc.
J. Harold Murray
(introducing Gladys Rice)
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE."
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
TENNIS
REQUISITES.
©
RACKETS.
Special School Match
C. 8.8. Special Practice
Haymarket
Haymarket Special
Haymarket Extra Special
Spalding’s Greenwood
Spalding's Vantage
Spalding’s Tournament
Spalding’s Continental
Spalding’s Gold Medal
Ayre’s Sandown 30/-; Handicap
Ayre’s A 1 40/-; Champion
Ayre’s Matador 55/-! S.N.D
8/6
17/6
30/-
40/-
70/-
25/-
45/-
49/6
55/-
70/-
37/6
50/-
87/6
Bussey’s Sandown 25/-; Standard 25/-
Bussey’s Conqueror 30/-; Handicap 32/6
Bussey's A 1 35/-; Invincible 50/-
Slazenger’s La Belle 27/6; Player 30/-
Slazenger’s Renshaw 45/-; Demon 55/-
~ Whitehouse 63/-; Classic 80/,-
Slazenger’s B.G.M. 85/-; Doherty 87/6
Slazenger’s Imperial 77/6; Stadium 00/-
Slazenger’s I.Z 95/-; Patterson 05/-
Prosser’s Improved Phenomenon.... 05/-
Davis Riseley Hexagon 87/6
H. C. Lee’s Seneca 55/-; Spartan 70/-
H. C. Lee’s Church 00/-Monogram 105/-
RACKET REPAIRS
SPECIALTY.
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Do/..
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion, 1922 2/7 30/-
SLAZENGER’S Championship, 1922
Each, l-iox.
Ayre’s Court . 2/2 25/-
Ayre’s Champion, 1922 2/9 32/-
[ airtight tins) 32/-
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each,
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 00/-, 70/-
A<me (square) Posts, pair 105/-
Tennis Court Markers 37/6
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle 1/-
Rath.
Racket Covers 2/6, 5/6, 7/t
Tennis Ratchet 7/0
The “Grip” Racket. Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips J /., 1 /3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6, 6/6
Racket Gut, 2lft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-
ILLUSTRATED
TENNIS PRICE LIST FREE
ON REQUEST.
BOXING
GLOVES
■N.
Our Cfloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES.
Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value 12/6, 13/ft
C 8.8., Fighting, tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 16/6, 18/6, 21/-, 23/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz., 25/-, 30/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 35/-, 40/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively used by
Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by Mr.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/B.)’
BOYS’ GLOVES. Set of 4
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed 8/-
„ Leather „ „ laced palms 9/-, 9/6, 12/9
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Postage 3d.) 6/6, 7/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, English Leather, extra light, weight 3loz. (Postage 61d.), 15/6, 17/6 pair.
PUNCHING BALLS.
THE
ABMY
THE
PORTABLE
THE EXPERT
Mfiai
ARMY, Swinging Ball, reg., for fast work, 10/6, 18/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/- 30/- 35/-
ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed ’durable
and perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made........ 45/.
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, elastic cord for floor and rope for ceiling.. \ 2/6 15/6
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light 21/- 25/-’ 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings, ’ • '
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.) 30/- 35/- 40/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and bladder
complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) j q- / m
All above balls fitted with bpsLoiinlitv hl»drl,>i.c
All above balls fitted with best-quality bladders
SUNDRIES.
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 5/6 each
Double-action Swivels, 6/- each. Ball-bearing Swivels 10/6 each
Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pair. Punching Platforms, 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
SPORTING REPAIRS a SPECIALTY
2C
• •
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY. 1
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; Edward St., BRISBANE. I


For a
Stiff Neck
///
m
Rub on Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment
and get Quick Relief.
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment banishes all
pain. It is the reliable over-night relief. If you are
sabering from a stiff neck, just saturate a cloth with
it to-night and wrap round your neck, and in the
morning your neck muscles will be soft 'and pliable.
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment penetrates
right to the very bone, it does its work effectively and
quietly, it is as pleasant to use as toilet water, and
there is no fear that it will blister or hurt the skin.
If your muscles are sore from over-exertion, or from
overwork, Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Limiment is the
remedy for quick relief. If you have an aching back,
no matter how long it has been troubling you, one
good rubbing with Magnetic Liniment at night before
retiring will make all the difference.
The Ever-ready Friend.
Thousands of people throughout Australasia keep Dr.
Sheldon’s Magnetic ldniment on hand ever ready for use for
the Bruises and Hurts forever occurring in everyday
life, and it is equally as valuable for the more serious com-
plaints such as Rheumatism., Sciatica and all forms
of Lameness.
Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment.
pr
-£o3*.-
Rheumatism
Ul MBAGO
Cuts
Sprains
Bruises
AND All KINDS OF
Inflammation.
A
PREPARED Bt-
Sheldon DwuoC?
feosTON u3X
Syoncy, N.S.W.
§
1 simile
f
Chocolates
46
Packed in the famous Red Boxes
and mailed to you the day they
are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- and 30/.
Post free to any address in Australia.
m
i
n
■
W
m
&
162-166 Pitt
Street; also
corner George
and King Streets,
Sydney.
The Toast of the Dead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rfjjj great south wind came up and
with a hiss
Full on my forehead made me
think of this; —
Yellow sun that burned me brown,
Trees are dancing on your head.
The wind that came to blow you down
Shrills a merry pipe to drown
The wise and weary things you said.
You told of toil, you told of bread
And ways to walk and steps to climb,
Of fifty paces to my gate
And four-and-twenty hours to chime
A sweated fear of being late.
Men called you king of life and day
Bondslaves to your fiery will
But small white stars have heart to play
Through laughing branches on the hill.
Wisdom fails, the sun is dead,
The trees are dancing on his head,
The night is sweet to folly’s will!
A king has dropped a cape of blue —
I’ll wear the silk against my skin;
And a mantle of green shall cover you,
Clasped with a golden pin.
All the night is a joy to win,
All the air is a cool caress,
Every slippery daytime sin
Has gone the road of the little pink hells
To the clatter and jangle of silver bells
Where Folly is leading the Laughters in,
The little green Laughters that run on their
toes
Over the grasses that bow and bend
Singing with every wind that blows
“Friend, friend, friend, friend !”
Along this lane of starry light
Comes rolling down the coach of night.
A post-horn at a pursing lip,
The merry cracking of a whip,
The lamps swing near, the great wheels stay,
There’s room within and nought to pay.
A white house in a garden set,
A rumbling bridge that spans black water —
See them at the cross-roads met,
A highway thief and farmer's daughter !
Up the lull the horses sweat,
Down the hill the horn is blowing;
And all the tavern lights are glowing,
Glowing welcome, glowing cheer
Of golden tongue and pleasant ear
In candle-yellow through the door
That shows the soundless sawdust noor.
Here is right good company.
Draw your chair to mine and stay.
By their welcome grave and fair,
There is place for you and me.
Great companions of the way,
Kings and queens with gifts to spare
Lift a chorus to the rafter,
Fill the long dim room with laughter
Making music everywhere.
All the day they lie asleep
In places cool and green and deep.
They know not how the world goes by
With a sneering mouth and a bloodshot eye
And the bangs and clangs and slams and
damns
Of clattering trains and smothering trams,
And chattering cranes and murky ships,
And jangling tin and wrangling sin,
And a scowl of hate under smiling lips,
While greedy and needy the hot hand grips
For the thirty pieces of silver falling
Where Judas-get-rieh on his knees is crawl-
ing.
Little Hebe of the bar
Juggling pleasure on a tray,
You were sleeping all the day
Till the winking of the star....
Sappho, Sappho, bring us wine
In our tavern of the night—
Some old tang is with us still,
Not forgotten quite.
Lift a pink firm hand and spill
The vintage of the daffodil
In cups of chrysolite....
Will stands to speak the rousing toast,
The landlord’s apron on his knee
Cries that the greatest serves the most
In this brave house of courtesy.
John from his carven seat is up,
The younger John has poised his cup ;
Geoffrey and Alfred, eye to eye,
Have raised the silver flagon high.
A thousand eyes like jewels shame
The wavering of the candle flame
As round and round the word is flung
“To morning and the song unsung!”
Who shall make answer to these?
Shall it be your voice or mine?
The harp on the' future’s knees
Has strings divine
Full of a magic unwrought,
Of a word untaught,
Of a ringing and singing
And a great call of the soul
And a long call of the heart,
Gathering up part and part
To the music that is the whole. . . .
Ah, God, walk slowly through the gate!
It is long to wait, it is long to wait v , >__
Silent we sit and hear the breath
Drawn to a sigh in all the air.
Rob thrusts his fingers through his hair.
I think I see Elizabeth
Looking on Robert where he stands
With eyes that hold a moment’s fear ;
While Rupert, youngest of the throng,
Lifts a slow gaze to Sophocles
As wondering if the inky lees
Of living hold a final song....
Silence and sighs.... Then, swiftly drawn,
Clashed down the silver coach of dawn.
Behind the wheels we left the past;
Free breath was in our souls at last.
We did not speak; but hand in hand
We trembled, slow to understand....
Then, like a troop of merry maids,
The dancing lights came up the glades.
The breezes blew; the small birds winging
From bough to bough were madlv singing.
“Thank God,” I said, “our splendid sun
Has pardon for the work undone.”
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
His Burden of Sorrow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[Author’s Note : Many and various persons have,
for many and various years, persisted in identifying
one or other of my characters with myself or some-
one belonging to me. They needn’t fret. I haven’t
knowingly attempted to draw a born idiot yet. And,
for the rest, my connections and myself are, and
have for some years, been on the best possible terms,
both with one another and our modest and individual
selves.—H.L.]
is a rather darksome story; but.
then, it is another dark, rainy day—
and a darker night. We’ll brighten
up by and bye.
I first met .Tacky on the tram, out Gore
Hill way, rather late one Sunday afternoon.
He was a slight, small-featured negro—pro-
bably West Indian —with remarkably small
feet and hands—as I noticed afterwards—
like many of our blacks have. He had his
two boys with him, one about 14 or 15 and
the other some three years younger. They
were remarkably well-dressed in new serge
knickers, good stockings and shoes, and the
elder had an overcoat and comforter. He
seemed to be suffering from a cold. My
attention was drawn to the three by the
father tackling the guard for, as he said,
giving the signal to start before he’d got
his boy properly in. “The boy’s sick,” he
said angrily. “You wouldn’t have dared do
that if he was a white boy.” Which was
very unjust; but, as Jacky told me after-
wards, he was upset and worried, and very
anxious about his boy.
“The mother died three weeks ago,” he
said. “Two doctors. Consultation. No
good,” with an outward fling of his hand,
palm outwards. “We just been to the
cemetery—Gore Hill. Boys fret a lot yet.
But I want them to remember her when they
grow up.”
I looked at the two small, well-featured
dark faces, with that strange, touchingly help-
less, haunting and searching pathos of the
dark in their eyes that you see in our own
blacks, even while they jest. I saw it in
the eyes of the father, too, while he was
speaking. They search your eyes for a sign
—a sign, say, of memory, sympathy, friend-
ship, recollection or recognition, dislike,
treachery, ridicule or danger—or what? But
you might search there in vain. Few white
men know what that sign might be (Ken-
nedy, the explorer, and Kennedy’s blackboy
knew). But in the eyes of the younger I
fancied I detected a look as of half-fright-
ened appeal—as if he had a glimmer of hope
in his dark little soul that the white gentle-
man sitting opposite, and seeming to show
sympathy, might possibly be able to help
bring his mammy back again—seeing that
two other white gentlemen (the doctors in
consultation) had been connected with the
taking of her away.
The father sitting next the door suddenly
turned his head and gazed out over the gjiily
towards Gore Hill, and I moved along to
the end of the seat and looked out the other
way.
* # # *
It was a bright, sunny, breezy morning
on the harbor the next time I saw Jacky, and
the scene was as beautiful as it could be.
That fits it. It was on the Horse Punt, and
Jacky had his younger son with him; the
other was at home with one; of his colds
but was getting better, Jacky said, and
Jacky was cheerful. He had a big load of
good rags on his cart; they were done up
in neat little bales with the best of them, old
sheets, window curtains, skirts, bed quilts
and tablecloths, etc., for covers; and bound
tightly with all sorts of cordage from cur-
tain cords (with tassels) to old clothes-line
and twisted strips of blankets and sheets.
He was paying the council 30s. a week, I
believe, for the right to turn over the rub-
bish tips. He was an employer and do.ng
well. He told me the price per ton of
broken plate-glass (there was a load aboard
—from a fire, I suppose), and several things
connected with his and Benno’s trades that
might come in useful to me to know. And
all things were sunny, and “Sonny” was
sunny, too.
Bump, bump. The landing-stage went
went down with a bump; the carts bumped
cheerfully off, and they went up Elderman’s-
lane to George-street.
* * * *
It was months afterwards when I saw
him again—and again on a sunny day. Sad
sunlight on the harbor in early winter. He
had drawn his cart well up for’ard, and was
standing between it and the bulwark with
his younger boy. Somehow, I didn’t notice
any of the rest; but there was a long, black-
covered undertaker’s trap drawn up, right
behind Jacky’s turn-out, containing someone
who had laid down her burden of sorrow—
or left it behind on other shoulders, perhaps.
“That girl, you know,” the deckhand whis-
pered hoarsely in my ear—referring to a
North Shoi’e tragedy of the day before. I
sidled respectfully past the dead girl’s car-
riage and round the nose of Jacky’s old
horse, and came back to him. He had a
good load on again.
“How’s business, Mr. Harrison?” I said.
“You seem to be doing well.”
“No good, Mr. Lawrence,” said Jacky
with the fling of his arm and hand, palm
outwards, towards the load, as if to dispose
of it and the business altogether. “No good
to me any more. I not got the heart to
work.”
“But you’re doing well,” I said. “What’s
the trouble?”
To make it short, he’d lost the elder boy.
He thought I knew. Perhaps he thought
everybody knew. That’s the way of it. I
said: “Oh. I’m so sorry.” That’s what we
all say. But the sorrows of others mostly
only remind us that we’re sorry for our-
selves. Or not sorry for ourselves. Or
used to be sorry ' for ourselves. Or
ought to be sorry for ourselves —or ought
not to be sorry for ourselves. Or —oh, damn
it all! It’s a mixed-up world ! Let it go.
If the sorrow or trouble of another is greater
than our own it eases our burden; if less
(Continued on next page.)


Every
Pieture,
tells a
Story
AreYouasWellas
You Should Be?
It isn t right for one to always feel tired, weak—all worn
out. Yet how many folks are constantly ailing, though
seldom sick enough to be in bed! Are you one of these
unfortunates? Do you suffer daily backaches—feel dull
and weary—nervous and dispirited? Is your health
slowly slipping away? It’s time, then, you were finding
the cause. Quite likely it’s your kidneys. A cold, strain
, 11 , . , or overwork has slowed up your kidneys and brought on
~a u * dragging ache that soreness, stiffness, lassitude and weariness. You may have headaches,
lzzy spells and annoying kidney irregularities, too. Don’t wait for serious kidney trouble, but help
, e i d Doan s Backache Kidney Pills. Doan’s have helped thousands. They
should help you. Ask your neighbor! '
A MAN’S TESTIMONY.
Mr. A. H. Francis, 192 Union Street, Erskinoville,
Sydney, says: ‘As the result of an attack of influenza a
member or my family suffered terribly from kidney
trouble. The symptoms were various, the most trouble-
some being pains across the small of the back. This
ailment was very trying, especially so as every move-
ment. seemed to make the suffering more acute. No
position was comfortable, the ache keeping up practically
night and day. One day we were advised to try Doan’s
Backache Ividney Pills, and they proved a blessing, six
bottles driving the pain out of the back and restoring the
kidneys to a healthy state. Doan’s Pills are a marvel-
lous kidney remedy, and I am sure sufferers from back-
ache cannot do better than take them. I consider they are
a boon to humanity, and I am never without a bottle in
the house.
Two years later Mr. Francis says : “The cure referred
to still holds good, no signs of kidney trouble having
returned, a fact that Droves Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills give lasting benefit.”
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S TESTIMONY.
Mrs. W. P. Ritzau, 364 King Street, Newtown,
Sydney, says: “For years I was a great sufferer from
kidney disease. I have been treated by doctors and in
hospitals,’ and tortured with operations. After fifteen
months in. one hospital I came out a thorough cripple;
I was so ill I was advised to go back into the hospital,
but my husband would not let me go. I was recommended
by a friend to take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
commenced using them, carefully following the directions.
These pills have cured me. I can now get about and
do my work, and the pain has completely left me. My
cure is wonderful, for mine was really a very bad case.
Since my cure my uncle has used the remedy and they
have effected a complete cure in his case also. Our
experiences prove that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
a positive cure for kidney trouble.”
Eight years later Mrs. Ritzau says: “I have still
the same good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
When I feel a slight return of my old complaint I take
them, and they never fail to put me right.”
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
it gives us a sort of comfortable conceit
(unless we’re in quod) ; if unusual, like ours,
well, we don’t feel so much out of it. “Com-
panions in misfortune,” “Self-pity is only,”
etC i' ~ a tJ'ite saying, but work is the
only, etc. well, fix it up the best way
you can m your trouble.
‘Fifteen year and eleven months,” said
Jticky,
Was that his age?” I asked sympatlieti-
•ii 01 '. a bsently—or hypocritically. As you
will again. Say, “for want of something
t 0 <?!?/•„ TM, ats “ostly what we talk for.
, .» said Jacky. “But he would have
been if he lived till to-day. Eighteen months
a f°- c led ‘ Sixteen year old on the
eleventh of next month. I got the cottage yet.”
Ihen with the backward fling of the hand
up Blue s I oint-road way, “No good to me,
no good any more. I got no heart to work.
1 can t forget.”
The punt bumped. The gangway bumped
down. And I shook hands with him (’twas
then I noticed how small and seeming frail
his hands were) and went ashore. The old
horse plodded on, the cart bumped dismally
J 1 011 ahead by the footpath, and
tbe dead girl came along behind.
ex t time j me t Jacky going the other
way. We chatted for a few minutes about
nothing. Then, as he passed on, he said:
Sixteen to-day.”
I threw up a forefinger understandingly.
ft was the 17th of June.- and his dead boy’s
bn thday. I wondered if he’d go on keeping
count till that dead boy came of age.
About a month later I went aboard the
ojd punt and saw Jacky for’ard, by his
cart; with in y old friend Benno, the bottle-o,
talking to him. Benno seemed unusually
in earnest about something. Benno’s cart
stood aft, to the right, loaded with bottles,
a -j * noticed a new hand-saw stuck in the
side ot the cart, covered with new rust. I
suppose Benno had picked it up at some
careless home—and I scented the “Old Un”
again.
' Vhv Ken,, “cousin”- of my departed
Chinese friend and benefactor Ah See
(altas V egerbuls”), and so, presumably,
nephew of my dead father’s old dead dig-
gings acquaintance Ah Soon (whose story
Weis chronicled elsewhere) —Why Iven criho
on board with his baskets and crouching
trot (By the way, have you ever tried the
weight of a Chinaman’s pair of loaded'bas-
kets' 1 ) He set his material burden down
alongside a plank, with one end on a box
and the other on the lower step on the
wlieel-box, to the left. He acknowledged
my nod with the usual facial toothache
spasm, as he sat down, but for the rest he
sat with his wooden face looking straight
m front of him, as if he’d “cut” the Occi-
dent for good except in the wav of business,
row that he knew his ground and enough
English for Ins purpose. But yet. there was
something there, as if a Sphinx had come to
life and was breathing. (His face and nose
were something like the Sphinx’s, too, as it
is now.) Perhaps he had his burden of sor-
row, too ; perhaps it had come from China
—or maybe he had brought it with him.
A covered motor-car drove on with a
driver even more wooden of expression than
”by Ken; and, inside, a thin-faced, white-
taced elderly woman, and a thin-faced, white-
faced elderly girl, in deep mourning with
deep, black, frosty frills on it. Another
burden of sorrow ; or, maybe, two separate
Ami ; of course, the deadbeat—two
ot lnm this time—at the tail of a friendly
cart to escape the ticket-collector. Their
burden was probably due to the absence of
beer.
I was surprised to see Benno standing with
one hand on little Harrison’s shoulder and
holding one of his in the other. Then he
tu ™ed away and came round to his cart.
Whats up with Harrison, Benno?” I
asked.
„ “Better leave him alone,” said Benno.
Hon t go near him. Leave him to old
Benno. He s lost that other boy of his.”
Consumption or something of that sort, I
suppose. Perhaps Jacky had picked it up
early while delving in corporation rubbish-
tips to make a home and a living for his
family.
“And what’s he going to do now?” I asked
rather foolishly.
«w H ? wi P el a , m 1 to know?” said Benno.
Work tor the doctor’s bill, perhaps, or
headstones or for the sake of their memory.
You never can tell what’s in a man by the
outside or color. Mebbe he’s thinkin’ of
trym it agen.”
I waited—l knew Benno's burden of sor-
row—or regret rather. The girl he’d turned
down for the sake of his Old Uns. But he
bore, or seemed to bear, his burden lightly
—for the sake ot the Old Uns, too, no doubt.
I resently it came. He looked towards the
figure of the lonely black man by his loaded
cart.
Blime!” he said, “I might have been in
the same position myself.”
Ijdoked, too, but didn’t feel equal to it.
1 didn t want Jacky to see me about just
then. I turned back at the last moment
just as the tail-board of the punt rose, and
carried my own burden of sorrow across bv
another ferry. I reckoned that old punt was
loaded deep enough already.
HENRY LAWSON.
A Night's Rest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rn H E night is still and cool, with long
| streaks of white mist settling in the
hollows of the hills like so much
cotton-wool. A few pale gleams of light
from a rising moon drift thi-ough the dis-
tant trees across a faintly fragrant garden.
The air is only stirred by a ghostly clamor
of distant bells. I pause.on my way to bed
to give a last look of sleepy content at a
shadowed world, just pleasantly tired, and
feeling like a long, long peaceful dream of
lovely clothes, and nothing to do, and per-
fect things, to eat. “A good night’s rest,”
says my sister, with a self-approving air for
the bright idea. “Goodness knows we want
it. Eleven last night, twelve the night be-
fore” Her voice is lost in sibilant splash-
ings of warm water.
We.prepare lazily for bed, secure in the
knowledge that we are fully two hours
earlier than usual, and spend a quarter of
an hour in rubbing buttermilk on our arms,
gazing at each other with large, bovine eyes
of solemn wonder at our own unaccustomed
virtue. We discuss with languid interest
Miss So-and-So’s complexion, or the eyes
of the eldest sister’s best boy at present—
always an entertaining theme, this last.
I burrow among the pillows and resolve
to do tremendous quantities of work next day,
some of it before breakfast, and to get the
grass seeds out of my best serge skirt. Litt’e
rosy fragments of dreams, just mixed up
with enough vague threatenings of tooth-
ache to make them all the more pleasant,
drift through my mind. There are few things
more delightful than this lying half-awake,
taking part in all sorts of little conversations
and scenes, and waking up again and trying
to remember them—you never can—-and
drifting off into another equally charming
and elusive sleep.
Wahr-r-r ! Whop !! Whop !!!
I sit up shaking in every limb.
“What is it? Oh, what is it?”
Jeanne’s voice comes in slow and bitter
accents.
“Only mother. She’s found some cock-
roaches. She’s going after them with a
shoe.” I sink back. Clearly upward
through the open door floats the sound of
carnage, the whack and scrape of the shoe;
Arm, rapid footsteps; the pursuit across
the floor—a Hard cement one—of some flee-
ing enemy; the vigorous stamp that shows
the insect has met its doom. At length it
subsides. Mother’s clear, pleasant voice,
mingling with dad’s loud and cheerful tones,
still rises on the night air, carried and mag-
nified by every inch of good red cedar in a
ten-roomed, two-storey house. But it is not
disturbing. I slide once more toward
slumber.
Five minutes later my youngest sister
apparently dreams of washing up. She
throws herself about /in vigorous protest,
and her bed (of the high-stretcher variety)
emits frightful squawks. A certain amount
of imploring and scathing comment from
Jeanne has only just wakened and quiet-
ened the sleeper when —father comes to bed.
We always know exactly what to expect
at this juncture. Father ascends softly but
heavily, and little vibrations chase them-
selves across the flooring. We hear him
place his matches and tobacco on the dresser
with an odd metallic click. His bed, placed
close to the partition, grunts in uneasy,
faint discomfort as he sits to take his boots
off, and invariably he trails his belt half-
way round the room before hanging it on
the towel-rail. I clench my hands, but re-
solve to be philosophic. Finally dad sub-
sides into silence, broken only by an occa-
sional snore.
Hours later, after vainly trying to con-
vince myself that I am still asleep, with
the heavy klop of curds and whey being
poured from one receptacle to another, the
clash, bang, splash and tinkle as mother
washes the milk-tins on the back verandah,
I rouse myself suddenly to grab with both
hands a small, white clad body archin# itself
toward the head of the bed, vaguely imbued
with the idea that Jeanne was about to
launch herself , down, through the open win-
dow upon the disturJber of the peace.
“It’s awful, awful!” she moans. “Always
the same! What’ll we be fit for to-morrow,
• I’d like to know?” A long groan from some
disturbed uncle in a distant part of the house
reaches us. The bells that were so far away at
nine o’clock are ringing gaily at the gate, and
somewhere a cow is giving tongue. There
is a popular tradition to the effect that cows
low. This is untrue. They roar, mew,, squeal
and even c-00-ee, but make no sound
approaching the pleasant bucolic “a-boo” of
fable. But • possibly this applies only to
North Queensland cows. Jeanne and I in-
dulge in a certain amount of whispered
hilarity on this subject—and the milk-tins—-
a hilarity strongly tinged with sarcasm. We
are still gasping and shaking when mother
comes to bed, and a somewhat injured
“Ahem !” through the wall silences us. In
a spirit of low revenge I steal across to
the clock on the dresser and tell Jeanne the
time—2 a.m.—in a stage whisper. Grop-
ing my way back I fall heavily over the
green stool, and am rewarded by a deep sigh
from the next room. The bed seems hot
and uncomfortable when I get in it again ;
the sheets seem wound round and round each
other. However, surely now there should
be peace-. ■ .......
Alas ! At three, precisely three, dear little
Wag, intelligent little terrier, useful little
dog arid all the rest of it, spies a patch of
moonlight on a tree. A horse, a cow, a
steam-engine, a ghost or a man, would not
disturb her mind. But a patch of moonlight
is a phenomenon, a thing to be challenged, to
be advertised. Accordingly, she challenges,
she advertises in shrill yap-yappings. Im-
mediately dogs spring up like mushrooms
and challenge also ; from the deep baying of
the biggest cattle-dog to the frenzied squeak of
the tiniest pup, canine noises rend the air
asunder. The uncles arise in wrath upon
their couches, and bid them lie down. Mother
implores them to lie down. We go outside
singly and chase ghostly, uncatchable dogs
with sticks round a ghostly and catching
garden—everything catches us, from the
lemon-trees to the zinnias. Only father and
Little Brother sleep through it all. I think
their ears must turn into sound-deadness
when they go to bed. I wish mine would.
At last, worn out with wrath and tears, I
sleep to the tune of tumultuous barkings th<.t
haunt me in my dreams. By the time the
cats chase each other over the balcony-rail
and start to howl beneath the windows, we
are getting used to waking up. and are
roused by blood-curdling yells with a feeling
that goes little beyond the thought “Here
we are again.” Jeanne rises wearily, and
flaps a towel at them and hisses at them,
and at length they depart.
The next sound that wakes me is the
merry tinkle of the alarm-clock, set con-
scientiously each night for 6 a.m. This is
the most maddening of noises. But I am
now grown truly philosophical. Heroically
suppressing the desire to arise and cast the
evil thing forth upon the cement, I open one
eye to see that nobody is looking, then cau-
tiously put my fingers in my ears, draw up
the blankets, turn over and go to sleep
again.
L. PATRICIA FRANCIS.


- “ft
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
‘'an visvimsnv jo do juvus isnoHDHiisjM 1111
Queeiißiniiii Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane,
N.Z. Office—93-107 Fenthereton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—B9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
w//////// y
MOTOR CARS
The Studebaker Li£ftt-Six is pro-
duced complete in the most modern
and most efficient automobile fac-
tory in the world —under condi-
tions that make possible its truly
remarkable value.
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
This is a Studebahev Year
%
X
%
m
me)®!?
Il>\>
AV>
>v,
2&
■
Refrigerating 8 Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor iu our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the time’s
- —their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.’’ Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 yearf-ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We Study your requirements and design the layout .of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
WILDRII
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z
580WL
Three-Fold Safety
Remington Model 51 Automatic Pistol is ab-
solutely safe. There is no danger of accidental dis-
charge because of the three safety devices: (ljfr
automatic grip safety, (2) thumb-operated safety levers.
(3) magazine removal safety.
jtemfn&oiL
ifor Shooting Righg
m
e-a
SPECIFICATIONS: Caliber, .380; length, 6 5/8 in.j
thickness 9/10 in.; weight, 21 ounces unloaded; finish,
dull black; magazine holds seven rimless automatic
standard cartridges, one additional cartridge in chamber.
Cartridges, .380 APH (9 m/m A
Browning Short) rimless auto-
matic standard metal cased or
soft pointed, the same cartridge
•s is used in other American
Automatic Pistols of this
k caliber.
"Ul|
Win,
"'•HI
'sn
' ' •- ■ -
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant., Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
%
*
W\
ffiji))))/
if
m
mm
m
11
sa
tSSSIi
iff««
«w
{■-
V -
c t£ ON ►
Sheffield’s Best
Mining Steels
in all'qualities.
171I 71 OR generations our Sheffield Works have been pro-
ducing better-grade Steels for every need. For
very many years our Mining Steels have upheld a
reputation for dependability and long service wherever
mining operations are carried on.
“An Eagle on a Globe”
Miners’ Drill Steels
are supplied in highest qualities for every ground condi-
tion. Remember the name, “An Eagle on a Globe,” a
pointer to highest drill service. Send your enquiries for
Octagon (solid gin. to 2fin.). Hexagon (hollow gin.
and lin.). Heavy and Light Cruciform Sections (gin.
to 3in.). Ask for copy of “Balfour’s Hints on Steel,”
post free.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Associated Company ARTHUR BALFOUR & CO.. LTD.,
Sheffield,
MAKERS OF ULTRA-CAPITAL HIGH-SPEED STEEL,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanston Street, 3lel-
bourne; Cliff Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder Road, Kal-
goorlie; Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street, Newcastle; H. L.
Milligan, 32a Argyle Street, Hobart; John Reid & Nephews,
34-36 Charlotte Street, Brisbane; Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd.,
88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Keep hopping and hoping if you
df
.
-r
THINK OF
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
j r-
MU,**
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion cf hot or cold water only-
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd.. 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C?
Slough. Bucks. Eng.
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.


S^EgSE
si
X
gjs???
X
&
a
n
s
y
©is
Pf
'HR
PIM
7”
cr=^r
»
r
■s>
*
Ml
*s
scJ
<s^
Sfi-1
v -
rm\
777
mwl
HOT"
■SP
*^sr:
A
<!ftt
. Jll .ffl
m
V «
&
s
«
m
$►
c^t-
3pi >
*
\ -
ss«
r i
V-.
<r-~~ii
T
£
A
■i
ri m \i 3 d S -1 MV i
i .11 1 3i?OH
I
4-
"1
f a\T~~~ 'Miff
'W I
/ ottoj;§ &uioo f/t/s
oegi uuogr
SHAKESPEARE HOTEL,
Strut ford-on-A von:—T he Head-
quarters of the historic Garnck
Jubilee Memorial to Shakespeare
held in 1760,
Johnnie Walker: “What is t? a spirit ? I mmht call him a tiling divine/ 5
Spirit of Shakespeare: “leap thy compliment Johnnie Walker. Thou,
too, art ‘ a spirit oi no common rate.’ ”
JOHN WALKER &
■ • •
SONS,
-
LTD., Scotch
' v;- 4 *. ,_ - :
Whisky
Distillers, KILMARNOCK' SCOTLAND.
