

.m
■
FI. ■>'i
gs" 3
? a*
.
mt
■ ■■.
ip
VALUE
QUALITY—Rightly priced is the present-day demand
The Buying World now insists upon the utmost value. The Careful Buyer, desiring a full
return for each pound spent, buys Cooper Products. The thousands of pounds saved by
our enormous production, highly standardised and economically distributed by our direct
branches throughout the world, insures highest quality at a low price.
Quality, always obtainable at a high price, comes within reach of the modest purse:
Our achievement does not benefit you in any way, however, unless you desire economy
intensely enough to ask for, and demand, Cooper Products.
Cooper Sheep-shearing Plants are made in various sizes, from the smallest hand-operated
machine to the largest station outfit. They cost less in the first place, and unsolicited
testimonials from contractors and woolgrowers tell us that the cost of upkeep in after years
is, at least, 50 per cent, less than other makes.
If you have sheep to shear, let us send you a catalogue and full particulars of an outfit to
suit your requirements.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
129-131 Sussex Street, Sydney; 350-358 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Perth; Australasian Implement & H.F. Co., Adelaide; Clark & Fauset,
Ltd., Brisbane; N.Z. Loan & M.A. Co., Ltd., Hughenden, Rockhampton & Townsville.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2217.
Thursday, August 10, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1922 Circulating: Library Catalogue
now ready. Ported free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, City.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSACHT LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
OURNVELLE COCOA
THE COCOA WITH THE DELICIOUS FLAVOR
CADBURY’S CHOCOLATE—“The Standard of Quality.”
a;
g
(mangromte
MANOROVITE LEATHER BELTINC
STICKS TO THE JOB.
The carefully-selected ox-hides from which MANGRO-
VITK LEATHER or RAW-lIIDE BELTING is scien-
tifically manufactured are noted for elasticity and
great strength-. These features are preserved to the
right degree under the action of our special tanning
process, and impart to the finished belting that
strong bulldog- grip on the pnjleys for which Man-
grovite is celebrated. Order now.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUOOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Lid.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 307 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid k Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright k Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henrv Clark k Co. Ptv., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel k On., Ltd., Brisbane.
A
jse/A
Filling
P&N
The Pen for Busy Writers
It fills in an instant from any ink
supply. Open and close the lever;
that’s all! The lever is flush-locking
and cannot be felt when pen is in use.
A special feature is a patent catch which locks
the lever when closed, thus preventing
accidental opening when pen is being put
away into the pocket.
The “Swan” Self-filler
is safe to carry in any
position without fear of
leakage.
Sold by Sta'ioners, Jewellers and Importers.
Self-filling patterns.
Standard patterns. Safety patterns
Illustrated List post free.
MABIE, TODD 8 CO., LTD.
SWAN HOUSE,
133-135, Oxford Street, London, W.l
Manchester, Paris, Brussels., Zurich, Sydney,
Toronto and Cape Town. Associate House:
Mabie, Todd&Co. Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch (Wholesale) : J. A. BURKE.
5, Primrose Bldgs., 255a.George St.. Sydney
/
Staii
1111111,
1,11111?'
•illllll
•illllll l
•|iiiii* !
»iiiiiiiii
I,'Wli
•| ,, i|||l'
l|lUl|
i,mill
<iinr.
i'll }
• 1 11 1111 *
•ii!!!*
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY <°™ on) ,
and 201 Eourke Street, MELBOURNE.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC. 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-, Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/-. Magic Made Easy, 1/.. Tricks" with
Coins, 1 /-,
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
HOW TO LEARN VENTRILOQUISM, 1 /-.
Write for list of our Ventriloquial Heads, from
12/6 to £5. Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE
PAINTS, WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
r9>
* *
sav?
Guide
as
Hudson’s Eumenthol
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
If or Coughs/ Colds, Sore Throats and the
Prevention of Consumption.
03
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
The Red Page
The Underworld of the Mind.
“Suggestion and Auto-Suggestion,” by Charles
Uam.uum. Translated irom me l'rench by
Eden and Cedar Paul.
(London: George Allen & Unwin.)
The most mushroom of creeds lias a long
descent, and psycho-analysis, auto-suggestion
and other branches of psycho-therapeutics
are not new discoveries, though they appear
to have been vested with a new and mystic
ritual. They were not unknown to Marcus
Aurelius, nor to Saint Bernard. The writ-
ings of Confucius abound in references to
them; Spinoza wrote profoundly upon them;
whilst tne practices of the yogi of India
are intimately related to them. Psycho-thera-
peutics have attained of recent years a new
notoriety by the manner in which the good
seed has been overgrown by humbug and
advertisement. Psychology is primarily con-
cerned with mind-conditions, and by reason
of the anguish caused by the war, a vast,
ready-made clientele was provided for any-
one 'who could simulate or profess a cure
for mental ills. As a consequence charla-
tans abounded, and, because from mental
distress to physical disability is a very
short step, soon invaded the legitimate field
of medical work, it has, therefore, become
urgent for the medical profession to seri-
ously study these modern phases of faith-
healing, both in order to protect their own
business interests and in order to protect
the public from itself and from quackery.
But medical men can themselves benefit
from study of the new movements, for it
is beyond" doubt that psychology contains
elements which, properly conducted, may be
as useful as drugs though, also, if impro-
perly conducted, as dangerous as toxins. It
is a mixture of good and evil, and its influ-
ence for good or evil is, like woman’s love
or hate, without compromise.
The latest and most notorious practical
exponent of the doctrine of suggestion is
Emile Cone, who, for 40 years, at Troyes,
in America and at Nancy, has devoted him-
self to the study and practice of psycho-
therapeutics, and principally to the- curative
effects of treatment by suggestion. Gbarlcs
Baudouin, the author of the volume before
us, is a professor at the Jean Jacques Rous-
seau Institute at Geneva, who has already
written extensively on psycho-analysis and
allied subjects, and who, in the present
volume, provides the authoritative theoreti-
cal exposition of the experiments and work-
ings of the New Nancy School. The “New”
School differs from the first Nancy School
under Liebault, of which it is a logical de-
velopment, by the substitution of auto-sug-
gestion for hetero-suggestion or hypnotism.
In other words, the patient hypnotises him-
self instead of being hypnotised by another
person. In the same way the suggestion
which formulates the treatment is made by
the patient himself, instead of being made
to him by the practitioner. This creates,
allegedly, the vital difference that the Coue
system is pedagogic, whilst other systems
are therapeutic. A less absolute statement
would be preferable. It is true that the
success of hypnosis depends upon a large
measure of auto-suggestion in the patient.
But it is equally true that auto-suggestion,
especially by the Coue method, depends upon
a certain hypnotic influence emanating from
Coue, which in turn is successful by creat-
ing a receptivity in the minds of those who
visit him. It stands to reason that a prac-
titioner treating, and mostly with success,
40,000 patients yearly, must have had his
work done for him to a great extent before
he ever sees the patients. The success of
Coue is due to faith, just as was, and is, the
virtue of the waters of Lourdes. The secret
of faith-healing is faith: II font ctre pas-
sionne! The true value of Coueism cannot
be finally gauged until we learn more of
the results obtained by those who have
adopted Coue treatment without contact
with Coue, and especially of the results
upon foreigners. The real test will be Coue-
ism without Coue!
At the same time this criterion need not
affect the value of suggestion as -a means of
ameliorating suffering, and we are inclined
to agree with Baudouin’s assertion that
Coufi’s greatest contribution to the study
of suggestion is what he terms the “Law
of Reversed Effort.” This establishes that
imagination is a greater force., than will-
power. “The more we wish, the less we
are able,” as the translators put it. For
example, we cannot will ourselves to sleep,
but we can suggest ourselves into a deep
somnolence. Suggestion is a germ, which
initiates an idea, that finally fructifies in
a corresponding reality.
Auto-suggestion is, therefore, a form of
faith-healing, the cure or amelioration being
effected by the injection of an idea during
a concentration of the sub-conscious mind.
The mind consists of three parts, the known,
the partly-known and the unknown ; n citv
area, a suburban area and an underworld.
Psycho-analysts refer to the conscious mind,
the pre- or fore-conscious, and the sub- or
unconscious, and of these three the sub-con-
scious provides the driving force of the other
two. Little is really known about the con-
scious mind, less about the pre-eonscious,
except that it ig a storehouse of memories,
and practically nothing about the sub-con-
scious. But it is realised that this under-
world is a ganglia of wide, clean thorough-
fates, of blind alleys and noisome slums.
Although the workings of the unconscious
cannot be followed, it is realised that thev
can be controlled to a certain not small
extent by suggestion. If the concentration
at the suggestion period is sufficiently power-
ful and consistent the force can, and does,
affect mental and physical conditions for
good or evil, though absolutely nothing is
known or even guessed at of the processes
which take place between suggestion and
realisation. Even in cases where physical
cures are manifestly impossible, as. for
example fractures, suggestion can produce
a favorable mental environment, which is
beneficial to purely medical or surgical treat-
ment.
It is only necessary to demonstrate the
efficacy of suggestion for evil in connection
with sickness to realise how potent its use
could be made for good. Everybody must
have had experience of acute depression in
invalids, which is only the result of the
fear of incurability. Fear is the most com~
mon of all suggestions. Epidemics are
widely spread by the fear of contagion or
infection, as any worker in a plague- or
cholera-zone,can testify. Stage fright, exam-
ination scare, all forms of amnesia, neuras-
thenia and most phobias result from the
same cause—suggestion. The I.M.S. has
put it on record that the high mortality from
snakebite in India is to a large degree due
to this cause, as are without doubt a con-
siderable proportion of motor casualties.
Sensations, as heat and cold, may be readily
evoked in the same manner, which also
accounts for hallucinations, delusions, illu-
sions, fascinations and obsessions. To how
great an extent is public opinion the result
of the suggestion contained in newspaper
articles’ Every man intends to think for
himself, and pretends that he does so, but
actually his mind only realises the sugges-
tions and ideas planted there by his favo-
rite journal. He himself has neither the
time, nor, too often, the intellectual
and educational material upon which to
base an individual judgment. The suc-
cess of patent medicines is notoriously due
to the suggestion of the literature which
enfolds them. These phenomena are observ-
able in all fields of life. Passion in all its
forms results from suggestion. “To talk of
love is to fall in love,” wrote Pascal.
Fashions in dress, in art, in literature, in fur-
niture, in food and in drink are all the effects
of suggestibility. A “period” is only evi-
dence that “those who are in intimate asso-
ciation react in a uniform manner.” We
sow a deed and reap a habit: we sow a
habit and reap a character.
Briefly described, the Coue system of
treatment consists in the patient every
morning and every evening betwixt sleep
and waking attaining a state of conten-
tion, and whilst therein repeating a
formula of general suggestion, as “Day
by day, in all respects, I get better
and better,” with particular concentration of
thought upon the special state of improve-
ment desired. The state of contention is a
psychic combination of contentment and
attention, which is attainable by complete
muscular relaxation and mental exelusivism,
in which condition of mental immobility or
monoideism the sub-conscious mind is
most receptive of suggestion. As may
appear desirable the general formula may be
extended to apply to special cases, but "usu-
ally Gone has found that the general for-
mula blankets all the known and unknown
disorders from which the patient may suffer,
from internal ulcers to forgetfulness to post
letters. In similar manner, by the use of the
formula, “It is passing off,” spontaneous ills
arising during the day may be successfully
treated, as a mother treats a baby’s bruise
by a kiss and “That’s gone now!” The
vital feature of his treatment, Cone insists,
is the abdication of will-power during the
period of contention, otherwise failure and
even deterioration must result.
As has been remarked above, the time
to adjudge the true place of Coue’s work is
not yet arrived. It is not even easy to judge
what Coue himself claims for his treatment.
What is quite clear is that it cannot be dis-
missed as humbug, nor can it be accepted as
a substitute for medical science. To use a
common expression, there is something in it;
but how much Time alone can tell. Psychics
and theology. puig and undefiled, are the
only two subjects on which Jack is as good
as his master, and possibly a great deal
better. But there can be no reasonable doubt
that the study and treatment of the mind can
be made—in many cases of neurasthenia,
ophthalmia and other organic troubles, has
been made—a valuable aid to pure medical
science, and therein, no doubt, lies its ulti-
mate work.
More Modernised Dickens
Before Sir Harry Johnston, author of
“The Veneerings” (Chatto and Wind us),
began to practise as a novelist, he was an
authority on anthropology and ethnology, on
the resources and prospects of Central
Africa, on the dialects of its tribes, and on
colonial administration generally. These
facts give some explanation of the .nature
of his success as a novelist and of his choice
of a method. His method is to depend to
some extent on the fame of other men.
Three of his four novels have appeared as
sequels, the first and the last to novels by
Dickens, the second to a play by Bernard
Shaw. He treats himself as an amateur
not really qualified to do independent work,
but competent to suggest the manner in
which the creatures of acknowledged experts
would have conducted themselves in the con-
ditions of a later age. In fact, his novels
are sequels only in name, for his characters
very soon forget their origin and take inde-
pendent lines of his own,,but the claim does
indicate Sir Harry Johnston’s attitude
towards his own work. And the association
with Dickens shows how he appreciates his
own temperament. He is an invincible sen-
timentalist. He believes in the mid-Vic-
torian relationship of parents and children,
and, though he would advocate the study of
Swahili in preference to Greek, he sympa-
thises with the mid-Victorian ideas of edu-
cation and business. For that reason he has
failed, in his treatment of the disillusioned
Vivie Warren, the heroine of his second
novel, and her rich harpy of a mother, and
succeeded with the descendants of “Dorubey
and Son” and “Our Mutual Friend.” To his
Dickensian ideas he has added a moral
tolerance and_a wealth of scientific know-
ledge appropriate to the twentieth century.
With this equipment goes a very wide know-
ledge of men and movements —of the men
who were leaders during the last half of
the nineteenth century, of the movements
that gave British trade unquestioned
supremacy, and of the scientific discoveries
that began .to inspire the more intelligent
of Britain’s merchant princes with doubts
whether they could hold it.
It is his knowledge of men and things
and his keen delight in them that save Sir
Harry Johnston from failure and give his
novels an unfailing interest to the mind of
every intelligent man over 40. He has to
contend with one or two serious handicaps.
His style is about the worst ever employed
by a man of first-class ability. He seems
(Continued on page 25.)


n
Finishes Saturday, August 12
Household Ironmongery
Reduced
LIGHT ALUMINIUM KETTLES.
KENRICK’S CAST-IRON SAUCE-
PANS, tinned inside.
Pints — 2 3 4 6
Usual Prices .. 6/- 6/9 7/6 9/3
Reduced to 5/- 6/- 6/6 8/-
TIIE “GEM” FOOD CHOPPER.
Per rain.— 2 2-S 3
Usual Price .......... 15/6 18/6 24/-
Reduced to .... 12/- 14/- 19/-
O’CEDAR POLISH MOPS, triangular.
Small Size. Large Size.
Usual Prices 7/6 10/6
Reduced to ...... 6/11 9/9
Reductions in
Kerosene Lamps
HARP SUSPENSION LAMPS, with
No. 0 Miller Burner, 25 candle-
power. Usual Price, 19/6,
Reduced to 17/6
HARP SUSPENSION LAMPS, with
glass fount, lin. Victor Burner.
Usual Price, 12/6.
Reduced to 10/-
BRACKET LAMPS, furnished complete
with No. 2 Miller Fount, Wick, Chim-
ney and Bin. Silvered Glass Reflector.
Bracket made of iron, nickel-plated,
fount nickel-plated. Usual Price,
43/6.
Reduced to 37/6
BRACKET LAMPS, furnished complete
with B Collar Glass Fount, No. 2
Victor Burner, No. 2 Sun Chimney
and Wick, Tin. Silvered Glass Reflec-
tor, projection 11 inches, Brown
Japan Finish. Usual Price, 14/6.
Reduced to 12/6
HANGING LAMPS, very popular for
stores, churches, shops, assembly
rooms and halls, 600 candle-power,
burns gasoline (petrol) or coal-oil,
lights with a match. Usual Price,
Reduced to 145/-
Savings in Glass and
China Ware
TUMBLERS, with plain heavy bottoms
half-pints. Usual Price per dozen'.
10/6.
Reduced to 7/6 per doz.
AMERICAN MOULDED GLASS
TUMBLERS, 8oz„ Usual Price, 5/1
per dozen.
Reduced to 4/6 per doz.
ENGLISH SEMI-PORCELAIN DIN-
NER SERVICE, of 26 pieces, with
Light Blue decorations and Floral
design. Covered dishes are oval.
Usual Price, 63/-
Reduced to 55/-
ENGLISH SEMI-PORCELAIN TEA
SET. of 21 pieces, with pretty colored
Floral border, low-shaped cup. Usual
Frice, 30/-
Reduced to 27/-
ENGLISH SEMI-PORCELAIN DIN-
NER SERVICE, with Light Blue
and Old Gold decorations. Covered
dishes are/ octagon-shaped, with gold
lines, and traced handles, 41 pieces.
Usual Price, £ll/10/-
Reduced to
£lO
If you know and appreciate the importance of
Economy you know that you cannot afford to
neglect these last days of the Sale, and all the
opportunities they present of saving money on every
need. The reductions in every department are
sweeping.
Bargains in Cutlery
JOSEPH FENTON & SONS’ TABLE
KNIVES, Stainless Handles and
Blades. Usual Price, 80/- dozen.
> Reduced to 70/- doz.
WALLACE & CO.’S TABLE KNIVES,
Stainless Steel, with Silver-plated
Handles. Usual Price, 90/- dozen.
Reduced to. 75/- doz.
MOSLEY’S DESSERT KNIVES,
Round, Xylonite handles. Handles
slightly shrunk. Usual Price, 42/
doz.
Reduced to 27/0
JOHN DERBY’S TABLE KNIVES.
Square, Xylonite Handles. Usual
Price, 45/- doz.
Reduced to 35/-
OEO. WOSTENIIOLM’S DESSERT
KNIVES, Round, Xylonite Handles.
Usual Price, 50/- doz.
Reduced to 40/-
WADE AND BUTCHER’S TABLE
KNIVES, Round, Xylonite Handles.
Usual Price, 54/- doz.
Reduced to 42/-
White Sewing Machines
SLIGHTLY SHOP-SOILED.
No. 25 VIBRATOR WHITE SEWING
MACHINE, in Oak. Usual Price,
£l5/15/-
Reduced to £l4/10/-
Iu Walnut. Usual Price, £lO/10/-
Keduced to £l5
No. 75 ROTARY WHITE SEWING
MACHINE, in Oak, dropliead, four
drawers. Usual Price, £lO/15/-
Reduced to . £l5/10/-
In Walnut. Usual Price, £l7/10/-
Reduced to £lO
No. 77 ROTARY WHITE SEWING
MACHINE, six drawers, drophead,
in Oak. This machine, having short,
rigid legs, stands firmer and runs
smoother than any other machine.
Usual Price, £l7/7/0.
Reduced to £lO
No. 73 VIBRATOR WHITE SEWING
MACHINE (cabinet enclosed), in
Oak or Maple, fumed finish. Usual
Price, £l9.
Reduced to £l7/17/-
No. 70 WHITE “SIT STRATE” SEW-
ING MACHINE, in Oak, so named
because the operator is relieved of
the necessity of stooping or bending,
and can sit i-iglit up to machine.
ITERATOR. Usual Price, £lO/10/-
Reduced to £l5
Do Not Delay! Post Your Order Now!
Incubator Bargains
AMERICAN STANDARD INCUBA-
TORS, manufactured by the Robert
Essex Incubators Co.
70-egg. 120-egg.
Usual Prices £B/10/- £lO/15/-
Reduced to. . £5/9/6 £7/7/6
THE “OLD HOMESTEAD” lIOT-
WATER INCUBATOR, made in one
size only. Approximate capacity, 70
eggs. Complete with egg-tester and
full directions. Usual Price, £7/10/-
lieduced to ........ £5/10/-
CYPIIERS’ PATTERN INCUBATORS,
140-egg size, mhde in Sydney under
our direct supervision. Usual Price,
£l3/10/- ,
Reduced to £l3
IMPORTED CIPHERS’ INCUBA-
TORS, fitted fhr ostrich eggs. Same
size as a 300-hbn-egg machine. Usual
Price, £27.
Reduced to £2O
THE “RELIABLE” HATCHER, a cir-
cular machine, made specially for
those who want to lialtch a small num-
ber of chicks. Sizes 25-egg to 50-egg.
Reduced to . . . 19/- 48/6
Substantial Savings
in Guns
AMERICAN GUN CO.’S DOUBLE-
BARREL COLLECTOR GUN, Nitro
Steel Barrels, Matted Extension Rib.
Reduced to £6/10/-
FOLSOM ARMS CO.’S 12 G.D.8.8.L.
GUN, 30in., Armory Steel Barrels,
Right modified, left full choke, for
smokeless powder. Matted Extension
Rib, Bar Rebounding Locks. Deeley-
edge Fore-end. Weight about 711 b.
Reduced to £6/15/-
I. HOLLIS & SONS’ 12 G. TOP LEVER
D.8.8.L. GUN, treble bolted action
on the cross bolt principle, steel bar-
rels, left choke bore, good steel re-
bounding bar locks, well-grown
Walnut heart stock, half pistol grip,
snap fore-end fastener, engine-turned
rib, proved for nitro powders.
Reduced to £l3
AMERICAN GUN CO.’S 12 G.D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN. 32in. Armory
Steel Barrels, right modified, left full
choke, side locks.
Reduced to £9/15/-
SHOPPING BY MAIL is rendered easy and satisfactory by
the efficiency of Anthony Horderns’ Mail Order Service.
Our reputation stands behind the goods we sell, and we
guarantee satisfaction with every order entrusted to us.
Stirrup Irons Reduced
HALF CRADLE OPEN BOTT< >M
STIRRUP IRONS. Usual Price, 2/6
pair.
Reduced to 2/3
N.P. FORGED STEEL EXERCISE
STIRRUP IRONS. Goz. and Soz.
Usual Price, 15/- pair.
Reduced to 13/(5
Wheels, Axles and
Lamps Reduced
BEST AUSTRALIAN HICKORY
WHEELS, 1 ]in. x 3ft. lOin. Usual
Price, £4/15/- pair.
Reduced to. .. . £3/19/(5 pair.
BEST-GRADE SPOTTED-GUM SAII-
VEN WHEELS, l[in. x 3ft. Bin„ 3ft.
lOin. or 4ft.; Tyred, Hooped and
Boxed, with ljin. American Half-
Patent Axle Anns, welded and set
(ready to.paint).
Reduced to £B/5/- pair.
BEST-GRADE SPOTTED-GUM SAR-
VEN WHEELS, Igin. x 3ft. lOin.,
4ft. or 4ft. 2in.; Tyred, Hooped and
Boxed, with lgin. American Half-
Patent Axle Arms, welded and set
(ready to paint).
Reduced to £9/2/6 pair.
SQUARE JAPANNED BUGGY OR
SULKY LAMPS. Usual Price, 25/-
pair.
Reduced to 15/- pair.
Agricultural Implements
Reduced
WIARD No 62 PONY PLOWS, weight
401 h. Usual Price 77/6.
Reduced to 70/-
WIARD No. 100. 21-horse All-Iron
Plows. Usual Price, £B/10/-
Reduced to £8
WIARD No. 69 ROAD PLOWS, weight
3151 b. All steel. Usual Price,
£23/10/-
Reduced to £22
P. & O. VINEYARD PLOWS. Usual
Price, £B.
Reduced to £5/10/-
P. Sc O. SUBSOIL PLOWS. Usual
Price, £ll/17/0.
Reduced to £lO/17/6
P. & O. 3-FURROW DISC PLOWS,
22in. Discs. Usual Price, £3O.
Reduced to £25
P. & O. 3-FURROW DISC PLOWS.
26in. Discs. Usual Price, £4O.
Reduced to £3O
WIARD No. 66 ROAD PLOWS, weight
2501 b. Usual Price, £l2/15/-
Reduced to £ll
WIARD No. 203 DOUBLE-FURROW
MOULD-BOARD PLOWS. Usual
Price, £24.
Reduced to £22
WIARD No. 85 DOUBLE MOULD-
BOARD MILLING PLOWS. Usual
Price. 85/-
Reduced to 75/-
Savings in Tools of Trade
TASMANIAN BEECH SMOOTH
PLANES, Australian-made, with
English double irons, size 2in. Usual
Price, 10/6.
Reduced to 9/6
ENGLISH RED BEECH HORN PEG
JACK PLANES, ljin.
Sizes t]in. Din. lfin. 2in.
Usual Prices.. 12/9 13/9 15/- 17/C
Reduced to 11/6 12/6 13/6 14/6
FOOTPRINT PIPE WRENCHES,
Black, 16in. Usual Price, 10/6.
Reduced to 9/9
STILT,SON ADJUSTABLE PIPE
WRENCHES.
Sizes Sin. 14in. 18in. 24in. 36in. 48in.
Usual
Prices 6/6 10/6 15/- 21/6 40/- 60/-
1* prliipprl
to 6/- 9/6 13/6 19/6 36/6 55/-
RABONE’S METALLIC TAPES, No.
401 x 33ft.. in leather case, with flush
handle. Usual Price, 11/6.
Reduced to 10/-
MARPLE’S LONG THIN PARING
CHISELS, with Boxwood Handles,
2in. Usual Price, ss. 3d.
Reduced to
4/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY. Telephone: City 9440.
Box 2712 G.P.O.


-S%si
1L
Wiid m
\ . : \
; 1
'•, *t
f* ‘i
l; : '* «'«W
.j#:.'
f*
9*»
S-V --MW
K *%
J&3g
Extract from “Mount Everest —The Reconnaisance, 1921”: —
“The cameras which used films were a Panoram Kodak of 5 inches
focal length, with films 12 x 4 inches; a No. 1 Autographic Kodak, and
two Vest Pocket Kodaks, all three fitted with Cooke lenses by Messrs. Taylor,
Taylor & Hobson. The Panoram Kodak was used very successfully by
Colonel Howard-Bury, and the splendid series of panoramas is the most
useful, if not quite the most beautiful, set of photographs brought home.
The smaller cameras were used by the climbing party with many good results.
“Finally it must be said that a large part of the best photographs were
taken by Colonel Howard-Bury with his own 7x5 Kodak, and the results
very generously placed at the disposal of the committee.”
Let your KODAK
do the remembering.
That’s what it’s for —to remember for you the
things you want to remember.
Hardly a week-end passes but you see some-
thing that makes a picture worth preserving—
it might be a group of friends, perhaps some
happy incident or beautiful bit of scenery. Well,
make a picture of it with your Kodak; you can
learn to use the model you choose in half an hour.
A Box Brownie is a good model to
start with: there are thousands of
Brownie enthusiasts all over the world
making splendid pictures with these
little cameras. Five models to choose
from—l2/6, 16/-, 21/-, 26/6 and 29/6
—.just what you need to make pic-
tures easily and at a minimum of
expense.
The Test Pocket Autographic Kodak
is the camera you don’t have to carry
—you just wear it like a watch; it
has all the accuracy of its larger
brothers, but avoids the bulk —makes
you prepared for the unexpected pic-
ture. For go®d photographs, 2| x 1§
inches. Price, 47/6.
The new, complete Kodak Catalogue is sent post free to any
address (except New Zealand ) for 6d. to cover postage.
Of all Kodak dealers , and
KodaK (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block," 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-52 Queen
Street, Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart;
Ruthven Street. Toowoomba, Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambtan Quay and
Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Master’s
Voice’
99
the Instrument chosen by the
world’s greatest artists is avail-
able in many models, all per-
fect in tone, ranging in price
from 1 1 guineas to 91 guineas.
“Uis Master's Voice■/*
Keg. Trade-mark.
W\
>
£
0
S'
44
f*
When you purchase an '‘His Master’s Voice” Instrument
or ‘‘His Master’s Voice” Records, you know your choice
coincides with that of the great musical celebrities.
The fact that they record exclusively under this famous
“Dog” trade-mark is your assurance that you are getting
the best Instrument or Records the world produces.
Write for Instrument Catalogue, Record
Lists, and name of nearest dealer-
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
103 Pitt Street, Sydney
f
“Gramophone
■ Reg. Trade-mark.


PINKETTES
FOR BAD BREATH
Those who find their
breath bad in the morning, a
bad taste in the mouth and a
furred tongue, will find Pink-
ettes—the new laxative— an
excellent remedy. They
correct the stomach con-
ditions which cause symp-
toms; regulate the liver and
remove constipation. Pink-
ettes act without causing
sickness, or griping, or after-
effects of strong purgatives.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IF YOU HAVE NOT A
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERED
BUY ONE NOW, when embroidery is
so mueh used. It works on ANY
MATERIAL.
Visit our SPECIAL INSTRUCTION
ROOM.
ALL WORKERS ARE WELCOME.
21/- Complete Outfit.
Send a stamped envelope for FREE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/0 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Ilennessy.
LIGMOLLIENE
Ligmolliene Cream is a
scientific preparation for
the treatment of .all skin
diseases. It has curative
properties that give instant
”eiief and finally effect a
permanent cure. Sold by
all chemists, or send 1/6 for
sample tin to
W. MALYON & SON Ltd.,
Sturt Street, Ballarat.
A SURE CURE
for ECZEMA.
mm. @
m
s
m,
D i s p ensa
with that
GREY
HAIR. Let
it be changed
to a youth-
f u 1 deep
W A LNUT
COLOR,
h a r in 1 essly
and perma-
nently. You’ll
fo e 1 young
again. Procurable from all chem-
ists. Get a packet to-day.
9
yyi
MEXICAN !
WAINUT STAIN
ip
!AST^
a
s
At AH
Chemists.
Charming
and Distinctive.
Its flavor makes an instant
appeal to one’s sense of refine-
ment ; its antiseptic qualities
to one’s commonsense.
Truly may it be de-
scribed as “The Denti-
frice of Quality.”
If you have
a delicate child
y
give it
The following convincing letter should be read by
all parents:—
65 Station Street, Carlton.
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Gentlemen—About eighteen months ago my little
daughter, 4 years old, had an attack of bronchitis, which
she was subject to, being delicate ever since she was a few
weeks old. I gave her your Hypol, and it cured her of the
bronchitis, and so strengthened her that she has not had
anything the matter with her since. In fact, thanks to
Hypol, she is now the picture of good health.
Yours truly ( Signed) P. C. TURNER.
What HYPOL ha* done for others, it can do for you.
HYPOL is a celebrated strength-promoter, and a
proved remedy for unhealthy lungs or other chest
troubles.
This delightful Emulsion has the appearance of a rich
cream, and tastes like it too. Therefore it is most
alluring to children, but
IT BENEFITS YOUNG AND OLD ALIKE.
GET A BOTTLE TO-DAY. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO.
Melbourne
THE
*►
H
89
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With illicit is amalgamated the
COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
and in which is merged the
BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
HEAD OFFlCE— Collins Street, Melbourne. Established 1858.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund Account
Reserve Liability to
Shareholders
Total
£5,000,000
£3,661,125
1,593,164
1,249,713
£5,504,032
Directors; —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. IT. M. STRACIIAN, Esq.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY.
VICTORIA —Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 135 branches.
N. S. WALES—Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 23 branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 33 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt., Chairman; Wiliam Davies Esq ;
Local Macartneyi Esq . . Hon . S ir Robert Philp, K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
State Manager: E. H. Matthews.
■Principal Office, King William Street, Adelaide,
and 42 branches.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
LONDON OFFICE—7 Lothbury E.C.2.
Agents throughout the World.
Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
1 and 29 branches.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Greater Glory.
I have loved all fair things on this green
earth:
The spell that holds that strange en-
chanted hour
When .Nature, waiting for the new day's
birth,
Sinks yet more deeply into slumber's
power; ,
And that swift alchemy by which the Dawn
Changes his silken mist-robes in a blaze
Of scarlets and of gold, when every lawn
Is set with gems dew-moulded, when the
haze
Dispersing shows fresh wonders to the
gaze.
These things of all my being were a part
Before I knew you. Love me well, dear
heart,
Lest, losing you, I may lose all I prize;
For all that glory of the earth and sloes
1 .now find mirrored in your love-lit eyes.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
FLICRER.
Winter Wattle.
The yellow wattle in a silver vase
Worships the tire which it. dreams is sun —
Yields to this cheat an incense for the room.
A gilt clock chimes a languorous hour
done,
And pressed against my mouth your satin
arm
Pulses a kiss; and lightly, as you move,
The swish of silk about you seems to make
A slow enticing rhythm to match our love.
Tall candlesticks Cellini might have chased
With dainty workmanship for altar lights
In some Italian chapel by the sea,
Glimmer of long-lost prayers and holier
nights.
I like them with that chest of ebony.
The brass nails match them on the cup-
board door,
And echo in the amber of the eyes
Of that fierce tiger-skin that blurs the
floor.
Dark curtains, where a golden fleur-de-lis
Ripples along the border, keep the gloom
At bay; but I can hear a wistful wind
Pleading for entry to pur firelit room.
It cries along the sleeping street and steals
In the Quiet Acre, making strife
Where among tombs the .winter wattle tries
To fill the urns of death with fragrant life.
Was it your rustling dress that made me see
A grave between the darkness and the
light?
The numbered oval disk a shard upholds.
By dusky mounds the moon is showing
white.
Was it the scent of wattle in this room
Of reckless love and gratified desire?
Closed eyelids make a shadow on your cheek.
And one red coal drops hissing from the
fire.
I wonder —do his empty eyes recall
The way those white lids fell, the rounded
breast,
Till he must weep to break the binding rooms
That lash him to his loneliness of rest?
I wonder if his poor bones ache to be
Again the living flesh, while grasses grow
Triumphant from the ashes of a heart
That in its life-day used to love you so.
The yellow wattle in a silver vase
Worships the fire which it dreams is sun—
Closer you nestle in my victor arms
And I am counting grave-stones one by
0ne....
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Passers-by.
I lived in a little house with a doorway on
a street, .
And footfalls came and went with a never-
ceasing beat
Beside that little house with its doorway
on the street.
I could not work at times for the women
and the men
And their going to and fro, and their paus-
ing now and then;
For Woe and Worry walked with the women
and the men.
I could not sleep at night, though much I
longed for rest,
For the hurry stirred my blood, and the
heart within my breast
Was still no little while, though much I
longed for rest.
I left the little house for a cottage, coy and
still,
Where only crickets sing and winds upon
the hill;
But in my blood I hear the footfalls sound-
ing still.
And every footfall tells of souls that dw’ell
alone,
And every passer seems to tread a path
unknown —
To breathe and move and dream, and laugh
and sigh alone.
And some all wounded seem, and some on
velvet go;
And some are loud and sure, and some are
faint and slow:
And some are trailing chains as to and fro
they go.
The world is a little house wherein we
breathe and move.
And that which makes it sweet is Love and
only Love:
And lacking Love, alas, in strife and tears
we move!
Within our little world what music there
would be
If all our feet kept time in quiet harmony!
If we but sought to love what music there
would be!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


1
iw
Burroughs Machines adapt them-
selves to every book-keeping re-
quirement, and offer the time and
money-saving advantages of
mechanical book-keeping to busi-
nesses large and small, in every line.
Burroughs efficiency and versatility
will enable you to enjoy the benefits
of mechanical bqok-keeping without
necessarily changing the book-
keeping system you are now using,
Postponed
Income
HOW much of your profits is locked up in your
accounts receivable ledger? Have you ever
stopped to think that overdue accounts on
your ledgers mean money loaned to customers?
And loaned without interest, too. You might be
using that money in your own business to meet
bills when they fall due, but you can’t —it’s
postponed income.
And How To Collect It
The sooner outstanding accounts are collected
the sooner this postponed income will be yours.
Prompt collections are the key to the situation.
And statements in the mail the first of the month
mean prompt collections.
With a Burroughs
A Burroughs Ledger Posting Machine means
books balanced every day, a trial balance
promptly, and the statements in the mail on the
first. It will help you collect your postponed
income.
A Burroughs Ledger Posting Machine does all
the mechanical work of book-keeping—enters
and adds debits; enters and subtracts credits;
computes and prints a balance after each entry.
All the calculation is automatically and accurately
done by the machine; the operator needs only to
depress the keys and touch the handle. A
Burroughs reduces human effort to the minimum
and guarantees absolute accuracy. It will pay
you to investigate its possibilities.
In Australia this machine is sold by representatives with years
of experience in selling this product—a house whose interest in a
sale does not end with the delivery of the machine, but insists that
the investor in Burroughs equipment shall continuously receive the
maximum return for his investment.
Let us demonstrate the Burroughs Ledger Posting Machine
on your own work.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF BURROUGHS MACHINES:
Ira L. A. C. Berß
Challis House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Hobart.
Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.
New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
Adding—Bookkeeping Calculating
Machines
dfg


The Bulletin
Registered at the General -PotH Office, Sydney, M.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper..
Vot. 43.—No. 2217.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1922.
Price 6n.
THE CRIME WAVE.
One aspect that has been too little stressed.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia lor the White .Man."
Printed and published by William Maclkod, ot
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, f°r f IHB
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Omce ot t
Co.. 214 George Street. Svdnev. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinaeis
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, ice el: to:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 0
months, 155.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to tne
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copynyht by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
Thu Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short dales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is f nri j ar , , 7 e< ~
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.c., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received aie those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. (Jordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and IF. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London h.C.-b;
E T Hole, Ilolertli Satire Service, 46 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Auslralasian,” 51 High
Holbom, London, 1V.C.1.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others. . _
Canada. —O'. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland hay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn c(r Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong. , _ ...
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore. „ ....
Ceylon.—lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo. . _ . „ .
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.— —Gordon & Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, ECi. .
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., }6l East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
newspaper ) ; —Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: !,oz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., Id. United Kingdom,
AU Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: l,oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, Id.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 10, 1922.
JOBBERY IN HIGH PLACES.
Immediately the war-censorship came to
an end the world was flooded with revela-
tions of the nepotism and favoritism that
had prevailed in all the armies. Men like
Philip Gibbs wrote of the tendency which
led to “dear old So-and-so” being given a
division when a job as Town Major or
C.O. troops on a transport would have better
fitted his capacity, as though it were some
new thing and confined to the armies. All
that the armies operating under war con-
ditions did, however, was to show up a
common scandal in an exceptional light.
The case of Lieut.-General Stopford, who
commanded the 9th Corps at Gallipoli, was.
typical of scores which cost the Empire
many lives apd a vast amount of money.
He was not appointed for merit. From the
first moment he appears in lan Hamil-
ton’s “Gallipoli Diary” (“Freddy Stop-
ford and his staff turned up from Mudros.
Stopford in very good form.”) it is appa-
rent that he is knotvn for what he is—an
influential “dud,” with a regrettable taste
for front-line work and high responsibility,
in place of the back-area billet usually
favored by officers of his type. But there
was this to be said: Stopford’s disastrous
reign was short. Within a month of his
meeting with Hamilton, this highly-placed
Guardsman was on his way back to London.
“I have just been through a horrible mental
crisis,” writes the General after the tra-
gedy, “quite different from the ordinary
anxiety of the battlefield 1 refer to
Freddy Stopford.” Now, in the bloodless
warfare of Australian politics, there are
just as many Freddy Stopfords and “dear
old So-and-sos” as were ever to be found on
active service. The difference is that run-
political “duds” are not unmasked and dis-
pensed with as public dangers in a month
or a year or a score of years. On the con-
trary. \V here one of them has a pull, aris-
ing from party or financial services to
someone in power, or merely, sometimes, on
account of a private friendship, he may
rely on a share of the public till for life.
Sometimes the reward is but a modest one
—a seat in a State Council, perhaps, with
its railway-and-tramway pass and like per-
quisites. But for the soaringly ambitious
and the politically influential —the Freddy
Stopfords of statecraft —the prizes are rich
indeed. High Commissionerships, Trade
Commissionerships, Agent-Generalships—
these are the highly-paid posts with which
the political chiefs juggle, sometimes in the
interest of a supporter, sometimes in that
of an enemy whom it is advisable to get to
the other side of the world. In addition
to these outstanding posts—the Corps Com-
mands of the political campaign—there are
scores of smaller ones; and should they be
all filled it is a dull or fantastically scrupu-
lous aspirant who is incapable of inventing
a new one. So well is it understood by the
participants in the political game that pre-
ferment goes by almost anything but merit
that there would be stupefaction in every
Parliament of the Conunonwealth if a vigor-
ous young man of talent were chosen as
Agent-General by a State Cabinet, or if any
but a played-out party hack were offered the
High Commissionership by a Federal Prime
Minister. These expensive billets, though
the money for them is found by all the tax-
payers, are really portion of the party funds
at the disposal of the Ministry in power, and
they are used either for pension or insurance
purposes without an 3' concealment.
* * * *
Senator Pearce was sent to Washington
the other day, not because he had any pro-
found knowledge of the issues to be debated
(as was the case with at least two members
of the Japanese delegation), not because he
was a skiitul speaker and impressive figure-
head like Hughes (U.S.) or Balfour
(Britain), but simply because he was next
on the seniority list of the Nationalist
G.11.Q. for a world-tour at the country’s
expense. The selection of men for ambas-
sadorial work abroad, on purely party
grounds, is as fatal to good results as was
the old army system of giving Court favo
rites the man-power and treasure of the
nation to play with, on little better grounds
than that they w r ere Court favorites. Aus-
tralia’s political leaders may never reach
the high renunciatory standard set by the
British military leaders at an early stage
of the war: we are not likely to be edified
by the spectacle of a Hughes going through
“a horrible mental crisis” after recalling a
Joseph Cook from London or informing
a Pearce that he is out of place in an
arena where the world’s best wits are in
conflict. That would be equivalent to ex-
pecting our Prime Minister to strike a lethal
blow at the system which has made him, and
by which he lives in the political sense.
Nevertheless, he might be induced, if not to
increase the efficiency of his missions by
giving the commands to brjlliant men out-
side the party clique, at least to reduce the
cost of these expeditions which grow con-
tinually in needless magnificence. They
are growing in this manner for the same
reason that they have come into existence.
Just as Prime Ministers and Premiers have
friends to please, or enemies to placate, with
overseas billets, so the appointees have
smaller fry whom they are anxious to serve
provided the taxpayers find the money.
PEarce took with him to Washington,
amongst other glittering superfluities, a
Parliamentary draughtsman and an expert
on Pacific questions. The British delegation
had one of England’s most competent
draughtsmen, and his services were at the
disposal of any Dominion that required
them —though, of course, the requirements
in this connection were infinitesimally small.
As regards expert information on Pacific
questions Pearce’s expert would have had
to go for any detail which was not public,
or, at least, newspaper, property to the
very capable Secret Service, chief employed
by the British Embassy, or to someone in
touch with him. Put briefly, most of the
members of Pearce’s staff were as super-
fluous as the ospreys in the hat of a pro-
fiteer’s wife, and he wore them, so to speak,
in the same ostentatious spirit. At the
present time the grand total of the Com-
mon-wealth’s debt —Federal, State and muni-
cipal—is over £830,000,000: that is to say,
the liability per head of the population is
going on for £l53 —most of it having been
sunk in unremunerative and deteriorating
public works, and in that still more ruinous
undertaking, warfare. If ever there was
need for Australia to economise the need
is now; and in this matter of overseas mis-
sions and delegations, it happens that
economy can be effected easily and without
damage, either to the fabric of Empire or
to Australia’s interests.
-* * * #
The High Commissionership should be
abolished. W. M. Hughes was betrayed into
demonstrating its uselessness during the war,
and the .office will never again be taken seri-
ously by anyone. If it is necessary to pro-
vide for blown gasbags of the Reid or Fisher
or Cook type they should be pensioned or
compounded with like other State servants.
The same remark applies, only with greater
force, to the Agent-Generalships. The whole
of the work done by this cluster of mimic
chancelleries for the commercial classes
could be accomplished by a single Australian
consul. There remains the duty—the very
occasional duty—of hearing or imparting
some diplomatic secret of high Imperial
moment. It may be that one such communi-
cation will be made every year, though, in
normal circumstances, several years might
pass without anything being disclosed which
could not safely be advertised on a hoarding.
Say, however, that the British Government
has news which contains a vital bearing on
the national life of this country. Such a
matter could not be put into writing. It
could only be told by one man to one man.
The recipient of the information would not
■be authorised to discuss it with his Parlia-
mentary Draftsman, or his Expert on
Pacific Questions. It would be his business
tp put it before his Prime Minister in Cabi-
net, and nowhere else. So that every real
need as regards inter-imperial communica-
tion could be met by periodical visits to
London made by one capable Minister,
travelling in the style of a nlain busi-
ness man and putting up at the sort of
hotel this clhss affects. Australia, would not
be discredited thereby: ort the contrary it
would achieve a similar useful advertisement
to that which the U.S. got when it was
decided that Court dress at the national lega-
tions abroad should be the evening dress of
the period. A beginning has to be made
somewhere in the way of cutting out our
sham courts, sham embassies and so forth,
if only for the reason that such idiocies arc
cumulative so far as expenditure is con-
cerned. And there is this ray of light on the
distracted and partially insolvent scene: the
war may have taught born bureaucrats of the
Hughes type how to create delegations and
departments, new offices and new commission-
erships, but it has also taught the electors to
dread them. The first politician who goes
to the country with a plank framed on the
lines indicated above will be astonished at
the roar of approval he will encounter.
THE GREAT WESTRALIAN
EXPERIMENT.
There is no Barwellism in the make-up of
Mitchell, Premier of Westralia. Return-
ing from London about the same time as the
man who went nigger last year and is now
hedging, Mitchell announced that it was
the dream of his life “to make Australia
white and to make it safe.” He went on to
say that “if we can do these two things all
the rest must follow, for they involve the
peopling of the country and the development
of its resources. And these things can be
done. They have got to be done.” Much
may be rorgiven an .Australian Premier who
sets that ideal before him and, in working
for it, imperils his political reputation. That
Mitchell has done in the immigration
scheme which he carried to London with
Hugiies’s imprimatur on it, and which has
been endorsed by Amery, of the Colonial
Office. P»efore long he may be .needing all
the forgiveness he can get. In consideration
of a loan of six millions, two-thirds of the
interest on which will be paid for five years
by the British and Commonwealth Govern-
ments, Westralia has agreed to take 25,000
British settlers per annum for three years.
According to one version, that of the leading
Ministerial newspaper, the West Austra-
lian, these 75,000 immigrants, men, w'omen
and children, are to be accommodated on
6000 new wheat farms and 10,000 dairying
and fruit-growing propositions in the south-
west. Also, the land already in occupation
is to be cleared to such an extent that the
wheat output may be “speedily doubled.”
Another account is that the scheme provides
for (1) settling 6000 people, “chiefly in the
south-west,” (2) establishing from 12 to 20
new townships, and (3) enabling those
already on the land to double the wheat pro-
duction and “add materially to our flocks and
herds.” That is the statement of Cole-
batch, Minister of Education. In a sup-
plementary announcement it is set forth that:
“.not more than 25 per cent, of the loan will
be used for public works.” That leaves only
£4,500,000 available for placing the 75,000
new arrivals and inducing the indigenous
cocky to make two grains of wheat grow
where only one grew before.
* * - * *
Seeing that it has cost lli millions,
exclusive of two millions snent on rail-
ways and irrigation works, to put 6775
soldier-settlers on the land in N. S. Wales,
millions' isn’t much. Between July 1,
1906, and June 30, 1910, Westralia spent over
44 millions of loans without adding 3000
to the population by excess of arrivals over
departures, and money went farther in those
days than it does now. Between 1911 and
1916 it took a lot more than millions,
not to increase the number of farmers in
Westralia, but to persuade those who had
taken up land to remain on it. As it was.
a brigade of starved-out corn-coaxers handed
their farms back to the Agricultural Bank.
For this result Mitchell was principally re-
sponsible. He is known in his native State
as the Incorrigible Optimist, but optimism is
useless and dangerous when overdone. In
1909 and the two succeeding years, being
then Minister of Lands in the Moore Gov-
ernment, he worked up a boom. Among
other indiscretions, he wrote a pamphlet -to
show that any industrious tyro without capi-
tal could acquire a selection and make a
competence on it, since the Agricultural Bank
would lend all the money needed and experi-
ence would come in time. The central fact
about the W.A. agricultural division is that
it is extremely patchy. There are consider-
able areas of good forest land, but they are
like islands in an ocean of hungry sandplain,
and although the rainfall is, as a rule, regu-
lar and sufficient, there is no exemption from
drought. But in the flood of misleading
literature that issued from the Lands Dept,
when Mitchell was Minister, the wheat belt
was pictured as a region of astounding fer-
tility, in which droughts were unknown.
Thus instructed, a legion of enthusiastic ama-
teurs threw up their city jobs and rushed on
the land. A dry season hit them in 1911,
and thousands swarmed off their waterless
holdings, cursing Mitchell and all his works.
The Government came to the rescue with
water-trains and supplies of fertiliser and
seed Wheat, but many forgot to swarm back.
Again in 1914 the crops were ruined by
drought. This time extraordinary measures
had to be adopted to prevent the settlers
leaving in a body. They were not only pro-
vided on loan with every requisite of farm-
ing, from horses to harrows, and strippers to
seed —rent and Agricultural Bank interest
had been suspended for years—but were actu-
ally paid wages at the rate of 9s. a day. By
these devices many were saved from utter
ruin, and the fat prices realised from 1919
onwards enabled the good farmer to turn the
Corner. But as late as 1920 the Agricultural
Bank had over 2000 abandoned farms on its
list of properties for sale. And a controversy
is still raging between the Primary Producers’
Association and the Industries Assistance
Board as to whether the still embarrassed
section of Mitchell’s cockies shall be spoon-
fed any longer.
* * * *
There is this to be said for the author of
tlm boom that burst—that he had bad luck.
Had 1911 and 1914 been good years, instead
of bad, hundreds of newchum settlers who
retired permanently from farming after
their second crop failure, might have carried
bn. It was certainly a misfortune that
drought should have smitten them before the
most capable farmer in the new areas had
got on bis feet. But the history of land-
settlement in Australia is black with such
misfortunes. They have occurred before and
will occur again. A lot of the Victorian
and N. S. Wales soldier-settlers struck a
drought in their first year. The West-
ralian warriors who went on the land
escaped that experience, but in the
natural order of events a State which has
had good seasons since 1914 will get a bad
one presently. As likely as not the wheel
will turn when the British immigrant is
struggling with more or less stubborn soil in
an unfamiliar climate. Much, in that event,
will depend on whether Mitchell has
learned or forgotten the lessons of 1911 and
1914. At present there is no evidence on
either side. It is a plucky thing for a coun-
try with a population of 340,000 to set about
adding 75,000 to it in five years.
The undertaking is meritorious, but it
is clouded with doubts. One of the
doubts concerns the capacity of Wl. to
provide for that number of strangers on the
laud. In its present state of development it
needs factory workers as much as farmers,
and many immigrants could be accommo-
dated in enterprises like woollen mills, of
which, despite its extensive pastoral industry
and its favorable geographical situation,
Groperland has none. Another doubt relates
to Mitchell himself. His record is not
encouraging. He may, of course, have
learned something since 1914, and forgotten
nothing. He may even have developed a tal-
ent for organisation. But if he doesn’t see
that his imported soil-ticklers get adequate
Australian experience; if he doesn’t insist
on their passing a qualifying test, as Victoria
does in the case of its soldier-settlers: if he
doesn’t make provision for unfavorable sea-
sons and a large percentage of failures —in
short, if he intends to act on his old fatuous
belief that any fool can go farming and
make his fortune at it, the great Mitchell
experiment will assuredly crash. And the
last state of Westralia will be worse than
the first.
ENGLISH JINGOISM AND ITS
UNSPEAKABLE OLD FRIEND.
“Henry Horsecollar” considers the situa-
tion from his private watch-tower:—
A London cable of a few days ago contained this:
General Townshend said, at Angora, according to
the correspondent of the Weekly Dispatch at Con-
stantinople: “I’m proud to be the champion of Ihe
Turkish cause in the House of Commons. Pro-Turk
opinions are gaining strengtli daily, and people in
England do not believe the charges of Kemalist atro-
cities against Christians. I have lived long enough
in Turkey to know the people well, and consequently
attach no importance to such tales.”
Exactly how much of the present miseries of the
Balkan Peninsula, of Western Asia and of Russia
are due to Englishmen like General Townshend is
what the daily press brightly terms a moot question.
England, at the instigation cif such misguided
patriots, has consistently backed the Ottoman against
the Slav. Mohammedanism against Christianity, Asia
against Europe, the oppressor against the oppressed.
She even, apparently through sheer force of vicious
habit, lately backed the hostile sham Caliph at Con-
stantinople, where his own priests mock at his reli-
gious pretensions under their breaths, rather than
take up the cause of a friendly and in every way
qualified candidate at the Holy Moslem City of
Mecca. With the putrefying carcase of the Turk
tied to her by her own act, she sets back the
clock of civilisation over a great part of the white
man’s world for a century.
In the dim long ago Britain laid the foundations
of a huge Asiatic empire, employing as advance-
agents a company of hardy adventurers capable of
things that even the Government of the period hardly
cared to do. After the annexation the Government
became haunted by fear lest someone might want to
run away with the plunder. France had practically
quitted Asia; Japan was a picturesque tmyth; the
German Empire wasn’t born; China might be said
to have begun and ended its Napoleonic period with
Kien-Lung, and Lung was very dead. In these cir-
cumstances Russia was adopted as the bugbear, and
out of the adoption came misery unutterable. Russia
was no very formidable or aggressive State. Its
Asiatic possessions were more nominal than real;
and much of its so-called “land” was, as it still is,
ice. Barring the Polish outrage—inspired by Fred-
erick of Berlin—the Czardom had done little vio-
lence except in the recapture of provinces previously
stolen from it by the Turk and others. All it really
wanted was a usable all-round-the-year sea outlet.
The White Sea was ice-bound, and so often were its
land approaches. The Baltic froze in winter, while
Danish, Swedish and, later, German guns dominated
it. Exit from the Black Sea was by permission of
the Turk on both sides of the Bosphorus and both
sides of the Dardanelles, to say nothing of the Bri-
tish at Gibraltar, Turks and others later by the Suez
Canal, and the British again at the Red Sea entrance.
Even remote Vladivostock was an ice-port. But in
their fear about what they called “the key of India,"
British Jingoes decided that the possession by Russia
of a commercially practicable harbor anywhere in
this world or the next must be a menace to their
great Asiatic steal, and they started an age-long
blockade to keep that country in ice, isolation and
semi-savagery—in short, to give it every chance to
become the world-danger it has become. The
efforts to break the blockade were held to prove
that the blockade was not a provocation but a
virtue. Beaconsfield got to a point at which he
believed that everything the Czarate did was an
offence, even when it did exactly the same as any-
body else.
Russia acquired much territory of little value and
probably much that it didn’t want in the struggle to
become, even in one small corner of its domain, a
genuine commercial Power. It also acquired, largely
for garrison purposes, an army which was a cruel
burden on the nation, and which was much too
large to be made efficient with the means at com-
mand. In fact, one of half the size might have done
twice the service during the great European coolnes-
of 1914-18, and by doing so have saved itself un-
told loss and misery. In the course of its search for
the -sea -the Czarate took Turkestan on the road to
the Persian Gulf. Britain stopped its progress there,
but in mockery allowed it the dry part of oM
Xerxesland for a “sphere of influence,” taking the
wet part itself. Russia took enough of Eastern Asia
to bring it to the Promised Coast, and annexed Pov
Arthur with the same aplomb as Britain showed when
it took Hongkong and Kowloon. M ith Britain s
strong support to keep off possible allies of the
Czarate Britain’s brown friends of Japan drove
Russia inland again—and took the plunder themselves.
The weakness of Russia after this defeat is held by
some to have decided the Hun war lord on the adven-
ture of 1914—t0 have been the last stray? in the scale
—and Japan sent no army to the Allies to compen-
sate for the loss it had made. It merely plundered
in the background. In 1853 and 1878 Britain was
again on deck, blocking the road to the Mediter-
ranean on behalf of the Unholy Turk. At the first
period it tried its best to build up a German empire


: . „ . . „„ + t, p Tmk
sian monarch that if he came into the war he could
have Russian Poland for his share, and that with
this conquest to his credit the way to empire was
open. (About this time Aberdeen said bitterly that
Victoria and Albert ran a foreign policy of their
own, and that it was more German than anything
clse.) Britain did an immensity of the Devil’s work
single-handed as the evil genius of the “Near East”
before the German Empire came into being to bear
a hand. When, in the worst days of the war, the
Hun lines extended from the Baltic to the Persian
Gulf the U.K. could sav with truth that its Jingo
politicians had spared no effort to create the enemy
at Berlin and to uphold the one at Constantinople,
and had badly damaged some friends in the process,
• “ * • *
Britain’s persistent support of the Turk was a re-
ward for his utter badness. With the “Key of
India” always on the minds of some of its best-
advertised statesmen, the idea was that any progres-
sive and enlightened nation, or even one that looked
capable of progress, would be a danger at Constanti-
nople, the Keyhole City. But the Turk, praise be to
Allaii ! was incapable of improvement, and couldn’t
advance. His belief that all civilisation culminated
with the Koran kept him 1000 years in rear of the
procession, and his dulness and apathy added an-
other 200 years to his backwardness. His one good
quality was his capacity for putting up a stubborn
though antiquated defensive fight. The British poli-
tical view was: “There is life in the Old Leper yet—
enough to make him useful and not enough to make
him dangerous.’ This obscene Tartar creature was
allowed for long to lord it over a disarmed European
majority and to make a desolation of some of the
fairest lands on earth because it required much land
a . enslaved taxpayers to furnish, under his
methods, the means to keep up the xmhtary machine
which was Ms one problematical source of
vaffie. It is futile to recall how many times vauous
Bowers Britain always included, guaranteed the
integrity of this Asiatic s territory h°w often they
remonstrated with him for h.s insensate brutalities
how often he promised to reform; how often he
didn t and how often they knew he wouldn t. lin-
tain, the Sultan’s one consistent backer, was busy
“guaranteeing” Abdul-Hamid almost to the finish,
and compared with him Father Medjid, who mildly
drank himself into Heaven, and Uncle Aziz were
almost desirable. llamid supervised the torture of
important persons, and is said to have invented a
number of new methods. An adjunct of his estab-
lishment was a well containing semi-fluid manure,
A witness who had failed to supply the desired in-
formation, keeping his balance on a pedestal with
his head just clear of the mixture, is alleged to have
sometimes lasted as much as four days before going
under. In some of the “disturbed” districts a strong
impression was made on the inhabitants by a levy
of the better-looking women. They were stripped
and fastened down by the wrists and ankles “for the
use of the soldiery.” Their finish in some cases,
when the soldiery lost interest, was through burning
coals being put in their mouths. llamid was credited
with both ideas, though the second probably dated
back before his time.
* * * *
Hamid, in addition to being a man of infinite jest,
as implied by the above examples, was probably the
limit in the way of cowardice. His 40,000 ill-paid
spies worked incessantly to smell out treason. If
tbley didn’t find it they might be smelled out them-
selves, so between them and in collaboration with
a large and capable force of eunuchs they found a
lot. The Sultan surrounded himself with Albanian
guards—the only well and punctually paid force in
his service. He was never alone and never in dark-
ness. Burrowing in his palace for safety he was so
much out of the run of things that he got his first
view of a motor-car after his deposition, when he
was put in one for removal. Then he fell into
extreme terror, thinking it an implement of torment,
It is questioned if, up to then, he had seen a train
save at a distance. The moderately capable fleet
left him by his Uncle Aziz filled him with alarm,
for his palace was commanded by its guns, and his
guards were no protection against a mutiny. So the
crews were discharged; the officer's spent the rest of
their days pursuing girls ashore; and caretakers
carried soil on board and grew flowers and vegetables
on the decks. Hamid’s education was that of all the
sultans since the precaution was adopted of shutting
up the mostly-unlettered princes all their days with
the mostly-illiterate women and eunuchs of the
harem. His successor, old Mohammed, hadn’t seen
a newspaper for 20 years previous to his accession,
and perhaps never saw one after it. Yet so little
have things progressed since the Koran was written
that the most absolute Hamid of them all, alleged
Caliph though he be, can be deposed by a few lines
in writing from the high priest. That 1000-year-oM
frame of mind represents an imperviousness to new
ideas that makes Turkish reform not worth talking
about. In pursuit of the “Key of India” craze Jingo
England has committed many crimes and many
blunders that were worse than crimes. And it has
collected many dubious associates, of which its raie
and almost priceless set of Abduls was easily die
most discreditable. One of the few cheering features
of the late war was the apparent fact that the Bn-
tisher of standing had at last turned forever from
his disreputable and blood-stained old love mrthe
red fez and the u " tid y frfendsUin
a British soldier offering the hand of fuendship an
admiration to the colored horror of the Bosphorus
whoseowiihands are still reekingwiththe Woodof
Britishers from all parts of the Lmpiie. The b>
that can be said for tbe spectacle is that it
fer consistency The Engbsh Conservative was ever
like that where the Turk was concerned.
A CELESTIAL GANDHI.
Hsieii Yin-Po does not figure in the cables
at present bristling with the hyphenated
names of Chinese tuchans engaged in the
profitable task of protecting their friends
from the attacks of their neighbors.
tLs name was not even mentioned in con-
nection with the recent strike in Hong-
kong, when Chinese seamen held up for
eigtit weeks the shipping of half the Pacific,
paralysed the trade pf Hongkong and caused
the foreign residents of China to realise for
the first time their utter dependence upon
the willing service of Chinese coolies and ser-
vants, despite the presence of foreign war-
ships and British regiments. Outside the
teashops and revolutionary hueis Hsieh is
practically unknown, yet in the struggle for
place and power which is at present convul-
sing China he may have more to say than
the heroic figures of the military mandarins
who occupy the centre of the stage.
Hsieh Yin-Po is something quite new in
China. He is a Labor leader, but he is
not a demagogue of the accepted type. He
is an extremely fat, very amiable and wpjl-
informed member of the old Kuomintang or
Republican party. His culture is a mixture
qf Confucian and Marxian elements, with a
seasoning of American socialism. He was.
in fact, n member of tb Q Socialist of
New York, and is now the head of the Can-
ton Mutual Aid Society, a socialistic organi-
sation which controls several newspapers
cixiu uircctcj tii6 activities ui a iiurauer Oj. utiue
unions. In Canton he is a popular idol to
wnom the couon-ciad masses urne ott their
hats, lie is the unofficial autocrat of can-
ton, ana wnen ms clones, arffiea witn revol-
vers lent them by the police, begin to demon-
strate, General Chen Chiunu-Ming, the
military aictator, gives himseif extended
leave of absence in tne country. The canton
populace demonstrate frequently nowadays
—about woman s sutrrage, tne rights of man
or the depreciation oi the local currency.
Hsieh has engineered numerous strides m
Canton, but it was not till recently that his
influence began to be telt outside that vast,
pullulating human antheap. The seamen’s
strike took the iiongiiong authorities com-
pletely by surprise. Tne Chinese worker
lias had his guilds from time immemorial,
and he has gone on strike before; but it has
been usually for some fantastic reason such
as the belief that the Government required
a hundred coolies’ heads with which to dedi-
cate a new bridge. Nobody had expected a
display of working-class solidarity from
Chinese seamen, nor, as happened in the sym-
pathetic strike that followed, a disciplined
exhibition of class consciousness from coolies.
It was Hsieh Yin-JPo, who from behind
his roll-top desk in a shabby office, crammed
with foreign furniture in one of the main
streets of Hongkong, directed this astound-
ing and terrifying attack upon the strong-
holds of foreign commerce m China. The
army took no part, save in showing its
sympathy by springing to the salute when
the union leaders passed, and all the officials
disclaimed connection with it, though rumor
declared that Sun Yat-Sen had lent it the
surreptitious light of his countenance. In
Hongkong itself all the familiar features of
similar upheavals in Occidental countries,
plus a few elements of Oriental grotesquery,
manifested themselves. There was the usual
intimidation of “loyal” workers, followed by
retaliation by the Hongkong Government.
The English newspapers (and the conserva-
tive Chinese ones, too, for the Chinese capi-
talist felt himself as directly menaced as the
foreign) indulged in the customary campaign
of uncritical abuse and misrepresentation,
clouding the real issues, which were econo-
mic, with hysterical talk about Bolshevism
and revolution. The Government declared
several guilds and unions illegal organisa-
t ons, and the strikers replied by extending
the operation of the strike. The usual
renegade was produced, who wrote to the
press in pidgin English, drawing a gloomy
picture of the uselessness of the attempt and
the reluctance of the men to follow their
despotic leaders, who were painted as enjoy-
ing themselves with West Point prostitutes
and giving big dinners with the money wrung
from deluded workers. The foreign clerks of
the shipping companies assisted to unload
cargo, and 150 Eilipinos were sent from
Manila to break the strike. A strikebreaker
was killed, and no one was arrested. The
bulk of the strikers themselves were trans-
ported by the union to Canton, where they
were fed and sheltered at the expense of the
union, thus being effectually removed from
influences which might have weakened their
resolution. In their gratitude they offered
to build a public highway for the community
in memory of the occasion, but a cautious
municipality refused the offer. At
length came a clash with the Hongkong
police, resulting in the death of three strikers
and the wounding of eight others, for which
the Chinese promised, in accordance with
the Asiatic law of retribution, to kill 30
Englishmen and mutilate 80 others. The
shipowners were compelled to meet the
strikers, and eventually conceded practically
all their demands.
The most disquieting feature, in foreign
eyes, of this first true example of proletarian
revolt in China was the revelation of the
utter helplessness of the white community in
the absence of native service. The presence
of a powerful fleet and 4000 British troops
did not prevent the strikers from holding up
the essential life' of one of the strongest
fortresses in the Empire. How much more
vulnerable, thought the foreign merchant,
who has lorded it for so long in China, are
the undefended communities of the treaty
ports and leased territories. The mere threat
of the sanitary coolies to join the strikers
put fear into the hearts of the white resi-
dents, for although lack of sanitary facilities
is the normal condition of the native, it
would spell misery and disease to a white
community. The foreigner in China, like
the Englishman in India, is nursed from his
rising up to his going to bed by native ser-
vants. The new industries and; municipal
enterprises which have been introduced into
the cities depend far more on manpower
than on machinery, and one can easily pic-
ture the Chinese nation, under the inspira-
tion of a Celestial Gandhi, preaching the
familiar non-co-onevnti >n doctrine of Lao
Tse, standing quietly to one s ; de and watch-
ing the imposing structure of foreign com-
mercial domination collapse and disintegrate
through lack of human motive power..
Hsieh Yin-Po may be the Chinese
Gandhi, but he shows as well the funda-
mental peculiarities of the national tempera-
ment. His ponderous frame was not made
for prayer and fasting. He does not appeal
to his countrymen from altitudes of mystical
self-abnegation. Hi 3 shrewd practicality
will find an echo in the strong desire of
every Chinese for a full stomach. When
you are very hungry you don’t make verses.
llsteh dees not make verses, but he has an
astounding gift for organisation, and he
will find in the capacity of the Chinese for
united action under oppression a ready
weapon for the fight against the industrial
domination of China by the white map. .
Hsieh has likewise the typical Chinese
quality of compromise. He will compromise
with superior force or with his own prin-
ciples. Although the result of the Hong-
kong strike represented an overwhelming
victory for the men, and might easily, have
• been 'made more sweeping, it was a com-
promise with his extreme demands. The
men had demanded a 40 per cent, increase
in wages, and accepted 30. Hsteh is not
likely to push his principles like his Indian
prototype to the point of going to prison
for them. He allows his followers to talk
Communism and wave the red flag, but he
keeps steadily to his present objective of
strengthening the union and maintain-
ing friendly relations with Chinese capital.
That this stout man with the look of a
laughing Buddha could, from an inland city
in China, upset half the seaborne trade of
the Pacific is a significant fact. Some
observers go so far as to say that it fore-
tells the gradual decline of foreign exploita-
tion of Chinese labor, and the substitution
of some native shape of co-operative effort
more suited to the structure of Chinese
society than Western capitalism. The spec-
tacle of impotence displayed by the British
community during the strike nas not been
lost upon the native press. In the old days,
when organs of public opinion consisted of
only one newspaper and that an official
gazette, this would not have been very im-
portant. But to-day every murky little lane
in the. treaty ports "resounds with the throb
of modern printing machinery. Every pro-
vincial town has its newspapers, and the
list of Chinese periodicals occupies 30 pages
in the latest issue of the “China Year Book.’’
This, again, would not be very serious if, as
in former days, the postal facilities were
in the hands of a few private hongs who
conveyed them by walking courier. To-day
the Chinese postal service extends over the
whole empire, from Manchuria to Chinese
Turkestan. East year it handled 440 mil-
lion articles, and Canton alone deals with
over 40 millions. The telegraph-wire spans
every province and leaps the city walls of
ancient capitals whose previous organs of
publicity consisted of anonymous placards
pasted by stealth on the fronts of official
residences. The telegraph, to an extent not
known in any other country, is used for
propaganda purposes by generals, officials
and publicists, and every day the country is
bombarded with circular telegrams from
Premiers and ex-Premiers, tuchans and
absconding treasurers anxious to justify
themselves. Another influence which is
silently at work is the propaganda agency
of the Siberian revolutionaries. These three,
the telegraph, the mailbag and the news-
paper, are spreading the yeast of new ideas
with all the rapidity of modern methods.
There are now over 200 unions in Canton,
and other cities are following suit, show-
ing the ability of the workers to organise
outside the clan or family. Orthodox Con-
fucianists draw parallels between Lenin
and their venerable master, and returned
students tell the coolie that Communism
and ancestor-worship are twin brothers. The
vast mass of the Chinese people are agri-
culturists, and these have given no sign,
but it was a class-conscious minority of city
industrialists who imposed Soviet rule on
Russia, and in China the poonle are as
weary of the oppression of their military
rulers as the Russian peasant was of the
tyranny of Tsarism. It is perhaps early
days to talk of Red Revolution in China,
whose vast bulk precludes ramd movement.
The plaintive chant of the Chinese coolie,
toiling under monstrous burdens through the
narrow lanes of walled cities and round the
factories of foreign companies, is not due yet
to change to a revolutionary hymn :—•
I, erh, san, ssu, wu.
Wu shih wu shih erh shih wu.
Chung chung wo-ti lao,
Man man wo-ti fan.
One, two, three, four. five.
Five times five are twenty-five.
How heavy is my labor.
How lorg the time to dinner.
It is a simple song, showing where lies the
coolie’s main preoccupation—in the frightful
struggle tor a bare subsistence for a single
meal a day, which is the normal condition
of his life. But push him a little farther
towards starvation, feeding him the while
on visions of a perfect state, and there will
be created potentialities for revolution
greater than history, which is stiff with
revolutions, has ever seen.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Move Against Legalised Injustice.
Last week the Law of Evidence Bill
reached the N. S. Wales Council, and Syd-
ney News turned a belated eye of hostility
upon it
An apparently innocent measure is now before the
Legislative Council, it is a snort bill to amend
the Law of Evidence. On account of the way it
eluded the attention of the galaxy of legal talent in
the Legislative Assembly it deserves the earnest con.
sideration of the members of the Chamber of Revision.
The members Of the Assembly .apparently were
not aware that it was for the purpose of making it
difficult to test the credibility of a witness, and that,
if passed, it will restrict the range of questioning a
barrister may embark Upon in the interests of his
client.
If a House which has its full share of
lawyers, Labor and anti-Labor, did not
understand this measure after its third rea.d-
ing, and sent it on to the -Council while
in a condition of mystification, it is quite
certain that the public, and particularly the
public outside N. S. Wales, knows little of
its intentions. This is the more regrettable
inasmuch' as the necessity for it is being
stressed continually wherever an Australian
Court sits: as a matter of fact, it was being
stressed within a short tram-ride of the
News offices on the very day the paper’s
fatuous objections were published. An
actress prosecuted a former employee at
one of the police-courts for theft. It was
probably no fault of the accused that part
of the defence put up on her behalf was an
attack on the sobriety of the prosecutor’s
husband. It would also be unjust, in the
existing state of the law, to blame her
attorney for introducing the irrelevancy by
way of rebutting a charge of theft. He was
acting in accordance with the traditions of
advocacy as laid down by some of N. S.
Wales’s leading “silks.” It is hard at any
time for the police to persuade people who
have lost property to prosecute. The aver-
age citizen is extremely anxious to get the
goods back, but extremely reluctant to
waste time vindicating Justice. And
when, as is usually the ease in N.
S. Wales, the . citizen knows, that to
yield to the urgings of the Force is tanta-
mount to agreeing to stand, for half-an-hour
beneath a cascade df mud—in such circum-
stances the citizen who is not very thick-
hided indeed begs to be excused. “A
witness,” snid Justice Pring in Davidson
v. Tivoli Theatres, Ltd., “might be shown
to be a loose liver. If counsel acted on
information, he was amply within his r ; ghts
in ‘throwing mud’ at that witness, and, in
fact, was bound in duty to his client to do
so.” It is to rectify that rotten state of
affairs (a state of affairs which has led,
on occasion, to blameless prosecutors being
plastered with half the crimes in the calen-
dar “on information”—meaning information
supplied by the accused) that the Law of
Evidence Bill has been brought forward in
N. S. Wales. It should make the way
harder for the criminal and easier for the
honest man on the whole; but it does not
go nearly far enough. The attitude taken
up by The Bulletin on the subject for
years past is briefly this: —
No useful purpose is served by accusing a witness
who is giving evidence, say, in a house-breaking
charge, of adultery. If he is an adulterer and denies
it the Court has to take his word, and he has merely
been driven to add false swearing to his other
irregularity, with no real advantage to the person
in the dock. If he is not an adulterer the suggestion
that he is one is wickedly unfair.
The widespread knewledge amongst litigants that
no prosecution is likely to result from untruths
elicited under cross-examination, has given them a
free and easy demeanor while on oath, which is not
without its repercussions on the perjury statistics. It
is hard for most people to understand why Jones, who
has kissed the Book and lied afterwards, should
leave the court without a stain on his character,
while Brown, for doing precisely the same thing,
“goes up” for five years’ penal servitude.
The one certain way, therefore, to obviate injus-
tice to innocent litigants, diminish that familiarity
with witness-box mendacity which brings contempt on
the laws in respect of perjury, and ensure that cross-
examination shall, in every instance, be a real test
of credit, is for counsel to be only allowed to bring
out in Court offences which are on record against
a witness, or which are readily provable by some
other means.
There are States where —sometimes owing
to a strong Bench, sometimes to a strong
Inner Bar —the change indicated above
appears to be less needed than in N. S.
Wales. But it is well to remember in this
connection that there is nothing more tran-
sient than a state of virtue. Quarter of a
century ago the standard of manners of
the N. S. Wales Bar was said to be on a
par with that of the London Bar.
•—
The Seven Marriage Acts of Australia.
“Officiating Minister”: There seems little
doubt us to the Fuller Government’s intern
tion to amend the N. S. Wales Marriage Act
—probably along M.L. lines. And as the
other -States are likely to follow in this par-
ticular where N.S.W. leads, it is highly de-
sirable that the people should understand
exactly where they stand in the matter. The
N.S.W. Act is admittedly, in several particu-
lars, much out of date. At best it is but a
replica of an old-time statute existing in a
land where a church obtains as by “law
established.” Its foster-parents were more
ecclesiastical than legal, and so it was framed
largely in favor of the former power. The
Act determines that ministers of religion
“ordinarily otticiatmg as such” shall be
eligible to celebrate marriages. What is
meant by this is not too clear. If it means
men ordinarily preaching, then there are
numbers .not on the Registrar’s list who
should be there. If it means ministers in
charge of churches, then there are names on
the Registrar’s list that should be off it. It
is many year? since some whose names adorn
that list had a church, and others there be
who probably never had a church in their
lives, and never will. The practice of the
official heads of the respective denominations
is to send to the Registrar a list of the
men whom they desire to see registered for
celebrating marriages. There appears to be
no provision in the Act for this pro-
cedure, and it is one that has its
perils, for not infrequently this official arro-
gation of the right to nominate is made an
instrument of persecution and tyranny. Offi-
cial pique has been known to operate in pre-
venting certain ministers enjoying their
rights. What is needed, and what would
have been effected long ere this if Federation
had been more of a fact and less of a farce,
is a Federal Marriage Act. There are
seven States, and not two of their
Marriage Acts are alike, while in
some instances they even contradict each
other. One Marriage Act for the Com-
monwealth would obviate some very clumsy
anomalies. For instance, a minor in N.S.W.
wishes to marry. In order to meet the re-
quirements of the Marriage Act he obtains
the “written consent” of his father. Thus
armed he presents himself before a minister
or registrar, but only to discover that the
consent is valueless. But why? For no
other reason than that of locality. His
father happens to live outside the State, it
may be just across the border. It is true he
is still his father, which nobody else -is, but
this is not enough. The minor must repair
to the Registrar and obtain the consent of
one called a “Guardian of Minors,” a man
whom he has never seen in his life before
and probably will never see again. The
utter absurdity of this is apparent to all.
Another archaic provision is that people, who,
for reasons of their own, appear before a
registrar for marriage, find they must sign a
solemn declaration affirming that they have
conscientious objections to being married by
a minister of religion. Perhaps in 90 per
cent, of cases the parties have no such
objection. It may be that they know no
minister —they may be from the country, and
time is limited—or it may be they wish to be
married without fuss or frill, and as a matter
of convenience make for a registrar’s office.
More often than not one of them has been
divorced : neither has any objection, conscien-
tious or otherwise, to being married by a
clergyman; and they are only at the Regis-
trar’s because an R.C. priest or Anglican
parson has refused to marry them. So far as
the State is concerned marriage is a civil
contract and can be no other. The phrase-
ology of a prayer-book, or a marriage “ser-
vice” are no part and parcel of it—they are
extraneous to it. The French system is logi-
cally correct. The State, provides for the
legal performance of marriage. This ends
its responsibility. If over and beyond this
the contracting parties desire a religious
ceremony, they can retire to the church and
have it. This is a sane and just arrange-
ment, because it P”h3 the responsibility for
any illegality that may occur where it ought
to be, viz., with the civil authorities, and not
as now with '-he officiating clergyman. The
initial and basic mistake is in making minis-
ters of religion registrars of the State. The
two functions are distinct and should be kept
separate. The achievement of this reform
should be the first aim of any State which
sets out to bring its Marriage Act up to
date. But in any case State reform here
can 'only be so much rather futile tinkering


T h ? Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £100,000.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soun
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
with a big problem, the complete solution of
which will only be found in the Federal
sphere.
The Aspersed Planter.
The reason why sugar is sixpence a pound
in Australia is not, as many people imag-
ine, that the Queensland planter has been
scandalously overpaid, but that the Hughes
Government, winch has “controlled” the in-
dustry for seven years, made disastrous pur-
chases abroad. In the daily fuss that rages
in the Commonwealth Parliament and the
Melbourne morning papers respecting the
sugar agreement, this essential fact is nearly
always obscured. It is the fatal habit of
the Hughes Government to he parsimonious,
when it should be generous, and reckless
when caution is the right policy. In the be-
ginning it under-estimated the importance
of home-grown sugar to a country vulnerable
at the point of its sea routes, and dealt
with the growers in a curmudgeonly spirit.
In 1915 they received £lB a ton for raw
sugar delivered at the refineries. Two years
later the price struggled up to £2l per ton.
But there was a race between the increase
in price and the increase in cost of production,
and the latter won hands down. The natural
result was a decline in the output. In 1915-
16 and 1916-17 the quantity of cane put
through the refineries was much below the
average. There was a spurt in 1917-1S —the
effect of an increase that was soon to he
absorbed in the diminished purchasing power
of the paper pound—but in 1918-19 another
drop occurred. Compelled to make up the
difference between production and consump-
tion, the Government bought heavily
iu the Java market. Naturally it missed the
favorable moment and paid through the nose,
as Australian Governments have a habit of
doing. Most of its purchases were made
when the f.o.b. price of Java sugar was be-
tween £35 and £BO a ton. In the meantime
it had tardily come to the conclusion that
the Australian grower needed a stimulus, and
arranged to pay him £3O 6s. Bd. per ton
for three years, commencing on June 30,
1920. -Before that, however, in consequence
of the Java purchases, the retail price of
the 1A grade article was raised from 34d.
a pound (it was 3d. in 1915) to 6d. During
the seven years which closed in June, the
Government bought 1,530.391 tons of Aus-
tralian sugar for £36,325,332, or £23 14s.
9d. per ton. The foreign sugar purchased
amounted to 466,787 tons, and cost
£18,750,034—£40 3s. 4d. per ton. The 1920
importations (quantity unspecified) aver-
aged £59 19s. sd. per ton. Had the Aus-
tralian industry been judiciously encouraged
from the beginning of the control period
not a penny of the 18| millions need have
been sent over the ocean. And the retail
price would never have been more than 4d.
a pound.
The Privileged Industry.
The Labor remnant in the N. S. Wales
Assembly put up the fight of its life for
the preservation of the 44»hours working
week and a complete free Saturday. One
speaker after another tried to explain that
the less work one fellow did the more there
would be left for the other fellow, who
would probably leave it undone also, lest
he should rob the third fellow, and so on
ad infinitum. Amid all this excitement
there was, strangely enough, a total absence
of allusion to the one industry in which the
working hours have been steadily increas-
ing. Since the 44-hours week became more
or less of a habit in N. S. Wales, and man,
going one better than his Maker, rested on
the sixth day as well as on the seventh,
the pony races have got into the way of
starting work at 10.30 a.m. instead of in the
afternoon. There are four such unproduc-
tive gambling-hells in Sydney, and as pay-
ing propositions there are few concerns to
equal them. The stocks have been watered
till they are drinkable, and aggregate divi-
dends run to about TOO per cent, on the
money actually invested. Curiously enough,
the pony courses and their profits never
attracted the attention of the Profiteering-
Court, though the extraction of something
approaching £IOO,OOO a year from such a
source should arouse comment. Pony races
consist largely of four-furlong flutters last-
ing a few seconds. This makes it possible
to crowd a large number of events into
the long working day, and by the time the
long working day is over the tote has
absorbed practically all the money through
biting off its percentage each time the coin
passes through. Of the toughs, thugs and
thieves who assemble to follow “the ponies,”
about three per cent, wear collars, while the
remaining 97 wear a hang-dog expression.
Practically all the criminals and incipient
criminals of the community can be found
on the pony courses; likewise most of the
embezzled money and the bulk of the bad
language. Dwarf horses, dwarf men and
fatted layers of odds comprise the prin-
cipal rolling-stock of the business. The
pony interest is a political power of such
size that it plays a very big part in run-
ning the State. The one big city runs the
State, and the horse brigade runs the one
big city to such an extent that it is ques-
tionable whether the land-owning power, the
drink power and the pull of Holy Church all
put together can equal it. Where four city
young men are gathered intently together
it is fairly safe to wager that they are talk-
ing under-sized horse —than which there is
no more unprofitable subject for street-
corner parley on God’s green earth. Whether
illicit betting-shops are fifty or one hundred
times more numerous in the suburbs than
lawful meatshops is a moot question; in
some of the suburbs that can afford it
least, every second store is a sly gaming-
shop. In the districts where tea is
drunk out of the saucer the horse-capitalist,
whether ostensibly in politics or ostensibly
outside them, is a mighty power. And it
is a tribute to his position that he can in-
crease the working hours of his trade and
shorten the pay (otherwise the odds), yet
arouse not a word of protest from a party
whose shrieks are like unto the shrieks of
the damned when productive industries de-
clare themselves unable to reduce hours and
enlarge pay. The circumstance creates a
powerful suspicion as to which side in poli-
tics is bossed by the horse-interest, with the
obnoxious concomitants thereof.
•
The Coming Grace.
“0.K.”: “No means exist of preventing an
aeroplane flotilla flying over London to-morrow
and spreading over London’s millions a gas
which would asphyxiate all in a relatively
short time. Fifty aeroplanes would suffice.”
So spoke Edison a few days ago. He also re-
WORLD FINANCE.
ALL: “Pay up, damyer!"
marked that war will be suppressed by the
invention of some machine “so absolutely
terrifying in its possibilities that mankind
will renounce warfare for evermore.” And
it was cabled to us as though Edison had
said something new ! Burwek Lytton, that
under-rated prince of versatility in literature,
who had the bad luck to be reared in a stilt-
walking age, and the good luck to outlive
the schools he was educated in— Burwer
Lytton, all sorts of novelist, dramatist,
essayist, poet, theorist and wise political
prophet, anticipated the practical American
inventor by fully 50 years, when he pub-
lished “The Coming Race.” Of the new
civilisation he had encountered in the bowels
of the earth (the civilisation which suggested
“A Message from Mars” 30 years after his
death) the romancer said ;
Rut the effects of the alleged discovery of means
to direct the more terrible force of vril were chiefly
remarkable in their influence upon polite social
polity. As these effects became familiarly known
and skilfully administered, war between the vril-
discoverers ceased, for they brought the art of
destruction to such perfection as to annul all super-
iority in numbers, discipline or military skill. The
fire lodged in the hollow of a rod directed by the
hand of a ehil# could shatter the strongest fortress
or cleave its way from the van to the rear of an
embattled host.... The age of war was therefore
g"one, but with the cessation of war other effects
bearing upon the social state soon became apparent.
Man was so completely at the mercy of man, each
whom he encountered being able, if so willing, to
slay him on the instant, that all notions of govern-
ment by force gradually vanished from political
systems and forms of law. It is only by force that
vast communities, dispersed through great distances
of space, can be kept together; but now there was
no longer either the necessity of self-preservation,
or the pride of aggrandisement, to make one state
desire to preponderate in population over another.
The vril-discoverers thus, in the course of a few
generations, peacefully split into communities of
moderate size.
Here is a reminder that Bulwer Lytton,
the dandified mystic, the “padded man who
wore stays,” looked further ahead than
Edison does. The politician foresaw what
the inventor has not paused to consider, viz.,
the disappearance of empires by the death
of the imperial idea.
All the tribes of Vril-ya are in constant com-
munication with each other, and settle among them-
selves each year what proportion of one community
will unite with the emigrants of another, so as
to form a state of sufficient size; and the place for
emigration is decided upon at least a year before,
and pioneers sent from each State to level rocks
and embank waters, and construct bouses, so that
the emigrants find a city already made and a country
around it at least partially cleared,
The novelist of half-a-century ago was not
deeply in love with the creation of his own
fancy. The warlessless of the new civilisa-
tion has disadvantages:—
Where there are no wars there can be no Hanni-
bal, no Washington ! Where society attains to a
moral standard in which there are no crimes and
no sorrows from which tragedy can extract its ali-
ment of pity and sorrow, no salient vices or follies
on which comedy can lavish its mirthful satire,
it has lost the chance of producing a Shakspeare, cr
a Moliere.... The motives that impel the energies
and ambitions of individuals in a society of con-
test and struggle become dormant or annulled in a
society which aims at securing for the aggregate
the calm and innocent felicity which we presume
to be the lot of the immortals.
And after it all, what then? The destruc-
tiveness of Nature is not affected by the
growth of a sham humanitarianism which
shrinks from war but continues to eat mut-
ton and vegetables, whilst the Martyrdom of
Man on an overcrowded earth has got to be
managed somehow. People must be swept
away by epidemics of boredom, or swallowed
up by earthquakes of their own unconscious
incitiition. Or, perhaps, Vril-ya mankind at
large will become sterilised for lack of
anxiety, and human existence will crumble
away? Nature abhors a millennium.
e
A Mere 15 34 Millions.
It is getting on for four years since Millen,
then Minister of Repatriation, proudly pro-
duced his scheme for providing 100,000
Diggers w r ith Government-built houses at an
average outlay of £5OO. A bill embodying
this programme had a lightning passage
through Parliament in December, 1918.
Three months later a War Service Homes
Commission and a parcel of deputies spread
themselves over the continent and announced
their intention of running up pretty villas and
desirable suburban residences at the rate of
8000 per annum. In effect, the Minister
estimated that 25,000 Diggers could he
housed for £12,500,000, and the Commission
undertook to do the job in three years. The
three years having elapsed, the Common-
wealth committee of public accounts recently
went in quest of the 25,000 returned war-
riors, each with his commodious £5OO shack.
It has returned from its voyage of discovery
wfith the following information: —
The expenditure to June 30, 1922, amounted to
£15,311,819. Of this £14,864,766 was capital
expenditure and £447,053 administrative.
It has cost £7,434,000 to erect 6278 war-service
homes. On the other hand 12,778 houses have been
in r 3 e o ooo y p in rch r e r - discharge ° f mort^=e >
£7,430,000. In the beginning it was intended to
build and not to buy. But when the War Service
Homes Commission got into hopeless difficulties the
embargo on buying (at about half the cost of build-
ing) was removed.
The expenditure on building materials, timber
areas and mills, for which the Commission has uo
further use, having gone out of business, is included
in the cost of the 6278 houses. Half-a-million was
spent on sawmills, but they were closed down soon
afterwards, and will have to be sold at a sacrifice.
Huge stocks of building materials were bought when
prices were at the peak, and now when the market is
glutted they have to be got rid of at write-your-
own-ticket rates. “The large buyers,” the committee
says, “will have nothing to do with them, and the
small ones will only purchase at prices low enough to
counterbalance the difficulties of unsuitable sizes
and cash payments. The losses will be considerable.”
A huge proportion of the houses were built by
day labor. In “practically all cases” the cost of
these day-labor dwellings “far exceeded the original
estimate.” The day-labor jobs were “very badly
managed.”
The soldier who agreed to take one of the 6278
shacks bound himself to purchase “at the capital
cost, when ascertained.” In many cases the capital
cost exceeded the estimate by as much as £4OO.
The committee allows that there will have to be a
wholesale writing-down at heavy loss to the taxpayer.
Large areas of swamp and rock were unloaded
on the Commission at siege prices by speculators
who saw it coming. The Government has 9020
building allotments on its hands.
Before operations were started the Australian
Institute of Architects and the returned soldiers’
branch of the Victorian Institute were anxious to
help. Their offers were coldly rejected. There were
capable and experienced officers in the Commonwealth
Works Department, but they were not consulted nor
were their services availed of in any way. Neither
was the Surveyor-General’s advice sought in the
matter of land purchase and subdivision.
Iri 1918 most of the States had building organisa-
tions which had been operating for years. The
Savings Banks did the work in N. S. Wales and
Victoria, there were workers’ homes’ boards in W.A.
and Queensland, and S.A. also had a scheme. Nego-
tiations for the use of those Organisations were
opened up before the bill was introduced, but on the
Commonwealth Bank butting in they were suddenly
withdrawn, an expensive branch of the Commission
being established in every State. Now, when the
business is in a frightful mess, as a result of 31
years of gorgeous maladminstration, the negotiations
have been renewed. Meantime such oceans of money
were gaily expended in land, sand, rock, bricks,
cement, sawmills, forests and timber (a Queensland
company, which refuses to cancel its contract, is
delivering half-a-million super feet per month, and
millions of feet are stacked in other places), that
the funds gave out. Except for a few dwellings
built on contract, operations were thereupon suspended
for more than a year.
In the result, “only a small percentage of the men
and women for whom the scheme was intended have
received their houses. Disheartened and disgusted
many have gone to other agencies for supplying
homes. To the extent to which this has taken place
—and it is considerable —-the Commonwealth is cer-
tainly relieved of the responsibility, but it is more
a matter of regret than for congratulation.” Vet
154 millions have been sunk in the scheme —2j
millions more than was proclaimed to be suffi-
cient for building 25,000 sound and comfortable
dwellings and placing Diggers therein.
Before politics became a trade for any Tom,
Dick or Harry who can wangle a party
nomination, no Government could have sur-
vived such a revelation of its wild waste
and folly. It is significant that the guilty
Administration has not only survived the
exposure, but hasn’t even deigned to publish
a defence. Neither has the Opposition in-
dicted it on the score of the mad muddle it
has made of the soldiers’ homes, although on
small-beer subjects like the sale of the Gee-
long woollen mills the Opposition has been
ferocity personified. In the view of the pro-
fessional politician, however branded, Gov-
ernments which rush into competition with
the nefarious capitalist, and fail on a colos-
sal scale, have a sort of divine right to play
ducks and drakes with the people’s money.
•
“Tauwarra” : The clouds of depression
which have for so long overhung the plant-
ing industry in Papua show signs of break-
ing. The freight on copra from Moresby
to Sydney has been reduced by 15s. per ton,
and now stands at 455., as compared with
the 255. of pre-war days. A reduction of
10s. per ton in the export duty is also
announced. These concessions, together with
the resumption of the three-weekly steamer
service, have engendered a feeling of hope-
fulness. Companies which have survived the
financial storm are resuming operations with
renewed confidence. Copra is now worth
£l6 per ton, f.o.b. Moresby, out of which
the planter has to pay coastal freight,
export duty, handling charges and ware-
house dues. His net return is, therefore,
about £l4 10s. per ton —if his luck is in—
but as the odd shillings represent the differ-
ence between solvency and the bankruptcy
court, he is not complaining. For the rubber-
planter the outlook remains unchanged.
Nothing short of a substantial bounty will
be of any use to him. Most of the rubber
concerns have already given up the unequal
struggle, and it is only a matter of months
before the survivors follow suit.


A Station Boot that IS Waterproof.
This Boot, built on an exclusive Peapes last, is of
specially prepared chrome-tanned Colt Hide. It is very
stout and strong and absolutely -water-resisting.
There is sheet rubber packed between its double soles,
and its high leg, stout leather lining, extra-wide rope-
stitched welts and full-cut watertight tongue further add
to its value' as a protective boot for country wear.
Although so stout in quality, it is very easy and comfort-
able in wear.
Tan, 50/-; Black, 45/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
m
M
J|®l
M
m
101
THE ALL-ROUND EFFICIENCY AND
VALUE of the famous F.I.A.T. cars is due
to the HIGH STANDARD of the F.1.A.T.,
which represents QUALITY IN WORK-
MANSHIP AND MATERIAL, ECONOMY
OF UPKEEP and RELIABILITY ALL
ALONG THE LINE.
STANDARD TORPEDO TOURING CARS.
PRICES—
Model 501, 10/15h.p., £595; Model 505, 15/2Qh.p., £825.
Model 510, 20/30h.p., £995.
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY.
GARRATTS LTD.,
173-175 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
TERMS
ARRANGED.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Australia is defended to-day by some
generals and colonels and a flock of typists.”
That was sa.d last week at the r ederal
Diggers’ Conference in Sydney, and it is a
tragic truth. Hughes and Pearce used to
be fond of boasting that they had created
the Australian Army. Now 7 , in the fraudu-
lent name of economy, they are helping
to bury it.
Higgs in the Hbuse of Reps.:—•
I admit that 25 years ago I told the Brisbane
unemployed they ought to put on their banner
“Bread or Blood," but at that time I was a long-
haired, emotional ass;
Still, if Higgs made the flamboyant remark
referred to in 1897 he w r as an unashamed
plagiarist. Any copyright there may be in
the phrase belongs to another long-haired
demagogue. When F. C. B. Vosper won the
Seat in the W.A. Assembly, which he held
from 1897 to his death in 1901, he was fre-
quently reminded of his “Bread or Blood”
outbursts in Queensland half-a-dozen years
before.
Australia got no change out of Maori-
land in the negotiations for tariff recipro-
city. Such change as there was went to
M.L. With a fine gesture of generosity the
Massey Government knocked a shilling a
gallon off the w r ine duty, and reduced the
impost on boots from 45 to 35 per cent. In
return for these concessions, and others
equally harmless, sawn timber, smoked blue
cod, tinned whitebait, oysters in the shell
and other articles which the island country
exports in considerable quantities, w 7 ere
placed on the free list. In effect, Massey
presented Australia with saxpence and got
back a croon.
The present Queensland Parliament has at
least earned one distinction —it is easily the
dullest on record. Theodore cap make a
speech, but a good phrase is beyond
him. Taylor and Vowles. of the Opposition,
are about as humorous as a pair of
mud turtles, while Barnes, “that peren-
nial pillar of oleaginous rectitude,” is just
as gay and as lively an orator as his wow-
senstic upbringing could possibly allow.
Trades Hall domination has squeezed all
vivacity out of the Labor Parliamentarians,
who fear, apparently, that the perpetration
of a witticism would bring them under the
ban of a heresy hunt. And the Country
party jests with as much difficulty as a
Scotchman. On the whole it’s a dull, dead
show marching slowly to a dull, dead ceme-
tery.
It is rumored in political circles in
Tas. that the actual wording of the
futile no-confidence motion which has sub-
merged the Speck’s brand-new Country party
in an ocean of ridicule was perpetrated by
and with the advice of McWilliams, of the
Federal Country party. It is a fact that
Mac was in close confabulation with the
State C.P. members for many hours prior
to the launching of the dud bomb. And,
somehow, Blyth’s expressed desire that
the Address-in-Reply should specifically in-
form Administrator Nieholls “that your Ex-
cellency’s Government failed to secure the
support of a majority of the electors” (a
fact which everybody knew already) sounds
a good deal more like the oblique McWil-
liams than the bluff Blyth.
“Sol. M.” —gloomy, as usual: —
New South Wales is faced with the massive fact
that it has about £7,000,000 of old loars falling due
in the next 11 months, and it has saved up, nominally,
about £410,000 with which to pay them. And thei's
is reason to suspect that this isn’t money at all, but
more debentures; that is to say, more debt. If the
State borrows the usual 10 or 12 millions of new
money to keep the unskilled unemployed not very
busy building odd works here and there, it will want
something approaching 20 millions altogether, and
a demand like that will involve mighty high interest.
Yet if it doesn’t get the usual big new loans people
THE ART OF LOVE.
BAD BILL : "I'm trusting to the clothes to
make her forget my horrible Past."
are likely to be dying of hunger in the Strew* —un-
less, of course, they sink the demand for the 44 pours
week and 50 per cent, more than the highest war
wages, and get to work again. The interest bill,
which grows now at the average rate of £600,000
per annum, reached £7,717,206 for the year just
closed, and will be well over £8,000,000 this year.
That is four times the bill of 20 years ago, and just
about the whole outgoings of the State 25 years ago.
As the Federal authority financed the war this is a
purely peaceful jag. Yet poor Missus N. S. Wales,
with her clothes and hair anyhow and looking like
a lady up for her hundredth conviction, doesn’t give
the impression of one who had been enjoyirg herself.
Certainly she is very differert from .the tidy young
female of a short while back. The new Ministry,
heir to a great hole in the Treasury and three moun-
tains (debt, cash deficit and unpaid bills), but with
no level property anywhere, has suggested rxo strenu-
ous remedy yet for getting the dissipated one sobered
up. But it appears quite probable that the Sydney
Harbor Bridge, which hangs fire worse than the con-
version of the Jews, may enjoy another rest, and that
the city railway will die out half-'way to nowhere.
There is nothing to pay for them with but the
deficit, and nobody seems inclined to lend much more
deficit.
“P.A.” : Archbishop Duhig, speaking in Lon-
don on the White Australia question: “The
trouble is we British are too conservative,
and have not adapted ourselves to the
climate. In a climate like North Australia
we ought to copy the Italians, and arrange
the working day’ so as to allow a siesta in
the heat of the day.” The Archbisbon is
not quite up to date in his comments. There
is a siesta in vogue among a certain class
of so-called “toilers” in the North. It occu-
pies the heat of the day and a couple of
hours before and after it. And the man who
takes it is a parasite who loafs under the
generic name of public servant.
“Gallery”: Matthew Charlton’s proposal
to reduce the price of sugar to 44d. from
August 7 was baited to land the Govern-
ment’s critics in the Cocky group. When it
came to a division the patty broke in halves
as usual. The Country party is the Ford car
of politics. Its row is most impressive when
there is something wrong with the engines.
In the last 30 years many Vic. Ministries
have tried, ineffectually, to get thiough, a
bill for the more efficient control of charities.
Now Treasurer McPherson is having a shot.
His measure provides for a Board of 13, in-
cluding a director of charities, who is to be
paid £lOOO a year, and is to be chairman.
The Board is to advise how much subsidy is
required, and how it should be allocated. It
is also to stop overlapping—if it can. Inter-
mediate hospitals are to be encouraged, so
(hat the public hospitals may be kept f>r
the people for whom they were built. And
there are to be at least two women on the
Board.
A change in the leadership of the Speck’s
Labor party is talked of. The story
is that J. A. Lyons contemplates studying
for the Bar, and, in order to give himself
a chance to read up (probably in his col-
league Ogilvie’s office), will, if Caucus
agrees, stand down in favor of Ogilvie. The
latter is now the only lawyer in the
Assembly. He is also the youngest member.
W. E. Shoobridge, who defeated Ben Wat-
kins in the Franklin by-count for the late
W. W. Pearce’s seat, is the oldest.
How we are governed
The attack made in the N. S. Wales Assemb’y last
week by Jabez Wright on his fellow-Laborite Moles-
worth (he charged Molesworth, inter alia, with being
a “mere lamp l lime ?]-lighter) possessed its human
side. Molesworth had sneered at Scott Fell, and
Scott Fell, in the eyes of Jabez. is sacrosanct. When
the North Sffore Empire-builder first entered the
House Wright viewed him with the suspicion every
truly democratic undertaker accords a plutocrat. One
night—Fell being absent —Wright was summoned to
the telephone. “Is that Jabez Wright?’’ came in
arrogant tones over the wire. “This is Mr. Scott
Fell. You’re an infernal old vulgarian and a red-
ragger. Get back ,to the cemetery 1 God save the
Kirg! To Hell with the Pope.” Jabez returned
to the Legislature in a distracted state and
presently, to his stupefaction, Fell had the effrontery
to enter and make a speech. It were best to draw a
veil over the interjections oi the Broken Hill states-
man. They rained what was practically Fell’s
maiden effort. Weeks later the two found them-
selves at a Parliamentary picnic. Something had
gone wrong with the State whisky-supply, and the
only stimulant available was a private enterprise-
bottle in the possession of Fell. He resisted the
agonised look in his enemy’s eye for a while, but
eventually relented. “Why did you go for me in
that bitter fashion?” he asked, as Jabez gratefully
spliced the mainbrace. “Woddid you insult me for
over the telephone?” “I’ve never spoken to you
over a telephone in my life.” Jabez is a good old
sportsman, and his repentance was profound. From
that day to this he has been unable either to casti-
gate bowelless Capitalism in the person of Scott Fell,
or to sit patiently by while anyone else is doing it.
Just when nearly everyone had forgotten
it, Premier Lawson fVic.) has recalled his
promise, made 22 months ago, to bring in
an Electoral Reform Bill providing for a
reduction of members fiom 65 to 60, and for
the rectification of such anomalies as permit
Grenville (4900 electors) and Boroondara
(48.500) have one representative each.
Rejecting the one-vote-one-value theory, Law-
s ,n a,ms at giving every 60 country electors
as much representation as every 300 in the
metropolis. Even then, in a House of
60, there would be only 32 rural to 28 urban
and subuiban members. The bill will not see
the light till the end of 1923 or May, 1924.
And it won’t go through like greased lightning
even then.
If the Victorian brand of soldier-settle- -
ment turns out as satisfactorily as is ex-
pected, it will be due largely to insistence
upon the qualification certificate. To secure
this an applicant had to produce evidence
of experience or agree to go and gain it. In
some cases where the Digger was keen on
getting a farm, the wife was the stumbling-
block. One of her who tried to break down
her prejudices went up north to stay with
acquaintances. The day after she arrived
she was chased by a stud ram, and on the
second day by an Indian hawker. On the
morning of the third day she caught the
express to town, and nothing wdl induce her
to try the country nga.n. For her it is a
jungle teeming with terrors.
Theodore’s majority in the Queensland
House of Parliament has to be watched
as vigilantly as a suburban Bung’s bar
glasses in the intervals of a football match.
Last week it receded out of sight altogether
when the Opposition drummed up two mem-
bers for a division who had been reported
sick—-or so indisposed that the Government
wdiips hadn’t entertained the notion of their
presence as a possibility. Stung to despe-
rate reprisals at the thought of losing office,
the Ministry just managed to obviate a
second defeat by calling to its assistance a
supporter w'ho was too sick even to wrnlk —
he had to be carried in, “his thin, white
face peeping out from between blankets.”
By this heroic expedient the reckoning has
been postponed a little, but when it comes
it will be all the heavier. Nothing more
abjectly humiliates a Government than
when, after having been beaten to the pit,
it still waits to be pushed over the brink.
Not knowing exactly what to do about
Labor’s no-confidence amendment in Vic.
Assembly, the Cocky party refrained from
voting. It left Lawson and Prendergast,
with their respective followings, to fight it
out between them, and the amendment was
thrown out by 27 to 20. Snowball, with
customary acrobatic agility, spoke one way
and voted the other. Probably the Ministry
didn’t mind the admonition when it was sure
of his vote.
“Bullsbrook” : Vic.’s Upper House is agi-
tating for pay (B. 3/8/’22). It might have
ensured it ab initio if it had taken the cyni-
cally frank stand of the W.A. Legislative
Council in the days when Forrest was Con-
sul. In 1900 the latter introduced a mea-
sure to give Assemblymen £2OO a year apiece.
The Chamber of Revision politely asked
where it came in. Bigjohn retorted that it
didn’t come in at all; the question of re-
muneration for Upper House members had
never been before the country or entered
Ministerial heads. The mouthpieces of pro-
perty replied by tacking a clause on to the
bill providing that wdiat was sauce for the
M.L.A. should be ditto for the M.L.C.—
and sent it back to the people’s representa-
tives with a world of meaningness in the
addendum. The threat worked, and pay-
ment of members arrived in both Houses
simultaneously. In 1911. and again in 1919.
there was no talk of excluding Council mem-
bers from progressive rises. They had made
it perfectly clear, without talking about it,
that they wouldn’t tolerate any differentia-
tion.
It was revealed at the close of Banana-
land’s last financial year that the Theodore
Government spent £3T4.000 in relief and
charitable doles in 1921-22. This means
nearly £5OO a d‘ l v for a country with a
population of 750,000 souls, and wmuld
suffice to give 1115 unemployed a steady job
at the rate of £3 a v’eek the year through.
Under the Morgan-Ividston regime about
£5OOO per annum used to suffice for this pur-
pose. Under Denham eight or nine thousand
was ample. But the Cadgers’ Millennium
has arrived since then, and is, apparently,
here to stay as long as Theodore.
UNDER THE CARPET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“N. S. Wales trawling manager Summergreene told
Commissioner Macfarlane that he was in the habit,
until recently, of keeping hundreds of pounds hidden
under the carpet in his house. During the war he
became afraid that money lodged in banks might be
confiscated.”
If you know a chap whose calling makes him inti-
mate with trawling,
And he bids you come and dine beneath his roof,
Treat his carpets reverently; step, like Agag, lightly,
gently,
Or your boots may damage quantities of oof.
You may think you notice rustles, as you walk
across the Brussels,
Or a crackling from the lino, in the hall;
But be careful to ignore it: it’s a fav’rite place to
store it—
And by it I mean spondulix—when you trawl.
Banks in which fool-clients trusted time and oft,
alas! have busted,
Or been raided when the Bolshies ran the show ;
But a citizen can blink ’em if he socks away his
income
His Wiltons or his Axminsters below.
Blowing empty safes asunder is a common burglar’s
blunder,
But he won’t roll up the carpets for a haul.
Here s the safest spot to stow it, Sikes and co. will
never know it;
Here you’ll put your fixed deposits—if you trawl.
For the mariner who dredges spoil from ocean
floors and ledges
Always keeps in mind a place where he can go;
A resort to which his boat is headed at a moment’s
notice
For securing what he knows is there below.
Pirates used to bury treasure to be levied on at
leisure,
They would bank it in some desert isle on call;
Dogs with more than they can swallow plant the
surplus in a hollow;
But you cache your cash close handy—when you
trawl.
Move with deferential paces—like one in the Holy
Places,
Or stealing over some enchanted heath—
For the pile upon the Persian, it’s a credible asser-
tion,
May be nothing to the pile that’s underneath.
You may fail to find suggestments of financial invest-
ments
In the furniture or pictures on the wall,
But you know as well as I know where your host
has stacked the rhino:
’Twill repose below the carpet—should he trawl.
x.s.w.
PIPARDS.


THE OUTSIDER.
"W. M. Damn Expense (by Pomp out of Circumstance) is a belated nomination for the Economy Stakes. It is rumored that the animal, which has gained such an unenviable notoriety of late, will be ridden by a well-known Collins-street identity.” —Sporting press item .
BAR VON: “Odds, my poy! Vith that chap up you can write your own ticket."


m
“SUES
PORTABLE-RADIANT
_ FIRES
The COSMOS Electric Fires are Sound
in Construction and Economically
Efficient in Operation—TßY ONE!
ELtCTglCAi^^
21 Elizabeth St.,Melbourne; 215 Clarence St., Sydney
And at Macquarie St., Hobart, Tasmania.
i fLVL
■Hft
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
WHO IS THE EXECUTOR OF YOUR WILL?
If you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon
after you,;and your Estate may pass into the control of someone whom
you would never have trusted? Or he may maladminister the Funds?
Or your Estate may suffer,losses through his neglect or inexperience?
THESE RISKS CAN BE OVERCOME BY APPOINTING AS
YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED
of 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
which offers undoubted security, combined with expert administration.
TRUST FUNDS NOW UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED
£19,400,000. ' '
Write or call for Booklet. Manager: It. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Australia :
Profits. Pref. Added
(Less Loss on Divs. Written to Re- Re-
June, Assets Trust).(3 p.c.). Off. serves, serves.
1912.. £124,191 £63,520 £58,000 £2,671 £6,227
1913.. 134,968 63,520 70,000 1,448 7,675
(34 p.c.)
1914.. 131,308 74,107 65,000 2,201 9,876
(4 p.c.)
1915.. 109,394 84,694 25,000 9,576
1916.. 130,526 84,694 45,000 9,408
1917.. 134,693 84,694 60,000 9,407
National Bank of Tas. purchased.
1918.. 145,773 84,694 60,000 1,079 10,486
1919.. 167,268 84,694 80,000 2,574 13,060
1920.. 197,892 84,694 110,000 3,198 16,258
Premiums on new shares, £106,659
1921.. 237,772 84,694 ) 13,322
Ord. 15 p.c„ 11,014 ) 251 > 659
Premiums on new shares, £ 134,275 a
1922.. 228,080 84,694 1 nnl -28,887 42,209
Ord. 15 p.c., 37,773 f 211,001 J
At last the Commercial of Australia has
shaken off the last of its legacies of the ’.nine-
ties’ smash. Two years ago the Special Assets
Trust Co., in which the bank had housed
its dead-horses, showed that the stable was
empty, and that, after many years’ appropria-
tions of trading profits there still remained
a deficiency of £442,660 to be made
good out of profits. Meantime the bank’s
business had grown over-large in relation
to funds, and the directors were faced with
the problem of seekiug new capital. There
was no doubt about getting the necessary
money, as the ordinaries were assured of
good divs. so soon as the old losses were
wiped out.; the difficulty was to get the
prefs., who possessed the voting strength, to
agree to any proposal which would put the
ordinaries on velvet. However, the direc-
tors’ proposal to issue 403,054 new 10s. ordi-
naries at a premium of 100 p.c.—both classes
of shareholders being allowed to take up a
new share for every old pref. and ordinary
iu v lrl--was approved, and paid capital has in
two years increased from £2,213,009 to
£2,453,943. To June 30 the new issue had
brought in £240,934 of premiums, and this
amount, together with £135,000 of 1921
profits and £66,726 more appropriated last
year has extinguished the Special Assets
Trust and its £442,600 deficiency. The issue
of .new. shares thus hastened the clean-up ; a
dozen years ago the management had more
than a million to make good.
The, feature of the latest accounts is that
though gross earnings, after paying taxes,
were a record, net profits were smaller.
Salaries and allowances at headquarters and
353 branches took £38,750 more than in 1921
and £11,742 more went in rent and other
charge's. ; This shows how profits were
arrived at in recent years :
Gross Profits.* Salaries. Rent, etc.
-1915 . , £2*R,072 £133,310 £51,268
1918 iy5’2;477 154,309 52,304
■.:191a .. -■ 40E0U 170,568 64,245
,•‘-'£92o 181,757 202,479 *76,387
1921 .; 278,831 90,658
1922 . . 648,062 317,581 102,400
; , *L<sss~ taxes and provision for contingencies.
The National Bank of Tas. was absorbed in
1917, and there are now 107 more branches
than in 1915. However, profits on the
scale of those • recently disclosed give a very
handsome return on capital now that old
losses have been met. It was apparent years
ago that when the clean-up was accomplished
ordinaries would be o,n a good wicket, so
even when there was not a penn’orth of
assets to represent ordinaries, those shares
were in demand by people who anticipated the
harvest. Th-e £2,117,350 of pref. capital car-
lies 4 p.c. (£84,694), so after writing £lO,OOO
p.a. off premises profits of the size disclosed
for the past 12 months make £133,000 avail-
able for divs. for £336,593 of ordinary capital
and to build up reserves. So the ordinaries
are assured of good divs. if things continue
to go well with the bank. It also means
that the co. should in future be able to pay
handsome divs. on a much larger capital; and
pow that old troubles have disappeared with
the aid of share premiums Tiie Bulletin
will not be surprised if, in future new-share
issues, holders get in at a premium,
or, perhaps, even at par. The 15 p.c. now
paid gives only 7|- p.c. on the recent issue,
but the return averages higher when the 15
p.c, on old scrip is taken into consideration.
Five, years ago the old 10s. ordinaries were
purchasable at under 155., and to lucky
buyers at that price the 15 p.c. div. on their
present holding averages slightly more than
8i p.c.
The very rapid growth of the C.B.A. over
two four-year periods, and which necessitated
the raising of additional funds, is shown in
this comparison:—•
Liabilities.
1914. 1918. 1922.
Notes .. .. £21,053 £69,861 £59,089
Bills, etc. .. 868,826 296,439 1,123.306
Free deposits .. 3,912,537 5,643,874 8,721,369
Fixed deposits .. 3,256,251 4,607,605 7,466,352
Old debts . . .. 56,601 Nil Nil
Liquid assets .. 3,975.199 3,820,906 8,105,570
Advances .. 5,171,696 7,976,215 11,204,941
Old bank assets .. 32,000 Nil Nil
Premises .. .. 420,635 473,840 529,445
Summarised the movements have been :
1914. 1918. 1922.
Deposits .. £7,168,788 £10,251,479 £16,187’,721
Total assets .. 9,599,530 12,270,961 20,571,455
Expansion was so rapid that in 1920 no less
than £9 11s. of the public’s money was held
for every £1 of the bank’s own funds. The
new capital and premiums in 1921 brought
the proportion down to slightly under £B. At
June 30 additional new funds reduced it to
about £7 3s„ a much more satisfactory figure
from the point of view of creditors. Iu the
comparison above £735,849 outstanding on
loans to finance wheat pools, war gratuities
and War Loans is included with advances,
but as they are Government-guaranteed they
can safely be regarded as liquid. Including
that £735,849, liquid assets represented 49
p.c. of all liabilities. There were advances
written down to £10,559.092 and premises
with a book value of £529,445 to protect the
nine millions-odd of the public’s money not
backed by liquid assets.
# # * *
The Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Bris-
bane) :
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
1910. . £6;585 64 p.c. =£2,248 £4,337 £l,OOO
1911.. 4,274 6' „ „ 2,761 1,513 1,000
1912.. 11,305 74 ~ „ 3,459 2,846 6,000
1913.. 9,710 8 „ „ 4,920 4,790 6,000
1914.. 15,405 9 „ „ 5,535 3,870 12,000
1915.. 16,72110 „ „ 6,150 10,571 12,000
Reserve Funds capitalised, £ 9500,. 2,500
(Contingency Reserves —shown in table as written
off £19,389.)
1910. . 11.055 9 p.c. = 6.719 1.336 5,500
1917.. 10,623 8 „ „ 7,605 1,618 6,900
1918.. 13,925 8 „ „ 7,827 1,998 11,000
1919. . 14,< <3 8 ~ „ 7,840 1,933 16,000
(Contingency Reserves—shown in table as written
off —-capitalised, £6667.)
1920.. 17,127 8 p.c. = 8,925 3,202 21,000
1921.. 16.469 8 „ „ 9.902 2,567 25,060
1922.. 18,071 8 „ ~10,389 3,682 29,000
The amounts shown as written off are not
allowances for depreciation, which is pro-
vid d for prior to disclosure of profits. They
represent the balance of each year’s surplus
profit after paying divs. and appropriating
round sums for general and dividend-equali-
sation reserves, and which is placed to the
credit of a contingency fund. But
the only “contingency” which has arisen for
many years has been the. issue of bonus
shares, £26,000-odd having been extracted
from the fund since 1015 to make scrip gifts
to shareholders. There is now nearly
£ll,OOO in this fund, and the whole of it
can probably be treated as genuine accumu-
lated profit along with the £29.000 shown in
the table. Latest disclosed profits, were the
best to date: they represented slightly more
ilian ,144 nc. on Paid c.apitnl which was
increased during the year by £2500 from- a
new issue of shares. So, after paying 8 p.c.
to shareholders and meeting div. taxes, a
substantial surplus was left for reserves. Of
the present paid capital of £123,000, £35,556
is transferred profit, so (he "8 p.c. divs. are
very sweet to # old holders. .*
The record profits shown for the past year
were surprising in view of the depression
experienced bv . several of the northern
State’s big industries and the cessation of
war spendings by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment. The heavy borrowings by both
Commonwealth and State. Governments since
the war began, high produce prices and
steadily-increased wages assisted the flow of
beer in recent years, though it has been
more costly to the public. The beer dr inker
has become a large contributor to Govern-
ment revenue. Until 1916 the ,exc se-
duty was 6d. per gallon; it is now Is. 9d,
For 1915,624 million gallons brewed in the
Commonwealth gave the Government
£1,205,000; for 1921 £5,438,000 was col-
lected on slightly more than 66 million gal-
lons. As the breweries throughout the Com-
monwealth have continued to make handsome
profits there has been no protest against the
Government grab; instead, they have pro-
bably regarded the annual contribution to
revenue as an additional insurance against
prohibition. There is no bigger argument at
present, from the Government’s point of
view, than that five millions or so that flows
into the national cash-box, apart from other
contributions in tlm form of income- and
div.-taxes, not only from breweries, but from
those engaged in manufacturing and retail-
ing, property-owners and all others sharing
in the income derived from beer. The
Queensland Brewery has never been in doubt
about the future of Booze; notwithstanding
the renewed threats of prohibition the direc-
tors have steadily added new properties and
made considerable additions to plant. In
this comparison “fixed assets” include pro-
perties, plant and machinery :
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities £28,424 £26,888 £31,476 £43,508 £55,038
Fixed assets 44,587 55,992 73,643 92,202 102,981
.. le.Tm 17.617 44.795 55.476 47.800
Book debts 11,182 38,870 45,804 50,280 69,283
-L-tn, cic. i■ 5 1u,y26 9,846 3,183 3,183
Since 1915 the book value of fixed assets,
auer aaowanc. s nad been made for depreci-
ation, had doubled. So, though about £27,500
of new capital has been got in, and consider-
able help has been given by surplus profits,
liabilities are larger. However, at June 80
there were liquid assets totalling £120,266
and Labiiit es of £55,088, giving a liquid
surplus of £65,228.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney) :
, Dividends. N
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1912.. 21,152 230 10 p.c. = 10,000 10,922 13,848
All Shares.
1913.. 18.091 10 p.c. = 12,000 6,091 19,939
1914.. 13,957 10 „ ~ 12,000 1,957 21,896
1915.. 15.615 10 „ „ 12,000 3,615 25,511
1916.. 15,571 10 „ „ 12,000 3,571 29,082
1917.. 15,350 10 „ ~ 12,000 3,350 32,432
1918.. 16,633 10 „ „ 12,000 4,633 37,065
1919.. 16,017 10 „ „ 12,000 4,017 41,082
Co. wound up and ss. per share ( £30,000) dis-
tributed in cash.
New co. formed, assets written up and 30,000
fully-paid £1 bonus shares issued.
June,
1921*. 14,424 10 p.c. = 12,500 1,024 2,866
1022.. 17,852 10 15,000 2,852 5,718
*lO months.
The accounts show £18,091 net profit from
trading and £1261 interest from invest-
ments; total, £19,852. The profits given
in the table are after clipping £lOOO for
furniture renewal account and £5OO for
machinery renewals. There is now £l5OO
and £lOOO, respectively, in these reserves,
but whether they are wholly required
for replacements is doubtful. In the
past wear and tear and necessary re-
placements were apparently independently
provided fully from revenue ; £ll,OOO of these
specific reserves which had Accumulated over
many years disappeared in the 1920 recon-
struction. raid capital was then increased
from £120,000 to £150,000 by the issiie of
bonus shares, and £30,000 (ss. per-share)
was distributed in cash. And as £45,000 of
the old capital was transferred profit, the
10 p.c. divs. are very sweet to old holders.
The Metropole has been 0116 Sydney's
most successful residential hotel cos. It
began as a Melbourne boom-time venture,
the property having cost approximately
£154,000, of which £90,759 was borrowed.
The concern was • taken- over by a Syd-
ney co. in 1906 for about £115,000.
Paid capital was £92.507, and £25,000 had
been raised on mortgage. Under capable
management—managing-director- Win. P.
Small has run the co. from the beginning—
the Hotel Metropole did handsomely, and
besides paying Very handsome divs. and re-
turning a substantial portion of capital as a
cash bonus, the co. has; been made very com**
fortable. This compares .latest balance-sheet
figures with those prior to the 1920 recon-
struction.:—* . i ■
Dec., 1919. June, 1921. June,.
Paid capital .. £120,030 £150.000 £.150,000
Reserves. .. 29,082 11,491 _ 14.218-
Sheiifie reserves 17,000 i>UQ . 1,500
Liabilities ..' 5,836 9,4‘62" 12,3'38
Fixed assets .. 119.006 .138,3.07 -142,150
Stork 4.279 .3 660- - 2,996
Cash, investments 49,639 ‘29,54'fi '32,010
At June 30 £32,000-odd "of cash-and invest-
ments was, held. The. property ds nowadays-
free of all encumbrance, ajid .after payment
of. the latest div..; there ■’wasUa : surplus ,of ,
liquid assets over all liabilities of -£16,000,
The North Coast Steam; Navigation
Co. (N.S.W.) : . .... .
Unexplained ;. ,a. '.j.;,
Busi-- Additions Written
ness to. Re- Off Re- Re-
Dec., ■ Profits, serves. -Dividends; serves, serves.
1910.. £17.903 £4,013 8 p.c.= £17,500 £66,575
-1911... 20.710 8. „ 18.629 £3245 65,411
1912.. 24,762 2,789 8 „ 23,4.20 —. 09,5.42
1913.. 27,707 4.466 9 27,000 74,715
1914.. 27,234 1,953,927,000 76.902
1915.. 25,644 2,165" 9 27,000 ‘ 77.,711
1916.. -27,'516 4,008 9 „ „ 27,000 X- 82.325
1917.. 25.416 .4,426 9 27,000 86,167
1918. . 25,945. 3,940 9 ~,, 27,000. 88\0.12 .
1919.. 28.805 22,115 9 „ „ 27,675 111,257
1 920. . 41,468 10,962:10 ~,, 35,664 128,02,3
19217. ■ * 45,373 15,600.10 „". „ 39,471 149,525
1922.. -22,124 3,613 10 10,73:6 155,526
""Latebt results .are for six months only, .the
directors having deeded to balance- at June.
80 instead of at December 81- each year.
The usual 10 p.c. is paid "with =ease-; includ-
ing £3613 dropped into tfie; insurance, and
repairs account—the fleet is covered fully;
with insurance cos. —-£6000 has gone into
reserve after finding £19,736 for shareholders.'
Si the co. has done very well, notwithstand-
ing the directors’ report that trade during
the period was “depressed.” The., feature
of the latest accounts is the increase of the
fleet account from £234,018 to" £250,101. A
new s.s Wollouorbar. to renlace the vessel
lost at Byron Bay 15 months ago, is to be
launched in Glasgow this month, and should
he completed in November. The directors
have also ordered a new 1000-ton cargo
steamer, which is expected to be in commis-
sion before next balance. So cash resources
wUI be deeply cut into during the current
year. The co. is in a good position to finance
its purchases: after payment of the latest
div. it had £165,000 in cash and Government
securities.
* * *
The Ballarat Trustees, Executobs and
Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.) :
Net To ■ _
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1911 . £3739 11 p.c. =£1650 £2089 £18,433
ini. . 3745 11 „ „ 1650 _ 2095 20,528
Transferred to capital, £5OOO 15,528
1913.. 3260 11 p.c. = 2200 1060 16,588
1914.. 3368 11 „ „ 2200 1168 17,756
1915.. 3366 11 „ „ 2200 1166 18,922
1916.. 3182 11 „ „ 2200 982 19.90*
1917 3109 11 ~ ~ 2200 909 20,813
ms:: 3444 ii ;; 2200 1244 22,057
1919.. 4152 11 „ „ 2200 1952 24,009
1920.. 3660 11 „ ~ 2200 1460 20,469
Transferred to capital, £5OOO 20,469
1921.. 4465 11 p.c. = 2750 1715 22,184
1022.. 5309 11 „ „ 3333 1976 24,160
Ballarat’s successful little trustee co. has
been hitting out. Having developed a sub-
stantial business in its home town, a few
years ago the management decided to extend
operations to Geelong and opened a branch
office there. That move was fully justified ;
the value of estates under administration
improved rapidly and better profits were
earned. Thus encouraged, the co. decided
to rub shoulders with metropolitan giants,
and 12 months or so ago a branch was
established in Melbourne. In 10 years the
net increase of trusts has been almost two
millions, and nearly a million of that lias
been the result of activities during the
past 34 years. The total at June 30 last
was £3,636,481. The published accounts
do not disclose the growth of commission
and other earnings—no Profit and Loss
account is published—but. the expansion of
profits shown in the introductory table indi-
cates how shareholders have benefited not-
withstanding increased administration costs
and heavier taxes. There are reserves, of
£24,160 to support and help earn divs.
for £31,250 paid up on scrip. The
co. last year earned slightly more than 10
p.c. on its average funds, and, of course,
some of it. was derived from the invest-
ment of those funds. A considerable por-
tion is in low-interest Government secure
ties, but new funds have gone into 6 and 61
p.c. stock. At June 30 there was £47,140
in cash and public ..securities—though if, by
remote, chance, the co. was forced into mar-
keting some, of the paper it would probably
not bring its full book value. In addition
there were premises and furniture set. down
as worth £10,213. This £57,000 of assets
and £81,250 of uncalled capital is the
guarantee Ballarat Trustees offers to assure
clients that there will be no loss of principal'
by bungling, misinterpretation of instruc-
tions, or worse. v
* * * : * . . * . . V -
Vale of Clwydd Coal and Brick Co-
(N.S.IV.) : ‘
■ To Re- .Re- .
Profits. Dividends. serves", serves.-"
June, 1913.. £6,364 ’lO p.ea= £3OOO £3,364 £15,476:
Dec., 1913. . 6,429 10 „ „ 3000 3.429 18,905
June, 1914.. 6,316 ;10 „ „ 3000 3,816 22,221.
' iiin-sh'Bonus from special profits, £7500.
Dee., 1914 .. . 4,414 10 p.c.= 3000 1,414 23,635
•June, 'ms.. 3,396 10 3000 396, 24,031
’’ - > 80nu5,124 „• „ 7500 1
•. r■: - r Dropped out of Reserves, £1747 J 1 ’
Dec., 1915.- 2,858 -10 pic.—. 3000 14,642
June, 1916:;> 2,917 10 „„ ■ - 3000 .4- 14.559
- “ Written 61T renewals,reserve, £1570 12,989
Dec., 1916 V. 2.63 4 10 p.c.~ 3000 12,623
June, 1917 V 2,055 10. 3000 ••'-**- a 2,678
Dec.,- 1917.'. 2,905 10 ~ „ 3000 -r-- 12,483
. . . Written off renewals reserve, £303 12,180
June, 1918 ;. 2,978 10 n.e.=V 3000 , . 12,158
Dec., 1918,. 4,170 10 ~ ‘3OOO 1,170 13,328
-June, 1919.. 4,867 10 „;. 300*0 ) 10
Special cash bonus, £l5OO J
Dec., 1919.. 6,098 15p:e-.= 4500 1,598 15,293'
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 .. 293
June, 1920.. 12,923 10,p ; c.=-3750 9,173 9,466
Dec., 1920.. 17.559 10 " 3750 13,809 23,275
Reserves capitalised,.""£ls, 000 .. 8,275
June, 1921.. 11,100 20 p.c.= 0900 2,100 10,375
Dec., 1921.. 7,426 10 4500 2,926 13,301
Dropped out of reserves, £110.9 net) nar,
.Time, 1922. ; . 4,393 10 p:e:= 4500. . ~ J
What was the precise net profit for the past
six months is not ascertainable from the pub-
lished ' accounts. During- the half-year £4109
dropped out of the taxation'reserve, but por-
tions of the amount extracted; appear to have
been credited to Mother reserves : £2OOO has
dropped into div.-equalisatiOn account, and
£lOOO into an insurance fund. The profits
shown in the table are those acknowledged
by the management after" allowances had
been made for depreciation and for contin-
gencies. Another view of happenings during
the half-year is given by this comparison:—
• . " t)ec. v 1921. June, 1922..
Liquid assets ;. £65,674 £75,659
Liabilities .. 2,031 9,946
Surplus liquid assets.. £63,643 £65,713
The div. for the December term took £4500.
‘ so the past half’s operations added £6570 to
the liquid surplus. That amount less what-
ever was a fair-allowance for depreciation
‘would be the term’s actual net profit. So
the co. did not do nearly so well as in recent
half-years. But they were assisted by excep-


Scientific Glassware, Crucibles, Scales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-mill 3, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros..
Ltd., 0 Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request.— Advt.
* * # *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Hoofing, it
is made from best long-fibred wool fplt, and under-
goes a special process which makes if fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
* * * *
Satisfactory service under any and all conditions,
and in all kinds of climate, is the best proof of
the worthiness of Pioneer Wood Pipe. Although
of comparatively recent adaptation to modern uses,
its success has passed all predictions, and for sturdy
durability and unlooked-for economy in upkeep has
proved invaluable to progressive engineers. A com-
prehensive booklet explains in detail the advantages
of using wood pipe instead of other types of conduits.
It will be sent to you upon request. Australian
Mood Pipe Co., Ltd., Bums Bay Road, Lane Cove,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * « *
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries.— Advt.
* * * •
Horse Power. —Use Australia’s best—Pender’s
Australian-made Horse Shoes, Nails and Rasps—and
get full power from your horses. Prices and all
particulars, John Pender, Brunswick, Vic.— Advt.
* -* * *
Inventors. — Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & llassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patentß.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patente
obtained. ConusoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Writs
tis for Inventors' Guide.—Advt.
» 1 • *
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Svdney. ’Phone
1195 City.:— Advt.
Simon-CarveS, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractois lor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants :
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc!
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * • •
“1921 Models’’—“National’’ suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quav
(East). — Advt.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozeile, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
.Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing no to 30m. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
ThePadfic Cable Board
BEST ROlj.Tfc TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up tqt midnight 6n Saturday for delivery in
Great, Britain .and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
- : Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain ... 3/- : ),C
New Zealand.. 4Jd. ;
( 9(1. (minimum
1 15/-, 20 words)
Canada 2/4 1/2
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/S 1/2 to2/4
j 7d. (minimum
I 11/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil. Cjjili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mar be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
281 Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346
• (8 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St.. Melbourne.
Tel. Central -_Ch4
■T, MTT.WUID, Manager in the Pacific,
261 George Street, SYDNEY,
r
&
0OOBD&SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
ft,
DT
m
Swift .V Company Ltd.. Aiimi rsiliisinn A (rent*. i 6 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
13
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers* Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGjGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane'.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
tional earnings.: (1) special divs. from the
Litbgow Coai Association, which markets
all western N. S. Wales coal; and (2) an
active market for small coai which had
been accumulating at the mine for some
years. However, the term’s profit was evi-
dently quite ample to give shareholders their
usual 10 p.c., which is a very handsome re-
turn on a paid capital which is one-half
bonus scrip. The co. is nowadays very com-
fortable ; after distribution of the latest div.
two-thirds of the paid capital of 190,000
was represented by surplus liquid assets.
* •* * *
"Quidnunc”: The true inwardness of the
mysterious movements in connection with
Australia’s metal-mining industry may soon
be revealed. Its disclosure will be awaited
with much interest by the smaller cos. and indi-
vidual nnneowners, who already profess much
a]arm at what seems to them like a prospect
oi total extinction. Despite the secrecy
which is observed, there can be no doubt
that the propaganda work of Broken Hill
interests in favor of an export duty on ore
is part of a scheme to cioate a mammoth
monopoly, which, by getting Australia’s pro-
duction of zju: and lead under its control,
will be able to dominate the world’s markets. If
what is openly taiKed of on Change and
in club eventuates it will be Collins-street’s
biggest achievement in high finance and
clever manipulation, The basis of the
scheme is to get command of the enormous
stocks of zinc concentrates purchased by the
British Government under the war-tune con-
tract. This agreement provided for the pur-
chase of the whole of the output of the Zinc
Producers’ Assoc., and it has still seven years
to run. As to the stipulated purchase
price, members of the Association are
solemnly pledged not to disclose it,
but that it is not above ruling rates
may be assumed from the statement
made last week by the secretary to the
Board of Trade that “Australian concen-
trates are being supplied to the zinc smelt-
ing works on special terms to enable them
to carry on. The loss on the Australian con-
centrates delivered in Britain for tne six
months ended June 30 was £3 14,5. 8d per
ton. ’ Manifestly such a competitor as this
in the field would not suit the book of the
intended manipulators; it would never do to
have a monopolistic holder who might at any
time sell at a loss, but who would never
think of restricting sales so as to increase
the price to the consumer. Even if he did,
it would be of no advantage to the
producer. Equally manifest must ,t be that
the best, process for sickening the unwilling
monopolist of a burdensome responsibility
is to play on “economic expediency” and
induce unsuspecting officialdom to enter into
these losing transactions. It is a case of
artless simplicity being used as a cover for
the most artful subtlety—incite the British
Government to carry on this unprofitable
business, get them tired of it and then, at a
discount of, say, £4 per ton, repurchase
material delivered at the centre of world’s
distribution; at the same time, if thought
desirable, agreeing to the cancellation of
the contract. Then, bring the orthodox
pressure to bear in Australia, and get a
thumping export duty put' on crude ores
and concentrates to prevent outsiders sell-
ing their product to foreigners, and. presto'
the trick is done. Taking the Board of
Trade secretary’s statement as correct, it mat’
be assumed that the combine has been put-
ting in some fine work in London in con-
junction with the recently-formed British
Metal Co., which, it is obv}ops, is an
auxiliary of the Australian organisation
* * * *
North Mt. Farrell (Tas.) enters a pro-
test :
It is quite evident from the recent remarks of
the managing-director of the Associated Smelters
that little concern is shown by that co. for the silver-
lead mining industry of Australia outside of Broken
Hill. The lead-smelting industry is essentially a
secondary industry in every sense of the term,
depending for its existence on the mining industry,
yet Mr. Fraser would penalise the whole of the
mining industry so that his own co. may flourish.
Nearly all the Broken Hill cos. are bound by agree-
ment to smelt their concentrates at Port Pirie, and
owing to the higher costs of smelting a large number
of the mines remain closed. It is a well-known fact
that some of the cos. have sought relief from the
smelting agreement into which they were forced
(hiring the war. This has been refused, and the
B.H.A.S. now proposes an export-duty to strengthen
its position. The pregnant remarks recently uttered
. by the Junction North chairman have not been
answered with any conviction by the co., and the
proposal of the British co., although ,a shareholder
in the Port Pirie smelters, to break away from the
Association tells its own tale.
Mr.' Fraser’s remarks regarding the possibility -of
the price of lead being forced down if the concen-
trates go to Germany for smelting are more humor-
ous than prophetic. Possibly Mr. Fraser has in
mind the fact that lower returning charges mean
a greater number of profitable mines with a corres-
ponding increase in the world’s output of lead. The
facts are that at the present time the British Metal
Corporation is endeavoring to control the price of
lead, and it is freely reported that the Associated
Smelters is in close touch with that corporation.
The lead contained in the concentrates exported would
not be controlled by the Corporation, and this is •
where the shoe pinches.
Turning to the silver-lead mining industry outside
of Broken Hill, one feels constrained to ask what
interest the B.H.A.S. has shown in the small
producers of Queensland, N. S. Wales and Tasmania
since its inception. Practically none. It was pre-
pared to allow the Sulphide Corporation have this
business—an opportunity which was made full use
of when it was impossible to make shipments over-
seas—but now that the works at Cockle Creek are
closed, giving the Broken Hill Associated Smelters
a monopoly of local smelting as far as N. S. Wales
and Tasmania are concerned, the chairman would
have an export duty imposed so as to force the
outside producers to smelt at Port Pirie, quite regard-
less of the interests of those cos. The Broken Hill
Associated Smelters has every opportunity of buy-
ing the concentrates, but evidently cannot do so,
and is prepared to request the Federal Government
to force these small producers to subsidise its indus-
try. No doubt the producers concerned will see to
it that this extraordinary suggestion is not carried
out.
The big Belgian zinc co., of Vielle-Mon-
tagne, lost £225,000 last year. It produced
00,000 urns specter, tons or zine-
oxide, and delivered 45,139 tons from the
rolling nulls. i,osses were due to a sudden
strike, and to the jo.nt purchase of Broken
Mill zinc concentrates from tne British Gov-
ernment. The directors describe the Board
of Trade contract and the British plan to
ensure the continuity of reduction work in
the United Kingdom “as a new event of a
nature to disturb the equilibrium of the
centres of zinc-production.’’ The contract to
buy spelter from Risdon (Tas.) is also
given a dig. _ln spite of hign wages and a
market restricted by the low purchasing
power of nations, the Belgians intend to
shove the works ahead.
* * ' * #
Jack Hartrick still has good ore in the
bottom of his prospecting snaft at North
I ingaii, and Since it was riartnck who
packed on Edna iVtay as a good tiling from
the day it was ollered to old iiTed Tituss, ins
word goes strong in Melbourne. But tne
siump m scrip tuere revealed mat there are
no such rare old bulls as Fred Keats or
Tolhurst behind the new-comer, (Joiiins-
street is as shy of tne show as it was at first
of Edna May, for it burnt its fingers hominy
over punting Westonia and fr.voiLng arter
H. J. Daly at Hampton Plains. iShould
North Fingall be a mine, what a carpeting
there will be in 8., M. and Co. s London office !
Tears ago North Fingaii was in threat Fin-
gall ground, and the latter d.d some pros-
pecting there with no success. Early this
year prospector McGillivray and partner
took out 6 tons for 220 z. This ore was
obtained from a hole (now the Discovery
suai't) su.uk on the iode to a depth of loit.
The first sft. of sinking was on poor-grade
stuff, but the remaining Bft. provided 6 tons
of 3Joz. dirt. On this Hartrick bought the
mine for £5OO and about 2000 shares. On
assuming control he commenced deepening
the Discovery shaft, and though at first he
found prospects a bit blue, down 40ft. rich
ore was uncovered. Although 4oz. values
have been reported, no idea of the quantity
or pay ore likely to be available has been
ascertained. Driving from the shaft will
soon commence, and some light will then be
thrown on the extent of rich ore. The lode
has been disclosed 200 ft. fiorth of the Dis-
covery shaft, and samples from this have so
far been on the low side. It is intended later
ltd unwater an old shaft which had been
sunk 800 ft. and do some developmental
work from it. North Fingall is in a good
locality, and the lode on the surface can be
traced for hundreds of feet, so, in a general
way, the possibilities are good.
* * # ,
The lamentation of G. P. Doolette over the
dead-end reached by Gt. Boulder can be
understood. He took the show to London 28
years ago to boat into a co. of 175,000 £1
shares. Kalgooriie wasn’t piping hot then,
and John Waddington, as promoter, had to
drag £7OOO out of his pocket to make up the
needed £30,000 working capital. Under-
writers also had to take up 00 p.c. of the
float. It was amazing luck for them, for
despite a setback to ss. a share it was not
long before the riches of the Golden Mile put
scEp up to £2O and made Doolette and YVad-
dington snug for life. Then capital was
divided into 2s. shares, bringing them within
reach of every mining puriter. Altogether
£12,600,000 of gold has <’ame out of the
favine, and £6,000,000 of profit divided.
Doolette and Waddington are the only two
originals connected with the float left to tell
the story. The mine has still a kick or two
left. Hamilton reports 192,000 tons of ore
in reserve containing 142,8700 z., or
14.87dwt. per ton, and on last year’s milling
record the mine can last two years. There
is always the chance that Hamilton will find
new blocks of ore to keep the pot boiling.
* * *
The Orinda lease, at Ora Banda (W.A.),
oyer which Associated Northern has taken a
six months’ option (purchase consideration
OilvO), bqs every appearance of becoming
a mine. Three parcels totalling 168 tons
have been milled for 2300 z., and the yields
improve as the shaft is deepened. Work is
now down 90ft., showing 2oz. values. Pay
ore about 4ft. wide and promising indica-
tions are the best YY 7 estralia has shown- for
a long time.
The Freney-Kimberley oil-bore at Mt.
Wynne is flown < Oft. in hard country. A
second boring plant will be in operation on
Freney’s area next month, thus placing the co.
well ahead of other Westralian oil ventures.
The oil market is lifeless, although a demand
seems to have set in for Australian Petro-
leum Development shares. The A.P.D. con-
trols about 100,000 sq. miles of country.
The accounts of Gt. Boulder No. 1 for 1921
show a debit balance of £1027. The year’s
prospecting failed to find anything of im-
portance, and nothing has been unearthed
since.
* * » »
Daylesford has been given fresh life by the
old Ajax getting a new run of stone in shal-
low ground. It lies east of the old makes,
and being a new shoot has possibilities. Of
course, the Ballai-at crowd who run Dayles-
ford are boosting the market, especially as
they have some of the old hands caught short
of scrip. The old cry of a "new, permanent,
payable shoot” is yelled while the screw is
being applied. In the natural course of
events there has to be a new float or two, so
Buchanan’s old Central mine, which turned
out. £300.000 of gold from 83,000 tons, is
dragged on to the stocks for repairs. JLying
next door to the Ajax, it. has an interest in
the Ajax formations. But if it promises
so well why has not Ajax gobbled it V Ajax
North also intends to get going at No. 5
north to hunt after something new. Lar-
sen’s last yield there went about Sdwt. To
a past-master such as he in keeping costs
low, that average spells profits. W. Las-
celles has also been able to get cash for a
Daylesford outside show near the old Wheal
Dorey. That ex-champion in the hands of
Bell's shin-de-cat has hopped on to nice
makes at shallow depths, and so given a
chance for the placing of next-door blocks.
* *- X »
South-east Gippsland is receiving attention
from the oil-hunters. ,1. L. Strevens and
iUurray Scott have been examining Holey
Plains, near Sale, and although no indica-
tions of oil, bitumen or gas are claimed,
the area is declared to possess pronounced
geological features which are stated to war-
rant trial-boring. So Sale Oil Exploration
Co. in 5000 shares of £1 each is being
floated in Arthur Pearson’s uflice. The ven-
dors take 400 fully-paids and £2OO cash
for 500 acres, and the public is invited to
subscribe 600 shares to get boring-plant into
action.
+ *’•#*
Bendigo Amalgamated’s Wandiligong pros-
pecting ihow has been a great disappoint-
ment. Less than a month ago the official
report was that developments “can be re-
garded as quite satisfactory.” and 2oz. pros-
pects from one of the drives were mentioned.
A trial crushing of 35 tons yielded only
6£dwt. per ton. There is no necessity to
go afield from Bendigo for stone of that
low value. So far B.A.G. has had no suc-
cess in its outside prospecting ventures.
* * * *
The Frederick, in the Billy Hughes group,
at Normanby, looks to have about the most
promising prospects of any individual go’d-
show in the northern State at present. Re-
cently the lode in the eastern level made
4ft. thick, and assays for that width aver-
aged 2J-oz. Although several of the shows
in this co.’s string have given richer assays
they have all been small, but 4ft. of 2oz.
stone, if it lasts any distance, will make the
field very interesting. It will also induce
a flow of cash into the field with which to
test some of the promising, but as yet un-
tried, lode outcrops. Except for its inacces-
sibility and the rough country, the field looks
an inviting spot for the happy-go-lucky pros-
pector.
* * * *
The effort to connect with payable wash
at a new site on the Black Ridge deep-lead,
near Clermont (Q.L has petered out. The
party went down 390 ft., struck some gravel
carrying gold in the last 20ft., but as the
stuff was not very rich and the ground was
shifting and needed expensive timbering, it
was deemed advisable to get out while the
going was good. They are now reported to
be trying their luck at Christmas Hill. Less
than 20 vears ago the Black Ridge and sur-
rounding’ leads had over 1000 men working
the shallow ground. It was easy to get the
gold then, and some decent rises were made
by working miners. As the cover became
heavier the field gradually petered out.
» * * *
A promising find of fine-grained white
marble is reported from the Warwick (Q.)
district, and is claimed to be better than
tTlam. An officer from the Mines Dept,
has gone up to see if it bulks as good a
quality as the samples sent down by the
owner. Tjlam has slumped this year, the
reason given being that the “quality is not
there. Two southern experts wanting high-
class marble were recently on the field, but
turned down a couple, of options owing to
coarseness in the grain. There is an enor-
mous marble area at Ulam, and apparently
the quality is very variable.
« . ' # » «
The State Colliery at Baralaba, in the
Dawaon Valley, had the biggest output
(11.860 tons') of any of the Central Queens-
land collieries during the first six months
of this year. That does not reflect the re-
spective merits of the coal mined, since the
central railways have Hobson’s choice in
picking tneir fuel, though last vear they
agitated for a return to Blair Athol. Some
months ago the running men were up in
arms against it, owing to clinker troubles,
and in any case it is a difficult fuel even when
mixed with lighter coal. In the dip recently
put down it is reported that there is better
quality than any of the coal previously
mined. There are about 60 men working
when a strike is not called on.
* * * #
From J. L. Strevens:—
Except in the case of proven and producing oil-
fields large areas for prospecting are necessary (B.
20/7/’22). In virgin oil territory, where the source
of oil may be miles away from an indication of its
presence, large areas for survey work, prospecting
and subsequent elimination of unfavorable portions
are necessary. Under the old system of selecting
lands without geological and engineering advice,
tracts up to 00,000 acres in extent were given by
State and Federal Governments in the U.S.A., but
areas became gradually restricted to smaller and
detached locations where geological conditions were
favorable to the strike of oil in commercial quanti-
ties. In young and virgin oil country we have such
concessions as the following: Angola, 70,000 sq.
miles to the Sinclair Oil Corporation (America),
from the Portuguese Government; Czecho-Slovakia,
the whole of the oil rights of the State to the
Standard Oil group; Colombia, millions of aefes of
land have been acquired for oil-pruspeeting by the
Royal Dutch. Anglo-Persian and certain American
groups; Madagascar, 1500 sq. miles to a S’African co.
In the world’s younger oil-fields the Mexican Eagle
Co. holds freehold and leasehold oil lands in Mexico
to the extent of 2,000,000 acres, and a British-
Canadian group has rights from the Peruvian Govern-
ment over 25,000,000 acres.
D’Arcy and his associates, in the early days of
Persian oil prospecting, held rights over half that
country. Woukl the Anglo-Persian be what it is
to-day if he had been allowed only a few thousand
acres ?
As it stands at present the licensing of enormous
areas in Westralia and the N.T. is absurd, chiefly
because of the country taken two-thirds is geologi-
cally impossible for oil, and of the remainder a
small portion only can be reasonably expected to
prove commercial oil pools during the tenure allowed
the licensee. Millions of acres of possible oil ldnda
on which licenses to search have been granted will
not be prospected for many years unless they happen
to be in proximity to an area which becomes or has
indications of becoming a producer.


The Writer who takes up Art:.—
‘AW W layman, note the vvonder/bl coneep ion a.
exquisite technique, the sensitive draughts mansWip,
the revelation of sox* l V
" How per/»«+ly the poetic suggestion
of grief's conveyed by tb» Mtle doggie
* S«-«- tbe oobk deco ration in ' f,,& •
•• Yes, but what does it mwo ? "
- on that’s nott.l»S my dear chap, nothing. Think
o/ the artist's great individuality .
*AW '. 'What joyous painting, *
" Isrjt there too much paint ?
“ Wo, indeed. It demonstrates the delicious,
gaiety o/' the true artistic temperament. "
“Note the grace, the irresistible /oree,-W
charm of Color."
* Is'nt it rather over-done ?" %
* Ab.no no. That reveals the tremendous
vitality of tfce painters character."
11 seems to me to be a little too er— —,
*Ab my poor wowserish /riend , you dobt •
understand • See bow we may trace in it
ike solution o/ every problem of li/e."
“ Ah', Note the divine uplift /or mankind in this.' w
* Er*—yes ? -
v See the yClexibility ,tWe lyric expression «s^
that line alone ."
*Oh d>is is superb !. WONDi—ergul ’.'.l "
" How ? * , . ...
11 Why . this genius has made his ex juistTe
etching on a piece o/* jam tin and used
black boot polish To print it. u
£r - Who is #>*t curious thing by ? *
of humour parvbdmj tba CO lor-
Ab.tbe poetry- The ra/inemeot of this
jrast Artist .
* lsnt it upside down ?
'* Certainly hot! AW, what a stupendous, voWab
a irastcvly protest against hj«re realism *
11 AV> ! Composihoh ! And win at wonder/ul
C. imposition . Saa bow all the lines lead
ibe eye down "to this littii Jem axure sea .
the Layman (Very • Oh y«S 1 SC« it" poW .
Poor old Vela-Sguer: C-ould only give. US & map
Vkibo might step out o/ t*>a..cs>.y)V*>S any minute.
No cv individual Q.Y-pre&sion, Is ttiat the "term?
No color. No fi.nythir>£J» Maf« truth/^b?
WHY SOME ARTISTS TAKE UP WRITING.
With apologies to J. H. M. Abbott (Rod Page 3/8/’22) for taking him seriously.


Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. .7. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, has now
taken over the management of the Hotel
Carlton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. Levy is a well-
known French chef, whose cuisine is
famous among visitors to Sydney.
Registered address, Cable, Radio or
Telegraph: “HOCAR,” Sydney.
NOURISHING AND APPETISING
EXTRA
QUALITY.
xnoxs
'nna
EXTRA
QUALITY.
EQUAL TO THE BEST IMPORTED
Brewed and Bottled by
TOOTH and CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
9
A
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1 :i2l Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fullv explaining our
free trial offer.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Two generations of N. S. Wales school-
boys will mourn the loss of W. H. Savigny,
who died on Sunday night. “Sav.,” as he
was affectionately known, joined the staff
of Sydney Grammar as English classics
master 25 years ago. He was born in Tas-
mania in IS(JS, and took an honors degree
at Oxford. He coached the Grammar eights
for years, and his home at Burwood w T as a
boarding-house for the country boys of the
school he loved.
REG CLEMENTS, boss of Dalgety's Ship-
ping, and one of Melbourne's best-known
business men.
Tom Bright is the first of the lawyers
to break under the strain of the Marathon
divorce case now running in Adelaide. He is
in the veteran class, and has a son acting
as counsel for another of the four co-res.
His health hasn’t been good for some time,
and he will have to take a long rest.
“Tooraloo”: Acting-Judge Brissenden
(N.S.W.) enlisted in the ranks, and was
one of the most popular men in the Kiama
A.I.F. camp, where the spectacle of the
K.C. io dungarees pushing a’ wheel-
barrow in “camp fatigue was common, His
humor always tickled his mates, and it is
not the least of his attributes at the Bar.
Once, during the hearing of a case, the
Supreme Court was undergoing repairs, and
a sudden, ear-splitting, raspy screech came
from the roof. The Judge mildly inquired
what was the matter, and someone illumina-
tively volunteered that “there was a man
up there.” “Whatever is he doing?” said
the Bench. “Sounds as if he might be
filing an affidavit, y’r Honor,” remarked
Brissenden.
E. P. Carr, who goes on 12 months’ leave
pror to retiring, is the doyen of Australian
bank managers. In July, 1863, he joined
the Australian Joint Stock Bank (now con-
tinued in the Australian Bank of Com-
merce), and thus at the end of his leave
will have served the bank for three-score
years.
J. G. Jenkins, the Yankee bookseller who
became Premier of S. Aus. and in 1905
got the job of Agent-General for that State,
has stuck to England ever s’nee. He has
been hon. treasurer of the British Imperial
Council of Commerce since it started in
1912, and was recently elected treasurer of
the London Chamber of Commerce. 'T'he
Royal Colonial In-
stitute regards him
as one of its heads,
and .he is some
sort of panjandrum
in Masonry. A
few months back
he toured America
with members of
the London C. of
C., and as ch ; ef
spokesman for the
part y staggered
the natives bv the
way he had re-
placed the old
nasal twang Avith
the genuine John
Bull accent.
Colonel MUR-
DOCH, of Sydney,
who has refused
to apologise to
Allen Taylor in
connection with
the Town Hall
row.
Died the other day at Singleton (N.S.W.)
John Wilkinson, of Glen Rock, the man who
shot Joe Governor, one of the two Breelong
black brothers who “went bush” in 190(3.
Wilkinson and his brother stalked a camp
in a gully, and,finding Joe Governor there, John
called on him to surrender; but tile outlaw
tried to seize the rifle levelled at him. The
weapon went off harmlessly, and Governor
bolted, only to be brought down with a
bullet in the head when he had travelled
nearly 300 yards. That was Wilkinson’s
story, and he should have known. However,
envious rivals round about Cassilis, Mer-
riwa, etc., maddened him to the day of his
death by saying he had shot the dangerous
a bo. at the safest possible time —when he
was asleep.
C. 11. Wickens, who was Census Super-
visor, gets Knibbs’s job of Commonwealth
Statistician. He is under 50 years of age,
trails F.I.A.L. and A.S.A. after his name,
and for some years was on the staff of the
Government Statistician in Westralia. The
new berth is worth £lOOO a year.
The late “Admiral Dumaresq was an Aus-
tralian of the third generation, born at
Tivoli, Rose Bay, Sydney. The name was
introduced to N. S. Wales bv three military
brothers, who came from England in the
middle ’twenties with a sister (Elizabeth),
who was the wife of Ralph Darling, Gover-
nor from 1825 till 1831. The three were
the children of Col. John Dumaresq, who
was buried in Worcester Cathedral after
having served in the American War. The
eldest son, Henry, became Chief Commis-
sioner of the A. A. Co. in N. S. Wales, and
the second, William John, got the job of
engineer for roads and bridges. William
married a daughter of Alexander McLeay,
and was the grandfather of the Admiral. A
third son, Edward, of the Royal Engineers,
was, in 1826, appointed Surveyor-General
of Van Diemen’s Land, and di°d there when
he was about 100. Governor Darling, Eliza-
beth’s husband, left Australia, unwept and
understood to be in disgrace at the Colonial
Office: but, though N. S. Wales was his last
appointment in civil life, in 1835 he was
created a “Grand Cross of Hanover” and
a Knight Bachelor, and in 1841 he was
made a General. He went out at Brighton
when he was 80.
“Bags” : Alex. Graham, a past president, at
the annual guzzle of the Commercial Tra-
vellers’ Association in Sydney the other
night, oomplained that Governments always
overlooked the Association when it came
to making appointments to the TTnner House.
Curious that he should himself have over-
looked J. F. Coates, M.L.C.. who, as a
working “traveller,” was among the batch
of 16 tipped into the House of Slumber by
the Storey Government about a year ago.
Coates, by the way, does his craft proud as
a. speaker: he is the wittiest and most in-
cisive performer in this line to reach the
Council for years past.
Commercial Adelaide was half-masted at
the cabled news of the sudden death of P. D.
Haggart while visiting London. He was
a quiet Scot who came to Australia in 1895
and soon became secretary of the Adelaide
Steamship Co. Later- he was a director of
that and other kindred companies, and a
warden of S.A. Marine Board. Only 55 at
the end.
“Ajax”: Jethro Brown, president of the
S. Aus. Industrial Court, who will be out
of work if the Barwell Government carries
its bill for the abolition of the court, is a
writer with an international reputation,
though he looks anything but what he is.
His frail little figure is generally enclosed
in a big, flapping coat with a trail of cigar-
ette-ash on the lapel, and his short-sighted-
ness gives him an air of peering benevolence.
In the days when he was a law professor
at the Adelaide ’Varsity, two “freshers”
looking for the Professor’s room, hailed a
little man whom they took for a janitor and
demanded peremptorily, “I say, where will
we find old Brown?” The little man drew
hrmself im. “I, gentlemen,” he answered,
“am ‘old Brown.”’
“Sir Spen” : Billy Ross, who was born on
the Red Rover, outside Sydney Heads, 106
years ago, is still going strong—or, rather,
he was until he got a fall the other day
which brought him a bed in Singleton Hos-
pital. Five years back he tried to enlist, and
when turned down he wanted to stousli the
recruiting-officer, whom he blamed for his
rejection.. Ross declares that he has smoked
a pipe since he was 11, and has imbibed
nips of hard stuff pretty regularly between
draws.
Archibald Collins died the other day in
Adelaide at just under 70. English by
birth, he studied long ago under Leighton
and Millais, exhibited at the Academy
and elsewhere, and then took up teaching,
He came to Australia 23 years back because
of his health, and has been teaching and
painting steadd.v ever since, being for some
years head of the School of Art and School
of Design. Collins was a good painter, but
a better master. Heysen was a pupil of his.
“Beamish”: Littleton Groom, ' Federal
Attorney-General, has achieved his heart’s
desire by becoming a C. of E. lay canon. His
ingrained Anglicanism has been fostered by
his wife, who comes from a deeply religious
family, and it has been the little man’s habit
to footle on dim social subjects at the Mel-
bourne Chapter House. A while back lie
was talking in his earnest way before a
small, dazed audience, which included, in
addition to myself, a long, saturnine-looking
archdeacon and his wife, who discussed the
orator in far-reaching undertones. After
Groom had delivered a particularly hoary
platitude, I heard the lady say: “What sort
of a canon do you think he’ll make, dear?”
“I don’t know,” answered her property,
bleakly, “but he sounds as if he’ll be a
smooth bore.”
The Tipperary giant, Patrick O’Connor,
who measured 7ft. 4in., was buried at Rook-
wood (N.S.W.) on July 31. He had served in
the Soudan, the Boer War and in the recent
European War, yet no Last Post was
sounded over his grave.
Melbourne vet. C. Cherry, who was sent
by. the Federal Government, when George
Reid was llign Commissionering, to make sure
the right kind of meat reached the Briton’s
mouth, has just got back to Australia after
a dozen years of it. Cherry had a much
bigger job piled on to him during the war,
including the examination of all perishables,
and general supervision of our trade with
Britain. Afterwards, Australia House was
over-run with people competing fiercely for
the right to handle these matters, and before
Cherry knew what they were at, three
departments were all trying to do his job for
him, with the approval of successive reorgan-
ising Ministers of the Hughes, Cook and
Pearce brand. The wonder is that a man
of his independence didn’t get out of it long
ago.
“T.R.H.”: I’ve just received a letter from
a relative of the late Tom Gallon. Gallon was
devoted to his brother, a cripple and a victim of
melancholia, and did all his writing at home
to be constantly near him. One day an
urgent telegram from a publisher took the
author into London, and he returned at night
to find that his brother had committed sui-
cide. Gallon never wrote a line afterwards,
and went out himself a few months later.
Passed out the other day, Glyndwr
Whalan, who commenced business as a
printer about 50 years ago in Bathurst
(N.S.W.). One hundred years back.
Charles Whalan was settled at Prospect, and
in the early ’forties two sons, Charles and
James, crossed the Blue Mountains and
establ sbed at Rullock Flat (now Oberon)
tbe Glyndwr Steam Sawmills, where the
printer-to-be was born in 1847. Charles,
his father, was the reputed discoverer of
Jenolan Caves. Glvndwr Whalan printed
and published at least one little volume,
“Australian Stories Retold,” bv W H
interest (1887), a book of historic
“T.R.H.”: When I first knew Richard le
Gallienne (B. 27/7/’22) he used to
write occasional leaders for the London
evening Star, at that time hotly radi-
cal and run by Prof. Stuart, M.P., who
married the daughter of “Mustard” Coleman.
VVhen Gordon Hewart, now Lord Chief
•Justice of England and a peer, went from
OSCAR
SEPPELT , a biy
man in the Austra-
lian wine industry.
Oxford to join
the staff of
the St Ar, he
shared Le Galli-
enne’s diggings in
“literary Brixton.”
Richard left Lon-
don’s Inky Way
and went to New
York, . which is
still his headquar-
tel* s, where h e
writes a good deal
of verse and prose
and is not a
stranger to the
divorce court. A
young brother,
Frede r i c, who
used to write for
the Sydney Sun
in its early days
—passed out ‘in
Melbourne a few
months ago after
returning from the
European earth-
quake.
In recognition of his 47 years’ service, the
Yic. Government gave S. C. Brittingham,
chief architect of the Public Works Depart-
ment, four months full pay (£300) when he
retired on July 31. Had the Ministry pro-
vided him "with full staff of progressive
men, capable of designing State buildings at
moderate cost, he would have stayed on for
another three years; but now he is going
into private practice, and will leave the
Government stroke to those whose ideas of
time seem to have an Einsteinish bend in the
middle.
Pip Tok”: Among the recently-retired
permanent officers is Major Albert Cooke-
Russell, formerly of the Scots Guards.
Kitchener gave him the job of gym-
nasium-instructor to the Egyptian Army,
and he collected a D.C.M. in the
Omdurman campaign. lie went through the
Boer War with the Guards, and saw ser-
vice in France as second in command of
the 36th Battalion. In the old days he was
in the (then) Queensland Defence Force,
but later bossed the gym. at Sydney
of E. Grammar School. He re-
joined the permanent forces when compul-
sory training came in, and held the job of
Supervisor of Physical Training in N.S.W.
He lias been doing his bit latterly as a pri-
vate in Le Gay Brereton’s No Hat Brigade.
Another Sydney woman who has topped
her century is Mrs. Margaret Falconer, who
now lives at Stanmore, is the mother of ten
children, a grand- and great-grandmother
numerous times, and has one great-great-
grandchild. She arrived over 70 years ago
from Scotland, with her husband, who got a
job, on the first strip of railway opened in
N.S.W. He was for a time station-master-
at Homebush,. and later had charge of New-
town for 30 years.
“Pick”: George Maryott (B. 3/S/’22) L
not the only remaining Crimean War veteran
in N. S. Wales. Tom Johnson, 85 years
young, who still follows the plough on his
farm at Bleak Point, near Bibbenluke,
Monaro, served on the Furious at the siege
of Sebastopol.. His recollections of the way
the troops, in summer uniforms, perished
with cold in the dead of winter, while ship-
loads of warm clothing lay undelivered in the
harbor.. and his details of the decimation of
the ship’s crews from cholera, would fill
a most unoleasant book.
“Bret Vane”: “T. 0.1.” (B. 3/8/’22) can
add a fe r w names to his list of bygone legal
dwellers on the Elizabeth-King-street corner.
One of the old houses sheltered, at one time,
W. M. Hughes, now Prime Minister of the
Commonwealth; W. A. Holman, sometime
Premier of the Ma State; D. R. Hall,
Attorney-General, etc., in the Holman Minis-
try and nearly N.S.W. Agent-General; and
,T. A. Browne, Equity pleader and now
M.L.C. W.M.11. was, at the time, chairman
of the Navigation Commission, and in his
snare moments edited the Waterside
Workers’ Gazette. Later, the Commission
moved to the cushioned rooms of the Com-
monwealth offices that have since given place
to the gaunt frame of the lordly Astor build-
ing in Macquarie-street.
“Betel Knut”: “Tiberias” has no school-
teacher on his list (B. 13/7/’22) of the pre-
war jobs of Australia’s 65 V.C.’s. I’d like
to know how he classed Captain F. H.
McNamara, who formerly drew his cheque
from the Vic. Education Department.
THE PHENOMENON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The discovery that Mr. Barnes started life in
Australia with ninepence has set the papers busily
searching for others who rose from humble begin-
nings.”— Cable.
A shilling was the capital that started
Yon paunihy owner of a thousand cows;
He left his native England heavy-hearted,
And now a tall belltopper shades his brows.
The statement for a moment shook the mob —
It seemed a great' investment for a bob.
But quickly died the wonder it excited.
Another hero stepped into the van,
Whose patli with wealth and honor now was lighted,
Though from a single tram-fare he began.
Yes, lie had only tuppence in his hand,
When first he stood upon Australian land!
The profit of Australian pioneering
Seemed thus established beyond any doubt.
'Three splendid persons in the public’s hearing
Had stated how they put all want to rout,
And with a rapid motion, blithe and bold,
Out of the wilderness had gathered gold.
And now a fourth great game- and fortune-gettc
Came forward with a claim that seemed the best.
His pride no pale, false modesty could fetter,
For he had started far behind the rest,
lie left his humble home in hop-clad Kent
Owing the landlord fourteen quid for rent.
lie seemed the king of the whole competition,
Whose grand Australian struggle thus began.
His story well might fill a whole edition
(The two-bob magnate was an “also-ran”) ;
Till he confessed, “I left weighed down with debt,
And, dammit boys, if I’m not stony yet!”
N'.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


■
ill
m
m
■
ill
Wy
w
m
*
: -V : "
*
:
■ • '■
Navy
:■ ■ ;
■•r.::-:.:
■ /£
Hi
m
m
m
m.
.
is
ss
gill :
So
.
*
m
£
Ww -Tts
iillßilli
mam
r s
11!
s
;
■
> - T
<*> 3K
’: ; V'■■■'•:
... &
sd
THE WORLD RENOWNED BRAND
OF
W. D. &H. O.WILLS.
CIVIC"
fg
UNIQUE RANGE
OF MODELS
OBTAINABLE
OF ALL
TOBACCONISTS
THE PIPE THAT HAS
NO FADS OR FANCIES
BUT IS PERFECTLY MADE
IN EVERY DETAIL


CHWEPPES
Schweppes’Essence
Competition—
Closing date 30th September.
Every bottle of Essence of
Vanilla, Ratafia, Lemon, etc.,
purchased has the chance of,
winning a Prize.
Prizes
£65
Each competitor must send in five labels.
The numbers on the five labels will be
totalled, and the aggregate highest numbers
of the five labels will be the winners.
Address to SCHWEPPES, LTD., 67
Foveaux Street, Sydney, and mark the
envelope “Essence Competition.”
Closing date No. 1 Competition, 30th
September.
Ask your grocer for further particulars.
D A
r;'
y^\
|
o
See CANADA en route
BREAK YOUR. JOURNEY
to the OLD LAND
Magnificent Mountain Scenery
The Prairies—the “Granary of the Empire”
Great Lakes—Bustling Cities
Land. Forest and Mine Development
Canadian National Railmaus
NEW^y
ZEALAND
Operate through all-steel, solid vestibule trains from Coast to-
Coast. Unexcelled Sleeping and Dining Car Service
Passengers bonked by all Steamship Lines
linking with “the National Way.”
For descriptive literature, fares and full information, apply to
CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS’ representatives:—
D. 0. RAMSAY, 251 George Street, Sydney. N.S.W. C. S. BINNS, 59 Market Street, Melbourne, Vie.
GORDON F. JOHNSTON, General Agent. Passenger Department, 251 George Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
GEORGE E. BUNTING, General Traffic Agent, 5 & 6 Ferry Building, Auckland, N.Z.
Society
ZCZ[?]LIC
SKCAI [?]ERVE
Ninghtand Whi[?]
[?]
HER METHOD.
"Don't you give Bucephalus any exercise?”
"Of course, I feed him with chocolates every few minutes,
and that makes him-wag his tail.”
“Pip Tok” : The lugubrious stave referred
to by Ted Colles (B. 3/8/’22) was sung by
Diggers of the Fourth Division during the
second Somme winter. I can oblige him with
the full story, but must send it privately,
unless The Bulletin is prepared to issue
an asbestos edition. The chorus, however,
is printable :—•
It’s the syme the ’ole world over,
It’s the poor what tykes the blyme.
While the rich ’as horl the pleasure.
Isn’t hit a blinkin’ shyme?
The Lament (that is part of the title, one
word in the possessive case being omitted
in deference to the young) is not so much a
story as the detailed remarks of two Cock-
neys in the gallery of a theatre, directed at
the bald head of the heroine’s diamond
studded betrayer seated in the orchestra
stalls. I did not know the dolorous ditty
was a Tommy song: I always understood
it to be a Digger satire on the typical
pathetic ballads of the London music-halls.
“Inner Temple” : The Sydney SUN, which
can usually be relied on to provide a hearty
laugh, punted this fast week apropos a
police-court case brought by Daisy Jerome
against a former servant: —
With some pride Miss Daisy Jerome relates that
when she was helping her husband to fight
a breach-of-promise case brought against him
“by a dreadful woman who didn't even have a
love-letter from him,” the case came up before Lord
Birkenhead. Though many others were listed before
it, when the Chief Justice saw the name he said,
“Let it go through at once. Anything for Miss
Jerome.”
Lord Birkenhead was never “Chief Justice,”
though he is Lord High Chancellor of Eng-
land. As such he occupies the Woolsack in
the Lords, and when that body sits in its
judicial capacity he of course presides. But
the idea of a crowd of litigants comprising,
say, Daisy Jerome, her husband, Dick Wui-
deyer and Ernie Abigail pushing in to divide
the Lords over a “breach” case could only
enter the fantastic mind of a born publicity-
man.
# * * *
“Lexite”: Somebody recently alleged that
a “dispensation” was granted to Jewish sol-
diers with the Allied forces, to enable them
to eat pork. There is no one in the world of
Jewry capable of granting such a thing; but
the Jewish doctrine of “Dinah Demalchotha
Dinah” came into the matter. It sig-
nifies : “The Law of the Country is
the Law,” meaning that it is incum-
bent for the Jew to obey the law
of the country in which he is living; and
also that it is permissible for him to yield
to the influences of his environment, with
certain reservations. A similar provision
exists in respect of the R.C. injuncL'on
against eating meat on Fridays and other
specified occasions During the war the
Rabbinical authorities decided that the doc-
trine applied to the eating of pork by Jewish
soldiers, but many of the soldiers had
already decided the point for themselves and
were acting accordingly. Also, many Jews
did not eat pork, just as many teetotallers
abstained from the rum they would have been
justified in dosing themselves with, and just
as many R.C.’s fasted as rigorously as though
they had been at home. No one objected—
in fact, the attitude of their cobbers was
warmly approving: there was more to spare
for the irreligious.
* * W W
“Sucre”: As instancing the lethal effect of
our Northern climate on women’s health, a
S. Brisbane doctor some years ago had five
women patient's, whose respective ages were
79, 84, 86, 92 and 93. The medico himself
was 83 years of age, and had signed the death-
cevtificates of all the ladies’ husbands.
“Figures,” as a good judge remarked, “can
prove any dam’ thing.”
“Bill O’Costs”: I have heard, all my life,
the coarse but expressive word “guts” (B.
27/7/’22) employed argumentatively to sig-
nify the essence or funda-
mentals of anything. But
not everyone is licensed to
use it. Long ago. old Judge
Boucaut, of S.A. came out
with it in his terse way:
“The guts of the argument
is this.” Symon K.C., who
was one of the counsel,
shortly afterwards used the
same expression, and was
promptly reprimanded by
Boucaut. Symon gently pro-
tested that he had only bor-
rowed the phrase from his
Honor, but the old man was
not to be appeased, and dis-
missed the plea with “That’s
no excuse.” Even the re-
spectable synonym “stom-
ach” isn’t always permis-
sible, even in papers which
are ready at any moment to
publish yards of detailed
Divorce Court ev'dence. I
remember an Adelaide daily
once receiving an art’cle on
the long-since-dead Carlvle-
Froude controversy. The
writer mentioned that
Froude was a moral coward, “having
no stomach to this fight.” The awful
word revolted the spot where the edi-
tor hid his dinner; the phrase was altered
to “having no liking for the contest,” and
Shakspeare turned once more under his
marble slab.
♦ • * #
A parting shot from Father Clarke: —
“Biidad” (B. 3/8/’22) appears to imagine that the
Governments of France, Italy; Portugal, etc., are in
the har.d3 of devout Catholics. Let him study
history and he will find that Governments, as sui h,
rarely possess either principles or religion. To
believe differently would be to credit the British
democracy (and Anglicanism) with the crimes of
British political Jingoes in Ireland, Asia, Africa and
elsewhere—which would be not merely unjust, but
absurd. But this is a side-issue.
My correction of “Biidad” extended to two par-
ticulars: (1) That the civil Legislature in the coun-
tries mentioned had made no difference in Catholic
teaching and practice as concerns holy matrimony—
in other words, that the “Ne Temere,” contrary to
his assertion, did run in them; (2) that even these
anti-Catholie Governments had not been so idiotic as
to attempt (as Massey’s Legislature did) to compel
Catholics to acknowledge civil marriage as valid Chris-
tian marriage in the sight of God, and to prohibit
a civil marriage from being made true Christian wed-
lock in the presence of the parish priest and two
witnesses. “Bildad” seems unable to grasp the
THE SPORT.
“Marry you! Certainty not.”
“Right-oh! No harm done. My brother Bill bet me a quid I wasn’t game to ask you.”
Catholic attitude towards marriages recognised by
the State ( e.g ., those of divorced persons whose
legitimate partners, are still living) but disallowed
by the Church. I think, however, he might, if he
tried hard. It simply amounts to this. The Church
rejects all such unions as Christian marriages, but
she recognises that they are de facto legal con-
tracts as far as the State is concerned. It is quite
untrue that this was the only recognition Massey
asked for. If it were so, no new legislation would
have been necessai'y. The Church never withheld
such recognition, and all the legislation in the world
will never induce her to grant anything more.
I will conclude by saying- that the statement that
the “much more energetic (M.L.) priesthood” pro-
voked legislation against the “Ne Temere” decree
by “going about slandering the marriage title
granted” there is false. In saying this I speak from
my own personal knowledge, as I served for over
four years (1911-15) in the Diocese of Auckland.
* * * *
“Epictetus”: Reference to The Black
Horse, known later as The Honeymoon Inn
(B. 13/7/’22 and 3/8/’22), recalls the fact
that this pub was etched by A. Henry Full-
wood over 30 years ago. He did it as a
bus .ness spec., looking to make good money
out of the infatuate visitors. However, the
wealthy bridegrooms mostly refused with
scorn to pay a guinea a print even for a
memento of their first experience of conjugal
bliss, and Fullwood gained practically
nothing from the venture in a monetary way.
Most of those whom he expected to play the
part of Maecenas apparently didn’t know an
etching from a bullick.
» * * »
“T. 0.1.”: The Fuller Cabinet is consider-
ing the request of honorary justices to be
allowed to sit on minor cases in the Sydney
and suburban police courts. Parkes took the
privilege of adjudicating in the police courts
from the unpaid magistracy in the form of
an Act appointing six stipendiaries to preside
in the minor courts. This was brought
about by the scandal attaching to packed
benches whenever a publican’s license was
applied for. I remember a day in the Water
Police Court when 23 justices attended to con-
sider an application for a license. One of
the reasons lodged against granting the same
was that the tenement, was built mainly of
old packing-cases. Even the J’s.P. friendly
to the would-be licensee began to look dubious’
at this point. At the old Central the Great
Unpaid were summoned in turn. Many of
them were old identities who knew little law,
but were more often friendly with every dere-
lict charged before them. Parkes’s Act
cleaned up things.
„
I3aub : Some of London’s art and
literary editors seem to be still unaware
that Australia is on the map, culturally
speaking. Thus not one Australian is repre-
sented in “Drawings in Pen and Pencil
from Durer’s Day to Ours,” recently issued
as a special number of the Studio. When
I mentioned something about Australian
etchings one day to a leading art-editor he
remarked: “Oh. etching is not an art that
you can transplant.” “But wasn’t it trans-
n art: d tJm Continent to England'/” I
inquired. When I saw a literary editor about
an article on Australian literature, he re-
plied, “You haven’t got one.” And ho
asserted that he had come to this conclusion
“after reading Lawson, Gordon and the lot.”
To do London editors justice as a class this
passive resistance to the obvious is excep-
tional, but it will take another century to
wipe it out. Against such indifference is the
penetration of critics like Edward Garnett.
THE PROFITEER.
“ Hey , dad! Did that man charge you a bob
for leaking you up?”
In his new book he devotes a special chapter
to Lawson, whose best stories he compares
with the work of Maupassant and Tolstoi.
He has no use for his verse.
('Continued on page IS.)
HAIL THE FIVER!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“After the birth of her child in 1918 she drew
the £5 baby bonus and had a fur coat re-lined with
the money.” —ltem from the evidence of respondent
in the Bickford divorce case.
Though in opulence you happen to be basking,
Don’t forego your legal rights because of that.
There’s a fiver to be lifted for the asking,
When the Stork dumps clown his burden on the mat.
Not one mother in a hundred fails to grab it,
And your grateful country really doesn’t care
If your husband makes a crust by vending rabbit,
Or is an undisputed millionaire.
Though you’d scorn the imputation that ’twas
needed—
A miserable fiver—never mind.
There are lots of ways to blew it;
Buy another breakfast cruet,
Or get your last year’s musquash coat re-lined.
Though you’ve never known the lack of cash to
scatter,
And, in the pleasant places where you dwell,
A nurse's fee’s a negligible matter,
A medico's account a bagatelle,
Still —fill in the form. You’ll never find a question
Regarding the disbursements to be met;
Nor even the most shadowy suggestion
It will be a help to buy your child’s layette.
Maternity endowunent’s a misnomer
When you needn’t care a scrap about the bill.
When there isn’t any onus
How you spend your baby bonus,
You may do it in at auction if you will.
Scoop it in 1 A fiver’s generally handy.
If you’ve one you’ve fifty ways to cut it out.
And let politicians wrangle whether Andy
Had the dimmest notion what he was about
When he didn’t say for whom ’twas meant or not
meant
(Such distinctions are by Labor’s rules forbid),
So that now it’s just the kid for the allotment
And no longer the allotment for the kid.
There’s the douceur—for the richest or the poorest,
For her whose lord is Marmaduke or Mike.
Billy Hughes’s troubles if on
Flannelette it goes, or chiffon—
You can lose it at the races if you like.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


's
FI
=r>:
1
~je r -
:; 9
gai=
!is?
X
-
>«*
\i
-
%
=
3T
=
ri
Etf
=4=s?
8
!^S
H'\
i
<9
1
IS
if#
mi
'■
SHmti
fill
c
£
SffiS
1
iPi
///.<
sk
M
a
jpeat Veslera
Spax’klityd 'Vines
1 ( i
imperialvreserve
y/u? (jfiampaJne of'Qusivalia
B. SEPPELT
SONS, LIMITED.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
A Signal Success
e
JCmgQeorgelV
WHUSKST
The TOP-NOTCHScotck
'Tor Ever Best/"
STA<a
LAGER
TOOHEY'S.
“Rio”: The prime test of military disci-
pline all through the ages has been the con-
duct of troops in a city captured after hard
fighting, Wellington’s rigidly disciplined
army committed shocking excesses after the
storming of Badajos and Ciudad Rodrigo;
and as late as 1900 the palace at Pekin was
looted by the combined force of the Powers
under Yon Waldersee. Though European
troops now do without the usual two or
three days “sack,” Arabs have not similarly
progressed, and after the taking of Damas-
cus, in 1918 (the 10th A.L.H. were the first
victorious troops into the city), the King of
Iledjaz’s followers claimed their traditional
reward :
As soon as the Arabs entered the city they set to
work. . . .killed shopkeepers. . . .murdered Turks. ..,
opened the gaol, etc. After two days’ pandemonium
the Powers recognised the necessity of imposing re-
straint on the lawless elements, and two regiments
of the Australian Mounted Division were stationed
in the city. The Australian troopers soon had the
situation in hand, and the normal life of Damascus
was resumed within 48 hours.
The quotation is from “The Desert Mounted
Corps,” by Lieut.-Col. Preston, D. 5.0., of
the R.H.A. There were British and Indian
Regulars, also British yeomanry and Maori-
landers available. Will one of those critics
of the A.I.F. who are always telling us that
STEREOTYPED.
“‘He seemed to lose his head.’ What docs that mean, dad?”
“Oh, that’s what you say about the pedestrian after your car has
knocked him down.”
although the Anzacs were good fighters “they
were so badly disciplined that when not in
action they gave more trouble than they
were worth,” explain why Australians were
chosen to police Damascus ?
“Hanno’s” gaze wanders suspiciously to-
wards the bar-shelves:—
The price of spirits soared so high during and
after the war that the trade
began to retail “synthetic
liquors.” Some of these were so
skilfully manufactured that they
deceived even connoisseurs. Lately
a few of these brands have been
making their appearance again,
masquerading, of course, as ap-
proved spirits. As a rule, they
are manufactured from “rectified
spirits” of commerce, flavor being
added from concentrated essences,
which are a blend of various
synthetic chemicals. Gin, for
instance, is made bv the addi-
tion of glycerine, which removes
the “tang” from the raw alcohol,
spirits of juniper berry, which
impart the necessary flavor, and
sundry “esters,” which have the
effect of making the concoction
appear as though it has been
aged in wood. Brandy is pre-
pared with the aid of a sub-
stance known to chemists as
ethyl pelargonate, which occurs
naturally in brandy that has been
made in the proper way, but can
also be manufactured in a labora-
tory. To its presence is due
the aroma so beloved by experts.
Whisky is a more difficult pro-
position, but it, too, can >be
turned out of so high a quality
that its pedigree would never be
questioned. As the rectified
spirits which the maker of these
liquors uses as the basis of his
product have already paid the
usual excise tax, the Federal Gov-
ernment loses nothing, but the
different State Governments, all
of which have laws prescribing
a standard quality for potable
liquors, are likely to drop with
great violence and suddenness on
them, for which reason they have
to be passed off as ordinary
brands. The best formulae for
these synthetic liquors doubt-
less come from the United States,
where this branch of manufacture
has almost become a science. Some
idea of the profits in the game
may be estimated from the fact
that a few months ago a New
York firm published a book of
recipes and formulae intended for
the use of the manufacturer of
illicit spirits, its real purpose being cloaked by the
pretence that it was a scientific work. Its price, in
English money, allowing for the usual rates of ex-
change, was somewhere about £l2.
* # « » .
“C. Coral” : Thursday Island ’shellers have
been experimenting with a new diving-dress.
It consists merely of a rubber construction
with windows, fitting over the nose and eyes,
and a metal device on either side of the
mouth which receives the air-supply. A
weighted belt is worn, but otherwise the
diver is in the altogether. A depth of over
40 fathoms was
attained close to
Darnley Island,
with apparently
little discomfort to
the operator. The
merits claimed for
the device are that
it is cheap to make
and to work; also,
the diver can be
lowered and raised
quickly. On the
other hand, a
shark is likely to
do well with a
semi-naked m a n
encumbered with a
life-line, and, also,
of course, the cos-
tume gives no pro-
tection from the
cold. It has been
used with success
in Japan by coolies
working on wrecks.
“Jobber”:, I can
back “T.R.H.” up
re the startling
effects of “pinkv”
(B. 29/6/’22). On
the Murrumbidgee
irrigation area s,
where it is sold by
the gallon, I have
seen more fights
than in any town
full of pubs. This
awful stuff—the
deadliest argument
against prohibition
that I know—is
immature wine, so
far as the areas are
concerned, and almost as easy to make as it
is to buy. The navvies, to' whom a glass
of wine would be as a smell at an empty
liqueur-glass to a Millions Club dyspeptic,
drink it the same as beer —by the pannikin.
The parable of “S.E.N.”: —
A great deal—mostly claptrap—has been written
—and will, I suppose, continue to be written—
REGARDLESS OF COST.
THE FLAPPER : “Yes, I made him take me to dinner at
the Florentine. Then tee did a theatre, with
flowers and a huge box of chocs., and wound up with
champagne and oysters at the Valhalla and a taxi
home. We had a lovely time!"
THE SCEPTIC: “What, both of you?"
about the Irish “point of view,” or “outlook,” or
“observation-post” in matters political; but I have
never had the article clearly defined, though I possess
many friends who are good Nationalists. One
thing I have noticed though, and that is the odd
way in which the “attitude,” “standpoint,” or what
not affects the mental processes of this interesting
race. Three years ago I was in that
part of County Kerry where the
“disturbances” are now at their
acutest. was driving in a jaunting-
car a little way out of Mallow when
Dinnis, the jarvie, pulled up his
bored-looking geldirg (he called
him Mary Ann, by the way, on the
ground that “them tourists like it;
they do be sayin’ ‘How Irish!’” and
pointing to an old man sitting out-
side a cabin-door, remarked: “That
wan was evicted wanst.” The ancient
looked inoffensive, and so I asked:
“What for?” “He wouldn’t wash his
windies!” Further inquiry brought
out the story. The “old wan” had
been granted a life-use of the cabin
by a grasping landlord. without rent,
charge, fee or other encumbrance
whatsoever, on the understanding
that he kept it clean. But the tryan-
nous condition revolted him, and he
showed his independence in the way
that lay easiest to his hand. Re-
monstrance proving useless, the
“agent” put him out, cleaned up the
place—and put him in again. Pro-
vided now with a grievance for life
the patriot was not only happy him-
self—he was a cause of pride and
envy in others. Dinnis pointed him
out with the air of a Roman guide display-
ing some rare Pompeian fresco; and as we drove
away he told me the story all over again. But this
time he added a tag which seems to me to sum up
the whole mystery of the Irish row in one sentence.
“An’ fer why,” he asked with a challenge in his
voice which I discreetly ignored, “an’ fer wh y should
he wash his windies?” If you can answer that query,
satisfactorily to Dinnis, you’ll solve the “Irish
question.”
* * *
“Onoto” gives first-hand evidence about a
full-dress n.c.o. reduction :
It happened aboard an A.I.F. transport, and the
delinquent was an A.A.M.C. sergeant. His offence,
conduct prejudicial to the maintenance of good
order and military discipline,” was an indiscreet com-
plaint, in the Adjutant’s cabin, about the S.M.O.
The resultant court-martial lasted four days. And
this is how the prisoner was “broken.” First, all
ranks, including mess-orderlies and submarine guard,
were mustered, in full marching order and lifebelts]
on their respective decks. Then, between fixed
bayonets, the chief actor was escorted, hatless and
beltless, right round the vessel to the A.M.C. troop-
deck. Here he was halted before his comrades, each
caparisoned in hat and cap, waterbottle, mess-tin
SETS’ a i !d le^n gs and (at about three degrees
south of the Equator) with greatcoat rolled and
werT C O S T mbkd f . or P romul g a tion of the sentence
were C.O. Ti oops, Adjutant, 5.M.0., Orderly Officer
and suite, Q.M., Ship’s Sergeant-major and bugler. On
the ** ' ® er S?ant H., two paces step forward !”
~ * f •> jack-knife m hand, advanced to remove
the forfeited stripes, only to discover that the same.
Joosened when the procession started, had somehow
shed themselves en route. An anguished 0.0.
despatched two parties at the double—one to the
0.0. s cabin for the only available copy of King’s
Regs., the other to seek the missing bars. The latter
quest pioving fruitless, another set was requisitioned
from a Light Horse sergeant’s spare tunic, and while
the company sweltered at attention these were
solemnly tacked to the prisoner’s sleeve. Followed
a command the like of which has probably never
been heard: ‘Sergeant H., three paces step back-
ward,, march! Sergeant H., three paces step forward,
halt!” (Interval for removal of stripes.) “Private
H., two paces step back, right turn, queak marrrch!”
And thus to the main deck and round the ship again
until the bugler dismissed the parade to its dun-
garees and flop hats, its crown and anchor boards
and ousie-’ousie. For the benefit of anyone who
may feel interested in the ultimate fate of ihe
dramatis personal, I may add that the S.M.O. now
possesses one of the biggest brassplates in Macquarie-
street; the 0.0. Troops occupies a seat in N.S.W.
Council. The Adjutant lies at rest on Lone Pine,
while Private H., who retained that rank until
scrapped at Passchendaele, was myself.
* <r * *
“Bullsbrook”: Jimmy Mitchell, of W.A.,
who has beeu telling Berth audiences how
the Lord Mayor of London pledged him in a
huge loving cup of solid gold, did not need
to cross the world to get material for yarns
of that sort. The Peak Hill mine had just put
through a good crushing in 1898, and Darling-
ton Simpson, the boss shareholder, was shep-
herding the Excellency of the period, one
Jerry Smith, about the Murchison. Simp-
son reckoned it would be a fine ad. for the
mine as producer, and himself as entertainer,
if the vice-regal party were given the oppor-
tunity to eat their tucker and drink their
beer off and out of gold instead of delf and
glassware. So the precious metal was
fashioned by an ingenious battery-hand into
some makeshift trenchers and platters and
pots, wherefrom Jerry and his highly-
impressed entourage devoured corned hash
and other local delicacies. The ostentation
cost Simpson and his shareholders nothing,
for the metal went back to be re-shaped into
the usual bars after the banquet.
* * * *
“Stellsb.v”: J. T. Swanson, late of the
Imperial War Graves Commission at Gal-
lipoli, is back in Melbourne, and on the
strength of two weeks in Malta he is Calk-
ing like Foster Fraser or Northcliffe in
favor of the Maltese as immigrants. I was
stationed at Malta for more than two years,
and am thoroughly convinced, as a result,
STILL UNCONSOLED.
“Have you recovered from the grief of your dear hus-
band’s death yet?”
"No, indeed. The insurance people are so very slow in
fixing things up.”
that Australia can very well do without the
breed. It’s a toss up which is the more
undesirable—Steak-a-da-oyst, Rock Scorpion
or Maltese —the last a cross between a Dago
and a Gyppo. Ask any observant British
reservist his opinon, and its ten to one on
he’ll remark that for downright laziness,
spieling adaptability, and want of “guts,”
the Maltese have first claim on Bottomley’s
biscuit. The isle of yells, bells and smells
sits well in the Mediterranean. We don’t
want it transported to the Pacific. It’s too
tired and dirty.
* * * *
“Arbeep”: The N.S.W. Railway Depart-
ment has a printed form to he filled in by
a superior officer in the event of an acci-
dent to an employee. When Oasey fell off
the three-mile bridge his ganger sweated
over the casualty report a full hour, reply-
ing faithfully to all questions, till he came
to the heading “Remarks.” This gave him
more trouble than all the other interroga-
tories. hut finally he licked his pencil and
recorded: “He never made any—his neck
was broke.”
THAT CYCLONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The gale from over the roaring ocean,
Came up and up the merry land,
W ith a heavy lurch and a drunken motion
And a big fat cloud in either hand.
He set the boughs of the trees complaining;
He made the tops of the mountains shout;
It seemed absurd to say it was raining;—■
He was simply throwing the rivers about.
A river on end is decidedly wetting
As it fumbles its way across the town,
But the real damp there is no forgetting
Is a jazzing sea turned upside down.
He turned the Pacific over and over,
This wind that blew from the whirling east,
This fox-trotting, buck-jumping, seething rover
That pranced like an antediluvian beast.
He turned it over and turned it under,
But mostly he banged it down on the roof
And beat a tattoo like overproof thunder
With the sagging end of his long, dank hoof.
He kicked at the door and he bumped on the pave-
ment,
While wallowing patterns of mud he wove,
H ill the cook inquired what the blanky wave meant
That was washing the dinner out of the stove.
He lifted the trees out roots and branches
!\ hen lie got to his finest work of all ;
And the plaster slithered in avalanches
On the palms and umbrellas that lined the hall.
But at last, when my roof and the garden-roller
Began to waltz through the sky’s grey scum,
A thought arrived like a great consoler—
-1 said: “1 expect the Spring has come!”
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


zzzrs
£
S 3
S 3
S
K
fmKW)
/n
5~
&
<
P
e,
u
85
s
3
a
'iv
*
Su
w
&°
; s*
»
S
l
s:
S
S
£
6
*
U
s
■i
m
<
6
%
A
S
s.
s
a
a
s&
F
/
A
Hi
<4
a
s
15
&
s
<
*
A
>.
2
I
>*
y
P
r 3
k
%
&
m
5
&
%
V
s
2
m
N.
3
-•
mm
&
y?
s>
2?
&
*
S 3
3
*
mars
WHISKY
The Spirit of
INSPIRATION
Inspiration is the torch of
life. For the flare of its
(f * i . • / . : !.;i * ‘ J .
flame shows where lie the
answers to mankind’s great-
est needs. And that torch
is most surely lighted by
the ever-inspiring worth of
/ J
j
Brtoar’s


Hotel Carlyon’s,
Esplanade,
St. Hilda.
Special arrangements can be made for
Room and Breakfast or Inclusive Tariff.
Dine Here and Dance in Our
Famous Ballroom.
Hotel guests are invited to
make free use of Ballroom.
le
SHIRTS
suean more
comfort and
style. Do not
take a substitute
All Mercers
sdf
SUE fi
m
BRISBANE
S Yd/s/e. y.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents s
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
THE BONA-FIDE TRAVELLER.
PARSON : "You say the only work you do is walking?
Well, why don't you rest on the Sabbath ?”
TRAMP : "'Struth! Why, Eve only got a few yards ter
go, mate."
'5690”: I have two nominations for the
Queer Nesting Stakes. Two swallows built a villa
on top of a whisky glass that stood on the mantel
in a deserted hut on the Broughton Kiver (S.A.).
hhey placed the first layer of mud just inside the rim
and added pug until it joined up in oval shape
inside the glass. Then thej' added half-an-inch or
an inch above, lined the structure and reared their
family. The other case is that of a couple of mag-
pies who built their nest on the bottom of a poison-
cart at Leighton (S.A.) and brought up a family.
Ihe owner took the nest off when he used the cart,
and afterwards replaced it. The birds renovated
their little shack, and used it again the next year.
* * . * *
Nakatawa ’: Two brothers among my
Fijian laborers tower above the rest—Petro 6ft. Tin.
in his socks, and Capia 6ft. 6fin. Petro’s show feat
is to lift a derailed loaded cane truck back on to
the line by the coupling-hook. 1 wouldn’t believe
it till I saw it done. His little brother was out
slaughtering with me one day, and one wheel of the
cait, with two dressed bullocks in it, got bogged.
The other three boys couldn’t shift it any farther
than a fish could walk, so up comes Capia, pushes them
aside, grasps the hub with both hands, and with one
jerk puts the wheel on terra firm.a. The peculiar
part of it is that they are twins, and while the
mother is just an ordinary Fijian damsel their dad
is only sft. 6in.
* * * *
“Birre Gurra”: Not long ago I took on a
job with a Downs (Q.) cocky. I was broke at the
time, and my blankets, together with my watch and
other heirlooms, reposed at Uncle’s, in Brisbane.
The cocky, however, had a few bags in the humpy
where I was to sleep, so, getting his permission to
use them I made up my bunk with some underneath
and the balance as “nap.” About 4.30 a.m. Cocky
blew into the hut with icicles festooning his whisk-
ers. I shivered, and gave him a sleepy “Hallo I”
Cocky replied that it was cold, and proceeded to
remove my “nap.” “It’s all right, laddie—don’t
disturb yerself,” he said with a kindly purr, “I
only want the bags.”
* * * *
“P18.A.” : The other clay—the coldest this
year—his dad being ill and not another man on the
place, the 10-year-old great-grand-nephew of Hamil-
ton Hume harnessed one of the draughts to the dray
and drove six miles over the Yass (N.S.W.) plains
for a load of telephone wire. Arriving at the store
he was told the wire was at the station. “Right,”
said the veteran, “then I suppose I’d better go
along; but will there be anyone down there to give
me a hand on with it?” He was duly loaded up,
called for the mail and the bread, and landed home
as though it were all in the day’s work. The good
old days haven’t much on that.
“Ragar”: Finding an unusual-looking
cocoon on a wattle-tree I took it home, placed it in
a cigar-box with a sheet of glass over it, and left it
on the verandah where the sun could get at it.
Three weeks later I found the verandah alive with
brown moths at least a hundred of them. They
were all fluttering and crowding about the cigar-box,
and on looking in I discovered that the cocoon had
opened and released a moth that was also brown but
slightly larger than those flying around me. How
did the would-be husbands of the released lady dis-
cover her whereabouts? When I removed the glass
there was a general rush for the fair one. Within
three minutes she had selected her spouse, and the
unsuccessful suitors reluctantly withdrew from the
bridal chamber. My house isn’t within coo-ce of a
wattle-tree, and is at least two miles from the bush.
Can the lady ha\e sent out a wireless call?
*** . *
“Valamac”: Tell “C. Coral” (B. 20/7/’22)
that the chap to put the kibosh on the cockroach is
the small, grey, blunt-tailed wood-adder. He catches
more ’roaches than the frog, because he can get
into cracks and crevices. With half-a-dozen wood-
adders aboard “C.C.’s” lugger, the cockroaches would
find life on the ocean wave the devil’s own business
* * * *
“Ben Zine”: How is this for a record? I
know a man who lifted two bags of flour (2001 b.
each) from a waggon and carried both of them to-
gether a quarter of a mile without a spell.
* * * #
“Agricola”: “Pick” (B. 6/7/ ! 22) says
black disease was not bamslicd from Burnima
(N.S.W.) by the use of a natural
lick. My latest information was
got in 1918, and then the results
had been very satisfactory over
a period of nine years. The pre-
sent management may have neg-
lected to keep up the proper
supply of the lick compound.
Every year of over-stocking, and
ravages by Bunny, increases the
deterioration of the pasturage.
The killing out of the deeper
rooting herbage leads to the acute
depletion of the surface soil, as
it must then bear all the burden
of production ; innutritious plants
and toxic ones get possession, and
in droughty times these will obvi-
ously be the last to bo eaten.
The animal that dies of “black
disease’’ is often very fat, as men-
tioned by “Axehandle” (B.
14/12/’l6). Exertion and fright
oft-times cause death. “Farmer”
(B. 25/l/’l7) supports this and
asserts that Lobelia (Isotoma
fluviatilis) is responsible for much
of the trouble among the Gram-
pians (Vic.). We found that
compound licks helped, and drain-
age and basic-phosphate could
entirely dispel the trouble. J. B.
Clarke, of West Ballarat, got rid of the disorder by
growing subterranean clover. The goats mentioned
by “Pick” are a mystery, if a. factor at all. They
may have been strong enough to prefer, and thus
eat out, the toxic pasturage.
* * # *
R.E.”: It isn’t often a man shouts his
own funeral drinks; but it was once done by a
chap in New Guinea. The clean-up had been a good
one, and the miners had gone on a general burst,
which ended for Andy when he inadvertently tried to
walk on top of eight or nine feet, of water. Things
move quickly in the tropics, and it wasn’t long
before the corpse had been fished out and rolled in
a sheet of galvanised-iron ready for burial Then
somebody awoke to the fact that Andy had gone out
just as the next round of drinks were “on” him • but
when ali hands returned to the pub to toast his
health in the next world at the departed one’s own
expense they found the shanty-keeper unwilling to
turn on the liquor without the cash. But a little
thicg like that wasn’t going to stop a mob of miners
on the jag. In less than no time they had untinned
Andy, and with one man holding his cold fist he was
made to sign a cheque. This was duly pushed across
the counter and a rather serious intimation was given
the pubkeeper that he had better honor it. He did.
They drank Andy’s health—several times—then they
solemnly buried him and lined the mound with the
empty bottles in memory of the occasion.
* * *
“Gouger’s” northern vignette :
, ha f a , superstitious aversion to following a
track that leads to a corpse. A while back two
toddlers went.astray from a bush picnic up in X
Queensland. A nigger of mine picked up the tracks
and followed them all that afternoon. At dark
he traeks-by now telling a tale of weariness-
went up the bed of a sandy creek. The nigger
stopped suddenly. There was the huge track of a
wild boar completely blocking out the youngster’s
l* "’? S u ? eles J s t 0 KO on further that
mght, but when I ordered the abo. at daylight to
follow the tracks he refused. “Big feller pig eatem
piccaninny Altogether finish,” he said When
I had knocked it into his head that he was to find
t !?hL r en lead1 ead I] ol ' alive > he J' us t thrust out a
stubborn lip and walked straight ahead, hardly even
HE KNEW.
“Were you a bull or a bear in that Stock Exchange spec.?"
“Neither. Simply an ass.”
making a pretence to find out in which direction
tlie tracks had now gone. I hastily circled around
the last plain track and picked up what appeared to
be two separate wallaby pads through the grass.
Showing the nigger the trampled grass, I threatened
to shoot him if he didn’t quickly follow one of the
trails, and at last he went on sulkily. In a quartqr-
of-a-mile another track came into the one we were
on and the abo. suddenly squared his shoulders, and,
to my relief, started off at a great pace. An hour
later, crossing a sandy patch, the tracks became the
plain but pathetically irregular footprints of the
toddlers. The nigger grunted without stopping.
“Piccaninny plenty feller tired. Little feller boy
catchem hand belonga little feller girl.” Half-an-
bour later he pointed to a tangled clump of blady
grass 50 yards ahead. “Piccaninny longa there,” he
said. I ran forward, and there were the two toddlers,
the little chap’s arm flung protectingly around the
other’s neck, sleeping the sleep of exhaustion.
* * * *
“Mallee Grub”: “Billy Yard” (B. 6/7/’22)
slips when he says that the Abos. skiting about
ploughing performances have been using only disc
cultivators. The record of which I wrote (B. 8/6/’22)
was put up with a share plough and was not a
“one day only” performance, but an average per day
for a seeding. And, anyhow, “Billy’s” 40 acres
with the drill are by no means a record, as a. Kilker-
ran (S.A.) cocky averaged 45 acres with a 17-hoe
drill, using two teams of four horses. His best day,
if individual days are wanted, was a half-century.
And he wasn’t out to smash records either.
THE HUMANITARIANS.
“Bai Jove, old boy, not a blinkin' bunny!
If we don't get ragged for this! Eh.
what?”
“I’m all right. I belong to the Society for
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.”
“Tin Hat”: R e “Pat Bushie’s” (B.
2 ,° / 1 7 /L 2) . bUSh mother personally registered her
child 40 hours after its birth, a nd was reported to
lme been seen about the house on the day following
the event. A chap working next to me was once
proudly announcing that he had been made a father
on the previous day, when the office-door opened
and his wife appeared. She told her astounded
husband that she felt too well to stay in bed, so
when the nurse was busv with the baby she had
got up and come into town. She was disgusted
"hen he got a oar and hurried her off home to bed.
To reach the station she had walked the best pari
of a mile—and this 2-1 hours after the baby's
arrival. Yet, it’s not done her any harm, appa-
rently.
* * . *
“D.F.”: A freak in horse-bones was sen!
to the Australian Museum (Sydney) lately by 0. K.
Watson, of Graham’s Valley (N.S.W.). It is a
cannon-bone round which is looped a piece of fencing-
wire, the ends of which are twisted firmly together.
The wire has cut deeply into the bone and how it
got there the owner doesn’t know, as the horse who
owned the braceleted bone was wild and unbroken.
* * * *
“Jimmy • Possum”: Just a couple more
cases of animals dying of heart failure (B. 15/6/’22),
I once tried to shoot a snake’s head off with a ‘'44"
rifle as he was climbing a tree. The heavy bullet
buried itself in the wood fully 3ft. from the snake;
yet the reptile fell, stone dead. The closest search
didn’t reveal a scratch on him. As the shot was fired
at about 10yds., it couldn’t have been the concussion.
Again, on a Bananaland station some years ago my
two brothers were sent out to shoot a scallywag
cow that had been brought in with the mob. Upon
catching sight of them the doomed animal charged,
whereupon my youngest brother instinctively threw
his hat at her. She savagely gored the unoffending
headgear several times, then dropped dead.
* # * *
“Larrapinta”: Re mixed marriages. Old
Jimmy Mundoo, a West Indian, who for years sold
Barcelona nuts outside the Adelaide Railway Station,
married a Russian Finn. A son of this union, Jimmy
the second, drifted up to Alice Springs, where, at
the German mission station, he married a full-blooded
lubra. M hen I last saw the latter she was nursing
Jimmy Mundoo 111. Now, what would you call him?
* * * *
“Begiti” (Papua) : I once heard of a rep-
tile similar to the “ota ara” of “Lagani Nftino”
(B. 27/4/’22) on the N.E. Coast of Papua. A
European told me his dog had been attacked and
killed by a large water-goanna. He was quite sure
that it was not a crocodile. I saw a “go” shot in
the Central Division which from size and general
aspect could have made things very uncomfortable
for the average dog.
* * * »
“Iron”: Re weight-guessing (B. 20/6/'221.
Stan Collins, butcher, of Candelo (N.S.W.), esti-
mated the exact weight of three fat bullocks at each
of the Candelo, Bega and Cobargo shows, one week
between each show, and one guess each bullock.
(Continued on page 22.)
BALLADE OF YE MISSION-MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The old island life and customs will soon be
gone for ever. The missionary lias been a potent
extinguisher.”— Recent island traveller.
The island life was wild and free;
The island folk were blithe and gay;
They danced to simple minstrelsy
And laughed the careless nights away ;
They shed hot blood in sudden fray,
But harbored then no thought of gall—
Those olden manners, where are they?
The Mission-man has killed them all.
The Chief—a mighty carle was he;
Six wives he kept for toil or play;
lie never heard of bending knee
To curious joss or prophet grey;
They fished the best from out the bay
And bore it to his thatched hall;
But Chief and feast and festal bray—
The Mission-man has killed them all.
Within their atoll, wild with glee,
They swam and dived the livelong day ;
They rode the surf right fearlessly,
And laughed to feel the biting spray;
And if they went a bit astray
And slipped in spots—they braved the fall.
But now they slip not—well—a way—
The Mission-man has killed it all!
Envoy. j. ]
The gentle customs fast decay—-
They totter like a weary wall;
The simple life is gone for aye—
The Mission-man has killed it all.
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.


BEST NOVELS by
Australian Authors.
II- each (posted 1/2).
"Bookstall” Scries of Australian Novels.
Nearly Four Million Copies Sold.
HAVE YOU READ?
“The Boss of Killara,”
By VANCE PALMER.
“A Colt from the Country,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“The Squatter’s Daughter,”
Adapted from the famous play, by
HILDA BRIDGES.
“The Pearls of Cheong Tah,”
By S. W. POWELL.
“Rogues and Ruses,”
By CON DREW.
“The Oil-seekers,”
By jack McLaren.
“Equality Road,”
By VERA BAKER.
Beatrice Grimshaw’s South Sea Novels.
Edward Dyson’s Humorous Books.
120 Novels to select from. Write for Complete Descriptive
Catalogue ( free ).
Obtainable at all Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout
Commonwealth.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 Georg'e Street, Sydney,
OFING
Made by the Texas Company.
When you are considering a new roof for
your house, your barn, or any other building,
ask about Texaco Roofing. There is no better
prepared roofing material made.
It is the product of the Texas Company’s
roofing plant at Port Neches, Texas, North
America. It is manufactured of the finest
selected roofing felt, thoroughly saturated
with a 99 % pure bitumen, and then heavily
coated on both sides with Texaco asphalt,
special tempered to withstand extremes of
climate.
Texaco Roofing does not become soft under
exposure to tropical heat. It does not crack
or become brittle in the snow and ice of
northern winters. It is tough, flexible and
durable —perfectly protective, weather-proof,
vermin-proof and fire-resistant.
It lasts for years—that’s the important
thing. And it is easy to lay.
Texaco Roofing, in various weights to suit
your needs, is put up in rolls of convenient
size, containing 216 square feet (20 square
meters), all ready for the roof, each roll
furnished complete with an ample supply of
heavily-galvanized nails, two quarts of
asphaltic lap cement, and printed instruc-
tions.
THE TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited
Head Office: Sydney.
Branches throughout Australasia.
ONlMrt
90
r, /z®.
mmcoMi
; IS!*
*- ‘‘
nu f*«tur«d
'W2* K *
I
mast
KeSacct
yr
.^r
E
o
Rsaepara
g
WHEN YOU BUY
A PIANO OR A
PLAYER PIANO
It is necessary to “buy right.’
%
o
Many of the greatest disappointments in Music are caused through buying a cheap or worn-
out Piano, with the wholly mistaken idea that the Instrument is ' good enough to start with.
This attitude is, firstly, wrong from a musical standpoint. How can a shoddy or aged Piano
give you that lovely tone and responsive touch? Old men and women can never sing as they
did in the days of their youth.
Secondly: The cheap, second-hand Piano is a bad investment. In a few years, nay, often a few
months, a rapid disintegration sets in. Then you have nothing to show for your outlay
except disappointment.
BUY A NEW
RICHLY-TONED and FULLY GUARANTEED
PIANO or PLAYER PIANO from
PALING’S
which will after the lapse of half a lifetime, still be giving splendid service and musical
entertainment as the centre of Home-life.
FULL PARTICULARS AND
CATALOGUES FREE BY
POST.
338 George
SYDNEY..
Branches at
BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA,
ROCKHAMPTON, LISMORE
and NEWCASTLE,


iHiiiitiiiiiMiiiniiiiiitiiiiiiiuiiiwimiiiiiiiii
ROOFING
FLOORING
DAMPCOURSE
Good to The
Last Drop.
&
■ItKPg!
ABBOTS
LAGER
T/te3e<?r wMoafaftm/.
73r<?h?pd from Pureffd/ti flops' Onfy
_lS2l
“Booyong” : “FY7” says that “Gouger’s”
tiger-cats (B. 8/6/’22) must have been domestic
pussies gone bush. But there are genuine tiger-cats
in N.S.W. —and they can fight, too. They gre rare,
and very shy breeders. In the early ’nineties, while
riding along the edge of the scrub on the Sawpit
Creek at the head of the Richmond River, a fairly
large cattle-dog we had hunted up one. In the
scrap that ensued there was only one in it, and that
wasn’t our dog. The cat, a thick-set, powerful
animal, tabby and white in color, with a short tail
MUCH THE SAME.
“And what's this I hear about you wanting
to go to the city and be an actress,
Mary?”
“It’s all one, Father. Up here it’s the cows
the men want you for; in the city it’s
the calves.”
and about twice the size of a large domestic tomcat,
leaped on the dog’s shoulders and buried his teeth
in his neck, besides doing much damage with his
claws. A lucky blow with a tomahawk killed him,
otherwise Towser would have gone west in no time.
I saw a similar tiger-cat at Emu Creek, at the head
of the Clarence River. They are quite distinct from
the domestic cat, being more the build of a lynx.
“Wessel”: I don’t know what “Gouger’s”
so-called tiger-cats (B. 20/'7/’22) may be, but several
reports have filtered through about the existence on
Gape York Peninsula (Q.) of a big carnivorous
animal as yet undescribed. W. McLennan, the bird-
collector, heard something of it from prospectors
when he was up about Coen recently. It is said to
be bigger than a dingo, striped, and to live largely
on the tree-kangaroo. There may be some signifi-
MUTUAL BENEFIT.
SPONGER: “Going to cut out the drinking and smoking business.
Eat. I oughta save a bit, eh?”
FATTY : “Rath-er! Both of us will.”
canoe in the fact, if it is one, that there are no
dingoes on the Peninsula. Possibly some carnivor-
ous marsupial akin to the Tasmanian thy lad ne,
which once ranged over a large part of Eastern
Australia, still holds its ground up there. After
all, Cape York Peninsula, though it was the first bit
of the continent certainly known to have been visited
by white men, is still among the least-known parts
of Australia.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: I had noticed the emaciated
old horse drift up to the second verandah post
on the left at Grey’s pub, and stand drowsing, with
his nose to the wood, till Grey came forth and
shooed him away. The neddy was back as soon as
Grey had entered the bar. This happened five times
on three consecutive evenings, and then I ventured
to question the publican. “He’s Bill Bunny’s old
saddle-horse,” Grey explained. “Yes?” said I encour-
agingly. “Well, you see, Bill Bunny put in a good
deal of time here evenin’s, with his horse hung up
outside.” “Yes?” “Bunny’s bin dead a month,”
the landlord said.
* * * *
“Jim Carew” : The idea that sharks, won’t
touch a colored man (B. 6/7/’22), though fairly
general, is rot. On the Queensland coast and in
the islands I have seen four cases of blacks being
taken, and have heard of dozens. Tell the next
abos. you see in swimming that there is a shark
about, and see how the}' make for safety. By
the way, a school of sharks will never interfere with
a swimmer—only the lone prowler is dangerous.
Binghi knows this and takes no notice of a school,
a fact which may have given rise to the belief that
sharks will not attack a colored man.
* * * *
“ME.”: “Vulture” suggests (B. 13/7/’22)
that the Chow-diggers had some “deep reason” for
sinking round holes. That reason was a recognition
of an elementary physical law, if not instinctive
commonsense. In fairly firm ground a circular shaft
has a stronger element of safety than a rectangular
one, if external pressure is considered. The round
hole has the pressure equally distributed all round
—there is not the central bursting- or breaking-
point that exists in the other shaft. In firm
ground a Chow’s shaft will “stand” for years,
whereas the other will “fret” and break away in
no time. The miner who “hasn’t seen a round
hole” must belong to the Pitt-street pavement
brigade. There is not an old diggings in Australia
where the Chow’s shaft is not still in evidence.
» * * *
“T. Ash”: Don’t know anything about
spaying cows (B. 13/7/’22), but has any Abo. seen
Harry Dempsey, of Yanco, operating on colts
standing up in an open yard, with no crush?
He lassos a colt, puts on a halter, takes a twitch
on the nose, and throws his coat over the head. He
has an emasculator stuck in his belt, with an
ordinary castrating-knife, and the time he takes is
about two minutes per colt. He did two colts for
me about three years ago. They had never been in
a yard, were two years old, half-draught, and as
wild as hawks. He had only one assistant (I was
the cove). It was absolutely the smartest work with
horses I’ve ever seen—and Dempsey’s age at the
time was 69 years. I believe he is the only man in
the world who operates in the open yard, without
throwing.
* * * *
“Pick” : The instinct that impels a good
leader of draughts to swing his team safely around
bends is at all times
admirable, but in a
bolt, at times, it is
something to marvel
at. When Harry Hel-
mer’s nine stampeded
on Big Jack mountain
at Rocky Hall
(N.S.W.), with a five-
ton load, they went
at a wild gallop down
the crooked, one-in-
eight gradient. Jess,
the leader, however,
faithfully followed her
teaching, and, though
madly terrified, too,
didn't once fail to
swing them sufficiently
to negotiate the sharp
turns and miss the
deck-heads of the cul-
verts. A sadly-splint-
ered rear shinbone for
one of the honest
shatters, who had sat
back in their breech-
ings, was all the
damage when she
landed them on the
flat two miles below.
And when Jack
Flynn’s ten heavies
took off with their
empty waggon down the
Gap coining into Bun-
gendore (N.S.W.), old
Bob, who was in front,
brought them flying
across the bridge over
Turalla, steered them
over two deep gutters,
wit h the waggon
bouncing yards in the
air; and then to avoid
the deep waterhole at
the junction wheeled
them in a narrow
stretch between the
12ft. bank and a
barbed-wire fence. The
ouiocm-uim: iciiuc. l lit:
on-wheels shaved the rim of the bank as he detoured
for the turn, but he brought them up standing, with
not so much as a hame-strap broken.
* * * ■»
“Cleveland”: “Jackeroo’s” reference to
wool-growing on Percy Island (N.Q.) reminds me.
One of these islands was formerly held by an Eng-
lish colonel, who introduced deer on it. He was very
proud of the animals until one day, when he was
showing them off to some visitors and explaining
how he had domesticated them, a stag attacked him
and gave him a bad doing before it could be beaten
off. The stag evidently knew what to expect, as lie
made for the hills, and the last thing the visiting
party saw as they steamed away was the old colonel
sprinting up the hills, like an antelope, with a rifle.
* * * *
“Cleveland”: “Wessel” (B. 13/7/’22) won-
ders that the heliograph is not more generally used
between outlying places in Bananaland. It would
be only for its unreliability, as even in this countrv
of sunshine large fleecy clouds blot out the sun for
considerable periods even on the finest days, and by
the time they have passed the glasses are out of
adjustment and the man at the other end, thinking
that the conversation is finished, packs up. I have
seen it used with signal success over distances up to
30 miles, and I have also seen it cause such a hash-
up of messages over a much shorter distance that a
boat had to be sent to assure the receivers that Aus-
tralia had not fallen into the hands of maniacs.
* * * *
“Jimmy Possum”: I can’t agree with
“Tinpot Bill” (B. 15/6/’22) that the mopoke is
always friendly. One attacked a settler night after
night as he went round his fires, when burning off
a patch of scrub. The bird, which probably had a
nest near by, would strike at his head, emitting
hair-raising screeches. This so upset the settler
that he shot the bird, although reluctant to do so.
There is a good deal of superstition attached to the
owl family, and I have known bushmen who wouldn't
shoot one at any price. By the way, isn’t “Tinpot
Bill” a bit out about the muscles at the back of the
mopoke’s mouth doing the masticating trick? I
always thought this was performed by the craw or
crop of the bird. Various birds have the power to
eject from the crop any indigestible matter.
* * * *
“Six and Eight” : “Wild Oat’s” presump-
tion as to the way a snake sloughs its skin (B.
29/6/’22) is correct, and agrees with Lucas and Le
Souef’s description. Le Souef says:—
A snake sheds the old skin by first pushing its
head against any projecting object to loosen the skin
from the lips and head. Then, by still pushing and
using the ribs, it eases the skin off until the tail is
reached. The skin of the tail is usually slipped off
and is not found reversed in the slough, but all the
rest is turned inside-out.
* * * *
“Prof.”: Re “Torquil’s” detonators (B.
6/7/’22), which were struck by the drills in misfired
holes, and no explosions followed. The fulminate
must have been wet. In the explosives factories the
stuff is always handled in a wet state, when it is
comparatively safe. When dry it is always unsafe,
even in small quantities. Holes drilled for blasting
are rarely dry, and the detonator often becomes wet
in the disturbance of the charge when it is tamped,
in which case a misfire is the invariable result, as
the fuse will not fire the wet fulminate, which in
turn should start the gelignite going.
“Ned Kelly”: “FY7” (B. 20/7/’22) says
that, “excepting snakes and crocodiles, there is noth-
ing wild in Australia that can give a real stag-hound
a moment’s pause.” Rubbish! My dad had two
imported stag-hounds with which, by the way, he
won several prizes at shows. One of them started
up a big dingo-dog one day, and after a long chase
the warrigal turned, at bay. The stag-hound rushed
in, but crashed badly. The dingo fought savagely
and after several minutes got a grip on the stag-
liound’s fore paw and hung on. Unable to shake
him off, the stag-hound turned yellow and when the
dad separated them (with a fence rail) made tor
home. Perhaps it was that paw' grip that did it,
but from that time the stag-hound was an absolute
cur.
* * * *
“Taurus”: “Wanderer’s” bullocky (B.
22/6/’22) and “Teamster’s” Road Hog (B. 2C/7/’22)
were only driving go-carts. Thirteen years ago a
Richmond (N.Q.) blacksmith built a waggon of all
W. Australian timber for Tom Wilkinson, of Nonda.
Wilkinson won’t yoke up for less than 18 tons, and
the other day he pulled out of Nonda with 22 tons
of gidya logs on board, driving 52 bullocks. His
best is 170 bales of greasy wool, weighing 25 tons
Bcwt.
* * * *
“Wessel” : I don’t know that the Neo-
Malthusianism or Besantism of the parrot-aviary at
the Melbourne Zoo (B. 20/7/’22) puts the extin-
guisher on my suggestion that there might be money
in breeding Alexandra parrots. Though that Zoo is
more up-to-date than some old-world ones, it doesn’t
follow that because parrots won’t breed there they
will not do it in captivity under more natural condi-
tions. It was once said that the Tasmanian devil
would not breed in captivity; but the late Mrs.
Roberts, of Ilobart (Tas.), proved that they were,
with proper treatment, about as hard to breed as
rabbits. There is a worse difficulty with the par-
rots and also with the birds-of-paradise, which I
mentioned —as both are protected there is not much
chance of the private citizen getting hold of a stock
with which to start his experiment. Perhaps the
Taronga Park (Sydney) Zoo will have a shot at il.
* * * *
“Onde” (Papua) : I agree with “The
Reefer” (B. 4/5/’22) that it is not necessary to pay
for expensive h.v. cartridges to get crocodiles. I
shot an Bft. specimen (short of part of his tail) with
a .22 Winchester, and know another person who did
the same thing. Once, using a .44 Winchester, 1
bagged one which the bullet did not penetrate-—it
merely chipped a chunk of bone from the base of
the skull about the size of a half-crown, death being
due, presumably, to shock.
* * * *
“Ivlaney”: Has anyone noticed the effects
of kangaroo-grass on Daisy? On the Oomboyne
(N.S.W.), 25 cows —good milkers —meandered into
a field of this grass and their milk was impure
(even when boiled) for days afterwards.
“Pro”: While knocking around Lautoka
(Fiji) recently I came across the famous sensitive
plant ( Mimosa something-or-other they call it in
the book). I gave it a dig in the ribs, and after
ruminating for about ten seconds, it shuddered at
the vulgarity of the thing, and shrank away about
one-thousandth of a millimetre. It wasn’t a wonder-
ful stunt on which to earn such a universal reputa-
tion. Now, down in the Bowral (N.S.W.) district,
there’s a little fern growing on rock-faces which has
a spray of long leafy arms, and on the ends of each
A MAN’S WORK.
THE LADY : “It ain’t much uv a job—rat-
catchin'.”
THE GENT : “One thing about it, it’s not
likely to be snavelled by a woman.”
are clusters of small antennae, for all the world like
the fingers of a hand. When any unwajry insect
comes along there’s a grab, and the insect is folded
to the bosom of the lucky group of antennae, which
remains closed until the catch has been assimilated.
This seems to be the only means of sustenance for
the plant, as the rock merely provides an anchorage,
Does anyone know the Abo. or patrician name for the
little vamp?
THE GREYBEARDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The world is not the same,” they say,
“Tlie roaring days are done;
The men are not the same to-day
As when we wandered, glad and gay,
In wind and rain and sun.”
“The world is not the same,” they say,
“The youngsters do not ride
So hard or fast or far to-day
As when we galloped, glad and gay,
Nor is the world so wide.”
The greybeards sing their same old song,
With weary tongues and slow ;
We’ve ridden strange, new tracks along,
We’ve seen droughts rage and floods grow strong,
And we would have them know —
Those greybeards who with age are blest,
Who sit and criticise —-
That we have roamed the furthest west,
That north and south have held their best
And worst before our eyes.
When we’ve been riding for a week,
And riding mighty bard,
O’er rocky ridge and stony peak,
To bring some elear-skins, that we seek
For branding, to the yard,
The greybeard sadly says he fears
The beasts are getting tame;
They’re not as wild by half as steers
That ran the range in former years
When he was in the game.
If cursed with heat and flies and dust,
And fifty thousand sheep,
We struggle gamely on and trust
That soon “some blinking cloud will bu'st”—
Half drown us as we creep—■
The greybeard smiles and tells about
The things he used to do,
How in the raging “ ’eighty” drought,
With ninety thousand he set out,
And how he got ’em through.
The storms that rage, the winds that blow,
The fires that loudly roar,
Are not as fierce as those, you know,
That happened in the long ago,
Or just a bit before.
The brumbies that we try to ride
Don’t buck like those of old ;
The western plains are far less wide,
And far less steep the mountain side,
By greybeards we are told.
“Tlie world is not the same,” they say.
But let us answer here:
Hot-blooded youngsters we, our day
Is good; our work, our rides, our play
To us are very dear.
Let not the greybeards try to shame
Our deeds, for here’s the truth —
The old, old world is just the same,
But we are sitting in the game,
And hold the joker—Youth.
QUEENSLAND.
GEO. A. LLOYD.


. ’■ ■
*
f
■n£h*T -
f s *v
* A
’f
."” “ ■
C
M
c
**
7
tJ
%0>
A
'
~ ,■ ** :— J -"
> •
m
. j
RaK
HI . I
SI
;.;Sc;
'* ,
;
, , j .{' ‘7 /;
■
■
V
■
■■• J
MB
A:: ,
.
r- &:■
- • :
■:
'
*
7/
a '*
_the owner-driver
is for many reasons a consistent
user of “Railroads.” The fine
all-round quality of these Australian
DUNLOP
TYRES
and their ability to stand up to
many thousands of miles of hard
service without giving a moment’s
trouble, appeal to him. He appre-
ciates their value, their dependability
and low running cost. From ex-
perience he knows that no other
tyre equals the “Railroad” for
satisfactory service and economy.
Every motorist can ensure this
service—by using “Dunlops.” It pays
to use them. All Garages can supply
List on request
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
ALL STATES AND N.Z.
B 13
sdfg


UE\
■ < w r ’
V
%
m
%
'M
Wi
W
Ws i :
wm
m
M:
m
A
#y
A
AVk
m
&
A
'/ssc--
f!\
sAmcttz
* -
V >
Vf
I
--C;
JSr-^^4
V
■**\^
'- «.
£
Motion anlatwiiud as
A (*¥* i m
m*
m
for Juper Ser
vice
SHELL MOTOR OIL
SHELL MOTOR SPIRIT
The British Imperial Oil C? Ltd
ALL STATES AND KIEW ZEALAND
. A C ,13
m
MOTOR CAR
Dodge Brothers built Dodge Brothers Motor Car, in
the first place, to satisfy their sense of what a good car
should be.
For years before they made their first car, they had
been highly reputed as automotive manufacturers.
They had very definite ideas of reliability, long life and
economy; and they carefully built these into Dodge
Brothers Motor Car.
The manufacturing system which they established was
designed for close, careful and conscientious manufac-
turing ; and it is functioning today even more successfully
than when the first Dodge Brothers Motor Car was built.
The petrol consumption is unusually low
The tyre mileage is unusually hieh
Wi
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
Violet Blue Eyes.
By “PHLOX.”
“I
’WAS a wallflower again last night,
mother.”
Most unfortunate, my dear, most
unfortunate. I can’t think who you take
a ter, certainly not after me. Anyway, we
must try and marry you off.”
“Suppose I don’t want to marry?”
“1 m not going to suppose anything of
the sort.”
“But if no man asks me?”
Then, you’ve got to do your part, and
see that he does.”
“That I’ll never do.”
Then you d better go into a nunnery.”
“No, mother; that wouldn’t suit me. I’m
too fond of the joys of the world.”
“What about going to the Islands as a
missionary ?”
“And run the chance of being eaten?”
hatever you do in this world, my dear,
you have to take your chance.”
“Anyway, mine’s not going to be in the
Cannibal Islands.”
“By the way, Millicent, what are you
wearing for the dance on Tuesday ?”
“I’m not going to the dance.”
“Not going! Why?”
I overheard that horrid Talbot girl sav
to Bessie Myers that my skin was blotchy,
and my hair like rats’ tails.”.
“llow very rude of her.”
Rude! I call it beastly. Anyway, 1
have a grain of comfort. Jack Summers
says that I have lovely violet-blue eyes.”
“Of course you have.”
* * * *
Instead of going to the dfcnce Millicent
had Jones drive her to the home of Mrs.
Douglas—a friend of whom she was very
fond.
“I’m delighted to see you, dear,” w r as Mrs.
Douglas’s greeting; “but I understood you
to say that you were going to a dance to-
night.”
I was, but—er—well, I’m tired of being
a wallflower.”
I m sorry, dear. Did you enjoy that
book I lent you?”
‘I did, indeed; especially where Trine
says that you can usually be what you make
up your mind to be. Now, I want to be
beautiful. Do you think if I desire beauty
long enough, and earnestly enough, it will
ever come to me?”
It will, dear, if, as well as desiring, you
take practical means of assisting nature.”
“I would love to. I wonder if you would
be kind enough to advise me?”
In the first place you need a good cream
that will nourish, and at the same time
remove the discoloration from your skin.”
“I did use a cream, and that horrid hair
you see on my face is the result.”
“So many creams do grow hair on the
face, but have you ever tried mercolized
wax ?”
“No; I’ve heard of it. I thought, how-
ever, that it, too, might favor the growth
of hairs.”
Not at all, dear. I’ve used it for quite
a long time. You’ve heard of Frenchwomen
going into retirement during Lent, and hav-
ing the skin of their faces and necks re-
moved by a painful process.”
“Yes; I’ve read about it.”
• me r p olized wax has the same effect
without causing any pain or inconvenience.
At night, before retiring, you simply wash
your face in warm water, using a good
soap—l always use Pilenta Soap—then
apply the wax to your face and neck.
Wash it off in the morning, and before
powdering rub in a little of the mercolized
wax, . which i s obtainable from most good
chemists. Instead of ordinary powder I
always use cleminite, which gives that soft
velvety bloom to the complexion.
lor those blackheads on your nose and
chm, stymol tablets are the best cure. Drop
a tablet in a tumbler of hot water, and when
the fizzing has subsided bathe the face with
the liquid After drying you will find that
the blackheads have come out on the towel.
“For the hairs on your face there’s
nothing better than powdered pheminol,
which removes the hairs without disfiguring
the skin.”
How very fortunate I met you, Mrs.
Douglas.”
“Now, for your hair. The first thing to
be done is to shampoo it with stallax!”
“Yes, I’ve written that down. But I don’t
suppose you know of anything that will
keep my hair in curl?”
“Yes, I do—something, in fact, that will
make it curl.”
“How marvellous !”
“It's a perfectly simple preparation, called
silmenne, which you can get at the chemist’s
and you apply on retiring at night. Brush
your hair out in the morning, when it will
be beautifully wavy, and any short pieces
curly.”
“Oh, how lovely that will be! You can’)
t imk what a load you’ve taken off my mind,
Aow if you would only prescribe something
tor my red hands.. I’m so ashamed of them.”
I can, dear, give you a prescription that
1 ve tried myself with the best results. Add
bicrolium jelly to your list of w r ants from
the chemist. This pleasant, non-greasy sub-
stance quickly blanches the hands, removes
tan, clears out the dirt wTiich soap cannot
leach, and makes the skin soft, white and
smooth.”
“How clever of you, Mrs. Douglas, to
know all tnese things.”
( I xe just found them out by degrees.”
Dh, there s Jones for me. Good-night.
you 8 ” Douglas ’ * don’t know how to thank
“Don’t, dear; but consistently use w
I have told you. . When you have impro
j our skm and hair you will be quite beai
2, » and should make many conquests w
those pretty violet-blue eyes.”
Pi olactum Lip Salve for cracked lipi
your chemist has it.—Advt.


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
i
vi
at®
COUCHS Af\
COIOS
i 7(
5
CROUP
LUNG
TBOUBUS
:S-^S»
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
- nj
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY-
as if he were continually writing one of
those summaries which magazines provide
for their readers at the head of each
instalment of a serial. Occasionally lie
compiles a scientific catalogue; in “Th,e
Yeneerings” he does so frequently, a sign
perhaps that this late-found inspiration is
beginning to flag. But his saving grace is
his interest in the world in which he has
passed his youth and middle age. In “The
Yeneerings” we begin with the Second Em-
pire and end with Cecil lihodes. We read
of the police force under Napoleon 111., of
a Fenian plot to assassinate the Prince of
Wales during a visit to Paris, of a Cam-
bridge education in the ’eighties, of the in-
creased attention paid to botany and other
profitable scientific studies, of slumming, of
medical ignorance, of the Deceased YVife’s
Sister Bill, of the Johannesburg boom, of
the Jameson raid, and of two well-bestowed
knighthoods. It begins in 1864 or there-
abouts, and ends with a scene that Dickens
or Tennyson would have gloried in. “The
vestry emptied. Mervyn gave Elizabeth his
arm, and their children” (begotten, we should
say, in the Colonies before the bill had
passed in England) “walked down the cen-
tral aisle of the empty church, through the
old porch, out into the golden sunlight and
the golden glory of the autumn foliage.
They saw stretching before them up to
Chainely Priory, half-a-mile away, two long
rows of men, women and children and an
•empty road through open gates between
them. As they emerged to walk home arm-
in-arm, a great shout went up in bass, tenor
and treble, ‘Sir Mervyn and Lady. Veneer-
ing—Long Live Sir Mervyn and Lady
Veneering!’ ” After this quotation it is
needless to add that Sir Harry Johnston is
a sound Englishman. He has met his
countrymen on the sea and in their adminis-
trative outposts, and he quite clearly prefers
them to any other race, and their country to
any other country. But France is his second
home, and many of his scenes are laid there.
Mr. Podsnap moves in Paris with some diffi-
culty, but his daughter Georgy, after suc-
ceeding to the family wealth, lives and dies
in the Pyrenees. The Veneerings at first
go to Boulogne because there is no Extra-
dition Act, but Madame, after suffering in-
numerable trials, prosjpers exceedingly, and
in the last chapter is present in an English
church at the second wedding of her son.
“The Veneerings” is not for the young,
because they have missed so much and will
not acknowledge it, but the middle-aged will
enjoy it immensely. The plot does not
matter very much, but it shows the growth
of the drug firm founded in “Our Mutual
Friend” to the status of an international
concern, the intermarriage of its sons and
daughters and the efforts of a rich man’s
sons to cut themselves off from the business
in which he made his fortune.
A Sermon on Shaw
“Back to Methuselah” has set the dramatic
critics off again, I see. The poor old negress
in the play comes in for more turnips than
is her due; and on every side Shaw is asked
if he imagines that this kind of thing is
funny. There has been the usual turmoil
over his technique, with the usual dis-
agreement as a result; and it seems about
time that someone who is not a dramatic
critic had a say.
When “Misalliance” was produced in
New York the dramatic critics wept. Clay-
ton Hamilton proclaimed to George Jean
Nathan that if he ever wrote anything so
deficient in the matter of technique he hoped
that Nathan would shoot him. “I am fond
of Hamilton,” said George Jean, “and I am
not disposed to shoot him before his time
comes (there are something like five col-
leagues on the list ahead of him), but I am
always ready to oblige a friend. Especially
when he mistakes a remarkable proficiency
in structural technique for a deficiency.”
The truth about Shaw, of course, is that
he understands the accepted technique so
well that he can afford to discard it. The
greatest business man of the theatre to-day,
he is fully cognisant of the fact that what
makes money is judicious novelty ; and that,
since the accepted play-writing technique
lacks novelty, the best way to make money
is to reject that technique and substitute the
unusual and unconventional. To date, Shaw
has made from 70 to 80 thousand pounds
sterling out of the theatre; and in doing
so has gained a reputation as the
wittiest, freshest and most unusual dra-
matic author of his time. He has achieved
this success very simply, daring what no one
else would dare. Yet it is held by some
people that did Shaw trouble himself with
the technique which he has had the courage
to cast aside, his plays would be better
ones. In other words, if he were to fall into
the pitfalls of his predecessors his plays
would grow in greatness. To ,me, this
sounds very much like arguing that Richard
Strauss’ solos would have been better had
he taken a leaf from the book of Irving
Berlin; or that Manet would have ranked
higher as a painter had he followed the lead
of “Phiz.” Shaw 7 perfectly understands the
technique of the theatre. He is even guilty
of the commonest tricks of the theatre. When
he makes Dudgeon strut like a hero a laugh
is sure to follow 7 . He has what Nathan
calls “the guffaw 7 -sesame of the cuss-word” ;
of the repeated mispronunciation of a
difficult name, as with Szczepanowska in
“Misalliance”; of w 7 ord-reiteration, as in
“Candida” ; of the irrelevant employment of
exaggerated, precise language, and of the
mimicry of one character by another, as in
“You Never Can Tell.” In “Arms and the
Man” he introduced the. bedroom business,
later to become the mode in musical comedy ;
in “The Devil’s Disciple” w r e have the good
old gallows, troops, bands and the prepara-
tions for an approaching execution; and in
“Captain Brassbound,” “Man and Super-
man” and “Androcles” he has used novel
setting as a last resource. The conventional
playwright hides himself behind the scenes
and announces events by means of letter or
telegram; but this irreverent Irishman drags
the happening out into the full glare of the
footlights. Thus, in “Brassbound” we actu-
ally see the arrival of the American wmrship
and the shelling of the Moorish coast. w 7 hile
the burning of the Library of Alexandria in
“Caesar and Cleopatra” takes place before
our eyes. His use of effect, mechanical con-
trivances and lighting reveals not only a
perfect knowledge of one side of the theatre,
but a remarkable gift for experiment and
innovation as well. He has taken more lib-
erties with his material than any other dra-
matist, dead or living. He has totally dis-
proved the contention of Horace in his “Ars
1 oetica” that there were many things which
should not be represented upon the stage;
and by doing it he has made a fortune. He is
a pastmaster ip the art of posing. One can
never be certain whether he has his tongue
in his cheek or not. A great deal of this
arrogance is doubtless assumed for the pur-
pose of publicity; but it is nevertheless true
that Shaw is not in the habit of trifling with
his good opinion of himself. He is intensely
proud of and untiringly interested in G.B.S.
When he couples himself with Shakspeare he
means it. And the public has accepted him
at his own valuation and fought to hear
itself abused.
QUENTIN POPE.
Politics and the English Censor of
Plays
Since the banning of “The Mikado” qt the
end of last century no prominent play has
been refused an appearance on the stage by
the English Censor for political reasons;
probably because few plays are political in
tone, and those that are so are so inane that
they could not possibly offend anyone.
But a recent cable tells us‘ that “The
King’s Minister,” a play dealing with the
career of Lord Melbourne, who dominated
Queen Victoria until she married and was
dominated by her German husband, has been
banned “because it might give offence and
pain to living people.”
Sometimes (as in the case of Shaw’s “The
Showing-up of Blanco Posnet”) religious
“heresy” is sufficient reason for preventing
production, but the censorship is mostly
applied to supposedly “immoral” plays,
though, as every critic of the censorship
knows, the most bawdy shows have no diffi-
cultv in “getting on” if they are convention-
ally pornographic. Of course, the whole
idiotic business should have been scrapped
long ago. _ It does not apply to books. The
only way in which the sale of a book can be
damaged is by police prosecution, or by a
refusal of the libraries to handle it. As to
police action, this works out all right in the
long run, as it is only used, as it is intended
to be, against rank filth. The refusal of the
libraries to take a book would seem a more
serious menace, since by the enormous- num-
bers they take collectively they make or mar
novels, at any rate. But in practice such
action generally gives a novel, refused for
morality, a succ&s de scandald, of which it is,
more often than not, quite unworthy, as in
the case of Cannan’s “Pink Roses” a year or
two ago.
The contrast, between the official attitude
towards a book and a play is well illustrated
by the play just banned, and Lytton
Ktrachey’s “Queen Victoria.” It would be
difficult for the play to contain a more scath-
ing comment on Victoria or Lord Melbourne
or on dozens of the leading people of Vic-
toria’s reign than is to be found in Stra-
chey’s book, and that book has had
a tremendous sale, and has led to
the _ publishers _ hastily re-issuing his
“Eminent Victorians,” and producing a
volume of his literary essays to' catch
the boom-tide at its flood. In fact,
the more outspoken written literature be-
comes (and this applies also to the publica-
tion of plays in book form) the more squeam-
ish becomes literature that is spoken. Not
that our written literature is particularly
frank (especially in political affairs) if it
comes to that, as compared with that of the
Continent. The popular literature of the
day cannot compare with that of the
eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries.
When Frederick, Prince of Wales, died,
London could stomach, without a qualm:
Here lies Fred,
Who was alive and is dead.
If it had been his sister
No one would have missed her.
If it had been his father
I had much rather.
If it had been his mother
Much better than another.
If it had been his whole generation
So much better for the nation.
But since ’tis only Fred,
Who was alive and is dead,
There’s no more to be said.
Anything analogous to that to-day is un-
thinkable. The spread of craven docility in
the heterogeneous masses, and the authori-
ties’ fear of the vague thing they call “Bol-
shevism,” have effectually squelched any such
frank criticism of Royalty, or even of
mildly prominent people, “as freedom
broadens slowly down,” etc.
Chesterton expresses it neatly when he
says, in effect, that eighteenth-century auto-
cracy meant that a writer had to say: “The
Earl of C is a profligate and a spend-
thrift,” while nineteenth-century freedom
means that he may say: “The Earl of Ches-
ter is highly respectable and a good family
man.”
N. ROBINOVITZ.
Belief
William James has pointed out that “That
will be most generally believed which, besides
offering us objects able to account satisfac-
torily for our own sensible experiences, also
offers those which are most interesting, those
which appeal most urgently to our aesthetic,
emotional or active needs.” But with most
of us it is the second part of the statement
that is the chief factor in the formation
of a belief. So it is plain that man is
much more influenced by beliefs than by
knowledge. The latter is only attained by
severe mental toil, and is always subject to
criticism and to the fear that later dis-
coveries may show it to be false. Such
a hesitant, uncertain thing can never,
in our present state of development,
become a w T orld-shaking foi’ce. But a
belief is entirely a different matter.
It possesses a mystic power that causes
its acceptance without criticism, and
permits of no doubt, no hesitation. It has
very little concern with actual truth or
falsity. > It is of no use to argue with a
true believer, because his trouble has nothing
to do with proofs. That is what gives it its
tremendous strength. The savage who is
told by his medicine-man that an enemy has
stolen his heart will surely die in a few
hours, in spite of any demonstration that
the organ is beating in its proper place.
Beliefs, particularly religious ones, have
a tendency to spread rapidly and widely.
Man feels that he has a spiritual need:
and if a belief be offered that seems
to meet this he embraces it without ques-
tion and with fanatical energy. Then he
becomes a propagandist of this creed. Partly
by mere dint of asseveration and repetition,
partly by the prestige of his opinion, if he
is a prominent person, but above all by the
tremendous force, of mental contagion which
acts on the sub-conscious minds of men, and
so is not amenable to reason, he imposes it
on others. This psychological weapon was
the secret of the almost incredibly great and
rapid spread of Mohammedanism. It
enabled an insignificant Arab tribe in a few
years to build one of the world’s greatest
empires, to impose its beliefs on a large part
of the human race, and to do its work so
thoroughly that its influence persists strongly
to the present day. It enabled Cortes to con-
quer the mighty empire of Montezuma with a
mere handful of Spaniards. The undaunted
spirits, of his adventurers infected the minds
of their Indian allies and made them irre-
sistible. His example was followed with
much success in India by Dupleix and later
by Clive j and it is now the universal cus-
tom —as in the late war when the Americans
were first put alongside the Australians —
for raw and inexperienced troops to be stiff-
ened with a seasoning of veterans. Under
the influence of mental contagion law-abid-
ing and kindly citizens may become merciless
and destructive members of a riotous mob
and perform acts that in their reasoning
moments they would shrink from with horror.
An educated man said to me recently, “I
believe in revolution, not evolution, and will
not be satisfied until I see the streets of
Sydney running with blood.” His beliefs
were formed by the contagion of his political
associates, who were extreme socialists; and
it was quite useless to try and alter them.
As Gustave Le Bon says, “Beliefs spread
by mental contagion cannot be opposed by
arguments, but only by contrary beliefs
propagated with the help of leaders who
possess the peculiar art of exciting crowds.”
This is the reason why in industrial disputes
honest men on opposite sides, each earnestly
desiring a settlement, are often totally incap-
able of seeing their opponents’ point of view.
Belief will always be necessary as a
motive power; w'ithout it intellect is use-
less. Reason stands in relation to belief
as the rudder of a ship to the engines; and
human progress must be towards a state
where the ship of the mind is controlled by
the steering apparatus entirely, and not, as
at present, largely by the blind force of the
propelling machinery.
ERIC JEFEREY.
The Inky Way
“D.”: Joynton Smith has decided to call his new
daily, which was to have appeared this month, the
Kathleen Mavourning Herald.
■VD.D.”: lie “guts” and “pluck,” or rather the
antiquity of such synonyms for courage, “Telisford”
(B. 13/7/’22) is on safe ground when he suggests
that the latter was coined before the Crimean war.
In the “The Smuggler’s Leap” (Ingoldsby Legends)
occurs the line “If you’re plucky and not over-
subject to fright.” As for "guts,” Dean Swift wrote
in “Polite Conversations”: “The fellow’s well enough
if he had any guts in his brains.” It is worth noting,
as a perfectly analogous phrase, that in Australia to-
day lean-stapled wool is colloquially summarised as
having “no guts.”
A new Kipling snag has appeared in the path
of those who collect first editions. It seems that
one lot of this author’s stories was printed
privately in the U.S.A. for copyright purposes—
each of the 20 stories separately, and only seven
copies of each. And now these pamphlets fetch
from £5O to £9O apiece. But £66 was paid in
New York for a mere printer’s proof, preserved by
some canny compositor, with corrections in Kip-
ling’s writing, and at the same sale a first edition
of his little “Letters of Marque’’ (1891) fetched
£305.
“Coot”: Many years ago Walter Murdoch (now
a professor at Perth Uni.) published a little booklet
of literary essays which he dubbed “Loose Leaves.”
A Melbourne bookseller recently displayed a quan-
tit}’ of the booklets on his bargain table, labelled:
LOOSE TALK.
By ELZEVIR, OF THE “ARGUS.”
A Satchel of Books
Plays: First Series, by Eugene O’Neill (Jonathan
Cape, London). Three plays, “The Straw,” “The
Emperor Jones,” and “Diff’rent,” are contained in
the volume, and they. are hailed in an introduction
by C. E. Bechhofer as the work of “the most signi-
ficant American dramatist of to-day.” They are cer-
tainly interesting, but they won’t stand comparison
with the efforts of Brighouse, Chapin and Houghton,
three English dramatists, very similar to O’Neill in
their attitude to Life. “The Straw” is a pure and
unadulterated “sob” drama laid mostly in a con-
sumptive sanatorium. “The Emperor Jones,” pictur-
ing the romance of a nigger Pullman attendant who
starts a colored empire on a West Indian island,
is substantially better in treatment and idea, and
the insistent beat of a tom-tom, threatening the
revolution that empties the potentate from bis
throne, would create, with the jungle which engulfs
him after he has bolted for safety, an atmosphere
of menace—if he could be taken seriously. But his
opening dialogue with a character who recalls the
loud and unwashed Cockney in Shaw’s “Captain
Brassbound’s Conversion” dooms him to irreverent
laughter. The dramatist has forgotten, in investing
Jones with dignity, that he has made him funny.
“Diff’rent,” a study in sex psychology, hasn’t a
high literary value, but in acting possibilities it is
the best of the three.
The Russian Turmoil, by General Denikin (Hutch-
inson and Co.). Denikin, a trusted general who
did great things in the early part of the war and
subsequently saw his army ruined by committees
of soldiers and workmen, traverses the whole tragedy
from the downfall of the Czar with a singularly
unembittered pen. Apparently bourgeois in a political
sense, ho admits that the original, revolution
failed through the painful inadequacy of Lvov,
Miliukov and Kerensky, in the first Provisional Gov-
ernment that was appointed after the Czar’s abdica-
tion. Kerensky, dreamer and demagogue, simply
faded out from sheer futility. Denikin hazards that
he might have tried to suppress the Bolshevik elements
in the early stages with the help of one of the
fighting generals, but fear of a military dictator-
ship held his hand. Denikin gives Kerensky credit
for great personal courage in his efforts to save the
army from disruption, but it is apparent that he
considers the bogus Napoleon was born to miss the
’bus. The General, however, is not over-friendly
to the Czar and Czarina, and he tells some curious
yarns about the latter bearing on her alleged pro-
German bias and her friendship with the miscreant,
Rasputin. He relates without comment how the
duplicate of a secret and elaborate plan of the army
dispositions and the varying strengths' in men and
guns in every sector of the whole Russian front was
found in the possession of the Empress. He also
mentions with dry humor how she tried to get
Rasputin invited to the Russian G.H.Q., and was
told that, if the holy man appeared, the army head,
General Alexiev, would resign his command. Alto-
gether an attractive book, and revealing, despite the
author’s exile, a fond faith in his ruined land.


Wool!
->~ .->4*
C'Q?
m
3L
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Even a sheep springs into activity at those words.
They are familiar and linked inseparably together.
Good work, good methods and good sales have made
the firm’s name pre eminent in the wool trade. For
Top Values Consign Wool:
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
Salesmen, Sydney or Brisbane.
CYCLONE
s
High-Speed
Chain Hoists.
Highest Awards
Panama-Pacific
International
Exposition—l9ls.
STRONG POINTS.
Speed.
Absence of Vibration.
Accurately cut and
Strong Gears.
Durability.
Safety.
Strength.
“CYCIjONK” and all other Cliisholm-
Moore Hoisting: Blocks stocked by iis
are Tested to 33601 b. to the ton—6o%
overload.
The peculiar gyrating movement in the
“Cyclone” Chain Hoist, and the perfect bal-
ance of all its parts, make possible a very
high speed with practically no vibration.
Write for Free Illustrated descriptive
Catalogue “If.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts-, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 lines).
581-83 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
li
• I ' •
>":S
8 • 4
u
iPrt
11l t f£* «
:i.«n
life
..‘'it
r jl.u
"M'fl
A**'*-
»* Jii 1
or /to
ll i o
U \
Vv
V
NATURE’S
SECRETS
are unlocked in the lovely
Zenobia Perfumes. The subtle
charm of the flowers at their
sweetest moment is found in
perfection in these exquisite
favorites. There are no per-
fumes truer to nature than
£ENOBI£.
df
Zenobia Lily of the Valley—is as charm-
ing: as the tender appeal of the living
flowers.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blos-
som —a triumph of deli-
cacy and fidelity to nature.
The original perfume of
the name.
Zenobia Night-scented
Stock —as sweet as the
perfume of an old-world
garden—a great favorite.
Manufactured only by
Zenobia Limited,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England.
Sole Agents for New Zea-
land (Wholesale only) :
Newson & Co., Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1102, Wellington.
Sole Agent for Australia
(Wholesale only) :
Kenneth Buckmaster,
15 O’Connell
Street,
o„* Sydney.
\C4>v^b,
((
il
£
FULLER-LEHIGH
PULVERIZED FUEL-FIRING SYSTEMS
are Far Beyond Experimental Stages.
COMMERCIAL-SIZED UNITS NOW BEING INSTALLED IN
AUSTRALIA FOR:—
Australian Portland Cement Co., Geelong.
Electricity Commissioners, Newport, Victoria.
Wallaroo & Moonta Mining & Smelting Co., South Australia.
National Portland Cement, Limited, Tasmania.
Victorian Railways.
We can you a Plant in operation.
Send for particulars to
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, BRISBANE,
AUSTRALASIAN ENGINEERS FULLER LEHIGH CO.,
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. [1
PHILIPS
gsd
fg
%
Bend your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Well-
ington (N.Z.), Auckland,
Christchurch, New Ply-
mouth.
Christopher Johnson & Co.
Western Works, Sheffield,
ENGLAND.
ALL CLASSES OF FINE
SCISSORS.
Nail, Manicure, Cutting-out,
Haircutting, Tailors’ Shears, etc.
ESTABLISHED 1836.
Over 80 years of consistent service
to the public is the record of the
FLAG BRAND
m-m
a "
0
Hollow-
pointed
Nail Scissors.
CUTLERY
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
THE PERFECT MILK
IFEGUARD
Condensed MILK
Judge by the Milk in the Tin
Your Grocer Stocks It!
SKANDIA
Crude Oil, Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
No
Magnetos
Sparking Plugs
Batteries
Carburetters
or
Electrical
Devices.
-.A
Unequalled in
Economy
Simplicity
Durability
and
Reliability.
4 to 800
H.P.
Sole Agents for Australia
and South Sea Islands—
NELSON O. ROBERTSON,
15-17 Loft us Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“I).F.”: Some fairly good sticks of timber
have been cut in the Speck. There is a
tradition of a beam 100 ft. long, but the big-
gest definitely on record is a toothpick 14Gft.
long and 18in. by Gin. which was snipped
at Long Bay, down the Channel, and sent
to the Crystal Palace Exhibition of 1851.
» * * *
“Cutter”: A country clerk on the M.L.
railways was given a poser the other day by
a Taranaki (M.L.) resident, who came to
prepay the freight on a bundle of rose-
cuttings. The worried official consulted the
railway tariff and scratched his head. “Not
flowers,” he pronounced, and, after some
deep cogitation, “not trees, either.” Then,
in the light of a sudden inspiration, he got
down the office ruler and booked up the
goods as timber.
* * * *
“Zanthus”: Cotton-growing is not exactly
new in Australia. In 1802 Governor King
reported that much cotton-seed had been
sown, but that the plant did not thrive very
well. He had no doubt that it would suc-
ceed further north. When Captain Bremer
founded the settlement at Melville Island in
1824 he found a kind of cotton growing wild
there and sent some samples to England. At
the later Port Essington settlement in the
Territory cotton is recorded as doing well.
“L.T.”: Before the Kaiser was put to
chopping wood, S. Aus. looked mostly to
Germany for her aluminium-, copper- and
brass-ware, but now an Adelaide firm (the
Austral Sheet Metal Works) has an exten-
sive plant turning out these articles locally
-—the standard is equal to anything ever
imported, too. The company has a large
number of employees, who are on a profit-
sharing scheme. The machinery is operated
by a gas-producing engine, which also lights
the establishment, and they are not depen-
dent on any particular fuel.
“Te Pana”: The Murray system of
machine-printing telegrams has been given a
successful trial between Auckland and Wel-
lington. The machine, which is bomie-
grown Maoriland, permits of 40 words a
minute being sent, and eight messages at a
time can be jerked along a single line. At
the receiving end the message is printed on
thin strips of paper, which in turn are
gummed to the flimsy. Despite the labor-
saving involved, 12 words for a bob is still
the ruling price. But, then, Massey needs
the money.
* * * *
“Skyrider”: “T.W.’s” par. (B. 20/7/’22)
concerning native flowers and their perfumes
deserves all the publicity it can get. There
is no doubt about the keeping powers of the
scent of dried boronia. ’Way back in ’OB,
when I was hanging around Durban, in two
minds whether to come back home or try
a spell of the Rand, I smelt boronia, the
Victorian brown variety. I nosed round and
found a West-street vendor selling the flower,
bought a bjineh, and hiked for the nearest
shipping office. The other day I was turn-
ing out an old box and found the identical
spray. The scent is as sweet and strong
as ever.
* * * *
“Bulhvhanger”: Last week Sydneyites
were treated to a cock-a-doodle chorus of
ferry whistles, reminiscent of homing troop-
ships. The occasion was the first trial of
the new Manly ferry Baragoola, which has
just been completed at Mort’s Dock. Mort’s
built her throughout, and e.ngined her. She
is about the same dimensions as the other
larger steamers of the line, for the Naviga-
tion Department frown on anything outsize
entering the Quay, but will have an extra
kick to her propellers, enabling her to do
the trip to the “Village” in less time than
her sisters.
* * * *
“Hydro”: One of the biggest pumping-
stations in Australia is to be erected on the
River Murray, on the S. Aus. side. The
Irrigation and Reclamation Department re-
cently passed a contract for the station to
be located at Loveday, a few miles upstream
from Cobdogla. It will be operated by a
steam plant, having duplicate high-speed
engines aggregating approximately 1500
horsepower, and capable of delivering
2,000,000 gallons per hour of water at a
height of 93 feet. An Adelaide firm, New-
ton McLaren, Limited, have the job, which
is expected to be finished within a year, and
will make available another large section
of land for cultivation.
“Skyrider”: I have found, or, rather, re-
discovered, one of Australia’s many ideal
spots for the cultivation of tobacco. Explor-
ing the Shoalhaven (N.S.W.) gullies be-
tween Tallong and Bungonia I came across
a sheltered patch of about 10 acres, tucked
in a fold of the gullies. Growing everywhere
on the flat was tobacco, wild but still the
real weed. It had evidently been planted
there years ago, but the leaves were good
enough for curing, though a bit on the
strong side. There are scores of similar flats
going to waste along the river which will
some day supply Sydney with water-power,
and it only needs someone with a bit of
capital to make use of them.
COMMISSIONAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Chairman: ‘I think we want a couple more
Bibles.’
“Air. Denton, M.L.A.: ‘I think we want a bushel of
them.’ ”
■ —From the IV.A. Royal Commission proceedings,
on dealing in War Gratuity Bonds in Westralia.
Give me a crate of Bibles stout
To lay my lips upon,
That 1 may taste veracity
And speak the same anon.
Give me a gross of solemn oaths
To aid my falt'ring tongue,
That I may tread the path of lies
And leave its traps unsprung.
Give me a ton of vows all framed
To banish falsehood’s might—
Give me a dozen different ways
To seek Truth’s shining light.
I’ll pledge my soul a thousandfold,
Its living case as well—
I’ll swear... .and swearing, think of yet
Another tale to tell!
WEST AUSTRALIA.
THE RUMPUS.


STUDEBAKER
MOTOR CARS.
Extraordinary Reductions.
WE HAVE A LIMITED NUMBER OF
SPECIAL and LIGHT SIXES
WHICH WE ARE OFFERING AT
STARTLING PRICES.
SPECIAL SIX - £545
F. 0.8.
PT. ADELAIDE.
CASH AGAINST DOCUMENTS.
£475
F. 0.8.
PT. ADELAIDE.
CASH AGAINST DOCUMENTS.
FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS APPLY TO
BAGOT, SHAKES 8 LEWIS. LTD
18 Ring' William Adelaide.


sdf
<Jhe largest selling
quality pencil in
the world
ENUS
PENCILS
A
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCIUS.
Sold Everywhere.
Stop that
husky cough!
The man with a husky cough is a
nuisance to himself and his neigh-
bours. In nine cases out of ten it can
be cured by a few Evans’ Pastilles.
These kill the germs that lurk in the
h usky throat, and are the best remedy
known to medical science. Sore
throats and colds quickly yield to
treatment,
EUANS*
Pastiltes
He wise In time and buy a box to-day.
Of all Chemist*.
g
Made by Evans Sons Leschar
8c Webb Ltd., London.
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY. Proprietor.
m
Ml
m
VS3
J
am
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. not 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from Yi- pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
IIOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment wilhout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Ruilt for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
last alifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look tor
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Slreet. CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
r
A Mighty Good
“Night Cap”
is Wolfe’s Schnapps with
Hot Water, Lemon and
Sugar. You just can’t help
liking it for this mixture
makes the most Comfort-
ing and Enticing Winter
night Beverage ever pro-
pounded by the Bene-
ficence of Nature and
the Art of Man.
IM'V
H
/
v\
m
m
Be
ism
jCsy*.
_JIHRHpH
i
gi
alwsssis
m
m
:<■■■;_
Esaß&Sm
m
aaw
sms
si
SBB
assK
3®
Jsvr* vflfch?
aS^g^B
1
- -
Wm
mmm
«QsS*.iw*i)>.i?sK<4
:?SS
: :
E&gSgS
mmm
'•
\' «4if
WKS?
HZ
k
QXC
Aromatic Schiedam
SCHNAPPS
PLUMBER’S BRASSWORK
Immediate Delivery.
“Medium” or “Country” Lines: iin., fin., lin. Bibs, Hose, Stops,
Ferrule Stops, Straight Ferrules, etc.
WATER-BOARD STANDARD. Melbourne- 7 -Brisbane—Hobart,
Perth, Adelaide, Sydney. All usual lines.
RANGE or TANK COCKS, fin., lin.
WINDMILL PUMPS.
ALDERDICE,
Brassfoundry, Warrnambool.
James Honey, of Hobart, who celebrated
his 100th birthday on July 2, was born
at. Rochester, Kent, in 1822, and was a son
of James Honey, who left England in 1820
and took up farming at I'ittwater, near
Sorrell (Tas.). The centenarian in bygone
days held appointments in the Commissariat
in V. D. Land, Norfolk .Island and Moreton
Bay.
“0.P.”: Charles Mettam, of the Gilbert
and Sullivan company, bears evidence, in-
cluding one particularly severe wound, that
his war experience was the real thing. He
lias been one of the most useful members of
the company from the time it was formed,
playing almost any type of part in emergen-
cies. For many months he has had leading
tenor roles, in which he used to come to the
rescue when Jimmy Hay’s health was troub-
ling him. Mettam was with Williamson
companies before the war. On returning lie
played tenor leads in revues under the
Fuller management at Melbourne Palace.
“0.K.”: Thus far there has never been a
question raised in the Vic. State Legislature
as to whether the local Coal Control Dept.,
or whatever they call it, will ever be discon-
tinued. Created under the alleged fear of
a terrible coal famine in Victoria, the blessed
Board which officially sanctions the sale of
half a ton of coal to Brown, Jones or Robin-
son, for parlor-fire purposes, has long survived
the disappearance of the peril which gave it
birth. It provides billets for some whom the
House perhaps is loath to turn adrift on a cold
and heartless world of private enterprise.
Anyhow, the ghastly farce of a coal control
required me to make formal written applica-
tion to a coal dealer for the last sack of fuel
that came my way.
“008” : It was odd how little the Diggers
knew, or cared to know, about the "heads”
of the A.I.F. They mostly fastened on
irrelevancies. Thus Birdwood was regarded
as a picturesque humbug, and his “Only one
more stunt, boys, and then a two months’
rest,” was chiefly discussed when his name
came up—unless the conversation turned to
his passion for covering his chest with ribbons.
Mouasli was comparatively unknown amongst
divisions other than the third, and his ap-
pointment as Corps Commander was looked
upon as part of a deep-laid plot to cut out.
the rum issue and enforce the wearing of hats
turned down all around —reforms that he was
credited with having effected in his own divi-
sion. It was not until the troops returned
home that his administrative ability and the
part played by him in the final stages iof the
war was even suspected.
"0.K.” recalls a year of jubilee:—
Melbourne newspaper references to the “brilliant”’
career of the late Madame Wiedermann, as a comic-
opera artist in Germany, were sinfully overdone.
The lady’s alleged fame in Berlin 40 years ago was
not even a popular delusion at Melbourne Turn
Verein in times before the war, when old German
identities spoke rather disparagingly of her voice in
its early prime. To suppose that Elise Wiedermann
abandoned a dazzling stage future in the early
’eighties to come to Australia, and marry Pinschoff,
on landing in Melbourne, is to conclude that she ran
away from notoriety because she was sick of it. She
was not built that way. The fact is that Melbourne
heard Madame Wiedermann in comic opera when her
voice was at its best, and the writer was one of the
audience that failed to detect much natural beauty
in her warble. It was just fairly good German
singing, like that of the rest of the company—ama-
teur and otherwise—who appeared in Albert Lort-
zing’s “Czar and Zimmermann” at Melbourne Alex-
andra, in May, 1887. The “star” practically ran
the show, though Ernst Hnrtung, long time musical
critic for Melbourne IlEiunn, was billed as stage-
manager, whilst Otto Linden directed the music.
Mme. Wiedermann, large-typed on (lie hill, was*then
a bouncing matron of 36. She played niece to the
low-comedian Burgomaster (Herr Martin Schmidt),
Czar Peter the First, of Russia, being capably imper-
sonated by Ilartung aforesaid. The tenor lover w,%s
Rudolf Himmer, who posed in local music circles as
a concert-artist and singing-teacher until his typi-
cally Prussian soul was snuffed out by the result of
the war. The production of “Czar and Zimmer-
mann” testified to the stage experience and musical
education of nearly everybody in the local German
gathering of 10, but there was little charm or
melody in it. Sweetness did not fill the air of the
Alexandra. It was a highly-sophisticated amateur
show in which the comely, self-confident leading lady
was no way calculated to set the Yarra aflame. By
the way, the opera was performed in the German
language, so the voices were at no disadvantage.
“NimshiV’ eminent acquaintance:—
George Russell (“AE.”), the Irish poet, had
a desk near me in the office of a rag
emporium in Dublin 30 years ago. His job of
credit clerk kept him on the move through the
departments o’ mornings, and I can still sec him
shouldering along with a couple of office books
under one arm and a bonnet-box or a pair of
corsets under the other, lie was nearly 6ft., stooped
badly, and was as thin as a match. I don’t think
he had ever shaved, and his hair generally hung to
his shoulders. He had vegetarian leanings, and
often dined on dry bread and water. Though given
to fits of abstraction he made a fairly efficient
clerk. He was nicknamed “The God” owing to
his outburst concerning some Indians on exhibition
in the city—“ Stalking about like gods!” lie de-
claimed. When annoyed this mild poetic ziff some-
times swore luridly, his favorite curse being “Hell
roast your soul.” One of Ids own works was m
the house library at the time, and I occasionally
caught him conning a MB. kept perdu in his desk.
Replying to a busybody who asked why iie didn’t
employ his talents to gain an easier livelihood, Rus-
sell said he “wouldn’t prostitute his art in that
way.” He afterwards got a job under the Irish
Agricultural Board,-and used to travel round teach-
ing farmers how to pack butter and eggs for the
market! He lived in Ely-place, and had George
Moore, the novelist, for a near neighbor.
“Sundown” : It is hardly correct to say
that “the close season for opossums has
been abolished for this year in Queensland”
(B. 6/7/22). The embargo was lifted for
two months only—May and June. . Even
for that period there were well-defined re-
strictions on indiscriminate slaughter. The
destroyer was required to provide himself
with a license. Cyanide and artificial lights
of any bind were strictly prohibited, proof
that it was intended to give the little fellow
some sporting chance. Not that it amounted
to much. Nature has been unkind to the
opossum in that, at the very time the fur is
at its best, the female is in nearly every
case carrying young. The result of this is
that in many districts it is almost wiped
out, and a close, season of anything less
than 10 years will not be of much good.
Personally, I would rather see him up a
tree than in a rug or coat.


W W ! £
- : "i 1
.&L
. ...
•• : V
m
mm
-
.
m
■
t:t<
»
*3
Si
liSsaS
s?
.
i-':
f 4 1
VICTORIA BRIDGE, BRISBANE.
ROADWAY REINFORCEMENT OF No. 610 B.R.C. FABRIC.
A Council Road Laid under Supervision of E. F, GILCHRIST Esa.
City Engineer, Brisbane City Council.
M.C. E. t
Road
(Made in Australia)
The success of B.R.C. Fabric as a sound Road Reinforcement is exemplified
in its continued adoption by City and Shire Councils and other public bodies
having Road Construction under their jurisdiction.
It is recognised that where heavy traffic has to be contended with—either
industrial or tramway—B.R.C. Road Reinforcement solves the problem
not only of economical construction but of economical upkeep.
B.R.C. Fabric provides its own foundation even on weak ground and gives a
resiliency to the road so that direct traffic shocks are averted and wear and
tear minimised.
Write for Full Particulars.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.,
430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. 'Phone 886 i.
Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
Made in Australia.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Gollin <6 Co. Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES: J. Wild ridge <& Sinclair Ltd., Sydney
QUEENSLAND: J. Wildridge & Sinclair Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith Sc Co. Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA : T. Tabart, dun., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: John Burns & Co. Ltd., Auckland.


Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from ino.
4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
4Vz Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OOl, 3002, 3599.
▲
,
sdf
gsd
A Great Convenience
For Marking Linen
And they save a noyance often caused by
exeh nge or loss when the ai tides are
not maiked. Any Name woven into a
Fine Cambric Tape in Fast Color.
C M WALKER
Actual Size of Style No. 9
Prices: 12dz, 7/6. 6dz . 5 1 -. 3dz, 3/6-
Sold by All Best Drapers.
J.C- T PTY P 5 Cubitt Street
♦ J* ltd. Richmond, Mel
Write for Style Book.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
&
u
n
FITTINGS
The wear and riding ease of a
bicycle rest chiefly upon the
material and construction —
and since the early cycling days
bicycles built of B.S.Af Fittings
have been famed for these two
features. A rigorous inspection
system originally devised for rifle
manufacture, ensures to the B.S.A.
owner the utmost good service
from his machine.
ILLUSTRATED HANDBOOK
POST FREE ON REQUEST.
k
8.5. A.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The
B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
All H.S.A.Parts
are Guaranteed
Interciiaiie. able.
To the large army of sufferers afflicted with
Rheumatism, Gout, Calculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the days
of youth and health. URODONAL will even permit you to eat meat and other
favorite dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, colchihm and iodides (by
means of which temporary relief is procured at the cost of disastrous after-effects)
are entirely superseded by tIItODONAL. Thanks to URODONAL, the obese
regain their normal proportions, the weary take on. a new lease of life, and the
worn society woman regains ahd retains a clear and healthy complexion, through
the blood-purifying properties of this preparation. URODONAL is the great
discovery of the century, and is a boon to all: it is the secret of perpetual youth,
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims of tiricaema.
tREPAKED ISY ETABLISSEMENTS fcHATEEAIN, PARIS.
Price pei 1 Bottle* &/3.
Can be obtained troll! ail Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia, or posl free
from CHAXELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 353 KENT STREET, SYDNEY. from
whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing Medical Opinions. [1
\
%L
j
o
o
D
ONOTO INK-
Best far all Pens
SELP-PILLIN6
SAFETY
/
$ V
Lubricating
AT'
N Australia’s Industries
The development and improvement in imple-
ments and machinery during the past ten
years have aided the farmer immeasurably in secur-
ing bigger yields from each acre of ground.
Farm implements and machinery mean farm prosperity.
The most important single factor in keeping such equipment
at its highest efficiency is scientific lubrication.
• During the past 25 year* the Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Limited ha*
worked hand in hand with the inventor, the manufacturer, and the farmer in
raising the the standard oflubrication, so that the mechanical operations on the
farm could be accomplished smoothly, efficiently, and with a minimum of repairs
and depreciation.
Inventors and manufacturers generously acknowledge the help given by
this Company in solving their lubricating problems.
Farmers accept the name of the Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd. on a
package as an assurance of correct lubrication.
The work must go on.
Ask your storekeeper
for free booklet,
“ Petroleum on
the Farm."
fg
Vacuum Oil Go.
Pty. Ltd.
MSA
Lubricating Oils
Agrade for each type of service
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PP L T -°
Joel Moses Gabb, Labor M.H.R., who
defeated Patrick McMahon Glynn for Angas
(S.A.) in 1919, will have to meet in the
coming Federal elections George Ritchie, S.
Ans. Treasurer since April, 1920. Ritchie,
who was returned for Alexandria in 1902,
specialised in land matters, waterways and
water conservation before he took over the
cash-box, and he promises the little Methody
lay preacher a hard fight.
“O. Blin” : William Desmond, whose fea-
tures are now familiar on the screen, once
appeared for a few nights in “The Silver
King” in Melbourne. Even his best frienos
hid their faces to cloak their mirth. About
this tune it chanced that he received a de-
mand for cash from the income-tax people,
and his language showed that he was
worried. All the company noticed the
disturbance, and one night in one of the
intervals a stage-hand, who had privately
good reasons for disliking the bounding Yank,
ventured to ask what was the cause of his
trouble. “It’s that damned income-tax!”
shouted Desmond. "Income-taxV Income? ’
answered the other, in affected astonishment.
“Surely you don’t mean to tell me that you
are doing this for money.”
“Tin Ilat”: One of the few parts of the
Commonwealth where there is no profiteer-
ing in crays is Ilobart. The crustacean
supply arrives in the wells of fishing-boats
and is sold alive to the public at prices that
would make a Melbourne Dago disposed to
fall on his own oyster-knife. A bit of real
life which should repay a capable artist is
Mrs. ilobart carrying home her prospective
supper squirming at the end of a piece of
string. Incidentally, the cray supplies salt-
water anglers of the Speck with variety,
being frequently caught with rod and line,
sometimes through the hooks fouling a joint
of his armor, but more often because or his
iysensate reluctance to let go of the bait until
too late.
“Parolee”: After a recent N.S.W. experi-
ence youthful theatrical managers will think
twice before taking a company out on tour,
and trusting in Providence for sustenance.
Sued for wages by a member of the company
and unable to pay right away, John Neale,
who has been doing the smalls with “The
Sign on the Door,” was sent to Long Bay
pending a settlement. It was tough luck
for Neale, who had fought a long and losing
battle pluckily. His actors often got their
share of the proceeds while he went short
himself.
Capt. Ted Morby, member for Bar won in
the Vic. Assembly, who has raised a storm
among the church people and bookmakers of
Geelong .with his bill for legalising the totali-
sator, began a rather variegated career as a
gunner in the A.G.A. Later he transferred
into the Navy, and after his discharge con-
ducted a grocery business at Sorrento (Vic.).
Then he ran the Numurkah Hotel, and later
held a partnership in a well-known city firm
of auctioneers, whose business he conducted
until the war-drums sounded in ’.14. He was
severely gassed in France, and on his return
did good recruiting work in Bananaland.
Going back to Victoria he got the job of
secretary and organiser of the Great Ocean-
road Trust. He was elected as an Indepen-
dent Nationalist at the State election before
last, but since then has signed-up with Law-
son’s crowd.
Noel Webb, the Adelaide wig recently
appointed Judge of the Arbitration Court,
was a Maitland (N.S.W.) infant, and when
a small lad attended the Cleveland-street
Public School in Sydney. “There was a big
boy there,” says Webb, “who used to get
the little fellows together and teach them
science with the materials he had collected
for his chemical laboratory.” That big lad,
George Handley Ivnibbs, .now bosses the
Bureau of Science and Industry. W. r l\
McCoy, 8.A., S. Aus.’s Director of Educa-
tion. was also one of Webb’s schoolmates,
and still another who got into the limelight
was John O’Hara Cosgrave, but that was at
the Auckland (M.L.) College and Grammar
School, after Webb’s father, a Baptist minis-
ter, crossed over to the Rickety Isles. Cos-
grave later went to the U.S., took up news-
paper work, and became editor of Every-
body's Magazine.
Strange are the recreations of the mighty.
These efforts at self-interpretation are from
the" current “Who’s Who”: “Work, more
work, and still again more” ; “Writing letters
to the papers on various subjects of which
over 2000 have appeared”; “Visiting the
tombs of famous personages”; “Looking at
ancient and memorable buildings”; “Reading
newspapers”: “Listening to the debates in
Parliament”; “Wasting time dabbling in
heraldry” : “Playing patience”; “Glee-sing-
ing” ; “Playing with children”; and “Com-
muning with Nature.” The man who “lis-
tens to the debates in Parliament” does not
reside in Australia. . Eccentricity has its
limits.
Ralph Segnit is back in Adelaide after an
eventful seven years. Having served with
the Engineers in Gallipoli and France, he
went to Oxford on. a military scholarship,
bagged degrees in Arts and Science, and
various honors, and was then attached as
geologist to a scientific expedition organised
by the ’Varsity to explore Spitsbergen. For
his work in that chillsome locality he had
F.R.G.S. tacked on to his name.
“T.W.”: Though I was right in the
prompter’s wing when the Vic. strike drama
of 1903 was staged, it comes as news to me
that lately-deceased Jim Cameron, Frank
Madden, Bromley and two other legislators
outside the Cabinet took a hand in settling
the sorry business with which Iceberg Irvine
and Tommy Bent consolidated their cold-
blooded Government. That strike was settled
circuitously by a trick concocted between
David Syme and Irvine’s Treasurer, Shiels.
The Iceberg stood on his dignity when he
was asked to go to the Age office to see
Syme, but he compromised by sending “Slip-
pery” Shiels along in the role of Balaam’s
ass. An adroitly worded Age article next
morning put the wind up the Newport and
other Mqlbo ur n e,r ai 1 w aymen by declaring
that sections of their comrades in Seymour
and Bendigo had gone back to the shops
suddenly overnight. Before the leaders could
nail down the untruth their men had stam-
peded, and Irvine and Bent were able to
pose as the State’s saviours and glue them-
selves to the Treasury bench for quite a
while.


Gas Light
for Country Homes
Banishes gloom,
than any other, and gives a constantly superior illumination.
One satisfied client with an eight-light and gas-ring installation writes
that he uses only one tin of benzine in three months.
There is no noise in connection with Wizard Gas—everything is
quiet, clean, and so absolutely safe that'insurance companies demand
no extra rate for premises that use it.
Wizard plants are built in Australia to meet our special rural condi-
tions. Read, write and enjoy yourself in the comfort of this perfect,
cheerful lighting system.
Write for our illustrated booklet—now.
WIZARD LIGHTING COMPANY
HEAD OFFICE: 55 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
187 a FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE
[EXCLUSIVE TERRITORIES AVAILABLE TO LIVE SALESMEN!
/'W
mm
i
5s
U
i: ■
POINTS to REMEMBER
WIZARD Lighting Systems are :
MATCH LIGHTING
AUTO CLEANING
MOTHPROOF
SIMPLE TO USE
ABSOLUTELY EFFICIENT
and so safe that no extra insurance is
required when it is installed.
fESSOPS
w # STEELS
FORGINGS
Making big steel forgings is a real craftsman’s job. It
calls for exceptional skill, long experience, up-to-date
plant and good steel. The skilful application of these
different factors guarantees the production of real
quality forgings—forgings that make tough, wear-
resisting components easily able to stand up to
the severest duty for years.
Jessop’s specialise in this type of craftsman
ship—have specialised in it for years.
Better forgings are the natural result.
Better forgings made from a better
steel a perfectly-graded stee!-
Jessop’s Steel. Let Jessop’s
serve you.
Made in
Sheffield,
the home
of the
Steel
Industry.
■V
m
A two - throw
crankshaft for a
gas-engine forged
from Jessop’s Steel. A
fine example of crafts-
manship guaranteed to
der efficient service.
ren
MAULER 8 QUEREAU,
Atlas Buildings, 406 Collins St.,'Melbourne,
Agents for
WM. JESSOP g SONS, LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
1
JLv
r
9W
m
»
tail
F.J
133
LU Hq
%
p
a
w
fv
\
T
DRlo
&s
cs
m
7 “REX” 1
Luncheon Cheese
Is Nutritious
and Appetizing
A taste for Luncheon Cheese
denotes an L.L.D. in Cheese
Education —the lover of “Rex”
Luncheon Cheese is invariably
a judge of good Cheese.
He eats it liberally —• for he
knows it is rich in nutritive
properties and that, apart from
its good value, it is such a won-
derful aid to good digestion.
So you, too, should insist upon
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese —as a
table delicacy or as a Sandwich
spread for Lunches, Picnics, or
any occasion where “something
different” in Sandwiches
is sought after.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.


A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pine Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, highly burnished, GO/-
A. Saunders’ Fern Pot, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished, 70/-
a
sami/ioi
m
33325CC000
A. Saunders’ Biscuit, Butter and Cheese Dish, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, Glass lining, 65/-
“QUALITY” SILVEB-PLATE.
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly
burnished, £B/10/-
t, n aapaai- T)r(| J
A. Saunders’ Flower Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
detachable tubes, £lO/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller,Bos-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opp. Railway Station).
Write for
Catalogue.
We Pay
Postage.
A. Saunders’ Four-Cup Egg- Stand and Spoons, pur*
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, 84/-
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, £5/10/«
A. Saunders’ Coffee Set and Tray, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
hand burnished and fluted, Ebony Handles to pots, £l5.
£3
rr#
hi 1
HP
w
Ml
hfr ‘
yS£fiS7\
p'
r«*2
L«S.
sgsE
KVSSI
«^ ra SllS r '
2
$02805?!:
rfSttafcTfc
Jfobii>9*»d Prw«n
Svrfac««
s.c.johnsohj«
;
jOHNSOHftSO*
ps
adS^iSSSE
££9jvgg
cßpnew Your Linoleum
Is your linoleum dull and deadlooking ? Bring it back to life
and it will reflect a bright, clean, well-cared-for home. All you
need is Johnson’s Prepared Wax and a cloth. The Wax gives
a dry, glossy, dustless polish of great beauty and durability.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax brings out the pattern of linoleum
—preserves and protects it from wear. It doesn’t take long—
an ordinary sized floor can be polished in less than an hour
and it may be walked upon immediately. Waxed linoleum
and tile are easy to keep clean—they require but little care.
JOHNSON’S
Paste—Liquid—Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Polish all your furniture, wood-
work and floors with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. It forms a thin,
protecting coat over the varnish,
similar to the service rendered by
a piece of plate glass over a table
or dresser top. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches, and
prevents checking and cracking.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made
in paste, liquid and powdered form.
Use the Liquid Wax for polishing
furniture, woodwork, leather goods
and motor-cars. We advise the
Paste Wax for polishing floors of
all kinds wood, linoleum, tile,
marble, &c. The Powdered Wax
will give a perfect dancing surface.
Tour dealer has Johnson’s Wax— there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St* Sydney, N. S* W.


Aiiiii»e»;pni»
SY I) NK VS CIII K T TIIEAT K E S.
J. c. Wrr.TllAM SON, LID., present
HER MAJESTY’S: A NIGHT OUT.
CRITERION: THE BAT.
ROYAL: THE PEEP SHOW.
/ IX THE SHADO W OF THE
I’ALACE I GLEN.
(a triple bill) 1 THE BUILDING FUND.
I DOCTOR O’TOOLE.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
PRO 111 C'TIONS
QUEENSLAND TOUR.
AUGUST.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. WILLIAMSON, LID., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
THE NAUGHTY PRINCESS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
PARLOR, BEDROOM AND BATH.
1 NG’S THEATRE. ,U E 1. li O U It N L
EMELIE POLINI and FRANK HARVEY in
MY LADY’S DRESS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
PALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & J. FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
EIGHTEENTH WEEK ON SATURDAY.
THE GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best."
ADA REEVE.
“The Favorite of all the World.’’
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
’GIS McNAUGHTON.
MatineOs Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o'clock.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
LIOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
1 1 Also SYDNEY.
1)13 LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCFJUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
SHAME.
PRODUCED BY WILLIAM FOX.
HOOT GIBSON in
THE FIRE EATER.
Prices as usual.
|y|A.IES!IC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
WESLEY BARRY in
SCHOOL DAYS.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
gItITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
(Ml ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PA I'll E,
IVOR I D and SKLZNICK.
Public Notice.
NOTICE.
'T'IIE IRVINEBANK D.u.B. (PATRIOTIC)
SOCIET Y hsis certain moi evs in hand for re-
turned soldiers hereunder mentioned:—
E. AVARD,
S. ROOTSEY,
E. KILROI.
If such monevs are rot claimed within one month
from appearance of this advertisement the Society
intends donating same to certain local institutions.
A. ANDERSON, Hon; Secretary.
Invinebank, N.Q.
Tenders.
The Austral Hat Mills
Limited, Melbourne.
To Felt-Hat Manufacturers,
Woollen Mills and Others.
TENDERS are invited returnable up to the 12th
September, 1922, FOR THE PURCHASE OF
THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS AS A GOING CON-
CERN, OR ALTERNATELY IN LOTS, as detailed
below:- —
The freehold is most conveniently situated near
Victoria Park Railway Station, having a frontage of
363 ft. llin. to Trenery Crescent, Abbotsford, Mel-
bourne, with a varying depth of from 339 ft. to 440 ft.
approximate to the river Yarra, to which it has a
frontage of about 117 ft., the total embracing an area
of 2 acres 1 rood 9 perches or thereabouts, which
gives ample room for extension. Title certificates.
The buildings consist of: —
(1) A LARGE AND LOFTY BULK STORE, sub-
stantially built of brick, size 97 x 30, capable of
holding 100 bales of Wool and Skins, also fur and
all general stock.
(2) WAREHOUSE OF BRICK, size 90 x 30, with
sample room fitted up.
These buildings have been specially erected so that
the large and valuable stock and materials necessary
for carrying on a successful business could be and
are, insured at the lowest possible rate for both fire
and burglary.
(3) THE FACTORY BUILDINGS, extensive, light
and airy, are of galvanised-iron, and brick and
partly bluestone foundations, with a high brick
chimney-stack, and are complete for turning out
luge qua l titles of hard and soft fur and wool hats
for Men, Youths and Children; also Ladies’ Felt Hats.
The whole area is enclosed with a 10ft. Galvanised
corrugated-iron fence, 24 gauge.
THE PLANT, consisting of fur-forming, cutting
and blowing machines, fur-former, wool willows,
carding and forming machines, planking machinery,
dye vats, blocking machines, finishing lathes,
hydraulic presses and all necessary appliances and
machines, all complete for making and finishing for
doing an extensive business, is now in good working
order.
There are—
ONE TANGYE 74-8.11. P. SUOTION-GAS
ENGINE AND GENERATOR;
ONE TANGYE 25-B.H.P. SUCTION-GAS
ENGINE AND GENERATOR.
ONE TANGYE 2HLH.P. GAS ENGINE.
Which supply the necessary power at a minimum cost.
Steam is obtained from a 14ft. 6ft. 6in. diameter
boiler, underfired, 50 4in. tubes, which also supply
the necessary heat for the drying rooms.
THE STOCK consists of wool hat bodies, ladies’
fur hard-hat bodies, some proofed and dyed. Galloons,
braid and bindings in various widths and shades.
Materials for proofing, dyeing and packing. Leathers
and all other materials for the manufacture of felt
hats.
This offers a rare opportunity for anyone wishing
to start a manufacturing business or desiring to
extend.
Forms of Tender, stock lists, conditions of sale and
further particulars may be obtained from the
SECRETARY,
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LTD.,
Trenery Crescent,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
*or Loss af/tppeUfo
imlet Rtpresentativii |
THE BRITISH
H. F. RITCHIE & Co Ltd
CHINA HOUSE, SYDNEY
This weakening condition arises from some
failure of the body to dispose effectively of the
waste products of digestion. The natural way
to tone up, stimulate, and regulate the system —•
thus inducing a healthy appetite —is to take
plenty of fresh air, and drink ENO’s“ Fruit
Salt” first thing every morning. All chemists
and storekeepers sell
FRUIT SALT
—maintains health at all seasons
If You Knew What
Satisfaction
sdf
you’d get out of a
IURHAMI-EUPlix}
Safe Razor
you’d never use another.
Why not find out about it
right now?
t
'v
All Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to vour dealer to-tlav—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it in
your ha rut —see how it balances —then t ike it
home anil shave with it. It's a revelation 1
Missing Friends.
JF R. E. F. HOFFMANN advises
“A.T.8.,” Hall Street, Semaphore, his
whereabouts, it will be to his advantage.
WANTED known the whereabouts of
ELSIE CHRISTINA RICHARDS
one time of Taroom and later of Rockhamp-
ton, Queensland. Please communicate with
Queensland Trustees, Limited, Brisbane.
Miising Friends.
ANYONE who can give information as to
the address of WILLIAM JOHN
ROBINSON, who left Mount Lyndhurst
station, South Australia, in February, 1901,
or, if dead, the place where he died, is askeci
to communicate with WILLIAM JAMES
DENIIAM ROBINSON, Farina, South Aus-
tralia.
gs
The Little
LEVER
is "BOXED* m
so that it will
V not break
An exclusive
Waterman
Patent
(N° 5790/l5)
The lever in a Self-
Filling Fountain Pen
may be a source of weak-
ness —AND annoyance —or
one of its strongest points. In
Waterman’s Ideal Self-Filling
Pen it is “BOXFD” in. This
Metal Box is stronger than the vulcanite
it replaces. It enables the lever to operate
smoothly, quickly and efficiently, and does
not get jammed, break off or work loose.
WatermarisiwFountain Pen
Three Tvpes: Self-Fi’ling,
L. G. SLOAN
Australia i HAROLD
Safety and Regular. Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
LTD., U)&lpcri Corner London, England.
D, DIXON, 105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Beneath the Coat-hanger of every “ Mattamac
Sturn proof you Will find this Label. Look for
it. It identif.es the genuine, one-quality-only
“Mattamac” Stormproof. Re.use any Coat without
the Label, because it is not a " Mattamac.
Unbelted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
19 oz.
WEIGHT
tfSTMlffii
■an
m
dfg
sd
fgs
sn
Belted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
2Hoz.
WEIGHT
You cannot get Wet in the 19-ounce
Featherweight" Mattamac” Stormproof
The “ Mattarnac” is waterproof—absolutely. In appearance it is
identical with the ordinary Raincoat. Though one-third die weight
and half the price, it will keep you dry in any weather. Being Wind
and Chill proof as well as Wet proof, it can be used additionally
as a Light Overcoat for Driving, Motoring, etc.
“Mattamac” Stormproofs come from the
West End of London, where the best
Overcoats are praduced. They have
easy Raglan Shoulders, Roomy Sleeves,
a Wide Skirt, Perpendicular Pockets and
Wind-strapped Cuffs. They are smart
in appearance and comfortable in wear,
19 o z.
FOLDS
INTO
THIS
SIZE .
dfg
sd
fgs
You can
put it
in your Pocket
or Handbag when
the Sun shines.
These three il’uslrations are direct ‘Dratv'ngs
from actual Photographs, and are, conse-
quenily, truthful t epresenta'ions of the Feather-
weight " Mat tamac ” Stormproof, W.ich
folds up to pocket size.
LADY’S COAT, with Belt as
illustrated, 2l\oz. Weight ; without
Belt. 19oz.
GENTLEMAN'S COAT, as illus-
trated, 19oz. weight; with Belt,
2 1 \oz.
“Matta" Fabric, from which every
genuine “ Mattamac ” Stormproof is
made, is a compact-folding material and
the lightest stormproof Fabric known.
It is tough and durable and so waterproof
that even wind-driven Rain cannot
penetrate it. Made in five shades.
A
f
J L
MADE IN ENGL AND... SOLD BY OUTFITTERS, CLOTHIERS,
etc., THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. ASK TO SEE THEM.
If you" regular Dealer does not yet stock “ Mattamac ” Stormproofs, do not take something
else. Write to us. We will send you, post free, the "Mattamac’’Booklet, and give you the
address of the nearest Dealer who has stock. This Booklet illustrates Belted and Un-
belted Coats for Ladies and Gentlemen, and the wide-skirted Riding Coat for Horsemen
"MATTAMAC” BOOKLET, SHOWING 5 MODELS, POST-FREE
Ask your Dealer to show you the “ Mattamac." If he cannot do so, write to us for
Booklet and address of the nearest Shop which can supply. Dealers wishing to s « f
“Mattamac” Stormproofs are invited to write for Terms. (Vo supply boo. e
Free to Dealers.) _ , ,
W. PLANT & Co., Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors of “MATTAMAC” COATS for Australasia
FENCHURCH BUILDINGS (2nd Floor), AD?2O, PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Sole Manufacturers of
“ Mattamac ’* Stormproof3
PEARSON BROS., 45,
LONDON. W.l.
CONDUIT STREET,
ENGLAND. (A 504) (g)
•• MATTAMAC ” TRADE MARES are registered throughout the WORLD. (Copyright reserved.)
Obtainable at all Stores, or direct from “Mattamac” Parlor, Fenchurch
Buildings, 220 Pitt Street, Sydney.


ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTI.ES.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
SAFETY FIRST!
LIFEBUOY SOAP
KILLS GERMS IN THE WASHTUB.
HAWAII
| g THI YEAR ROUND PLAYGROUND g g
in September
and October
has a delightful climate for outdoor
sports and sightseeing. It is a land of
endless variety ; sea and beach, mountain
and forest, marvellous volcanic regions.
You find here tropic trees and
n
flowers at their best.
Golf, swimming,
surfing, motoring, ten-
nis and tramping may
be enjoyed every day
in the year.
Booklet from nearest
travel or ticket agency,
or write direct to
Department B,
HAWAII TOURIST
BUREAU,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.A.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS Foil COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Night Out’
Criterion “The Bat’
Royal “The Peep Show ’
Palace Abbey I iu.au e Co.
lloiT’s Moiiug l'iciuies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Naughty Princess’
Royal “Parlor, Bedroom and Bath’.
Palace ’’spangles'
lw.Ui’s “My Lady’s Dress
Majestic Moving Pictures
Mi-i.ua Moving Pictuies
Britannia Moving I’ietuies
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Sydney’s reception of “The Peep Show,”
which arrived at the Royal iast week, was
as friendly as Adelaide s. iiuc me eie.zcn
who absorbs the ecstatic observations in tue
dailies before he samples the article himself
is in for a disappointment. The “Show”
doesn’t deserve those hyperbolical outbreaks.
In its brightest moments it is rather beiter
than f.a.q. revue, but it is padded out w.th
poor s«.Uu'. An ere is a i me., table skit on
the late Shackleton, which cries aloud for
exi’.Sion. ii-.avv aim duu is the Luce entitled
“The Piano Next Door,” and the Cockney
humor of the Peep Into Pre-war Land has
faded in transmission. Down Dickens-street
makes a fine appeal to the eye, and mer ts
it? place in the scheme of Peeps on that
account. But only Fred Cambourne gives h.s
characters (Fagin princ.pally) the Dickens
touch. Most of the others destroy the illu-
sion when they open their mouths. The
remarks of the comedian in the rocket that
is sffot to the moqn and back are pa nful in
their flatness. But the memory of his im-
pertinence is drowned, for the moment at
least, in the sea which engulfs the rocket —
a fine effect. The piece is splendidly cos-
tumed and some of the scenery is superb.
Excellent als > are a tahm c i'iis f ’’- t- •
show, a scene in. which FLra Macdonald
sings a plaintive ditty to Bonnie Prince
Charlie, and the Song Shop, so-called because
in it Charles Godfrey, Alice Leamar, Lottie
Collins and other stars of the ’alls, whose
radiance is dimmed, but not forgotten, re-
visit the glimpses of the electric and sing the
old things that Dad and Mum loved.
* * *
Without exception the five newcomers —
Kathlyn Hilliard, Mona Magnet, George
Baker, J. 11. Wakefield and Dan Booker —
have agreeable voices, and most of them can
dance. Miss Magnet is the most satisfying
soubrette who has visited these shores for a
long time. Miss Hilliard’s songs are not
up to much, but there is nothing wrong with
her voice. Baker has a rich baritone, and
knows how to use it. Wakefield’s work is
versatile and sometimes amusing. The ques-
tion whether Booker is a compdian is re-
served for further consklerataon. Mean-
time he has a ground of action against the
writer of the book. It only remains to be
said that there is a multitude of Legs in all
manner of silk coverings, and that Josie
Melville, the shapely and lissome, dances
thrillingly in a Persian scene.
$ # :;i
At the Palace, Sydney, the Abbey Theatre
company reappeared on Tuesday with three
playlets—Synge’s “In the Shadow of the
Glen,” William Boyle’s “The Building Fund”
and James Bernard Fagan’s “Doctor
O’Toole.” The two first were dealt with at
some length by The Bulletin’s Melbourne
critic last week. The atmosphere of these
Irish character sketches, or that which it is
sought to present, is so unlike anything
with which the average playgoer is familiar
that it must arrest. If it doesn’t grip, too,
with the intensely mournful and often pro-
nouncedly morbid events upon which the plots
turn it is not the fault of Maire O’Neill,
Arthur Sinclair and the others of a talented
company.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s, Sydney, “A Night Out,”
with Maud Fane and Alfred Frith, keeps the
boards. The play has run so long that the
only tribute which wouldn’t be repetition is
one to its staying powers.
** * *
Six weeks of “The Bat,” now at Sydney
Criterion, haven’t staled its infinite sensa-
tionalism or taken the weirdness from its
ghostly wings. It is still making flesh and
sides creep and shake nightly.
i;: * s;« $
Marion Davies is giving full value at the
Lyceum and Lyric as Prudence Cole, Quak-
eress, in “Beauty’s Worth.” Complacently
blazing its trail across the same calico-
sheet is “The Outside Woman.” The Rialto-
offers “The Deuce of Spades” (with Charles
Ray as boss of a hash-house and the ner-
vous owner of a gun license) a.nd “The Pro-
digal Judge.” In “Pagan Love,” at the Hay-
market, an Asiatic falls in love with a
beautiful blind girl, and then the lass recov-
ers her sight, and sobs and bathos rule
supreme. Will Rogers plays the dull and
ugly Swedish seaman in “Guile of Women,”
at the Empress; Hoyt’s has Bill Farnvm as;
the oil-speculator in a version of Henri
Bernstein’s “Sampson”; and “The Sheik”
vields. at the end of the week, to “Saturday
Night.”
Thea Proctor’s artistic indignation:—
Re the lithographic exhibition at the Attic Gallery
(B. 3/8/’22). Too many people tbir.k a pen or
pencil drawing or an etching is an incomplete state-
ment. Each medium should be regarded as some-
thing beautiful and interesting in itself. It is
possible for even a light pencil drawing to be
complete. There is too little appret iation of draw-
ing as drawing; it is principally regarded as a
means to an end —to assist in the production of a
realistic painting. Precisely because it is poss.ble
to simplify and limit colors, and yet achieve an
effect of realism, artists chc-ose lithography a 3 a
medium. And there are unlimited possibilit.es in
lithography—there are unlimited pcssibil.ties in
limiting colors, in working with a number or in oily
two. If a beautiful print by Toulouse-Lautrec,
produced 30 years ago in Paris —in only two colors,
yellow and red —had been included in the recent
exhibition, it would have been regarded as danger-
ously modern. The oily color print singled out for
praise by the Bulletin's critic is one which
he says “goes furthest towards losing the flat sur-
face in a suggestion of space.” So, it is flatness he
objects to —just the quality which makes the Chinese
painting, the Japanese print, the woodcut, to many
people, so delightful on a wall, so restful to live
with, and far more satisfying than pictures with
very realistic effects of light, tone and color. Another
critic said that the (to him) crude colors in some of
the prints “would not be permitted in any other
medium.” Not permitted by whom, pray? He
vaguely talked of the “basic canons of art.” Design
is one of them —a thing that is understood by all
the people who exhibited prints at the Attic Gallery,
and a necessary qual.ty in any work of art in a
realistic subject phture, portrait or landscape.
Another thing necessary i 3 an idea. Why should a
painting be only ar.cl always a representation—and
so frequently a dull one —of just something that ‘.s
seen and nothing more ? An idea can also be ex-
pressed in form and color, and an artist can show
an idea in a realistic portrait, if oily in the per-
sonal taste with whh h he a ranges accessories—and
chooses a color scheme; and an idea can be expressed
even in a lithograph in only two fiat colors. ’the
critic to listen to is the one with a broad mind—
who can see the best not only in realistic but iff
decorative art, who Inis the knowledge and intelli-
gence to appreciate the art of different periods and
different countries, and who sees the good and
different qualities of etchings, woodcuts and lithce
graphs. And if Australian art is to take a-y lasting
place in history we must broaden our outlook —
and not be afraid to experiment.
# $ $
“L.”: Miss A. M. E. Bale’s paintings
make a refreshing show at Basil Burdett’s
new George-street galleries. Embracing the
simple outlook arm principles of the Mel-
drum school, she attempts the most difficult
problem of painting—an accurate re-creati n
of something seen—and in the two flower-
pieces, “Ach menes” and “Eastern Light,”
achieves a degree of illusion that has sel-
dom been surpassed by an Australian
painter. “Larkspurs.” “The Last of the
Season” and “Camellias,” the three land-
scapes and a half-dozen others fall little
short of these, but most of the remaining
work, while it has qualities which lift it
well above the average, reveal the some-
what academic influence of an early Mel-
bourne Gallerv training, which is respon-
sible for over-statement of non-essent’als,
and sacrifice of the vital quality of light
which is so marked in her best work.
* # *
“Kaat.ie” was produced at Sydney Play-
house last Friday night in aid of the Bel-
gian Benevolent’ Society. Belgian Consul
Segaert played the ancient Dutch papa
with many subtle character-touches,
JACK CANNOT on his way to “The,
Naughty Princess ,” at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne.
while his daughter Henriette was a
forceful Kaatje, and in her flaxen wig
and old-fashioned lace cap resembled
an animated French doll. Clarice
Irwin, as the wayward artist’s mother, did
outstanding work, and some of the audience
felt they would like to see her in a r9le
more suited to her youth. Pomona, the
gipsy girl, who captures wandering artist
Jean’s fancy before he finds contentment
with the view from his own window’s and
the love of his Dutch cousin, was dramati-
cally sketched by Madame L. Pirenne. The
part of Jean, the artist, who goes roaming
in Italy for inspiration while it is really
waiting for him in the wndmills and sand-
dunes of Holland, was credibly presented by
Edward Dulieu.
The D’Alvarez season closed in a blaze of
enthusiasm on Saturday afternoon at Sydney
Town Hall. The programme was composed
of popular favorites, and those not on the
pit red form crept in as encores. N Q ver
during the season had the lady from Peru
ilnde cd the "Asrnus Dec’ witn more sp rit-
ual fervor, or the “Habanera” with more
“THE BAT,” AT
SYDNEY
CRITERION.
W. Mayne Lynton as Anderson, Kenneth
Brampton as Richard Fleming.
provocativeness. Manucci was at the top of
Ins form with the ’cello, and Wagner was
even more soulful than usual at the piano.
** * «
Lawrence Godfrey Smith dispensed Beet-
hoven, Debussy and Brahms to a crowded
Gonservatonum on Honda/ evening. His
playing is sparkling and impeccable as to
technique, but somewhat unemotional. The
Debussy “Suite Bergamasque” sounded like
a dash of some cunning mixture of honey and
champagne. Mrs. Alec Gordon set her
listeners heady with enthusiasm over her
singing of an old Welsh folk-song, “The
Dove,” and again in the Hebridean plaint,
“Kishmul's Galley.” She gave as an encore
“The Little SJver Ring.”
sjc v v
Ed. E. Ford continues to fill his mouth
with billiard balls at Sydney Tivoli: at one
stage of his turn he has about half a snooker
set disposed somewhere between his uvula
and his front teeth. His facial characterisa-
tion work is no less remarkable —particularly
his presentation of Admiral Beatty. Lee
White and Clay Smith have some catchy new
songs and patter, but the lady gets the loud-
est and longest applause when she sings
some well-known song like “He’s Coming
Home.” Elliott and Godley have lost none
of their artistic allurement, and the Girton
Girls do some really wonderful stunt-
cycling, keeping up an amusing patter the
while they play the devil with the laws of
gravity.
jJS ❖ ❖ ❖
“The Naughty Princess” will travel on its
clothes awhile at Melbourne Majesty’s,
though the germ of longevity is not in it.
Familiarity breeds further disrespect for the
libretto, which is far below the level of the
middle-class music of the opera. As for the
intensely gaudy dressing, it is mainly a far-
rago of inconsistency, the spectacle at cur-
tainfall being like unto an ideal circus, with
Jack Cannot as comic ringmaster. Vagrant
memories of “Chu Chin Chow” run riot in
this showy production, and Riot wins com-
fortably. However, the inclusion of two or
three irresistible old concert numbers for
Gladys Moncrieff would serve as an uplift to
the entertainment, and a catchy duet between
Cannot and Gee (“For I am young, and I
am old”) sounds capable of being polished
into a shining item of its kind. Just here
one is reminded that the fine voice of the
prima donna has a growing disposition to
shirk responsibilities of diction. The lady’s
tones are a pleasure, but she warbles a ballad
without pointing the words. The exact sense
of it is lost, if it has any sense; hence the
greater need for fine old ditties wherein
nothing is left to the imagination of audiences
that know the words by heart.
<5 # * *
Next week of “Spangles,” at Melbourne
Palace, will bring a shower of illustrated
booklets, containing a letter from Ada
Reeve to the loyal public which has already
b'"‘ be‘'”tems revne-vandev : lie-pan to
for 17 weeks. “Spangles,” perfected by prac-
tice, continues to be a triumph of all-round
endeavor. Early in September there will be
a matinee performance in aid of the Limb-
less Soldiers’ Assoc.
To-mght ends the season at Melbourne
Rojai of tiie Opera Co., who will presentlv go
touring to the uttermost ends of the earth
or thereabouts. “Yeomen of the Guard”
closes the musical chapter. On Saturday
comes “Parlor, Bedroom and Bath,” with
Phillips Tead and Marjorie Bennett’in par-
ticular.
#}i v 5jC
At Melbourne Tivoli the 1 (tilth effort of
Wee Georgie Wood libs been lately celebrated
With a souvenir. This week the child of un-
certain age is back in “Black-hand George,”
tue comedy that introduced him to Mel-
bourne as the desperado who protested
against being iorced to go gathering nuts and
at am.ue s juveu.ie party. Malcolm
Scott, Count Fillipini, Madeline Rcssiter,
etc., are powers in the bill; also Sam Bar-
ton is faiewen.ng. But the complications
which arise from Samuel’s rags and tatters
are humorous only in patches.
* sfc 3= sis
Emelie Polini and Frank Harvey continue
to have a little domestic unpleasantness in
the first scene at Melbourne King’s. The
few words concerning My Lady’s Dress are
indispensable. If Miss Polini didn’t order
Harvey out of the room when she takes a
headache-powder she would have no visions,
and then the body of the drama could never
be born. Another special matinde of the
dream-play is to happen on Saturday.
V •!>
Melbourne’s high musical interests will be
but scattered and occasional until Rosina
Buckman reaches the Town Hall on the
24th. Meanwhile a professional orchestra
conducted by Charles Manby will feel the
local pulse with a matinde concert on the
19th, Beethoven’s No. 5 Symphony looming
large on the bill. Dorothea Maemaster gives
pianoforte recitals at the Assembly Hall the
first of them on the 11 th; and Allan’s Satur-
day Pop. concerts will happen on the same
promises when the date is not otherwise
engaged.
* * 4c *
Melbourne’s picture world is this week
thrilled by the story of “Shame,” screened
at Hoyt’s. In Shanghai, the efforts of a
young merchant to wipe out opium traffic
excite the murderous animosity of Woo Chang.
At the Majestic all the joys, und none
of the discomiorts, of maternal love are ex-
pressed by Clara Kimball in “What No
Man Knows”; also pictures of the selected
80 in a local bea,uty competition enable any
local father to bid his son go forth and see
how little loveliness these photo-beauty
struggles attract. At the Melba, ever since
Monday, the punch of Carpentier has proved
the undoing of George Cook, whilst the ques-
tion whether that second punch was fair or
foul keeps the brain of the audience working
laboriously.
** * #
From an Adelaide critic: Dora Wilson has
a small but clever show at the Society of
Arts. It chiefly marks her resemblance to
Cumbrae Stewart; her few water-colors are
distinctly better than the other lady’s, and
her pastels are similar, though not quite so
flawless. ; Her specialty is the two-thirds
undraped, and her flesh tones are good. She
has also some pleasant things in costume,
and should be in demand as a portrait-
painter. She is already represented in
Adelaide Art Gallery.
Adelaide shows are on the domestic-
emotional side. John Kirby ends a season
in w’hich he has been putting in some sound
acting at the Prince of Wales with “Should
a Husband Forgive? (Answer, Yes.) In
pictures, Wondergraph’s advice to lovers is
“Don’t Tell Everything”; Harold Lloyd is
very funny at this house. The York’s tip to
husbands is “Don’t Doubt Your Wife”; also
a beauty competition is raging here. At
West’s is a Prodigal Judge, very human, very
lovable and very American. The Grand,
with one of the best sites in town, has come
into line with the other leading picture-
houses, and has a really funny story of a boy
who acted Little Eva and had to keep on
doing it when his whiskers were coming. The
Pav. is all fight, alternately with gloves and
“guns.” A pleasant variety-show continues
twice a day at the King’s, with the Walter
George co. filling half the programme; Ver-
non Sellars and Maurice Sterndale are strong
on the musical side. Maier and Pattison
have had a successful season at the Town
Hall with their musical' tennis, so to speak.
They toss melody back and forth from their
two grand pianos, and make one wonder the
idea has not been popularised before.
** * *
“L.’s” note :—•
The work of Clewin Harcourt at Anthony Hor-
derns’ Gallery displayed all the features of the con-
ventionalised formula which passes muster for art
tuition in the majority of modern art-schools. The
most obvious defect in the bulk of his work is the
complete absence of light and consequent lack of
vitality and illusion of reality. “The Window Seat
and “The Seamstress” demonstrate his ability to
break away from the shackles of convention; the
tonal qualities of these suggest that if he concerned
himself less with color for color’s sake and more with
tone for the sake of reality he would find the logical
solution of what he is after.


\\'|' nj/li, If /hi<l/ nl!'"!!/'
■ W .'.ill l ,
'r
>IWMmM
Womw**
\
'M.
vm
m
W/,
It
.\ t \ \»1
n\'V.V‘7\'
m
o
%
i
rZ
f/JI;
ffe',7'
l/'.nUi
■in
m*/: "'"W
\m=
&
M/
W
\K:„
OT, *
mt?
am
/1",
/'
m
\ ',:/!!
? r A H'O
I l, ‘
'//V\; v* * • .
1 ': J : V •'• :
/ / -
ft
///
///
ftv
1
\\\
pr
RMJKEWI
BJJ
- ■:
m.
i
/!"
a.
IflBN
f-':
*'^4%
m
9b
:'?t
s=s^»>'' aa ‘
i/, 1 !
I'o4i'C_c2g Ti'ioirzphe. Pnrij
No other Cordis like Goodyear
jDUILT in the same way as the
' L, standard inch size or straight
side Goodyears, the new Goodyear
Millimetre or Beaded Edge Cord
Tyres give the maximum of riding
comfort and service at the lowest
cost per mile.
The Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Com-
pany has been making Cord Tyres
for ten years. During that time it
has perfected the manner of lightly
twisting together a number of small
individual strands of the best grade
long fibre cotton, embedding these
strands in pure rubber and alternat-
ing the plies, without cross weave, by
group rather than singly, so as to
provide the utmost in resiliency and
strength.
That the Goodyear Cord construction
is the most scientifically correct, the
most carefully tested and the most
satisfactory to users is attested to by
the fact that, the world over, there is
a steadily increasing use of Goodyear
Cord Tyres.
Goodyear Cord Tyres are made in both
Millimetre and Inch sizes —beaded edge and
straight side types.
-w/Tsjr
€


m
mi
i
m
ft
«
1
I
Wi
i
ft
wm,
r
'm
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
N SW MONT dePIETE
T 4 St.
Phone City 9325.
Capital §. 300.000.
Sydney'. ~7A-
Joseph. IV. Hill.
General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
Is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King. St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagli Street, Sydney,
159 George Street West, Sydney.
POVERTY
POINT
Thiel & Thandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Marg”: Somebody ought to post Shaw
a copy of the Perth Repertory Society’s
latest circular. The society announces that
it is going to play “Candida” in camera,
because it is above the heads of the Perth
public.
“Fax”: It was probably in Australia that
Irene Vanbrugh first saw her husband, “Dot”
Boucicault. Anyhow, they w’ere both in
Melbourne at the time when young
Irene was a member of J. L. Toole’s im-
ported company. Irene was Uncle Dick’s
Darling in H. J. Byron’s drama of that
name, and her portrait appeared with Toole’s
on the programme of the first piece they
played in. That was 32 years ago.
“Snell”: The management of a Melbourne
theatre was called upon to consider the
application for a “shop” of one describ-
ing himself as an old actor. He was
questioned as to his qualifications, and
claimed an uncommon talent. What were
his experiences? lie thought they would be
eminently satisfactory. He was sure he
could carry conviction on that score. “In
fact, gentlemen.” said he, “I was for four
years with Bells’ travelling waxworks im-
personating all sorts of characters.”
“Orb”: I believe this is a world’s record.
On July 27, at the Star Theatre, Mackay
CN.Q.), Allan Wilkie’s co. gave its 500th
consecutive performance of Shakspeare. See-
ing that the plays were written over 300
years ago, many other Shakspearean cos.
may have given a far greater number of con-
secutive performances than this, but they
all of them leavened their repertoires with
other standard plays, old comedies and such.
Allan Wilkie confines himself to a strictly
Shakspearean diet.
“A NIGHT OUT," AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
“La Danse de Chiffoniers," by Jack Hooker
and Rita Nugent.
“M.D.”: In Maurice Baring’s just-pub-
lished reminiscences there is a deal about
Sarah Bernhardt. The lady told Baring
that the most remarkable sight she ever saw
was in Australia. “The sky was sud-
denly filled with brilliantly-colored birds,
which rose all at once from the ground, and
obscured the whole horizon with their
dazzling plumage.” In short, a flock or
galahs rose from the plain, and caused a riot
of color against the skyline.
“ J.F.11.”: For a time Oscar Asche’s
“Cairo” looked like challenging the London
record of its predecessor, ”Ohu Chin Chow.”
Then audiences began to diminish, and finally
the show became unprofitable. Invited by an
interviewer to fix the blame, Asclie divided
it between the heat-wave and the Daylight
Saving Act. He added that he was going
to spend a long holiday down on his farm
in Gloucestershire, and would not return to
London until October, when “East of Suez,”
a new spectacular piece by Somerset
Maugban, would be produced at His Ma-
jesty’s. He must have changed his mind all
of a sudden.
“P.N.W.”: “B.O’C.’s” surmise that Maire
O’Neill broadened her comic stuff in “The
White-headed Boy” (B. 20/7/’22) for the
“benefit” of Australian audiences, is not
borne out by a critique of Graham Sutton in
the Bookman. Comparing a London revival
of the play with the production, in which
Miss O’Neill was concerned, Sutton writes:
Miss O’Neill's Aunt Ellen declined steadily from
a richly comic creation to the most lamentably
inappropriate burlesque. Miss Allgood’s Aunt Ellen
is ten thousand times better than the farcical char-
lady of Miss O’Neill.
The lady referred to is Sara Allgood of “Peg
o’ My Heart” celebrity. Sara and Maire
are sisters.
“Second Murderer”: The Firm is having
a shot at captivating the Orient, from
India’s coral strand to the bounds of far
Cathay. After the Adelaide season, the Gil-
bert and Sullivan co. proceeds to Perth,
and thence to Colombo, which is to be the
first stand of a comprehensive tour of the
mysterious East.
“Blackfriars”: “T.R.H.’s” assertion (B.
20/7/’22), that
few panto man-
agements can
afford to pay Mal-
colm Scott’s sti-
pend, astonishes
anyone who knows
how handsomely
British panto
dames are paid. I
don’t know the size
of Malcolm’s
weekly wad, but I
do know that
nearly every
variety comedian
looks to the six or
eight weeks’ panto
period as about the
most profitable of
the year. Robey,
George Graves
an d Wilkie
Bard, for example,
drop their princely
salaries on the
halls to pick up
still princelier ones
in pantomime. Dur-
ing January and
February there are
very sparse audi-
ences for variety,
and the manage-
ments cut their
“The Bat” at Sydney
Criterion.
Sydney Stirling as
Reginald Beresford.
costs while the slump is on by deleting the
stars.
“Blaekfriars”: Alfred Butt, the London
manager, has been trying an experiment that
the Taitocracy is not likely to follow. Lass o_
Laughter,” though favorably criticised, tailed
to draw the mob, so Butt threw his theatre
(the Queen’s) open to all sending to him
for reserved seats. He left it to his guests
to forward remittances if they thought the
show good enough. If they didn’t like it he
asked them to tell him why.
“Darius Domesday”: Alfred Cellier (B.
27/7/’22) did the music for Gilbert’s half-
forgotten “Mountebanks.” I saw Vi Varley
in the part of Minestra' at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, in April, 1893, and February,
1894. Nellie Stewart, not long back
from England, played the village beauty,
Teresa, in the second production. It
was alleged by a morning-paper critic to be
“a part specially written for her by the late
Alfred Cellier,” and minor c Langes'), “to
accordance with the original intentions of the
authors” were introduced to meet her views.
Nellie was responsible for a mad scene in
Ophelia’s vein, and it was a fine bit of
acting and singing.
“Te Pana”: A fortune awaits the movie-
producer who will commercialise the natural
talent of the Maoris for acting. They are
not only emotional in themselves, but can
simulate emotion wonderfully well and
without the simpering self-consciousness
which makes the average Yankee “filin star”
a weariness of the flesh. All the Social
doings of Hori, from a civic reception to a
cannibal feast, and lrom whining a tangi
to dancing a haka, used to be staged and
acted. A wahine heroine would scorn the
use of glycerine tears when the villain had
deserted her. She can cry at will without
them. The negro is a good picture-actor,
but, given a dinkum chance, the Maori would
be better.
“Lookout”: Except to those who had
noted his promising fragments of song and
speech as Tom Strutt in “Dorothy,” the
unannounced appearance of young Herbert
Browne as Nanki Poo at Melbourne Royal
on a first night (July 22) was a surprise.
Strutt has a lot to learn about acting, but
remarkably good use was made of his not
very large tenor voice. The new Nanki has
been with the company on tour, but this was
his first big chance.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre is now riding
on a wave of prosperity, with the active sym-
pathy of Professors Strpng and Phillipson,
and the financial help brought in by Her-
bert Heaton and a host of the W.E.A. It
has also solved the housing question ; and at
the same time Adelaide has met the howling
need for a small central hall fit for theatri
cals. Victoria Hall, at the Y.M.C.A., was
a mere concert-room before, but a small syn-
dicate of Repertory Theatre supporters,
headed by Alec Melrose, has taken it for two
.rears, and fitted up the stage for plays. The
Rep. has undertaken to fill it eight times in
the year, and two of them went to the recent
performance of “The Title,” by Arnold Ben-
nett, with a packed house (about 500) each
evening. Wilfred Neill was the producer.
“Silas”: The Brough and Boucicault com-
pany was renears.ng "As Lou ifike it” at
the Bijou, in anticipation of a successful
Shakspearean season following “Much Ado,”
and Audrey was in the hands of a buxom
member of the company who was restive
under Dot Boucicault’s drastic methods of
stage management. Dot, although a very
small man, was Nero Legree, Vandall,
Mohock and all the rest of them when hand-
ling a bunch of weepful women at a re-
hearsal. “Gallantry,” said he, “goes with
bad art.” On this particular occasion he got
out after Audrey’s impersonator with „uch
vehemence that at length the sobbing woman
landed him a stunning box on the ears.
Boucicault assumed a studied calm. “Hand
in your part,” he said. He took over the
script, and passed his assailant another.
“Here,” he said, “we’ll make a little change.”
The part the lady now held was that of
Charles the Wrestler.
“Second Murderer”: Sydney Sunday
News, in an article on the stage, refers to
George Rignold as “the celebrated comedian.”
Rignold played Henry the Fifth, Mark
Antony, aiacbeth, lsuttom, Ford, Caliban,
Othello; William in “Black-eyed Susan”;
Paolo Macari in “Called Back”; Mephis-
topheles in “Faust”: Joseph in “Joseph of
Canaan,” and hundreds of assorted villains
and heroes in bellowdrama, but this is the
first time he has been accused of being a
“celebrated comedian.” One of his “Aus-
tralian tours” opened Her Majesty’s
Theatre, Sydney, in 1887, with “Henry V.,”
and kept going there until September 21,
1895, when he played “Clancarty”—an eight-
years’ season, which is easily a record. All
Sydney—including the News —united in giv-
ing him a testimonial benefit to mark the
event, and said: “This testimonial is a public
declaration of the general admiration and
respect for Mr. George Rignold, who, during
his eight years of management, has cease-
lessly striven to elevate the drama, and to
develop a public taste for that which is
highest and finest in dramatic art.” Truly,
“the best in this kind are but shadows.” Bill
knew.
“Peter”: The sustained popularity of
Frank Harvey as a leading man must often
set him thinking of his first failure to excite
attention at Melbourne Royal. He was fitted
out as Potiphar in “Joseph and His Breth-
ren,” and he was so dimmed by the purely
physical lustre of Ethel Warwick as the
giddy wife that scarcely anybody noticed
him at all. In fact, one daily paper forgot
to mention him, the critic apparently being
too busy recording the points of a couple of
supers who merely flashed their vivid gar-
ments in the background of the play. One
of those supers has long h : dden her medioc-
rity in private life, and the man who con-
sidered her so astounding has faded into
obscurity. On the other hand, the ignored
actor can now practically name his own price
for the renewal of his contract.
“Norbell”: Oscar Asche was the original
Frederick Maldonado in “Iris”(B. 13/7/’22)
both in London, where it was a modified suc-
cess, and in America. N.Y. Life had this to
say of Oscar and other friends on October 9,
1902: —
Mr. Oscar Aschc, a stranger to our stage, gives to
the part of Maldonado all the force, magnetism and
brutality it requires. It is too soon to say that
Mr. Asche is a very good actor, but he is certainly
very good as Maldonado. Both the character and
Mr. Asche’s personality are so dominating that they
rather rob the rest of the cast of its coloring, such
good actors as Mr. William Courtney and Miss Hilda
Spong becoming mere shadows by contrast. By very
careful detail work Mr. Herbert Ros 3 manages to
give considerable value to Croker Hamilton.
Hilda Spong we knew first in Sbakspeare.
then as Bland Holt’s leading lady, and, 10
years ago, in “Everywoman.” Herbert Ross
came here ivitb William F. Hawtrey, and
was the original Horace Parker in the Aus-
tralian production (it occurred in 1901) of
“A Message From Mars.”
“S.S.”: Daniel Du Barry, as he called
himself for that Beechworth season only,
was giving them his own magnificent, origi-
nal, sensational drama, “The Great Austra-
lian Bight.” He had two married couples
in liis company, and each set had an off-
spring. It was the custom for the fond
parents to bring their babes to the hall with
them, wrap them in overcoats or shawls, and
deposit them in any odd corner behind the
scenes while they went on with the busi-
ness of the moment. The big scene of Act
3 was where the villain of the piece, having
“SPANGLESAT MELBOURNE
PALACE.
Ous McNaughton as the naughty boy.
cone astray somewhere at the head of the
Bight (to justify the title) is doing a dread-
ful perish, and finally for his sins is bitten
to death by a five-foot black snake. The
bad man was in position, the snake was
lurking nigh in full view- of the audience,
attached to the string that was to bring
off the fatal dart. The crucial moment haa
arrived. “A snake! A snake!” cried the
villain in terrified tones, but there was no
dart on the particular nieht this par. deals
with, for, just when the serpent was about to
spring, the soubrette’s three-year-old toddled
on, and, seizing the huge viper in his arms,
dragged it across the stage and exited
RUE with his prize, while the audience regis-
tered mirth with mad howlings.
“Dunederra”: “Orb” (B. 27/7/’22) men-
tions that Dion Boueicault produced “The
Shaughrnun” at Drury-lane in 1875, and
played the part of Conn. Drury-lane was
packed during that season, and, elated at
his success, Boueicault appealed to Disraeli
to liberate the Irish political prisoners then
in gaol. Disraeli refused, remarking acidly
that the dramatist was only “playing to the
gallery to advertise his forthcoming tour.”
Boueicault was so upset at this charge that
he threw up his interest in the show, and
the part of Conn was taken by Charlie Sul-
livan. Year afterwards, Sullivan was down
with pneumonia. “Good night, Charlie,”
said the doctor, “I’ll see you in the morn-
ing.” “I know you will,” said Sullivan,
“hut will I see you?” He died two hours
later.
“0.K.” is reminded of a Voice:—
Musing on the promised production of “The
Beggar’s Opera” in Australia, I took up a quaint
old songbook, showing a portrait of Sims Reeves on
the front coyer. Reeves was reputed the greatest
Macheath of his time. What a vogue had the gentle-
man with the heavy, historic, black moustache and
wavy hair! I recall the thousands that stood to
catch a glimpse and a sound of him when, he sang
at the Crystal Palace. Another recollection is of
a man of 60 singing the inevitable “My Pretty
Jane,” rather feebly and patchily, before an im-
mense audience at the Albert Hall. He got a tre-
mendous reception, but his voice was only the
ghost of a warble compared with that of Edward
Lloyd, then in the early prime of his powers. One
marvelled then how the old gentleman acquired his
celebrity. He certainly had a name familiar in
millions of mouths. I remember, as a youth, to
have seen music-hall scenes in melodrama, notably
Boucicault’s “After Dark,” where the mOst populai
turn was a pretty tenor singer elaborately made up
in imitation of Sims Reeves. Every gallery-boy
whistled his tribute to the sham identity, and then
the pretty tenor would warble “My Pretty Jane,”
“Maid of Athens” or “Sally in Our Alley'” in the
original Sims way, which, in after years, was
reproduced hereabouts by John Fuller, father of
Ben, K.8.E., and founder of the family fortunes. As
recently as 20 y'ears ago the young widow of octo-
genarian Sims Reeves earned a living on the Eng-
lish halls by making-up in imitation of the old
man and singing the old songs in a respectable mock-
tenor voice. Harry Rickards imported the lady.
The name and the imitation were still marketable.
In his heyday Reeves was not rich ; in his old age
he was poor; his alleged excellence as singer and
actor in opera was only a tradition when he retired
from the concert platform for good: yet he main-
tained a British celebrity unrivalled in durability
by any singer before or since. I look at the por-
trait on the pink cover of my old songbook, and
wonder whether the tenor, by any other name, would
have sung as sweet. Indisputably, a great name
for business purposes. It strikes the eye and cling?
to the memory. I can think of nothing half so
songful except Amy Castles.
FELICIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The ballet-girls came rushing in
Where little angels fear to tread,
We saw the dainty figures spin
A foot above each golden head ;
And then she came,
As o’er the snows a wisp of flame.
She was Felicia, lithe and spare.
Her violet eyes caught up the glow
And sparkle of magnesium glare.
Such grace not e’en the seraphs show.
A petal fair
Blown spinning on the autumn air.
Her tiny feet, it seemed to me,
Ne’er tipped the floor. Her winsome face
Had all a rapt saint’s ecstasy.
It flushed her cheeks, and set a trace
Within her lips
As rosy as rose-petal tips.
She is no child of grace, men say,
But in the ballet she’s entrancing,
And I am sure in Heaven they
Will want Felicia for her dancing.
God will contrive
To save Felicia’s soles alive I
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Mi
I
Uti
KB
1
Hi*
■ -'/r x -•:
jSsfejlJ
i+;*
I
mmmmm
&m&mm
ssfo
5®S
jj&n
;■-■■■■ 1
m
mi
r -
L.vTr
£?fe‘k
®SI
V.f
HEBa^
>
VmW W'' • 1
wt&m,
*52
ffl
ft |S$
&
HSUS
*
BmWSSarliflS^feag
SMI
BMW
’.VETH:
‘StHT*
H
8w
1
; V-
Mr£
;»«'i r - i 1
f< r #%
ffl
ffisas
hmh
*«Tfi fT
mm.
m
/m
mM
<&P
§Mm
MM
vm
Efts®
■
m
m%
.. ■. •
KW*
M
3t
T--..-.V l- r|l fM]jr^
;,. 3
ne
Comox and the Iron Horse
THERE is no form of transport in which
Comox has not had a hand in building or
maintaining. C,mox saves many thousands
of pounds for Australian Railways—saves it by
simp.ifying production and repairs
The efficiency of locomotives has been increased
25% by the use of superheated steam. In the
the construction of every loco, superneater there
are, at least, 81 separate Oxy Acety'ene welds.
Only because of this process was their manufac-
ture rendered a profitable commercial under-
taking.
The large staff of operators employed by the
railway departments is a striking tribute to the
efficiency of the Oxy Acetylene process. Opera-
tions, hitherto impossible, are now common
practice, and work, previously involving hours by
o'der methods, is now done in minutes by Comox
Torches.
There is no branch of the metal industries where
Comox cannot play its time and money saving
part. Engineers, Foundries, Sheet Metal
Workers, Motor Body Builders, Garages, or
Manufacturers: Call, write, or 'phone- Our
Service Engineers will solve your problems
without fee or obligation
COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN AND
ACCESSORIES LIMITED
FOY STREET, BALMAIN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Agents:
Melbourne. —Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins Street.
Adelaide.— Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Grenfell Street.
Brisbane.— Evans, Deakin & Co., 121 Eagle Street.
Launceston.— Harrison Bros, & Co. Ltd., 20 Patterson Street
Perth -Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Murray Street.
Suva, Fiji.— Brown & Joske.
dfg


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
WALLAB Y EMPERORS ”
Pike Brothers Famous
RIDING BOOT
A
Soft, Durable Wallaby Leather, built
on a comfortable fitting last, con-
forming to every Riding principle.
Built without seams, with
standard screwed single sole
—A light Riding Boot, yet
has tenacious strength, and
a rugged insistence to wear.
23/6
PAIR.
Write to Desk “5.8."
sd
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba
CADET 297/230 Cal. RIFLES
Fitted with NEW B.S.A. BARRELS. We still
have a limited number of these noted Sporting
Rifles. Tested, Sighted and GUARANTEED
ACCURATE UP TO 500 YARDS. Complete
with CLEANING ROD AND SIGHT PRO-
TECTOR.
RIFLES, 55/-. Cartridges 6/6 100.
B.S.A. .22 CAL. BOLT ACTION RIFLE, 2-fin.
BARREL. Take-down. For accuracy and ease,
95 /-
F.N. BROWNING AUTOMATIC RIFLE, .22
calibre. Fires 8 LONG RIFLE CARTRIDGES,
95/-
Same as above, to fire 11 ordinary Short, 80/-
FAMOUS BROWNING AUTOMATIC PISTOLS,
32 Cal. and 25 Cal. A home necessity,
£5/10/-, £5.
ROSS .303 MAGAZINE RIFLE. The cheapest
.303 obtainable, £6/10/-
Gun and Rifle Repairs done on the Premises.
Work Guaranteed.
V jLanrsaDnßr
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
After all, it was only old Pistolier who
could beat the highweights in the big Hurdle at
Caulfield. Bahda, selected in this column as the
most likely one, performed a stone or two worse
than in the National, whereas Fiscom and Roisel,
with heavier increases of handicap, finished in the
same order as before. But for the hardy annual’s
presence in the competition the story of the National
would have been exactly repeated as regards the first
two. Iloisel finished the nearest of Fiscom’s fol-
lowers, though he never had a chance with the big
horse, intent on running away with the race. The
pace was a record-breaker, and therefore in favor
of Pistolier, who had run second in a previous best-
on-record, two years ago. The Musket blood trans-
mitted by grandfather Carbine was accountable for
Pistolier’s win at 12 years of age. Thirty-three
pounds was a bit more than the champion could
give him, and when collared at the last hurdle the
Comedy King horse was fairly beaten. Fiscom’s jump
was not clean,
whereas the old
plodder who caught
him and cleared the
hurdle at the same in-
stant, was going his
best, eventually beat-
ing the topweight by
a couple of lengths.
It was the reward of
perseverance. This
was Pistolier’s tenth
try to win one or
other of the big
Hurdles —National or
Australian —in Mel-
bourne. One second
and two thirds were
his best achievements
up to Saturday, j He
seemed rather too old
for the straight-out
win, but in this case
Fiscom beat himself
by making the pace
too merry. A great
performance that went
wrong.
E. A. CONNOLLY,
owner and trainer
of Rostrum.
Another rewarder of patience whs Strathredole,
who won a welter after a long series of failures.
Now that he can run kindly (with Bob Lewis up)
the difficult animal may earn some more corn, but
he is by Tressady, and several of his near relatives
are a warning against the reposing of trust in a
descendant of that gentleman.
Saturday’s Steeplechase is the most interesting
event of the year to watch, if one’s fancy falls not
by the way. It lasts three rounds of the course,
Almost a dozen starters may be expected, so, with
Mountain God trying to do the repetition trick
which Fiscom nearly accomplished, the books are
anticipating a bit of a harvest. Haoma. presumably,
will have to take a long lead, as he did last year,
and the pace is more than likely to be a knock-
out to the less seasoned jumpers. Yet exnerienee
suggests that anything can win the Caulfield four-
miler. The fact that he jibbed at a brush fence in
the National is the strongest objection* that can be
offered to Agar’s ; chance.
« * # •
"Fax”: One of the starters in the
Australian Hurdle, was El wood Fisher’s Happy King,
by Comedy King from Gladsome. He ran fifth. I
couldn’t think it possible for the felicitously-named
gelding to stay 31, miles, less 92 yards, in a fast go
over hurdles, notwithstanding the fact that his coat
is as black as his dad wore when he won a Melbourne
Cup, and that he has the great Fiscom among his
jumping half-brothers. Surely the dam must have
a big say in the question of an offspring’s stamina.
If it was argued against King Neptune, who declined
this engagement, that his dam could not get a real
sticker, even with the assistance of a husband like
Sea Prince (whose stock includes many good stayers)
the objection to a Gladsome son must be reasonably
strong. Gladsome was a speedy machine up to 10
furlongs, but over a longer distance she failed. She
was tne particular sort of non-stayer, in the full
sense of the term, who is something more than a
sprinter, whereas Paris, a notable performer of old,
could win two Caulfield Cups, as Hymettus did,
without having stamina enough for a two-mile race
in good company. The more brilliant an animal is
over a 10. or 12-furlong course, the more its failure
over longer courses suggests a distinct limitation of
stamina in the blood, on the dam’s side. That’s my
theory, right or wrong. Nor do I reckon Comedy
King a specially stout sire, despite his having won
a Melbourne Cup under an easy weight, and having
begotten such champions in their respective fields as
Artilleryman and Fiscom. It was the Musket strain
on the dam’s side that enabled Artilleryman to run
away with a Melbourne Cup.
* ir * •
A capital poor man’s horse is Earl Palm,
by the imported Technical —Palmeress. At Canterbury
Park (N.S.W.) on Saturday the Earl registered his
fourth successive win in suburban sprints, and 6’s
could have been got by enterprising punters. He
carried 9st. and was ridden by King, a lad with a
sound headpiece and a good pair of hands. Glen
Branter, who disappointed at Rosehill, beat a field
of moderates in the 11-furloiygs August Handicap.
This five-year-old son of Knightlight—Nauta is use-
ful on his day, but like Dora Glen—first at Rosehill,
last at —is untrustworthy.
“O.Iv.”: Rostrum’s prominence in the
Epsom quotations strikes one as being more reason-
able than was his nominal short price for the Caul-
field Cup, previous to his being booked for the trip
to Sydney. He has Bst. 121 b. in the mile race, a
comparatively kinder handicap than Bst. 91b. in the
Caulfield Cup. But the black is hardly the sort of
fellow to take a short price about several weeks
before the event. As a three-year-old he was an early
fancy for the Caulfield Cup, but went amiss. In the
following March he ran second in the Newmarket. A
year ago Eric Connolly took him to Sydney for the
Spring meetings. There he caught the influenza and
was laid aside for a time. A whole year elapsed
between Rostrum’s appearances in public. He won
a sprint at Caulfield one Saturday last February, and
got away with the Newmarket a week later, since
when he has remained out of business. Evidently
not an iron-constitutioned gee who can be confidently
expected to come smiling to the scratch on a given
distant date or be trained severely for a long race.
Rostrum is certainly not well handicapped for any
of the Spring events in Sydney or Melbourne as com-
pared with, sa.y. Prince Sandy. Although good horses
like Syce Knight and David were in at relatively
light weights the “form” in last Metropolitan has
been held cheap. Nor is Cupidon’s brilliant defeat of
Furious the A.J.C. Derby rated highly.
“M.P.A.” : You must rise betimes to attend
a race meeting in Java. We caught a train from
Sourabaya at 4 a.m., the first race at the local
r lemington, a small village in the neighborhood,
being timed to start at 5. When we arrived, a race
was in progress on the little track, which could not
have measured more than 500 yards round. The
grandstand was a rough board platform with a roof-
ing of leaf matting, under which the European spec-
tators were accommodated with a few chairs. There
was also a party of wealthy Chinese. On the far
side of the course and scattered abound the
track thousands of Javanese squatted close to the
rails. They enlivened the proceedings by yelling at
the top of their voices when a native jockey was
leading the field—often the case at the start of a
race but rarely at the finish. No odds were being
called or totes operated, but I noticed some quiet
wagering amongst the Chinese. All the racehorses
were imported from Australia, and the white jockeys
and the trainers were Australians to a man. The
fields were very small, except in- the race for- head-
men from the sugar-plantations. These rode their
own ponies—narrow-chested rats of animals—at
catch-weights, and supplied no end of amusenfent.
The ponies were a varied, collection of crocks, and
then- riders a motley crowd of natives: In this
race one pony was led up to the starting-post with a
dummy strapped to its back, its progress' around the
track being assisted by a taste of the whip, admin-
istered occasionally by men stationed at certain parts
ot the course. Much to the disgust of the planta-
tion riders Ned Kelly, the pony in question, was
soon showing the way to the field, and the prad3
with live jockeys up, albeit mercilessly' 'flogged,
toiled after him in vain, The Chinese sportsmen
who had betted on the raee were Very indignant
when my friend, who, apparently, combined every
office on the course besides being the principal horse-
owner, declared Ned Kelly the winner, and promptly
hoisted his number. This was the first of several
rpce meetings I attended in the island; but the native
life and byplay at such gatherings invariably held
more interest for me than the galloping of the horses.
Timed to finish before the sun was high in the
heavens, the events always got hopelessly behind the
clock, and generally concluded about midday.
* * * *
“Past Grammar”: Men who have played
first-class Rugger and Australian Rules are not as
scarce as “Winkle” (B. 27/7/’22) imagines. Many
Brisbane Grammar boys used to go to Melbourne
Um. and, after starring in the Australian game at
the Varsity, would return to Brisbane and Rugby
Union. Fred O’Rourke, one oi 1 the best Australian Rugby
centres of the ’nineties, is a case in point. He
played Australian Rules for Melbourne Uni. and
Rugby Union for Queensland. Another of them is
C. E Graham, who was also in the Melbourne
varsity team, having been first capped for Queens-
land- Then he again played Union for the Northern
btate and lasted long enough to win an Australia
cap against Mullineux’s Englishmen.
* * * *
c , In th® second Rugby Union test match at
Sydney N. S. Wales turned the tables on the Maori-
landers scoring 14 (1 try and 4 goals) to 8 (2
tries and 1 goal). No longer overawed by the bust-
ling tactics of the brawnier Blacks, the Blues showed
much unproved form. They won most of the line-'
• j by alertness in passing to the half-backs, and
in dribbling and ruck-work they surprised even their
supporteis. Also, their 3-2-3 scrums were more
successful than M.L.’s 2-3-2. But there have been
cleaner games. There was too much shepherding and
upsetting of men after they had got rid of the ball
and too indiscriminate use. of the boot. Each side
had offenders. The most brilliant plaver on thp
da F. R. Stanley, N.S.W. right-centre, whose
straight-running was dazzling. Sheehan (patchy in
the first game) also did excellently; but the wingers,
owing to indifferent passing, were too crowded near
touch and failed to shine. The pick of the Blue
forwards were T Davis R. Elliott and Tom Smith.
The Blacks excelled in defence. Their line was not
crossed all day. N.S.W.’s try being a penalty given
for interference with Stanley. Bell (full-back') did
v- h^ a 7, an( i Steel, who got a fine trv
? nd H - K-NichoUs helped him splendidly.
Among the forwards J. Richardson was best—in fact,
there was no better man in the fifteen. But the
JSjg5 ve I® 6 ”} 8 i r ?l er) wa . s sadl >’ below form. His
offside play kept the umpire busy.
The Ma State won the deciding game bv 8
tn « 1 goal) to 6 (two tri!s)f It was an
r e h X p Clt 3^°° Unt c er all . throu ® h * and clean withal. All
thaf t Rl n "t nt t UP *? } he - first 20 min utes; after
bur* as S !, rugg l < l d tirelessly to gain the lead,
but, as on Saturday, the luck was against them—
that and a fatal ten-
dency _ to neutralise
promising movements
by fu m b ling and
knocks-oa Their
star man was the 19-
year - old Dickenson,
who outshone the
N.S.W. centres. Beil
(full-back) was excel-
lent ; and among the
forwards Peterson and
Brownlie were great.
N.S.W.’s best were
Stanley, Smith, Friend
and Thorn. Maoriland
will have to dig up a
goalkicker. in the
three matches they
scored 11 tries and
only three goals to
N.S.W.’s 6 tries and 8
goals. It is the first
time N.S.W. has won
the rubber against
tiie Shivery Isles,
E. A. BELLIS,
who captained the
All Blacks.
North Sydney have been defeated again.
University accomplished the feat at the Sports
Ground on Saturday by 7 points (1 try 2 goals) to
6 (2 tries), after the premiers had led 3 to
nil at “lemons.” It was a popular, if a re-
markable, victory, and one of Hec Courtenay’s two
goals was magnificent. South Sydney defeated New-
town, thereby maintaining their unbeaten record in
the City Cup competition, by 14 (4 tries 1 goal) to
5 (1 try 1 goal). Rough play lost Newtown the
match, Knight and Richards being sent off the field.
O’Connor, of South, accompanied them to the pavilion.
Although Glebe were without F. Burge, Murphy,
Regan and James, they were too good for St. George,
against whom they scored 14 (4 tries 1 goal) to 5
(1 try 1 goal). Western Suburbs administered a
shock to Balmain, whom they beat by 6 (1 try 1
goal) to 3 (1 try). It was a game marked by hard
tackling, and Prentice (West) and Fraser (’Mains)
received marching orders. North Sydney and Glebe
are level pegging for the premiership, followed by
Eastern Suburbs and Balmain in that order. The
City Cup competition is even more open. South Syd-
ney are 2 points ahead of Glebe, who are followed 'by
North Sydney, East, West and ’Varsity, all on the
same mark.
“Lexite”: This is the time of year when
teams who seem to have established an unassailable
lead in the Sydney Rugby League competition “go
stale” and get beaten. It is also the time of year
when University, who never “go stale,” but are
relentlessly licked in the early stages of the compe-
tition, meet with astounding success. Last year
when the suggestion was made that betting 'and
gate-money might have something to do with the
staling business, the League was so furiously indig-
nant that there was talk of libel. This year the
same cynical comment is in evidence, and if the
League wants to retain public confidence in a sport
that ought to be above suspicion it should inquire
if there is any warrant for the comment and make
the result of its investigations public. Rightly or
wrongly the public seems to have decided that the
game is _ slipping, and is staying away from the
grounds in enormous numbers.
* * * •
In the annual clash of the Universities
which play Rugby League, Sydney beat Brisbane by
29 (7 tries 4 goals) to 4 (2 goats). The game was
played on the Sydney Uni. Oval, and at first the
Bananalanders looked to have a chance. But Syd-
ney led at the first spell by 8 to 4, and ran all
over the Northerners afterwards. These games were
introduced in 1920, and Sydney has won the lot.
* * * *
Football is as uncertain as horse-racing.
On Saturday week Essendon, of the Vic. League, had
crashed horribly before the despised South Melbourne,
last on the list. On Saturday the beaten team tackled
the leaders, Fitzroy, and beat them by 97 points
to 88. ’Roy’s kicking was outrageous, and the lick 4
ing served them right. The Melb.-Carltongame was
up to standard. Carlton marked charmingly, and
their defence was solid, but they hadn’t the pace of
the Red Legs. Also, they were too keen on taking
potshots, and these don’t get goals; so, after a
swift, strenuous and wildly exciting two hours, Mel-
bourne got home by 3 points—64 to Carlton’s 61. The
win puts Melbourne into fourth place, but they’ll
have to battle to keep it. Richmond downed Gee-
long by 89-points to 79; and South Melbourne and
St. Kilda got no further ahead in the argument to
decide which will decorate the tail of the procession,
inasmuch as their scuffle ended in a draw —75 points
all. In one of' the Association matches a record in
lopsidedness was put up by Hawthorn, who booted
30 gcals 31 behinds against P’ran’s tally of 6 goals
9 behinds. In the last quarter the Haws scored .75
points to P,’rail’s 1. They have hopes of getting
admitted to the League next season.
* * * #
“Winkle”: Fleeting is the popularity of
Melb. League footballers. George Bayliss, Rich-
mond’s most accurate goal-kicker in past seasons, is
a case in point. He has been so much below form
lately that Mel Morris was given his place at centre-
forward last Saturday, and kicked six goals. Bavliss
hardly got six touches. The crowd, forgetting past
services, hooted their late idol’s every movement.
The same siipuorters were unanimous last year that
only Danny Minogue’s superior captainship enabled
the team to beat Carlton in both the final and grand
final matches, and so win the premiership. This did
not prevent them hooting his blunders and cheering
ironically whenever he got a kick during the first
few matches of the present year, when increasing
avoirdupois interfered with 7 hig speed Chris
Lethbridge (Fitzroy), Pat O’Brien (Carlton) and
Barney Carr (St. liilda) are others who have
suffered the indignity of being hooted this sea-
son by large sections of their own supporters. But
the worst ease of this kind occurred last year. Dick
Lee, of Collingwood, who has done wonderful work
as a forward in his 17 years’ service, was temporarily
out of form, and his erstwhile worshippers veiled
Let into the Museum, Lee!” They hissed his
blunders with the savagery they usually reserve for
the umpire or a particularly brilliant piece of work
by an opposing player.
* * • *
“Winkle”: It is “Tino” (B. 27/7/’22)
who is wrong when he says Dave McNamara beat
his own world’s record of 86yds. Ift. for a place-
kick by booting 92yds. in 1914 at Sydney.
Dave certainly won that event, but it was with
a kick of only 67yds. Bin. ; though even that was too
much for Dally Messenger and Cotter. Later he
kicked < 6yds. Bin. Dally Messenger proved the
straig’htest shot, and won the goal-kicking compe-
tition on the same day. If Dr. Eric Woods did drop-
kick 84yds. ft was not officially recorded. The story
that always wins the drinks when long-kicking is
being discussed tells how McKenzie, of Norwood
(S.A.), once drove a ball over 100yds. on the wings
of a gale. And years ago I saw Chapman win a
sensational match for Richmond (Vic.) by drop
kicking a goal from a distance of 87yds. with a
similar aid. But while events of this kind are inter-
esting as anecdotes, they should never be brought
forward as records.
* * * *
ie .” The late Dr. Timms (B.
20 / 7 / 22) had the true sporting spirit—side, not
self. Alter a match at Wiliiamstown (he played for
Geelong), he mentioned to Charley Brownlow, now
chairman of the Aus. Football Council, that he felt
tired. “Nothing in a game like that to make you
tired, was the response. “I know that,” said
Timms, ‘btjt I had a long walk beforehand.” It
transpired that he had spent the previous night in
the country. Missing the train home next morning
he walked 12 miles to get his togs. Fancy a present-
day professional doing that before a game sooner
than disappoint his club. Nothing short of a motor-
car to bring the togs would be acceptable now. But
there were no motor-cars in Timms's day. Neither
were there professionals.
Adelaide’s chief inter-school football match
■ was won easily by Prince Alfred’s, 9 goals 14 be-
hinds to 4 and 11. Krantz, a fine, all-round athlete,
kicked four of the winners’ goals, and Wainwright
all the losers’. In the last few years honors have
been equally divided between the two schools, but
the records of 40 years show 27 wins for Prince
Alfred’s and only 13 for St. Peter’s. The one-sided-
ness is difficult to account for, as in all other sports
Saints” hold their own.
* * * ■»
Patterson and Anderson have made a dis-
appointing start in America by getting knocked out
early in the Seabright tournament. Patterson was beaten
by Hunter (2—6, 3—6) and the cabled information
is that he was right off his game. Still Hunter is
a very good player. He has just won the national
indoor championship of the U.S.A., and is said to
possess great pace and skill. Patterson, partnered
by the unreliable Wertheim, lost to an unknown pair,
lencken and Major (6 —7, 7—9). Anderson and the
American champion, Johnston, were too good for all
their opponents, except Williams and Washburn, who
beat them after a rousing tussle (8 —10, B—6, 9—7,
6 —3). Anderson was Johnston’s victim in the
singles. The little Californian played brilliant tennis
and got the verdict in two sets/ 6 —2, B—6.8 —6.
Harold Parcell, who won last year, was
again .first in the 10-niiles Queensland cross-country
championship at Rocklea. His time was 65min. 68
l-ssec. E. J. Best, H. R. Turner, P. Swinbourne
and M. Bourkse, all of Botany, N.S.W., Harriers,
followed him home, and T. Watters (7), C. Grande-
mange (9) and S. Watters (10) were other Botany
men who helped to get their club’s name on the
Nissen Shield. They beat the Rocklea team by a hat
fill of points. The course was over ploughed ground,
fences and ditches—as stiff a proposition as anything
in Australia.
*** * •
“D.P.J.” : One of the most remarkable
athletic figures in N.S.W. two generations ago was
William King, colloquially known as “The Flying
Pieman.” Like Mick Dooley, he was intended for
the Church, but his love of sport and outdoor life
unfitted _ him for anything more sedentary than a
tutor’s job, and he didn’t hold that long. The Pie-
man was a great pedestrian. He once tramped 1634
miles in five weeks four days. He walked from
Macquarie-plaee to the 16-milestone, Parramatta, and
back in six hours. He beat the coach from Windsor
to Sydney by 7min. Carrying a live goat and 121 b.
deadweight, he footed it from the Talbot Inn, Brick-
field Hill, to Nash’s, Parramatta, In 6hr. 48min.
The Pieman died at Liverpool Asylum in 1874.
* * * *
. There were ft few Newcastle enthusiasts
in the crowd that saw Harry Collins stop the Ameri-
can Tommy Cello in i 6 rounds at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night. Newcastle believes that it has
dug up another Darcy in Coliins. There is certainly
the promise of greatness in this hard-fighting and
ruggedly-built youngster (he is only 19), but he has
a loj to learn yet. He was nervous at starting,
but as soon as he settled down he took charge of
the situation and never looked like losing. Cello
did not show up as well as he did against Godfrey.
Collins knocked him down in the 10th, 12th and
15th rounds, and was punishing him unmercifully
in the 16th when the referee intervened.
• • . »
Harry Stone, who has fought heavy-
weights, trained down to 9st. Glib, to meet Jamito
at Melb. Stadium. The Manilaman, who has done
all his scrapping in the fedder class, scaled 9st. 71b.
Stone was top dog from start to finish. He was
too fast for the brown man, and, at the conclusion
of an hour’s gentlemanly milling, in which neither
was damaged, collected the thick end of a fairly sub-
stantial purse.
• * * *
The “Warrnambool” (Vic.) road race for
cyclists will occur again next October. In former
years wheelmen came from other States, and even
M.L., to compete, and in 1911, the last time it was
run, 500 bike-pushers lined up for the start. But
tlx 3 more exciting motor-cycle has to a large
extent ousted the leg-propelled machine in popular
favor since then. The list of prizes ranges from a
Ford car to a shotgun.
CONSOLATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were coming from the races. Oh, Maginty's
friend was sad,
And he raised his voice in wailing o’er the “awfu’ ”
luck he’d had.
He’d had, he said, a bitter loss; he felt it like a
wound.
“Eh, mon, it’s been a ghas’ly day—l’ve lost eleven
poond 1”
“Eleven poond!’’ He wailed aloud. We thought
he’d ne’er be done.
He’d twenty shillin’ on the horse. The odds were
ten to one.
“Eleven poonds at one fell swoop. Eleven poonds
to-day.
And, aye, ye ken, Ahm wonderin’ sair what will
the wammin say.
“Eleven poond gone bang like yon. I’ll never gang
again.
This racin’s too expensive, mon; it leaves ye
nought but pain.”
“Buck up!” Maginty said, “it might have been
much worse, old son.
Suppose the books had given you a hundred pounds
to one!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


s/
/ bring up my blades in
the way they should go
A
Valet blade is like a millionaire’s son—
it has every advantage from the time
it leaves the cradle. Furthermore, a
Valet blade is always a sharp little fellow.
The judicious application of leather plays
no small part in this. 1 always strop my
own blades so that 1 know the job is pro-
perly done.
I carry in my head a device which turns the blade
over-first one side, then the other—as I run up and
down my strop. The result is a keen razor edge for
every shave and every Valet blade lasts for weeks.
Come and see me do it at any good razor shop—the
dealer will be glad to show you.
“VALET"
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australasia:
PIIIPSON & COMPANY. LTD.,
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
W&&/ET
o
“(f (Cjjf if m m m M fa W
THE STANDARD SET
No. 1 consists of heavily
plated self-s'roppinor "Valet m
A'ltoStrnp Razor. 12 " Valet
Blades and “Valet” S*roo._ in
handsome case, lined
velvet and satin
27/6
Sc Word "Valet” on Razors, Strop) and Blades indicates the genuine product of the AuloSlrop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, Eflg,
BECOME A “DARK HORSE.”
Learn the art of Boxing from
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker, and
be ready to hold your own
against the bully and the tough.
The points of ringcraft are
easily mastered by our sipiple
series of illustrated
Postal Lessons.
In all parts of Australia successful pupils
have quickly learned the hits, moves and
counters that make a scientific boxer. Each
lesson is based, on “Snowy” Baker’s personal
experience in the ring.
Write your name and address across this
advertisement, enclose three stamps for
postage, and we will forward “Snowy”
Baker’s booklet,- ‘‘Scientific Boxing in Your
Home,” which tells all about the course and
gives examples of the lessons.
jS ■
msm
i
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,"
A3VD BROTHERS.
156 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
K.YNOCH
AMMUNITION
OOtt
•22 RIM FIRE.
fgs
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
Twe.
AUL BRITISH
M
v v
W'A.
snmnnnniiffinna;
lined tan wiuow calf
bellows.
TONGUE
z>
„ welted.
SEWN ALU
WAV ROUND
WAX
THREAD
. HAND STITCHED
iwcm/
> INSERTED RUDDER LAVER
In Finest
TUSCAN CALF
84
Freight
Paid.
Here’s the Shooting Boot you want —a marvellous
production —so strongly constructed that you wonder
if it can possibly wear out —a Shooting Boot really
worth double its price, 84/-
Made in the Finest Tuscan Calf, with stalwart soles;
sewn welts ALL THE WAY ROUND, Jin. rubber
“in-between” soles; bellows tongue firmly stitched
to sides; with the “BOOT-WITHIN-A-BOOT” fea-
ture of BEST TAN WILLOW CALF LINING and
strong wax stitching throughout, this Boot ensures
dust-dry feet though ankle-deep in water.
This combination of “GOOD POINTS” will make
you marvel at the value at 84/-- All sizes -
WRITE NOW.
LINCOLN STUAI2 ITC° P T ~ Y UP


Farme r’s
"Saturday Morning Specials”
—distinctive & deliciously flavoured.
Made on Friday for Saturday’s selling.
"Saturday Morning Specials” are an exclusive assortment of
delicious “ Fresh-made ” sweets and chocolates, available only
on Saturday mornings at Farmer’s. A different selection each •
week affords additional charm. Enhance the enjoyment of
the week-end with a carton ot these dainty confections.
m #
■ .*!
In decorative cartons,
%lb. 1/3; lib. 2/6.
Farmer’s
Sydney.
MEN’S GIFTS.
GIFTS for men, we mean
THEY occasion much thought.
THEY won t wear them w'hen given.
THERE are so few T things they will use.
WE know all about men’s presents.
WE specialise on them.
IN solid Gold. In heavy Silver. In choice Leather.
WE cull of the world’s best for them.
OUR prices are the lowest in Australia, when quality is
cons.dered.
WE sell only good-class articles.
dfg
Heavy Sterling Silver
Round Match Box to
hold full box wax
vestas, 12/- each net.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
The Oldest Je.vellery
House In Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Cottins St. Melbourne
P[?]ces
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Cent 1533, 11609
Melba’s concert was a wonderful event.
She explained confidentially to the crowned
house tuat she was really ill with a cold. Her
speaking voice was convincingly hoarse,
but the effects were not heard in tne
purity of her singing throughout a heavy
evening of granu-opera extracts, many
charming French songs and half-a-dozen en-
cores. She looked magnificent. Her tightly-
swathed gown was of cloth-of-gold wound
round with drapings of deep rose georgette.
The long, square train swept back from her
shoulders like a waterfall, and carried a rosy
foam of tulle with it. Her feet were shod
with gold, diamonds blazed from a circular
breastplate and her smooth black hair was
bound tightly with a band several inches
high beset solidly with more diamonds. Una
Bourne slipped in quietly in the wake of this
glory like a slender green mermaid. She was
dressed in a sea-green sheath of silk with
her long, pale arms bare. Lemmone flauted
divinely; curly-haired Billy Burrell played
an accompaniment or two ; Clarice Coles put
some soft contralto music into the pro-
gramme, and basso Benham got an enthusias-
tic reception. Melba made a little speech
about Una Bourne. “I intend to sing at her
concert,” she said, “and it is with pleasure
and pride that I shall do so. She is such a
fine little woman, and so thorough a musician.
I hope you will all come to hear her.” Lady
Stradbroke came down from Macedon speci-
ally for the concert, and afterwards an aide
had to fight a track for her Ex. down the
steps to her car. Muffled to the ears in furs,
the lady sjjowed a Spanish comb of diamonds
glittering in her dark hair. All the vice-
regal household have been battling through
an epidemic of ’flu, and the Earl has been
so ill that a severe doctor ordered him to
stay indoors for a fortnight.
The Albert Miller dame dressed her
Toorak parlors in daffodils and wattle blos-
som for her all-feminine at-home the other
afternoon. It was one of the greatest gather-
ings of the social elect since the war. started.
The genus climber was markedly absent
—there may have been a few there, but not
so’s you’d notice. A musical programme of
much artistic weight \tas unloaded in the
hall under the command of Mrs. Alice
SpowerSj two of the star performers being
the singing niece Hilda Spowers and Isobel
Langlands. who made a great hit with her
tuneful fiddle. Mrs. Miller hostessed grace-
fully in black and gold with the aid of her
two daughters—Mrs. George Blackwood, in
fawn-colored ehiffonery bordered with fur
and topped by a brown headpiece, and Mrs.
Alan Currie, in biscuit color embroidered
with blue and a Dlumed hat.
Although they have been wedded a year
or two, Rosina Buekman and her tenor
Maurice d’Oisly speak of this tour through
Australia as their honeymoon trip. D’Oisly’s
courtship of the lady was slick, even for a
tenor. He was sent on to sing Pinkerton to
her Butterfly at two hours’ notice, that
being the first time he met her. The lady
had on her Jap make-up, and Maurice was
probably too busy thinking what came next
in his music to trouble much about her.
Next day he encountered the real Rosina,
and sent out an S.O.S. to find out who the
charmer was. It surprised him greatly to
discover that he had already been making,
ardent make-believe love to her. He lost little
time in putting across some of the real
kind, and here they are.
A recent American mail brought Nina
Murdoch (Mrs. Duncan Brown) a letter
from one Frieda Rand, Director of Music
at the State Normal School, Bridgewater,
Mass., who, after introducing herself, wrote:
“About two years ago I saw in the Literary
Digest, that wonderful poem ‘After War.’
It was reprinted from the Sydney Bulletin.
The poem appealed to me as one of the most
beautiful of all the hundreds of ivar-poems,
and I was inspired to set it to music. This
winter Mme. Caroline Hudson-Alexander
sang the song from manuscript in the Sym-
phony Hall, Boston. It was so well received
that I am writing to ask if I may have
your permission for publication.” Nina has
sent the necessary assent. Duncan Brown,
by the way, was recently requisitioned from
the Sydney Evening News for the new'
Melbourne Sun, and Nina has also been
engaged as a special writer. She held a
similar job on the Sydney Sun before her
marriage, four and a half years ago.
This is the Mermaid Rep. Society’s busy
month. Arthur Osborn’s “Toys” and Alfred
Sutro’s “The Choice” will be produced at
The Playhouse on the 17th, 18th and 19th.
The Society, by the way, has a grand-opera
way of dealing with late-comers. The first
play begins punctually at 8, and the doors
are then closed until the beginning of the
second.
Aide Pitt Rivers frequently breaks into
public talks about his experiences in the
Islands, and on such occasions he illustrates
his remarks with lantern slides. But so
far he has left out one really moving pic-
ture that everyone would enjoy. Rabaul
society has a habit of spinning up the
Ivokopo-road for little dinner-parties at the
Ralum Hotel—2o miles away. The cause-
way hugs the bends of the harbor, and is
always within a foot or two of its depths.
Half the cars in the place are usually buzz-
ing along this road. Careful steering is a
necessity unless the shover has unbounded
faith in the Almighty. Pitt Rivers and co.
came buzzih’ along one mght with all their
motor lights full-flare when, ph-hut! —car
and all went over the edge into about 20
feet of harbor water. Some dank, dripping,
Avhite-clad creatures clambered out from
under the hood before the car finallv disap-
peared, and they were salved bv the next
on-rushing motor. A .Tap with a crane
hauled up the submerged vehicle next dav,
had an accident and dropped it again, this
time into 100 feet of wetness, where it re-
mains.
Mrs. C. Taylor, gen. sec. of the A.W.A.
(own cousin to the A.N.A.), has been made
vice-president of the Friendly Societies’
Assoc. If she shapes well she will get
the big job next year, and will then exercise
a dominating influence in lodge work.
The Little Sisters of St. Joseph have been
looking after foundl.ngs at their Broad-
meadow Home for 18 or 20 years, and have
never yet made a public appeal for help;
but recently some women formed themselves in-
to a working committee, and took Gaud Mayor
Swanson and his lady out to look over the
place with a big crowd of society folk
motoring in their wake. They wandered all
through the well-run institution, and the
mayoral gentleman was so impressed by what
he saw that he has now enthusiastically
taken up the appeal for £lO,OOO that is being
launched. “To think.” he said, “that there
are 300 souls in this Home—most of them
babies —and absolutely no supply of water
in case of fire! And the place lit by primi-
tive kerosene lamps, with all its attendant
danger!’ The Sisters have to haul water for
everything; and washing for 250 babies
every day makes this something of a con-
tract. To get water and electric light
turned on at the Home is part of the idea at
the back of the £lO.OOO appeal. Mrs. Ben-
jamin Hoare, president of the committee,
was in charge of the visitors, and Mrs. Mer-
son Cooper, who has been quietly working
m the cause for ever so long, was also there.
The committee women made a picnic-tea for
the guests, and cooked cakes and made sand-
wiches wberew'th to rour’sh them. Mrs.
Merson Cooper, through the courtesy of
Moss Mcßae, arranged a card-party at the
Oriental Hotel on Friday for the Home, and
s'm s plarrirg n sunper-dnnce at Carlyon’s,
shortly, to help along the appeal.
Thus did photographer Ruskin’s camera
see Mr s. George
Langridge, who has
vacated the presiden-
tial chair of the
Women’s Hospital
committee, which she
held for years. The
bright-eyed lady has
a- positive genius for
organisation, as may
be gathered from the
mighty results of the
recent hospital
aupeal, which had its
grand finale in the
All Matrons’ Ball.
Mrs. Langridge, who
was before marriage
a Melbourne girl, is
a fine hostess and
one of our best
dressers. She final-
ised her term of office with a very smart
afternoon tea-party at the Alexandra Club.
It is so easy for Dan Cupid to unset
things. Pianist Mollie O’Brian has just said
Tes to John McMahon, who comb nes
legal duties at the Town Hall with Parlia-
ment House work. Mollie was going abroad
to take advantage of her scholarship, and
was booked for a farewell recital in the
Town Hall in September; and now there
will be a recital, but it will not be a fare-
well, as she has promised to get married and
stay in Australia. The Hodges lady and
Mrs. Pohlman, who were engineering the
farewell, have sent the girleen hearty con-
gratulations. Mollie hoisted her hair and
assumed grown-up status for the announce-
ment of her engagement. It took “two whole
packets of hairpms” to do the deed on the
night of the Lord Mayor’s- Ball.
The State Treasury will gather a good
divvy from the will of Charles Shannon,
one of the State’s wool kings, who left
£1 <8,600. After the family and the Govern-
ment get their lot, charities, the Presbv-
tenan Church and the Salv’army will each
have a substantial dip. Shannon had the
appearance of a dour Scot, but it was
appearance only. He was head of the wool-
broking firm of Strachan, Murray and Shan-
non. Ltd., director of the Excelsior Woollen
Mills, yachtsman, oarsman (he founded the
oarwon. Lowing Club about 60 years ago)
nrd chairman of the Geelong College Council,
and the Recording Angel has a goodly list of
philanthrophies chalked up to him.
The portrait underneath is of R. W. Stur-
gess, the \ ictorian water-colorist whom art-
lovers are beginning
to talk about. He
is a native of Wil-
liamstown, and put
in a long spell at
the National Gallerv
under Bernard Hail
and Alex. McCub-
bin, winning prizes
for portraits and
still-life in char-
coal ; also catching
the judge’s eye for
two years in succes-
sion with his land-
scape work. After
leaving the Gallery
h° h•’d an idea of
becoming a portrait-
painter. but the
Australian sunlight
lured him into the
open, and he was soon producing thbse fine
little stud es of color and atmosphere that
sold so briskly in his recent exhibition.
SturgQSs has . been carelessly likened to
turner, but neither in his methods nor in
Ins achievement is he a reflection of the
departed genius. Both are poets in their
attitude to Beauty, but whereas Hilder was
most expressive in the twilight mood, Stur-
ms loves mo’-e daylight in his composit : ons.
In fact, the Victorian more recalls the Eng-
lishman Lee Ha.nkey, who has a European
reputation for his clean, sweet color.
A. Tasmanian parson got a bad bump in
mid-course of an oratorical flight a couple
ot Sundays ago. . Having been asked to con-
duct a service in a prominent church, he
took his small daughter along with him, and
ensconced her in one of the front seats. Dur-
ing his discourse he worked himself up to
an eloquent frenzy, and landed a succession
of a-esound ng thumps upon the unoffending
pulpit. Then as he paused to let the effect
soak in, a childish treble shrilled through
the church: ‘’Don’t get wild, daddv—oh.
don t get wild 1” Unfortunately, daddv did
get wild, and the solicitous little lass turned
her back on a very painful interlude when
she got home.
The Red Cross people are badly in need
of old linen for hospitals. Anyone who
wants to clear out the cupboards, prepara-
tory to taking in a fresh stock, can send the
goods along to 42 Latrobe-street, City.
Charlotte Cameron drops a line from Eng-
land, wmere they, have been having a record
drought—-no rain for Jfl whole days.
Society is weltering in display functions,
and the first Court since the outbreak
of the war was a great affair. The
idea is to buck up the neople—not those who
go to such functions, but the picture-show
patrons, whose indigence is supposed to be
submerged in Loyalty every time they see the
areat having a good time on a screen. Prin-
cess Mary and her billionaire Lord are seen
everywhere together, look'ng happy—though
wlmn you come to think about it. they would
hardly take the. public into their confidence
on the subject if they weren’t. The Queen
of Roumania sent Charlotte her photograph
. . ot il er together with an invitation to
visit Roumania. The travelled one has re-
newed friendship with Lady Doughty who, as
Eugenia Stone, used to wmite the Bulletin’s
Melbourne screed. Eugenia is now a promi-
nent London hostess, goes everywhere, and
dresses tremendously.
Clara Butt is making herself responsible
tor Rosa Alba s career in London. She took
the Sydney lass to sin? to Miss Nellie Rowe,
. the celebrated West-end teacher de-
clared: She has the voice of the century,
lheres a fortune in it. She has youth,
looks, personality and style, and is one of
the ( niost charming Australians presented
here. After five months’ coaching, chieflv
\ n modern French works with Miss Rowe,
Alba is to make her d<?but at the Albert
Hal!.
. Memories of some of the R.C. educa-
tional pioneers are revived in connection
with a big-money hunt now being organised
on behalf of the Christian Brothers by
Brother J. N. Moore, who is rapidly becom-
es a confirmed pocket-raker on the pattern of
Brother T. R. Hughes, one of the earliest
ot the order to reach these parts. Hughes
m his day was .as widely known from end
to end of Australia as one member of the
Welsh branch of his clan has become more
recently. Scores of thousands of middle-
aged R.C.’s hark back whenever they meet
to the days when Brothers Hughes, Bodkin
and Treacey planted the seeds of knowledge
first at St. Francis’s, Melbourne, and later in
many parts of this continent and M.L. The
first two lived until quite recent years, and
saw the fruits of their labor in 65 schools
and orphanages, run by 300 “Brothers’'
under vows, and 150 laymen assistants.
Slight, girlish-looking Mrs. Gordon Mac-
tarlane, of S. Aus., is one of the most feted
of London’s visitors. She is going to be
presented at the next evening drawing-room
by the Countess Curzon of Kedlestone. At
present she is snuggled down into a per-
fectly gorgeous flat in Curzon-street, for
which she is paying £6, though they do say
it has never before been let under £2O a
week.
When he was just within coo-ee of being
94 Captain Philip le Neveu handed in his
checks. In other days he was among the
best known of master mariners. A great
cricket enthusiast, he went over to a test
match in Adelaide when he was 92. He left
two daughters and a son. The son assists
Mabbott to do the official secretarial work
for the State Governor and the Executive
Council.
A 8 T. E. Meek, Secretary to the Vic.
Treasury, doesn’t seem keen on being Director
of Charities, Lawson and Co. will have to
look elsewhere should the job be created by
passing the Charities Control Bill. When
the ’flu scare was on, and McWhae had to
get together an organisation to beat it, the
work of K. J. Love, secretary of the Chil-
dren’s Hospital, caught the Government’s
eye, so he may get the offer of the £lOOO-a-
-year billet.
Lord Burnham’s intimation that when he
comes to look at Australia he will allot
himself time to see it as it “ought to be
seen,” seems to imply that he will not
scamper through with the speed of his rival
Isorthcliffe. John McAVhae, Vic. Agent-
General, is enthusiastic at the prospect of
the Daily Telegraph owner’s trip, and has
written to Premier Lawson impressing on
him that Burnham is a Somebody, and hint-
ing that it is up to him to do things
“properly,” as George Jenkins, of the
whiskers, told Alec Peacock when the Dook
was coming in 1901.
J. M. Baldwin, the Vic. Government
Astronomer, who goes with a party to view
the September eclipse from
graduated M.A. at Melbourne ’Varsity in
1902, and D.Sc. in 1913; and between whiles
collected the Dixson Research Scholarship,
the Professor Kernot Scholarship and the
Syme prize. He was a volunteer assistant
at the Cape of Good Hope Observatory in
1906, and at Potsdam Observatory 1907-08.
Adelaide drops a line :
Muriel Matters spoke before the Women’s Non-
Party Association the day after she returned from
England, her subject being “Education from a Socio-
logical Standpoint.” Her experience is based on
training under Montessori herself at Barcelona, work
in the East End of London, and a first-hand know-
ledge of the views of English educational authori-
ties. But, apart from the knowledge from which
she speaks, her personality is such that she would
get an audience if she elected to talk about any-
thing from Chinese economics to old boots.
Violet Day has been definitely fixed for the Sun-
day preceding August 4, and this year’s celebrations
drew a huge crowd to the Exhibition Building. W.
J. Sowden was in the chair, and the only speaker
(most wise limitation) was Professor Darnley Nay-
lor. That, with a prayer and a hymn or two and
the Last Post, was all, but on the platform were
banked masses of violets that were taken afterwards
to the Women’s Memorial Cross and the Soldiers’
Cemetery at West Terrace. The body of the hall
was reserved for next-of-kin of fallen men and the
galleries for the public, and in both of them there
was scarcely a vacant seat.
W. H. Foote, who is in charge of the Glee Club
while Roy Mellish is tripping abroad, scored a suc-
cess at the concert the other night. The evening
also introduced Helene Taylor, who has just annexed
the Royal Academy of Music scholarship for Austral-
asia and is taking a delightful soprano voice Lon-
don-wards for further training.
For the first time in its life the University Arts
Association this year had a woman student as one of
its speakers, she being Miss Wait, who proposed the
final toast, “Kindred Societies,’’ following on speeches
by E. G. Kelly, R. K. Adams, Darnley Naylor and
Archibald Strong.
A cousin’s death has made J. Sillifant, of the
Hydraulic Engineer’s Dept., the owner of Coombe,
an old English seat in North Devon that has been
in the family since 1600. Before taking his present
job he was 12 years at sea, mostly in the employ "of
the Adelaide Steamship Co.
Dora Wilsop is trying her luck here with an exhi-
bition of paintings, chief among them a sketch of
Marie Tempest and a dozen or so figure studies. The
show is under the wing of H. E. Fuller - , hon. sec. of
the Society of Arts.
A score of the younger matrons were joint
hostesses at a dance in the Osborne Hall the other
night, among them Mrs. W. Gilbert, Mrs. Lavington
Bonython, Mrs. Keith Wilkinson, Mrs. Noel Fisher,
Mrs. H. Rischbieth and two of the Cowan clan. Few
hostesses rise to dances in their own houses in these
Mary-Annless days.
Passed out, H. J. Bovill, who. went to. Renmark
in its very early days and stayed there till about
seven years ago, when he became a lecturer at Dookie
Agricultural College. There four years back he had
a paralytic stroke, and he had been an invalid ever
since. His widow was a Miss Hollingdrake, another
of the Renmark “originals.”


l\
7/
HZ
/-A-
-l
tst
EH /
i
m
7
\\ x
&
7m;
M
m
'M
IK
i
<
T-l.
SKfe,
OOtIOOOOO DO OOOOOOOPOQO
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOODO
In Interpretive Qualities
the Beale Player-Piano excels
7
S with a human pianist, interpretive qualities
are more-infinitely more-than mere technique.
Technique belongs to the material side of music
—interpretation to the spiritual side.
The degree to which the Beale Player-Piano can
be used as a sympathetic interpretive instrument
is limited only by the force and character of the
performer’s own ability. It provides an impeccable
technique far beyond that of any living musician,
but greater than this—a control so complete that
every subtle inflection can be indicated precisely.
Printed matter post free.
BEALE
AND
COMPANY
ITR
Showrooms :
340 George Street
Sydney
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
Annandale
BRANCHES —N. S. IV. : Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all
Melbourne Suburbs. Tas. : Williams Bros., Hobart : Maples, Launceston. S.A. .’John Evans
Ltd., Adeliade. W.A. : J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen St. (opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane, Toowoomba,
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay.
■at
a


Under
Royal
Warrant-
sd
ToH.M.
Kin*
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CWAMPACNt
'iarlesHeidsieOv
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
N.B.—The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9931.
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
soaps
powders
( Lady Davidson prised open the Royal Art
Society’s 43rd annual snow on Saturday
afternoon. It seemed as if everybody who
had received a card had rolled up; and
maybe the fine afternoon after a week of
rain had as much to do with it as love
of art. Dattilo Rubbo who flew busily
backwards and forwards balancing chairs
on his finger-tips is suffering an eclipse
behind a black cravat these days—he
has been forced by domestic pressure to re-
nounce his Red Garibaldean ties since his
heated encounter on the Manly boat with
two patriotically shicked Diggers. Jimmy
' Jackson held court in one corner, and an
impressed public believed him to be illus-
trating the outline of a cathedral with Hs
toe on two inches of floor-space. In reality
he was proving how Will Ashton had taught
him a wrong jazz-step. President Lister-
Lister, vice-president J. A. Bennett, and sec-
retary Oxnurd Smith moved impressively
in the throng, and Sydney lire Smith, boss
of the Society of Artists, added grey tailor-
ings, a blushing cheek and a Malacca cane
to the assemblage. On the walls a few
woman-made pictures catch the eye. notably
Margaret Preston’s still-lifes and flower
studies, and some work of Portia Geach.
Little Olive Birkenhead, too, contributes some
exquisite bits of quiet charm, and Elsie
Middleton’s “Picking Pears at Bundanoon”
is a direct incentive to go on the land.
Pamela Pitt Rivers was pursued again last
week at the Criterion in the interests of the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital. This time
the audience was not so exclusively drawn
from the Kosciuskos of Society ; but it was
a trifle more critical and vastly more alert —
the large sections of business girls and boys
in the stalls were vastly tickled at a gent.-
help making stage love to the daughter of his
vice-regal boss. However, Capt. Alan Law-
rence, who took the part of the great lover
at nine days’ notice (Ernest Watt had to
go to Brisbane for a reunion of Gilchrist,
Watt and Co.’s directors), staggered through
his part without any irreparable blemishes.
The lady proved even more alluring on
second acquaintance; and had to smile her
thanks at the final curtain call from a regular
embankment of flowers. Amid loud cheers
little Mrs. R. M. Sly, who is president of
the hospital committee, moved a vote of
thanks to Lady Forster and Mrs. Pitt Rivers,
and announced that £l5OO had been raised by
the two performances. As a final humane
action the heroine of the play galvanised the
rest of the cast back into lifelike action
with supper and cordials at the Australia.
The only bloke who seemed disgruntled
with the proceedings was a bullock-necked,
flannel-sliirted individual in the gallery. He
stood the philande.ri.ngs of Pamela for two
acts. Then “Gorstruth,” he rumbled in dis-
gust, “damned if I can pick which of the
blighters is the Bat!” A horrified manage-
ment descended on him and insisted on hand-
ing his money back.
A Sydney girl wanders through a wilder-
ness of “To Lets” :
This is supposed to be a London season, but it is
the quietest and deadest thing imaginable. The
papers are trying to fake up proof that a season is
on; but nobody seems to take any notice. There
was a Drawing Room, but absolutely no excitement.
Ascot was an awful failure, and everywhere the
poverty is most depressing. All the West-end houses
in places like Berkeley-square and Curzon-street and
Eaton-square are still shut up. Everybody who can
is living in Germany. There are thousands and
thousands over there because they can feel like
millionaires on a five-pound note. But it is a ter-
rible loss to London. Imagine nearly a dozen of the
big theatres in London closing during what is sup-
posed to be a season ; while throughout England over
300 picture-palaces have closed. Listen, ye Sydney
flat dwellers: “Flat just off Eaton-square, large
drawing-room all in pale mauve, furnished genuine
antiques, dining-room in Jacobean, double bedrooms,
luxurious bathrooms, maid inclusive, four guineas per
week.”
If the butchers of Darlinghurst held a ball
to which they all went in their aprons, their
middles strung- about with knives and steels
and cleavers, and if, on arrival in the ball-
room, a lot of them suddenly tossed great
knives in the air, meticulously crossed the
points and formed an arch of steel, under
which all the other aproned butchers strode,
would Sydney whoop three cheers, and name
the event picturesque? But the Masons
with their aprons and emblems and clashing
of swords can always bank on curtain-calls
from gallery and stalls alike. Strong in
this knowledge, they made a night of it at
the Town Hall on Thursday in the interests
of_ the Masonic Benevolent Society of N. S.
Wales. “Well, well!” contentedly murmured
one handsomely upholstered old lady, turn-
ing an admiring eye on her spouse, "I don’t
think father’s forgotten anything.” “For-
gotten anything!” exclaimed her irreverent
Happer daughter with bitterness. “Why. the
only thing lie’s left at home is the dining-
room dado!” Palms and dags and Masonic
designs gave the civic barn a semblance of
beauty; and the vice-regal dais looked lan-
guorous under a visitation of tropical-sized
yellow butterdies, which perched in chatty
fashion on the greeny boughs and fronds
forming the background to the cushioned
chairs. Governor Walter Davidson, who is
suffering from the general laryngitis germ
these days, was not at the party; but Dame
Margaret, the Chief Justice Cullens and Miss
Henderson were front-seaters on the dais.
Her. Ex. glittered like moonlight on a frosty
night in brocaded cloth of silver, and the
Cullen lady trailed glowing satin and tulle.
Miss Henderson played for safety in black,
and Aides Blandy and D’Apice were the
Raleighs of a blustering night. There were
two dozen debs, who, satined and tulled and
bouqueted, bobbed to vice-royalty; and there
wasn’t a Mason present who could have de-
nied that this was the most decorative of
all the highly ornamental proceedings.
The Sydney Choral Society is resurrect-
ing “Faust” once more on August 12 at the
Town Hall in an attempt to make up the de-
ficit in their treasury left by “Stabat Mater”
and Elgar’s “Trilogy.” Reginald Gooud’s bass
will rumble and thunder in the role of
Mephisto; Ilaigb Jackson will be Maggie
Faust’s soldier brother; Phillipa Alston will
double-bank the love-lorn Siebel and the
ancient maid of all work; and Mrs. Goos-
sons-Yiceroy is to be the poor Marguerite,
doomed to think that all that glitters must
be gold. William Aspre.v will wield the con-
ductor’s baton, laid aside for the night by
Gooud.
Sydney High School Old Boys are ear-
maiKing August 15 for the school’s annual
jazz re-union at Market-street Sargents.
Tickets are being trafficked in at Palings’.
The Mount St. Margaret Hospital, at
Ryde, has a strong woman’s committee to
back its adventures on the public pocket; and
this year the Rose Ball, now a sort of hardy
perennial, in aid of the b.g institution was
a greater success than ever. The Padding-
ton Town Hall was transformed into a rose
arbor for the event, and Mayor McElhone’s
lady added civic dignity to the gathering.
Molly Kelly, of the up-river village, who had
again secretaried the show, smiled the smile
of contentment and left treasurers Father
Gell and Peter Hogan to count the moun-
tainous box-office takings.
This is how May Moore’s camera sees W.
Lister-Lister, the patriarchal president of the
Royal Art Society
of N.S.W., whose
annual exhibition is
at this moment mak-
ing a colorful splash
in the Education De-
partment’s gallery.
Lister first came to
Sydney on December
27, 1559, that being
the day of his birth ;
but he went abroad
at the age of nine,
and was educated in
England and
France. He saw the
Harbor again in
1888, and nine years
later became presi-
dent of the R.A.S.
He has been it ever
since—and will, nro-
bably be still presidentmg and still painting
the biggest, canvases for the yearly shows
when Gabriel toots his musical instrument.
Margaret Preston, by the way, will be
remembered as the Adelaide girl who, while
studying art in Europe, was commissioned to
buy P‘^ n ting from the Academy for the
S.A. Gallery. She bought Orpen’s “Sowing
keed, ’ the picture that caused some-
thing like a religious war in the holy city,
a ? ( U nc J^ e .? ta^y boosted the daily attendance
at the Gallery up to 6000. The picture, after
being excommunicated, was bought by the
Carnegie Institute, Pittsburg (U.S.A.).
For ever a week it has been almost impos-
sible, without the aid of a meat-axe, to cleave
through the crowds before David Jones’ win-
dows wherein the pink- and green-haired
waxen vamps have been disporting in the
latest Spring what-nots. The ladies pose
against sable velvet hangings which carry
bizarre stencillings, and regard the Peri on
the other side of the plateglass with super-
cilious eye. One young thing has apparently
dipped her blistered head in a barrel of red
ink to inspire her as she indites an Ode to
Spring, and the window decorator has caught
her at her desk when an elusive rhyme.has
caused her to clap both hands frenziedly to
her cheeks. Feminine Sydney, top-coated and
befurred, has listened outside the plateglass
windows to the irresistible call of Spring,
and then, awaking to reality, has gone in
and bought a new pair of goloshes and an
overproof brolly.
“Lantana” turns up the family photo-
album :
The wedding of Mary E. Bundock and Richard
Harold Capel last month united two ancient squat-
ting families. The bridegroom counts his herds
out Warialda way; and Mary is the youngest
daughter of the late Frank Bundock, one of the hand-
some sons of Wellington Cochrane Bundock, of fair
Wyangarie station, on the Upper Richmond River,
and a mighty beef baron of his day. His wife was
a sister of E. D. Ogilvie, of Yulgflbar Castle,
Clarence River. Two daughters of this old family
are living in Sydney—Mrs. Murray Prior, of Maroon
station, and Miss Alice Bundock, whose violent inter-
est is the District Nursing Association.
The Workers’ Educational Association,
which runs evening classes in a score of sub-
jects, from Musical Appreciation to Marxian
Socialism, is trying to establish a central
club and lending-library. Lady Davidson
gave the project a helping hand in opening
up a bazaar at St. James’s, King-street, on
Saturday—a show which brought the needed
£lOOO a little nearer. And now the advanced
youth in blue dungarees and the “highbrow”
typiste can rest content in the knowledge
that their incursions into the Einstein theory,
psychology and Ibsen drama have vice-regal
approval.
A link with the long-dead past snapped
the other day when there died at a private
hospital, _ Waverley, Mrs. Jessie Annie Mit-
chell, relict of Edward Mitchell, a pioneer of
the Albury district. She was S 3, and the
youngest daughter of Capt. Richard Tasker
Furlong, of the 80th Regiment, who was
police magistrate in the days when Mudgce
was emerging from its bush solitude.
Bathurst, too. has lost an old and prolific
identity, in Mrs. John Henry Kable. She
was born in O’Connell-street, Sydney, 03
years ago, and was a daughter of Dr. John
Mills, an Englishman. The nonagenarian
left a Jarge family, with 45 grandchildren
and 47 great-grandchildren. The name
Kable came to Australia with the First
Fleet, and has been scattered broadcast.
About SO year's ago the old homestead at
Gorman’s Hill, owned by one branch of the
McPliillamys, was kept as an inn by one of
the Kables.
The next annual exhibition of the Society
of Artists is to be an all-Australian shpw.
It will be opened by the Governor-General
on September S. Lambert again will send
a big decorative composition, possibly not' so
puzzling as his “Important People,” and
Longstal'f, Norman Lindsay, Heysen, W. B.
Mclnnes, Web Gilbert and others of the elect
are exhibiting. The principle paintings
and sculpture will be reproduced in a special
volume which Art in Australia, Ltd., is
issuing early in September.
Here’s the latest yarn about the Diggers.
A young reporter was sent to Madame Tus-
saud’s waxworks to bring back some sort of
story for his newspaper, but, finding the
outlook arid* got into lightsome chat with
one of the attendants. Among other things
he asked about the amount of laundry con-
sumed by the figures, and was told that the
bills came to quite a lot, what with Crippen’s
dickies, Charlie Pearce’s collars, etc. Then
the reporter made delicate inquiries as to the
amount of lingerie worn by the lady figures.
“Oh, no, sir,” and the attendant dropped his
voice, “they don’t wear underclothing, but
no one knows that excepting ourselves—and
a few. Australian soldiers!”
Besides being the anniversary of the out-
break of the war, last Friday was ear-
marked for the launching of Community
Singing—American for “All join in the
chorus, boys”-—in the Town Hall. Stal-
wart John Hops were juggling with a mul-
titude that besieged the Druitt-street en-
trance long before Lilian Frost had even
thought of removing any huskiness from the
big organ. It seemed as if all Sydney, from
iron-visaged Beef Barons to the übiquitous
office-boy, had deserted its sandwich and
meat-pie to swamp the lunch hour with song.
W. A. Honrn led the singing through a list
of national and homely airs. A group of
factory ’ands, disciples of ragtime, came to
scoff, but remained to sing. Mrs. Dean, of
the Soldiers’ Club, is the hon. sec., and
the million pounds or so of profit from the
sixpenny admission fee will be shovelled into
the club’s strongroom.
The Laurie Phillips, of Sydney, and Mrs.
Glanville Barker (who was Agnes Macfar-
lane, of Adelaide, before her marriage to the
doctor) had a painful 1.0 minutes as they
motored to a Trooping of the Colors in Lon-
don recently. Their motor drove into the
Mall without any trouble or hold-up through
the traffic, and, suddenly, to their amaze-
ment, they discovered themselves immedi-
ately behind a car filled with flunkeys and
waving plumes. Then they realised ‘it was
Queen Alexandra’s car, and, looking behind,
they saw Lascelles and his Mary. The‘Aus-
tralians could neither get out nor get under,
so they wrnnt on wedged in the Royal proces-
sion, and swished in with it to ‘the court-
yard where the ceremony took place.
London is full of rich Australians. Molly
Lazarus (Mrs. Harry Levy’s elder girl)
has a house in Hans-crescent. Her
small son has been christened David
Harry Maitland, embodying the names of
her father and Mrs. Sep Levy’s boy. who
was killed in the world-war. Well-known
Sydneyites, who are constantly seen about
tbis part of the town—that is to sav, in the
triangle, Hyde Road Corner-Brompton-road-
Sloane-square—are the Worralls, Rabetts
Bowkers, Mrs. Neville Dangar (she has been
staying with her sister, Mrs. Travers), the
Jim I airfaxes and the Reggie Allens.
Quite a lot of them, by the way, were
presented” at the last Court. Among the
crowd were Mrs. Colin Duncan, Ruth
Vv orrall and Barbara Bowker.
The Soldiers’ Pottery, in aid of which half
Sydney is slipping into masquerade on the
-Ist, is set in the heart of Redfern, and con-
sists of two or three long, bleak rooms and
the sheds where the pottery is baked and
dried. In a struggling neighborhood it has
the appearance of facing as hard a struggle
as its fellows, and in the icy weather of last
week the large room, where the 20 “double-
amputatiou” men design and mould their
jugs and bowls and pots, was without any
form of heating. Still, there was not one of
the 20 who did not wear a grin, and every
one of them was completely absorbed in his
job. The pottery, which started" a year ago
in the Red Cross kitchen, in Margaret-street,
is still in the midst of the troubles of infancy
—debt is already choking its progress, and
for this reason its output must be limited.
A rtist Roy de Meslfre
is a sort of super-
dosigner at the fac-
tory, and his method
is to lead geutly but
firmly each of the
workmen to think
out his own designs.
The men, iucluding
b u s i n e s s-manager
Morgan, come daily
to the factory froiii
Randwiek in their
motor-cycle side-cars,
then, pathetically, the
big fellows have to
wait to be lifted into
their wheel chairs,
and after that the
clay’s work at bench
and hand-wheel com-
mences—foot - wheels
there can be none, for the feet of these pot-
ters are enriching Gallipoli or some Flan-
ders field. Jeannie Ranken (whose photo-
graph is alongside) tells about the venture
and its high hopes for giving the men work
that will keep their hands busy and their
minds at rest for all their days. She tells
of the gallant group of V.A.’s who come out
to the factory every day to cook a hot
dinner for the men ; and most earnestly she
speaks of the Show to be held next month,
when it is up to Sydney to buy up the out-
put of the factory—a factory where always
the hand-wheel whirs, until into the lis-
tener’s mind the Omaric line concerning the
hand of the potter slipping beats insistently,
and across his brain flashes a vision of that
wheel of life on which human clay has been
moulded, only to be broken again.
The ball for the Mater Misericordise Hos-
pital crowded out the ballroom of the Went-
worth, and. the overflow betook itself to
the jungle-like depths of the palm court or
any nook where it was possible to keep one-
self unspotted by the world. The day’s
emblem —wattle—glowed on every table, and
the great Australian slogan “Wattle you
have?” resounded on every side. Into the
seething revels the Mayoral McElbones
waded for. an hour or two, she in a scin-
tillating silver confection. Mrs. P. Leahy,
who has. carried this annual dance to a suc-
cessful issue for about a quarter of a cen-
tury, took her honors meekly, though in
handsome frocking, resplendent with jet, to
which a grateful committee added a bouquet
of red, red roses. The hospital’s Carver-
in-Chief, Dr. Kelly, had a night out with
Mrs. Dan, slim in ivory brocade and ermine
wraps; and Mrs. Lynch and Mrs. Murray
Curtis, the secretaries, entertained parties.
The only sombre note about Miss O’Keefe’s
dashing rig-out was its sable hue. Striking
dressers were Mrs. T. J. Dalton and Miss
Ahern, in a pompadour effect of grey and
lilac.
A Brisbane postscript:—
.Speaking at the annual meeting of the Lady
Lamington Hospital, Governor Nathan said he felt
handicapped because there was no her Ex. to help him
out in matters connected with women’s hospitals.
The mothers of quite a number of bouncing lasses
are asking, “Who’s fault’s that?” The other speaker,
Arrhbishon Sharp, is also on the bachelor list.
Scott Ross, who cares for the souls of visiting
youths in the merchant and other shipping services,
and is a shining light of Harbor Guilds, is honey-
mooning in Sydney and Melbourne, having just taken
to himself a bride—Grace, daughter of the late John
Cameron.
The R. Q. Yacht Club jazzed on the 2nd, and later
on entertained the visiting Excellencies. The same
evening the ’Varsity Ball whirled amid good Aus-
tralian decorations of blue-gum.
The Theatre Royal, which, long since, was the old
Gaiety and Brisbane’s leading theatre, recently took
on a coat of paint and plenty of plaster and arose
from its long slumber to open with “The White
Squadron” for Show week. A local doctor and several
leading residents have floated the co., which intends
to supply drama and melo. for the mob. Les Williams
is the scene-painter, and Chas. Wood producer.


The Individual Pencil
TpVERSHARP fs a distinctly indi-
vidua! pencil with accomplish-
ments peculiar to itself. It does well,
all that an ordinary pencil does and
besides —
Is always sharp without the,
nuisance of your sharpening it.
Its patented rifled tip holds the
lead firmly always so it can’t
loosen or wobble when writing
It is a thing of beauty and gives
an air of distinction to its user
Its eraser is concealed and pro-
tected by the top of the pencil.
It holds enough leads ior writ-
ing almost indefinitely.
Eversharp is made in several patterns
—with pocket clip or chain ring, and
in various metals.
For Sate at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York U. S. A.
Be sure it's an
EVERSHARP
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia ■
STOTT & HOARE, Ltd..
Remington House, Liverpool St.. Sydney
fg
T'
{/£
SL
'V
ER
m
9
sdf
CONSISTENCY OF
cluauty”
R. A. SHOW—I 922.
AWARDED
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for HOCK
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CHABLIS
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CLARET
14 FIRSTS, 2 SECONDS,
4 THIRDS
Against All Australian Competition.
United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
‘Royal Cord ‘ ’Nobby’ ‘Chain'
• Cisco'
THE WORLD’S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
A USEFUL GIFT.
Drummonds’ Plate is the finest Silver Plate offered to the public,
and with prices base’d on to-day’s reduced cost of production offer
a value not to be obtained elsewhere.
OTm. ®rummont> & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
High-grade Solid Oak Cabinet, con-
taining One dozen Fruit Knives and
Forks of the latest design. These are
of the Finest English manufacture,
with a heavy deposit of silver, and for
appearance, durability and wearing
qualities quite equal to sterling silver.
12 Knives and Forks, in case, as illus
trated £lO
Without case £B/10/-
Or 6 Knives and Forks, with-
out case £4/10/-


r-
c* c
i
1
ronas
f
m
Cuticura Toilet Trio
Satisfies every want of the
most critical in cleansing,
purifying and beautifying
the skin and complexion.
Nothing purer, sweeter or
more effective for every-day
toilet purposes.
Soapls.,Ointment Is. and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Bdfr Cuticura Soep shaves without mug.
LEARN TO DRAW!
You can
learn ,
all the prin-
ciples o£
black-and-
white draw-
ing and brush-
work very
simply and
rapidly, without
any drudgery, if
you take up the
WESTON
POSTAL COURSE.
Mr. Harry J. Wea-
t o n, Australia’s
foremost commer-
cial artist and
poster designer,
gives each pupil’s
work PERSONAL
CRITICISM, and
the student is car-
ried on by easy
stages from the
rudiments of art to
its higher branches.
Send for the
Booklet,
“There’s Money in
the Pen,’’ which
tells all about the
course and gives
examples o f
the lessons.
Just send your
name and ad-
\
3
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
dress and three stamps for postage to
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawinrf,
154 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
EVERYBODY DOTES
UnclaToby’s
VOATS^/
A delightful breakfast food
Monarch
L ‘ '
■
“Everything Ends in Smoke”
Let the “Smoke” be
a Good One!
Monarch Cigars , have a full
Havana filler of * selected leaf
of high quality, ! chosen with
the greatest care and entirely
hand made.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d. each.
Special sampling cabinet con-
taining 10 cigars. 6/-; 25,
12 /«; 50, 23/9; 100,
46/-
Post paiii to any address in
the Commonwealth.
Craig 8 Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Distributors for Club Reil
Cigar Factory.
The Cig'ar
for Quality
j 1
THE
WINTON.
THE WINTON
SADDLE
THE FINEST STOCK SADDLE
WE HAVE TET INTRODUCED.
Its great feature is its comfort-
able seat and narrow grip,
obtained by sewing the flap
direct on to the seat and doing
away with the usual skirt. The
pads are set well up along the
thighs, giving perfect security
to the rider for rough riding.
The tree is ottr high-grade
“Fouright,” with steel stirrup-
bars, and the fittings are folded
girth, bevelled leathers and solid
nickel stirrups.
£l6
Freight Free for Cash with
Order to any N S.W. Railway
Station.
Write for our Fine Catalogue.
POLO PLAYERS, WRITE FOR
POLO GOODS LIST.
Walt her & Stevenson Ltd.
Saddlers, 395 George Street, Sydney.
,I,l'
sLall!
*SS
u
V
is
**■ I
“HOT WATER
QUICK AS
A WINK.**
No More Bother with Hot Water
when you install MALLEY’S NEW COMPLETE HOT-
WATER SYSTEM. This service is not only practical, hut
also safe, and, what is more, economical. Hot water sup-
plied simultaneously by an automatic method to your bath-
room, kitchen, laundry, bedrooms and other parts of the
home. Absolutely no bother. Demonstrations daily in our
showrooms.
Write for illustrated booklet describing this efficient service
jQ*
86Liverpool S thmer/ant sn,
a few steps from George St ®
For Every Pipe-Smoker
Quality Pipes—made from Century-old Briar.
MARCEE-DE-LUXE is the pipe illustrated on the left —; ade from
Genuine French Briar root, over a century old. Subject'd to special
hardening and seasoning processes—it is a pipe that smokes cool and sweet
at all times.
15/-
MARCEE—the pipe shown on the right of illustration —is !one of the
famous GBD family—made from genuine French Briar —beautifully marked
and fitted with silver mount and superior vulcanite mouthpiece.
10/-
Obtainable all Tobacconists and Stores.
If you cannot obtain these pipes locally, send remittance to Box 502 G.P.0.,
Sydney, and your order will receive prompt attention.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except 0/ a hostile character) will b*
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Melior: You say at great and angry
length what Father Clarke lias put in a
few sentences.... A.D.M.: Will be reviewed in
due course... .M.F.: “Song of Pegeen Mike”
is too careless of the laws of scansion.
....Merlin: You say nothing new about psycho-
analysis except that too much lias been said about ii.
. ...J.D. (Mosman): Strange form of insanity....
W'.D.11.: Poor work... John Gilpin: Don’t know what
it’s all about.... Cupel B.: Doesn’t move us. .. .Jack
A. W.: No use... .P.8.P.: Commonplace poorly
handled... .Y.G.G.: None of them nearly up... .
The Expert: Goes with a wobble and bump....
iI.W.G.: No use. .. .8.8. (North Sydney) : Very bad.
... .Harold T.: Must go back... .May Bee: Can't
find any mirth there.... J.C.A.: Noisy commonplace.
. ...W.E. (Ararat): Same, old thing said in the same
old way....l‘.M. (Kogarah): Note that you have
110 typewriter; but some of your other needs are
more pressing... .S.M.C.: Both good in spots; but
they fall down too often... .Will C.: Too crude....
Koinitadji: Not bad verse, but not good enough for
the subject at this time of day... .L.J.F.: It bears
no decent resemblance to verse.... Becky: You pick
up all the well-used phrases and tangle them into
loose verse that gives no clear picture... .E.P.Iv.R.:
Let the “Wentworth Falls” splash into full immor-
tality :
Could immortal hand or eye their wondrous beaut}
justice do?
What great painter of the past could hand their
wonder down to us?
Or paint unerring of the mystic, shroud-like blue
Which arises and enshrouds most lordly peaks in
splendid lust
Of color, dancing in the “sun’s rays” in irradiance
wonderful,
Or of the peaks, that in full majest stand out
about you,
Bearing their mightiness in contrast to our presence
pitiful.
Great sentinels, to past and present age, remain-
ing true,
Or what Gregorian music ever shades the mighty,
reverberating sound
Of piece dislodged from overhanging crag, rush-
ing with force
None could forestay, smashing upon the intercepting
peak in loud
And mighty rumbling, waking the slumbering
silendes to remorse
That a thousand ages had accomplished, only just in
conquering
This once giant in its height like eagle nesting
Bounded and scared with centuries of tempest
breasting
Torn and shattered to a thousand pieces, time is
conquering
Even here; in conquering, is great time, where
solidity, is majest supreme
Wherein the bold face rocks give back a sheen
Of brasslike glow, from where the, sun in setting
deigns to stay
To frustrate which the fleecy clouds are bent on play,
in gray
Shadows, sportive on the trees beneath whose leaves
in splendid sheen
In contrast with the paths, whose way through
foliage oft would screen
From brazened gazers far above their way
To where a greater beauty’s hidden among these
purple hills:
A beauty, wonderfully secreted, that only they that
seek may find
And finding, regretful that they incapable to bind.
....Maud H.: Rather cheaply sensational... .Blue
finch: Not enough in it to make a yarn... .G.K.S.:
It takes a long time to say very little... .H.J.P.:
Too lose and rambling... .Numa: Wants better tell-
ing... .G.E.M,: Only worth a very short par....
C. : Verse of that kind .should be written in
English. .. .C.M. (Undercliffe) : The “Cats” matter
is not brightly handled; and the verses, in their
rendering, are very poor Traquair: A rambling
yarn without point V.R.S.: The general massacre
at the end is its one bright spot.... Fred T.: You
manage to make it read like the supreme literary
effort of a man who had not yet discovered the
existence of literature G.R. (North Sydney) An
old idea heavily handled Wharehunga: Begins
well, finishes badly George McE.: Your psycho-
logy is better than your versifying:—
When first we are launchecLon life’s stormy ocean to
row,
When age has crumbled our anchorage and left us a-
float
It’s there we soliloquise as to the best channels tor
boat,
Right there from the start, we are playing our part
As life’s stormy ocean it’s .only a stage, we all
actors and alike are engaged.
•:.v.
Some float to wealth and fame.
While others to; debauchery and shame.
It’s not that they’re bad, it’s but awry channels they
had.
But should investigation lead to about ship, and the
desires be for straight channels to grip.
With minds active and alert from lessons they have
learned, :
They invariably obliterate shame, replace it with
fame, those are the parts of there stageings.
Some there boats they’ll heave to.
Intent on there aged and crumbled anchorage to
renew,
There ancestral channels of the past, have lent
there assurance from first to the last
Those are the parts of there stageings
While others they’ll drift from channel to channel be
it slow or swift.
Predictions are cast as they drift past, but it’s not
till the last
Do we know the parts they’ll be stageing.
F.G.B.: Nothing there for u 5.... Chuck: Every
line jainbed and squeezed to get the rhyme—and then
the rhyme isifusually false Toby C.: Poor stuff.
. ...A.K.T.: A sonnet must be a lot better than
that... .R.F-.5.: Doesn’t get near G.A.L.: Goes
heavily. . . .Winifred AV.: There’s a hint of something
in it... . R.C. (Carnarvon) : Only worth a small par.
.. . .H.C.8.: Nothing there... .A.T.8.: Doesn’t get
to anything worth while... .AV.H.R.: Poor little
incident in poor verse... .J.J.H.: You don’t under-
stand rhyme.... H.AV.B. s No interest.... R.A.V.:
Straining after the sublime, you almost achieved
humor.... L.L.: Not up R.E. (Tamworth) : Misses
by a good distance.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.J.AV.: Too microscopic.... 1.C.U.: Pointless....
Melrose: Even when a gentleman in a belltopper
shears a sheep he doesn’t shear it that way....
Mureh: Both miss,.. .S.S.: AA 7 hy send them here?. ...
D. AA’ili use one as a suggestion... .A.S.P. : Some
promise, but not up yet... .T.K.: Not worth it....
P.8.P.: Why trade on other men’s ideas?....
AV.B.E.: Very weak drawing E.M.: AA’ili use one;
but broaden out your pen-work... .A.L.: All out...
L.G.A. : A long way below the-mark A.C.:
Ancient gag woodenly illustrated.... A’.T.: A’ery
faulty draughtsmanship 11.5.: An amazing night-
mare .... F.V.M.N.: The worst woman’s face to date.
. ...C.C.: Drawing weak, and drop those scratchy
pen-lines.


Shinning.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates' - and
First-. Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-0 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, AUGUST 17.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Wanking, Public Companies. * c .
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. .. .. 360,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; lion. G. IV.
Gray; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E, PitESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE,
■ tranches —London, .Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Lp and Reserves .. .. £1,523,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922 ../£ 13,269*793
Directors: Sir Mark , Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarvvood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman; George
F. Todman ; Duncan Carson ; H. A. Russell ;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager:' E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 147 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Cine/ Inspector for Queensland: 3. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADEL,AIDE (35 Bundle Street),
Manager; R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director; A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office s 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£625.000
650,000
£1,275,000
. 625,000
£1,900.000
Head Or pice: ADELAIDE, SOUTH- AUSTRALIA,
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
Afnerica and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
arid proceeds • remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,551,188
Yieldin'* Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about • • • ■ • • £2,629,000
Accumulated Funds • • • > £47,000,000
Annual Income .. •• •• •• £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Ausfralasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND REST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BE I WEEN. AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
i, >'*■?*..
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, 24tli AUGUST, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 21st SEPTEMBER.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MAUN GAN UI, 7th SEPTEMBER.
TAHITI, 12th OCTOBER.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
gs
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3i TO 4k WEEKS.
Affording' a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP LINE to
JAVA and SINGAPORE.
Passages booked through to
INDIA, BURMA, CHINA, JAPAN, etc.
TOUR & TRAVEL ADVICE
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT will
arrange your passage to ENGLAND, AMERICA,
AFRICA and to all parts of the world.
SPECIAL ROUND EASTERN TOURS AND
ROUND WORLD TOURS.
All information apply to
BURNS, PHIDP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
N.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
rui<l-iip Capital
Iteserve I'lincl
Hpnerve Liability
CO
iZH
£5,000.000
3 ,(500 ,000
5,000.000
£13,600,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Frane 15. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon, Reginald J. Blaca, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
360 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the w’orkl.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Capital paid up .. £3,000,000
Reserve Fund .. £2,460,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,460,000
Established 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Ilonl H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. J. W; Macarthur Onslow,
M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited. - ,
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.*
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOlt MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for'S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
bcrg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
‘Brisbane, Maekay (passengers only), Townsville
and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma (passengers only), Maekay,
Bowen and Townsville.
Huddart Parker LIM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMEItS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to bo obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS' TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Ilobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, arid from Sydney only 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 4j69 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or lSuiiis, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST ANI) MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and oilier circumstances permitting.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at 7 p.m.;
passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. BURRINGBAR SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloou on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDA Y ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address
“IROQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Etd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
lilackliealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S; N; Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.


SYDNEY
GRRPHIKET
SYDNEY
CIIMRET
: t
I
Anti-Friction METAL
We make the largest range of Anti-friction Metal in
Australia. THE BEST BEARING METAL ON THE
MARKET IS
GRAPHINE No. 1
(TIN BASE).
Designed for the heaviest loads and high-speed work.
Six qualities of Graphine are made, either nickel or
copper hardened, to cover practically every requirement.
PLASTIC METAL.
A plastic self-tinning alloy which is now displacing
standard imported brands. Supplied in lib. sticks and
71b. ingots.
AUSTRAL NAVY BRONZE.
A high-grade white metal for Tail-shaft Bearings, Bilge
Pipes, etc. The very best results are obtained by the
adoption of these high-class bearing metals. Stocked by
merchants all o ,r er Australia.
Send for descriptive booklet and full particulars to
Austral Bronze Go. Ltd.,
MANUFACTURERS,
O'Riordan Street, Alexandria, Sydney.
SELLING AGENTS:
NOYES BROS.,
(Sydney), Ltd., Sydney, Brisbane and New-
castle; (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne,
Adelaide and Hobart.
Perth: Geo. Kent, Ltd.
Wellington, N.Z.: Jones & Co., Ltd.
dfg
British Made,
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers —
from 7/6 to 35/-
s£
fontoau
LEVER w* C/ FILLER
PEN
yssssssysss/fi
sss*s*ss/y
A
m
WMMm.
Vsfr//sssss///h
fMH
&
a
s)
t,-r v
m
W'Zm
m
r Shaves with incomparable ease and
smoothness, not a mower, but—
A RAZOR THAT REALLY
SHAVES!
PRICE, 12/6 EACH.
Ivory Grain White Handle, 15/-; Real Ivory Handle,
21/.; Presentation Case, to hold two razors, free with
pair of razors.
Seven-day Plum Razor Sets, 85/-, 100/-, 140/-
Blades, §in. or Sin., set ready for use and guaranteed and
kept in order for two years free.
Plun Razor Strops, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6 each, post free
anywhere.
Country visitors: Call on us for your hairdressing
needs. We provide the finest and most efficient
service in the best-equipped Hairdressing Saloon in
Sydney.
mm
654 GtoßCfe si srmm
5", User says
Comet
Tirst
Rest
-0
A Glowing Tribute
to COMET MILLS
by a man who
knows all makes
“Stamford Downs,” Stamford.
“The 24ft. Mill supplied by you
some time back has proved most
satisfactory. As it waters 14,000
sheep, and lifts the water 150 ft.,
it speaks volumes for the capacity
of the “Comet” Mill; the only
expense was oil. If I were asked
which was the best mill on the
market, ‘Comet’ first, the rest
nowhere.”
(Sgd.) JOHN O’BRIEN.
38
y ears when we stsrtcd manufacturing
windmills, we aimed to produce a mill
equipped for maximum pumping service and lack-
ing all weaknesses found in other mills. Reams
of testimonials we have received, prove how we
have succeeded. Mr. O’Brien is but one of
hundreds of equally enthusiastic ‘Comet users.
What can we do for you? If you have an
irrigation or stock-watering problem, the Comet
will solve it with more water, minus the usual
windmill troubles and expense.
Here are but a few of the features back of our
three years’ guarantee, and responsible for the
superior performance of “Comet” Mills in trans-
forming wind power to water supply.
STRUCTURAL STRENGTH— only best quality
materials in a “Comet.” LARGE BEARINGS
running in continuous oil bath, Poetically elimin-
ating friction and wear. LARGE DIAMETER
SHAFT—ROLLER GUIDES— SET OF SAILS
—perfected after trying every conceivable type
and angle of sail, to give maximum pumpmg
power in the lighter winds. SPECIAL SPRING
GOVERNOR—to prevent racing and damage in
high winds. SUPER-SENSITIVE BALL-BEAR-
ING TURN-TABLE, etc. Let us give you all the
facts. Write to-day for catalogue and particulars.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & Co. Ltd.
WORKS— Constitution Ro3d, Dulwich Hill, SYDNEY.
CITY OFFICE—22Sa George Street, SYDNEY.
ALSO AT ROCKHAMPTON. BRISBANE. AND TOWNSVILLE
OKI
.• mviwniivt
S.W. 314
*
THE
UNITER insurance
UHI I Ell COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes oi
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The "United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudou
should read the British Australasian,
Ud. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn. London. W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
“Better than Tatts.”
(and all others)
LAST WEEKS
of the
KATOOMBA
THOUSAND
ART UNION (No. 2)
Prizes valued
£4OOO for 1/-
In aid of
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial
Hospital, Katoomba Soldiers' Memorial
and Showground Improvement Fund
CBy Special Permission of the Hon the
Attorney-General of N.S.W.
" The truest way to mourn the dead is to
care for those they leave behind.”
FIRST PRIZE OPEN ORDER £lOOO
SECOND PRIZE OPEN ORDER £5OO
THIRD PRIZE OPEN ORDER £250
238 other Open Orders, total
value £4OOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 1922
Winning Numbers published all States-
September 16th, 1922.
1/-Only TICKETS 1/-Only
By Post, 1 /2. Three or more, Post Free.
In this Art Union. 5 Tickets for your 5/1
Each with a chance of winning the whole
of the Open Orders valued at ,£4OOO.
NOT Gambling, but a Co-operative ef ort
Ticke s can be obtained from ary Hairdresser
and Tobacconist in ew outh Wales, and all
branches of the N .W. Bookstall Co. Ltd., or
direct from—
EDGAR BOOTH. Hon. Sec .
Cadzow. Warrega-street. Katoomba.


Miss Maude Fane praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Mies MAUDE FAME
(freon a photo).
I feel it my duty to write and
tell you how good I have found
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. To
sav the least I am enthusiastic
about it, for it has cured me in
the most marvellous fashion of
one of the most troublesome colds
I ever had.
Its lightning effects on a cold
are little short of marvellous
for I felt better after the first
dose, and in less than three days’
time was absolutely right again.
Since then I have used it every
time I have felt the slightest in-
dication of a huskiness in my
throat, or cold coming on, and I
can truthfully say that it has
been effective immediately.
I think New Discovery by far
the best thing I have ever come
across for a cold, and 1 most
heartily recommend it.
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) MAUDE FANE.
Stops Coughs —
Banishes Colds
, Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is known far and wide
as an unequalled cough remedy. It’s the finest remedy
you ever used—bar none. When you use it you can be
mighty sure that coughs and colds will soon vanish. No
wonder, though, for Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery has
been compiled on scientific lines, and is designed to
relieve the cold without upsetting the digestive organs.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the quickest, safest
and best-known remedy for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
and all throat and chest troubles. It is the remedy that
can be relied upon.
Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery.
TRADE (ItelW HARK
ASnszke
DISCOVERY
7^
(OUGHS
AND
Colds
i3i-«35 CLARENCE STREtf
Nightpiece.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE wind is whispering to the night,
The moon is silvering the sea,
And you, my dearest, rose and
white,
Come back to me.
Again I kiss your eyes. Again—
Delicious quenching of my drouth,
Surcease of hate and fear and pain.
I kiss your mouth.
No shame is left, no cloud I see.
For life is very fair and good—
As in the past you offer me
Your womanhood.
Your eyes interminable are deep
As sorrow, clear as God’s high pride.
I want no other heaven who keep
You by my side.
I feel you tremble to my kiss ;
I hear your voice, as when of old
It flooded with all ecstasies
Our Age of Gold.
And then —Lord Christ have pity o’ me !
Inert I lie as mouldered stone
In some forgotten sanctuary
I am alone!
Gone is the dream. The night is chill,
The sea is frosted by the m00n....
A boon, O God! For good or ill,
Let Death come soon !
N.S.W.
FRANK MORION.
The Good Losers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[The sitting-room of a small private suite in a
big Sydney city hotel' towards sundown of an
autumn da/. The room is expensively furnished,
but the personal touch is entirely wanting. In
the vight wall i 9 the window, and near it Marie
Paget is seated in a lounge-chair. She wears a dark
skirt and an apricot-colored sports coat. Her com-
plexion is too delicate to pass her as a first-class life
in any insurance office, and her physique, though
naturally slight, has a soft roundness tliat does not
suggest ascetic habits. Her hair is red gold and her
evej large and luminous. Her mouth is small, with
thin but definitely-marked red ilips. Her white,
slender hands are clenched and rest on the arms of
her chair. The right grips a handkerchief damp
with perspiration. She sits tensely upright, a half
smile frozen on her face. But she is brave —very
brave for a young woman who has just been con-
demned to death. Opposite to her is an elderly
phvsician who specialises in pulmonary complaints,
lie' is tall and bald, with a healthy outdoor color
that suggests golf. Wears a rough tweed suit and
heavy brown boots. Sits in an elbow-chair to the
left,'his feet crossed and his interlocked fingers rest-
iug on his knees. He beams over his gold-rimmed
pince-nez, pleased that Marie Paget’s case has turned
out just as he expected it would.]
Marie (in a strained voice) : So, Doctor —
you think —you are quite sure—now?
Doc. (briskly, but With suave professional-
ism) : Yes. I may say I am. Quite sure.
The last three months’ observation gave
splendid results.
Marie ( tonelessly) : Splendid results.'
Doc.: Yes, better even than I had expected.
You see I am quite frank with you. (Marie
smiles wanly.) Every precaution must
be taken.
Marie : What for? To. prolong my misery?
Doc.: Tut-tut, you are not going to die.
Marie: Surely you do not promise me im-
mortality. .
Doc: Eh —no, oh no, not at all; but with
proper care you may live a long time.
Marie: Don’t make it too long, please, Doc-
tor.
Doc: It is the purpose of my profession to
prolong life.
Marie (with quick petulance) : Don’t be too
dam’ serious. In my case is it worth
while? See. I will be quite frank with
you. That six months —up there —was
simply hell.
Doc.: Oh, nonsense.
Marie : Yes, just hell. I stuck it out because
you said it was my one chance. And I’d
do it again—if it gave me another chance —
if it gave me half a chance; but you know
it won’t. So why bother?
Doc.: You surprise me. You really surprise
me. One of the most perfectly-appointed
establishments in Australia. Elevated
situation, ideal climate, quietude.
Marie : Yes, that was just it. You’ve got
to be up there like I was to get the
quietude. Oh, the terrible stillness of it
all. Sometimes my very heart stopped
beating. You don’t know how it feels to
be cooped up in a bare white cubicle in
those circling hills.
Doc.: Pooh. You were not cooped up. You
could walk all over the place.
Marie: Oh, yes: once round the lawn to-day
and take your temperature. Twice round
to-morrow, and, if you were up a point,
sit on the verandah for the rest of the
Doc: There were plenty of other guests
there.
Marie : Yes —like myself ; waiting for the
jury to give their % T erdict. And some of
us knew’ they would bring us in guilty, in
spite of all the bluff we were putting up.
Doc.: Tut-tut; a home of hygiene. All the
advantages of science and Nature.
Beautiful views, charming weather
Marie: Oh, yes; an almost^ continuous suc-
cession of sunlit days. Why, it was quite
a relief when a thunderstorm came up
and blotted out the world for me.
Doc.: Now, now you’re getting morbid. You
will undo all the benefit of your rest.
Marie: Rest? You don’t know how diffi-
cult it is foi*—for one of my—my tempera-
ment. Oh, blessed word that means so much
or so little! You know how difficult it is
for us to rest.
Doc.: Really you know —-you —you
Marie: For six months I lay out there and
prayed for health. Now that is finished.
Give me three months —three weeks of my
old life again—and I will pray for death.
Doc.: There would be no need to pray, death
would come of itself.
Marie (speaking nonchalantly and rising
and crossing to peek in the sideboard-
mirror behind the doctor's chair , so that
her acute anguish on hearing his next
words is unobserved by him) : And good
luck to it! Is it a bargain?
I)oc.: No, that would never do. Not only
would it be fatal to you, but you would
seriously endanger the lives of those who
came in contact with you.
Marie: My God! Has it come to that?
Doc.: A natural stage of the complaint, and
one in which we cannot be too careful.
That is why I urge you to go—where
—where 3 r ou will have every comfort, be
splendidly looked after, and do no harm to
yourself or anybody else. Come now, try
it for six months. Try it for a year.
Marie : A year ! Will it last as long as that?
Doc.: Now, now, I shall be quite angry with
you in a minute. You know you have
benefited considerably from this last seclu-
sion.
(Marie has got control of herself again.
She is callously flippant. A silver cigarette-
box is on the sideboard. She opens it, selects
a cigarette, and crosses and scats herself on
the arm, of her chair.)
Marie : I thought I did. Latterly I hardly
ever coughed, and 1 slept well. I even put
on weight; but that is rather a bad sign,
isn’t it, Doctor? (Lights her cigarette.)
Doc.: Ah—you mustn’t cross-examine me.
(She blows a contemptuous thread of
smoke at him.) What did 1 tell you about
cigarettes?
Maiue : What you told me, I did; for six
months. I’m appealing for a new award
now. (Whiff.) “She whose kisses are
death,” ha, ha! Well; nobody has died
of my kisses up to now, nor shall if I can
help it. I’ll go.
Doc.: Thank you. Now, you won’t be
bothered a bit; 1 have lixed everything.
Marie : The devil you have! Suppose I had
said I wouldn’t go.
Doc.: Oh—but .you see I had every confidence
in your good sense, Miss Paget.
Marie : That is a very nice way of putting
it, Doctor. Well, I’m ready to go now.
Doc.: That’s nice of you. What about to-
morrow —or the day after?
Marie : No good to me. I’m going now; in
an hour, or I’m not going at all.
Doc.: I was only studying your conveni-
ence.
Marie : That’s my favorite study. Selfish-
ness is my abiding sin. Ring them up;
tell them I’ll be along as fast as a car can
bring me.
Doc. (rising) : Really, you know
Marie: Yes, that’s just it ; I do know.
Doc.: Impulsive as ever; but you must let
me select the conveyance.
Marie : So long as it is here quickly, you can
take me away in a hearse if you like. I
know you will bring me back in cne.
Doc.: You mustn’t talk like that; it isn’t fair
to me or to yourself. One can never tell.
Trained intellects all over the world are
studying problems such as yours continu-
ously. We learn a little every day. The
grand solution may be found at any
moment.
Marie : That’s all right, Doctor; thanks for
the tip, but I’ve given up betting. It did
give me a bit of a jolt, though, after think-
ing 1 was getting round the corner.
Dec.: Now, now, don’t get disheartened.
Marie : Oh, I’m not. I’m quite brave about
it. You’d be surprised if you knew how
brave I’m going to be presently. (Throws
away the cigarette.)
Doc.: Good, the will to win is half the
battle.
Marie : I’m depending on you, you know;
that —that car will be here in an hour.
Doc.: In less than an hour.
Marie : That’s very kind of you. I forgive
you—everything else. I know you did your
very best,' and I’m very grateful to you.
Doc.: I am still doing my best for you.
Marie : And so am I.
(They rise and bow toith mock ceremony.
The doctor collects his hat and gloves.)
Doc.: That’s right, Miss Paget; face it.
you know, face it. I think I’d better send
a nurse with .vou. Yes. And I’ll come
and see you myself; soon.
Marie : Thank you so much. I can't say
how grateful I am to you. _ Good-night,
Doctor. “In some kindlier clime, bid me
good morning.”
Doc.: Eh? Oh, yes, poetry, of course. Cer-
ta'nly, certainly. Good afternoon.
(She accompanies him to the door, smiles
him good-bye. As she shuts it she leans
wearily with her back to it and her chin
drops on her breast. With a hunted look
she comes down to the mirror again, but find-
ing little consolation there crosses quickly
to door in back, opens it a little, calls
“Abbie ,” comes to the tabic where the flow-
ers are, sits with one hip on it facing the
audience so that Abbie has only a three-
quarter back view as she talks over her
shoulder to her. Enter Abbie, her maid.
Abpie : Yes, Miss Paget.
Marie : Pack my little travelling-bag again,
Abbie, please.
Abbie: The little travelling-bag?
Marie: The little travelling-bag. I’ve got
to go away again.
Abbie : What? Not
Marie (jumping nervously off the table,
showing her teeth and striking her left
nalm with her clenched fist she comes down
stage) : Oh, for the love of God, don’t
talk to me. (Pulls off her sports coat
and throws it on the floor.) Bring my
fur coat and a warmer thing than this.
Pack my dressing-case—l’ll take only one
bag with me; the others cam be sent after.
Hurry up, hurry up ! I’ve got to be out of
here in an hour.
(Exit Abbie. Marie is looking at herself
in the sideboard-mirror. Feeling her cheeks,
stroking her neck, patting her hair.)
Marie : Bring me a towel, Abbie. (Bus.
continued.)
Abbie (off) : Yes’m.
(Enter Abbie with towel. Marie pours
water on one end from a decanter on the
sideboard and wipes her face clean. Abbie
looking on.)
Marie : How do I look with all the muck off
mv face? Pretty rotten?
Abbie : No, indeed ! Yon are looking very well.
Marie : Don’t you believe it; look how black
I am round the eyes.
(Abbie peers over Marie’s shoulder at the
reflection in the glass.)
Arbie : Oh. that might be anything.
Marie ( with her hands on h*>r bosom, turns
challengingly to Abbie) : But I’m not so
thin as I was. am I ?
Abbte : Indeed, you aren’t; you are getting
quite fat.
Marte: Yes. I believe I am. Don’t stand
gabbing there; get my things. I’m in a
devil of a hurry !
(Exit Abbie. and Marie picks up the sports
coat, shakes it out. and. folding it sympa-
thetically, lays it across the back of a chair.
(Continued on next pope.)
FAVORITES ALSO.
REPORTER: " Con you g ive us an example of hare Sydney audiences have shown their
pood taste?"
POPULAR-ACTRESS : “Well, they have always sent me HILITER'S CHOCOLATES, for
instance."


Why Can’t You, Too, Be Well and Strong?
A y
2S
U
Wfsj
XT-
S.N-s*
*5
Sr
'-Ci
iSSSS
M
\ '
JS very Picture,
tells a Story”
f 1 -aerv
Few of us realise how precious good health is until we
begin to lose it. To be well is to enjoy life and make
good times for those around us. To be constantly ailing
is to miss life’s pleasures and to look with envy upon our
robust friends and neighbors.
Are you one of the unfortunates?
Is your health slowly slipping away ? It’s time, then, you
looked to your kidneys!
Much sickness of to-day is traceable to kidney weakness.
Its increase is alarming. That’s because it’s usually
unseen or neglected.
But it s easy to tell if your kidneys are weak. You may
have only backache, dizzy spells, headaches, or annoying
bladder irregularities.
If you have these symptoms, suspect your kidneys! Remember that delay may result in serious
kidney sickness.
If you’ve reason to suspect your kidneys, read the story of these Sydney residents, who have won back
good health through Doan s Backache Kidney Pills, the world's best-recommended kidney remedy.
Doan s have helped thousands. They should help you! Ask your neighbor!
TWO SYDNEY RESIDENTS SPEAK.
Mr. Geo.
TWO YEARS CURED.
A. Skinner, 37 Goodhope Street, Paddington, says:—“As a
result ot a bad cold which settled on my kidneys, I suffered agony from
backache and was often so bad that I had to lie up, not being able to move
without enduring torture. The kidney secretions were very much disordered,
being thick and cloudy, and I could not even turn in bed without a stab-like
pain striking me across the loins. I took all kinds of kidney medicines,
but nothing gave me any permanent relief, and I was at a loss to know what
. tv r ? , Mend, hearing how I was suffering, suggested I should
,T._ 8 Backache • Kidney'-Pills. I bought some at once, and after
/ ' Ulg them for a few days I was delighted to find they were doing me good.
i n a we ? k . or s° T T f elt ever so much better, and by the time I had used
r V( ' °Lm} x hotues I was completely cured. That was two years ago, and
1 am still well, but I always keep Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills in the house
ami take them now and again, as a tonic for the kidneys.”
SEVEN YEARS CURED.
Mrs. H. Sturgeon, 70 Marlborough Street, Surry Hills, Sydney, says:—
It gives me great pleasure to say a few words in praise of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. For a good while I was a martyr to kidney trouble,
the symptoms being backache, urinary disorder and dizzy attacks. My
back ached fearfully and every movement was accompanied with a twinge
like the stab of a knife. The secretions were cloudy and scalded a good
deal in passing, this symptom clearly showing my kidneys were very much
out of order. I heard good reports of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so
decided to give them a trial. The first bottle gave me relief, and by the time
t had used three bottles I was cured, and I have been well ever since, a
period of over twelve months.”
• . years later Mrs. Sturgeon says“My cure still holds good, no
sign of kidney disorder having returned since I took Doan’s Backache
Kidney i ills seven years ago.”
sd
DAN'S
Backache
Kidney
fgs
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
Back at the mirror, with the towel, trying to
repair her damaged complexion. As Abbie re-
turns she hides the towel behind her as if
annoyed at being caught. Abbie has a motor-
ing toque in her hand and a long fur coat
and a dark sports coat over her arm. Marie
takes the toque, and, turning to the glass,
pulls it well down over her head. Abbie
■stands behind her three or four paces.)
Abbie: Aren't you going to put any powder
on at all?
Marie : Don't need any with this hat. It
hides' quite half my face.
Abbie : You’ve no need to do that.
Marie: Haven't I? Evidently you don’t
know all my dark past. ( Marie faces
Abbie, and both smile knowingly, but
Marie's brows contract for her next line.)
Nor my equally dark future. (As she is
being helped on with her coats.) Did you
ever have your fortune told, Abbie?
Abbie : Oh-h-li, lots of times ; just for fun.
you know.
Marie: Oh, yes, it’s great fun.
Abbie : But it’s nearly always the same ; a
journey, a fair woman your enemy and a
dark man your friend, then a wedding.
Some time ago I was always getting a
returned soldier, hut the last -twice I’ve
been promised a widower; but they all
had money. I never believe what these
women tell me. I'once had my fortune
told by a man.
Marie : So did I.
Abbie: I .think they tell von truer than
women.
Marie : Yes, I think they do.
Abbie: This man was a - Syrian, lie lived
at Zetland. I don’t know where he is
now, but I could find out.
Marie : Don’t bother, Abbie. I know ail
that I need !to know. (Buttoning her coat
up round her neck.) There, now, why
waste money, on cosmetiques; wear our
hundred-guinea sealskins. How’s that?
(Abbie cocks her head critically.) Now.
I’m ready. I don’t want to keep them
waiting. Where’s my swag? ( Abbie
gives her handbag.) Thanks, my hankie.
('Phone rings in back room.) ' Answer
that, Abbie. I expect it’s Mr. Jannaficld.
I asked him to call.
(Exit Abbie, and Marie stands open-eyed
listening. )
Abbie (off) : Hello! Yes; one moment,
please. (Re-enters.) Yes, it is Mr. .Tuiina-
field. He is speaking from the Lounge.
Marie : Tell him to come right up.
Abbie (sneaking off) : Yes, Mr. Jannafield.
Miss 1 aget is at home. Will you please
come right up? Room thirty-eight, third
floor. Yes ; third floor. (Re-enter Abbie.)
He is coming up now. Miss Paget.
Marie: Good. Oh. Abbie!
Abbie: Yes.
Marie (slowly but with nervous distinct-
ness) : There’s a car coming for me pre-
sently. Let me know when it comes.
And, Abbie, if —if anybody comes with
it keep them in the room there until Mr.
Jannafield is gone.
Abbie: All right. Miss Paget.
Marie: And. Abbie. Get the rest of my
gear together, like a good girl. You will
stop on here till you hear from me. Tn
a couple of days at the most. I’ll have
everything straight by then.
Abbie: Yes; very good!
Marie: Do I look pretty horrible?
Abbie : Indeed, you don’t.
Marie: It’s a wonder I don’t. ( Knock at
side door.) Go on. (Ewit Abbie.) Come
in. (Crosses chair by window.)
(Enter Jannafield. Thirty, tall and well
dressed. Throws liis hat on a chair, ad-
vancing eagerly. Although 'expecting Marie
is rather surprised at her costume.)
Jan.: Marie! You are just back?
Marie (stepping behind chair) ; Ob, no, I
came back two days ago.
Jan.: And you never told me! (He is com-
ing towards her.)
Marie ; No, no. Sit over there.
Jan! : But I haven’t kissed you yet.
Marie ; Please do just, as 1 ask you.
Jan. : Well, don’t ask me to do such silly
things as sit over there when I haven’t
seen you for six months —six months and
two days, to be exact.
Marie: Bo a good boy now, or 1 shall have
Abbie in to chaperon me. Do, please, sit
down.
(dan. flops into the doctor's chair and
Marie situ in hers.)
Jan.: (Hi, all right. But what’s it all
about?
Marie (smiles through half-closed lids at
him, and leans back) : Billy. I’m going to
talk seriously to you. And, what's more,
1 want you to listen.
Jan.: All right, but let me kiss you first.
Marie : No —after I have talked to you,
you may—if you want to.
Jan. : But I want to now.
Marie : Do sit down, Billy. Billy, you re-
member when I went away?
Jan.: Don’t I just! And do you remember
what you said then? That when you came
back we should go away together; you and
I only, in the whole wide world—wasn’t
that what you said?
Marie : Something like that. But, Billy—
forget it.
Jan.: Forget it —what for? You made me
promise not to ask where you were going,
nor where you had been, arid all that sort
of tosli. Didn’t you?
Marie : Yes, I believe I did.
Jan.: And 1 didn’t, did I?
Marie: Didn’t you?
Jan. : You know I didn’t. But I could
have, easily.
Marie: Could you?
Jan. : You know jolly well I could have.
But I didn’t try. You asked me to leave
you alone for six months and I did.
(Leans back in offended petulance.)
Marie : Weren’t you very curious to know
why I——
.Tan. : Y"-es, and no. You seemed set on it
and I let you have your own way.
Marie : And you don’t know why i did all
this?
Jan.: Oh, some mad idea that ours was
only a momentary passion that couldn’t
last; but it lias lasted. I’m as keen on
you as ever I was. Keener, by Jove. Six
months, you said. It’s been like six
years. Suppose you had died, I’d never
have known anything about it?
Marie : Oh, yes, you would, Billy. I’d fixed
that.
Jan.: I’ve kept my part of the bargain;
now you keep yours. You are only play-
ing with me. You are ready to come with
me. (Rites and fakes a step towards her.)
You darling !
Marie (her Hands at her face, warding him
off and crouching back in the cnair) :
Stop. Not yet, Billy. I told you—l was
going away by myself.
Jan.: 1 e-yes. , , , -
Marie (averts her face and speaks slowly) :
t, l v ' V 'i L hCd v° y /v U ‘i. T a m r
Jan.: Did you/ Well, I don t suppose I
always told you the naked truth; so that's
all right,
Marie: Do you think that makes us quits?
Billy, you’re the cheerful idiot and no mis-
take.
Jan.: Very likely. I’m a confirmed optimist,
anyhow. Everything always happens for
the best.
Marie: Does it? Now, we’ll just see. Do
sit down again. I’m not half finished. You
know what—what faithless creatures we
n? m ov, are? T , , , .. . , ,
Jan.: uli yes. Ive heard all about that.
Marie: Well, then. You won’t be surprised
when 1 tell you that I have got a new
lover.
Jan.: Got what?
Marie: Got a new lover.
Jan.: Jnow you are lying to me again.
Marie: Billy, you are a dear. But it is
quite true. Somebody has taken a fancy
to me-—a terrible fancy. Oh, you needn’t
look fierce; he could frighten even you.
Jan. : Never mind about me. What about you?
Marie: Me! Oh, I am in terror of my life
with lum. (Sarcastic smile.) You know
how that sort of thing appeals to a frivol-
w° m ? n
Jan.. Marie.
Marie : Its quite true; it does. I was never
so faithful to anyone as I was to you, but
to my new lover I shall be faithful unto
death.
Jan.: lon ve been to too. many mucky
picture-shows. This is mere melodrama.
Marie : No, Billy—tragedy ; tragi-comedy if
you like; but nothing below that.
Jan. (rising and walking about): I don’t
believe you—you are just trying me.
Marie : It has been all very trying to me.
Jan. : Suppose, I say, suppose I pretend to
believe you, what do you want me to do?
Marie: There is only one thing to be done.
What mercy is ever shown to the faithless
woman ?
Jan.: Dear! If you have tired of me,
just say so straight out. It can’t be
helped.
Marie: Let it go at that Billy: It just can’t
be helped. .
Jan. : You couldn’t help it?
Marie: That’s quite true, I couldn’t help it.
My God. I couldn’t. (Billy turns to her
in pity. She shrinks from him and almost
screams.) Don’t touch me. Keep away,
He is with me always; he is waiting for
me now.
(Billy stops short.)
Marie: That’s right; quite right. I wanted
you to see what a thoroughly bad one I
am, so that you will forget me utterly, or
at least,, only remember me as the woman
you knew a year ago. We were very
liappy then, Billy. Too happy: I knew
it wouldn’t last. And then this shadow
fell upon me. I fought against it; God
knows how I fought. I thought it would
pass—that—that you and I could be just
everything- to each other again.
Jan. : But surely
AtAKiE: Ah, don’t talk! Go away, Bilh-
torget me. (Mixing briskly and straight',
ening her puck ana speaking in matter-of-
)<ict tones.) And-now, that’s that, so let
us get back to earth. It's really nothin-
very wonderful, a light o’ love with a n<nv
lover.
Jan.: You mustn't say that—that sort of
thing.
Marie : Poof, it happens every day!
•Jan.: You are just trying to make me dh
like you.
Marie: Would it be so very difficult, Billy V
Jan.: 1 can never forget — what you were—
what we were to each other, once.
Marie : That’s good, Billy; I’m glad you
said that. I’d love you to remember me as
1 was when we first met. -Remember me
right up to when I went away; and forget
that I ever came back.
(Billy is getting ready to go. His manner
is coldly formal but not unkind.)
Jan. : Marie.
Marie : Yes, Billy.
Jan.: Of course, I know I can’t do anything
just now, but if
Marie: Yes, Billy, I know.
Jan. : It is something that I don’t quite
understand.
Marie : You’ll understand some day.
Jan. : I hope so.
Marie : Oh, I’m sure you will, and when
you understand you will forgive.
Jan. : There is nothing to forgive.
Marie : But something to understand, which
is the same thing.
Jan. ( a shrug and a smile) : Very well, let
it go at that.
Marie < half disappointed at the success of
her stratagem ) : You’re taking it very
well, Billy.
Jan.: Why shouldn’t I? A good winner can
also be a good loser.
Marie : A good loser! By Heavens, Billy,
that’s fine, ripping! ( Turns quickly lo
sideboard and from its cupboard takes a
bottle and two glasses.) I got this to
celebrate something that didn’t come off.
('Phone rings in newt room. Her eyes
open wide with horror, but she speaks
loudly to drown Abbie’s Voice.) We
may as well use it to drink good-bye and
God bless you, eh, Billy? I don’t suppose
you do, but I need something to buck mo
up. Open it, Billy. Don’t look so solemn;
it isn’t a funeral. Many a bottle we’ve
drunk together when we were good
winners. Let’s drink this one ’cause we’re
e-p-d losers.
(She has poured the wine and Billy lifts
Ms with a grim smile. The glasses clink
as Abbie comes in at the door.)
Marie (calif) : All right, Abbie; tell ’em to
wait. (Exit Abbie.)
(Billy dashes his glass to the floor and
bangs out at the door. Marie laughs and
would drink when the centre door opens and
a nurse in white uniform appears. Marie
shrieks and hides her face in the crook of her
arm and the glass falls untasted to the ground.
.4s the lights fade out Marie moves slowly to
the visitor. The face of the nurse suggests
the face of a skull.)
D. H. SOUTER.


*
m
-
mm
' i
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE VItESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Feathereton Street, Wellington.
Vlotorlan Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
MOTOR CARS
The scores of records —in economy,
speed, endurance and climbing —
established by LIGHT-SIXES in
all parts of the world, are your
assurance of the satisfactory serv-
ice it can render every owner.
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Th is is a Studebaker Year
V.
LIGHT-SIX 5-Seatcr
Cord Tyres
iterating 8 Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING- —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the "'layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
Requisites
Stocked.
1
r ILDRIDGE
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N-Z.
i n jj.h
Remington.
“Wetproof” Shotgun Cartridges
“Always dry on the inside whatever outside conditions may be”
IN unfailing priming, even loads and close patterns
Remington UMC shotgun cartridges have been
tried and found not wanting in those qualities which
make up a really excellent cartridge.
The sportsman benefits still further in the latest exclu-
sive patented process of the Remington Company called
“Wetproof,” by which the contents of the cartridge are
effectually sealed against the deteriorating effects of
wet weather or excessive dryness.
“Wetproof” shotgun cartridges are sup-
plied in four trade marked brands: ARROW, NITRO
CLUB, REMINGTON and NEW CLUB.
They offer splendid values to the sportsman who insists
on having the best so that he can do his best.
M REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT. Australian Representative P. O. Box 686, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
m
m
V)l
m
m
V**//sJnt'fs**&Z
t§
5N
'///
5$
{**>
1
/).■ -•)
ssgz'
g
■M
ss
%
■
1
&
m
if M
S
I
YftV:
MS
&59
■7Z
il
i
I
*
9
1
k>
g?
1
M
M
M
» v
g«
I
I
W
i/4
i
m
i
m
m
m
&
{tlU'^i
: a
II
I
*SS
feTAw/fi
H'///
ll»»
Here
. t
s f
It’s a better cutter, far less liable to
break, because it is cut with the
grain from rolled sheets of
Highest-Grade Crucible
Tungsten Cast
Steel. It’s Bal-
four’s Tungsten
dfg
-be sure of that
-the finest blade that
money can buy.
Balfour’s
Hacksaw Blades
are made in our own British works and supplied in a
“tooth fineness” for every class of hand- and power-work.
Test a Balfour. Send your order, stating number of
teeth required per inch. Ask for “Balfour’s tlinhs on
Steel,” post free.
THE EAGLE AND GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Associated Company ARTHUR BALFOUR & CO., LTI).,
Sheffield,
MAKERS OF ULTRA-CAPITAL HIGH-SPEED STEEL,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanston Street, Mel-
bourne; Cliff Street, Fremantle.; 46 Boulder Road, Kal-
goorlie; Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street, Newcastle; H. E.
Milligan, 32a Arg.vle Street, Hobart: John Reid & Nephews,
34-36 Charlotte Street, Brisbane: Charles Atkins & Co.. Ltd.,
88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
lopping and hoping if yo\i
to succeed
sd
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&C°m.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office;: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
HORUCKS
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
v Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
- In 3 sizes of all Chemists
and Stores.
U
&
kt
H
*» t
X.K *
nz
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK(?
SLOUGH. BUCKS
ENG.
tiN»
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Riant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.


CRICKET.
SEASON 1922-23.
<6
(
/
/
V
'in
»y
m
o
v
c>
lil
A
'(Xt
a
A
m
Buy all your requirements from Australia’s Greatest and Most Experienced Firm or Sports Outfitters.
M.S. Sport Equipment is “Made for Better Service” and is the first choice of discriminating purchasers.
MEN’S CRICKET BATS
1. M.S, All Cane, special practice 18/6
2. 11. S. Colonial Driver 22/6
3. M.S. Marvel Driver 30/-
4. Hay market Driver, single
rubber 32/6
5. Haymarket Driver, double
rubber 40/-
0. Haymarket Driver, treble
rubber 42/0
7. City ami Suburban Sports
Co.’s extra special 35/-
S. City ami Suburban Sports
Co.’s extra special, selected 40/-
S>. City and Suburban Sports
Co.’s extra special, spec. sel. 45/-
10. Spalding's “London Club - ’ .. 40/-
11. Spalding’s “Grand Frix” .. . 47/6
12. Spalding’s "Ueoord"’ 50/-
13. Ayre’s International 45/-
14. Ayre’S International," improved 50/-
15. Ayre’s International, Imp. Sel. 57/6
10. Ayre’s Macartney Autograph 50/-
17. Shaw & Shrewsbury Practice 80/-
IS. Shaw & Shrewsbury Club. . 34/-
19. Shaw & Shrewsbury Empire 35/-
20. Sliaw & Shrewsbury A 1 Pat. 45/-
20A. Wisden’s Crawford.. 42/-, 47/6
22. Nicoll’s Automatic Selected. . 35/-
23. Nicoll’s Automatic Spec. Sel. 45/-
24. Bussey’s Demon Driver, No. 4 42/-
25. Bussey’s 1 lemon Driver, No. 2 47/6
26. Bussey’s Demon Driver. No. 1 55/-
27. Summers Brown, Force X 35/-
28. Summers Brown, Force XX 42/6
29. Summers Brown, „ XXX 52/6
30. Summers Brown, XXXX 55/-
31. Summers Brown, Dread-
nought X 40/-
32. Summers Brown Dread-
nough XX 50/-
33. Sykes’ “Al” P iictice .. . . . 27/0
34. Sykes’ York Driver 40/-
35. Sykes’ York Driver, Selected 42/G-
-36. Stuart Surridge, Oval Driver 22/0
37. Stuart Surridge, Daisy Cutter 27/0
38. Stuart Surridge, Standard
Driver 30/-
30. Stuart Surridge, Lightning
Driver 35/-
40. Stuart Surridge, Rapid Driver 40/-
41. Stuart Surridge, Rapid Driver,
. Special Selected 45/-
42. Stuart Surridge, Rapid Driver,
- extra special, selected 50/-
43. Stuart Surridge, Invincible
Driver .. 45/-
44. Gunn & Moore’s Cannon ... 37/6
45. Gunn & Moore's Autograph. 45/-
46. Guiin & Moore’s Autograph,
extra, special 50/-
47. Gunn & Moore’s Autograph
Star 57/6
48. Gunn & Moore’s Interstate,
special 42/-
40. Gunn Moore's Interstate,
extra special 50/-
50. A. Dye’s Champion, selected 35/-
51. A. Dye’s Champion, spec. sel. 42/-
52. Windett’s John Bull, selected 35/-
53. Windett's John Bull, spec. sel. 37/6
54. Windett’s John Bull, extra
special selected 45/-
BAT REPAIRS
A SPECIALTY.
New Blades fitted—
-19/6, 22/-, 25/6, 29/6, 34/6
New Handles fitted —
15/-, .17/-, 20/-
CRICKET
(All match weight, viz., sj'oz.)
1. M.S. Match, leather . . - 12/0
2. M.S. Match, leather 18/0
3. M.S. Special Match, gut
sewn .16/6
4. Duke’s Match, leather .... 17/6
5. Duke’s P.K.D., leather.... 18/6
6. Wisflen’s Match, leather... 15/6
7. Wisden’s Crown Match,
leather 18/6
S. Treble Seam Practice,
leather 5/-
9. Special Crown, six seam,
leather 10/6
10. Swale’s Match, leather.... 16/6
11. Star Match, patent compo... 1/-
12. Haymarket Match, patent
compo 2/6
13. Diamond-Match? patent compo. 3/-
14. M.S. Black Compo., patent. 3/6
15. Crown Royal Match, patent
compo 4/6
16. Eclipse Compo 3/3
17. Eclipse Victory C0mp0.... 4/-
We Repair Leather Balls.
Balls recovered, 8/- each.
“Perla” Cricket Mats
( Finest Imported. Color, Green. Two-piece, 6ft. wide.
1. Double Wicket Mat, full size, metal eyelets and spikes, complete—
Web Bound £lO Leather Bound .... £lO/10/-
'(Freight paid to nearest railway station or port in N.S.W.; nearest port, other States.’
MEN’S LEG GUARDS
Pair.
1. White Twill, strong make. . 9/6
2. Tan, continuous straps, 12/6, 14/6
3. White Chrome, con. straps 15/-
4. Tail, continuous straps, vent.. 14/6
5. Gold Cape, new pattern, sup. 15/6
6. White Chrome, new pattern,
superior 17/6
Pair.
7. Half Skeleton. <;olf! cape. .• • 17/6
8. Half Skeleton, white chrome fO/fi 1
9. Skeleton, best quality gold
cape
10. Skeleton, white chrome... . 2.»/-
11. Gold Cape, for wicketkeepers 22/6
12. White Chrome, for wicket-
keepers •••• 25/-
MEN’
. - y Pair.
1. Tan, ventilated, very strong. 10/0
2. Gold Cape, padded and venti-
lated J'l/0
3. Gold Cape, ventilated, rub-
ber palm /15/0
4. Gold Cape, rubber palm, back
strap .18/0
5. All England, padded finger
tips, rubber palm, back strap 21 /-
Pair..
G. M.S? Tattle Giant, tan, padded
finger-tips, padded rubber
palms, back strap 24/-
7. M.S. Giant, tab, extra large.
padded linger-tips, leather
thumb-epps, padded rubber ■
palms, finest glove made. .. . §0 -
8. M.S. Giant, as above, but with n
finger and thumb cups •• • • 32/6
9. inner' Gloves, buff padded.. 4/6
MEN S BATTING GLOVES
Pair.
1. Buff Chamois, tubular rub-
ber protection, superior, pair 12/0
2. Patent Surrey Shield, reel
rubber . . pair 6/S)
Men’s stumps
(Postage on set, 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
Set of 6
1. Strong and Plain, 30in.. . . 5/6
2. Steel Shod 9/6
3. Brass Top, steel shod. 12/6
4. Pol. Ash, brass top, steel shod 15/-
5. Pol. Ash, solid brass top,
steel shod 16/6
6. Pol. Ash, Revolving Brass
Top, steel shod . 18/6
Fair.
- 3. Patent Surrey Shield, -right
hand only each 4 -
4. Gold Cape, white points.
well padded pair 12/6
W icketkeepers’ Protectors
Each.
1. Dr. Shepherd pattern, ribbed,
soft leather and tubular
rubber ~ 6
2. The “Dr. Shepherd” ribbed
twill and tubular rubber. . . S / 6
3. The Grasshopper, metal,
white kid covered 9/6
4. The Grasshopper, solid blocked
hide 10 6
5. Dr. Shepherd and (trass-.
hopper, combination, very
effective ................ IS./ 6
SUNDRIES
Club Kit Bags, extra strong, 28/6, 357-
White Canvas Boots, pair,
15/11, 16/11, 18/6, 19/6
Greenhide Bat Sleeves, each,
1/-, 1/3,- 1/9
Bat Handle Rubbers, ea., 1/-, 1/6, 1/9
Bat Binding Twine ... 1/6
Cricket Nets, Backstop,. 4Sft. 'x
6ft 45/-
Cricket Nets, .Double Wings—
42ft. x Oft.. 85/-; 42ft. x 7ft., 95
42ft. x Bft., 110/-
Scoring Books, with rules and sum-
mary—
Pocket Size, 1/0; Full Size, 3/0. 4 6
COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST OF ALL
CRICKET REQUISITES FREE ON REQUEST.
JfickSirmhons fr?
“Suppliers of Everything for Every Sport,”
Headquarters : 720 Hay mar Ret, Sydney
Branches: City 8 Suburbs; Hunter Street, Newcastle; Edward Street, Brisbane.
