

1
'
A
: I'/. * •' .
1
mm
■
sdf
sdf
For Shearing, Crutching and Jetting Sheep;
For Cutting Chaff, Crushing Grain and Grading Wheat;
For Sawing Wood, Pumping Water and Attaching to
Windmills;
m For Spraying Orchards and Vineyards.
Why Not Follow Suit?
THE COOPER “LITTLE WONDER” ENGINE was
designed and constructed especially for Farm and Station
use, and it has been built into a number of machines
which are household words throughout Australia.
THE COOPER “LITTLE WONDER” PORTABLE
SHEARING AND CRUTCHING PLANTS need no
comment. They are known in every wool district
throughout the Commonwealth.
THE COOPER “LITTLE WONDER” SHEEP-
JETTING AND ORCHARD SPRAY PLANTS are the
most popular on the market.
THE COOPER “LITTLE WONDER” PUMPING
OUTFITS have been attached to hundreds of windmills
for pumping water when there is no wind.
THE COOPER “LITTLE WONDER” SAWING SETS
have solved the firewood question for numberless home-
steads throughout Australia.
THE COOPER “LITTLE WONDER” ENGINE is built
on the famous four-cycle principle. Has economical
hit-and-miss Governor, efficient float-feed Carburetter
and High-tension Bosch Magneto. Ample water cooling-
tank cools the engine on the thermo-syphon system. The
lubrication is automatic. Fuel tank holds 4 quarts of petrol,
and will operate the engine for eight hours on a full load.
WHAT THE “LITTLE WONDER” ENGINE HAS DONE FOR OTHERS IT WILL DO FOR YOU.
Illustrated pamphlet and full particulars of the Cooper “Little Wonder” engine, or any of the above combinations, will be sent on request.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 Sussex Street, Sydney. 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Messrs. Clark & Fauset, Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland; Australasian Implement & H. F. Co., Adelaide; G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co.,
Perth; N.Z. Loan and M. A. Co., Ltd., Hughenden, Townsville and Rockhampton, Queensland.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2193.
Thursday, February 23, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Have you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
wm
Main Drive in a 20-sack Flour-milling Plant.
A 16-inch Mangrovite Raw-Hide Belt, working as
the main drive from a 100-h.p. electric motor, has
run constantly 141 hours jier week since supplied in
January, 1919. It has always given splendid ser-.
vice, and has only been taken up once.
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
is the result of over 40 years’ experience in the
intricacies of belting manufacture. Order at once,
and get belting satisfaction.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.;
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Direotor,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY. '
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Littlef
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide. !
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
TASMANIA : Henry Clark & Co. Pt,y„ Ltd., Hobart.
l/*
mu
®
Si
cmrswfp
7"\
“So glad you've bought the
Decca
The 11 Dccca.’ ’ means Music not just
pianoforte pieces, not just songs, but brass
bands, symphony orchestras, and a wealth
of humorous entertainment. Though so
light and so compact that it can be carried
as easily as a handbag, the 'Decca’ is as rich
in tone and as clear in reproduction as the
largest and most expensive phonographs.
DECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
3 Models—Leather Cloth £lO/10/-
Fibre £l2/10/-
Cowhide .... £l6
Obtainable all over Australia
from all Music Dealers.
Wholesale Distributors :
Stanley E. Green, Ltd., 379, Kent Street, Sydney.
sdf
“Metropolitan Razor’-
manufactured throughout
b y C H RISTO PH E R
JOHNSON & CO.j at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ingr use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
t
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to thefr
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
All the great good in milk,
Nature’s all-important food, becomes
available when it is prepared with Benger’s.
The way to prepare Benger’s Food for Infants of all ages
is clearly instructed upon every tin of Benger’s Food, and
special formulas, commencing With babies of from one to
.three months old, which have been approved by eminent
medical authorities, are included also within the tin.
sdf
Food
is • natural Food, always prepared with fresh new milk, or milk
•nd water, according to the age of the child.
Bengrer’s Food is more than an addition to milk. It is specially
prepared to perform the important duty of modifying: cow’s milk
to the delicate digestion of a child.
Benger’s 64 page illustrated book, most helpful to mothers, post free, from i
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers BENGER S FOOD LTD, MANCHESTER, England.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
sdf
HON POISOSOU3 POWDER.
the great insect mmuC
sdf
fjfl
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are <sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney. fi
The Red Page
The Orientalism of Joseph Conrad
In a critical essay on Joseph Conrad,
Arnold Bennett refers to tliat writer’s fre-
quent use of un-Englisli idiomatic expressions.
But there is something else just as marked
from which one can infer that Conrad is not
English. That is his pronounced Oriental-
ism. He is temperamentally Russian.
Russia is the homeland of Hamlet. Hamlet
is a stage in human intellectual develop-
ment —probably the highest stage; a sort
of midway .mountain between Eastern
fatalism and Western practiealism. The
East accepts and resigns itself; the West
protests and acts. Intellectual Russia neither
accepts nor acts. It is a combination of
Eastern apathy and Western discontent. It
arouses the masses of its people and then
leaves them to go their own way. So, too,
Hamlet sees his task, wants to accomplish
it, and because of an inward inhibition leaves
it undone. Practically every Russian author
of standing has drawn Hamlet, whilst outside
of Russian literature there is only one Ham-
let, and that is Hamlet. Sliakspeare could
create him because his genius was neither of
the East nor of the West, but universal.
Joseph Conrad’s genius is not universal. He
has nothing to show in any way approaching
Shakspeare’s vast knowledge of people and
things. He is not a great humorist. Com-
pared with Shakspeare the world in which
his characters play out their parts is circum-
scribed. But because he is of the East his
characters have much of the Hamlet in them.
They have also much that is Christlihe —and
Christ was of the East. No other writer of
English fiction could have written “Under
Western'Eyes.”
Then, again, Conrad’s treatment of Fate
as something inexorable, remorseless, pur-
poseful, vastly grand and wise, and always
somewhat sad, is always of the East. There
is a brooding, dreaming mysticism in the
background of all his tales. His great soulp
have the magnificent simplicity of the Rus-
sian peasant. This magnificent simplicity it
is that carries them so far towards the ideal
world they see. It is the same thing that
makes them such easy victims. Axel Heyst
is taken by Fate, drawn out from his retire-
f ment, lifted by what is great in him to great
heights, and falls before the obvious schem-
ing of the revengeful German publican and
the greed of the gamblers who can only put
their own sordid motives to all that he
■does. And Captain Tom Liflgard, finding
his great life-purpose at last, is foiled of its
achievement, and that which means so much
to him, his “reputation for integrity,” is
threatened by the impetuous yet quite reason-
able action of the practical first mate of the
yacht. This very capable officer lives in
his own very compact and very eircurn-
scribed little world, and he cannot cornpre-
hend at all the significance of things in the
world beyond him in which Lingard dwells.
Conrad’s great souls, absorbed in splendid
sky-visions, fall over the always practical
and always more or less ugly earth struc-
tures at their feet. They, fall and pass, but
somehow we always feel that the sky-visions
remain. Is this not all very Eastern? The
centuries thunder past; nations rise and
fall; history is written. And the East still
stands in contemplation of its glorious
dreams.
In an essay on Joseph Conrad that ap-
peared on the Red Page (25/8/’2l) “C.
McL.” quoted from “The New Age Ency-
clopaedia” to the effect that in actuality
Conrad rivals Kipling. It seems to me
that in art there are two forms of actuality—
the internal and the external. The differ-
ence between the two is the difference be-
tween Conrad and Kipling—the differ-
ence between the East and the West. Re-
garding external actuality, to me the only
man in all literature who rivals Kipling is
Shakspeare. Regarding internal actuality,
to me the only man in English literature
who riva)s Conrad is again Shakspeare.
Where in all literature, with the exception
of Shakspeare, will you find a man who
shows the same vast knowledge of places
and people and things as Kipling shows?
Let the medical man, the scientist,
the chemist, the botanist, the zoologist, the
historian,the engineer, the sailor, the soldier,
; the politician, the traveller, read Kipling
closely, and each will tell you that the man’s
: knowledge of his (the reader’s) own special
subject is quite amazing. Everything within
vision seems to have been accurately ob-
served and copied down on the tablets of his
vast memory. Conrad is not a bit like this.
Hie is an internal actuality. He describes
just as accurately as Kipling, but he looks
within where Kipling looks without. Where
Kipling describes accurately actions and what
is to be seen by the eye, Conrad describes just
as accurately motives, ideas, mind-states. He
is always, introspective. Kipling is never
so. This is probably the result of their
respective ancestry. Kipling’s ancestors
came down to him through an intensely
active world of affairs. . There was no need
nor time for them to look within; they could
always express themselves in what they
could do, and what was required to be done.
Conrad’s ancestors lived in a world where
the expression of thoughts, in either word or
action, was well-nigh impossible. So they,
who could not express themselves without,
looked within.
Conrad’s works brood and dream like East-
ern mountains. Kipling’s move and act like
Western seas. Kipling’s characters are
drawn definite and clear in outline, and we
see them as we see real folk in the near
distance in the broad light of day. Conrad’s
people are drawn in lines blurred and shad-
owy, and even his minor characters are
suggestive of the forces that control them
through immense distances of time and
snace. We feel a scene as Conrad felt it.
We see the same scene as Kipling saw it.
Conrad suggests that all that is really im-
portant is behind the color and movement
that he shows us. Kipling holds us spell-
bound with the scurry and motion and sound
and light and color and glitter and glamor
and excitement of the scene itself. Shak-
speare alone is like the Ea-stern mountains
and the" Western seas. He is profoundly
introspective, accurately observant. Conrad
could draw Axel Heyst and Lord Jim and
the hero of “Under Western Eyes.” Kip-
ling could draw Kim and Mulvaney and the
Man who was King. But Shakspeare could
draw not only Hamlet and Macbeth and the
melancholy Jacques, but Falstaff and Hot-
spur and the ancient Pistol.
Whenever I think of the East, I think
also of an aquarium where ' fishes move
silently, leisurely, mysteriously to and fro
in their cases of glass. I watch these fishes,
study their habits, write and speak of them,
but what can I know of them? However
near I may be to them, they are always
beyond. And even when I forget that there
is anything between them and myself I have
only to advance a little and I know. There
is always that invisible wall. And when-
ever I read Joseph Conrad ever present
seems to be this mysterious evasiveness.
ALAN D.MICKLE.
History and Toxins
Our, knowledge of toxins is throwing new
light on history, and celebrities who have
been accused of loving overmuch are being
washed clean. Our own Queen Elizabeth, the
latest to be put under the lens of the path-
ologist, has come out of the ordeal well,
and in future no fresh scandal will be
breathed about her. According to Sir Arthur
Keith, the physiologist, she was anmmic
and full of toxins, the result of the now
fashionable f disease known as pyorrhoea.
This toxaemia, which was with her from her
youth upward, prevented her absolutely from
feeling Love’s tender passion. It must be
remembered, however, that a few years ago
her tonsils might have come under suspicion;
but with the lapse of time the pendulum
has swung over to molars and incisors as
the source of infections which render human
life miserable. A Sydney writer has studied,
from a pathological point of view, Ann
Boleyn, and has put her character under a
powerful oil-immersion lens, besides finding
something new to say about Jeanne d’Arc.
What the merely literary historian found
inexplicable the pathologist can read clearly.
For my own part, having another specialty,
I am interested in the various illnesses of
the imiportal Pepys, especially his blindness,
which caused him to abandon his diary. (A
well-known writer regards I’epys’ eye trouble
as one of the greatest of calamities, in the
literary history of the world.) When he
abandoned his close work he ,did not become
completely blind, as his physicians told him
he would,, and as he himself feared ; but by
giving up reading and writing, and probably
restricting his passion for French wines and
venison pasties, he got much better. He
was a terrible man for pies. As he suffered,
from stone, for which he was cut in the bar-
barous fashion of the day, and had hard
arteries and chronis nephritis, it is probable
that his blindness was due to chronic irido-
cyclitis, for he must have been saturated
with toxins, and toxins are believed to have
a good say in the production of that serious
affection. His pursuit of Bagwell’s wife
and a score of others and his siiasnrodic ill-
treatment of his own wife (on one occasion
he gave her a black ey# which kept her in
pain at home for a week) showed that his
mental condition was at times—well, pecu-
liar. He could, fly into rages over trifles,
and was always counting his balance at the
bank. Probably if he hadn’t been saturated
with toxins we would never have had either
these ebullitions or his immortal diary. And,
in the same way, R.L.S. might not have been
the marvellous prose writer he was had not
tuberculosis filled his poor brain with toxic
substances. The same reasoning may be
applied to Keats, and to Schubert, of the
divine Unfinished Symphony, and to a score
of othep sufferers from fhe ravages of
tubercle.
M. D.
Give Ua an Encyclopaedia
We have 20 anthologies of Australian
verse, and only seven poems; a half-dozen
anthologies of Australian prose, and only
one cyclopaedia of Australasia, unless you
include Henniker Heaton’s 43-year-olc
“Dictionary of Dates” to make a second.
I make bold to suggest to the industrious
gentlemen whose talent runs to the compil-
ing of anthologies, that they get, together
and collaborate in the building of a mighty
Commonwealth encyclopaedia. What more
congenial task for a discursive pen and a
predatory habit of mind? The field for
roving is unlimited, and one may pick and
steal from A to Z, from Abbot to Zigzag,
while conferring a boon and a blessing on
the whole community, the receiver beihg as
pleased as the thief.
I love a good encyclopaedia. It is an
excellent companion and a wonderful help-
mate; it saves me the gririi necessity of
being as learned as my neighbors, priming
me on facts which otherwise I should be
compelled to carry in my head, and , I have
the kind of head that resents overloading,
much as an intelligent mule will do, by
lying down under the burden and putting
up an indomitable jib. Once the I’limsoll
mark is passed or the regulation load sanc-
tioned by my Board of Trade is exceeded,
my mind “props” most resolutely, and no
amount of flogging will budge it an inch ;
consequently I am delighted to have others
do the delving and digging and supply the
bricks and mortar to my hand for wdiatever
literary job I may be engaged upon.
The English language provides several
quite formidable encyclopaedias of undoubted
thoroughness as to Old World details and
of undoubted literary excellence; but in
all of _ them the Australian matter is piti-
fully inadequate, or is woefully misrepre-
sented. The day is here for the construc-
tion of a comprehensive summary of Aus-
tralian knowledge.
I am certain that an adequate Australian
compendium would be gratefully received.
It not rarely happens that the constructive
mind is not the most receptive brain, where-
as the storehouse head is not much given
to creative effort. There are marked 'excep-
tions to this general truth, as for instance
Boswell’s godlike hero, but the generali-
sation is nevertheless true, and in a well-
ordered society, where the division of labor
(Continued on page 20.)


=
JL
VALUE AND VARIETY IN FIREARMS
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS’
a
lIS
Although Anthony Horderns’ offerings are always excellent, these
firearm values are worthy to be described as unusually attractive.
They have the quality that means service, together with reasonable
prices that mean a real economy.
You can write or ’phone for any goods from Anthony Horderns
with perfect confidence of satisfactory results, because the highest
standard of service obtains throughout the 60 departments.
m
£a
YTI42. —Winchester S.B. Rifle, 1904 Model, to take .22
Calibre Short, Long or Extra Long Cartridges, Round Bar-
rel, 21 inches long; weight about 41b., with Elevating
Sight 57/6
W e undertake
Repairs to any
make of Gun,
Rifle or Revolver.
New barrels and
other parts fitted
to Rifles; Sights
Fitted and Ad-
justed.
YTl43.—Winchester Repeating Rifle,
1906 Model, designed to take .22 Short,
Long or Long Rifle Cartridges, “lake
Down,” extra light weight, 20in. Round
Barrel Magazine, holds 15 short, 12
long or 11 long rifle cartridges; weight
about 51b. £6/6/-
YTI3O.—W. W. Greener’s D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, made on
W. W. Greener’s Facile Princeps system of breech mechanism.
Side Safe, 30in. Steel Barrels, both Choke, Engine-turned Rib,
with Greener’s Patent Treble Wedge Fast Cross Bolt, chambered
for 2£in. cases, proved for all Nitro Powders. Walnut-heart Stock,
neatly engraved, a good pigeon gun ; weight 7 to 8 lb £49
Ghas. Boswell’s 12g. D.8.8.L. Special Hammerless Pigeon Gun,
Anson & Deeley action Side Clips, 30in. Steel Barrels, both full
Choke Bored, chambered for 2f.in. Cartridges, high flat File-cut
Rib. Greener Cross Bolt, proved for Nitro Powders, Walnut
Stock
Write for Illus-
trated Shooters’
Guide, containing
a Price List of
Guns, Rifles, Am-
munition a n d
Shooters’ Sun-
dries. A copy
will be posted
free on request.
dsf
YTl7l.—The Savage Repeating Rifle,
Model 1914, Solid Breech Hammerless;
24in. octagon barrel. Bead front and
adjustable Wing Gauge Rear Sight.
Magazine holds twenty .22 Short, seven-
teen .22 Long, or fifteen .22 Long Rifle
Cartridges. Length when taken down
27£in £7/10/-
-
m
m
YT23I. —Colt’s Police Posi-
tive Double-action Revol-
ver,, .32 calibre, 4in. barrel,
6 shots. Full Blued finish.
Weight 20oz. Length over
all Biin £lO
8 calibre, sin. barrel .. £lO
m
YT232. —Colt’s Police Posi-
tive Target Model Double-
action Revolver, .22 calibre,
Gin. barrel, 6 shots. Pull
Blued finish. Weight 220 z.
Length over all Front
sight adjustable for elevation ;
rear sight with binding screw
adjustable for windage.
£lO/10/-
JTT3BS. —Brown Canvas Gun
Cases, Leather-bound ends. For
30in. barrels (as illustrated at left).
Plain Lock, Long Straps, with Heavy
Brass Corners 42/6
Lined with Cloth, Spring Lock, with
Heavy Brass Corners .... 507-
Spring Lock, Heavy Brass Corners,
Long Straps. For 32in. barrels.
52/6
YT2SO. —Colt’s Automatic Pistol,
Pocket Model, .25 calibre. Hammer-
less. Magazine holds 6 cartridges,
2in. barrel. Length over all, 4Jin.
Weight 13oz £6/6/-
GUN LICENSE.
Please remember, when ordering
Firearms, Gun License must
accompany order.
GUN CASES.
YT395. —Blocked Solid Leather,
Stiffened, Lined with Cloth, Spring
Lock (as illustrated at right) 70/-
Blocked Solid Leather, Stiffened,
Lined with Cloth, Spring Lock, 32in.
barrels 77/6
d
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


KODAK Snapshots
are your very own.
You can look at any photograph and say: “That’s
where I spent my holiday.’’ But you can look at a
Kodak picture and say: “That’s how I spent my holiday.”
Kodak Snapshots are personal to yourself. You take
them yourself. Looking at them years afterwards, they
recall all the little incidents that happened the very day
you made them.
If you want your next holiday, or week-end, or excursion
to last a lifetime, take a Kodak. Remember, “a holiday
without a Kodak is a holiday wasted.”
See these popular models
The No. 3 Box Brownie is a simple and
dependable model that is used bv thousands
of enthusiasts. It takes good pictures
3| x 4i inches. Price, 26/6.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior is an
instrument of high efficiency, fitted with
every appointment you need for good picture-
making. Takes good photographs 2 % x
inches. Price 87/-
A
WJ /A
* v W/ w
V- 2
jr^
L
h^;
ss*
<v
r 7:
<<£»
cm a'lwtefiri
£7 firi
(&r #/-'U.
f
■/-'
V «>
J
/ u
*%>
w
Tsif%«.
i m
W
VvV
b. .-*■
*S"
i
T/ie 2Veu> Complete Kodak Catalogue is sent
post free to any address (except N.Z.) for Gd.
'in stamps.
Of all Kodak Dealers, and
KODAK (AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Ollins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane;
The Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizab th Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba;
Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and photo Supplies Co., Perth; “The
Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Hydro Extractors and Improved
Drying Apparatus for every industry
m
THE need for thoroughly up-to-
date machines in Laundries,
Dry-cleaning Works, Manufac-
turing Chemical Works, Sugar Mills,
Textile Mills, Meat-preserving Works,
Wool-scouring Works, and many other
industries is felt more and more as
competition demands lower produc-
tion costs and more careful and
efficient handling of material.
To meet this demand we can supply
Improved Drying Apparatus embody-
ing the latest and most efficient
designs.
HYDRO EXTRACTORS,
DRYING TUMBLERS,
CABINET DRY ROOMS,
AND DRYING APPARATUS
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Let us quote for your requirements.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
P.L. 5


PINRETTIS
An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help
your digestion and take care of
the over-load by taking one
Pinkette, the little sugar coated
laxative pill, after a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are greatly superior to old-
fashioned medicines which
over-stimulate the liver and,
when their use is stopped, leave
it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the
stomach or cause griping.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
df
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
21/-
FOR A LIMITED PERIOD.
Full Directions with Every Machine.
Send a Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence street, Sydney.
Sole Australasian Agents.
ECZEMA
rapidly disappears under
the
LIGMOLLIENE
TREATMENT.
This wonderful discovery, which
contains special healing proper-
ties and is not an ordinary oint-
ment, also cures Barber’s Rash,
Scurvy and all Superficial and
Chronic Skin Truobles
Ligmolliene Soap should be used
jointly with Ligmolliene Cream.
At all Chemists.
SEND 1/6 FOR SAMPLE
Tin of Ligmolliene Cream to
W. H. MALYON & SON,
Ballarat, Victoria.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances elTected on ail Masses of
——————— Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks ° n , Woo 1 * Merchandise,
■■' Hulls of Vessels, freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Otrier Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
SPii ■ /-*?- ~js*s|rtHK
CHARMING
WALNUT HAIR
All admire that exquisite
shade of youthful Walnut
which is so simply and easily
obtained with
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Perfectly harmless to even the
most delicate skin. Assuredly
Permanent and Waterproof.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
[2
sdf
Tooth Paste
A Dental Luxury.^
As efficient as it is charming, Eudenta
is a veritable luxury at a cost wholly
out of proportion to its worth.
Eudenta cleanses every crevice of the
teeth, leaving the
mouth fresh and
sweet.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
df
o
o
o
the
Ask to see
the New
Streamline
Model.
The Aristocrat of Pens.
The Pen de luxe.
The Pen for the man
or woman of taste,
of refinement, of
discrimination.
SELF-FILLINC SAFETY
ONOTO INK—BEST FOR ALL PENS.
sdf
| THE FAMOUS 1
] COD LIVER; I
i OIL j
I EMULSION |
;;>p»
and Washing
i Disorders j
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
OUT-WEST
WATCHES.
Our celebrated super
“Fx and R” Watches
are the BEST for Out-
West districts.
They have brequet
overcoil balance
springs.
They have 15 jewels,
with jewel ruby rol-
lers.
They have compensated
and adjusted balances.
sdf
Gent.’s G.F. Oxi-
dised Steel “Super
Fx and R” fully-
jewelled lever,
84/-
They have screw cases or jointed cases.
The screw cases are practically dust- and water-
proof.
They are specially made to stand
HARD RIDING AND KNOCKING ABOUT.
They go with profound accuracy.
A wearer wrote us from Goodooga: “The watch
has kept excellent time, stood hard riding,
buckjcm linsr horses, and all sorts of weather.
I don’t think a better watch can be got.”
Fairfax § Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Cisrures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
TRADE
Q)
MARK.
CAPITAL
READY
TO GRIND I
The search for economy in the modern workshop is of neces-
sity keen. One big time-and-labor saver appreciated by careful
engineers is the ready hardened tool holder length, ¥ou can judge
for yourself the further advantage of buying the high quality guaran-
teed by the world-famous brand, “Ultra-Capital.”
“Ultra-Capital” High-Speed
Tool Holder Steel
is supplied in suitable lengths forged to extreme hardness. When ground
the most strenuous use makes but little impression on the cutting edge.
Each piece is guaranteed to uphold the reputation of. Ultra-Capital bteei
with long and satisfactory service. A trial order involves little outlay.
Why not put “Ultra-Capital” to the test?
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co. Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, Sydney; 343-8 Swan-
ston Street, Melbourne; Cliff Street, Fre-
mantle; 46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie. Paul
& Gray, Ltd., Scott Street, Newcastle; H.
h. Milligan, 33a Argyle Street, Hobart;
John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte
Street, Brisbane; Charles Atkins & Co.,
Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
fRADE
sdf
MAAft
CAPITAL
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Magic Thorn.
Last night there came a tune
On gentle breezes borne
That set me thinking, thinking
Of fairies ’neath the moon,
Their white hands interlinking,
As to-and-fro they danced
Around a magic thorn.
Because the tune was sweet,
Soft stealing down the night,
And stirless was the weather,
I crept on stealthy feet
Through dewy heath and heather
To watch them at their play,
And taste of their delight.
As to-and-fro they swayed,
All dressed in forest green,
As to a tripping measure
By unseen pipers played,
My soul drank deep of pleasure,
As men drink deep of wine,
To view so blithe a scene.
I thought myself alone,
Yet not alone was I,
For there stood money-makers,
Their worldliness put by,
And butcher-men and bakers,
And men who wear a mask
And live their lives unknown.
Adrift upon a tide
Of music and romance
They came, the world forgetting,
To watch the fairies dance,
While silver dews fell, wetting
The magic thorn that bloomed
Upon the white hillside.
With soul and heart new-born,
No gift of gold they gave.
But in the stirless weather,
Urey sire and merchant grave.
They blessed, as one, together
The dancing fairy-folk
Around the magic thorn.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Zinnias.
The zinnia bed on the terraced lawn
Is a rainbow strip in the early dawn,
As the blossoms turn to the morning glow
In the colors of seventy years ago.
When my grandmother opened the oaken
chest,
With its lavender bags and rose-leaves prest,
Quaint old gowns lay in their fragrant rows
In color that only the zinnia knows.
Some have the hue of the cellared wine
That we see through the cobwebbed bottles
shine,
Others are red as the sun’s last ray
Flung high in the murk of a winter day.
Here is the purple of priestly shade,
And the wonderful amber of old brocade,
The amethyst and the golden-brown
Of many an old-world wedding-gown.
The rose of the ribbons that Deborah wore,
In a bonnet of muslin in days of yore,
When she tripped to church in a gown of
green,
With mittens and curls and a crinoline.
There glows magenta of deepest shade—
The favorite of great-aunt Adelaide,
Who was famous through over a score of
towns
For her cowslip wine and her wondrous
gowns.
Upright and prim in a stately row,
Like the maidens of seventy years ago,
The zinnias gravely ponder you,
O Nineteen Hundred and Twenty-two!
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.
Arsinoe.
Sweet Arsinoe had a dreamer’s face.
From her stone tower her chaste eyes
haply spied
Sails of adventure over Nilus glide,
Stars dying in the dawn’s divine embrace.
Clamor of crowds was in the market-place.
A queen she went, the brown slaves at her
side.
Sweet Arsinoe one far morning died ;
But Nilus and her stars still keep Time’s
pace.
I came upon a river in the night,
All flecked with starlight shimmeringly fair.
Reeds nodded over it a funeral sigh.
Ah! tides are deep for dreamers seeking
light.
I saw sweet Arsinoe lying there
As old as Egypt, yet as young as I.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Champion.
Take up my quarrel now, I pray thee,
Death,
For Life and I too long have been at odds.
And I have prayed in vain to all the gods
For aid, making the evenings sweet with
breath
Of incense, weaving many a dewy morn
Fair garlands, shrine and altar to adorn.
Suppliant within thy spacious hall I cry.
Give me a champion: take thou up my
quest;
Ride to redress my wrong; do my behest.
Be thou my mailhd noble knight, and I
Will be thy lady. Without rest or ruth,
Recover me my beauty, joy and youth.
Challenge, and I will watch with eyes
a-shine,
Sure of the outcome. Then I’ll take thy
sword,
Unlace thy plumed helm and call thee lord,
Worship that strength invincible of thine,
And for this service I will come and dwell
Within thy castle walls and love thee well.
VICTORIA.
G. ETHEL MARTYR.


How much would it be worth to
you to have such a statement as
this on your desk every day, telling
you the whole story of your finan-
cial position at a glance? A Bur-
roughs Machine will give it to you
easily and economically.
This statement may not exactly
fit your type of work but there is a
Burroughs built for every business,
to give you the figures you want.
The Burroughs Machines are made
by a Company with a capital of
£6,000,000, with factories at Not-
tingham, England; Windsor, Can-
ada; and Detroit, U. S. A., and sales
and service offices in the principal
cities in the world.
c l*ri
Ctah
J*
/• o np , td
*•
* : &£i%z» t ;. : £'*-*«'
Jff,
i°UJ
°U
ajo
<SJ
r «tai. *tc.
Cr.
4ff,
3*
x V»/»»
<s*
r «taj.
7a,
/?• &7/V- o n 4eft
eeou^ ’fit* * Corner,
» no .„ °***
Sa
P*
«♦
.
• 1 O.lo*
23
*6
lQ
211
' /noaid cha f<r . *
” ai '» ft
(t 0 <*t e ;
,» o 2i^«n^n <f
*■ J-6
«Oz
<IZ
7 ai
J,? 3s
5 ill
Off
//’ *«"•> „ 2i^!*sdJn„
>/• SJj/i*** Znv 0J
• , '»W e^«bJe ic *« *c eJv
O') Vr <t
5«
5<
Km.
D f
?3 3 _
S?
iff
l< 4.9
*o.‘ Co »nt E „
§: •?>:&£
tou> ln V
*?/: —
«
?ff
T otaz
4.5.1,
Ul c^:
*64 o
• »a»
3ff
2Q^.6ff
“f**.
s< U e
ned
f»taj
x >
Z * Oc
J«. £*•>! Gal "
** C e»vJ2* #
1 * 0: 4
£osh ftn
m
8 0.1 «
I J. f 5
*• 6
I»jP
lV
5%
2r§SP"*
• Wlk. T\ Bw
Vs*
4t@ss
\2A
M 6
7,
S2SS
CErf*
mSSUf
<Pj
&
4306
Adding
BookkeepragjgJlSMculating
Machines
ASK FOR A
DEMONSTRATION.
Sole Importers:
IRA L. 8 A. C. BERK
Challis House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Hobart.
Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2193.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 1922.
Pkice 6d.
ANOTHER PRODIGAL’S RETURN.
“Lenin is now prepared to restore Capitalism, and is asking the nations to resume ordinary trade and other relations with Russia.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Alusgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
mGeorge Street, S.vdnpv. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 208 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
osie d to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA. Wrekl" :
12 months, £ 1 65.; 6 months, ISs.; 3 months, 6s. 6d.
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas 12 months, £l 10s.; 6
months, 155.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
ret used.
Ihe contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
jhe Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Pet tors or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. further, Thb Bulletin desires those
sending ' MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid fot as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received ore those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IF. Daivson and Sons,
Cannon House, Jlreams buildings, London E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, Ilolertli Satire Service, I t 6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Uolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Cayetoiun and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada.- — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
11.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. Neio York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle. Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore, —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street.
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.- — A. Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Itates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, koz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1922.
DOOLEYISM EXPOUNDED BY ITS
AUTHOR.
At Bathurst last week Premier Dooley,
of N. S. Wales, began the Labor offensive
against the mercenary army of Capitalism.
In many respects his situation resembled
that of Kerensky in 1917, when that ill-
fated man of words ordered his vaporing
legions to drive the Germans out of Galicia.
For a month or two past the hapless leader
of a disorderly host had been tormented by
the efforts of McGirk and his soviets to
destroy him. When that danger disappeared
for the time being there occurred a series
of frightful rows about selection ballots,
those in the Sydney electorate particularly.
And the furious passions excited by the
bribery, favoritism, forgery, impersonation
and sectarianism openly alleged to have
been introduced into the pre-selections
haven’t moderated to any extent. Even
while the flustered Dooley was giving the
signal for the hop-over, bodies of his sol-
diery _ were turning their weapons \i.e.,
their jaws) on one another. For instance:
This meeting emphatically protests against the
fraudulent and corrupt voting in the second Sydney
selection ballot, and demands that it be declared null
and void.— Resolution of the Surry Hills branch of the
A.L.P.
Like Mr. Buckley, I was beaten, not by a genuine
Labor vote, but by the wholesale recording of votes
by paid workers. In one room at the Trades Hall
40 men were supplied with false identification cards,
and given instructions to record two votes at each
booth. There were eight booths; so that the 40 paid
voters polled 640 votes. It was the most corrupt
vote ever taken in a Labor selection.— Statement of
one of the candidates for Sydney, recorded in the
Evening News.
Discredit, dissolution and decay will befall the
Government at the elections unless the A.L.P. execu-
tive nullifies the trickery and corruption of the selec-
tion ballots. Every one of them is rotten to the
core. In Eastern Suburbs between 300 and 400 votes
were faked. — Corish, general secretary of the Rail-
way Workers’ Union.
In such discouraging circumstances, with
his most conspicuous staff-officer mutinous
and large sections of his forces more anta-
gonistic to each other than to the enemy,
did the general of this extraordinary army
command it to advance and pulverise the
embattled forces of Flute.
There is much that is uninteresting in
the "policy” expounded by Dooley and little
that is new. In essentials it is the same
old programme of political bribery en
masse— tiie crude vote-buying of the selec-
tion ballot legalised and erected into a
system. Something is provided for every-
body—not excepting the criminals who pay
wages and build houses for investment, only
they are to get their something in the neck.
For the metropolitan unionist, who sup-
plies the bulk of the Labor vote, there is
to be a multitude of considerations, includ-
ing, of course, the endowment of mother-
hood, a basic wage of £4 ss. secured by Act
of Parliament and the 44-hour week. Those
who rent houses are to be further “pro-
tected” by a forest of new restrictions on
the diminishing landlord; those buying
houses are to be helped with free legal
advice and a reduced scale of charges for
conveyancing, and for those who want to
build £2,000,000 of Sayings Bank money is
to be set apart “next year.” Moreover,
“the workers are to be given an opportunity
of owning, managing and controlling the
industries representative of the trade or
calling to which they belong” (the good
Dooley is somewhat diffuse) by the estab-
lishment of an industrial bank, the funds for
which will presumably be supplied by a tax
on Crown lands. For the Government rail-
way employees there is to be a Commissioner
of their own, with reinstatement of all 1917
strikers (there are hundreds of them) desir-
ing that privilege; for public servants gener-
ally there is to be “representation of officers
on salaries committees,” and, no matter how
superfluous or incapable they are, there will
be “no retrenchment and no reduction in
salaries and wages.” Incidentally, by some
financial necromancy wholly unspecified, tre-
mendous savings are to be effected in all the
departments, and when the 1917 strikers are
restored to the railways, which are already
losing the best part of a million a year,
there will, it is promised, be cheaper freights
and fares. The unemployed, needless to say,
are promised “a vigorous public works
policy” comprising irrigation works, hydro-
electric schemes, country railways (those in
existence, it is. explained, are losing £875,00 '*
a year) and the North Shore bridge; and
since “every man should have the right to
live if work be not available for him,” it
is proposed to pay the unemployed or unem-
ployable out of a fund furnished by the
employer, the man in a job and the State.
And lavish is the price offered for the
farmer’s support. Information bureaux,
rural credit societies, State marketing of
produce, agricultural high schools, “scien-
tific* distribution of Sydney’s milk supply.”
bush nursing, decentralisation of hospitals
and reconstruction of main roads at the
public cost—all these boons are to be con-
ferred on Cocky if he votes the right way.
Reference is also made to “decentralising
lines linking up with harbors on the north
and south coasts,” but details are lacking.
There is no mention of the districts to be
decentralised by railways, or the harbors, or
the lengths of the connecting lines, or the
•probable date of construction, or anything
else.
* * # #
On other subjects of importance the gentle-
man was equally indefinite. In all his
rigmarole and rhodomontade he never once
glanced at the accumulated deficit of 2i
millions, or the two millions expected to be
added to it as a result of the current year’s
transactions. lie didn’t refer to the probable
expenditure on the motherhood endowment
folly, which some think will cost If millions
a year and others 3-J millions, or explain
how the money was to be got. He refrained
from giving an estimate of what his stupen-
dous public works policy would run into, nor
did he indicate whether Brother Jonathan’s
ear is to be chewed or Father Bull’s. Much
he said about the legal right of the employee
(often an unmarried inefficient) to £4 ss. a
week; nothing about the ability of the em-
ployer to pay that or any wage. Rivers of
mush flowed from him about toe beauties of
the 44-hour week, but of proposals to assist
the industries of the State to support that
and other back-breaking burdens he was as
barren as the road from Beersheba to Dan.
If he had been candid with the people he
would have admitted that the finances, not-
withstanding the crushing taxation his Gov-
ernment has imposed, are gravely embarrassed,
and that hard work and drastic ecotiomy
are the only honest policy for a country suf-
fering from a serious slump, but candor is
not in him and he hasn’t a soul above votes.
With wheat and butter down to pre-war
rates, the export trade in dead meat gone
to pot, metal-mining moribund, iron and steel
works closing down, and industry generally
in a condition of malaise, such a programme
as Dooley’s is a programme of madness. Yet
the madness is seriously proposed and will
be actually attempted unless the good sense
of the people rises above the temptation to
sell their, votes to a degraded party which in
endeavoring to deliver the goods would
infallibly bring disaster on the country. And
unless those who have everything to lose
nothing to gain by the success of
Do^’'"" ,c! m at the polls organise vigilance
committees on election day to spike the
cronk voter’s gun.
THE IMPERMANENCE OF EMPIRES.
WiTH the establishment of Egyptian “inde-
pendence” another big slice washes away
from that great sandbank called the British
Empire; as in other cases, the two are to be
connected in future only by a sort of foot-
bridge. The next to go will be India. The
last one was Ireland. The biggest part of
Ireland left because it wanted to leave. The
north-east was pushed out to make the situa-
tion symmetrical. Only England does such
things. It has no Central Legislature,
like that which sits at Melbourne
or Washington, to hold the institution
together. It made the same bungle
with Australia and Maoriland and Canada
ai )d South Africa as wffth New York and
Virginia. It did not couple with the grant
of .self-government the right or privilege or
obligation to be represented in the British
Parliament. Not thinking “mere colonials”
fit to assist in ruling, the “mere coPnies”
were turned adrift. So when Ireland ap-
plies for and secures “Dominion status” it
secures an amusing cuss, like Artemus
Ward’s kangaroo. The position is that
Ireland, like Australia, need not fight for
Britain by land or sea; need not trade with
it; need not subscribe to it; need not even
be civil to it. But Britain must defend it
to the last man and shilling, or else “lose
face,” and be put on the list of the has-beens.
The area with a claim to be protected grows
larger; the area with a sort of obligation to
furnish the protection grows smaller. So
far, the fear of an armed and bloodthirsty
world has kept the loose heap of peoples
together—more or less. If there arrives a
time of professed disarmament and alleged
peace, anything may happen. The American
colonies stayed so long as they required de-
fence against France; then they left. The
Englishman is a great empire-builder; but
whether he is a great empire-maintainer is
another matter. He may be the more like-
able because he isn’t.
* * * *
Egypt, which is to be independent again,
so that the mixed races may fight each other,
and the Mohammedan may express his candid
opinion of the Christian as is done in Turkey,
is African by geography but Asiatic by in-
stinct and history. It seems to have
attained considerable prosperity in the time
of Pharaoh. It reached the top of the
world’s civilisation under the line of Greek
sovereigns which passed out with Ptolemy
XIV. and Cleopatra Y. Later, the Moham-
medans came—first the unstable Arab and
then the stupid Turk. There are very few of
the old race left now —about one-twelfth of
the whole population, and they wear an
apprehensive look. The Mohammedan con-
querors will get the independence and the
old Egyptians will get what is left. There
were great European interests in Egypt
before the Suez Canal days, and the Un-
speakable never made quite the desolation
there that he did in the once-ricli, densely-
peopled, densely-cultivated Mesopotamia,
where an unlettered and almost nude
peasantry live in huts and hovels and
holes. There were about 4,000,000 people
in Egypt when the Suez Canal project
stirred it. There were between six and
seven millions when Britain seized the
place, thus forestalling the Mahdi and his
desert savages, who would probably have
made Cairo and Alexandria heaps of debris
as they did Khartoum, and then pondered
an invasion of Europe or a skirmish with
Asia. There are now 13 or 14 millions,
and that is a 40-years’ expansion of which
Britain has no reason to be ashamed.
* * * *
But the wheel goes on revolving, and when
it turns full circle we .shall see things this
way : —• ,
Cl') Britain locates its nigger—dark or light.
(2) It annexes him, and starts to teach him to
raise cheap produce for the British market.
(3) In its business-like but humanitarian way it
proceeds to take liberties with the colored man’s
death-rate. It drains and doctors and sanitates,
and it blocks tribal wars, slavery and sleeping-sick-
ness.
(4) The nigger is accustomed to a huge birth-rate
to set against his huge death-rate. The birth-rate stays
but the death-rate doesn’t. So he becomes so numer-
ous that he runs to 1061 per square mile, as in the
habitable parts of Egypt. He still keeps increasing.
He leaves off supplying cheap food, for he eats it all
himself. He suggests that he is crowded, and pro-
poses a more equitable division of the planet. Cer-
tain of his leaders announce that the people’s num-
bers, their smattering of white education, some know-
ledge of Parliamentary text-books, and a new insight
into European weapons fully qualify them for self-
government.
(5) Getting it, they start back for the old level.
For Parliamentary Government isn’t an Asiatic art.
All of which only shows the circular nature
of things. There is no recipe for making
empires permanent.
THE DECLINE OF AMERICANO-
MANIA.
Although distracted Labor financiers are
looking across the Pacific for the means of
keeping their loan booms going, Australia is
experiencing a general reaction against the
craze for things American that came in with
the Armistice. There is a very decided slump
in American comedies, American magazines,
American books. The imported gum-chewing
habit is sensibly diminishing; the hideous
Yankee slang is not so often heard. Waning
also is the popularity of the nigger dance,
that ugliest product of U.S. civilisation. And
the music-hall bore who sings imbecile ditties
about his home in Kalamazoo has so out-
stayed his welcome that it is proposed, with
the approbation of a jaded public, to keep
him out under the contract labor law. Above
all has the American moving-picture lost its
dominion over the minds of the large section
of Australians that used to be rather mad
about that alleged form of art. Months ago
there were the beginnings of a revolt against
the crudities and banalities of the films that
came from Los Angeles, particularly those
that luridly glorified crime, loafing and lust;
but the Arbuckle case, with its hair-raising
revelations of moral rottenness among the
people who make the pictures, has converted
it into a nation-wide movement of definite
hostility to the silent drama of the United
States, and the things that have come out
since the shooting of Taylor have only
deepened the general feeling of horror and
disgust. This feeling will persist in Aus-
tralia until the vice and degeneracy which
have sickened the healthy-minded public
have been scourged out of the American
film business, and the average citizen can
take his wife and children to a cinema
theatre reasonably assured that he will see
pictures made by normally decent people for
normally decent people, and not by ruffians
for ruffians.
* * * *
In no spirit of unfriendliness to the great
Republic let it be said that the deliverance
of Australia from songs like “Tennessee,”
pictures of the “One Sin More” type, and
dances which are merely an expression of
the eternal animalism of Sambo is earnestly
to be desired. If some of the finer features
of Americanism came across the Pacific, the
undesirable imports might be suffered. With-
out doubt Australia would be benefited by
the introduction of that passion for educa-
tion which distinguishes so many U.S. citi-
zens, rich and poor, and that fine idealism in
public affairs which crystallised in the
League of Nations and the Disarmament
Conference. The American spirit of self-help
and the patriotism which doesn’t degenerate
into provincialism on the one hand or the
rabbit-brained kind of internationalism on
the other are also worthy of imitation. But
the virtues and graces of America mostly
remain on the far side of the Pacific ; it is the
fads and follies, the vices and vulgarities that
get across. Deluged with cheap Yankee songs,
films and novels the mass of Australians are
careless of the fact —which it is important
for the nation they should remember—that
fellow-countrymen of theirs can compose
good music, make fine pictures, write admir-
able books. Deceived by the subtle propa-
ganda of animated photography and fiction,
they drift into the habit of thinking that
America is a miracle of loveliness from sea
to sea, whereas Australia has mere patches of
beauty and enormous tracts of ugly sand and
scrub. The odd tradition that Australia is
an unlovely land was started by English
exiles sick for home, and has survived from
the Anglomaniac to the Americanomaniac
period. Yet Marie Tempest, a travelled
and cultivated Englishwoman, could recently
say this :
When I am far away I will not forget the beauty
of your hills, or your majestic gumtrees. Two im-
pressions will remain in my mind as long as
memory lasts. One is of Cecil Rhodes's grave in
the Matoppo Hills. The other is of the Australian
gumtrees—they almost make my heart ache with
their beauty.
And Froude had no illusions about the
relative attractions of American and Aus-
tralian scenery :
We struck across the great American desert, a
boundless plain stretching for GOO miles, nothing
growing there save a miserable, scanty scrub, as if
on a soil that was sour with salt. All that day
we travelled on in wearisome monotony. The second
night closed in and we were still in the wilderness.
....Dreary the prairies arc, and indeed most Ameri-
can scenery is dreary after you have passed the
Rocky Mountains. Picturesqueness of nature, grace
or dignity in the works of man are alike absent.
The • forest trees are small and insignificant. I
speak of the east of the Rocky Mountains. The
rivers! Yes, the Missouri and the Mississippi are
grand rivers, if bigness makes grandeur; but their
turbid and yellow streams, fringed with unwhole-
some pine-swamps, suggest only to the imagination
that they are gigantic drains. Winter is long and
harsh; summer is brief and burning. Perhaps my
impressions were colored by the contrast with the
colonies which I had left. California is lovely, as
Australia or Maoriland; but omitting California,
which never belonged to us, I could not help saying
to myself that Oceana (i.e., Australia, M.L., S.
Africa and the South Sea Islands) had within the
circuit of her empire the fairest portion of the late-
discovered world.
It seems too much to hope that the untra-
velled and unimaginative type of Australian,
who lets the foreigner write his stories, com-
pose and sing his ballads^ —and such ballads!
—create and act his drama, dumb and
spoken, do his political thinking and in all
things make him as like a Cockney or East
Side New Yorker as possible, will ever dis-
cover his own continent. But in the inter-
val that must elapse between the downfall
of Americanomania and the coming of the
next craze—which may be a rage for every-
thing Irish —he will at least have the oppor-
tunity.
THE EAND OF THE LANGOSTA.
Yesterday I rode over to Jackson’s to see
the wreck of his chacra (farm) and to lend
a hand chasing langostas (locusts). Jack-
son and I were both members of that band
of idealist adventurers who set out 300 years
ago—or can it really be only 30? —to found
a New Australia in Paraguay; and to-night
I sit in the light of a slush lamp—one of the
remembrancers of the country we came from
—and give myself up to reflections. Perhaps
those reflections, from what to us was the
Land of Promise, may make some Old Aus-
tralians more satisfied with their own good
heritage.
All last month the locusts had been flying
over in dense clouds that literally darkened
the sun. Our insignificant paten of maize
and mandioca did not catch their eyes, so
we have escaped—for the present, But some
of our neighbors with large chacras have
been cleaned out. Jackson was one of the
unfortunates. Having a large family he
necessarily had a large cliacra. In two
days the locusts had eaten everything green,
and left his once flourishing farm as bare
as the desert of Sahara. Mandioca, maize,
cotton, tobacco, beans, the leaves of the
peach and orange trees —all had gone into
their insatiable maws. Then the pests, not
satisfied with gorging his sustenance for the
coming year, added injury to injury by bor-
ing holes in the earth, and depositing their
eggs, to make more trouble in the near
future.
Man is almost helpless in the face of a
cloud of locusts. When he sees them flying
over, all he can do is to hope they will keep
flying .and settle anywhere but on his farm.
Some people start rattling tins, firing guns
and making all sorts of noises when they
see the host coming along—this in the hope
of accelerating their pace and keeping them
from settling. For my part I think it is
quite as likely to have the opposite effect.
Certainly once they have made up their
minds to settle a man might as well go
inside, put the pipe on, sort out a decent
book—a philosophical work for preference
and let them have their way. But man
and woman are not built like that. Especi-
ally woman. Women when they see the mon-
ters —three to five inches long, with an
eight-inch spread of wing—devouring the
fruits of their labor, are apt to run amok.
They turn the pigs loose, “sool” the hens on,
and lay about in all directions with big
sticks. But a dose of the “Meditations of
Marcus” would do them far more good, ana
have just as much effect on the Mchos. borne
five years ago, when we had the last bad visi-
tation in these parts, my wife made up her
mind to save her cabbage bed, whilst i
devoted my labors to my favorite orange-
tree. After the most strenuous day ol mj
life, at sundown we gave them best. My
wife cut all her cabbages —“if we can t. eat
them,” said she, “they shall not.” ? co ™ n r
cut my orange-tree and take it inside, but i
had done my best. . , ,
I found old Jackson in a very disgruntlea
state. He didn’t even answer by Buev aw.
and when I asked him what he thought or
“New Aus.” these days he merely said tnat


he wished the bottom had dropped out of
the blasted Royal Tar on the voyage. When
his wife remarked (as wives will even in
New Australia) “I told you so,” he said
something about shutting up and keeping the
locusts on the move.
According to the law of the land, in the
event of a locust visitation, all male land-
workers or owners, from the age of 15 to 50,
have to give 20 days (or pay 50 dollars) to
the job of fighting the enemy. It is a con-
scription system which knows no conscien-
tious-objector clause. The work consists of
killing the myriads of young locusts after
they emerge from the earth. After they show
up out of the ground they are mostly left
till they have grown big enough to drive.
Meanwhile the young vermin swarm around
and clean up all the green stuff that has
sprouted since their ancestors gorged six
weeks ago. After three or four days they
gather up in mobs and go hopping along
seeking all they can devour. If they strike
a chacra that their forefather missed, they
repair his oversight. Then we get busy.
Long trenches —about two feet deep, the
same in width, with deeper holes at intervals
—are dug across their line of flight. Then
the colonist, his wife, his sons and his
daughters, with a peon or two, and any
neighbors who have not similar troubles of
their own, get after the bichos. The modus
operandi is for the drivers, armed with bush-
brooms or branches, to open out in the form
of a crescent, and herd the locusts towards
the trench, beating the insects from the trees
and bushes. After much travail (with curs-
ings on the part of the old man at JIM and
.Tack for leaving gaps in the crescent > the
insects are driven into the trench, swept into
the holes and buried in. Then it’s smoke-o and
a drink, and after that you round up another
lot. So it goes on from day to day, from
week to week. When one district is cleared
all hands turn their attention to its neighbor.
Jackson reckons that if we can vet the
pests under by the end of the month he will
be able to put in an emergency crop of beans
and maize, which, with the mandioca that
was too far under ground to get at, will
enable them to keep their belts fairly tight
till next season. Rut as for the new Christ-
mas frocks the wife and the girls have been
talking about —-well, there won’t be any.
COLONIA NEUVA AUSTRALIA.
T. MARTYN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Revolutionary Struggle.
“The N.S.W. Labor Council has decided to affiliate
with the Red Internationale of Labor unions, whose
headquarters are at Moscow.’’
At first there was a report that the Austra-
lian Workers’ Union had thrown in its lot
with the Muscovite revolution, whose leaders
are now struggling back, through hunger and
horror and desolation, towards “capitalism,”
private enterprise, freedom of exchange, and
the old discarded habits. But it is explained
that the A.W.U., being a craft union or
combine of workers and producers, isn’t
eligible to belong to the Red Internationale.
On the other hand, the Labor Council is as
eligible as they make ’em. So presumably it
has nothing to do with real labor or with
arts and crafts, and is merely a bloodslieddy
combine whose purpose is to steal away the
self-governing rights of the people, and put
certain violent characters at the head of
affairs. The planks of the Red programme
number seven, but the last one is the a/hole
embodiment of “The Revolutionary Class
Struggle” and “class-consciousness”: —
(7) United action with all the revolutionary
organisations and the Communist party of the coun-
try in all defensive and offensive activities against
the bourgeoisie.
The Communist party is the one which has
ruled Russia since 1917, and made what is
left of it the sort of place it is. The crowd
is reputed to number 600,000, but an army of
that size, well armed and organised, can do
much in destroying “bourgeoisie” and every-
thing else. The same party held Paris for
two months in 1871, and burned one-fourth
of the beautiful city in its haste. “The
bourgeoisie” include shopkeepers, merchants,
doctors, lawyers, men of science, manufac-
turers and wage-payers of all sorts; also
wage-receivers if they are employed as organ-
isers of industry and not as mere rank and
file. Nothing specific is alleged against them,
but their extinction is ordered by foreign
parties, and everybody who accepts orders
from the Labor Council is pledged to assist
and acquiesce in all offensive measures which
may be taken against them. These offensive
measures may range from incivility to rob-
bery, arson, mutilation and murder. It is a
sizeable blank cheque to sign, even to oblige
the Reddest officials that ever bloomed at
Moscow, but it is part of the blessed “Revo-
lutionary Class Struggle” and a symptom of
class-consciousness. Australia till lately was
poorly provided with classes. The idea Avas
that for an ambitious, industrious, capable
man to be a “wage-slave” was a mere pass-
ing accident. By energy, which generally
necessitated piece-work, and by working
more than 44 hours uer week, he expected to
become an employer (even if he employed
only himself) and to wage-slave no longer.
But a great movement was set on foot by
Gardens and other doubtfully useful per-
sons, mostly imported, to divide Australians
into two camps. One represented the em-
ployer who could do nothing but wrong. The
other comprised the employee, whose doom to
be a perpetual employee was as fixed as that
of the old plantation nigger. To fix it he was
restricted to day labor, so that the pay of
the good worker and the poor one must be
much alike. His hours were reduced to a
needless extent, and small production was
encouraged to keep down the average earn-
ings. The teaching of trades was discouraged
to keep down the average of skill. And
when the class feeling was really inculcated
it became a sort of treason to want to be-
come an employer, he being a monster of
horrid mien to be abhorred on sight. In
short, the story of “the Revolutionary Class
Struggle,” by which a good many persons live
not so badly, is this: —
(1) First make your classes.
(2) Then struggle.
In other terms, first beguile a large mass of.
people into a bad position from which they
are assured there is no escape save by revo-
lution, then have the revolution —with nrofit
to the boss revolutionaries if to nobody' else.
But there is no reason why the professional
revolutionaries should be considered. Now
that the Sydney Labor Council is defined as
not Labor at all, but purely political, and
political of the ruinous, murderous Red Com-
munistic brand, something should be done in
the way of putting it outside the law, just
as it proposes to do with shopkeepers and
other harmless folk. Silent contempt has
much to recommend it, but in the case of
people who are conspiring frankly to kill
you some authorities prefer a gun.
Sample is Better than Precept.
Prime Minister Hughes has been moved to
propose a round-table conference between
employers and employees. The question
to be discussed is whether, seeing that cost
of production in a hundred lines is now
above the price at which the product can be
sold, the employees have anything to pro-
pose, ail the employers' propositions having
been turned down. In all big industrial
countries, as war-prices went down towards
peace level, it was found that war-wages had
to fall likewise. In Australia the demand is
made that they should rise, aud for the last
two peace years they have been forced up
higher than ever, big loans being the lifting
force. In other countries the tendency has
been towards longer hours, or at least not
towards shorter hours, and piecework. In
Australia the demand is more and more for
day work, and fewer hours in a day, and
less work in an hour. The best brains in
the Labor movement of other countries hav-
ing found no remedy for the situation save
the abandonment of the artificial war condi-
tions, and the employers knowing none, the
idea of the conference is to get the other
party to produce its remedy. Unfortunately
there is a danger that the employees may be
represented, not so much by workers in
active service to whom the matter is of vital
importance,, by tne Labor Council sort.
The view of this unwholesome eLment is
that the only thing wrong with the present
situation is that it isn't bad enough, and
that if it can be made so much worse that
hunger and death will stalk abroad the very
misery of the community will bring an up-
heaval. Should the revolutionary get his
cloven hoof firmly planted in the round-
table conference little good need, therefore, be
hoped for, no matter how round the table
may be. But to the members who are only
half-revolutionary, misguided, and ignorant
of history, arithmetic and political economy
an earnest appeal might be made. In all the
job-control schemes and plans for “taking
over the workshops” it is assumed as some-
thing too obvious to require .evidence that
the present leaders are perfectly capable of
managing workshops. It is also claimed as
obvious that industries can be run success-
fully on the wage and hours and day-labor
terms that are demanded. Even the worst
commerce-destroyer says that. lie can’t
advertise himself as a destroyer pure and
simple lest he should lose.his job and have
to work. Therefore it is up to Hughes, if
conciliation hangs fire, to implore the oppo-
sition, with all his burnished eloquence, to
take over some place like Lysagiit’s, the
Government making the necessary arrange-
ments, and get to work on the instant, the
matter being urgent, and show the ignorant
employer how the thing can be done. Then,
the employer having been shown how by
those who say they know how, instead of
being told to find out how and be d—d, all
the industrial troubles of Australia would
vanish like an evil dream. Sample is better
than precept any day.
The Tax-gatherer’s Stranglehold.
The wholesale slaughter of young stock in
Queensland —and that isn’t the only State
where it is going on—is an illustration of
how industry can be damaged by benighted
methods of taxation. Australia’s disorderly
income-taxes are imposed by city politicians
and assessed by city-bred officials. Knowing
nothing of country conditions, and being at
least a year behind in everything, the dost
of bureaucrats haven’t yet discovered that
there has been an almighty slump in the
value of grass-fed beasts. So when a grazier
submits a return of the four-footed infants
that arrived on his property during the taxa-
tion year, and were still alive at the time
of writing, Redtape and Barnacle dig up
their boomtime valuations of calves, lambs
and foals, multiply them by the number
stated by the victim and call the result in-
come. And inasmuch as the tax on a man
in a large way of business may work out at
10s. in the £ of apparent income (more in
some, cases), it is actually paying some pas-
toralists to knock their calves on the head.
It is a habit with some politicians to be-
wail the gradual depopulation of old pastoral
provinces—the huge district west of the
Darling, for example—but they and their con-
federates, the tax-gatherers, are accelerat-
ing the process with enthusiasm. The Taxa-
tion Commission gives particulars of a case
in which aN. S. Wales grazier made a profit
of £56,447 in the course of seven years, and
paid more than that in income-tax. At the
end of the fifth year, as a result of heavy
losses in the second and third, he was show-
ing a debit balance of £44,919. Came two
bountiful seasons, and with them the hope,
the dream that he was ahead of it at last,
but the mist was dispelled when the taxa-
tion sharps got down on the unhappy man
for a cool £45.208 11s. 4d. And the despair-
ing wretch had paid tax on the three other
apparently profitable years as well. Apply-
ing the present Federal rates to his net‘in-
come, the Commission finds that “he would
be called upon to pay a total tax for the
period of £60.161 4s. 5d., which is £3713 ss.
lid. more than the total net profit derived
by him from the whole seven years’ opera-
tions.” State income-tax (heavily increased
last year and to be heavilv increased again
if Dooley is returned to office) is, of course,
additional; as also are the Federal and
State land-taxes. It is worse than highway
robbery. The mining prospector is being
exterminated by the same methods. Of this
striking evidence was furnished when the
Commission visited Westralia. In its report
it says:—
Instances were given, such as that of a man
who, after some years of skilled searching, dis-
covered a mine, the lease of which he took np and
sold for £IO,OOO. The Commonwealth Income Taxa-
tion Department claimed £3421 as tax, and the
State claimed £2300. This would be a very for-
midable deduction from the profit, even if the
whole consideration for the sale were paid in cash.
It was represented, however, that a large part of the
consideration is frequently paid in shares; that, for
taxation purposes, in the absence of any established
market price, these shares are assumed to possess
a value not less than face value, when the fact often
is that at the time they are either wholly unsaleable
or are saleable only at a price representing a small
proportion of the face value, and that in such cases
the imposition of tax at the high rates above indi-
cated leaves the solvency of the taxpayer at the dis-
cretion of the Commissioner,
Some relief from this bowelless extortion is
promised in “a comprehensive measure to
be brought down next session” —all Austra-
lian Premiers are great on comprehensive
measures to be brought down next session.
Meantime the prospector has almost faded
from the landscape. About the most useful
reform that could be consummated in the
Commonwealth would be the substitution of
one income-tax for the present hopeless con-
glomeration—a tax that would not break
the hearts of men who are doing valuable
work for Australia, that could not be dodged
as tens of thousands dodge the seven exist-
ing imposts, that would render it unneces-
sary for the harassed citizen to fill in miles
of taxation-papers, and that would give him
the joy of getting rid of five costly, inept,
oppressive, insolent and utterly superfluous
departments. The job shouldn’t be above the
size of men of average ability, but it is evi-
dently too big for the present breed of Aus-
tralian politicians.
Pious Horror —with its Tongue in its
Cheek.
With baited breath—baited to catch votes
—there is daily related to the folk 01 N.
s. Wales the harrowing, hair-raising tale of
how Georue Fuller, in the dark days of
1917, refused to furnish rations to the wives
and children of the railway strikers. Almost
anything may be made to sound horrible it
related in tones that.are baited enough, and
this is a case in point. In 1917 the N. S.
Wales railway workers were, as usual, re-
ceiving the full product of their labor and a
subsidy or charitable aid in addition. In
other words, the lines were run at a loss.
The product, and consequently the wages,
would have been more if so much revenue
wasn’t eaten up in interest on insanely large
debts; but, then, Labor has done most, and
is doing most, in creating these debts and
deserves its full share in the consequences.
The revenue and wages would also be larger
if the N.S.W. lines were not such a wonder-
ful example of One Big City’s selfishness;
and Labor, in this matter, is as selfish as
anj body else. In the year mentioned the
railway workers demanded a bigger chari-
table allowance, and seized on a vast mass
of public property to enforce payment. From
force of habit the community saw nothing
very remarkable in this, though it might have
done so if exactly the same idea was applied
in completely novel circumstances —if, say,
the bank-clerks, on strike for a well-earned
rise, took possession of the banks and de-
prived the public indefinitely of the use of its
deposits. The railway strikers didn’t base their
grievance on the fact that they were mere
wage-slaves, with no redress save by force.
They were, in fact, part owners with a full voice
in the control, though owing to the incidence
of the income-tax they didn’t pay anvthing
like their share of the losses. When they
held up the partnership assets and put the
land in a state of siege, the question was
raised whether the rest of the nation, in
addition to losing the use of its property
and the biggest item of its revenue, was
bound to Support the wives and children of
strikers, so that the strike funds might last
longer. Some said yes—that it was cowardly
to take revenge on those who were in no
way responsible for the upheaval. To which
others replied that it wasn’t a matter of
revenge at all any more than it was a matter
of revenge to cease exporting foodstuffs to
Germany during the war. And, further,
there is this to be considered: the strikers’
women-folk needn’t be the helpless victims
they are; and the fact that they acquiesce
in their helplessness, and don’t use their
Parliamentary votes to secure union votes,
deprives them of a lot of sympathy in the
circumstances. Many points have thus to
be considered before the Dooley party’s atti-
tude of pious horror is accepted at its face
value, so to speak.
— *
“Our Policy.”
It is commonly supposed that a member of
the British Cabinet doesn’t discourse on
important occasions without the authority of
his colleagues. And a very high member of
it, the Secretary of State for India, has
announced that our White Australia, for
which so much is said and so little done,
is in great danger of being a futile vision
and a lost opportunity. To quote Montagu’s
words as delivered in London; —
I hope there will be no color bar against Indians
in other parts of the Empire.
If, while we tell these people of India that they
can. win full partnership in the Empire, we also
tell them that they are excluded from other parts of
the world over which the British flag flies, our
policy in India will be impossible.
It is wholly inconsistent with our policy to say
that there is any part of the Empire from which an
Indian is to be debarred because he is an Indian.
That uncompromising statement of “Our
Policy” points at Australia, no matter how
anxious Mr. Hughes may be to suggest
that what it really refers to is South Africa,
and no matter how anxious Mr. Montagu
himself may now be to explain that Aus-
tralia is not included in the generalisation.
The real question is not “What did Mon-
tagu mean?” but “What does Gandhi
mean?” And if Great Britain has to choose
between mollifying India, which supplies
gilded jobs and bright careers for thousands
of its little aristocrats and which is a real
possession, as against semi-detached Aus-
tralia, which is no happy hunting-ground
for anybody in particular, there is little
doubt that it will decide very quickly. India
looks in deadly earnest about something. Aus-
tralia to those who judge by acts and not
verbiage, as Secretaries of State and
other vast intelligences are supposed to do,
isn’t in particular earnest about anything
except borrowing. Its craving for a White
status in its tropical section rather suggests
the desire for Zion entertained by the devout
London Hebrew whose family has craved
for generations, but has got no nearer the
Holy City than Greenwich. Look at the
facts. Premier Barwell, soured by the
gross breach of faith over the railway which
South Aus. paid for so lavishly, renounces
the faith. Labor conferences, besotted with
German Karl Marx literature, begin to set
it aside in favor of “the Unity of the
Workers” of all colors. The condition on
which South Australia turned the Northern
Territory over to the Commonwealth was
the building of the North-to-South railway.
Not a yard of that line has been built. And
in consequence, along with large areas of
Westralia and Queensland, the Territory
is neglected and unpeopled. There is
not one separate State in all the
vast area; and a large section of
Australians love to imply that the North
is Outcast Land, unfit for a white man’s
habitation. No capital (State or Federal)
has ever been established there, and though
nearly half the tropics constitute the
Commonwealth’s own estate, its own capital
is ostentatiously marked out about as far
away as it can get without falling over-
board. If a British statesman thinks that
we wouldn’t be much concerned even
if the colored man did pour into the
North —if he has come to the conclusion
that our White Australia policy is what the
Diggers called eyewash—whom have we to
thank for it but ourselves?
♦
The Road to True Morality.
Ettie Rout, who saved many hundreds of
Australian and M.L. soldiers in back areas
from a worse fate than they were menaced
with in the line, included this striking sen-
tence in a recent letter to the Director of the
U. Public Health Service: —
But 1 am myself quite convinced from my experi-
ence among the troops that the more thoroughly and
carefully we taught prophylaxis, the less immorality
wo had; we cannot teach self-disinfection without at
the same time instilling a living sense of the dangers
of disease into the minds of men and women ; and this
danger-sense certainly leads to more self-restraint.
She might safely have gone further and said
that prophylaxis and other measures which
strip the glamor from illicit intercourse, leav-
ing only its sordid aspects, are better friends
of chastity even than the danger-sense. The
danger-sense is no doubt a powerful restrictive
influence where some temperaments are con-
cerned. But its ineffectiveness as a general
check is shown by the notorious fact that
venereal disease is more prevalent amongst
literate than illiterate peoples, while the per-
centage of cases even among doctors is by no
means small. One of the main supports of
V. and one of the chief buttresses of Vice
is Virtue, as impersonated by the professional
moralist. The obtrusively “good” man wants
the business of prostitution kept glamorous
for the same reason that he wants the drink
business kept infamous —so that a horrible
example may be made of the sinner. Just as
our Puritans who oppose the totalisator are
found in the same political galley as welshing
bookmakers, and just as our prohibitionists
who oppose drink reform become, ipso facto,
the allies of the low pub-keeper and
wine-hell proprietor, so most of these people,
in their anxiety to make sexual lapses dan-
gerous, help vastly to invest them with an
atmosphere of mystery and romance. M'iiy
have at different times opposed V.D. Act J in
all the States, or where they have accepted
the Act they have worked for the excision of
some vital part of it, such as notification.
Most of them are now hostile to the proposal,
endorsed by several high medical authorities
at the last Melbourne conference on V.D.-
prevention, that health certificates should be
exchanged by the parties to a marriage. All
are violently against prophylaxis, and few
would have the subject of V.D. prevention
mentioned in public at all if they could help
it. It is under such a policy of obscurant-
ism, justified by some of the oddest examples
of distorted reasoning on record, ithat
venereal disease, though eliminable as well
as curable, has grown into one of the three
greatest scourges known to medicine. With
maisons tolerees (surely the most unalluring
institutions to a man in his sober senses on
God’s earth!), with prophylaxis (which is
disillusionment itself), with honestly admin-
istered V.D. Acts, and with a steady stream
of propaganda designed to show lads the
dangers of incontinence and girls the possible
results of marrying the incontinent —with
such a campaign as this in progress, true
morality would be served as it never has
been under our existing system. It is true
that many sinners would escape disease. But
that disability—if it is a disability—would
be more than balanced by the certainty that
thousands of innocent girls would be saved
from infection, and armies of unborn children
protected from blindness, twisted limbs, ner-
vous complaints and other afflictions which
they had done nothing to earn.
♦
Wives and Mothers.
“Rachel” finds them different; —
• I have been thinking hard since I read Louise
Dixon’s article on Wives and Mothers (B. 9/2/’22).
And I have selected myself as an example of an
ordinary woman with an ordinary amount of brains
and education. I spent the last four years of my
life at a Public High School, was a governess for
three years, then took up and completed a nurse’s
training, and am now the busy wife of a suburban
doctor and the busier mother of three strenuous
children, whose faults I plainly see.
My unmarried girl friends are either nurses, teachers
or University undergraduates. None of them are
idle. And my married friends are like myself in
being busy women.
And I deny Louise Dixon’s charge of being addicted
in my leisure hours to Ethel Dell, Theda Bara or
the love affairs of the neighborhood. Being human,
I am naturally interested in the admirers of my own
sisters or dear friends, and have been known to say
sometimes that a certain man I knew was rather keen
on a certain girl, or vies versa. But such matters
do not make up the main part of my conversation,
nor do babies or servants. They certainly crop up,
they are “shop”—and even men talk “shop” (at
anv rate medical men do) to a terrific extent.
I read the Red Page of The Bulletin regularly,
point out to my husband paragraphs in magazines
which may be of interest to him, am now reading and
enjoying Wells’s “Outline of History,” go to Conser-
vatorium concerts, have heard Heifetz, Levitzki,
Daisy Kennedy and Moiseiwitsch within the last few
months, have developed an intense interest in ait,
especially Australian art, and possess a good many
copies of Art in Australia and some fine etchings
and water-colors, bought by some self-denial, for
good pictures are not cheap. Also one of the last


Ttif Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
moviug-pictures I saw was Frank Hurley’s “Pearls
and Savages.”
These are some of my interests outside . “love,
marriage and reproduction,” and I know I am speak-
ing truthfully when I say that most of my friends,
especially those who are married, have just as many
and j,ust as important ones. One friend with a baby,
and ail her own work to do, still finds time to go
botanising with her husband, who is studying for a
science degree. Baby goes too, of course. Eight out
of ten of the women I know are real mates to the
men they married, and the unmarried ones have plenty
of interests outside the “man” interest. They play
tennis, they jazz, they surf joyfully, they pass exams.,
and do useful work. They certainly hope for the
“right man” to come along some day, and if
he doesn’t come the girls of my experience seem
to know how to still keep an interest in life without
him. They are nothing if "not philosophical.
The only women I know whose sole interests are
love and light literature are the women who have not
been decently educated, or the ones who work so
hard and so continuously that by the time they
have finished work they are too weary, mentally and
physically, for anything but the easiest kind of
relaxation.
The Way of the Pioneer.
From oil-expert J. L. Strevens :
That article on the undeveloped wealth of the
bush (B. 29/12/’2l) reminds me of an experi-
ence of my own. For nearly four years I
have been trying to launch a commercial
enterprise based on the utilisation of the grass-
tree, or blackboy, and the products obtained
from it. I started treating the stuff on a semi-
commercial scale in a complete low-temperature retort-
ing plant lent me for the purpose by the Victorian
Mines Department. The results, from the oil-produc-
tion point of view, were striking. Not only were these
oils capable of being further refined into substitutes
for turpentine and drying oils of good average
quality, but bactericidal tests made on the phenols
and acids obtained in the process showed them to be
four times as powerful as carbolic acid. Tanning
extract and methyl alcohol (wood alcohol) were
also yielded in satisfactory quantities. The proposi-
tion looked good enough for large capital, and the
few enthusiasts associated with me sent ten tons of
the tree to Britain, and me with it for demonstrating.
Simon-Carves, the big coke-oven people, were
satisfied with the results shown by small-scale
demonstrations, but prophesied difficulties when
large-scale work was planned. Confirmation of
their conclusions was arrived at after several tons
of the material had been retorted in the copp6e
ovens. A coke oven carbonising nine tons of coal
per day could deal with only three tons of grass-
tree, chiefly on account of its bulky and light nature
and its insusceptibility to compression, due to its
extreme resiliency, while the fuel costs for carbon-
ising it were found to be equivalent to those
for an ovenful of coal. It became imperative
to find other means of treating grasstree that the
project might appeal to capitalists as a sound com-
mercial venture. In collaboration with Scott’s, of
London, the leading British firm specialising in
extraction plant, we devised two distinct processes
for the extraction of a pure high-class resin. Com-
plete patents in Britain and Australia were then
taken out, and a scheme, backed by Scott’s name
and plant guarantees, with forward contracts for a
minimum of 1000 tons of extracted resin per annum
and a concession for cutting blackboy in Westralia
and Queensland, was submitted to British capi-
talists and firms interested in the resin industry.
London, at first cold to the retorting proposition,
began to warm up to the resin-extraction scheme.
Support was promised if the product as obtained by
us could be bleached. A little further research and
a cheap bleaching process was devised. Simul-
taneously Austen Chamberlain introduced his 1920
budget, with its 60 per cent, duty on excess profits,
its 5 per cent, tax on new companies, its corpora-
tion-tax and increased income-tax. The flotation of
the new company came to a dead end. The British
Trade Corporation, which had followed our work
with interest and appreciation, advised me to return
to Australia and start a one-unit plant with local
backing on the scheme laid out by us. If that paid
its way they would, at a later stage, finance the
scheme on a much larger scale. But returning to
Australia I found my backers’ enthusiasm had fallen
to zero owing to London’s attitude, and the rest of
the continent was even colder than London. Last
year the price of crude grasstree resin slumped
almost to the pre-war rate, and the associated producers
of the commodity on Kangaroo Island lost heavily.
Things are different now that the price of the crude
resin is looking up and that the demand for the pure
extracted product is larger than ever. At all events,
after four solid years of research, and notwithstand-
ing the discouragement that I have met with in
endeavoring to get the project inaugurated, I am
' hanging on to my cutting rights and patents in the
hope (1) that some day our national politicians will
be able to see further from Parliament House than
the bottom of Bourke-street, and (2) that our indus-
trialists will learn the lesson that raw materials,
such as wool and grasstree, should be turned into
articles of commercial value in the country where
they are grown. But the way of the pioneer in this
country is as hard as flint.
Incidentally, J. L. Idriess shares the fallacy that
was believed in by the British and Australian Gov-
ernments during the early stages of the war. Ger-
many did not use grasstree gum for the manufac-
ture of picric acid, except in very small quantities.
Thus the annual imports into Hamburg to 1915 did
not exceed 1000 tons of crude stuff, of which at
least 80 per cent, was used in the manufacture of
cheap iaequers and as a substitute for resin. Assum-
ing that 200 -tons of resin were utilised for the
manufacture of picric acid, the utmost yield would
be under 100 tons and the cost at least double that
of the picric acid obtained from the more plentiful
coal-tar carbolic acid.
■ «
“Gumnut” (Delhi) : The position politi-
cally in India is just as bad as it
can be—so bad that many I.C.S. men
are wondering how much longer they
can hold out, and what their chances
are of getting other billets. Unrest and a
sort of passive resistance are daily on tl.e
increase, and there can be only one opinion
about the Prince’s visit —that it has been an
utter failure. It is said that he is furious
with Lord Reading for bringing him out
under such conditions, that he had no idea
what things were really like, and that he is
going to make it his business to see that the
truth is told about the whole situation when
he gets home. If that is so his visit will,
in one way, do a great deal of good. The
English papers have been full of nonsei.se
about his “triumphal progress,” the utter
failure of the attempt to spoil his visit, his
charm breaking down all opposition, and his
whole route being bordered with cheering
crowds. As a matter of fact, the “crowds”
everywhere have been small and for the most
part silent, and in Bombay they estimate the
casualties resulting from the riots at any-
EASY!
THE REFORMER : “’Ow are we goin ’ to do away with Capitalism? We’re goin ’ to
rise wages ’igher an’ ’igher till at larst only the Workers can afford to employ
theirselves.”
thing from 500 to 1000. That the Prince
should take the view I have suggested is
quite in accord with his straightforward
character. During the war it was reasonable
enough that there should be no trumpeting
of the difficulties. But it is unfair to the
British in India that the size and nature of
the problem should now be so gravely repre-
sented to their masters —to the people, that
is to say, who make and unmake Ministries
at Westminster. And it is a great wrong,
amounting almost to a crime, committed
against the nation.
“A.Iv.G.”: Sterilisation of the unfit was
not mentioned at the Hobart conference of
the Australian National Council of Women
(“Hanno,” B. 9/2/’22). The segregation of
the mentally unfit was, and that the subject
is one which needs to be practically dealt with
is shown by a recent case in the Children’s
Court in S. Australia. A young woman,
whose mother had died in a mental hospital
and who was herself mentally deficient,
brought her child to the Court to be com-
mitted to the care of the State. The evi-
dence showed that her brother, even a worse
case of mental deficiency, was the father of
the child. There is no law to prevent the
woman from annually presenting the state
with a similar burden, the youngsters in
due course making their contribution of de-
generacy. It may not be safe to assume that
certain characteristics are always inherited
from the generation immediately preceding
but it would be even less safe to assume that
children of such parentage could ever be
desirable citizens.
o-
“W.J.C.” makes a comparison:—
The present gloomy situation in Papua is largely
due to the lack of enterprise or initiative on the
part of the planter. In New Caledonia and the
Hebrides the French planters have had the same
reverses, mainly the result of the fall in prices, but
they are not squealing for Government aid. The
British planter in the Hebrides —and I suppose it is
much the same in Papua—does not seem to be able
to grow anything but cocoanuts and a little rubber.
The French, on the other hand, have introduced cot-
ton, coffee and cocoa into the Hebrides, and coffee,
cotton, kapok, vanilla and manioc into New Cale-
donia, as well as cattle. At Havre on September 1,
1921, the price of Hebrides cotton was 300 to 323
francs per 50 kilos (approx. 1101 b.). This was 105
francs more per 50 kilos than Soudan cotton brought
—in fact, the Hebrides stuff fetches the highest
prices on the world’s market. New Caledonia coffee
was sold at 190 to 200 francs per 50 kilos. New
Caledonian kapok was not on the market at the date
mentioned, but Javanese kapok was quoted at six
francs per kilo. Vanilla was worth from 42 to 46
francs per kilo. Cocoa from New Caledonia was
worth 150 to 160 francs per 50 kilos, that from the
Hebrides bringing 10 francs less. These prices have
not changed much since September 1, 1921. They
have a tendency to rise; but there is no fear of a
slump. During the war nearly double these figures
were realised, but the French planter did not expect
them to stay so high and took precautions to be out
of the rain when the fall came. There has been a
good bit of talk lately about Australia annexing the
Hebrides. It isn’t possible; but if it were, and
judging by what has happened elsewhere, it would
mean the ruin of the islands.
“Onediv” offers a few suggestions:—
The extravagance in the Defence Department re-
ferred to in The Bulletin (26/l/’22) is chiefly
centred in the Divisional organisation introduced
nominally to perpetuate A.I.F. traditions. The
scheme was in reality the perpetuation of A.I.F.
ranks gained mostly by senior Regular officers. An
effect of the uncalled-for action of the Military
Board in raising its status and dignity to that of
the Army Council of the War Office was that the
Board ceased to personally cdmmunicate with such
small fry as Divisional Commanders and Base Com-
mandants. A deputy (with the rank of General)
had to be appointed to the staff of each member of
the Board to pass on directions, and meanwhile 90
per cent, of the functions of the District Command-
ants under the old organisation are being performed
by the Base Commandants under the new Yet
addition to the Base Commandants there are seven
Divisional Commanders and their staffs, whose J
strenuous occupations are their endeavors to keen
themselves 10 per cent, employed. The constant
influx of Duntroon graduates is further embarrassing
the position, chiefly on account of their unsuitability
for the positions for which they were intended viz!
area officers. This is due to the vast difference
between Duntroon and an Australian training area
particularly an industrial area.
Here are some ways in which the new Defence
Minister might save money without prejudicing effi-
ciency:—
(1) Suspend operations at Duntroon for a period
0 /t least five years. The Department' cannot absorb
all those who have already graduated there.
(2) Discontinue the sending* of Duntroon gradu-
ates abroad for attachment to Imperial regiments It
only widens the gap between them and the Australian
trainee and costs a lot of money.
(3) Cut out the Army Council and Divisional
organisation scheme.
(4) Reduce the training areas to large centres of
population. The thinly populated areas provide less
than one-third of the trainees but more than two-
thirds of the cost.
(5) Carry out all training in the metropolitan
areas successively by units in a continuous training
camp, thus employing the same staff, Accommodation
and stores. The saving under this and (4) would
make a reduction of 75 per cent, in the staff practic-
able.
(6) Cease the expenditure of a quarter of a million
annually in the manufacture of rifles at £l5 or
more each when the Department admits that it holds
sufficient for all purposes.
The control of the pay and ordnance branches by
a non-military business man is undoubtedly a first
Essential. And by a non-military business man is
meant a real civilian—one sans rank, sans uniform,
sans everything that signifies association with the
caste. The soldier, however temporary, who is game
to incur the inevitable displeasure of his seniors by
ruthless reform in the direction of economy is too
rare a bird to be worth pursuing.
■ »
“Two Seas” : In the bad old days, before
the Dooleys and McGirks started in to
make this a paradise for the “wage slaves,”
there was plenty of work to slave at; even
the old bush-workers could keep out of
Liverpool Asylum by doing a bit of burr-cut-
ting or shepherding the ewes and lambs. For
the young bush-workers there was always
plenty, because the men on the land expended
their profits in improving the land. Now
there are no profits, and the would-be workers
besiege every stock and station agent’s office
in the country in their hunt for ring-barking,
scrubbing, fencing, dam-sinking, etc. Mean-
while, it is pleasing to note that at least two
stalwart young bush-workers have secured a
job in Dooley’s paradise. I have noticed
them at it for several days. Their garden of
Eden ig situated a few miles from a big
southern (N.S.W.) town. They are employed
hoeing a cabbage-patch, and even on Anni-
versary Day, when all good Australians were
supposed to knock off work to listen to our
£875 per annum politicians orating upon the
blessings of Labor rule, these two white Aus-
tralians kept on hoeing for their Chinese-
gardener boss! Dooley has downed the
white capitalist—and offers the bush-worker
the choice of starving or appealing to the
yellow Fat man for a job. The latter is a
bitter pill to swallow ; but the men who are
forced to do it can still afford to despise the
Government’s paupers at Broken Hill.
♦
“Lex” : Two things would tend to diminish
the murdering of children who have been
outraged. One is the lessening of the
penalty for criminal assaults. If it was
something milder than death or a “lifer”
the criminal might not be tempted to add
a precautionary murder to the other offence,
on the principle that it is as well to be
hanged for a sheep as a lamb. This should
apply in a.ll but the Sadistic cases which,
after all, are probably only a small propor-
tion of the whole. The other preventive
is a limitation of the newspaper reports of
the proceedings where someone has been
arrested for one of these crimes. The way
even the Argus featured the Coroner’s
Court evidence in the Ross case amounted,
as every psychologist must recognise, to so
much outrage-and-murder propaganda. It
would surprise our daily newspapers, by the
way, to know that, like many of the London
ones, they are regarded on the European
continent as among the most immoral on
earth. Stephen Graham in “Europe—
Whither Bound?” has this to say on the
subject
We sometimes in England refer to the poisonous
daily press of Paris, but Paris with all its men and
women troubles has no salacious columns in its papers
comparable to those of England.
It is useless for our papers to be right-think-
ing in their leader columns while they are
as suggestive elsewhere as Le Rire or any
other Paris journal which is too porno-
graphic for a respectable French home. The
spirit of imitation has a tremendous influ-
ence on wrong-doing of all sorts; and not till
our cheap press Ceases 'the starring of
murders with a sex interest, and contested
divorces where adultery is the issue, will the
morals of the community begin to improve,
and crimes of passion show a decrease.


PEAPES’ RIDING BOOTS AT 42/
Every point that can increase the comfort and conveni-
ence of the horseman has been considered in this boot,
specially built fob Peapes on their own lasts.
It is of Tan Willow Calf, with plain vamp, no cap, light
soles, close welts, light-leather lined throughout. It laces
up full length—no hooks.
This boot is also available in Black Box
Calf at
37/6
PKAPES PAY POSTAGE.
PLEASE STAT§ SIZE.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
- :
3
A
ITALY’S BEST.
Model 501.
Italian Body
£650
£675
Colonial Body
AEE FIAT CARS are fitted with Elec-
tric Eights and Self-starter and 5
detachable steel wheels with tyres.
EFFICIENCY.
A purchaser of a model 501 10/15h.p.
FIAT writes: —
“I had a very good trip up from Syd-
ney ; we must have travelled more than
2SO miles, and the FIAT behaved herself
splendidly.
“Although the car is a small one I
was very surprised at her power on top
gear—she took practically every hill on
top that I could so negotiate with my
>*
This gentleman formerly owned a six-
cylinder car rated at 27 h.p. Ii.A.C.
Another tribute to the high efficiency of the FIAT.
GARRATTS LIMITED
173-175 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
.ALICK McNEIL, General Manager.
Telephones: City 582-3-4.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The first ballot for the Labor nomination
for Sydney put Gregory McGirr at the head
of the list. It was annulled on the ground
that the frauds smelt up to Heaven, and
the swindles smelt down to Sheol. The
next ballot put McGirr at the top again,
and the stories which prominent Laborit.es
told of fraud, lying, faking, personation and
general rottenness were worse than the pre-
vious lot. After the members of the party
have explained at length each other’s evil
qualities, one loses faith even in the_ baby
blubberings of Dooley about how he is the
victim of a conspiracy to create unemploy-
ment, and how he collects £2445 per annum
for not knowing what to do about it.
Queensland’s departing Treasurer re-
cently addressed his fading Paddington con-
stituents in this fashion :—-
We have perhaps the highest taxation per head in
the Commonwealth, but I venture to say that I
myself and perhaps two or three others in this
gathering are the only ones who pay taxation.
It is probably true. But most of them are
paying a far heavier toll, in the irregularity
of their employment. It surely isn’t much
comfort to a man to know that,' through get-
ting only one work in four the posi-
tion of hundreds of men in the Brisbane
building trade—he is earning so little that
he isn’t liable to pay income-tax.
Hughes, replying to his press detractors
at Geelong the other day, declared that his
Government “stood, as a momument against
the gnats of criticism who were tearing their
teeth against this obelisk.” After that, what
is there left for a gnat with torn teeth to
say?
Jim Scullin’s majority over his National-
ist opponent in Yarra was 9061. It has been
a Labor seat since the inception of Weaetfg
tion, and the late Frank Tudor had 10,660
votes to the good in 1917 and 11,445 in 1919.
But only 16,120. electors voted on Saturday
as against 28,241 at the general election. I •
A. Smyth, the .Independent, who announced
that a vocal infirmity prevented him from
addressing the eleetois, but that the girls,
being sports, would look lifter his interests,
polled a whole 127 and lost his deposit, lhe
candidate who puts his trust in girls is a
gone coon.
Baddeley, of the N. S. Wales Coal Miners
Federation, who is an A.L.I’. candidate for
Newcastle, remarks with biting scorn that
if the large holders of Commonwealth war
stock are “the patriots they profess to be”
they will voluntarily accept “about 2 per
cent.” less for their money than the Gov-
ernment contracted to give. This sacrifice,
he says, would reduce the annual interest
bill by £14.820.000. which sum would pro-
vide work for “approximately” 70.000 men.
But the largest holders of Commonwealth
stock are life-assurance offices, which have
entered into engagements of the most solemn
description with hundreds of thousands of
thrifty breadwinners, and if they had to
take 2 per cent, less interest, working on
the margin they do. they would soon find
themselves in trouble. And the resultant
evils would outweigh the mostly illusory
benefits derivable from the employment of
an army of unskilled laborers at boom wages.
Anyhow, there is no more reason (far less,
in fact) why institutions like tb« A.M.P.
should hand over a big slice of their income
to the legion of odd-jobbers that Baddeley’s
party has called into existence than why
the “workers” should pay into an unemploy'
ment fund what they now waste in pubs
and pony-racing. But Baddeley wouldn’t
suggest that for worlds.
More impassioned speech from Mother-
hood Minister McGirr, the man who runs
just ahead of Dooley and pants just behind
Labor-Council Garden in the revolutionary
race:—
Every unit of profit, every degree of luxury and
ease secured by the employing class, has been ob-
tained at the expense of the working class.
The fact is that probably 50 per cent, of
what both employer and employee possess is
due to the inventors of machinery, and for
want of it Black Brother, though oppressed
by neither capitalist nor employer and in
receipt of the entire product of his toil, is
the impecunious party he is. And probably
another 30 per cent, is due to organising
capacity, which makes all the difference be-
tween a success like the A.M.P. and a fiasco
like New Australia. Certainly there is a
great deal of so-called wealth which doesn’t
come—directly, at any rate —from either
machinery or organising capacity. Many a
man is rich who merely collects rents or
gambles in property. But though that sort
of man doesn’t help the unemployed much,
McGirr’s Government doesn’t seem at all
concerned about him. It is only the beastly
employer, the organiser of industry, who has
the attention of the McGirrs and their fool-
ish dupes. .
For 15 months or thereabouts Judge
Edmunds, of N. S. Wales —the same who
reported to the Dooley Government that
M’s.L.A. were entitled to a £375 p.a. rise—
has been looking into the dreary facts of
the 1917 railway strike. The proceedings cost
the taxpayer about £2OOO a month, for,
apart from the expense occasioned by taking
the Judge away from his job, a shoal of
barristers was engaged on the inquiry to
represent everybody. Last week Mr.
Edmunds weighed in with a 128-page docu-
ment, in which he declared that the Rail-
way Commissioners had neither shown vin-
FED UP .
THE N.S.W. DINER (after scanning menu): “I dunno, but somehow I just can’t seem
to work; up an appetite.”
dictiveness in carrying out the terms on
w hieh the strike was settled nor conspired
w j tk the Nationalist Government to defeat
them, and that strikers . proved guilty of
sabotage and similar pleasantries should not
be re-employed. As these conclusions con-
flict with the divine r'ght of militant union-
ism (1) to do what it likes, and (2) to
run the earth and all that therein is, Dooley
has been sullenly commanded to burn the
report and restore the strikers, otherwise
there will be another strike—a “regulation”
one on the Italian model. It’s a great game,
this arbitration with a double-headed penny,
The B f t j ng 0 f Ble embargo on German-
made goods in August threatens the few
chemical manufacturers who, ever since the
w;u . gtartedi have seen battling to establish
the drug, chemical and dye industry in the
„ *’ aU-b Within the lost connlp of
Commonwealth. Within The last couple oi
years success has come to them and the
Quality of their products is easily up to-
m some cases past—the standard of the Ger-
man article. But most of these concerns are
very small, and unless they are protected
against dumping they cant stand up he\
would die if their market were taken from
them even for a few months.
Westralian Laborites announced that they
were willing to attend Hughes’s industrial
conference if the employers put their income-
tax returns and other matters on the table;
they also stipulate that employers must re-
duce their profits. This invariable assump-
tion that Private Enterprise always has
profits to reduce, while the vast mass .of
public enterprises which Labor Premier
Scaddan created have nothing but losses and
ruins, is a rather one-sided compliment to
somebody.
Prof. Meredith Atkinson would be less
mischievous if the press gave no air of rea-
sonableness to his articles by publishing
them. The following, which appeared in
Melbourne llekaLd lately, was surely in-
tended to be added to the stock-in-trade of
Yarra Bank and the Domain:—
As I stood watching the crowded demonstrations
of unemployed in London —clean, decent, self-
respecting working men and women—l marvelled
at their docility. Their helpless apathy and dull
patience are derived from centuries of social inferi-
ority.
The truth is that, with very few exceptions,
social inferiority had social superiority for
an ancestor. Descendants of the stragglers
of to-day are the easy-going capitalists of
to-morrow. Very few families are utterly
lacking in a strain of “good breeding.” Many
thousands of impoverished citizens have had
a not far-distant relative whose baronetcy is
extinct. Many hundreds of newly-titled snobs
had grandfathers in a condition <>f social
inferiority. Atkinson tells the tale which
is on the tip of every mob-orator’s tongue,
but is flatly contradicted by experience. How
long since his own ancestry was on its
uppers? And how long before his descendant
will be cadging for a beer?
More or less apropos of th da'ly roar of
Dooley, the Sydney Premier, that Wages
Shall Not Come Down: —
Justices McCawley and Macnaughton, of the Queens-
land Arbitration Court, have reduced the Brisbane
basic wage by ss. a week — i.e., from £4 ss. to £4.
They point out that £4 has a higher purchasing
power to-day than £4 ss. had 12 months ago.
The A.W.U. miners at Mount Morgan (Q.), who
have been idle for nearly 12 months, the (cst of pro-
ducing copper being about £l6 per ton more than the
selling price, have accepted the 20 per cent, wage
reduction they refused last year.
The Westralian branch of the A.W.U., which has
also been struggling for the pint and a half that
won’t come out of a pintpot, has signed an agree-
ment to accept 10s. per hundred less than the Queens-
land shearing rate, subject to a Federal award.
Tens of thousands of working men have their
homes and other interests in N. S. Wales.
But they won’t have their jobs shortly, fpr
those jobs will inevitably pass to the other
States. And in all such cases the present
and promised actions of the Dooley Govern-
ment will really amount to robbing them
not only of their jobs but of their homes as
well.
Daniel Levy, of N. S. Wales, mentioned
the other day, emotionally and inaccurately,
that he was the only Nationalist Speaker of
whom the National Federation had fallen
foul. In point of fact the corresponding
Vie. body stuck up Speaker Mackey’s nomina-
tion last August because, in the opinion of the
inner circle, he had favored the Farmers’
Union party in allowing its no-confidence
motion to be split into sections and each
section to be put separately. Peacock inter-
vened in Mackey’s interest, and the N.F.’s
Hesitation Waltz was explained away. Per-
huns Lord Melbourne was right when he
called the Speaker’s a “fameless office,” with
which humbug—necessary humbug, he added
—-was associated.
In the race of Dooley, McGirr and the
N.S.W. Labor Council to see who can pro-
mise the biggest things to the most fools,
the Council recently forged ahead with an
offer of the full basic wage to the unem-
ployed, that they might be encouraged to
remain that way. The only possible improve-
ment on that would be to let the unemployed
supplement their dole by doing odd jobs in
their spare time.
Bowing before the storm of public opinion
Vic. Treasurer McPherson has given the
Melbourne Hospital £3OOO a year additional
for maintenance —that is, £20,500 instead of
£17,500. Other metropolitan hospitals have
been granted proportionate increases.
McPherson is convinced that people who can
pay still impose on the hospitals, and he is going
to have more vigilance exercised to beat
them, lie could count on greater success, if
he put his hand to the important job of pro-
moting “intermediate” hospitals.
Sydney Labor Council’s position is pecu-
liar these days. It has joined on with the
Red Internationale of Moscow, so the Blood-
stain at Moscow furnishes the programme.
In its new guise the Council may be de-
scribed as a Crime Club : the programme of
the Red Internationale includes evcrv kind
of defensive and offensiye action against “the
bourgeoisie.” Certainly the Sydney Labor
Council may at present butcher only on
paper ; but as there is always the risk of it
getting off the paper, it looks about time to
discourage the Sydney Labor Council.
In Melbourne the other day a municipal
conference declared for a special road tax
and appointed its executive to discuss details
with the Country Roads Board and the
Works Minister. Frank Clarke, the author
of the wheel-tax scheme for raising an addi-
tional £70,000 a year for road maintenance,
said bluntly that the alternative to his pro-
posal was to raise the income-tax, and it
would be a hard job to do that in the present
Parliament. The conference at first felt
inclined to shunt the special-tax proposition ;
but as everybody wanted good roads the
majority decided to keep it on the line, though
with no better grace than the youngsters of
Dotheboys Ilall swallowed Mrs. Squeers’s
brimstone and treacle.
“Rio” writes a postscript:—
By a coincidence I have become aware of the
reasons actuating the Minister in his grant (criti-
cised by me in last week’s Bulletin) of increased
free ammunition to rifle clubs. These reasons being
more cogent than any previously advanced by the
clubs, I think it only fair to set them down. There
is now a large reserve of ammunition based on
the expected requirements of the Citizen Forces;
owing to reduced estimates the quantity expended
will be much less than was anticipated. Cordite
deteriorates, too, and if not used within a certain
period has to be destroyed. The increased grant to
the clubs, therefore, is really of cartridges that
would otherwise have been wasted. Again, Massy
Greene believes that as far as small country towns
are concerned, the rifle club is often the only body
that men of all ages, classes and creeds may join,
and thus it becomes the centre for many useful
civic and other public activities, and so deserves en-
couragement apart from its purely military functions.
The Ma State Labor party holds two of
the three seats in Bathurst, Premier Dooley’s
electorate, and until recently it looked, as
if Dooley’s colleague Johnston was destined
for a licking. Not so much because the
gentleman’s financial transactions with Tal-
bot, of wheat-scandals celebrity, were criti-
cised by a Royal Commission, as because his
numerous unfriends in “the movement” were
denied the opportunity of choosing another
candidate. But according to Fitzpatrick,
the Nationalist member, “1200 new men
have been brought into the constituency and
given work on the railway deviation,” which
is expected to make things fairly safe for
Johnston. The remedy for this wholesale
packing of doubtful constituencies —the
worst of the political crimes committed in
the name of State socialism —is separate
representation for Government employees.
But Fitzpatrick’s party is too gentlemanly
to propose it.
“Stick to us like glue, for the New State
movement has behind it the full weight of
the Labor party," said Minister Loughlin
the other day to New Staters at Tenterfield,
in Northern N.S.W. (The italics are ver-
batim, anyhow.) There was, and probably
is, a rule for the traveller who has a half-
tamed Binghi for his mate: “Never stoop
for any purpose with your back to Binghi,
for he is behind the movement, and. the
temptation to knock out your brains is irre-
sistible.” Anyway, the New Staters are not
likely to forget that John Estell. Labor Min-
ister for Works, waved his salary-hook in
the air, and thundered that if any attempt
was made at Home Rule the North would
be treated as a conquered country—that
expenditure would cease but taxes would be
collected as usual till the rebellious spot
came to its senses.
THE UNFORGIVABLE SIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I watched him skulking down the street. He crept
as outlaws creep:
His face betrayed the ravages of care and lack of
sleep.
A citizen observed his fleeing form, and with a sneer
Assailed him thus: “You’d sell your soul, you
blighter, for a beer.”
Ail M.L.A. looked right and left, and up and down
the wind,
Then briskly caught the outcast up and kicked him
from behind.
A bottle flew (the property of Fillemup and Co.) ;
The fugitive went down and out before that smashing
blow.
“Who is he?” I inquired. “He seems to have no
legal rights.”
I asked it of the friend who showed me Sydney’s
leading sights.
“That is a free-born Britisher,” my mentor made
reply,.
“Who dared the dictates of his party caucus to defy.”
K.S.W. ■
LAB-NASII.


WELCOME, LITTLE STRANGER!
“In its dealings with the sugar supply, the Commonwealth Government has not only countenanced but even practised profiteering and exploitation.” —AGE.
CHORUS OP PROFITEERS: “We always suspected you were really one of us!”


\\\>
m
m
m
¥ll
COSMOS
r/yy////
lsi in
1C
ers
/
CO. LTDl
ELECTRICAL
\ » ‘ \ v
GIVE A
CLEAR
SOFT
WHITE
LIGHT
APE
ECONOMICAL
STRONG
AND
LASTING
21 ElijciboH) Sh
Melbourne
304Kenh5 Y
Sydney
electrical
co'ltq n
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
WHO IS THE EXECUTOR OF YOUR WILL
If you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon
after you, and your Estate may pass into the control of someone whom
you would never have trusted? Or he may maladminister the Funds?
Or your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect or inexperience?
THESE RISKS CAN BE OVERCOME BY APPOINTING AS
YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
of 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
which offers undoubted security, combined with expert administration.
TRUST FUNDS NOW UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED
£19,400,000.
Manager: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
Write or call for Booklet.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Newcastle and Hunter River
Steamship Co. (N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1910.. £7,239 6 p.e. = £6,000 £1,239 £12,907
1911.. 5,837 6 „ „ G,OOO 12,744
1912.. 8,969 7 ~ „ 7,000 1,969 14,713
1913.. 10,027 7 „„ 7,000 3,027 17,740
An “adjustment” of values of assets made in 1919
clairiltd that at June, 1914, the co. had £98,108 of
reserves instead of £18,153 disclosed by the pub-
lished accounts.
1914.. £12,763 7 p.c. = £7,000 £5,753 £ 103,448
1915.. 14,933 8 „„ 8,000 6,933 110,381
1916.. 24,652 9 „„ 9,000 1 15,652 126,033
1917.. 9,948 9 „ „ 9,000 948 126,981
1918.. 14,530 10 „ „ 10,000 4,530 131,511
1919.. 10,012 10 ~,,10,000 12 l 141 028
Written off, £17,495. ) ’
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 64,028
1920 29,210 10 p.e. = 15.000 l 13(9C2 77i990
Written oft contingencies, £248 \
192!.. 23,937 10 p.e = 15,000 j g 895 8C(885
Written off, £42 J ’
The directors don’t put it that way. “Trade
generally has been only fairly satisfactory,”
they say, and the “net profit, after providing
for depreciation, insurance, etc., amounts to
£15,036 Ss. Id.” And that is only £3O and
the odd shillings and pence more than the
10 p.e. div. has taken. But depreciation and
insurance reserves are a convenient safe-
deposit in which surplus earnings can be
locked away out of sight. Twelve months
ago there was £B5OO in the insurance reserve;
now £17,400. So £B9OO net has been added,
all of which can l?e regarded as profit which
was earned during the period, and, conse-
quently, in the table that addition has been
included with the net earnings shown by
the directors. Instead, therefore, of having
earned barely 10 p.e. on a capital of
£150,000, £50,000 of which consists of
reserves transferred two years ago, with the
insurance additions the return was at least
15 p.e. And whether that represented the
full measure of profits is contingent oh
whether no more than was reasonably neces-
sary was provided for depreciation of wasting
assets. No hint, is given of these allow-
ances ; but some idea of what lias happened
can be got by comparing the various balance-
sheet: entries;—
June,’l4. Dec. ’2O. Dec. 21.
Liabilities .. £9,543 £17,361 £17,041
Ship property ... 46,475 95,963 90,487
Freeholds & leaseholds 1,357 16,309 16,309
Plant, stores, etc. .. 3,296 4,576 5,449
Book debts , .. 11,058 20,013 19,000
Cash, ett. . . . . 67,507 116,300 130,445
No additions were made tq freehold property
during the year, and apparently there were
no fleet movements of any consequence, lhe
surplus of other assets oyer liabilities has
advanced £14,325 in 12 months, and mean-
time £15,000 was found for shareholders.
So the co., during the year, built up its
liquid position by £29,325 prior to paying
divs. and after maintaining the steamers m
good condition. Beduct frpm that sum a
fair allowance for depreciation and you get
the true net profit. What is a fair pro-
vision against the decay of wasting assets
only a shipping valuator can determine after
survey. Assuming that no additions were
made to shipping property, apparently £o4U9
was the approximate depreciation provision,
or less than 6 p.e. of the book value of the
fleet. That does not seem over-liberal.
A feature of the Newcastle and Hunter
River S.S, is that, though one-third of its
paid capital was a bonus addition, practi-
cally the whole of the £150,000 was repre-
sented by assets other than steamers when
the latest div. had been distributed. No less
than £130,000 was in the surplus of liquid
assets (mostly Government securities and
cash) over and above ascertained liabilities.
The extent to which shareholders can regard
these very large cash resources as assured
backing depends on whether some of the
cash will be required to replace steamers
which may have become obsolete and also
on whether the co.’s fleet is fully insured
outside the business: the latter point is not
made clear by the directors’ report. The pre-
sent position is Certainlv v°ry comfortable.
Besides the surplus liquid assets there
are freehold and leasehold properties with
a book value of £16,309 and a fleet
of steamers assessed in the books at £90,487.
At one time there appeared to be little in
the business; the co. did not seem to have
much to spare after paying 6 and 7 p.e. divs.
But in 1919 the directors declared that the
concern had really done much better than
had been admitted by the published accounts,
and that in addition to the handful of
reserves shown in 1914 there was £BO,OOO
more hidden from public view. In the com-
parison of assets already given, the 1914
figures are those shown by the accounts as
at that date. A more satisfactory view of
the co.’s progress can be got by comparing
the 1914 values as subsequently admitted
with latest book entries: —
June ’l4 Dec., ’2O. Dec., ’2l.
Fixed assets .. . . £127,784 £112,272 £106,796
Surplus liquid assets 72,318 123,528 137,853
Surplus liquid assets in 7-J years expanded
£65,500 and the book value of the fleet and
properties fell off £2l,ooo—a visible improve-
ment of £44,500.
* * * *
Daily Telegraph Newspaper Co. (Syd-
ney) :
.Bonus to
Net Dividend. Shareholders
Dec., Profit. (124 p.c.) (in Shares). Reserves.
1910. . £50,374 £22,687 £18,150 £83,115
1911.. 55,256 24,956 19,970 93,445
1912.. 56,892 27,452 30,380 92,505
1913.. 49,795 31,250 16,666 94,384
1914.. 41,828 33,334 102,878
1915.. 40,002 33,334 109,546
1916.. 40.019 33,334 116,231
1917.. 37,637 33,334 120,534
10 p.c.
1918.. 32,360 26,667 126.227
Reserves transferred to Capital, £88,890.. 37,337
Written off reserves, £2450 .. .. 34,887
74 p.c.
1919.. 21,309 26,667 29,529
Written off reserves, £1444 .. .. 28,083
10 p.c.
1920. . 66,938 35,556 59,465
71 p.c.
1921.. 25,271 26,667 58,069
The published accounts are not informative
as to how each year’s profits are made: one
entry gives the balance from working
account and the only charge shown is that
for depreciation. So it is not possible to
discover in figures the reason for the abnor-
mally large profit disclosed for 1920 and
for the big fall in the latest financial year.
Of course, in the former year trade was
booming, and advertising, at higher rates
than formerly, was easily written. But
probably most of the additional earnings
came from the extra ha’penny charged the
public at a time when late general-manager
Watkin Wynne still had a supply of com-
paratively cheap paper on hand. During
the whole of last year, on the other hand,
top-price paper went through the machines,
wages were increased and taxation was
heavier. The period apparently also had to
carry most, if not all, of the load of extra taxes
pavable on the handsome. profits made in the
previous year, for no visible provision for
taxes had been made in the 1920 accounts •
apart from the bank overdraft to finance
abnormally large paper stocks, all other
liabilities shown in the balance-sheet
amounted to only £0373.
In consequence of the reduced profit the
div. rate has gone back to 7| p.c. again,
and reserves had to be dipped into for almost
£l4OO to pay it. That p.c. is very sweet
to old hands: a lot of their scrip cost them
nothing. But it does not mean much to late-
comers who bought in at high prices, under
the delusion that the annual distribution of
bonus shares made some years ago would be
a permanent feature of the concern. Twenty-
five years ago paid capital was only £50,000,
but wholly by reserve transfers it grew in
this way:—
1902 .. £75,000 I 1911 .. £1 0r >.«50
1904 .. 100,000 I 1913 .. 266.670
1908 .. 150,000 I 1919 . . 355,560
An unusual feature of this newspaper co.
is that its assets do not include a penn’orth
of goodwill: the large paid capital .of
£355,560 is wholly represented by tangible
assets. And even though paper stocks are
still large, a very considerable portion of the
co.’s fuhds are invested in assets other than
required for newspaper production:—
War Loan, cash, etc. .. .. £58,018
Liabilities (inc. £BBB9 final div.) 16,445
Surplus cash assets .. .. £41,573
Stocks .. .. .. .. •• 100,686
Book debts .. .. .. .. 46,760
Surplus liquid assets ~ ~£189,019
Freehold p em'ses .. ~ , . 184,304
Printing plant, etc. .. ~ ~ 40,306
Net assets.. .. .. ..£413,629
The D. T. building is to-day worth much
more than it cost the co. : construction was
completed before costs soared and property
values boomed. Also, newspaper plant
appears to be included at low valuation,
and last year £2972 was provided for plant
depreciation, equal to 7 p.c. on the book
value. All assets being revenue producers,
the Daily Telegraph co. is better placed
than most newspaper cos. to show a good
return on capital. The rest depends on the
appeal the news-sheet makes to the public
Sheffield Manufacturing and Plating
Co., Ltd. (Svdney). In the table goodwill
is not reckoned as an asset: —-
, Dividends
Pref. Towards
Net (7i Re-
Dec., Profit, p.c.). Ordinary, serves. Deficit,
1918.. £727 5 p.c. = £1097 £1357
1919.. 1748 7 „ „ 1536 £212 1145
Pref. flotation exes, written off, £545
1920.. 2913 £3OO 11 p.c. = 2420 193 1497
Leasehold written up, £1377 .. 120
1921.. 2690 600 10 p.c. = 2200 230
This co. began with £20,000 of ordinary capi-
tal subscribed, but the business so expanded
and the high cost of stock put such a strain
on finances that £2OOO more ordinary capital
and £BOOO of 1 \ p.c. cum. prefs. were got in
a couple of years ago. Turnover has im-
proved in this wav: 1917, £13,736; 1918,
£16,473 ; 1919, £19,749 ; 1920, £25,697 ; 1921,
£29,248. Except in 1917, when metal sup-
plies were troublesome, the co. has paid a
div. each year from the beginning, but very
little has been left for reserves. Over the
four years covered by the table net profits
totalled £BO7B and divs. took £SIS3, the
ordinaries averaging 8:} p.c. p.a. Nevertheless,
reserves have been improved by about £l2OO
by writing up the book value of leaseholds.
The co. is a tenant of the City Council in
the remodelled Paddy's Market area, and
valuators Ilardie and Gorman say that the
present value of the lease is £19,000, instead
of the £17,000 at which it has been shown
in the books. The co. has taken credit for
£1377 of this estimated appreciation, and that
amount has been used to write down good-
will to £l5OO. The lease has still 40 years
to run, and to assure capital so represented
a policy has been taken out with the A.M.P.
whereby for annual payments of £172 the
co. will get £5OOO cash in 20 years, leaving
the Board of 1941 to invest that amount
to recoup in another 20 years the outlay on
the lease. Though £l2lO of reserves have
accumulated, goodwill still stands in the
balance-sheet at £1500; hence the deficit of
£230 shown in the table. How new capital
eased the co.’s position is shown in this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:—r-
-1918. 1919. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities.. .. £13,308 £12,782 £8,234 £0,819
Machinery, plant, etc.
(less reserves).. 4,331 4,402 4,539 4,719
Stock .. .. 9,890 9,400 9,979 9,557
Leasehold .. .. 16,394 10,489 16,548 18,077
Book debts .. 2,348 2,003 3,721 4,343
Cash and investments 2,034 2,228 3,490 1,214
The big asset is the lease of the five-storey
building. Twelve months ago the directors
reported that sub-letting was giving a net
profit of £BOO p.a., and in their latest report
they state that new five-year contracts have
given a net increase of over £4OO p.a. So
landlording is an important side-line of the
business.
# # # *
The Farmers and Citizens’ Trustees
Co. (Bendigo, Vic.) :
Deficit
Towards (Flotation
Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Expenses).
Dec.,
1910.. £99 £99 641
1911.. 307 Nil 307 334
Reserves
1912.. 371 Nil 371 37
1913. . 291 Nil 291 328
1914.. 402 3 p.c. = £353 49 377
1915.. 518 4 „ „ 471 47 424
1916.. 734 5 „ „ 689 145 569
1917.. 995 6 „ „ 589 406 975
1918.. 835 5 ~,, 589 246 1221
1919.. 911 5 „ „ 589 322 1543
1920.. 1052 5 „ „ 589 403 2006
1921.. 1188 6 ~,, 707 481 2457
After a dozen years the div. rate has
climbed to 6 p.c., and though that is a
point better than the distributions for the
past five years, the lay-by is larger than
ever it was before. The co. evidently con-
tinues to make steady progress, though it
does not disclose the extent of its trust
business. Earnings last year improved by
£213. The co. is yoqng yet. and will do
better when more clients oblige by dying.
The concern is also handicapped, from a
dividend point of view, by the fact that
under the Act it was required to lodge
£lO,OOO of its £11,780 paid capital with the
Vic. Treasurer: £10,004 was spent in taking
up 3 p.c. inscribed stock of a face value of
£11.300, and that compulsory investment is
giving a very noor return. However, the
accumulation of reserves one-fifth the size
of paid capital, and their investment in
better lines, is helping, while the gradual
expansion of trustee operations also adds a
bit each year.
* * * *
East End Market Co. (Adelaide) :
Divi- Divi-
Profit. (lends. Profit, dencß
June, T 2.. £1298 £1325 June, ’l7. . £1066 £1325
Dec., T2v. 1513 1325 Dec., ’17.. 1471 1250
June, ’13.. 1508 1325 June, ’lB.. 1960 1250
Dec., T 3. . 1437 1325 Dec., TB., 1507 1250
June, T 4.. 1345 1325 June, ’19.. 1015 1250
Dec,, T 4.. 1483 1325 Dec., ’19.. 1528 1250
June, ’15.. 1418 1325 June, ’20.. 821 1250
Dec., T 5.. 1145 1325 Dec., ’20.. 2124 1250
June, ’16.. 1043 1325 June, ’21.. 1052 1250
Dee., ’16.. 1439 1325 Dec., ’21.. 2151 1750
This little co. gets its income from shops,
stores and stands in Adelaide’s East End
Market. The see-sawing of profits as dis-
closed by the table is due chiefly to the fact
that while only the Federal income-tax com-
missioner sends in a bill in the December
terms, there are Federal and State land
taxes, State income-tax and municipal taxes
to be met in the first half of each year.
Additional taxes have pressed heavily on the
co.: about £350 more p.a. is now demanded
than was asked five years ago, and for a time
the div. rate had to be reduced. But heavier
taxes and increased working exes, have
lately been counterbalanced by squeezing
more rent. Paid capital is £33,125 in 10,000
£5 shares paid to 645. 3d. each. The co is
also working on a £16,000 mortgage. Divs.
for many years were at the rate of 8 p.c.
p.a., then dropped almost half a point for
four years, and for the latest half a record
distribution has been made. But there are
only a few pence left in the bag after paying
away divs.; reserves amount to but £1596.
The Langridge Mutual Permanent
Building Society (Melbourne) :
Added
Written to ite- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1910. . £5643 5 p.c. = £8676 £604 £1303 £21,952
1911.. 633 S 5 „ „ 3681 13,679 10,930
1912.. 6815 6 „ „ 4354 2461 13,391
Shares forfeited .. 394 13,785
1913.. 7169 6 p.c. = 4348 2821 16,606
1914.. 6940 6 „ „ 4262 2678 19,284
1915.. 6935 8 „ ~ 5637 1298 20,582
1916.. 6484 8 „ ~ 5593 891 21,473
1917.. 6783 8 „ ~ 5530 1253 22,726
1918.. 6598 8 „ „ 5515 1083 23,809
1919.. 6446 8 ~ „ 5515 931 24,740
1920.. 6696 8 „ ~ 5515 1181 25,921
1921.. 7024 8 „ „ 5515 1509 27,430
At its latest balance this Melbourne building
society still bad fewer advances on its books
than were there in pre-war days. While
others have been writing new business
rapidly, this one has not hastened to expand
its borrowing connections, nor has it been on
the market as a borrower on the scale of a
few years ago. This epitomises happenings
since 1905:—•
Deposits, Fore- Other
'etc. Advances, closures. Assets.
1905. . £12,229 £59,172 £54,245 £3678
1910.. 21,351 96,143 24.997 Nil
1914.. 26,826 115,745 3,996 Nil
1915.. 21,402 103,022 3,962 9f39
1916.. 20,229 110,235 3,929 1012
1917.. 18,987 108,332 3,929 1839
1918.. 15,545 99,829 3,970 7941
1919.. 18,351 105,956 3,378 6144
1920.. 16,863 103,768 4,187 7216
1921.. 16,842 106,147 3,378 7134
The entry at the head of the table tells of
old troubles; in new business there were only
a few thousands more than in the book value
of old foreclosed properties on hand. But
the co. had got through the ’nineties trouble
better than nearly all others in the same line
of money-lending. No capital was lost —or,
rather, there was no burning of scrip. Re-
serves filled some holes, working profits helped
to fill others over many years, and the re-
covery of values did the rest. From the
point of view of creditors its present position
is thoroughly sound; of total liabilities of
£16,842 at the balance £7050 was covered by
Commonwealth loans, leaving advances and
other assets with a book value of £109,609 to
support the £9792 of liabilities not sup-
ported by gilt-edged investments. The re-
serves which accumulated during the clean-
ing-up process and while the div. rate Was
kept down prove very handy nowadays: thev
enable the directors to pay 8 p.c. p.a. with
ease on the £68,940 of capital. That rate
has been maintained for seven years, and
meantime visible reserves have been strength-
ened by £8146.
Concerning a Maoriland insurance raid: —
One of the most cold-blooded methods of raising
a loan that has ever been adopted by any Govern-
ment was carried into effect in Maoriland last month
by the passage of the Insurance Companies Deposit
Act. This demands from every British (including
Australian) insurance co. now transacting business
in the Dominion a deposit in cash as from May 1
next of £35,000, made up as follows: £16,000 in
respect of fire insurance business, £15,000 in respect
of employers’ liability, and £ 5000 in respect of all
other classes of insurance business. Foreign cos.
now actually operating there are to place on deposit
£35,000 whether transacting only one or more
than one class of business. British or Australian
insurance cos. commencing business will have to put
up £50,000 in future and foreign cos. £lOO,OOO.
So far so good. The very essence of insurance is
good faith and security, for which reason no insur-
ance co. objects to depositing guarantees with the
Government of the country in which it hopes to
operate. But what is exacted from the goose should
be equally required of the gander, and it is an
extraordinary thing that the M.L. Government,
whilst asking for the guarantees just mentioned
from British, Australian and foreign cos. should
waive all such demands in the case of local cos. ;
from them no deposit at all is required. This
enactment makes it appear very obvious that the
object of the measure is not security to the policy-
holders so much as to raise a forced loan at the
expense of British, Australian and foreign cos.
The deposits required must be made wholly in cash ;
the Government will not accept in payment exist-
ing securities held by cos. in the form of M.L.
Government Bonds, War Loan, etc., even until
maturity in cases where such securities are return-
ing higher rates of interest than the Public Trust
Fund is likely to pay. Moneys received under the
provisions of the Act are to be invested in the com-
mon fund of the Public Trust Office, and depositors
do not even know what rate of interest they are to
receive. In other words, its own guaranteed-securi-
ties are in this instance repudiated by the Govern-
ment-securities which, owing to the urgent prayers
of the Dominion’s leaders during war-time, were
largely supported by the very people who are now
being harassed by the unfair impositions and irri-
tated by restrictions from which local cos. are
entirely freed. Even in the United States of
America no distinction is drawn between American


If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. —Advt. [4
* * * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it, fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
* » * *
The permanent satisfaction that Pioneer Wood
Pipe gives is one of the strongest reasons for its
installation. Apart from being cheaper than metal
in the first instance, it is cheaper all through its
almost unlimited life. It does not corrode or rust,
is unaffected by electrolysis or frost, and its carrying
capacity does not decrease with age. Considering
these and the additional advantages of lower trans-
portation cost and laying, it is not strange that each
year more engineers specify wood pipe for every class
of water conduit. Tbe Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
» * * •
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company. — Advt.
* * » •
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
♦ • » •
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
• * * *
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-aoid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). — Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainswortii’s & Oertling’’*
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. IT. B. Selbv kCo ,
btd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb. —Advt.
Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Gt. Britain
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
0/ 110 / 9d. (minimum
3/ ' 1/6 i 15/-. 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4£d.
Canada .. 2/4 1/2 j " d - (minimum
T 7 C , . „ ' ) 11/8,20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 George Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346
(3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St.. Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2034
J. MIT.WARD. Manager in the Pacific,
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
w
, pOORD &, S ON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
d
Swift & Company I.td.. Australasian Agents. 26/30 Clarence St.. Sydney
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
and foreign cos. Guarantees are demanded imparti-
ally from both, and the Insurance Commissioner
there accepts as security American bonds and the
recognised investment funds of the Union.
* * * *
Vic. Treasurer McPherson had good luck
as well as good guidance in putting his
£4,000,000 railway and waterworks loan on the
London market. He seemed to be doing well,
as compared with recent Australian issues,
when he was asked 54 p.c. at 96, and had
nearly closed when the bank discount rate
in London fell to 4J. Then he held out for
better terms, and the 54 p.c. loan was eventu-
ally underwritten at 99. The careful man-
agement of Vic. finances had a great deal
to do with the price, but Vic. was also helped
by being able to keep off the market so long.
Also, the abstinence from any dealings with
New York, when baits were dangled, probably
no harm.
* * * *
After having been shut down since Easter
of last year, Mt. Morgan should be producing
again in a couple of weeks. The settlement
of the wages question does not vary much
from the proposals made in May last; the
taxpayer is to carry the greater part of the
losses of an industry which cannot make ends
meet. Twelve months ago the co. intimated
that it could not carry on in the slumped
metal markets —in six months electrolytic had
fallen from £ll5 to £7O per ton—unless em-
ployees were prepared to accept a 20 p.c.
wages reduction. Accountants appointed
by both the co. and its employees ascertained
that the cost of producing each ton of cop-
per exceeded £92, provided £5 ss. 3d. per oz.
(fine) was got for the gold content. The
employees refused to agree to the proposed
wage reductions. The Government then
offered £lOOO per week rebate of railway
freights, leaving the co. to face a loss of
£l3OO per week. This proposal also proved
unacceptable. Now a new schedule of wages
has been agreed to in consideration of the
Government rebating £llOO of railway
freights. How the new arrangement will
suit Morgan is not clear; with electrolytic
at around £67 per ton, and gold worth con-
siderably less than it was when the mine shut
down, the outlook is drab.
* * * *
“M.D.’s” summary of it:—
A careful perusal of the voluminous and candidly-
written report by the B. H. Technical Commission,
which, though completed in November, 1920, only
recently got into Blue Book form, makes it evident
that to the X-ray man in future will fall the job
of saying when the time has arrived for the miner
to search for an above-ground occupation. In the
study of uncomplicated pneumoconiosis it was clearly
demonstrated that the radiologist was the more useful
man, since in almost all cases belonging to the first
stage of the disease, and in many of those belonging
to the second stage, there were either no symptoms
of disability at all, or only a little shortness of
breath on exertion, or a trifling catarrh that did not
call for treatment. Mostly there were no stethoscdpic
signs of pulmonary mischief. The miner was appa-
rently quite well, and had never lost an hour’s work,
but when he was examined by the radiographer there
were ample evidences on the photographic plate of
the beginning of, or even advanced, pneumoconiosis.
On the series of plates included in the report the
linear markings in the lung areas, the increase of
the hilum shadow, and the presence of nodules on
the surface of the lung in advanced cases are admir-
ably depicted, as well as the areas of consolidation
when tuberculosis was super-added. Periodical
examination of all miners at the Barrier by X-rays
will be necessary if the tuberculosis danger is to be
grappled with successfully, and this step will neces-
sitate the co-operation of the men. The report shows
that there is not much danger of the onset of
pneumoconiosis for the first 10 years, the percentage
of those affected being only 1.9. This includes both
simple cases and those complicated by tuberculosis.
The percentage rises in the next decade to 7.7, and
in the third decade to 17.1 After the 30th year was
passed it reached 36.8.
* * * #
Hampton Celebration starts crushing next
month. At the time this show was floated
it looked a good thing, but as development
proceeded at 100 ft. values gave out. Subse-
quent sampling showed 35,000 tons soft
oxidised ore worth 425. Gd. above that level,
anu a further Id,ooo tons lower-grade stuff
have since been opened up between No. 1
and No. 2 levels. In the upper level the lode
was m porphyry and unpayable, but in the
sulphides at No. 3 level ore worth 355. Gd.
per ton has been exposed in the drive for
a length of 200 ft. The lode is expected to
be clear of the porphyry at 400 ft., and sink-
ing will be continued to that point later in
the year. Apart from the Celebration, and,
perhaps, the Mutooroo and Golden Hope,
nothing seems to have much chance on the
Plains.
* * * *
Manager Stuckey, of Edna May Deeps
(W. A.), once said that the profits which
that co. would distribute were impossible of
estimation, and time has proved there was
much truth in the prophecy. Stuckey re-
cently announced his intention of extracting
the block of ore standing on the joint boun-
(]2aV r,na May and Deeps at the
480 ft. level. _ The block is a fairly good
one, but as it is holding back the water in
the flooded Edna mine, the extraction of it
should prove exciting. This block represents
all that is left in a mining way at Westonia.
Reported that Riverina South has closed
down owing to treatment-plant troubles.
Although the plant is not altogether blame-
less, the main trouble is with the mine. Be-
sides making over 60 calls, the co. has
secured much in the way of cash advances
from the Government, and there is not much
in the property to show for all the expendi-
ture. The reef is small, country very hard
and gold content small for these days of
high working costs.
Of Westralia’s dozen or more once-populous
but now deserted goldfields none looks more
dismal than Day Dawn or Kanowna. Both
.settlements have been almost wiped out.
Twenty years ago, when the alluvial leads
were booming, over 15,000 nrten were rooting
for slugs and nuggets at Kanowna, and most
of the surface for miles around was turned
over. Even the cemetery was made to give
uo its dead in order to prospect the ground
in which the graves had been sunk. Now,
only a few fossickers and tribute parties
remain. The condition of Day Dawn is
even worse. For a lono- time its mainstay,
the Great Fingall, ranked among the biggest
producers in the State; but a falling off in
values coupled with increased cost of work-
ing brought about its downfall, and caved-in
stopes and flooded workings did the rest.
* * * *
Pilbara (W.A.) during its latest financial
year shipped 770 tons ore going ID p.c.,
added 2286 tons to its ore dumps, and made a
working profit of £3578. The dumps now
hold about 80.000 tons ore averaging 4 p.c.
copper. The leaching plant installed during
the year gave satisfactory results, but water-
supply is the problem. It is proposed to
undertake a water scheme which will enable
the plant to work at its full capacity of
treating 200 tons ore per day; and after
inspection the Westralian Mines Department
recommended that the Government should
assist the scheme to the extent of £20.000.
* * * *
Including the 4s. dividend recently paid
the liquidation of the Ivalgoorli (W. A.) is
expected to yield about 18s. 6d. per share.
Those who have been shareholders from the
beginning have had £l4 per share to date.
. This is what the Roper Rivpr Oil Conces-
sions Co. advertises in the Melbourne papers
as the reasons for asking the public t i put up
a trifle of cash:—
The information I received was that this man
camped at a certain spot for about a week, some
four or five years ago, in a large swanm, and on pull-
ing up some roots to put on the fire the roots blazed
as if they had been soaked in oil, and smelt of kero-
sene. He also said that the water about the swamp
had an oily coating on the surface, also that when
lying on the ground at night he could hear rumbling
sounds underneath, similar to what might be heard
in coal country, or where there was gas escaping.
He has marked the place out on the plan for me.
Fancy floating a co. to bore for petroleum on
five-year-old smells, blazes and rumbles! It
is comforting to know that this “block of 1000
sq. miles adjoins the Roper River block of
the Australian Petroleum Development Co.,
whose shares have been sold at £40.” The
A.P.D. shares are being sold on the strength
of what J. L. Strevens may do in London
with the co.’s blocks on the Ord River.
* * * *
Rockhampton (Q.) had its little flutter
for petroleum, the site being Alton Downs,
where an oil dowser’s rod reacted sympathe-
tically to an underground reservoir. The
prospectus led shareholders to believe they
were boring in tertiary strata. After the
bore got down some 700 ft. and through sev-
eral beds of blue metal some of the more
sceptical called in an oil expert. An inspec-
tion of the surrounding country and borings
prompted him to whisper an aside to the
chief enthusiast that the formation was not
only not tertiary, but a highly folded and
broken series which would never retain the
precious oil drops. So Rocky has had its
first lesson.
* * * »
Everything has gone so well with the
Sardine, Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.), that, de-
spite the poor metal market, £4OOO ( 2s.
per share) was distributed during the six
months ended December. And as the period
closed with a liquid surplus of £5200, 3d.
per share (£2000) has since been paid on
the reconstructed register—there are now
160,000 of ss. each instead of 40,000 of £1
Paid capital is £30,625, and though the
co. has been operating only two years, in
18 months it has found £lB,OOO for share-
holders. So far 1356 tons ore have given
353-J tons tin, with 71 tons more from 232
tons seconds. No sorting is done nowadays,
and 48SJ tons milled in the past half gave
160 tons tin. Development is proceeding
so satisfactorily that in the No. 4 winze
alone recent work has given an expectancy
of 400 tons tin. Further, operations in the
No. 4 level have confirmed Government
Geologist Saint-Smith’s opinion that the ore
occurs, in “large lenses practically contigu-
ous with each other, giving the workings
the appearance of having been carried down
on one continuous ore-body.” He forecasts
that, “extremely profitable stoping” will
continue for the next two or three years,
but impresses on the co. the necessity for
providing for the future of the mine by
vigorous development. “All the geological
conditions usually necessary for the persist-
ence of the present series of ore shoots at
depth are present,” he adds.
• * * *
There is just a glimmer of hope that a
further run of payable ore may be struck
below 600 ft. in the Duke, Ravenswood
(N.Q.). That show, with the Sunset and
Grant, made the trio that put Ravenswood on
the map and kept Laurence Wilson busy for
many years. There is reported to be a reef
up to Ift. wide showing, and below 600 ft. is
maiden country. The field is practically de-
serted, and a five-head battery is all that is
left; but it will crush 100 tons for a start.
* * * *
New Burragorang, on the Yerranderie
silver-field, is the latest N. S. Wales mine to
call a halt. The last div. on tine 60,000
shares fully paid to ss. was a thrip’ny
towards the end of 1917. The slumped metal
markets hit the co. hard: instead of receiv-
ing a final payment over and above the
advances received on recent output, the man-
agement discovered that it had been over-
paid. Liabilities now tot up £2500, and as
the future is doubtful and an attempt to get
in new capital failed, work has ceased and
the directors are seeking suspension of labor
conditions for six months.
* * * *
Accounts are out to explain how the Morn-
ing Star, Wood’s Point (Vic.), managed to
repay the £lO,OOO Government subsidy last
month. During the half to December 31
6070 tons crushed gave 74750 z. gold, and,
with a £3540 divvy from the Gold Producers’
Association, £28,311 was won. Exes, took
£15,947, leaving a net profit of £12,364 for
the six months. Adding the £2297 balance
from the previous term, the co. had £14,661
to play with. Of this £7500 was set aside for
new plant expenditure during the current
term. At December 31 the Morning Star
had a surplus of gold over bank overdraft
and sundry creditors of £6858, so to settle
with the Treasury early in January the
“Money” Millers evidently had to go further
than the cash-box to find the £lO,OOO, unless
the battery spoke unusually loud in the New
Year. The additional 15-head of stamps are
now at work, and this year the co. hopes to
put through 1400 tons per month, and it is
“anticipated that regular distributions to
shareholders will hereafter be made monthly.”
There is no whisper as to ore reserves and
values; all that is told is that the mine has
continued to open up well and that enough
payable ore is exposed to assure that the
little Morning Star will twinkle as a pro-
ducer “for some years.”
* * * *
In the same stable as the Morning Star
is the AI of Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.). But
manager John Till has seen very little to
hearten him lately: six months’ work in
three levels brought no glitter and to Decem-
ber 31 only £3Ol worth of gold was won. But
development and other exes, swallowed
£8431. A £2302 div. from the Gold Pro-
ducers’ Association and £202 interest from
investments brought the year’s loss down to
£5625, and that debit at P. and L. has been
shunted front the accounts by extracting that
amount from the £9348 which had been pre-
viously set aside for new plant. Of the half-
year’s exes. £lll5 went in sinking the main-
shaft to 1475 ft., and at 100 ft. below the No. 7
level Till is opening up an eighth, and is
in 108 ft. in search of the downward con-
tinuation of the pay shoot worked in No.
7. He expects to go another 100 ft. before
crosscutting to intersect the floor. Though
nothing but blanks have been met in all
directions lately. Till regards prospects as
encouraging, while Chairman Edward Miller
less cautiously talks of “payable gold being
intersected any shift.” The co. can still
keep going for awhile without tapping share-
holders : at the balance there was £10,600
cash i" hand.
» * * *
Bendigo Al still fails to make ends meet.
Last half gold gave £5054 and premium
£1284, but the co. went back £602, swelling
the working account debit to £3974. Work
has been confined to the vicinity of the New
Moon shaft, but patchiness has been mostly
the experience. Still, having sighted values
off the 1241 ft. level, mine-manager Lano’don
still holds out hopes of the workings there
becoming a “good producer,” despite the
patchy nature of the spurs. Meantime the
1142 ft. stopes are expected to provide battery
feed of about the same grade as has been
handled lately: 4271 tons gave 1265|0z. in
the past half, an average of slightly under
6dwt. At December 33 all the co. had left
of its capital and the £10,700 Government
advance was £2llO of cash, other lioiud assets
totalling £139. and the plant. Sundry credi-
tors were owed £219.
* * * *
“G.D.M.” makes an offer: —
The trifling dispute whether six Germans should
be imported for six months to erect some simple
briquetting machinery has developed into a triangular
duel between the Federation of British Industries, the
Commonwealth Government and the Electricity Com-
missioners. The versatile George Swinburne baa
elected himself defender of the six Germans and
explainer of this petty bungle. Mr. Swinburne has
publicly stated that the Electricity Commissioners,
“knowing there was no one who could make it [the
briquetting machine] in Australia,” were agreed
that importation from Germany was essential. This
is the kind of slander on Australian manufacturers
so common and yet so inexplicable, and it is usually
uttered by men who are themselves Australian manu-
facturers.
There is nothing complex about the plant for mak-
ing brown-coal briquettes. At Morwell 33 years ago
the Austral Otis Co., working from German blue-
prints, had a plant made and erected by their own
workmen in South Melbourne, and turned out 4000
tons of good briquettes from the Great Morwell co.’s
mine and factory. Proper precautions against com-
bustion of the brown coal dust were not taken, and
a Are destroyed the factory and machinery, and so
delayed for 35 years the creation of the great brown-
coal briquet industry, which is going to make Vic-
toria one of the richest little States on earth.
It is bunkum to say a briquetting plant cannot be
designed and built at Morwell, and one is surprised
that John Monash, with his lifelong experience of
Australian machinery and craftsmen, does not forbid
George Swinburne to draw public ridicule on his
Electricity colleagues.
P.S. —This letter is written on my own responsi-
bility, and in a most unbusinesslike fashion I am
prepared to hand over a complete set of blue-prints
I got from a Los Angeles firm of briquetters, for
nothing, on condition that no title or honor is thrust
upon me.
P.P.S. —As a reward I would like to get the vacant
job of Agent-General to China at £2500 yearly.
Though owing to world-wide depression
Burma Corporation has called a halt with
its scheme to put up smelters and refineries
designed to produce 60,000 tons lead and
6,000,000 ounces silver annually, the concern,
in which a number of old Barrierites are
active, is nowadays a big producer. In
1914 2891 tons refined lead were marketed,
but no silver. In its latest financial year
23,821 tons lead and 2,869,7270 z. silver were
turned out. Ore reserves at June 30 last
exceeded 4J million tons averaging 230 z.
silver, 25.1 p.c. lead and 17.6 p.c. zinc, and
335,681 tons copper ore averaging 11 p.c.


c>fp\c.«un' Ava yoy
Pzwd res! c Finu c*».w<a ? "
Covorixda. *. TV> ;&.+’& ma. '!
Simon P&me-ls o/"
dKa- TrBko3.m»i(z;a *lso
votes' .
I* COVS ooljsoo
*H>« wachcEjcl
P»’ck ShovctHars .
I+js R +i/irtr)«_
Kcc- if» Fo o«od^Vio«
tw«.mWir csjf +b«. Douglas *
Fa.4a»*a.'tii»s .
Ja>*C'W +fc>c.
Hod - CJk»"V»«.vs ’wa.igjbs vro
O’TIOONEV
TOPS Trt€.
POUL. ! 1
PETER PLUMDUFF HAS A BUSY DAY.
“That this meeting of the Surry Hills branch of the Australian Labor Party emphatically protests against the corrupt balloting in the Sydney
selection ballot on Saturday last for the selection of five candidates, and that we charge fraudulent and corrupt voting.”


Visitors to Sydney will
find that the bed and
breakfast tariff system
at the Hotel Sydney
considerably reduces
the cost of their stay in
the holiday city, while
giving greater freedom
of movement for busi-
ness or sight-seeing.
400 Guests.
Hot and cold water in every Bedroom.
Delightful Koof Garden.
Write for Tariff Card,
management: E. T. Cheeseman.
Horcfr Looking at You"
ABBOTS
LAGER
The Beer
without a Rival
■i-k
,0-397.
&REWED FROM
PURE MALT
AND MOPS ONLY
--
t a
d
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New I{*2l Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is i ust to hand > and
the highly successful result of many
research by the Scientists at the Mears
tories. ..
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers bj r all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands ot Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved T>T . Tr ,
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings.
387 Georsre Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
There were hopes among the Australian-
born priests that one of their number would
be made Coadjutor-Archbishop of Sydney,
with the right of succession to Archbishop
Kelly, but the appointment has gone to May-
nooth. Dr. Michael Sheehan, on whom the
new Pope’s choice has fallen, is a Waterford
man, like his chief, and was a contemporary
of Dr. Mannix at St. Patrick’s College.
Mannix became Professor of Philosophy at
St. Pat’s in 1891; Sheehan Professor of
Classics in 1897; and until the former left
for Australia in 1912 they were warm
friends. Dr. Sheehan is Doctor of Divinity,
Doctor of Philosophy (Bonn gave him that
degree) and Master of Arts, and has writ-
ten several works on Irish literature. He
is certainly one of the most learned Irishmen
of his time. But there are learned Austra-
lians, too, and there were 10,000 good reasons
why one of them should have been appointed
to this Australian see.
Dicky Haynes, wittiest of Westralian bar-
risters, has handled his last brief. A native
of Picton (N.S.W.) he went to Perth in
the days when brother John was helpmg
to establish The Bulletin, and made his
mark as a fighting lawyer and as a racon-
teur in his hours of relaxation. During the
Dr. R. J. POPE, who in his youth repre-
sented Australia at cricket, and has
accompanied several Australian teams
to England as lion, medical adviser. He
was with the last lot, “travelling light,"
and took hold of the business arrange-
ments when Sid Smith fell sick.
boom he earned a princely income, but
the little man was too clubable to hold
money. Once or twice he was in Parlia-
ment, and when the second Fisher Govern-
ment was in office he was very nearly
appointed a High Court Judge. It was a
fortunate escape, for the frigid atmosphere
of the Bench wouldn’t have suited Dicky.
Edward Fleming, appointed to succeed
John Keating as N. S. Wales Under-Secre-
tary for Lands, is one of the youngest men
to whom this job has fallen in recent years.'
Twelve years ago Fleming was ambling along
in the departmental ruck. His chance came
when Charles Yofke died and the legal and
legislative work of the department had to
be looked after by someone else. Fleming
is stout and florid-faced, knows the depart-
ment from A to Z, and has a glutton’s appe-
tite for work. A curious result of the
senioritv rule which hitherto pushed into the
Under-Secretaryship of this department men
on the verge of retirement is that there are
at least seven former Under-Secretaries for
Lands surviving. And another, the brilliant
Horry Currv. died only a few months ago.
Fleming is 47, and, as he is officially esti-
mated to have 18 years’ work in him yet.
the list of survivors when he joins the band
will probablv be smaller than it is to-day.
Dr. M. C. Lane, is the first home-grown
graduate to got a xiomination to the Senate
of the Queensland Uni. The governing body
consists partly of Government nominees and
partly of graduates elected by a council
which, until the last year or two. consisted
mostly of men from outside; and it badly
needs someone who can give it the point of
view of its own students. Incidentally, the
Brisbane grads, have not done badly for
L. F. GIBLIN, ex-M.L.A., the Specie's
Statistician and Registrar-General.
themselves. One has recently become acting-
Professor of Zoology at Adelaide, another
lecturer in Chemistry at Adelaide, and a
third, after a med. course in Sydney, is now
assistant to Elliot Smith in London. Seven
of the engineering-school men hold important
jobs in Melbourne.
Henry Thorncroft Plant, of Charters
Towers (Q.), has gone out at *76. He over-
landed from S. Aus. to Bananaland at 15,
and was variously carrier, drover and miner,
The Palmer saw him among the first pros-
pectors, but he struck nothing big. After
wards he bought an orchard near the Tow-
>TSrTn °? e ° f th ® fine f orau Se groves m
N.Q. Plant was a fine horseman, and bred
Brownlock, the high-jumper.
David Downes, who died at Charters
Towers recently at 93, wasi probably the
oldest miner m the Far North. Arriving in
Australia m ’3B, he tried Ballarat and Ben-
digo, then prospected m M.L for several
years before making for Queensland, where
he discovered the Beak Downs field, anu
ater on found gold at Reeves Creek. Downes
had one great grievance—although one
administration did offer him a reward for
finding gold at Peak Downs, he never got
the cash.
The appearance of John Shirlow upon the
committee of the Melbourne National Gal-
lery means the introduction of a demo-
cratic element. Shirlow, who is a working
man, an electrical mechanic, is much seen
about Melbourne with the honorable stains
of his calling upon him; and John Connell,
the other new trustee, is an ex-publican who
some time ago presented an excellent collec-
tion of pictures and art objects to the
gallery, gathered mainly by his late wife,
who also had a wonderful natural instinct
for a good thing in paint.
Chris Pattinson, provisional secretary of
the 0.8. U. (he was elected without opposi-
tion), is .a coaly from Cumberland. He
came to Australia in 1914, and became a
power among the Northern N. S. Wales
miners, who sent him as a delegate to several
A.L.P. conferences. When Jack Baddeley
resigned his presidential job, Chris was a
candidate for the vacancy, but Dave Rees
beat him by a few votes. In Britain Pattin-
son was an outdoor speaker and propagan-
dist for the Socialist Labor party. He and
James Connolly (shot after the 1916 rebel-
lion) together stumped Edinburgh and the
bi» North-Countrv towns between 1909 and
1913.
R. E. Hayes, J. G. Latham and Owen
Dixon, of the Vic. Bar, have taken silk. Out-
side Crown prosecutors and officials like the
Commissioner of Titles the supply had run
very short.
Champagne drinkers had a memory to
which to turn down a glass last week. The
first man to make the bubbly drink in Aus-
tralia was Gastin Frere, a Frenchman who
settled in Albury in 1855 and planted a
vineyard of 190 acres. He has long been
dead; and on Feb. 14 his widow Martha,
who had carried on his interests after his
death, passed out also. She was 79.
“G.S.”: An old lady who was buried as
Maria Barri at Jimbour (Q.) the other day
was the daughter of a noble Italian house.
When about 20 she eloped with a groom,
and they lived in France for a while, then
came to Bananaland and started fanning.
Photos taken in her youth show her to have
been remarkably beautiful. She told me that
never even for a day had she regretted what
she did. Her husband is a handsome old
chap who doesn’t look anything like his age.
Of their two children, the daughter is
married to a N.S.W. squatter, and the son,
after serving four years at the war, came
back to help on the farm.
Not many men get such an obituary notice
ns comes to Tire Bulletin in this composite
production of the miners of Woodlark Island :
Billy Anderson had taken charge. He said to Alf
Flower and his mate: “We thought we would get you
two to see about the grave. There are boys with
the tools waiting.’’ We asked Mrs. Taaffe where
she would like us to bury the doctor. She said:
“Near the children—he will be happiest among the
children.” Other miners were making the coffin
at the store. When the coffin was ready we took
it up and laid thq doctor in it. Then we got a
long pole, lashed the coffin to it, and we all carried
it up to the grave. There was Dave Sherrett, Hughie
Sweatman, Hany Hirch, Jack McLeish, Fred Smart,
Jim Curtin, Billy Anderson, Jim Robertson, Fred
Bayes and Alf Flower, all old miners, excepting Fred
Bayes, a young man in charge of the wireless station.
Mrs. Taaffe and Mrs. O’Dell followed the coffin.
Billy Anderson read the burial service. And so we
buried Dr. John Taaffe, the best and kindest man in
Woodlark Island, or ever will be. Twenty-five years
ago, when the gold rush broke out here, John Taaffe
was among the first lbt. Before long the malaria
mosquito got to work on the men. John Taaffe,
who had been a medical student, came to their aid,
and but for him many a man would have died. It
got that way that the miners asked Jack to be
their doctor. He agreed to do what he could, but
not having qualified he said he could not charge
them. They said they would look after that part
of the business. All through the years since then
he has been nurse and doctor, too. Later on the
New Guinea Government appointed him medical
officer for the natives, and built a hospital for them.
Still later, when there were very few miners left, he
was appointed Inspector of Native Labor and Magis-
trate. He still found time to continue his study of
malaria fever; doctors from all parts wrote to him
for information about it. And that he had he gave,
whatever it was. But most of all it was kindness.
If ever a man deserved a memorial, John Taaffe
does; and if the old hands, scattered now over the
earth, would like to contribute towards it, let them
write to Alf Flower at Kalamadau.
W. G. Hearne left £114,308 in N.S.W.
and Victoria, and there was something also
in Maoriland and elsewhere —practically all
made out of the bronchitis cure which he
first began to compound when he had a little
chemist’s business in Geelong.
Harry Butler, convalescent in Adelaide
after his smashing fall, treats the whole
thing very lightly, and hopes to resume flying
sometime, though the damage to his eyes
will mean quite a year’s holiday. His right
eye is still tied up, his broken nose is heal-
ing, and his jaw is, in his own words,
“pushed about a bit.”
Owen Munro, a surface hand at the
N.S.W. State coalmine, who was acciden-
tally killed the other day, was a B.A. He
had been a teacher in various schools, and
an instructor on the Tingira, but he took
to a rougher* job because he found that in
this fine young democracy of ours a man
who shifts a truck about gets paid more
than a well-qualified dominie.
Marsh Roberts, Oxford graduate and
economist, the latest addition to the
Workers’ Educational Association lecturers,
will carry the tidings of intellectual
socialism to Broken Hill. Roberts was in-
valided out of the British army in 1916 and
was appointed assistant to R. J. Campbell
at Christ Church, Westminster, in 1917. But
he was too much of a radical freethinker
to stick it.
Journalist Val Marshall came back from
the war with a bullet near his heart, and he
carried the unnecessary ironmongery about
with him till the other day, when Dr.
Poate, of the Randwick (N.S.W.) Military
Hospital, removed it. It was a Sydney doc-
tor, by the way, who during the war was
the first to extract a bullet actually em-
bedded in the heart of the patient. That
operation took place in Cambridge.
Amongst the Coalition candidates for
Eastern Suburbs (N.S.W.) is Fred Davison,
who, although well beyond 50. is a returned
soldiei*. In America, when the war broke
out, he advertised in San Francisco dailies
for Australians willing to form a unit for
service abroad. The U.S.A. authorities
H. C. G. MACINDOE, who has "been prosecu-
ting Ross in the Tirtschke case in
Melbourne.
intervened, but a number of the men who
had put in their names went north to Van-
couver and ioined the Canucks. Davison
himself came to Sydney and enlisted. Lately
he has been running the Australian Post,
a newspaper devoted to the theory that State
Socialism is slowly strangling Australia.
Colonel Alf Bennett, of the N.S.W. Edu-
cation Department, though still on the right
side of the retiring age, has probably had
longer commissioned service than any other
native-born soldier. He and the late General
Holmes became second lieutenants together
in the old Ist N.S.W. Infantry. He went
to the Soudan, collected a D.S.O. in South
Africa and a C.M.G. and some wound-stripes
in the last war. Altogether he has had 37
years’ commissioned service.
Dr. Laver, the Westralian member of
a Castlemaine (Vic.) family distinguished
in the annals of music, pioneering and sport,
has been renewing his impressions of the
eastern States. For 27 years the tall,
sunny-natured doctor has backed (and
healed) prospectoi’S in the mulga, where no
man is better known or better liked. The
once-flourishing township of Laverton was
named after him, and more than one fortune
has come his way. In company with Jock
Mclntyre, sometime Vic. Minister of Lands,
Laver hauled the first bucketful of rich stuff
out of the original shaft on the Great
Boulder. Now, after the lapse of half a
lifetime, he has taken up a lease on the south
end, and talks, with the infectious optimism
which has never deserted him, of reviving
the old glories of the Golden Mile.
“Pam”: Harman, the generally useful at
London Philharmonic Hall, says that M.
P. Adams, who talked on “Australia’s Wild
Nor’-West,” was the most get-at-able man
who ever took the stage at the home of the
travelogue. Even with the constant grind
of two and sometimes three shows a day,
Adams never failed to interview anyone who
sought information about Australia. One
interested old lady sent a deputy to ascertain
if she could help the wild black men who
accompanied Mr. Adams from Westralia,
and did they believe in the Almighty? The
dear old dame got quite a shock when she
learned that the wild men were not in
London in the flesh. Perhaps the most
interesting link with Australia came from
Mrs. Woodward, the widow of explorer
Gregory, who was on the Nor’-West coast in
1855; and another letter was from Capt.
Ernest S. de Pass, who was through Wvnd-
ham and the Cambridge Gulf with Carr
Boyd in ISBS.
“C. Coral”: A man deserving well of his
country is “Jack” Bruce, who has for over
30 years represented “Big Guv’ment” at
Murray Island, and is now at the retiring
age. He was appointed teacher when Queens-
land took over the group, and has been
there ever since, the only white resident on
Murray Island. The job embi’aces about a
thousand and one duties, from running
native courts to doctoring nigs. He has
jotted down much stuff of scientific value,
and has a unique collection of curios. When
he vacates the little corrugated-iron house
on the beach, the natives will lose a good
friend, and the Government one of its most
capable officials in the Straits.
BERTRAM STEVENS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beside the far-flung track to Rome he pitched his
morning camp,
’Midst drum-call and bugle-call and fiercely thunder-
ing tramp
Of strong hearts, and eager hearts, and breaking
hearts that hurled
Forward in hot haste to reach the City of the World.
Some drove, godlike, in chariots, high songs upon
their lips;
Some trailed ribands of sea and sky to serve them as
their whips;
The words of some flashed back and forth like colored
beetles’ wings ;
Some planned a canvas wide and deep as the horizon’s
rings.
lie snared the song, the glittering word, he stored
the whips’ glad hues,
And garnered all the treasures for a future world to
use.
What though, sometimes, he glimpsed himself the
Seven Hills of Roihe,
And felt his feet stride glorious dust, nor walk the
floor of loam,
Night caught him as he labored beside the tent’s
wide flap,
Blazoning the banners of the onward marching chap 1
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.


our
Brandy Sir!
A
/
30?
1
V*
*r
_ A\
i
I
EEsn
Quran Turn*
«B
%
<'
!A
- i
&s*
VW§iip<
S 5:
S
&>’M
I
3M?
<-A-
-1
! I
i
< :
f !
BUS
SfiZ'ti.-ti
/ !
'
[ ;
tag
i
i ?
1 1
’•m
': s
ssh
O
V !
A<r>
CHATEAU TANUNDA
HOSPITAL
BRANDY


Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
laqUit’iM solicited.
Appetising
and
Refreshing
with
Dinner
or
Supper.
1
LIGHT
Brewed
and
bottled
by
TOOTH & CO.,
Limited,
Kent Brewery,
Sydney.
CoroNA
The Personal Writing Machine —the one you
can fold up and take with you anywhere.
A brand new CORONA costs only
£l7/17/-
iricl'uding attractive carrying-case.
Other makes of typewriters for sale or rent.
Lowest prices.
Easy monthly payments if required.
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
17 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
SOCIETY
“Ilayeworray” : Interest in the Gun Alley
tragedy spread into the Yic. baekblocks. A
bush storekeeper in our (north-east) district
received this note just after the affair: —
Pleas sende 3 boxess matchers and one goode pockit
nife, too Tin sammen won bloutar Paist pleas gett
me three Bob whiskie att pub. An’ rite on End of
bill If the police cort thee murdarer Yett.
HOW THEY LEARNED THE HIGHER
CRITICISM.
MABEL: “How is it Arthur never asks you
to the theatre now?”
ETHEL: “Well, you see, one evening it rained
and we sat in the parlor.”
MABEL: “Yes?”
ETHEL : “Well, ever since then we — oh, I
don’t know, but don’t you think theatres
are an awful bore?”
“Howitzer”: Recent references to amnesia
recall a Digger cobber of mine who was dis-
charged with shell shock. To all appear-
ances he was normal and resumed his old
position with the firm he was with in pre-war
days. After a few months he was trans-
ferred from Brisbane to Townsville (N.Q.) ;
but about two months later I got a shock to
see him seated in his old possie. When I
spoke to him he gave me a vacant stare and
asked me to take him “out of the line.” It
wasn’t long before we had him in a private
hospital, and after five days his memory
returned with a rush. He had come from
Townsville to Brisbane and resumed his old
position in a “sub-conscious” state.
“Bid-up”: It was on the Somme in the
winter 1916. The place was a sea of mud
and the weather was worse than usual. We
were training for a raid, and at 6. a.m. I had
to get the company on parade—and it was
a deuce of a job shaking the Diggers out
of their blankets. At last one of them sat
up and had a look at the appalling condi-
tions outside. “My Gawd,” he drawled —“a
chap would be better off at home!”
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The champion bargain-hunter
turned up in a Sydney court the other day.
It was a woman, of course, who, having been
fined 10s. or four days, pleaded with the
magistrate to reduce the alternative to three
days. And she did it so well that he granted
the reduction; whereupon, her appetite for
something off salGprice being appeased, she
promptly paid the fine.
* * 9 *
“Macquarie Street”: The funeral that
passed up Sydney’s Macquarie-street on
February 15, wailing with Chopin’s “Funeral
March,” reminded us all of the war, towards
the end of which we used to see a gun-carriage
and Union Jack pass up about twice a week.
But those dead heroes used generally to ride
their last ride to the tune of the Dead March
in “Saul”—a much more “solemn musique”
altogether. One can never forget those three
dull bumps from the muffled drums which
used to signalise, just opposite my rooms, the
beginning of its mournful wail. Chopin’s
is the sad cry of a widow; Handel’s the
mourning of a nation, and is proportionately
greater. But the saddest of all was that
dreadful “Last Post” which used to peal out
over the fields of Flanders as the padre turned
away, and the boys used to leave one more
poor devil in the wet soil. Some men rather
liked to hear the bugle-call o’ nights—they
said it made them feel at rest with the world.
But when it denoted a funeral I think it
made most of us shudder, and will do so till
there is a “last post” for us too.
* * * *
“Donlt Belter”: It wasn’t always the Dig-
ger who was casual. Bliggins was the bomb-
ing officer in an English regiment in the
early days of ’l5, when Mills bombs were
not issued in boxes. He was conducting a
party to form a forward bombing dump, the
bombs being slung in sandbags over their
shoulders, when he heard a voice : “Bill, ’ave
you got a ’ole in your bag?” “Yes, why?”
came the reply. “Oh, I just picked up a
pin.” Bligsdns headed the dive for the
ditch; but God was good and none of the
bombs burst.
“X2X”: Recent researches regarding
thyroidectin. the mysterious active principle
of the thyroid gland, seems to point to this
substance having something
to do with the determina-
tion of sex. If this is so.
we may yet see the time
when male and female sex
tablets will be supplied in
a bottle at so much a dozen.
Curiously enough thyroifiec-
tin, when analysed, proves
to be hardly anything but a
mixture of simple sub-
stances, practically every
one. of which is found in
sotne other part of the
human body, and among
which iodine occurs in fairly
large proportion. During
the research work it was
found that various natural
changes in such low forms
of life as the tadpole could
be either arrested or in-
creased greatly by the
administration of thyroidec-
tin, while female rabbits
treated with it during gesta-
tion produced invariably a
full litter of males. One conclusion that has
been drawn from this is that the secretion
of the thyroid gland may vary in amount in
the human being, male children being born
when their mother’s glandular secretion is
large and female when it is small.
* * * *
“F.D.D.”: Re Stephen McKenna’s claim
(B. 9/2/’22) that the deterioration of the
officers of the British Army during the last
years of the war was due to the exhaustion
of the supply of Public School men. The
true reason was the policy of battalion com-
manders placing every possible obstacle in
the way of the sergeant who wanted a com-
mission. The service battalion platoon ser-
geant was the logical candidate for commis-
sioned rank, but in most cases he was a much
too valuable man in his own batt. His
C.o. mostly preferred good sergeants and
nondescript subalterns. I took my pip three
weeks before the Armistice, and at that late
date the War Office was dealing out commis-
sions with both hands to conscripts who had
never heard the rattle of a machine-gun.
* * * #
“Cartot”: Thirty miles inland from
Mackay (Q.) there is a stranger burial-place
than that mentioned by “Werrimee” (B.
9/2/’22). It is a lonely stone vault on the
top of a hill nearly 300 ft. high. It houses
the remains of James Buchanan, who died
about 19 years ago, after spending the latter
part of his life in prospecting the surround-
ing district. He once told an old mate he
would like to be buried close to where Le had
lived and worked. When his end did come the
mate was in hospital, but on being dis-
charged a couple of months later he went out
A HEART FOR EITHER FATE.
“When we are married I’ll settle two thousand a year on you.”
“Now, that’s talking. And when we are divorced, how much will the alimony be?”
and selected the site, carted cement and iron-
work 30 miles from the town, and built the
vault and monument. Then, without asking
anybody’s permission, he dug up his old
mate, who had been buried in the bush not
far away, and took him to his new at
the top of the hill.
* * * *
“Paragot”: “Ron. H.” (B. 12/l/’22) re-
minds me. It happened in one of Melbourne’s
swellest suburbs, and the nurse who was
called in is a relation of mine. The voung
couple had been married the Saturday before
and were spending their honeymoon in the
house of the bride’s mamma. When nurse
got there she found a very harassed doctor
being told very angrily by mamma that he
was rankly libelling her daughter in his
diagnosis of what was about to happen to
the bride. Nurse found things even more
difficult than the medico. Nobody looked
pleased to see her, and nobody offered her
assistance. Everyone talked about the
bad-mmdedness of the medical profession
and everyone got in the way. When the
youngster did arrive and announced the fact
with a lusty yell mamma and the family
subsided in lachrymose heaps. But the lead-
ing lady was rame to the end. She turned
£rxu UrSe the most captivating of smiles.
Oh, nurse, she said, “what a surprise !”
* * * *
From a Court table :
Arthur Bryce Peden, whose conviction on a charge
of wife-murder at Tumblong (N.S.W.) has had the
frequent attention of The Bulletik, had the proceed-
ings reviewed last week at Darlinghurst, with addi-
tional evidence regarding the gashes in the dead
"Oman’s throat. This made the fifth time the Law
has pondered over this mystery; on the present occa-
sion it was as a Royal Commission that Justice Street
considered the circumstances. Again, of course, the
evidence turned mainly upon the problem whether the
deep, gaping wounds from ear to ear of the corpse
were suicidal or homicidal. Again medical men
(Fiaschi and Palmer among them) announced that it
was impossible for them to believe that the wounds
were self-inflicted. Others (including Herbert Maitland
and Bowker) were just as positive that the gashes could
have been made by the woman herself—that the condi-
tion of the mangled throat was no proof of murder.
As there is no evidence directly connecting Peden with
the woman’s death, and as one of the witnesses for
the prosecution informed the Commission that he
perjured himself in evidence at the trials about
Peden’s movements, Street lifted up the bundle of
Doubt and went away to prepare a report with a far-
away look in his eye. Peden sat immovable and
inscrutable throughout. He may be getting used
to it.
‘ Adelaide’ : Another proposition, startline
in its commonsense, has been established by
a Court here—that a man who is consistently
assaulted by another is justified in shooting
provided the thing is not overdone. The
accused said he had served the other man
with papers as co-respondent, and got two
successive hammerings, with the promise of
more. The aggressor then got shot in the
hand and (stooping down for a stone) in
the buttocks. The usual legal solemnities
were observed, the accused saying that he
fired only to frighten, and the Judge pointing
out that the privilege of an assailed person
is “to inform the police, who will provide
adequate protection.” But his Honor said
that the other man had “behaved in a black-
guardly manner,” and left it to the jury. And
the jury called it Not Guilty.
“Machete”: Still another considerate
suicide. The other day a gentleman at
Windsor (N.S.W.) cut his throat and threw
himself into the river. Realising the worry
and trouble that would be entailed in the
search for his remains, to say nothing of the
unpleasant consequences often attaching to
the use of grappling hooks, he tied one end
NOT A WORD!
UNCLE ( welcoming niece back from the
country) : “How is ‘Snowy’? I bet he
was singing that horrible song he learnt
in France.”
NIECE : “No, the mean wretch only whistled
it!”
of a long rope round his ankle and tethered
the other end to a tree on the bank. Then
he completed the job, and the constable,
arriving to investigate, found the landing
conveniently provided for.
(Continued on page 18.)
A NIGHT-BIRD’S SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Man lives not the while he is sleeping,
Or dazing himself with a doze;
Life is working, and laughing, and Weeping,
Not making a noise in the nose ;
Life is walking, and talking, and thinking,
And battling, it may be, fob bread.
One had better at midnight be drinking
Than stupidly snoring in bed,
Man’s years, as set down by the Psalmist,
Are measured in differing ways;
The doctor (grave, rigid alarmist)
Would shorten the length of your days;
He orders you rest- —a narcotic —
And bids you grow fat, overfed,
Does that fraudulent tyrant, despotic,
Whose maxim is “Early to Bed.”
He goeth not early, the blighter!
His acts accord not with his speech;
Himself is a stop-out-all-nighter,
When Death rings the ’phone for the leech ;
And his ominous step, which is stealthy,
Arouses a slumbering dread
In the patient—-“wise, healthy and wealthy”—
Who always went early to bed.
Oh, the joys of. existence are tasted
’Neath the light of a late-rising moon ;
Then one lives, and the life is not wasted,
For the night, like the day, has its noon;
And the noontide of night is a gay time,
Each hour has a rapture of red,
Which one adds to the length of one’s daytime
Whilst dullards are drowsing in bed.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


fj,
iga
¥9 •
J-*"
NUMBER
LARGE SIZE
.•
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE
Under New Tariff.
v.
rTvr T“
c
-7
4
fib
s o/
<r
%
rv
<s>
o_v
o
o_<s>
\
m wuwmw mm-w wwflw
m wpu


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Bath.s-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of thq Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SAFETY FIRST!
LIFEBUOY SOAP
KILLS GERMS IN THE WASHTUB.
“For Ever Best/'
stag
LAGER
TOOHEY'S.
S. Gumm”: The subject of these tinted
* a « w h° arrive in pure-white families
“ore or less social prominence” (B.
1 i / “T' 1S intriguing. Mrs. Wiggins, with
whom I boarded in a remote S. Aus. town-
ship infested with sandflies and camel-
drivers, had one—a furtive and much-
walloped stick of chocolate about eight years
old. Among the kids of the village he was
known as “Nigger,” but Mrs. Wiggins ex-
plained that he was a throw-back to a Spanish
nobleman, the late Wiggins (no one had
ever seen Wiggins) having derived from a
certain Don de Vigino, who was cast up on
the Scottish coast after the wreck of the
Armada. Circumstances whirled me away
from Cameltown, and the next time I met
Mrs. Wiggins and “Nigger”—it was years
THE PARADOX.
“You know, I still think a lot of Charlie .”
“I'm so glad, because the more I think of
him the less I think of him, and that
makes it so awkward, doesn't it?”
later in Rundle-street, Adelaide—they were
unmistakably prosperous. The lady had
married a shed-hand who won a first prize
in Tatt.’s, had trebled the money by wise
investments in hotel property, and, having
got her name in the visitors’ book at Govern-
ment House, had entered “society.” “You
remember Reginald, of course,” she prattled,
indicating that sinuous and unsmiling youth,
now palpably a Eurasian. “He looks more
like a Spaniard than ever,” I courteously
observed. “Spaniard?” replied Mrs. Wiggins,
indignantly. “Me first ’usband was a Hin-
dian Prince.”
Ettie Rout’s story :
One of the very best friends the A.W.L.’s had in
Paris in 1919 was General Price, G.O.C. British Head-
quarters. Once he asked me to meet him “for a
friendly chat,” and explained that he was rather
troubled with so many Anzacs in Paris without
military authority. If these men had not obtained
THE EVOLUTION OF THE OFFICE GIRL.
passes before leaving camp, couldn’t they get them
from Australian officers in Pari3 ( ? I said No,
because most of the officers were alsoi A.W.L., and
lots of them came down for a private medical
examination at St. Louis Hospital, wanting to be
sure of their health before going back to Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. When the Prime Minister
of Australia issued an invitation through the Paris
edition of the Daily Mail to “all Australian and
New Zealand soldiers in Paris” to dine with him,
he was told by the A.M.P. that the number was
258. Actually some 1200 turned up. A deputation
of fifty A.W.L.’s had explained matters to Mr.
Hughes personally in the morning, so everything
passed off smoothly. But it hardly seemed necessary
that the principal toast of the evening should
have been proposed by one of their number, who
sought the assent, incidentally, of General Price to
the proposition that no Aussie within a few francs
distance of Paris could be expected to go home
without visiting that Queen of Cities ! Still, I don’t
think he quite came up to the gentleman who called
on me one evening to meet his escort. He had been
A.W.L. for a few weeks, and reported to the Bar-
racks drunk and completely “broke.” The escort
sent down from Belgium had lent him the where-
withal for two days’ final flutter, and all had agreed
to meet at my place. The escort failed to keep the
appointment, and the “prisoner,” being stony-broke,
threatened fiercely to return to the Batt. on his own.
I persuaded him to stay the night, and next morn-
ing the escort turned up, somewhat the worse for
wear, and they all pushed off safely. But the pris-
oner maintained his air of injured innocence, and
the escort seemed unable to shake off the notion
that they were really the culprits.
* * * *
“Art Cynic”: The Felton Trustees are
growing cunning through long experience.
Now they don’t tell the public what they
pay for the
examples of 01 d
Masters with which
they are covering
the walls of the
Melbourne Art
Gallery so thickly
as to shut out the
light. But can
nothing be done to
stop this avalanche
of dreadful curiosi-
ties? The place is
beginning to look
like the Wie r t z
Art Museum i n
Brussels, filled with
pictures by a vic-
tim of G.P.I. The
Fete Champetre,
by A. Monticelli,
one of the most expensive of the Felton
collection, has started to look like a setting
of Buff Orpington eggs, burst and decoinpos-
ing.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: A small row is
raging among English-speaking Jews because
Rabbi A. A. Green, of Hampstead (Lond.),
has introduced the reading of the New Tes-
tament in the school attached to his syna-
gogue. Chief Rabbi Hertz, recently in Aus-
tralia, is being baited by his opponents (in-
cluding the Jewish Chronicle) , because, it
is claimed, the junior Rabbi would not have
dared to take the step without first consult-
ing him. The great objection of the ortho-
dox Jew to the New Testament is that it
teaches a Trinity, and as the basis of the
Jewish faith is unitarianism it is thought
dangerous to let children, before they are
confirmed, read writings in conflict with it.
There is now a very definite cleavage be-
tween the orthodox Jews who want to adhere
strictly to the observance that made them a
peculiar race, and a vast body that is in-
clined to compromise with modernism. Hertz
wakened another Hebraic row in Australia
owing to his advice that Jewish people who
had married Christians should not ,be dis-
couraged from rejoining the congregation
with their Gentile spouses. There -Was
always a way by which an applicant might
be admitted to the Jewish community; but
as the Jewish church regards membership
as a privilege which should be sought rather
than offered, not many admissions were
granted. Since the Chief Rabbi’s utterance
the admissions in Sydney alone have num-
bered 12, with more coming, and the influx has
alarmed the orthodox. Indeed, Jewry, more
especially in Sydney, is full of divisions at
present. Incidentally, the mention of Rabbi
Green in connection with the New Testa-
ment recalls that probably the only Jew
who was ever a Nonconformist parson in
Australia was the Rev. S. I. Green, a Vic-
torian Congregationalism
* * * #
“Borom”: “Sixenate’s” story of the last-
minute marriage (B. 12/l/’22) reminds me
of an incident some time ago in a lying-in
home. A girl of 22 was admitted, and a day
or so before the expected event a young man
turned up and requested to be allowed to see
her in private. Subsequently he announced
that he would marry her as soon as a clergy-
man could be procured. The knot having
been tied,, the newly-made husband departed,
after leaving money for the purchase of neces-
sities for his wife. Then for the first time
it was learned by the hospital officials that he
was not the child’s father. The latter, who
was his mate, had died a little while before
in the bush, and, knowing the girl’s predica-
ment, this young fellow had decided to assume
the other’s responsibilities. By dint of hard
travelling from a town up on the Queensland
border he had got there only just in time.
Later he took away both mother and child.
Beyond this even the mateship of the bush
can hardly go.
* * * ♦
“Pat Bushie”: Re “Hobnobster’s” rapid
family (B. 9/2/’22). I know of a case
which showed great possibilities. In three
years of married life the wife presented her
spouse with first one, then twins, then trip-
lets. This was too much, and he deserted.
I can swear to this, because he worked for
my dad, and helped himself at the cash-box
before departing.
* * * *
“Dodo” : There is always an artist in at-
tendance on Melbourne excursion steamers
to make a picture of you while you wait, but
in the suburbs art comes still nearer home.
In fact, it follows you on to fh a mat, and
there solicits custom. It is a small man, with
a shock*of hair and a limp. It knocked us
up on a recent afternoon, undertook to pro-
vide a six-by-ten water-color painting of any
part of the house and grounds for the sum
of 35., members of the family up to four
included at 18d. per head. A neighbor, re-
garding his visitor as a charitable object,
declined to purchase his art, but offered him
a shilling to cut some wood. “Madame,” was
the reply, “here is my card. If your hus-
band will call at that address at any time, I
will give him half-a-crown to whitewash my
woodshed.”
* * * *
The Sabbath-morning adventure of John
Holly on the hem of greater Melbourne, as
sworn to by one of the household:—
John arose late, and went into the bathroom. He
stayed in the bath a little longer than usual, pulled
the plug, dried himself, donned a skimpy white bath
robe, and stepped out. Then he looked about him.
The choir was singing, the clergyman stood in the
pulpit, a book in his hand, his mouth open John
now noticed that the choir, too, was looking his way
with wide eyes hinting at apparitions and sudden
death. For the matter of that the whole church
was agape. Then three elders moved in his direction,
with a threatening aspect. John realised the
hideous truth; he was sitting in a pew, well up in
front, and he was wearing nothing hat a wholly
inadequate white bath robe. He was unshaven, his
feet were bare. The three elders closed about him.
“M- God!” ejaculated John, “how did I get here?”
John was informed he had walked in, just as he
was. They hustled him out, and a cab was requi-
sitioned. Outside was a mob of unregenerate persons
who had followed him to the door, deeming him to
be another apostle of the shimmy, like the late
Chidley. What really happened was this. John,
stepping from the bath, landed on the soap, slipped’
and lit with the back of his head on a stone basin,
occasioning a concussion. The psychological drift
that lured a timid non-churchman into the kirk in a
single, diaphanous garment is inexplicable to the
faculty, or that section now putting in repairs on
John’s occiput.
* * »
r, “Hanno”: The recent press cable about tlm
English girl who didn’t die after her tempera-
ture bad risen to llSdeg. is interesting only
lrom a comparative point of view, there being
a number of diseases, among them malaria, in
which such a rise would not be extraordinary.
The basic cause of an increase in temperature
is probably the giving out of heat generated
by chemical combustion ; and in some circum-
stances it is possible that a chemical inter-
action may take place without doing the
patient any harm"—as, for instance, when one
of the interacting bodies is not a toxin. The
ease with which the girl’s body-heat was
brought down to within a decimal fraction of
normal points to this. In malaria something
like this happens, or else the system becomes
gradually immune to the large amounts of
Plasmodium toxin formed during each attack
of the disease. Temperatures of from 102 to
112 degrees in malaria patients are fairly
common, and I have seen a man walking
about with a temperature of 108 degrees.
Such heats would be almost instantly fatal
in complaints such as pneumonia or typhoid.
* * * w
“Michael Mulligatawny”: It’s hard for
them to shake it off. He had just come
to us from the Ordnance Corps, and was
ANOTHER CASE OF PRE-SELECTION.
“Do tell me-did you go down on your
knees when you proposed to her?”
"Well, to tell the truth, Old Egg, I couldn't
see, she was using them at the time.”
in charge of a. digging-party out in front near
Grhurka Bluff. He first unearthed a boot
with a fair length of Mahommedan leg
attached, then an arm, then another boot,
and finally the rather argumentative remains
of a very defunct Abdul. He didn’t know
the correct procedure in such circumstances,
until one of the digging-party suggested noti-
fyipg the adjutant. This is how he did it :
Whilst digging in front of have unearthed the
following: Turk, one in number, dead, with spare
parts complete. I await instructions.
He awaited.
* * * *
“Te Pana”: Mention of old-time sailing
ships reminds me that the chair used by
the chairman of the Bank of New Zealand
at board meetings in Wellington (M.L.)
is made from a ship’s timbers. A brass
plate attached to the chair is explanatory:—
The oak of which this chair was made was part
of the barque Inconstant, which was stranded near
Pencarrow Head on August 19, 1850, and was
afterwards used by Mr. John Plimmer as a ware-
house, known as “Noah’s Ark,” on the site where the
bank now stands.
The John Plimmer mentioned is the father
of mummer Harry.
AEROPAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a time, forever past,
When, gazing at the sky,
We saw but Heaven, pure and vast,
Where royal clouds sailed by.
We looked aloft to rest and free
Our souls from man’s machinery.
But now if from the earth we lift
A city-wearied eye,
’Tis ten to one that, loud and swift,
An engine in the sky
Makes factory noises, even fills
The air with advertising uills.
And oh, how tenable to dream
Of what the years may hold,
When all the mighty sky shall teem
With vehicles untold;
When bottles rain, to joy-ride shouts,
And flappers fly in run-abouts.
When aero-lorries growl, their dry
Propellers shrieking shrill;
When aero-trams and ferries ply
Or do not ply, at will —
Though busy folk may curse or pray
A break-down holds them up all day ;
When even shy top-storey panes
The camera-fiend peeps through;
When bands o’erhead blare ragtime strains,
And duns fall from the blue;
When, winged, with easy frequency
Relations all “drop in” to tea. •
From milk-oh ’planes in early morn •
To Herald aero-boys,
With bell and whistle, voice and horn,
The air is nought but noise;
Night brings no succor from distress
For uproar of the Drunks’ Express.
And, spite of constables on point,
Disaster oft occurs ;
So showers of oil, or limbs, anoint
Terrestrial loiterers ;
And wreckage every garden strews,
And corpses choke our chimney flues.
Till, tired of traffic-jambs on hi}
We yearn with rebel souls
For skies where only birds go by,
Where only thunder rolls.
“Stay, Progress, stay your hand,” we say,
“Give back our peace of Yesterday!”
VICTORIA.
GUS.


-7
N
r
i|»< f|%. *. a*
1
>
PALMOLIVE SOAP IS MOTHER’S CHOICE
THE gentle, cleansing, action of Palmolive,
which keeps the skin clear, healthy and
vigorous, is yet so mild that it soothes while it
guards against the effects of both heat and
harmful wind.
The toilet of the tender child is a matter of the
greatest importance to mothers. Thousands
throughout the world have found in Palmolive
Soap the finest ally in the task of keeping their
children's skins healthy and free from discomfort.
For the adult, Palmolive is as great a delight as
it is a genuine benefit and protection in the
Australian climate.
Wash the face gently with the velvet, creamy
lather of mild Palmolive, and massage it softly
into the skin. When this foam is rinsed away, it
carries off the impurities which clog the pores
and are the foundation of skin infection and
disfigurement.
Palmolive is at once a cleanser, a tonic and
a balm. Though so thorough and beneficial in
action, it is as gentle and mild as a zephyr.
Palmolive cleanliness is different. You will
appreciate it.
Use Palmolive and 'Keep that Schoolgirl Complexion *
D
□
\
i
Other Palmolive Toilet Preparations
Palmolive Cold Cream, tubes or jars; Palmolive Vanishing Cream,
tubes or jars; “ Violet of the Nile ” and “ Egyptian Rose ” Talcums;
Palmo.e ’ Face Powder; “Palmolive” Face Powder: Palmolive
bhampoo; Palmolive Rouge.
PALMOLIVE SOAP SELLS
EVERYWHERE at 1/3 per cake.
The guest-size cake of Palmolive Soap will be
sent post free on request by The Palmolive
Co. (. Australasia ) Ltd., Broughton House,
Clarence Street, Sydney.


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
ffiGEWORfa
Jt 1 EXTRA HIGH GRADE**
BE4DYRUBBO)
3] R. TOWXS & CO., Sydney, Agents,
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
A Signal
Success
S 3
King George IV
** wmsassr
TheTOP-NOTCH’Scotch.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Iona”: Charters Towers (Q.) could pro-
vide a fair quota to “Eddyson’s” hairbreadth
escapes by flood and fall in Australian mines (B.
19/l/’22). “Rusty” Richards, the international foot-
baller, when going down the shaft of Kelly’s Queen
Block, got hooked by his belt, at the small of the
back, on the end of one of the lining boards, 15ft.
from the surface. The cage going from under him,
he was left with 700 ft. of air to stand on. When
his mates in the cage reached the bottom they rang
it up again, and “Rusty,” stepping on it as it reached
him, came unhooked and rose to the surface quite
0.K., to the astonishment of the engine-driver. An-
other time six men were sinking in the Bonnie Dun-
dee at 2000 ft. A bucket load had risen 6ft. when
the engine clutch broke, letting down the bucket
and 2500 ft. of wire rope. The latter piled in a
tangled mass for 18ft. up the shaft and had to be
chopped in short lengths before it could be brought
to the surface. The six men above whose heads it
had jambed in the shaft escaped without a scratch.
MAKING IT QUITE CLEAR.
“Es there any long drills down under much?"
"’Most nawthin’ ’t all ’ardly.”
“Dido”: Mrs. Mile’s place was a four-
roomed weatherboard house, but there was the frame-
work of another two rooms in front, and this frame-
work the proprietress was anxious to see completed
in accordance with her improved condition as a fairly
prosperous dairy farmer. I knew she had been twice
married, and on hearing of her engagement to Sosser
Ventured to offer congratulations. “Yes,” she said,
with a sigh of resignation, “Bills started those two
new rooms. He was my first husband, but he died
before he had finished the frame. Then I married
Mile, and he boarded the one wall, and put down
the hardwood floor before he was killed. He was run
over by a waggon. So I am compelled to marry
again.” I suggested a carpenter as an alternative.
“There’s not a carpenter to be got in the whole
district,” said Mrs. Mile. “And in any case they
are much too expensive.” She married Sosser, and
within three months wanted a divorce. Sossei
couldn’t drive a nail.
**■*-*■
“Kismet”: When we had our mice plague
we used to catch thousands by putting a kerosene-tin
half-full of water close to a chair, and an empty
beer bottle, with its neck holding a piece of soap
or candle, laid on the seat and projected over
the tin. The mice ran along the bottle-neck, lost
their footing and fell into the tin. It wasn’t unusual
to catch as many as 300 in the house in one night.
They had appeared within a few hours, and disap-
peared just as completely one night six weeks later.
* * *
“D.F.” : While the platypus, about which
“Gecko” inquires (B. 2/2/’22), mostly sticks to
fresh water, it is sometimes found in slightly brackish
creeks. I saw one caught in a fish-net in Bream
Creek, on the east coast of the Speck. They weren’t
common in the creek, which is distinctly brackish,
but I have seen others there.
* * » *
“Te Pana”: Some of the old Maoris* in
the Bay of Plenty, despite close association with th 3
pakeha, are not forgetful of their ancient
Immense hauls of kahawai and snapper are made at
the beginning of the sea-fishing season, and to thi*
day the best of the haul are hung on a pohutukawa
tree in the pa, as an offering to the god Tangaroa—the
Maori Neptune. The old pana-shell hook is not now
used so much in fishing as formerly, and at one of
the pas in this district an enterprising half-caste turns
out brass hooks which, when polished, attract the
shoals of kahawai as greatly as the shining pana.
You don’t need any bait in this angling; but a
solid backing of the gods is useful.
X• * * *
“Wee Bobbie” : A relic of an older people
stands at Choiseul Bay, the far-western end of
the British Solomons. It is a square-cut stone about
4ft. high with a round hole running down to the
centre of it. The cavity is filled with human bones,
which evidently, from the way they have kept,
have been treated with some preservative. There
is a face carved on one side of the stone. The
brow and eyes look like Egyptian work, but the
mouth is like many carvings seen in Maoriiand.
The oldest inhabitant can throw no light on the
people who carved the stone and built a cairn (like
those to be found in Ireland) beside it. Malaita
boys have told me that there are similar stones on
the high land of their island, Lut they know
nothing of the race that built them.
“Rolling Stone”: The McDonald brothers
did not, in the ’eighties, travel right through from
N. S. Wales to Kimberley (W.A.), with their cattle,
as stated by “Zanthus” (B. 6/l/’22). Within a
few miles of Ord River
station William McDon-
ald handed over charge
to Joe JUdmonds, as he
was very bad with fever,
and went back to N. S.
Wales. All the other mem-
bers of the party that
started from N.S.W. had
left before this. Up ,to
where McDonald handed
over there was no diffi-
culty in finding the way,
as the late Nat Buchanan
(“Bluey”) had opened
this road a few years be-
fore when stocking up
Ord River; and the Dur-
acks were also ahead of
the McDonalds. I joined
McDonald’s cattle near
Ord River station and
went through with them.
Our party consisted of two
white men, two blacks
and a Chinaman. There
was no road from Ord
River station, and we had
no maps-—merely a sketch-
plan of McDonald’s coun-
try. We met a prospector
who gave us Alec For-
rest's journal, and this
was of great assistance to
us in finding the country
we wanted. Our biggest
trouble was the bullock
team, which made our
progress slow; but we got
everything through all
right, and were on the
spot some weeks before the McDonald brothers
turned up. They came to Derby with the first boat-
load of diggers.
“Mountain Ash”: One pommy who is
rapidly becoming a good Aussie is that wonderful
songster, the blackbird. In the heads of creeks and
gullies at the back of Toolangi, Warburton, Gem-
brook and Neerim (Vic.) he makes his home, and
just recently I found him at the head of the Gelli-
brand River in Cape Otway. This fellow sets -an
example many an Australian might follow. Evidently
sick of the dirty, noisy city he has sought the
freedom and fresh air of the bush, and seems well
content with the change.
“Frank White” (Florida, U.S.A.) : I
have been considerably interested by a majestic-
looking tree known here as the Australian pine. I
seem to have seen millions of them in the southern
part of this State, and no millionaire’s winter palace
(they blaze the landscape up and down the East
coast) is complete without at least a couple of miles
STILL THERE.
“I suppose the wealth of the district is in its soil?"
“I reckon ’tis. Don’t know nobody round here ever got it out."
of this tree. To tell you the truth, while I know
Victoria, South Aus. and N. S. Wales pretty well
I can’t locate the pine, though it bears a fruit not
unlike my boyhood friend the she-oak. The other day I
met a Scotch nurseryman in Miami, and this is how
he explained things. The tree, while Australian, is
incorrectly named, and is a species of beechwood,
Casuarina equisetifolia. It got into favor in these
parts principally because, besides being ornamental,
it grows anywhere and quickly. Sandy soil or rich
loam bring a tree to the timber stage in less than
a decade, and the wood makes excellent furniture,
beating beechwood to a frazzle. It certainly makes
magnificent groves and hedges, and runs the royal
palm a close second in popularity here. I can’t
find anyone who can throw light on its introduction,
but doubtless it came from California, as one finds
here an occasional eucalyptus, the seed of which
was brought from San Francisco. In fact, a Yank
friend the other day put up a 10-spot that the
“euke’s” original home lies on the west side of this
continent.i That’s why I’m 10 dollars better ofl
and he’s wiser.
* * * *
“Pen”: A local lagoon (N.Q.) is well
stocked with small fish, too small for e/en the
kiddies to bother about. Several times recently a
2ft. goanna has been seen swimming about and
making frequent lightning dives for the little fel-
lows. His luck seems to be in, judging by the
number he brings to the surface. He keeps right
on swimming, devours his morsel and then has
another go. This chap, who evidently kids himself
he’s an alligator, has been seen in the water for
as long as two hours at a time.
* * * *
“Rojo”: Can any Abo. tell me how the
names “blue-gum” and “red-gum” arose? Evidently
both do not refer to the color of the tree. Am I
right in assuming the two adjectives to have been
always differently applied, the “blue” to the bark of
the tree and “red” to the sawn timber ?
* * * *
“R.G.W.”: I came across a dead old-man
stringy-bark that had been struck by lightning. It
would not bum, and, though the barrel was straight
and looked a good splitter, it took a maul, wedges
and a power of language to burst 2ft. lengths into
firewood. Anyone know why ?
* * * *
“John Sing” : Tell “J.H.M.” that the
trap-door spider can put up a better offensive than
the one he mentions (B. 12/l/’22). Years and
years ago, when clearing land in Vic., I came
across a young. rabbit kicking and squealing, and 1
found that his front paw was down a spider’s hole
and dad spider with his ears well back and a frown
on his face was hanging on for dear life. Further
down the hole was mum with her arms clasped
round dad’s waist and her toe-nails stuck well into
a crevice in the side of the hole. Without my
assistance that bunny hadn’t a dog’s chance of
getting away. But how they intended to deal with
him eventually remains a mystery. Of course, after
bunny became exhausted dad might have managed
to hold him single-handed while mum crawled in-
side the beast and kicked him to death.
“Cassia”: Has “Big Bend”(B. 19/1/’22V.
who hasn’t been able to find a young mulga-tree,
considered the possibility of rabbits? That young-
sters do come up there is no doubt, as a friend of
mine while looking for Sturt-pea plants some months
ago came across a young mulga (Acacia aneura)
growing right up against a pea plant. He brought
both in and the mulga is now doing very well in a
jam-tin, preparatory to being planted out into my
plot of native shrubs. This in a district (Broken
Hill) evidently not so very far from “Big Bend’s”
haunts. There has been no mulga-tree growing in
the vicinity where the seedling was found for 12
years, to my knowledge. I have no doubt that careful
search around here after rain would reveal numbers
of these young plants. The probability is that stock
or rabbits get busy before the youngsters are notice-
able.
* # * *
“Blackboy” : Where does “E.S.S.” (B.
12/l/’22) live? Let him take a turn round the
stations in the N. Territory, Queensland or the
northern part of Westralia and he will find that
gins are hot so Scarce as he imagines, and that they
are doing just what they did in the old days. On
all stations there is a crowd of them; some work,
as rouseabouts, others in the house. A good number
are “stock boys” and dress in men’s rig-out. At the
THE WELL-WORN WAY.
OLD LADY ( irritably ): “You swagmen make
this place a perfect hell."
THE SWAGGIE : "Well, lady, if it was the
other place, there wouldn't be so many
of us callin.”
last seven stations I visited, within the past few
weeks, I was, in every instance, waited on at table
by either young gins or half-caste girls. They are a
credit to' the white women who look after them. As
neighbors are far away they act as companions to
the squatters’ wives, and are indispensable.
(Continued on page 22.)
HE’D KNOWN WORSE ROADS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We rode beside ravine-like ruts
’Mid flies that clung ;
W'e bumped on stumps, and logs, and butts ;
One tyre went bung;
The good fifth wheel we had by chance
Was put in place ;
On went we in a jigging dance
At funeral pace.
One time we plunged in fearful drift
Of yellow dust;
Then on a rock we were uplift,
With skyward thrust;
Beside the car Wendover cursed
All he was worth.
“This road,” said he, “I’ll swear’s the worst
On all God’s earth!”
The swaggie heard and gravely spat.
“You’re wrong,” he said.
“I’ve seen a thousand worse’n that.
Just go ahead.”
He gave with grimy coat-sleeve end
His lips a rub.
“You’ll see when you get round the bend—
There is a pub!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


New Novels
By Australian Authors.
“EQUALITY ROAD” - - by vera baker
One of the best Australian novels of recent years. Valentine Hood, a fine
type of Australian girl, believes that “all men are equal”—given equal opportunities.
She puts her theory into practice^—and discovers that Equality Road is a very
rough track indeed. A great story with surprising developments.
“HERMIT ISLAND” - - - by s. w. powell
A splendid adventure and humor story of the Pacific.
“FEATHERS OF HEAVEN” by jack McLaren
Adventure and love in the wilds of New Guinea.
“THE GREAT JADE SEAL” by s. w. powell
A great mystery story chockful of humor.
“THE BOSS O’ YEDDEN” - by Arthur wright
Another thrilling story by Australia’s Nat Gould.
110 Splendid Australian
Novels in the Bookstall Series.
1/3 each. 1/41 posted.
Obtainable at all Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout
the Commonwealth.
Complete descriptive catalogue forwarded
free on application to the Publishers.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney.
9
LEVIATHAN
“SQUARE DEAL” SALE.
Substantial Genuine Reductions are the reason of the success of the
SQUARE DEAR SALE. Every Ready-to-Wear article is reduced by
a minimum of 10 PER CENX., and many Special Lines are i educed
considerably more.
JUDHPORE
TROUSERS.
Well made, as illustration, in
serviceable Khaki Drill,
fitted with side pockets and
loops. Sizes 4to 7. Usually
21/-
SQUARE DEAL
SALE
18/11
RIDING
BREECHES.
New Mounted Service Style,
Riding Breeches, in Khaki
and Suede Drill, finished
with cross pockets. Sizes 4
to 7. Usually 19/6.
SQUARE DEAL
SALE
17/11
18
r
TWEED TROUSERS.
IJXTRA SPECIAL, LINE!
Wonderful Value!
ALL-WOOL TWEED TROUSERS. in
shades of medium grey, with neat stripes.
Square Deal Sale. . . 16/11
CREAM TROUSERS.
Another Bargain Bine!
Don’t fail to secure a pair. Weil cut
and tailored, finished side-pockets, cuff
and side straps. Keenly priced at 27/6.
Square Deal Sale. . . . 21/-
ORDER BY POST—WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
Pty.
Ltd.,
Cr. Swanston and
Bourke Streets,
MELBOURNE.
M
TILTH
TELLS!
“The extra cultivation at the
moment of planting counts for
much in the resultant crop.”
The “Suntyne” Drill Cultivator Combined
is THE Implement.
CATALOGUE POSTED FREE ON REQUEST.
H. V. McKAY PTY. LTD., Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
BRANCHES:
Comer COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
102-105 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Corner YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
36 PIER STREET, PERTH.


FULL FASHIONED S MOCK SEAMED
HOLEPROOF SILK HOSE
Is appreciated more when it brings with it freedom from the BOTHER
and DRUDGERY of DARNING.
FOR MEN AS WELL AS WOMEN.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DRAPERS AND MERCERS.
~5
%
I)r. Nil”: Talking about glow-worms
tthe wingless female of the beetle called Lampi/ris
noctiluta), can any co-aboriginal remember a kind
of plague of them in 1890 on the Riverina plains?
I was riding back from Merrowie to Ilillston in the
dark. There were only tracks then—no made roads.
The clover-burr was high and thick, and we (my
black mare and I) got wandering about in it and
she took the liberty of snatching an occasional
mouthful. After a while I began to notice a lumi-
nous outline of her head and neck, and before we had
crossed the main paddock she looked as if those
portions of her had been rubbed all over with damp
phosphorus.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: How's this for strength and
daring? A Torres Strait islander the other day
spotted a dugong, quite a respectable size, bein<r
chased by a tiger-shark towards the shore: Grasp-
ing the situation and a spear, he rushed in, gave the
shark a right-about-turn, tapped the dugong one
with his spear and urged it into shallow water,
hanging on to it to prevent it getting away, and
finally landing it with the aid of a few persuasive
exercises at the tail. This is no yarn, because we
had some of that dugong for the New Year’s kni-kai.
* * * *
“Barcoo”; “Jackerooster” (R. 29/12/’2l'>
wants to establish the identity of a crawler he has
discovered in western N.S.W.—deep brown body,
coal-black head and neck, with black speckles in
the rear. It is the smaller species of rock pvthon,
very vicious and not easily shooed off the pathway.
It inhabits sandy or gravelly knolls in the desc.t
portions of N.S.W. and Queensland, and seems to
keep going strong miles from liquid refreshment.
It is commonly confused with the venorius tiger-
snake, but is harmless, though showing all °the
tiger s vicious and wicked characteristics
* * *
“Flanders”: “Iron’s” branding record (B.
29/12/’2l), two boys putting through 67 mixed
sexes up to two years old in 57 minutes, is over the
creek altogether. I have behind me 35 years of
branding, and am satisfied no two men ever born could
do it. “Iron” omits to mention who kept the fire
going, handed the brands, earmarked, and used the
knife, or does he mean to say the boys did these
things and also held the stock down while the
operation took place? I tried to swallow it in the
latter form, but choked. Let “Iron” attempt to
hold a two-year-old bull down while the other
fellow dabs the red-hot brand on, and I venture to
guess he will afterwards be a more reliable authority.
Of course I refer to a shorthorn. If “Iron’s” calves
were from Kerry cows I surrender.
“R. E. Bus”: Tell “M. B.” (B. 26/l/’22)
that if lie pays a visit to his “hares’ racecourse”
next Sunday at 3 p.m. and takes the local Eergeant
along, he will see those “hares” going hell-for-
leather through the bush on two legs. It’s a
two-up school.
A REFLECTION HE DIDN'T
DESERVE.
“You seem in a frightful state even now.
Have you been drinking long?”
“Do I look like a man who’d take ’em short,
your Worship ?”
“Jobber”: “Valamac” (B. 19/l/ ! 22) will
have to produce a bigger carpet-snake than his 21-
footer. I saw one killed on the Pioneer River (Q.)
which took 23ft. of tape to reach from head to tail.
Why he was killed is a mystery, for they are harm-
less. In the house on the plantation I toiled on, a
carpet had his home in the rafters and was strictly
protected. Certainly, the boss (whose order it was)
lived in Sydney.
“Wee Bobbie”: At Ruavatu (Solomons)
in 10 months I lately killed and landed 15 crocodiles,
three with a pair of cartridges filled with cut slugs,
the barrels being fired simultaneously. These three
did not move six inches from where they lay when
hit. The slugs, striking behind the shoulder and
along the head and neck, cut holes in the hide you
could put three fingers in. Certainly they were only
SHE. SURPRISED HIM.
CONDUCTOR: “Pardon me, madam, but your-girl seems more than twelve.”
HER MOTHER: “Conductor! Would you take me to be the mother of a girl THAT age?"
CONDUCTOR: “Lady, don’t tell me you’re her grandmother!"
6ft. and 7ft. crocs. The balance were got with a
44 Marlin. I found the most successful method of
shooting was to get as high as possible, and hit
between the eye and the ear, as it is almost impos-
sible to hit a croc, swimming low if you shoot, lying
down, from, water level. A shot well placed behind
the arm will kill a croc., but he takes so long to
die 'that he is generally a great distance from where
you shot when he makes his way ashore, and then
he finds a thicket of rushes or mangrove, where you
have no chance of spotting him; or if it is near the
estuary, the sharks make a meal of him. I can put
five shots out of six in the bottom of a cigarette-tin
at 50yds., but for every croc. I’ve shot and hauled
ashore three have escaped. Sometimes when there is
a 12ft. cow-catcher on the mud on the opposite bank
I wish for a 5.9 to fling at him ; but the old Marlin
pushed a bullet through the thickest armor-plating of
a 12-footer and broke his back into the bargain
* * * ♦
S fact : Re Binghi as an arithmetician
(B. 20/10/’2l). Here on the Great Australian Bight
the nigs, use only three figures. These represent
1, 2 and 3, and are respectively “kiannu,” “coo-
thara” and “yalgata.” There is a further one, “bar
dithara,” which may mean 7, or 70 or 700. Thty
use combinations such as “coothara-coothara” for
4, and so on up to 6 ; but they become very foggy
then, and use the much abused “bardithara.”
Di. Nil : I don’t know if it is so now,
but in the old days in N. S. Wales the
law—in practice, if not by Act of Parlia-
ment made a distinction between horse-
stealing and horse-sweating: Taking pos-
session of someone else’s horse with a
view to keeping it or selling it was
‘stealing,” and conviction carried a very
heavy sentence, with hard labor. Borrow-
ing a horse without the owner’s know-
ledge or consent, and turning it adrift
at the end of the ride, was called “sweat-
ing ” ; and though it was punishable by
law, the penalty was usually light—
possibly only a fine—and the culprit was
not very much blamed by his neighbors.
The sweating practice was very common
on the Castlereagh in the eighties of last
century, and although Quarter Sessions
were held at Coonabarabran, I do not
remember anyone being sentenced for
horse-sweating during my three years’
residence in that charming little town-
ship. (I was only - 18 when I left it, and
I fell in love there for the first time.
Perhaps it would not be so charming now.)
“A.H.”: Mulga is a member of the acacia
family, all of which have an exceptionally hard seed-
case. Unless a fire runs over the pods they will not
open to allow the germinating seeds to escape. In fact,
the germination does not take place until a tempera-
ture equal to that of boiling water has been experi-
enced. If “Big Bend” (B. 19/l/’22) wishes to
experiment let him soak seed vessels for some days
in water, then boil them for an hour, and he will
find that germination ensues. After bush fires in
Gippsland young acacias of common species spring up
where the land has been cleared of acacia for years,
the explanation being that the fire has caused
germination in seeds which had lain inactive for
years. The locust-tree of S. America and the log-
wood have the same peculiarity.
“Gamu Garnu”: At Waidaha, Waisisi.
Maram'asiki Passage, Taha Taha, and other coastal
villages on Malaita, it was the custom till five years
ago for the natives to celebrate the launching of a
new war canoe by killing a young Mary, as “Gizo”
states (B. 8/9/’2l). I believe that 20 years ago it
was the practice along the whole coast of the island.
Marau was the only district on Guadalcanal - where
it was practised. The Marau natives are, or were,
nearly all fugitives from justice on Malaita, 4o I
suppose the custom originally came from that island.
If “Betel Nut” (B. 20/10/’2l) had stayed longer
on Malaita and gained the confidence of the natives
he would have found out that a man or woman was
put to death for many things besides infidelity. I
spent three years on the island and discovered that
the death penalty was inflicted on members of both
sexes by their fellow villagers for stealing, breaking
a tribal tambu, and loving not wisely but too well
before marriage. A woman was also liable to death
for chronic laziness and chronic bad temper, for taking
hold of a gun or bows and arrows, for going into
the house set aside for men or the tambu-house,
foi being unclean within the village, and for giving
birth to a child in any house in the village. The
Malaita man was not particular about the instrument
he used for the killing. Cannibalism is still rampant,
nor is it restricted only to the bush tribes. A great
number of the -saltwater men still enjoy a meal of
human flesh. Incidentally, the flesh of a woman
tastes much better, I’m told, than that of a man.
* * *
“R.T.”: Some horses, even though well
fed, are as careless of their diet as band’s’'
cows (B. 2/2/’22). Our pony wandered round the
back yard the other day and had a snack en route.
When he had finished the family were the poorer by
two bath towels, a tea towel and a great part of
a perfectly good hedge.
* * * *
Tt.T.” : “Sir Spen’s” swallows (B.
2/2/’22) have met their equals in a pair which
recently set up housekeeping at Port Stephens
(N.S.W.). They built in the cabin of a yacht lying
at anchor, and, quite unperturbed by several trips in
the boat, they eventually raised a brood.
* * * *
“E. McM.”: Re “Pick’s” advice to “Big
Bend to scare martins aw T ay by hanging up empty
beer-bottles. Here at Bingara (N.S.W.) a business
man suspended empties from the rafters of his veran-
dah in the main street with just that object in view.
One pair of swallows built their nest on the top of
the neck of a bottle and reared a family of four.
They are now doing their best for a second and
larger family, and anyone who likes to come to
Bingara can see them.
* -X #
“Barcoo”: “Bad Australian” (B. 5/l/’22)
arid countless others continually refer to the flying-
fox as if it were of one particular brand, whereas
in Bananaland there are at least five (or is it 15?)
different species. Three of them are quite as obnox-
ious as they are reputed to be, but there are two
quite decent to know and still better to eat. The
edible flying-foxes are pollen-eaters and honey-
suckers, living mostly on the sweet, juicy moisture
that is secreted at the heart of most tropical blooms.
Either of those two species is an actual table deli-
cacy, and if partly stewed and then baked in a pie
will tickle the palate of the epicure who samples the
dish for the first time.
“Dingaan” : Re the germ-soured milk men-
tioned by “Exul” (B. 26/l/’22). In South Africa
millions of people practically live on something very
similar. The Kaffir keeps his milk in calabashes, the
insides of which sour it, and this thick, sour milk
together with mealies (maize) forms his staple
food. And he’s no weakling, either
“FY7”: “Pick” (B. 26/l/’22) makes
some inquiries as to numbers killed at one shot. A
few years back a party duck-shooting on Nooodoo
station (Q.) found they had driven all the ducks
up to the head of the big lignum swamp on which
they were operating, and a blackboy was sent
off on horseback with a single-barrelled gun and
two cartridges to flush the birds, and get them on
the wing again. He came back with one cartridge
and 21 black duck.
* * » *
“Steve Hart”: Dunno about “TaragO’s”
(B. 15/12/’2l) elder-berry leaves as a scarer of
the blowfly ; but I still stick to the old Aboriginality
cure, viz., hang the beef or mutton in the air not
less than 20ft. up. It is strange but true that a
blowfly will go down 100 ft. but never up more than
10 or 15 feet.
* * * *
“Echap” : The new book-keeper naturally
knew nothing of our liquor laws relating to abos.,
and our hard-case nig. got a lot of sympathy (and
tw’o bob) from him on the strength of his seven
days hard for having been “found in possession.”
“Reallay? And for merely havin’ a flask of whiskay
on you, the bwoots incarcerated you?” “Krass,
no!” said Warrigal, earnestly. “He not that rough—
on’y lock me up an’ kick me a bit.”
* * * *
ild-oat’ : W ith a mate I have sewn
bags throughout the Riverina (N.S.W.) on all sorts
and conditions of machines, Bunclc’s included, and
have got above the 800 tally under ordinary working
conditions (and I’ve seen 610 bags stacked on the
one waggon, which is a record) ; but I have yet to
see anyone touch “Setscrew's” 960 bags sewn with
haybands (B. 26./l/’22). It might bo done with
fencing-wire.
* * * *
“Zanthus”: I don’t know whether ducks
carry their young in their bills or on their backs,
but, according to F. L. Whitlock, the big bustard
of the plains (Eupodotis australis) can fly off with
its young when it has to. A fettler out on the
Nullarbor Plains (W.A.) saw a hen bustard with twg
young ones not able to fly. He caught one and went
after the other, but the old bird seized it with her
feet, pressed it to her breast and flew off with it.
* * * *
“Levis Cling”: Curious how men and
turkeys can deceive themselves. Our gobbler on
Bob Dickison’s farm at Leeton (N.S.W.) was noticed
to be well set under a peach-tree for 10 days, and
when disturbed he was found to be covering 13
green windfall Elberta peaches.
* * * *
“Jackeroo”: How about this for the
champion long-ride stakes on one horse? A. E.
Ilanslow, a Queensland grazier, in January, 1898,
rode a four-year-old A.A.2 mare named Gertrude from
Mount Morris station to Bootlmlla station and back
the same day, 124 miles, in about 14 hours’ riding-
time.
“Elessea”: In the hamlet of Tate (Q.)
there is an ,abo. named McTavish. If you ask his
nationality he will say proudly “I’m a Scotchman.,
my wife’s an Irishwoman and my children belong tc
the Church of England.” Incidentally, he is a member
of the local school committee.
THE TRADER.
“Any of clo’ Here , ask your mother if
she wants to buy any clo’es.”
“Hekru”: Tell “Colub” (B. 2G/1/’221
there is no doubt about the eruption of fangs in
venomous snakes. Both groups, viperine (movable
fangs) and colubrine (fixed fangs), have a continual
succession of these dermal appendages. The fangs,
being the snake’s chief weapon of defence and
offence, are often lost, and Nature has provided a
wonderful and unique succession of them. When a
fang is lost it is succeeded by one immediately
alongside it, and right and left positions are alter-
nately occupied in this way throughout the life of
the wriggler. If a section is prepared from the soft
tissues in the region of the base of the fang, and a
histological observation made, numerous tooth germs
will be found immediately below the epiblastic layer.
This continual succession applies to the fangs only
and not to the remainder of the teeth.
ANOTHER BOOH BUSTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘When lovely woman stoops to folly
And finds, too late, that men betray,
What art can soothe her melancholy?
What tears can wash her guilt away?”
Pooh, pooh, an out-of-date reflection!
The rules are changed that ring the sport:
We have, to save girls from dejection,
The baby-bonus and the Court!
Also free clinics, always handy;
While the mere scrawl of some recorder
Can knock the Base Betrayer bandy
With an affiliation-order!
QUEENSLAND.
O. C. C.


The charm of motoring
in out-of-way places
appeals to most motorists. The pleas-
ure of such touring depends consider
ably on the tyres used. For this class
of motoring you can absolutely depend
on “ Railroad ”
DUNLOP
TYRES
in fact, you can travel thousands of
miles over all classes of roads and
tracks without a thought of tyre trouble.
It’s their remarkable strength and dura-
bility that enables them to withstand
the hardest of driving without a sign
of cut or chip in cover. For touring
purposes “Railroads" have no equal;
in fact, it’s a payable proposition to
always use them, for they stand alone
for value and economical service.
All Garages can supply.
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
of Aust. Ltd.
i
-
9
f
t •
I
# *
tl'il
i
# *
I*
Ml
%
r ‘ 1
w
i
\
it. %.:>
;
•%
4i
%
*
f
i
* *
%
k i
'
I
1
I
§ c*fw
*
I*ll
N
Pig
ft*
‘
I'fi'M 1
I
I
«***#
m
*■ w
m
m
TV-
» *'--4.
• «
■
iiJtej
*
# | jgjfe
-
ft« Mfr MtJ|
iwm?:- jpv. 'lk
iUfffiaA Up?
I
/' ’ -«<
W
1
221
•■•-•" m
A
Jtfm M: * -*ps
* *vc * „r~
*V r js* 7% -2 * * , v €
v ,✓%««*,. *»-**>• <&Jk4t J « JL.
’*' »4£*r • v
■» Jr —# +
S 4 t*** ~’ ,| « , w* * ****
<•>4l
V. < *
*>
:
POTT
:
- .;• < - -“-«•
twZr NT >
* >%;
. . --•■•*:• ■: -
P* 9
rI4
*- <: " .
if . * A?
Passing through woolly-butt forest on Mt.
Wills (Vic.), elevation 4,800 ft. in the 1,000
miles Alpine Reliability Motor Contest.
#...
i ITS
H
r


*
riR,
l
C-o.'
r-
-1
sS£
£
>
B
'4
gff?s
s
Si
V
1
kV''S
DOES yOUR.
ENGINE KNOCK
EVEN with a faultless ignition,
the modern high-compression
engine pinks —on acceleration
when driven by an inferior spirit.
Shell
motor SPIRIT
owing to its high percentage of
aromatic hydrocarbons—such as
Toluene, etc. eliminates that
slight knocking sound termed
“pinking,” also the anxious mo-
ments in which you wonder
what is happening in the engine
of your car.
SHELL Rpliobiliig
is proverbial
s 'Cßg> British. Imperial Oil Co Ltd
Shales c Hew Zealand)
sdf
Greater Value than ever
is revealed in the New
Prices cabled hy Dodg'e
Brothers.
Ist FEBRUARY, 1922.
Full information from
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Dodge Brothers !nc. ie a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce »
The Methods of a Model.
THE model seated herself on the dais.
She was not a young woman, but
there was a strange beauty in her
pale face with its clouds of dark-brown hair.
I went over and arranged her draperies.
“Do you mind if I take your hair down?”
I asked. “I want to do it up in a particular
way.” She nodded, and I pulled out the
pins. I was astonished at the flood of soft
hair they released.
“What wonderful hair!” I exclaimed.
“You must let me paint you some day with
your hair down” I buried my hands in
the thick, silky masses of it. “I know some
girls who would give a small fortune to have
hair like that.”
She only smiled rather sadly. I knew
there had been much trouble in her life.
As I painted I encouraged her to talk. At
last my own curiosity overcame me, and I
asked what she did to make her hair so glori-
ous.
“Mine is always coming out,” I told her.
“I suppose I should have it cropped as most
women-artists do.”
“I’ve never been in a hairdresser’s shop
in my life,” she said. “I’ve only used one
or two old-fashioned recipes which I make
up myself. I always shampoo with stallax.
I find you only need about a tablespoonful
to cleanse one’s hair thoroughly, and so it
does not work out at all expensive in the end.
Once I tried something else, but my hair
did not dry all soft and bright as it does
after stallax, so I returned to the old recipe.
If it shows any tendency to fall out, I obtain
some boranium from the chemist, and mix
it with a little bay rum; that soon makes
it grow thick and strong again. Perhaps
you wonder why at my age—l’m fifty, you
know —I haven’t grey hair? Once it did
begin to look faded and streaky, but someone
told me that the only real way to restore
the color was by dissolving some pure tam-
malite in bay rum and applying this lotion
to the hair each day. It’s wonderful stuff,
but people so seldom think of using any-
thing so simple, do they?”
“They don’t, indeed,” I answered, “but
you’ve opened my eyes. You must write it
all down, if you will be so kind. And now
shall we rest? You must be tired.”
As she nodded her head gratefully the
sun flashed on her head and brought out
unsuspected golden lights in that wonderful
hair.
After a brief interval she resumed the
pose. As I re-adjusted her head I noticed
the extraordinarily beautiful texture of her
skin. What claims she had to beauty, I
reflected, were due to the wonderful perfec-
tion of detail —she bore the closest scrutiny.
I lingered longer than was necessary over
the arrangement of her head in order to
admire the clear, fine tone of her skin. Her
complexion was almost colorless, but the
skin showed hardly a crease; the lips, I
noticed, looked warm and healthy, and her
eyelashes gave her rather pale eyes a
shadowy beauty. Feature for feature, she
was not pretty, but there was a charm about
her that grew on one, and no one could deny
the loveliness of her soft hair and satiny
skin.
As I painted everything feminine in me
wanted to ask her if she had any secrets for
keeping that wonderful skin, but politeness
forbade. To my joy, however, she resumed
our former conversation.
“It always seems to me that old-fashioned
remedies are the best. Of course, I have to
consider the question of keeping such looks
as I may have, because being a model is
precarious w r ork, and the market is over-
stocked with old models of the wrinkled
white-haired type. I always treat my skin
rather carefully because I look on it as busi-
ness capital. Every night I massage it with
pure mereolised wax, which I wash off in
the morning with warm water. That clears
the skin thoroughly, because the oxygen in
the wax absorbs all the waste outer tissue
of the skin, and exposes the new complexion
underneath, which is quite fresh and smooth.
Of course, this treatment is a great pre-
ventive of wrinkles, for they never have
time to form.
I have taken to using something for my
lips lately, as they used to be so dry and
sore. I bought an ordinary stick of prolac-
tum, and I do not think you could find any-
thing better. It is so soothing, and it gives
one’s lips just a nice warm healthy look,
without any hint of make-up.
“I am very interested in all you have told
me,” I answered. “I wish I could tell you
some things, too. But I don’t believe there
is any little secret you don’t know.”
“I have not yet found anything really
good for the hands,” she told me, holding out
a pair of shapely but roughened ones; “house-
work makes them so red and dirty!”
“Ah! I exclaimed, “then I can give you
one tip. Get some bicrolium jelly from your
chemist; you’ll find that it will get all the
ingrained dirt right out of your hands, be-
sides making them beautifully soft and white.
I don’t know where I should be without it
myself.”
She thanked me very sincerely, and the
time being up, prepared to go.—Advt.


Purest
Spirit
irv tke
WorLi
sdf
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's schna?^
STANDS ALO^®-
TEXACO
MOTOR
OIL
here
R
* p
r
The wrist-pin bearing*
IT gets the full power impulse that]
takes you over the road at 20, 40 j
or 60 miles per hour.
It works in a temperature from 300
to 500 degrees Fahrenheit.
There’s the real test of a lubricant.
Texaco Motor Oil is right for wrist-
pin bearings, crank-shaft, cylinder-
walls and for every other part of your
motor—and stays right. It keeps your
engine free from the knocks that annoy.
It ensures the care-free feeling that goes
with a smooth-running car.
Give your Motor Texaco Motor Oil—
the oil that perfectly cushions the hear-
ing surfaces —the oil that holds all its
good qualities under difficult operating
conditions.
Watch your motor respond.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.
Head Office, Auto House, 143-145 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
»co
TE
o
A
is wisely ordained, the miscellaneous col-
lector comes to the aid of the actual maker,
much as the bricklayer’s laborer serves the
real fabricator, and the judicious conjunc-
tion results in the best results with the mini-
mum expenditure of time and effort.
I know at least three walking Australian
cyclopaedias to whom it never occurs that
they are not merely storehouses but possible
gold-mines, and they follow the uncongenial
pursuits sedulously followed by thousands,
turning their enormous collections to no
commercial use, while the men who could
make the best use of their knowledge are
compelled to seek, like burrowing terriers,
in all sorts of musty and dusty byways, for
the scraps of information essential to the
perfection of an important task.
The only written encyclopaedia I know
of, claiming to represent Australia with
thoroughness and fidelity, is the work of
David Blair, "for 30 years a Melbourne
journalist,” and it dates back to 1881, and
is therefore 41 years old. In point of fact,
it is much older in its information and does
not bring us up to Charles Harpur, although
he had accomplished his life’s work by this
date and had been writing ever since 1853.
“Blair’s Cyclopaedia of Australasia” is more
interesting for what it denies than for what
it alleges, giving 15 lines to Garnet
Walch, a forgotten Melbourne journalist,
and not a word to Adam Lindsay Gordon,
who had published much verse as early as
1865. “Sea Spray and Smoke Drift” and
“Ashtaroth” were out in book form in 1867,
and Gordon died in 1870. In fact, Blair
appears to have had a great contempt for
poets, and was either unaware of the exist-
ence of one Henry Kendall, or held him a
party of no account. In 1870 Kendall left
Sydney for Melbourne; he stayed in the
southern city twelve months, during which
time “Leaves from an Australian Forest”
was published. We are told that Kendall’s
reputation as a singer had preceded him,
and he was “well and favorably known”
along the Yarra. Mr. Blair did not know
him. Marcus Clarke gets in as an afterthought.
George Higinbothata is dismissed with 40
lines, where one column and a half is be-
stowed to the glory of Henry Heylyn Hayter,
Government statist. Under the heading of
“Chi” we get about 40 lines of generalities
about Chinese in Australia, a subject that
awaits the author who will pack it into a
big interesting volume; but Caroline Chis-
holm, described as “The Immigrant’s
Friend,” is enlarged upon to the extent of
four and a quarter columns. Truth to tell,
Blair’s Cyclopaedia is packed with names of
men this generation has never heard of, and
of whom there is no necessity to hear.
The author has provided .some useful
information, of course, but the book is
merely a summary of the events of his time,
seen through the eyes of a journalist with-
out much imagination, and lacking prophetic
vision. Hence the author’s amiable atten-
tion to Sir Arthur Hamilton Gordon, once a
Governor of Fiji, and his repudiation of
Adam Gordon, the jockey who wrote poetry.
We are old enough now to look back upon
over a hundred years of history,with just the
proper perspective. Things which were of
no consequence to Blair, living next door to
them, have assumed their proper proportion,
as have events in his daily life which seemed
to him of tremendous significance. Small
fellows he knew personally have mellowed
under the touch of time into persons of his-
torical importance, while men he knew only
by repute as tremendous fellows have sunk
out of sight in the sands of time.
Perhaps one-third of Blair is worth pre-
serving ; the compiler of the Australian
encyclopaedia yet to be must provide the rest.
Let us hope and pray that to his storehouse
mind may be added a certain prophetic
touch, guiding the pen in the allotment of
space and otherwise.
EDWARD DYSON.
Literature and School-children
The method of teaching English literature
in our schools is worthy of discussion, not
from the angle of the conscientious peda-
gogue—he has discussed it often —but from
that of the unfortunate student. I am
a living example of the pernicious system
that is blunting, and in some cases atrophy-
ing, the literary instincts of our school-
children.
When a boy I was wont to pride
myself on my reading. I had polished off
Dickens before I was 12; Browning and
Wordsworth had no terrors for me; and I
soon revelled in Shelley and Keats. Then
I took a course in English literature. My
master was an unsympathetic pedant with a
soul that did not rise beyond alexandrines
and Greek hexameters. Beauty of thought
and language had no appeal for him. We
were taught to regard correct scansion and
faultless grammar as the apex of poetic art.
Poetry was pumped into us almost by
machinery. The teacher’s ambition was to
go on and on, to hasten through the poems set
down in the curriculum, and, above all, to
complete the syllabus in a business-like man-
ner. Any loitering by the way, any attempt
to dwell upon some particularly inspiring
line, would meet with an impatient and dis-
couraging response, and awav we would go
again on our fruitless quest after the delights
of the great masters!
A Red Pagei contributor once said that
Paradise Lost was the best boy’s book he
had ever read. Happy man! My experi-
ence has taught me that it is a dreary and
uncomineing treatise with an often obscure
meaning and the rhythm of an automaton.
9 f 5™ rse f lam aw ai;e that critics have called
it one of the world s three epics, and the
but T hnv^TT in Endish literature,
better h 4 Q k U<lled at Sch ° ol and know
better. Shakspeare is another example of
my literary backsliding. Mention of “Ham-
let” makes me shudder. If 1 were to hear
it played, I know it would cut five years off
my life. The first time I read Hamlet’s
soliloquies, I was stirred by their remarkable
wisdom. When they were drummed into my
ears 50 times by a schoolmaster, they became
an eternal nightmare. What was once
healthy philosophy is now vulgar platitude.
What were once the soliloquies of an earnest
youth are now the ravings of a maniac. How-
ever good a poem or play may be, a surfeit
of it will render it commonplace. It is this
constant repetition that has converted music
like Schubert’s “Serenade” and the “Lost
Chord” into banalities.
The first aim of the teacher should be to
make the child’s studies interesting. Instead
of moralising on introductory notes and
irregular rhythms, let the pupil read the
poem for himself a few times, and then write
a short essay on it, picking out its vital parts
and picturesque phrases. The study of a
poem on these lines w’ould be natural, and
would induce the pupil to obtain a working
knowledge of the poet’s life, his style and
his method. As for plays, surely it would
not be revolutionary to suggest that the study
of a play should conform to the conditions of
an amateur dramatic circle. The idea of
pupils as actors and the teacher as stage-
manager may appear ludicrous at first sight,
but it would give the pupil a better knowledge
of the play and its meaning than all the
conventional methods of instruction.
And (though this has, strictly, nothing to
do with it) it is about time the lists of
poets chosen for school studies were revised.
Although Australian literature is, ns yet, in
its infancy, there are works that are surely
deserving of a place among the text-books
of our schools. They may not be classics,
but they are more suitable for school use
than the erotic Byron and the. flamboyant
(and sometimes degenerate) Swinburne. It
is amazing to discover to what an extent
Byron has entrenched himself in school
studies. “The Maid of Athens,” one of the
most common of all text-book poems, was
written to the daughter of a Greek lodging-
house keeper, with whom Byron had been
carrying on a sordid intrigue. Whatever
its value as a poem, its associations are not
pleasant to recall, and its influence on the
plastic mind of a child should not be over-
looked. Given a complete revision of our
methods, the classics may eventually become
best-sellers, with the popularity of Hall
Caine and Marie Corelli. I have no doubt
that there are thousands, like myself, who,
during their adolescence, were made the
victims of a system that has turned
literature into an intellectual drudgery from
which there is no relief.
S. M.
The Search for Shakspeare
“D.M.W.,” having started the trouble, has
the right to the last word; and this must
end it for the present
I cannot altogether absolve “M.M.P. (K.r.
9/2/’22) from the charge of side-stepping even in
his references to the larger matters raised by Looney
in the De Vere controversy.
The Willy Proof. —The plain fact is that for very
many years it has been thought by everybody to
refer to Shakspeare and that Looney shows it refers
to De Yere. Naturally his opponents at once say it
doesn’t matter, but it mattered a lot until it ceased
to fit their theories of things. A more convincing
bit of reasoning than that by which Looney proves
his case would be hard to find; but those who
have not read Looney’s book have only my word
for it that it is and “M.M.P.’s” assertion that it
isn’t. I submit that “M.M.P.’s” own self-contradic-
tory paragraph is the proof that he is incapable of
taking the Looney argument at its simple value.
The Lyly and Munday Proof. —Here “M.M.P.’s”
statement of the position is unfair. What Looney
has shown is not merely De Vere’s patronage and
association with the two authors named, but the
fact that on the statement of authorities, who never
dreamt of this controversy, there are passages in
their work which they could not have written and
which not only resemble Shakspeare’s work but in
which his actual words are used. De Yere was about
just then, and Shakspeare wasn’t.
De Vere’s and Shakspeare’s Retirements. —The line
of argument adopted here by “M.M.P.” is largely
one of assertion against assertion. If he sees nothing
in the fact that the Shakspeare of Stratford actually
built up his own affairs in his native district at a
time when De Vere retired from a very public life
into great quiet, and that the period corresponds to
that during which the great plays were published,
I suppose it is impossible to make him see it.
The Meres List. —Here I am prepared to take
“M.M.P.’s” view of the matter up to a point. De
Vere’s name may head the list on account of his
rank. His plays may all have been lost; there may
have been no arrangement of the names according to
merit. The only really remarkable point about it
is that an age which in this way exalted rank above
genuine achievement was not careful also to preserve
the work of the man of rank. The mere fact of
his rank would obviously have made a public for
the printed text of his plays, exactly as it. would
even in these days of democracy in which we live.
To lessen the value of De Vere’s mention by Meres
is to accept a lot of other things that rather strain
ordinary credulity.
As to the handwriting of the Stratford man, to
which “M.M.P.” refers, is there proof that he had
any handwriting? Not only is there no letter of
his extant, but there is no indication that he ever
wrote one, though one letter to him exists in which
he is asked for a loan of money. His existing signa-
tures are all different, and two out of three are those
of an illiterate man. Sir E. Maunde Thompson,
quoted by “M.M.P.,” says that if they had been on
different documents we should have been justified
in thinking them the work of three different hands.
I do not think “M.M.P.” has done much to
strengthen the faith that thei man who died without
books, without any interest in his published plays
and well within the smell of his own profitable
piggeries was England’s greatest genius.
Australian Verse
Douglas Campbell, who finds (R.P.
26/l/’22) that Australian poets fail to
please English critics, thinks their failure is
the result of their confining themselves to
lyrical forms. “It is by the longer works of
a poet that his fame is determined. The
short lyrics and lyrical passages we quote,
but it is not by these that we rank the man.”
These are brave generalisations. They may
be true of Mr. Campbell’s great four, Dante,
Shakspeare, Milton and Browning. But to
reach a valid general conclusion concerning
the work that does not make a poet great
we must review all poets whose claims to
greatness are recognised.
Consider another quartet: Herrick, Words-
worth, Keats and Rupert Brooke. Herrick
was a lyrist, wholly and solely. My edition
of his works contains no long poems and
very few that cover more than two pages.
Can anybody deny him the title great? In
his own sphere he attains the same per-
fection of idea, imagery and workmanship as
does Shakspeare in his. Wordsworth’s fame
is assured. But it is based on our appreci-
ation of his smaller things, of several son-
nets, of a few short lyrics, and of a couple
of odes. “The Prelude” and “The Excur-
sion,” long poems after Mr. Campbell’s own
heart, contribute nothing to our entertain-
ment. They live only as the work of the
poet of “Tintern Abbey” and “Westminster
Bridge.” And what if we decided that we
could not judge Keats by his shorter poems?
Would he rank as high as at present?
“Endymion” and “Hyperion” have certain
excellencies; but if we arrange the poems
in descending order of length, from “En-
dymion,” through “Hyperion,” “Lamia,”
“Isabella” and “The Eve” to the four great
odes, we find that our descending order
of length is an ascending order of
merit. Keats lives, not as the writer of
“Endymion,” but of “The Nightingale,”
“Psyche,” “The Autumn” and “The Grecian
Urn.” Look again at Brooke, the greatest
poet this century has produced. There is
not a long poem in the' Collected Edition of
his Works. Surely these examples may be
suggested to Mr. Campbell that he may ask
himself if he has correctly diagnosed the
chief failing of Australian poets.
There is something seriously wrong with
the present condition of Australian verse.
In the years past there has been much good
verse published, but very little poetry. The
trouble lies in the fact that as yet there
does not exist any Australian literature.
What we call Australian literature is only
English literature 20 years behind the
times. Dependent on England for all
literary influences, we have drifted into a
backwater. All our present verse is written
because somebody in England was writing
the same thing (or very like it) in the
same style (or very like it) some 20 years
back. Australian poets should endeavor to
gain independence; but if Mr. Campbell’s
suggestions take effect, and if such indepen-
dence will consist in their throwing aside
the lyric and endeavoring to write saga
and epic and drama (in blank verse), may
the day of their independence be far off!
R. F. GOLLAN.
A Satchel of Books
The Sunny Side, by A. A. Milne (Methuen). Sketches
and vers-de-societe, mostly reprinted from London
Punch, and clever in a fragile way. But sometimes
the thinness is more evident than the cleverness.
Prologue, by Phyllis Duganne (Harcourt, Brace and
Howe, via Whitcombe and Tombs). A young writer’s
careful study of an oversexed U.S. flapner. She
paints a strong and unflattering picture of American
“society,” but in one respect she exhibits unusual
restraint. Her stalwart young hero who goes to the
war (he is about the only character in the story,
a charming aunt excepted, who isn’t crazy about the
opposite sex) doesn’t defeat the German army single-
handed.
Memories and Base Details, by Lady Angela Forbes
(Hutchinson). The first half of the book is no more
than the social small-beer of 20-odd years ago; but
the lady’s reminiscences assume a general interest
when she reaches the world war, during part of
which she ran a canteen at Boulogne. Any fool was
capable of feeling contempt for the type of Brass
Hat who pervaded the far-back areas: Lady Angela is
able to express it. Many of her judgments are as
amusing as those of the creator of “General Bramble” ;
but wherever she is at all critical they can be relied
on to be 100 per cent, bitterer. For example:—
“Sir Philip Sassoon, who had started the war as
General Rawlinson’s secretary, had transferred him-
self into a similar position with the G. in C. He is
supposed to have wired to his florist: ‘Stop flowers
to Lady Rawlinson, and send them to Lady Haig,’ and
later: ‘Send flowers now to Mrs. Lloyd George.’”
Where her personal feelings do not enter into the
affair she can be more tolerant: —
“ ‘Wallie,’ as Sir William Robertson was familiarly
called, inspired confidence. He had no outside in-
fluence, no ‘Maid of Honor Wife’ [a reference, this, to
Haig, whose wife was Miss Vivian, one of the Queen’s
attendants] to help him in his career. Many amus-
ing stories are told of the bluritness of his manners.
‘You’re for ’ome,’ was said to be one of his methods
of politely intimating to a general that his services
in France were to be dispensed with.”
The presence of memoir-writers of the Lady Angela
Forbes type, penetrating of eye, ready of pen, and
careless of the laws of libel, should have a tonic
effect on the eminent in the next big war.
Thirteen Years at the Russian Court, by Pierre
Gilliard (Hutchinson). Another story of the tragedy
of Ekaterinburg, and the events leading up to it.
The writer was French tutor to the Czar’s children
for 13 years. There has been much mystery as to
the illness from which the Czarevitch suffered. It
is cleared up here. The trouble was haemophilia.
Gilliard attributes the fall of the Romanoff dynasty
directly to the heir’s incurable disease. But for it
Rasputin would not have got a footing at the super-
stitious Imperial Court. His presence there alien-
ated the sympathy of those who might have stood by
the royal family, and his murder infuriated the
peasants. There are many photographs of the Czar
and Czarina, of the different buildings in which they
were imprisoned, and of the children who died with
them.
Tabitha Tries Turkeys, by Woolmer Gatty (Stock-
well). Tabitha is a young war-widow who seeks
surcease of sorrow in the South Australian bush.
She rears turkeys, makes friends with magpies,
kookaburras and blue wrens, and falls in love with a
wounded soldier whom for ] lonths she has supposed
to be a slacker. The book exhibits a feeling for
nature and contains many shrewd feminine reflec-
tions on life. But the style suffers from an irritat-
ing tendency to over-quotation, and the romantic
episode is too maudlin to be credible.
A Book for Kuh, by C. J. Dennis (Angus and
Robertson). Dennis has here given the youngsters
a whimsical book of their very own. There are a
couple of stories, but all the rest is in verse, in the
simple, direct language of the child, and the volume
is fearfully and wonderfully illustrated by the author
himself. There is much that is just nonsense, but
underlying most of the book is the true working of
the child-mind to which Dennis has harked back un-
erringly. For instance, there is not a boy of 10 or
50 who won’t feel the personal appeal of “The Long
Road Home”—the explanation of a youngster as to
why, when he had only a few yards to walk from
Billy’s place, he came to wander all round the village
before he reached his own back door. There’s not
a boy living who hasn’t taken that long road home.
An added delight to this item is the bird’s-eye view
of the route, on which can be followed every step
of the boyish Odyssey. The illustrations are in
keeping with the letterpress, and will appeal to
the youngster as exactly the sort of thing he has
himself drawn a hundred times on his slate and in
the back of his exercise-book when the teacher
wasn’t looking. He’ll think a good deal more of
them than of the two three-color pictures by Hal Gye
in the front.


NVoo\
'Nlnckow'o
Carson
Note this Woolbale
and the message it contains. The advice is
worth taking. Top results are the Cru’s
strong point.
Write:—
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
WoolbroKersi LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
.*
THE BARRY STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
represents the most considerable for-
ward step yet taken in tile design and
manufacture of a steel split pulley.
The BARRY is Electrically Spot Welded by
the latest and most improved methods. Weld-
ing is the strongest possible means of joining
metals, presenting many .advantages over the
old-style riveting. There are no rivets in a
BARRY Pulley to work loose or shear under
strain. The BARRY is made of special steel
and formed in accurately constructed dies.
Write for Free Illustrated Descriptive
Catalogue “13.”
JAMES HARDSE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
540-542 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per (lay inclusive;
10/0. Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
SKANDIA
MARINE MOTORS,
4-5 h.p. and up to
500 h.p.
4-5 h.p.
The latest type of Semi-deisel Oil Engine.
Specially constructed to take the place of
benzine engines. Runs on Crude Oil at a
cost of about twopence per hour. No
Magneto—sparking plug or electrical
devices. Average starting time only thirty
seconds.
All particulars and prices can he obtained
from
Nelson & Robertson,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
The ALDERDICE
BRASSFOUNDRY
WARRNAMBOOL.
We make goods up to a standard—not down to a price. We
cost all our work, and when we cannot get a profit on any line at
current prices we stop making that line.
We use virgin metals, and exercise close metallurgical control over
all operations.
We do good work, and charge cost plus a profit
—and we are entitled to that. r .
The Finest Pipe in the World
d
Stydle No 503,
Sllvoi mounted,
18/-
We *
will
show
a
shape
every
week.
1
m
7/Y,
i
mz.
FAMOUS
NON-CRACKING
CORSICAN
BRUYERE
Is made at St. Claude (Jura),
France, by French Diggers, in
98 smart shapes from the high-
est-grade, flawless Corsican Itru-
yere Root. Every pipe sold with a
12 Months’ Guarantee
against cracking or burning. Any doing
so within that time will be replaced.
ASK YOUR TOBACCONIST FOR F.L.C.
or send a postcard to Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne,
and we will tell you where to get one.
[3
U/es? SdAIJ USpjQQ l]Sljsjp 11J£
A fragrance of England’s best loved flowers, as real
and true as if borne to you through the quiet evening
air in an old-fashioned English village garden—•
such is the fidelity to nature of Zenobia Perfumes.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom, the choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley, dainty and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night - Scented Stock, another favourite perfume,
'weet and fragrant.
sdf
Zenobia Perfumes
are obtainable at
most high - class
Chemists, Per-
fumers & Stores
Manufactured only by Zenobia, Ltd.,
Loughborough, Leicestershire, Eng.
Sole Agents for New Zealand (Wholesale only),
NEWSON & CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1162, Wellington.
Sole Agent for Australia (Wholesale only),
KENNETH BUCKMASTER, M
15 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 1
7EN0814
m
G
. M
iL>y
the
’>! ■'""■z-.t. 'u .^V3»2a
A TOOL ROOM NECESSITY
Australasian Agents:
Toolmakers declare this
machine to be of the greatest
service and indispensable to a
well-equipped shop.
For grinding hardened dies
and punches, truing the legs of
jigs and similar work, you will
find the
Brown 8 Sharpe
No. 2
Surface
Grinding Machine
just the machine you need.
If you desire further informa-
tion we will gladly send our
catalog, so that you can buy
intelligently and realise the
many superior features that
this machine contains.
Scruttons Limited,
161* Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business, Robbery, etc.
‘Toby C.”: Wbat is the Australian, record
for plate-laying ? Here’s one they talk about
in my locality. On the Western line (N.Q.),
between Julia Creek and Cloncurry, the late
Jerry Tuite, a popular ganger of those das's,
laid 62 chains of 421 b. rails in hours with
eight men. Has any gang ever covered the
mile?
* * * *
“El Irish”: Sheepskins a short while ago
were just as remunerative as “Jackeroo’s”
poddies (B. 19/l/’22). A friend of mine
sent two big bales to a Sydney agent and re-
ceived back a twopenny stamp and the com-
forting assurance that the market was on the
move. The stamp was framed and hung
(or is “hanged” the right word there?) in a
local agent’s office.
* * * *
“Jobber” : A man looking for a job recently
offered to deliver the Hurstville (N.S.W.)
Council rate-notices for a penny each, thus
saving the council 20 of the best, and putting
a few quid in the way of a bloke who wanted
a job. The Postal Department now says
such a contract is a violation of the Act. and
the man will be liable to a penalty of £5O if
he carries it out. It’s bad luck for an honest
trier; but what’s worrying me is, won’t I
be allowed to deliver the invitations to our
next prohibition meeting?
* * * *
“Te Pana”: The firestick and the pro-
miscuous axe are making a nasty hole in
Maoriland’s timber resources. Seventy years
ago 30,000,000 acres, or 45.4 p.c. of the area of
the Ilicketty Isles, was forested ; to-day there
is a mere 7,000,000 acres growing trees. At.
the present rate 1050 will see M.L. bald
of native bush.. Poet Will Lawson, re-
cently given a job in the Forestry Depart-
ment, is getting agitated over the matter and
is trying to boost conservation and re-
planting. In a small way M.L.’s State
Forests Department has been experimenting
with eucalyptus.. Seventy species have been
tried and 27 found suitable to the climate.
The big Lake Coleridge electric-power scheme
for North Canterbury conveys its wires over
hundreds of miles per medium of Australian
poles which have been ferried across the
Tasman. But there’s a hope that
breakdowns, in the transmission posts 40
years hence will be repaired from timber
erown on the spot.
* * * •
“Agricola” on some Digger settlements
Vic. Minister Oman has been greatly agitated by
statements in the Farmers' Advocate as to the bad
outlook for-settlers on some of the very high-priced
closer-settlement estates in the Western district. At
present the price of dairy-produce makes it impos-
sible to live and pay for the land and cows bought
at boom values. Many of us could see plainly
enough that heavy trouble was brewing. The fact
.of the Government being on the market inflated
values; but we do not yet know all the motives of
the valuers. Here is one case which shows gross
cruelty. Near Moranding is a small area of very
bad land, on a piece of which a returned man, his
wife and six kids have been placed to dairy-farm.
They have 10 cows, which are already in the last
stages of exhaustion. The man has grafted hard,
but now he has to work for neighbors to get food
for the family. The wife milks the wretched cows.
The family has been on the land less than 12
months, and the Digger has undertaken to pay £6
an acre for his bayonet- and kangaroo-grass coun-
try. He didn’t know that cows could not live on
such feed, no matter how plentiful; but the former
owner did and so did the neighboring farmers.
* * * *
“Hanno”: Something new in the way oI
making two grains of wheat grow where
there was only one has been worked out by
a couple of young Australian chemists in
Vic. Whereas an animal takes in oxygen
from the atmosphere and gives out carbon
dioxide, plants inspire carbon dioxide and
expire oxygen, their development being
directly proportionate to the amount of the
former gas available. Hence, the two scien-
tists hit upon the plan of using carbon
dioxide to promote the . grow of cereals, the
gas being distributed by means of pipes with
jets, the fact of it being heavier than air
preventing it from being dissipated for some
time. It is cheap and is easily prepared,
and, in addition, is a waste product from
a number of industries, so there is no diffi-
culty about supply, while its storage and
transportation in metal cylinders offer no
troublesome problems. There are yet a
couple of minor technical matters to be
dealt with, and then the experimenters intend
to test the idea on a fairly large scale. In
the trials so far increases in yield of grain
up to 30 per cent, have been attained; so
it looks like a big thing.
THE PAWNBROKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. Theie is an unlimited supply of money available
m America for Australian loans.”
A new pawnbroker’s brought his sign—
Three brazen balls and “Cash to Lend.”
The whisper runs along the line:
“There’s money here for us to spend;
And why be thrifty or discreet
With a new pawnshop in the street?
“Why cut the ponies out or toil
io put things straight? Let’s have our fun.
I tell you it’s the dinkum oil
That cash is waiting by the ton ;
And, though the interest is hot,
We’ll borrow it and owe the lot!”
The man who spread these tidings glad
Took pride, as though some merit lay
Within him for the news'he had.
’Mid cheers he passed upon his way.
A statesman he, of all the host
The greatest, for he pawned the most.
Strathfield and Toorak do not bear
The three-ball signs above their doors.
In mean, poor streets the Cohens wear
Fat smiles for those who cross their floors.
Our land may be, before we’re through,
A nation living in the ’Loo.
N-S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


STORAGE
BATTERY
»
The ordinary battery
has two wearing
parts—plates and in-
sulation. The Still
Better Willard Bat-
tery has only one.
Willard Threaded
Rubber Insulation
lasts the life of the
plates.
X w
w


sdf
he largest selling
quality pencil in
theyvoxld,
r ENUS
PENCILS
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Potastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES |
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
Send Your Best Friend
one for CHRISTMAS.
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE
m
■ifiiSf
dv/vovsn.
Jpcrrvn
riSSm
YES!
Easily Mark any
GARMENT or MATERIAL
lto ensure You Protection
'against loss, and individuality
by using -
WOVEN
n
Unlimited scope, easily sewn
on. any Name Vl' oven in Fast
Color.
Prices t 12 <?oz. 7/6,
6 doz. SI- —3 doz. 3/6.
\ Be sure and ask for CASH’S
at all Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St. Richmond, Vic.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK
A Great British Product
2%, 5 and 8
Horse-power
d
Stationary,
Semi-Portable
Portable.
(Runs on kerosene.)
The Reliable and Economical Power
for Driving Industrial and
Agricultural Machinery.
OVER 20,000 BEING
SUCCESSFULLY USED TO-DAY.
Made by PETTERS, LIMITED,
Yeovil, England.
Australian Representative: —
LEE K. MURRAY, A.M.I.Ae.E.,
DALTON HOUSE,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents:—
BRISBANE: The Intercolonial Boring Com-
pany, Ltd., 450-460 Ann Street.
SYDNEY: The Crudo Engineering Company,
3 Barrack Street.
MELBOURNE: The Kidd Milking Machine Co.,
Ltd.. 495 Bourke Street.
ADELAIDE: The South Australian Farmers
Co-operative Union, Ltd., 36 Franklin St.
*7(ave Vou 9ried°
(ndu
PLUME
MOTOR
SPIRIT
*
Easy sv/eei running.
more miles.
WHAT feature do you desire most in Petrol .
Many Motorists will say in answer to this
question -“ Give me Petrol that will start
easily and give plenty of power.
If this is your desire the following facts will
interest you!—
Wc have introduced a new Petrol to this Market
The Neu) Plume Motor Spirit
something different and better than we havx market-
ed hitherto.
The new Plume is specially made to overcome
starting troubles, to give full power and mileage. It
starts instantly because of the correct grouping of
low boiling points.
This is the secret of easy starting. It is highly
volatile, every drop is instantly and completely
vaporised, making a perfect explosive mixture.
This means sweet running, plenty of power
and full mileage, as every drop is a working
drop.
You can be »ure of satisfaction with the new
Try It yourself under every-day conditions,
starting, sweet running and more mileage*
Plume Motor Spirit.
Test it for easy
Order a case to-day.
gsg;
VUIM£ "
4
i
w
w
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
sdf
QU
o
CO
BD*
Ask your
Garage
Mi®!™©
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Head Office, 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney.
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
THE
"'oF AUSTRALASIA XiMITED
With which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
übah office* Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED
Directors ; —SIR JOHN GRICE, 0/iairw .
£2 000,000 EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
1 320,000 J. NEWMAN BARKER. Esq.
no nan aaa Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C. r,.
£3,320,000 BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
828.000 Chief-Manager : E. 11. WREFORD.
£4,148.000 Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St. Manager ; R. S. GREGSON. Sub-Manager: L. C. ct^CLES.
5 George St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager ; A. E. el
Branches in Victoria. South Australia. Western Australia, New South vva.e -
Brisbane — Manager : WM. TIVEY. LONDON OFFICE: 7 • ~+*>lr,urV,
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up.
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
When John Russell French died in Sydney
a memorial fund was started, and £5670 was
gathered in. As the total expenses amounted
to only £67 the Royal Alexandra Hospital
for Children will benefit by the annual
income from £5603.
“McPud”: Perhaps she had read recent
pars in The Bulletin re sudden births and
decided to enter the contest. At any rate,
during a prolonged hostile demonstration fol-
lowing the hoisting of a winner’s number at
Takapana (M.L.), on February 1, young
Blank was born in the grandstand.
“Vandorian” (London) : Australia’s old
friend “Curly” Hutton, Lieut.-General, has
been a very sick man for a long time, and
the once fiercely robust personality seems to
have shrivelled up. But the natural wave
and the color in what is left of “Curly’s”
hair still defy Time. Lady Hutton has
changed very little —sweet and serene, she
seems to have side-stepped the hag who
carves wrinkles in comely cheeks.
“Steve Hart” : There must be thousands of
sovereigns hidden in peculiar places in the
Commonwealth. Recently, when the police
took possession of the effects of a defunct
Chow, a lot of useless articles were left in
the old hut. A bagman happened along,
camped there, and finding a lump of soap
decided to do some washing. The first shirt
revealed the edges of several sovereigns em-
bedded in the soan, and the clean-up yielded
£22 10s.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos the Chirnsides and the
accumulation of their fortune as graziers
(B. 26/l/’22L The brothers lent their
Werribee plains for the first volunteer en-
campment (1862). I was at it. A banquet
was given to the Chirnsides, and in response
to the toast of his health, one of them
claimed to have been of some service to the
country—he had, he said, imported hares at
a guinea a head, and red deer at great cost.
He was loudly applauded.
“D.F.” : The use of the word “mate” on
a tombstone goes back a long way beyond
the Turon instance dating from the ’sixties
(B. 19/l/’22). About five miles out of
Bridgewater (Tas.), on the road to Cam-
pania, is what used to be the Brighton
cemetery, now an open paddock, and one
of its oldest tombstones has this inscription:
Sacred to the memory of William Lowe, sawyer,
who was treacherously shot by his mate, William
Cole, May 6, 1833. Aged 19 years.
There’s another old-time Speck tombstone
down Esperance way which speaks of the
deceased as having been murdered by his
mate, and adds that, though the sinner
escaped the justice of man, the vengeance of
the Lord will fall upon him.
“Hobnobster” on the ways of the law: —
A young man was charged by a girl with being
the father of her child, and though he brought
the most damning evidence against her, the Children’s
Court (Sydney) settled the paternity upon him.
He went to the Appeal Court, to the Supreme
Court and back to the Children’s Court; but they
all shook their heads and told him there was nothing
doing. Later, the father of the girl, seeing that she
had been so successful, decided to take a hand, and
accordingly issued a writ to recover £4OO damages
for seduction. He called his daughter as a witness ;
and she was ordered to produce the child. It proved
to be distinctly Chinese, and the young man promptly
got a verdict. But this is where our admirable
system of justice comes in. The matter in the
Children’s Court is Res Judicata, and all the
thunderbolts of Thor won’t make them say that he
is not the father of that half-caste.
“Agent”: We are the bearers of the white
man’s burdens, we house agents. It is we
who are made responsible for everybody’s
troubles. The law against babies in flats is
credited to our iniquities, but it is purely
an owner’s device. There is an old fellow
here for whom we act who lets his flats on
yearly leases, and one condition of the con-
tract is that the tenant or tenants have no
children, and shall introduce no children
during his, her or their tenancy. This is
not a clause that holds water, since it is in
defiance of the laws of nature and the will
of Heaven, but tenants don’t know that, and
when one young couple were on the point
of becoming parents Younghusband came
running to me, pleading that the condition
mentioned might be held in abeyance till the
event was over, as it was impossible to find
another residence and an expensive private
hospice was quite out of the question. The
owner was interviewed, and condescended to
permit of the baby being born under his
roof. A month later he came in at me show-
ing his tusks, and upbraided me fiercely as
party to the arrangement under cover of,
which Younghusband had taken advan-
tage of him. “Get ’em out! Get ’em out!”
he snorted. “But in what way have they
taken advantage of your good nature, Mr.
Baggs?” I inquired. “What way?” He
pounded the desk. “In what way ? I allowed
them to stay in view of one anticipated baby,
and, damn it, sir, the minx has had twins!”
“Uhique”: “Mack’s” list of jobs he’s
tackled (B. 26/l/’22) makes a good showing.
My .Jack-of-all-trades has been more or less
unsuccessful in the following:—
Surveyor’s clerk, theatrical manager, carpenter and
cabinet-maker, civil engineer’s assistant and chain
trailer, bank clerk, book canvasser, bank clerk
again in a different bank, storeman, school teacher,
actor, journalist, poster artist, stage manager, reno-
vator of furniture, etc., in a T.P. emporium, single-
handed entertainer, storekeeper, teacher of elocution,
advance agent, gardener, house painter and decor-
ator, vaudeville “artist*’, groom, lecturer, con-
fectionery-shop-keeper, reporter on a daily news-
paper, insurance agent, picture show publicity fiend,
contractor’s book-keeper, A.I.F. soldier, paid public
speaker and secretary to several life-size concerns,
School of Arts secretary and librarian, picture-frame
maker and mount' cutter, advertisement canvasser,
hospital secretary, editor, picture actor, cook, picture-
show lecturer and organiser for scores of “move-
ments.”
He has also done a bit of tailoring, illum-
inated-address making, was once paid to go
into a “trance” for an alleged hypnotist,
has written several successful plays, and
has published a book of verse, read the les-
sons in church occasionally, and has made
the props for a children’s pantomime. He
has never been a member of Parliament, but
has done many other things of which he
has been ashamed. Yes, I’m the culprit
myself; but I can give “Mack” 20 years.


Comfort in the Hupmobile is a very
positive quality. It can be measured
in tbe car’s extraordinary riding; ease;
its superb steadiness over all roads ;
in its pulling power and its wonderful
performance.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Body Types.—Five-seater touring car, two-seater
roadster.
Wheelbase.—ll 2 inches (2.84 m.).
Cylinders.—Four, cast en bloc, removable head,
3 % in. bore x 514 in. stroke, 83 x 104 mm.
Starting and Lighting.—Electric—two-unit system.
Ignition.—High-tension magneto.
Carburetter.—Ad j ustable.
Fuel System.—Vacuum feed.
Lubrication.—Pressure system with pump.
Clutch.—Dry disc type—7 plates.
Tyres.—Bls x 105 mm. clincher or 32in. x 4in.
straight side. Demountable rims.
Wheels.—Wooden (Artillery type).
Color.—Blue or grey body.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 114-122 Pirie
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED, 105 Macquarie
Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC, Christchurch,
N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, N.Z.
I (immobile
'
I
For Ore 0,
ouc
~ F/oc/c /}gJO?
Listed on LLOYD’S REGISTER, London,
as Manufacturers of
Steel
Casting's
SPARES
for
CRUSHING, ORE REDUCTION
and
GENERAL MINING AND
INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY.
SOFT, MEDIUM AND HARD CARBON
CAST STEEL. MANGANESE AND
CHRGME CAST STEELS.
CARBON CAST STEEL.— Battery
Liners, Cams, Heads and Tappets,
Tube Mill Ends, Gearing, Truck
Wheels, and Castings for General
Industrial Machinery.
CHROME CAST STEEL. —“HEAT-
TREATED.”—For Battery Shoes and
Dies, and also Roll Shells and Parts,
which have to be machined but which
are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL.—For
Rockcrusher Jaws, Concaves, Slag
Elevator Chains, Truck Wheels, Coal
Crushing Machinery, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY*
AGENTS IN QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY STREET, BRISBANE.


Hotel de Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Dav*
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per jay, or from
4*4 Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLTFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
During hot weather teeth-
ing troubles and intestinal
disorders often occasion
grave anxiety to
especially where infants
are hand-fed. An effec-
tive safeguard is
Kruses
Fluid
Majjnesfl
Refuse doubtful substi-
tutes. The genuine
Kruse’s is made by-
Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Prop. Ltd., Melbourne
B.S.A.
FITTINGS
build the perfect
BICYCLE
THE utility and convenience of
a bicycle is now realised by most
people. A bicycle built of B.S.A.
Fittings is more than a convenience,
it is an absolute necessity for all who
wish to economise in both time and
money.
There are many odd journeys almost
every day which can be accomplished
not only quickly and cheaply, but
journeys, the anticipation of which
will give pleasure and delight provid-
ing you have a B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle
handy, for cycling with a B.S.A.—is
healthy, trouble-free travelling, and
withal a splendid exercise.
ALL B.S.A. PARTS ARE GUAR-
ANTEED INTERCHANGEABLE.
This means the elimination of all
unnecessary waste of time should you
lose or damage any part of your
bicycle.
ILLUSTRATED HANDBOOK free from
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
The Best Place for Your Savings
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/-
4 % interest up to £5OO, and 3J % on any excess
to £lOOO.
PERSONAL, JOINT AND TRUST
ACCOUNTS OPENED.
153 Branches and 520 Agencies throughout the State.
05TOc^
KLt’
Etmuw—
ROwnl
Right on Your Uppers
is where they shine. A brilliant, lasting shine, mind you,
plus 100% wear from your shoes.
bostock’sThoe creams
(In Bottles and Tubes).
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Nigger Brown,
Ox Blood, White, Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
The Jointing that
adjusts itself to the job.
It does not matter how rough or pitted the faces of pipe flanges
are, you can make a thoroughly satisfactory joint quickly and
easily if you use
aJfrsZbWde
w Form
JOINTING
MATERIAL
This moulds to the surface irregulari-
ties of the two opposing members and
forms a permanently leaktight and
rustless metal-to-metal joint that will
withstand the highest pressures and
temperatures. Pressure may be
turned on immediately the joint is
made.
Qet a tin to-day, and try it on your
most awkward joint—it will never
want re-making.
”^1
pE^
pO*
The Austral Engineering Supply Co., Ltd.
490 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
The Smoker’s Choice:
Cemtury-old Briar Pipes.
The pipe illustrated on the
left is the famous MARCEE-
DE-LUXE, rniade from French
Briar Root, —guaranteed over
100 years old. Subjected to
special hardening and season-
ing it ensures a cool,
sweet smoke i at all times.
15/-
On the right is shown the
MARCEE, one of the famous
GBD family of pipes. Made
from thoroughly matured
French Briaf, beautifully
marked and fitted with sibr-r
mount and superior vulcanite
mouthpiece—unique value
io/-
All Tobacconists and Stores. All Tobacconists and Stores,
If you cannot obtain these pipes locally, send remittance to Box 002 G.P.O.
Sydney,, and your order will receive prompt attention.
“Rae-akiaki”: I nominate as the oldest
visible Australasian wreck the French rnan-
o’-war Alcemene, which came to grief near
Flaxmill Gap, on the west coast of M.L., in
February, 1851. The remains can still be
seen there.
I>r. Nansen's report on affairs in Russia is
more recent than the one with which Philip
Gibbs spoiled humanity’s sleep, so it is
naturally worse. He estimates the starving
population at 19.000,000. It would be more,
but the dead don’t starve. This is what
crazed government can make of what was
once the granary of Europe.
“Lone Star”: In the recent Qualifying-
Certificate test in Sydney one “question”
was: “Name three books, you have read, giv-
ing the author.” A bright youth answered
it thus:—
(1) School Magazine; author, Education Depart-
ment.
(2) History ot Euglish People; author, ditto.
(3) The Bible; author, God.
“Hellish Reef” : Here’s a passage that will
make “Light the Binnacle” (B. 2G/l/’22)
put some more colza oil in his compass-
illuminant. The Peeress, of London (870
tons), in 1875, made the voyage from Lon-
don to Yokohama in 170 days, 42 days of
which she lay becalmed in the Straits of
Timor. On the return she got a wriggle on
and made the passage from Cebu (Philippine
Islands) to London in 140 days. She was
altogether 194 months on the round trip.
My dad was an A.B. on her.
“The Moralist”: During a heat-wave in
Brisbane recently parson J. S. Needham, of
St. Andrew’s, remarked during the service,
“I see nothing in our prayer-book which pro-
hibits a man from removing his coat in
church.” There was a pause; then a couple
of daring spirits broke the ice, and a general
moulting followed. The idea is a perfectly
sane one. Yet in Sydney recently a Judge
castigated a man for appearing before him
without his vest. But that was in the house
of. the Law, not the Lord.
“Ex-Englishman”: Oxford certainly is
leaning hard on its reputation as the home of
“lost causes.” A university Labor Club,
which talks brimstone, has lately been dis-
couraged by the authorities. But a mass
meeting has been allowed to the White Rose
Society, which argues that a female descend-
ant of James 11. ought to occupy the throne
of England to-day. Also a circular which
went round at Christmas urged the “Royal-
ists” of Oxford to “rally to the help of the
Tsar of Russia, the royal dynasty of France,
and the House of Hapsburg.”
“Wig”: An odd sort of libel case has been
heard in Adelaide. A small boy with his
head tied up struck a photographic firm as
a good subject. They took him in and ob-
tained his portrait, then exhibited it in the
window with a picturesque “legend,” which
presently brought a rampant father on the
scene. According to the lawyers, it insinu-
ated that the parents of the boy “had cruelly
and improperly employed him to gather wood
furtively for the family and were not fit
and proper persons to have custody and con-
trol of him.” They thought it was worth
499 19s. The photo firm apologised for its
joke and paid in £2O. The Court plumped
for £4O.
“The Outsider”: Mrs. .Eneas Gunn’s
admirable “We of the Never Never” gives
an account of the part “The Fizzer” plays
in the life of the Outback people. Let me
introduce another Fizzer, who operates in
the country at the back of Mount Garnet
(N.Q.). Leaving Mount Garnet on Satur-
day morning he bands the mail to the folk
at Cashmere station that night. Sunday
evening finds him at G.W. station, after
shedding mail matter at the Glen Harding
and Leichhardt Plains homesteads. Monday
evening finds him at St. Ronan’s. Tuesday
sees him back-tracking and camping at
Gunnawarra. Wednesday he hits the home
town. Distance covered: Saturday, 48
miles; Sunday, 35: Monday, 35; Tuesday,
85; Wednesday, 22—175 miles covered in
five days. The service is weekly, and the
pay £2OO per annum. The route traversed
is one of flood and bog in the wet season and
dry stages in drought time. The present
Fizzer, who has completed 18 months on
this run, is a good Australian youth of 19,
and reckons the only thing wrong .about it
is the lack of someone to argue politics with
on the journey.
Things that happen to our landlady:—
Mrs. Blank took in Bodge one afternoon nearly
three years ago. He said his luggage was at Spencer-
street, and would be delivered before evening, but it
never came, and Bodge's sole discoverable property
was a blue serge suit. When 24 days had passed
and Bodge, whose appetite was of the sort that drives
the grey hairs of landladies into the Insolvency Court,
had not produced a single bean, Mrs. Blank was
greatly perturbed at the possibility of the man
escaping without paying, a fatuous dread based on
an insane supposition that escaping without paying
is a greater evil than staying without paying, and
she was resorting to schemes to keep him within
control. At length, under the pretence of giving
his serge suit an airing, she removed Bodge’s duds
while Bodge slept, and the foolish woman imagined
she had Bodge beaten. The suit hung on the line,
and Bodge was upstairs with nothing to shield him
from observation and the inclemency of things but a
blanket and a suit of pyjamas. Yet, in spite of
these precautions, to Mrs. Blank’s amazement Bodge
disappeared. The suit, it was found, had been col-
lected from the line, and it had gone, too. Further-
more, Mrs. Blank’s blouse and skirt and a hat and
a flannelette petticoat were also missing. The next
day brought a letter enclosing a pawn-ticket for the
female apparel, and giving some slight understanding
of Bodge's modus operandi. He had put on Mrs.
Blank’s clothes and a clean shave, collected his suit
and effected a disappearance. Mrs. Blank endeavored
to forget her wrongs, writing off Bodge’s six pounds
as a bad debt. One day last week a man drove up
to Mrs. Blank’s and asked to see the lady. It was
Bodge, a plump well-dressed Bodge. He expressed
regret that circumstances had compelled him to act
as he had done. Now, however, he was in good cir-
cumstances and anxious to prove he was no common
villain, no robber of the grass widow and the orphan
seedling. “Here,” said he, “is a cheque for £l5 10s.
I owe you six pounds for board and 15s. shillings for
the cost of taking your things out of pawn. The
other three pounds five is yours as conscience money.
Give me five pounds ten change, and God bless you.
You were like a mother to me for four weeks.” He
took away the five pounds ten, and when Mrs. Blank,
poor, confiding woman, presented the cheque it was
returned marked “No Account.”


'
' 'W'f-v
mi ,:Jllg«
«
''V,' SfesgSt
! ~ V v .< '
....*.> jo-. ...
■
\.\* " ' ’ ’^^-wwr
■■ ■■:.■■■
v \ ftlft
’.'■s'" 1 jv;. ; ' jSFSfti
mM
V;ft
■ft'ft \ ’
Af
m
m
Sgf
■••• '•
'ft'
•*»s
'■•- <
*- - 1 ,
;&g;
.
'.'pi
'^V:
jftgg •:
■-■■■■..'■ .
ft ft ft ft
ft^k;
fft , :, ■
'"# :i 'li.V;;|
HH
!
■■
lig»il»ilil
MpMamMSWi
-:■*•> Jss&
M *' pB
3®&':'s.ji v ; -
I ■•*
jl
. >
giiii
,-
ft
pgw
Mk Jf
% ‘IS . kg'
' \ wm3di\ ■■ 44fcM &
,%»Mi . -vNi - fj^P4*
: '* a
, >%/p ft,
ftXftft.ft: ftft'ftftft;ft
■
k-x
MW
;? '?&&£
simMb
yarn*
wßßam
"Engulf din oceans deepest ware”
(IVagner’s "Flying Dutchman ”)
The great musician-pianist, violinist, singer
-moves us to profound depths of feeling
with his artistry; his emotional qualities. By
his technical dexterity we are merely awed—if we notice it at
all. One appeals to our inner sense of consciousness—intel-
lect, if you will—the other to our intelligence only. The New
model Beale Player-Piano is not so much an instrument of
tremendous technique as it is an instrument of interpretation.
Technique it has, certainly, as all good musicianship rests on
a foundation of adequate technique. But its devices for in-
terpretive control of that technique provide the characteristic
which will interest you most. The AW Beale is a musicianly
instrument supplying a means of expression to the inarticu-
late musician. It has no limitation for artistic playing other
than that of the operator’s own understanding of his theme.
o/f descriptive illustrated booklet sent anywhere post free.
BEALE UP
Showroom
340 George Street, SYDNEY
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St., ANNANDALE
BRANCHES -N.S.W.: Bathurst,
Lismore, Newcastle and Wagga!
Victoria: Maples in all Mel-
bourne. Suburbs.
Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart;
Maples, Launceston. IS.A.; John
Evans, Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.; J. A.
Thomson Co., Limited, Perth.
BEALE &c COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen St., Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay
and Cairns.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, £lO.
Others, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £l2.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Aquamarine, £2.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set Pearls
and Aquamarine, 25/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Necklet, set
Aquamarines,
£2.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l3.
Larger Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’
Oct. Gold Scarf
Pin, set Pearls
and Red Stone,
12/6.
Saunders
Gent, a 9ct.
Gold Signet
Ring, 20/
15ct. Gold,
£2
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Links, 25/-; heavier,
30/-
15ct. Gold, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Circle
Brooch, set Pearls,
15ct. Gold, £2.
A Saunders’ Gent.’s Open-face Keyless
Watch, £2 ;
Higher-grade movement, £2/10/-, £3.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Silver, Open-face
Lever Wristlet Watch, £3/10/-, £4.
Gold-filled, £5, £5/10/-
9ct Gold, £7/10/-. £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’
Soft-collar But-
tons, chain con-
nection:"., 9ct.
Gold, 7/C.
atone set, 8/C.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct.
Gold Ring, set
Aquamarine or
Tourmaline,
£2.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, concave, convex or
flat, 20/-; heavier, 25/-,
30/-; 16ct. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£IC.
V.
% V
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Lever Watch, Gold Expanding
Side Bracelets and Leather Strap, £5.
4. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and
Aquamarine or Tourmaline, £2.
Isct. Gold, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Pearls and Ruby, 12/G.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
m
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Necklet, set
Aquamarines and
Pearls, £3.
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opp. RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
i
§r
mi
//'
N
r#
m
*9*
m
&
N
1
V»» X
[Jiifc
i >
Sr
|rji)
4*5
tO33B@C?J
site
r«i£
Pr •*•»"*
**y*3ho& Syrfacot
S.C.JOHNSONSS*
! **CIN« _
sitte
«s
JQHH«OmA-SQH
lift
£
z^
c ßgnew Your Linoleum
Is your linoleum dull and deadlooking? Bring it back to life
and it will reflect a bright, clean, well-cared-for home. All you
need is Johnson’s Prepared Wax and a cloth. The Wax gives
a dry, glossy, dustless polish of great beauty and durability.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax brings out the pattern of linoleum
—preserves and protects it from wear. It doesn’t take long—
an ordinary sized floor can be polished in less than an hour
and it may be walked upon immediately. Waxed linoleum
and tile are easy to keep clean—they require but little care.
JOHNSON’S
Paste—Liquid—Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Polish all your furniture, wood-
work and floors with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax* It forms a thin,
protecting coat over the varnish,
similar to the service rendered by
a piece of plate glass over a table
or dresser top. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches, and
prevents checking and cracking.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made
in paste, liquid and powdered form.
Use the Liquid Wax for polishing
furniture,woodwork, leather goods
and motor-cars. We advise the
Paste Wax for polishing floors of
all kinds wood, linoleum, tile,
marble, &c. The Powdered Wax
will give a perfect dancing surface.
Tour dealer has
■■
Johnson’s Wax —there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St.
Sydney, N. S* W.


Amusements.
VIINK Y’S CHIEF TIIEAT R E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE MERRY WIDOW.
CRITERION:
NICOLA . . N
(Magician and illusionist).
ROYAL:
DOROTHY.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
lIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
MAUDE FANE in
A NIGHT OUT.
THEATRE ROYAL.
ISOBEL BROSNAN in
PADDY THE NEXT REST THING,
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.. MELBOURNE.
PANTOMIME ATTRACTIONS.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE,
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN and JOHN FULLER present their Great
Spectacular Pantomime,
BLUEBEARD.
Popular Prices. MatinGes Daily.
Hoyts theatres, Melbourne.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURIvE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
MARIE PREVOST in
MOONLIGHT FOLLIES.
CONSTANCE TALMADGE in
HAPPINESS A LA MODE.
Prices as usual.
|y|A.IES'HC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ANITA STEWART in
SOWING THE WIND.
MatinGes daily at 2.30. Nights, at b.
BRITANNIA '"HEATIMS. ' MELBOURNE,
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGUAPH, PATH Is,
WORLD and SE 1.7.N1CK.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS
Australian Tour:
MELBOURNE—PALACE THEATRE.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
QN TOUR. DIRECTION LIONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Presented by arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
N.S.W. Tour Commences at Albury, MARCH 6.
Meeting.
BENEVOLENT SOCIETY OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Founded 1813.
1. The Royal Hospital for Women, Paddington.
2. The Renwick Hospital for Infants, Summer Hill.
3. “Scarba,” The Welfare House for Children, Bondi.
4. Relief and Stores Dept., Thomas Street,
City.
The Annual General Meeting of the above
Society will be held on the grounds of the
Royal Hospital for Women, Paddington, on
MONDAY, FEB. 27, at 3 p.m. His Excel-
lency Sir Walter Davidson will preside, and
Dame Margaret Davidson will be present.
BUSINESS.
To receive the Annual Report for 1921, to appoint
Office-bearers, to fill vacancies caused by retiring
Directors, and to transact other business in accord-
ance with the By-laws.
Subscribers and the general public are cor-
dially invited to attend.
JOHN WALTER ROSEBY,
General Offices, Secretary.
Thomas Street, City.
I’d 111 ic Notice.
TO MINING INVESTORS.
IAM now scouting the East, spying out the
best propositions for the Powell Suction
Elevator, of which I am the inventor, and
now for the first time in the East in oper-
ation for Nawng Pet Tin, Ltd., Ronpibon,
Siam.
The result at Nawng Fet in removing
stripping is claimed to be a world’s record
in the cheap transportation of spoil—and it
is no idle boast.
I can estimate very approximately the
capacity of my plant under any set of con-
ditions, and the extent to which the factors
essential to success obtain.
I have already seen highly promising pro-
positions, but I hope to locate and secure
some real bonanzas. You may then join in
.the inarch to El Dorado.
G. M. POTVELL,
c/o E. & 0. H tel,
Penang,
Straits Settlements.
January 12, 1922.
N.B. —No connection with any other
persons or syndicate.
d
REX—the Duplicator
100 copies in a few minutes.
Works like a £lO machine.
Price 25/-, Foolscap size.
Postage 27-
Write for particulars.
H. DIBBS & CO., Dept. B,
18 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ď
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George St.,
SYDNEY.
The Plum
FOR A SMOOTH SHAVE.
Our many years practical experience has
brought us razor knowledge that enables us
to offer a perfect shaving blade in “THE
PLUM,” so sweetly smooth arid keen
beard, however tough and wiry, can
is its edge, no
withstand it.
Price 12/6.
PAIR IN
CASE,
PRESENTATION
POST FREE,
25/-
Blades fin. and Jin. set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free.
Edison Amkerol Records
for February.
ď
This list opens with two fine Royal Purples, including
“Roses of Picardy,” one of Albert Spalding’s best violin
solos.
There will be a wide demand for the regular Blue
Amberols, seeing that they include such tuneful numbers
as “The Bells of St. Malo,” “Margie,” “Home Again
Blues,” “Sweet and Low,” “Toodles,” “All for You” and
“I Like It.” The Premier Quartet renders “Pocahontas”
in inimitable style, whilst Helen Clark and Joseph Phillips
are heard to perfection in “Playmates.”
Individual taste cannot fail to find satisfaction here—
make your choice at your dealer’s.
Royal Purple Records.
29072 —Old Fireside. Baritone,
orch. acc.
, Thomas Chalmers and
Mixed Chorus.
29074—Roses of Picardy.
Violin, piano acc. by
Andre Benoist.
Albert Spalding
Blue Amberol Records.
4195—Les Cloches de St. Malo (The Bells of
St. Malo). Conway’s Band
4216 —Sparklets. Conway’s Band
4220—Margie Medley Fox Trot (introducing
“Look What You’ve Done with Your
Dog—Gone Dangerous Eyes”) for
Dancing.
Max Fell’s Della Robbia Orchestra
4222—Miss Johnson’s Party, Medley—Horn-
pipes, Violin, piano acc. by Larry
Briers. Joseph Samuels
4225 —Home Again Blues —Fox Trot, for
Dancing.
Harry Raderman’s Jazz Orchestra
4232 Pocahontas. Male Voices, orch acc.
Premier Quartet
.4234 —Royal Tourist—March Novelette, Banjo,
orch. acc. Shirley Spaulding
4-36— That Old Irish Mother of Mine. Tenor,
? rch - acc - Allen McQuhae
4237—Sweet and Low.
Jules Levy’s Brass Quartet
4238 —Down the Trail to Home, Sweet, Home.
Tenors, orch. ace.
Charles Hart and Lewis James
4240 — -Toodles—One-step, for Dancing.
Green Bros.’ Novelty Band
4241 Favorite Hymns of Fanny Crosby—r No. 2,
Mixed Voices, orch. ace.
Calvary Choir
4266 All For You —Fox Trot, for Dancing:.
Harry Raderman’s Jazz Orchestra
4267 — I Like It —Medley Fox Trot (introduc-
ing “My Mammy”), for Dancing.
Lenzberg’s Riverside Orchestra
4270 I’m Missin’ Mammy’s Kissin’. Tenor,
orch. acc. Vernon Dalhart
4271 — Scene on the Levee.
Billy Golden and Empire Vaudeville Co.
4273 —Playmates. Contralto and Baritone,
orch. acc.
Helen Clark and Joseph Phillips
4275—Country Days. Laughing Song, orch.
acc. Al. H. Weston and Irene Young
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANI A.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
To JAMES WILL JAM PREECE the hus-
band of Cleopatra Preece formerly of
Ulverstone and Warratah in Tasmania.
WHEREAS a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of Tasmania citing
you to appear and answer the Petition of
the said Cleopatra Preece wherein she prays
for a dissolution of her marriage with you
on the ground of desertion NOW THERE-
FORE TAKE NOTICE that within thirty
days after the eleventh day of March One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-two the
date of the last publication of this notice
you are to appear in our said Court then
and there to make answer to the said Peti-
tion which may be inspected and a copy
thereof obtained bv you upon application at
the office of the Registrar of the Supreme
Court at Hobart in Tasmania ANI)
TAKE NOTICE that in default of your
appearing to answer the said Petition as
aforesaid a Judge of our said Court will
proceed to hear the said charge proved in
due course of law and to pronounce sentence
therein your absence notwithstanding
AND TAKE NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid you are within thirty days
from the said eleventh day of March one
thousand nine hundred and twenty-two to
attend in person or by your Proctor at the
Registry of the Supreme Court and enter
an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.
DATED at Hobart in Tasmania this
tenth day of February one thousand nine
hundred and twenty-two.
(Sgd.) W. V. WISE,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania.
DOBSON. MITCHELL & ALLPORT,
111 Macquarie Street, Hobart,
Proctors for the Petitioner.
MONARCH
The Cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels
and
Tobacconists.
6d.
EACH.
d
Special
sampling
cabinet
containing
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6; 50
23/9; 100,
46/-
Post paid to any
address.
Craig&Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil Cigar Factory.
Beneath the Coat-hanger of every “ Mattamac"
Stormproof you will find this Label. Look for
it. It identifies the genuine, one-quality-only
“Mattamac” Stormproof. Refuse any Coat without
the Label, because it is not a "Mattamac.''
Unbelted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
19 oz.
WF.If.HT
1
p
■■•■-• ■ .
Belted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
21 Joz.
WEIGHT
You cannot get Wet In the 19-ounce
Featherweight Mattamac’ Stormproof
The “Mattamac”is waterproof—absolutely. In appearance it is
identical with the ordinary Raincoat. Though one-third the weight
and half the price, it will keep you dry in any weather. Being Wind
and Chill proof as well as Wet proof, it can be used additionally
as a Light Overcoat for Driving, Motoring, etc.
“Mattamac” Stormproofs come from the
West End of London, where the best
Overcoats are produced. They have
easy Raglan Shoulders, Roomy Sleeves,
a Wide Skirt, Perpendicular Pockets and
Wind-strapped Cuffs. They are smart
in appearance and comfortable in wear.
“Matta” Fabric, from which every
genuine “ Mattamac ” Stormproof is
made, is a compact-folding material apd
the lightest stormproof Fabric known.
It is tough and durable and so waterproof
that even wind-driven Rain cannot
penetrate it. Made in five shades.
19 oz.
FOLDS
INTO
THIS
SIZE >
firtifcss
<? *
at»&|sa
I ; {>K' ,
If. .1
■>::
mi
.11
Ml
“S?S
You can
put it
in your Pocket
or Handbag when
the Sun shines.
These three illustrations are direct ‘Draw ngs
from actual Photographs, and are, conse -
quently , truthful represent a'ions of the Feather -
height ' * Mattamac" Stormproof\ w.ich
folds up to pocket size.
LADY’S COAT, with Belt as
illustrated, 21\oz. weight; without
Belt, 19 oz.
GENTLEMAN’S COAT, as illus-
trated, 19oz. Weight; with Belt,
2 1 %oz.
MADE IN ENGLAND ...SOLD BY OUTFITTERS, CLOTHIERS,
etc., THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. ASK TO SEE THEM.
If yourregular Dealer does not yet stock “ Mattamac” Stormproofs, do not take something
else. Write tous. We will send you, post free, the “ Mattamac” Booklet, and give you the
address of the nearest Dealer who has stock. This Booklet illustrates Belted find Un-
belted Coats for Ladies and Gentlemen, and the wide-skirted Riding Coat for Horsemen
“MATTAMAC” BOOKLET, SHOWING S MODELS, POST-FREE
Ask your Dealer to show you the “ Mattamac.” If he cannot do so, write to us for
Booklet and of the nearest Shop which can supply. Dealers wishing to sell
“Mattamac” Stormproofs are invited to write for Terms. (We supply Booklets
Free to Dealers.)
W. PLANT & Co., Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors of “MATTAMAC” CO ATS for Australasia
FENCHURCH BUILDINGS (2nd Floor), AD22O, PITT ST,, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Sole Manufacturers of
** Mattamac ” Stormproofs
PEARSON BROS., 45, CONDUIT STREET,
LONDON, W.l, ENGLAND. (A 504) @
The “ MATTAMAC" TRADE MARKS are registered throughout the WORLD. (Copyright reserved.)
Obtainable at all Stores, or direct from “Mattamac” Parlor, Fenchurch
Buildings, 220 Pitt Street, Sydney.


Virginia
10 for 9d.
Cigarettes
20 for 1/6
Cool and—
fragrant, made
from perfectly
mellowed and
ripened leaf
from Virginia, “Prince Charming ”
thoroughly deserves to he called the
Prince of cigarettes, Money cannot
huy anything better.
Manufactured by GODFREY PHILLIPS, Ltd., London. England.
r
< (
V"
Jt
'■sm
"WltypT'
A
m
A.
Sf,
7\
.V;
"✓# m
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Merry Widow”
Criterion N'icola
Royal “Dorothy”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Paddy, the Next Best Thing”
Her Majesty’s “A Night Out”
Princess’s “niuebeaiii”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
“Dorothy,’' wedged in at Sydney Royal
between “Yeomen of the Guard” and the rest
of the Gilbert and Sullivan revivals, is pleas-
ing to those who like the lilt of lively tuner ;
but the lady does not wear so well as
some of her contemporaries. Sue belongs
unmistakably to the ’eighties, ana shows hei
age. Strella Wilson, in the title role, sings
with so much freshness and sparkle that
anything would have to be pretty dead that
she could not revive successfully. Her work
is good, much of it very good indeed. Ralph
Errole is a pleasing, though somewhat portly,
Geoffrey Wilden. A. Howett Worster’is fine
in the part of Harry Sherwood; but, of
course, he has the cream of the songs.
“Queen of My Heart” probably thrills the
flapper as much as ever it did. Victor Prince
threw a geniality into the part of Squire
Bantam which his father, the late Howard
Vernon, was never able to manage, and his
hearty “Welcome to Chanticler Hall” was
warmly encored. Comparing Workman as
Lurcher with other funny men of the past,
he has not the distinction of Elton, the
“pep” of Lauri, or the impishness of W. S.
Percy ; but on sound conventional lines the
Sheriff’s Officer was funny, and he never
missed a point. Bryl Walkely was a charm-
ing Lydia Hawthorne. The quartettes went
excellently, and the famous “Tally Ho”
chorus was just as much encored as ever it
was in the past. The chorus worked enthu-
siastically, but in the opening number
rejoiced in the “Merry ’oppin’ time” just as
they did in the days of yore.
* * * *
Contrary to the custom in these cases
“The Merry Widow” will follow “The Boy”
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday night.
“The Widow” is booked for 12 nights, the
management being confident that she retains
her pre-war lure.
* . $ $ *
All the week Nicola has been animating
cards, levitating ladies and plucking goldfish
from the atmosphere at Sydney Criterion,
but a generous offer to let himself be hanaed
publicly was forbidden by the police. Some
of the Best People are still very touchy in
these matters.
** * *
Ella Shields’s farewell week at Sydney
Tivoli sees her more endearing than ever, and
the well-tailored ladv’s turn is never regarded
Ella Shields at Sydney
Tivoli singing
“Archie the Cop.”
as finish sd until
Burlington Bertie
and the Digger
homesick for Yar-
rawonga make an
appearance. A num-
ber of new starters
face the barrier
this week. The
Three Lottos con-
vert trick cycling
in their comedy
football match on
wheels into an
astonishing busi-
ness. Jack Mar-
tin files off Amur-
kan “gags,” chews
gum and twirls a
lasso. He does
these things simul-
taneously, and
that’s to tin credit,
anyhow. Hird
juggles expertly.
Fred. Iveeley and
Ivy Aldous offer a
Turkish-delight of
song and dance
and patter, and
Maurice Sterndale
has threaded up
the rents in his
garments with dis-
carded G strings.
J. W. Rick aby
(“P.C. 49”) starts
on his beat in Castlereagh-street next
Saturday.
❖ ❖ ❖
“If I Were King” takes up its residence at
Sydney Empress and Majestic. Justin
Huntly McCarthy was a rich old storyteller
who didn’t mind how much ink he used to
make a spectacle, and the picture-maker has
followed his lead and grone a mile or so
farther. William Farnum is the swagger-
ing Francois Villon of the yarn. Another
Oppenheim story is a head-liner this week at
the Crystal Palace. Here “The Pilgrims of
the Night” amuse themselves by stealing and
re-stealing a mere trifle of four million francs.
In the end, of course, the rogues and the
wicked hunchback are foiled, and the French
Treasury takes back the roaming millions..
"Nineteen and Phyllis” Alls the Strand and
Haymarket with those whose taste runs to
ice-cream sodas. Charles Itay is the am-
bitious youth who buys the best girl the
diamond ring. At Sydney Hoyt’s, Picca-
dilly and Australian there is no one to warn
Molly Hanlon that when she sets out to save
dad’s honor and the family rooftree by marry-
ing Lee Kirk, the improprietor of a gambling
den. she is taking the wrong turning. Papa,
in spite of his daughter’s sacrifice, puts a
bullet-hole in his brain, and thereafter the
film becomes so perforated that it might be
sold as a colander.
sf: 9J« sfc sje
There is a streak of humor in the pictures
which the Australian War Museum is going
to exhibit again in the Sydney Town Hall.
Cameras were severely forbidden in the
A.1.F.; nevertheless, when the fighting was
over, the War Itecords authorities had a
notice in “orders” asking Diggers w r ho had
photos of interest to send them in, so that
conies mighl be taken. A harvest of 20.0CO-
odd pictures was the result. One Digger, at
least, boasts that he got substantial payment
“DOROTHY," AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Victor Prince as Squire Bantam.
for a budget. On the strength of a uniform
stripped from a dead German and a fluency
in the Hun language, he hopped over into the
Fritz position and took photos. One of his
masterpieces—although rather blurred —was
a “flashlight” of a Digger raiding party, just
as they reached the Hun trench, the light
being provided by a Verey flare. An amazed
cobber, who was startled to see a Hun fiddling
with a camera when most of his mates were
kamarading, recognised him and gave him
the chance to slip away and become a decent
Digger again; but, to avoid further trouble,
he had to discard his clothes and wander
across No Man’s Land in his shirt.
** $ *
In venturing Shakspeare at Melbourne
Palace, where there is space enough to admit
of scenes being effectively fixed with the
help of black drapings, Allan Wilkie made
no error of judgment. The house- is well
suited to his purpose: the interior bright and
cheery, the seating comfortable. Wilkie and
Miss Hunter-Watts would be worth a visit
at any time under less attractive conditions
—provided always that they were capably
supported. It was the rest of the co., with
two or three conspicuous exceptions, that
looked unpromising in the opening perform-
ance of “Julius Caesar” last Saturday. An
air of amateurishness pervaded the elocution
of Jack Lennon as Brutus. He dropped his
voice at the end of a line, and, though not
incomprehensible if one followed him closely,
was rarely if ever interesting. His sing-song
utterance improved as the play proceeded,
but no amount of practice could supply the
lacking power in that noblest Roman of them
all. Robert Purdie was a noisy old Cassius
rather than a subtle one, and in a more
impressive company great Julius (Augustus
Neville) would not have appeared to advan-
tage. He was a bit puffy and superficial, yet
he deserved a better servant than the young
man who gabbled to him on bended knee.
Fred MacDonald revealed a fair idea of
Casca : his fellow conspirators had their most
impressive moments when they were grouped
in silence in Brutus’s garden, or disguised
as nameless members of the mob whose feel-
ings were open to be swayed by any party
politician. Miss Hunter-Watts made a
graceful, nicely spoken Portia; Miss Lorna
Forbes was a satisfactory Mrs. Caesar; Miss
Vera St. John a most pleasing Lucius, who,
to be sure, is a very easy youth to present-
in a winsome manner, Wilkie, it goes witb- -
out saying, was the most forcible item in the
proceedings. He is always an actor of some
importance in a Shakspearean character
Notwithstanding his personal inadaptability
to the part or a suave, debonair, silver-
tongued tactician, he filled the bill when
Antony was spouting. It was on the side of
bitterness he erred. He sneered too venom-
ously. His hard, dry tones were never in
tune with the character. But he was the
buttress of the artistically contrived show.
His task now is to teach all his colleagues
how to be personally interesting, and it
threatens to be a hard one. “Twelfth
Night.” the thing of the moment, will be
followed by “Hamlet” on Saturday. Then
“Borneo” and “The Shrew.”
* * * *
At Melbourne Princess’s the 100th, per-
formance of “Bluebeard” happens this week,
and there’s more to follow. This without the
management troubling to try the potentiali-
ties of a harlequinade upon a confiding
world.
He
At Melbourne King’s the advt. suggests a
few days’ interval between the end of "The
Lauguter of Fools ' to-morrow (li4th) and
the moving in of “Paddy,” which has to do
a week at the Boyal meanwhile.
“Paddy, the Next Best Thing,” drops in
at Melbourne Boyal on Saturday to stay a
week before pass.ng over to the King’s.
If S« Hi hi
“A Night Out” was full of change last
week. Frith having dropped out of the
henpecked husband part, Ed. Nable, the
understudy, filled it until his throat gave
out; then, on Saturday, Dan Agar wore
the strange garments originally made for
Frith. By the time he came to the return-
home in the early morning and the bogus
burst of indignation with his wife, Dan Agar
was quite as amusing as Frith in a less
grotesque way, and the musical comedy,
thus far housed at Melbourne Boyal, looked
good for another innings at Her Majesty’s,
where the panto used to be; But why not
put a lighter pair of frivollers in the places
so unexcitingly filled by Wotton and Cecil
Bradley?
Hi * * *
At Melbourne Tivoli the sketch Bert
Gilbert has brought from England is not a
very substantial cause for the loud talk
about it. Nevertheless it will do. There is
a story of a rash bet and a victorious horse
in the sketch, and the energy of Gilbert im-
parts fire to its popular Australian interest.
Yost and Claddy throw clay about in the
sort of modelling act which is old enough to
be new to most people, and the remark
applies also, though in a less degree, to the
smoke pictures and shadowgraphs of Holden
and Graham. The rest of the programme is
carried over from previous weeks, the best
item being Carrie Lanceley and her Melody
Maids. The maids accompany Carrie in
Gounod’s “Ave Maria” so sufficiently that
the orchestra sounds rather intrusive.
Another failing on the orchestra’s part is its
conservatism in the matter of overtures. The
same old “selection” has been going on for
weeks, and the birds of the air have built
nests in its whiskers.
Hi Hi * *
“Kazan” is showing his teeth at Mel-
bourne Majestic this week. His bite be-
comes helpful when the beauteous Joan
Badisson is menaced by a black-hearted
scoundrel in a blizzard.’ Afterwards the
animal discovers the murderer of his master
and there is soon another mess for the
undertaker. The second feature, “The
Amazing Quest _of Mr. Bliss,” _is from a
tale by Oppenheim, and is ingenious enough
to drive boredom away. Hoyt’s are adver-
tising the charms of Marie Prevost in
“Moonlight Follies.” It is an exuberant film
marked by the man-killing. qualities of
Marie’s glad eyes, but not distinguished by
much rational behavior. There is more
natural sparkle in “Happiness a la Mode,”
in which Constance Talmadge finds that
absolute trust is highly unprofitable in deal-
ing with a giddy husband. Matheson Lang’s
night out in “Carnival” is keeping the house
full at the Britannia; and at the Melba
Corinrie Griffith is allowing her better nature
to triumph over her homicidal passion in
Vitagraph’s latest, “Moral Fibre.”
* Hi * Hi
A show of a hundred items: —
Rose' Lowcay, who is responsible for more than that
many efforts at the Melbourne Athenaeum, is only saved
from a charge of mediocrity by two or three perform-
ances in oils. She has a passion for sundown and
autumnal effects, which she handles with a good deal
of skill, though the yellows in “Evening’s Gold” and
“The Afterglow” (No. 80) seem a trifle overpitched.
But those pictures and a charming trifle, “The De-
serted Cottage,” not forgetting also a Cornish moon-
light reminiscent of David Davies, are superior to the
bulk of the other stuff, much of which belongs
to the potboiler class. The best of the water-
colors is “Silver Clouds,” which catches the eye but
•does not keep it long in custody. “Almond Blossom’
is marred by a shrill blue sky. Likewise, the mis-
drawn infants in “Pearls” are not sufficient atone-
ment for the ha Id hit- of seashore on which, they are
posed ; find the equally Unsatisfactory figures ir
Faerie/’ appear to have lost their way in their
threatening' surroundings,
* * *
The eharracer-studiester-studies of J.. W.. Rickabv
have found favor at Adelaide Koyal, and
“Julius Casar,” at
Melbourne Palace.
Allan Wilkie as
Marcus Antonins.
Musgrove-’s “Fro-
lics” ate having a
successful season;
decks are now
being cleared for
the Williamson
panto, “Babes in
the W00d..” At
the King’s a re-
markable? pair,
King and. Long,
have m o w®d an,
making ra a m for
Jennie Hartley,
M and Courtney
and others.. The
English Pierrots
and the Humphrey
Bishop cm. con-
tinue theur spirited
rivalry on either
side of NorfJi Ter-
race. Very hot
nights have oblig-
ingly played up to
both shows. Pic-
tares somehow
keep on being
absolutely the best
ever seen; their
respective manage-
ments are lost
in admiration of
their own luck in
getting them.
ttt ~ _ , , s“ i iiij g mem.
West: s, Wondergraph, York and Pav. aR
think they score each off the other; and
surely they ought to know.
** * *
“Artist” on some new importations:—
Again the trustees of the Melbourne National Gal-
lery have disappointed the public and artists by their
latest Felton Bequest purchases. The Gainsborough
is a long way beneath the artist’s standard. The
huge canvas is uninteresting but for the painting of
the head and the little dog at the warrior’s feet.
The subject is a good-looking boy in uniform (in-
cluding the inevitable red coat), leaning against a
big cliff by the sea. The cliff and seascape are very
poorly painted, and are reminiscent of the modern
suburban photographer’s dummy-scene. The tdchniquje
is unassuming and correct, but every object—man,
dog, hat and gun—has been painted as'a whole instead
of a part of a whole, so that all continuity is lost
and the eye wanders aimlessly over the scene. The
work is an illustration rather than a study of light
and shade. The trustees should allow the Felton
money to accumulate for a few years, so that they
could compete with the Yankees on more even terms.
Were this done Melbourne would soon have a collec-
tion of representative Old Masters. The other acqui-
sition, a bronze depicting the fall of Adam and Eve,
forces home the point that Rodin was a much
greater man than Albert BartholomO. The group,
which is just under life-size, is the output of a liter-
ary mind rather than that of an artist steeped in
light and shade. However, it is a bit in advance
of the usual R.A. goods. The Joan of Are, purchased
by Treasurer McPherson and lent to the Gallery, is
evidently the work of an Italian potboiler. How
these keen business men get taken in!
*** * .
“A Gent, with a Duster’s” recollections:
I claim to have been one of the first Australians
to hear Melba begin her triumphal career at the
Theatre de la Monnaie, Brussels, when Leopold, of
Congo ill-fame, was King of the Belgians. I cannot
find the programme, but the opera was “Rigoletto,”
and she was Gilda. The first Melba pro-
gramme I have is dated July 10, 1889— 32 j years
ago—issued by Augustus Harris for the season of
Italian opera at Covent Garden; Melba sang in
Gounod’s “Romeo et Juliette” in French as Juliette,
Jean de Reszke being Romeo, and his brother
Edouard taking the part of FrSre Laurent. Jeanne
de Vique was Stephano, and Madame Lablache Ger-
trude. Signor Mancinelli conducted and Madame
Melba scored a true succes dr’esbime. On Friday,
July 12, 1889, Verdi’s “Rigoletto” was produced, the
conductor being the famous Signor Randegger. Melba’s
Gilda was a startling revelation to the critics, and
especially to the habitues, for at last a star of the
greatest magnitude had appeared. “Caro name che il
mio chor,” sung di bravura, was the fii-st intimation
the musical world received that Adelina Patti
had been dethroned. Seguin, a Frenchman, was
Rigoletto; and Delasco, an Italian, was Sparafucile.
Engel, from the Theatre de la Monnaie, came to Lon-
don specially to play the Duke in this performance,
which was described as an extra night not' on the
subscription list. Prices were not extortionate —•
private boxes from £2 12s. 6d. to £7 7s. ; orches-
tra stalls, £1 Is.; balcony stalls, 155.; amphitheatre
stalls, 10s. 6d. and ss. ; and amphitheatre (alias
the gallery), only 2s. 6d. I have heard La Diva in
many cities and in nearly her entire repertoire, but
her association that season with the two De Reszkes
was a musical endowment that will go with me to
Ewigkeit.
“Bond.”: Britain still “dearly loves a
lord.” The vacant post of censor of the
stage has been given, not to a practical
player, playwright or critic, but to the Duke
of Atholl.


STROPPING ?
I carry it
in my Head
o
1
ft
m
M
8
m
STANDARD SET (No. I)
contains heavily silver-plated,
self-stropping razor, 12 tested
“Valet blades and genuine
"Valet” strop, complete in
durable case lined
velvet and satin .
27/6
I AM a self-sufficient sort of a razor, I
know exactly what a man needs in order
to get a smooth, perfect shave every morn-
ing, and I am designed to do the whole job,
not just a part of it.
Easily the most important part of a shave is the operation
that goes before—and after. The stropping and the cleaning.
My way is to do my own stropping. I carry a device
in my head which strops my blade accurately and quickly.
You should see me run up and down a strop. You don’t
have to worrv about “touch” or knack. You don’t need
any separate stropping machine.
There is no need to detach my blade even for cleaning,
A rinse in water and a rub along my strop is sufficient
to leave the edge of my blade keen for the next shave.
Ask for me at any good razor shop—my name
“VALET”—and my surname is “AUTOSTROP
the razor that sharpens itself.
yy
IS
I would like to make your acquaintance !
4*
49
Safety Razor
Made in England.
Obtainable from all high-class dealers.
and Blades indicates the genuine trodud nf the AutoSlroo Safelv Razor Co.. Ltd.. 197-207. Citv Road. London. EnO-
I'hc word "Valet” on Razors. Strops
The Exquisite
Boudoir Grands
at
PALING’S
GAVEAU
MASON & HAMLIN
BEHNING
These exquisite examples of the piano-makers art are the product of the leading
factories of America and France.
They are ideal instruments in every sense of the word, and give tone and finish
to any boudoir. Cased in excellent dark mahogany. The tone is brilliant and possesses
great resonance, and the touch is absolute perfection.
You are cordially invited to examine these excellent Pianos at our Showrooms.
SOLE AGENTS—
Branches at—
Brisbane, Toowoomba,
in
&
338 George St.
SYDNEY.,
CATALOGUES FREE.
Newcastle, Rockhampton,
Lismore.


rfggßs&
i
S’
m
m
W
%
VsssY///.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
NSW MONT dePltlt
T 4 St. Sydney. 74
Phono City 9325.
Capital g 300.000.
Joseph. IV. Hill.
Genera! Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
Tholse Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
POVERTY
POINT
“Norbell”: Died in Sydney a few days
ago, at 61, Marie Wilton, known to a former
generation as a vivacious leading woman
and clever, all-round performer. She began
in the late ’seventies with Burforif and Clin-
ton in Maoriland, and she supported Grat-
tan Riggs in his “Irish Detective” and the
Boucicault dramas; the capable J. B. Steele
in many plays; John L. Plall in “Blow for
Blow” and other comedies; Wybert Reeve
in “Woman in White,” “The Hunchback,”
“Diplomacy” and most of the standard
plays ; Dewhurst, the tragedian, in “Richard
III.,” “Macbeth,” “Othello,” “Richelieu,”
etc.; and with G. P. Carey, Jewett and
Maggie Knight she played in Pinero’s “The
Bert Gilbert as a hen-
pecked husband at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Squire.” T hey
mixed the bills in
the early ’eighties.
The records show
that Marie Wilton
appeared one
night as Kate
Kelly to the Ned
of Steele in
“Catching the
Kellys,” and the
following night as
Pauline to his
Melnotte in “Lady
of Lyons.” Aston-
ishingly versatile,
she was for a time
with the Georgia
Minstrels, where
her dancing of the
sailor’s hornpipe
was a feature. An
old programme
shows her doubling
Biddy Nutts and
Margaret in Buck-
stone’s “Dream at
Sea,” solo dancing
between the acts
and winding up
with two parts
in Morton’s farce,
“A Regular Fix.” Her husband, Frank
Spellen, is one of the oldest of J.C.W.’s
mechanists.
“J.F.11.” (Lond.) : The critics are argu-
ing as to whether snoring on the stage is
permissible. Miss Beringer, the latest Lady
Macbeth, audibly snores during the sleep-
walking scene, and thereby provokes some
giggling in the gallery. Genevieve Ward,
who has played this scene many times, says
she has never snored in it herself and does
not altogether like the idea ; but she remem-
bers that Ristori, the great Italian tragedy
queen, did snore distinctly. Ristori toured
Australia in the ’seventies. Can any old
playgoer recall her obligato ?
“T.R.H.”: “0.K.” (B. 9/2/’22) practi-
cally tells me that I faked the story of
Irving’s collapse on the stage after saying
‘‘lnto Thy hands, 0 Lord.” The reason I
am so certain of my facts is that I happened
to be an insignificant member of Irving's co.
at the time. I was on the stage when the
collapse came.
“Jud”: Nellie Mortyne, who has just
finished up with ‘‘The Laughter of Fools”
at Melbourne King’s, looks well for her
63 years. Born in Sydney, she appeared
on the stage first at Rockhampton (Q.)
with Charles Dillon in “Pygmalion and Gala-
tea.” (Much later she played in Shaw’s
“Pygmalion” with Mrs. Pat Campbell in
America.) She has visited the U.S. five
times, and served two-and-a-half years in the
treacly “Daddy Long Legs.” She had a
better record as Ruth in “Sweet Lavender”
with Edward Terry. He picked her for the
part, and she was Ruth without a break
for nearly three years. Other people with
whom she has worked are William Hos-
kins, Nat Goodwin, Marion Willis and the
late Beerbohm Tree; and her service with
the Firm (including the time when it was
known as Williamson, Garner and Mus-
grove) runs to nearly a quarter of a cen-
tury.
“0.K.”: The Age announced a few days
ago that “Madame Bohema, who for many
years was a celebrated opera singer in Mel-
bourne, attained
her 78th birthday
on Friday last.”
The lady,
no doubt,
whose
name was
formerly
spelt
without
the aiteh.
When she ap-
peared 26 years
ago at a Winter
Popular Concert in
the Town Hall she
was “M ada m e
Gabriella Boema,
the great dramatic
soprano, making
her reappearance
after a long
absence from the
concert platform.”
So her triumphs in
opera must date
back to the days of
W. S. Lyster or
thereabouts. Other
performers at that
same series o f
Winter Pops were
George Titheradge,
who recited
‘‘Gunga Din,” and
Walter Kirby, who
is no younger than
he used to be. A
year or two
later Titheradge’s
daughter Lily took
part in a duologue
“Dorothy,” at Sydney
Royal.
Howett Worster as
Harry Sherwood.
at a Town Hall Pop, and the name of Sumner
Locke was on the same bill. Little Sumner
recited “The Jackdaw of Rheims.”
“C.R.”: Sydney Telegraph recently said
H. R. Harwood’s first appearance in Sydney
as Uncle Cattermole was at the Gaiety.
Harwood never appeared at the Gaiety. Lie
appeared in the year mentioned (1885) in
that part at the old Sydney Opera Llouse,
King and York streets. Harwood was seen
in Sydney only at the old Royal, the Opera
House and the Victoria, in Pitt-street. I
saw the premiere of “The Private Secretary”
at the Opera House, with Frank Thornton
in the leading role, and Harwood as Catter-
mole. This was its first production in Syd-
ney. Later it was revived at the Royal and,
I think, also at the Criterion. Hans Phillips,
Ted Corles.se (E. G. Calvert) and Annie Tay-
lor (Mrs. Calvert) appeared in the Opera
House production. Hans Phillips’s Chadband
in a dramatisation of “Bleak House” was a
fine character study and intensely diverting.
Harwood appeared as the old family solici-
tor.
“Thorold Waters”: Melba behaved with
untraditional friendliness to one soprano of
lesser fame who in her time had toured Aus-
tralia as head of a concert party. The girl
was singing Musetta to Melba’s Mimi at
Covent Garden, and in the Paris snow scene
something was obviously amiss with her. She
cast her bonnet at Marcel with none of the
requisite malice, but just in the coy manner
of a lady who has been to a whole series of
parties and missed nothing. Her voice went
even more skew-whiff than her acting, and in
the next act there was a brand-new Musetta.
The Covent Garden bosses vowed they would
never look on the old one again, even though
it was pointed out to them that the offender
had unwittingly doped herself by taking
champagne on top of a drug administered to
allay the pain of a diseased throat. “Very
well, then,” declared Melba, “you will
have to tind a new Mimi too.” The girl
played Musetta for at least two more seasons
by "the grace of Melba; then faded out of
musical history.
“Gibson Young”: Conductor Arthur
Nikisch, lately dead of influenza, was the
first musical big-wig to recogn se the power-
ful part mechanically-made mus.c might play
in the home of the man-in-the-street. Round
about 1910 he caused a cyclonic disturbance
because he dared to publicly acknowledge
the player-piano. The Grieg concerto, man-
ipulated by Easthope Martin, was accom-
panied by no less an orchestra than that of
the Queen’s Hall, with Arthur Nikisch as
conductor; aud at the same concert Elena
Gerhardt, Nikisch’s protegee, sang songs by
Strauss, Brahms and Wolf, with player-
piano accompaniment.
“Sammas”: A hypnotist who had “baffled
scientists and doctors all the world over”
was recently sued in the Perth court by
one of his “subjects” for £2 wages due. The
complainant averred that when the “pro-
fessor” called for volunteers, it was his
job to climb on to the stage, to be apparently
put under the ’fluence, to smile fatuously
at the enthralled audience and to have hat-
pins run through ears that had been pre-
viously numbed. He got a verdict; and an
aggrieved management hastily announced the
last nights of the season.
“Sixenate”: Was this the influence of the
movies? In a recent Sydney maintenance
matter the deserted wife said that at a
picture show the man next to her started a
conversation, and before the show was over
had suggested marriage. She presently con-
sented ; and, although the pair honeymooned
for a few weeks in a city boarding-house,
the movie-made bride had no idea where
her husband generally lived, or what he did
for a crust.
“Lud”: One of the pieces announced by
Hugh Ward as having been secured for Aus-
tralia was “The Bat,” a three-act play by the
American authors Mary Roberts Rinehart
and Avery Hopwood. It has just been put
on at London St. James’s, and seems likely
to be as successful there as in New York,
where it is the thing to see. Australia’s old
friend Arthur Wontner is in the lead. Nina
Boucicault had also accepted a part, but was
obliged to fall out of the cast during rehear-
sals on account of illness.
“C. Ockney” : The attempt to re-light “the
sacred lamp of burlesque” at Lordon Gaiety
last year was nothing less than disastrous.
The direful result of the experiment, dis-
closed at the annual meeting of the 10. in
January, was a net loss of £19,912. On the
12-months’ working the theatre was £23,889
to the bad. Under these distressful circum-
stances Grossmith and Laurillard, who had
been at the head of affairs for nearly a
decade, made their best bow and retired. So
the poor old Gaiety, up to a year or two
ago the most popular playhouse in Fog-
town, and perhaps in England, is now num-
bered amongst the has-beens.
“Permanent Blot”: Ellen Terry is to be
featured in a big “mother interest” film in
England. The story was written for her by
Hetty and Longford Reed, and it will be
produced for a new British co. Madge
Titheradge has also invaded the screen. She
has just been starred in “David and Jona-
than.”
' “Tonic Solfa”: Togo, the Jap juggler at
Sydney Tivoli, works to the music of the Peer
Gynt suite. He had full band-parts of it
wr'tten especially for his act, no less.
“Wow”: Apropos the prosecution of the
N’York manager for producing an immoral
play (B. 9/2/’22) the usual sequel is re-
corded :
Meanwhile Mr. A 1 Woods, the producer of the
piece in question, who is to stand his trial for pro-
ducing an obscene play, is coining money, the alleged
indecency of the work drawing thousands of respect-
able playgoers nightly.
“Leave it to the public; the public is the
best judge,” cry the opponents of the cen-
sorship. I wonder!
“Pitt Streeter”: After their experience
with “The Private Sec.” (at cheap prices,
too) the J.C.W.’s were wise not to risk
“Charley’s Aunt.” The old chestnut was
done only a few years ago at the Little, now
the Playhouse, by George Willoughby, and
the money that it didn’t draw would have
been sufficient to stage half-a-dozen new
and original plays. There is only one thing
to do with it now: stick some songs and
dances in it, re-christen it “Where the Nuts
Come From,” and describe it as the latest
musical-comedy.
“M.P.A.” (Lond.) : This village is rapidly
returning to its pre-war musical ways. Dr.
Strauss, the Austrian composer, wrnves his
baton at the Royal Albert Hall in a pro-
gramme of his own works. Another offer-
ing is a full Wagnerian programme by a
grand orchestra, while down in Wigmore-
street there have been several recitals of
German songs. In the theatre we have had
the “Gipsy Princess” with two Austrians
in the leading roles, and there are more
made-in-Austria and German goods to fol-
low. Even the German band has found its
way back to the streets, and the collector
hasn’t even taken the trouble to disguise his
accent. In the film world the “renters” and
the “exhibitors” are hard at it trying to
block the distribution of German and Aus-
Jack Martin jumping through his lasso or
Sydney Tivoli.
trian films. The producers have turned out
some first-class subjects, and they are itch-
ing to get the thin edge of the wedge into
the British market. One can take a print
from a negative in Paris much cheaper than
in London, but Berlin can supply a metre
for what it costs to turn out one foot in
Prance. I am in a position to know, too,
that some red-hot Australian patriots have
piles of German and Austrian pianos here
in London waiting for the first opportunity
of shipping them to Australia. Hughes will
need to watch out if the Australian piano
industry is to hold its end up.
“Chug” (Lond.) : Fayette Perry, who wentto
the Commonwealth under the Taits’. banner
and whom everybody took to be a vivacious
little Yank, turns up in London as an Aus-
tralian. She is appearing in “Ring Up,”
a revue that is drawing well at the Royalty.
The Times says she is “an Australian act-
ress who looked charming and danced well,
but is not given many opportunities to do
anything more ambitious.” It was Tittel
Brune, wasn’t it, that toured Australia as
“the great American actress” and then was
starred in Yankeeland as “Australia’s fore-
most tragedian” ? Tittel was booming in Syd-
ney when the American fleet visited it, and
someone asked one of the Yankee pressmen
what her standing was in the States. “What
name did you say?” he asked. “Tittel
Brune.” The Yank thought hard, then
drawled: “Lor’ sakes —-never heard of
Tittel, let alone Brune!”
“Nella” : Melbourne was always squeamish
about bare legs on the stage. I remember
that when Williamson, Garner and Mus-
grove put up the Drury Lane drama “Human
Nature” at the Royal, Phil Beck, one of
the most valuable villains we have had, got
into very abbreviated Arab petticoats and
sandals in one act, and the horrified first
nighters were shocked to see that he was
wearing bare legs as well. However, they
were very handsome legs, and they eventu-
ally made a hit, while the trousered limbs
of Titheradge and George Anson were only
among the also-rans.
“Norbell” : “Silas” tells of the five-bob-a-
night actor (B. 9/2/’22). I began mum-
ming with George Rignold at Sydney
Majesty’s at £1 a week “for a start.” I
had been going quite a while at that figure
when I cornered the old man and suggested
a rise. Rignold looked at me in pained sur-
prise, and told me that he had worked “for
years” in Birmingham at the same salary,
and found wigs and shoes out of it. He
grew reminiscent. “The landlady’s daughter
used to fake up a wardrobe for me, and sew
on my buttons —but we had a d —d sight
better actors in those days.” Then he told
me how he got £4 a week for “second
heavies” somewhere or other, and how he
had asked £5 a week to play heavies at Bristol
and had been given £6, “and I’ve never played
for less since,” he concluded. I pointed
out that I was then doing second heavy
myself, and I got my rise.
“De Oriel”: St. Leon’s Circus, now in
M.L. —an Australian concern nearly 100
years old—never charges parsons or priests
for admission. In the Riverina (N.S.W.I
last year a minister was passed in. “Tins
is my second free entrance,” he said. “The
first time was for ringing the bell; but that
was over 40 years ago.”
THE INQUIRING MIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 carried my girl to a pantomime—
My girl she is barely five.
“Why is it the demons all do it in rhyme?”
She asked. “Do you think he’s alive?”
Then question on question the child put to me,
Noting all that was and that seemed to be.
“Say, why is he talkin’ in that funny way,
And who is the man with the drum?
Oh, Daddy, the girl-fairy—what did she say ?
And when will the acrobats come?
And why does that one wear that red on her nose 9
Tell me all about those
That are done up in rows.
Where is it the crimson-clad devilkin goes?
And what has the funny man done down there
That he only has half of a head of hair?
“Why don’t they wallop that wicked old chap
With whiskers sewn on to his face?
The man with the stick, will he give him a rap?
Is that why he stays in his place?
What gentleman’s blowing the bugle so loud?
Say why is the lady in stockings so proud?
And where do they stay
When they all go away?
Do they go into town like you every day?
Can children that want to go down there and play ?
What makes the funny old lady wear
Her hat away up on the top of her hair?
“Is that a real fairy? Because she’s so fair?
Is that her real name, d’you think?
Who’s Bingin’ now, Daddy? Dad, what? When?
Where ?
Can I have just a wee little drink?
Oh, ain’t they all rude kickin’ out of their clo’s?
Their mum’ll be shocked at ’em, don’t you suppose?
Can they kick to the sky,
Do you think, if they try?
That little chap there, what’s he got in his eye?”
Exhausted I fled to the matinge bar,
Six minutes of panto we’d travelled so far.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


•JL "...
■ , v ._.
■»V,'\ V\\ ■'• x v
lbs£
V, X :•'>'. J
'A.-
■
SKIN
5 ,
KVS
>*
NbCxS
ES
, *
t C v
|pl§
SBkSi
v\
- '/
■
*
H
■ ■
&
V V
«?K
V- -'•' "
*•<*■*♦
£*s«£s
■
§PI» ’kXSPIfc
s~ '•€
X".: ' > '
. :
i.:
-' .
m
mates
■
sr7_' * * <1 >• *
Willoughby Road, Willoughby, N.S.W.
Engineer: R. Aitkin, Esq., C.E.
Complete concrete road reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric, No. 9.
■ 1
(Made in Australia of Australian Materials)
are selected the world over by city councils and munici-
palities because of the ease with which the B.R.C. Fabric
can be accurately laid, its strength even on weak road-
foundations, its durability under the heaviest of traffic
and the economy it means in long service and trifling
up-keep costs.
Suppliers to
Melbourne Harbor Trust.
Queensland Public Works Department.
Melbourne City Council.
Footscray City Council.
Richmond City Council.
Newcastle City Council.
Victorian Country Roads Board.
Mosman City Council.
Woollahra City Council.
S.A. Public Works Department.
Perth City Council.
Commonwealth Railways.
Melbourne & Metropolitan Board of
Works.
St. Kilda City Council.
Malvern City Council,
Sydney City Council.
Vic. Public Works Department.
W.A. Public Works Department.
North Sydney City Council.
Adelaide Tramway Trust.
Sydney Harbor Trust.
South Melbourne City Council.
Australian Reinforced Concrete
Engineering Company Proprietary Limited
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
430 Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
Works: Sunshine, Vic.
’Phone, Central 8861.
rrrrrrrrmTrrrmr'
EilnTfrrrrrn'jrirnr,
ssass
2a,
Sole Distributing Agents 2
Victoria - -
N. S. Wales -
Queensland
S. Australia
Tasmania
W. Australia
New Zealand
GOLLIN & CO. PTY., LTD., Melbourne.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, LTD., Sydney.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, LTD., Brisbane.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
T. TABART, Jun., Hobart.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Perth.
J. BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
. i ininvc PHTT.P & CO.. LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Western Australian Distributors: lUJ kins, a. >
Harvey’s Special
Sole Agents : RESCHS, UNITED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &WIHTTY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
See
Hii s
ft rand
i each
shirt
ss
pjSiw"!!!
10
\r
Shirts
\
f
You can be sure of /
good Shirts when //
you buy Thistle
Brand. Right in every
detail. Sold by most
clothing stores.
Alexander Stewart & Sons
Ltd.
Makers
Brisbane & Sydney
NEW RIFLE.
.22 LONG-RIFLE AUTOMATIC. Bv
the famous BROWNING F.N. firm. Fires t
Long-rifle Cartridges as fast as you can pul*
the trigger. The cheapest and most effective
.22 cal. rifle produced. PRICE 90/’
The same as above, made to fire 11 Pbort
Cartridges
fITTNS D.8.8.L. Hammerless, by ARM-
STRONG,' 12-g. Chambered for 2 i Cartridge>.
Pistol Grip Stock £2<no-
- Tj. Hammerless, 12- &TX I fa £on
BROWNING F.N £2* 710/-, sol
AUTOMATIC. 12- and 16-g. 5 Shots, b:
BROWNING F.N. The best by far, £lo/IU/
\ JJ'I'RIDGFS for all Guns and Rifles.
Repairs done on the premises.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
SO THE JOB
PROPELY
Nothing that happened at Caulfield last
Saturday was more surprising than the fiasco in the
two-year-old race. The starting price (10 to 1)
of Eric Connolly’s Polytheist was astonishing,
although the colt is only a little one and had to
give a couple of stone to some of the runners. When
Polytheist scored a surprise win at the first time
of asking, the horse-reporters agreed that he would
not go out unfancied next time he did the trick.
Nothing had a chance with the small fellow on
Saturday. He might have carried another 51b. at
least without showing the effect in his finish. Yet
the exposure of the colt’s excellence was worth worse
than nothing to his owner-trainer. Connolly had
sent him off to win whilst a lead bag weighing
31b. or more was hanging over the side of the stall.
The same thing happened with Lucknow in the Mel-
bourne Cup two years ago, but jockey Bullock remem-
bered the bag before going to the post. Connolly’s
loss was Ernest Clarke’s gain. Rosina got the stake.
His trip to Sydney did wonders for Wildun,
whose defeat of Purser, Australian Sun and some of
the others in the Bond Cup was decidedly damaging
to their Australian Cup prospects. Not all the also-
rans were to be taken seriously, however.
Wish Wynne’s rather brilliant victory in the Oak-
leigh suggested that Vic. sprinting form is probably
not quite good enough against the best of the
talent from N.S.W., though there is still the ques-
ion as to Eurythmic’s sprint being in a class by
itself. Also, the three-year-old Demetrius was trying
to give the older mare six pounds. Demetrius at
3 to 1 proved the pick of the locals, but Lisnavane,
at 8 to 1, by getting third place in front of 23
others, justified a mention of her in this column.
As for Eurythmic’s capture of the St. George’s
Stakes, it looked like one of his usual matter-of-course
performances. Harvest King (who can’t be so much
the worse for springing a splint) had a slap at
the champion, but Euryth. held him quite safe, and
was a neck to the good at the finish. Nothing bar
the favorite, Stare, and Bassi carried any money to
speak of, and of these Stare in particular made a
poor show compared with Harvest King and Sister
Ol'ive, who finished third. David was fourth. He
has been taken out of the Australian Cup.
The Futurity Stakes, on Saturday, should go to
Eurythmic or Braehead, if the confident backers for
the Newmarket are well informed. Meanwhile Wish
Wynne is not to be sneezed at; also the idea that
Isa ought to be as good as she looks will find her
a few supporters at long shots. The writer would
sooner risk his shirt and sox on Eurythmic with £
“concession.”
• * * »
A resolute finisher is Naharadan (Mous-
queton—Society Miss), winner of the Parramatta
Mile at Rosehill on Saturday. She humped top-
weight, and though nearly last a quarter of a mile
from the post, got up in time to win handily. The
long Randwiclc straight should just suit the promising
four-year-old. Sons and daughters of Popinjay, a
great sprinter in his dav. were prominent at Rose-
hill. Wirneath (out of Bangaroo) took the Maiden
at 20 to 1, Poppyland (out of Nancy Stair) heat
a strong field of sprinters in the Dundas at 10 to
1, and Lady Popinjay (out of Mininera), at 5 to
2, was first in the Nursery.
• * * *
The newly-formed Amateur Picnic Club
in Adelaide held its first race meeting on the Port
Course. It started modestly with a general pro-
gramme to attract the public, and three events for
members. Alan McFarlane won two of them, and
(with a broken stirrup-leather) was a bad second
in the other. Tait scored one win and a second.
Fields averaged about 14. R. M. Hawker is president
of the new club, and W. G. Tate secretary. There
is a suggestion to include an occasional ladies’ race.
At a polo gymkhana at Clare the ice was broken
(for South Australia) in this respect; honors were
about equally divided between Mrs. Sidney Ayers
and Miss Phyllis Bray.
#*' * *
“Hamer”: Not many years ago “Rowan’s
Bob Sweeps” were the most popular silver lotteries
in Sydney. Their founder, Jack Rowan, died the
other day. His was a life associated with sport and
beer. Starting as a footrunner (he won a Carring-
ton Handicap), he put his winnings into a livery
stable, got bitten by the coursing craze, started a
kennel and established the Belmore Coursing Ground.
When the “dawg” boom burst, he ran a tote,
traded to India with horses, bought a pub, turned
that down for the tobacconist’s business, and so drifted
into the lottery profession. Rowan was a likeable
man of a generous nature, and took what bumps
came to him with the genial philosophy of his class.
* * # #
The owner of Lady Popinjay, which ran
away with a youngsters’ handicap at Rosehili
(N.S.W.), was until recently a shearer. Taking it 2
to Canterbury Park, he bet “all up” on four races
and scooped £l5OO. Other lucky wins followed, and
he became a bookmaker. Amongst the shearers he
was known as “Stepper” Mercer.
■* * * »
“Linesman”: Unless Gerald Patterson
scraps his game and builds it afresh with a powerful
backhand as the corner-stone of the edifice, he is
likely to repeat his unpleasant experience against
Anderson in Melbourne. It is strange that
a man who is so strong in his forehand should
be a persistent manufacturer of confectionery when
he has to hit across the body. How much stronaw
in this department is Anderson! His backhand
drive has almost as big a place in his offensive as
the dazzling forehand smack off Patterson’s fiercest
deliveries. This low-flying shot, which has the un-
canny habit of whizzing out just inside the side-
line, or of dropping disconcertingly at the server’s
feet, i 3 full-brother to the bullet which Johnston,
the Yankee Davis Cup player, relied upon to win
him matches. But that is not the only feature of
Anderson’s equipment. His chary use of the lob
makes the surprise greater when he turns it on after
a straight-hitting rally, and an occasional prettily-
placed slice also has the same effect in suddenly
varying the tempo of the game. His service, less
arduous and not so powerful as Patterson’s, is still
an excellent weapon, because his invariably easy
action in hitting the ball frequently deceives the
enemy as to the weight behind it. Anderson has
benefited enormously by his American experience,
especially in placing and hitting power, while his
court-craft i 3 a thing to admire.
* * * «
“15-30”: It is only fair to Gerald Patter-
son to state that he did not “protest” against the
use of new balls in the deciding set of his match
against Anderson in Melbourne the other day. I was
standing near Patterson when the umpire asked him
if he had any objection to new balls, and I heard
him reply that it was a matter of indifference to him.
Anyhow, Patterson is too good A sport to make a
noise over a little thing like that, and, in fact, his
sportsmanship all through was of the highest. If
he had insisted on the match being played according
to the rules, the interval after the third set wouldn’t
have been stretched to 20 minutes and Anderson, who
was noticeably the more distressed of the two, would
probably not have made such a fine physical recovery.
As to the foot-faulting of Anderson, personally I re-
gard several of the decisions as questionable. It
was the first time in my recollection that the tall
Cornstalk had been foot-faulted in Melbourne. And
I don’t remember reading of his being penalised in
America.
* * * *
Mina Wylie has added the 100yds. title
to her collection of championships. At Melbourne
City Baths on Saturday she beat Elsie Venning, the
Queenslander, by two feet. Lily Robertson, the Ma
State’s 50yds. champion, being a touch further away.
The time was 69 2-ssec., which is 3 2-ssec. outside
Fanny Durack’s fastest over the distance, and Csec.
worse than Ethelda Bleibtrey’s world’s best.
BUIKES, the South African sprinter.
The Vic. Amateur Swimming Assoc.’s
three-mile race on the Yarra drew an entry of 69,
who were handicapped up to 35min. Against a
strong flood-tide and a head breeze, G. W. Morns,
scratch, had no chance of catching the limit men,
who were given much too big a start. The long
paddle was won by 0. Felton, of Footscray, who
had 35min., which, according to his time, lhr.
46min. 19sec., meant that he was a mile on his
way before Morris had taken to the water. W.
Lavender (33min.). also of Footscray, was second,
and J. Smith (27min.), of the Richmond Club,
slipped into third place. Close behind him came
B. G. Bailey, Fitzroy, with 12m'in., the only one ot
the back-markers to show up well at the finish.
Six ladies were among the 24 starters in
the Maoriland long-distance swim (3 miles 40yds.)
at Wellington, the other day, and Gladys Q. Nut-
tall, of Hawkes Bay (34min.), using the trudgeon
stroke throughout, won easily in lhr. 53min. 57sec.
J. Enwright (12min.) and M.L. distance champion
1,. Hill (scr.) filled the places. Hill’s lhr. 30min.
47 2-ssec. was fastest time —an excellent effort
under the choppy conditions. Annette Kellerman,
who donated the cup for the race, was among the
cheering thousands at the finish.
* * * *
Mascotte, splendidly handled by W. C.
Duncan, won the N. S. Wales 18ft. championship in
Sydney on Saturday. There were 20 starters, and
Mascotte passed the finishing point with 4J minutes
to spare from the new boat Australia, piloted by
“Billy” Dunn. Advance (H. Thompson) was
22sec. behind Australia, and Kismet and H. C. Press,
the Ma State’s reps, at Perth, couldn’t get any nearer
than 6th and 7th respectively. Cherry-Too, with
H. L. Carter in command, was first home in the 21ft.
restricted class event for the Albert Cup, but will
have to survive a protest for striking the starter’s
boat. The complete N. S'. Wales fleet and Maroomba,
the Bananaland boat, competed, and after the punch
to Shark Island, where Inez anticipated Cherry-Too
by 4sec., the latter’s extra drapery told its tale.
With ballooners elevated, Cherry-Too and Maroomba
scudded to the finish, where Carter got the verdict
by 2smin. from the Queenslander, which headed Gum-
leaf (Stan Stevens) by 2min. ssec. Corella, the
G.-G.’s craft, with Don Taylor up, was fourth, 49sec.
behind the interstate champion, and the usually
slick Inez (F. Doran) was last. In a race under
the burgee of the R.P.A.Y.C. from Farm Cove to a
mark five miles to windward of South Reef and re-
turn, Rawhiti lifted the prize, with OJmin. to spare
from Aoma and Bona. Sydney Amateurs’ ocean race,
round a mark three miles to windward of the Heads,
went to the scratch vessel. Sea Bird, with Adelma
and Dawn next. It was Sea Bird’s fourth win to
date.
Lord Forster had better luck in Melbourne than
in Sydney. His Yeulba showed her heels in the run
for “A” class yachts at the St. Kilda regatta.
Eun-na-mara, Independence and other crack boats
were entered, but Yeulba, with a handicap of 9min.
15sec. and skippered by the G.-G., was too brisk for
her competitors. On correcting the times it was
found that she was lmin. 46see. ahead of Fairlie 11.,
who beat Thera by llsec.
Mosman had a fine win in N.S.W. Rowing
: Association’s championship fours. Balmain and Leich-
hardt were the other starters, but neither had a
chance with Mosman, who led all the way and covered
the two miles in 13min. 40see. The victory places
Mosman in an unbeatable position for the season’s
pennant. In the championship single sculls A. G.
Bull (Leichhardt) defeated R. Jones (Drummoyne),
R. Neilson (Balmain) and four others in the fair
time, considering the choppy conditions, of 22min.
18sec. Bull will sport N.S.W. colors in the Austra-
lian championship on the Parramatta next month.
* * * »
Jim Paddon, the big Evans Head (N.S.W. N
sculler, has gone to M.L. to race Darcy Hadfield for
the world’s title. With him went brother Dick
and trainers ; also he took a new boat, The Richmond,
the gift of his Northern Rivers supporters. Paddon’s
trial spins on the Parramatta were impressive, but
Barry beat him on the Thames in 1914, and James
may not be as good as he was then. Another Austra-
lian after a world’s championship is Arthur A.
Baynes, the amateur, who is going to England to
contest the Diamond Sculls at Henley in July. George
Towns, who is putting the Queenslander through his
paces on the Parramatta, and will accompany him to
London, has a high opinion of his stamina and speed.
* * * *
The latest Springbok raiders are having a
strenuous time. At Svdnev last week E. Kalten-
brun knocked chips off two Australian cycling records,
bringing the five miles down to 12min. 4 4-ssec.,
and the 10 miles to 24min. 24 2-ssec. It was gritty
riding in adverse conditions. G. Thursfield’s three-
event match with A. E. Hannon saw the Cornstalk
in the ascendant. He took the half-mile and mile
against the S’African’s quarter. Among the runners
Leathern (S’Africa) gave C. H. Taylor a great go
in two races at Canterbury (M.L.). Taylor won
them both —the half-mile by 3yds. in 2min. 2 l-ssec.,
the mile by half-a-yard in 4min. 51sec. He holds
the Australasian half-mile title,, having carried it
off at Adelaide in lmin. 58 l-ssec. Still, Leathern
is nearly up to his best S’African form, and will
make things interesting in next month’s N.S.W.
middle-distance championships,
* * * *
Allan Sadler has cut a further slice off the
Melbourne-Sydney motor-cycle figures by streaking
between the capitals in 17hr. 33min. The previous
best was H. Hodgson’s 18hr. llmin. Sadler’s
machine was a 7-9-h.p. Indian with Dunlop tyres,
and got through without a mishap of any sort.
* * * *
Adelaide motorists are raging about a new
Act. Thousands of number-plates have had to be
removed from the front axle, formerly considered
the natural place for them. Particular annoyance
is caused by a new rule that every standing car at
night must have two front and one rear lamp burn-
ing. This effect, where dozens of cars are parked
together, is ridiculous, and batteries soon run down.
Different speed-limits are enforced in various streets,
and visitors have to do a few days’ study before
they dare put their hand to the wheel. Hannan,
Parliamentary draughtsman, has obligingly issued a
cheap annotated copy of the “fool of an Act.”
Although it was plain months ago that
Llew Edwards, the once-brilliant Welshman, was all-
in as a boxer, he was served up as a victim for
Harry Stone at the Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
night. The result was melancholy, for Edwards
couldn’t get out of the way of the Yank’s flashing
fists, and the speed and precision of his own punch
had departed. The towel was elevated in the seventh
round, after Edwards had pathetically complained
that he couldn’t see the other chap, and Stone
silenced a barbarous roar from the “sports” who
had lost their silver by putting his arm round the
broken pug and shouting “Genelmen —the gamest
man I ever met.” His inane grin and goatish antics
notwithstanding, there is a good deal of chivalry in
Stone.
The s turd y 11-year-old son of a
nf 0f m l ne be ? ar , ne ld » much t 0 the puzzlement
° f , botb P ai 'ents and doctor. A couple of days ago
a bright, a lert lad of 12 or so called to'see him, arid
announced himself as “Dick’s trainer.” “Trainer
for what? asked the father. “Why, for boxine.
- 11 ? Set a match for him, only now he’s
sick 111 be put back I suppose.” “How do you
train him? asked the father, scenting the kev* of
the situation. “Well, I make him strip, put six
buckets of cold water over him, then make him cht
three slices of raw liver, then I punch his chest
and stomach, then he’s got to punch the ball for
30 minutes without stopping.” “Yes; what else:
’ Then he’s got to eat more raw liver and skip 500.”
“And does he do it?” “He’s getting on—but he’s
green yet. I told him to eat plenty of raw oatmeal
but being sick I s’pose he hasn’t.” What the father
said to the “trainer” staggered that young enthusi-
ast, and the doctor is now slowly getting his patient’s
stomach back to normal.
* * # •
Bill Grime, the N. S. Wales featherweight.
lookrd a greatly relieved pug when, in the fifth rour.i
of his struggle with Frankie Monroe, of California,
the referee interrunted the proceedings and declared it
no fight. From the outset of the disturbance Monroe
had made free use of the shamrock punch, intro-
duced to Sydney by the late Saylor and faithfully
copied by Joe Symonds. The referee cautioned him
many times, but
Monroe paid no atten-
tion. On the con-
trary, he improved the
shining hour by bring-
ing his wrist up to
Grime’s chin in break
ing from the clinches. '
So it went on for 14
minutes, when the
stout Wallis lost his,
patience, waved his
arms despairingly,
and said “Git out of ;
the ring,” or words
to that effect. It was
a queer ending to an
uninteresting scrap.
FRANKIE
MONROE , feather-
weight champion
of the Pacific
Coast, whose
methods earned him
a hostile recep-
tion at the Sydney
Stadium, and a
“ no-fight” decision.
Frank O’Keeffe is a great batsman, but
from the spectator’s standpoint his cautious methods
are being overdone. Going in . first for Carlton
against Fitzroy on Saturday, he batted all the
afternoon for 96 not out, and it took him 140
minutes to make his first 50. When the inevitable
reaction against funereal cricket arrives O’Keefle
and other disciples of the dreary ICelleway school
may have reason to regret that they didn’t brisk
up a bit. Carlton made 202 for three wickets,
all taken by McDonald for an average of 33 dead.
The international bowled at one end without a
change, and at the rate he is being overworked by
inconsiderate captains his cricket career looks like
being a memory in 1923. Thanks chiefly to Keating
and Ryder, Colli ngwood put Hawthorn-East Mel-
bourne out for 143, and are two down for 131;
and Northcote, with all their wickets intact, are
within 29 of Prahran's 135, llartkopf knocking up
80 of the 106 in 50 minutes. But as he arid
O’Keeffe will be playing at Adelaide next Saturday in
the Sheffield Shield match, their clubs will have to
do without them when hostilities are resumed. The
brilliant Sandford contributed 54 of Melbourne s
151 v, St. Kilda, who have lost six of their best
men for 88. The remaining matches were unre-
markable.
* * * *
In the Sydney grade cricket matches on
Saturday St. George took a sporting risk against
Sydney, but it didn’t come off. Sydney having
made 224, in reply to St. George’s 181, the latter
declared m their second innings with 4 down for
144 and tried to get their opponents out for less than
101. It was a close thing, the necessary runs being
got off the seventh ball of the last over, with seven
wickets down. Waverley closed their innings at 6 for
264 against ’Varsity’s 145 and 6 for 179. Although only
10 runs ahead on the first innings, Randwick scored
an “outright” win against Western Suburbs, and
Paddington failed to catch Marriekville’s 176 by 5
runs. North Sydney might have a bigger lead in the
competition, but for the showers. In reply to tbe
Shoremen’s 295, ’Main got 122 and 5 for lid.
Central Cumberland shaped poorly on the wet wicket
at the S.C.G. against Mosman, Anderson (5 for 19)
and Hooker (4 for 24) rocking them out for 54.
Mosman’s total was 231. Anderson’s were tbe
best bowling figures of the day. The only century-
makers were Hendry and Dwyer, of Waverley, wbo
each knocked up 108 against University.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: The match was between two
N.S.W. South Coast elevens, Bateman’s Bay and Mil-
ton, at the Bay. Milton wanted 15 to win, and there
were seven wickets to fall. It looked a cert. Tbe
Bay had but one bowler —a rustic Spofforth—and he
was their skipper. His initial bombardment yielded
two wickets and two byes. He then put himself on
at the other end (under protests which were un-
heeded) and took three more wickets for 5 runs.
He appeared again at the other end —amid further
protests and much threatening language—and dis-
missed the other two men for three runs and four
byes. When the excitement had boiled down a bit
the victorious leader pranced up to the still-infuriatec
Milton captain and put this to him: “We don’t play
under no ’tieklar rules at the Bay, so there y’are!”
* * * *
“M.E.”: The introduction of the third
penny in the national pastime (B. 9/6/’22) is b-
ro means new. Before the European upheaval it
was compulsory in many big “schools” in Queens-
land, and Queensland players took it along wits
them to Egypt and France. The third brown has
the advantage of giving “sudden death” decisions,
a majority for heads or tails being of course inevit-
able.
“THE SPORT.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’E was a sport —a reg’lar lad!
’E knocked around from day to day,
An’ spent what cash the oP man ’ad
In open-’anded, careless way.
’ls ol’ man, when ’e’s nearly broke,
Disowned ’im with an’ angry snort.
’E only took it as a joke—
’E was a sport!
’E never worked; lived like a lord.
The wimmen by ’is ways wus took;
’E never anted for ’is board—
If they turned cold ’e slung ’is ’ook.
’E’d bet without a dashed rahzoo
To pay with. If ’e should get caught
An’ lose, ’e’d simply fade from view—
’E was a sport 1
An ’ard case like you never saw,
’E’d do ther friend to fellers strange
Wot looked ter ’im as green an’ raw,
An’, telling ’em ’e’s no small change,
Escort them round to spend their dough—
You know where country mugs resort—•
Then bite ’em for a quid or so.
’E was a sport 1
They nearly lobbed ’im inter gaol
About some widow’s, cash ’e’d skinned.
’E got some pals to stand ’im bail;
’E never cared; ’e simply grinned,
Although ’twas plain ’e’d not be cleared.
They ’ad ter pay ther bail ter court —
Before ’is trial ’e disappeared.
'E was a sport!
K.S.W.
HAMER.


Health is the Greatest of all
Possessions.
From the earliest ages man has taken pride in his bodily welfare
and development. It can be acquired by regular and efficient
Physical Culture Exercises. Learn how to improve your body.
A Postal Course of Health
and Strength Exercises
will make you fit and keep you strong and healthy.
The surest and safest way to improve the seen and unseen
muscles is by means of health exercises—exercises that
drive a copious supply of rich, virile blood throughout
the system—nourishing it with oxygen, expelling waste
tissue, building up new muscle, benefiting every part
of your body.
The BAKER EXERCISES consist entirely of good
exercises based on these lines, and have been tested and
proved by experience.
Let us send you a copy of the booklet “Health and
Strength from Self-Culture.” It tells about the health-
giving exercises and methods, terms, etc. Send three
stamps for postage. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement. We’ll know what you mean.
REG. L. ("Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
‘‘The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,’’
54 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
' ■
v>-s
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
d
-22 RIM FIRE,
li as kynoch:im
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALL BRITISH
W. G. Watson 8 Co. Ltd.,
279 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Representing
LAURENCE SCOTT & CO., LIMITED,
Norwich England.
ALLEN WEST & CO., LIMITED,
Brighton, England.
CENTURY ELECTRIC COMPANY,
St. Louis, U.S.A.
Can quote for supply from stock of:—
LAURENCE SCOTT DIRECT-CURRENT
MOTORS.
ALLEN WEST LIFTING MAGNETS.
D.C. and THREE-PHASE REVERSIBLE
CONTROLLERS up to 125 horse-power.
LIQUID STARTERS up to 400 AMPERES
Rotor Current.
AUTO TRANSFORMER STARTERS
up to 80 brake-horsepower.
COMBINED AMMETER, D.P. or T.P. WATER-
TIGHT SWITCH and FUSES up to 200 amperes.
CENTURY Alternating Current Motors
up to 60 brake-horsepower.
Special quotations given for all kinds of
plant on application.
r Uty “
UNIQUE
END-OF-SEASON OFFER.
£6 15$. 8 £8 15s. Suitings
For 5 Guineas.
An altogether unprecedented offer! GUARANTEED SUlTlNGS—
embracing our Special Range of High-grade and Exclusive AUSTRALIAN
AND ENGLISH TWEEDS and WORSTEDS, that have proved a solidly
satisfactory investment to hundreds during the past
season —Textures commanding a price never less than
£6/15/-, and more often as high as £B/15/- in a
Suit to Order —THESE in the odd lengths and partly
sold rolls that remain, are now offered as a Special
End-of-Season Opportunity.
‘Lincoln Stewart’
TAILORED TO ORDER.
£5/5-
You’ve only to see the
variety of designs at your
disposal—note the exquisite
taste of the weaves and
shades commingled to realise
that these are NOT Textures
of the ordinary type-—but
something unquestionably DIS-
TINCTIVE—whoIIy different,
and something unique in price.
WE GUARANTEE YOUR
COMPLETE TAILORING
SATISFACTION, every detail of the
WORKMANSHIP of every garment being
carried out in a manner that will more
than meet your most exacting require-
ments. Don’t delay.
WRITE FOR POST-FREE
PATTERNS NOW
-
vi
I
lifililll
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. ptu. Ltd.
Tailoring Specialists
244 FLINDERS ST. MELBOURNE
CAILLE PERFECTION
MARINE ENGINES.
* •
■5/
m
m
m
We illustrate a genuine test of the ignition system
which is fitted to our Single-cylinder Heavy-duty
Engines.
It is the only reliable one for use in heavy weather.
We have sizes from 2 to 14 horse-power in stock
for immediate delivery.
PRICES ARE RIGHT.
Benson Brothers Ltd..
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney.


Smart Velour Sports Hat
for riding, driving, and sports.
extremely smart and new shape
that satisfies the feminine long-
ing for style, and at the same
time is exceedingly serviceable.
It is fashioned on becoming lines,!
and is suitable for riding, driving,
and all sports wear. Made in gen-
uine Velour, in shades of grey, putty,
buff, nigger, dark green, navy and
black, finished self ribbon with bow,
and feather sporting mount /• Q I
at side. Moderately priced, OJ//-
Farmer’s
Sydney
,_fe
.
jms£ J
f V
/ /
Carr : age Paid
Box 497, G.P.O.
BREW YOUR OWN BEER
NON - INTOXICATING
If it isn't..
It's Better
A tin of “BEVARA BEER” contains
the exact quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast,
&c., with instructions to quickly and easily
make TWO GALLONS of the purest
and best Beer. No chemicals whatever.
Failure impossible.
Six varieties, viz., Ginger, Hop, Pale, Malt,
and Bitter Beer and Stout. The PERFECT
drink for Men, Women or Children. The
BEST proof is that ONE family last season
drank 100 gallons of ‘'BEVARA.”
Price 1/6 from all Grocers and Stores
Including Mcllrath's all shops), Civil Service Stores, Anthony Horderns, Lassetters, MarkFoy s,
Green Bros., Balmain Co-Op., Moran and Cato (all shops), Savage Stores, and all leading stores
in suburbs and countrv Or rostage paid 1-9 from
M. R. GREEN, Manufacturer, CARLTON, VIC.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
The enthronement of Archbishop Lees at
St. Paul’s was an affair of much ceremony.
The Cathedral was packed tight with people
admitted “by ticket only,” and an immense
crowd outside the railed-off square craned
its neck to see what it could. Visiting
bishops and clergy made a procession from
one door to another dressed in white stoles,
black gowns and many-colored hoods. They
disappeared, and into the vacant square
came a gorgeously-robed person who impres-
sively mounted the stone steps and knocked
at the closed door of the Cathedral. His
vivid scarlet robe, black velvet stole and
immense sleeves of white lawn made a great
effect in the sunshine against the cool, grey
stone of St. Paul’s. The Administrator
opened to him and the visitor humbly asked
to be installed as archbishop. Amid the
pealing of the bells and the thundering of
the organ lie stepped within. The outside
crowd had to be content with that until
three hours later, when everybody came out.
Inside the cathedral the new-comer walked
down a long lane of church dignitaries,
Registrar McLennan read the certificate of
election and Chancellor Edward Mitchell
declared that other formalities had been well
and truly observed. So there was nothing
left for Archdeacon Ilindley to do but
ceremoniously set the new Archbishon on the
throne. In the dim depths of the sanctuary
was a continuous soft movement of color
while the organ played its flutiest notes;
then the choir lifted its voice and made
stirring music.
The G.-G. and Lady Forster, and the State
Governor and Lady Stradbroke, with im-
posing suites of decorative aides, were at the
church. Robert Garran was bewigged;
Sugden, of the ’Varsity, was heavily robed ;
military and naval men came in droves; a
Rabbi and the local head of the Greek
Church were also there.
The new Archgaiters had a strenuous day.
Racing from a delayed liner and a delayed
express, he went straight to the cathedral;
then, after the long services, came a luncheon
party, and after that he looked up a big
congregation of the clergy who were lunch-
ing at Sargents’. He is an old friend of the
G.-G.’s, and with his lady is staying at Gov-
ernment House for a while before going to
Bishopscourt. The Bishop of Wangaratta
and Mrs. Armstrong, the Bishop of Ballarat
and Mrs. Maxwell-Gumbleton, the Bishop of
Gippsland and the Bishop of Bendigo have
all been staying with the G.-G. and Lady
Forster. The gent.-helps have developed a
profoundly solemn aspect. Any one of them
could now apply for a job as butler on the
strength of his looks.
The Autumn meetings opened at Caulfield
on Saturday with Wish Wynne’s Oakleigh
Plate. There was an immense crowd, a
crowd so “sporty” that between races lawn
and stand were almost deserted. It came
in like a tidal wave just before each race,
but ebbed back with a swift rush to betting
paddock and birdcage immediately the race
was finished. A few exhausted feminine
creatures would be left stranded high and
dry, but most of them, too, would drift down
presently when they heard a sporting woman’s
voice: “My dear, you simply must come and
see Eurythmic.”
The vice-regal box was full of interested
people. Lady Forster went out in the
simplest little navy-blue suit, with a knitted
blouse and a plain, shady blue hat pulled
down over her ears. Lord Forster was
busy with his own race—he was yachting a,t
St. Kilda. Lady Digby, in dark tailorings,
and Mrs. Pitt Rivers in a quiet little coat-
frock, were with her Ex., and a hive of men.
buzzed in attendance. Captain Sir Pyers
Mostyn, M.C., who is on a visit to the
vice-regal humpy, was there. Aide de la
Coeur, a pretty, plump youth with pink
cheeks, just arrived from Ipdia, swung his
race-glasses and almost danced in his exuber-
ance. The froeking generally was limp.
The day was cool, but the ’ recent climb of
the mercury to 104 degrees left the women
too exhausted for flummery. Mrs. Leslie
Macdonald kept up her new-frock reputa-
tion. Her fawn suit had broad butterfly
bars of mushroom-brown, and her toque was
a wreath of silk and - mol multi-colored leaves.
Mrs. Currie was in putty-colored serae. Mrs.
Russell had the newest flat buttons all down
her tailorings. Mrs. Jack Wallace sported
wide chalk-lines on her black serge. A
Sutherland girl braved superstition with
peacocks’ feathers embroidered on black.
Huge checks on woollen stuff were a feature
of the froeking, and all sorts of weird witch-
like loose cloaks took the breeze like sails.
On Saturday afternoon Norman Brookes,
looking tired after the championship matches,
declared the foundation-stone of the new
South Yarra tennis club-house well and
truly laid, after president architect Butler
had opened the oratory. The club threatens
to be a tony affair, as all the right people
are clamoring for admission. The Toorak
elders are now petitioning for croquet-lawns
for the less active members, which means
that £2OOO worth of debentures will be called
for instead of £l5OO worth. A stone-laying
ceremony is too suggestive of a funeral to
make for festivity, but members cheered
un as they trooped across a dusty paddock
or two to the Jack McComases’ place, where
afternoon-tea was handed out on the green-
est of grassy lawns, set in a flower border
almost too beautifully flowery to be true.
Mrs. Jack looked handsome in floral-
patterned ninon with an upturned hat trying
to hide itself behind a mammoth lace bow.
Mrs. Norman Brookes sported henna-colored
crepe de Chine sashed with black and gold
under a swathed brown cloak fringed from
hip to hem, the whole topped by an upstand-
ing brown toque with a defiant plume on its
starboard side.
The .Palace Theatre had a wonderful house
on Saturday night for Allan Wilkie’s “Julius
Csesar.” The G.-G. was boxed with his lady,
who looked cool and classical in severe black
net, and there was a platoon of aides in
the pen next door. The house was full of
Highbrows.
The Institute of Arts gave a recep-
tion to Allan Wilkie and Miss Hunter-Watts
after the first night of “Julius Caesar.” A
couple of hundred guests climbed the narrow
stairs to the club rooms next door to the
Palace Theatre. Miss Hunter-Watts, with
her hair in a “bun,” dfiooped about in a chif-
fony mauve frock, and took the adulation of
the handshakers. President Robert Garran
made a speech, and Allan Wilkie responded
in his best Shakspearean voice. A supping
crowd dipped daintily into lemonade and
sandwiches spread in the background.
The Stradbrokes have gone up to the cot-
tage at Macedon, probably to make it clear to
Lawson, McPherson and co. that the place is
not regarded as a white elephant, although it
may not appeal to the family quite so much
as Cowes, where they have been recently.
This slip of a girl, Frances Taylor, is
editing and managing a journal in Mel-
bourne, the Woman’s World, which was
three months old this February and is grow-
ing lustily. She wrote every line of her
first issue and persuaded £3OO worth of
advertisers. to have faith in her venture
before it was printed.
In the intervals of
newspaper work, the
energetic youngster
works an orchard at
Kangaroo Ground,
20 miles from Mel-
bourne, and does her
own pruning and all
that sort of thing.
Having lived for
some years in the
vorth-west of Victoria
she realised, the need
of a dependable buy-
ing agent, in the city
who could purchase
domestic articles for
country use; so
in connection with
her journal she has
started a buying service for countrywomen,
which has already had to forward an aston-
ishing assortment of things, from a tea set
and a baby’s feeding bottle to a blouse-
length and a £25 engagement-ring ordered
by a young man in the Murray district. She
has also, through careful advertising, helped
to dispose of the output of small orchards,
and has got orders booked up for succeeding
crops. Her ambition is to get the small-
selection women in touch with the women of
the cities, and the work is growing with a
speed she hadn’t dreamt of.
The Housewives have been at it, hammer
and tongs, and down has come sugar a
penny a pound in consternation. “A tem-
porary sop !” snort the Housewives. “We’ve
got to get this sugar business finished and
then, proceed to deal with bread and milk.”
There was a mass (meeting on Sugar at the
Assembly Hall in Collins-street. Mrs. Pre-
sident Gleneross, with a vivid enthusiasm
flaming in her cheeks, said she had asked
.the jam-factory bosses to be present, but
they had refused. Mrs. Reseigh, of the
women’s section of the Victorian Farmers’
Union, declared that what she wanted was
a full financial statement in detail from the
Federal Government, which is held respon-
sible for keeping up the price far above what
other countries are paying, and making a
heap .of money out of the transaction. Then
the voice of Mrs. Cowan, the Westralian
M.L. A., was heard sayine: these things
could be handled better with more women
in Parliament. Hannah. ex-M.L.A., offered
advice. “Shout all together,” he suggested.
“and in three months we’ll get sugar down
below fourpence.” The huge crowd of
Housewives pounded out enthusiastic ap-
plause. Women who have little time to
spare for meetings had come along, forced
by the pressure of swollen house bills that
week-in, week-out wear their nerves to a
frazzle. They were a big, earnest gathering
of wives who beg just to be allowed a fair
deal in the interests of husbands and babies.
Shier here gives you the latest of Victor
McMahon, a young man of unusual gifts.
Born in Ballarat 19 years ago, he was play-
ing a piccolo in the
Maryborough orches-
tra at eight; and be-
fore John Amadio
left for England the
youth was under-
studying him at vari-
ous concert engage-
ments. Amadio con-
siders McMahon the
most promising flau-
tist he has ever
taught, and the
veteran Lemmone
has become suffici-
ently interested to
give the lad some
lessons. A while
back he toured with
Fred Collier and
Elsy Treweek, and
more than once he was the hit of the evening.
And his ordinary school record is full of
achievements. A few months after coming
to Melbourne he won a Government scholar-
ship, and later collected a Newman Exhibi-
tion and a Donovan Bursary for residence
in Newman College at the Melbourne
’Varsity.
Collins-street Scawtch Kirk was heavily
laden with the Best People on Friday to see
solicitor Jack Turnbull wed dark-eyed Dollie
Parker, daughter of the Westralian knight.
The Parkers are Anglicans, but the attractive
little bride preferred the simpler knot-tying
service of her bridegroom’s faith, and, not
being troubled by superstition, she thought
Friday as good as any other old day for a wed-
ding. Her bridal robes were of white satin,
frothing at the sides and sleeves with real
honiton, a train of brocaded chiffon
spreading at the back. The lace veil,
with a circlet of orange-blossoms, tied with
silver streamers, was genuine Brussels with
a long pedigree, and the bouquet of pink-
tipped lilies was nearly as large as the bride
herself. Bridegroom Turnbull, whose locks
snowed early in life, sported a white gardenia
in his buttonhole. Sisters Mildred Parker
and Jean Turnbull bridesmaided gracefully
in white georgette, flying side panels and
sleeves of lace, and girdled with blue and sil-
ver. Black lace-draped hats added a sombre
note, but sheaves of pink gladioli came as a
cheerful counterblast. Relations only, with
a handful of extra-special friends, were bid-
den to the health-drinking after-ceremony
given by the old Westralian Judge and his
eldest unmarried daughter at their South
Yarra place. The hostess fluttered in black-
and-white floral ninon, with a feather-decked
hat and pink bouquet. Sister Nora, was a
study in brown, and a golden-haired Westra-
lian niece moved round in white trappings
sashed with blue.
The A. T. Sharps had a rousing welcome-
home from Diggers (including Digger nurses)
who had shared their hospitality in London
during the war. Mr. Sharp, who was Land
Settlement Commissioner for Victoria in Lon-
don, has been appointed secretary of the Vic-
torian New Settlers’ League in Australia.
He was one of the founders of the London
branch of the A.N.A., and later of the Anzac
Buffet. The reception to the homecomers
was at the lecture hall of the Armadale
Methodist Church, and there was much lau-
datory talk from Brian Wibberley (presi-
dent), John Clayton (Fathers’ Association),
secretary David (R.S.S.L.), Captain Bull
and J. M. Reed.
Louise Gargurevich. sister of the assistant-
secretary of the V.A.T.C. and a clever little
pianist, who has not had as much limelight
as she deserves, ig. leaving by the Largs Bay
on March 4 for a 12 months’ tour of Europe
to improve her musical education. She gives
a farewell recital at the Assembly Hall on
February 28.
Wirths’ Olympia, over Princes Bridge,
which has housed circuses, picture-shows and
other things, has been expensively re-
modelled, and is starting out on a fresh career
as a concert and dance hall. On Saturday
night Mrs. Wirth, in soft greys and silver,
entertained some friends at a plain-and-fancy-
dress affair there. General Sellheim and
his lady, Dr. and Mrs. .Tona, the Bussells
and the Millers and Mrs. Mein were “among
those present.” A new dance-expert,
Maurice, with a partner, has taken things
over. They come from the Savoy, London,
and aim at qttaite naice “quiet” English
dancing.
Looking spruce after his 12 months abroad,
Donald Mackinnon is back. He will try
to re-enter politics, but not State
politics, and he already has his eye
on a Federal seat. Some of his friends
want him to have a shot at Corio, others sug-
gest Deakin (if Watt doesn’t select that new
suburban and a third group
urges him to go for thff Senate in place of
Fairbairn, who is to retire.
\ ida Goldstein is expected back in Mel-
bourne in March. Now that Australia has
a woman M.P., no doubt she feels that her
political chances are more rosy.
rm-Y}? 1 ' * rC) ublous times with its Neglected
Children s branch, the Government now
seeks a remedy in appointing a woman
doctor as administrative head, but is unwill-
Y P, ay a salary ot more than £5OO a year.
\Vhat the profession thinks of the offer is
shown by the fact that there are only two
fu P i Ca J 10ns ln ‘ Sound administration is
the first essential, and surely among the fine
women who undertook great charges at
hospitals in h ranee and elsewhere during
the war there should be many combining
Uiat qualification with all the medical know-
ledge required. But £5OO will hardly bring
them to light. s
Arrived back in Melbourne the other day
JJi. Gore Gillon, who hangs out a highly
inspected sign in the vicinity of Harlev-
street heeling a bit used-up, he ordered
himself a sea trip, and kept his hand in
during the voyage by measuring out mag.-
sulph. to the Borda’s thousand immigrants,
it was like knocking off work to hump the
nod but he says it was better than cutting
up high-priced aristocrats. Gillon, who is
easny recognisable after 30 years in the
r og, .oils with a grin how he got the big
rise.that set him up in London. He plunged
on Boz tor the Caulfield Cup in ’B9.
. Maoriland opera singer Rosina Buekman
is to appear again in Australia after her
successes in London and on the Continent
A tour of Australia and M.L. after she
finishes her starring engagement at La
fecala m April has been arranged.
The very newest moustache is to have a
parting m the centre. Special little silk
fixtures are invented to help dandies turn
the toothbrush mo. in the two ways it should
go. Melbourne knuts have a living example
in the butterfly lip-fringe of aide de la
Coeur, just arrived as gent.-help to Lord
£ orster.
Adelaide drops a line:—
Dr. Julia Seton, the New Thinker and founder of
the New Civilisation Church, is here on a lecturing
tour from the Yewnited States. Her first lecture was
entitled “The Short Cut,” and in it she plumped for
fasting two days a week, and—what sounds more
attractive—plenty of sleep.
When Lady Weigall visited the Queen’s Home
recently, a mother proudly exhibited her twins.
Her Ex. asked if they had been named yet, and, on
learning that they hadn’t, suggested Grace and
Archibald. As there was already a Grace in the
family, Priscilla was substituted; and as the names
were adopted, the twins have now both had a little
banking account started for them by the vice-regal
lady.
Lieut.-Commander and Mrs. Clover, the latter the
eldest daughter of Sidney Kidman, have arrived in
Adelaide from the Cold Country. They propose
spending a couple of years in Australia. Before her
marriage Mrs. Clover was a fine horsewoman- —she
was a typical bush girl in her riding pants, soft shirt
and felt hat.
In a farewell speech to the returned soldiers at
the Mistral Gardens a day or two ago, his Ex. said
he had a fixed determination to come to Australia
again some day. ’ He denied the insinuation of cer-
tain papers in other States that he was a sort of
Pierpont Morgan, and remarked: “I would like it
known that had there been any other course open to
me nothing in the world would have induced me to
resign.”
With a view to encouraging Australian talent,
Harry Musgrove’s producer, Spencer Barry, advertised
the other day for stage-bitten damsels to come along
and be tested. The fact that beauty, elegance,
grace of form, dancing and vocal ability were required
didn t prevent 40 applicants putting in an appear-
ance. One Adelaide girl came through the test before
an audience of pros, with flying colors —Dorothy
Shine, daughter of J. C. P. Slane, who was 0.0. of the
27th Battalion. She gives promise of being a fine
dancer, and has been offered an engagement.
Returned soldiers in S Aus. carry their fighting
into business life, to the great profit of the lawyers.
They support two bitterly opposed papers, which
have just had a libel case. Two bigger actions have
lately been compromised; and the R.S. League and
tha Diggers’ Gazette and Winterbottom, sec. of
the Soldiers’ Fund, have a big suit pending. And
the Co-operative Assoc., into which so many sol-
diers put their gratuity, is bombarding its members
with two lots of circulars, each issued by one party
of the directors to prove that the other party is a
Fair Cow.
The Anglicans have a useful gift in the old Law
Smith home at Glenelg, which has been given to
them by the family for a school for girls.
Governor Weigall tells us, now that he is about
to leave, that during his two years of office he has
had made, and sent to England, moving-picture
records of the country and his doings in it. The
400-mile trip on the Murray is the subject of one
film; another representing the wine-growing indus-
try, “from clearing scrub-land to the delivery of
wine at a retail house,” has been supplied by the
Vine-growers’ Assoc. ; and the Oakbank Steeplechase
is a popular subject that has already “in my own
county, Lincolnshire, raised quite big amounts for
hospitals.”


aaaaaaaaaaaa
llllkltHVll
■■■■■■■■■■■l
aiaaiiSSiaiaiaiaaaiSaiiaaaanaiflaiaiaaiiißiaacaaaiaaaaia
aBBBBBBBBBaaBaBBBBBBBBBaBBBBBBBBBBBBBaaiBBBak
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
aSSSMHaaHißaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaHaaßaanaauaaaaaa.
ißßißaaaa ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ aiaaaiaß*B« ■■■■■■■■■■■■*■■■■•
aaa
aißßßaaaaaai
isaaaaaaaaaae
laiiaaaaaaaaß
aaaaaaaaaa.
IaBBaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBaBBBBBBBBBB
IBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB'
(BBBBBBaaBBBBBBBBBB
iSßrsßsiiiimisisJn
■■■■■■■■■■■■■■a
aaaaaa'aaaaaaaar
BBBBaaBBBBIBaai
■ III!
mmmmw
::r:
gggr jßaaaaaaaasaaaaaaa aaa a a a* aaaaaaaßßaaaaa
.aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaai ’■■■■■■■■■■•■■
v *■■■■■■■■
aaßaaßaaaaaaaaaißaaataaaaaaa'
■•■■aaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa M *■*■■■■■
I
iaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaiaaaa
.aaaaaaßaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
aaaaaaaßaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaß
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaM
aaaaaaaaßaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaai
aaaaaal
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
:::
laaaaa
■aaaaa
aaaass
■aaaaa
BB«BBBBBBBB«BBaBBBBBBaB»« *■■■■■»■■
laaßaaaßßßiaaßßeaßaßaßßaaaMMßßaß
aaßaaaaaaaaaßaaaaaaßaaaaaaaaaaßaaa
aiaaßßaßaßaaaaaßßaaaißßaaaiaaaaaaa
Baaaßßaßßaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaßa
■■•aaaaaßßaaaaaaaaaaaa ■■aaaaaaaaaa
.aaaaaaaaiiaiaaaai
■■■■■BBBBBBBBBBIIIBB
•■a■■aaaaaaaßaaa■
■aaaaaaSaaaaaaaaa«99ilftif
■
The name “Wolseley” is seldom
seen in the lists of entrants to racing contests, for
the “Wolseley” Company has always considered that contests
between cars SPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR RACING give no reliable
criterion to aid that prospective car purchaser. The ‘ Wolseley Company preferred
to maintain the world-wide reputation of its cars for
efficiency and reliability upon a far more secure
foundation than its racing successes —the foundation of
sterling merit in service over a long period of years.
However, although this has been consistently the policy
of the “Wolseley” Company, it has always contended
that its STANDARD cars could perform on racing tracks
in a manner more than favorably comparable to the
specially-designed racing cars.
In order to prove this beyond doubt it was decided to
run a series of tests on Brooklands Track under official
observation.
A STANDARD
d
chassis, built entirely from stock chassis parts, was adapted
slightly to suit racing conditions. The alterations neces-
sary were few and very slight, and ALL THE MAIN
ESSENTIALS, constituting over 90 per cent, of the
chassis, remained quite unaltered.
the results of the two tests —during which 1 5 records were broken
Here are
BROOKLANDS, October 27, 1921.
1. 3 Hours (standing start). 78.30 miles per hour, Record.
2. 250 Miles (standing start). 78.07 miles per hour, Record.
BROOKLANDS, November 24, 1921.
3. 250 Miles. 31i. 2m. 54.925. 82.00 miles per hour, Record.
4 300 Miles. 3h. 38m. 4.95. 82.54 miles per hour, Record.
5 400 Miles. 4h. 50m. 43.995. 82.55 miles per hour, Record.
0 500 Miles. Oh. Gm. 46.375. 81.79 miles per hour, Record.
7 400 Kilom. 3h. lm. 54.145. 131.93 kilos per hour, Record.
8. 500 Kilom. 3h. 45m. 33.565. 133.00 kilos per hour, Record.
Right throughout the tests not the slightest mechanical trouble was
experienced, and at the completion of each event an exacting inspection
revealed the car in perfect condition —quite ready, in fact, for another
These achievements by a practically standard car bear eloquent testi-
mony to the efficiency of “Wolseley” design, the strength and sound-
ness of “Wolseley” construction and the excellence of “Wolseley
9. 600 Kilom. 4h. 31m. 43.255. 132.49 kilos per hour, Record.
10. 700 Kilom. sh. 16m. 57.285. 132.51 kilos per hour, Record.
11 800 Kilom. 6h. 4m. 45.165. 131.60 kilos per hour, Record.
12. 3 Hours. 245 miles 1501 yds. 81.95 miles per hour, Record.
13 4 Hours. 331 miles 480 yds. 82.82 miles per hour, Record.
14 5 Hours. 413 miles 278 yds. 82.64 miles per hour, Record.
15. 6 Hours. 490 miles 393 yds. 81.70 miles per hour, Record.
Although the car only ran for just over 6M hours, the
distance run was sufficient to give it the 7 Hours and 8 Hours
records also.
materials —high standards to which every “Wolseley” must conform
before it leaves the works. .
You will agree that the evidence given above merits your further
inquiry into the value of the “Wolseley.” Wp suggest then, that you
call on, ’phone or write the nearest representative, who will gladly
give you a demonstration and ’supply you with full information and
illustrated literature.
REPRESENTATIVES:
VICTORIA: DALGETY & CO., LTD., 664 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES: DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
H. C. RICHARDS, LTD.,
Richards’ Buildings, Currie Street.
Adelaide.
TASMANIA: TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LTD.,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: G. W. SPRAGG, Auckland; INGLIS
BROS., Wellington; TODD BROS., LTD.,
Christchurch; TODD BROS., Dunedin.
Wolseley Motors Pty., Limited,
Head Office for Australia:
125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd.)
Works: Adderley Park,
Birmingham,
ENGLAND.
m
o
C 3
m
9
a
a
o
The “TVolseley Ten/’ the car which with a
lew minor alterations established the fifteen
records mentioned above.
The “Wolseley
“Ten,”
“Fifteen”
and
“Twenty”
Models
are ready for
immediate
delivery.


’ Under
Royal
Warrant
sadf
Arioso
•WH 01
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck;
mmimm
sdf
CHAMPAGNE
OiarieslleidsiecK
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Wentworth Cafe
Whatever the joyous occasion you can celebrate it best at
the Wentworth. Cool and breezy on the hottest night, with
its gaiety, perfect dancing floor, band and cuisine, it provides
society with the perfect rendezvous. Dinner dances nightly.
TEA DANCES EVERY AFTERNOON.
’Phone, City 9931.
To Clean White Canvas
and Buckskin Boots or
Shoes Use
Easily
Applied
mmm
ouacim».UiivAs.BooTS,s
6 SHAKM rue BOTJL
Most
Economical
The Finest White on th<
Does Not Rub Off or
Clothes.
Market.
Soil the
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
Italy rolled up in family parties to the
ball in honor of the sailor men of the Libia.
Not even the baby was left at home. Here
and there amidst the night-haired beauties
a gold head gleamed, mostly accompanied
by brown eyes and warm coloring, bringing
a sudden vision of peaches ripening against
a wall in Tuscany. The tall Commander
Burzalgi and his officers moved among the
Consuls and such-like luminaries and talked
amiably in excellent English of our wonder-
ful country; and sun-tanned, lean blue-
jackets danced with pretty Miss Italia Aus-
tralia and thought that, after all, there was
a good deal to be said for this Million Farms
scheme. Captain Lubrano, who is steeped
in the settlement project, brought his hand-
some wife, who was made to look Carmen-
esque by a six-foot Spanish comb and a
heavily-einbroidered Spanish shawl. Count
Victor LaUi (and you can find all about
his family in the Roman Debrett) was sec-
retary of the function, and his young brother
brought his still-younger Countess—a blond
dressed in black satin and ninon. Another
black-clad one was Julie Caroli, who sang
an aria with great sweetness and expression.
The Consular Maranos and Grossardis came
early and stayed late; so did Dr. and Mrs.
Fiaschi, she in champagne-colored frocking.
With her was one who walked in silver lace
and tissue, suspended to a corsage as red
as a Garibaldi shirt. The green and red and
white of Italy’s flag were everywhere; a
stack of wine-bottles like a young mountain
was handy to the supper-rooms; and that
and the cascades of liquid conversation
broke the ice, and the affair went swim-
mingly.
Before the general reception to Italy’s
men-o’-war, the Commander and officers- —-
there are 28 of them—were entertained at
a dinner-dance at the Wentworth, their ho.s-
tesses being a group of ladies, Italian in
their own right or by marriage. Consul
Marano’s lady, the wife of Commander
Vitali, and Dr. Fiaschi’s little wife were
among the hostesses. Consul-General and
Mrs. Grossardi, from Melbourne, were among
the guests.
Farmer’s said their winter-season’s fore-
word the other day, and a notable feature of
the evening frocks was the little dab of
straight-out red or fuchsia tones that cropped
up in almost every one. Sometimes it was
the lining to the funny little snort of “Tain
that popped out in the most cocksure fashion
from a swathing of brocade. Or again it
might be ip a trail of tulle or ninon failin'’-
from the shoulder. Some of the models seem
to foreshadow the renaissance of the swathed
evening gown; and all are longer. One mass
of soft whiteness seemed fit wear for Niobe
—it suggested a cascade of pearly tears. But
the absolute knock-out was a gorgeous
ruby velvet evening gown draped in startling
simplicity. The Emnire Lounge must have
looked like it; but it'll stagger the palms in
the Winter Garden, and will probably raise
an alarm of bush-fire in the sheep-man from
Far West.
Princess Mary’s wedding-present from IT.
S. Wales is on the high seas—it’s a Streeton
painting of the harbor, and the artist got
his sweeping effects from a perch on the top
of Wyoming in Macquarie-street. It wasn’t
originally painted for the Royal gift; Street-
on did it with an eye on the Academy, and
it is actually on its way to that address.
There was wild excitement in a Dalley-street
studio the day it was being packed: every-
thing went wrong. Then Mrs. Streeton, with
some women friends, stepped in at the last
minute to see the big canvas. One of the
visitors looked at it fixedly through her
lorgnette for several minutes. Then: “Charm-
ing, Mr. Streeton. So full of atmosphere.
But don’t you think that dear little road is
running too steeply up hill?” Streeton took
one frenzied look, and collapsed on a packing
case. “That’s not a road,” he groaned; “it’s
a trail of smoke from a ferry.”
James Burns, head of the shipping firm,
is making his arrangements for a rest and a
trip to Europe. Though now half-way along
the seventies the kindly, upright master of
Gowan Brae has known very little of ill-
health until lately; and for perhaps the
first time in his life he has confessed that
he is very tired.
The Gibbs couple are shutting up thjir
Manar flat in Macleay-street and leaving
the gorgeous harbor view behind to face the
open sea and Europe. The Narkunda takes
them away on March 7. In Paris they
will link up with clever musical daughter
Margaret, and on their return will be accom-
panied by Mrs. Gordon Coates, the wife of
Maoriland’s Postmaster-General and sister
to Mrs. Gibbs. A long illness following on
a serious operation made the voyage neces-
sary for Mrs. Gibbs.
The indomitable Miss Preston-Stanley
(does anybody know her by her Christian
name?) has roiled up her sleeves for the big
push which all the Feminists and the Women
Masons hope will land her top of the poll
as Nationalist member for the eastern divi-
sion of Sydney. The lady does not at all
resemble the mental picture one has of the
woman public-speaker. She is very rounded,
has a plump face with a fresh color, a
sparkling eye and a mass of crisp, dark hair.
Though mostly dressed in coat frocks or
tailor-mades, occasionally she ascends to sar-
torial heights. Once she was seen in a
black ostrich-feather toque and a dress that
had been dyed in the hearts of purple pan-
sies—the effect was ripping. Gladys Teece
housed a tea-party the other afternoon to
introduce the busy lady to Point Piper’s
Naicest; and all Wolseley-road applauded
silkily when Ruby Rich introduced her poli-
tical friend in a garland of flowery words.
Ruby also had a word or two to say about
the woman who stays at home on election
day. Only, remembering she was a perfect
lady, she didn’t say exactly what she thought
of them.
In Sydney for a few crowded days—
mostly spent between the Randwick Hos-
pital and the Repatriation Department —is
Mrs. Foster, of Westralia. She it was who
first hit upon the notion of scholarships for
soldiers’ children, and she had a flourishing
Westralian scheme in operation long before
the effete East moved. In Perth, where she
abides, she is honorary sec. of the Scholar-
ship Trust and the Friendly Union of Sol-
diers’ Wives, is a fluent speaker on social
questions and a writer of articles and para-
graphs whose “copy” is in demand. Her
husband was one of the 59,000 Aussies whom
age shall not weary nor the years condemn.
Mrs. Ellen Maloney, widow of Dr. Patrick
Maloney and daughter of a wealthy old
colonist, James Quirk, of Carlton House, Mel-
bourne, is visiting Australia after some years
in the Cold Country. Dr. Pat was the first
Victorian native to be a student in the
Medical School at Melbourne ’Varsity, and
the first Victorian medical man whose train-
ing had been entirely Australian. Also he
wrote sonnets and technical papers and lec-
tured on health subjects. Pie died in Eng-
land some years ago*. Mrs. Maloney is now
visiting relations in Macleay-street, Sydney.
The Gentle Anthologist is dead. No more
will the stairway to his room be worn by
the tread of artist
and poet in the
making. Quietly,
without fuss of ill-
ness or loud
alarums, Bertram
Stevens solved the
great mystery one
day last week in his
L i n dfi e 1 d home.
Now artistic an d
literary Sydney is
busy trying to
smooth the way of
his widow and
young sons by gath-
ering in some of the
money Bertram
couldn’t save, being
always too busy
helping the other
fellow. The great money-spinner will be an
exhibition in the Education Gallety of
paintings and etchings by leading Austra-
lian artists. Canvases are arriving from
all the States, and the sales are expected
to eclipse even those at the Julian Ashton
complimentary exhibition. The Repertory
Society, for whose establishment Bertram
worked hard, has, through Gregan McMahon,
promised two performances; and a subscrip-
tion list has been opened, of which Charles
Lloyd Jones is treasurer.
The Stevens collection of books is unique,
containing many first editions and manu-
scripts which, no doubt, the Mitchell or
Municipal Library will secure. But his big
life-work —he started on it 12 years ago—
is “A History of Australian .Literature.”
The author expected to have it ready for
publication this year—in fact, the final
chapter is already roughed out. A friend
who has seen the MS. describes it as a
living altar-flame to Australian Letters.
This photo of the stragglers’ friend was
made by May Moore.
Dr. Cyril Fallon, who is some sort of a
candidate in Sydney Eastern Suburbs, had
a brilliant scholastic career, even if his
chances at the poll are not exactly blazing.
An old St. Mary’s boy, he won the Cardinal’s
scholarship which took him to. Hunter’s Hill,
then won another scholarship which took
him through the Arts course. Then he taught
and coached until he saved enough to go
through Medicine, which he did, taking
honors nearly every time he sat. His wife
was Millie Hunt, whose father was “Flaneur,
of Freeman’s.
Graceful Dagmar Thomson, who has been
a teacher on the Conservatorium staff for
three years and was one of the very first
to draw bow across fiddle in the State
Orchestra, is off to Europe early next month.
Before she goes she; farewells Sydney with
her mellow violin at the Conservatorium. on
March 6. Dagmar’s friends, Iris de Cairos
Rego, Arthur Appleby and tall Bindley
Evans, lend support to the star of the even-
ing. This is the Mosman girl’s .first jaunt
abroad to seek culture —her training, so far,
has been all Australian.
Last week there was a gathering of wigs
to congratulate the new Mr. Justice I’ike.
who, as the presi-
dent of a new Land
Appeal Court, has
the status of a Su-
preme Court Judge
which a learned pre-
sident of the old
Land Appeal Court
fought for and was
refused. The new
Judge, like so many
other men who have
had brilliant aca-
demic careers, had a
schoolmaster for a
father: perhaps
passing exams, comes
natural to those
boys, like milking
does to the cow-
cocky’s. At any
rate, after he had decided to be a surveyor,
the son of the Hobart pedagogue went on
taking exams., and that’s how he came to
be a lawyer. But, though he has always
practised most in the dreary jurisdiction of
land courts and the like, he never ceased
to be a merry, genial soul, and it will take
more than a Judge’s wig to squeeze the
warm human nature out of him. The photo
is one of May Moore’s.
Thea Proctor is hack in Sydney and look-
ing for a studio. At present she’s staying
at yaucluse, and if you come across an
adorable vision in yellow or mauve organdi
muslin on the Watson’s Bay boat whose
pink and white face is haloed in hair that
looks like the powdered locks of a French
marquise, you’ll have met the lady.
What girl or boy of 10 years ago in
Christchurch didn’t know Professor Bicker-
ton and the scientific and other charms of
Luna Park? Last month the tireless scien-
tist celebrated his 80th birthday in London
at the Hyde Park home of two of his old
students, Mr. and Mrs. F. A. Hornibrook,
Maoriland’s High Commissioner, James
Allen, was present to congratulate the
veteran, and Professor Ernest Rutherford
sent a long letter of appreciation and con-
gratulation ; and Jas. B. Baillie, of the Bank
of New Zealand, was one of those who led
the applause after Mrs. Hornibrook _ and
James Allen had expressed the good wishes
of everybody present and handed the Pro-
fessor a well-filled wallet. The fine-headed
scientist, young at 80, finished up his speech
of thanks by informing the gathering that
he is now raising a printing and publishing
fund to bring out an up-to-date edition of
his books and papers, and that one Maori-
lander had cabled him £lOO to head the list.
Ivimo Flats, in Phillip-street, seem to lure
the people of the theatre. Ella Shields
perches there before winging on to Maori-
land. Ella doesn’t go about her flat dressed
in irreproachable tailorings; she doesn’t even
favor the togs of the land girl and a bobbed
head. She sandwiched a party between
shows the other afternoon, and the dress she
wore spelled Paris all over its slinky black
satin and heavyweight of fringe. She also
flashed a gorgeous diamond or two, and who
wouldn’t if she was booked right through to
the end of 1928? Off stage her principal
characteristic is slimness. Even her head
seems describable by that word; the hair on
it is fair and worn straight back and finished
off in a Psyche knot. She wasn’t the whole
party. Handsome Kitty Barlow, who might
be a piano-mover if she weren’t a piano-
player, wore a charming .Tunoesque fitting of
black and white. The Brooke-Cahill com-
bination dovetailed neatly into the scheme
as jazz partners; some adoring flappers
dropped in on their way home from the Con-
servatorium. There were men in the pro-
fession ; and men in expensive ties and socks.
The tea-tables wore towering pink gladioli,
five sorts of sandwiches, six brands of cake,
two colors in ices. A beautiful party, and
nobody stirred till the last possible minute.
There’s one taxi man in town torn be-
tween two stars. He was engaged to keep tryst
with Ella Shields every afternoon of her sea-
son. The other day she was ill and sent word
not to bother calling: and who should be
the driver’s substitute fare but Melba? “Can
you call for me every afternoon?” cooed the
Voice. But the taxi man. though flattered,
remained true. Regretfully he shook his
head. “Can’t be done, Madame.” he sighed.
“You see I’ve got a date with Miss Shields
every afternoon.” The Dame twinkled. “Oh
but she s sweet. I wouldn’t dream of takiiw
you from her. Give her my love, and sav
I m hurt she hasn’t been to see me.” These
are the little wavs of greatness; or, perlians.
the little ways that make greatness.
Sparkling-voiced Jean Drummond, of the
.North Shore line, is going to pour out her
jewel-casket of trills and arias for the
benefit of Tivoli audiences in scenes from
opera, costumed against an appropriate set-
ting. Her conspirator will be Sidoni, t! >
tenor, whose top notes for the past’ few
months have been ringing through the valleys
of Innisfail, where the enterprising world-
tenor-to-be has been cutting sugar-cane and
saving the money to invest in further train-
ing. Jean, who is pretty and fair and would
win an ankle competition all the world
around and back again, has 12 years’ Ger-
man and Italian polish on her vocal diamonds
and pearls.
Clifford Lathlean, the young man from
Adelaide who is so good-looking that vdien
lie sings love songs he could be arrested
under the Male Vampire Act, has joined the
staf of the Conservatorium as associate-
teacher with Roland Foster. The Roland
Foster couple, by the way, prove there’s more
than bread and butter in teaching the vocal
art. Two years ago they voyaged to Europe;
now they have bdutfliit a treasure of a house
in Double Bay. Itjjfe the former home of the
J. L. Keeps.
April 1(1 is the date reserved this year for
St. > mount's Ball ; and Dr. Langloh John-
ston, as usual, is paying the rent of the
Town Ilall. The other morning at the pre-
liminary meeting at the hospital the Hughes
lady took the chair, as the mayoral lady is
away mountaineering with her husband. Mrs.
George Flannery and Mrs. Purcell are going
to wear out their fountain-pens as secre-
taries; and Mrs. Clarence Bridge and Mrs.
Calahan are told off for duty on the cash-
register.
Those Vagabonds are still treasure-hunt-
ing in the interests of the Renwick baby.
“Captain X,” by Edward Swears, is their
next bright offering to Sydney audiences.
The comedy makes its first Australian ap-
pearance on March 4 at St. James’s.
The Coogee hero, Jack Chalmers, is suffer-
ing the penalty of greatness. The other
day George Fitzpatrick, who is master
of the Sydney Hospital’s money hunt, roped
in the smiling young man, his wife and the
small son, for an afternoon-party at the Carl-
ton in aid of the hospital’s new Nurses’
Home. The afternoon was a light mixture
of music and cards, and the proceeds went
towards the room iD the home to be •chris-
tened “Chalmers” in honor of the fearless
one. The now-recovered George Black was
on duty to thank the ladies responsible for
the arrangements and to present the com-
petition prizes. The inevitable hat being
passed around, Mrs. Hugh D. Mclntosh
dropped in a fiver, and the afternoon’s tak-
ings should amount to £6O.
Are you going to help make Mrs. Alphen’s
final jumble sale the triumphant success this
soldiers’ friend wants it to be? Proceeds this
time are for the Warriors’ Fund Campaign
and the Ilavilah Home. For nine yetirs the
lady with the beaming smile has labored
without a break, and next month she sails
for England for a well-earned holiday. The
Flag Book in the Mitchell Library will be
a banner to her memory as long as Australia
is a nation. I’creels for the jumble should
be addressed 291 Cleveland-street, Redfern.
A Brisbane' postscript:—
Peter Herdsman, who joined the Railway Depart-
ment as a member of the Chief Engineer’s staff
far back in 1804, and who helped to lay out the
line to Toowoomba, died suddenly last week. He
had reached his 83rd year.
H. G. Milner, who has been “doing” China, Japan
and thereabouts with brother-in-law Northcliffe, is
back again. In May he will leave for London via
America to visit the big man and the scenes of
his childhood. Maybe the big man will cross the
Atlantic to meet him.
Beatrice Grimshav 7 passed through on the Rogge-
veen last week bound for Java era route to England.
She is going to make arrangements for the publica-
tion of some novels, and then will hurry back to her
beloved Papua.
After a blank of four months. H. M. Theatre
opened with Isobel Brosnan in “Paddy, the Next
Best Thing.” The houses have been good all the
week.
In Rockhampton Marion Donaldson, the pretty
daughter of the Donaldsons, of Medway, was married
to George Kavanagh, of Vandyke station. Stella
Donaldson was bridesmaid, and Eric Donaldson was
best man.
G. Page Hanify, the only Labor nominee who
fought for the retention of the Leg. Council, of
which he was a member, has died suddenly 7 at Miles.
He was a Victorian by birth, and, that rare bird
among Northern Laborites-, a prominent Freemason.
Dr. Spencer Roberts, of Stanthorpe, brother of
member Cecil Roberts, was married in Toowoomba
a few days back to Laura Heness, daughter of sta-
tionman Francis Heness. Kathleen White (Stan-
thorpe) and Violet Heness were bridesmaids, and
Loftus Cuppaidge and Douglas Eden understudied
the ’groom.


Murdoch’s Famous
“Armourite” Boots
Give Double Life.
HE Secret is in the Leather!
Most wear-proof Soles are surface treated;
Murdoch’s “ARMOURITE” Soles are subjected to
a special process during the tanning, so that the
wear-resisting qualities are tanned through and
through the leather. The treatment does not
affect the natural resiliency of the leather.
Added to all this —the perfect anatomical con-
struction and carefully-graded sizes ensure true
foot comfort.
YET THE PRICE IS
ONLY
301-
Men’s Box Calf Derby Boots, also in Tan Willow Hide,
made from specially selected leather, with medium round
toes, with or without toecaps. “ARMOUItITE” welted
soles.
Also in Box Calf Derby with the popular American
raised toe- —same price.
“Armourite” Footwear is made expressly for Murdoch’s.
If you are unable to call, write to DESK T*
We uay the postage.
MURDOCH’S
In Park St. Ltd., Sydney.
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’Wear Store.”
df
d
lOin. Silver Salver, £3O.
Best-quality Silver Plate,
£B.
Silver Candlesticks, in Case,
£lO/10/-
Silver Inkstand, in case,
£35.
Presentation Silver
The articles illustrated are of the Highest Quality,
and offer the Best Value Obtainable. A com-
parison of price and value is invited before
purchase. Selections will be forwarded on approval
at the Firm’s risk.
Wim. Brummonb & Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
You Get More from Life
with "His Master's Voice’
imm i n mm
■
n uttii ii
&
m
*
I
»
■IV WWW
H
mlm
ItlWi
I
M
H
iillTll' j JIiIBUU:
w
YOU need this modern marvel, which makes
instantly available to you at any hour or place
the world’s best music, to help you get the
most from life.
Whatever your mood, “His Master’s Voice’’ can
provide music to match it —operatic arias that
soothe and satisfy, merry tunes that cheer and
enliven.
Choose the instrument which the foremost artists
of this generation have acknowledged to be
supreme by electing to make records for it
exclusively—“ His Master’s Voice.
Write to-day for instrument
catalogues, lists of records
and name of nearest
accredited dealer.
, “Gramophone ”
Read. Trade-marie.
The Gramophone Co., Ivtd.
163 Pitt Street Sydney.
“Ills Master’s Voice”
Read. Trade-mark.
mrmrnn
"HIS MASTERS VOICE”


Learn to Draw
‘There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
W
M
The
above is
the title
of our book-
-1 e t, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing—
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARRY J. WES-
TON, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COP v and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
successful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet —
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
113 Union House, Ceorge Street, SYDNEY.
ď
The
Santwill
WORK SHIRT
Sand in color. Twill in qualilf
The
* SANTWTLL " is
without doubt the
Toughest Work Shirt
vet introduced at its
r
pPrice. Not only sturdy
in quality, but sturdy in
color as well. The Sand color defeats the efforts
of dust and giime, and looks Clean and Present-
able all the time. Also in White—same price /
I. 1* %V C || \|iuks *n Strongly Sown. ll»0 Button* arc
the .WouHurc of Cloth mo Liberal. thni Conn
> hern onioned ! In -It uno flndn Brood,
nifort, Perfect Kitting Sleeve*, and Plenty
8/6
New Low-Level Price
each cr three for
24/-
No Skimping ! Non-gaping f
Bullous Sewn on to Slay!
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Carna&t Paid
BRISBANE
100*00Ml*
YOWNIV'LI#
lAUNDRENA
’ Ibe Dainfy Wo mans Tavott r i(c Sf a rcl i
Ideal for delicate fabrics,
fine linens and lingerie.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE &C?L T ? SYDNEY.
If you are
languid and
weary, you
need a light
stimulant,
such as
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
which has a sure
yet gentle action
on the Kidneys
and Bladder.
It is as good for
women as for men
and is the purest
of all drinks.
Obtainable in
LARGE AND SMALL
BOTTLES
đf
The “Western Hero ’
Texas Saddle.
This is a very attractive saddle
neatly ornamented with basket or
checker-board stamping on head
and cantle as well as skirts and
fenders. It has full seat in one
piece of stout solid leather and the skirts
are round. The cinchas have saves under
rings, and the stirrups are wood. Iron
Texas stirrups will be provided if preferred.
£lB
Freight Free to any Station on
the N.S.W. Railways.
We also have the “Texas Ranger,” a
Plain Cowboy Saddle at £l2/15/-
WRITE FOR OUR FINE CATALOGUE,
SHOWING SEVERAL OTHER STYLES IN
TEXAS SADDLES, SPURS', etc., AND A BIG
RANGE OF HIGH-GRADE AUSTRALIAN
SADDLES.
WE SPECIALISE IN POLO AND TROTTING GOODS.
WALTHER & STEVENSON Ltd.
Saddlers, 395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
. ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
For Sale.
Rabbit Packing and Canning Factory for
Sale at Coonamble.
FOE SALE: —Rabbit Canning and Packing Factory,
Workmen’s Barracks and 20 acres of Land situ-
ated on the Castlereagh River at Coonamble.
The Factory, which is practically new, is strongly
built of wood and iron with an iron roof, consists of
Skinning Room, Cutting-up Room, Process Room,
Packing Room, Two Chilling Rooms, Engine Room,
Large Receiving Verandah and Office.
Machinery and Plant consist of 1 Loco. Type
Boiler, with Copper Firebox and Brass Tubes, evapo-
rating 30001 b. per hour, 1 Robey Horizontal Engine
10 x 14 x 130 revs., 1 Tangye Vertical Engine
6| x 74 x 210 revs., 1 Linde Refrigerator Machine
6~x 9 x 125 revs., 6 tons complete with Condensor,
1 Weir Feed Pump, 1 Geared Pump, Brine Circula-
tion 60 gallons per minute, 1 Fairbanks-Morse Power
Pump—capacity 60 gallons per minute, 1 Dynamo for
lighting works, Large Storage Tank 3000 Gallons,
1 Six-headed Capper, 3 Retorts, 1 Lacquering Machine,
Plunge Filler, Scalds. Pickling Vats, Joker Pot,
Scales, and all necessary machinery and tools for
carrying on Rabbit Canning and Packing Industry.
The Office contains the necessary Office Furniture,
including Milner Safe.
The Workmen’s Barracks contain sleeping and cook-
ing accommodation for about 20 men.
The above property, with slight alteration, could
be used as a Butter Factory.
For further information applv to
Messrs. F. J. WALKER, LTD.,
Box 2628, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
r
Os
o
(
a
%
LUA f C Z
m
a
*
m
\
DR lb
Cs
f "REX” 1
Luncheon Cheese
Is Nutritious
and Appetizing
A taste for Luncheon Cheese
denotes an L.L.D. in Cheese
Education —the lover of “Rex”
Luncheon Cheese is invariably
a judge of good Cheese.
He eats it liberally for he
knows it is rich in nutritive
properties and that, apart from
its good value, it is such a won-
derful aid to good digestion.
So you, too, should insist upon
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese —as a
table delicacy or as a Sandwich
spread for Lunches, Picnics, or
any occasion where “something
different” in Sandwiches
is sought after.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F.J. 133
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
.Vo notice (except of a hostile character) trill be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. trill be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Fou: On the contrary, this paper loathes
drunkenness, and its quarrel with the prohibitionist
is that, as the U.S. experience shows, he makes drunk-
ards. It would so regulate the liquor traffic that
the frowsy drinking dens, which do nine-tenths of
the damage, would be abolished, while leaving no
opening or excuse for bootleg artists and other ven-
dors of poisonous sly-grog.... Misima: The address
of the acting-sec. of the proposed New Guinea
Society is Box 1082, G.P.0., Melb. He is still
waiting to hear from people interested.... Platman:
But Airey didn’t suggest anything of the sort. His
point was that there had been no settlement to
take the place of the shrinkage in the mining districts.
....Staff Corp: You don’t prove anything except
that the original statement was right... .J.G.: You
write on a layman’s knowledge of two cases, “Mac-
quarie Street” on an old professional man’s handling
of probably two thousand. .. .Q.E.D.: We have buried
S'hakspeare, Do Vere and Bacon in the one grave,
and they must finish the fight there. Frankly, The
Bulletin isn’t much concerned whether Shakspeare
was Shakspeare or merely somebody who called him-
self Shakspeare. ... Mcßee: Can’t return unaccepted
pars... .0.F.H.: Not a gleam in it; and your ear
wants tuning. ... Wimple: But that’s not quite right
I—Laseelles 1 —Laseelles won’t “take the lady off the nation’s
hands.” Princess Mary started to draw £6OOO a
year when she reached 21, and this payment will
continue after her marriage... .W2TLQ: Not much
literary merit; and it’s a very tired rhyming scheme
you’ve got hold 0f... .W.C.T.: Too slight....
Michael F.: “Riddles” not for u 5.... Will J.: Doesn’t
get near.... XYZ: The verse is about as brilliant
as the choice of initials would suggest... .Lance N.:
Even 14 years of age can hardly excuse it. ...Tren:
He’s not interesting enough.... Normin N.: Get a
better idea of metre by reading good verse. .. .F.M.C.:
Bit too crude.... A.N. (Dingo) : Sorry, but the verses
are not remarkable for a boy of any age... .G.G.W.:
It wants something besides the bugle calls to carry
it... .N.R.Y.: “The Mourners” doesn’t quite do it.
.. . . A.H.N.: Too slight. . . .H.M.A.: Doesn’t get near.
.. . .W.F. (Surry Hills) ; Not enough there. .. .L.L.
(Burwood) ; “The Catch” doesn’t strike us. .. .Paddy:
Too slight."... .M.G. (Bendigo): Far too rugged....
W.L.H.: None of them get to anything....
R.E.T.: Don’t know where you can place the tales.
. ...W.M.W.: It doesn’t say anything except the very
obvious. .. .Cactus: “The Mudlark” sings too much
commonplace. ... Ethel W.: “Gunyah-Gunyah” hasn’t
much lift, and the refrain is rather irritating....
A.H.M.: Not enough thought and too little skill.
. ...J.J.8.: Don’t like it.... Jack K.: It’s simply a
mass of jingling words... .T.E.J.: The often-worked
ideas wanted better workmanship to carry them.
.... Edwin W.: A yarn can be old without being
consciously stolen; in fact, most yarns are....K.G.
(ICimbolton) : Misses.... Rock M.: Try to get some-
thing to say. They’re all bright and all miss....
Oliver B.: “Are We Britishers?” should stir every
heart: —•
Is it true, true that we, us few',
In our country are really free?
Did I hear you say that someone knew
That they’re going to put the screw on the likes
of we ?
It makes one feel awfully sour, this tax, tax.
There’s only a link left not worn through ;
They may as well take the axe, the axe—
Take the lot w’ithout more ado.
Are they never going to stop squeezing the juice?
Or stop till a man gets a little on top?
Or to lock the chain so he’ll never be loose?
Australia, Australia, is that our lot ?
....Camp-fire: None of them have enough interest.
. ...D.A.M.: It isn’t worth all that space to say
that tw T o attempts at sawmilling have failed at the
Wye River.... .W.E.8.: “Manners” is a poor yarn.
. ...T.H.K.: Not enough in “Hospital Inter-
lude”. .. .M.T.0.: Sorry, but hot up. .. .T. 5.0.:
Can’t find anything remarkable in the letter. He
might be able to write if he took it seriously....
E.P. J.: Not what we want, but you have the mak-
ings of an unusual bit of melodrama.... Henry A.:
It has every fault verse could have....H.W. (Ips-
wich) : Not for us. ... J.G.D.: Weak little flutter. .. .
Fen W.: Your “Pearl” has too many flaws....
Yaysee: Not well enough done.... Jack E.: Nothing
in it. .. .N.J.W.: Half the quotations are wrong, and
the w'hole thing is heavy and clumsy Profanum
V.: Poor stuff U.M.K.W.: Yarn misses
R.L.A.: Verse so rough that we’re using it for a
currycomb A.D. (Enfield): Goes very heavily.
G.I.C. (or 0. or D.) : Well, we’ll say this for you—
you are sometimes merciful enough to be undecipher-
able.... Bellerive: That’s the style:—-
A greasy candle did flutter, and a tattered old blind
Through a hole in the window did sway to the wind.
Upon the mouldy ceiling big spider-webs hung,
And bugs by galore to the crusty walls clung.
I’m no believer in spooks ; but the truth I declare —
I heard moans on the stairs, which bristled my hair.
I aroused the landlord, w'ho did fiercely growl.
“Haunted? You’re mad! You’re a bally owl!
The moans that you heard,” did add the old tough,
“Were the harmless sobs of Murphy’s bull pup.”
....The Tamer: It’s the sort of thing that could be
turned into a first-rate Abo. par ; but it doesn’t make
a story.... Wee B.: Ditto to your “Whiteman”
Jim G.: Use the pick and shovel a bit more on
“Tracks” Ed. W.: That bunny has been served up
already 1.R.M.: There’s a false rhyme in “Win-
dow” that the office snob finds some difficulty in
patching. So we leave it to you Tavanui: Gone
to the bottomless pit Rebus: A little more snap,
and your stockman would have ridden through
L.G. (Cape Town) : Thanks, but the progress of
aviation in S’Afriea is only faintly interesting to
Australians T.P.O’C.: In short, you suggested that
Theodore should enter Federal politics and nobody
inspired you. The earth may now roll on
A.J.A.: The young warrior’s remark was not original.
Gunner: Write those better ones first
F.C.8.: Hardly worth it Jimmy J.: Jew and
nigger yarns painfully ancient. .. .X.Y.: Impossible
to sub-edit such closely-typed copy... .F.T.D.:
Thanks; but illustrations of tombstones are out of
The Bulletin’s line... .Nitric: Both have an un-
pleasant odor, and not from age only M. D.
Shack: Not half so exciting as a thousand other
people could write about their adventures in Mac-
qua rie-street.
TO ARTISTIC (4ND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.S.K.: Below par Reg: It is worth—nothing.
K.F.: Compare the lady’s feet with her upper
storeys J.W.: Very amateurish yet... .R.8.G.:
Sketch weak and gag 01d... .W.E.T.: Black-and-
white at its worst... .C.H.: Not yet... .C.H.8.: Sup-
plies its own criticism.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. CaMnes-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 424 G,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MARCH 8, 1922,
SONOMA.
10,01)0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK~
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 799,243 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . .. .. 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,069 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart,
Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney : E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E., Chairman;
George J.Sly, LL.D., Frank N. Yarwood, F.O.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Dbncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Coiner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street),
Manager: R. T. Moodiu.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. . . .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transact: ell other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. •• £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. • • 620,000
£1.245,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . ■ 625.000
£1,870,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 89 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: .11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the -world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St, Sydney
ProvidcntSociety
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336.402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. ..£44,000,000
Annual Income £6,375.000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
fl. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
Shipping, (to.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, 16th MARCH, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 20th APRIL.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Fran cisco, via Wellington (N l).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara l'alls, etc.
SAILINGS :
M ARAM A, 7th MARCH, from Wellington.
TAHITI, 6th APRIL, from Sydney.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP C 0„ UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM SIHEEr. MELBOURNE.
sdf
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3£ TO 4 k WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH
Established 18X7.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
sdf
- £5,000,000
- 3,500,000
5,000,000
£13,500,000
Directors;
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
)!oi>prt T.. .Enithfiill. Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Ealkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buck land. Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager : Oscar Lines.
Head Office George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Ao-ents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up .. £2,909,025
Reserve Fund .. £2,360,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,269,025
d
Directors :
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman,
lion. Henry Hoses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
and agents and correspondents throughout the world
Hotel KosciusKo.
Winter Sports in Australia.
In order to meet as far as possible the hitherto unsatisfied demand for accommodation '
at the Hotel Kosciusko in the Winter Season, arrangements have been made to reserve
certain rooms for parties of gentlemen or parties of ladies from four to ten in number.
Large Bed-sitting Rooms with cheerful open fireplaces have been furnished at considerable
outlay in order to meet the requirements of such parties.
Comfort is guaranteed, and anyone interested is recommended to apply for full
particulars of bookings for the coming winter season to the Manager, Hotel Kosciusko,
or the Acting-Director, Government Tourist Bureau.
Special concessions on ordinary rates for travel and accommo-
dation are offered in the case of parties of six or more.
FULL PARTICULARS AND BOOKING AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Caile
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Qervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports,
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s Line,
61 Pitt Street.
Melbourne S.S.
Co., Ltd.,
Clarence and
Barrack Sts.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s Line
61 Pitt Street.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
Huddart, Parker.
Ltd., 10 Bridge St.
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 360 George
Street.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith.
Ltd., 350 George
Street.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
Huddart Parker L|m
Magnifioent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full nnrticulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting,
S.S. PULGANBAII SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m.; pasnenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. OHARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Througli Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
T>,lhlished London. Prices outside
bookseller be fixed by the im Porting
Palace of Minos at Knossos.
By Sir ARTHUR EVANS, D.Litt.,
H.R.S., etc. Vol I.—The Neolithic
w-l t£ ll Minoan Ages.
With 542 Figures in the Text, Plans,
lables, Colored aiul Supplementary
Plates, £6 6s. net.
Macmillan’s
Empire Library.
HUGH WALPOLE’S NEAV NOVEL.
674 The Young Enchanted. J
ocvr T,” tl( V Story - By HUGH AVAL
untidv short-sighted, adventurous
’« Henry Trei >Chard, is a charmiiif
creation. —Spectator.
676. Vera. By the Author of “Eliza
betn and Her German Garden.” etc
os.
a triumph ‘Vera’ achieves i
S 1 ’ Poltfn f lt: , effect - B without an
question one of the most successful attempt
at the macabre in English.”— New Statesman
RUDY A III) KIPLING’S WORKS.
DOMINIONS EDITION. 18 volumes
6s. net per volume.
UIHFORM EDITION. 22 volumes
is. bd. net per volume.
POCKET EDITION. 23 volumes
printed on thin paper, with gilt edges
Limp leather, 7s. 6d. net; blue clotl
bs. net per volume.
HIE SERVICE KIPLING, 26 volumes
Blue cloth, 3s. net each.
The History of Hainan Marriage.
By EDWARD WESTERMARCK.
Ph D.; Hon. LL.Dc Martin White,
Professor of Sociology in the Univer-
sity of London. Fifth Edition, Re-
written. Three Vols. £4 4s. net.
The Meeting of Extremes in
temporary Philosophy. Bv
nard bosanquet, m.a.
D.C.L. Bs. 6di net.
Con-
EER-
LL.D.,
The Times.— “ Written with a delightful ea
and freshness, the argument is continuous, t
inteiest is sustained from start to finish, and
gives the reader the feeling of being actual
present at a brilliant dialectical discussi
between intellectual champions.”
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonivealth
ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum, post
free to any address within the Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS' FOR DECEMBER.
THE WASHINGTON CONFERENCE.
The Standpoint of Japan.
The #Case of China.
IRELAND
CURRENCY AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE
PROBLEMS.
THE AFTERMATH OF VICTORY:—
Europe To-day—Upper Silesia—Repara-
tions—An Alternative Policy.
AMERICA AND THE CONFERENCE.
Also Articles frc\m “Australia“ New Zealand,”
‘United Kingdom,” “South Africa” am “India’.”
NEW EDITION OF
W. & A. K. JOHNSTON’S
Navy League Map of the World.
Strikingly and clearly lithographed in
colors, showing the latest Political
Boundaries, Mandate Territories, Rail-
ways, Sea Routes, Coaling Stations,
Docks, Cables, etc. Tables give the
principal naval events of British his-
tory of the Great War, distances by
sea and British Shipping Companies.
Size 72 tby 63 inches. £2 2s. net,
mounted*' on cloth rollers and var-
nished.
To be iObtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN gCO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
“Better than Tatts.”
£4OOO for ll-
£looo
Katoomba Thousand
No. 2.
£lOOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 192 2
Gigantic Art Union
in aid of
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ANZAC MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Blue Mountains A. H. 8 1. Society’s Show
Ground Improvement Fuad,
and Katoomba Soldiers’ Memorial Hall.
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General.
£lOOO First Prize £lOOO
£5OO Second Prize £5OO
£250 Third Prize £250
Total Prizes £4OOO.
Winning Numbers published all States,
September 16 th, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS l/-Only
By Post, 1/2. Three or more Post Free.
FIVE TICKETS FOR 5/.
Each Ticket has 24-1 Chances,
and can possibly win £4OOO.
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope
for result slip.
Ticke's obtainable from N --.W. Bookstall Co.
(all branches), also Hairdressers and Tobac-
conists in City, Suburbs and Country.
EDGAR BOOTH, Hon, Secretory,
Cadzow, Warrega-street, Katoomba. N.S.W.
V
£
4
&
Championship
Calibre
Championship calibre goes be-
yond national boundaries; cham-
pionship calibre brings interna-
tional fame.
Tennis is an international sport.
Players like Brookes,. Anderson
and Patterson are just as famous in
America as Tilden and Johnston
are in Australia and New Zealand.
Shaving is an international nuis-
ance, but it can be made less of a
nuisance with Mennen Shaving
Cream. Mennen enjoys interna-
tional fame because it works just
as well with hard water as with
soft, with cold water or with hot.
Let me ask you, “Would Men-
nen Shaving Cream enjoy inter-
national fame if it did not check
up with championship calibrfe?”
The test is in the tube.
(Mennen Salesman )
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO., LTD.
249 Gecrge Street 102 Willis Street
Sydney Wellington
Missing: Friends.
NYONE knowing the whereabouts of
Jr. ll THOMAS WALTER SAMPSON,
please communicate with F. SAMPSON,
Wallaroo Mines, South Australia.
JANE PlKE.—Would Mrs. Jane Pike,
formerly of Greenfield, Holywell, North
Wales, a sister of Martha Price, deceased,
or any of her relatives or persons knowing
her whereabouts, please communicate with
CUTIIBERT MORROW & MUST,
Solicitors, Ballarat, Victoria.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
S
We carry the finest range in Australia
Kindly send your Gun License
when ordering.
sdfsd
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2ilb
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/3 ; other States, 2/2.)
26
fs
Simple and extra strong in construction.’’
810. Winchester Single-shV>t Kiile, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 374 in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
winch will not tarnish; weight, about 41b __ .
Freight Paid. 57/0
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
dfs
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Riffs, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight 33/“
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/S.)
df
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and poiver.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 High Power calibre, 6
shot, 20in. round tapered barrel, take down, weight Gill)., muzzle velocity,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; freight
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
sdf
“Shoots ivith guaranteed accuracy."
LJI 3. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 10-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action. I'andles -2
Short, long, or long rifle cartridges.; weight, •
£.6/6/
d
“A cheap and reliable weapon .”
B 2 Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, 8.F.,
round barrel. 20in., cbambered for long rifle cart-
rid°es, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
45/-
TSS
W:
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight Sill) /
Freight paid, SLV/IW/-
MYRROHI
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay ; sweetens
the breath, and checks dreaded Pyorrhoea. An Ideal Dentifrice for Smokers.
Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
ďf
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Carrel Freight paid, £B/15/-
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £9/10/-
1310. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 11802 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or'half magazine. /| y ,
20in. round barrel, weight about sJlb Freight paid, 3**l* * / U
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
BC
immons
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 H A YMARKET, j SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St, NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St,' BRISBANE.


Rexona Soap for
Health and Beauty.
■
MISS MERYL VANE (/row a photo ).
Miss Meryl Vane is one of the
most beautiful of the bevy of
Famous Rexona Girls. Why not
be a Rexona Girl too! To be a
Rexona Girl is to use only Rexona
and Rexona Soap, which ensure
that clear, fresh skin and beautiful
hair which go so far to give any
girl that natural charm and beauty
which is her rightful heritage.
“I use Rexona Soap only
—no other for mine, for I
am a Rexona Girl, and
know that Rexona Soap
keeps the hair soft and
curly, and the skin fresh and
delicate.
“Rexona mine for all the
time.
“Sincerely,
“MERYL VANE,
“Alla Marina,
“Cronulla, N.S.W.” (
Girls! Beautify
Your Hair.
I>o you know that in less than ten
minutes you can double the beauty
of your hair? It becomes light,
wavy, flufi'y, abundant, and appears
as soft, lustrous and charming as
anyone could desire, after a simple
wash with Rexona Soap. A delight-
ful surprise awaits those whose hair
has been neglected, or is scraggy,
dry, brittle or thin.
Rexona Soap cleanses the hair of all dust, dirt or excess oil, and in a few
moments yon have doubled the beauty of your hair. Kexona Soap dissolves every
particle of dandruff, cleanses, purities and invigorates the
scalxj, for ever stopping itching and falling hair. If you
care to have pretty hair—and lots of it—get a tablet of
Rexona Soap to-day. 1/- per tablet.
SKIN & FACIAL SOAP
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
c
e p°l
Pl°s
>p
o, apey
Packed always in red
boxes.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in
Australia.
162 & 164 PITT STREET,
and Corner George & King Streets, SYDNEY - .
Ships.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
~jl 1~ Y dreams are all of wharves and
VI windy ways,
And spindrift whirling where the
gale has died ;
Of gleaming dunes and long-forgotten bays,
And ghostly ships that take the ebbing
tide;
Of flying brig and silver-pinioned barque.
Having the clouds beyond the moaning
bars;
Of blackened boats that huddle in the dark,
Their twisted rigging tangled with the
stars.
Sometimes beside wave-eaten piers they
loom,
With weed-grown hulls, and rusty anchors
fast—■
Grey, shadow-haunted shapes that cry the
doom
Of long-spent things, from keel to rotting
mast.
Sometimes they drift ’neatli windless skies,
forlorn,
No soul upon their silent decks, no name,
And soundless on the creeping tides are
borne
Back to the lonely ports from whence they
came.
And when the long-drawn hiss of spreading
surge
Sings round the echoing reaches of my
sleep,
Wild chanteys, flung above the sea-wind’s
urge,
Sound through the grave andante of the
deep.
And sometimes treasure-ships by sands of
gold
Furl back their dust-brown sails like tired
wings;
And little breezes fan from each dark hold
The scent of cloves and myrrh, all spicy
things.
Or far from jagged reef and rock they lie,
Breathless in some lost, lily-choked lagoon
Where no sound comes and no wind ventures
nigh,
Their pencilled masts against the pallid
moon.
My sleeo is full of swirling tide and flood,
Of drenched white deck and keel and
stamping crew....
He has the call of wild things in his blood
Who dreams of ghostly ships the whole
night through !
VICTORIA.
MYEA MORRIS.
The Good Woman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE’S no doubt about it,” yvhis-
pered old Tom Bowman, “she was
a good woman all right.” Ills head
wagged gravely and his watery eyes seemed
even then to be fixed on some well-remem-
bered scene of her goodness; really, lie saw
no further than across the room where stood
a much-battered sideboard which he well
knew usually held whisky.
For a long time none of the others who
sat about the darkened room attempted to
break the decent silence that followed this
tribute; then there was a moist snuffle from
Eliza Bowman, who was perched like a
sorrowing crow on the extreme edge of an
old easy chair, her sharp, red nose buried
in a black-bordered handkerchief. The air
of the place was heavy and uncomfortable
with the becoming sadness of a party newly
returned from a funeral; outside, the mourn-
ing skies wept steadily and the heavy drops
pattered a hopeless monotone of pain and
sorrow, and the whisper of Tom and the
sympathetic snuffle of Eliza seemed to strike
just the right note, l'or this, though, they
were in no way to blame. Eliza had a bad
cold in the head and Tom Bowman, in an
unregenerate past, had once tried to end a
period of post-alcoholic depression by means
of a severe caustic poison, which had failed
of the main purpose, but had so scarred his
throat that all that afterwards remained of
bis voice was a husky ghost. But it
struck both of them that their present dis-
abilities suited well the present occasion,
and they used them to the best advantage.
There were five people in the little room.
The other three said little. Brown himself
sat all hunched up at the head of the table,
very quiet, one hand nervously plucking at
the faded green cover, head drooped save
that once or twice he lifted it to look at the
heavily-framed photograph of the dead
woman set very straight on the wall before
him. He seemed sunk in the deepest gloom
of any. He had a right to be so, for the
woman had been his wife, while she was
only sister (in blood or law) to the other
mourners.
But somehow he felt that the rest rather
frowned on his sorrow, grudged it to him,
doubted the sincerity of it and in some
extraordinary way held him to blame for
the very ordinary and not too untimely death
of the woman. Brown was becoming well
used to that sort of feeling; it seemed to be
a habit of the Bowmans to look his way
when anything untoward happened, and
again after this disaster he sensed their
veiled hostility and censure. George Bow-
man, fat-faced, built for cheerfulness but of
a gloomy habit, gurgled and noisily gulped a
large mouthful of tea, and his wife, the lean
Martha, frowned heavily on him and clucked
loud disapproval. The atmosphere of acute dis-
comfort about the room became more marked,
and the snuffling Eliza was the only one for
a while to break the dull silence.
Brown, feeling much in the way and awk-
wardly self-conscious, stretched an unsteady
hand to the chipped plate that stood in the
centre of the table and clutched one of the
cakes that loaded it, stodgy, little, lifeless
seed-cakes that seemed just fitted for a
tuneral celebration and for that alone It
was a quite unconscious act, for, five minutes
iater, his eyes drawn to them bv the glare
of Martha, he gazed stupidly at the uninter-
estmg thing in his hand and the dust of
-rumbs on the cloth before him and won-
dered dully how they came to be there.
tte flea - bese t. sad-eyed, mon-
feteve, untidy ears flopping and tail
well tucked away, came stealthily from the
kitchen and stole on noiseless pads beneath
the table; he snuffed tentatively two or three
times the unpromising scent of Martha, and
then decided to risk it. A doubtful, implor-
ing paw he laid on the bony knee of Martha
as was {Steve’s srentle habit when he begged
of Brown attention or titbit. Martha kicked
him in the stomach and Steve yelped dis-
mally and sought again the warmth and
safety of the greasy, stone slab before the
old kitchen stove. Brown looked up at the
pained cry from Steve, and a flash of anger
momentarily lit his dull eye, but straightway
died when it meat the cold glare of Martha.
“I’m sure I don’t know how poor, dear
Mary ever put up with the brute," said
Martha ; “nasty, dirty pest —and fleas an’ all."
“She had such a kind heart,” old Tom
confided, “she just couldn’t be crule to any-
thing.”
Brown knew that they were blaming him
again for this, another unreasonable inflic-
tion on the long-suffering dead; and with
some justice, too, for the wet and miserable
Steve had followed him home one winter
night, and the wistful eyes of Steve had
stared into his rather sloppy, sentimental
soul, and Brown had been firm for once and
Steve had stayed. But lie felt that they
held his fault to be somehow greater, almost
as if he had created Steve in the first place.
Eliza sniffed and George Bowman coughed,
and there was a note of censure in the sniff,
of contempt in the cough, and Brown
wriggled in his chair, lie was an inarticu-
late little man at best, and never more so
than in the presence of his relations by mar-
riage, of whom he always went in awe. Ilis
aimless fingers played with the crumbs of
the cake, and liis eyes again sought the
severe likeness of his dead wife.
“She passed away wonderful easy,” he
muttered softly, almost apologetically.
“Of course she did,” said Eliza, “when a
woman leads the life she did"
Her voice was snappish and Brown felt
very properly rebuked, though he didn’t
quite know why.
“I remember one day when she says to me”
—old Tom Bowman went on with his husky
reminiscences, so sure of the sympathy of
his audience that he hardly bothered to shift
his eyes from the suspected hiding-place of
the whisky. Usually his attempts at con-
versation with his relatives were suddenly
and severely cut short, but to-day his sub-
ject met with such universal approval that
he was allowed a free tongue, and this was
so unusual and comforting for the black
sheep of the family that he let himself go
thoroughly. Warming to his subject he
painted of the dead a very paragon-picture;
he recalled in harsh whispers such numer-
ous and astounding virtues that, if but one-
tenth of the tale had been true, it should
have been shouted from the housetops to
call all the world to witness this very per-
fect specimen of womanhood.
And Martha poured herself another cup
of tea ; fat George coughed approvingly and
began to nod, and Eliza sniffed. Steve, in
the kitchen, listlessly scratched' an ear, and
Brown sat very still and quiet.
After a long regard of the portrait on the
wall, he turned his eyes to the imitation
marble mantel over the brick fireplace. There
was little of interest on it—a few faded
prints, a tamely-modelled lion at one end
and a tiger at the other and some vases,
carrying no blooms but with quite unclassi-
fied but very vivid china flowers twined
about them. Three months before there had
been something else, a photograph of a win-
some laughing girl with soft, bright hair
and eyes that looked at the world rather
wistfully. It had been something of the
wistful quality in the eyes’ of a flea-bitten
dog that had caused the breath of Brown to
catch suddenly and had made safe the future
of Steve. His wife had taken the photo
away from its old place, and he had seen
it no more; it had been a happily-caught
likeness of Dorothy, their only child,
Dorothy of the smiling heart and the tender
ways and the soft, little hands that had
seemed to hold all the meaning of his life
in their tiny grasp—little Dot who, despite
her twenty years, had always seemed such a
kid.
Brown’s thoughts were far away from the
tribe of Bowman, but on his face was a
misery that must have satisfied the most
exacting of mourners. Again he looked to
the woman who stared down at him from the
wall. There was in the face, though some-
what softened, a good deal of the gauntness
and sharp features of Eliza; the eyes were
clear and fearless and very straight-looking,
and he well remembered, in spite of the mist
of the years, how those steady, searching
eyes had awed him when he first dared to
look towards the young Mary Bowman.
In them he had always seemed to read a
knowledge of all his failings, and, as if through
them, he had seen these little faults grow to
enormities, so that he had sat in judgment
on himself and declared himself unworthy.
In those days he had been a very ordinary
sort of clerk, 33 years old. living a very
ordinary, selfish, bachelor life and, having
always been of a diffident nature, his enor-
mities had been made up of a passion for
cheap poker, a conscious craving for tobacco
and a joy in the comforting glow achieved
by the moderate drinker of whisky.
But then she was so good about it all.
After their marriage she told him that she
knew that most men had certain habits, not
understood by her, of course; but she in-
sisted that she would much rather have him
happy than worrying about any small dis-
comfort these habits might bring to her.
Certainly he must have whisky and cigars
in the house; she would easily get used to
it. Brown tried, but he always had the
uncomfortable feeling that his pipe pained
her and his harmless nips of a night hurt
her sensitive soul, and she was so patient
and uncomplaining about it. So Brown
dropped tobacco and whisky.
For a time he continued with the accus-
tomed little poker parties, and his cronies
came to the house as of old. Far from dis-
approving, she said that it made her happv
to see him enjoying himself; but she would
sit at some distance from them hard and
comfortless in a straight-backed chair, and
old pals began to make excuses. So Brown
dropped poker.
After all. they were small sacrifices to
make for the privilege of holding the love
(Continued on next page.)


sdf
GIVING OUT?
m
Pi
Ls
&
it
em
That “bad back’’ is probably due to weak kidneys, a
trouble that often follows a cold, a fever, worry or over-
work. It shows in constant, dull, throbbing backache, or
sharp twinges when stooping or lifting. You have head-
aches, too, dizzy spells, a tired, nervous feeling and
irregular kidney action. Don’t neglect it —there is danger
of dropsy, gravel or serious kidney disease. It is usually
easy to correct these early troubles, however, and avoid
the more dangerous ailments by giving the kidneys
prompt help. Use DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS. Thousands have saved themselves serious
kidney ills by timely use of DOAN’S.
Mr. M. Dowling, 25 Roseberry Street, Rozelle, Sydney, says:—
“For about three years I suffered a good deal with my kidneys, and
during that time was treated by doctors and tried different
remedies, but nothing did me any good. My back used to ache
fearfully, and it was as much as I could do to stand up .straight
after bending over a little while. I had liniments rubbed in, but
the relief was only temporary, the pain being soon as bad as ever.
The kidney secretions were very much disordered, being highly
colored and scanty. My general health was far from good, and I
often used to feel so ill I could hardly attend to my work. One
day I saw an advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
the thought occurred to me to try this remedy. I bought a bottle
and in a few days I began to feel better. As I went on with the
treatment the improvement w T as maintained, and by the time I had
used four bottles I was cured, all sign of backache and kidney
trouble having entirely gone. I am in splendid health now. and
have only Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to thank for my wonderful
recovery.”
SYDNEY
PROOF
FOR
SYDNEY
PEOPLE.
Mrs. S. T. Burrows, 19 Springside Street, Rozelle, Sydney, says:
“In common with many others I have nothing but good to say for
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Some few years ago I was suffer-
ing a lot with my kidneys, and in consequence was troubled with
pains across the small of my back and dizzy feelings, besides having
no energy for anything. One day my attention was called to
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and. in the hope that they might
benefit me, I got a bottle. After taking them for a few days, my
health began to improve, and by the time I had used six bottles
I was completely cured. I am very grateful to Doan’s Pills tor
the good they have done me, and hope many will profit by my
experience and use this splendid remedy. I never suffer with back-
ache now ; in fact, feel splendid in every way.”
Pour years later Mrs. Burrows says:—“l have had no r^ on
to alter my good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Ih e y
cured me some years ago, and I am still well.”
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
d
bottle, at
Price 2/9 per
Mil Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
and respect of such a woman. And then
the coining of the baby, Dot, had filled his
life, and just the watching of her growth
had been a thing of constant wonder to him.
Naturally soft, he would have undoubtedly
spoiled the child, so that it was just as
well that the mother exerted a stricter influ-
ence oyer the small Dorothy; but somehow
he could never refuse his sympathy to the
youngster after some reproof or punishment
had brought her to tears. And how she had
always flown to him for consolation for all
her hurts! It had been so natural for her
to come to him, years later, when the big
trouble arrived, and to sob her poor little
story in his ears.
Brown felt a soft touch on his knee. It
was the lop-earned, comical Steve solicit-
ing attention in the usual way, and to the
foolish, imaginative man the soft, brown
eyes seemed wells of pity. Idly his hand
dropped and played with the absurdly long-
ears.
The tale that Dorothy had told him was
beyond his power to grasp at first; she was
such a kid; it seemed absurd. He had
known for some time of the interest that
she found in young Win ton, had liked the
fellow himself, a big, decent sort of chap,
and had even known a pang of jealousy.
When Winton started war-wards Brown saw
her paleness and depression, and even
chaffed her about him. And then came news
of his death up Guinchy Wood way, and
little Dot had sobbed and sobbed in Brown’s
arms and told beu: incoherent story—it was
not his fault, it was settled they were going
to be married, and they loved each other
so much, and he was going so far away, and
she didn’t know how she could part with
him....and it wasn’t his fault.
Brown had listened quite dazed. Then
he was conscious of a flare of red anger
against Winton, and then of nothing hut
overwhelming pity and love for this child-
woman, this little Dorothy ; and he yearned
over her and sought feverishly to comfort
her. After many days he succeeded fairly
well in doing so. Then came the business
of telling his wife. lie found this very diffi-
cult her goodness seemed a thing quite
apart from such sordidness, but in halting
fashion he told her. She bore the blow
with the fortitude of one of the Christian
martyrs. She did nothing melodramatic,
neither raved nor wept, but her face set
in the complacent lines of conscious, uncom-
plaining martyrdom. But she refused to
take to her arms the penitent sinner, for
that, to her view, would condone the offence.
And Brown saw that hunted, hurt look that
he had been at such pains to wipe away creep
back into the eyes of little Dorothy.
A proper dramatic sense seemed lacking in
Dorothy herself. There was no call for the
usual stage settings—the deserted bridge,
with the street lamps a-flicker like ghost-
lightS through the grey mist, and the cold
blackness of the river below. The scene was
still an ordinary “interior” ; the action quite
everyday and commonplace. Tragedy lurked
in the lustreless eyes of a girl, that was all.
And when the time came the world lost, in-
stead of gaining, one unit of its many mil-
lions, that w r as all. The doctor murmured
something of a lack of “the will to live.”
Brown started suddenly. His unheeding
ears had caught a husky mention of Dorothy’s
name and his head twisted sharply to the
talker. Tom Bowman was on wonderful
terms with his listeners, and was making the
most 0 f
■ - aild who else could ’ve borne it like
Mary didr went on Tom. “Never a word of
complaint from her when her heart must ’ve
been broken ? It’s my firm belief that she
aever over it, poor woman. She never
° f t , A ' ld f Y ea “ y
t 1 ik that hei death now ; Could be laid at the
d m v of that _ llttle . huss J;
There was a noisy clatter as Brown sprang
to his feet, flinging his chair behind him. The
f OUI . Bowmans looked up in surprise, Martha
» halt-uibbled cake, Georg l jerking
SSSSS t S*sf
w, v !,?„ d i huili y dly agai , n ! or tha
Brl,™ let if«Traoriitrn,“trim “nee
“‘voTsS'ngCckXgera,-’ he gritted,
SVum ° Gefou'o °*
l -f f “-■■»«ive U , lapsed into inco-
fe UCe fl : n WaS , a a T T d and l" P i et P ng
- g a V ul | caied Bowmans left b ur “
P edly> , old To “ forgetting even to look at
tbe unsatisfactory sideboaid.
There was whisky in it, too, for after a
P ei ', lod of mad ragin S abont the room Brown
p 0?, f l oni it a black bottle that was almost
f T-l alld was kept there for rare, non-teetotal
visitors. It was many a month since this
bottle had seen the light, many years since
Brown had tasted whisky, but he took three
b eav .y nips there and then; from deep in a
drawer of liis dressing-table he salvaged an
black pipe and a pouch half-filled with
tobacco that the years had made into dust,
H was with a defiant and a rather foolish
all tbut he crammed the powdered tobacco
i nto the charred bowl and poured himself a
t° lu 'th whisky, Ins eyes still fixed on the
woman who looked down at him from the
wall.
Be was drawing at the old pipe when sud-
deldy be put it down on the table, waved out
the lighted match and walked across to the
big photograph. For a long time he stood
there, one hand on the wall, looking deep
'uto the pictured eyes that stared straight
back at him; and then a little shiver ran
over liim. “Yes,” he muttered, “you were
a good woman, all right, blast you!”
As noted before, he was an inarticulate
little man at best.
A. M. HASEN.
Cats and Glory.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
night was too hot for sleep ; the cats
were too insistently Wagnerian for the
comedy of counting sheep or repeating
Gray’s Elegy backwards —both of which pro-
cesses are recommended as sure remedies for
pillow-tossing. When I lighted the lamp a
whole menagerie of wild creatures sought
it as a ready means of suicide. Moths,
beetles, flying-ants, things with no legs to
speak of and others with all the legs capable
of waggling in an inch of space, tilings with
horns 5U times the length of their bodies and
others with wings twice the length of their
horns, green tilings, brown tnings, grey
things, speckled things, hard things, soft
things and all other things that could fly,
crawl or wriggle made for that light as if
its flame could be eaten raw. I objected
strongly to them all; but they continued
their dance of death to the music supplied
by the cats, until in sheer self-defence 1 was
compelled to seek the darkness again. In
the darkness only the mosquitoes, flying-ajits
and a few tick-tacking hard-shelled mon-
strosities continued to operate with any
vigor. Then I mentioned that the devil was
an ass to continue to stoke a perfectly
unnecessary hell and got u" in my pyjamas
to talk to the cats.
It was after I had thrown my second boot
that the rain began to fall. This necessi-
tated my going after my belongings and
searching among the citharexyla and dieffen-
bachiae of the front shrubbery for tile mis-
siles I had lately hurled with more enthusi-
asm than discretion; but before I entirely
left the shelter of my bed I sat up for a
while and debated the amount of ruin likely
to happen to the leather if I delayed the
quest until daybreak. I mention this lack
of immediate action on my part because it
was responsible for all that followed. When
I got outside the rain whipped me hard
about the neck and feet; but I found the
first boot with comparative ease and swept
my hands round in extending circles feeling
for the other. Far off a grand cat crescendo
ended in a noise like splitting iron and a
spitting chorus as of passionate protest. A
rose clawed my arm and a large, dank
leaf of something sad slapped my face.
Then, moving cautiously forward, I put my
left foot into my right boot and stood up
triumphant. I looked about for the house,
but could see only the dim outline of large
shrubs with larger trees beyond them. The
rain stopped as suddenly as it had begun ;
and I walked blindly along a narrow path
with my fingers spread before me in the
hope that I would soon touch bricks and
mortar. A quarter of an hour of such pro-
gress convinced me that I had somehow
taken the wrong turning. My hands found
the gnarled trunk of a great tree, and I
paused. It was a very big tree —possibly
10 feet in diameter. I remembered no such
vegetable anywhere within streets of my
own cat-haunted glade; yet there it was
with the rough bark under my hands and
the top up several storeys in the air making
a complete blackness of the sky. Very
gently I walked round that great hole, anil
on the further side I saw the glimmer of
light. My heart leaped high, and I strode
boldly through the bushes, believing that
my goal would prove to be a street lamp.
Once I reached it I could get my bearings,
climb the fence and follow the road to the
front gate.
The distance was greater than I had ex-
pected : and a strange quiet came over me as
I moved—the sort of quiet that follows a
loud explosion or the ecstatic calm that some-
times gathers at the heart in a very early
spring morning. I heard sounds like machin-
ery walking softly on very thin tins, sounds
like glass bottles rolling down a grassy hill
gentle noises like daily newspapers 'bein'-'
opened in a tram, faint musical tinkles
tender gratings as of hard bread being
eaten at a vast distance, delicate plunking
echoes like showers of corks descending on
oily water, airy whispers as of pins pushed
into toy balloons. My left foot, which was
now several yards behind me, had caught
in the fringe of my wing; but I steadied
myself by grasping a bush 18 feet to the
right and swinging the feathers of my hind
horn over my middle ear. This enabled
me to shade my eyes with my tail and gaze
directly at the light.
My first impression was that I had found
the moon rising through a volcano with
the Aurora Australis assisting to throw a
spotlight on the main performer; but in a
moment all conjecture vanished in transcen-
dent worship and awe. I was at the centre
of life, the vortex of power, the unimagined
glory of infinite sweetness. Music of ilanie
filled the air—music wedded to words that
ran in ever-changing rhythms to give the
perfect expression of essential thought.
Every dream I had ever dreamt in golden
sunshine or silver moonlight became a flock
of singing birds. I felt apple-blossom and
honey and purple velvet and strawberry
conserve and Mary’s hlpe cloak and a sound
of harps near at hand Nnd bagpipes a thou-
sand miles away. The scent of the music
was wine and lavender and mignonette and
hay and gum-leaves, an A over all roses and
roses and red roses anu the one thing Keats
missed in the nightingale.
And then Shakspeare said something; and
I knew how futile all he had ever said was
compared with that tremendous harmony and
glory of eternal expression that burned and
glowed and sang nearer and nearer as I
flew. A web of mystic rainbows made a
lacework splendor of the air and sky. 1
forgot my legs; I was unconscious of my
horns, my ears, the hard armor about me;
I could only beat my wings and be glad
because the radiance was so near. Then I
bumped hard against the hot netted rain-
bow and fell.
The fall was so sudden that for a moment
I lost the power of my best feathers. I
was mixed up with Swinburne’s legs and
TennySon’s tail and, somewhere underneath,
Milton’s immaculate armor was glittering
as he struggled to rise. It was a mad and
terrible moment; but I lifted my left eye
and saw the full glory of the light. I
crawled on Chaucer ; I leaped from the back
of Shelley; I was at the rainbow’s edge
again !
Bump and boom! The first peal of
thunder shook the house and I sat up sud-
denly. As I lighted the lamp again I saw
the grey thing with legs 45 times as long
as its body try to rise on the horns of the
brown thing with speckled wings. Then a
giddy troop of flying ants landed on the
rainbow rim of the glass and crackled down
into the flame. I wondered at which point
on the hot globe Homer and Shakspeare
had r°allv struck or whether they too dived
into the naked flame.
But my boots were very wet in the morn-
ing.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


m
4
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Ollßßllßlnnri Acnnta- H(ll MICK a. nuimnu
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
i j^torlaiiOffio&-—^^Queoi^Streot^Mlolbourfie^^^
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
i
Shirley President—
The Ideal Brace
SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES have been
imitated,, but the copies are easily detected.
1 he imitator has not been willing to devote the time
and labor that have been expended by the original
makers to keep up the quality of their product.
Buy none but the genuine.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee
label:
‘SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
d
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell § Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney
ďfsf
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
sdf
Remington . I
“Wetproof” Shotgun Cartridges
‘Always dry on the inside whatever outside conditions may be’
IN unfailing priming, even loads and close patterns
Remington UMC shotgun cartridges have been
tried and found not wanting in those qualities which
make up a really excellent cartridge.
The sportsman benefits still further in the latest exclu-
sive patented process of the Remington Company called
“Wetproof,” by which the contents of the cartridge are
effectually sealed against the deteriorating effects of
wet weather or excessive dryness.
“Wetproof” shotgun cartridges are sup-
plied in four trade marked brands: ARROW, NITRO
CLUB, REMINGTON and NEW CLUB.
They offer splendid values to the sportsman who insists
on having the best so that he can do his best.
~ REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian RepresentatH* P. O. Box 686, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
TO ENJOY LIFE
You must be able to take the food you fancy without
discomfort—you can aid digestion and assimilation and
insure maximum nutrition by occasionally taking a
dose of the famous family remedy, Beecham’s Pills.
Under their safe, gentle, but powerful influence, you
can shake off a host of troubles which tend to make
life miserable. Dyspepsia, headaches, biliousness and
constipation, to mention but a few, will disappear;
and you will be blessed by joys of solid robust
health. These wonderfully efficient pills are
the favorite medicine of thousands of families.
What Beecham’s Pills have done for them they
can do for you. After taking a few doses
you will have every reason to congratulate
yourself on your progress. You may look
forward to renewed good health, and
to the happiness which attends a life
free from all dyspeptic ailments.
There is no need to deny yourself
your favorite dishes they will
not inconvenience you if you
'"? TAKE ***’'
BEECHES Pius
LARGEST SALE OF IN THE WORLD"'
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOIL
Refrigerating U Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the time's
—their DEPENDABILITY Counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions thev can be
relied upon td give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.’’ Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE &t SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney. and b Aucktknd riS N z ne ’
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and
hopeful thoughts are required. The man
who ii despondent or irritable always
fails. Low spirits and irritability or
temper are often caused by a dull, torpid
liver. Wake up liver with
Small Pill — C.».rter'» Lit-
Small
Dose —
Small
Price J
sdf
CARTERS
ITTLE
VER
PILLS
ileLiver Pills
and start the
day with a
bright cheerful
face. Both
yourhealthand
business will
benefit. Good
for old and
young - purely
vegetable.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
’ _ ... 1 ■ '"A- , ... ‘ .
£2700 for 1/-
BLACKHEATH SOLDIERS’
MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney General, under the auspices of a
Citizens' Committee.)
£IIOO First Prize valued £IIOO
£sooSecond Prize valued£soo
£3OO Third Prize valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 26th. Winning
numbers published on 31st May, 1922.
II- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
1 1t— Two or more Post Free.
FRANK BURROWS, Queen st.. Glebe, N.S.W.
Tickets obtainable from N.S-W, Bookstall Co.,
Hairdressers, Newsagents, etc. through the
State and Samuel T. Green, Hon. secretary,
Council Chambers, Blackheath, N.S.W
Wire Strainer
sdf
Post Free
(Patented)
M
12/6
each
Post Free
Thousands in Uss.
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
f iQ
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


m
A'jj
AD
s
r ASBESTOS
NON-CONDUCTING
COVERING
FOR
BOILERg
CYTt^i
.
7,
Kl i- s
ADAMS
jriuurjrmjL m vp
.SBESTO
-
f u w Mm ru
FOR
OILER!
iAH-Pl PE
PIP
ii;
"■ p ;
mr
V
OVERING
FOR
PREVENTS LOSS OF HEAT BY RADIATION IN BOILERS AND
CONDENSATION OF STEAM IN PIPES.
The many advantages of covering Boilers and Steam Pipes with a good non-conducting
material must, of course, be obvious to anyone who will give the matter a moment’s consideration.
Covering your boiler means preventing the heat from escaping, and it naturally follows that, by
doing this, you are saving your fuel. Boilers exposed to the weather must, of necessity, suffer
most from being uncovered. In the case of a boiler in a very exposed position, experiments were
made to test the difference in consumption of coal before and after it was covered. The difference
was 45 PER CENT. Just imagine at the end of 12 months the difference that would make in the
coal bill.
IN MANY INSTANCES BOILERS HAVE BEEN CONDEMNED FOR THEIR BAD
STEAMING QUALITIES, WHEN A GOOD NON-CONDUCTING COVERING WAS ALL THAT
WAS NEEDED TO MAKE THEM AMPLE STEAM PRODUCERS. Several such have come
under our notice.
By covering your Steam pipes you can prevent the steam from condensing in them.
% % -m
■
f.
?£■: .
-*' * ”-- * , ' •- 'i *-,
Pour Boilers and Steam Pipes insulated at Goodlet & Smith, Ltd., Steam Saw
Mills, Harris Street, Pyrmont, Sydney.
We claim to have the most efficient staff of insulating laggers in Australia; moreover, our
Asbestos Heat Non-Conducting Composition is the best obtainable; the raw material is obtained in
Australia and is manufactured entirely by us at our own Depot in Sydney, and is in no way connected
with the manufacture of other materials of like nature now on the market.
We shall at all times be pleased to receive details of your requirements, or, if you so desire,
send our Representative to inspect your plant, when we will submit our quotation at per superficial
square foot (according to thickness of insulation necessary) for material and labor. We will also
supply the material alone at lowest market rates.
We guarantee all work done by our laggers to be entirely to your satisfaction.
I
' * 7 '4 Mr ' t A
. ~ ; i| :;; :
wgffl
*
Ul
Mm.
FT*
HW».
sdf
sfdf
Sf PERTH'
33-35 King St.
sdf
m
W;
St*
sd
