

mmw
»u- • • ia I U.. J£S
&
:
535
i MM
M
M
Ut£
»rji
imißirtteifa
<?
I
M t)J
o <;
o
ifcr
H
§»
$
m
W
'lf
te
1
.v-
-ill II
(Cj
ss;s
:-«» w Hj*
I! '
.UIUI
aSAffu
iSS 3Jk
gee
* )
\
V
*
//
f
•*•!•* 1
A@Ti*ansformei*
means-Hiofi Efficiency
on niqit or Low Loads
tJ
1,000,000 Volts.
To keep constantly in the lead in building
transformers of highest quality, requires vast
Factory and Testing equipment. • Extensive
research and engineering development con-
stantly evolve improvements, which make for
better and better transformers as time goes on.
y
Inbuilt strength and accurate design,
resulting in commendable performance, have
given Transformers their acknowledged
supremacy. Their success is measured by
actual performance, rather than by monetary
claims.
Ever in the forefront in
Electrical development,
the (|I) organisation has
again made history by
producing a transformer
giving 1,000,000 volts.
Australian General Hectric Q Jtd.
House, Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY. ’Phone: City 2510 Box 2517
and Collins Streets, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: Cent. 2646. Box 538 G.P.O.
AGENTS THEOUGHOUT AUSTKALIA.
The Bulletin
t V«L 43.—N0. 2216.
Thursday, August 3, 1922.
Price 6cB.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1022 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Posted free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, City,
Kv.i\
m
im
It / '
\\
/
X
Ctl £sr
Tf tou
'
i
CO^
CROUP
IC,S*^
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne's
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Cos.
Ltd.
SEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wale*
Branch Office:
I Bond Street. SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
w.
KRRaRst
SB
SsSM
MANGROVITE Leather Belting
Lowers Production Costs.
The super-frictional grip of Mangrovite Belting is
one of its inherent qualities. For abrasion resisting
and record-making it is unexcelled.
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
gives consistent service under the hardest conditions ;
grit, oil or trying temperatures have no effect upon
this cost-cutting transmission agent.
We maintain a staff of belting experts for your con-
venience. Write or call to-day.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing 1 Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid k Sons, Ltd.; Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright k Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henry Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND’: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
3
I
i
I.
p "%""""'
£ ss/ss'/ss*
i ("'"""
ff///s////s///ssss/ssssJfZZ;}f/t> /
ONOTO I
Best ; y,\9>ViV\;
for all | rC^C^S
Pens | 5 »’ \
I
I
i
I
XT
is
gggggigrg
I'* /f/f "'# ''S/? *' C* // #*
*ier/ '3€?jmjj-
>4 ' **> % Or
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza and the Prevention of Consumption. ’
5S
DN
What the Medical World says:— The Lancet :
“Proved to be as effective bactericidally as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAN-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTIIOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
I/O a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers—
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Province.
The Red Page
Latter-day Martyrs.
“Conscription anti Conscience/’ by John W.
Graham, M.A.
(George Allen & Unwin , Ltd.)
Nothing is more infuriating to a good
Britisher than a fine point of ethics which
lie is unable to understand. The cultivated
Roman of I*ilate’s day was not nearly so
annoyed with the followers of the Saviour
as many a member of the Army and Navy
Club was with England’s Quakers during
the late war. Professor Gilbert Murray has
noted that the Early Christians might have
had ‘‘complete freedom to worship and teach
as they lilced on condition of performing
a slight act of courtesy to the Emperor’s
statue.” The conscientious' objectors were
given a very similar chance when the Mili-
tary Service Act (2) was passed. Freedom
of conscience is a proud tradition in Eng-
land. The Friends had been familiar features
of English social life since Charles ll.’s day.
An attempt was made to provide them with
a middle way between their convictions
and the country’s necessities. They were
offered home service, and some took it. But
the majority—the Absolutists —reasoned
that to help on the fighting in any capacity
was morally equivalent to fighting, and they
refused to do it. Now* they took their stand
on the teachings of Christ, and the Govern-
mentscould not afford to accept their con-
tention that when the -Saviour had talked
about ‘‘turning the other cheek” He meant
it; that when He had threatened those who
took up the sword with death by the sword
lie was in earnest. A clergyman was accord-
ingly appointed to each exemption tribunal
and charged with the task of proving the
“.conchies” to be bogus Christians. By this
tijjie the bluff, hearty, old Britishers —the
spiritual Podsuaps of the nation—were get-
ting very angry indeed; and some of the
clerics appear to have been little more amen-
able to the Quaker viewpoint. It became
harder and harder for a C.O. to get exemp-
tion, and many who were not Quakers only
appeared before the Tribunals, to judge
from the examples given by Professor
Graham, with the object of making a public
profession of the pacifist faith that was in
them. This is what happened in the case
of “a straight-looking young man with a
pleasant face....and a peculiar voice, dear
and high, with a curious, almost tragic,
sound in it” :
When the chairman asked him what church or
religious society he belonged to he said: “I am
not here for any church, but for the sake of Reality
and Truth.” When the clergyman asked him to
explain his rather blasphemous-sounding assertion
that the Spirit of God had no power to kill or
hurt anyone, he said: “Rower to hurt is' an evil
thing, therefore the Spirit of God has no power to
hurt anyone.” “I'm not a theologian,” said the
chairman, “but I don’t see what that’s got to do
with your objection to defending your country.”
“Don’t you see,” said the applicant, “that the
truth in a man's soul is the Spirit of God?. There-
fore, a man who knows his own soul can never hurt
or kill a living thing”.... “Since when,” asked the
clergyman huffily, “has the Spirit of God prevented
a young man like you doing his best to help his
country and his friends?” “I am here,” said the
applicant, “to show others the Reality I have found
in myself, not to help them to kill each other.”
“That’s not what you’re here for,” said a member
of the Tribunal, rudely. “You’re not thinking cf
helping anybody. I don’t suppose a man like you
ever helped anybody in his J1f§.”....
And so the futile wrangle went on, with all
parties to it at cross-purposes, till the
chairman considered the conditions of the
Act had been satisfied, and formally told
the applicant he would have to serve. The
“conchy” now came under the dominion of
one of those warriors who have worn uni-
forms all their adult lives without adventur-
ing anything more perilous in warfare than
a divisional staff, a base camp or a
troopship job. Officers of the sort were
chosen to discipline the C.O.’s, partly be-
cause they were not wanted in the fighting-
zone, partly because they are usually more
militarist than the. militarists.
Colonel Brooke (of the Wandsworth Military
Detention Barracks) was the sort of man to whom,
whether in Prussia or elsewhere, Militarism is con-
genial. lie was delighted to hear of the treatment
of Rendel Wyatt, a Cambridge graduate, who was
put in irons in a dark cell and sent to France, and
“hoped the whole lot of the C.O.’s would be treated
in the same way.” He said he eared nothing for
Parliament, but would do just as he lilced with
these men. “I shall continue to act in my barracks
without any regard for what any of the so-called
‘public’ may think. I do not care one atom for
public opinion.”
The uncompromising Quaker who found him-
self in the hands of one of the Brooke
stamp had a hellish time, but there were
ways and means in England of bringing
gross illtreatment to the ears of influential
sympathisers. In this way, as a matter of
fact, Brooke was eventually court-martialled
and dismissed from his billet. But when
the C.O. reached France—as most of them
did—things were ten thousand times worse.
It will be news to most Australians that the
Massey Government sent 14 Maoriland
CH.’s overseas. The case of one of them,
Mark Briggs, is eloquent of the whole sys-
tem :
Under orders from officers at Ypres, Mark Briggs
was laid on his back, .weak from his cell diet,
with a cable wire round his chest. Three soldiers
were harnessed to the wire, and they dragged their
victim for a mile up a footpath of planks with
battens nailed across at .short intervals. The but-
tons were torn off his clothes, which were all
pulled off, so that his bare back was next to the
planks and battens, making on the lower part of
tlie-back a great flesh wound a foot long and nine
inches wide, which became full of dirt. When they
came to a shell-crater, which they did three times,
they threw him in and dragged' him through the
water.
And so Briggs made his appearance in the
front-line. But the Maorilanders in the
trenches did not endorse their superiors’
notions of discipline :
The man responsible was publicly “counted out”
by the soldiers, who were intensely indignant, and
threatened his life with hand grenades.
It would be a great mistake to imagine that
the only people capable of such idiotic sav-
agery were the soldiers. In many instances
the soldiers had to protect the C.O.’s from
the violence of the mob. There wete vari-
ous reasons. It was maddening, no doubt,
to men back from the Front, or just off
there, and to their women-folk, to think of
these lads “sitting comfortably in gaol.”
as the phrase went. The average English-
man reasoned, roughly, six or seven years ago,
that nothing really mattered but England,
and that those who were too religious to
strike a blow for her deserved all they got.
And, of course, it was clear, to the dullest,
that if all let their consciences influence
them in this way the State, as an organ-
isation, could not exist. But more madden-
ing than anything, perhaps, was that under-
lying self-satisfaction which is found in
all men—and especially young men- —who
are doing their duty against great odds.
Righteousness is no doubt pleasing in the
sight of Heaven, but it has always been a
shade trying to earth-dwellers. The true
martyr is inevitably a bit of a prig. No
unprejudiced person who views the record
of the “conchies” in retrospect can help
admiring the wonderful fight they put up
for that most embarrassing of' war-time
faiths—Christianity. l r et, somehow, Professor
Graham’s brilliant book does not leave
one with a yearning to know a “conchy,”
and still less does it inspire a wish that
C.O.’s may increase and multiply in any
but an enemy country.
An Australian Poet
John Bernard O’Hara, author of At Even-
tide (Edward A. Vidler, Melbourne), is the
singer of an ordered life. His is no rebel
pipe; lie sounds no call to arms against the
despotism of usage. Ilis thought keeps the
middle stream of the current of tradition:
and science has not seriously disturbed the
flight of his angels. Yet there need be no
kind of disparagement in such a statement ;
for there is a whole world for singing out-
side the boundaries of human storm and fret,
and the quiet places may be very lovely
places to a mind attuned to their beauty. A
better craftsman than Wordsworth, on the
average, he has a good deal of that great
nature poet’s appeal; and if he never comes
near the exquisite soft glow of Wordsworth’s
greatest lines, it is yet in the line rather
than the whole poem that his strength is
shown. The ground he travels has for the
most part been well trodden by the seekers
of the simple theme, and eclibes of older
poets are. fairly frequent even in his latest
work; but lie still possesses a distinction,
and his verses are subtly different in tone
from those of any other writer. “At Even-
tide,” his new volume of lyrics, is his seventh
publication ; and if it does not greatly add
to his reputation it at least may claim to
hold a little of his best work. The opening
verses, “To the Pacific,” are some distance
away from his usual mood; and in these
he is less successful, as also in his appeal
“To Australians,” but in the nature pieces
he is very simple and true. There is always
melody in the lines—not a strong, compelling
melody perhaps, but a delicate flow and
cadence of well-chosen words in a regular
scansion that rarely falters. The most at-
tractive sections of the book are those de-
voted to sonnets and rondels. In these set
forms he is at his best. Here is a sonnet,
“To a Sister of Charity,” which seems to get
very close to the soul of that great company
of good women whose labors of love have
brightened so many centuries:—
To see beyond the earthly mists that veil
The heights supernal from our mortal view;
To grow in grace, as the sweet Virgin grew.
Clothed in the light of Love that cannot fail;
To kneel before pure Pity’s altar-rail,
111 holy adoration meek and true—
These are the gifts that God has given you,
Sweet Sister who hast found the Holy Grail.
Yet wearest thou the iron diadem
Of toiling days and duty without leaven.
Brave in thy faith,-as in thy soul,,to stem
Life’s tides on shores of doubt and darkness driven,
Lifting weak souls to touch His garment-hem
And feel upon their brows the winds of Heaven.
That poem has its faults, but they are faults
for which there is good enough precedent.
“Driven” and “Heaven” is the sort of rhyme
a modern, sonnet-writer should not allow, any
more than the “bush”-“hush” rhyme on
the page which follows • but there are count-
less examples of both in the work of English
writers of a high rank. Again, the language
of any poem—and more particularly of the
sonnet, which demands the most perfect work
—should be uniform in its adherence to
ancient or modern usage. Thus, “God has
given you” cannot fairly be followed by
“hast” and “thou.” Clearly it should be
“God lias given thee”—but that would spoil
the rhyme. Too many writers take similar
liberties with language, but that is'hardly
an excuse for them; yet the fact that this
particular example of O’Hara’s work is so
well worth while in spite of its irregulari-
ties is its best praise. The religious note
is strong all through the book —that and a
wistful sadness which explains the title.
Bernard O’Hara, at 58, sees the long
shadows falling over the open places he
loves so well. At 58 Thomas Hardy, with
the rebel spirit in him still at white heat,
was very young; but for the ordered life it
is the age of late afternoon if not actually
of gathering dusk. Besides, “Eventide” is
one of the most beautiful words in the lan-
guage. Yet there is nothing of evening
about this:—
When a rondel outrings there is melody soft to the
ear
As the chiming of bellbirds whose haunt is the
runnel that brings
To the breaks of the fernland a note as of melody
clear
When a rondel outrings.
It was fashioned for phrases of gladness ; for color
that springs
With a kiss of delight to the lips of the virginal
year
When the heart-beat of lovers is heard in the song
that she sings.
Yet the voice of regret and of anguish and yearning
and fear,
And of passion that flames like a sunrise on
luminous wings
May leap from the soul of the singer with melody
sheer
When a rondel -outrings.
Bernard O’Hara has still a heart-call for
those who love simplicity and golden words.
The Immortality of Dirt
The modern realist who dives into unclean
corners of the world to find matters of
supreme unpleasantness may be buoyed up
with some faint hope of immortality
through the permanence in literature of
some ancient dirt. A .novel of unwashed
character, with garbage and manure heaps on
(Continued on page 25.}


it
we
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SALE
The Savings Event of the Season
Unexcelled in Quality, Style and Gut, a fashionable
Made-to-measure Suit has been priced down to bedrock.
AUSTRALIAN TWEED
Place Your Order to-day for a
smartly-cut, well-finished Suit to
Measure. The price has been
reduced from
84/- to
£3/1 51-
TO YOUR
ORDER.
The materials
are good quality
All-Wool Aus-
tralian Tweed.
WRITE FOR
THE SALE
CATALOGUE.
A copy will
be posted
you free.
Every purchase
you make at
Sale Prices
will mean a big
saving to you.
SUITINGS OF DISTINCTION.
If you want a Suit cut from a fine English
or Australian Tweed or Worsted, and a
finer selection of, neat, smart designs,
prices have been
REDUCED TO
£41151-
f
&
v\l'.
Muffin R
j
vs
>*V
S 3
wist
m
$Nh
|o N
M «
£2
C 3
l# HI HI
\m i
ire
mi
IS
rrr:«
ll mm 1 1 "“Hirs
TOiTBnS ::|3 Hll llraSsS^F
'ill«'
p II
Kill
nwlwspiSSf]
!!J
i
n \ v nsn
* *jr *
m
iiiinim
i ft tt
U
ENGLISH ROUGH SERGE
Or you may take advantage of this
extraordinary offer: A Made-to-
Your-Measure Suit of
ENGLISH ROUGH SERGE,
£31151-
TO YOUR ORDER.
WE PAY
CARRIAGE
on Men’s
Wear in
N.S.W.,
and to the
nearest Port
on Interstate
and Island
Orders.
OTHER PRICES:
£6/7/6 and £7/2/6
Write for Patterns. They will be
posted free on request.
AN i HONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ecL
Box 2712 G.P.O.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


THE OIL THAT’S ALL OIL
LINSEED OIL
- ; i
m
■■■ ■- ?■?
j I.
'■/- . .• rtf
i&'P
--
s®' 1 .
Manufactured in Australia
GGITTS
UNSEedoiimq^
m
Oheboyon the bag
guarantees quality*
e
i
HEAD OFFICE 26 KING ST SYJ>IEY(W>ik s; PaiTamatta)
• f ■ ~r\ ■ ■ '
AGENTS. — Messrs. Harrisons. Ramsay Pty. T Ltd - 666 Romke Street, Melbourne: Messrs. R. S. Exton d
Co., Ltd., Queen Street, BriSbanie; Messrs. F. TT. Heritage cC- Co., Ltd., Hobart and Launces-
ton; Messrs. William Adams A; Go-, Ltd., King Street, Perth; Messrs. Johnston c 6 Co. Ltd.,
Feathersion Street, Wellington, A\Z.; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd.. Bundle' Street, Adelaide.
ggittS
Mi
/A EGG ITT ll*
"WAeJboy on the baa
guarantees qualify


FOR KIDDIES
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
IF YOU BATE NOV A
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER
BUY ONE NOW, when embroidery is
so much used. It works on ANY
MATERIAL.
Visit our SPECIAL INSTRUCTION
ROOM.
ALL WORKERS ARE WELCOME.
21/- Complete Outfit.
Send a stamped envelope for FREE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents.
EVERYBODY DOTES
UncleTobv’s
A delightful breakfast food
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
. THINK OF
advt
' SCHUTE,
BELL &C °td.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may he secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Managed.
<1
3
fW'
a
m
n
Let that
GREY HAIR
greet once
again the
shade of
YOUTH.
A b s o 1 utely
harmless, per.
martent, and
waterproof.
Get a packet
from your
chemist to-
day.
Vou will soon be convinced of its
superiority.
*
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
Jhe
Denver
Elastic
T.
us s
Safety & Comfort
for the Ruptured—
Wear a Truss, but be sure you get the right one.
DENVER’S ELASTIC TRUSS prevents protrusion,
being a true support in all actions of the body.
Being elastic it is so comfortable that wearers forget
that it is on. Prices —
SINGLE, 27/6; DOUBLE, 37/6.
Postage extra.
CALL OR
WRITE.
EXPERT
attention.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and
Artificial lambs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
\ou fill it
Just-so!
'3p
GmepwS | stBs rt
PEN
British Made.
Sold by all Stationers and
Jewellers —
from 7/6 to 35/-
D
Dependable
Marine Engined
REDUCED PRICES
3 to 40 H. P.
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
MifliU
Alt Parts Standard and Interchangeable. xM
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Kermath Marino Engines are made with the precision of a watch;
all parts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability Install a Kermath.
Factory Representatives:—
FAIRBANKS MORSE CO. (AUSTRALASIA), LTD.,
25-27 Clarence Street Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
k Kermath Manufacturing Co, Detroit. MickU.SA a
Cable Address-KERMATH M
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F. 0.8. Detroit
Mich., U. S. A.
r 1
MOTOR CARS
Because its quality is uniformly
hi&h and its price extremely mod-
erate—the LIGHT-SIX is known
as the “World’s Greatest Li&ht-
Wei&ht Automobile.”
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
This is a Studehakev Year 1
rn;
LIGHT-SIX 5-Seater
Cord Tyres
£525*
5C
<©
V
34)00 SATISFYING SHAVES
IN ONE
RAZOR
■gUjY THIS RAZOR And share with thousands of others the
that shave after shave of satin smooth-
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
ICTUS
advt
O2SOOM
QS3S39
Guaranteed
in order for two years free
G
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Moon.
Give me a feast of stars
Off the moon’s white plate,
And a draught o’ the sea’s salt blue
My thirst to sate;
Spin me the clouds’ soft fleece
In a pixie cap,
And the sands for sandals fleet
Against mishap;
Weave me the dew of the green,
Earth’s russet and brown.
Nature’s light and colors to don
In a rainbow gown;
Proffer the dark of pain ;
Flame-white of bliss,
Scarlet of passion and grief.
The warm rose of a kiss.
Give me the entirety,
The great and the small.
\or let me pass o’er aught
But compass them all.
Pour me my life in a glass—
Just one rollicking spree—
Ere, an empty cup turned down,
Old Death drinks me!
ir.s.w.
MICHAEL FAGAN.
Prudence.
I stride no more from sultry clime to clime,
I plaint no longer at your window-bars,
I hold to no grim godhead here on earth;
Spatter the skies with froth of the Hung
stars
That fa.ll like pebbles through the pools of
time
The while the high gods quell their silent
mirth.
I rambled round each heaven’s rich treasure-
halls,
And sought a ruby that might match your
heart:
I clutched at Mars when he burned brightly
red,
But drew my bloodied fingers back to start
And know the reason why his glitter palls.
And why he flames so fiercely on the dead.
I viewed the silent cloud-flocks slowly driven
By the swift shepherd-winds into the fold
Of the warm-tinted west, and one by one
I watched them scatter its betangled gold
And saw the burnished buckler of the sun
Dare the high bates to dart at him th r, ir
levin.
I saw him burn with anger in the moon.
And trod the meadows of the night when
morn
Seemed far away, and on their purple fields
1 tossed a handful of faint stars I’d shorn
From off each swinging stalk that lightly
yields,
And watched the winds sway the pale"lily
moon.
I teased the kennelled thunder till the note
Of warning rumbled in its brassy throat,
And in the sunglow tumbled with the breeze
Till it had whisked where southern break-
ers cream.
And hunted on across wild Arctic seas—
But now I only stay at home and dream.
maorilanp.
QUENTIN POPE.
Despair.
The gusty wind walked down the mountain
grasses,
Shouldering the grey mist from the rugged
passes;
A thin, sad moon through the stark trees
was creeping,
In the last phase of change a dull watch
keeping.
The waters slept not. Round the hard-blown
edge,
Foamy with curdled feai\ red-bearded sedge
Made through the night a long and mournful
wailing,
As if the world with magic pains were ailing.
And shudderingly looked the cold, grey walls
Of iron rock above black waterfalls.
Plunging deep down into the hollow night
And gathering feai'ful echoes in their flight.
Nine times he called. But no man heard
his cry,
Nor any god—for the great hopes were
dry—•
And moving, moving to a dreadful goal
He went with that which surely held hia
soul.
Out on his senses broke the rose of sin
Breathing great scent that drew him slowly
in
To a white breast athirst with life’s desire
That w T as but death attuned to fitful fire,
A wicked music crying from the height
Laid a long agony upon the night;
And his was as the first Voice of a child
Smothered at birth upon a bed defiled.
None heard, because none knew. The moun-
tain grasses
Gathered grey mist in the high, stony passes ;
A ragged moon through the stark trees was
creeping,
Wooing a haggard cloud to hide her weep-
ing.
Breath ! For the love of God but let him
breathe!
The blackness, like thick dust, appeared to
seethe
Above, around him.. . .and he passed within
The sweet, unending, choking heart of sin.
n.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.


The New
Packard Single Six
recent arrival of which has created such
genuine
and sustained interest amongst car owners, approaches
more nearly to perfe&ion than any other car built.
Not only is it a model of captivating beauty and the
epitome of superb value and good taste, but it gives
irrefutable evidence of positive and balanced efficiency.
The Packard Single Six is capable of instant acceleration to high speed, yet with
equal nonchalance it can creep along in high-gear at less than walking pace. So
perfect, indeed, is its mechanism that it seems almost inspired by intelligence in the
hands of a competent driver. The Packard stands for ideal performance accom-
panied by a standard of up-keep and operative economy such as has never before
been attained by a car equally impressive in appearance and power.
‘Distributors: IRA L. and A. C. BERK
261-263-265 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
OPPOSITE
MARK FOY’S
PACKARD
'ASK, THE MAH WHO OWNS ONE”


The Bulletin
Registered at tiie General Tost Office, Sydney, M.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43. —No. 2210.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 1922.
Price 6n.
TESTING FOR CREDIT.
MUDSLING, K.C.: “I may be another couple of weeks on this job, y’r ’Onor. My client’s money is perfectly good, and I’ve got to give him a run for it.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia lor the White Mau.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, oi
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office cf the
Co., 214 Gporge Street, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Adstualasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, Ids.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hul
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in I!lacU and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid fot as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and GotchyLudgute Circus; and IF. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Dreams Buildings, London E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, Ifi Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada.-—G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
V.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N: Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley Neivs Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle. Washington.
Egypt.— -Jacques, Horn it- Co., The Colonial Book
and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.—lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Raillie Street,
Colombo; R. B, Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Ilarry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon & Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
* Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
newspaper ) :—Throughout the Commonwealth : 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: yoz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: hoz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, Yd.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 1922.
PUBLIC HOSPITALS AND PRIVATE
PRIVILEGES.
There are many signs and symptoms that
that strange anomaly, the General Hospital,
is doomed in its existing form. It never
possessed any justification from the stand-
point Avhich matters most —the nation’s
physical Avell-being. What influences, then,
have brought about the perpetuation of this
system, Avhich causes all the public hospitals
in every State but one (Queensland) to be
chronically bankrupt; Avkic-h precludes many
needed extensions and modern improvements ;
and which debars thousands of poor people
every year from getting the attention that
is their right and the country’s need?
The chief factor, ironically enough, is
the determination of the socially pro-
minent to be publicly charitable. They
are scandalised at the suggestion that the
opportunity to make periodical gestures of
benevolence in the direction of the needy
should be removed from them; and in this
spirit they condemn the idea that undenomi-
national hospitals should be put on the
same basis as undenominational schools as
little better than Bolshevism. Public hos-
pitals are peculiarly suited to act as excuses
for magnificent balls, pageants, matinees and
the like. They are perennially Avhat the dis-
abled fighting-man was till Soldiering went
out of fashion. The matron Avho organises a
big dinner-dance for a hospital feels the aura
of the Lady of the Lamp hovering over her
tiara as th.e jazz-band strikes up: her daugh-
ter, who sells sweets in the stalls of a big
theatre in a similar cause, Avhile some of the
family’s friends perform on the stage and
the rest applaud from the auditorium, real-
ises that she is behaving very like a Sister
of Mercy. And the best of it is that these
saintly labors are as amusing as any other
kind of party. People got 0.8.E.’s during
the w’ar for less energy in the
interests of those rather disappointing crea-
tures, the Diggers; but, anyhow’, they got no
better opportunities to flirt, dress up, dance
and have a good time generally in the holy
names of Patriotism and Pity. “Would you
dry up the charitable impulses of the well-
to-do at their very fount?” cry the rich
indignantly every time it is remarked that
repeated begging-campaigns are unscientific
methods of raising funds for public objects.
The Daily Mail (Sydney) produced figures
recently to show’ that one gathering of phi-
lanthropists had spent £2948 18s. Bd. to
collect £3902 4s. 3d. —the whole of it
being publicly subscribed money—and
had refused to go into details on
the grounds that the motives of the
•people in charge were so pure and their
characters so high that the mere request for
more light amounted to a profanation. And
this attitude —an attitude which has been
endorsed, by the way, by N.SAV.’s Fuller
Government —is fashionable in most of the
other States.
* * * #
Another powerful force operating against
reform emanates from the heads of the medi-
cal profession. The richest of mabides imagi-
uaires is not courted with more fervor than
an honorary position on the staff of a public
hospital. When doctors are speaking to-
gether as man to man they smilingly admit
it. "I have often wondered,” wrote an emi-
nent surgeon in the Medical Journal of
Australia, "what would be the actual cash
pronts to the hospitals if these [honorary]
appointments were auctioned on their behalf.
There would be a pretty undignified
scramble, anyhow.” The reason leading doc-
tors go on to public hospital staffs, and stay
there as long as they can, is that the positions
offer practically unlimited opportunities for
indirect self-advertisement in a profession
where an open display of this particular
activity is discountenanced. That,' of course,
is between themselves and the 8.M.A., which
has ever condoned in its captains what in
privates would be infamy : the public’s imme-
diate and personal interest in the business is
that it causes all the hospitals to be over-
crowded with poor patients desirous of free
treatment by these skilled men. If our niQre
or less bogus “honoraries” desired to do the
maximum amount of good for the suffering
poor and for their country they would set
aside certain hours on certain days each
week, and see the needy during those hours
in their own consu 11ing=rooms. It is no
startling innovation. Most of the leading
doctors of Italy (for example) do it already.
Our medicoes, with a few exceptions, ivant
no such change. They regard the existing
state of affairs as beyond criticism —or, at
least, they say so—and-the -doctor who pub-
licly objects to it. is in danger of being sum-
moned to answer a charge of unprofessional
conduct, w’hile the layman who- does so is
dismissed as a captious ignoramus.
* w » «
The first thing that everybody noticed
when the Avar began was the sudden down-
fall of the shams and impostors. True, a
number got up again presently, and other
brand-new frauds Avere born; but, by and
large, it Avas a period when efficiency Avas
the main requirement. Military officers who
had been wearing uniforms, and rising step
by step to high rank during the peace epoch,
subsided into base camp or troopship com-
mands, while members of the W.A. Timber-
cutters’ Union and similar socially unpre-
tentious bodies were presently found com-
manding battalions and even brigades in the
field. And so it was with the General Hos-
pital business. The humbug and eyewash
went by the board. How preposterous it
would have seemed to a P.M.O. had some
civilian theorist explained that, say, No. 1
General (Heliopolis), ought not to rely for more
than 50 per cent, of its upkeep money on
the State: that the balance should be made
up by society ladies with leisure to arrange
jazz parties and garden fetes; that if the
funds so raised did not provide enough beds
for all the wounded, the latter would have
to go elsewhere —to private houses of to
public parks! Needless to say, no theorist,
however attached to the existing arrange-
ment, came forward with such propositions.
And if he had been asked why he would
almost certainly haA’e answered that the
nation w r as facing a crisis, and that it
needed to save the life and health of every
man possible. He Avould have
explained that “it would not be safe” for
the military hospitals to rely on honorary
surgeons and physicians and flappers with
collection-boxes at such a moment-—mean-
ing not safe for himself. The principle in-
volved is seen in active operation even
under peace conditions—where the safety
or comfort of the influential are involved
in addition to the welfare of the poor. There
is no slap-dash, haphazard business about
the maintenance of lunatic asylums, for
example. No one hears of a shortage of
sleeping accommodation where homicidal
maniacs are concerned. A leper may ahvays
be sure of a bed. and a plague-sufferer need
have no fears that he will pass away like
some disregarded animal. The gaols, Avhich
are more and more coming to be run as
spiritual hospitals—reformative rather than
punitive institutions—are likeAvise financed
on thoroughly business-like lines: and bitter
would be the complaints of the “honoraries”
of the general hospitals, and the philan-
thropists Avho collect for these establish-
ments. if any Government was demented
enough to start conducting our public pri-
sons after the fashion of our public healing-
places. One thesis that the supporter of
the present General Hospital system must,
therefore, establish, is that a citizen has less
right to State attention as a civilian than
he has as a soldier. And another is that
the community is under a greater obligation
to one who is dying of G.P.I. contracted,
perhaps, through his own fault than it is
under to one,, who is dying of a cancer, for
Avhich he is in no way to blame; that a
mental invalid has an inalienable right to
attention paid for by the Avhole of the tax-
payers while a physical invalid may only
have a bed and medicine by the grace of the
people-who keep the Hospital Saturday col-
lection movement on its feet. Such con-
clusions are idiotic on the face of them,
but that fact will not debar the classes
which get so much social and professional
kudos out of the hospitals at the- expense.
of the nation’s health froni fighting the
chants that are already in the air to the
last ditch.
FRAUD AS WELL AS FAILURE.
Another act in the imported farce called
Proportional Representation, in the unfold-
ing of which the bad features of machine
politics have been intensified and multiplied,
and majorities have been cheated of their
rights, was played in Sydney last week. By
a kind of wild justice it was played at the
expense of a member of the Government
(Holman’s) which inflicted the system on
N. 8. Wales-; and the victim has .not only
been deprived of a seat fairly won but can-
not appeal to his constituents. The verdict
of those constituents, as ascertained by a
returning-officer conformably with the instruc-
tions issued to all returning-officers, has been
set aside by a committee of party politicians
whose decision is binding. In the result,
apart from the personal issue, a minority
which, according to the returning-officer and
the permanent head of the Electoral Depart-
ment, is entitled to representation gets none.
Another minority,which polled 655 less than
half of the first-preference votes —12,485 in
a total of. 26,280—gets two seats out of
tbree. ..
» <, * •
Wammerawa is the electorate concerned in
this travesty of a travesty, and the member
who has been condemned to stand down is
Ashford, formerly Minister of Lands. Ash-
ford stood in the Nationalist interest, but
for reasons tolerably familiar his name
wasn’t on the party ticket. One of his 13
opponents was Clark, a Labor M.L.A. Others
were Dunn, the Labor Minister of Agricul-
ture, Thorby (Progressive) and Wilkins
(Progressive). Dunn got his quota in No.
1 votes. Wilkins survived until the twelfth
count, when, 2944 of his 4069 votes going
to Thorby, that candidate was elected with
a total of 7470, 899 above the quota. Clark’s
figure then stood at 5992 and Ashford’s at
5210. On re-examining the Wilkins-
Thorby ballot-papers the returning-officer
found that 1184 failed to express a prefer-
ence for either Clark or Ashford. In elec-
toral terminology, they were exhausted votes.
Of the remainder 1679 were for the Nation-
alist and 81 for the Laborite, and, the
transfer value of each ballot-paper being
computed at .510, Ashford was declared
elected by a majority of 33 —6066 to 6033.
* * * *
To arrive at the transfer value the return-
ing-officer divided Tiiorby’s surplus (899)
by the number of effective Wilkins-Tiiorby
votes (1760). This was the procedure laid
down by the Chief Electoral Officer in his
instructions to his deputies, and was fol-
lowed throughout" the State. Said Mr.
HarkneSs, the official in question, an
admitted authority on Proportional Repre-
sentation :
There will be no doubt in the mind of any official
as to what constitutes an exhausted vote. When
a ballot-paper does not contain a next available
preference for a continuing candidate it will obvi-
ously be dead or exhausted, and should be set
aside with exhausted papers. In dealing with sur-
pluses, the exhausted papers, if any, remain with
the candidate whose surplus is being distributed
(e.g., Thorby), and the fractional value of the next
preferences transferred to other candidates will be the
surplus divided by the total of “next-preference”
papers —that is* the total number of papers to be dis-
tributed, less number of exhausted votes.
In a report subsequent to the election, the
Chief Electoral Officer wrote: —
With the seeming absence of clarity or uniformity
of instruction in regulations 12, 13 and 21, con-
tained in schedule 13 of the Act, the Electoral
Office was confronted with the necessity of laying
down a working basis that would not only be
practicable, but which, at the same time, would not
in any way violate the principles of proportional
representation. The statement has been made that
the Electoral Office’s methods of counting differed in
several electorates. Such a statement has no founda-
tion. All returning-officers received identical instruc-
tions, and the methods employed were uniform
throughout the 24 electorates.
The Act referred to was rushed through
Parliament at the end of last year. In com-
mon with the other “amending” measures
passed since contortiona! misrepresentation
was imposed upon a people that had never
asked for it, the Casual Vacancies Act in
particular, it is as clear as mud. Its author,
McTiernan, concealed whatever intentions
he had in clouds of verbiage. It never seems
to have dawned on him that there would
be such a thing as an exhausted vote. Clark
took signal advantage of this particular
defect in the bill. His ground of appeal
was that the transfer value of the Wilkins-
Thorby votes had been wrongly calcu-
lated, inasmuch as the returning-officer
should have divided Thorby’s surplus
(899) by 2944, instead of subtracting from
that number the 1184 dead ballot-papers.
Upholding this contention, and brushing
aside the view’s of Darkness, the head of
the department, and Chrism as. the return-
ing-officer, the Elections and Qualifications
Committee decided that the correct transfer
value was not .51, but .305 and declared
Clark the third member for Wammerawa.
The decision is an atrocious injustice to
Ashford. He can’t ask his electors to send
him back to the Assembly, for under the
Act establishing eontortional misrepresenta-
tion by-elections are barred. He may re-
quest Parliament, by petition, and so may his
supporters, to set aside a judgment based on
ignorance and restore his rights and privi-
leges ; but such petitions, whatever the
circumstances, are so rarely successful that
it would be hardly worth the trouble. Aside
from the wrong done to Ashford and those
w’ho voted for him, the committee’s verdict
is a mockery of the proportional principle.
On this point supporters of the system are
emphatic. A. G. Huns remarks with a
gesture of despair that in arriving at their
judgment—he calls it “a gross miscarriage
of justice”—the majority committeemen
discarded 361 Wilkins-Thorby votes that
were thoroughly good. The Chief Electoral
Officer is so certain that his aspersed method
of computation is correct that he intends
to apply it in all cases w r here ballot-papers
have to be re-examined. Which' means that
there is a first-class chance of complications
arising every time a vacancy occurs. It
is clear, anyhow, that McTiernan’s “amend-
ing” Act will have to be further “amended”
If eontortional misrepresentation is con-
tinued. There will also need to be another
attack (the umpteenth) on the Casual
Vacancies Act, for in the present muzzy con-
dition of that measure there is no provision
for the appointment of-successors to Inde-
pendents like Skelto'n and Dr. Fallon, if
they should drop out. But. although the Gov-
ernment may call in the tinker, it is really
a case for the garbage-man. Contortiona!
misrepresentation has been so ghastly a
failure that the only fit receptacle for it is
the rubbish-tin. The Nationalists and the
Laborites are both pledged to destroy it
and revert to single electorates, which im-
plies the adoption of preferential voting.
It will take time to do the job thoroughly,
but if Parliament straightway restored by-
elections, instead of patching up the Casual
Vacancies Act, the Wammerawa dispute
might be decided bj' the Wammerawa elec-
tors.
THE WHITE PERIL.
Twenty years ago Theodore Roosevelt —a
historian as well as a statesman —wrote that
man in his migrations had circled the planet.
As the discovery of America had ended the
Mediterranean era, so, with the construc-
tion of the Panama Canal, a now Pacific
era was dawning in succession to the
Atlantic era, which had exhausted the forces
at its command. The Washington Confer-
ence set the seal of truth upon that predic-
tion, and brought Australia to the fore-
front of world-politics. The conference was
held, in the (probably vain) hope of settling
in a peaceful manner the problems of the
Pacific, • chief of which was the naval mas-
tery of that ocean. The oft-heard argument
about naval limitation being desirable in
the interests of taxpayers was futile, for the
reason that a continuation of the Japanese
naval programme for another 10 years would
have landed the country in bankruptcy;
while the U.S. could easily afford to build
a navy twice or three times the size of that
of Japan. A simple way of ending the
naval rivalry of the two countries would
have been, therefore, for the U.S. to build
and build until Japan went broke. Put
this course was not available to the U.S., be-
cause however large a fleet that country
might have built, it could not operate in the
waters where it would be of use —the West-
ern Pacific. Though America holds the
strategic key of the Pacific—Guam —by
extraordinary neglect it has never fortified
that place. Further, it was quite well
known in Washington that Japan would
fight rather than allow Guam to be forti-
fied. lienee the Washington Conference, to
find a way out of a most humiliating posi-
tion. What the much-talked-of Naval Treaty
has done is to do the mastery of the
Pacific up in a neat packet and hand it to
Japan with compliments and kind regards.
In return for this magnificent omegaki Japan
sacrifices half a battleship, giving America
a higher proportion of three-tenths (which
it cannot use), agrees not to fortify islands
which were never intended to be fortified,
and receives permission to build an unlim-
ited number of cruisers, destroyers and sub-
marines. Simultaneously, the Anglo-Jap-
anese Alliance was abrogated and a shadowy
four-power entente took its place.
Australia is vitally concerned -with all
these doings, for not only has it been thrust
into the battlefront of world-politics, but
simultaneously it has been stripped of all
protection. It is not necessary to presume
hostile intentions on the part of Japan, but
it is equally unnecessary to ignore the obvi-
ous tendencies of world politics. The only
menace the Commonwealth can have to
face is from Asia, and that menace is no
longer the vague “Yellow Peril” of the sen-
sational novelists. Scientific, no less than
political and commercial opinion, is con-
vinced that the time is approaching, and not
slowly, when the millions of Asia will make
a supreme effort to free themselves from the
restraints which have been imposed upon
them bv the Western world. That move-
ment will —it must if it is to hope for suc-
cess —be led by Japan, and Japanese thought
and development have long aimed at that
rble, sometimes consciously and sometimes
subconsciously. The idea has been sown,
and ideas must fructify in some attempt at
realisation. The cry of “Asia for the Asia-
tics” is becoming as powerful in the Far
East as the Moslem din-din in the Near
and Middle East. But just as swaraj in
India connotes Indian expansion abroad, so
a corollary. of the Pan-Asiatic movement is
the expansion of Asia across the seas. The
opinions of such a writer as Ii Tokutomi,
an aristocrat, a Liberal, a philosopher and
a great publicist, cannot be ignored, for he
is but an outstanding example, by reason
of the purity of his language and the clarity
of his thought, of a host of writers. who
are forming Oriental opinion to-day. Toku-
tomi’s argument is based on the hakniatsu
or “white peril.” It is briefly that the
white races have cornered the earth, fencing
the yellow races into a limited area, totally
insufficient for their needs and inadequate
for their population. Thereby the yellow
races are forced to live in poverty and dis-
tress, whilst there are millions of square
miles of the earth—white reservations —
from which they are excluded by racial pre-
judice and selfishness, but where they could,
if allowed, live and prosper. The time must
come when Asia will insist upon a revision
of these conditions, which are aggravated
by the fact that zones where yellow races
cannot live and white races can have
been left but sparsely populated. The
white supremacy has been obtained by
a temporary superiority in . science
which does not fundamentally exist, for
in brain-power and initiative the yellow
races are at least the equal of the white.
It is an argument which is suggestive, and
has much truth behind it. Its popularity is
evidenced by the modern history of Japan;
by the “rights-recovery” movement in
China, culminating in the Republic and
the present civil wars; and in the
home-rule movement in India. Australia
is naturally a concrete proof of haka-
Ixitsu. Here is a continent of three
million square miles with a population-den-
sity of 1.84, and even in the congested areas
of the capitals of only a few thousands. But
a few days’ steaming away are China, Japan
and India with densities of 300 to the
square mile, and congested areas of up
to 60,000 to the square mile. Tourists who
only visit the foreign quarters. of Oriental
cities have no conception of the overcrowd-
ing, the squalor and the disease which are
chronic in the native quarters. It is only
commonsense to assume that the day must
come when the Asiatic races will make a
real effort to find an outlet for their excess
population in the vacant or near-vacant
areas across the seas. This is not a new
problem for Asia, which through the ages
has been the nursery of -the world, and
always the problem has been solved by migra-


tion. To-day the empty spaces of the earth
are few, but “White Australia” is the prin-
cipal and most coveted of all.
The ideal of “White Australia” can only
be justified and maintained by a populated
and prepared Australia. That is to say,
the waste places of the continent must be
peopled, and Australia must be prepared to
defend it, or under the economic pressure
of Asia be eventually converted intp an
Asiatic dependency. To-day Australia is
without defence. The navy, as an active
fleet in being', is non-existent, whilst the
auxiliaries of naval power are equally lack-
ing. The army and air force are reduced
to impotence. Were the Commonwealth to
be at war to-morrow its shipping would be
held up all round the continent within 24
hours; its ports tightly, if invisibly, block-
aded, whilst it would be impossible to send
troops or artillery from one part of the
country to another. It is hardly realised
that the Washington Conference has elim-
inated Australia’s two most potent shields,
the Anglo-Japanese Alliance and the Ameri-
can Pacific Fleet. The Alliance, by making
Britain a sleeping partner in Japan’s delin-
quencies in China and Korea, provided
a considerable measure of protection for
Australia. To please the money lords of
New York the Alliance has been thrown over,
and sentiment alone binds Japan to Britain;
and '''Vamitie, c’est le tombeau de Vamour”!
The American Navy, being converted from a
Pacific Ocean force into a coastal defence
squadron, can no longer be regarded as a
protection to Australia against Asiatic
aggression. It is true that the British Navy
still exists, but circumstances might well
arise to handicap or even to cripple its
availability in a moment of crisis. Firstly,
the naval force in Eastern waters is small,
and, until the Singapore base, which is the
foundation of Ford Jellicoe’s suggested
Pacific Fleet, is completed, cannot be
largely increased. Secondly, European,
and, more likely still, near-Eastern com-
plications might well prevent the dis-
patch of an adequate relief force. Thirdly,
industrial troubles, such as those which
occurred on the Clyde during the war, might
well prevent the mobility of the fleet. The
attitude of Labor in Britain towards the
Dominions, and especially towards Australia,
has undergone some modification during the
war. It is realised that the prosperity of
the Dominions has been in no small measure
due to the sacrifices in the past of the
British taxpayer, who has not only found
immense sums for development, but has
shouldered a quite disproportionate share of
the burden of defence. Added to this is a
considered discouragement of immigration,
except at the price of further taxation in
England, and disquieting accounts of the
treatment of immigrants when they arrive
here. “It’s our money they want,” is the
story told by returning emigrants. It is
therefore a real possibility that, if Australia
should find itself at loggerheads with Asia,
English Labor, which would be the decisive
factor, would think twice before plunging into
the fray. But in any event Australia is
so far away, and the conditions so extra-
ordinary, that Australian defence is pri-
marily a matter for Australia. An unarmed
and unpopulated country is a Naboth’s vine-
yard. Yet an adequate defence scheme,
naval, military and aerial, is not only a neces-
sity. but a vital necessity. Further, it
would mean a tremendous fillip for industry,
which is also urgently required. The day is
past when Australia can rely on others, and
the d.ay is coming, as surely as spring follows
winter, when it will have to rely on its own
right arm, or be numbered amongst the
might-have-beens.
YELOOP.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia’s Shame.
H. F. May, president of the W.A. Maimed
and Limbless Diggers, has just delivered
himself of the following:—
At the close of the year over 90 of our members
were out of employment, and others were doing most
unsuitable work, such as clearing. Our committee
has used every endeavor to have these men placed.
Deputations waited upon the Prime Minister twice,
upon the Premier and other and upon
private employers and citizens. Repeated appeals
for work were made through the press ahd by letter,
but the results were most meagre. We secured
unlimited sympathy but little or no work. The war
is being forgotten very rapidly.
By the professional patriots of Australia,
perhaps, but not by those of Germany. In
that country trades suitable for disabled
soldiers are specially reserved for them, and
shopkeepers are obliged to exhibit the goods
rent-free. It is likewise compulsory for
employers in a large way of business to have
2 per cent, of maimed warriors on the pay-
sheets. Failing the voluntary provision of
work for those who sacrificed arms or legs
for Australia, Mr. May suggests a measure
of compulsion. It will certainly have to be
considered. There is evidence that the big
employer is not so much to blame in this
regard as the small man who, having a job
that would suit a Digger on crutches or one
who left his other wing in Flanders or
Gallipoli, gives it to a flapper or a foreigner
or a person already employed and motived
by greed. However that may be, it is a
stain on the national honor that there should
be girls employed in lifts, women in totalisa-
tors, aliens in nightwatchmen’s jobs and
Government servants in all manner of light
overtime positions when there are Diggers
limping about half-starved, or in that condi-
tion of brooding melancholy, induced by lack
of occupation, which makes a man weary
of the sun.
The Nominee System.
In last week’s debate in the House of Lords
on the reform of that Chamber, Viscount
Long made a remark which was a severe
indictment of our nominee Councils, though,
of course, he was not thinking of them at
the time. “There was no choice,” he said,
“between the hereditary principle, in a
slightly-amended form, and a popularly-
elected Chamber.” In other words, the
arrangement which persists in, say, N. S.
Wales, is unthinkable, in the opinion of a
sensible man. We would see it in the same
light, perhaps, but for the fact that it has
been with us for a very long time—which
is the argmnent that keeps many a drunken
and otherwise useless employee in his job, to
the detriment of a better man. In theory,
no doubt, the House of Lords should get its
best men by appointment: in practice it
notoriously gets its worst. Here and there,
of course, a first-class mind is translated
from the Commons; but inevitably, even
then, a spent force like Sir Edward Carson
takes a peerage 10 times as often as a really
eminent man, still in his prime, such as
F. E. Smith. For the rest, while the Lloyd
Georges, the Churchills, the Cecils and
the Asquiths remain in the fighting-arena
the seats in the Lords which" they could
have if they wished are filled by nonentities
or undesirables. There is no concealment
as to how it is done. The Prime Minister
warmly defended the system a few weeks
ago as necessary to the continued existence
of Party Government. Peerages are paid
for either in cash or sectional support.
Every now and then the country is scandal-
ised by some particularly outrageous case—
the elevation of a shady mining magnate or
an ex-bankrupt profiteer—and harsh words
are spoken and written; but usually the
Honors Lists provoke no more than derisive
newspaper paragraphs and broad music-hall
humor. Naturally, the deterioration is pro-
gressive. The British Upper House was
becoming (fdclasse! in the intellectual sense
seven years ago, but since the first Lloyd
George Government started to fill the Coali-
tion party’s coffers by stocking the Lords
with almost anyone who could be touted
into coming forward with the price of a
barony or better, it has almost touched bot-
tom as regards both character and brain-
power. Any nominee Chamber in which
the nominations are made on party grounds
must show similar reactions. Two of the
N. S. Wales Council’s latest acquisitions,
for example, are Messrs. Robinson and
Onslow. The former confided to a gather-
ing of the L.O.L. brethren a few days ago
that he had been selected “solely as an
Orangeman”—and that he could not have
been chosen for education or political capa-
city he had already demonstrated in the
House. Onslow was a standing joke in the
Assembly, and he was doomed in Eastern
Suburbs when he withdrew his candidature
five months ago. He can show the old gentle-
men of the Council nothing they are already
unacquainted with but rowdy Parliamentary
manners. And, like his colleague Robinson,
he is a type—one of the several disastrous
types that are put in chambers of review when
the choice is by nomination on the part of
cabals sitting in Nationalist clubs, or A.L.P.
committee rooms. It is arguable thht if
an Australian State were well stocked with
Salisburys, Joseph Chamberlains, Ran-
dolph Churchills and other reliable sires
of brilliant Sons, and if, further, it were
certain they could be persuaded to become
M’s.L.C., the hereditary principle might be
worth a trial in Australia. It would at
least give the State a sporting chance of
striking an occasional legislative winner.
Under the idiotic life-nominee arrangement
our laws are either modified or thrown out
by men, many of whom are only legislators
because they are “duds” or bribe-givers.
9
More “Ne Temere.”
Dear Bulletin, —I am sorry that, owing
to absence from my customary haunts, I
should have kept Father Clarke waiting for
a reply to his letter (B. 20/7/’22), In it
he says:—
“Bilbao-’-’ is not accurate. The “Ne Temere”
decree certainly does run in the countries he men-
tions. The law of civil marriage which obtains in
them was not passed to circumvent the decree. In
point of fact it was anterior in all but one of them
to the decree. Catholics, of course, do: not consider
the civil ceremony a valid marriage, and resort to
their parish priest to be joined in valid wedlock.
Nor has any one of the States mentioned been idiotic
enough to attempt to prevent this constructive defi-
ance of man-made law. This climax of folly was
left to the land where Massey rules.
As regards the italicised statement, the Rev.
Father couldn’t avoid knowing that, for I
informed him of it in my first letter. I
don’t want my valuable information imparted
back to me.' The rest of his case seems
to me rather unhistorical. I- quoted a dong
list of almost wholly Catholic countries —
countries where a non-Catholic is a curiosity
—including France, Italy, Portugal and a
terrace of Spanish-American republics, in all
of which the ruling is done by the people.
And these good Catholic people, without so
much as a Tummas ’Enley to spur them
on, have decreed that, while-the State’s civil
marriage is good and sound by itself, the
Church’s religious marriage, by itself, is of
no more value than a rag, bone, hank
of hair or other negligible commodity.
It is regarded as harmless and unobjection-
able, and picturesque if the parties care
to make it so—but superfluous. Father
Clarke would have it that Catholics (the
whole law-making population, in fact, there
being practically none but Catholics') “do
not consider the civil ceremony a valid mar-
riage,” so instead of repealing the statute
they “resort to their parish priest to
be joined in valid wedlock.” If they
do thus resort in a large way—and
I would ljke to hear more evidence on
the point—-they are the most illogical self-
governing majority that was ever created.
In a sense, of course, all these Catholic coun-
tries did legislate “to circumvent the decree”
—those that legislated before, it as well as
the one which legislated after it. The decree
lays down no new R.C. principle: it is a
mere re-statement of a religious law which
has existed from the beginning. What hap-
pened was that most of the Catholic nations
got in early by repudiating the “Ne Temere”
doctrine. Then the decree came out as a
reply, whereupon Bolivia, till then a straggler,
joined the repudiationists. There have
been cases where the validity of the Church’s
land titles was repudiated by Catholic States,
as well as that of its marriage certificates,
where its religious houses were abolished, and
education taken out of its hands. Of course
it is true, in a sense, as Father Clarke
asserts, that the “Ne Temere” decree , does
run in the lands of civil marriage which I
mentioned. So does the local burglar when
he sees a policeman in the oiling, and one
running gets as much legal recognition as the
other. I notice in a later Bulletin
(27/7/’22) Father Clarke (presumably the
same Father) writes re the attitude taken up
by the State in Maoriland: —
It is not sufficient to acknowledge the legal validity
(as we all do) of such (State) unions; we must
also acknowledge them as sacramental marriages ; and
the Catholic Church (and. incidentally, the Anglican
Church) knows of no other marriages among Chris-
tians.
So it seems that, in one sentence, the Catholic
Church recognises the civil marriage, and yet
refuses to be even aware of its existence.
It acknowledges the validity of something
that it doesn’t know to be above ground.
In Maoriland the much-abused and much-
misrepresented Premier Massey asked for
this acknowledgment of validity and nothing
more. He didn’t get it. so he acted. A
much more energetic priesthood than we
have here (I should imagine) went about
slandering the marriage title granted by the
Maori State, just as it might have slan-
dered the Torrens title it granted, or
declared jts paper-money a forgery. So
Maoriland fell in line with the long proces-
sion of mostly-Catholic countries which, as
Father Clarke rightly puts it, are not
idiotic enough to interfere with the Church
marriage of anyone who wants a Church
marriage, but flatly deny the right of the
Church to call the State’s wedding certifi-
cate in question. But I don’t know that he
went so far as those Catholic lands which
have nullified the Church ceremony alto-
gether.—Yours, etc., Bildad.
•
A Harassed Industry.
J. W. Roberts on some mining disabilities:
N. S. Wales has a system of local government
taxation on mining which is as unique as it is un-
just. Of three systems of rating which a municipality
or shire may adopt in respect of mining proper-
ties, one is to fix the 'unimproved value at 20 p.c.
of the average annual saleable value of the product
during the three preceding years, on which, in
shires, a rate of 2d. per £ may be imposed. The
system applies only to mines, and is not in exist-
ence in any other State. If it be fair for a shire to
tax a mining lessee on the gross value of his product,
whether or not he makes a profit and whether or not
he derives one penny’s worth of benefit from shire
services, why should it be considered unfair to tax
other classes of landholders in the same way? The
miner takes big risks ; he is not offered any special
assistance by the State —on the contrary, it insists
on his complying with vexatious and costly condi-
tions or relinquishing his holding. The average
grazier; and mdre than the average cocky rely on
God and Government. If the former does not dis-
pense sunshine and shower in right proportions and
at right times, th? landholder goes cap in hand to
the latter to implore it to provide free trains to
transfer his starving stock to verdant pastures, or
grant free carriage on fodder to keep them alive
until the former again deigns to bestow His bene-
ficent smiles and tears! Let the rating system as
applied to mine-holdings be made general, and there
would be no bankrupt shires, no need to advocate the
formation of new States, as each shire would, in it-
self, be a little State with a big revenue at com-
mand.
A case in point will show the iniquity of
this N. S. Wales system of rating mines When com-
pared with what is done elsewhere., The'whole of
the mines controlled by the Bendigo. Amalgamated
Co. are within densely populated municipal areas—
it has 600 acres within the City of Bendigo and 500
acres in the Borough of Eaglehawk. To the former
it pays £lO5 and to the latter £163 a year in
rates, including sanitary fees, which are very heavy.
It pays no rates on leases from the Crown,, but is
rated exactly on the same basis as other holders of
freehold lands. Were it operating in a shire in an
outback wilderness of N. S. Wales it Would have to
pay about £ 500 a year in rates for no service what-
ever. If anything the State is a worse offender than
the shire. The royalty of one per cent, of the gross
value of the product of a mine cannot be justified
on any assumption of justice or cbinitjofisensey-it is
simply an expedient for a greedy Government to
extort money from a class which, as such, is vote-
less and voiceless. In the case of nietal-minirig cos.
which make a profit (unfortunately they are very
limited in number) it means a treble impost—
Federal income-tax and State, two taxes. To the
cos. which do not make a profit it is simply a rank
imposition.
Holders of “special’’ leases under the Land Act
pay a rental of Id. per acre, or less, on a title
which is quite as good as, if not better than, that of
the mining leases, whereas if a mining lessee has
an area on the same portion he lias to pay a rental
of 2s. 6d. per acre, pay royalty on timber which he
may remove, and comply with labor conditions from
which t-he other man is exempt. One man gets a
reward as an improvement for the destruction of
timber, while the other man is penalised for using for
productive work the timber so destroyed. To make
any comparison between a royalty on coal and on
metals is ridiculous. The coal lessee can prove be-
yond doubt what are the quantity and quality of
coal available in his leases. He can estimate the
cost of marketing his mineral, and can generally
rely on making a profit. His is purely an industrial
undertaking, failure in which can be attributable
Only to wrong judgment or bad management. The
tax of 6d. per ton on his coal he can, and does, pass
on to the consumer. The metal miner cannot trans-
fer his taxation to anyone else. There are few
metal-mining cos. that could not present figures to
show the outrageous injustice of this tax. Here
are two examples from actual records:—
A gold-mining co. in a year treated 80,000 tons
for a recovery of 28s, per tqn:
Gross value ~ . • .. £ 112,000
Expenditure (265. per ton) .. 104,000
Balance .. £B,OOO
Royalty of one per cent, on gross product took
£ll2O, or 14 p.c. of the credit balance, from which
there has also to be deducted State and Federal in-
come-taxes, and, in this case, English tax. How
much was left for the shareholders after the taxation-
men had taken their share? The next year was even
worse. The mine records were: —
Gold won .". .. •• £91,195
Expenditure .. .. 91,084
Balance .. £lll
Royalty of one per cent, on gross value was £912,
leaving a loss of £BOl. For having enjoyed the
privilege of distributing over £90,000 among local
workmen and others the mine-owner had to dip into
his pocket for £BOO to satisfy Governmental greed.
A peculiar way to encourage mining enterprise!
But the Railway Department may honestly claim
the belt as the champion extortionist. Its vaunted
commercialism as applied to the primary industry
of mining is simply an unprovable allegation. Take
a typical case of low-grade sulphide ore, the chief
factor in which is the sulphur utilised in the manu-
facture of superphosphate—the ore is the principal
crude material for the production of the other. On
a truck-load of ore for 480 miles the freight is
£1 Is. lid. per ton; on the fertiliser partly manu-
factured from this ore the freight for the same dis-
tance is 12s. 2d. The latter is four times the value
of the former. By all means let the man on the
land have cheap fertiliser, but not at the' expense of
the man who produces the bulk of the raw material.
Records show that the gross value of 37,000 tons' of
ore consigned by rail was £27,750. The railage
amounted to £19,267, or nearly 70 per cent, of
the gross value! The estimated requirements of
superphosphate, in N. S. Wales are 75,000' tons
yearly, and with lower rail freights the whole of
the necessary sulphur could be-produced. from-local
pyrites. Another example is the low grade ore used
solely in the fluxing of siliceous copper ore. Con-
signments to Port Kembla of 3168 tons from one
mine had a gross value of £4795; freight to Rail-
way Department took £2650. The proceeds per ton
were divided as follows: Railway Department,
16s. Bd.; private line, Is. 7d.; miners and cartage,
7s. 6d. j mine-owner, 4s. sd. ; total, £1 10s. 2d.
This freight involved no loss to the Department
except the actual haulage, yet its share of the gross
proceeds was over 53 per cent. With such exorbitant
freights as these, is it any wonder that local pro-
duction has almost ceased ?
The foregoing are examples of missiles which were
hurled at Mines Minister Fitzpatrick in a recent
three-hours’ bombardment, but they by no means
exhaust the disabilities on the financial side. And
on the practical side they are just as numerous and
discouraging.
r-
The Weakness of the University
System.
A Sydney daily recently announced, with
pride, that there are some 1200 barristers
and solicitors in the State of N. S. W ales
alone. It is a pity that the research was
not pushed to the point of revealing how
many doctors, dentists, public accountants,
architects and professors the community is
also supporting. Anyhow, it is certain that
the number of professional men is greater
than is justified by the demand, from which
it follows that the public is paying for a
luxury which it can ill afford. The black-
coated worker, who is occasionally a bril-
liant monopolist or profiteer, but incom-
parably more often a good bricklayer or car-
penter gone wrong, is the inevitable product
of a University system that has itself taken
the wrong turning. Many years ago cer-
tain patriots suggested that Sydney posi-
tively had to have a University. The pub-
lic—-naving heard of Universities before —-was
pleased and proud to agree, and the Univer-
sity was authorised. Later, some pseudo-
philosophic politicians declared that the way
from the primary school to the University
must be made as easy as possible, a.nd the
democracy responded with enthusiasm. Were
there any souls so hardy as to inquire what,
after all; was the function of a University,
they were told that its mission was to fit
the brighter lads of the State for the higher
duties of life. In the essentials, however,
the mission of the University is to-day little
more than that of teaching a number of lads
to earn a living in a hlack-coated trade.
Between the old intention and the modern
development there is a great gulf fixed. On
the one side there is a. flickering ghost
of a University; on the other is a busy,
overgrown trade school. It remains, there-
fore, to commence a new agitation for the
foundation of a University in which at least
as much attention will be.given to the stimu-
lation of creative thought as the present
trade school gives to the providing of men
with a sufficient smattering of medicine, law.
or what not to enable them to go into the
world and really begin to learn something of
their jobs. And over and above it all remain
two other urgent requirements: that a large
proportion of University students should be
encouraged to become agriculturists or arti-
sans, instead of briefless barristers or client-
less attorneys, and that some institution for
the creation of skilled plumbers, cabinet-
makers, etc., should be formed, with the same
social and other attractions as a University.
Sydney is but taken as the exemplar in this
connection: the need is clamant in every
State.
•
“Should Doctors Tell?”
According to the cables, a discussion on the
above question is raging in England It is
hard to see how the controversy could be
kept up for any length of time, since the posi-
tion is clear cut: the B.M.A. enjoins doctors
never to tell, under pain of being expelled
from the Association —unless ordered to by
a Judge—which vitiates the whole principle..
The K.C. Church has done much better for
aural confession by stating uncompromis-
ingly that priests must not tell under any
circumstances. On the principle that the
Courts will not make orders which they are
unable to enforce, the practice of trying to
make priests tell has long been abandoned
even in iingland; and the sooner our physi-
cal advisers insist on a similar concession
the better it will be for the health of the
community. The power which the Courts
claim to compel doctors to disclose profes-
sional secrets (one of the strongest upholders
of it, by the way, was the Catholic Lord
Chief Justice Russell, of Killowen, who
by some strange process of logic, upheld with
equal vigor the secrecy of the confessional)
is particularly anomalous, nowadays, when
every civilised country is trying to get a
stranglehold on venereal disease. The essence
of success here is an established and widely-
known convention of absolute secrecy on the
part of the medical profession. It was laid
down in Needham v. Needham, however,
that a doctor must tell who attends a patient
even at a public clinic —one of those places
where, as an additional allurement to the
infected to come and be healed, in the inter-
ests of others no less than themselves, the
patients are known only by numbers.
Needham v. Needham was a divorce case, in
which the respondent, Mrs. Needham, had a
decree nisi pronounced against her on thd
evidence of the doctor who had attended her
at a clinic in an English country town. The
doctor protested bitterly against having to
betray this professional secret, but the
Judee insisted and the evidence was given.
Absurdly enough, while a doctor may
be sent to gaol for not betraying a patient
after the event, so to speak, when the only
effect of speech is likely to be to cheat
some needy private investigator out of a
job, he may not utter a word before a calam-
ity has occurred, even though he sees the
latter coming. That is to say, a doctor
must tell a divorce-case petitioner in court
if the respondent has had v.d., but he is
absolutely forbidden to tell the same peti-
tioner out of court that a favorite daughter
is marrying a man with v.d.; and any doctor
who did such a thing would be liable to
thousands of pounds sterling by way of
damages, if, indeed, he was lucky enough
to escape a criminal indictment. The second
convention is, of course, a sounds one. If
parents want to save their offspring from
the horrors of, say, a syphilitic marriage, it.
is open to them to insist on a pre-marital
certificate of health. But the first conven-
tion is palpably rotten. There are ten
-thousand ways in -which suspicious husbands


HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES EXCEED £700,000.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500.000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS £3OO 000
ASSETS EXCEED - . £1,100,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, South Africa.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
SELBY P. WOOD. J.P., Governing Director.
. AUBREY E. WENDEN, Managing Director.
Full Time, Part Time and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
or eager policemen may make the discoveries
on which their minds are set. But there
is only one way in which the doctors may
dimmish the incidence of v.d. And that is
by satisfying the public that the secrecy of
the surgery is every bit as reliable as that
of the confessional. It would not be neces-
sary, probably, for more than one doctor to
go to gaol on this issue to fix the point
that members of the profession need never
tell, for all time.
* -•
The Last of the Monarchists.
The royal marriage at Belgrade serves as
a reminder that the Balkan Peninsula is still
the safest place in Europe for kingship,
however dangerous it may periodically
become for individual monarchs. The
Great War, or the result of it, put Ger-
many and Austria-Hungary out of kings;
and even minor royalties, in most cases, had
to make a bee-line for the border. It extir-
pated Czardom in Russia root and branch.
Yet Turkey, though it has been on the los-
ing side in wars for over a century, has
uever tried throwing its sultans into the
Bosphorus; and Bulgaria, though its
calamitous monarch, Ferdinand, of the
hooked nose and the duck-like waddle, had
dragged it into the war on the wrong side
to gratify his own inclinations and further
his own ambitions, didn’t visit its displeasure
on monarchical institutions generally, or even
on the house of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha that
has latterly done its Czaring for it. It cer-
tainly hunted out Fekdinand, but merely
that Bokis, his son, might take over the job.
Balkan sovereigns are rarely indigenous to
the country. The exception, since Monte-
negro was swallowed up, is Serbia. Serbia
certainly has had home-grown sovereigns, of
genuine pig-dealing stock, for a considerable
time, but since an Obrenovitch was always
liable to be assassinated in the Karageorge-
ovitch interest, and a Ivarageorgeovitcli
murdered so that the throne might
revert to the Obrenovitches— until all that
Avas left of one of the combatant dynasties
was Aviped out in 1903 —even this Avas hardly
an unmixed advantage. Despite all this
scandalous uproar—a series of disturbances
which culminated in the Serbian dynasty
being declared black by every reputable
royalty in the Avorld —the Serbs evinced no
desire to replace a bad king Avith a man
AA r ho might make a good president. And it
is the same with Greece. Although the
Greeks eventually became so exasperated
with Tino as to throw him out. he appears
to have recaptured their affections at the
expense of the most sagacious and patriotic
statesman that the Greece of our time has
produced; and for no discernible reason ex-
cept that the glamor of royalty hung
over the one and not over the other.
Even the Ishmaelite Albanians, possibly the
only Avell-defined race in Europe which is
ineligible for a seat on the League of Nations,
will only submit to be ruled by the strong
hand, and not by that if it isn’t strong
enough, as William of Wied was fated to
discover. The most probable explanation
of the desperate attachment of all these
folks to hereditary rule is that they Avere
Turkish for so many centuries that the habit
of looking to a consecrated overlord has got
into their blood. But whether the phenome-
non is a relic of Turkish influence or not,
there it is, a strange portent in a world
where thrones topple OA r er more and more
frequently and eroAvns are more and more
likely to be broken up and sold to hold up
the fainting rate of exchange.
The Quest of the Unattainable.
“W.J.W.”: Lenin invites comparison with
his historical prototype— Oliver Cromwell.
The English Puritans Avho, for a time, im-
posed their shibboleth on an indifferent or
hostile majority, defeating all external and
internal opposition, suddenly collapsed: their
emotional effort had spent its force. As evo-
lution repeats itself, Lenin’s Communists
must folloAV in the track of Noll’s Round-
heads. And this is irrespective of any
merits Bolshevism may possess: a like result
would have occurred if it had been Tolstoy-
ism, or, as in France, Rousseauism. For a
social ideal which is not generally appreci-
ated quickly depreciates. To expect that
the moujik, in the village-co mm unity stage,
could at a step jump- over the tribal, commer-
cial and socialistic stages, to the each-for-all
and ali-for-the-State-and-hurnanity ideals Avas
a madman’s dream: Such lunacy has not,
of course, been confined to Russia; it is
endemic Avherever the untrained or unbal-
anced mind strives for an earthly paradise
along idealistic lines. The Jews, arriving in
the Promised Land, had everlasting ructions,
and that has been the experience of every
later promised land: for, despite all human
laws to the contrary, a slaA'e in mind remains
a slave in fact. A serf, freed of the noble
he crawled to, does obeisance to the capital-
ist. and later Avriggles. on his stomach to a
union boss or Bolshevik dictator. That is
not to say that he does not gather some
scraps of self-determination in the process—
the mere prompting to change bosses is an
advance —but the notable result is infinitely
slow, nor can it be speeded up except in the
imagination of a Bellamy, a Blatchford
or a Henry George. A social heaven is the
sum-total of its units; if they are all angels
the climate will have the purity and cold of
the ice-chest; while if the social paradise is
composed of humanity, remaining human, it
must have all the variety—the heroism and
the cowardice, the love and the hatred, the
cant and the sincerity—that we see around
us every day. Equally hopeless was the
original Lenin ideal of a universal peace. It
is recognised that the struggle for survival
parents all that is worth while in the brute
creation; yet the pacifists suggest that man,
though physically related to other life forms,
is, or may be, in this item, an exception.
Find an isolated people in lonely isle, remote
mountain valley, or Arctic cold, long sheltered
from the struggle of man against man, and
you find the derelicts of our race, amiable,
bovine, unprogressive; the result, seemingly,
of that perfect, peace with its ultimate
objective, perfect stupidity. Struggle is the
price, of advance, and in humanity mental
conflict tends to supplant the physical; the
war of wits the war of brawn; the poisoned
gas the poisoned arrow; the armored car the
armored man. Only in the grave may real
men or real nations find their rest.
•
The painful usualness of common or ordinary
people, and their similarity to themselves and
to other folk like them, has often been com-
mented on, and the resemblance of the new
MARSHALLING THE LEGIONS OF HEREDITARY HATRED.
Fuller (N.S.W.) finance to the previous
Holman finance, which was only a shade bet-
ter than the subsequent Dooley finance, is a
case in point. In witness thereof this re-
cently appeared in the news summary:—
The Government is willing to allow districts to
raise loans for the building of local railways and
tramways.
A local committee will raise the total amount
required and pay it into the Treasury', receiving bonds
in return.
Holman, whose knowledge qf finance was
not worth much, struck this idea, and
thought he had found Pactolus. Dooley
re-discovered it, and felt like Columbus
sighting a golden continet. Now, apparently,
Fuller has lighted on the same old brass
mine. This is how the scheme is expected
to work :
(1) The branch line from Jobville to Jeremiah-
burg is a loss of long standing. Local landowners
and others (to be called Smith for short) reckon it
would be good for them, though very bad for the
State, if the work was extended from Jeremiahburg
to Jonahville at a bigger loss.
(2) The Government v'ould probably refuse to
touch the scheme with a clothes-prop if Smith in
Sydney or Melbourne or London offered to lend the
money' in a general way without stipulating for any
disastrous railway in particular, but when a person
of the same name but on the spot offers it, hampered
by the stipulation, it is supposed to make the case
a lot better. "It should be regarded as making it a
lot worse. So the work is “put in hand without
delay.”
(3) Smith on the spot, in fact, simply buys some
Government bonds, which other people are doing
every day. He gets his interest like other buyers.
He also gets the unearned increment fixed safety in
his own back yard, which other buyers don’t.
(4) The suffering country pays the interest bill
on the loan and the loss on working the new line in
the same old way. They go on for ever, while it
only has a glance at Smith’s money in passing. It
was here to-day and gone (t.e. spent) to-morrow.
And when Smith, the patriot who put up the capi-
tal, has sold his bonds and his land (with the un-
earned increment thick upon it) he will be gone
likewise. But nothing will get rid of the awful rail-
way.
It is curious that the Smith who stipulates
for interest and his own railway should
be a sort of hero as compared with the
Smith who asks for interest only, but then
it looks like bringing a new lender on the
scone. If a third or triplicate Smith
offered to put up the necessary funds, but
asked for a war instead of a railway, his
proffered loan might be turned away, but it
would be with reluctance. Probably he
would be asked to compromise and do with
a riot instead of a war.
• •
“Rio” : The Bulletin commented some
three months ago on the discontent existing
in the permanent military service owing to
all the chief posts at Army Headquarters
being held by Queenslanders. And with
reason. The job, for example, of Adjutant-
General (who controls appointments, trans-
fers and promotions) has for years been a
sort of perquisite of the northern State.
It will appear incredible to the general public
that after all the comment which has been
made, and after the Defence reforms, resigna-
tions and retirements of the past few weeks,
the above conditions should still exist. The
Adjutant-General, whose continued retention
of his appointment has been warmly criti-
cised for at least two years past, is still
there. Apparently as an excuse to continue
in his billet, he has taken on other duties
with two deputies (both Queenslanders) to
assist him. To combine these duties in a
force the size of Australia’s army is pure
eyewash, and its only object can be to keep
a non-member of the ruling clique off the
Military Board, every soldier-member of
which hails from the northern State. Under
such conditions favoritism, even if uncon-
scious, is inevitable; discontent is rife, dis-
cipline endangered and esprit de corps (ex-
cept amongst the Bananalanders) non-exist-
ent. Even if there were no officers from
other States of equal ability it would be
bad policy to give a monopoly of H.Q.
appointments to one State. The A.-G.’s
ability is not questioned, but by hanging on
to his appointment he puts his own interests,
etc., before those of the service. He can
hardly be ignorant of the sentiments of the
forces on the subject. It is his duty to
know anyhow. It is not only the muzzled
permanent staff that is so indignant at
this continual monopolising of H.Q. appoint-
ments by Queenslanders; senior citizen lead-
ers are most emphatic on the subject, and a
combined protest may yet be made.
• —•
The Federal Public Works Committee,
which has been taking evidence in Adelaide
on the South-North railway route, com-
plained of the frigid reception it has re-
ceived. According to Newland, the chair-
man, one of the S.A. Senators:—
S.A. is the only place where the Committee has
been criticised, out of all the States where it has
conducted its inquiries.
This was said in reply to S. A. White, the
grazier and naturalist, who is just back
from a motor trip right along the straight
route, and, though attending to give evi-
dence, very properly pointed out that there
was no need for it. “South Australians
are of opinion,” he declared, “that a bind-
ing agreement was made, and one can hardly
see the necessity of evidence being taken
now, because one would expect that agree-
ment to be kept.” McCallum, of the S.A.
Parliament, who led the recent expedition,
declined, on similar grounds, to testify at
all. The veteran Simpson Newland (no
connection of the chairman) talked with
great freedom, however, on a subject which
he has always made his own :
I have known the Territory since 1870. When
I was in Parliament t moved for the appointment
of a committee, of which I became chairman. I was
strongly opposed to the transfer of the N.T. There
should have been a time limit in the railway agree-
ment. S.A. would be mad if she now consented to
any diversion of the line, and did not insist on the
contract being carried out.
Incidentally, the Committee took evidence
in Sydney and Brisbane before it visited
Adelaide—a fairly broad hint that the con-
tract may not be carried out. No wonder
Newland found the atmosphere chilly.
« —
"Boubaoi” : An expedition was sent from
Melbourne some time ago to report on the
resources of New Guinea and Papua. As
usual, Hughes did the sending—he has a
mania for collecting stray bike-pushers and
pill-pounders and converting them into “ex-
peditions”—and the taxpayer will foot the
bill, which, in this case, is £lO,OOO. The
resources of New Guinea a.nd Papua, especi-
ally Papua, have been fairly well known for
30 years. If one may judge from the only
report yet made public, the Hughes outfit
has added little to the sum of that knowledge.
Among other tilings, it is recorded that New
Guinea is plentifully supplied with rivers.
The expedition has little doubt that there is
gold in the country, and perhaps tin. It is
possible, moreover, that copper deposits
occur. Again, there is evidence that trees
grow in the islands, and in the neighbor-
hood of the volcanoes sulphur may be con-
cealed. It seems a lot to pay £lO,OOO for.
The writer would cheerfully have given all
that information, and better, for 10,000
pence, and a dozen miners’, head-bovs of his
acquaintance would still more cheerfully
have done the same for two-and-six.
•
“Gassilis” : It was asserted recently by the
usual official Sydneyite that the N. S. Wales
railways are handicapped compared with
those of Victoria, because so much of the
former’s rolling-stock has to be dragged over
the Blue Mountains. It would be fairer to
say that the policy of hauling everything to
Sydney, in the interests of city-dwellers, pre-
vents the use of the routes which Nature
has provided. The men who founded Syd-
ney knew .nothing of the Dividing Range, and
the present N. S. Wales generation is pre-
judiced because the old-timers chanced to
camp on a harbor just in front of
one of the tallest and most difficult
sections of the coastal mountain range.
Behind Newcastle is the Hunter Gate, or
Gassilis Gap, the only place between the
Darling Downs (Q.) a.nd the Kilmore Gap
m Victoria where the divide sinks below
2fMM) feet. There ought to be a railway
through it linking all the centre and
north of Western N. S. Wales, sav,
from Bathurst northwards, with an out-
let to the sea at Newcastle or Port
Stephens. And there would have been
one long ago, but for Sydney interests.
Then, at the back of Jervis Bav. lies the
George Gate, which is well below the
3000-feet level. Railways have been built
over the higher country round about, at vast
expense, to drag goods to Svdnev at heavy
cost, and the only lines that use the Lake
George Gate also twist to Sydney. Yet
geographically Jervis Bay, which has no rail-
way of its own, is the outlet for another big
slice of country west of the divide. It
surely is a remarkable examnle of effrontery
to try to put on Nature the blame for man’s
tendency to be a selfish monopolist where the
chance offers.


You Can Effect a Large Saving in Your Explosives Bills by Using
RENDROCK (Rackarock)
PRICE MUCH LOWER than Prices of Other Explosives.
INGREDIENTS SAFE TO HANDLE AND TRANSPORT.
NO MAGAZINE REQUIRED FOR STORAGE.
There is Nothing to Equal RENDROCK for LAND CLEARING and FARMING.
A POSTCARD WILL PROCURE DESCRIPTIVE BULLETIN. i
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDCE LIMITED, 10 George Street (Camperdown), City, Sydney
FACTORY: LEICHHARDT.
EXPLOSIVES AND ACCESSORIES OF ALL KINDS SUPPLIED AT LOWEST PRICES.
tn,
t'U
i
b-.iiO
POLITICAL
POINTS
A piece of supreme foolishness is the pro-
posal that at future Senate elections
the candidates shall he set out on the ballot-
paper in party groups. It may be good
enough for the old party hacks, who want
to toddle along the old political corridors,
with a wall on each side to shut out new
ideas, and for new men who. aren’t properly
labelled and ticketed. But there is no
visible profit in it for the nation, which
badly wants a few men who belong to Aus-
tralia, a.nd not to any party.
The Law moves in a mysterious way its
thunders to perform. It has taken eight
months to deal with five Labor supporters
caught in the act of personation at Sydney
City* Council election, and a case in which
the accused denies the impeachment won t be
disposed of for another month. Some ol
the enthusiasts for multiple voting were
Council employees. One and all looked
astonished, and then indignant, when the
Judge said “six months,” or “three,’ as the
case might be. Apparently they expected
him to vault over the bench and hand them
the customary honorarium.
Brisbane Nationalists are looking for a
likely successor to Donald Charles Cameron.
Though only 40 when his native city sent him
lo the Reps., Cameron was a veteran twice
over. He served 18 months in the campaign
against Kruger and five years in the A.I.F.
Rarely as he spoke in the House he acquired
the reputation of having a sound head on his
shoulders, but he has decided that politics
isn’t his game. Not the present sort ot
politics, anyhow. Cameron beat Finlayson,
his Labor predecessor, by 710 votes in a poll
of 36,153. In 1917 Finlayson’s majority was
16. in 1014 6300, in 1013 4509, and in 1910
409. He has a tolerable chance of doing
the trick again.
“The award gave and the award taketh
away; blessed be the name of the award.”
That would be good Scriptural philosophy,
but it isn’t strike philosophy, so the A.vY.U.
executive still hangs up the shearing to the
best of its ability over its demand for 40s.
per century of jumbucks, instead of the 355.
fixed by the Arbitration Cou’ - t. A real sport
doesn’t accept the referee’s decision when it
is favorable, and furiously repudiate it when
it goes against him, but the A.W.TJ. execu-
tive isn’t quite the dinkum article.
“Xox”: To give Hughes his due. he is an
artist in the use of impromptu. The other
dav. in the Reps., he had a wrangle with
Mahony over an alleged arrangement be-
tween Lord Inchcape and the Commonwealth
Skipping Line, and accused the other of
“inventing things.” Mahony, who is exces-
sively dignified in histrionic moments, drew
himself up and demanded the withdrawal of
an expression which reflected on his honor.
The Speaker ordered the offender to take
it back. Said Billy: “I withdraw. I now
say that the honorable member is incapable
of inventing anything.” A neat mot when
you come to look at it, and the more exas-
perating to the injured member because i:
was delivered with an air of artless inno-
cence.
Premier Lawson was far too amiable when
Wallace, egged on by Prendergast, launched
a no-confidence amendment on the Address-
in-reply in Vic. Assembly. As there was no
hope of a Labor-Cocky alliance, 'or of any
Liberal defections, it was a time-wasting
piece of foolery, which should have been
smashed right away. It looked as if that
was likely to happen when Labor had roared
itself hoarse, but Prendergast appealed for the
traditional courtesy of a reply to the Oppo-
sition, and the Ministry yielded. After a lot
of unprofitable talk it also agreed to an
adjournment over the week-end. But in
this case Lawson made a virtue of .necessity,
for a big bunch of supporters had slipped
away home.
Barwell had to face a storm of questions
about his recent policy when the S.A.
Assembly met. Had the recommendation
for his knighthood been sent to London be-
fore he left Adelaide? If not. who forwarded
it in his absence? Question left unanswered,
on the ground that everything connected
with the granting of “honors” is confiden-
THE MISSING VIAND.
WAITER THEODORE: “What can I get you, sir?"
DINER: “ Employment !”
W.T.: “Sorry, employment’s off.”
tial and secret. On the color miestion, the
Premier was emphatically indefinite: —
I have only said, and I will continue to go on
saying, that the tropical parts of Australia can only
be developed by tropical labor. But this is not
the place to debate the matter.
Then questions switched off to the vacant
Governorship. As economy is an admitted
necessity, and as Chief Justice Murray is>
carrying on very satisfactorily as Lieiit.-
Governor. didn't Barwell think? He
didn’t. A new appointment will be dis-
cussed shortly. Then interjected Hunkin
with a fine affectation of horror: “ Don't
tell us you’ve got a black man for the job !”
The flock of empty shanties at Gladesville,
a remote Sydney suburb, which were run
up by the impossible Dooley Government as
relief jobs at a cost of £llOO for three sag-
ging shacks, is still losing £5O per week
in interest. Also the rookeries begin to be
talked of with bated breath as a “problem,”
as if they were the Irish question or Meso-
potamia or the Sphinx or the top of Mount
Everest. This habit of making an alp out
of a molehill is tiresome. An obvious course
is to sell the weird collection of sticks, and
pay the loss out of revenue, accompanying
the vote with a resolution that the Dooley
Cabinet was the prize collection of oafs up to
date. Then the Fuller crowd might take a
look at its own gangs of relief workers, and
consider what sort of oaf it possibly is itself.
From the Federal Gallery :
The Governmei.t had ai.otner wonderful escape
last week. Desiring to save Gibson or Jowett,
Earle Page had tabled a revolutionary amendment of
the Vic. redistribution of seats scheme, and a hurried
counting of heads at the dinner interval revealed
that a majority was in favor of it. Then the party
whip began to crack. There were threats that a
Government defeat would mean an election in two
months. But this failing to shake the resolution
of two or three Nationalists, the Government was
compelled to scurry round for absent supporters
whilst Massy Greene sparred for time with a long
and wandering discourse on the matter in hand.
Eventually Treasurer Bruce, Chanter and Laird
Smith were prised out of the turmoil at the Gaud
Mayor’s Ball, and were whizzed up to the House
in a taxi just in time to save the Cabinet by one
vote. Yet even that advantage is alleged to have
been an accident, because Hunter, the Cocky member
for Maranoa (Q.), who intended to support his
chief, mislaid himself somewhere when the bells
were rung. Furthermore Francis, the alleged Inde-
pendent Nationalist, who might have been expected
to back a proposal to prevent the loss of a Victorian
Scat, must have seen the shadow of an election
loomirg, for he was the only Victorian, outside
Hughes, Bruce and Rodgers, to stand up tor the
Government scheme. It is suggested that Francis
was driven to the rescue by the consideration that
his constituency (Henty) would be improved, Nation-
ally speaking, by the new plan of electoral bound-
aries. At all events, he has become a marked man
and has provided some excellent ammunition for the
opposition when he asks for a renewal of his £lOOO
a year.
If the redistribution commissioners take
heed of the Reps.’ reference back to them of
the Vie. electoral scheme, and substitute
10 citv and 10 rural seats for 11 city and
9 rural, it may still be possible for Vic.
Treasurer McPherson to pick out a sub-
urban seat that will suit Idm admirably.
Whatever const : tuency Hawthorn is moved
into Mac. could win! But Hughes would
rather have Gibson or any other Cocky in
the House than a Liberal like McPherson,
who would insist upon lopping off super-
fluous branches and parisitieal growths of
expenditure.
“Griffith Moses”: I have had some sloppy
a.nd d.ssolute mechanics do ng electrical work
about oiy house in a Svdrmy sub iir b. curl
gradually come to the conclusion that half
of them don’t know a volt from an insurrec-
tion. I put. the matter to a contractor oi
my acquaintance, and he was even more pessi-
mistic. He said that 75 per cent, of the
crowd, so far from being expert tradesmen,
were unfit to be trusted with the job ot
carrying a real artisan’s tools, being n&hie to
drop them at any moment. He added that
he knew of no reason why I shouldn t become
a member of the electrical union myself, it
1 wanted rest and change in the intervals ot
bookmaking, and demand preference m the
matter of blowing up people’s houses, and
(incidentally) myself. However, being already
a member of the Armor-Scourers Association,
I declined further responsibility. It seems to
me that we should have rigid preference to
unionists who can produce a diploma show-
ing that they have passed an examination in
their calling. The rest should qualify at
the Technical College.
Vic.’s Upper Chamber is agitating for pay
at the rate of £2OO a year per obstructionist.
Lawson and Robinson take the view
that the electors have not given a mandate
for the emoluments, but the applicants de-
clare that they made no secret of their views
on the hustings. Inasmuch as all ,but seven
of the 18 who retired two months ago were
returned unopposed, it is stretching things
to say that the. electors acquiesced. At the
same time it might be a good thing to pro-
vide the £O4OO solicited. Then the people
would perhaps arouse themselves and sweep
th(* whole concern away.
The S.A. Labor party sticks to its policy of
social isolation. Gunn, leader of the Oppo-
sition, stayed away from the Parliamentary
dinner given o.n Harwell's return, just as he
did from the send-off a few months back.
There is no personal ill-feeling; it is just the
Caucus way. Apropos , the veteran Castine
writes to the Adelaide papers lamenting the
decay of good manners.. When Kingston
went to London on a similar errand in 1897,
Castine represented the Opposition at the
farewell “social,” and McPherson, for the
Labor group, also said pleasant things.
Yates, secretary of the Labor party, replies
that Barwell went to England without con-
sulting Parliament, and “expounded the
Liberal policy, and carried out his cheap bo.v-
labor stunt, while there.” But Mitchell, of
Westralia, also went to Britain without con-
sulting Parliament; yet hardly a Laborite
,v,- - «c. e d the legislative swarry when lie came
back.
it was a queer satire on the democracy
of N. S. Wales Labor that ex-Attorney-
General McTiernan should have been the
man to hope that the Fuller Government
“would not go too far” in the measure
which Bavin introduced last week to check
legal mud-slinging. This is a poor man’s
bill if ever there was one. The Buzfuz
business is rarely tried on the plutocrat,
and if it is he has a better chance, for
various goad and sufficient reasons, of put-
ting it in its place. But against a diffident,
uneducated or ignorant working-man wit-
ness it is absolutely deadly. There is hardly
any length to which a Government would b°
unjustified in going were the interests of
this class a first consideration: and about
the only criticism the average non-legal Con-
servative has had to level against the bill,
so far, is that it is on the mild side.
The Commonwealth Parliament has been
told by its public accounts committee (1)
that the building of war-service homes has
“practically been at a standstill for a year,”
and (2) that “only a small percentage of
those for whom the scheme ivas
have obtained their houses.” Cheered by
this information, it is speeding up the ex-
penditure on Canberra. In one day last
week, the House of Reps, sanctioned the
disbursement (from loans, of course) of
£48,200 on water supply, £314,500 on sewer-
age works, and £98,750 on a hostel. Grants
of £152,000 for two more hostels are to
come along presently. There is also to be
an appropriation (amount as yet unfixed)
for “a temporary Parliament House, which
may serve for 40 or 50 years.” As for the
two millions already expended, it is inspirit-
ing to learn, on the authority of Senator
Wilson (S.A.), who visited the place re-
cently, that:
Four-roomed cottages, built in defiance ot all
ideas of town-planning—they have no yards, and are
in nests of ten —are costing £lOOO apiece. Roads
which have been macadamised have been discarded.
Metal used in the construction of roads is handled
six times from the quarry to the road —I’ll swear
it is costing £1 per cubic yard. I saw a crusher
with a capacity of 120 to 150 tons a day fed by one
man, who dropped stones into the top of it as one
might drop pennies into a bucket.
Senator Duncan, an enthusiastic Canberra-
ite, adds his testimony :
I agree that a great amount of public money is
being wasted at Canberra. I have watched work-
men constructing cottages, and have seen brick-
layers, who were being paid fancy prices, laying
between 200 and 300 bricks a day, while men per-
forming similar work in other cities were laying
between 1000 and 1100 bricks per day.
But, this being 1922, it is more important
that the Government should buy support at
Dryberra, without being inquisitive as to
the ostensible value it is getting for the
money, than that it should fulfil its obliga-
tions to the men and women who served in
a war that ended in 1918.
MITCHELL’S MOUTHFUL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Premier Mitchell, on his return to Perth, spoke
glowingly of the success of his financial mission to
England He had been received by the King
and had met the Prime Minister. The Lord Mayor
of London, dressed in all the magnificence attaching
to the civic office, had entertained him at the Man-
sion House and insisted on his drinking out of a
golden goblet.”
When Georgius Quintus, Rex et Imperator,
Bade him to Windsor it was only meet
Lloyd George should hail his fellow-legislator
At Chequers Court—or was it Downing-street?
Glad greetings, honest merit’s imprimatur,
Floated towards him from Cockaigne’s elite;
Last, like the Turkish pashas did of old,
they filled his mouth with gold.
Jn robes and gleaming chain the Mayor looked
splendid,
The aldermen were an imposing bunch;
Lord only knows how much had been expended
On turtle soup and turbot, port and punch!
Some may have dimly wondered who attended
What dinner might be like when this was lunch.
And, with the victuals in each diner’s hold,
They filled his mouth with gold.
Filled it —at least as much as comes in action
When a receptive gob a goblet grips;
Filled it —for just as long as the transaction
’Tvvixt tilted occiput and smacking lips;
One almost hears the sigh of satisfaction
Wherewith the precious bowl he lowers, and dips
In an embroidered serviette’s costly fold
The mouth that kissed the gold.
The words of welcome were as sweet as honey
Where dukes and bankers, rank and fashion mix;
lie struck a Tommy Tiddler’s patch for money,
With Bradburys as plentiful as bricks;
The Jim whose local sobriquet is “Sunny”
Returns, ’tis understood, with millions six.
But chiefly is he proud that in that old
Haunt of great statesmen and financiers bold,
They filled his mouth with gold!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


TRACKING IT DOWN.
“About two years ago Mr. Hughes sent an expedition into the wilds, of New Guinea, and some details of Its activities were given to the world last
week. There is little or nothing m the report of public interest. However, it will be for the public to pay a trifle of £10,000.”


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches : Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Dunedin 8 Lyttelton.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobe!
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridge*
HADFIELDS (Australia) LIMITED
are now making for the
FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA
Hadfields’ World-famous
“ERA” and “HECLA” Brands of Steel.
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Banking Co. of Syd-
ney :
Dividends. To
June, Profits. (10p.q.) Reserves. Reserves
1912 . £243,880 £150,000 £98,880 £1,594(,040
1913.. 266,133 173,685 93,448 1,686,988
1914 . 287,624 180,758 100,866 1,787,854
1915.. 264,880 200,000 64,880 1,852,734
1916.. 261,804 200,000 61,804 1,914,538
1917.. 284,556 200, OCiO 84,556 }, 999,094
1918.. 298,149 200,000 98,149 2,097,243
1919.. 301,571 200,000 101,571 2,198,814
1920 . 348,602 245,164 103,448 2,302,262
1921 . 392,923 250,000 142,923 2,445,185
1922.. 397,885 296,649 101,236 2,546,421-
raid capital has doubled in 10 years, and
besides the additional If million put in by
shareholders almost a million more of visible
reserves are assisting. That increase of
funds must be taken into consideration with
the growth of profits, and though the dis-
closed earnings still show a big margin over
and above the amount required for the 10
p.c. div., they are relatively not so good as
those of 10 years ago. Then funds were
earning almost 7.0 p.c.; the past year’s aver-
age funds turned in 7.3 p.c. So, according
to the published figures, in these days ot
dear money, large, lendings and more costly
exchange dealings, this big concern claims
to be doing not sq well as in pre-war times.
But there is no doubt whatever that the
Commercial of Sydney is withholding from
public view much of the earnings which
have been derived from the abnormal condi-
tions of recent years. Certainly expenses
are now much heavier, but going back to
the 1915 balance the published accounts
show £3,700,000 more advanced to clients,
while higher interest charges are operating
on advances which during the past year
averaged well over 18 millions,_ and nowa-
days a larger proportion of liquid assets
is earning interest. At the latest balance
the C-B.S. held Oif millions-odd of public
securities and money at short call, com-
pared with £3,640,000 only seven years ago
—4B p.c. of latest liquid, assets wererevenue-
producing compared with about 25 p.c. in
1915. So though the bank has had to pay
a bit more for money left with it for definite
periods, and administration costs and taxa-
tion have been much heavier, the larger
volume of income-producing assets and the
improved interest rates must have fully
compensated. That does not take into
account the earnings from the exceptional
exchange position of recent years, this busi-
ness having been so active that, in order to
restrict the demands on them, the banks in-
creased their rates. Many of the larger in-
stitutions, which benefited most from the
abnormal conditions, apparently disclosed
little of the exchange harvest; the Commer-
cial of Sydney, in particular, appears to
have decided that it was advisable to hold
in reserve practically every penny thus won.
Several competitors have given their pro-
prietors bonuses; but though the 10 p.c.
which has long been paid C.B.S. share-
holders is not worth so much to them as in
the days of cheaper living, this bank .has
closely held whatever profits were derived
from the abnormal period.
Where have these profits gone? Portion
has been devoted to writing down the six
millions or so of Government lOu s to
market value and under, _ though unless
exceptional circumstances intervene these-
securities will be held until maturity and
give 20s. in the £ of their face value. A
considerable inner reserve has also been
developed by writing large amounts oft pre-
mises account; during the past 12 months
that asset expanded £116,000, but the man-
agement admits that “Considerably _ more
than that was spent on new premises at
headquarters and at Newcastle and on
branches. The old head office is being en-
tirely reconstructed. Advances have pro-
bably been given greater attention than any
other asset; they are shown less the
formidable reserves for bad and doubtful
debts accumulated over many years. For-
tunately there were very few big failures in
the period of collapsed prices, and though,
no doubt, the C.B.S. backed a loser or two.
there have been no public admissions, and
no mark has been left on the accounts. Large
internal reserves have long been a feature ot
most Australian banks, and those accumula-
tions are now probably of greater dimen-
sions than at another time. Customers
have, of course, provided the profits which
have built up these reserves, but so long as
the proprietaries! do not increase their divs.
beyond a fair thing the levy has all been
for the public good. Above everything else
the banks are the caretakers of the public’s
spare cash, and their first consideration is
the security for the money with which they
are entrusted.
Commercial of Sydney balance-sheet
figures for the past three years have been
as follows: —
Liabilities.
1920. 1921. 1922.
Notes •• £10,233 £9,866 £&,550
Bills .. 1,798,283 1,600,741 1,704,147
Deposits • • 30,017,532 31,245,205 31,493,201
Assets.
Liauid assets .. £17,978,450 £18,050,996 £20,168,389
Advances - . 18,141,733 19,605,066 17,939,318
Premises, etc. 632,541 678,961 794,926
Advances are now £846,000 less than in
1919, though millions more of the public’s
money and 14 million more of shareholders’
funds are on hand. At June 30 no less than
£59 of every £lOO of the public’s money
was held in liquid form, so though liquid
assets included much Government paper the
C.B.S. was in a good position to assist de-
serving customers requiring accommodation.
But the holding of so large a volume
of gilt-edged investments, though profitable
to the bank and comforting to creditors, may
not prove altogether desirable: money so
tied restricts the amount available for finan-
cing the development of industry and trade.
Slightly more than 13 millions held by the
C.B.S.'at June 30 was not covered by liquid
assets, but that liability was protected by
advances and premises with a book value of
nearly 18f millions. That means that
approximately 6s. in the £ of those written-
down assets 'could be lost before depositors
need feel nervous about a penny of their
money.
* * * *
The Bank of Victoria:—
Pref. Ord. To
June, Profits. 5 p.c. 5 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
1909. . £90;&99 £20,838 £53,062 £17,099 £235,673
51 p.c. 5i p.c.
1910.. 100,210 22,922 58,368 18,920 254,593
1911.. 107,363 25,006 63,674 18,683 273,276
1912.. 120,514 25,006 63,674 31,834 305,110
1913.. 129,053 25,006 63,674 40,373 34^,483
1914.. 126,539 25,006 63,674 37,859 383,342
51 p.c. 54 p.c.
1915.. 112,402 22,922 58,368 31,112 414,454
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1916.. 104,937 25,006 63,674 16,257 430,711
1917 106,927 25,006 63,674. 18,247 448,958
1918.. 117,266 25,006 63,674 28,586 477,544
1919.. 133,978
1920.. 142,442 29,174 74,288 38,980 547,040
9 p.c. 9 p.c.
1921.. 221,826 37,508 95,513 88,805 635,845
1922.. 176,930 37,508 95,513 43,909 679,754
Twelve months ago, when abnormal exchange
conditions had given exceptional profits, divs.
on both classes of shares were lifted two
points, and for the past year a similar dis-
tribution is repeated, though net profits, prior
to writing down premises, fell oft £54,89b.
Divs. are .now taking about £lB,OOO p.a. more
than the average net profit disclosed in the
war years, though, as the war-time profits
were less than those shown previously, the
Bank of Vic. was no doubt making liberal
allowances for contingencies during the un-
settled period. Owing to the abnormal condi-
tions and unprecedented profit-earning oppor-
tunities of the past two years, it is impos-
sible to decide from the published accounts
what justification there was for the sudden
increase of £29,559 in the annual distribution
to shareholders. Latest additions to
reserves are certainly larger than for any
other year except in 1921, but on this occa-
sion nothing has visibly been written oft
premises. Also, during the past year pre-
sumably no allowance was necessary for de-
preciation of gilt-edged securities, which had
improved in market value. How the net
profits shown in the introductory table were
arrived at is explained hereunder: —
Provi- Net
Gross Written off dent Profits as
Profits.* Expenses. Premises. Fund, per Table.
1915. . £220,766 £108,364 Nil Nil £112,402
1919.. 266,800 125,822 £5,000 £2OOO 133,978
1920.. 291,303 141,861 5,000 2000 142,442
1921.. 413,658 178,832 10,000 3000 221,826
1922.. 376,102 196,172 Nil 3000 176,930
*Less provision for doubtful debts.
In addition to the exceptional earnings from
exchange operations, abnormal conditions
have helped in.other ways; (1) advances are
much larger than formerly; (2) rates for
accommodation are higher; and (3) the
volume of interest-earning liquid assets _ is
greater. Some of their newer profit-earning
interests will be retained by the. banks for
many years—the proportionately larger hold-
ing of Government securities, for instance.
An important factor influencing future earn-
ings is whether the banks will find full
employment for their available funds at
present interest rates. Conditions are still
far from normal, and it is doubtful whether,
when money does cheapen, some of the banks
will show profits on the scale of recent
years. Working expenses are much heavier;
bank officers are not the poorly-paid lot they
were in pre-war days, and their industrial
organisation is likely to win them additional
benefits in future. Also taxation will con-
tinue much heavier than formerly. In
1915 the Bank of Vic.’s exes, took 45 p.c.
of its disclosed gross profits; last year they
absorbed 52 p.c. of the greatly increased earn-
ings.
The Victoria is not so well placed as
some banks to show handsome returns
on capital. Reserves in relation to capi-
tal are not so large, and ■ it is not assisted
by large volumes of cheap money such as
the stock, representing old deposits funded
after the ’nineties crash, held by many of the
banks. The Vic.’s paid capital is £1,478,010
in £1,061,250 of ordinaries and £416,760 of
prefs. The latter are the one-fifth of old
deposits converted into scrip; they carry a
preferential 5 p.c. p.a., but follow the
ordinaries point for point. Under the old
agreement, when these shares have had 7 p.c.
for five consecutive years they lose their
first claim to divs., but retain preferential
rights as to return of capital until the
ordinaries are fully paid (they are now £lO
each paid to £5). This bank’s business in
relation to funds is not large, and that also
means a comparatively smaller return on
capital. Here are the grouped balance-
sheet figures:—
Liabilities.
1914. 1921. 1922.
Notes .. . . £9,138 £6,580 . £6,538
Bills, .etc 667,466 1,137,797 757,308
Deposits at interest 4,366,077 5,806,674 6,101,066
Free deposits .. 2,481,461 4,145,942 4,291,583
Assets.
Liquid assets .. £2,654,948 £5,173,917 £5,532,750
Advances . . . • 6,431,156 7,739,049 7,487,785
Premises, etc. .. 343,728 374,393 360,236
Capital and reserves total £2,157,764; all
liabilities to the public, £11,156,495. bo
not quite £5 3s. sd. of the public’s money
is held for every £1 of the bank’s own funds.
From the public’s point of view that fairly
mild proportion of liabilities, other things
being equal, strengthens the security. Of
the 11 millions-odd of liabilities at June 30
5! millions (49 p.c.) was held liquid, and
the £5,623,745 not so held was supported by
advances with a book value of £7,487, <B5
and premises written down to £360,236.
A comparison of latest disclosed net profits
with capital of some of the Australian banks,
and the rates of divs paid, is enlightening; —
Profits 1 -
available . Added to
for Ordinaries. Divs. paid. Reserves.
Wales .. •• 14.1 p.c. 10 p.c. 4.1 p.c.
Com of Syd. .. 13.2 „ 10 „ 3.2 „
Com. of Aus. .. *22.8 „ 15 „ <-8 „
National .. . • 13.1 ~ 10 „ 3.1 „
A.B.C. .. ... 11.4 „ 7 „ 4.4 „
Victoria .. •• 12.0 ~ 9 3.0 „
Royal - • .. 15.6 ~ 10 „ J -6 ~
Q’land National . . 16.1 „ t 12.5 ~ ■ 3.6 „
Adelaide.. •• 14.8 „ 10.0,, 4.8 ~
* After deducting final instalment for re-instalment
of capital, including 2| p.c. special bonus.
The proportion of profit available for re-
serves (including premises depreciation) is
smaller in the Vic. than in any other bank.
* * * *
The Australian Bank of Commerce
(Sydney) To Re .
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1912.. £36,517 21 p.c.= £29,786 £6,731 £10,685
1913.. 54,175 3 „ „ 35,861 18,314 28,999
1914 . 54,953 3 „ „ 35,866 19,087 48,086
1915.. 55,335 3 „ „ 35,871 19,464 67,550
1916.. 58,595 3 „ „ 35,903 22,692 90,242
1917.. 62,477 3 ~ ~ 35,960 26,517 116,759
City Bank of Sydney purchased.
1918.. 80,255 4 p.c. = 47,947 32,308 149,067
1919. . 97,256 5,, ~ 59,934 37,322 186,389
1920 108,391 54,, ~ 65,967 42,424 228,813
1921.. 129:578 el” „ 78,000 51,578 280,391
1922. . 127,196 7 ~ „ 84,000 43,196 323,05/
The A.B.C. is a bank carrying a very small
business in relation to its funds. Hence the
mildness of the div. rate. Capital is
£1,200,000, and reserves total £320,587. In
addition there are 4 p.c. inscribed deposits
for £1,330,507, representing the balance now
remaining of the 10s. in the £ of old deposits.
Altogether, the A.B.C. has funds totalling
£2,854,094, and at June 30 held £10.373,700
of the public’s money, or. only £3 12s. Bd.
for every £1 of funds. This bank has made
great progress during the dozen years it
has replaced the old Australian Joint Stock
Bank, but it could carry comfortably double
its present business. Profits in earlier years
were devoted to repaying in cash portion of
the old deposits, and, possibly, in making
good its losses on sale of old foreclosed
properties. When relieved of those troubles
the A.B.C. set out in earnest to widen its
connections, and had the good fortune to
acquire a ready-made business —the City
Bank of Sydney—at a reasonable figure.
Compared with 1915 the A.B.C.’s business
has grown in this way:—
Advances Profits
Paid per £1 p c. on
Capital. Advances. Capital. Profits. Capital.
1915. . £1,195,831 £3,980,587 £3.3 £55,335 4.6
1920.. 1,200,000 7,176,809 5.9 108,391 9
1921.. 1,200,000 8,141,832 6.8 129,578 10.8
1922.. 1,200,000 8,157,958 6.8 127,196 10.0
Net profits are still only slightly more than
10| p.c. on capital, but the improvement
has enabled the management to lift the div.
rate from 3 to 7 p.c.. and still leave a good
margin for reserves. Meantime large amounts
have been written off premises.
Another view of the A.B.C.’s expansion is
given by these comparisons:
1915. 1921. 1922.
Inscribed deposit, “■«<•» £ Ig??, T.Xm
SK™ :: ' I JSSS
Liquid assets •• Z ’tm qqo si79 958
Advances etc . . 3,980,587 8,156,832 8,172,958
Premises . .. 357,237 478,914 465,163
Deposits during the past 12 months grew
£843,000, but other liabilities fell off
£367,352, the total amount due to the public
having expanded £475,645. The featuie o
the latest accounts is that though the yeai s
happenings tended to reduce the laige °Y® "
drafts of 12 months ago, the A.B.C. has
slightly increased its lendings. But as most
of the new money left in the bank s eaie
has been held liquid, the very comfortable
position disclosed in 1921 has been main-
tained: 44.6 p.c. (almost 9s. in the £) of all
liabilities at dune 30 was within easy reach.
The £5,742,028 of the public s money not
covered by liquid assets was protected by
£8172,958 of advances and premises written
down to £465,163, or 30s. of assets to back
every £1 not held liquid.
* * * *
The Newcastle and County Mutual
Building, Band and Investment Co.
(Newcastle, N.S.W.) :
June, Profits. Dividends. Written Off. Reserves..
1912. . £1825 5 p.c. = £l2Bl L43fi £6,76*
' 1913.. 2202 5 „ „ 1281 346 6,342
1914.. 3119 7 „„ 1793 o 7 7.611
1915.. 2924 7 „ „ 1793 89 8,603
inifi 2913 7 1793 424 9,34 J
" 2812 7 1793 194 10,174
1918 ’ 2973 7 1793 629 id,725
m!:: 3163 7 „ 1793 224 11,871
1920.. 3272 7 „ „ 2006 216 12,921
1921.. 3100 7 ~ „ 2218 2 13,801
1922.. 4162 7 „., 2375 lo,jBB
When the B. H. Prop., and nthers put mil-
lions into new industries, Newcastle began
to boom and property came into demand a
enhanced /allies. This little building society
has reflected the activity; profits have more
than doubled in a decade, and in recent years
the demands on it for advances have been
beyond its resources. The improved earn-
ings have been partly due to causes other
than the manufacturing development. Unti
1919 paid capital had remained stationary
at £25.623 for many years, and at June oO
last had expanded to £34,466. In addi-
tion, substantial funds which were for a
long period tied up in unyemunerative pro-
perties have been released for more profitable
advances business. The co. is now in its
37th year and suffered like most other land
and building cos. after the ’nineties’ smash :
as recently as 1910 £15,000 of properties
was on its hands, giving a return of less
than 3 p.c. p.a. Only £5407 of property is
now on the books, but despite the rejuvena-
tion of the coal city the unloading of the
properties does not appear to have given
much profit: instead small amounts have
been regularly written off the asset. That
suggests that the properties as they stood
in the books for many years were over-
valued, and that the advent of the B. H.
Prop, and other big manufacturers was a
godsend. Profits have recently been also
assisted by the large reserves accumulated ;
divs. have been restricted to 7 p.c., and in
10 years almost £lO.OOO of surplus profit
has ‘ been stored. For these reasons the
lending connection is much larger, though
less outside money is employed: —
1899. 1910. 1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Deposits 3,362 16,133 25,451 19,095 21;003 20,103
Other lia- „ „„, „
bilities 6,773 2,710 4,649 10,305 6,824 3,021
Advances 18,046 34,941 54,507 04,718 67,195 68,098
Property 24,248 15,306 10,866 7,724 7,829 6,407
War Loan 1,900 1,000 1,000
The security for creditors has strengthened;
including the properties there are net assets
with a book value of £70,000 to protect
£20,103 of deposits. That is exceptional sup-
port. Owing to the disposal of old propel*
ties and the accumulation of large reserves
shareholders’ capital is better protected than
formerly, though the industrial depression
through which Newcastle is passing owing
to the difficulty of reducing working costs in
keeping with the world’s collapsed prices is
disquieting. In recent years the rush of
applicants for building loans has enabled the
management to select its business, and
better-class securities have gone on the books
than would have been the case had the co.
experienced difficulty in finding borrowers.
Even should Newcastle property values
slump and this co. have securities thrown
on its hands, capital would not be endan-
gered until one-fifth of the book value of all
assets disappeared.
* * * *
A couple of years ago Elmore patented a
new process in connection with the treat-
ment of lead-silver-zinc sulphides. This pro-
cess aims at the removal of the lead and
silver in the form of the chloride of those
metals. The two products are a silver-lead
chloride, which is easily and cheaply reduc'd
to bullion, and a zinc concentrate practically
free from lead and silver. With present
Broken Hill practice it does not seem likely
that the new process will help very
much, except that it will produce a better
concentrate for electrolytic work. Neverthe-
less, George Ivlug, who is in England, has
thought it worth while to purchase an experi-
mental unit for the Zinc Corporation. A


R. G. WATKINS CO.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS. Auctioneers and Valuators.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
ALL CXASSES MINING MACHINERY AND CONTRACTORS’ PLANT AVAILABLE
Write us for information on Machinery; It will pay you.
GOVERNMENT
advt
SAVINGS BANK
of N.S.W. and RURAL BANK.
Head Office: 19-23 Martin Place, Sydney.
4 /o INTEREST allowed on Savings Accounts up
to £5OO, and 3£ % on any excess to £lOOO.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS opened for any person, firm, company
or institution.
Scientific Glassware, Crucibles, Scales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometer? and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, .Confectioners,
Sugar-mills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., 0 Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request.— Advt..
* * * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in ortter
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the World’s best*—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Win.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. —Aiivt. [1
We usually understand that to get the highest
quality we must pay highest price, but there are
exceptional cases. Take conduit pipes, for instance.
The most durable, cleanest and most serviceable
water-conduit in use to-day is Pioneer - Wood
Pipe—yet it costs less to install than any other.class
of pipe and is also cheaper in transit and upkeep.
All inquiries to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
■ * *
Patents.— -Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Masse!, Patent Attorney, 77 'Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
IDEAS.—-Commonwealth arid Foreign Patents
obtained. Cqdmson & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide, Thirty years’ practice. Writs
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
■ * ■ * * *
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England),, con-
sulting engineers and contractors lor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ;. coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., ’Ltd.
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Ahvt. ’
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock
Arthur Leplastrier and Co„ Ltd., Circular Quav
(East). — Advt. '
* * * *
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt. “
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martoin Place Sydn°v.— Advt.
AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen's Compensation,
Motor ear. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.. Covered at Lowest Kates.
\ICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AXD EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IX ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY 11. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD' POP 1 -'. General Manager.
somewhat similar idea, patented by Solomon
Ganelin, of Brooklyn (U.S.A.), -was re-
cently described in American mining papers.
This was tried out experimentally in Aus-
tralia, with very good results metallurgically.
However, no data was publisned, and from
the fact that nothing has been heard for
some time it is doubtful if the £ s. d. results
showed up to advantage. A lot of work is
being done by metallurgists throughout the
world in connection with volatilisation and
chloridisation of metals, and interesting
developments are certain to result.
* * . * *
The allegation of the agitator that mine-
owners-—otherwise the “capitalist leeches
who suck the life-blood out of the workers”
appropriate to themselves an undue pro-
portion of returns is hardly borne out by a
statement made by the Mt. Morgan chair-
man at the recent meeting. He stated that
the products of the mine during the past 15
years had realised £14,000,000, and of this
amount £10.300.000 had been absorbed in
wages, stores and payments to the Govern-
ment, the wages item being over £6,500.000,
or about 461 per cent, of the gross return.
Divs. amounted to £2,500.000, or IS per cent,
of the return. This is the extreme case of
a highly successful mine. E. C. Dyason’s
brochure on the Bendigo goldfield gives some
interesting and instructive figures on the
point. He summarises the balance-sheets of
all the mining cos. at Bendigo for three
years, to the end of 1014—-a period of com-
paratively low wages and work mg costs.
Urn value of gold won was £1.672.735, and
mm or5 es . (including tributorsl were
£022.359. Assuming the expenditure on
capital items to.eaual the amortisation of
P£C‘ e £i®ting capital, and deducting calls.
£2Ol 804, from divs., £373.106. a profit of
£81,212 is indicated. To this must be added
V* e . „ s ’’ r P‘ u , s of receipts over expenditure,
£34,227; therefore the net nrnfit for the
whole of the 'mines was £llfT43o, or an
annual average of £38,470. Mine labor
alone received over 55 p.c., and capital less
than 7 p.c. of the gross product. A Vic-
torian Mines Department return shows that
in a pre-war year the value of srold WO n was
£1.231.745, and divs. paid £270.812. or 21.98
p.c.: if calls were deducted capital’s share
would have been next to nothing.
* * * *
Muriel Tank goldfield (N.S.YV.) has
reached the stage when horny-handed pros-
pectors and “powerful syndicates” unite in
clamoring for the erection of a State bat-
tery. ihis is a direct poverty signal. The
most complete battery and gold-treatment
plant m N. S. Wales is within 15 miles of
the field ; it is idle, and the mine on which
it is erected is hardly likely to be worked
again. It would be to the advantage of the
owners to crush prospectors’ parcels for no-
thing at present, in the hope that it might
lead to the development of a payable field
A. S. Wales has never adopted the State
battery system, Private Enterprise having
always been equal to any justifiable demand
tor ordinary treatment works. Let Muriel
lan kites guarantee 1000 tons to crush to
start with, and they will not have to wait
long for a battery.
syndicate of Sydney bookmakers have
had a “dark horse” in training in. an Alpine
1 ;istness for a couple of years, but the “dead-
cert has turned out to be a wild-cat. This
is the. meaning of the simple (in itself)
advertisement that the Yarrahgobillv Silver-
lead Co. is m liquidation. The bookies were
so confident that this enterprise would be
successful that they kept it exclusively to
themselves, though at one time they could
have got almost any premium on shares
that they might have, asked. It is evident,
that the racing men of Pitt-street have some-
thing to learn from the mining-share opera-
tors as to gambling.
* * * »
<* fakuapa Y alley, the co. floated in Sydney
towards the close of 1920 to work a tin
property in West Siam, delayed dredge-con-
struction when the tin-market crashed
However, directors Cbas. Kerry, Tom Mar-
tyn, Geo. _ Blakemore and John King re-
cently decided that construction costs had
dropped sufficiently to go ahead with order-
ing ot plant. The promoters proposed to
equip with two dredges capable of a com-
bined output of 187,000 cub. yd. per
month; instead, the directors, with hopes in
a new concentrating process, have placed a
contract for one big dredge with a working
capacity of 160,000 cub. yd., to cost
£60,185. This plant will not be ready until
towards the close of next year, when Taku-
npa supporters, who will meantime have to
find calls, hope the tin market will improve
sufficiently, to give good profits from the
pound dirt awaiting treatment.
* * *
The latest Bendigo revival is Bird’s Reef
at Kangaroo Flat, the last line of reef of
any consequence in the sedimentary rocks on
the western side abutting on the grano-
tliorite formation which separates the Castle-
maine and Bendigo fields. Bird’s Reef was
fairly productive for. a good length in shal-
low ground, and figured prominently in the
boom period of the early ’seventies, seven
claims accounting for over 21.0000 z. of gold
in 1870-71. Several half-hearted attempts
have since been made to prospect deeper
ground, but nothing has been done below
500 ft. The last co. struck a rich patch in
spurs in the bottom level —this was ill-luck,
as the patch soon cut out, and shareholders
were so disheartened that they would
not pay calls to provide for further pros-
pecting. The abandonment of the mine at
this stage was quite unaccountable, as the
crosscut passed over the top of a “centre
reef'’ system which was quite new to the
line. On the prospects then revealed, the
chances of the latest co. are hopeful. It
is in good hands. Of the 50,000 shares,
44,000 are to be , contributing. It is pro-
posed to sink the shaft another 100 ft., so
as to give the "centre reef” country a fair
test.
* * * *
Blue Consolidated (Bendigo) crushed 624
tons last week for 5<00z., or per ton.
This has been the average Tor several weeks
past, and as all the ore won has been prac-
tically from development work a splendid
record lias been put up, and on present show-
ing it is likely to continue for a long period.
Another Is. div. is a certainty for this
week. The mine continues to open up well.
Gold has been seen at the 1660 ft. main level
' —"only a little at present; but we realise
that we have at least 100 ft. more to drive
before we can expect the better ore to show.”
South Blue (Bendigo) shares have had a
sharp rise on the sporting chance that the
rise which is being put up to intersect the
Consolidated reef on the south side of a
fault will touch good values. The rise is
now within 20ft. or so of its objective. The
Consolidated shows good values up to the
fault on its side, and the point the South
has to determine is whether or not the pay-
ore crosses the fault.
■** * *
Geologist Milsom, an American visitor,
gave Perth something to talk about recently.
Supporting the request of the owners of
Red, White and Blue mine, Norseman, to the
Mines Minister for an advance of £30.000.
Milsom stated that the property comprised
18 acres, and the main workings consisted of
an open-cut, a 50ft. shaft and some driving
and cross-cutting. According to Milsom
there is a proved depth of 400 ft. of pay-
dirt, and the average value of ore raised
and carted to battery over a period of five
years was 17dwt. As only best dirt had
been sent for treatment, he would reduce
average values for the lease to 50s. per ton.
He estimates the 18 acres to a depth of
400 ft. to give 5,808,000 tons, which would
yield £14,020,000. With an open-cut and
battery on the spot, he reckons working
expenses; would not be more than 13s. 61.
per ton for the, whole formation. This
would mean a total outlay of £3,915,400, and
give a profit of £10,604,600; His requ’re-
ments are an ample water supplv and a
10-head battery, which should treat 20 tons
per day and show a daily profit of £36 10s.
With two men the property is claimed to
have yielded a profit of £42 per week, after
paying 265. per ton for carting and milling.
The proposition is easily Westralia’s most
optimistic. “Putting the lease through” may
be common practice in America ; it has not
been tried in Westrulia. It would take 800
years or so to treat 5,505,000 tons at the
rate of 20 tons per day. How Mdsom
learned that the lease is payable down
to 400 ft. from boundary to boundary both
ways is a secret of his own. The.'Perth
manager of the Commonwealth Bank has
agreed to recommend the advance of £30.000
provided the State Government will guar-
antee it, and no doubt anv other bank would
accept such security. Mines Minister Scad-
dan is investigating the proposition.
* * * *
At the Mutooroo, Hampton Plains, mana-
ger Warwick tells of a crosscut off No. 1
level from No. 1 shaft having picked up a
western formation. Sampling i.n 3ft. sections
gave poor stuff, as is most of the Mutooroo
stone. Casting about to get to the western
wall Warwick blunted bores putting in a
Oft. hole. Drillings assay up to 56dwt., but
the last lot tested went only I3dwt. All
the work done bv Mutooroo shows that the
stone is patchy, and with the shoots of gold
of not more than about 20ft. The country is
so tight and so hard that no one expects any-
thing much better to come along.
brom London: The latest arbitration
award came as a big surprise and dis-
appointment to Govett, Doolette and other
controllers of Westralian gold-min : ng cos.
here. They looked for an all-round reduc-
tion of about 3s. per shift, and regard the
Is. decrease granted by the Court as “quite
inadequate.” One or two of the Kalgoorlie
cos. were considering risking som e of their
accumulated profits in prospecting for oil,
but as a result of the new award, so they,
say, they have decided to nurse their
resources.
* * * *
Lake View Investment Trust did slightly
better last year, but the improvement was
not sufficient to warrant a larger div. In-
vestments. of which 90 p.c. are saleoblp j n
the market, stand in the books at £390.3.80
but their quoted value, is £744.900. Other
surnlus liquid assets swell the total to
£786,400. equivalent to 19s. ner 10s. share.
The co.’s chief asset nowadays is a lar°e
interest in the Burma Corporation. *
Daisy Queen, Lawlers (W.A.), did not
have much success with its June call until
last month, when 25dwt. values were met
with in the bottom level. The shares had
a flutter to Is. 3d., and cheques began to
arrive from Adelaide. Meanwhile, many
shares had been forfeited and auctioned, and
Adelaide holders are sore.
« t ♦ *
Fraser’s line of reef, Southern Cross
C\\.A ; ), is likely to be given another trial.
The line was discovered 33 years ago, and
five mines were worked. Many divs. were
pa:d, and tributors at times have done well
from what the co. managers left. During
recent years the workings have been flooded,
but W. Faraday, of Fraser’s Central, is
visiting London with a view to raising capi-
tal to unwater and reopen the mines. It is
not generally known that Deeming was once
engineer on Fraser’s.
* * * *
Mt. Cobalt, Cloncurry (Q.), has its ex-
pensive crushing and concentrating plant
finalised, and experimental runs recently
carried out were successful, though a
few adjustments were needed. The
mine is looking well, and ore is .now being
mined down to the 112 ft. level. The south
shaft is being sunk to this level, and will
make connection with the main shaft. The
stopes show some clean shipping ore, but the
bulk has to be put through and cleaned.
There is a big tonnage of low-grade ore at
grass awaiting concentration, as picked ore
has been going to Europe for the past year.
The fate of the mine depends on the demand
for cobalt and the plans of the American
cobalt combine, which has hitherto squeezed:
out ail opposition on a limited demand for
the metal. The mine at Mt. Cobalt is one
of the world’s best in its particular class,
and U.S.A. interests have already tried un-
successfully to get a footing.
* * * *
Since the sensational crushing of No. 4
North Phoenix, Gyrnpie (N.Q.), in June,
anoiner little lot has been put through which
looks dull by comparison; 129 tons troin the.
same level returning Tlloz. This, in addi-
tion to the lewt. of dirt which gave.s44oz.
last December, suggests there are a few rich
patches knocking about, but that crushing
ore in:any tonnage heeds a lot of thmk.ng
to get out. Anyhow, it keeps the' share-
holders in good heart, and the mine plugging'
along with the hope of something turning up
that threatens.permanency. The black slate
which brings in the gold on the Gyrnpie held
has been lost in driving the 7S4ft. level,
where the rich ore chine troth, but the drive
is being continued in the expectation of find-
ing it again,
*** * '
Silver Spur (Q.) is jogging along comfort-
ably on its new lode, with values continuing
satisfactory. The only discomfort is that
the faults, which no doubt helped to bring
in the riches, make the chasing of the ore-
bodies difficult. A crosscut is being put
in from the 60ft. level in the hope of cutting
the new lode where it has never been seen
before, that is, to the south of the present
workings. Of the picked ore sent south for
smelting, the last 105 tons carried 11,3190 z.
silver, 58oz. gold and 4ewt. copper, which
panned out worth £l6-odd a fun. But'
Edgar Hall isn’t satisfied; with a plant of
his own on the spot, Silver Spur would have
a chance of coming into its own.
* * * *
The new reefs at Ortona, one of the out-
posts of the Etheridge goldfields (N.Q.),
carry pretty good values, and give evidence
of going down, although none has been
opened so far to more than 50ft. There
they are maintaining their size (up to 3ft.)
and show no signs of pinching out. Up to
the present the prospectors have only five
head of stamps, but are talking of getting
a more up-to-date battery. Crushing's'
totalling S 3 tons_ have yielded 1430 z., and
there are about 250 tons at grass now. With
good extraction it can be confidently anti-
cipated that this stuff will average over 2oz.
Still, so far, there is nothing very big to'
get excited about.
In the eastern drive the Billy Hughes
fN.Q.) unearthed a sft. reef going 18dwt. A
3ft. cut has now been taken out in the bot-
tom, where 6in. of 2foz. ore was coming in.
This has exposed 4ft. of heavily-mineralised
ore averaging 2oz. 4dwt. per ton across the
whole width, and there is from 6in. to Ift. of
rubbb 7 ore adjoining worth .an ounce. The
balance of the machinery required to com-
plete the plant has been purchased, so within
a couple of months the stampers should be
falling. The shaft is now down 60ft. and
values are improving with depth.
* * * *
Although Queensland Mines Department
turned down the supposed oil occurrence in
the Beaudesert bore, there has remained a
lingering doubt about it in the public mind.
Private Enterprise has signified its intention
of probing the matter thoroughly. The'
Dept, has granted an oil prospecting license
in the district, the site of the first trial bore
has been picked, and the drills will soon be
working overtime. Dr. Jensen some time
ago pronounced that the Lower Walloon
strata had quite a chance of carrying oil
dools, and as these outcrop extensively in the
Sr/goo? Sf rict * '°ok S like t»v
Re Sst re^ti 1 'I'* 1 '* ‘ S PUttlns up
Talpa : The “\\ ild Gat” (B 20/7/’92\
made some very nprtinpjif </—-I
ments ud and YY escralian Govern-
ments. Whydo we not benefit bv the pvneri.
ences ,ot the greatest /oil-producing country
in the world the U.S.A.? There prosnec?
areas e if 1 2560 r ac?ef n o t^(| O ) r f ye f rs ’ - over
ship or naturalisation ini
by applicant that he -does not hold o7lrn!
<mj- interest in another permit The terms
provide stringent conditions, including tlie in-
ing outfit 01 and UbStan^al and :td( drill-
! •n- outnt ’ and commencement or actual
Sii ssir # in
covert nfoSi T e reward for the dis-
sj'” 1 z ‘asrjS’St Vn^rt
MofZot'Z™ 1 ™;? COmv,y wl ‘h tlw oon-
uitions ot the permit or not exercising due
ciligence in the work of development As
the nermitOT cti “* M S proved successful
tne peimittee has to take up a lease of an
area not exceeding /640 acres or instead
exercise a royalty I right. Lessees are rJ
quired to install efficient equipment and
s'gning n< and dl th linS WitWn three months of
anv fnteS cannot assign the lease, or
any. interest therein. nor sublet anv norti.m
a) I ndi’ti! : ,n < s ol in ei th r he application of similar
Si the Commonwealth, where no
n dmPit ll Jh 3S I- S ° far been dis( -'overed, would
the !! check pros Pectmg. Nevertheless,
e ar.as granted are far too large; it will
ake years to locate likely sites on them, and
that policy also has the effect of restricting
genuine prospecting by parties other Than
the successful licensees
* * ’ * »
From J. B. David, of Singapore
The par re Kuala Lumpur Tin (B. 25/5/’22) in
th!. IC w 3 ',° U / ay “already’David has got his shekels’and
the wad of paids, is misleading. The £15,000 cash
which I received really went to pay for one particu-
lar block which I had to purchase for cash in order
to complete the area. Air that I actually received
tor the property was the 30,000 paid-up shares to
compensate me for the heavy outlay of cash and
other financial risks which I had to carry.


SHOOTING THE RAPIDS.
The Hughes Government last week again escaped destruction by a margin of one.


advt
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Daking House,
Sydney.
Olderfleet, Collins Strict
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High
W.A. —H. Little £r Co., 851
Melbourne.
St., Christchurch
Hay St., Perth
Tooth’s
O'
V
❖
*
o
o
rv
&
*
v
V
V
V
*
rt.
\ G
V
<b
\
Tooth’s
Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, has now
taken over the management of the Hotel
Carlton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. T.evy is a well-
known French chef, whose cuisine is
famous among visitors to Sydney.
Registered address, Cable, Radio or
Telegraph,: “HOCAR,” Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
“Barney” : In S. Aus. the latest interpre-
tation of the letters K.C.M.G., is: Kanakas,
Chows, Malays and ’Ghans.
George Maxwell, M.P., is an oddly
pathetic feature of Melbourne criminal
courts. He has to be guided to a
seat, and the usual bundle of legal papers
isn't for him; but otherwise he looks and
acts like any other, facing the jury in the
old way, and turning a quick glance
in the Judge’s direction at psychologi-
cal moments. The other morning I noticed
Maxwell lean over to the solicitor in front
of him and ask in a hoarse whisper, “Is
the jury in?” The 12 good and true gents
were looking at him from the box a few
feet away. The veteran can still see a
little —but only objects a foot or two in
front of him,, and then darkly.
Dan Burke, Tasmania’s most venerable
figure, was at the formal opening of the
railway to Circular Head connecting the
isolated Far Nor’-West with the rest of the
TED TAIT, at
the Sydney end
of J.C.W.'s.
island. He re-
cen 11 y • resigned
from the West-
bury Council after
being a member for
about 65 years,
and a warden for
over 40. He has
also been in Par-
liament for several
terms. He saw
the first railway in
both England and
the Speck (the sod
in the case of the
latter was turned
by the Duke o'
Edinburgh over 50
years ago). But
perhaps his proud-
est memory is the
fact that he lent a
hand in the escape
of John Mitchell
from Vandemonia.
He is 100 per cent.
Irish pathriot, de-
spite (or should
one say because
of?) his prolonged
exile from the old
sod.
Passed out at Malvern (Vic.), at
the age of 73, Rev. John Ryan, a Jesuit
pioneer, who at different periods had been
Rector of Xavier and Head of the Order in
Australia. lie was a broad-shouldered and
genial cleric, and his formidable black beard
had long been familiar to the breezes of sub-
urban Richmond. There predeceased him
by a few weeks another of the now few
members of the old school, Rev. Chas.
Morrogh, who also had no use for a razor.
Col. C. M. Ranclaud, who has just
rounded off his 50th year with the A. A, Co.,
and because of it has been entertained at the
office in Newcastle (N.S.W.), entered the
service as a junior in the days when the co.
worked the Borehole mine and used the
“shoots” in Hunter-street West to load ships.
In those primitive times Edwin C. Mere-
wether was general maanger.
“T.R.H.”: Lord Leverhulme, whose life-
assurance scheme for his employees has been
featured in the cables, is the soapman who
was better known as William Lever. There
was no softsoap about his dealings with
the Harmsworth (Northcliffe) press. The
Daily Mail and Evening News stated
that the one-pound bars of Lever’s Sunlight
soap weighed less than 16oz. Lever fired
in libel writs, and proved that each one-
pound bar weighed 16oz. when it left the
factory, but that evaporation lessened the
weight if kept in stock too long. He got
the record damages for libel in England—
£so,ooo. Harmsworth settled the actions
against several of their other papers, and
altogether the case was supposed to lessen
the banking account of “the Napoleon of
journalism” by £200,000. Nobody dared to
mention soap in Carmelite House for 12
months after.
“Epictetus”: The Bage mentioned in a
recent par. about Arctic voyagers was Cap-
tain E. F. R. Bage, a graduate in Civil
Engineering of Melbourne ’Varsity. Some-
where about 1911
he was stationed at
Swan Island
(Vic.), in charge
of the Submarine
Mining Station,
and later he joined
Mawson’s expedi-
tion as astronomer
and assistant mag-
netician. He led
the southern sledg-
ing party, which
covered about 600
miles of blizzard-
swept ice. When
h e returned he
wrote a chapter on
“The Quest of the
Southern Magnetic
Pole” for Maw-
son’s “Home of
the Blizzard.” He
was killed in action
in Y 5, at Gal-
lipoli.
FRED KNIGHT,
chairman of the
Taxpayers' Asso-
ciation, Melbourne.
“Adelaide”: H. N. Barwell is not “Sir
Newman” (B. 27/7/’22). Some of the S.
Aus. papers did try the second name during
the Premier’s absence, but as soon as he got
back he plumped for plain Henry. The
public was prepared for either. Barwell
being one of those citizens whom few people
have ever called by his Christian name.
Fred W. Whitney, who died recently in
Adelaide, was at one time manager for
Harrold Colton and Co., but for the last 45
years had been a manufacturers’ agent.
Whitney was a conspicuous figure in the
city, as he made his business calls in frock-
coat, belltopper and gloves—a costume usu-
ally reserved in these days for Government
House habitues and vendors of patent pills.
“P.T.0.”: R. M. Harvey, of Tasmania, is
the sort of man that never grows old. For 35
years before he reached his 00th milestone he
had been managing banks in four different
States; then, just before retiring from his
latest charge, the Bank of Australasia
(Hobart branch), he joined the local Stock
Exchange and celebrated the handing over
his insignia as a banker by opening up offices
as a broker.
Died the other day, in Sydney, in his 68th
year, Joseph Edmund Carne, F.G.S., one of
Australia’s most enthusiastic and capable
geologists. Starting from somewhere near
the bottom rung of the N.S.W. Public Ser-
vice in 1879, and without the advantage of
a ’Varsity education, he climbed steadily till
he became Government Geologist, a job
which he relinquished in 1919. N. S. Wales
has to thank Carne for the fine Mining and
Geological Museum in Sydney, which stands
so typically for the rich mineral resources
of the State. He represented N. S. Wales
at most of the world’s exhibitions of his time,
and proved an encyclopaedia to those in
search of information on mining, geological
and economic subjects. Among his publica-
tions were “The Geology of the Western
Coalfield.” “The Kerosene-shale Deposits of
N.5.W.,” “The Copper-mining Industry,”
“The Tin-mining Industry” and “The Lime-
stone Deposits of N.5.W.,” and each year
the Departmental Report contained many of
his valuable records on geology and, mineral-
ogy. Carne excelled as a careful student
and compiler of history, and his personal
observations and deductions were so reliable
that they will stand as a basis for many
future geological and mining investigations.
Edward Riley, Labor M.H.R., has held
the comfortable South Sydney seat since
J. C. Watson dropped out in 1910. He has
never been pushed in the pre-selection bal-
lots, and this year he polled 599 to 269
against William Maule Webster, a stock-
and-station agent of Parkes, who contested
Wammerawa in the N.S.W. ejections in
1920 and 1922. Riley is a plasterer, not
brilliant, but well-liked by the toilers of
his district. A Digger son, “Ted,” is to
grapple with Catts in the Cook electorate.
li. R. Pilkington, the Westralian K.C.,
is trying to follow his fellow-Stater, New-
ton Moore, into the House of Commons.
Not lacking in courage, he will try to
wrench Dundee from Winston Churchill,
and knowing that it cost Newton Moore
£lO,OOO for his seat, the candidate has pro-
bably considered the financial aspects of his
undertaking. Pilkington, however, made a
lot of money at the Westralian Bar. As
member for Perth in the Groperland Legis-
lature he was a thorn in both sides of
the House through his implacable indepen-
dence. In his disregard for conventional
opinion Pilkington recalls writer-and-tra-
veller It. B. Cunningliame Graham, who fin-
ished his short life in the House of Com-
mons by roundly “damning” his fellow-
iuembers for their hypocrisy.
“T.W.”: Of 18 K.C.’s on the Victorian
roll, only eight are now chasing refreshers at
the Bar. Seven have become Judges—lsaacs,
Duffy, Higgins, Irvine, McArthur, Macfarlan
ind Woinarski. Approximately, Vic. possesses
800 barristers and solicitors, of whom 115
confine themselves to the purely horsehair
branch of the trade.
Thomas Honan, lately dead at Mount Gam-
bier (S.A.) at 82, was born on the Hokianga
River (M.L.), where his father managed
a co. from Sydney that cut and carried
kauri. The family left the Shivery Isles on
account of the Maori wars, and is said to
have dropped its rights to a section which
is now a whole Auckland suburb. Thomas,
who has been prominent in south-eastern
S.A. for 60 years, remembered Adam Lind-
say Gordon well.
“Cheshire Cheese” : Whatever resources for
keeping the wolf from the door the Asquith
family may have, “T.R.H.” is preposter-
ously astray when he credits Lloyd George’s
predecessor with “making a fortune at the
Bar.” Asquith sacrificed all chance of doing
so when he went in for politics. A man
who has spent 36 years, with only the
briefest break, in the House of Commons,
held offices (including the highest) for 12
years, led a party for 16 years, and been
every bjt as prominent in Oppositions as in
Ministries, has little time for scooping im-
mense fees in the law courts. In the last
generation, Sir William Vernon Harcourt
was a conspicuous example of the same
ambition or abnegation. Incidentally, Har-
court, who might easily have gone to the top
at the Bar, was much less fortunate than
Asquith in politics, for his terms of office
were of the scantiest, and the Liberal leader-
ship, which he had fairly earned on Glad-
stone’s resignation, went to the dilettante
Rosebery.
There died at Oamarn (M.L.),
the other day, Shirley W. Baker, son of that
Rev. Shirley W. Baker who got religion
and politics tangled up in Tonga half
a century back. Parson Baker went
over there for the Australian Wesleyan
Church, but eventually became Premier and
adviser to the dusky monarch King George.
Later, trouble arose between the Wesleyan
Church and the Government, which cul-
minated in a schism in the church, and
Parson Baker became a Pope of the Free
Church of Tonga. Bad blood went on
simmering, and one day, while the parson
was driving with his son and daughter, a
party of Tongans attacked them. Baker
escaped, but the son and daughter were
severely wounded. Ultimately the Powers
intervened and Sir John Thurston in
1890 forcibly deported Baker in a man-o’-
war. The son who has just died carried a
result of the ambuscade in a maimed arm
till his death. He was a bachelor, a sur-
veyor by profession, and 60 years of age.
In less than four years Colonel Snowden,
of the Speck, has been twice elected to Par-
liament and twice Mayor of Hobart, and is
now Chief Secretary. Energy, native ability,
plenty of nimble-witted tact and a clever
and pushful wife have hoisted him up the
public ladder 10 steps at a time. If any-
happens to Premier Lee as a result of
his anticipated failure satisfactorily to adjust
existing differences between the Nationalists
and the Country Party, nobody would be
surprised to see Snowden collar the wheel.
“Aramac”: Just dead at Mareeba (N.Q.),
at 64, Pat Casey, who made a pile at Her-
berton in the days when tin used to be taken
away in drayloads. Casey is remembered
w k° backed his horse to win
~ j, , anc * by the time the event came off
had increased the wager to £4OOO. As the
JABEZ WRIGTIT, M.L.A., the heaviest
sleeper in the N.S.W. Assembly.
horses entered the straight a Ilerbertion
layer leant over the rails, and, waving a
gun, shouted to Casey’s jock., “I’ll blow
you’re blanky brains out it you attempt to
win!” Casey—possibly because of his passion
for such ventures-—died in comparative
poverty.
Butler Aspinall, K.C., who is presiding
over the Egypt inquiry in England, is the
second son of dead-and-gonc Butler Cole
Aspinall, one of the best advocates and wit-
tiest barristers Melbourne has known. The
elder Aspinall was brought from London
by the Argus as a law reporter, but, seeing
his opportunities, studied for the Bar. He
got into Parliament in 1856, and once held
Ministerial office. He died in England in
1875, but before returning there had the
honor of being reported dead by a Melbourne
evening paper. Among his celebrated de-
fences were those of the Eureka rioters dnd
the lunatic O’Farrell, who shot at the Duke
of Edinburgh in Sydney in 1868'.
There died at Ballarat the other day an
old soldier who claimed to have been one
of the Light Brigade, and to have been
wounded twice in the famous charge. His
name was Michael Carmichael, and he had
passed his century when he faded out.
Ages ago G. 11. Knibbs, late Federal
Statistician and now director of the
Institute of Science and Industry, was
a N.S.W. Government surveyor. He
never took kindly to field work, but
was a whale for mental graft of almost
any description. He once struck a book on
triangulation or something that he wanted
to read; but it was in German, and had
never been translated. He promptly learnt
German and read the volume. Since then
he has translated lyrics from the Finnish
and written scientific articles in Italian.
“Lexite” : Unless there are others who are
not in the Veterans’ Association, old George
Maryott, 84 on July 15, is the sole surviving
Crimean war veteran in N. S. Wales. He
joined the navy at 15, but later went to the
mercantile marine, and was aboard the Queen
of England when she hit N. S. Wales rather
violently at Nobby’s in 1861. He’s been in
Australia ever since.
“Wart” : One of the candidates who just
saved his deposit at the Tas. election was
Murphy, who stood in the interests of the
Country party for Bass. He is the Lord
High Yellow-pip of the local L.O.L foolery,
and he had to spend most of his time on the
hustings explaining that, though a Murphy,
he was, so to speak, untainted by Irishism.
George (Pooh-Bah) Morrison has been
deputed to hear appeals by John Hops
against the recommendations of the Vic.
Police Promotions Board. He is already
Public Service Commissioner, Deputy-In-
spector-Gfeneral of Prisons, appeal tribunal
for teachers, a police magistrate, and : occa-
sionally, a Royal (inquiry) Commissioner.
“Agricola”: “Coot” (B. 13/7/’22) is
wrong in saying William Hunt edits the
Kilmore • (Vic.) Advertiser. That job
belongs to George Bird Good, who often dips
his pen in gall to retaliate for the unkindly
references made by Thomas Hunt (not Wil-
liam), ex-Minister for the Crown, who pro-
duces the local Free Press.
Vic. Upper House has just awakened to
the fact that, apart from Attorney-General
Robinson and Public Works Minister Frank
Clarke, the only member who has held
salaried office in a Cabinet is Edgar, now
Chairman of Committees. Merrit and Davis
are lionoraries, and Payne, Jones, Kendell
and Richardson have been Cabineteers at the
same price.
THE SEA COOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Brighton (Vic.) mail has recollected the time
when he saw William Morris Hughes serving as
third cook on an Australian coaster. William was
dismissed eventually for insubordination.
I see him on the bounding main
In desultory trousers
With sweaty face as hard and plain
As some splenetic wowser’s.
His bare feet on the sloppy deck
Go briskly clipper-clapper.
His shirt’s cut, from a scrawny neck.
In tousled state he bears a plate
With plumduff of enormous weight
Or reeking steaks of snapper.
I’ve heard a lot about sea cooks,
But never yet did word one,
And that I think is how he looks,
This discontented third one.
His pants show arabesques in soup
Picked out with scales of fishes.
He slays the chickens from the coop,
And through the day, though sailors gay
May fiddle half their time away,
He fiercely washes dishes.
He delves into the harness cask
And digs the salted horse up,
And where the hardy sailors bask
He serves the noisome course up.
The Jack Tars no doubt cursed with vim
Hughes and his soul’s condition.
T’were best for us, if not for him,
If he were but a third cook still
Who is now, sec him as you will,
A third-rate politician!
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


iJUttfdngtJ&mird
m
m
Clddaidc i&Sktfmm &3hiuhn
m
DARWIN
erine
\
Bae£
m
NEWi BAK TREAID
ngreerch
THE GREATEST MOTORING /FEAT ...
EVER ACCOMPLISHED INI AUSTRALIA.
INSANE
• ,■
PERTH
ADELAIbE
jr
Mi Ida r a
Sydney
rt‘'
\r° n
MELBOURNE
OVER MOUNTAINS,
THROUGH GULLIES,
FLOOD WATERS, HIGH GRASS,
OVER HUGE BOULDERS, HIDDEN
STUMPS and HUGE SANDHILLS.
Mr. Murray Aunger, a well-known
Adelaide motorist, headed a large party
of motorists on the Overland trip from
Adelaide to Darwin, leaving Adelaide
on May 9. They reached Darwin on
June 7, and Adelaide on return on
Saturday, July I 5, the complete journey
taking 67 days. This trip is without
parallel in the annals of Australian
motoring.
Three Dort cars conveyed the party,
and Mr. Aunger states that neither the
car nor tyres gave the slightest trouble
throughout the strenuous drive, despite
the fact that they had to traverse un-
made roads, over mountains, through
flooded streams, and over huge boulders.
The journey north was over the main Central
Australasian route, via Oodnadatta, Alice Springs, etc.,
returning through Cloncurry, Longreach (Queens-
land), and thence to Mildura, Hamilton (Vic.), and
Robe (S.A.) —a wonderful trip and one that again
proves the great wearing qualities of Australian-made
Barnet Glass Boomerang Tyres.
Herewith we give an
extract from a wire re-
ceived from Mr, Aunger on
his arrival at Darwin:—
“Tyres exceeding all expecta-
tions; travelled hundreds of miles
stony country, including twelve
miles on crest rocky range to avoid
flood-waters, stones almost impass-
able; condition tyres wonderful,
not even punctured or bad cut to
date; toughest, strongest tyres have
ever used. Fully expect original
tyres to complete return journey.
Party delighted performance tyres.”
The ORIGINAL TYRES, fitted in
Adelaide at the commencement of the
journey, WERE USED THROUGH-
OUT THE TRIP.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
BARNET GLASS
NEW BAR-TREAD BOOMERANG TYRES.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australasia,”
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND.


Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing ud to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited-
Crimean Pyjamas at 25/-
When Crimean is so soft and thick as this, the Pyjamas
must combine great warmth and comfort with extreme
durability.
Various stripe designs of Blue, Pink and Helio on light
Grey grounds are available.
These Pyjamas have been cut on liberal lines further
to increase their comfort.
Because of the long and satisfactory wear they are sure
to give, they constitute splendid value at 25/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height, chest and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
g r
Usher’s Hotel ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
“Bill O’Costs”: “Saaedi’s” punctilious
bushman (B. 20/7/’22) who declined to fight
his friend until as well advanced in inebriety
as himself, is to be found in other walks
in life. An old-time S.A. barrister (father
of two I •ring K.C.’s, by the way), while
waiting for a case to be called, strolled round
to a nearby hostelry. In the little parlor he
found Sir Blank Blank, K.C.. and passed him
the invitation, “Join me, Sir Blank, will
you?” The great man smiled and shook his
head. “I’ve just had two. thanks.” “Then
Why not another?” “I daren’t. I have to
meet you in the next case.” The old ’nn
turned to the servitor. “Barman, a brandy
and soda, please.” It was brought and swal-
lowed. “Another, my man. And let it be
stiff.” Having made away with the second
stinger, the old sportsman turned W'th his
best bow to the Iv.C. “Now, Sir Blank, join
me, if you please.” A few minutes later,
equally primed, they were exchanging their
forensic right swings and left crosses as if
they had loathed each other all their lives.
“Sol.” turns a doubtful eye on the Old Sod :
It seems to be generally agreed that the Free
State troops will soon be in complete possession
of the Irish Free State, which has hitherto be-
longed to the firstcomer, and that then peace will
supervene and the last Kilkenny cat fold its
ensanguined tail and- as silently steal away.
And yet I have my doubts. The British troops
were in complete possession from Cromwell’s time
onward, and no peace supervened that was worth
mentioning. The French have completely possessed
Corsica for 154 years, and the gendarme chases the
stiletto-laden vendetta over the hills with the old ill-
success. The Devil, or another person of the same
name, has been in complete possession of the globe
for longer than that, and holy calm is still scarce.
So far, the Free State troops (in uniform, so that
they can be identified) have been hacking their
way through. Apparently the non-uniformed sec-
tions of the rebels simply conceal their rifles when
the battle is lost, and proceed to dig “praties”
as if they had never done anything else. When
the Free State cyclone is past they can either go
on digging or resume their warlike character and
slam the astonished victors in the rear. This sort
of thing makes campaigning in rugged, hilly
countries not merely uncertain but interminable.
My idea is that when the present war is finished
the previous one will resume indefinitely. Profit-
ing by past experience, the rebel leader will scorn
to declare himself, but he will probably be a pro-
minent member of the Free State Government and
a strenuous advocate of peace. (In the early Stuart
days respectable English politicians sometimes
owned pirate vessels or shares in them, which is
a sort of precedent.) It will be difficult to nego-
tiate with the rebels, for no one —and this has par-
ticular reference to the peace gentleman in the
Cabinet —will admit that he is one of them. There
were somewhat similar happenings in the United
States after the Civil War. The South had been
flattened so that it could be passed under a door
without disturbing the mat. The victors put the
emancipated nigger in charge of affairs and went
home. The night-riders of the Ku-Klux-Klan made
hay of the emancipated nigger and his Government.
So the army came back to re-conquer the conquered
country, and after re-conquering for some years it
hadn’t one dead Ku-Klux-Klansman that it could swear
to as a trophy. Even when outrages happened in the
next street the Federal legions rarely got round the
corner in time. The moral of all of which is that
peace has ever been a hard thing to come by, even
in a gathering of bun-fed Methodies, and to expect
it, in any large volume, in whisky-nourished Erin
may be said to indicate an exaggerated form of
optimism.
* * * *
Ted Colles: One heard many a lugubrious
stave from those unashamed sentimentalists,
the Tommies, but the one that came nearest
to making me forget in a burst of ribald
mirth that old-world courtesy for which the
Digger was justly famed contained the fol-
lowing poignant passage:—
She wuz pore, but she wuz ’onist.
Victim horf 'a rich man’s whim ;
First ’e loved ’er, then ’e left ’er,
An’ she ’ad a ehoild by ’im!
I can’t say how many verses there w'ere to
it; but I first heard it sung, with the proper
Cockney accent, by a mob of Middlesexers
who’d been standing for two hours in a chill,
drizzling rain waiting for rations outside the
Q.M.’s billet in a dilapidated village down
the Somme wrny —in the fourth year of the
war. Can anyone oblige with the full story
of the tragedy?
* * # *
“D.F.” : While “Wealsman” and his Scotch
friend Murphy (B. 6/7/’22) are no doubt
right in thinking that Tasman and his Dutch-
byterians omitted to hold a service in the
Speck in 1642, they display a certain un-
familiarity with the Hollanders’ doings.
Jacobzooh, the carpenter, certainly had to
swim through the surf to plant the Dutch
flag on the shore of the little bay just inside
Watson’s Point. But that was not the first
landing made by the exoedition. On the
morning of the same day Tasman and others
had visited the Two-miie Beach, looking for
fresh water —wdiich they failed to find. And
the day before the boatswain and others had
gone through the Narrows into Blackman’s
Bay, where they landed and saw r the foot-
prints of a large animal (probably a Tas-
manian tiger). They noticed, too, the toe-
holds that the abos. had cut in the bark of
the trees to help them climb after ’possums.
■X * * *
“D.P. J.” : It is 100 years last w r eek since
the first solicitor of the Supreme Court of
N.S.W. came to light. On July 20, .1822,
George Allen was admitted by Justice Field,
who, at that time, conducted the who’e busi-
ness of the court. Allen was an alderman
of the first corporation of the City of Syd-
ney. and was for a time Mayor. In
1856 he was appointed to the Legislative
Council. In the early days of the Supreme
Court solicitors also acted as barristers.
In 1824, when W. C. Wentworth and War-
dell were'admitted as barristers, they moved
for a division of the two branches of the
profession; the motion, however, was dis-
CRACKING HARDY.
“My God! Look at your clothes! And I’m going through the court next week!”
“Well, if we've got to advertise our insolvency we might as well show that tee were good
marks once.”
missed. The division was not effected until
1820, when existing lawyers were given the
option of adopting either branch of the pro-
fession.
* # * •
“Bouragi” on a traveller’s story:—
Beatrice Grimshaw, who has just arrived in Eng-
land, evidently does not intend to allow Monckton
and others a monopoly of the Papuan fiction market.
She has been telling London Daily Mail how the
missionaries have, by the aid of aeroplanes, discov-
ered a valley containing 10,000 people, “whose exist-
ence had never been suspected, and who were living
at an altitude previously deemed to be fatal to
human life.” The highest known spot in Papua
is the plateau atop of Mount Albert Edward —a
region which has been used as a hunting-ground by
the natives from times unknown. Amateur hypso-
meter measurements make it about 14,000 feet
above sea-level —and people can live comfortably
at much higher altitudes. By the way, nothing has
been heard of that flight of missionaries in Aus-
tralia yet.
THE BLIPS OF IGNORANCE.
“Do you know, Mary, whether my dress-
maker's bill came for the master while
I was out?”
“It can’t have, madam: I can hear him
singing.”
“The Rumpus”: “Lip” (B. 15/6/’22)
blames the movies for teaching boys to
burgle houses by pushing the key of the
door on to a sheet of paper on the inside, and
then withdrawing the paper carrying the key.
It’s a dull boy that has to go to the
pictures to learn that old trick. When
I was a kid I stayed in a house, the
owner of which was reputed to keep a sock-
ful of sovereigns in his bedroom. He always
left the key of the back door in the lock
when he went out, but had it fastened with
a piece of string to a screw. Often when
he returned home he found the key dangling.
But he never informed the police, because
he never kept a bean in the house. Anyhow,
I’d like to know the title of the picture
which showed some boys how to remove
“£5O-odd worth of goods from an empty
house,” as stated by “Lip.”
“Pat Bushie” : Beer must have been plenti-
ful at Cobar, N.S.W., years back. In front
of the gaol the paths and flower-beds have
borders of dead marines, upside down in the
ground, and the tops are barely showing.
The years they’ve been there can only be
estimated from the fact that when the gaoler
was having a neiv bed dug up recently, the
man with the spade unearthed, at a depth of
about nine inches, the bottles forming the
border of an old bed.
* * * *
“Lip”: The loss of a perfectly good collec-
tion of trench mortars was a sore point with
the Umptieth Battalion (A.1.F.), and some
of the adjacent Tommy units knew all about
it. The Chooms used to suggest affably that
Fritz had pinched them when the Diggers
weren’t looking, and the allegation rankled.
Some months after the catastrophe, one of
the battalion, on leave in England, came
across a Tommy angling for pike in a Surrey
lake. “Hullo, Choom,” said the Digger, not
unreluctant to take the simple fellow down
a peg or two. ‘Tishin’ fer whales?” “No.”
replied the angler as he glanced at the Dig-
ger’s color-patch; “f’r the trench mortars you
coves lost!”
* » * *
“Ejus” : Apropos this “Ne Temere” rum-
pus, few know, probably, that the sacrament
of matrimony is not administered by the
priest, but by the contracting parties them-
selves : they are, as the R.C. phrase goes,
"ministri saeramenti.” In this respect the
Church goes so far as to say that parties
remote from a priest may marry themseives
in the presence of any two witnesses, with an
attaching condition that such marriage be
repeated before a priest at the earliest oppor-
tunity. The world would certainly say of
those who took advantage of this concession
that there were just “livin’ together,” and
that their children were “little you-know-
whats”; and it puzzles me that those who
have had so much to say about the decree
should have missed this obvious opportunity
of heaving an apparent brick at Rome. It
is quite possible for one without a certain
knowledge of Church and world-history (a
Henley or Bro. Robinson, for example) to
mistake this for a desire on the part of
Rome to encourage dissolute conduct.
THE LATEST METAMORPHOSIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Devil was concentrating his efforts in keep-
ing religion out of the schools.” —Archbishop Kelly
lets out trade secrets.
He met me in a Sydney pub, and waved me to a
seat,
Then ordered whiskies for us both and drank his
own off neat. ,
“Perhaps you do not know my name,” he said. “1
know yours well,
And hope we’ll be the best of friends in days to
come in H—ll.”
He handed a charred card to me,
And I was horrified to see
“The Devil” printed on it neatly.
My courage oozed away completely.
“Come! Come!” he smiled. “Don’t gasp like that!
I’ve far too much to do
To waste my precious time pursuing easy game like
you.
“There is a slump in Sin,” he said. “Last month
my Home Fires failed
For lack of souls, and silence reigned where count-
less millions wailed
Not long ago. The hobs grew cold. We’d have
been in the lurch
Had we relied for fuel on our old friends in the
Church.
Hut all’s not lost despite this blow,
And to restore the status quo
My followers are concentrating
Upon the schools without abating”
The next few r words he muttered so inaudibl.v 1
missed ’em:
The only phrase I caught was “Bruntnell’s education
system.”
And then: “We teach them things like Euclid, Latin,
French and Erse ;
We hoist the Flag and make them sing a patriotic
verse;
THE OTHER PLACE FOR SPORT.
"I feel as though I'm going to Heaven when
I waits with you."
“ Let's reverse .”
We stuff thfm up with tiyful scraps of scientific
knowledge,
And send the;* ruined morally for ever from the
college.
Thus will T snare this genei^tion—
A matter of State education.
Their souls are mine... .Please the waiter. ...
I’ll have to bolt now. See you jVer.”
So speaking, he departed, wrapped rV sulphur-smoke,
to H—ll,
Whilst I endeavored to provide a reason fOv the smell.
N.S.W.
HOUND OF CRETE.


thuny. ytZnje *ciM tfus
vest wm
<CdtL fustofGU Wn*
&
«ut—


Butterfly Hatpins and Brooches,
ranging in price, 16/6, 21/-.
22/6. 25/-
Q
Q
Butterfly Ear Rings, ranging in price,
25/-, 30/-, 32/6, 37/6, 40/-
Butterfly Rings,
prices, 16/6,
17/6, 21/-,
The New Butterfly Jewellery
VERY FASHIONABLE FOR PRESENTATION.
COMPRISING BROOCHES, RINGS, PENDANTS,
WRISTBANDS, EAR-RINGS, HATPINS, etc.
Made from African Butterflies caught in the wilds of
South Africa. The gaily-colored wings are mounted
under magnifying crystal glass, set in Sterling Silver.
A Very Handsome Selection now on view at our
Two Sydney Establishments. Call and Inspect.
Stewart Dawsok &@ c «.*.) Ltd.
Si/chieif @sfablisment& :
185 -187 PITT ST. KEAR. KIIS[G ST.,
CORKER -4-12 GEORGE ST.._^
Butterfly Hat
Pi >is, 16/6,
21/-, etc.
advt
Butterfly Wrist-
bands, Black Moire
Silk Bands, choice
designs, from 30/-
Butterfly Pendan
Price, 45 /-
“Fana’s” nomination for the war-time
Cushy Job Stakes” :
My candidate is the Naval and Military Expedi-
tionary Force, which garrisoned the captured German
territories in the North-West Pacific. In Rabaul
where, as far as privileges and regulations were
concerned, the garrison was on an equal footing
with the A.1.F., the day’s work began at 8.
At 11 came an interval for morning tea, served by
native boys. The appearance of work was resumed at
2 p.m., and at 3.30 p.m. the “cease fire” sounded
and all repaired to canteens, recreation-rooms and
clubs—or to the gambling-joints of Chinatown or
Japtown. It might be mentioned that there was an
“administration” rank, to reinforce the military one,
with the result that at one time, in an establishment
of 800, there were only 30 privates, the rest being-
colonels, lieutenant-colonels, majors, captains, lieu-
tenants and n.c.o.’s. Furlough to Australia was at
the rate of three weeks every year and when tiie list
became slightly overdue owing to the shipping short-
age, an indignant deputation from all ranks waited
on the Administrator to protest against the delay
in “Blighty leave.” Rum was issued four mornings
a week, and for a long time one bottle of beer was
THE ENTHUSIAST.
“They tell me your husband’s wrapped up in gardening."
“My dear! When we dine at the Hotel Ruinous I have my work
cut out to keep him from hoeing the pot-plants with his
fork."
issued free daily to every warrior in the place.
Subsequently, when a charge of Is. a bottle was
made it nearly provoked a mutiny. Every man of
the rank of sergeant or above was allowed one
native servant at Government expense. The Force
in question holds what must surely be a world’s
record—that of having been on active service (God
save the mark!) for four years—l9ls to 1919
without having had one man killed in action.
* * * *
D.F.: Every .now and then Launceston
puts up a claim to be the capital of the
bpeck, and it has wrenched from Hobart a
few small bones, like the railway workshops
and the head office of the State Steamship
line. But nearly a century ago New Nor-
folk, now mostly mental hospital and hop-
grounds, gave the present queen city of the
island a distinctly nasty jar. In 1826 Gov-
ernor Arthur, in an official despatch (it is
quoted in full in the latest volume of the
Historical Records of Australia), recom-
mended, with the backing of his executive
council, that the capital should be shifted to
the up-river location. Arthur actually went
so far as to build a kind of Government
House at New Norfolk, but Hobart’s vested
interests in the capital won out in the end.
TEE LIMIT.
“Why is she divorcing him? Wouldn’t he meet her friends?"
“No —he wouldn’t meet her bills!”
“Hanuo” contributes a new hair-inducer:
My friend the warder assures me that frequently,
under the strain of waiting for the jury’s verdict,
prisoners of an emotional nature develop a profuse
crop of whiskers. As a general rule, a man on trial
is shaven each morning, but, should it happen that
the jury are absent from the box for several hours
the rapidity with which the stubbie appears on the
visage of a highly nervous prisoner is sometimes
astonishing. My observer, who has had 20 years’
experience, has known men who have been shaved
an hour or so before the jury retired to look as if
they had not been near a razor for a week or so
after a couple of hours’ waiting. The late Colin
Ross is alleged to have been of this type. It is a
sort of an argument for Couejsm if you look at it
the right way— i.e., standing on your head.
* * * *
A new and independent evening paper is
promised in Adelaide, where the two existing
ones, issued from the Register and Adver-
tiser offices, are made up entirely of what
was in this morn-
ing’s paper or will
be in to-morrow’s.
A company with a
nominal capital of
£250,000 i n £1
shares is being
floated, but “shall
be considered
formed when 65,000
have been applied
for.” The provi-
sional directors
are Gerald Mussen,
of Melbourne, and
All nu t, Mostyn
Evan, J. H. Gosse
and J. E. David-
son, of Adelaide.
The last - named
was for years with
the Herald in
Melbourne, but has
lately been running
the Barrier Miner
at Broken Ilill, and
the Recorder at
Port Pirie (S.A.).
The new company,
to be called by
the awkward name
of “News, Lim-
ited,” takes over
both those papers,
and Davidson with
them as man-
aging director on a five-years’ agreement.
Machinery has been bought from Melbourne
Herald, and the proposed site is on North
Terrace opposite the railway station. The
paper “expects to have the choice of three
different cable services.”
* * * *
“Eddyson” tells of love in the wilderness:
Beaver bought Smith out of his selection at Bearup,
and congratulated himself on having pulled off a
profitable deal. The 300 acres were watered by
two perennial creeks, and at least 200 acres were
of good arable land, 20 acres cleared. It was plain that
Beaver had got the land for two-thirds its value. Then
Mrs. Condon started dropping in, first for neigh-
borly conversation, then to do little kindnesses for
Beaver, such as washing, mending and baking. Mrs.
Condon was a widow, Beaver’s next-door neighbor, a
quarter of a mile to the east. Mrs. Condon’s
little attentions became rather aggressive. She
would insist on washing Beaver’s shirts and
darning his socks. She wanted him over
for meals on Sundays, and then she began
to link their futures, and to assume an air of posses-
sion, with a vestige of fondness, and finally she asked
Beaver when they were to be married. She invited
the poor man to name the day. Beaver with re-
luctance and much diffidence pointed out that he had
no intention of marrying, and when Mrs. Condon
grew urgent, he s.aid emphatically that he would not
marry her. This served to reveal the lady in a
new light. She asked Beaver what he meant by
stringing her on as he had done. She said he could
not break a woman’s heart with impunity.
She would show him. That evening a shot v'as fired
through Beaver’s door.. Early next morning, while
Beaver was frying steak, another shot came through
the door, and dusted a lot of soot into the frying-pan.
Shortly after dusk on Sunday Beaver’s home was
again perforated with a bullet. There was a bache-
lor holding land on the other side of Mrs. Condon’s,
and Beaver went on Monday to confer with him.
There was no conference; Anderson was not at home,
and Beaver saw' it was no use asking his advice.
There w'ere four bullet-holes through Anderson’s door.
That night Beaver stole to Mrs. Condon’s house on
burglary bent. The hour was late, and the house
w r as in darkness. He intended stealing the widow’s
gun. At the side window, which was open, Beaver
to his amazement was suddenly confronted by a man
coming out. The man W'as Anderson, and he carried
a gun. “I’m pinchin’ it,” said Anderson in a
whisper. “In self-defence,” he added. “God bless
you!” Beaver replied. Anderson called Beaver back.
“Your turn next,” he said. “I’ve shook two up to
now. A man must live.” “And single at that,”
Beaver said gravely. For the time being Mrs. Con-
don is without a gun, but Beaver knows why Smith
left home.
* * * *
“Cleveland”: I am one of those who do
not hold with “W.P.D.” (B. 27/7/’22) that
Australia has anything to gain from its
Italian immigrants. Between Townsville
and Cairns there are already over 5000, and
one in every 10 owns a cane farm. The
Dago may be a European, but the fact re-
mains that we are subsidising a backward
white race which is largely unassimilable to
run pure Britishers out of the industry. At
the present rate of going it is only a matter
of time before all Australian-grown sugar
will be produced by Italians. The Xank is a
pretty sure guide where matters which affect
his own interest are concerned, and, after he
had admitted over three millions from the
land of Garibaldi, he woke up so suddenly to
the draught blowing through the “open door”
policy that he slammed it, and no one with
the faintest odor of garlic about him has a
chance of getting through the aperture nowa-
days. The Orvieto arrived in Brisbane the
other day with 11 British immigrants, as
against 113 macaroni-scoffers. There is a
race-sense as well as a color sense, don’t
forget: and if this is the measure of ours,
then God help the young Australian of half
a century hence!
* * * »
“Sierra”: N. S. Wales Government Astro-
nomer Cooke has hit upon the novel idea of
having men stationed, a furlong apart, on a
line north and south of Goondiwindi to
define the limits of the moon’s shadow as it
moves over the earth on September 21 next.
A touch of genius was required to conceive
this simple plan, which may account for
nobody having thought of it before. The
moon’s shadow extends into space as a dark
cone, the apex of which sweeps over the
earth during a total eclipse. The nearer the
moon is to the earth the deeper the earth
cuts into the cone, and consequently the
greater the area of shadow on the earth’s
surface. If . Cooke succeeds in accurately
measuring this shadow-area, one result will
be the determination of the moon’s exact dis-
tance from the earth during that fraction of
a second when she hung plum-centre over
Goondiwindi.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.” : When Ben Fuller and his fellow-
showmen recently acquired the Sydney pro-
perty on the Elizabeth-
street and King-street
(s.-w.) corner they dis-
turbed some very ancient
legal dust. Before the
present old buildings
were converted into fluff-
shops, and the like, they
were entirely occupied
by those who live upon
Costs. In the ’fifties
Con sett Stephen, solici-
tor, and James Martin,
barrister, occupied the
corner one, now ten-
anted _by Japanese. In
the middle ’sixties “Bill”
Long (who owned Grand
Flaneur) had chambers
adjoining his brother-in-
law, Jas. Martin, after-
wards Chief Justice. In
the next house Frank
Rogers, ,T. G.. L. Innes
and M. H. Stephen put
out their shingles; in the
third William 'Manning
and G. B. Simpson were
located; the fourth shel-
ter e d, professionally,
William Norton, W. H.
Wilkinson, Edward 1/ce
and R. M. Isaacs; the
fifth contained Alex Gor-
don (father of the Divorc
Judge), William Owen, M. R. Pell,
Charles Campbell and D. G. Forbes. Nine
of the above became Judges of one or other
of the courts. Of the 17 whose names are
mentioned but one, Frank Rogers, ex-D.C.
Judge,_ survives. To-day there is not a bar-
rister in any of the five buildings.
* * * •
“Rio” speaks as a Philistine :
It is becoming a habit with Australian painters
who go abroad to come back after a few
years and tell us how narrow we are, and
how totally we lack artistic taste and so
forth. The latest to perform this feat is
Thea Proctor in Home. An answer I have never heard
made to these prophets and prophetesses of woe is
that there are distinct compensations in being
inartistic. It is significant that great advances in
the arts have always occurred in times of national
decadence and corruption or under despotisms. Sappho
was a courtesan, and most great Greek productions
were of a time when slavery and sexual immorality
and perversion were accepted conditions. The writers
of Nero’s day compared with those of the Republic
reek of sycophancy. Italy’s Michael Angelo and Da
Vinci were only made possible by the Borgias, Medici
and Visconti; while France reached its artistic
zenith under Louis NV., when the artists’ patron-
esses were Du Barry and the king’s other mistresses.
The revolution followed. Even the Russian Ballet
which, according to Miss Proctor, presents perfect
music, perfect dancing, perfect costuming and perfect
ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
“Wodger mean by fellin' my sister site
darnced like a heifer?"
“Huh-heifer! Ai nevah s-s-said heifer. Ai
said ZEPHYR.”
art generally, was the subsidised product of a decadent
tyranny which has now been swept away. The ballet
of to-day takes the place of the slave girls of the
past.
England, the best governed country in the world,
has always been regarded by the rest of Europe as
a Goth in matters of Art and Taste. Even Shakspeare
had to grovel to his all too few patrons, and the loose
times of Charles 11. and George IV. were most pro-
ductive of notable painters. Incidentally, Sydney’s
late artistic renaissance has coincided with a bloated
city, the rise of the war profiteers, many public scan-
dals and a war-loosened morality.
IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw a little lady
A-sitting on a ship,
Snug in a corner shady.
The crimson of her lip
Made radiance all around her.
So sweet she was and fair,
So exquisite I found her,
That —well, I didn’t care.
I said, “Though you don’t know mo
And I like to be good,
There’s something that you owe me
You might pay, if you would.
You owe me, sure, swift curing
Of this sweet agony
That now I am enduring
Because you’ve wounded me.
I know that I am homely
But maybe I am nice
And with me you might come by
An earthly Paradise.
It isn’t far to go there,
The fares are very low
And toothsome apples grow there—
Wise men have told me so.
Come now, convention scorning,
I beg you, come with me!
Dear, on a lovelier morning
I never put to sea.
She said, “Go hon! Ow, chuck it!”
(Her mouth was such a flower
That much I longed to pluck it
And wear it for an hour.)
She said, “You’re somethink orful.
To talk to me like this!
Besides, it isn’t lorful
A stranger-gent to kiss.
So don’t you start out pratin’
And teasin’ me again.
1 tell you Ma is waitin’
In Boogie-street, Balmain.”
And so she left me lonely
To brood upon my pain.
I’d die to please her.... Only
I won’t die in Balmain!
N.6.W.
SELWYN RIDER.


BATTERIES
For Every Man
Who Owns a Car
Whatever make of battery you have, we believe
we can prolong its life if you give us the chance.
Come here at regular intervals and we will keep
tabs on the condition of your battery. Our policy
is to make every battery last as long as possible.
We are manned and equipped to do this.
When —and not until—you really need a new
battery, we will be glad to sell you a new Exide,
the battery of long-lasting power.
mm.
is
yy
m
*9>
IT?
V*%
’"'u
ft.
'H
a
CD
QUEENSLAND
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WEST AUSTRALIA .
NEW ZEALAND .......
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Howard Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Sutherland & Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra St.), Melbourne.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, Wellington.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE —
129 riTT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-66 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGEE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH—
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Smart?
Serviceable!
should
sai| so!
Why don't
you wear a
• ie
is
SHIRT?
advt
Mam
advt
1
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents :
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Kilang”: Though the Daly River (N.T.)
natives are very indulgent to their piccaninnies, they
can, and do, straighten them up when necessary. I
once saw a whole tribe administer a lesson to a boy
of 15, to make him less cheeky and bad-tempered.
They put him in the middle of a ring and com-
menced a corroboree. Two hideously-painted nig-
gers danced round him, while the women chanted
and slapped their thighs. By-and-bye the boy’s
eyes closed, but before he had slept a minute a bunch
of cockatoo’s feathers was thrust into his face. For
a day and a night the corroboree lasted, fresh men
replacing each pair of tired dancers, and the boy
was forced to keep awake all the time, though
nothing but white cockatoos’ feathers were used to
wake him, and not once was he spoken to directly.
The youngster had the life nearly scared out of
him, and from that time he was one of the meekest
and most obedient of boys. One old lubra told me
she had never known the performance to fail, her
yarn being that towards the end the boys saw all
the blackfellows’ debbil-debbils sitting outside the
ring, and afterwards feared they would be grabbed
by them if they were ever disobedient or disre-
spectful to their parents. Is it mesmerism ?
* * * *
“Egroeg Noswad”: The other day I paid
a visit to the farm of a cocky in the Mallee (Vic.)
who had married a city-bred school-teacher. She
is an old friend of mine, and when I arrived I
found her in the yard milking a cow which was
tied by its horns to a sucker of mallee. “Why,
Min,” I said, “you’re on the wrong side!” “But
I’ve jftst milked the other side,” was the complacent
reply.
* t • *
“H.V.E.”: There is still some doubt as to
whether the warrigal is indigenous. Very early in
1800 Captain Matthew Flinders found the Malays fish-
ing for trepang or bSche-de-mer on the Far North
Coast, and as there is a resemblance in the dingo to
certain breeds of Malay dogs it is possible the animal
was introduced by these people. The native dog was
further found by the early colonists following at the
heels of aboriginals and around their camps, sug-
gesting that the animal was either naturally easy to
domesticate, or that some of its forebears were tame
dogs. It is also noteworthy that, although Tasmania
has certain of our larger fauna, it lacks the warrigal,
which, assuming it was originally introduced and
spread over the whole of Australia, would not be
able to cross Bass Straits.
* * ‘ * *
“Bilbav”: Here’s another nasty jar for
those Abo. scribes who have been ridiculing “Tin-
pot Bill’s” yarn of the Ford whose engine started
itself (B. 18/5/’22). This Liz went one better.
A few days ago a Ford standing near the Watson’s
Bay wharf at Circular Quay, Sydney, started off on
her own and ran across the tram tracks till overtaken
by the driver and stopped. It was not a “sunstroke”
that did it, as suggested by one scoffer, because it
was a bitterly cold day.
* * * *
“Globe”: To say sharks won’t touch
colored gentlemen (B. 6/7/’22) is flatly wrong.
I saw a full-blooded Binghi taken at Cairns
some years ago. The shark was after-
wards caught. It then contained some of
him, unmistakably black even then. And
I saw a Sudanese at Suez mauled so
badly that he died from the effects. Before
these incidents I was at Freetown, West
Africa, and shouted “Shark,” when some
niggers were swimming. The terror with
which they scurried out settled an argu-
ment on this same question. Later on a
friend of mine, badly mental, came on
board our ship in London. He didn’t
recognise me until the following incident.
At Colombo he jumped overboard about
8 a.m. The way he swam from then until
5 p.m. spoke wonders for his constitution,
as he didn’t rest once. We were not
allowed off because of cholera, and the C.O.
troops wouldn’t move in the matter.
Some Cingalese came diving for pennies,
and one boy swam out after my friend,
and they raced. Suddenly the Cingalese
fairly flew past the white man, propelled
by a shark, and we saw him no more.
Mv old cobber thereupon made for the
ship, came straight aboard * and greeted
, 1 ' -v* giccieu
me with “Hullo, Frank! Where the devil am I?”
He was right from that day, and is now a promi-
nent business man in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Bine Gurra”: Recent Abo. pars re ladies
doing the work of men remind me of four sisters,
named Lynch, who were pine-felling in the Nanango
(Q.) district 10 or 12 years ago. Local cockies
would engage the “team” to fall their pine and pre-
pare it for hauling. The girls would camp on the
job. They were clever with the axe, and very slick
with barking bar and saw. They were well known
throughout the South Burnett, having done some
exhibition chopping at agricultural shows. Prior to
coming to this district, they were wood-carting near
Gympie. I haven’t heard of them for some years;
probably they have invested in husbands and taught
them the business by this.
* * * *
“Melgrove”: Being smitten with a desire
to taste town life, Bill left the farm at Sandy Creek
and got a job as a miner at Bendigo. Before going
down the shaft the first morning the shift boss
handed him some candles. Bill looked at them in
dismay, “Blime!” he gasped, “won’t we be up again
before dark?”
* * * *
“Truth” ; “Billy Yard” (B. 6/7/’22) must
have had a sleep in the middle of the day when
he drilled 40 acres with two teams of four horses
and a 17-hoe drill. On my farm, at Noarlunga (S.
Aus.), in 1910, J. McMillan, with a 15-hoe drill and
two teams of three horses, drilled 434 acres in one
day, sowing one cwt. manure and one bushel wheat
per acre —and he put all the seed and manure in
the drill himself. This was done in a paddock
only 28 chains in length.
“Spinifex”: “Hecagus” (B. 22/6/’22)
whose beer-hum ate the mice, reminds me. In
Central Bananaland I once heard a Maori horse-
breaker (recovering from a jag and badly in need
of a reviver) undertake, for a bottle of rum, to
MISLED.
“It’s dashed slow up here.”
“Did you expect it to be anything else?”
“The advertisements said it was a ‘mountain fastness .’ ”
“heel up” an unbroken colt that was standing asleep
in the yard. He crept softly up, dropped low —very
low—on all fours, and “heeled” the colt just as a
dog would have done. The astonished prad kicked
clean over him, which was what Henare —whose real
name was Jack Stokes—expected him to do. After
he got the rum he told us it was fairly safe, so long
as you stuck to young horses. “Y’ never want to
do it to an old horse,” he said. Personally, I’ll
never want to do it to any horse.
“Vulpine”: Tell “Vulture” (B. 20/7/’22)
that the trick of racing round a sitting rabbit in
gradually decreasing circles, and then grabbing him,
has been practised by English poachers for many
years. I remember reading about it in one of
Richard Jeffries’s books when a small boy, some-
thing like 25 years ago.
* * * *
“Snell”: The meekness of the sheep has
been overstated in general literature. Any man who
has seen two rams—or two wethers, for that matter—
waging war will not continue to entertain ideas
of the sheep akin to those inspired by “Mary Had
a Little Lamb.” I have known instances of sheep
taking deliberate vengeance in circumstances imply-
ing accumulated antipathy. Coleman
used to tease Craddock’s lamb. Crad-
dock’s lamb was of the male gender,
and grew in size and prestige with
great rapidity. Craddock went away
from Waddy for a space of five
months, and when he returned took
part in the al fresco festivities in
connection with the Waddy Wesleyan
Chapel anniversary. He was playing
kiss-in-the-ring when something in
the nature of a catapult pitched head-
foremost into his rearguard, and
spilled the man on his forehead.
The assailant, with apparent cool
deliberation, then discharged itself
against his ribs, rolling him with two
thundering butts over a 12ft. embank-
ment into the Devil’s Basin, a very
deep roek-ribbed pool, from which
poor Craddock was rescued with diffi-
culty and in a pitiable condition,
with two broken ribs and a lament-
able shock to the system, from which
he did not recover for months. The
assailant was Coleman’s lamb, grown
up into mutton and become vigorous enough to
exact summary vengeance for old time insults and
injuries.
“Dido”: The grass fire coming through
the timber threatened Bramley’s fences and the
orchard beyond, with a lively chance of the houses
being mopped up too, but we all worked like
demons, including three strangers coming down from
Gidgee with their swags up. We were three hours
at it. Perhaps you have seen how men graft in
such circumstances, and with no particular hope
of reward. A sort of frenzy possesses them spring-
ing from man’s innate respect for property. When
the fires were beaten Bramley led us all to the
homestead, he gave each man a cup, he pointed to
the big iron tank. “We have to carry all our water
now,” he said, “but, damn it, you can drink as
much as you like 1 ”
“Silas”: In a recent Abo. par. “Vulture,”
questioning my opinion re the infrequency of round
shafts in Australian mining, says that in the roaring
days the John Chow “invariably” dug a round hole
Well, I have seen the Confucian mining on many Vic’
torian fields. I never once saw him working in a
round hole. Moreover, it is usually necessary to
. timber a shaft, and “Vulture” might instruct us as
to how the heathen in his brightness shored up the
shaft that was invariably round. I could under-
stand a miner sinking on the round if he were in
country that could be trusted to hold up of its own
accord, but even then to get good elbow-room he
would have to shift a lot of unnecessary dirt, and
as ground which will stand alone is usually bitter
delving the ever-shrewd Chow’s deep reason is too
deep for detection from the point of view of a
dunderheaded white.
“Spinifex”: “Aglum” (B. 6/7/’22) wants
to know of a white man who has tried Binghi's
mud-cure for cuts. Here’s one. When a kid, in
Western Queensland, I often saw the nigs, apply the
cure. Boy-like, I tried it —and swore by it. Any
mud will do if it’s clean; but I wouldn’t like to
use mud from the fowlyard, or near the kitchen
door. Clay, however, is the best. It prevents flies
getting to the wound, and keeps out the dirt; that
is to say the other dirt. When Binghi wanted a
good substantial scar—as he sometimes did—-he
forced the clay well into the cut, and the result was
A TRAVELLER’S VIEW.
WELL-MEANING REPORTER (to imported
pug) : “And what strikes you most
about our Australian boxers?”
FED-UP TRAINER: “Their bloomin’ punch!”
eminently satisfactory. Some of the tribes which
practise sub-incision use clay to prevent the edges of
the wound growing together during the process of
healing.
* * * *
“Bogan Bill”: Of course crows can be
poisoned (B. 20/7/’22). Get some fresh blood, mix
strychnine well into it, and smear it plentifully on
the skin of a newly-killed beast, and see what hap-
pens. The blood has an irresistible attraction for
crows, and I’ve got some big bags this way.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE HOUSE BY THE CREEK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Every man at certain times
Sees some house of memory,
Wherein much of him abides —
Such a house to-night I see.
Miles and miles away from town,
Iron roof and walls of wood,
On a slope beside a creek
Years and years ago it stood.
Peering in at door and door
Many years a man might seek
For the homely- life that dwelt
In that farm-house by the creek.
Itindly folk abode in it,
Warm of heart and free of hand,
Men and women strong and good—
Toilers, tillers of the land.
Gone are they, and gone with them
All their fireside tears and joys;
Gone the days when Jack and I
Freckled Jack and I were boys.
Little time to waste had they
’Twixt their breakfast and their bed ;
Workers all and riders all,
To the saddle born and bred.
All around it, green in Spring,
Gold in Summer, grew the crops
Vagrant winds from distant hills
Roaring, rippling through their tops.
THE ORIGIN OF THE FEUD.
MONTAGUE : “Here, Capulet, just hand these
seeds to your hens with my compli-
ments. It’ll save them the trouble of
coming over for them.”
Back of it an orchard lay,
Where at cherry-time one found —
Dew-vet, tempting bird and boy—
Cherries ripe and cherries round.
In a corner set apart—
Where, one minded so might trace
Name and age on cross and slab —•
Lay the family’s burial-place.
“Rest in Peace!” and peace was there
In the good earth lying snug:
Gone are they who dug those graves—
Gone like those for whom they dug.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


STONEWALL SHOES
OA The Dependable Boots,
1«v• Wvi guaranteed to outlast
others because they are made from
selected Box Hide, Wax Stitched, and
reinforced with a Military back. Have
Three-decker Soles, clumped with
genuine “Stonehide” Leather, made in
Broad and Medium Last. The
“STONEHIDE” Sole, with which they
are clumped, is of picked heavy leather
tanned through and through, with a
resistance the quality of which is not
excelled by any known process. Plain
Toe or Toe-capped, 23/6. N.S.W.
Post, 1/-; Interstate, 27-
Same Boot in Tan, 24/6, plus Postage.
Same Boot for the Boy: 10 to 13.,
15/11; 1 to 4, 18/6; 5, 21/6. Postage
1/- extra.
Ask for Catalogue.
dacJt&oiPb
413-5 PITT ST.; 99 LIVERPOOL ST.
(OPP. people's PALACE ) (OPP CENTRAL COURT)
380-2 PITT ST. ; 198-200 GEORGE ST.
(OPP. ANTHONY MOWDERNS ] ( NEAP NOCK & KIPBVS)
SYDNEY.
i
.r«
m
<o
■' *
A,
l
th £‘STO N E HID E“
CLUMP SOLE
25b
The Stonewall Qumo Sole Boot.
«
n
oW
ENJOY THEM
AT HOME.
MELBA - - - CARUSO
GALLI-CURCI
PADEREWSKI
HEIFETZ - - - RUFFO
Any of these Great Artists will play or sing
for you if you own an
“HIS MASTER'S VOICE”
GRAMOPHONE.
"His Master’s Voice" is noted for its Perfection of Tone. If you judge a gramophone on
its Tonal Quality you cannot hesitate to select an H.M.V. instrument. Artistic in
Design and excellent in Workmanship, specially-selected Oak and Mahogany finish
case-work. Prices from £l2/12/- upwards.
We have thousands of Records for you to select from, and are at all times
pleased to try over your favorite music at any time you may call.
CATALOGUES FREE.
Branches a*
Brisbane
Toowoomba
SYDNE
338 George St.
YT...1 .
Lismore
Newcastle
Rockhampton.


TSJMM<SIS
/
\
S 6
m
' ■■■ u
■sIJ&A
kdH
PURL COCONUT
OIL BLEND
If Mb/' 7
Wwrik
I'Mdlk
S-
-1S
•*
i: l
,;4
BS
IE
HESS
3Zhi»
SSSs
Bi
the Summer Camp
Abbots
lager,
THE BEER WfTHOUTARrWd
“Tim”: “Sucre’s” dog 18. G/7/’22) which
obeyed commands given in seven different languages,
merely followed the tone of the various voices. A
dog trained to obey would catch the inflection of
the voice, no matter in what tongue. An Eskimo or
a Mexican would have been equally successful in
making Towser spring to it. But tell a man, who
knows no other tongue than Australian, the correct
foreign words and let him repeat them to the dog
without using the ordinary tone of command —and
see what happens. Towser will look at him with
his head cocked on one side, and say as plainly as
any dog can say, “What the blazes are you gurgling
about?”
* * * *
“1022”: A swaggie called at the farm-
house, and the missus told him she’d give him some
plum-duff if he’d chop some wood. When the job
was done she handed him on a plate something that
looked like a chunk of putty. “Mum,” said the
swaggie solemnly, “it reminds me of my dear ole
missus.” “Why,” asked the donor, “was she such a
good cook?” “No, mum —she’s dead!”
• * • »
“Jim Carew”: “Garie’s” friend Nubling
(B. 20/7/’22) is wrong when he says the lyre-bird
won’t have anything red or white in his bower. Near
Gobargo (N.S.W.), in 1909, I found a bower in which
FOUND WANTING.
"I believe you're the only man in the place who hasn't
proposed to me, and I thought you were going to
that time you took me out and let me try to milk
your cows."
"Aye, hut I watched you tryin'."
over 90 per cent, of the adornments were bits
of red glass from broken lanterns, and pieces of white
china, all of which came from our rubbish-tip in a
gully about half-a-mile from the house. The -stuff
was neatly arranged, a red and a white piece alter-
nately, and I was Philistine enough to admire the
effect, although there was a complete absence of
other colors.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: Re “Bogan Bill’s” ducks, that
mistook a galvanised-roof for water (B. 13/7/’22).
One morning in Centennial Park, Sydney, about 20
years ago, in company with one of the park rangers,
I found a black swan impaled on the spikes of the
iron railing around the park. Another, badly torn,
lay on the grass. Both were dead. The birds had
evidently swooped to alight on a lagoon noar by,
and had failed to see the fence.
“Linda” : Fishermen, to justify their pas-
time,’contend that fish have no feelings, and, though
they are usually liars, I think they may be right in
this. On the Noarlunga River (S.A.) recently 1
hooked a 4ilb. bream on a very fine line, and when
1 got his head out of the water —the line being too
THE UTTER IMPOSSIBILITY OF JOSEPH.
"Well, dear, have you had a good time? Did you flirt with Joseph?"
"Heavens, no! Even you couldn’t flirt with Joseph.”
"Don't make too sure. They say I flirt with my own brothers.”
"But flirting with Joseph would he like flirting with your own sister!"
fragile to lift him into the boat —I made a lunge
with my jabber; but the line broke and the fish
escaped with the hook, and the jabber had only the
fish’s eye on its point. The finny one was so little
perturbed by the addition of the hook and the loss
of an eye that he still had his mind on his lunch,
and within two minutes I landed the same fish.
* * * *
“E.8.C.”: “Gouger” (B. 20/4/’22), who
wants to market Queensland orchids, may place
Dendrobium superbiens with some of the English
orchid firms, but dendrobiums are
not in favor these days. Hybrids
of other genera are the popular
fancy and are being raised arti-
ficially in tens of thousands, so
that there is very litle demand
for “wild” orchids. I doubt
whether any firm has a single
collector permanently employed at
this work as “Veitch” and “San-
ders” did some years ago. I know
a few consignments have been
made “on spec” to two firms
at least, and have been duly offered
for sale by circular. I would
suggest that “Gouger” write
“Sanders,” of St. Albans, or The
Liverpool Orchid and Nursery
Co. Ltd., Gateacre, Liverpool.
“H.C.N.” (B 6/7/’22) is delving
into ancient history, as the firm
of Veitch sold its orchids and
orchid-houses to Flory and Black,
of Slough, in 1913. Dendrobium
superbiens brings a good figure
among the native fanciers through-
out the East, but the trouble is
to find a distributor.
* * *
“Cocky Bloke”: “Billy
Yard” (B. 6/7/’22) is talking
through his old sombrero when he
says a Sundereut can’t plough
4iin. to sin. I have been pilot-
ing one for a wee while myself
and the depth was regulated by
the size of the discs ; i.e., she used
to get hold until the bottom of
the disc bearing dragged on the
ground, and the discs were about
14in. and 16in. diameter respec-
tively. Also, I’ve led the darned
thing round the paddock with 10
horses (a 14-disc cutting 6ft. 6in.
to 7ft.), some of them small ones,
and they were not wotking too
hard. While on the skite re ploughing records, 1
know some chaps here (Wyalong district, N.S.W.)
who have ploughed 48 acres in 6 days with 6 horses
on a four-furrowed mouldboard plough (one team),
and they have also done up to 11 acres in a day
with the same outfit, only they changed three horses
in the middle of the day.
* * * *
“Sec” : A fine bit of tracking was put up
in Westralia not so long ago. On Carnamah station
Jimmy, an abo., was engaged in trapping dingoes,
and one morning found the leg of a fox in one of his
traps, Reynard having performed a self-amputation
and chewed himself clear. Never having seen a fox—
they are scarce west of the rabbit-proof fence —the
curiosity of James was aroused, and he tracked brer
fox for two days, finally ran him into a hollow log
and made his kill.
“Tasmanian Devil”: How’s this for the
Marathon stakes? At Forth, on the N.W. coast of
the Speck, 19 years ago Tom McGlone bought a
draught filly and a draught colt (aged respectively
two and four years), also a plough. He broke tht
young couple in, and that season ploughed about 60
acres. Every year since he has repeated the dose,
besides carting his Irish apples and other produce
nine miles to Devonport. The old prads are to be
seen to-day going neck and neck across a paddock
with the same plough, and Tom, now 60 years young,
in their wake. In the off season the quartette do
odd jobs of ploughing, etc., for the neighbors to keep
themselves fit.
* * * •
“Wee Bobbie”: If there are any doubters
left re the biting powers of an alligator they should
have been with me the other day when I came on
a bullock with his hind leg hanging by just
a couple of sinews. He had evidently been given
just the one snap. We got the ’gator, and he didn’t
scale the half of 25ft.
* * * *
“L’Fou”: The S. Aus. Agricultural Dept.
recently held an inquiry into the dietary of the
screech-owl, which is probably typical of the tribe.
This research was rendered easier
by the peculiar function of the
bird’s stomach or gizzard in regur-
gitating the bones and other indi-
gestible debris of its food and
depositing them in its residential
tree-hollow. A scientific examina-
tion of owls’ garbage-tins resulted
in the yearly ration per bird being
summed up thus: Mice 1407, rats
143, bats 7, young rabbits 7, spar-
rows 375, other birds 26, frogs
174, lizards 5, moths 25, crickets,
cockroaches and beetles 80. As
it does its vermin-destroying work
by night the owl is much more
fool- and pea-rifle-proof than other
beneficent birds that collect their
tucker in the daylight.
* * *
“Zanthus” : It isn’t likely
that any of us will ever see the
Macquarie Island parrot ; but there
has been a revival in the parrot
family lately, and several species
supposed to have become extinct
have turned up afresh. The tur-
quoisine, or chestnut-shouldered
parrakeet, once plentiful in
N.S.W., was thought to have dis-
appeared over 30 years ago, but
in 1920 a little party of them
appeared near Camden (N.S.W.).
The paradise-parrot (Psephotus
pulcherrimus), which used to be
a popular cage-bird and is one
of the two or three parrots which
do not nest in hollow trees, was
given up for lost a few years ago.
But in 1921 and 1922 C. H. H.
Jerrard found some nesting
in the Burnett River country.
Yet another species of parrot, the
scarlet-chested ground-parrot of
S.A., was reckoned a goner, but a
couple of years ago a little flock
was seen in the north of that
State. Perhaps the night-parrot of S.A. and Vic.
will turn up again.
* * * *
“L.R.”: Labe Wakatipu (M.L.) has the
reputation of pulsating every four hours, rising
and falling alternately about four inches, and the
numerous tourists are led to believe that this is
caused by some submarine action —an idea shared
even by local residents of many years’ standing.
The lake does pulsate, but it is not constant in time
or amount of rise and fall. My opinion, after
careful study, is that after a fresh westerly oi
sou’-weslerly blow, the water is backed in one ernl
of the lake, then when the wind drop.-- the surplus
returns to the head of the lake, and even after a
few days of comparative calm the steady backward
and forward motion continues. Has anyone got a
better explanation of the disturbance?
“Elsinore” : According to “Mallee Murray”
(B. 25/5/’22) and popular opinion, ootflies may be
prevented from laying under a horse’s jaws by flying
a piece of red rag from the throat strap. The idea
originated with an Indian hawker, who had some
crimson material which would not sell, and when the
word had passed round the stuff went off like hot
cakes. There are thousands who swear by the cure,
and what I want to know is: Why redi And did
the mystic Hindoo set a fashion, create a supersti-
tion, or stumble on a scientific fact? It recalls
great-grandmother’s idea that you should hang red
curtains on the bed of a small-pox patient. Modern
scientists, investigating the action of light rays, are
inclined to think there was a good deal in the old
lady’s notion.
* * * *
“Don”: My nomination for the Young
Australian Stakes. At Fernleigh (North Coast,
N.S.W.) I ran across a boy just turned 17 years
of age who weighs 17 stone and stands 6ft. lin. His
other measurements: Normal chest 441 i n, biceps
16in., hip 50in. and calf 18in. And he isn’t fat.
■r * * *
“The Rumpus” : It isn’t always the spider
and the fly. In the Darling Range (W.A.) I
stopped to watch two bright-black waspish insects,
outfitted with inch-long, quivering feelers, black like
the rest of the body, but orange-tipped. Round and
round a small bush they flashed, and I thought, for
the moment they circled in the glad sunshine for the
pure joy of being alive. But they were smashing up
a spider’s web, and, when there was not a shred left,
the destroyers disappeared among the leaves of the
bush. I moved closer and saw that they had tackled
and beaten the spider, and while one held and sucked
his blood the other waited with feelers twitching.
They then changed positions, the one actually handing
the spider to the other, who at once started to take
his share of spider juice. When they had had another
round they threw down the empty shell and flashed
out of sight. Can anybody name these web-wrecking
spider-suckers ?
* * * #
“Mac P.”: “Blue Bar” (B. l/6/’22) calls
me another for saying (B. 27/4/’22) finches and
parrots drink head down. Unfortunately, I have
had too much opportunity lately of observing the
drinking habits of finches —and also their eating
habits—as the little cusses stripped bare of seed
my f-acre stud plot of giant Honduras sorghum.
They were here in thousands while the seed lasted.
When drinking they would dip for about five seconds,
and as a rule that was long enough to satisfy them ;
but at times some would have another little dip
before leaving the water. They would come to
the water in flocks of 50 to 100 at a time, and all
the while the drinking was going on there were
THE SPUR OF AMBITION.
OLD 'UN : “What’re yer doin' here?"
YOUNG 'UN : "Rangin' about."
OLD 'UN : “Thought yer was out workin' on one of the
farms.”
YOUNG 'UN : "So I was, hut there's a lot more scope 'ere."
flocks coming and going. Of course, I don’t saj
that the first or any of the other flacks didn’t conu
back a second time. I have known pigeons t<
take a second drink, but it is not usual. As to par-
rots, I didn’t say they kept their heads down until
they had finished —I distinctly stated that thej
did not drink like pigeons, but lapped up the water.
If “Blue Bar” had ever seen any of the brush-
tongues or honey-eating parrots drinking, hi
couldn’t possibly say they don’t lap.
KAITANGATA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The houses of Kaitangata
Are dotted up and down.
With bright red roofs and chimneys,
’Tis like a dolly town;
And every knob and knocker there,
And every window, shines;
And the roadways of Kaitangata
Are narrow, straight lines.
The engines of Kaitangata
Go snorting down the street
Just like a set of dolly trains
With rails and all complete.
They haul the little trucks of coal
From three wee dolly mines,
And they take it from Kaitangata
On narrow, straight lines.
The people of Kaitangata
Are very, very good;
They never sin or swear, and all
Believe the things they should.
No new idea can enter here.
Unrest shows here no signs,
For thought runs in Kaitangata
On narrow, straight lines.
MAORILAND.
MARGARET MACPHERSON.


QUEENSLAND STATE GOVERNMENT
INSURANCE OFFICE.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.
Bonus Distribution to “With Profit” Policy-holders.
Holders of participating Policies are advised that a distribution of the
valuation surplus has now been made, and Policy-holders will shortly receive
their Bonus Certificates.
The Actuary’s recommendation is that a reversionary bonus of £1 10s. per
£lOO per annum be declared on Whole Life Participating Policies, and £1 per
£lOO per annum on Endowment Assurance and Endowment Policies, and
the full report and recommendation will be printed with the Annual Report.
The Life Funds at the valuation date (31st December, 1921) amounted to
£211,448, and the sums insured t0£4,271,050 as the result of four years’ working.
Brisbane, 29th July, 1922
JOHN A. WATSON,
Insurance Commissioner
The Sunshine Header Harvester
or Reaper Thrasher.
THE GREAT GRAIN GETTER
Gets the best possible result in standing crops or in fallen crops.
H. V. McRAY PTY. LTD., Sunshine Harvester Works,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide.


Any talking-machine manufacturer
can CLAIM that his instrument
and his records reproduce the true
art of the singer.
But the NEW EDISON alone
PROVES that its music is Re-
Created—exactly as the singer or
artist delivered it.
The NEW EDISON alone has sus-
tained the test of direct compari-
son —when other manufacturers
have not dared even to face it;
its realism alone can give your
home the world’s finest music at
its finest.
Winter Music for your home
Give your children the opportunity of hearing good
music—liven dull hours with gay dance tunes —soothe
your worries with melodies of life and love, refresh
the spirits of every member of your family with
inspiring band music and glorious orchestral
selections—entertain your friends with a programme
of great composers.
With the New Edison there are no needles to change,
and the Re-Creations are practically indestructible—
a big economy.
Let us send you our free book, “Edison’s Musical
Miracle’’—it tells how the great inventor achieved
his ambition—the perfect Re-Creation of music.
Thomas A. Edison, Ltd., 364-372 Kent St., Sydney.
7& NEW EDISON
“The Phonograph with a Soul,”
“The New Edison’’ is offered
exclusively in pure period cabi-
nets. There are fourteen of them
to choose from —each of superb
craftsmanship—of such purity of
design as to rank with the im-
perishable creations of the Golden
Age of Furniture. Amongst them
you will recognise William and
Mary, Sheraton. Eighteenth Cen-
tury (Adam), Chippendale, Jaco-
bean, Hepplewhite and Italian
Umbrian. There is a style to
suit every taste and every purse
—one that will exactly match the
furniture in your own living-room.
■"* f \\
aL M
shK-,.
K — 7L
>•
w 1 1
m it
liUllß©. v
3 •: m*
mA
■
s < <S : v
pa' Sr. | ' sV s ?4, ' v '|V
/£. . « .si: 5 Sji : s»|, 4•; .C i t \ # 4
a A IT!11! 11
KLViJ
JR
n
5 '
‘> N
**
1
s
■
SiiSiiilk
mmm
m
'/•V.
WwSßr"<w •WWwwj
I :• i
Convenience.
Only one fire to look after. Less trouble than
the ordinary room fire, and may be left un-
attended for hours at a time.
Cleanliness.
No ashes, soot, smoke or fumes inside the
house. No soiling or discoloration of furnish-
ings.
Healthfulness.
Nothing is added to the air but warmth. No
unhealthy gases or vapors. The temperature
is like that of a bright Spring day in its fresh-
ness and comfort.
A Home Comfortably
Warmed in Every Corner.
N the majority of Australian homes the open
fire is accepted as the only means of artificial
heat within the reach of the average house-
holder, and its disadvantages and discomforts
are looked upon as the inevitable accompaniment
of winter.
The illustration given here shows the essentials of an
IDEAL Heating
installation as applied to modern dwellings. The system consists of
a boiler and supply pipes connected to radiators in every room
where warmth is required. The temperature of any room may be
raised or lowered at will, and a genial warmth is provided right
throughout the house.
Here are four definite reasons why you should have the “Ideal”
system of Hot-water Radiation installed in your home:—
Economy.
The amount of fuel usually burnt in one open
fireplace will heat four average rooms. For
an equal heating duty, electric radiators will
cost over 26 times as much, and gas-fires
(with flue) 1 1 times as much as “Ideal” Hot-
water Heating.
Send us a rough plan of your house for an approximate
estimate of cost. We prepare Heating plans on tracings of
Architects, Builders or Plumbers. Write NOW to
John DanKs (El Son Pty. Ltd.,
391-403 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE. 324-330 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.


every page, might be perfectly true to life
and experience in every country; and there
is a strange tendency on the part of civilised
people to turn back to the kitchen-middens
of a distant savage ancestry by way of
mental relaxation from a life that is too full
of bathrooms and clean linen. Plenty of
places in Australia —in England, France or
any country you please—are quite as un-
clean as the corners of the hovels of the
primitive Europeans of 150 centuries ago, or
the interiors of Eskimo ice-huts after the
family’s six-months’ winter snooze. Plenty
of people in any civilised country are as
rude in habit, thought and speech as the ape-
men who had just forgotten the whisk of the
original tail. Not only is this so, but it
frequently happens that when modern man
runs almost entirely to mind a mere lack
of observance of physical conditions around
him may bring back in minor degree animal
traits long discarded by others who are almost
always in touch with the physical. Thus
dirt and cleanliness show curious confusion in
their relation to human advances. The pro-
fessor, whose work lies almost entirely among
the finest thoughts and achievements of the
race, may be hairy, grotesquely bearded and
given to wearing soiled collars; while the sol-
dier, whose rudimentary thought lies among
the crudities of life at its basest, and who
might be incapable of grasping even the
lowest conscious thought of the professor,
may be well-groomed, clean and as far re-
moved above the primitive as the modern
drawing-room is above the evil-smelling cave.
So the Stone Age and the pre-Stone Age per-
sist here in thought, there in habit; and the
eternal contradiction runs through all civ-
ilisations.
But the appeal of the unclean in literature
is very curious in its application. Out of
the windows of homes lit by electricity and
swept by vacuum-cleaners a great number of
people like to get a peep at the manure-heaps
by cabin doors. It is only a very occasional
person who really desires to break with civ-
ilisation and “run naked in a.n autumn night” ;
and such a person has little desire for the
actual uncleanness of the primitive. It is
rather the freedom which it offers that calls
to him; and for that he would be willing
perhaps to accept the inconveniences which
go with perfect liberty. But to the average
person with a tiled bathroom and an electric
radiator it is a peep only that is desired —
a peep through a closed window. He does
not desire to touch squalor: his delicate nose
retreats from the smell of it; but some
glimpse of it he will strain his eyes to catch.
That glimpse is offered by what is falsely
termed “realism” in literature. As a mat-
ter of plain fact, the clean is as real as the
unclean, and in most countries considerably
more frequent; romance is as real as infamy ;
comedy as real as tragedy; the generous as
real as the sordid. To deny this is to deny
all advance and to sink our faith in humanity.
What, then, is the thing called “realism”?
Is it not a rather cheap attempt to pander to
the natural tendency to peep through win-
dows and listen behind doors—possibly to
make the thinly-superior modern person feel
more superior by knowing a little of the pit
from which he was dragged?
But it was not the so-called “realism” that
dragged him from that pit. The painting of
the miserable, the sordid and the squalid has
often been done by a strong hand with a
high purpose—the purpose of direct reform—
but it would be manifestly absurd to claim
that our modern fiction-writers who dabble
most in dirt have any such purpose. The
appeal is rather to the peepers, to the lookers-
back, to the men and women who will declare
that the person who rakes over a garbage-tip
shows fine courage, if only he does the raking
in print. As long as the last trace of the
savage remains among us these people will
get a sort of hearing, but they are not, and
never can be, the makers of our greater
literature.
Of course, there is the possibility of gar-
bage-raking achieving results. A Dai*win
lifted scientific thought some distance for-
ward on the wriggles of an earth-worm.
The microscope can find beauty of an astound-
ing kind where only foulness is visible to
the naked eye. But literary workers of
this kind would not be called “realists.”
Their very mode of procedure would be a
guarantee of idealism ; for taking all things
back to the atom and generalising from the
foundations of life and death, the universe
itself is clean and sweet, from soaring planet
to eagerly-living disease germ. Seen with
a great man’s eye, and treated with a great
man’s pen, there is nothing on this earth
which cannot take on a great meaning and
be worthy of every man’s thought.
But it seems time that dirt in ordinary
fiction were severely dealt with by those who
enjoy the upward-seeking game of life, or
who can see some sort of purpose in mental
progress and widening moral freedom—-or
even by those who, viewing only an eternal
progress of eating and drinking, prefer the
niceties of the dinner-table to the swill in
a general pig-trough. If fiction has any
moral or art value at all —and the two are
practically the same—it should work on the
basis of our present mental and moral ad-
vances, not creep back into the noisome
places of the past for its themes. Remem-
ber that the past is only relative to things
done. Julius Caesar, that large, clean,
modern Roman, is far more ours in point
of time than the grubby degenerate in a
Chippendale hovel who begs and thieves for
a living, while an aeroplane masters the sky
above his head. The theory that all men
are very much alike in their emotions is
sheer nonsense. We brush shoulders every
day in the streets with people who are ten
thousand years our inferiors in all that mat-
ters—and possibly with some who are ten
thousand years our superiors in all that will
one day matter. There are people among
us sane enough to eat bread and even appre-
ciate beer who are incapable of grasping the
most rudimentary civilised thought. In
the nature of things we cannot get up any
real interest in their affairs; yet the .novelist
takes us to them, reads glimpses of himself
into their alleged characters and daubs in a
background of disgusting habits and sordid
aims to get what he is pleased to call “atmo-
sphere.” The animal-novelists, who have
gone a step farther and given us dogs and
denizens of the wild who think like human
creatures, are really playing a fairer game,
for the dog and the wolf at least run clea.nly
m the chase and fight cleanly in the pack;
and every animal-lover is teased at times
with the curious mentality of the beast that
worships him. Gods on Olympus might
have been amused with similar tales of
Greek heroes without very seriously consider-
ing the fact that their thoughts were no way
Olympian.
I am convinced that there is no literary
immortality for dirt. Large, healthy ani-
malism will remain a long time with man
and may be permanently part of him ; but
there must be no confusion between the
natural and physical and the unnatural un-
clean. The mind must grow as convinced
of the necessity of its bath as it is of the
necessity of keeping the body sweet; and it
is idealism —which to civilised man is the
true realism —that must provide the cleans-
ing. The tests of a man’s mental cleanli-
ness are the things he desires to live with —
the things that really absorb and interest
him. The play of human emotion is only
interesting where he follows it in men who
are like himself or a little better. If the
novel has no purpose except to introduce bar-
barism to civilisation, the sooner it ceases
the better. To show the best in the worst
may be worth while; but to show the best in
the best through all complications of vary-
ing view and clashing action is a far higher
aim. Let us have pictures of life. The
past, where it survives in the present, is
generally dead. '
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Interloping Artist
It seems to me, as a professional writer,
that the time has. come when the pictorial
artist should be put in his place, fenced
in with barbed wire, and compelled to stay
there. As the shoemaker has from time
immemorial been counselled to stick to his
last, so should the artist be cautioned to
confine himself to his pencil and his brush,
and to take up the pen only for the purpose
of drawing upon Bristol board. Consider
a few of the professional Australian artists
who also write. To begin with, there is
Norman lie may be regarded as
the arch-offender for whom there can be no
possible excuse, since, and notwithstanding
his drawing, etching and painting, whether
in oils or water-colors, to say nothing of
his statue-building and nautical modelling,
he writes so much better in the form of
novels, plays, short stories and philosophic
treatises than most of us whose legitimate
domain he has invaded. It is notorious that
he can do anything he likes—except, per-
haps, tossing cabers and so forth—and it
is very hard on the laborious inkslinger who
can do nothing else that he should be com-
pelled to endure the competition of this
phenomenon. His brother Lionel also
merits severe censure for the excellent fashion
in which he practises the artistry of words.
He is an old offender and a confirmed one,
and may not be open to the reproach of con-
science for the callous fashion in which he
takes the bread out of the mouths of unfor-
tunate penmen. To both these unscrupulous
trespassers the example of their worthy elder
brother, Percy, should be a reproach. With
a large endowment of the Lindsay flair for
literary forms (as will be granted by all
who know him as a raconteur) he
is content to let writing alone, thereby
evidencing the possession of a certain no-
bility of nature and decent restraint which
appear to be lacking in his juniors.
There is altogether quite a long list of
these artistic scribblers. Here are a few
additional names that occur: Percy Leason,
G. W. Lambert, Sydney Ure Smith, A. J.
Daplyn, Cecil Hartt, Stan Cross, Harry
Julius, Ted Colles, Albert Collins, Julian
Ashton and D. H. Souter. There are more,
but these are sufficiently representative to
show how serious is the evil complained of.
Many other artists, no doubt, have only not
indulged in the nefarious conduct that those
mentioned have from time to time been guilty
of, because it has not occurred to them to
do so.
But the thing- that all this leads up to
is the consideration of a practical method of
stopping it. Of course, it is all very well
to suggest, as has been done in several bars
where writers foregather, that Mr. and Mrs.
Walsh and Mr. Garden should be brought
into the matter, but the probable fact remains
that their intrusion would result in nothing
of any real value. So another remedy has
had to be. considered. Here it is.
Supposing, for a start, James Edmond,
David Wright, Rod Quinln and Henry! Lawson
took lessons in drawing or painting. All are
capable men who with a little industry could
pick up the rudiments of portraiture. I
am sure that a painting of Norman Lindsay
by James Edmond, accompanied by a threat
of more to come, would prevent the former
from ever writing again. And if Lawson
were to draw Lambert and David Wright to
provide a pastel in the neo-Ballinaslane
manner of Percy Leason the effect should
be salutary, in the corrective sense. There
may be nothing in the idea: it is merelv
thrown out for what it is worth to a long-
suffering community of writers as a possible
lifebuoy of hope. It may be only a wail in
the dark, and a grasp at a straw, or any-
thing else metaphorical and symbolical—still,
there it is. As to the ethics of the proposal,
if trespassers should be prosecuted it is cer-
tainly equitable for some of them to be
drawn, if not quartered.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
A Satchel of Books
Kangaroo Rhymes, by Stephen Grey, is a small
illustrated book of jingles dedicated to the “Child-
ren of the Commonwealth.” Vic. Director of Edu-
cation Tate, in a foreword, says: “These Kangaroo
Rhymes are welcome, whatever their shortcomings,
as an attempt by some of the younger writers to
make real Australian folk-lore rhymes for our small
people.” The book represents the combined efforts
of three people, “Stephen Grey” covering the lot.
Bernard Cronin and Capel Boake wrote the verse,
and Harry McClelland did the illustrating.
A If, Old Chum, by Jerrard Syrett (Hutchinson).
Alf, ex-sergeant-major of the Buffs and bearing a
distant relationship to Bairnsfather’s Ole Bill, lum-
bers through 223 pages discoursing on various trifles
with depressing Cockney cheerfulness. He has a
plumber’s job, a wife and two children. Also he
buys a gramophone, gets pneumonia, and takes the
family for the day to the Maze at Hampton Court,
and he never varies from his homely rectitude even
to the extent of stoushing the missus and coming
home drunk. This is a pity. A black eye would
give a bit of color to a drab volume.
Madame de Stael, Her Trials and Triumphs, by
Lt.-Col. Andrew C. P. Haggard (Hutchinson). The
author is a brother of Rider Haggard, but lacks
his literary skill. He sets down the main facts
of the life of Napoleon’s great feminine antagonist,
but fails to give us an adequate estimate of tbe
woman herself. The main impression he eonvejs
is of a fat scribbling woman with a tongue to out-
babble the brook and the morals of an alley eat.
Germaine de Stael was certainly a high-powered
talker and unstable as to her virtue; her honor was
never at odds With her self-interest, and some of
her books were mere echoes of the men of genius at
her elbow—but there was more- in Necker's remark-
able daughter than that. Haggard tells that she
had a tremendous influence on the events of her
day; had he approached his task with some critical
insight he might have been able to show just why.
East is East, by Major-General Pilcher (John
Lane), is a book about India’s No-man’s Land—the
country between British India and Afghanistan.
There are three stories in the volume, and the
first of them begins with a proverb:—
Trust a snake before a harlot,
Trust a harlot before a Pathan,
Trust a Pathan before a Brahmin.
All the yarns go to prove that whoever coined the
above knew what he was talking about. The style
is what is called “soldierly”—brief and to the
point and it harmonises well with the wild deeds
the author narrates. “Samson and Delilah” is a
particularly convincing story of love as it is under,
stood by the Afridis.
“ It’s years since you had a navy serge suit.”
“That's funny. I ordered one only yesterday."
“What is it costing you?”
“Eleven guineas!”
“ELEVEN GUINEAS! Why, man alive, what’s the matter with the
one I’ve got on? It’s one of David Jones’ English all-wool fine twill
serges, and cost me only £5/15/-”
The inky Way
The Empire Mail, a London monthly with a
motto which epitomises its policy (“Militantly Bri-
tish”) puts up a record in the current (June) issue.
It has as contributors —even though in some cases
the contributions are very brief indeed —-a fair pro-
portion of the best-known men in England in their
particular lines. Curzon, Churchill, Shortt and
Hamar Greenwood speak for the politicians; the
First Lord for the Navy; the late Field-Marshal
Wilson for the Army ; and a miscellaneous collection
of mere writers includes Alfred Noyes (who con-
tributes a fine poem—“ The Mother Country”) and
Pett Ridge. It is a great number on its merits,
but the iridescence of the innumerable names is
easily its most remarkable feature.
“E.T.W.”: “J.L.’s” eulogy of Compton Mackenzie
(B. 29/6/’22), describing “The Passionate Elope:
ment” as “a brilliant resurrection of the 18th cen-
tury,” made me think that the title had perhaps
wronged it. I find it, however, merely a resurrec-
tion of all the 18th century Tunbridge (or other)
Wells stories, stuffed with card-playing mammas,
gouty admirers, gushing maidens, sedan chairs, hoops,
wigs, patches, snuff-boxes, and all the traditional
elaborate facetiae of the period. The characters that
do not hail from “The Virginians” cah be found in
“Pickwick Papers,” barring (he hero and the villain,
who in their irresolute dulness rather smack of
Stanley Weyman. The only distinction of the book
is the deliberate exuberance of the writing. Indeed
Mackenzie’s whole secret is a skill in conjuring up a
glittering mirage of words around a commonplace
transaction. But it is illusion, not penetration—the
art of the circus ringmaster. Mackenzie keeps his
characters cutting capers with a tremendous verbal
whipcracking. It seems thrilling at the moment,
but when the hubbub dies no judicious person would
write home about the actual achievement.
“Hargo”: Without the least desire to detract from
all that has been written of the late A. O. Row-
landson’s worth and service to Australian authors, let
an unmentioned phase be stated. A.C.R. “had a
way wid him,” as far as publicity was concerned.
To every country newspaper of advertising value to
him he regularly sent review copies of his shilling
Bookstall series, with ready-written pars, for inser-
tion, and these usually caught. Some proprietors
(I am one of them) hinted as courteously as possible
that he made it a “bit willing,” and that they
might be forced to stipulate: No advt., no par. in
future. His reply was couched in terms of appro-
bation for past co-operation, regret that he could not
extend his advertising contracts, and assurance
that copies would still be sent along, par. or no par.
It won out, too. The point should not go unrecog-
nised by authors whom Rowlandson handled, for
country newspapers were a factor of some value to
him.
“Kip” : Frederick vanßensslaerDay, who shot himself
recently in New York, was one of the most prolific
writers the world has ever known. By this name he is
not familiar to the Australian public, but who among
us has not made the acquaintance of that grim-faced
hero of a thousand hair-breadth escapes, that famous
bullet-proof detective of fiction, Nick Carter? This
ornament of the covers of actually more than a thou-
sand dime thrillers was Frederick Day’s creation. But
Day did not confine himself to the adventurous
Nick, for, under the nom de plume of “Bertha M.
Clay,” he poured out romances galore of the Charles
Garvice type, and wrote a number of short stories
under various pen-names. In his effort to keep up
with the public’s persistent demand for more of
Nick Carter, he frequently wrote as many as 12,000
words in a day, which from a copy-reader’s point of
view were turned out in faultless fashion. Not
until the public had devoured approximately 40,000,000
words relating to the adventures of Nick did they
tire of him. Moving pictures provided the counter-
attraction, and compelled this versatile writer to
turn his talents to scenario writing. In this field
he did not meet with the success he had hitherto
enjoyed; and so, in a manner reminiscent of the
pages of his blood-and-thunder creations, he put an
end to his life.
“Thrippenee”: “Dido’s” remarks (R.P. 29/6/’22) re
editors’ dislike of other fellows’ discards brings up
the subject of , Rejected pars, generally. Couldn’t
some time limit be fixed after which, if his items
have not appeared, the freelance should be at liberty
to try his luck with them elsewhere? There are
now in Australia many journals the style of whose con-
tributed matter is similar. Matter rejected by one
editor may be, and often is, acceptable to another.
Also, the par. for a weekly or a monthly is often a
potential article for a daily. The honest writing
bloke doesn’t care to see his pars word for word in
contemporary issues of two, or perhaps three, papers.
He gets blamed for having duplicated his matter and
scattered it broadcast, and his name goes on to the
editors’ “black” lists. Yet he may have dene no
more than take a risk, and gambled on what he
thought an editor had done, and what he thought he
had given him plenty of time to do. A case in
point. Some matter submitted as a par. two months
previously to a weekly, and regarded as rejected,
was expanded to a short article and submitted to a
daily. The daily accepted and printed it; the fol-
lowing day the par. appeared in the weekly—after
nine weeks! The happening was easily explained,
of course, but why the necessity for the explanation ?
It’s all very well for editors to say “matter either
appears or it doesn’t” ; how is the chap not gifted
with second sight going to be sure that it won’t
appear when' he -least expects or wants it ?
CONTRARINESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now lazing off the Inky Way
With easy money at command
I often contemplate the day
When I was of the Free-lance band.
Those years were sordid ones; I wrote
For pay alone- —no other thought.
(Though blushfully I make this note:
My stuff was fairly widely sought.)
Through vista of the long years up
I See a bonzer old cashier
Who oft provided crust —and sup!
I’ve given him many a silent cheer.
May Heaven guard that trustful soul
Who, when I’d told a story blue,
And empty was the flowing bowl
Came good, and cashed my lOU.
Now, though I need not write to sell,
Ambition burns; aye, there’s the rub,
For scarce a story I can tell
Can touch the heart of any sub.
VICTORIA.
D. G. MACDOUOALL.


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
9~i b ro I i I'd
Weatherboard Houses
Build your new home —exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings with Ifardie’s
Australian-made “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and Roof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made in 36 sizes.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
At the Yards!
If you want top rates for your Fat Cattle, Sheep
and Lambs, consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Market, Sydney; or Enoggera
Market, Brisbane.
BOOK
YOUR
ROOM
AT
mm
W
BOTEL CARLTON
BRISBANE
In the Heart
oi Queen Street
Inclusive Tariff
14/- a day
£l4 000 has recently been spent in remodel-
ling the Carlton. To-d yit ranks as one of
the foremost high-class Hotels in Australia.
Excellent cuisine and all the accompaniments
that you expect to get at a high class hotel-
Mo J ern American Bar. Wire or write
for rooms.
Proprietors. D. & T. WINTEUBOTTOM
99
“M.L.
All British Magneto
Stocked in all models and degrees.
Sole Distributors in Australia:
SMITH, SONS g REES LIMITED,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
99 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO.,
Adelaide Brisbane
LTD.,
Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
REGISTERED
m»OF M«»»
Guaranteed*
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
Never requires cleaning, and holds a good cutting edge.
Also Pocket and Pen Knives, with Rustless and Stainless Blades.
It unable to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurs.,
■ ■
BE
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
FLAG BRAND
Cutlery.
Science gives proof of the
Nutriment in
Eveiryone must have nutriment to maintain health
and strength, and the energy to live a useful life.
A PURE
COD LIVES Oil
EMULSION
rail
r
mi:.:
m
A Medical Scientist recently demonstrated that the
nutritious elements in Cod Liver Oil are consider-
ably greater than in a food so rick in fat as butter.
This discovery reveals the secret of the phenomenal
success and popularity of HYPOL, which contains
50% of. the finest Cod Liver Oil from the Norwegian
Fisheries, but blended so skilfully with the hypo-
phosphites of lime, potash and soda, and so en-
ticingly flavoured, that it is just as pleasant to take
as it is wholesome.
Doctors recommend HYPOL largely for the following
Complaints, and it never fails :
Coughs
Colds
Bronchitis
Pneumonia
Anaemia
Debility
Influenza
Nerves
Measles
Rickets
Loss of Weight
Whooping Cough
There’s some distinction and originality about HYPOL.
Substitutes are “not as good.”
INSIST ON GETTING HYPOL. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO. PROP. LTD.. Melbourne.
SKANDIA
Crude Oil, Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
No
Magnetos
Sparking Plugs
Batteries
Carburetters
or
Electrical
Devices.
advt
Unequalled in
Economy
Simplicity
Durability
and
Reliability.
4 to SOO
H.P.
Sole Agents for Australi
and SoutH Sea Islands
NELSON (Sl ROBERTSON,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
In Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, the other
afternoon a little hurry was created by a
brief rally between two men, one of whom
broke away, and lied into Little Collins-
street at top speed, leaving the other, a true
'l'eddywaddy type, ruefully examining a cord
which came from his hip pocket. "I didn’t
make it strong enough,” said Bucolic; ‘‘but
I’ll trap one o’ them damn pickpockets yet.”
“Wart”: The Launceston Chamber of
Commerce is the oldest in Australia. It
had its geuesis at a meeting held on August
21, 1849. F. du Crozz was the first presi-
dent. The first meeting discussed the
iniquity of inter-State tariffs, and the ques-
tion of barrels vermis bags for shipping hour.
In those days the Speck used to export a
large amount of wheat and Hour to England
and the mainland. Nowadays it grows only
about half enough to make its own loaf.
* * * *
The reaction from the land boom in M.L.
has been the cause of several unparalleled
smashes. In the Feilding district 14
farms belonging to one man were recently
brought under the hammer. The owner a
year ago was worth on paper nearly a
quarter of a million, the mortgages • alone
on his property being £189,000. At a meet-
ing of his creditors one who was secured
moved a resolution that he be allowed to
take away his furniture, worth about £2OO.
There was some opposition, but finally a
grudging consent was won. The debtor had
only recently married, and the space of a few
months saw his income drop from £2400
p.a. to nothing.
* * * *
“Thor”: When will postage rates in the
Commonwealth get back to normal V Boyn-
ton’s department will never move till it is
forced, and, naturally, has the backing of
the Treasury, which hates abandoning any
method of collecting money for politicians
to burn. Yet the experience of the English
G.P.O. a few weeks ago, when postage was
cheapened, showed that, from the Treasury
point of view, at any rate, the high rates
were altogether wrong. The first day’s in-
crease in ordinary correspondence in London
was 75 per cent., and the restoration of a
halfpenny rate for business circulars re-
sulted in five times the load being carried.
More letters mean more prosperity, and the
sooner our P.M.G. follows the British lead
the better for all of us.
* * * *
“Toby C.” : Hearing a northern cane cut-
ter refer recently to ‘‘the good old days” I
drew his attention to the present cutting
price (from 9s. to 14s. per ton) compared
with that ruling seven or eight years ago,
when the cocky was getting his cane cut
for ss. a ton. Admitting that the present
price seemed to offer better opportunities
for getting rich quick, or keeping drunk
longer, the cutter went on to say that he d
“cut cane for ss. a ton eight years ago and
cleared £l4O for the season, but what be-
tween strikes, hold-ups, disputes and blanky
conferences he hadn’t had a chance to reach
three figures during any one of the past
three yeai's.” He didn’t blame the union,
however, for causing any of his troubles.
“Kip”: Was standing outside a small
greengrocer’s shop, near the doorway of
which, superimposed on a bag of spuds, lay
several bunches of beetroot. Discounting its
color, one particular beet, by reason of its
long prongs, suggested a distinct resemblance
to a Cray. Presently my inspection of this
vegetable freak was interrupted by the ap-
pearance of a drunk, who came meandering
towards me along the footpath. The long-
rooted beet immediately impressed him.
After a profound scrutiny he hic-
coughed out: “Strike me! So Regan’s
goin’ in fer fish! Well, good luck
to the blanker! Wha’ with these cursed
Dagos and Chows I told him long ago he’d
never make a do of the fruit bizshness!”
“Wart” : It is just about 50 years since
the Waverly Woollen Mills, Distillery Creek.
Launceston (Tas.), claimed the bonus of
£lOOO which was offered by the Government
of the day for the first £lOOO worth of
woollen goods manufactured in the State.
During the last couple of years the firm
has doubled its capacity without a stoppage.
Within the next 12 months Launceston
expects to see the two big English firms that
are now erecting mills turning out flannel
and knitting wool. By the way, the Wav-
erly’s woollen goods were not the first manu-
factured in Tas. In the ’thirties the Gov-
ernment employed some of the women convicts
at the cascades spinning and weaving, under
the supervision of William Whitaker, who
was afterwards city missionary at Launces-
ton.
* * * *
“Winkle”: Experiments to discover which
are the most suitable Australian woods for
the production of pulp to be converted into
high-grade printing papers are now being
carried out by the Commonwealth Institute
of Science and Industry at the mill of the
Australasian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd., at
Fryansford (Vic.). Laboratory tests and
availability of supplies have reduced the
selection to the following timbers: Stringy-
bark, gumtop, swamp gum and myrtle (Tas-
mania) ; mountain ash, woolly butt, silver-
top (Victoria) ; karri (W.A.) ; blackbutt
CN.S.W.) ; and the inmorted Pinus insignis.
It should not be forgotten that if this in-
dustry proves successful the amount of tim-
ber required will be enormous, and if imme-
diate steps are not taken to plant suitable
timbers it will fail within 20 years from
lack of raw material.
* * * *
The G.-G.’s speech at the Drummers’
annual feast helped to lever out the fact on
the following Monday that Vic. Agricultural
Department had managed to raise an acre
of cotton at Wahgunyah, near the Ruther-
glen wine-growing country, and that Mil-
dura had demonstrated that it could pro-
duce the plant. Nevertheless officials who
know the- lay of the land had to own up
that the limited area suitable for cropping
(under irrigation in substitution for the
summer rains that don’t come) could pro-
bably be turned to more profitable account
if used for dried or citrus fruits. His Ex.
then threw out the hint that something
might be done with cotton as a sideline in
Vic. by planting it between the rows of
citrus trees. But the 5- to 16-acre men
are a bit dubious about doing that.


The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
£ TWENTY-SECOND REPORT
of the Directors, presented at the Annual General Meeting held at the Banking House, Sydney, on Tuesday, 25th July, 1922, at noon.
1- submit the Accounts for the Year ended 30th June, 1922, which have been examined and
certified to by the Auditors, and show the following results: —-
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year, after making full
provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts, deducting Rebate
on Current Bills, and Expenses of Management, Directors’
and Auditors’ Fees, Interest on Fixed Deposits, Rates, etc.,
amounts to
Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes for the Year..
£235,906 16 10
45,061 3 4
From which deduct Interest paid on Inscribed Deposits
Profit for the Ycflr
From this amount the following appropriations
have been made —
Transfer to Reserve Fund .. .. .. £40,000 0
Transfer in reduction of Bank Premises Account 10,000 0
Out of the taxable portion
an Interim Half-yearly Dividend at the rate
of 7 per cent, per annum was paid in
January last, absorbing . . . . ,
and a final Half-yearly Dividend at the rate
of 7 per cent, per annum is now recom-
mended, amounting to
42,000 0 0
42,000 0 0
Balance ..
Brought forward from last Year
Leaving to be carried forward
£190,845 13
53.650 0
£50,000 0 0
84,000 0 0
£137,195 12 9
.134,000 0 0
£3,195 12 9
30,391 3 8
£33,586 16 5
2. During the year Branches of the Bank have been opened at George Street North, Sydney, and
at Proserpine in Queensland. Receiving Offices have been opened at Punchbowl and Willoughby
Junction in N.S.W., and the Receiving Office at Coutt’s Crossing has been closed.
3. During the year the Hon. P. Jago Smith resigned his seat on the Board, owing to failing health
and advancing years, and Sir Mark Sheldon, K. 8., rejoined the Board on his return from America.
Owing to extended visits to Europe, Mr. Herbert Royse Lysaght and Dr. George James Sly also have
resigned their seats on the Board, and Mr. Harry Ambrose Russell and Lieut.-Colonel T. L. F. Rutledge,
M.L.A., have been elected to fill the vacancies.
4. It devolves upon the Meeting to elect two Directors in the places of Harry Ambrose Russell
and Sir Mark Sheldon, who retire in accordance with the provision of Clause 104 of the Articles of
Association. Both are eligible and offer themselves for re-election.
5. In terms of Clause 171 of the Articles of Association, it is also necessary to elect two Auditors
in the places of Milton F. Johnson, F.C.P.A., and William H-. Perry, F.C.P.A., who retire in accordance
with the Articles of Association. The latter is eligible and offers himself for re-election, and William
Craig, F.C.P.A., has given notice that he is a candidate for election in place of Mr. Johnson.
F. N. YARWOOD,
Deputy Chairman.
Sydney, 19th July, 1922.
Dr.
BALANCE-SHEET
(INCLUDING LONDON OFFICE—BY CABLE).
30th June, 1922.
Cr.
Authorised Capital
To Capital subscribed and paid-up
„ Reserve Fund
„ Inscribed Deposits .. .. . . ]
» Customers’ Deposits and other Liabilities . .
„ Government Deposits ..
„ Bills in Circulation and other amounts payable
„ Balances due to other Banks
„ Profit and Loss Account —-
Balance
Brought forward from 30th June, 1921
LIABILITIES.
£2,000,000 0 0
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of Letters of Credit, etc.;
for which customers are responsible to the Bank, £808,044 16s. Bd.
£2,820,506 18 4
10,373,699 17 4
75,586 16 5
£13,269,793 12 1
• ASSETS.
By Coin and Bullion
„ Australian Notes
„ Cash at London Bankers and at short call in London ..
~ government and Municipal Securities
„ Balances due by other Banks
~ Bills Receivable in London and Remittances in transit ..
~ Advances against War Loan and under Government Guarantee
£728,879 19 1
656,015 10 0
558,493 3, 6
431,455 2 4
246,889 12 4
1,814,866 17 10
195,071 10 8
Bills Discounted, Loans, Advances, all other Debts due to the Bank, and other
Assets, including provision, £15,000, in terms of Clause 163 of thei Bank’s
Articles of Association .. .. . . . . .. ..
Bank Premises .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £476,163 810
Less appropriation from Profits .. .. .. .. .. 10,000 0 0
£4,631,671
8,172,968
465,163
15 9
7 6
8 10
£13,269,793 12 1
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Transfer to Reserve Fund (making £290,000)
„ Transfer in reduction of Bank Premises Account
„ Interim Half-yearly Dividend paid
» Final Half-yearly Dividend recommended ..
„ Balance to be carried down
£40,000 0 0
10,000 0 0
£50,000 0 0
£42,000 0 0
42,000 0 0
84,000 0 0
£134,000 0 0
3,195 12 9
£137,195 12 9
By Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1922 . . . . . . £235,90G 1G 10
Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes .. .. .. 45,061 3 4
£190,845 13 G
From which deduct Interest paid on Inscribed Deposits .. .. .. .. 53,650 0 9
By Nett Profit for the year .. .. .. *. .. .. .. • • £137,195 12 9
„ Balance to be brought down —after payment of £42,000 Dividend recommended. . £3,195 12 9
„ Balance brought forward from last year .. .. .. .. .. 30,391 3 8
To be carried forward . . . . . . .. . . ~ . . . . £33,586 16 5
F. N. YAHWOOD, Deputy Chairman.
C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
MILTON P. JOHNSON, F.C.P.A. )
WILLIAM H. PERRY, F.C.P.A. }
Auditors.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, LIMITED.
the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of the above was held at the Banking House, George
and King Streets, Sydney, on Tuesday, the 25th July, Mr. F. N. Yarwood, the Deputy Chairman of
Directors, presiding.
A? moving the adoption of the Report and Balance-Sheet for the half-year ended 30th June, 1922,
the Chairman said
gentlemen, —The Balance-Sheet presented to you to-day shows the position as at 30th June last,
ar| d Loss Account for the year’s operations ended same date.
The figures, the Board are pleased to say, again show further expansion—the total, as you will
see, now exceeds 13,i millions, an increase of some £456,000 over what it was twelve months ago.
On the Biabilities side of the Balance-Sheet the figures call for little, if any, comment —beyond
the fact that they show’ the growing popularity of the Bank and its increasing usefulness to the
public generally.
On the Assets side —the more liquid Assets are on this occasion £4,631,671, an increase on the
figures of the previous year of some £454,289.
This total figures out at Bs. lid. in the £ of our current liabilities —a very strong and satisfactory position.
The Bills discounted, Loans, Advances, ttc., stand at some £8,172,000, a small advance on last
year, but the tendency of lower values throughout trade, and the reduction and realisation of stocks
that has been very wisely the general policy of the trading community, have naturally caused a decline
in individual overdrafts all round.
Briefly stated, commerce in Australia, speaking broadly, continues in a satisfactory condition, due
to the exercise of the good commonser.se of our trading community.
The financial pressure that we experienced for a brief period some two years ago in consequence
of Imports being for a time largely in excess of our Exports, has, happily, passed away without any
very serious trouble arising. The figures are interesting and speak for themselves.
In 1920/21 Australian Imports were 163 Millions
Exports .. 131 „
A balance against us of
While in 1921/22 the figures for the 12 months are: —
Exports
Imports
32 „
127 Milliona
100
A balance in our favor of . . .. 27 ~
Australia has need to expert more than she imports, in order to pay the Interest on her overseas
debts and other necessary items. During this last year this has been done to a satisfactory extent.
Our Profit and Loss Account on this occasion calls for little comment. Our total profits have
been £235,906 as against £231,798 a year ago, reduced on this occasion by £45,061 paid in Taxation
to State and Federal Governments.
During the last twelve months, in Taxation, we have been called upon for £7749 more than in
1921. It is sincerely to be hoped in the best interests of the community generally that the last of
increase in taxation has been seen for many years ahead. Reduction is what is badly—very badly—
wanted, and when the whole community realises that the present taxation is depleting any accumula-
tions for development purposes—both wage-earner and investor will be able to join hands in insisting
upon economies and reduction in Government expenditure, the gravity and importance of which is
recognised by our present State Government.
Our Shareholders will from these figures be able to see for themselves that the present position
is, that the Governments, under whose control our operations happen to come, are taking in taxation
from us an amount equal to 50 per cent, of the dividends which we consider it reasonable and prudent
to distribute.
The Graduated Land Tax charged us is a mistake —it cripples our development, and has led to
the adoption of a policy by us with buildings which has been anything but a benefit to municipalities,
towns or the worker usually engaged in the building trade. Some day possibly this may be realised
by our legislators. Meantime, however, for the information of our Shareholders, it may be well to
add that the determination of the Board is to hold as little landed estate as possible. We believe
in keeping our resources as liquid as we can in order to be able to assist our customers with their
requirements from time to time.
Our net profits for the year, after paying Taxation and interest on Inscribed Deposits, amount to
£137 195.
Six months ago we paid an interim dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum, and propose
for your consideration to-day to make a similar distribution, which will make the full dividend for the
year 7 per cent., and this will take some .. .. .. ■ • . ■ • • • • • • £84,000
We suggest the transfer to Reserve of .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
And to write off premises .. .. .. .. • • • • • • • • • • • • 10,000
Making a total of .. .. .. •• •• •• •• •• ••
And this will leave . . .. . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
To be added to the balance in Profit and Lo c s already .. .. .. .. .. .. 00,391
And thereby raise the carry forward to .. .. .. .. .. ■■ •• £33,586
This is* the first occasion on which we have been able to distribute the full 7 per cent, for a year s
working, and we trust this will be satisfactory to you.
The following are the figures of Branches and Receiving Offices we have been able to add for the
purpose of extending this Bank’s activities during the past three years:—
1920..
1921..
1922. ..
8 Branches
3
2
8 Receiving Offices
2
1
These facilities are a convenience to the public, and also give us opportunities to offer openings
to the younger deserving officers who show 7 the necessary ability to manage and conduct the Bank’s business.
Our development in this dirretion for the past tw 7 o years, unfortunately, is less than usual—due
to increased taxation demands, and other causes over which the management has no control.
The tendency of the times undoubtedly is to bring about amalgamation of Banking Institutions
with a view to reducing experses, if possible—and as long as the public convenience does not suffer in
consequence no one can complain—but Shareholders will be wise in these days to beware of rumors
that are sometimes spread by interested persons, and for which there is more often than otherwise not
a shadow of foundation. Oui Shareholders may rest assured that as Directors we shall not forget our
duty, should oecasion arise, to see that they are duly and promptly informed of any move that may
be likely to materially affect their interests.
Since our last meeting a change has come o’er the scene as regards our New South Wales Govern-
ment, and the return to the control of our public affairs by men of more moderate views and better
acquainted with the need for sane and sound management, is a matter for general congratulation.
Her best friends can only hope that a similar change will be effected in Queensland when the next
election takes plac in that State.
After all is said ard done, sound finance is the foundation of all prosperity, wdiether it be for
the individual or for the State, and ihe need for more care and prudence in our public affairs is
emphasised by the recent happenings w 7 iih regard to the last New 7 South AVales and Straits Settlements
Loans floated in London. Newspaper cables may mislead the public into thinking that money for
investment is plentiful in London, but such is not the case, except as regards Short Loans onlv Fxclud-
ing all Commonwealth Loans the following figures show the very large State Loans that have to
be renewed or otherwise dealt with by both this and the Queensland States within the very near future :
£55,303,363 £27,976,584
To renew these loans must, as far as one can judge to-day, entail an increase in the present interest
paid thereon.
The depression that has prevailed lately has given rise to a certain amount of public discussion as to
what can be done to improve matters and increase employment. That this subject should be fully
ventilated is all for good—unfortunately too often is the damage done first and the remedy looked for
afterwards. As an illustration one has only to mention Australia’s unfortunate attitude towards the
Pacific trade.
We have always to remember that all trade is a matter of exchange—not exchange in the sense in
which the word is used in Banking (with bankers, Exchange is principally a matter of dealing with
the difference in values of the goods delivered and those received), and unless this principle of
exchange of products is assisted by Labor, and recognised and fostered by our Governmental authorities
(instead of being harassed and penalised as it has been in the recent past), in the very near future
Australia bids fair to cut a very sorry and small figure in the world’s affairs.
As one sign of the change of opinion on the part of the authorities, New South Wales business men
will welcome the proposal for the reduction of Stamp Duties in this State to the Victorian level, but
beyond all this we can cr.ly hope that drastic economies of ari aIL-round nature may be effected. The
cattle industry in Australia will die out unless we can cut costs to such a point as will make it profitable
to go on using the very large area of country we have that is only fit for beef production. At present
the Queensland Government is still pursuing the unfortunate policy of carrying out to the letter the
retrospective legislation against its lessees, which it has been warned is very naturally regarded in all
well-informed circles as not in the best interests of the country as a whole.
The following figures for the State of New South Wales will illustrate the need there is here in
the interests of everyone in the community, for every encouragement to be given to increased develoD-
ment of our production and trade:— \ 1
Tonnage Shipping Inwards and Outwards in 1913 —
. Total .. .. 16,188,602 tons
tonnage Shipping and Outwards in 1922
Total .. .. 12,742,991 tons
, A decline of .. 3,445,611 tons
The population employed in Rural Occupations—
In 1913 numbered 151,632
In 1921 numbered .. 136,283
A decline of .. . . 15,349
While the percentage of population in Rural Occupations—
In 1913 was . . .. 8 per cent.
In 1921 it had declined to 6 per cent.
The number of miners employed—
In 1913 was .. . . 38,880
In 1921 was . . . . 29,701
A decline of
9,179
Or 23 per cent in 9 years. •
The rot in employment in Mining has been very pronounced—it started in 1907, and has been almost
continuous since. ’ a u
These declines in numbers engaged in rural occupations and mining are all the more serious when
one remembers that in the same time the Public Debt (the interest on which has to be provided out
of the value of the production of the State) has increased as under:— D l ' rovlclecl ° ut
In 1913 it was .. 106 millions
. „ In 1921 it was .. 164 millions
an increase of 55 per cent.
0 figures go to show the very grave need there is for less legislative interference reduction
n T taxa lion, and, last but not least, increased population, while more care must be
n that our Railways and Civi Services dc net become «ni.i »’ u.. . .. L . must ne
* muic uuits must ue
Old man of the sea” on the shoulders
and y* .........un, «im, i,i.'i uui. not lease, liicieas
taken that our Railways and Civil Services do not become an
of the Trade and Production of the country.
In conclusion, we should like to add a few words on the position in Eurone T+ is „ «
535? I? sy? th “ t,,e rmnt oc “ * ,,i h «” & iff
Unfortunately, America does not yet seem to realise the need there is for be,- ~,
as she now is, to take a more intimate interest in the settlement of affairs in Fm’nni 6a * -fi * wea tthy
rade must continue to . stagnate in the United States as well as elsewhere. EromrTnriTTT W^ ICh
that many of the American people are at present of the oninion .] , , , ? * cne gathers
in the politics of Europe-a short-sighted view po«siblv for a NaHnt they should not become embroiled
States. It is pleasing, P however, to note VhTt lately the American farmer fs b^fnnfnwA?*
realises that the purchasing power of Europe is a matter of livclv curl * . oeginnin ß to show that he
that under existing conditions that purcharing % hin ™ d
Trade at all times means swapping goods and Sendees and Burnt e „ n i f UDtl re^ edied '
ble The r deve £ lopm?nt a 0 f mTry’T 1 TTtlr a 1° f piTdT ctTiul 1 il" °i n"1^80"TT T f« ry h way
rSHon s iT s ?S!ldTo SScT^c d
Ship is obvious to those who study the facts and statistics 7 investment or owner-
prevail* and that by S ° me CyniCS t 0 bc the rarest of all thc ™) will
Duriug the year the following has occurred as regards the Directors-
tv&bst .‘•swra 4 c " ,im “ n 01 * h<
few months—and i" n , T*" ed owiil£ ? to their having to leave Australia for a
by the hoard of Directors in £&%£?£dTtl £i
iJjT tiTt-T .I'nl r lt TfT Mr i s' ;inC f T 1 Parson, anc ] was carried unanimously.
H Perrv fCP A ard u! Wi lif'T®’ 1 - Mark Sheldon were re-elected Directors, and Mr.
f h’ , Wll,a f' Craig, F.C.P.A., were appointed auditors.
’‘Vi. ' ote thanks to the Directors. General Manager and Staff was moved hv Mr A
s TT ed ,Tn M , r : T Shirl «y Chapman, and carried bv accla,nation. V • * *
Ihe Chairman declared the dividend is now payable.
William


To Avoid Sickness.
To avoid and to overcome sickness of all
kinds, watch your bowels. Don’t allow old
fermenting food to stay in them for days,
but get it out.
If your stomach is disordered, or your
bowels constipated, if you feel sluggish,
dizzy or bilious, get a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets at once.
They act directly upon the liver, regulate
the bowels, invigorate the stomach, cleanse
the system. The result is a relish for food,
increased strength and a clear head.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are good for con-
stipation, sour stomach and gases on the
stomach. A single dose often relieves these
troubles.
The use of these Tablets is not followed by
constipation as is the case with many laxatives.
Instead of weakening the bowels they strength-
en them to act naturally without assistance.
Chronic constipation may be permanently
relieved by Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
have none of the sickening qualities of pills,
and do not produce an unpleasant effect.
Keep Your Bowels Clean.
That listless, tired, drowsy feeling may be
due to poisonous matter lodged in the bowels.
Many folks who always feel tired and only
“half alive” will be surprised how much
better they will feel when they get rid of this
matter which has been poisoning their system
for days.
Nervousness, sleeplessness and some kinds
of headaches are frequently signs of poison-
ing of the system through poisons le.ft in the
bowels.
Irritation of the bladder, breathlessness,
so-called weak and fluttering heart, are often
caused by pressure of gas in the intestines —
this gas may originate from decaying food in
the system.
A man is seldom sick when his bowels are
regular, and never well when they are
irregular. Bear this in mind and take
Chamberlain’s Tablets as occasion may
require. There is nothing better. They
are mild and gentle in their action and
pleasant to take.
Old Age.
Old age as it comes in the orderly process
of nature is a beautiful and majestic thing.
It stands for experience, knowledge, wisdom,
counsel. That is old age as it should be,
but old age as it often is means poor digestion,
torpid bowels, a sluggish liver and a general
feeling o£ ill health, despondency and mirery.
This in almost every instance is wholly
unnecessary. One of Chamberlain’s Tablets
taken immediately after supper will improve
the digestion, tone up the liver and regulate
the bowels. That feeling of despondency
will give way to one of hope and good cheer.
7
■?
V \
44i
iT
/
V 2
f
k \>
J
w
Sfe
5\
SS-
SS
S 3
5
ft
Sr>
&}l§i
«5r
So
33
<0
*■»«§
Avoid Chills.
‘’■SRahny" chamberlain
(COPVRIOHTfcftI
AVOID chills and you will avoid
Coughs, Colds and Influenza. So—
When you shiver and sneeze
From the wintry breeze,
To stop that cough
And ward the cold off—take
CHAMBERLAIN'S
COUGH REMEDY
Children’s Ailments.
Children, like adults, are subject to
disorders of the stomach, liver and bowels,
and many of the apparently alarming ailments
of childhood are due to these causes.
Constipation is a common trouble among
children and is often the cause of seeming
stupidity at lessons and also of many an
exhibition of temper.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are invaluable for
children. They are pleasant and safe to take
and absolutely without harsh effect.
Half a Tablet is sufficient for children from
six to twelve; for children under six, one-third
of a Tablet will have the desired effect.
If your child is bilious, if its appetite is
poor and variable, if it is fretful and
nattering, restless in its sleep, you may be
sure that its stomach is out of order and a
few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets will
quickly set it right.
MORRIS-BUILT
for every handling service.
Overhead Electric Travelling; Crane.
Overhead Cranes
and Runways.
M IY/r ORR I S ” OV€r^ea <l handling is the only cure for
congestion and slow handling in the workshop
and factory. With such a system every machine or sec-
tion of floor space is fed by powerful lifting equipment.
Morris Runways are the only runways on which the
trolley can be sidetracked without stopping, or without
moving points or’ turntables —a profitable convenience.
Get our advice <bn your, handling problems. We can
quote you for (Overhead Cranes, hand or electric, for all
services. Run/way Systems for humblest \ duty or most
extensive operations. Also Conveyor Systems, Elevator
Trucks, Portable Jib Cranes, Engineers’ Jacks, etc.
Write or i,ing for our representative.
Pulley Blocks
and Hoists.
rnHB full range of Herbert Morris Handling and Lift-
JL ing Equipment includes a Pulley Block and Electric
Hoist for every lifting need —each an engineering
masterpiece, a leader in its class.
“Morris” Triple Gear
Blocks, for a safe, smooth,
easy lift with a minimum
pull. All parts interchange-
able, and best materials and
workmanship throughout.
Most compact block made.
Large stocks. Sizes 2Jcwt.
to 20 tons.
“Morris” Worm Gear
Blocks, for breakdown jobs
and constructional work. The
block that stands a lot of
rough handling. Sizes scwt.
to 20 tons.
“Morris” Spur . Gear
Blocks, handy to hang over
every machine. All gears
macbine cut. Sizes 2|cwt
to 5 tons.
“Morris” Gravity Lower-
ing Blocks, 10c wt. to 5
tons.
“Morris” Electric Hoist
Blocks. Sizes i to 5 tons.
Get our quotes.
74flA
All-Morris products are rated on full British ton of 22401 b., and tested with 50 per cent,
overload before leaving the works. our nearest address for special Morris Catalogues,
and our 128-page catalogue of all engineering requirements.
NOYES BROS.
{Sydney) Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; Victoria Chambers, Eagle Street, Brisbane;
and 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd., 499-501 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; Darling Building,, Franklin Street, Adelaide; and corner Collins and Elizabeth
Streets, Hobart. Also from J.. R. W. Gardam, Perth, W.A.
W. J. Earle, who succeeded Reade, the
first Government Town-planner of S. A us.,
something over a year ago, has thrown up
the job. He suggests that the £7OO paid for
it is absurdly small. But the local Institute
of Surveyors has formally resolved that there
is no need for the billet at all, and that the
work should be done by the Surveyor-
General.
“Y.Z.”: We all greatly appreciated the
politeness of Gaze when he came to Yam
and began to manifest a tender concern in
everybody’s affairs. His “Good day, Mr.
Smith, and how are you to-day?” was a
standing lesson in gentle human solicitude.
ITis “Goiod evening, Mrs. Brown, and how is
the old complaint?” expressed the limit in
friendly commiseration, and everybodv said
Gaze was a good fellow and a downright
nice man, till McMahon, who kept the Critic
Hotel, at which Gaze was staying, let the
cat out. Gaze had come to Yam to satisfy
himself by close inquiry as to the advisability
of starting an undertakery there.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos The Black Horse
known later as The Honeymoon Inn (B.
18/7/’22). The first license was granted
to Paul Randall on Feb. 20, 1810. It was
not until the ’fifties that the tavern acquired
its second name. Mrs. Seymour, licensee in
the ’fifties and early ’sixties kept a record of
the newly-wed who were temporary
sojourners there. Amongst them will be
found the names Dibbs, Cowper, Stephen,
Fairfax, Mort, Dangar, Merewether, Lugards,
Moseleys, Ramsbottom, John Rae (second
town-clerk of Sydney), Judge Forbes, Alex.
Macarthur and Lieut. Fitzgerald. Memories
are also recalled of parson Fulton, an early-
day preacher; Margaret Catchpole; John
Gould, the ornithologist; Wm. Cox, of Clar-
endon; T. M. Pitt; Louisa Atkinson (Mrs.
Calvert), the botanist; Charles Harpur, the
poet; and good old Dr. Wools.
“Archivist” : Dion G. Boucicault has one
of the qualifications for Warren Harding’s
job, for he was born in New York. May,
1859, is the given date. His first stage
appearance occurred in 1880, at Booth’s
Theatre, New York, now run by Australian
O. P. Heggie. The Dauphin in “Louis
XI.” was the part. “Dot” played drama
and comedy in New York and London, in-
cluding leads in “The Omadhaun” and other
Irish plays by his father, and then he accom-
panied the elder Dion to Australia, sailing
in 1885. His partnership with Robert
Brough in this country lasted from October.
1886, till June, 1896. Boucicault reappeared
in England at one of his former homes, the
Court, on October 13. 1897, as the Ministrel
in the fairy play, “Children of the King.”
Martin Harvey and Cissie Loftus played
leads, and Hilda Spong had a small part.
“Nor’rard” : Dr. Ahearne, of Brisbane, has
invented a travelling offal-destructor, which,
if it survives all tests, should be of sanitary
value outside his own primitive capital. Con-
tagion is spread by garbage, through flies,
not so much while it is stationary as when
it is en route to the tip or other disposal
ground. During this operation the innocent
and the guilty, the careless sanitarily speak-
ing, and the conscientious, are equally liable
to pick up a death-dealing germ-—or a million
of them. Some of the fearsome material is
liable to fall off in transit, and, anyhow, it
is browsed on by flies which, later, repair
to the dinner tables of the citizen. As one fly,
given a suitable diet of filth, can produce
6,000,000 others inside two months, and as
many summer epidemics, dangerous to adults
and fatal to children, are caused by flies, it
is clear that anyone who can provide a route
to the abolition of filth will deserve remark-
ably well of his country. Under Dr.
Ahearne’s scheme the incinerator comes to
the filth, on a house-to-house tour, and
reduces it to a fine ash in a few minutes. If
it works as well on the grand scale as it has
in a small way, such popular diseases as
typhoid are going to get the jolt of a life-
time.
Thus N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
on some remarks by “Azac” (B. 15/6/’22)
to the effect that privately-owned milking
cows give better results than “Government
pure-bred” ditto when herds are tested: —
The taxpayer does not pay for the maintenance
of inferior cows on Government farms, and the
material difference is that the Government farms
submit all their stock for testing, whereas private
breeders only submit their best. Thus the 77 per
cent, of Government cows reaching the standard of
production is a relatively larger percentage than those
from privately owned herds which attain the Same
standard, and the only comparison that is possible
from the figures which “Azac” quoted is that 77 per
cent, of the whole of the Government cows are
standard producers, whereas only 8& per cent, best
cows from the privately owned herds entering the
test reach the standard, and, being the pick of those
herds, the percentage in fair comparison would be
considerably less than that of the Government herds.
Anyhow in recent years the highest records in
Jerseys and Guernseys have been secured by Govern-
ment-bred stock, and the average yield of the 70
head of Guernseys at Wollongbar Experiment Farm
is easily a record for the breed in New South Wales.
Moreover, at the Royal Agricultural Show in Sydney
each year, Government-bred stock is found among
the leading prize-winners.
The Burford firm in Adelaide is following
the example of a soap company in England
and creating a town of its own. Till lately
its works were cramped in the south-western
quarter of the city itself, but a destructive
fire there made rebuilding outside seem the
sensible thing, and the proprietary took a
large area near the abattoirs at Dry Creek.
The Government town-planner has (on
paper) put all the modern “amenities” into
a residential quarter of 150 acres, to be
known as Burford Gardens.
“Stellsby”: Consider the dazzling contri-
bution of Wise, M.H.R., to the unification-
of-gauges conti'oversy:—
Instead of Victoria altering the gauge on the
whole of its railways, the gauge should only be altered
from the S. Aus. border to Melbourne, and the
Gippsland line altered and extended to N.S.W. and
connected with the railways of that State. Not many
miles would then have to be altered to make a
through gauge from Brisbane to Perth.
As it happens, the Gippsland line traverses
Melbourne’s busiest sbuth-eastern suburbs
beyond the tenth milepost. The Adelaide
railway traverses the western suburbs for a
corresponding mileage. Thus, to provide
Wise with his wonderful vote-catching pro-
position the whole of Melbourne’s intricate
suburban railway system would have to be
scrapped. There are dozens of other objec-
tions, but this will do to go on with.


ft
At
m
C'VERSHARP leads are made to ex-
■*—' actly fit all Eversharp pencils. And
a pencil as good as Eversharp is worthy
of leads specially made for it—particu-
larly when they cost no more than
ordinary leads.
For the Man of Action
ZONE’S pencil bespeaks one’s
moods and habits Nibbled
point —dull lead—whittled tip—each
reveals distinct characteristics.
Just so an Eversharp bespeaks for
its user the same accuracy and effi-
ciency that the pejicil itself contrib-
utes to the user’s work. Eversharp
has a patented tip which insures a
firm point that is always sharp with-
out ever being sharpened It has
pocket clip or chain ring
For Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York U S. A
Be sure it’s an
EVERSHARP
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia •
STOTT & HOARE, Ltd..
Remington House. Liverpool St.. Sydney
America
The Westclox Standby
For thirty-five years
America has been in the
business. It has been
picking new tricks every
year, improving its finish,
giving better service,
saving on the price. It
stands for clock economy.
And on top of that
America wears on its dial
a name that stands for
quality— Westclox
America wears that badge
with pride knowing its
own share in building that
Westclox reputation.
Westclox Big Ben, 25/-; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 13/6; America, 10/-
Blue Bird, 12/6: Boyproof, 9/6; Pocket Ben, 9/ 6; Jack o'Lantern Luminous,2ol-
- Ben Luminous, 32/ 6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6; Glo-Ben, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A.
Qwmmtim
I ll Ilii ll I 111 II I H 1 11 11 11
mii.ii.uiMi.ii.i
iwTiynT/"fli\ i Ti?iTn , ffITT7 , iTf?n , ffrnTf , PTn i rn , iTHTPffWTfnTF
51
.'l!!!!?! !!!!
11
CJ
4
H immobile
Principl es of design and mechani-
cal minutiae in a motor car mean
nothing unless they promote econ-
omy, strength, long life, speed,
flexibility, comfort, safety. If you
must discuss technicalities, concen-
trate only on those that are signifi-
cant.
I. PHIZACKERLET, 169-171 Elizabeth
Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY. LIMITED,
112-120 Pirie Staeet, Adelaide, S. Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tas.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE
ASSOC., Christchurch, N.Z.
WHOLESALE
ton, N.Z.
FEDERATION, Welling-


Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) light to the Hotel, to and from No.
4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
4Yz Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OOl, 3002, 3599.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per (lay inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
The “COMFORT” (Self-heating) IRON
df
Lights in half a min-
ute. Costs 3d. for 4
hours. Simple, safe,
clean, beautifully nick-
elled, double-pointed.
Finest iron made.
Burns Benzine.
Price, 427-
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
k
D.S.A
FITTINGS
build the perfect.
BICYCLE
THE utility and convenience of
a bicycle is now realised by most
people. A bicycle built of B.S.A.
Fittings is more than a convenience,
it is an absolute necessity for all who
wish to economise in both time and
money.
There are many odd journeys almost
every day which can be accomplished
not only quickly and cheaply, but
journeys, the anticipation of which
will give pleasure and delight provid-
ing you have a B S.A. Fittings Bicycle
handy, for cycling with a B.S.A.— is
healthy, trouble-free travelling, and
withal a splendid exercise.
ALL B.S.A. PARTS ARE GUAR-
ANTEED INTERCHANGEABLE.
This means the elimination of all
unnecessary waste of time should you
lose or damage any part of your
bicycle.
ILLUSTRATED HANDBOOK free from
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
n %
r is
MAINTAINS YOUTH OP THE
HEART AND ARTERIES.
It frees them from all the waste
products, uratic and chalky de-
posits which tend to harden their
walls.
This cleansing process may be compared to
the boiler and pipes of an engine, which
would certainly refuse to work were its
various parts allowed to become clogged
with accumulated dust and dirt.
The same rule applies to the human machine.
URODONAL dissolves uric
acid, removes sandy de-
posits from the heart
valves, prevents degen-
eration of the blood ves-
sels, which interferes with
normal circulation, there-
by preventing overstrain
of the heart.
Prepared by
Etablissements
Chatelain,
Paris.
PRICE PER
BOTTLE, 9/3.
URODONAL
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or post free from CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT
STREET, Sydney, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet
containing Medical Opinions.
[2
EL E Y
AMMUNITION
cc Always Reliable
For Shot-gun cartridge
gauges, loaded with high grade
In case of difficulty
refer your dealer to :
J)
s in all
powders.
ALBERT
Broughton House,
Clarence Street,
ADAMS
SYDNEY.
df
THE SUPREME
SUNBEAM
“ The most improved Cars of 1922.”
SUNBEAM
COATALEN
AIRCRAFT
ENGINES
100-1000h.p.
This is the considered judgment of those who have
tried the present 16/40 h.p. and 24/60 h.p. models.
This improvement is largely due to the entirely new
OVERHEAD VALVE ENGINES with which these
cars are now fitted.
The engine of the new 14 h.p. Sunbeam is very similar,
and the range of three 1922 “models evinces excep-
tional progress upon individual lines.
I
W MX
mlii&B.
34/60 h.p. 6-cyl, Light Touping Model.
Mail for Particulars: —
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR COMPANY, LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
Export Dept i 12, Princes Street, Hanover Square, London W.l.
Cable Addrett—" Subeamcco,” London.
AND AT NEW YORK.
Authorised Dealers: —
Williams Bros., 822 George Street, Sydney.
The Autocar Industries Pty. Ltd., 104-112 Russell Street,
Melbourne.
Howard Motor Co., Ltd., 376-78 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Octogenarian Donald McLeod has been re-
elected chairman of the Vic. Parliamentary
Country Liberal Party, which now include?
Leg. Council members. Tom Livingston was
made deputy. These two old hands were
colleagues of Peacock and Lawson in the
second Peacock Ministry, and are hardly
likely to combine with John Allan, of the
Cocky party to be their political undertakers.
“Sir Spen’’: The fruits of precocious
patriotism ! A young man recently applied
for a block of land, stating in an accompany-
ing letter: “I am signing the application in
my own name. I enlisted under another
name, A B , because I was under
age and my people objected to my going
to the war.” As the block was set apart
under the Returned Soldiers’ Settlement Act
he must furnish a qualification certificate to
anoly. The q.c. is obtainable by producing
his military discharge, but as such was made
out in the name of A- B , the appli-
cant’s job of establishing his identity is prov-
ing tougher than any he had when pushing
back the Hun.
“Morehead” among the ziffs: —
Of the 82 members in the N. S. Wales Leg.
Council, 40 have been appointed within the last
five years. The oldest inhabitants are J. M. Creed,
Henry Moses and Charles Mackellar, all of whom
date back to September 8, 1885. Creed had pre-
viously represented the Upper Hunter (1872-1874) in
the Assembly, and Moses, the Hawkesbury (1869-
1880), and Canterbury (1882-1885). Mackellar’s
M.L.C.-ship hasn’t been continuous, however —he was
out for seven weeks in 1903 as a Federal Senator.
The next runner-up for patriarchal honors is H. E.
Kater. M.L.C. has been tacked to his name since 1889.
C. J. Roberts got into the Upper House in 1890
after he had represented Hastings and the Manning
in the other Chamber, and A. Brown went up in
1892, after sitting for Newcastle in the 14th Parliament.
Three years later F. Jago Smith, who had been West
Maitland’s elect 1887-1889, got the life job. Of
the 13 appointed in 1899 all who remain are N.
J. Buzacott, J. Hepher, James Wilson and Major-Gen.
Mackay. The last-named was the only one of that
quartet with any previous Parliamentary experience.
He represented Boorowa from 1895 till 1899. R.
J. Black, G. F. Earp. Fred Flowers, A. W. Meeks
and Dr. Nash all can look back as far as 1900.
“M.P.A.” (London) : May Wii'th, the won-
derful little Australian riding-girl, has been
starring in a fine Australian act, artistically
presented in a 28ft. ring, at the Coliseum.
In an effective musical introduction Stella
Wirth (at the piano) sings a duet with
May about their sweetheart —a white horse.
The neddy enters as the girls move down-
stage to the ring-bank, and there it noses-
them alternately, affectionately rubbing their
shoulders. Three other white horses, each
lighter and faster than its predecessor, make
their appearance. Mrs. Martin Wirth, a
sister to Phil and George, is the ring-mis-
tress, and sends the act along at a stunning
pace, while Phil St. Leon, who, as Miss
Philipia, did astounding stunts bareback with
the Wirth show years ago, keeps the audi-
ence rocking with his whirlwind clowning
and horsemanship. This circus in vaudeville
was the idea of Mrs. Martin Wirth, who
left Australia some years ago with May.
The marvellous riding feats of the Aussie
girl took the TJ.S.A. circus world by storm,
and drew a fat contract from John Ring-
ling.
“Dido”: I had been chatting with the little
shabby parson at 8011. He was working in
his garden, trying to coax something out of
a plot of riddled cabbage-plants, when the
bloke came along and dropped his swag.
“Say, mister,” he said, “could you spare us
a bob or two? I’m dead" broke, and want
to make Horsham to-day if possible. I”
“Look here, my friend,” said the parson, “for
pity sake don’t try to beg off me. I am as
noor as a rabbit myself, and there’s abso-
lutely nothing in the house.” “Oh, all right,
mister; all right,” said the bloke sympatheti-
cally. “I’ll try round the township.” He
was moving away, when the parson called
after him, and said nervously: “You won’t
go to McDougal, at the store, will you? Don’t
go to McDougal. If he gives you threepence
it will make him so self-righteous he’ll put
nothing at all in the plate on Sunday.”
“Snell”: There was a period, before break-
fast foods were inaccessible to the vul-
gar, when the democracy actually did cast
eggs at cultured actors. The late veteran
Griffiths was the father of a company that
went to Allandale (Vic.), at a time when
gold was being produced in such abundance
that residents lost all respect for the former
primary product. On the second night
the actors, including the great Griffiths, were
liberally pelted with shelled comestibles, the
only change in the missiles being when a
duck egg, rather riper than the rest, sup-
planted the outcome of the ordinary hen. It
was Griffiths who faced the audience. He
did it with one egg frescoing his bosom, and
another littering his hair. “Ladies and
gentlemen,” said he, with histrionic pom-
posity, “we had rum and egg before rising
this morning, we had eggs boiled for break-
fast, we had eggs fried for lunch, we had
eggs in two shapes for dinner, and it is a
thousand to one we shall be offered eggs for
supper. Cannot you, in God’s name, intro-
duce a little variety? Haven’t you of your
Christian charity—haven’t you a iittle
bacon?” The miners applauded Griff, and
let up on the eggs.
“Randolph Rentless” : Touching that refer-
ence (B. 20/7/22) to Melbourne sellers of
shoddy who make a 100 per cent, profit on
suit-lengths. The N.S.W. peripatetic ragman
would scorn so small a turnover. He travels
the country with packs of suit-lengths made
of a material that looks good but is
darn bad —in fact, too bad to darn.
But he is careful to carry, too, very
excellent samples of socks, ties, etc. He
opens up business with these last,
quoting absurdly low prices, and an-
nouncing that he cannot take orders for
less than half-dozens, the terms to be C.O.D.
Usually he is regarded as a mad philanthro-
pist, and rushed with orders. After solemnly
booking these, which will never be filled, he
remembers his “bargain suit-lengths,” and,
on the confidence inspired by his other goods,
usually does a roaring trade. One of the
tribe admitted to me that he has made as
much as 400 per cent, on a single sale.


ds
STORAGE
BATTERY
The quality and service of the Willard
Threaded Rubber Battery is clearly
shown by the accompanying list of 191
passenger cars and motor trucks, whose
makers have selected the Still Better
Willard, the only battery with Thread-
ed Rubber Insulation, as standard
equipment
Cars Equipped with Willard Threaded Rubber Batteries:
Acason
Acme
Advance-Rumely
Ahrens Fox
All-American
Allis-Chalmers
American
American Beauty
American
LaF ranee
American
LaF ranee
of Canada
Anderson
Apex
Armleder
Atco
Atterbury
Austin
Avery
Bell
Belmont
Bessemer
Bethlehem
Betz
Biddle Crane
Bollstrom
Buffalo
Canadian
Briscoe
Cannon Ball
Capitol
Carroll
Case
Chevrolet
Citroen
Clydesdale
Cole
Collier
Comet
Commerce
Commodore
Consolidated
Corliss
Crawford
Cunningham
Daniels
Dart
Davis
Day Elder
Dearborn
Denby
Dependable
Diamond T
Dixie Flyer
Dodge
Dorris
Dragon
Drake
Elcar
Elgin
F WD
Fargo
Fergus
Ferris
Franklin
Fulton
G. & J.
G M C
Gardner
Garford
Gary
Giant
Glide
Goodman
Great Western
H C S
Hahn
Halladay
Hatfield
Hawkeye
Haynes
Henney
Highway
Holmes
Holt
Huffman
Hupmobile
Hurlburt
Huron
Independent
Indiana
Jordan
Kissel
Koehler
Lancia
Landa
Lease
Lewis-Hall
Lexington
M H C
Maibohm
Marmon
Master
McFarlan
Menges
Menominee
Mercedes
Merit
Meteor (Piqua)
Metz
Miller
Mitchell
Mor-Powr
Mueller
Mulford
Napoleon
Nash
Nash Six
Nelson
Nelson 8k
Le Moon
Noma
Norwalk
Ogren
Old Hickory
Oldsmobile
Oneida
Oshkosh
Packard
Paige
Panhard
Parker
Parret
Paterson
Peerless
Peugeot
Phianna
Piedmont
Pierce-Arrow
Prado
Premier
R 85 V Knight
Rainier
Raliegh
Renault
Reo
Re Vere
Richelieu
Riddle
Roamer
Robinson
Rock Falls
Rowe
St. Cloud
Sandow
Sayers
Schorr
Seagrave
Shelby
Signal
Southern
Standard
Standard 8
Stanley
Stan wood
Stewart
Y F Stewart
Stoughton
Studebaker
Stutz
Tarkington
Thomart
Tiffin
Titan
Towmotor
Traffic
Transport
Traylor
Twin City
Ultimate
United Motor
Ursus
Velie
Vim
Vulcan
Ward LaFrance
Ware
Werner
Westcott
White
Wills
Sainte Claire
Wilson
Winther
Winton
Wolverine
STORACE
BATTERY
T7*
O
to LA^
all


A.
Saunders’ finest-quality, double-cut Diamond
Cluster Expanding Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £B5.
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bow and Bar
Brooch, lsct. Gold, £l2/10/”
A. Saunders’
Emerald and
double-cut
Diamond Bing,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ fine-
quality, double-cut
Diamond Ring
18ct. Gold, £B5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
Millgrain Setting,
18ct. Gold, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
doutle-cut
Diamond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
M&m
A. Saunders’ finest-quality, double-cut Dia-
mond Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £B5.
m
m
4*
A. Saunders’ Gold Expanding Watch AVristlet, set
i double-cut Diamonds, full-jewelled levev movement,
compensation balance, £l7/10/-
DISTINCTIVE DIAMOND
JEWELLERY DESIGNS.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Scarf
Pin, 15ct. Gold,
£25.
Smaller Dia-
mond, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Neck-
let, 15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gold Expanding Watch Wristlet, set
8 double-cut Diamonds, full-jewelled lever movement,
compensation balance, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Hunting Kejflcss
High-grade Presentation Lever Watch,
compensation balance, Oct. Gold, £l5.
Extra-jewelled, £2O, £25.
IBct. Gold, £3O, £4O, £5O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Scarf
Pin. loot. fluid,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond
Cluster Neck-
let, 15ct. Gold,
Let Us Send You Our Catalogue.
We Pay Postage on All Orders.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ fine, double-cut Diamond Bracelet, loct.
Gold, £3O. Larger Diamonds, £4O, £5O
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £lO.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Single-
stone Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
IBct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Gold Expanding double-cut, Diamond l
set Watch AVristlet, full-jewelled lever movement,
compensation balance, £25. Larger Diamonds, £3O.
r ,
s?
i
>v:
«
x*;
R
V.J* 140
r oon
/
>'fio!( y
Ji
(t
p
tfV- -
*LJ
Pn
5^
"XX=X :>*§>
x
X' l T!''!lU -|l
/^7
mm,i,
A PICNIC PARTY
HERE YOU SEE!
Right handy to the deep blue Sea. Comely girls are
Sue and Mabel, together spread a tempting table.
“Rex”
Camp Pie
and Cakes and Fruit are just the
things Boy’s tastes to suit. Take
Cue from Sue and dainty Mabel,
spread a tempting picnic table with
“Rex” Camp Pie, it’s such a treat,
compounded of the choicest meat.
Serve it cold from out the tin—for
Sandwiches you slice it thin. A
Salad will enhance the flavor. But
anyhow it wins your favor.
Include “Kex” Camp Pie on
this week’s grocery order.
Foggitt Jones
Ltd.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaiae)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cable
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE."
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlcmaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113
(HRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
I
■ ■ ’’-A
.
I i
; 7-- .. :
mm
■■ ■ ■
Vertical direct connected steam-driven Electric Generating Set.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE .
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. o( Aust. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. I>td.
PERTH:
Brown & Dureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchureh Street.


Amusements.
SV I) XIS Y’S CIII IS F TIIISAT It E S.
.r. C. WILLIAMSON’, LTD., nrpspnt
HER MAJESTY’S : A NIGHT OUT.
CRITERION: THE BAT.
ROYAL: THE PEEP SHOW.
PALACE
(a triple bill )
fix THE SHADOW OP THE
I GLEN.
I THE BUILDING FUND.
I DOCTOR O’TOOLE.
TIIE AI,t,AN WILKIE SII AKS PEA KEAN
I* KOI) LOT lONS
QUEENSLAND TOUR.
AUGUST.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street. Sydney.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
THE NAUGHTY PRINCESS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA CO.
INK’S THEATRE. M IS L 15 O Si K N IS.
EMELIE POLINI and FRANK HARVEY in
MY LADY’S DRESS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
PALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: HEN & J. FULLER. LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
SEVENTEENTH WEEK.
THE GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION
SPANGLES.
Public? verdict: “Better than the best.”
ADA REEVE.
“The Favorite of all the World.”
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGIITON.
Matinees Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o'clock.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
JJj OTT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
' 1 Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (ovei
Prince’s Bridge).
MARIE PREVOST in
KISSED.
FLORENCE VICTOR in
THE TRUANT HUSBAND.
Prices as usual.
|y|A.IES’(IC THEATRE. MELHOUKNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
WHAT NO MAN KNOWS.
AN EQUITY PRODUCTION.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
/>s\
Have You Tried
Mennen’s?
What I like about men in Aus-
tralia and NewZealandis that they
are not penny wise and pound
foolish. Mennen Shaving Cream
costs them 2d. more a month than
hard soap. I’ll admit it. At the
same time I’ll admit that Mennen’s
is well worth the difference. The
extra comfort, the extra confi-
dence, the extra cordiality that
ccir.es with the 120 shaves in a
Mennen tube is worth as many
pounds as the pennies that might
be saved each month.
As one of my enthusiastic
friends says," I’m not arguing, I’m
only telling you.” The test is in
the tube. The tube is in every
good shop that stocks toilet pre-
parations. It’s your move.
(Mennen Salesman )
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO., LTD.
249 George treet, Sydney
James Smith's Building, Cuba Street, Wellington, N.Z
Amusements.
P> UIIAiNMA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELISA
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAURAPH, PATHK,
WORLD and SKLZNICK.
THE QUICK-LITE
LANTERN for any
Outdoor Job at Night.
No matter what the weather —rain, sleet
or gusty wind —you can absolutely de-
pend on the QUICK-LITE Lantern,
with its 300-candlepower brilliance that
penetrates the blackest night.
No
Torch
is
Needed.
COHEMAN
QUICK-Ll+E
LANsTiEBS'N
Easily
Eights
with
Matches.
Gives More Light than 20 Old-
style Oil Lanterns.
Because it makes and burns the gas generated
from ordinary petrol. No soot or greasy
wick; no flicker. Always ready to use, and
!s absolutely storm-proof.
Made of Heavy Brass and Niekelled.
PRICE, 75/- EACH.
From Ironmongers and Stores, complete with
two spare mantles; mica globe and metal
reflector.
Write to Coleman Representative, Box 1083,
Melbourne, when dealers are out of stock.
“Better than Tatts.”
(and all others)
LAST WEEKS
of the
KATOOMBA
THOUSAND
ART UNION (No. 2)
Prizes valued
£4OOO for 1/-
In aid of
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial
Hospital, Kaioomba Soldiers’ Memorial
and Showground Improvement Fund
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General of N.^.W.
" The truest way to mourn the dead is to •
care for those they leave behind. ”
FIRST PRIZE OPEN ORDER £lOOO
SECOND PRIZE OPEN ORDER £5OO
THIRD PRIZE OPEN ORDER £250
238 other Open Orders, total
value £4OOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 1922
Winning Numbers published all States*
September 16th, 1922.
1/-Only TICKETS l/-Only
By Post, 1 /2. Three or more, Post Free.
In this Art Union. 5 Tickets for your 5/I
Each with a chance of winning the whole
of the Open Orders valued at <£4ooo.
NOT Gambling, but a Co-operative cf.'ort
Ticke’scan be obtained from any Hairdresser
and Tobacconist in ' ew outh Wales, and all
branches of the N .W. Bookstall Co. Ltd., or
direct from —
EDGAR BOOTH. Hon. Sec .
Cadzow, Warrega-street, Katoomba.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY gg* #n) ,
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC. 1/. New
Book of Puzzles. l/„. Fun, Magic and Mysterv,
1/-. Magic Made Easy, 1/.. Tricks with
Coins, 1/-.
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. AVrite for List or call for de-
monstrations.
HOW TO LEARN VENTRILOQUISM, 1/..
Write for list of our Ventrilocjuial Heads, from
12/6 to £5. Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE
PAINTS, WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
v V
BOOK OF SIMPLE
CARD TRICKS That
Anyone Cari Do With
Ordinary Cards, With-
out Sleights 1/6
FUNNIEST F O U.R
FARCES, in one
book 2 / •
Contents —Ici on Parle
Francais, April Fools,
Who is Who? Who’s
to Win Him? PLAY
Catalogue Free.
CATALOGUES FREE.
H«W TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage 1/6
a
r
\
%
\
hm
pi
a
9
m
X
y.
m
PlfflE
CCtMUEATSEn
/'lakes Lovely. Cakes #
and Babies iimve on if
3
c *.£ ON ►
SUPREME. \
Long service and dependability on the job— \
just those two necessary features have built up
an unassailable reputation for our “An Eagle
on a Globe” Sheffield Steels in engineering
activities everywhere.
MINERS’ DRILL STEELS
branded
“An Eagle on a Globe”
are well reputed on the world’s mining fields.
We have good stocks in highest qualities for
every ground condition. Octagon (solid sin. to
2Jin.) ; Hexagon (hollow Jin. and lin) ; Heavy
and Light Cruciform - Sections (Jin. to 3in.).
Octagon Crowbar Steel
for immediate delivery in all usual trade sizes.
Highest quality at keen prices. Also
Octagon Smelter Bar Steel
Get our quote before placing your orders. Send
your inquiries now and ask for “Balfour’s
Hints on Steel” post free.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Lta.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., I.td.,
Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanston
Street, Melbourne: Cliff Street. Fremantle; 46
Boulder Hoad, Kalgooriie. Paul & Gray. Xtd.,
Scott Street, Newcastle; 11. L. Milligan, 82a
Argyle Street. Ilobart; John lleid «ft Nephews,. 34-
36 Charlotte Street,. Brisbane; Charles Atkins ,&
Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street. Adelaide.
MONARCH
hand-made from Highest-grade Havana Filler.
THE CIGAR FOR QUALITY.
Special sampling cabinet containing
10 Cigars, 6|«; 25, 12/6;
50, 23/9; 100, 46/=
POST PAID
TO ANY
ADDRESS
a
to
TI *|i i !■ ii —nun)lP-
-2^.
All Hotels
and
Tobacconists.
6d. each.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
All You Ask of a Razor
f
is that it shave you clean,
without irritation. The
URHAMJ-lUPLEX:
Safe Razor
does all that, and adds
/speed and safety. Wor*h
trying, isn t it?
YZ
V
a
All Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to votir dealer to-day—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it in
your hand —see how it balances —then tike it
home and shave with it. It's a revelation 1


King George IV
lYirW v I wHISRY
Wi
44
rT
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
Another Great Reduction.
Fx and R Rustless Table Knives, half-dozen 32/6
Dessert Knives, half-dozen 27/6
Our great efforts, both here and in London, to get prices back to reason are
being rewarded daily, and we now can announce our superlative rustless knives
as being reduced from 70/- to 05/- a dozen for tables, and from 00/- to 55/- a
dozen for desserts.
These superlative Fx and It Knives are the BEST made in Sheffield.
Each bears only a very small etched brand. No hideous brand all over
the blade.
■ * Besides the above, we also stock a tine quality British Rustless Knife at
27/0 the half-dozen tables, and 25/- the half-dozen desserts.
Our prices are the lowest in Australia, but our qualities are the best.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heb Majesty’s
CRITERION „ 1 he a , V,
Royal “The Peep Show
Palace Abbey Theatre Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ I llc ’it Pn S'i
Royal Gilbert and Sullivan Opel,
Palace . “Spangles
Kmo’s “My Lady’s Dress”
Majestic'. . . . . Moving Pictures
Mura Moving Pictures
BHtTANNU Moving Pictures
Hovt » s Moving Pictures
At Sydney Palace “Parlor, Bedroom and
Bath” will conclude its hilarious career and
its mad whirl of domestic complications on
Monday night. On Tuesday the Abbey Theatre
Company will begin a brief return season
with “In the Shadow of the Glen” and two
other Irish character studies.
*
“The Bat” has been engaged in its dual
anatomical task of chilling spiues and tick-
ling diaphragms at Sydney Royal. Ihe
thing will flutter round the corner to the
Cri. to-night, there to cause horrified intakes
of breath and loud explosions of mirth.
* -V. * *
Maud Fane and Alfred Frith are still at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney. As a house-filler
and currency-producer “A Night Out” has
proved itself one of the best.
* * >i: *
On Saturday night “The Peep Show” will
be viewed for the first time in Sydney at the
Theatre Royal.
* *
Lee White and Clay Smith got a rap-
turous greeting on their re-appearance at
Sydney Tivoli last Saturday. The lady has
cartloads of charm and a sweet face, and
that suffices: it has to, for she has no voice
and does not attempt to dance. Lastly
the most artistic effort of the evening is
supplied by Elliott and Godley. They are
survivals or something who serve to show,
with deadly effect, flow much better things
were done 25 years ago. He has a resonant,
beautifully-produced baritone which would
be a fortune to a modern young musical-
comedy star, and she is a character-actress
of some class. They do frankly old, or, any-
how, elderly, stuff, and the house eats it.
which goes to suggest that the public would
take less rag and jazz if it got the chance.
The other headliner is Ford of the rubber
face, who, in addition to being a physical
freak, is no mean humorist.
* * *
If fine feathers made fine words in comic
opera, “The Naughty Princess,” new to
Australia, would be fated to have a long run
at Melbourne Majesty’s. Pictorially, the
production is smart. But the lines are not
cast in witty places, nor does distance lend
enchantment to the plot, despite its purple
hue. Viewed from the d.-c., the story is
both rude and crude. Some dialogue between
Grade Lavers, of the Paris demi-monde, and
Gladys Moncrieff, a princess who rushes for
an introduction to Impropriety and is
scared when she meets it with gloves off,
would make the ghost of Mrs. Grundy turn
pale. This may be toned down, yet it is
only on the rough paving of suggestiveness
that the libretto can maintain a firm foot-
hold. The romance is weak-kneed and silly.
From the royal Palace of Panoplia, where
the costumes of various inhabitants are
futuristic, ancient or comparatively modern
in ornateness, the Naughty Princess pro-
ceeds to Paris with a frisky old duenna
(Ethel Morrison) and an innocuous royal
cousin (George Gee) in quest of lurid plea-
sures. King Jack Cannot silently encour-
ages the escapade, because he also wants
to frivol in a foreign land. In Paris, firstly
at a restaurant, then at a fancy-dress ball,
and finally in the studio of an artist whose
reputation is wari’anted to kill any woman’s
character at 12 paces, the Princess is
shocked back to a sense of Propriety, and
the mild nephew takes her to his feeble
apology for a heart.
Sane human interest never intrudes upon
the gaudy proceedings. None of the char-
acters are truly gay and hearty in this
performance, save, perhaps, the extrava-
ganza King, whom Cannot stands for. His
fictitious Majesty of Panoplia is genial and
not too coarse, while his manly voice goes
for something when given the opportunity.
Ethel Morrison makes respectable attempts
to seem disrespectable in what is really a
broad-comedy part. Gracie Lavers is a
meagre, shrewish exponent of the lopse
Chiquette aforementioned, and William Val-
entine is a conspicuous misrepresentation
of wholesale profligacy, his face, style and
general lack of personality being better
suited to a surplice than to a studio. Hugh
Steyne and others constitute an uninterest-
ing group of courtiers; Gee is not happy
in his job, whilst Kitty Reidy and Dulcie
Crane shine brightly as conventional stage-
nymphs who give the glad eye in exchange
for all they can get. Gladys Moncrieff, in
the name-part, brings a dignified air of re-
straint and a beautiful pure warble to the
support of the show. She gave no charm
of distinctiveness to Charles Cuvillier’s
music, because the spice of novelty and the
tang of inspiration are not in any one of
the neat and graceful melodies, but without
her the musical life of the opera would be
almost a blank. Accompaniments are mostly
too loud, which is the besetting sin of nearly
all orchestral effort at the oddly-built Her
Majesty’s. The chorus is a credit, from legs
to throat, to the country that gave it birth,
and the dancing and prancing of all con-
cerned, with Maie Baird and Archie Thomp-
son in solo work, could hardly be better.
❖ * o >:-•
At Melbourne Tivoli the consecutive
appearances of Wee Georgia Wood are about
to turn the century. On Saturday lie was
again the “Thicker than Water” bov, who
refuses to leave mother for the inducement
of a mere £20,000. Also the bill embraced
the buxom femininity of Malcolm Scott in
the 16th-century skirts of Katherine Parr,
which he was wearing when the writer heard
him patter in London some years ago. You
remember Malcolm Scott by his talking
rather than his dancing. Introduced as a
Dame comedian with a Difference his appeal
is in his ripe, comfortable accents and sly
turn of humor.
❖* * *
One more week of the Gilbert and Sullivan
Co. (so-called), at Melbourne Royal, will
close the local season. None of the G. and
S. work is so satisfactory as what the co.
does in “Chocolate Soldier” and “Dorothy,”
which will fill in another four nights and
two matindes. Nevertheless, its weakest all-
round attempts have had saving clauses.
Workman is more than passable as the
Modern Majali-General, or the Lord Chan-
cellor, or the Duke of Plaza Toro, save when
he forces his gurgle in a needless effort to be
funny. Howett-Worster is a commanding
baritone in “The Gondoliers,” where Grace
Crotty is not doing badly as Casilda, and
Victor Prince is a Grand Inquisitor with an
individuality. Melbourne has shown no
sense of musical values in stopping away
from some of these revivals.
* * * *
At last Saturday night’s performance of
“Spangles” (the 121st) Melbourne Palace
was crowded in just an ordinary way, so the
end of Ada Reeve’s mascotte entertainment
is no more visible than it was 16 weeks ago.
In aid of the Children’s Fund the Mermaid
Society Players play “Belinda,” at Mel-
bourne Playhouse on Saturday, once again.
The comedy is almost as good as the cause
in this case.
“0.K.” : It was quite in the eternal fitness
of things for Melbourne’s Institute of
Arts and Literature to stage “John Gab-
riel Borkman” at the Playhouse recently.
John Gabriel, his wife and her twin sister
are among. Ibsen’s most impressive beguile-
ments of commonsense. The story evi-
dences the poet’s sublime ignorance of bank-
ing business, for John Gabriel, it seems,
was an honored manager who embezzled a
bank’s funds in an unaccountable way for
the purpose of achieving some grand scheme
which was “on the verge of success” when
somebody betrayed his confidence. This
alleged brainy business slave of philan-
thropic ambition was thus thwarted in his
schemes, and instead of figuring presently as
a great developer of local resources in mining,
shipping and what not, he got five years’ penal
At Melbourne Tivoli.
Malcolm Scott as
Henrg VIII.'s last
wife.
servitude. All the
bank depositors
mourned their loss
save only John’s
sister-in-law. whose
particular deposit,
or securities, had
not been embezzled.
Why a banker on
the very verge of
success should
have been left to
enrich the neigh-
borhood with the
fulfilment of his de-
signs, or why the
next manager
didn’t resume those
glorious designs at
the point where
poor John Gabriel
had to drop them,
or whether John
was a cranky
dreamer who never
had any success
to verge on (in
which case his
honorable career
as a bank manager
would be inexplic-
able) are questions that did not worry Ibsen.
Nor do devout Ibsenites want, to examine the
foundation for the egotism which eventually
landed John Gabriel in gaol, and caused him
for years afterwards to pace up and down
his bed-sittingroom. as he had aforetime
paced his lonely cell, waiting for the new
bank management to come and summon him
back to the head of his old financial forces.
It is all as vague as a beer-eater’s recollec-
tions of the night befoi’e. The fact that
h\s wife ancl her sister took John so dis-
mally seriously may be said to intensify the
uncertainty rc his capacity for bank man-
agement. If his schemes were “great” why
was his wife so ashamed of them? And if
they were ridiculous why try to educate her
son to take them tragically, what time her
sister was bent on drawing the young man’s
sole attention to her own bad health ? And
why was it left till the very moment of the
drama’s action for the two women to dis-
cover that the young man, whose business in
the local town is not stated, but who, pre-
sumably, knew the silly old bank story by
heart, didn’t take any of his relatives seri-
ously? Erhart. the reasonably selfish and
colorless young man of the play, cared
hardly tnnpenee for his family, yet the dis-
covery of this simple truth gave all of them
“THE HAT." AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
Emma Temple as the imperturbable
Miss Van. Gorder.
a shock. He had been bored stiff by the
surrounding atmosphere of monomania, and
was going to a giddy little widow tor recrea-
tion, yet the two dismal ladies talk about
their rival grips on his affection, and agree
to let him choose between them, even as
the parson and the calf-lover in Shaw’s play
agree to let Candida choose. Ibsen’s art of
playmaking and talent for naturalising the
impossible make these family discussions
among a trio of monomaniacs and a cheer-
ful young man sound true tb human nature.
But the thesis of the dramatic scene will
not bear criticism. The text of the sermon
has no truth in it. The. victory in Ibsen
drama argument remains with the matter-
of-fact young lady who remarked: “But
people don’t do these things. They couldn’t
happen.” The Playhouse performance of
“Borkman” was creditable to J. B. Fowler,
Miss Mollie Locke, Miss Moverley, C. H.
Row and others, and was, therefore, an in-
teresting entertainment of its amateur kind,
s* * *
From The Bulletin’s Melbourne critic:
The triple bill presented by the Abbey Players at
Melbourne Royal last week was less satisfactory in
all respects, I thought, . than “The White-headed
Boy.” The last of the three playlets—“The Work-
house Ward,” by Lady Gregory—would probably
have got “the bird” if tried as a sketch at the
Tivoli. It consisted mostly of a wrangle in a semi,
foreign lingo, of which the peevishness was more
obvious than the wit, between two dreary old
paupers, the action being introduced by a female
relative of one of the disputants, who arrived with
a kindly proposal to take him home. Regarded
either as a satire on Irish combativeness or a truth-
ful study, the thing left a depressing effect on me.
The curtain-raiser was Synge’s “In the Shadow of
the Glen,” sordid in sentiment and utterly unrealis-
tic in its main incident, which is a bitter reminder
of the mock decease of Conn in Boucicault’s drama,
“The Shaughraun.” Young Nora, the loveless spouse
of farmer Dan Burke, has laid the hard unlovable
old man out for dead and placed two candles and
modest “wake” refreshments on the little table in
their living-room. Their home is the last cottage
at 'the head of a long glen in County Wicklow, and
Nora’s wedded life has been one long regret for the
loneliness of her lot when old Daii was farming and
herding, and the hatefulness of his companionship
when he was with her. She is gloomily glad to be a
widow, as she freely confesses to a tramp who casu-
ally blows in from the dark and stormy night. She
is glad of the strange visitor. She seizes the oppor-
tunity to go forth and whistle for a young herdsman
named Mike, with whom she has philandered when
she got the chance. Going out of the cottage, she
bids the tramp stay wid the corpse till she returns,
and say a prayer for its hard old sowl, if he has
nothing better to occupy his mind. Then the
undeceased Dan Burke discloses his vitality to the
tramp, requests him to conceal a stout stick under
the bedclothes, and resumes his corpse-like seclusion
until the young herdsman, returning with Nora,
begins to talk in harsh tones of the much better
time she will have with a young husband than she
had with the hoary old infliction who lies, divested
of his immortal sowl and his monotonous aches and
pains, under the bedclothes. Whereupon Dan arises,
lively as a cricket, and threatens maltreatment of the
disappointed pair. The young man cowers, the
young wife talks some more about her loneliness in
picturesque Irish idiom, and finally the old man
commands her to leave him forever and die in a
ditch. The tramp interposes with picturesque Irish
assurances that she need not die in a ditch at the
end of a vagrant life, and escorts the lady off the
premises. After which the shocking old husband
puts the young man at his ease by telling him he is
a poor worm with no harm in him, and they start
wliiskeying together as the curtain falls. Theatrical
and unreal situations get a veneer of realism from
the easy-flowing talk of the characters, but the dia-
logue would not make the play convincing even
though the Abbey Theatre comedians acted as forcibly
as they talk. The limitations of Maire O’Neill,
Arthur Sinclair, Sydney Morgan and J. O’Rourke
are revealed. They have no real emotional power
in their histrionics. The presence of supposed death
under those bedclothes is not once suggested by
Nora, the tramp or the man she whistles into the
cottage. Astonishment at liis return to life is not
truly hinted at. The youthful activity of Morgan
when he jumps out of bed is as farcical as the
notion that a sick old man, capable of seeming quite
dead to the wife who had attended him, could
prance about the cottage and celebrate his return
to life by drinking up his own “wake.” Joke, poem
or picture of Irish possibilities in County Wicklow,
the entertainment leaves a nasty taste in the mouth.
In that respect “The Building Fund,” a comedy in
three brief acts, by William Boyle, is better than
“The Shadow of the Glen.” The sentiment is mostly
base when not simply mean, but the quiet utter-
ances of Arthur Sinclair, as he sits hypocritically
commenting on the welcome decease of his mother
(Maire O’Neill) in the next room, are excruciatingly
droll. The character is detestably humorous as
Sinclair presents it, in the manner which
made his Duffy, in “The White-headed Boy,” so
amusingly contemptible. But he falls short again,
when acting under strong emotional conditions is called
for. Though his callousness as regards his miserly
mother’s death seems not unnatural, his lack of strong
excitement, rage and surprise oh learning that he
will get not a penny of the money he had regarded
as sure to come to his own miserly self denotes
the mummer who has never learned to act in the
dramatic sense of the term. It is so comparatively
easy to express heartless selfishness, hypocrisy, cold-
ness, insincerity and despicableness in matter-of-
fact speech, and so difficult for the actor to convey
the idea that his or her soul is thrilled by the
happening of the moment. So easy to descend to the
dull depths of stodgy commonplace in comedy; so
hard to rise to heights of passion, sordid or noble, in
tragedy. A momentous event in the life of a miser,
such as the blasting of his avarice’s dream, is tragic.
In “The Building Fund” the miserable old mother’s
dawning sense of the truth about her son and herself
could have been subtly suggested by the actress, but
there Maire O’Neill failed, as she had failed in the
preceding playlet. It was one thing for the co. to
realise a number of Irish types in “The White-
headed Boy,” where all the characters had unsym-
pathetic natures save the mother and her pet son’s
best girl (these being the least truthfully delineated
of the lot), and another thing for a few members of
the co. to be called upon to act under more dramatic
conditions.
One last word about these sketchy Irish plays.
How much of their interest is due to the diction —
the brogue, the florid forms of speech, the blarney,
the queer inversion of sentences? Myself am
reminded by the Abbey Theatre Players of the late
Max O’Rell’s lectures in the long ago. The matter
gained importance from the lecturer’s French accent
and foreign mode of delivery.
The reckless Doug Fairbanks is at Sydney
Strand as D’Artagnun of “The Three Mus-
keteers.” The Lyceum offers two homely
tit-bits, “Love’s Boomerang,” a likeable story
of the reformation of a scapegoat, in which
circus life and Bohemia are pleasantly
mingled, and “The Cradle,” a flick about
an angel chee-ild who reconciles her divorced
parents. The Haymarket and Rialto need fear
no drought whilst “Kindred of the Dust,” with
Miriam Cooper as chief gloomist, is there:
the tears of the flappers are unceasing. Anita
Stewart is knocking out too-amorous admirers
with brass candlesticks in “The Invisible
Fear” at the Crystal Palace; “Wild Honey”
(a pleasing mixture of love and thrills) is
at Hoyt’s; and “Hail the Woman” still has
its signboard out at the Crystal Palace.
* * * *
At Melbourne Hoyt’s we have “The
Truant Husband”—a romantic character
who tries to revive an old passion, but dis-
covers that his former enchantress is begin-
ning to look her Past. “Kissed” presents
Marie Prevost, who undergoes the familiar
old operation without the necessity of chloro-
form; and Florence Vidor in “Woman, Wake
Up,” is also distinctly winsome. The Majes-
tic will probably manage to pay at least
one of its income-taxes out of “A Tale of
Two Worlds,” a yarn that begins in Pekin
and ends in the Chinese quarter of San
Francisco after an. incredible spread of Lime-
house Nights. As a relief from this harrow-
ing fiction the Majestic presents “Officer
666,” a celluloid version of an American
farce that folded up old gentlemen in un-
seemly merriment at Melbourne Royal a
few years ago. At the Melba Wallace Reid,
as the world’s champion stousher, is putting
all the available supers to sleep. “The
Silent Call.” at the Britannia, is providing
a dog-show that, is worth double the money.


IMPORTANT!
Concerning all
Motor Engineers
and Motorists
We have purchased a machine for cutting
theoretically accurate spiral bevel crown
wheels and pinions, which we believe will
be the first in the Commonwealth, made
by the well-known British Machine-tool
manufacturers, Smith & Coventry, Ltd.,
Manchester. The machine referred to is
their famous
Spiral Bevel Gear Planer
The order is well in hand, and we hope
to install the machine in our new engineer-
ing premises in Waymouth Street, Ade-
laide, in the course of a few weeks, when
we will be in a position to manufacture
spiral gears for the motorists of Australia.
Commonwealth Agricultural Service Engineers Ltd.
Head Office: 53-57 Morphett Street, Adelaide.
Engineering Works:—
Late Technical Eng’rs, Ltd., Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
Sydney Branch - - - Martin Place.
TEXACO
here
MOTOR
OIL
Know the Joy of a Faithful Motor.
KEEP every part running true to
form. Be sure you have the right
lubricant.
Each moving part—every one of the
many bearings, the gears, cams, valves
and pistons—is but a single small unit.
Yet their condition will make or mar the
pleasure of driving.
When your motor’s working faithfully—
every part perfectly lubricated —your
mind is free for relaxation.
A KNOCK or loss of power—and your
thoughts cannot get away from the
machine —the engine you should be un-
conscious of.
Texaco Motor Oil is right for your motor
because it is based on definite knowledge
of lubrication requirements. When you
buy Texaco you buy honest and thorough
lubrication for every motor part under
every motor condition.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.,
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
TE
ACO
7T
o
£
Lassetter’s
Are Sole Agents for John Deere’s Famous Implements.
“A Quality House
Handling Quality Goods ”
John Deere’s Syracuse Three-section
Spring Tooth Harrow.
“Created to Conquer AH Difficulties.”
Either one or two middle sections of eight teeth
each can be furnished for use with the. Syracuse
Fifteen- and Seventeen-Tooth Harrows, making
a three-section harrow of twenty-three of the
twenty-five teeth, or four-section harrow of thirty-
one or thirty-three teeth. These sections are
connected in such a manner that they are flexible.
This permits the entire harrow to conform readily
to uneven ground, making good work possible
under difficult conditions.
Price
£23/10/-
Even a Wheelbarrow be-
comes Better when John
Deere makes it.
Steel Tray Wheelbarrow,
with wood handles, as
sketched.
Price £4
John Deere All-Steel
Wheelbarrow, £7.
John Deere for Service.
Lassetter’s for Economy.
John Deere’s One-horse
Steel Cultivator.
“A Good, Profitable Investment.”
A John Deere Specialty which has been exten-
sively used in all sections for many years. These
splendidly efficient implements are especially
popular among market gardeners. On practically
every farm, for work in the garden, the potato
patch, etc., this light, strong, handy cultivator
will always prove to be a good, profitable
investment.
Price
£5
The Famous “Red Jacket”
JOHN DEERE’S FAMOUS
“RED JACKET” PLOUGH,
B series. Quick detachable share.
No extra share. Adapted for stiff
clay soils, where soft-centre shares
and landsides are not needed.
Turns, pulverises, and scours well,
leaving the ground in good condi-
tion. Shape of mould-board gives
light draught.
Soft-centre steel mouldboard,
extra hard. Heavy piece of hard
steel welded on shin doubles life
of plough. Crucible share and
landside.
John Deere Quick Detachable
Share can be attached or detached
quickly and easily. Only one nut
to loosen and tighten. It is strong,
stays on tight, fits snug and can be
drawn to place even if warped in
sharpening.
Chilled Slip Heel on landslide.
Heavy one-piece forged steel frog.
High curved beam of special steel.
Ample clevis adjustments. Un-
breakable steel handle clips. Best
quality wood handles.
Sizes and Weights.
Blo9—9in. cut, weight 891 b., share
No. 251. Price £9
Bllo—lOin. cut, weight 941 b., share
No. 278. Price £lO
8112 —12in. cut, weight 1081 b.,
share No. 295. Price £l2/10/-
Land Wheel 12/6
Knife Coulter .10/6
Disc 40/-
F. LASSETTER § CO. LTD., “Friends of the Farmer,” Sydney.


CAUSTIC SODA
sv-i; .. . ..v- .. ” : ,
Electrolytic—32 per cent. N a 2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
POWDERED CAUSTIC, Pure.
98/99 per cent.
BLEACHING POWDER, 33%.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
r Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
It
“VAL3LO”
WEED, SCRUB BTREE KILLER
m
(For the Eradication of Noxious Vegetation).
“VAIjLO” Brand Weed Killer is the Cheapest and Most Concentrated
Killer on the Market. 31b. makes 50 gallons of Solution costing less
than one penny per gallon.
In Powder Form —Mixes Readily in Cold Water.
PRICES: 561 b., 70/-; 151 b., 21/3; 71b., 10/6; lib., 2/-; £lb., 1/3.
Postage within the State :11b., 9d.; Jib. 6d. extra. Interstate: lib., 1/2; Jib., Bd. extra.
-• Obtainable All Stores and Florists, or direct from the Manufacturers.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals, Sheep and Cattle Dips
and Orchard Sprays.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Branches—SYDNEY: 7 Hamilton Street. BRISBANE: 239 Elizabeth Street.
Correspondence invited.
POVERTY
POINT
Thoel & Thandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Blackfriars”: I have failed to find any
substantiation for the statement in Melb.
Herald that Elise Wiedermann, just dead,
was “one of the greatest Carmens the world
has seen.” Great Carmens have been so rare
that four fingers and a thumb will cover the
lot. It is astonishing that Australia never
got a chance of seeing Mrs. Pinsclioff-Wied-
ermann in the role, for she was Avell to the
At Sydney Tivoli.
Lee White with Clay
Smith at the piano.
fore on most musi-
cal occasions.
Similarly, I
watched the re-
sults of her vocal
training of a Avhole
generation of Vic-
torians. Perhaps
a thousand passed
through her hands.
They Avere the pick
of those who went
to the Albert
Hall Conserva-
torium, and a fair
proportion set out
with voices of
quality. .Yet few
got beyond the
stage of bleating
ignominiously in
Melbourne’s subur-
ban town-halls,
and not one of
them has attained
to what might
fairly be called
fame. In fact, the
vaunted Wieder-
ma n n method
forced wobblesome-
ness into the
voices of its prac-
titioners, and was
altogether different
fr o m the gentle
persuasion adv o-
cated by Melba
and all other sound singers.
“T.W.” : A Melb. movie-show management
is toying with the notion of trying to tempt
Melba with an offer of £2OOO for a week’s
song, but hasn’t got as far as speaking to the
diva about it. Her remarks might be blus-
terous. It was pointed out to the flicker-
men that Melba never sings on six con-
secutive nights. “That’s all right,” they
replied, “we’ll give her £l5OO for any three
nights she likes to name.” There must be a
wide margin of profit on the sort of films
Australia looks at when showmen can talk
like that about a sideline attraction.
“Second Murderer”: During his late
season at Rockhampton (Q.), Allan Wilkie
struck a local stage-hand who kneAV more
than a bit about the Bard. “I’ll bet you
drinks,” said the scene-pusher, “that you
can’t repeat offhand the first line that Rich-
ard the Third speaks.” “Nonsense,” said
Wilkie; “w r hy, he opens the play. Every-
body knows that
Now is the winter of our discontent
Made glorious summer by this sun of York.
“You lose, boss,” said the challenger. “He’s
only the />uke of Gloucester when he says
that. The first words Richard the Third
speaks are at the opening of Scene 11., Act
4:—
. Stand all apart. Cousin of Buckingham
Wilkie turned on the tap for the entire work-
ing staff.
“Thor”: Georgie Wood must be some-
Avhere betw’een mine and 90. His name
cropped up among those present about a
dozen years back Avhen Marie Llqyd espoused
a jockey or a pugilist or something—l always
get mixed on the subject of Marie’s mar-
riages.
“Billy T.”: Jimmie Cathcart Avas trying
his luck Avith a small Shakspearean company
doing the provincial parts of Vic. in the
summer months. Jimmy had arranged “Ham-
let,” “Romeo and Juliet” and “Othello” to
play two-and-a-half hours and fit into small
country halls. After a performance at Wan-
garatta, Jimmy, the centre of an admiring
throng in the pub breakfast-room, asked a
rural light: “Well, sir, how did you like my
Othello?” “Oh, I dunno,” was the dubious
reply. “I never did care for the nigger min-
strels.”
“Black Out”: I have never seen “The
White-headed Boy” played in Dublin, but
Maire O’Neill certainly puts in a number
of “O my God” in-
terjections wiiich
are not in the pub-
lished version of
the comedy (B.
20/7/’22). But
why accuse the
company, as
“8.0’C.” does, of
broadening the
humor for Austra-
lian audiences?
Th e broadening
Avas done legiti-
mately, in all pro-
bability, thou g h
neither Maire
O’Neill nor Arthur
Sinclair was free
from using cheap,
o 1 d professional
tricks in “The Play-
boy of the West-
ern World” and
“The White-headed
Boy.” What Aus-
tralia is wonder-
ing is why the
company came all
this way to play
the two poorest
pieces in its reper-
tory. It leaves us
all asking on what
foundation the re-
putation of the
players rests. Can
Gilbert and Sullivan,
at Melbourne Royal.
A Howett-Worster
in “The Gondoliers.”
it be that, having brought them to this con-
tinent, the management did not knoAV what
to do Avith them?
“Record Room”: Gertrude Elliott (Lady
Forbes-Robertson that is) and her sister
Maxine didn’t play many parts in Nat Good-
win’s Melbourne season of 1896. Their
names are not mentioned in the programmes
of the early productions, “A Gilded Fool,”
“In Mizzoura,” “The Rivals,” and “Grin-
goire,” the last a curtain-raiser, There fol-
lowed “‘farewell nights of Mr. Nat C. Good-
Avin,” Avith “Romeo’s First Love” as the pre-
liminary piece and “The Nominee” following.
In “The Nominee” Goodwin was “Jack
Medford, a man of the world” ; Maxine Elliott
was “Mabel Medford, Jack’s wife (her first
appearance in Australia),” and Gertrude
Elliott, also announced as making her first
appearance, was Rose Van Barclay. Maxine’s
beauty had been heralded, and Avas found up
to expectations, but it Avas thought necessary
to make allowances for her acting on the
ground that she had arrived from America
only tAvo days before, and had no previous
knowledge of the part.
“Gnarek”: “T.W.” notwithstanding (B.
2C/7/’22). “Baby Bunting” was a fairly suc-
cessful Shaftesbury show. It ran much
longer than “a fortnight or three weeks.”
The London public was undoubtedly inter-
ested in the leading comedian, one Walter
Catlett, who fetched with him from the
States a fund of Noo Yoick slang and 0.
Henry-esque gags, besides two uncommonly
slick dancing feet. Dot Brunton also won
unstinted praise. The Australian girl got
a far better shotv in this production than
she Avas given in “Shanghai,” “Soldier Boy”
and the record short-runner of that season,
“Bantam, V.C.”
“E.F.”: It was as a young Irish press-
man that George Tallis came to this country
(B. 27/7/”22). He brought two letters of
introduction from Michael Gunn, one of
them to J. C. Williamson, and, as luck would
have it, .this was the letter he first presented.
The other was to Roland Woodward, the
Firm’s accountant. Woodward took him into
the office at the new r Princess’s. Tallis was
a capable and trustworthy clerk, and circum-
stance favored him. Confusion arose in tbe
accounts at the Firm’s other theatre, the
Royal: somebody was wanted in a hurry to
put things right, and Tallis was made
treasurer. That happened just 33 years ago.
When the old Firm relinquished the Royal
in 1890 the name of Tallis went out of print
for a while, but by this time he was more or
less the confidential man of Williamson,
sometimes figuring as treasurer at the
Princess’s after the Firm had changed to
Williamson and Garner, and sometimes not.
After Garner dropped out, and Musgrove
rejoined his former partner, the name of
Tallis became a fixture on the bill. The
specs, he invested in, and persuaded J.C.W.
to touch, were good. He was shrewd and
fortunate. Everything he handled took ..
golde~ hue. And there you are.
“Silas”: Murphee, the gifted trickster,
was in the back bar of a Swanston-street
hotel, Melbourne, rather, blowing out his
pout in the presence of a small but select
audience of bookmakers, heads and hangers-
on. Somebody had mentioned that Little
Tick, who was present, could put it
over Professor Murphee for all his clever-
ness, and Murphee was triumphantly
pulling eggs out of the face of Little Tick,
extracting shillings from his ears, and cards
from his hair, and Tick was merely sub-
mitting with an air of deep bewilderment.
“I’ll show you a trick” was, as you will
remember, the catch-word of the coin and
card manipulator, and every time he took
an egg out of Tick’s eye, “111 show you a
trick,” he said. Then all was over, and Tick
left, and the company got down to whisky
again. It Avas half an hour later that
Murphee made his startling discovery. “My
——!” he cried, turning pale, and running
through his clothes. “My Avatch, it is gone!
My gold sovereign-case! My pearl tie-pin!
AH gone ! Eighty quids’ worth !” Little Tick,
the smartest pickpocket in Australia, had
left nothing in Murphee’s pockets but a card
inscribed: “I’ll show you a trick!”
“Permanent Blot” : Charles Wheeler, stage-
director of “The Bat,” was with Bland Holt,
for 17 years. Once, when the curtain was
about to rise, he Avent on for Bland, who had
no permanent understudy. Bland was too ill
even to speak, and Charlie took the part of
Edgar Trefusis in “The White Heather.”
WheeLr has written a lot of stuff for the
movies, “The Crisis,” “The Victory,” and
other productions of the Lincoln Cass Co.
having been adapted from his stories. Cecil
King, out here Avith Nellie Stewart, took a
comic opera of Wheeler’s back to America,
where it was produced. Charlie is at work
on three other “books” of operas, but, of
coarse, there is no chance of the completed
works ever being staged in Australia. The
Australian libi’ettist has to go away from
home to sell his goods.
“Blackfriars”: Australia and M.L. have
supplied two of Drury-lane’s principal boys
(B. 20/7/’22). One was handsome Marion
Mitchell, formerly of Pollard’s, who reigned
there for a couple of seasons, and the other
was Dolly Castles, who figured one winter as
a dainty Jack in “Jack and the Beanstalk”
when Arthur Collins grew tired of providing
the silks and sequins for a heftier breed of
“boys.” I cannot recall any Australian
comedian starring on Old Drury’s panto bills,
but of course Hugh Ward had two successful
spells there in between the time when he was
a mere second comedian, but of the first
quality, under Williamson, and his return to
these parts as George Willoughby’s partner.
“V.V.”: “Billy T.’s” yarn about George
Titheradge (B. 6/7/’22) reminds me of
another occasion when George’s nether gar-
ments suffered damage. He once rented a
harborside cottage and raised daffodils and
poultry. The daffodils w T ere tractable, but
the idiosyncrasies of the hens puzzled him ;
although he was certain they \yere laying
he could never find the eggs. After pro-
found cogitation Tith. decided that the fowl-
fruit must be accumulating in his neighbor’s
garden—a Avild, neglected place. Slipping
over the fence one morning he prospected
and found a nest containing about a
score of eggs. He was pondering over
the problem of hoAV an elderly gent, in
pyjamas could get that many eggs over a
paling fence,, when a swish of feminine
garments startled him into action. Gather-
ing up more eggs than he could conveniently
carry, he sprinted for the fence. He had
got one leg over when the lady next door
appeared "on the verandah. Losing his
nerve entirely, George dropped the break-
fast food and scurried for home and safety,
large portions of his pyjamas remaining on
the palings. After that he sold his fowls
and stuck to flowers. I know, because my
mother was the lady next door.
“0.K.”: One smiles at a remark from
“J.J.J.” (B. 20/7/’22) concerning the late
Bert Clark. Undoubtedly there was always
a Miss Hamilton in the “Clark and Hamil-
ton” turn, but the junior partner was subject
to alteration. I forget whether Clark came
here twice or thrice under engagement to
Rickards, but I am sure the lady who first
called him a silly man for not knowing that
Henry the Eighth had been dead for hun-
dreds and hundreds of years ( whereupon
Clark used to reply “God bless my soul, and
I didn’t even know he was ill!”) was of quite
a different pattern from the last one he
brought. A man once told me that, though
he had seen Clark and Hamilton in Britain
several times, he had never chanced to see the
same Hamilton twice. Perhaps this was an
“THE BAT."
AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
The Unknown
Man (Carlton
Stuart) and
Dr. Wells
(Rupert
Lumley).
exaggeration. Clark’s ability to carry a
good-looking novice successfully through the
duologue he had been working for years was
due more to his personality than to his inci-
dental performances on a piano, of which he
was inordinately proud. There was a
peculiar incisiveness in his voice and manner.
The stuff he handled was not bad —some of
the lines were Wittily ridiculous —but I have
heard other performers say the same things,
or much the same, without getting half a
laugh. Clark was a very smart and nippy
back-talker.
“Norbell”: That argument between "Buz
Fuz” and “Wrinkles” concerning a stage
circus-lady’s make-up reminds me that to
some circus performers any make-up—except
the clown’s —is immoral. When Hyland’s
Circus was visiting Bendigo, my wife met
the two Hyland girls in the street. Anxious
to look their best on the opening night, the
damsels begged Airs. “Norbell” to bring along
a complexion-box and “do them up” in style.
When she had finished them they were as
lovely as stage angels, but just as they were
about to make their equestrian entrance to
the ring Papa Hyland interposed. “Ye
look like a pair of d —d play-actresses!” was
his scathing comment. And he hastily rubbed
off the grease-paint, or as much as he could
manage at the moment, with an old horse-
cloth. Extremes meet. Subsequently we
were putting on an abbreviated version of
Rev. Geo. Walters’s “Joseph of Canaan”
with the scholars at Bendigo Convent of
Mercy, and gave a dress-rehearsal to the
reverend mother and the nuns. As fast as
the wife was making-up the girls and turn-
ing them • out the sisters were busy trying
to wash off the wicked grease-paint.
“E.T.”: Mention of Daniel Bandmann
(B. 20/7/’22) reminds me that I was a
member of his supporting cast when the
ancient mummer last faced an English audi-
ence. Louise Beaudet was his leading lady,
and together they turned up in London
with a ’script of “Dr. Jekyll and Air. Hyde,”
which they were in a hurry to stage before
Richard Mansfield, who had arranged with
Henry Irving lor a season at the Lyceum,
arrived with his version of the Stevenson
thriller. The long-vanished Opera Comique
was taken, and, in spite of threats of in-
junction by Alansfield’s lawyers, we duly
produced the tragedy at that house. Daniel
was a scream in the dual role, and his co-
star didn’t help matters much. The play
was as crude a piece of nonsense as was
ever staged. Long before we got to the last
act the stalls ivere in convulsions, and the
gallery in a rage. The penultimate situa-
tion brought on the affrighted household
listening at the door of Jekyll’s room what
time Hyde was uttering the most horrible
noises inside. This thrilling scene was re-
ceived with shouts of laughter, but the
climax came when the master of the house
entered and asked angrily of the servants:
“What are you all doing there, making fools
of yourselves?” I shall never forget the
chorus of “Hear, hears!” from the front
and the wild shrieks of merriment that fol-
lowed. The piece ran a week. I have
known worse jokes last longer.
BEN HALL’S RIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A powerful cinema film featuring Ben Hall, the
Australian bushranger, has been released in London.”
— Cable.
Ben Hall rode on through the murky night,
Swift Avord had come from his trusty men:
“The troopers are trailing you left and right,
They’ve stretched a cordon from Stockton Bight,
They’re heading you off at Wahroonga Glen.”
No finer target for shot or ball
E’er topped a pigskin than bold Ben Hall.
His coal-black stallion champ’d the bit,
A brumby he of the Viking strain—
By Marmaduke out of Gay Tomtit —■
His thews were supple, his hoofs well-knit:
As they thunder'd over liuring-gai Plain.
And down by Taronga’s Waterfall
He rode like blazes—did brave Ben Hall.
He swore an oath in his mighty beard,
The terrible oath of a ruthless “crook” :
“Gadzooks, me covies, ’tis as I fear'd!
The lugger’s gone and the wind has veer'd”—
He made a note in his murder-book !
“From shore to shore ’tis a long, long call —
But, shiver me timbers, I’ll try it!” said Hall.
With a bound they cleared the purling deep
From Milson’s Point to the silent Quay ;
A stoker stirr’d in his beauty-sleep,
A flapper, fainting, forgot to weep,
A wolf-hound bay’d by a Rose Bay tee.
“That feat would many a man appal—
I’d do it on crutches !” said brave Ben Hall.
Where the silv’ry fronds of saltbush gleam
By the rugged spurs of Maroubra Pass,
AVhere the dingoes snarl and bunvips scream,
With troopers’ torches abaft, abeam,
He pitched hi's camp in the Coogee grass !
Secure in the maze of the sea-front wall,
He laugh’d in his beard, did bold Ben Hall.
The morning dawn’d, as it sometimes will,
On troopers aged in a hopeless quest;
Ben slaked his thirst at a mountain rill,
then rode towards Rand wick, over the hill;
And then he turned, and he rode due west !
The sun comes up and the sun goes down,
But Ben’s still riding—in London Town !
N.S.W.
STEPHEN SHERRY.


Tillico Lathes
and
Marine Engines
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
<s
i
ZIZ
■
■ ' ' ' ■ ■■' J'" '
rn i irA iWi-
TILLICO
Bin. centre, Bft. bed, Sliding, Surfacing and Screw-cutting Lathe, Cantilever design, Double
back gear and quick-change gear-box.
L %
m
■
*
4-Cylinder, 17h.p. Medium Duty Marine Engine.
... 1
m
[ '''y
■ -M-
A
Y ; yy
Imm,
ipp
2-Cylinder, Bh.p. Medium Duty Marine Engine.
WILLIAM ADAMS 8 COMPANY Limited
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Engineering' Works, Fountain Street, Alexandria.
MELBOURNE:
521 Collins St
BRISBANE:
Cr. Edward & Mary Sts.
ADELAIDE:
Waymouth & Morphett Sts.
PERTH:
33-35 King St.
LAUNCESTON:
33 Cameron St
NEWCASTLE:
Howard Smith Ch'rs, Watt St.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Hr
The
“Stockman”
The best Riding Boot on the
market. Tweed Seamless Em-
peror. Light in weight. Standard
screwed soles. Note the patent
strip on side — a special feature
that ensures a double life for the
elastic. POST FREE FOR
1811
FINNEY, ISLES fa CO. LTD.
BRISBANE.
lifjß ERASMIC
SHAVING STICK.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Form at Moonee Valley improved the
chances of old Pistolier, Fiscom and Bright Plume
for the Australian Hurdle at Caulfield next
Saturday. Also, Wooloo took on a brighter appear-
ance for the Steeplechase on Saturday week. Fiscom’s
win in the 12-furlong flat race, where Bright Plume,
with 411). less to carry, finished only third, would
make the son of Comedy King look almost a good
thing for the imminent Hurdle ltacd. despite his
weight (12st. 71b.), if he were a proved glutton
for distance. But under their much heavier burdens
the Plume is perhaps the more reasonable investment.
Like Pistolier, he has been among the first three in
the long-drawn-out event, and his chance of heating
the double National winner at a difference of 81b.
is as good as his prospect of giving 251 b. to the
very aged hurdler who has failed in so many big
events. Still, the history of the race favors light-
weights. Even Roisel and Jolly Phast, with list.
21b. and list, respectively, look less capable of an
easy victory at the finish than, say, Rahda or Berrin-
bo, not to mention others in the list of a dozen pro-
bables.
On paper Rahda is about the pick of the handicap.
He ran third in the National with 9st. 131 b., and
the easier timber at Caulfield will greatly advantage
him in comparison with the more accomplished
jumpers. He carries only 51b. more than in the
National, whilst Berrinbo, who finished behind him,
has gone up 41b. Jolly Phast, to be sure, finished
close tt> Rahda, and has gone up only 31b. on his
National weight, but the course is longer, and
uncertain Rahda is, on his breeding, a probably
better stayer. In the Jumpers’ Flat at Moonee
Valley Rahda ran a pretty good race, and over the
Caulfield hurdles the son of Sea Prince should be
worth backing—at a price.
* * » *
“Bung”: Fred Burn, at one time Vic-
toria’s champion cross-country jockey and later on
one of the cleverest trainers of jumpers and fiat-
racers in the State, is retiring from the game. He
has taken a pub at St. Kilda, and his Flemington
property is Tip for sale. Fred rode two winners of
the National Steeplechase, and thrice scored in the
Australian Steeple. Cherubini and Naxbery, from
his stable, won the Australian and Adelaide Cups
respectively, and another of his charges. Flash Jack,
took the V.R.C. Grand National and Great Eastern
(Onkaparinga) ’chases.
*** , *
“Tuart”: Lionel George Robinson has
owned his last Cup winner, and the Australian XI
will make merry at Old Buclcenham Hall, Norfolk, no
more. The Victory unexpectedly landed the Mel-
bourne Cup for Robinson and Bill Clark, his business
and racing partner, in 1902. Thenceforward white,
cardinal seams and cap were conspicuous colors on
the Australian turf. They were twice carried to
victory in the Caulfield Cup, three times in the
Futurity Stakes, and once each in the Metropolitan,
the Melbourne Stakes, the Caulfield - Stakes, the
Adelaide Cup, the Maribyrnong Plate and numerous
other important events. In England Robinson won
the Csrsa rewitch, the Ascot Stakes, the Duke of
York Stakes and the Dewhurst and Middle Park
Plates. Eudorus, one of the numerous high-class
thoroughbreds he sent out from England, sired the
great Eurythmic, and Magpie, now at the stud in
N.S.W., also promises to keep his name remembered
in the history of the sport. He was 56 all but a
month.
“Exul”: In his young days Josh Moore,
just dead at Hobart, was a noted sprinter and
cricketer. Later he was a successful horse-trainer,
Darriwell, who won the 1879 Melbourne Cup, passing
through his hands. For many years Josh was clerk
of the course at Elwick, and he never missed a
■Hobart Cup from its inception in 1875 until his
death. He also collected many prizes for the
pigeons and poultry he bred and exhibited at Tas-
manian shows. Of late years Moore had the reputa-
tion of being easily the fattest man in Hobart. He
was 65 when he passed the post.
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman”: The Bulletin’s old
theory, that the easiest person to cheat is the one
who himself aims at making a bit dishonestly, is
well borne out by a story in London Daily Tele-
ora hi i about the dodges worked on starting-pnee
bookmakers. It is the day and hour of a big race.
Jones, of the Mudville-on-the-Zouch post-office, gets
a hasty ’phone message, passes a still hastier word
to his friend Brown, and then drops in on the book-
maker opposite, to back Bed Socks, the .favorite.
Isaacs smells something. Without wishing to offend
the post-office man, he thinks it a bit too late lo
reopen his book. Annoyance of Jones. Arrives a
hilarious Brown, anxious to put a whole parshel on
Red Shocksh. Isaacs is now convinced, end allows
himself to become sarcastic about dead birds and
easy money. Brown is not annoyed at all. Must
have a flutter on shomething ; what about a fiver on
Longtail ? Jones tries hard to stop him. ‘ Not a
hope, old chap!” Isaacs’ suspicions of Jones are
now certainty, but Brown’s money is worth having.
“Are you aware of any reason, Mr. Jones,” he asks
coldlyj “why Mr. Brown should not back Longtail ?
Put that way, Jones has to admit that he is not.
Fiver booked accordingly, at 15 to 1, and the friends
leave, still arguing the point. A few minutes later
Isaacs gets a wire, and finds that he owes Jones an
apology and Brown £75.
* * * *
Redeeming his promise to the bookmakers,
the Vic. Attorney-General has introduced a bill to
prevent a person who paid a bet by cheque, or his
heirs, executors or assigns, suing successfully for
the 1 recovery of the money. The measure is to be
retrospective, and applies not only to the ’osses, but
to cards, dice, tennis, bowls “or other games.”
Presumably go’f will come under the “other games.”
But it is hard to imagine a cheque being paid in
respect of a flutter on the bowling-green or the links.
* * » *
The All Blacks beat N.S.W. in the first
Rugby Union test at Sydney by 26 (7 tries 2 goals)
to 19 (3 tries 3 goals). They were all at home
on the heavy ground, aiid were decidedly the better
team on the day. They packed the scrums better,
were superior in the ruck, and their dribbling was
up to the best M.L. standard. In the early part
of the game the N.S.W. forwards were palpably
rattled by the four six-foot M.L. hustlers, who tore
through with ball at toe; but thev played better
after the interval. Captain E. A. Beilis, a 13-Jst. for-
ward, was the best of the Blacks. One of his rushes,
when he bowled over four defenders and scored, was
the finest thing of the. match. J. Richardson, W. J.
Brownlie and L. Peterson all hustled ably in the
forwards, and the brothers Mark and H. E. Nicholls,
and J. Steele (wing three-quarter) were capital, lor
N.S.W. the backs did excellently, and R. Stanley
(centre three-quarter ) was the best. He ran straight,
cut through splendidly and his kicking was great.
R. Ferguson and Tom Smith were the pick of the
forwards.
“Tav Pay”: Stage-fright and the state of the
ground lost N.S.W. the' first test against M.L. As
in the past the tourists are formidable in forwards,
i h'-t, Steele excepted, the rearguard are onlv middling.
The N.S.W. backs are a more useful lot in every
; way. One tried to visualise Horder and Blinkhorn
on the wings, Caples and Thompson at halves, and
Burge, Gray and Watkins
mixing in with the for-
wards. What a torrid
time the Silver Ferns
would have had defend-
ing their citadel? Mas-
sey’s islands will have to
breed much better backs,
or the ashes will soon be
seeking a new habitation.
JACK STEELE, the All Blochs' wing three-
quarter. He holds the M.L. 440yds
championship.
The walloping of North Sydney, the
League premiers, by Eastern Suburbs and the con-
quest of Balmain by ’Varsity were shocks adminis-
tered to Rugby League followers in Sydney on Satur-
day. North, with a half-gale astern, led by 10
to 8 at the interval, but in the second half, although
they lacked the services of their hooker, Green
(injured and carried oif in the first canto - ), East
proved superior forward and back, out-generalled the
Northerners in the mud and tackled tirelessly. In
the end they won by 23 points (5 tries 4 goals) to
16 points (4 tries 2 goals). Caples, East’s skipper,
was the best man on the ground, and Connerton, an
apprentice centre, gave a faultless display. Uni.
defeated Balmain by 24 (4 tries 6 goals) to 14 (2
tries 4 goals). Craig, the Students’ half, hoisted
their goals from all sorts of positions and also
notched a try. Glebe, minus Murphy and Regan,
overcame Western Suburbs by 11 (3 tries 1 goal) to
8 (2 tries 1 goal), and Newtown beat St. George
by 16 (4 tries 2 goals) to nil. The defeat of North,
who still have four more matches to play, gives the
premiership and City Cup struggles a much more
open appearance. South Sydney, whom they have
yet to meet, have not been beaten this round.
* * * *
“Leaguer”: Tell “Tay Pay” (B. 20/7/’22)
it is Wally (not Dally) Messenger who occasionally
plays Australian football with Paddington (N.S'.W.j.
Daily’s last game of footer occurred in 1914, when
he stripped in an exhibition match as one of a
Kangaroo XIII. Unfortunately the champion of a
decade ago has had to abandon the game, for a
severe attack of flu’ left him with a weak heart.
Except for a brief period as a schoolboy, Messenger
never played Australian rules. He graduated from
Rugby Union junior football to the League code, and
is essentially a Rugby product. Which reminds me
of “Tino’s” statement (B. 27/7/’22) that Dave
Macnamara place-kicked a ball 92yds. “and some odd
inches,” and that Dr. Eric Woods has to his credit
a drop-kick of 84yds. At Wade Park, Orange, in
, I during an exhibition match between Eastern
Suburbs and Glebe, Messenger place-kicked a distance
?t> ® w ,1” an d registered a goal at that. “Winkle”
(B. 20/7/’22) is proud of the fact that Macnamara
kicked 107 goals in 1912. During the preceding year
Messenger booted 108 —one more than Dave. And,
don’t forget he had to hoist ’em over a crossbar
10ft. from the grass, a more difficult feat than is
required in the Australian game.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Competition is so keen
among British professional Soccer clubs, and prices
are , so high (one man brought £6400 last May),
that club scouts are going further afield than ever
in their search for material. A. Jennings, a youthful
immigrant, who has been playing centre-forward for
Granville (N.S.W.), has been signed on for Totten-
ham Hotspur, runner-up in the First League last
season. He is to get £8 per week, with extra money
for matches, and a first-class passage to England. If
Jennings makes good with Tottenham he may stick
out for his own terms, and, if transferred on sale to
another club, he will get 10 per cent, of the purchase
money. The youngster is probably the only living
footballer who lias had his neck broken. This was
done last year in a mkteh on Sydney Cricket Ground,
a blow from an opponent being responsible. A long
spell in plaster-of-Paris put the victim on his feet
again.
• * * *
Saturday’s Vic. League football comprised
one real game and sideshows. The big Carlton Oval
piovided plenty of room for 35,000 spectators, who
enjoyed themselves thoroughly. Fast it was and
willing’, and at times an unclean elbow jab was
countered with a half-arm jolt; even a straight
drive to the point landed once or twice. Consequently
two Woodmen and one Carltonian are to be reported
to the League. Never more than 6 points separated
the teams, and through the last quarter Collingwood
and Carlton led alternately. When the discussion
C o, r to ”p had , s points in hand—BB to Colling-
wood s 83. Essendon, weakened by the absence of
injured topnotchers, crashed before the despised
houth Melbourne, who scored 99 to Essendon’s 74.
The win was of no earthly use to South, who are
last mi the list. Melbourne kept their place by out-
ing St. Kilda—-88 to 76; and Fitzroy stayed on the
top rung by downing Geelong— 49 to 39.
Winkle”: The foolhardiness of cricketers
miAr a chance , of •achieving international or
' if tat + honors > endanger their careers bv playing
S ? n ? e as , n Aus tralian football, has
kwj no ? illustrated This time the victim is
led Baring, the inter-State batsman, who wrenched
his knee so severely when kicking off for Essendon
that he has been ordered to retire from the game.
Last time it was “Snowy” Atkinson, the dashing bat
and biilliant outfield with Fitzroy and the Victorian
second XI. His leg was broken two seasons ago
when playing against Richmond, but he is again dar-
ing Providence as Fitzroy’s best back man. Among
Vic. cricketers who have taken a risk and excelled
at the winter pastime, are four internationals—Jack
Worrall, who was in a class by himself; Roy Park,
who got one chance against the last English XI, and
should have gone to England with Armstrong; “Bar-
low” Carkeek, the wicketkeep; and Dave Smith, who
was better at football than at cricket. Warwick Arm-
strong, fast-bowler E. A. McDonald, and Jimmy
Matthews (now seriously ill) are other internationals
who have played League football without specially
distinguishing themselves. The list of Vic. inter-
state cricketers who have starred at football is a
longer one, and contains such names as > Sam
McMichael, Billy Sewart, Pat Shea, Carl Willis,
Dr. Hartkopf and Dick Houston.
* * # #
Adelaide footballers have found something
fresh to squabble over, in the removal of the famous
“Snowy” Hamilton from North Adelaide to West.
The permit committee gave him a clearance, but
only on the chairman’s casting vote. North appealed
against it, and the League found the nut a hard
one to crack, but upheld the appeal by 8 votes to
7, one delegate not voting. Meanwhile West had
played Hamilton and won an important match, but
this, having been done in good faith, is not to be
interfered with. A further appeal is being pressed.
* * * *
“Linesman”: There is a suggestion of
strained relations in the fact that Anderson did not
partner Patterson when Wood was not available for
the doubles match against Czecho-Slovakia. Strictly
speaking, Anderson should have appeared with Patter-
son, and the inclusion of Wertheim, Patterson’s club-
mate in Melbourne, who is not officially a member
of the team, is a matter on which the Lawn Tennis
Association should have a word to say. Rumor lias
been busy about the personal coolness between Patter-
son and Anderson. Those who know the two men
will not find it difficult to discover a reason.
It is plain, anyhow, that Wertheim, who will never
be up to Davis Cup standard, cannot be continued
as an understudy to Wood. If Wood’s arm is not in
good condition for the final matches for the Cup,
Anderson will have to take the court with Patterson
in the doubles, and it wouldn’t do any harm if the
Victorian received a cabled reminder to that effect.
• • * *
Leonard Richmond, who has taken 135
wickets for an average of 17 in English county
cricket this season, has done great deeds for Notts
in recent years. In 1920 he got 150 wickets, and
in 1921 127, for, averages of 19.87 and 26.44 resnec-
tively. He represented England in the First Test
and took 2 for 69 and 0 for 17; but when Arm-
strong’s band ran up 675 against the county, Rich-
mond’s 36 overs were hit for 193 runs and one
wicket. That was one of his bad days. Richmond
is a slow right-hander, with a big leg-break and
“googlies” a bit as well. He is a horrible bat.
* # * *
“O’South” : The British papers are jubilant
at Church’s success in engaging O’Keeffe to play
for them professionally. One rag hails him as the
“Australian Hobbs”; another declares that as he
was certain to have been picked for the next XI,
Australia’s Test team will be weakened considerably.
When Oldfield, the wicketkeeper, who stumped so
many Englishmen in the last Tests, arrived in Lon-
don a few weeks ago Lancashire approached him
with an enticing offer. But Oldfield gave them the
glassy ear. Having chucked his job in N.S.Yvk
railways, he had gone to London to arrange for
supplies for the sports business he is starting in
Sydney, and not even the offer of a fat salary would
turn him from his project. He intends to be back
in Sydney in time to open up for the coming
season.
* * * *
The argument between the two Berts,
Spargo and McCarthy, at Melbourne Stadium, looked
like being long and animated until, half-way through
the first round, Spargo let fly with the right and
landed low —too low. Mac sank to the floor, howling
dismally. His trainer leaned against the ropes,
broken with emotion. Spargo waved his arms about
wildly in token of his affliction, and was with diffi-
culty restrained from bursting into tears. The
crowd hooted all parties lustily and impartially. In
the midst of the uproar the referee signified that
McCarthy was the winner. The victorious victim is
entitled to call himself the Commonwealth’s cham-
pion fedder. But Australian boxing titles are
nowadays jokes.
* » # *
Vince Blackburn’s inability to stand body
punishment becomes tragic. Kramer, the latest U.S.
featherweight to reach Sydney, knew all about Black-
burn’s weakness when he climbed into the Stadium
ring, and aimed nearly all his punches, of which he had
a fairly liberal assortment, at the body. Blackburn
was down twice in the second round, but kept going
till the ninth, when a fierce rib-bender doubled him
up. All he could do in the tenth was to totter out
of his corner and wait for the Yank to administer
the couip de grace, but the referee got there first.
Blackburn was a great little fighter once, but
the anguish he
exhibits when a
none too - power-
ful padded fist
thuds against his
breastbone indi-
cates that some-
thing is radically
wrong with him.
.He should get out
of the game before
he is carried out
feet first.
FRANK
[?]RAMER .
who
defeated
Vince
Blackburn.
The leathery Californian, Ilunefeld, who
has been skittling southern lightweights with ease
and precision, met his master at Brisbane in Archie
Bradley, the boy from Gympie. Bradley was on top
of his ,man from start to finish (it went the full
20), and gave him a dreadful hiding. But Archi-
bald has grown out of the lightweight class, and had
to forfeit £5O of his share of the purse for being
21b. over the 9st. 121 b. agreed upon. lie promises
to be a dazzling middleweight.
* * .* *
“Snow”: Benny Leonard, the U.S. light-
weight champion, struck a load of trouble in his
latest effort to retain the title against Hew Tendler
at Jersey City. In the eighth spasm Benjamin was
all but out," only his ring generalship, combined
with a skilful exposition of the American art of
talking at a less experienced opponent, enabling him
to weather the round. Sixty thousand Yanks paid
the U.S. equivalent of £90,000 to witness the scrap,
which was officially recorded as a 12-round no-
decision bout. Like Kay, Ilavilah IJren and George
Seale of old, Tendler shapes right-hand foremost.
* * * *
Murray Aunger used only one pair of
tyres on his motor tour from Adelaide to Darwin via
Central Australia, and back by the Longreach (Q-),
Mildura and Robe (S.A.) route. Six thousand miles
in all the car covered without losing a breath of
air from the original Boomerang tyres. The ride was
an overland record for Australia.
* - .*. * *
“Unley”: Murray Aunger, who returned
to Adelaide the other day after a 6000-mile jaunt
to the other end of Australia, was a champion bike-
rider in his young days, and, together with T.
O Grady and Vivian Lewis, both now dead, made
the first motor-car manufactured in the State.
Twenty-three years ago they drove their primitive
buzz-waggon to Mount Barker with the idea of
exhibiting it at the show. After much getting-out
and -under, they arrived at the showground amidst
a tempest of cheers, but the old ’bus caused such
a stampede among the livestock that the 'heel's
turned to hoots, and the motorists were hunted oft
the premises. In 1914 Aunger established the Mel-
bourne-to-Adelaide record, 14hr. 54min. The 50-mile
S.A. bicycle record is another of his possessions.
G. B. Shailer again demonstrated that lie
is the Ma State’s best billiardist by defeating L.
Hayes—l3oo points to 907. Shailer was in rare
form, and ran up breaks of 167, 136, 129, 126 and
120. Hayes’s only three-figure “stick” was 131.
Shailer will represent his State in the Australian
championship at Melbourne this month.
Owing to the limit placed on the size of
the engines, only 18 cars entered for the French
Grand Prix at Strasburg this year, Felix Lazzaro
again capturing the event after 60 laps of a course
of 8 3-10 miles. His time was 6hr. 19min., which
gives the record speed for this run of nearly <9
miles per hour. This is 4 m.p.h. better than the
previous best put up by Murphy, the American, last
year. Nazzaro averaged 70 miles at his first win
on the grandfather of his present Fiat fifteen years
ago. Through his efforts Italy has now two wins,
to France’s three and Germany’s two. Lautenschlager,
the German crack, came home in 1908 and 1914,
driving each time a Mercedes car.
THE BULLDOG BREED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Lord Louis Mountbatten, who has just married
the richest woman in Great Britain, is not the cold,
distant Englishman you would believe. Behind that
calm expression is a boylike desire for fun.... 1
remember a spirted soapsuds fight between the Prince
of Wales and his cousin on the tiles of a hotel bath-
room in Maoriland.” — “Herone” in Sydney Evening
News.
'E ain’t no ’auglity, cold aristocrat,
’lm that ’as snavelled England’s richest tart.
’Tis true ’e cannot swing a cricket bat
Fer nuts, an’ football isn’t near ’is ’eart.
Golfing may bore ’im; tennis ain’t ’is forte;
Pennies ’e cannot ’ead like me or you
(Or even Ted) ; but none the less a sport,
A dead game sport is Lou.
You mightn’t think it, but I know it’s right.
AVhy? ’Cos I seen ole Milford ’Aven’s cab
Stripped to ’is lordly buff one moonlit night
Upon the tiles of a North Island pub,
Facing ’is royal relative. A grin
Played round ’is kisser and ’is eyes of blue.
“On Guard!” called someone, and they waded in,
That rollickin’, indomitable two,
Teddie and Lou.
Their ’ands no rapiers grasped or singlesticks,
Those fists patrician no mittens wore,
But such a bonzer bag of ringcraft tricks,
Take it from me, I never glimpsed before.
They circled round and sidestepped, clinched and
broke,
While thick and fast the whirling soapsuds flew ;
And though the Prince appeared the ’eftier bloke,
’E never flinched, did Lou.
Bull-terriers ’ave I seen —and gamecocks—fight,
And square-jowled pugs at gory odds in rings;
It never thrilled me like the scrap that night
Between the stocks of marquises and kings.
Each ’ad ’is gruel; it seemed to me Mountbatt
Acquired a trifle more than was ’is due
(It may be etiquette demanded that),
But, seeing wot I did, I tell you flat
’E ain’t no ’aughty, cold aristocrat,
A good, game sport is Lou.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


4
S 3
82
S 3
82
s?
S 3
S 2
S 3
82
S 2
*
*5
m
2S
as
•*
35
88
S
as
as
«
as
as
as
as
as
»
as
as
as
<£
%
CITROEN
c L/<rtt &&*. <£i*eA^fusA.eAC.
■Sr
)>- —<*?bK<
*
s^\V\|
;‘>C
w*
//✓
Zse
World's Gr<?
Car
a if, /f>,,,
fomiss:
feAILLDM
-0
1921 CITROEN RECORDS.
For Low Fuel Consumption.
Miles
Date. per Gallon.
May, 1921 73.5
May, 1921 39.05
June, 1921 34.
Aug., 1921 44.16
Nov., 1921 49.8
Dec., 1921
46.
Contest.
Grand Prix International. World’s
Record. Distance, 62 miles. 43 com-
petitors.
Sydney Auto Club Reliability Trials.
Distance, 288 miles. Bathurst to
Jenolan Caves and return. 20 com-
petitors.
Kurrajong Motor Trials. Distance,
122 miles. 13 competitors.
Brisbane to Sydney. Distance, 817
miles. 33 competitors.
Auto Club of W. Australia Petrol
Consumption Test. Private class.
1000 Miles Reliability Trials held by
Royal Victorian Auto Club.
The consistency and ease with which the Citroen adds record
to record demonstrates the superiority of its unique design,
of which the famous double helical Citroen gears are but one
feature. They practically eliminate vibration, shocks and
wear; are extremely silent in operation and yield 98.7%
efficiency (Hopkinson’s Test).
AGENTS—
NEW SOUTH WALES—Bradley Brothers, Ltd., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND —Webs ter s Motor Co., Ltd., 86-90 George Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA —Preston Motors Pty., Ltd., Clifton Hill, Victoria.
TASMANIA—Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—The Maughan Thiem Motor Co., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Messrs. Gilberts, Ltd., 47 King Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND—N.Z. Farmers’ Co-
operative Association, Christchurch;
Ley land Motors, Ltd., Wellington.
Factory Representatives:
W. A. Crowle, Ltd., Crowle House,
161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The Citroen J3adqe
The £hq n of Econ


WJ?
Farmer's Restaurant a 5 Roof Garden.
an enhanced service and tariff reductions.
Appreciable reductions have been made in Farmer’s Restaurant
charges, and menus disclose enhanced service, affording wider
choice. Prominent among the alterations are the midday Table
d’Hote, 3/-, in the Oak Luncheon Hall; and cold buffet in
Luncheon Hall, Tea Room and Roof Garden. Special Fruit
Luncheons will be served on both floors. The Wine List prices
have also been revised. The Restaurant Orchestra is now under
the leadership of Mr. Haydn J. Beck
Farmer's :: Sydney.
m mm
WATER
SUPPLIES
This illustration shows Three 25ft. Alston
Windmills on 60ft. Towers, fitted with lOin.
Pumps, pumping water for the town supply of
Dorald. They have been in use for many years,
giving every satisfaction.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use through-
out Australasia.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
on application.
We will be pleased to mail to any address
specifications and prices for Windmills suitable
for anv requirements, whether pumping for the
smallest cottage or a town supply. Our experi-
ence of over half a century in manufacturing
and erecting Windmill Pumping Plants'places us
in a position to supply the most suitable Mills
for all purposes.
James Alston § Sons
Ltd*.
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Cottins St. Melbourne
P[?]ces
M[?]SES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Cent 1533, 11609
For the Lord Mayor’s Ball the prosaic
old Town Hall disguised itself wonderfully.
It took on a positively languorous 100k —as if
some rigidly respectable and stiffly-corseted
dame had got into Vamp clothes and sud-
denly become alluring. The subdued lights
were at the root of the camouflage. There
were no raw lights—they all shone through
stencilled silk. The ceiling looked like a
group of inverted tents. The rest of the
allure was managed by blacking out organ,
loft seats, platform and all. At one end
a scene cloth of peacocks’ feathers did the
deed. Imagine soft lights glowing through
such a greeny-blue glory! The south end
was just one exotic garden, out of which
jazz music was delicately distilled. The
.I.C.AV. people were responsible for the
miracle.
Even the important dais-ed people were
toned down into soft perspective. They
sank in easy chairs on gorgeous rugs, spread
on shallow steps below the platform. The
Countess blazed with diamonds and rubies in
tiara and necklaces, and her gown was a
midnight blue-black. Mrs. Swanson’s dress
was of magnificent black materials carefully
blended. Her Lord Mayor contented himself
with the lace ruffles and knee-breeched togs
of an alderman. There were numerous
Generals in civvies with breastplates of
miniature medals —Monasli and Sellheim
and Tivey and White among them. Mrs.
Sellheim shone in dove-grey taffeta and
silver lace. Mrs. Dyer was in her golden
frock. Commander Ellis, from Flinders,
brought his lady, who wore an xVlice-blue
gown. Mrs. Cummings hung. a glittering
cloak over her dress —emerald-tinted crystals
worked into pale beige met. The Hennessy
lady, who had a touch or two of the fashion-
able flamingo-red in her black frock, came
with her husband and a daughter. Mrs.
Earle had some fine pearls glowing against
a black gown. Bride Dulcie Cooper de Bavay
blew in with her bridegroom, the nair having-
just returned from the Honolulu honeymoon.
She had unpacked a duck of a trousseau
dress made of woven brown and gold, l’aoa
and mamma Merson Cooper and the De
Bavay mamma and sisters made a triumphal
escort for the jolly young pair.
Being a Mayoral Ball, it was a dance for
grown-ups. The children had to find their
jazz room as they could; but they
made hay when the heavily-motored left
after the civic supper. There were no
less than three sets of lancers before that.
The youngsters just sighed resignedly and
found cosy corners to ‘"sit them out.” Supper
in the council room fufilled the Swanson hos-
pitable habit of spreading >much good food
for their guests, and there was another
supper in the room above; and from where
the top of the portico was closed in by gay
striped awnings, there came the chink of
bottles and the rattle of oyster-shells. The
mighty had left by midnight, but keen jazzers
twirled on till two.
The Yencken-Clegg wedding in the
Toorak Church of England the other day
was not so ostentatious as the prior De
Bavay-Cooper ceremony in the R.C. Cath-
edral, on Eastern Hill, though the brides
are second cousins and belong to the
gilded Goodall clan. They do say that
the De Bavay-Cooper wedding-dinner, at
Cliveden, cost Merson Cooper nearly £5OO.
Hope Clegg, daughter of W. H. Clegg,
an old sharebroker of the Stock Exchange,
is the last of three attractive birds to go
off the family perch. The other two are
Dolly, wife of Major Harold Hall, of the
Mt. Morgan family, and Phyllis, alias
“Billy,” the widow of the late young Simon
Fraser, son of that old M.L.C. squatter who
thought the Battle of the Boyne was the
beginning and end of history. Young
Yencken’s dad keeps a big oil, paint and
paper warehouse.
The most extraordinary episode of the
elongated Bickford divorce case in Adelaide
was when the Court adjourned to the Glenelg
pier to see a private-enterprise sleuth give a
demonstration of the way he touted the
respondent and one of the co-res. Half
the populace went down to watch the show,
and the balconies of the Pier Hotel were
crowded. And, as the populace watched the
expert slithering along the supports of the
pier many young bloods, and not a few
young bloodesses, got a comical, scared-
rabbit sort of look in the eye. They seemed
to be retrospectively calculating how far
other spooning spots were from those fate-
ful peep-holes.
Mervyn, the medical son of Mrs. Alex.
Stewart, of Hawthorn, exchanged “I wills”
with the Malvern Birtchnells’ younger girl,
Marjorie, at St. Mary’s, Caulfield, on Thurs-
day evening. The veiled bride was a brilliant
sartorial success in white satin and silver-
lace facings, with yards of pink-lined satin
train lloating in the rear. Enid Permezel
and a cousin, Olive Birtchnell, bridesmaided
picturesquely in daffodil charmeuse: and
radium lace, topped by floating veils of the
same tintings. Dr. Billy Johnston, with the
assistance of the bride’s brother, Itex, helped
the ’groom through the ordeal, and Norman
Bradshaw warbled soulfully during the
register-signing interval. Over 200 guests
turned up at the wedding feast at the Birtch-
nells’ Malvern homestead, the Gables, where
the bride’s mother hostessed in black satin
and jet and a dinky little toque.
A small golf ball is the magnet that has
just been luring many old identities back
to Bendigo, and social gatherings there have
been as prevalent as files in summer. The
hospital made the most of the opportunity,
and had a ball for its funds, whereat the
Lansells, Frews, Darntons, Watsons, Neills
and Muellers all rolled up in full-elan force.
Dr. Hedley Ham was among the returners,
and played lots of golf; but as he’s not a
bachelor these days bis visit meant not the
thrill of yore.
The strong silent bushnjfln had been to
the wedding, in honor of which he had tra-
velled a couple of hundred miles. “What
was it like?” asked one of the girls at his
hash-house. “Oh,' orright,” he said; nor
could any other criticism or comment be got
out of him. Later, the young woman was
heard expanding it thus: “Mr. Bakblox was
at the wedding this morning, and he told
me all about it. He said it was a wonderful
affair. The church was gorgeously deco-
rated, and a credit to the bride’s friends.
He’d never seen one so marvellously
arranged ; and everything was in such perfect
harmony. He said the bride was charming
■ —absolutely adorable in her white wedding-
dress and bridal veil, and a most wonder-
fully gorgeous bouquet of baby roses tied
with pale blue and white bebe ribbon and
streamers. And the bridesmaids —they were
really beautiful. Lovely! The bride’s
mother—a dear old lady—wept bitterly, and
eventually fainted. In fact,” she finished
with a sigh, “he told me it was a sight suffi-
cient, to make any man want to get married.”
“And some people say a man never notices
things!” remarked her friend pensively.
Mrs. Mayoress Cummings, who is arrang-
ing a ball in the St. Kilda Town Hall for
Aug. 18 to help along the Free Kindergar-
tens, has bagged practically all the sets
which paraded at the All Nations Ball, so
there should be a picturesque collection.
The Maori set ought to rope in half-a-dozen
stray dogs to follow along. That was all
that was missing in the perfection of their "
parade at the ball. Girls with their skin
tinted a delicate amber showed bare shoul-
ders above their “mats,” and among the
escorting men were some real Maoris in full
war-paint and feathers. Wise, general-
manager of the He kali), did his best to
match them by painting realistic tattoo
marks on his face.
Elocutionists are legion, but few of them
have the quality of Beatrice Ternan, here
pictured by the
Broothorn camera. A
former pupil o f
Louie Dunu, and
now under Mrs. Gib-
son Young, she has
shown her powers in
several recitals a t
the Institute of Arts
and Literature. Ber-
nard O’Dowd con-
siders her the best
interpreter of Walt
Whitman he has
heard, and she has
also won the admira-
tion Of Marie E. J.
Pitt for her fine
readings of Austra-
lian verse. A few
months back sbe
scored the L.T.C.L..
but that honor is secondary to the appre-
ciation she seems to command every time
she takes the platform. On August 10
there should be a good roll-up to hear her
at the Queen’s Hall. Ernest Dowson’s
“Cynara,” Whitman’s “Sea Drift” and items
from Browning and Francis Thompson will
be featured in a programme in which Henry
Lawson, Furnley Maurice and other local
bards will also have a place.
Rene Kirkpatrick—one of six bright Syd-
ney sisters—has come to our Conservator'um
to polish a soprano concerning which Melba
has said some nice things. Two other of
the sisters are visiting here and the trio gave
a tea-party at the Oriental last week. The
Bowes Kelly girls and Doris McKinnon came
along and briskly compared notes of the
whirl of jazzes and partners they had shared.
Mrs. Freddie Shipman was a guest, and
roused envy among the girls with an orien-
tal turban worn with a smart cloth suit of
brown. The whole outfit came from the U.S.
Mrs. Lionel Attwell, who was Elsie
Mackay, is coming down the Pacific as fast
as an oil-fed ship can bring her,, because her
father, S. P. Mackay, is seriously ill in
Westralia.
Melba won’t have the head-line place on
the programme at the Town Hall concert
on Aug. 9. The position’s of her own choos-
ing, though. Una Bourne was busy arrang-
ing the programme for her farewell piano
recital—she’s off again to London quite soon
—when the Dame announced, “I’ll sing a
group of songs for you.” London regards
Una as one of the women pianists of the
day, and it’s pretty evident Melba thinks a
lot of her ability, as both an accompanist
and solo pianist.
Dr. Stuart Maclty, whom Monteatli pic-
tures in the adjacent photo, is another
young dramatist who
is promised so m e
advertisement b y
the Pioneer Players.
That thriving little
society, which
threatens weekly
performances at the
Temperance Hall in
Russell - street, i s
now rehearsing his
four-act drama,
“John Blake.” which
is to be staged on
August 10. The
piece pictures life in
Sydney, Norfolk
Island and Williams-
town between 1825
and 1845, and though
the characters are
fictitious, the his-
topical atmosphere is maintained. The
author, who is a Maorilander, but came to
Melbourne to do his medical course, has
always had a weakness for amateur theatri-
cals. He greasepainted himself frequently
in the cause of charity in Adelaide, and his
trenchant baritone has been heard in Mel-
bourne repertory shows. He made his debut
as an amateur in Louis Esson’s “Sacred
Place,” which was given at the old Turn
Verein Hall over 10 years ago.
Melbournites have not grasped the chic
manner of wearing hats smartly with even-
ing dress. Several society weddings recently
have been celebrated in the evening. The
women, poor dears, must -cover their heads
in church, and yet must be dressed for the
subsequent breakfast-supper. Only one in
a hundred indulges in a special hat to match
her evening gown. The others rummage
wildly in their cupboards with weird
results. Some grab a bit of ostrich plumage
left over from mother’s frock,y days, produce
a discarded paste buckle from the button-bag,
and these, together with some nondescript
ribbons, they nail on to a lid of yesteryear
—and they feel sure they’ve faithfully copied
pictures of gay life in Paris or Noo Yark.
Others carefully untissue their best day-
time hat and trust to luck —if it fights in
color-fury with their best evening dress it
can’t be helped. But the wise link up a
leaf-bandeau with a tight thatch-covering of
tulle. St. Paul did not detail .how much
covering is necessary. A bit of tulle covers
—so why not wear it?
With the Countess and Lady Helena
seated close to the platform, Stanley Brookes
gave a Dickens recital at the Assembly. Hall
the other Tuesday. Brookes is a nice, bright
fellow, but there was no striking reason
why he should have done it. If the Dickens
Fellowship wants to interest the multitude
of non-readers of their idol they must put
up somebody stronger than Stanley to preach
the gospel. Better Uriah Ileeps and Quilps
than his are to be seen and heard in a South-
street competition. His Sam Weller was
an eccentric humorist who sometimes had
a twisted mouth and sometimes a straight
one, whilst his Squeers—well, it seems not
long ago that Alexander Watson was shut-
ting one eye and impersonating Squeers.
Still, the pleasing efforts of Mr. Brookes
were one more tribute to the vitality of
those Dickens characters. He was interest-
ing. Jessie McMichael was a winsome and
tuneful lassie in some Scottish sangs. and
the youngster who deputised for Harold
Elvins at the piano was na sa bad.
Percy Kahn will be in Australia this
month, along with Rosina Buckman and her
Maurice d’Oisly. He will supply the accom-
paniments for their songs. Last time Kahn
was here he was behind the Elman fiddle. At
various times he has played for most of the
famous artists of the day.
Mrs. Laura Selfe, just dead, was one of
Melbourne’s oldest natives. She was born
in 1842, and was a daughter of George
Wintle, the Governor of our first three
prisons.
Somebody’s profound remark (it has a
Billy Hughes tang about it) that patriotism
is a holy thing, sank deep into the soul of
a Melbourne ’suburban butcher recently. He
was about to open in opposition to a firm
whose names suggested Teutonic origins and
after rehearsing the formula, he proceeded
to plaster his windows with such phrases
as “Australia for Australians,” “Keep out
the Aliens,” etc. But his crowning effort
was to promise “An Australian sheep, killed
and dressed in Australia, by Australians,
for Australians” to the first buyer who
should enter his shop on the fateful morn-
ing when business was _to be started. Un-
fortunately, what promised to be a great
day for Australia was spoiled when a big.
hulking African negress tumbled first through
the barrier. She had headed the queue for
some hours keeping a crowd of-. Caucasian
housewives at bay with two formidable hat-
pins.
Mona McCaugliey, who came home to
Australia last year with Una Bourne, is
off again with the pianist through Canada
and U.S.A. While Una was busy on the
Australian tour with Melba. Mona went
off on a tour in “The East,” and at pre-
sent she is having a look at the sheep on
the parental station. Una Bourne gives a
farewell recital in the Town Hall on Aug.
9, and in September goes to Westralia to
play at Melba’s Perth concert.
The latest thing in ’appy ’ome gate-names
is “Neetriht”—the unlucky number spelt
backwards. It is somebody in Footseray
(Vic.) who has thus tried to trick Fate.
Mrs. Princess Mary Lascelles put her pre-
sents up for show in London and charged so
much a peep. The result panned out at
nearly £9OOO. Of this £4OOO goes to the
Girl Guides and £4OOO to a disabled soldiers’
settlement village. The London Police
Orphanage gets the balance.
Hockey girls from Sydney stormed Mel-
bourne the other day, and shortly afterwards
the shouts and thwacks of the energetic
game resounded through the Glaciariuin.
Hockey girls take a bruise or two as a
matter of course, and make no more fuss
about them than their sporting brothers
would. Rea Lucas, who is an enthusiastic
hockeyite, entertained the Sydney, visitors
royally. She gave them a dinner and a
dance at Whernside, Toorak, and her proud
father motored them for miles round the
bay next day, with an interlude for lunch at
the Lucas seaside place at Frankston.
An Adelaide postscript:—
The social season has suddenly shaken itself lip,
and recently a single night was booked for the
Douglas Tolleys’ ball in the Osborne Ilall, the Yacht
Squadron ditto at the Semaphore, another at the
T. R. Scarfe home,, at Marryatville, and the red-and-
white dance of the Prince Alfred Old Collegians'
Association at the Palais. The last-mentioned w.i
the central point of a festive Old Reds’ week thai
included the usual dinner, a couple of minor foot-
ball and lacrosse matches and the annual football
match against St. Peter’s. A feminine committee
took a hand in the arrangements for the ball, an I
Mi’s. Holden, one of the Marshall clan, Mrs. T. V.
Craven, Mrs. Verco, Mrs. E. H. Rhodes and Mrs.
Drew were among the dames who helped the show to
its success.
A week earlier the Tolley clan were busy with a
wedding, when Eileen, the Ernest Tolleys’ popular
daughter, draped herself in picturesque pink chiffon
velvet with lace and embroideries of pearls and
silver, and said “I will” to John Wischer, who hails
from Melbourne. Her sister and sister-in-law-elect
were bridesmaids in filmy lace, with a swirl of blue
and violet at the waist and panels of blue georgette
floating from their shoulders. Experts say the pre-
sents beat all records.
We’ve a new feminine lawyer—our third. She is
Miss Dorothy Somerville, and the Chief Justice says
her record is as distinguished as that of anyone who
has come up for admission in his recollection. The
Barr Smith prize for Greek, Andrew Scott ditto for
Latin, and a tie for the David Murray scholarship
are a few of the academic feathers in her toque.
The School for Mothers has added to its bank-
balance by a ball at the Palais, with Mrs. de Crcs-
pigny, Mrs. Pointon and Miss Kathleen Moore as its
organisers. The usual stalls were run by Miss Moliie
Milne, Miss Muecke and Mrs. Finlayson and Miss
Cheadle and Miss Fitch; and there was some delight-
ful solo dancing by Nancy Atkins and Dorothy Slanc.
The Murrays dined the Barwells at Government
House the other night—an official affair mostly
limited to members of the Ministry and the leader
of the Opposition, with their feminine belongings.
The returned Premier is being fed with fearsome
frequency; but the Opposition is showing him that
he is to get all the heckling he wants in the House.
The Army Nurses’ Fund has done useful work since
the early days of the war, and its annual report
shows that it is keeping up its good record. Hos-
pital fees have been paid for some returned nurses
and holidays provided for others, and a sustenance
allowance goes to army nurses doing post-war train-
ing at the Queen’s Home. At the annual meeting
the other day the old committee was re-elected,
including the three pioneers of the fund —Mrs.
Glover as president, Mrs. Kelcwick as vice-president,
and Mrs. A. W. Hill as treasurer.
Passed out, Miss Sarah Moule, a sister of the late
John Moule, and one of the best-known and most
valued workers of the State Children’s Department,
where her special job was inspector of the foster-
mothers’ branch. She retired about eight years ago
after 20 years’ service.
Artist Power has left us and gone to Deniliquin
(N.S.W.), where he is painting the small Landales
on their ponies.
At one recent dance at the Palais Royal a gay
young Adelaide medico gave a wonderful exhibition
of fancy dancing with a partner. They did the swal-
low turn —one of those affairs in which the lady
finishes up on the gent’s shoulder, and he hangs onto
her ankle. The lass was one of the “Peep Show”
chorus —and all the baldheads bewailed the fact
that the doctor chose a “Twilight dance” for the
exhibition.


“Rexona is a wonderful healer, and I
always keep a tin of It handy.”
Miss IVY SHIULING.
“I have never come across a soap like
Rexona before, so lovely for the skin
and hair.”
Miss EOTTIE COLLINS.
Famous Stars
Endorse Rexona.
Every day the fame of Rexona grows, until it is now world-wide.
Most of all our noted theatrical artistes are Rexona Girls, for they
know how much personal attractiveness adds to charm, and have
learned by experience that the use of Rexona and Rexona Soap is
the shortest road to health and beauty. Note what these famous
stars say of Rexona and Rexona Soap, and if you are not already a
user of the Rexona Products, start their use to-day. Rexona will
keep your skin in perfect condition, and free from all blemishes.
Rexona Soap gives natural beauty to the skin and hair.
Girls! Beautify Your Hair.
Do you know that in less than ten minutes you can double the beauty of your hair?
It becomes light, wavy, fluffy, abundant, and appears as soft, lustrous and charming as
anyone could desire, after a simple wash with Rexona Soap. A delightful surprise awaits
those whose hair has been neglected, or is scraggy, dry, brittle or thin.
Rexona Soap cleanses the hair of all dust, dirt or excess oil, and in a few moments
you have doubled the beauty of your hair. Rexona Soap dissolves every particle of
dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigorates the scalp, for ever stopping itching and falling
hair. If you care to have pretty hair and lots of it—get a tablet of Rexona Soap to-day.
Why Not Enjoy a Good
Complexion ?
You cannot ?f you do not care for the delicate skin of the face. When you wash
your face do you realise that it is not enough to simply remove the dirt, but that your
skin needs a seedling, healing influence to keep your complexion fresh and free from
blemish? Scented toilet soaps are often very pleasant, but do not assert this influence,
as you are well aware. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry up the
skin and destroy its delicate texture. Even the better class of such soaps do not in
any way help to improve the skin, but Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is not only an
absolutely pure soap, but is medicated on the same principle as the famous Rexona
Ointment, which is known throughout Australasia as the Rapid Healer. That is why
Rexona Soap really does for the skin and face what cosmetics are supposed to do, by
ensuring, not only a clean face, but a pure and healthy skin, and thus gives you a clear
complexion.
Rexona,
The Rapid
Healer,
1/6 and 3/-
mmz&Mm
7/<£7^
yy / //'y
y / //-7/.
11l
wmm.
m t
V/
mM
MM
Yt
SKIN & FACIAL
/ / Cleanses
U heals ano
•a purifies
Fo» the
toilet. Bath
& NURSERv
m
7777,
7/77/
'/ f/.
MEDICATED SOAP
Rexona Proprietary Company
Sydney.H.S.W.
//V
//V
m
'-vm
%
%
n
%
7//
7/,
Rexona
Soap,
il-
per Tablet.
“My motto is Rexona.”
Miss DOROTHY BRUNTON
ful.
‘I think Rexona Soap truly delight-
Miss CECIL BRADLEY.
/ f a
mm
y
w
“Rexona and Rexona Soap are worth
their weight in gold.”
Miss MADGE ELLIOTT.
A :
“I will always use Rexona and
Rexona Soap, as I think they are the
‘One and Only.’”
3liss YVONNE RAVIS.
~7
/
“Rexona Soap is miles ahead of any-
thing I have ever tried before.”
Miss GRACIE LAVERS.


Charles
Hddsieck*
Vintage 191)
QMflMffi
HE PLUS DLTRfI
\\ V
m
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agreiits--
SWiFT & CSMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
WILLIAM FARMER & CO. LTD.,
Whole Pearl ahd
Diamond Cluster Ring
£llO.
Jewellers and Gem Merchants.
An incomparable stock of
PEARL & DIAMOND RINGS
mounted in Platinum, in the
latest designs.
Whole Pearl and
Diamond Ring,
£52/10/-
Old Jewellery
remounted in
the newest
Ideas.
Whole Pearl and
Diamond Ring,
£B5.
Single Whole Pearl
Ring,
£37/10/-
Others from
£l5.
Designs and
estimates
submitted
free of charge
Goods valued for Probate and Insurance
purposes.
Showrooms: 34 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
Telephone, Cijy 7319. Box 401 G.P.0., Sydney.
HAWA||
THt YEAR 'ROUND PLAYGROUND
in September
and October
has a delightful climate for outdoor
sports and sightseeing. It is a land of
endless variety; sea and beach, mountain
and forest, marvellous volcanic regions.
You find here troDic fruits, trees and
flowers at their best.
Golf, swimming,
surfing, motoring, ten-
nis and tramping may
be enjoyed every day
in the year.
Booklet from nearest
travel or ticket agency,
or write direct to
Department B,
HAWAII TOURIST
BUREAU,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.A.
fS
*
€3
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Pounders
Airs. Alec Dalglish, who was killed in a
motor-car accident near Goulburn last week
—her husband was driving, and they were
near their station, Pomeroy, at the time —
was born a Alaxwell-Scott, and so was a
niece of the late Duke of Norfolk, and a kins-
woman of most of the well-known Catholics
of England. She married Alec Dalglish—
eldest son of Airs. Dalglish-Bellasis, who was
a De Lauret of Goulburn —when he came
down from Oxford 20-odd years ago, and
after their honeymoon, which was spent at
Arundel Castle, they came to Australia and
went straight on to the land. They rarely
came to Sydney; and did not even visit Goul-
burn much, except when a race meeting was
on in the neighborhood. They made a few
trips to England—on the last occasion to see
their boy settled at Oxford —but for the most
part they lived, year in, year out, on their
station, a most devoted couple. It is the
only place of the sort in N. S. AVales, by the
way, that boasts a private chapel.
In the head-dress competitions at the
dinner-dance at the Wentworth in aid of
the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, one of
the pretty Carr girls again carried off the
prize for the wearer of the most original
lid. and Helen Laidley—who wrapped her
hair in a yellow bandana, attached enor-
mous rings to her ears and called the effect
Javanese —won the prize for the prettiest
head-dress. Airs. Lippmann’s was adjudged
the most smoothly-dressed head; and
medico AlcKelvey’s pretty little wife, who
a pearl contrivance over powdered
locks, was another winner. Airs. Sep Levy,
who, in a froth of grey lace and orchid satin,
helped Mrs. Leslie Walford to pass the
judgments, entertained a large party that
included Nelson Clover, a naval man, who
left his wife at home, but wore his best
side-crop of face fungus, and Airs. Herbert
Marks. The party was swelled later on by
Keith Murdoch, Dr. Darby, super-jazzer
Heath, of Alelbourne, and Alajor R. E. God-
dard. The men came to the dance with
just their usual thatch on their heads, but
some enterprising lads made up head cover-
ings as they went along, and one contrived
to look like a wounded hero on the strength
of a table napkin and his best-girl’s
lip salve. There was an exhibition
of dancing by three dryads of the Lang-
ridge School of Physical Culture, and it
was curious how apparently indifferent
males unobtrusively but persistently wedged
themselves into the front ranks of the on-
looking circle.
Bertie Alacnamara has corns to Sydney
from Narrandera for good, and will go into
business as a stock and station agent with
Noel Alair. The late Airs. Colvin was a
sister of the latter. Bertie Alacnamara went
away as a gunner with the original sth
F.A.8., and was one of the few men in any
of the armies who went back to the front
line and stayed there after having an eye
shot out. He was in a 6th Brigade battery,
and just due for his captaincy Avhen the
war inconsiderately ended. Old Sam
AlcCaughey was very fond of him and left
him some money in his will.
Apparently everybody who had received
the acre of so of invitation bidding them to
the Alayoral AlcElkones’ party in honor of
the G.-G. Forsters put in an appearance at
the civic stronghold on Alonday night. The
Town Hall had been so made over with crim-
son and cream foliage and banks of palms and
gum-trees, in which were caught thousands
of twinkling lights that it looked like an
Ode to Spring, though outside a cyclone
raged and rain streamed from a leaden sky.
Trying to look merry and bright was the
occupation of an evening, whose one active
momept, before supper, was the preliminary
handshake. Small talk was the only
amusement, and the wet weather seemed to'
have reduced all to the threepenny-bits of
speech. The hostess was not in the
least overawed by her lord’s ermine
and broadcloth; she was somewhat re-
splendent herself in a frock that looked
like gold armor veiled in leaf-brown
tulle. The Forster lady looked handsomely
Gothic in black satin and diamonds, and
Mrs. Pamela Pitt Rivers trailed soft apple-
green draperies. Premier George Fuller and
his wife, she in soft grey-embossed satin,
came to the party. Mrs. Bertie Kelly
wore a white lace Juliet-like frock, made
quite long, while her daughter Beatrice
was in the sober colorings that modern
youth affects. Airs. A. E. Hughes
was a striking dresser, and cascaded
with moonlight-blue sequins where she
wasn’t ermine stole. Tootles AA rilliam-
son wore pearl entanglements on grey georg-
ette frocking. Judges were there in legion
(Ethel Turner Curlewis came with her little
bit of the Bench) ; the Church thrust on its
best millinery for the occasion; embryo
knights and Prime Alinisters breathed upon
the spinal column of beauty and age indis-
criminately—in short it was one of those
passive, unresisting collections of humans
that the dailies describe as “a brilliant
assemblage.”
The N.S.W. Ladies’ Amateur Swimming
Association invaded Sargent’s rooms the
other night for the annual reunion and
prize-distribution. Alina Wylie—who is in
mourning for her mother, and so did not
turn up to receive her trophies—was the
most successful competitor. Last season she
won every N.S.W. and Australian champion-
ship excepting the 50yds. event, in which
she was defeated by Lily Robertson. Thelma
Lawler laid proprietary fingers upon the
Annette Kellerman silver cup and medal,
and Ida Cummings took second honors.
Louise Love was presented with the H. D.
Alclntosh Cup, Lottie Tevyer with the State
diving championship trophy, and the Aletro-
politan Ladies’ Club sent Evelyn Townsend
along to take delivery of the handsome
shield which goes with the State teams
championship. Since the inception of this
event, in 1912, Metrops, have been victorious
nine times, Sydney and Alanly once. Airs.
H. D. Alclntosh presented the baubles, Les
E. Duff was M.C., and Airs. W. Chambers,
as usual, saw to it that the function went
with a swing.
Prince Obolenski never met Ruth Alac-
arthur when he was in Sydney: she was
touring Europe with Airs. Libby Hordern
most of the time. However, he knew her
twin, Phillis, well. At Ciro’s in London the
absent twin was surprised to be greeted by
name by a tall and good-looking stranger.
It was the Prince, who, Sherlock Holmes-
like, had deduced that this must be the sister
of the young woman he had known in Aus-
tralia.
Airs. Agnes Janson, of the Melbourne
Con., is in Sydney, and was the particular
star at the Scandinavian concert in St.
James’s Hall last week. The lady, who is
one of Sweden’s most enthusiastic daughters,
sang a number of her country’s historical
songs in her native tongue. Agnes Janson
came to Australia many years ago as a
member of a grand-opera company; and
Sydney then considered her the best Carmen
it had ever known.
Roy AlcKeowm the sixth of popular par-
son Robert McKeown’s musical sons, has
given notice that he and Phyllis, only daugh-
ter of Lieut.-Colonel and Airs. Alartin, of
Sherwood, Alerrylands, are to be made one
in the not very distant future.
Vera, architect Burcham Clamp’s daugh-
ter, is wearing a ring with which Neill
Creer was smart enough to lasso her en-
gagement finger—though he does come from
Snails Bay.
This is Judith Fletcher’s photograph of
Ruth Beale, without whom most women’s
movements would feel lonely. A daughter
of the piano man,
she is a tall young
woman, built on the
Junoesque scale, has
a large, heart-warm-
ing smile, and a pair
of fine eyes. She
combines a gift for
literature and ora-
tory, with a genius
for economics; and
her ambition is to
see a Chair of Home
Economics est a b-
lished at Sydney
’Varsity. Miss Beale
has studied settle-
ment work and the
question of mun i-
cipal markets in the
U.S.A.; she is an
ardent supporter of the National Council of
Women, and is solidly at the back of the
scheme for bringing grand opera home as
regularly as milking time to the Cow Cocky.
Marcello (“Mips”) Kellerman took the
matrimonial plunge the other day at her
Uncle Keilerman’s Neutral Bay place. The
man in the case was tall Bananalander Fred
Wooster, who fought with the A.J.F. in
France and met Mips when she was war-
working in Paris. The pair tried to slip
away quietly after Padre Foreman had tied
the knot, but the elopement was discovered
by the wedding guests, who thereupon de-
scended upon the High-street Wharf and
gave the launch, the Tom Boy, a deafening
send-off. They are spending their three
weeks’ honeymoon in a launch cruise up the
rivers and around the bays of the harbor,
and the clerk of the weather really should
have been a little more kind to the pair.
Ever since Lute Drummond arrived from
Europe 18 months ago she has preached
her gospel of grand opera bv Aus-
tralians for Australians, and now musi-
cal Sydney has taken to it to the extent of
forming a committee to listen to talks on
the subject and otherwise push the move-
ment along. She gave the first at the
Women’s Club the other day, and her list-
eners simply gasped over the beautiful sim-
plicity of the thing. She pointed out that
many country towns have choral societies
and orchestras, and that there was nothing
to prevent these societies practising well-
known operas, so that in each town there
would be an efficient chorus and orchestra,
and when it wanted a grand-opera season
all it would have to do would be to import
a few principals. When she sat down
Haigh Jackson said a few words, in the
good cause; and Melba’s letter offering good
wishes and three cheers for the idea added
an appropriate finishing touch.
An interesting figure blowing about Syd-
ney’s social centres at the moment is Major
R. E. Goddard, a man who seems to have
done everything—soldiering, producing plays,
exploring and writing books. His latest
masterpiece, “Bamboozo,” is about due in
the Sydney bookshops.
This is A. H. Brigg, the Sydney City
Surveyor, whose case has thrown the Town
Hall into disorder
and the Telegraph
and News into con-
vulsions. The posi-
tion is that Gaud
Mayor AlcElhone
wants Brigg sacked,
while Alderman
Allen Taylor (who
is not indisposed to
take AlcElhone’s
job) is equally de-
termined to have
him retained. But,
anyhow, there are
understood to be
wheels within
wheels, the whole
uproar dating back
in some mysterious
manner to the disas-
trous attempt made by AlcElhone and Taylor
to bring about the undoing of their Labor
colleague, Bramston. In the meantime, Air.
Brigg keeps a stiff upper lip, as in this
photograph, and respectfully defies his foe
in shining rabbit-skin.
Commander Nelson Clover—he of the
ornate side-levers—and his wife are settled
for the moment in the home of Airs. Dick-
son, of Darling Point. Airs. Nelson Clover
is a daughter of cattle-king Kidman.
Alalcolm Vicars, nephew of the tweed and
woollen knight, has just slipped an engage-
ment-ring on the left hand of Doris Rowe.
He works in_the firm, and his best girl, like
himself, is a North Shore liner.
Laurence Godfrey Smith has lured Judge
Gordon’s pretty little wife into singing at
his recital on August 7 at the Conservatorium.
It is seldom the one-time idolised musical-
comedy song-bird (you remember her as Mar-
garet Thomas in “The Cingalee”) can be
persuaded to raise her voice in public. Like
all Welsh people, Airs. Gordon has a flair for
languages, and there are few people in
Australia who can invest French songs with
so much charm and atmosphere.
The Town Hall is going to have its re-
spectability shaken to the foundations on the
night of the Four Arts Ball. To begin with,
the pillars that support the gallery are to
be camouflaged . with 16ft. figures, male and
female, of more or less disreputable charac-
ter. There’s one Island lady who is leaping
wildly into the atmosphere as though her
foot had touched the. meadow and found a
crop of tin tacks. She is warmly clad in a
vermilion anklet and a few strings of
bananas. And there’s a lean, besmocked
artist who looks as though he’d like nothing
better than to get loose among the clusters
of giant asparagus, shalots and lobsters that
clutter the atmosphere like a mirage on all
sides. Sausages and ribs of beef and water-
melons give a sense of reality to the Scotch-
byterian old gentleman who has wandered in
by mistake and is clasping a green umbrella
before him as a breastplate. The basement
of the Town Hall is to be a beer garden, where
cheese and spring onions are to be the only
eatables, and somebody whispers that their
Exes., masked and dominoed, of course, have
elected to eat their snack among our Pitt-
street Mimis and Rudolphs. A hot-pie-and-
coffee stall will trade merrily in the interests
of the gallery patrons. There’s even talk of
having three Sir Walter Davidsons at the
revels. Tickets are 15s. each and are on sale
at Paling’s.
The sun pushed its way from behind the
morning’s grey pall to shine on Betty
Marsh’s wedding to ex-Naval man Hugh
Stevenson on Saturday morning. Betty,
who is one of Elizabeth Bay’s most popular
girls, was in georgette and crgpe de Chine
that shone like a stretch of golden sand, and
her pretty face was framed in a cas-
cade of drenched feathers that fell from a
hat of the same srolden ton«j. St, John’s,
Darlinghurst, heard the exchange of vows, and
a strictly family party kent an eye on things
from the front pews. The bridegroom’s sis-
ter, Peggy, came all the way from England
to hold the bride’s bouquets and gloves at
the psvcholoaical moment. He is a son of
a Devon doctor, and nephew of the William-
sons, the English paint and varnish kings.
It is with a view to studying the color-trade
that he is in Australia.
Whenever Eadith Hill wants to give her
pals a special treat she takes them to “The
Hut,” at Vaueluse. It was in this historic
old boatshed, facing Bottle and Glass, that
Wentworths and Martins, Longs and Hills
foregathered every Sunday half-a-century ago.
and ate turkey and drank champagne; and
between then and the early years of this
century it has housed almost every eminent
visitor to Sydney. But that was before
Greycliff and Vaueluse House were turned
into public institutions. On this occasion
the picnic was in honor of Melba —a fare-
well affair.
Handing out soup tickets or their equiva-
lent is becoming second nature to Mrs. Alac-
lurcan. She is going to provide the entire
supper at the Paper Ball for St. Luke’s, at
the Wentworth o,n Sept. 20; and as the
board of the big cafd is handing over the hal-
lowed spot free of charge, it looks as though
St. Luke’s holds a winning hand. The
board of the Darlinghurst hospital passed
the lady and the directors a special vote of
thanks at its meeting on Monday, when shep-
herded by the Wade lady, who is president,
a committee of girls and young matrons was
formed to organise parties.
News comes from Villa Rica, Paraguay
(where many other New Australians settled
after the split), of the death of Mrs. John
Cadogan, who, when she was Mrs. Rose
Summerfield, was widely known in Aus-
tralia in the early ’nineties, as a democratic
publicist and versifier. She and her second
husband (who once conducted the Demo-
crat, a Sydney radical paper devoted to
Labor and the single tax) had latterly be-
come experts in the treatment of hookworm
and malarial disease in Paraguay. Mrs.
Cadogan was originally a Miss Stone, and
was about 60 when the end came. Her four-
sons by her first marriage are in the
Northern Territory, whither the whole fam-
ily were preparing to migrate 38 months
ago when the Paraguayan bank that held
their savings collapsed.
Stratford Sheldon has bought the late
John Manson’s house at Point Piper, an ideal
place looking eastwards over Rose Bay. This
means that the Ernest Watts, who bought the
Sheldons’ Double Bay place, will move in
there sooner than they expected. Airs.
Ernest is going for a trip to England in
January with the children.
The Union Club bought the best picture of
its long life the other day—Gruner’s “Ara-
luen Valley,” and the price was £3OO. But
it did not do nearly so well in England,
where it commissioned Colin Caird to spend
£7OO the other day. He bought a seascape
and some paintings of dogs, and, as the
works have to pay 50 per cent, duty, they
are held by most of his fellow-members to
have been expensive acquisitions. In any
ease he is a better judge of prints and
. engravings than he is of oils.
A Sydney girl drops a line from Berlin,
where .she is having the time of a princess on
a very small holiday allowance. She hands
out tips of 10 marks (not quite 3d.), and
every waiter in the large hotel is her slave.
She pays a tariff of six bob a day at one of
the best hotels for a luxurious suite of
parlor, bedroom and bath. The beds have
no blankets, but she enjoys sleeping
between eiderdowns in exquisitely-worked
linen covers. The city is beautifully clean,
shows no trace of the war, and its men and
women are well and smartly dressed and
evince a great partiality towards British
visitors.
Ih London the traveller saw Vera Pearce
playing the small part of a model in “Love’s
Awakening.” Vera is looking lovely; and
from the opening night has been a great
draw, being known among theatre-goers as
“The Australian Beauty.”
The Ceylon Independent, of June 12,
devotes a whole column to an exhibition of
Alary Edwards’s pictures. The writer is
particularly enthusiastic over the Sydney
girl’s studies of child life; and what is more
to the financial point, picture-buyers like the
show as much as the critics.
Airs. John Harris and Mrs. Harry Harris
have handed £5O to the Royal Hospital for
Women as a result of the bridge party
arranged by them last Friday. The Lady
Alayoress lent her rooms and provided the
tea. so the proceeds of the affairs were net.
It happened at a matinee of “The Bat,” at
Sydney Royal. In the third act, while every-
body is searching for the murderer a door
sh.ms and Lizzie, the servant (Elizabeth
Dunne ) is so overcome that she trembles
violently and gasps “If yer ’ear a noise,
don’t mind, as it’s only me teeth chatterin’,”
whereupon Cornelia van Gorder (Emma
Temple) replies, “Don’t be silly, Lizzie;
take them out and put them in your pocket!”
A young girl and her grandmother were in
the front stalls, and, as the aged lady had
apparently not heard it, the lass repeated the
last sentence for her. Grandma paused for
a moment, then, casting a hunted, apologetic
look at her neighbors, hastily snatched out
her own teeth, upper and lower sections,
and hid them in her lap.


sdf
HARDY BROS. LTD
Jewellers.
Christening Gifts.
Bnc s V?
Silver Bowl and Spoon, in case, £5/10/-
Hardy Bros, stock a wide variety of
useful and attractive articles in Silver and
Silverplate, suitable for Christening and
Birthday Gifts.
An illustrated Catalogue, containing suggestions for Gifts
for all occasions, posted free on request.
Selections sent on approval.
HARDY BROS. LTD
c /ew&ll&rs Silversmit/i/s.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
£
A Compact British-made
Folding Pocket Camera
of Perfect Design and
Workmanship.
“Regular
Ensign”
Camera 3JA.
You can use Daylight-loading Roll Films or
Plates with this useful Camera. The pictures
taken are Postcard size, 3 \ x b\. The Regular
Ensign is very strongly made, well finished,
and covered in Real Morocco Leather.
Book of instructions supplied with each Camera.
Price, with Plutur F 8 Lens, £9/5/-
Postage 1/6.
JTO
The House for
Good Cameras,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
Katoomba Street, Katoomba.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
41a Rundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland, X.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Secret of Eve
(Beauty for a Farthing' a Day)
Eve, the eternal woman, awoke
with the dawn. Her eyes, clear as
crystal pools, opened with eager
anticipation that another day had
come. Pink-tongued, with breath
as sweet as rosebuds in the dew of
a summer morning, she stretched
her firm, white limbs, glorying in
their lissom beauty. Eve was a
woman such as Nature designed her.
And when, rising with a song on
her lips, she glanced in her mirror,
she laughed with glee. For the
reflection showed a radiant face, its
contour firm, its texture softly
beautiful with the roses and lilies of
health. Even her hair, which
formed a dusky frame to her laugh-
ing face, was vibrant with life and
beauty.
Eve could laugh at the salons of
beauty doctors. She feared no fees
to medicine-men. Each new day
came to her as an adventure, filled
with glorious possibilities. Pulsing
with splendidly vital energy, she
faced the years, fearing nothing.
For Eve was healthy, and when
woman is healthy she is beautiful.
No beauty doctor in the world,
no expensive complexion cream,
powder or. rouge-pot can work the
wonders due to perfect health,
which gives the impression of you'.li
even when birthdays deny, which
provides that vibrant feeling of
LIFE, so that be a woman seventeen
or seventy she holds the power to
charm.
What was Eve’s secret?
Why was it that she never suf-
fered from depression, headache,
nerves, sluggishness, slackness?
Why could she face a woman’s day
with confident optimism? How
could she laugh at her - mirror and
the passing years? What was the
secret of that splendid health and
vital energy which kept her young?
Listen, sisters of Eve.
The story runs of a silver sixpence
and a bottle of crystals. Every
morning when she took her cup of
tea, Eve heaped her sixpence with
the magic crystals, and took them in
the fragrant beverage.
The crystals were KRUSCHEN
SALTS.
What Kruschen Salts did for Eve
they can do for every woman —send
healthy blood coursing through her
veins, drive out poisonous matter
that is clogging her system and steal-
ing her beauty. A healthy woman
IS a beautiful woman.
Every woman can keep her youth
and beauty. Every woman can be
her own beauty doctor.
And all for a farthing a day!
One bottle of Kruschen Salts
contains 96 morning “sixpencefuls"’
—enough to last you three months,
Go to your chemist now and get
the magic crystals, which will keep
you young because they keep you
healthy.
Tasteless in Tea
Put as much in each
breakfast cup as will
lie on a sixpence.
I& u fjjts
Good Health for a Farthing a day
The dose of a sixpenceful, taken
every morning, is found in practice
to be just the right amount for a
most invigorating daily tonic. The
medicinal dose for persons suffering
from pains of Rheumatism and Gout
or habitual Constipation, with in-
active liver, etc., is haif to one tea-
spoonful in a tumbler of hot water
before breakfast.
Every chemist sells Kruschen Salts
—they cost you less than a farthing
a day for eager strenuous health.
Get a bottle to-day.
Australia —Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
11. and W. Grear, 119 to 123 York Street ; also at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. Direct
Indents executed by the manufacturers through
London Buying Houses.
New Zealand—Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts arg stocked by
Fairbairn. Wright & Co., Auckland, W ellmgton.
Christchurch and Dunedin.


7
v
V
Don’t Worry About
Your Complexion Cuticura
Will Take Care of Jt
If you make the Cuticura Trio your
every-day toilet preparations you
will have a clear, healthy skin, good
hair and soft white hands. Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal, Talcum
to powder and perfume.
Soap Is. . Ointment Is.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress: **R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W."
1# Cuticura Soap shares without mug.
Learn to Draw
2S
i Jt>
'7
it
There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
The {
above is
the title
of our book-
-1 e t, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing—
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARRY J. WES-
TO N, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex.
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
sucees :ul.
Send thre e
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—■
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.’’
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
151 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
MUCILINE
£7/?e perfect:
©wwn(sm Bs@gg
CLEANEST,
STRONGEST- BEST.
GOLD BY ALL STATIONERS
%!5%' e ALEX Cowan © Sons, to
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
The Worlds
Greatest Heater
Zam-Buk is the most scientific and
reliable preparation yet discovered
for injuries, poisoned wounds,
ulcers, piles, chilblains, cold sores
and obstinate skin diseases.
Zam-Buk is a soothing, antiseptic
healer that no home should be
without.
1/6 and S/6, of all Chemists
and Stores.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
BE HEALTHY AND HAPPY!
\
■
You don't know that life is really worth living unless you are
pliysicacy fit I
If your nerves and muscles are working properly you’ll find
that the world is a jolly good old place after all!
\oull enjoy your work, enjoy your meals, enjoy your leisure
and enjcy the company of those around you!
Good hea.lth is the most glorious asset man can have, and
YOU CAN HAVE IT!
15v taking up Keg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker’s Postal Course
of Health ami Strength Culture you can build up; the
organs that are sluggish, drive enervating poisons from
the system, and make the whole body work in perfect
harmony, as Nature intended it to.
Then you will feel the wonderful glow of perfect physical
fitness. The difference will surprise and delight you!
The exercises are clear and simple, and are adapted to
YOGK . particular requirements.
You can learn all about the advantages of this splendid
course it' you will send for “Snowy” Baker’s booklet,
“Health and Strength from Self-Culture.” It will be
bound to interest you. If you want better health just
write your name and address across this advertisement
and send it with three stamps to us. We will forward
the book.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
“ The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,’*
152 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
o sl £ c k
§
$
as
133
ANQ
*V/IFN PA<-
Footwear is Expensive.
Make your shoes wear longer by using thi»
high-grade preservative dressing.
BoSToCk'S
SHOE POLISH.
Puts life in the leather—and a sheen on your
shoes.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown,
Nigger Brown. Price 6d. per tin.
ds
BROOKS
890.
A luxurious saddle
for long distances.
It has loop coil front
spring, standard
wire rear spring the
patent six wire
bracket, and a per-
fectly shaped seat
Have It fitted in
for your hext long ride.
YOU will forget all about road
SUffafces arid enjoy to the full
yotif surfdUndingS: Yoli need 66rfi-
fort first for real pleasure onacycling
tour. You get it with a luxurious
BROOKS
SADDLE
Read about it in the Brooks Book■
A free copy awaits you.
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
Criterion Work*. Birmingham, England.
Agents in Australia: —
SCOTT & HOLLADAY, Ltd.,
31a Pitt Street, Sydney, ,
is
SS73
>.v»2>;r»t'CTPV?
• * •'- •:'*»' WiW\/Siv
111 l
SKF
SKF SPLIT Belt PULLEY
Means Money
Saved on
Your Power
Transmission.
The S K F Split Pulley is, in a few words,
the solving of the problem of maximum
efficiency from line-shafting.
The S K F Split Pulley combines Light-
ness, Great Strength, Interchangeability of
Rims and Bushes—all of which mean
Efficiency and Economy.
No Rivets. Ball-bearing Bushings for
Loose Pulley Work.
SK F Ball Bearings for Hangers and
Plummer Blocks also mean greater trans-
mission efficiency. Write for particulars.
GARDNER, WAERN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Head Office: 384 City Road, South Melbourne.
Showroom: 369 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Qvnvrv ook ™ ® istri buting Centres also at:
RRTSR^F^«S 1 A r |fi Ce / tr t^. t ' * ADELAIDE: 122 Currie Street.
S ,™? ART: Charles Da ' is '
PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone, 37 King Street.
5.P.4
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except o/ a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluu
tanly submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
L.S.G.: An extract: “But if I felt that
by never touching booze again I could take alcohol
out of the hands of the weaklings, and thereby, in
course of time, help to empty the gaols, brothels,
hospitals and lunatic asylums, I would,” etc., etc.
This assumes what has never been proved anywhere
— i.e., that Prohibition prohibits, and so achieves
the above benefits. At present M.L. is no more
moral than Australia, nor are the inhabitants of
the U.S. any less criminal than those of the U.K.
For the rest, your airy dismissal of the 500-and-odd
millions of dollars which, according- to H. L.
Mencken, Uncle Sam is sacrificing annually in the
attempt to enforce Prohibition, as a trifle, fails to
impress I.A. (jun.) : Admirable sentiments, but
the style is too heavy... .M.A.lv.: Yes; send along
the b00k.... Bernice: Plenty of poetic feeling, but
it is more suited to a chusch publication... .G.K.G.:
Stand by an employee in trouble by all means,
but don’t expect us to print an ex parte statement
which should have been made, if provable, at the
man’s trial, or at that of his friend. Our business
is to go on the evidence given on oath, and accepted as
true, in court.... Hilda B.: The hero of the tale is
an idiot... .S.S.L.: A possible idea, but crudely
worked 0ut.... Will G.: Why hang a literary essay
on a sectarian point ?.... M.8.M.: Not for u 5....
C.A.D.S.: English papers which buy that sort
of thing with eagerness deserve all the scorn
they are sure to get W.Y.: “Love, Law
and Fight” looks like a first attempt at
writing a tenth-rate n0ve1.... N.A.E.: Nice enough
verse, but not our sort.., .H.A.W.: No use„..M.B.
(St. Kilda) : Same old melancholy tale in worse
verse than usual.... Strath: The “Rise, women, rise,”
business is mere noisy commonplace. The other is
a religious argument in bad verse.... A.H.P.:
Nothing in them.... The Bloke: A very lame and
empty parody... .M.8.P.: The picture is not bad,
but there is not enough in it. ... Yardley: There’s a
yarn in “Servants,” which you didn’t tell; but the
“Pig” is a futile beast. .. .J.K.C.: No use.... Eric
B.: Gets, somewhere near for the first half....
Vashti: Each mournful wail is just an imitation of
a lot of other mournful wails. These things are done
to a recipe... .J. 8.0.: Doesn’t make a yarn as you
tell it....Eko: What’s the use of building up a
series of fanciful horrors of that kind without mean-
ing or purpose?... .W.J.T.: Machine-made “Desire.”
. ...W.M.8.: “The Magic Hour” must go back....
Charles K.: Can’t find a smile in it.... Del: True
enough; but not worth stating in that way....
Walnut: Verse too rugged... .A. P.C.: You say you
have seen similar -contributions in this paper. With-
out hesitation we give you the lie direct. .. .The
Novice: Very lame stuff... .Allan A.: Bad in work-
manship and commonplace in thought Z.Y.W.:
The “elderly stranger” is rather a dull old party. . . ,
Tom Ass: The pathetic ballad fails to move us. So
many sad young girls have been drowned in verse
that most of the “Still Lagoons” must be fu11,,.,
A.H.G.: The verse is very bad. . . .R.R.8.: The sonnet
is poor in thought and manner. . ~ Cygnet ; A yarn
told in that fashion would require to be remarkably
good to be even endured. .. .Flicker: Goes rather
heavily... .E.T.W,: Far too much has been written
on the subject.., .Norman R.: Not our style
H.E.8.: Heavy verse R.C.P.: Too crude and
lumpy R.D.C.: The making of a yarn, but it
isn't made.... J.A.N.: You ask us to send it back
“corrected” so that you may learn something. That
is beyond our power. Purify it with tire, read some
decent verse and try again A.S. (Balmain): “The
Ship” must go home. . . .Kat.: One junk, slice or slab
of “Lifting”:—
Could this bad world of ours,
By lluieules. With a clean hold,
Be wrestled back. Back to sanity,
If from a earthly tomb, He arose.
Would Ciserone. Waste precious hours.
It' he graced this Earth. For the deepth of pity,
He holds for our civialsation. That’s to bold,
Showing sunshine roads to us. Were we could repose
If Goethe (lid from Weimar creep.
Would we heed, lies piteous weep,
And toller with heads bowed, in humiliation,
With contrite hearts, in sorrow, and in shame.
Would poor Dante. Set our souls aflame.
In singing to a higher civilastion,
Us. Poor dwellers of a gloomy Earth,
Would we rise, with thoughts, to our true worth.
. ...G.C.P.: Doesn’t strike u 5.... Cecily W.: Try
again in a few years Dinkum D.: Horrible verse.
L.P.J.: The idea doesn’t amount to much and
the stuff is very lumpy... .Triplea: Mere wade of
words.... J.J.H.: That sort of thing is no use here,
M.M.S.: Don’t care for it... .E.C.S.: Far too
rugged Alice N.: Doesn’t work... . A.11.H.: Gets
nowher; M.E.J.: Horrible yarn horribly written
on both sides of the paper Black Watch i Not at
all badly done, but without much interest or grip.
That is true of all close imitations of Shakspeare's
sonnets Suffenus: The shape of the stanza spoils
“Illusions”... .F.G.W.: Not enough interest in
“Parua 8ay”.... D..YL.S.: It tails off to a stodgy
finish.. ..J.C.8.: One has a chance.... W.S.T.: The
themes are so slight that they needed smarter verse
to carry them. .. . D.8.P.: “The Outcast” wanders
heavily D.F. (Devonport) : That questioning
method is very irritating. ~ .Bellerhe: The “Rhyme
of Nothing” has movement:—
When down upon your uppers—-
With nothing in your purse.
There’s nothing more distressing
Than Dame Misfortune’s curse.
The busy world cares nothing—-
For a pauper in a throng;
If drifting on he’s journey—
Or hanging to a prong.
Here and there among us it
Travels with the years.
Creating cruel privations—•
Crime, misery and tears.
Nothing charms the miser—
• Save the hoarding of lie’s goM.
To,leave it all behind him
W’hen he’s body’s stiff and cold.
.... McTatiara: Archie never saw such a bird in his
sober moments Kayo Kay: Utterly impossible fo
acknowledge the thousands of pars, that are le-
ceived weekly J.P.K.: Variation of old joke
Joker: Far too long for interest Scio: Have
another shot... . 0.5.: “Abandoned Selections” is too
repetitive:—
The land where they had settled was poor; Nature
yielded her fruits but very reluctantly. With what
steady perseverance those men and women worked
aye, women, too. Fences were erected, and the
poor, unyielding soil was tilled. The returns were
poor.
A.G.P.: Beaudesert is in Queensland.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPON DENTS.
L.D.G.: A long way below publication standard
C.M .. A nightmare... .J.C.: Old gag and poor draw-
ing... .A.S.P.: Misses,. . .W.8.E,: Awful A.C.M.:
Nothing there. . . .C.A.P. Ancient wheeze badly illus-
trated S.H.: All off the target.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First*. Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands.
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great, ('ities.
NEXT SAILING, AUGUST 17.
VENTURA.
10,0(10 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Venther and other circumstances permitting l
S.S % PUI.GANBAIt SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.ni.
S.S. BURRINGBAR SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
i p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars' apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY
HUMANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
Banking, Public' Companies. Sc.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
incorporated under tiie Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 360,000 0 0
interminable Inscribed Deposit Stuck 3.091.669 4 5
Directors— James Milne, Esq,, Chairman ; lion. G. W.
Gray; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq. ■
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland'.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £i 4go 000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1921 . . £12’813’129
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman ; Herbert R
Lysaght, 0.8. E .; George J. Sly, LL.D. • Frank
N. Yakwood, F.C.P.A. ; George F. Todman •
Ddncan Carson. ’
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kin*
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places it
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: It. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. DonDs Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world
Every description of Banking Business Transacted
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125^000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,’000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain anti Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual E ' ta >“» h "°
87 H pitt Sydney PfOVidShtSocicty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,551,188
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,629,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £47,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shlppta*. eta.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
'IHE LA lIGEST NEWEST FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BLIWKKN ALSI KALI A AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direel European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, 24th AUGUST, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 21st SEPTEMBER.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any pnrt of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States cun be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niugara Fails, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 10th AUGUST, 11 a.m.
MAUNGANUI, 7th SEPTEMBER.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above servl es appiy-
LNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET'! MELBOURNE.
ISLAND CRUISES
to Papua, New Britain and New
Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island and Norfolk Island.
Trips of 3 to weeks.
Burns-Philp Line to
Java and Singapore.
Regular monthly sailings from Sydney
in splendidly equipped steamers calling
at Queensland Ports, Thursday Island,
Darwin and Java Ports en route to
Singapore.
Round Eastern and
Round the World Tours.
Photo by
Merl La Voy.
Special facilities are offered to passen-
gers taking Round Tours under our
auspices; also direct bookings made to
England, America, Cnina, Japan, India, etc.
For all Bookings and Information apply to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
. Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
I Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from f 110 to England, and from £O4 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4S to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wilis and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18.500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12.500 tons
SUEYIC 12.500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
, , PEESIC c •• • 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa,
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES . 15,000 tons
TMEMISTOCEES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
*SOPHOCEES 12,500 tons
* DIOGENES 12,500 tons
*Ne\v Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight. Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
TaUI-up Capital
Iteserve Fund
lieserre Liability
Established 1817.
Directors:
- £5,000.000
3,000,000
5,000,000
£13,000,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.'
Robert, L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
_ General Mananer: Oscar Lines.
Hea <' Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street Vr
3GO Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. o oon.
Cable remittances made, to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
f
3M’ ( Buotralta
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
In the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 8019 Posf Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the PacTfic.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO. ; -a-
-3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor.
Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
- Governor.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN.
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Trailshipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Howard Smith
Ltd. & Reduced,
350 George St.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
Howard Smith,
Ltd. & Reduced,
350 George St.
*Brisbane, Mackay (passengers only), Townsville
and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma (passengers only), Mackay,
Bowen and Townsville.
Huddart ParkerLlM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney ami Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,ZAMBOANGA,MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISIIA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOK
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Etd.,
and Eitzroy Estates, Ltd.
niaekhealtli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
A
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of t Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High ITolborn, London. W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Missing Friends.
N
EAL. —William Francis Neal, who
came from England to Sydney some
years ago, or anyone knowing
abouts, please communicate with
Brother Alexander inquires.
his where-
this office.
J
AMES SINNOTT.—SISTER KATE
anxious to hear. Write to TOM
EDS ALL, 12 Tennyson Street, Moonee
Ponds. Victoria.
E 1
STATE OF JOHN HOLMES' CAMF-
I BELL, late of Break Neck Station,
Ica, near Masterton, New Zealand, farmer,
deceased.
Any person who lias in his possession a
Will executed by the abovenamed deceased,
or who can furnish evidence as to the exist-
ence of such a Will, or that the deceased
executed a Will at any time, is requested to
communicate with the undersigned as soon
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.


rtETKO
Perfection Marine Engines
tm
r
in KK,
8-h.p. UNIT PLANT.
Special for the Speed. Boat.
The “Caille” 8-h.p. Unit Plant is fitted with
reverse gear on the same bed. Perfect align-
ment is guaranteed. Ideal for private launches
and small speed boats. Its speed record up to
date is 2 1 Jr m.p.h. driving a 20ft. by 4ft. 6in.
hand V-bottom boat. We have stocks. Call
or write now for Catalogues and Prices of
Caille “PERFECTION” Engines, 1-, 2- and 4-
cylinder, for light or heavy duty; also Out-
board and “Bantam” (Inboard) Motors.
Sole Agents for Australasia and Pacific Islands:
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
lESSOPS
V # STEEI
Forgings can be
supplied in the
Rough, Rough
Turned, or finish
machined to fine
limits ready for
assembly, for
Railway, Mining,
or any other
purposes.
For Forgings that Must
Stand Exceptional Wear
Steels of proved wear-resisting qualities
are the best in the long run—and that’s
just the kind of steels that Jessop’s have
been making for the past 15 0 years.
Jessop’s Steels are full of “body,’’ are
consistently good throughout, and are
perfectly graded for a specific purpose.
For Forgings that must be really sound
and reliable—for any purpose —there are
no finer steels obtainable than Jessop’s.
Let Jessop’s supply YOU.
MAILLER g QUEREAU,
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
406 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
Agents fo
WM. JESSOP & SONS, LTD.,
England.
Sheffield.
St
"MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
TENNIS
REQUISITES.
-*1
RACKETS.
Special School Match
C. 8.8. Special Practice
Haymarket
Haymarket Special
Britannic
Oceanic
Titanic
Cyclonic
Spalding’s Greenwood
Spalding’s Tournament
Spalding’s Continental
Ayre’s Sandown 30/-; Handicap
8/6
17/6
30/-
40/-
45/-
55/-
65/-
80/-
25/-
49/6
55 /-
37/6
Ayre’s A 1 40/-; Champion 50/- f
Ayre's Matador 55/-: S.N.D 87/0
Bnssey’s Conqueror 30/-; Handicap 32/0
Bussey’s A 1 35/-; Invincible 50/-
Slazenger’s La Belle 27/6: Player 30/-
Slazenger’s Renshaw 45/-; Demon 55/-
„ Whitehouse OS/-; Classic 80/-
Slazcnger’s Imperial 77/6; Stadium 90/-
Slazenger’s KjG.M. 85/-» I-Z. 95/-
Prosser’s Improved Phenomenon.... 95/-
Bavis Riseley Hexagon 87/O
H. C. Bee’s Seneca 55/-; Spartan 70/*
H. C. Bee’s Church 90/- Monogram 105/-
RACKET REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
TENNIS BALLS.
Dunlop Rocrnlation Grey
Dunlop’s Champion, 1922
Each. Dos.
1/4 15/-
2/7 80/-
Each. Uoz.
Ayre’s Court 2/2 25/-
Ayre’s Champion, 1922 2/9 32/-
SEAZENGER’S Championship, .1922 (airtight tins)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of earrin^e.)
32/
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-. 50/-, 00/-. 70/-
Aune (square) Posts, pair 105/-
Tennis Court Markers 37/0
Tennis Tapes —ii/O
Cut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle
1/-
F.aeh.
Racket Covers .... 2/6, 5/6, 7/«
Tennis Ratchet 7/0
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books J/O
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6. 6/6
Racket Gut. 21ft. coils, fl/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-
ILLUSTRATED TENNIS PRICE LIST FREE ON REQUEST.
BOXING
GLOVES
/
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
ami are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
MEN’S GEO YES.
fret of 4.
real leather, special value 12/C, 13/<
C. 8.8., Fighting, tan napa. laced palms, 6 or 8 m 10/C, 18/e, 21/-, 23/-
V ERFECTION FIGHTING. napa, leather lined, padded wrist-hand, 6. 0 r 8 oz., 25/-, 30/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTXG, napa, leather lined, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz.. 35/-, 40/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively used by
Raker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by Mr.
Keg. L. (“Snowy") Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: X.S.W., ]/-; other States, . 1/8.)
BOYS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed
„ ' Leather ~ „ laced palms
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Postage 3d.)
BONING BOOTS, English Leather, extra light, weight Sjoz. (Postage did.),
B-
/ 9/C, 12/9
c/c, 7/e each.
15/6, 17/6 pair.
PUNCHING BALLS.
ARMY
THE EXPERT X
THE
PORTABLE
ARMY, Swinging Ball, reg., for fast work, 10/6, 13/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/- 30/- 35/-
ARMY, ext’-i light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed ’durable
and perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown moeha kid. The finest made .... 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, elastic cord for floor and rope for ceiling. . 12/6. 15/C
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light 21/- 25/-' 30 7-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings. ’
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.) 30/-, 35/-, 407-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and bladder
complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) 105/-
All above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
SUNDRIES.
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/0, 5/6 each
Double-action Swivels, 6/- each. Ball-bearing Swivels 10/6 each
Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pair. Punching Platforms, 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
SPORTING REPAIRS a SPECIALTY
. Tffiefz Simmons
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; Edward St., BRISBANE.


e \CCENT(M£r^
TRADE
MARK
DISCOVERY
Fo
(OUGHS
Colds
Prepared By
131-135 CLARENCE STREET
131-135 CLARENCE STREE
BYDNEY, N.S.W.
Wind and Rain Bring
Coughs and Colds.
How to Rid Yourself of a
Bad Cold in One Night.
New Discovery Users the world over
will be glad to hear that the Sheldon
Drug- Co., Ltd., has provided for its
patrons a new and pure Aspirin called
SHELPIRIN, to be used in conjunction
with their famous favorite, Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs
and Colds.
To utterly break up a cold and quite
get the best of it in one night is their
object, and, with Shelpirin to aid the
action of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery,
this Is now possible. One or two Shelpirin Tablets taken before
bedtime, a double dose of New Discovery, and the fever subsides.
The throat loses all tenderness, and the bodily symptoms dis-
appear.
In the morning continue the New Discovery in teaspoonful doses
to prevent a recurrence, and to soothe the membranes to their
L normal state of comfort.
For headache or nervousness use Shelpirin without New
Discovery; for a child’s cough omit the Shelpirin, and
continue the use of New Discovery until «iuite relieved.
Shelpirin and New’ Discovery constitute the modern
and efficient method to quickly rid you of your cold.
DB SHELDON S
NEW DISCOVERY
for Couahs & Colds.
Some of the
Masterpieces
from the famous
Red Boxes.
HILLIER’S
CHOCOLATES
Passion-fruit Chocolate Creams
Reception Chocolate Creams
Creme de Menthe Chocolates
Coffee Cream Chocolates
Walnut Maple Chocolates
Bitter-s we e t Chocolates
Centennial Chocolates
Chocolate Nougat
Chocolate Raisins
Every piece a Masterpiece
of the Confectionary Art.
Mailed to you the day they are made
Post Free to any address in Australia.
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 20/- and 30/-
162-166 Pitt Street , Sydney,
and Cr. George & King Streets'.
The Telegraph Pole.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SAW you in the dusty city square;
I put my hand upon your painted side;
You quivered in a sudden mountain air
And I was back to where your kin abide.
The brown ferns sway, . ..
And your long, rustling fingers of soft
• green .
Plash in the light and give the light away,
Perfumed and tinted to small things I’ve
seen ,
That seldom touch pure day.
For you are joyous, beautiful, unbowed ;
A thousand violets cluster at your feet;
The lark has lent her music to a cloud
So she might make your coronet fittingly
sweet.
And you, 1 swear,
Were never dragged across these splendid
hills,
Nor heard the lash thud on a sullen steer;
The low, amazing light that slowly fills
These groves saw not your bier.
Tenderly moves the dusk along the ways.
There’s water falling through a phantom
light,
A pungent smell of greenwood in a blaze
Whose frantic flame stabs at the coming'
night.
Unfold the packs!
io-morrow comes rolling in behind the
moon.
The rabbits are out, the ’possums hunch
their backs;
No songs to-night. We must be breaking
soon
Along the morning tracks.
The forest silences are gathering.
Mute is the thrush, the cricket in the
grass.
A brown leaf falls, flutters a frightened wing.
Into the gloom the folded ranges pass.
Sleep, and all’s well!
Amid the ferns, maybe, there moved a
ghost,
A gleaming axe, a portent; who can tell?
You are amongst the creatures God loves
most —
I know you never fell.
MAORILANI).
FURNLEY MAURICE.
The Accursed Thing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘'VTORRID stopped picking for a moment
and slapped his knee conclusively.
" ‘’lt’s the damn dam!” he said.
Bobbie Norrid had relied upon the bit of
fossicking in Tammil’s old claim at Redpepper
being a nice dry job that would last him
perhaps right through the present rainy
spell, and here was the pipeclay floor show-
ing little pools, and the wall before him
dripping water!
Bobbie had been compelled to build a small
platform of slabs and cover it with a folded
sack to have a moderately dry spot to squat
on as he worked at the low roof, chipping
down an extra four or five inches of wash-
dirt left by the original diggers. The latter
had taken only the lowermost strata of
gravel, driving in the pipeclay below and
then knocking down about a span’s thick-
ness of the auriferous dirt. What they had
taken was, of course, the richest of the stuff,
gold invariably settling to the bottom of
the alluvial, but Bobbie Norrid had discov-
ered that there was sufficient gold left to
justify a fossicker in scraping off a few
inches more from the roof and in putting in
new “soldiers,” while knocking out the old
timber in order to cut away the small
columns of gold-bearing wash above them.
A “soldiei - ” is one straight log, in this case
about 4ft. high, with a short, stout slab
wedged across the top as a cap to keep the
roof up. Norrid substituted a new one for
safety, and before removing the original
leg, being a very cautious worker in old
ground, allowed no dangerous margin.
“She’s as safe as a church,” he had
assured the wife, “s’long as I keep her tim-
bered, ’n’ Bob Norrid ain’t sich a Johnnie-
come-lately as to go monkeyin’ in stale
workin’s without plenty iv props. Plenty
iv props, that’s my motter. Plenty iv props,
lad, ’n’ there’s no ’arm in the world’ll come
to a man nowhere.”
Norrid was working in a space of about
10ft. by Bft., having a height of 4ft. The
walls and floor were nice, soft pipeclay,
easily worked and very clean; the roof was
of rather tough gravel, matted with cement
in places. On the miner’s left hand as .he
knelt at work was the small ‘shaft; behind
him, stowed compactly and tight to the roof,
the broken reef in that part of the workings
he had already been over. Stuck in a
spiked holder driven into a “soldier” on his
right, the steady candle burned dully with
a yellow radiance.
The shaft -was only, about 40ft. deep, and
Bob Norrid was working a lone hand, stow-
ing the wash in a pile in one corner nearest
the shaft. When he had mined out all the
dirt he thought the claim would yield, the
missus would come along and haul it with
the windlass while he filled the buckets
below. Sarah would give a hand, too, with
the puddling and cradling. A rare, good,
serviceable old mate was Bobbie’s missus.
Although it had been raining hard for
seven days and as many nights, Bob found
the wetness of the old workings, inexplic-
able. He had been down on previous occa-
sions, and had found the little mine as dry
as tinder. Surface rains won’t penetrate
40ft. of terra firma , yet all of a sudden here
was the claim leaking like a sieve, with a
lively prospect of becoming water-logged if
the inflow continued to increase. The solu-
tion came in a flash. “That damn dam!”
Bob had been employed w T ith several others
during the last month or two in making a
big, deep dam for Benbow on a spot within
30 yards of the hole in which he was now
working. That dam at the present moment
was running a banker, and held a tremen-
dous weight of water. This was the source of
the seepage. Bob breathed a sigh of relief.
“No danger from that quarter.” said he,
jabbing his pipe-stem in the direction of the
dam. “Jist a little moisture percolatin’
through a bit iv drift.”
Norrid resumed his work, picking down
the wash. Presently he discarded the pick,
stuck his pipe, stem first, in above a con-
venient cap-piece, and took up the shovel.
He threw one shovelful of gravel towards
the shaft, filled the shovel again and turned
in the action of throwing. That shovel of
dirt was never thrown. In turning the
digger had noticed, half-instinetively, some-
thing unusual. He paused, dropping the
shovel-blade to the floor, staring perplex-
edly. What was wrong? There was dark-
ness in the shaft. The patch of daylight
falling in the shaft was gone. It was as if
someone aloft had covered the mouth of
the hole.
“ ’Elio, on top there!” cried Norrid.
“What you up to?” The reverberation of
his voice was strange to him. ,
Bob went on his knees to the shaft and
looked up. The little patch of rain-washed
sky that should have been visible was
obscured. Above was absolute blackness.
“Hi, on top there! What’s the game?”
Again the peculiar effect of.the voice re-
turning from a wall. Bob seized the candle
and turned to the shaft again. Holding the
light well above him he peered upward. A
cry of dismay broke from his lips. Terror
took him by the heart. Something huge,
black, hideous, loomed in the shaft. lie
seemed to see in* its sleek, shining mass a
vast, flat, fat face. The candle lent it glit-
tering eyes. As he looked a great, thick,
chimpanzee-like hand reached down as if
to clutch him. With a cry, almost a scream,
Norrid fell back, tripped over his shovel and
knocked his head against a log. His candle
was extinguished. He lay for a moment in
utter darkness, stunned, struggling with con-
sciousness. The truth came back to him
after he knew not how long, and he cried
aloud again, and went sprawling about in
the working seeking his matches, horrified
at the thought of the grim terror advancing
upon him. He felt something like a heavy
hand upon his foot, and a shudder of horror
went through him. He tugged at his foot
but the grip held. Wild with fe,ar he pulled
again and his foot came out, leaving his
boot in the clutch of the cursed thing.
Bob Norrid found his coat and the
matches. He struck a light and looked back.
The thing filled space about the shaft as
with the convolutions of a writhing mon-
strous snake, and was advancing towards
him, surging slowly. He lit his candle
and retreated the length of the exca-
vation, whimpering like a child in his
horror of the oncoming force, which he
realised as a living, sentient, passionless
brute-thing bent upon his destruction. A
laD of it encroached with a flopping motion,
laying a shapeless hand upon the shovel,
and Norrid sprawled to rescue what was
his hope of salvation. He sought to wrest
the shovel away. It would not come. He
put all his strength into the tug, and slowly,
reluctantly, the great, flat, black hand
yielded. Norrid threw the shovel and the
pick to the far wall behind him, and forced
himself to look more closely, more ration-
ally, at his enemy.
The oozy mass had now extended well
into the excavation. Norrid had once seen
a great hippopotamus issuing from a tank.
This thing, in its blackness and sleekness
and formlessness, reminded him of the animal,
There was the same forward heave, the same
vastness, the same suggestion of irresistible
force. From the centre of the mass bil-
lowed two bubble-like cheeks. Two high
lights in the greasy surface were pig-like eyes
blinking at him. Bob turned from it, sick
with a poignant sense of hopelessness. What
might a man do against a fate like this? With
a balloon-like movement the thing moved
towards him.
Cold, trembling, with round staring eyes,
and thin hair that clung in wet wisps to his
scalp and crawled, worm-like, to his cheeks
and ears, Bob Norrid took refuge in the
corner that had been the terminus of the
small drive where he was furthest from the
foe. He perceived that quite a third of
the space was now filled by the fearful mass,
and he comprehended it was moving for him,
seeking only his destruction, with its smooth,
slow but indomitable surge.
Suddenly the old miner cried out for a
third time, and, jabbing his spiked candle
into the wall, he seized the pick and began
digging. He dug with furious energy, not
looking back,.but conscious all the time of
the advancing evil, conscious of the shortness
of the time allowed him. The air com-
pressed into the opening would last him
only a little time, but an almost frantic hope
burned in his heart. He knew that the
shaft of the Pioneer, a deserted deep mine,
was within a few feet of where he worked.
Perhaps it was nearer than he imagined. At
any rate he must try. He must work as
never man worked before, and with God’s
help he might win through. Yes, with
God’s help.
Norrid prayed. He only knew a prayer
of his childhood. “Gentle Jesus, meek and
mild, look upon a little child.” He re-
peated it aloud, and there was more fervor
in his soft words than in the mad clamor of
revivalists.- . “Pity my simplicity, suffer me
to come to Thee.” Bob’s pick flew in his
hands, working with the velocity of a steam
drill. He shovelled the broken reef behind
him. His legs twitched under him. He
fancied he felt the cold touch of the
ogre upon his ankle, and dug on, goug-
ing his way through the soft, white reef.
The air had grown terribly oppressive, per-
spiration dripped from him, hut he heeded
neither heat nor weariness—he dug for his life.
Now Bob trusted himself to take another
look at the loathsome fate threatening to
overwhelm him, and he cried like an animal,
turning again to his task. The anaconda-
like shape of the thing was accented, it
rolled in vast convolutions, any one of
which might engulf a man. What a death!
What a loathsome end to a man, to be seized
in those slimy toils, and submerged in the
fearful mass, sucked up, lost forever to light
and breathing! Norrid worked. He had
tunnelled in about two feet. He fancied
he detected a hollow, drumming sound from
the blows of his pick, and hope swelled in
his soul.
But it was slow work. Fortunately the
thing behind him was slow, too. but confi-
dent and resistless, torturing him with a
seeming certitude.
“God bless father and mother, and make
Bob a good boy.” It was his mother’s
appendix to the familiar childish prayer, and
it came from Norrid’s lips now in perfect
faith. “For Jesus’ sake, ahmen!”
Something fell upon his bootless foot,
something cold and clammy. He dragged
his toes from the heaviness, and yet again
he cried aloud, feeling his enemy so near.
(Continued on next page.)


How PEPS Banish
c
The Medicine You Breathe into Your Lungs
HE SAFE, MODERN METHOD of treating winter coughs, chest
1 colds, bronchitis and other bronchial troubles is to take Peps,
J ~ the medicine which is most speedily effective because you breathe
it in straight to the weak spot.
When you strip off its silver jacket and dissolve a Peps tablet in the
mouth, it gives off soothing and healing vapors, which mingle with the
breath, and are instantly carried through the throat, air passages and bronchial tubes, right into
the chest and lungs. These Peps medicines are speedily effective. They soothe and strengthen
the tender lining membrane, they stop soreness or inflammation, clear the air-tubes, make
breathing easy, and at the same time get rid of dangerous germ trouble. How different this
Peps breathable treatment to the discarded and out-of-date practice of swallowing druggy syrups
and mixtures into the stomach!
Strong-lunged, clear-voiced and hearty are the children whose mothers give them Peps. There’s
nothing so comforting and strengthening to old folks suffering from that distressing night-cough
or chronic bronchial troubles.
Peps are free from all harmful drugs, and workers in a hundred industries find them indispensable
for counteracting atmospheric conditions. Peps protect your throat, chest and lungs, and keep
disease away.
The
Id's
W.
ll*
g?
LUNGS
SOLIDS^..
theTungs
t\QU' oS
#/>S
c?
Si
r/iE
STO
TO
XM
io£
Let PEPS Strengthen Ypur
Child’s Throat & Chest.
There is nothing like Peps for
strengthening the little ones’ chests
and protecting their delicate throats
from germ attacks. Quite apart from
their exceptional medicinal qualities
Peps are favorites of children. They
are nice to suck, and they are free from
harmful drugs. On the slightest sign
of a cold or cough give your child a
: Peps or two, and see how quickly the
trouble disappears.
| Take Peps at the first sign of a cold
\or chiVl. Don't risk serious develop-
ments. 1/6 and 3/-, of all chemists
1 and stores, or post free from C. E.
iFulford ( Aus .), Ltd., Sydney.
With' passionate force he drove his pick.
It went deep in, and struck on wood. This
time Bob’s cry was one of exultation. He
wrenched the pick free, and a rush of air
outward extinguished his candle. The brute
thing surged forward, and clasped a foot.
Bob dug wildly. He beat down the barrier
before him. The dirt fell behind the timbers
of the Pioneer shaft. Light from the shaft
came in to him. He rapidly enlarged the
hole, and found himself confronted by a wall
of stout, sawn slabs two inches thick, the
timbers lining the Pioneer shaft. He beat
upon them. They resisted his blows with
the solidity of rock. Despair laid its icy
talons about his heart. The wretched man
screamed again and again, his mouth to the
inch-wide crack between slabs.
“Help! Help! Oh, for the love of God,
help! Christ have mercy! Jesus have
mercy on me!”
He stopped, hearing other voices. No, it
was but the reverberation of his own cry,
stirring in the deep shaft. Then:
“He’s here. He’s here. We’ve got him!”
“Help !” cried Norrid, beating on the slabs.
“All right, Bob. All right, ole man. Arf
a minute.”
A slab fell away before a prising bar,
and tumbled clamorously into the shaft. Bob
dragged himself forward, his head protruded
where stood Tim Walsh and Fod Elliott on
a staging of rails wedged aci’oss the centre
of the ladder shaft.
“Help!” wailed Norrid. “It’s got me, Tim.
O, God, it’s got me!”
The men seized him, and endeavored to
drag him from the small drive he had made.
They could not.
“It’s all up with me. The thing's got
me,” said Bob, livid with terror. “I knew
it ’ud get me.”
“Keep yer pecker up, old lad,” said Walsh.
“It’ll be all right, it’ll be ail right for cer-
tain. Don't go and give up now when all
the luck’s with you.”
The two men hauled at Bob, and slowly he
emerged, but the accursed thing did not relax
its remorseless grip of him. It was coming
too. It had him about the two feet to the
ankles only, but held with implacable
tenacity. Elliott chopped at the stuff as it
emerged, sinking his axe into its folds as
into black flesh, and literally hewed the
prisoner free. Bob stood back in the shaft,
supported by his friends, and a terrible
nausea was upon him. His enemy, thwarted,
surged blackly through the opening, as if
reaching for and seeking its prey, then
dropped into the shaft of the Pioneer, and a
long limb fell into the depth, sinking lower,
lower, broke, and recoiled, and sank again.
They got Bob to the surface, and he lay
under the open sky in the sweet rain, in the
arms of his stout old wife, who soothed him
as if he had been a babe, while Walsh excit-
edly explained.
■ the missus come runnin’ to me
with her tale of the shaft bein’ blocked the
way it was, I knew what was wrong. I
remembered working this ground afore. I
remembered how me and Spicer lost a shaft
here about 50 yards further up the gully, all
through that layer of black pug. If it gets
wet, it swells and drifts. The new deep dam
here must have served to give the pug a
thorough soakin’, and it began to ooze. It
’ud smash two-inch slabs like wooden
matches, and it sticks like glue. There’s
probably thousands of tons of it behind,
swellin’ and pushin’. I knew 7 this claim. I
knew what you’d do if you wasn’t caught in
the drift, and got Fod to heip, tearm' out
the slabs from tiie Pioneer. Gawd, lad, but
the luck’s bin with you !”
Bobbie Norrid had not heard a word. He
was shaking against his wife’s breast, his
arms were tight about her neck. He was
chattering piteously :—■
“Take me away. For God’s sake, take me
away—a thousand miles away !”
EDWARD DYSON.
The Lobster.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE trouble started when the lobster
was found in Miss Banstock’s bed-
room.
She accused Wilfrid Simpkins of having
put it there, but he denied it and offered to
let her look at his tongue by way of proof.
“Me tongue is always bad after a drunk-
night,” he explained, “and if I wasn’t drunk
how could I have put it there?”
It was a verv stiff company that sat down
at the breakfast-table, for the insulted spin-
ster had spread the tale of the outrage with
all the vigor of one who has substituted the
satisfaction of malice for the normal pro-
cesses of sex. Mr. Simpkins had to ask her
three times to pass the sugar; she sniffed
contemptuously at his demand.
“Yes, I suppose you do want it.”
“Damn it, what has sugar got to do with
it?” he inquired.
“I am sure I don’t know,” crushingly re-
torted Miss Banstock with her usual over-
whelming disregard of logic. A gloomy silence
fell over the breakfasters, broken only by
the defiant mastication of Mr. Simpkins, who
seemed to express his pariah condition by
an additional noisiness in the consumption
of his food.
The boarding-establishment of Mrs. Alcott
had had for the last few wrecks its usually
stagnant and cabbage-scented atmosphere
troubled by the conflict of these two wills.
The affair had begun on the day Miss Ban-
stock arrived. Wilfrid Simpkins had slipped
in descending the stairs, and barged into a
man with a portmanteau, who dropped it and
stepped back heavily on Miss Banstock’s
large but tender feet. She had insisted that
Simpkins was drunk, and ever since that
day had devoted herself to discovering traces
of the degrading habit of alcohol in his
behavior. If he was Jpearty, she suspected
him of being in the midst of a bbut; if he
was quiet, of sobering up.
“One of those sodden drinkers, that’s what
be is.” she would say. “Don’t show it much
but he’s at it all the time. The sort that
keeps a bottle of whisky under his pillow.”
Once the infuriated Simpkins demanded
that she should accompany him upstairs to
put this last question to the test.
“There he is,” she cried to the rest of the
boarding-house, who were scattered about the
verandah at the time. “There he is, trying
now to decoy an honest woman who might
have been married three times but for par-
tieularity up to his bedroom Shame to
you, Mr. Simpkins! The maddened boarder
had leapt to the front gate, followed by a
peal of taunting laughter from his enemy,
Off to the pub now I suppose.”
Indeed, the male had come oft second-best
ia almost all these encounters. Before the
impenetrable prejudice as to his alcoholic
character, a prejudice immune to any argu-
ment, he could hardly ever rise to anything
more than a few weak protestations, then
gestures of rage, which ended with an impo-
tent retreat. He felt that his nerve was going,
On the morning after the lobster episode
Miss Banstock held the floor. The affair
had delivered her enemy into her hands. “I
am sure Mr. Simpkins would like some
cloves,” she said. “I notice he is always
suckmg them. They tell me it takes the
smell away. Luckily for me I never go near
enough to lnm to And out” She stopped
as Simpkins, emitting a muffled curse, pushed
l> a pkh|s chair and bolted.
Well, anyway,’ she asked generally of the
table, “if he didn’t put the lobster into my
room, who did i” There was no reply, and
she went on: Hevings, what a fright I
might have got if 1 had waked up to see him
there—perhaps nood !” Her voice dropped
to a tone half of awe and half of disappoint-
ment. 1 erhaps nood, with the lobster in his
hand and drunk as Ananias.” Then, laps-
mg into a brooding reverie over all that she
ba f • l tea get Cold and
Mr J S mnl irKf ... ,
All. Simpkins, who held the position of
foffonV- dl ri not g °
foi lunch, he was afraid He squandered
sixpence on a pie rather than face the war-
like Aims Banstock, with her host of baseless
insinuations He spent the afternoon pon-
nrpt^frin* 1 5™,, • ot and
pitpanng tiouble ioi himself by crediting
the firm with having imported a hundred
yards of lobsters and a gross of cloves. He
lelt the office at 5 o’clock feeling desperate,
He had decided either that Aliss Banstock
should move, or that he would forward his
resignation, send in his papers, leave the
establishment. He had two stiff whiskies, and
was beginning to arrive at a determination
that he should stay where he was and the
boarding-house should move when he met
Blibbs and a friend, both wearing the bleary
eyes of habitual inebriates. Blibbs lived in
the boarding-house next door; in fact, since
no room had been wasted, it was only about
ten feet distant. This is a fact of great im-
portance to our story. A face like that of
Blibbs, which had nothing in it of the stern
nose and bilious pallor of Aliss Banstock, was
thrice welcome to Simpkins. Blibbs’s red
countenance seemed to bloom with the benevo-
lence of the cherubim as he cried:
“There’s ole Simpkins, me best friend....
Comeandave a drink.” With which intro-
duction Simpkins found himself back in the
hotel between Blibbs and a morose individual
who kept a fishy but hostile eye fixed on
him while he beat on the bar counter and —
mysteriously cognisant of the approach of n
barmaid of the severe type that wears a high
collar and a cliff-like head of hair—ejacu-
lated offensively “Three beers.” From his
manner Simpkins felt telepathically that he
was expected to pay. Nor did he err herein.
After the second beer the morose man grew a
fraction less so, and leaning towards Blibbs
over the disregarded Simpkins said “Take
him along to the Club, eh?” The o’bieet of
this oblique invitation was in no mood
to refuse. He did not want particularly
to go to the Club; but he preferred am-
haven to the same roof as Miss Ban-
stock, who now, through the magnifying-
glass (or glasses) of alcohol, ° loomed
as formidable as a mad rhinoceros. He
remembered arriving at the Club where vou
paid two shillings for a bottle of beer and
washed your own glasses.. . .Then there was
a blank, after which he woke to conscious-
ness in a small, dim room lighted through
one window by the moon. Blibbs was brand-
ishing a lobster. “We won’t lose this one
anyway,” he was saying. “We’ll have no
games this time.” Then, seeing that Simp-
kins was listening, he went on : “So what
do you think he does, him there,” pointing
to the morose one, “he says, ‘I bag the claws
f° r mine,’ and I say, ‘No you don’t, who was
it paid for it?’ and he says, ‘I did.’ So I
up and chucked it at him', being taken un-
fairly like that by me own question, and the
fool ducks, and it sails right through the
window into the next place.’ ‘Now did you
hear it fall?’ I said, and he says,’‘No, but
it may have fallen into a bush.’ So we got
downstairs and fell over the fence, and no
lobster could we find. ‘You’re a rotten shot’
he says”
But Simpkins was not listening. Even
j 1? hls muddled condition light had penetrated
his brain.... And she had blamed it on to
him! A fierce desire t 0 sho 'v his contempt
for her overwhelmed him. Every fibre of
his inebriated body cried for' reprisals At
this moment, the one and only such momern
0 f his life, Simpkins saw red,' went over the
top. With a yell he snatched the lobster from
the bed and flung it at the window opposite,
He heard a thud, a shriek and a woman’s
face, her head spiked with a zareeba
of curling-pins, was thrust out. It was
Miss Banstock. “Air. Simpkins!” she
cried, recognising the swaying figure that
leered at her from the window opposite. Her
expression suggested hatred combined with
realised joy. Even in this hour of his
triumph, or glory in the epic nature of his
gesture, Simpkins felt a twinge of uneasi-
ness. Strong hands were now laid upon
him ; he was flung back; and two heads were
thrust out of the window and two voices
yelled simultaneously: “Give us back the
lobster; it’s ours!” The only reply was a
slamming-down of the window. The lobster-
less ones turned upon Simpkins, and after
what was later a vague memory of blows,
hicks and insults, he found himself in the
road. He knew he could never again face
Miss Banstock with his guilt thus irre-
fntably established. He knew himself to
he an outcast from his boarding-house—the
9 n^y boarding-house, he mused a little tear-
whole wide world for him—and
that, in a sense accordingly, he was home-
mss, a waif. But he did not really care,
i” 1 . reflection he was glad. Dam’ glad!
" 1 ‘ 1 h a < low chuckle to the stars, and with
exultation murmuring in his brain, “I hit
. r y l ™ A • That’ll teach her!” he lay down
in tae , 1 * beneath her window. And
Presently he tell into a profound sleep.
JACK LINDSAY.


m
m,
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
! 'axi visvivuxsnv ao 'os ajivaa asnoHSNixsaM am
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office— 99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N.
S. WALES
-S'
7
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder '2 %
inches; Stroke of Piston 2|4 inches;
Weigjit 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasur.e-hoa.ts, canoes,etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, j>aeked and delivered Free
on Boat or Kails, £36.
Correspondence invited. .;
D. 8 W. Chandler P,y. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
RiwraEifa tmrmk:, f 3 n iUMkia
m
-J-OdC
Just slip the connection in an ordinary electric lamp
socket, switch on the current, and in a minute this handsome
iron is gliding along, producing a beautiful glossy surface
on your starched linen, etc. Then when you come to tucks,
frills, edgings, etc., you find the “Spot-Revo” particularly
suitable, for at its point is the greatest heat.
Don’t swelter every ironing day with old-fashioned flat
irons. Get this most modern aclaptment of the most modern
ironing methods.
Every “Spot-Revo” is guaranteed for 3 years.
Obtainable electricians and ironmongers.
SOLE AGENTS:
HOME-WOOD
& O’NEILL "d:
Head Office: 172-176
William St., Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1:
Somerset Place,
Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2:
Ferrars Street,
South Melbourne.
Sydney Office:
250 Kent Street.
ill
BSS 9
in
Your Money’s Worth
in Genuine Satisfaction
THE price you may pay does not always
determine the value—inferior cartridges
are dear at any price.
2seminf*ton: “Wetproof” shotgun cartridges
are endorsed by sportsmen all over the
world because they may be depended upon
to give satisfaction in all kinds of weather.
You are certain of good results when you
know that the cartridge will do its “bit”
when your aim is true and you have pulled
the trigger.
“Wetproof” shotgun cartridges are
supplied in four trade marked brands: ARROW,
NITRO CLUB, REMINGTON and NEW CLUB.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D-3 D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
P. O. Box 686, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
dsf
f TO INSURE A >
“Good Morning”
—take Beecham’s Pills the night before. One of the
best corrective medicines for the stomach, liver and
bowels. They act promptly, surely and pleasantly;
relieve constipation, correct biliousness and improve
the digestion. Take one or two just before going to
bed, and you will awake in the morning feeling
fresh, fit and fine.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
are a family remedy, tested and proved by over
seventy years’ successful use by people in all parts of
the world. The supremacy and efficiency of
Beecham’s Pills ard due to their careful composition
from the finest medicinal herbs, without admixture of
any harmful or habit-forming drug. Taken as directed,
these pills relieve digestive disorders and promote the
"health of the bodily organs. At night, if your stomach
is upset, or you are bilious, have a dull headache, and
feel out-of-sorts—take Beecham’s Pills, and in the
morning you will find that they
Make A
mm
Differ
€
PAT*I”
|g&
WS&Bt
KCAVIi^
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, England
Sold in boxes, labelled ls-l|d and 2s-9d.
( original English prices.)
sdf
PERFORATED SHEET METAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For .Mining, Harvesting. Flour Milling, Fruit and Seed
Grading, Road Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
MOTOR BONNET VENTS.
D. RICHARDSON 8 SONS PTY. LTD.,Footscray,Vic.
dsf
: I
For a Whole Heap of
Repair Work Brazing
is Still the Best Job.
A thorough repair by brazing
guarantees a homogeneity that is
difficult to get by any process of
welding. Moreover, the risk of
No. 615. "nee 72/- damaging the metals by “burning”
is much lessened when brazing is adopted.
A Good Brazing Outfit should be in every engineering shop, because
it is instantly ready to carry out either an entire repair or assist a
welder in working up a “heat.”
From Sweden comes the best Brazing Lamps, and the following
prices show how reasonable they are:—
KEROSENE BRAZING LAMP:
1 1-3-pint capacity; flame 11 in. . . 53/6 comp.
2£-pint capacity; flame 9in. . . 72/- „
sf-pint capacity; flame 15in. . . £6 „
5!-pint capacity; flame 29in. £6 „
BENZINE (ONLY) BRAZING LAMP:
1 1-3-pint capacity, flame 6in. . . 47/6 comp,
lf-pint. capacity; flame 9in. . . 55/- „
J
VERTICAL LAMP for starting stationary
engines, 30/- complete.
AUTOMATIC METHYLATED SPIRIT
CANS (as illustrated) for filling lighting cups,
3/9 each.
SPECIAL FUNNELS FOR FILLING LIGHT-
ING CUPS (as illustrated), 1/9 each.
Swans Limited,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
The House for Motor Engineers’Supplies
dsf


inner:
X
PS
<s\
X..
4;
~ , r
v-
X®/'
/ ''rfj/,
I
a r v -
HilWJm
ItllUtmmmmw
"i/i,
V/
ft
i X
/ .$ i
cr-,
Vi i
s
&S,
4
-
W<
<\A
\ £f 4l
I
t .
5- j , -A. '>
Sv X 4
£-*// *
<4
U il l
V ' i
Miraa* 11
k
V
X'4
s
i&S
\\ r-i
r*%
■vr
»1S
wn
■ IT
X.
JfeSA S s ' ~
/JS
ifeS
Y*.; v -sS<^
— V
X
K
(IWHI
%t««3 ./ / . .
X &/ \ V\ X
=S<
w
m
* %
mm
~■ W’ * .i\\v*
