

Ĥ
Electric Irons
a
{ J—3BWf. • ■ •
'
:
11 ?; „
%.■■■ »u-
-nm
> - ' o:
.
%
M
The EDISON Electric Iron embodies every improvement conducive to the easy handling of this
household necessity.
Three prominent features of the EDISON Iron are:
AN ATTACHED HEEL STAND that saves lifting—you simply tilt the iron back
when it is not in actual use.
A THUMB REST that permits of easy guiding and prevents strain on the wrist; and
A SPIRAL COIL WIRE CORD PROTECTORj which keeps the cord away from
the surface to be ironed.
EDISON Electric Irons are highly finished in polished nickel, cost little to operate, and save those
weary steps from stove to ironing board.
See them demonstrated in our showrooms, or at your local electrician’s.
Ħ
35-45 WENTWORTH
'SYDN et^t.
H
116 (QUEEIISt STREET
MELBOURNE
Phone : City 3510 Box 2517 G.P.O
Phone : Cen. 2646 Box 538 G.P.O.
AGENTS i
BRISBANE—- The Engineering Supply Co of Au»
tralia Ltd. (E.S.C. A.)corner Edward Sc Charlotte Sts.
TAS. Oliver & Oliver, Hobart and Launceston.
ADELAIDE—CharIes Atkins & Co. Ltd., Currie St
PERTH-—Charles Atkins Si Co. (W.A.) Limited
"IViazda” House, 894 Hay Street.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2196
Thursday, March 16, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Have you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free, to any address on application.
DYMOCIv’S BOOK ABRADE. ETD.. 42S
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt.
MMcnomz
RELIABILITY.
The service that manufacturers receive from
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
is thoroughly efficient and economical.
Wherever heavy loads demand a belt of high
tensile strength and proven dependability Mangrovite
belting will give reliable service. Every. belt is
tanned and tested under such rigid supervision that
we thoroughly guarantee every belt. Order now.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWtCI, Managing: Director,
49 York Street (WynyarO Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
TASMANIA : Henrv Clark & Co. Ptv., Ltd., Hobart
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frnnkol .( T Co.. Ltd.. Bricharip.
Registered
Trade Mark
ritisK
MNLft;
The A 1
LIGHT CAR
11 h.p. Two and Four Sealers
(Rating 13.9)
is the ideal all-weather car for every
purpose.
Designed and constructed for efficiency, speed
and comfort, it is the foremost light car for the
Overseas Owner Driver.
STANDARD MOTOR CO., LTD.,
COVENTRY - - - ENGLAND.
Agents
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
'/a
// HP. 4-Seater
Z*W% % % 2
borne comer. or
Great Britain has
a warm place in
your heart.
a*——^
is happening
there?
The ‘ • '
Over-Seas Daily Mail
Weekly Over-Seas, Edition of The Daily Mail —Britain’s great National
N ewspaper.
TELLS YOU IN FULL.
Post Free 10/- 52 weeks
SOME OF THE CONTENTS A IlE:
Our London Letter—a wonderful pen-picture of life in the great Metropolis.
An account of all the week’s happenings in every part of Great Britain and Europe
—political—-social—sporting.
A selection of the special articles which have appeared during the week in The
Daily Mail.
A Serial Story.
A Fashions Feature for women readers with illustrated designs by Miss Bessie
Ascough, the famous Daily Mail artist.
Complete results of all sporting events—Football, Cricket, Bacing, Boxing, Lawn
Tennis, Golf, Athletic Meetings, etc.
In addition, the following Commercial Supplements are included free, week by
week : Engineering, Textile, Motor and Cycling, Building and Furnishing, British
Agricultural Machinery and Farm Requisites. These Supplements supply a
constant stream of British commercial intelligence and are invaluable to Over-Seas
buyers.
Send Your Order To-day to Your Regular Newsagent
or to
GORDON & GOTCH (A/sia) LTD.,
Barrack and Clarence Streets, Sydney,
who will transmit your instructions by the first Mail Boat.
The Over-Seas Daily Mail will then be posted weekly direct to your address
from Carmelite House, London, E.G.4. No extra charge for changes in address.
A FULL Service of British News for 52 Weeks for 10/- post free.
■
muStwel
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
KILL THAT
99
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE l/- 17
The Red Page
Woman and Criticism
Before me lies an article in Les Annai.es
dealing with the work of French women
critics in Art (pictorial, literary, musical
and dramatic), emphasising the breadth and
originality introduced by the invasion of the
woman critic into ,a domain which has to a
large extent been, since the Second Empire,
a close preserve for the male. Beside this
lies an article, very interesting, from the Red
Page (16/2/’22), in which (4. Newbon sets
out to prove on very imperfect premises that
woman has not, nor ever can have, the
capacity to give' “honest” criticism. Why
a woman’s criticism should be less honest
than a man’s I cannot from the rest of the
article gather. A woman’s criticism will
rarely, if ever, follow the lines taken by a
writer of the opposite sex; but that will not
make it less honest, less accurate, or of less
value. It must be different, because sex
expresses itself not only physically but
mentally; a woman’s ideas and tastes in
books will probably be as divergent from
those of the male as is her taste in clothing.
From this basis let me examine the
grounds on which Mr. Newbon condemns the
taste of the (shall I say silly?) sex. (If the
tastes of woman in general turn them to the
Dells, the Glyns and the Garvices of litera-
ture, what other adjective fits?)
Pass then to the literature which Mr.
Newbon laments that women cannot appreci-
ate because they cannot bear truth. Since
Pilate, women have repeatedly asked “What
is Truth?” Mr, Newbon ‘advises that it may
be found in Rabelais. Perhaps; but let me
quote from sixteenth-century French some-
thing of the estimation in which Rabelais
held his own work. His fourth book, the
work of his old age, confesses that in Pan-
tagruel and Gargantua lie buried the richest
gems of his thought, but, he adds, they are
buried in a dunghill, “for the men of my age
will have it so and cannot bear Truth else.”
He belong;ed to an age which, by war, famine,
repression and oppression, had reduced nine-
tenths of the population of France to wlmt
Rabelais himself calls bestiality. His whole
experience in childhood and youth presented
to him the cruellest aspects of a cruel time.
He saw' his peasant father ruined and dis-
possessed by civil wars or feudatory
exaction: he was thrust, against his will,
into the lowest, the most illiterate of
monastic orders, the Begging Friars, whose
peregrinations brought them in contact with
the worst of thieves, vagabonds and mer-
cenary soldiers. Pantagruel and Gargantua
unfold a model scheme of education for
' the gentleman, who was to let his
instincts lead him on to joys. A
somewhat dangerous doctrine for a young
woman, is it not? Yet Mr. Newbon seems
disappointed that the gentle partner of his
own joys should lack appreciation of it! Jean
Jacques Rousseau refers to it iu both “Le
Contrat Social” and “La Nouvelle Heloise” ;
but he differs from his predecessor,, thinking
such a doctrine to be most extremely danger-
ous in application. “Robinson Crusoe might
safely give rein to his instincts, being respon-
sible to himself alone ; but under other con-
ditions the principle widely applied would
break down the structure of semi-civilisation
built slowly by the victories man has won
over his lower instincts.” Search the pages
of Rabelais, and woman will find that he
scarcely gives her any place in the scheme
of things, except that of satisfying man’s
carnal > appetite. Saint Beuve says : “He
knew of women but the carnal nature, for
he knew nothing of love.”
Again, what does obscenity add to the
literary art of Rabelais that is mot found in
equal degree in Beaumont and Fletcher, in
Greene and Marlowe, and in the Post-
Restoration dramatists? Possibly that Truth
so desired by Mr. Newbon calls for the
ugly and unclean as well as for the chaste,
curious and beautiful, and art is nothing if
not an illumination of Truth. But the
average woman, from .an inner conscious-
ness that on her falls the honor of the race,
as well as the burden of carrying on the
chain of life, will turn in preference to that
form of art which throws the higher light on
the beautiful. She has within her range
of consciousness sublime emotions and en-
chanting expediences which are denied the
male. Her carnal appetites are happily less
pronounced, but her perceptions reach further
into the infinite, and to her the male must
always be child as well as lover.
Survey the other books on the list by
which are tested women's critical faculty
and literary taste: “Tristram Shandy,”
“Peregrine Pickle,” “Tom Jones,” Pepys’
Diary and Boswell’s well-worn Life. Nearly
every schoolgirl must read the last two
(carefully expurgated in the case of Pepys)
in connection with her History. As a rule,
she finds these preciously minute and inti-
mate pictures of bygone centuries to be
curious and amusing, but unless she has a
taste for history she is little likely to want
the volumes for companions during her
leisure evenings. She will probably want on
such occasions to discuss with her mate
Cabbages, Kings, Sale Bargains, the Price
of Coal, or How to be Happy though Mar-
ried, or she will want her husband to feel
baby’s new tooth, or to notice how charm-
ingly white the nape of her neck is against
the soft lustre of her new gown. Frankly,
might she not as easily rail at a husband’s
critical powers if he still remain absorbed in
the appetites of his Rabelaisian heroes, who
seem chiefly to be distinguished by (1)
abnormal appetites for food, drink and
other carnal delights ; (2) a capacity for satis-
fying these appetites at the expense of
health, intelligence, honor, friendship: (3)
abnormal powers of recovery? “Roderick
Random” and “Peregrine” are men’s books,
written by middle-aged, careless livers;
clever and piquant. But why on earth
these should attract women is as enigmatic
to me as the smile of Mona Lisa. Try
her with Spenser, Chaucpr. English drama
from Marlowe to Bernard Shaw. But per-
sist in a Rabelaisian training and you will
find yourself wedded to something with a
taste for strong tobacco, tweed trousers, a
rakish beard. In other words, you will
have raispd up a new Frankenstein.
A. HOWE.
Marginal Notes
I delight in marginal notes. Nothing is
bo revealing as the little sentiments and
opinions and tags of criticism.that people love
to dot along the selvage of the leaves they are
reading. If they do not help to expound
the book, they expose the reader, and a man
is never so edifying as when giving himself
away. Here is half the charm of second-
hand or borrowed books, the chance of dis-
covering an exposition of your friend in the
shape of a series of caustic reflections on
the matter or manner of our mutual author,
scraps of appreciation, deprecatory interjec-
tions, bubbles of enthusiasm, or spatterings
of disdain.
Even a dull book may be made worth
while by scattered comment along the way.
For what else were wide margins devised?
I have been led on through the mazes of
H. G. Wells in his. effort to found a reli-
gion by copious marginal notes in various
colored pencils by some unknown hand. I
would assuredly have stepped off “God, the
Invisible King,” at chapter iv, “The Religion
of Atheists,” were it not that the previous
reader’s feelings began to get the better of
him about there, and he started a series
of marginal interjections that lent the work
of the ardent proselytiser a new interest.
Wells puts up no pretence of adopting
any existing religion; he makes them all
over in the endeavor to give humanity an
all-satisfying creed or dogma. He even pre-
sumes to subject the Almighty to renovations
and repairs, and my marginal commentator
chips in with: “The most striking instance
of the efforts of a, man to make God in his
own image.” But the morality of Wells is
fundamentally the morality of the Sermon
on the Mount, and is, apart from extraneous
philosophy, a work of supererogation. There
is, as the author of .the marginal notes con-
cludes, “new moralising, but no new morals.”
The commentator wedges in directly opposite
the author’s* very orthodox treatment of
atheists : “H.G.W., thou too art a Christian !”
He retorts upon the assertion that the un-
believer’s life is a round “of eating, drinking,
lusting, quarrelling, laughing, weeping, fear-
ing and failing.” Says the man on the
margin: “Behold Wells, the contented saint,
clad, in goatskins in his cave on his crag,
happy without food, drink, love or laughter !”
“Incidentally, our God dies a million deaths,”
says the prophet Wells, and draw's the
retort: “A mere nothing to this merry little
begetter of gods.” “Beyond the limits of
our understanding is the veiled Being of
Fate, whose face is hidden from us,” says
H.G.W.; and the commentator chips in:
“Of that beyond the limits of understanding
let no man dogmatise.” Wells, the maker of
the King of Kings, is very gentle upon sin-
ners, as we humble mortals understand
them, and the chiel mailin’ notes warns him:
“Your religion is homeless, Mr. Wells—
there is no room for sin in it!” There is
much more for which I have no space, but
on the last half-leaf Wells is summed up
briefly: “Here is a. man. tries to .make a reli-
gion with a cool head, and all religions have
been made by madmen !•”..»
One need not hold with the writer of mar-
ginals ; it is sufficient that he betray a fair
amount of logic or a tolerable show of folly.
But I do agree with the fair unknown (the
handwriting is distinctly feminine) who
tagged to the tail of R. L. Stevenson’s
travels with a donkey a tin-can inscribed:
“Written, as I surmise, to demonstrate how
much better Laurence Sterne could do this
sort of thing,”
My Boswell had been through many hands
before he reached me. Here the comments
are, I am pleased to say, not critical, which
speaks well for the innate good taste of the
marginal scribes. No bools: in this world,
unless it is “Who Killed Cock Robin?”
lends itself less to the critical method thaii
“The Life of Dr. Johnson,” the very errors
and follies of the faithful author being much
of the sap and juice of it. On page 860 Sam
says oracularly of popular elections: “There
is no more reason to suppose the choice
of a rabble will be right than that
chance will be right.” Opposite this
a good democrat has written: “Fat
old Tory bigot and ingrate! Hasn’t
manhood suffrage proclaimed you one of the
elect?” There is a passage in which John-
son declares: “Claret is the liquor for boys;
Dort for men; but he who aspires to be a
hero must drink brandy.” Opposite this
the commentator has written: “There goes
the only memorable thing Bismarck ever
said!” Johnson held that for a wife to
stray is the unforgivable sin, but he allows
husbands some latitude. “The man imposes
no bastards upon his wife,” says Samuel.
With more or less relevance the annotator has
inscribed: “But he may impose them on the
other husband, Sammy.” Where Johnson
utters the opinion of balloons —“We now
know a method of mounting into the air,
and, I think, are not likely to know more” —
the sapient critic chips in 140 years later
with: “Spoke out of your turn again.
Samuel!”
Not even • very brilliant, and sometimes
quite foolish, those notes helped to lure me
fgom page 1 to page 500, two cols., small
print, of Boswell’s terrific literary monu-
ment, and I think every man reading a book
should carry a pencil '*behind his ear and
scribble on the margins the sentiments of
appreciation, contempt or ridicule the read-
ing inspires. If we had a copy of Kit Mar-
lowe liberally relieved with marginal notes
by Shakspeare, for instance, it would take
priceless value amongst bibliographs in out
day and generation. If you are a good and
triie reader, what would you give for a
copy of Goldsmith liberally annotated by
Dr. Johnson? In fact, Johnson is the ideal
annotator. When Boswell is giving us his
word-of-mouth annotations “The Life” is
most delightful.
In a book of Lawson’s verse in which
Lawson is most lugubrious and most con-
cerned with his grievances, a critic has
scrawled in a bold hand right over a nago :
“Henry writes like a bear with a sore head.”
Henry doesn’t always, but he has been known
(Continued on page 25.)


H
?
7?
m.
-x.
IXIB9-670 D 1658
c
D 1693
IXI6OX
D 1955
s\:
IXIB9/670. —A v ery Smart Coat
in colored fancy Velour —a doth in
which a recurring depression gives
a self-stripe effect. The rounded
cape collar comes to a point at each
end, and may be closely bhttoned to
the throat. The sleeves follow 1 the
new shoulder lines, and a wide belt
crosses the back. Colors : Turquoise,
Mole, Henna, Tan.
PRICE £6/16/6
Dl6sB.— Smart Costume of Navy
and Black Serge. The coat has
tailored collar and levers, and a
design below the waist on each side
in black silk military braid. A
narrow all-round belt and self acorn
buttons are smart finishing touches.
S.W., W. and O.S.
PRICE £5/5/-
Dl693.— An Attractive Coat Frock, in Navy Blue Serge, has rows
of wide black silk military braid proceeding right down from
the shoulders back and front to form a design across the sides
of the frock above the hem. Embroidery on fronts and sides
of frock is a further finish. Navy and Black.
PRICE
£5/19/6
H6.—A -*-»lack Satin Bicorne, with an upturned flare brim, has a
novelty ornament of steel and black Sequins.
PRICE ; 63/-
H7.—A Smart Hat of Satin and fancy silk straw in copper color-
ings, has at the right side a cluster of tinted plums placed so
that the fruits droop gracefully downwards.
PRICE 55/.
D1955.—A Tailored Costume of Gabardine has
a rather long coat, with ,side panels richly
stitched and braided in self tones. Tailor collar
and revers are of self material, and there is a
narrow all-round belt at the waist line. The
smartly-cut Skirt has a panel front. S.W., W.
and O.S. Colors: Navy, Black, Fawn, Nigger.
PRICE £6/16/6
IXI6OX. —An Attractive and Cosy Coat in colored
Velour, has the new full wrap collar, which may
be buttoned up to the throat, and wide loose sleeves,
both finished with rows of self cable stitching,
combined with gold thread. Similar cable stitch-
ing is placed at the back across the coat, where a
plaited self girdle buttons on to large buttons.
Colors: Saxe, Navy, Henna, Nigger and Mole.
PRICE £5/5/-
Anthony Horderns
AJis'p/a.y' oM
Autumn. Mooes
✓ J
Combines to dnmusuffidocjtee
tke oft opposed elcmcfctsLof
EIO9 once o Economy
The most attractive ideas of the cleverest
Designers are expressed in each lovely
garment, and rich Fabrics and rare embellish-
ments share in the credit of creating sartorial
Masterpieces.
Write for the Fashion
Catalogue. A copy will
be posted you free
1X7200
1X7200.—N a v y Gabardine
Pape, falling in accordeon pleats
from a circular/ yoke, which has
a tailored collar, trimmed with
two rows of black silk military
braid. Two rows of braid are
also placed along the skirt of the
cape above the hem.
PRICE 11% gns.
ANTHONY HORDERN 6 Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Better Palatability
Better Digestibility
Better Variety
Better Food Value
Better Profits
BETTER TRY IT!
w
MEGGITTS
Dairy Cattle Food.
11l PROTEIN, 5Z EAT, 95! FIBRE.
When are you going to join the great army of Feeders who have adopted
Meggitt Foods as a sure means of improving their conditions and
lowering their production costs?
To get a good cream cheque next winter keep your cows in condition now.
Pasturages are short over most of the State, and the milk supply is
falling off. If cows go down now because of poor feed they never can be
brought back where they should be until they freshen again. The thing
to do is to supplement the pastures with green feed, ensilagp—and
concentrates—especially to the heavy-milking cows.
Write to Department A for Literature, Samples and Prices.
GGITTS
IJNSEED oilmen
m
7AEEGITT
K PARRAMATTA
e
HEAD OFFICE 26 KING ST SYDNEY
iT«GGnTS
pNSEEDOIIMEAI
mi
pi
ttEDGITTU*
\ FttRRAMATTA JL
O'A.e boy on the bag
guarantees quality ’
AG ENT S-
-Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Me ****-
Adams d Co., Ltd., Rina Street, Perth; Messrs. R. S. Exton d Co , Ltd., Queen Street,
Brisbane; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Ltd.. Hobart and Launceston; Messrs
Ltd,, Featherston Street, Wellington, N.Z; The S.A. Farmers Co-op. Lmon, Ltd., 36 Franklin
Street, Adelaide, S.A,
, <r yAe boy on the bog
guarantees quality


PINKETTES
A DAINTY LAXATIVE
The day of harsh purgatives, of
big cathartic pills is over —gone for
ever. No need ai y longer to
swallow a nauseating dose to give
nature the gentle assistance re-
quired. Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are little pink, sugar-coated ovals,
easy to take and pleasant in their
action. They are not drastic,
although certain and thorough.
Pinkettes are designed to
arouse the sluggish bowels and tor-
pid liver, to correct bad breath,
clear the complexion, and banish
biliousness and headache.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DO YOU KNOW THAT ALL THE
NEW DRESSES ARE WORKED
WITH THE
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER?
It works on any material.
21/- Complete Outfit.
Full directions with every machine.
Instruction given at address below.
Send a stamped envelope for a FREE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
m
o/Mris6ano)
Hotel Carlton
The most comfortable
and best equipped
Hotel in Queensland
CENTRALLY situated in the heart
of Brisbane it affords easy access
to commercial, shipping and shopp-
ing centres, theatres, railway ter-
mini, botanical gardens, museum,
artgallery. etc. £14,000 have recently
been spent on modernising Hotel
Carlton. Unmatchable cuisine,
every comfort and modern conveni-
ence. Newest American Bar.
Write for Particularsl
When a recipe asks
for Cornflour it
means
Ship Brand
s
HIP
BRAND
\Corn/
Flour
CLIFFORD LOVE & C? LTP
Manufacturers. SYDNEY.
The “COMFORT” ( S2l -heating) IRON
Ĥ
Lights in half a min-
ute. Costs 3d. for 4
hours. Simple, safe,
clean, beautifully nick-
elled, double-pointed.
Finest iron made.
Burns Benzine.
Price, 4.R /-
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
0)
©
13M7
-%/nvv
v^VJBSE
v-w
m.
Keeps the scalp free from nits
and all other troubles that school
kiddies are liable to get. / Iways
keep a tin in the home It will
be found invaluable! From all
chemists, 1/-, or address below.
NURSERY
POMADE
DUERDIN & SAiNSBURY, PTY. LTD.,
349 Flinders Fane, MELB. [3
Veterinary Instruments
and Appliances
from Denyer’s are always dependable for good service.
We feature Quality in every article we sell, knowing
that it is only through Quality a full satisfaction is
obtainable. Get the Denyer Quality in Veterinary Instru-
ments and Appliances and you are safe for satisfaction.
Send for our free Catalogue and become acquainted with
the Denyer Service to Stockowners, vvhich embraces the
most modern and efficient in Veterinary Needs.
DENYER BROS.
\
Veterinary Specialists,
281 George Street, SYDNEY.
The DENYER
Triple Crush Emasculator.
The most modern pattern Emascu-
lator on the market. Designed
for quicker, more efficient and
safer work. Hand-forged from the
best steel for durability. Abso-
lutely eliminates the danger of
hemorrhage.
Price 60/- .
Postage 9d. Extra.
Surprise Yourself!
A shave with a
URHAM
UPL
Safe Razor
will certainly surprise you.
No discomfort, no pulling,
just a clean shave in a few
minutes.
1 1
w
All Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to your dealer to-day—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it in
your hand—see how it balances*-- then take it
home and shave with it. It’s a revelation!
thslP®®
Onoto Ink—-Best for all Pens.
Ask to see
the new
Streamline
Model.
BRAIN WAVES
If you want to prosper in life—to think
out schemes which will bring success, you
must have a clear head and a brain free
from dullness and fatigue. Avoid
Headaches, Dizziness, Indigestion,
Biliousness and that “tired feeling’’
Small Pill-
Small
Dose —
Small
Pricc^j
CARTERS
fITTLE
IVER
PILLS
by taking
Car ter’*
Little Liver
| P i 11«, the
Great Liver
Invigo rato r.
Thousands
have attained
success by their,
timely help.
Just try one
after meals.
ONLY THE BEST is Good
Enough for BABY!
There is No Better SMilk than
fIFEGUARD
JLk4 Condensed MILK
ITS QUALITY
NEVER VARIES
Your Grocer Has It!
The Best Place for Your Savings
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/-
4 % interest up to £5OO, and 3J ' on any excess
to £lOOO.
PERSONAL, JOINT AND TRUST
ACCOUNTS OPENED.
153 Branches and 520 Agencies throughout the State.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Quid Prodest?
What’s the sense of moods a-greying
When the sky is blue?
Why let things' that grubs are saying
Trouble you?
You yourself are king and master
Of your mind and will:
Though raw pains come fast and faster,
. Master still! .
Should a snake or woman bite you,
Cut the part away.
Rare new things will still delight you
Every day.
Should a friend or., wench deceive you,
Comfort will remain.
This—that faith betrayed may leave you
Sound and sane.
What’s the sense of feeling dismal
When the skies are blue?
Misery is a gulf abysmal.
Dodge it, you !
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Death.
They say they will not; but men know l
know
How all will be afraid to watch my face
Freeze down and screw into some strange
grimace—
That, mumbling well-worn words, they’ll
turn and go;
Not as quick hearts would bid, but strained
and slow.
And never one would willingly retrace
Those shambling footsteps to my breathless
place,
But flare the lights and in some huddled row
Toss whispered words of pity to and fro,
As though dull Death had dragged me to
disgrace.
I may not feel it then, but hold it now,
This insult to be hurled across my heart;
Dumb, ugly, stupid—shamed before my
friends,
With Duty’s huckstered blossoms on my
brow.
Not all my hope of Heav’n can heal that
smart;
Yet God must give it me —and make amends.
VICTORIA.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Sorcerer’s Love.
Your eyes are magic mirrors in a town
Where giants sleep and all the world is
still,
Save where tbe wizard in his mantle brown
Kindles the witchfire on a lonely hill
To snare the souls of sleeping men, that pass
Like fluttering moths across the cloudy glass.
Your heart is some dark mere in forest-
night
Where, tbrougli the netted leaf in glory,
soon,
Pale in the straining splendor of its light.
Speeds the white magic of the wandering
moon
To tinct the shadowy ripple with a guise
Of wicked silver, like a witch’s eyes.
You trapped men’s souls for knowledge,
searched tbe dread
Dim future, twined the moonspell to your
thrall;
But now a mightier comes: your power is
dead,
Your spell is broken, and your doom to
fall.
For I am Doom —had you but read me clear,
Doom, that can make you or can strike
you down,
Heart that was wave of night-black forest-
mere,
Eyes that were mirrors in a magic town.
Choose, while the moment hangs, a dancing
mote;
My riders in the sky are hosting fast.
Doubt —and the dagger quivers at your
throat;
Yield —and I clasp you in my arms at last.
N.S.W.
ANTON DENNING.
Long Reef.
Slowly shoreward the breakers run,
Meiting whitely on sand and rock;
Winging west to the setting sun,
Hasten the seabirds, flock on flock.
Ti-trees, wizened and warped and pale,
Group like ghosts at a vigil wan;
Far to seavyard, with spar and sail
Sunset-tinted, a ship sails on.
Backed by uplands of cliff and tree,
Washed by waters from edge to edge,
Scarred and’ worried by wind and sea,
Long Reef lies like a giant wedge.
South of it sleeps a still lagoon,
North a crescent of wet beach lies;
Ever and ever with changing tune
Round about it sea-voices rise.
Times there are when they rage and ring,
Roll and roar ’neath the winter sky;
Times there are when they seem to sing
Songs as soft as a lullaby.
Here the tribes that are now a name
Came and fished in the bygone years;
Here they camped with the ti-tree’s flame
Making redder their reddened spears.
Over them now, their lives unkempt,
Silence broods and a veil is drawn—
Gone are they, like a vision dreamt
After dark and forgot at dawn.
Lit by sunset with lights sublime,
Washed by waters from edge to edge,
Crumbling, too, the grasp of time,
Long Reef lies like a giant wedge.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


f
A
: . ' I:
;■» :-n .
iMllfelll
■
M
%
aj
t.
/ :
■
■
w
i ■
■
n
• Jr
tJJou Aje
‘‘Citroen is already at the head of its class. It has brought
into being a firm which has turned 0ut 30,000 motor-cars
Such is the opinion of S. F. Edge,
the world-renowned automobile
expert. This immediate acceptance
of the Citroen Car the world over
testifies to the excellence of its con-
struction. Sturdily built, it con-
tains exclusive features of engine,
suspension ami transmission that
give it unusual efficiency, reduce
wear and tear to a minmum, and
AGENTS—
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Bradley Bros., Ltd.,
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND.
Websters Motor Co., Ltd.,
86-90 George Street, Brisbane.
ANOTHER CITROEN
RECORD.
Royal Automobile Club’s
Reliability Contest, February
25, 1922.
CITROEN HIGHEST SCORE:
106 miles on 2 gallons 3 pints
of petrol.
OVER 45 MILES PER
GALLON.
make, it “The world’s economy car.”
miles to the . gallon! Twelve thousand
Thirty-eight
miles to the
set of tyres! These are the figures
—the average performance of the
30,000 Oitroens now in daily use!
To appreciate the mechanical
superiority and deep-seated luxury
of the Citroen, call at our showrooms
for a demonstration.
Detachable Cylinder Heads.
Thermo Syphon Engine Cooling.
Semi-cantilever Super-improved Springs.
Citroen Double Helical Gears.
Standard Gauge 1922 Model.
AGENTS—
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Moncrief Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Light Square, Adelaide.
TASMANIA.
Co-operative Motors, Ltd.,
Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND.
New Zealand Farmers’ Co-op.
Assoc., Christchurch.
Leyland Motors, Ltd., Wellington.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
Clifton Hill, Victoria.
Factory Representatives: W. A. Crowle, Ltd., Crowle House,
161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Ħ
Si
IS
&
%
SI
r . t
"V
*«
=s*
Ml
IN
ft
Mr
«£
>v',
\
I*
<2»
CITROEN
0
a
ftl
5S
yfrstftjL
Y
\r>
IT
£C
0


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transitission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2196.
THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1922.
Price 6d.
THE HIND LEGS GO ON STRIKE.
THE MAN WHO PLAYS THE HIND LEGS: “You couldn’t have a helephant without back legs, could you? Well, then, I’m Indispensable. And bein’
indispensable I m going to run the ’ole bloomin’ show.”
THE SHOWMAN: “You’re quite right, my friend—an elephant can’t do without hind legs. BUT WE CAN DO WITHOUT AN ELEPHANT.”


The Bulletin
the NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for tl»e White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
C°-. 214 George Street. Svdnev. N.S.W., Australia.
-Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
-12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 135.; 3 months, 6s. 6d.
To any ADDRESS Overseas i 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 155.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts; etc., which should be crossed, and
■all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
rejused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
.publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
■all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with •Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Thb Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
■of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
■on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
■but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IP. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
llolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Soy,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 4H Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.—Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co,, Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn X Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva ; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper ); Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, f00z.,. Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet- — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sloz. to 10oz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 40z., lid., and
id. each additional P.oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1922.
THE S.S. JOBCONTROL.
Being a statesman of the temperamental
sort the Priminister tires easily of the
splendid toys in which he periodically in-
dulges at a patient Commonwealth’s
expense. A month ago he was all enthusi-
asm for the new Bay liners, dismissing with
a magnificent gesture the fact that those so
far constructed have cost £1,250,000 apiece,
instead of the estimated £1,000,000. When
the Largs Bay came to Sydney he gave a
shipwarming swarry in the grand saloon,
and bragged immoderately of his achieve-
ments in the sea-carrying trade. This was
some of the rhetoric that salted the walnuts
and spiced the wine: —
The Largs Bay is a realisation of the scheme
conceived by the Government in 1918. She will leave
Australia a full ship, being in the singularly fortu-
nate position of having to turn away both cargo and
passengers. This is a great fleet. The Common-
wealth line has been successful; it has paid. During
the time it has been in operation it has never
been subjected to political control. Therein lies
the secret of its success. No country or Govern-
ment has had anything like as good a record and
as good results in shipowning as Australia.
The date of that oration was Feb. 24. Four
days afterwards the latest addition to the
fleet that had never been subjected to politi-
cal control surrendered to job-control and
got away seven hours behind time. The crew
that had brought her out were travelling
home, at the Government’s cost, as distressed
British seamen; in that respect the Largs
Bay certainly was “a full ship.” Although
many of them were Australian unionists and
a few A.I.F. men, they had all been kicked
out to make room for a Trades Hall crew,
among whom, unless someone is lying hard,
were four Maltese, three Swedes, a Spaniard,
a Chilian and a Fijian.
The procedure of the job-controllers was
simple and effective. In the case of the
seapen the required number of A.B.’s was
sent down to the ship from the union office,
the captain’s objections to three men, one
of whom had demanded to be taken on as
bo’s’n, being brusquely disregarded. The
skipper was told that if he didn’t take what
the union sent him he wouldn’t get a crew
of any sort, and after consultation with
Hughes or Hughes’s officials he caved in.
In the case of the stewards and pantrymen
the chief steward, who had been transferred
to his then job from another Commonwealth
steamer, entered a caveat against two of
the union’s nominees and demanded the
right to employ a man vho had come in
with the ship—an eX-lieutenant of the
A.I.F. and a financial member of the union.
The reply to this unheard-of resistance to
job-control was that the stewards and
pantrymen would refuse to go to sea unless
both the chief steward and the Digger were
forthwith ejected. Again the management
of the line hoisted the pallid rag of sur-
render. It even yielded to the demand of
the direct-actionists that the engineers—
most of whom had been employed in the
shops where the engines were built —should
be dismissed. Thereupon Hughes lifted up
his voice and wept:—
The tactics adopted by the S.U. have helped to
create a situation which makes it absolutely im-
possible to carry on. It is obvious that if ships
are to be built at prices much in excess of the market
rate, and if the management of the line is not
permitted to control the running of its vessels, but
must submit to the dictation of men whose one
object is to prevent it from being run on lines
which will make both ends meet, there is only one
course open to us. It is increasingly evident that
the Ministry will have to reconsider its policy of
shipbuilding.
It would be more to the point if the Gov-
ernment reconsidered its policy of trying to
govern without a backbone. If responsible
government is to endure, the arrogant claim
that State steamers belong to the stewards
and firemen and State railways to the porters
and shunters must be resisted and vanquished
wherever it is asserted. The Administration
that refuses to put its fortune to the touch
on such an issue has no right to be on the
earth.
* * # #
The trouble on the misguided Federal steam-
ship was a trial of strength to decide whether
the vessel should be manned by persons
selected by the owners and officers for their
merits, or by persons selected by certain
shore-going individuals in order to show to
all and sundry the complete unimportance
of owners and officers. The shore-going folk
having carried their point, and rubbed in the
fact of their supremacy, as mean and cruel
minds will do, by securing the removal of
an officer who had protested, the Largs Bay
humped its way to sea. It went as a ship
on which the officers had lost almost all their
authority, for in addition to the hazard of
the hold-up and ignominious surrender being-
repeated :at every Australian port, every
Commonwealth vessel in Australian waters
would be bail or security or hostage for the
due humility of the Largs Bay’s “after-
guard” on the high seas. Which person on
board represented real authority was doubt-
less known to some, but not to the owners
generally. At one time, and not very long
ago, any casual hold-up meant that the
employees had some concrete grievance—
solid or frivolous, but at least one that
could be redressed. The purely Communistic
platform supplied to the Labor party at
the Melbourne and Brisbane conferences,
and emphasised by the demands put forward
at Hughes’s ill-judged . and ill-directed
“Economic” palaver—the platform which no
Dooley or McGirk dares to expound in
public, but which they are pledged to none
the less—has altered all that. The new
demand is that the nation, as a self-govern-
ing concern, shall move off the earth, taking
with it its whole civilisation, which is far
from perfect, yet is immeasurably superior to
anything that Trotsky’s Communists evolved
in Russia, or Bela Ivun’s in Hungary. Then
all power, all management, and all public
and private property are to be handed to,
and vested in, a crowd of which ex-preacher
Garden is the most persistent spokesman,
and to its Soviet and its Council of Action
and its machine generally. And no one mis-
takes Garden for Trotsky, who was at
least a chemist who wrote books, not an
expounder in a small way who wrote medi-
ocre sermons. This is the policy to which
every Labor, or, rather, Communistic, can-
didate is now pledged, though their silence
concerning it is that of the very-long-dead.
The official hold-up nowadays is not for the
redress of any definite grievance, but to
undermine industry, to “white-ant” civilisa-
tion, and to bring the revolution and the
end of the People’s rule a step nearer. It
is directed with extra fury against State
and Federal enterprise, because every climb-
down brings the People’s Government into
deeper contempt. Besides Government en-
terprise is an easy mark. The nominal
rulers don’t lose their own money if they
surrender, and fear to lose their jobs if
they don’t, so their position is the reverse
of that of other folk. Certainly the State
couldn’t be held up through its undertakings
if it owned just as few as it could get on
with. It has lofig since given up hope
of making anything save losses out of them,
so the original reason of them has evapo-
rated. And the mass of employees threaten
to develop into an. army of occupation. The
posit'on would probably improve if Austra-
lian Governments took up the off-hand atti-
tude of old Cicero in the matter of Catiline
—that the attempt to destroy the People’s
rule by violence, bloodshed and fraud was
the last possible offence, and that the advo-
cacy of it was on a par with the deed itself.
But Australians hold their liberties lightly,
and fretful little Hughes isn’t a Cicero,
although he talks a lot.
SHORT VIEWS AND LONG JOURNEYS,
“Tamworth is the head centre of the New State
agitation. Mr. Scully and myself represent the
only party which has stood, for the past two or three'
years, for new States. We are prepared to divide
Australia into as many new -States as would be found
necessary, whether it were 30 or 50. But this would
not entirely solve the problem of decentralisation.
The fact that everything goes to Sydney is due to
the wrong system of finance, which results in the
diversion of too much country capital to the city.
Now money deposited in Rural Banks cannot be
transferred to Sydney, or be used for commercial
enterprise. Any money in the bank, must, be re-
tained for rural purposes.”—N.S.ir. Lands 'Minister
Loughlin, fishing hard for the rural and New State
vote. ■
It was good policy, then, to get rid of stupid
old Estell, who gave the show away when
he told the Northerners that unless they
came to heel their place would be treated as
a conquered province—that, though tribute
would be exacted from them, the money would
all be spent down south. Even now, with
Estell muzzled, the Labor Government is
careful to say that its aim is to cut up all
Australia, which it has no more power to do
than it has to cut up Thibet. As to starting
to cut up N. S. Wales, which it alone has
power to do, and thus setting a good example,
there is never a word. Indeed, the oihce-
holder proceeds, in his clumsy way, to sug-
gest that the subdivision of Ma State is
superfluous. The reasons why agriculture is
dying and settlement languishing are, he
says, not that settlers are forced to pay for
509 miles of haulage when only 120 are
necessary (Inverell), 423 miles instead of
110 (Moree), 320 miles in place of 60 (Bom-
bala), and so on through a list hundreds
of names long; not because freights to places
further away from Sydney are sometimes six
times as heavy as freights to Sydney, so that
any town on the inland track is a shut
market to the farmer; but simply for want
of the Rural Bank. And, of course, the
Land Confiscation Scheme.
* * * *
Very little is heard about the Land Con-
fiscation Bill now, though the usual phono-
graphic piece about the promotion of settle-
ment on a Million Farms is spoken from
force of habit. Under the measure in its
original form the value of properties was to
be run down to zero by a process of seques-
tration, which would close them against im-
provement for an indefinite number of years,
since all new improvements as well as un-
earned increment were to be confiscated.
But British money-lenders objected to this
new way of raising loans, so the scheme was
altered, and the only one in view is
for resuming estates and paying for them
in cash unless the vendor prefers debentures.
Now, on that basis the Government has power
to resume practically everything in sight
already. In fact, up to June, 1920, the area
resumed was 1,482,328 acres. And with
what result? To quote only one instance, on
a great part of the Kentucky estate sheep
were driven off merely that the soil might
become a rabbit nursery and prickly-pear
preserve! The fact is that the place is
one of those that are cursed by needless dis-
tances, for the great Northern Tableland of
N. S. Wales has no communication whatever
with the coast, and will have none till it
takes its fate in its own hands and makes
communication for itself. As for a local
industrial population to supply a local mar-
ket, that is a subject for ribald mirth. In
1911, when the Dooley party was new to
office, N. S. Wales owned 5039 factories, of
which Sydney possessed 2510 and all the
rest of the State 2529. In 1920 Sydney had
3376 factories (increase, 866), and the “rest
of the State” had 2286 (loss, 243). So the
settler who stays in the old spot sees his
market go further away from him, and the
one who is beguiled out on one of the new
loan railways also goes further from his
market.
And despite the resumption of 1,482,328
acres to accommodate small farmers, and
despite the constant planting of the Same
desirable sort of folk on millions of acres
of State lands, and despite the impassioned
efforts of land agents with private estates
to dispose of, agriculture is a backsliding
industry in the Dooley country. Some re-
cent figures help to explain the position
People Employed in N.S.W. Industries.
1913. 1920. Decrease
Agriculture . . 68,475 50,103 18,372
Dairying .. 44,439 3t,363 7,076
Mining- . . . . 38,880 29,163 9,717
Increase
Pastoral .. .. 40,543 54,149 13,606
Manufacturing ... 120,400 * 144,454 24,054
The pastoralist has only been helped with
the curses of vote-hunting politicians who
profess that he should be wiped off the earth,
and by having his wool charged on the rail-
ways more than five times as much per ton
per inile as the wheat-grower pays—or is
able to pay. The manufacturer pays freight
on much the same scale as the pastoralist,
and is pursued b.V the venomous hostility of
every anarchist, Bolshevik. Communist
(whose cry is that the workshops “must be
taken over”), and strike organiser, as a
capitalist and exploiter of wage-slaves. Yet
these two furnish more and more employ-
ment, while the small agriculturist, for whom
estates are always being cut up and freights
cut down, is less on the land the more he is
put on the land. The explanation is simple
enough. The manufacturer works for a local
market, and his crop isn’t eaten up by the
cost of impossible distances—many of them
needless and artificial distances. (If there
was thrice the industrial population, and if
it was diffused among two dozen towns in-
stead of two, the wheat-grower would work
for a local market also, but that is another
story.) The pastoralist works for a foreign
market, but he works almost wholly in com-
petition with white men. The wheat-grow-
ing industry, on the other hand, is governed
to a great extent by the competition of races
that are cheaper, blacker and nearer to the
big markets than ours.
THE KING’S MAN TN POLITICS.
“When I forget my sovereign may my God forget
me!” exclaimed the arch-humbug, Lord Thurlow, a
century and a quarter ago. “Whereupon,” remarks
Lord Brougham (“Statesman of the Time of George
III.”), “John Wilkes, seated upon the foot of the
throne, who had known Thurlow long and well, is
reported to have said—somewhat coarsely but not
unhappily, it must be allowed—‘Forget you! He’ll
see you d—d first!’ ”
The familiar episode is brought to mind by
the plethora of political aspirants, more par-
ticularly in N. S. Wales, who base a large
part of their claims for support on an alleged
devotion to the King and the royal family.
They are King’s Men, and the implication
always is that they and their political party
have a monopoly of loyalty. The fact is, the
real King’s Man is so rare that anyone who
accuses another, or a number of others, of
a liability to defect where a given dynasty
is concerned has little difficulty in carrying
conviction.
* * * *
There are three main ways of being a
loyalist, though only one of them counts
when the numbers go up. The first, the com-
monest and far the most popular in Aus-
tralia, is to talk about loyalty. Handled with
sufficient effrontery on platforms and in
the press, loyalty may be made to
pay here in a manner that has been im-
practicable in England for half-a-century.
The sober, modern English distrust a man
who mouths his loyalty just as they do the
professional revolutionary. "Gentlemen, the
King!”—that is the loyal toast in its en-
tirety. It was left to one of Australia’s
professional King’s Men to introduce, as
High Commissioner, -an improvement at the
first London banquet he attended, jn the form
of a fulsome eulogy of the sovereign. Vocal
loyalty in Australia' represents votes and a
daily-paper reputation for respectability and
all-round soundness of character. And it
costs nothing but breath or ink. A second
and more convincing variety of loyalist is
the man who is prepared, when the occasion
arises, to go into battle for his king. Not
into the officers’ quarters of an Australian
camp, or the barracks of an English, Egyp-
tian or French base, nor into a troopship,'but
into the line where the blood and mud are.
Many of Australia’s noisiest King’s Men made
no attempt to fight in the late war, though
some were soldiers when it began. They did
their bit for the throne as uniformed non-
combatants. Others did not even risk get-
ting into khaki, on the cautious principle
that in a world-war of indefinite duration
civvies are the only safe wear. And yet the
British were fighting, in a very real sense,
as all knew, and none better than the royal
family of England, for the King. Few things
are more certain than that defeat would
have meant the doom of the monarchy. But
let it be granted that most men do not volun-
teer for the Front, nor advance against the
enemy, with the idea of kingship in their
hearts. They are influenced by many addi-
tional considerations —love of country, per-
sonal pride, ambition and desire to right
what they regard as a wrong. To that
extent even the volunteer soldier is not a
true King’s Man, though his right to the
title is, of course, incomparably greater than
that of the fraud who, while fully exploiting
his king for political and other purposes,
will not take any chances 'for him. No:
there is but one true King’s Man, and his
class, through all the ages, has been a con-
spicuously small one. He is one who does
more than orate about a powerful reigning
monarch in the language of a colored cour-
tier 5 one who does more even than fight
for his king, when his king appears to
have a fair chance of emerging on the win-
ning side. This rarest of types is a bad-
weather _ King’s Man: he sticks to his sov-
ereign in adversity as in success, follows
him into exile, and there subsidises him with
money; and, eventually, perhaps dies for
him.
* * * *
There is no need to rake the disillusionis-
ing pages of the pre-war history books for
proofs that the most clamant loyalists were
always the first to turn on their kings in
exile or worse. Burke’s bitter gibe at the
“men of honor and cavaliers” who bolted
to Germany, leaving Marie Antoinette
to her fate, might have been applied to
almost any previous period anywhere when
thrones and heads were falling. It applies
to the ruined dynasties of the late war. A
literate country like Australia knows no
such superstitious frenzy of loyalty, as the
Russians accorded to the. late Czar and
his family. When his downfall came the
Czar’s Men of Russia fled for safety. He
and his wife and children were left to die
with an old doctor, a Swiss tutor, a sailor,
a couple of and one woman friend.
Australia, which dislikes militarism, can 1
hardly picture the adoration which burned
in every German heart for the Kaiser —till
he fell. We know that if he had won the
war for Germany, the loyalty of Germans
the world over to the Hohenzollern dynasty
would have been something to make N. S.
Wales’s King and Empire League seem
anaemic by comparison. But ruin overtook
him, and within a few months he was in
a foreign country almost friendless, very
much alone, derided even by such a man
as Ludendorff, who had lived by his favor
for 30 years. Plainly, there is no reliable
means of diagnosing a King’s Man before
the event —before the time of stress arrives
when, and when only, loyalty can be tested
for genuineness. But it may be reasonably
premised that no ablebodied citizen has a
right to hold himself up as a King’s 1 Man
unless he has offered, at some period of his
life, to make an important sacrifice of life,
limb or property for the monarchy. As for
the rest, the proposition which they inferen-
tially put to the community is this: "We are
different frdm nearly all the loyalists in
the world’s history. Should the King of
England ever be required to face the fate
of his cousin of Russia it will be our plea-
sure to die beside him. Should he be exiled,
like William 11., the whole of our fortunes
will be immediately transferred to his
account.” But what sane Australian would
be likely to greet such an assurance, com-
ing from those who habitually exploit the
loyalty cry, with anything but derision?
In other words, every sensible man knows
that at least 99 cent, of these people
are fair-weather King’s Men, which is to
say, impostors. Very little reflection, along
such lines, should be enough to satisfy think-
ing people not merely of the dishonesty of
dragging the loyalty issue into politics, but
of its danger. In every creed there are
doctrines which do not bear discussion:
their basis is that convenient rock Faith.
Once damn a section of the nation as in-
famous for not loving a hereditary monarch
and the ouestion arises: “Why should kings
be loved ?” And again: “Are any kings
loved?”
BROWN AND A SHEET OF BARK.
Tree shadows, like clouds in convulsions,
danced and swayed as Brown came to our
camp in Croajingalong, accompanied by a
setting sun and a south-west wind. The
mystery of Brown has never been explained.
He was large, fat, fair. He spoke with an
Oxford accent, and seemed as much out of
place in East Gipnsland as a bird-of-paradise
in a hencoop. He said his name was
Emanuel Brown, but it ought to have beep
Manners or Cavendish. He was an acci-
dent, a beautiful exotic from the remittance
hothouses of an older land. Why he became
Emanuel Brown and migrated to Australia
one felt instinctively it would be indelicate
to-inquire.
For some reason which never clearly un-
folded itself BROWisr had been permitted to


take up a 320 S.P.L. area in East Gippsland.
His own explanation was that he heard
tnere were big trees in Gippsland. He had
a passion for trees. He adored trees. The
Department, existing solely for the purpose
of preventing intending settlers from getting
anything they want, rang true to itself by
giving Brown an area composed chiefly of
grasstree plain, gravel ridges, geebungs and
stunted banksia. Millions of acres of Crown
lands, clothed with corpulent bloodwoods,
tali stringybark, mountain-ash and gum sur-
rounded brown. These, being reserved by
a Forestry Section in order that they should
provide material for annual bush-fires and
salaries, were not accessible. So the scion
of an ancient house settled down to carve
out a colonial fortune, with the aid of
quarterly remittances and a library of
pamphlets supplied by the Department of
Cultivation on such relevant subjects as “The
Clothing and Maintenance of the Berkshire
Hog” and “The Cure of Bots in Alaskan
Mules.”
In the course of his technical education
Emanuel, learned that for the roofing of
fowl-houses bark is preferable to galvanised-
iron. Emanuel proceeded to strip bark
to roof the night apartments of his
hens. A rigid combing of the wrinkled trees
which decorated his gravel patch left him
lacking. The last possible tree had been
denuded, and he was just one sheet of bark
short.
Now, he was debarred access to a creek
which had never run since the oldest inhabi-
tant began to infest the district. In order
that a mythical public should at some hazy
future period have access to stream and
shore, a Victorian Government had passed
an Act reserving a chain to three chains in
width along watercourses and seashores.
Within the chain reservation excellent timber
flourished along Emanuel’s creek, whereof
the bark was smooth and suitable for the pro-
tection of Emanuel’s hens. But, as our blonde
colonist discovered, while free to denude all
the timber on his S.P.L., he might not, even
as a lessee, strip, ring or otherwise destroy
any tree an inch over the boundary line
without permission of the Department.
Brown’s racial reverence for authority was
his undoing. Rather than commit an
offence against the fair Southern land of
his adoption, he decided to apply for per-
mission to strip a sheet of bark on the far
side of the surveyor’s peg.
This is some of what happened. Not all
of it. The application was lodged six years
ago and the story is only in its opening
chapters. Brown re-emigrated to the Ather-
ton Tableland early in 1921, but left power
of attorney to deal with his official obliga-
tions. We have formed a small syndicate to
keep the correspondence going.
The postal service in Croajingalong, like
the mills of God, grinds slowly but grinds
small. In three weeks from the time of
his first application Emanuel received
a _ printed postcard announcing that the
Hierarch for Lands had received his com-
munication and the matter would receive
attention. As it was midsummer and the
poultry in no danger of pulmonary trouble,
he impaled the notice on a splinter in the
slabs and went on gaining colonial experi-
ence. Autumn was in the air when he re-
ceived a terrifying blue envelope containing
a typewritten letter informing him that he
must apply at once for a license to cut
timber on Crown Lands, “form of applica-
tion enclosed. The fee is 2s. 6d., and must
be attached to the application.” Emanuel
hastened to fill in the foirm. In three
weeks arrived another card informing him
that his communication had been received
and the matter would receive attention.
Winter had set in when another pretentious
document arrived, peremptorily ordering him
to appear before the Land Board to show
cause why, on or before the umptieth per-
oxide, his selection should not be forfeited.
An examination of this document revealed
that the real culprit was one Emmaline
Brown, of Bugalong. So the notice was
re-posted to the Department. In three weeks
a postcard proclaimed its delivery, and said
the matter would receive attention. Emma-
line Brown drops • out of the story here
and does not appear again on File U/120,210
until two years later, when Emanuel re-
ceived a letter from Bugalong written like
the celebrated document announcing that
Clancy had gone a-dnoving. It came from
Emmaline’s nearest neighbor, who said that
the widow Brown died the preceding Christ-
mas, but a timber-cutter’s license had just
been issued to her in the name of Emanuel
Brown, so they were sending it on, and
hoped it would find him in good health as it
left the writer, thank God. But long before
this Brown had received a cold letter from
the Minister requesting him to forward a
sketch plan of the locality in which he de-
sired to strip bark on Crown Lands. Six
or eight months later the sketch was re-
turned to him with a memo: “This area,
coming under the heading of ‘Unused Roads
and Waterfrontages,’ the application should
be addressed to the Public Works Depart-
ment.”
Brown was now thoroughly roused to his
sense of duty as a Briton. lie wrote a long
letter to the Public Works Department, and
respectfully but firmly demanded his sheet
of bark. In four weeks a postcard arrived
joyously proclaiming that his letter would
receive attention. Brown allowed a decent
interval of 12 months to elapse, and then
wrote again. In three weeks a reply came
that the matter was receiving attention. A
month later he was informed that the matter
was one which could only be dealt with by
the Conservator of Quandong Forests, to
whom his application should, therefore, be
addressed. Emanuel wrote to the Quan-
dong Department, using the allotment num-
ber of his selection or some other identifying
mark. He was informed that the Commis-
sioner of Quandong.s would consult with the
chairman of the Closer Settlement Board,
but as the whole question of forest reserves
in proajingalong was under consideration
no immediate decision could be expected.
So the matter had now assumed a national
importance. As far as can be gathered from
the mass of documents iybich have accumu-
lated up to date, there have already been
consultations between the Ministers for Lands
and Works, the Advances to Settlers Board,
the Government Savings Bank and the Rail-
way Construction Branch. The Public Exe-
cutioner and the Board of Health are not
yet in the running, but may be expected to
come in later.
About the end of 1920 the Government in
Melbourne, being pledged to a policy of
economy, began to send officials to East
Gippsland, presumably to see that Brown
did not waste any of that sheet of bark
when he got it. That is probably why
Brown turned in the S.P.L. early in 1921 and
took up jungle country in Northern Queens-
land where he could hide. First, the Branch
Surveyor came and went over the lines of
Emanuel’s selection. Then the Grand Arch
Surveyor ran up from town and checked the
Branch Surveyor’s work. It was undei;-
stood that he had also been instructed to
prepare a report on the suitability of the
country for closer survey. Next the Min-
,ster came with an official party consisting
of the district member, various experts and
? corkscrew. They were a jovial party, and
inferred that it would be no time before the
matter received attention.
A snort official hiatus occurred. Then a
whirling dust heralded the advent of the
Premier, the Minister for Works, the Choir
Leader, a supply of soda-water and no cork-
screw. This was the Rechabite section of
Government. It was severe and unen-
thusiastic; we gathered that it left us with
? very poor chance of the matter receiving
favorable consideration. But the district
“ emb f e ;> discerning votes at issue, succeeded
m getting a State Governor thrpugh later.
A1 n tbo «{£
admin J ra ° tinted That after
a j] tbe matter mjght receive the attention
Brown was stm s * pposed to desire .
Since then th hea £ s f most of the at
public departm ents have come and gone,leav-
}ng a m i ng ] ed o dor of benzine and sealing-
wax behind them. The development of East
Gippsland is understood to be interwoven in
gome mysterious way with Brown’s applica-
tion for permission to strip a sheet of bark,
The fact that Brown has fled to Queens-
land, vowing never to return, does not count,
The matter is receiving attention. Neither
does it count, apparently, that the young
men of Victoria have preceded or are follow-
ing Brown. The correspondence is still there.
The departments are still there. The
system is still there. And the matter goes
on receiving attention,
E. J. BRADY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Figures and Figments of Dooley.
Because unionism is strong among factory
workers the Dooleys of N. S. Wales pour
the specially malignant vials of their wrath
on the manufacturer at election-time. The
point urged hardest is that he is a specially
big robber, and that the amount of extra
wage that can be extracted from him for
his 144,454 employees, if they only give their
144,454 votes to Dooley, will lick Golconda
into a cocked hat. Dooley’s tale is that
each Cornstalk artisan produces £272 worth
of output in a year (figures ,for 1920), and
the basic wage would only give him £221,
leaving an outrageous £5l per worker for
the boss —say, £7,400,000. It is a beautiful
dream. The first discrepancy is that the
calculation leaves not a penny for the “work-
ing employer.” In the “factories” with four
hands or less (fully one-third of the total)
the proprietor is often the hardest-working
quarter, or the two proprietors are the hard-
est-working half, of the show. Allowing the
basic wage for the working employer, about
£1,150,000 is eaten up. Fuel, which the
Dooleys never allow for, being under the
impression that everything is turned by
hand, cost £2,710,000 in the Ma State fac-
tories in 1920. Then, even assuming that
machiner.y neither wears out nor becomes
obsolete in less than 14 years, nearly
£2,000,000 was required to keep the plant
in working order. The balance remaining
on Dooley’s basic-wage basis would be about
£1,600,000 for the year divided among 5662
factories; and all that would have to come
out of that would be land-tax (in some
cases), two income-taxes, rates, repairs to
buildings, interest on about £65.000,000 in-
vested in the businesses, rent (in some
cases), selling expenses, freights, stamps,
discounts, bad debts, lighting, insurances,
losses on depreciated or unsaleable stock,
embezzlements and steals and leakages,
charities and sundries. These sundries in-
clude a trifle extra for the boss if the man
who supplies the brains and takes the risks
which keep perhaps 200 men employed
objects, as Dooley does, to work for a mas-
senger’s wage. Also, they include the extra
payments, over and above the minijnum,
which have to be made for extra skill, other-
wise extra skill will shift out of the Ma
State. Dooley says that his minimum wage
would be quite feasible all round because,
after paying £32,000,000 in mipimum wages,
there would (unless prices go down, which
they are doing fast) be something approach-
ing two millions to cover all these charges.
But if interest on capital is calculated at
a mere 6 per cent, it alone would swallow
the whole margin twice over. Of course,
Dooley isn’t such an ass as to believe the
rubbish he talks. He only believes that his
public will be ass enough to believe it—at
any rate, until he is safely back in his own
£2445-a-year job.
The Man Who Put the Coot in
Cootamundra.
A great economist is McGirk, N. S. Wales
Minister for Motherhood. His daily contri-
bution to the wisdom of the ages is the
one exhilarating feature of an election cam-
paign that, in other respects, is the dullest
on record. When Dooley and Fuller grow
wearisome the student of N. S. Wales poli-
tics turns to McGirk for mental refreshment
and never turns in vain. The first heir of his
invention was a brilliant notion for financing
his motherhood scheme bv means of a Gov-
ernment lottery. As bodied forth by his
glowing imagination, the thing looked good,
and the Labor Caucus was on the point of
adopting it, when some disguised Tory sub-
jected it to an arithmetical test. The result
was a demonstration that to get the money
required, on a 10 per cent, basis—and that
would be an extremely liberal cut—the Gov-
ernment would have to run a £lOO,OOO lottery
every day in the week, Sundays excepted;
and the lottery idea perished like a worm in
the bud. Undaunted by this rebuff, the
alchemist from Cootamundra has produced a
new parcel of proposals for the extraction of
gold from bricks. One of his ideas is that
the Government should take over the selling
of cows, sheep and pigs at Hoinebush. The
profits of this enterprise, he alleges, would
be sufficient to pay the basic wage 15 times
over. But the truth is that the Government
agents would have to sell a million pounds’
worth of stock before they earned a gross
commission of £25,000. ‘ And that sum
wouldn’t finance the difference between the
Board of Trade’s basic wage (£4 2s. per
week) and McGirr’s (£4 55.) for three days.
Another bright idea is a 5 per cent, tax on
“the bookmakers at Randwick,” an impost
which, according to its projector, would “pro-
bably yield two millions.” The implication
is that “the bookmakers at Randwick” hold
£40,000,000 in the course of a year, which
is preposterous. Nobody will accuse The
Bulletin of any sentimental regard for T.
Mcßook, but it recognises that the only
effect of a 5 per cent, tax on his turnover
would be to drive him into shops and thorough-
fares. And in that case, apart from the
general undesirableness of a vast increase
in shop and street betting, the Government
would lose the very considerable revenue it
at present derives from Tommy —every pad-
dock bookmaker at Randwick pays the State
an annual license fee of £lO7 10s., besides a
duty of threepence on every betting ticket-
and would cease t« have any check on his
earnings for income-tax purposes. It would
be far honester and more profitable to abol-
ish bookmakers—legally, at all events —and
confine betting to the totalisator. But if
a monopolistic tote yielded £500,000 a year
over and above the expense of operating it
the Government would be lucky. A State
tax on beer, of which details are lacking, is
another of McGirr’s devices for raising the
wind. Out of these imaginary millions
the farmer is to get ss. a bushel for his
wheat, the laborer £4 ss. for his 44-hour
week’s work, and his wife 6s. a week for
every child beyond the second. Or they will
be paid out of the deficit, which was
millions on June 30 and is expected to reach
44 millions when that date comes round
again. By a further inspiration of genius
the Motherhood gentleman has discovered
that the London price of wheat and wool is
conditioned by the Australian wage-rate—
that if wages fall in Australia the wool and
wheat growers will get only 50 per cent,
or so of the current quotations. He advanced
that proposition at Cootamundra. But he
didn’t maintain that the rule would work
both ways and that by quadrupling the wages
paid in Australia you can make London pay
four times as much for our commodities.
There are limits to human credulity, even
at Cootamundra.
A Dying Imposture.
At Seymour (Vic.) the other night Arch-
bishop Mannix remarked:—
It was time that Catholics and non-Catholics
should extend the hand of friendship to each other.
Australia’s sectarian row, which was im-
ported originally from Dr. Man nix’s coun-
try, has been as consistently disastrous as
the Scotch thistle or the English briar. It
has injured trade, held up production, and
caused innumerable family rows. And yet,
in all the years during which the insanity
persisted, there was no local difference of
any consequence between Catholic and non-
Catholic, as the Melbourne prelate now by
implication admits. The real row was be-
tween England and Ireland. Not even be-
tween Protestant England and Catholic Ire-
land, for English Nonconformists wer-e
always the friends of Irish freedom, while
some of Sinn Fein’s best men are Protes-
tants. But if, as the Archbishop now claims,
there is no issue in Australian political or
social life upon which Catholics and non-
Catholics are justified in opposing one an-
other, and if there never was a sectarian
basis for the Anglo-Irish dispute, then many
generations of Australians have had their
legs unmercifully pulled, and there has been
a great deal of superfluous abuse and ill-
feeling. And what Hibernian and Orangeman
have been doing. amongst us for so many
years in connection with the now-expiring
Irish disturbance, a thousand other provoca-
tive agents—chiefly political—are still doing
in other directions. The party tacticians’
claim that there must be hatred between
employer and employee—that on the one
hand all employers are heartless tyrants,
while on the other all workers are Bol-
shevists—is merely a variant of the trickery
which kept Ireland in turmoil for at least
half-a-century after settlement was practic-
able. and which is still causing bloodshed
in those regions whose inhabitants cling to
the formula which Dr. Mannix has just
jettisoned. The difference between the Arch-
bishop and the politicians is in the prelate’s
favor: his recent recantation was his first
and is likely to be final. The party leaders
perform the feat after each election. That
is to say, both Laborites and anti-Labor-
ltes show, the moment they are home and
dry with their gold passes on their watch-
chains, that they could not have believed e
word of the hymns of hate which they howled
at the electors while the scuffle for votes was
m progress. Some day the nation will vet
a proper appreciation of what is being done
to it, and when that happens party govern-
ment should go the wav that sectarianism
appears at last to be taking.
*
Our Export Trade in Fruit.
Six months or more ago The Bulletin
was reproved by the N.S.W. Minister in
charge of Yanko for drawing attention to
the unsatisfactory condition in which tinned
goods from the irrigation settlement were
reaching foreign markets—London in par-
ticular. Elaborate official reports were pro-
duced to show that the allegations couldn’t
be true. They were true; but it was hoped
that they wouldn’t be in future. Now this
arrives:—-
I told you previously of my efforts to introduce
the Ibis brand of peaches grown by the Irrigation
Commission in N. S. Wales. Well, the other week
the chief buyer of one of the biggest restaurants
in London sent for me and asked for a sample, as
he was willing to give his business to the Common-
wealth. I immediately took along a sample, and
looked for the big wholesale order which would follow.
The sample was opened up in my presence, and it
was awful. It was the “worst ever.” I was speech-
less. The fruit was hard and green and positively
forbidding. He opened for me a tin of Californian.
The difference was so great that to have offered an
excuse would have been waste of time. All I could
do was to beg another chance when we had shown
that we could do better.
But, anyhow, I had the Australian passion-fruit
to boom. The first little shipment was fine. At
last, after a score of disappointments, I had some-
thing to say: “Well, there you are. Now what about
it ?” I had it served in the tea-room of the Crichton,
in Dover-street, and London took to it beautifully.
Then I interviewed leading merchants. One very
good and well-known firm (Cooper's Stores, where
the late Mr. Chalmers, of Farmer’s, got his training)
was most interested: the manager said he wanted
to handle more kinds of the products of the Common-
wealth, and was willing to introduce this new line.
These people have big stores throughout Great Britain
and the right clientele for the goods. I could not
have got anyone better to introduce it. So at
Christmas Cooper’s promised to give it prominence
in a special window display. 1 had two cases sent
for the purpose. Soon after it arrived, to my
amazement I received a curt note from the firm
asking me to “remove the passion-fruit delivered.”
I was puzzled, and went to see them. When I
arrived the manager was the usual courteous gentle-
man, but said he was surprised that I had let them
down over the passion-fruit. He led me to it. The
label was there, staring at me from 24 bottles:
“Australian Passion-Fruit.” But the stuff was 2//
bottles of yellow water 1 There was not a sign of
even a seed of the passion-fruit. If I had been in
Australia I would not have waited for dawn to
murder the one who did it.
Come Inside.
The Argus is often called upon these times,
being where it is and what it is, to wallop
its Joss. Joe Cook, a favorite god, has just
been dealt with for reminding the British
manufacturer that, if he finds it impossible
to throw his cap over the Australian tariff
wall, he is welcome to get inside. Yet
Cook never said a wiser thing, nor one
that commands with such surety the ap-
proval of the truly Australian person. Nor
does any remark seem more inevitable in
the presence of the English manufacturer
struggling to lift his pack over the seem-
ingly insurmountable edifice. We welcome
the man and his abilities with wide-thrown
arms. It only remains for him to build his
goods where there are no formidable bar-
riers between the article and its market.
Scores appreciated and acted on Cook’s
advice before it was given, and many Eng-
lish manufacturers are now busy making
goods in a position of vantage from which
it will not be necessary to hoist the crate
over any obstacle, nor push it through, nor
dig under in order to get in touch with the
buyer. They have come inside. From this
point they have an unimpeded exit to such
outer markets as are available; and here
they will be an accession of strength, adding
to that army within our walls bent upon
protecting Australia from foreign aggres-
sion. Every Freetrade English manufac-
turer becomes a good Australian Protection-
ist immediately he sets up his mill on the
right side of the wall. This the Argus
recognises, and its assault and battery of
Cook, springs from a melancholy apprecia-
tion of the fact that, having iost all its
friends at home, it is in danger of parting
with those staunch supporters from overseas
whose detestation of the Australian tariff
wall arose from a mistaken impression that
they must for ever dash their heads against
it.
The Soft Answer That Turncth Away
Wrath.
Dear Bulletin, —“Elburg” (B. 9/3/’22)
complains of my remarks re the two trans-
continental railways. The only parts of his
screed that I object to are the whole of it,
and then the rest. According to “Elburg”
the building of the disastrous Federal line
to the perishing towns of Ivalgoorlie and
Boulder (their joint population declined from
26,321 to 16,116 between censuses) was
the consequence of “a distinct pledge.”
A pledge from whom to lvhom? The build-
ing of the line isn’t in the Federal Consti-
tution. It wasn’t a condition which West-
ralia made with the Federal Government or
the Prime Minister when it joined up, for
there was neither Federal Governor nor
Prime Minister nor Parliament to bargain
with. Westralia didn’t, like South Aus-
tralia, buy its railway by handing over a
grant equal to 200,000 acres of land per
mile of railway, finished or prospective. It
offered nothing save its dashed and uncon-
scionable cheek, and the fact that it had
a robust bargainer in the Cabinet. It got
its line in consequence without payment, at
the sacrifice of the State that paid an exor-
bitant price—for the regular tariff for land-
grant railways in Australia has always been
12,000 acres of soil per mile, and not the
200,000 which the South Australians paid.
The Westralian people broke their word,
inasmuch as they didn’t widen the gauge of
their line from Ivalgoorlie to Perth to give
the Federal train a straight run through.
The Commonwealth did “rush to build” the
desert line to Kalgoorlie, which had no
claim on the assets of Queensland and Tas-
mania save the ineffable “front” of the
promoters. And “isolated Westralians”
didn’t “wait almost despairing” for the con-
cession to which they had no more claim
than they had to my ancestors’ temple at
Jerusalem. A mere six years after the
Commonwealth began the surveyors were
out, laying out the route of this concession
to the Golden Mendicant, who had also
struck the Commonwealth for a special
grant to help him on his golden way. South
Australia has already waited a dozen years.
“Elburg” says “the line runs through many
hundreds of miles of excellent pastoral coun-
try covered with the wonderful salt-bush
and blue-bush.” Possibly it is also covered
with olives and oaks and cedars of Lebanon,
and if you climb to the top of the tallest
giant with a telescope you Can distinctly
see Captain Cook landing- in the distance.
Well, there are 1051 miles of the pallid
pachyderm altogether, which isn’t so very
“many hundreds.” But for the total absence
of fresh running water, and the fact that
bore water is scarce and bad —so bad in


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES EXCEED £700,000.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS - - - - £300,000
ASSETS EXCEED £1,100,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, South Africa.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
7 • - • r ■ . • SELBY P. WOOD. J.P.; Governing Director.
. ••• . • , AUBREY E. WENDEN, Managing Director.
Full Time, Part Time and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
places that the locomotive won’t drink it —
the place, no doubt, wouldn’t be so dry as
it is. Then, when Kalgoorlie is reached at
the end of the 1051 miles, one has reached
a town that fetches its drinking water from
85.0 miles further on, showing that there
is plenty more dryness ahead. I know, of
course, that, according to the new sprung
pattern in patriotism—the big check variety
with the fringe and the striking design round
the tummy; —there is no desert in Australia,
and every inch of it may be safely borrowed
on. True, on rainfall maps very much of
it is marked the same color as Sahara and
Gobi and the Syrian Desert. The East-to-
West Federal line is all in this white patch.
Our own map-maker marks nearly 900,000
square miles of Australia as the' Riverless
District. He also says that the salt bog
called Lake Eyre is the accumulated
moisture of another 500,000 square miles
reaching almost to the Gulf and right
to the coast range of Queensland. And
Australia is up against the fact that,
although it only grows wheat on such a
small select area that the whole Common-
wealth doesn’t equal Roumania as a pro-
ducer, the result is so poor that this country,
for yield per acre, is the most barren save
three in a list of 32 leading producers. Still,
according to the large check pattern of
patriotism, there is no desert in Australia—
likewise no sin or debt or disease. “Elburg”
says the East-to-West line “was not ex-
pected to pay in its earlier years,” when the
Golden Mile was in all its glory. Nor is
it expected to pay in its later years when
the Mile will be only a memory like Tyre. The
gross revenue per mile of track was £4lO in
the best year. The latest return (1920) was
£167 per mile, and the loss was a record.
The South-to-North line should do better
when it is finished, but this absurd affair,
which is vastly longer than the sea route, is
finished—dead finished. “Elburg” asks if
I begrudge the Westralians the blessing of
the railway for which five other States bear
94 per cent, of the loss. In a voice which
makes Gabriel’s trumpet a non-starter I
reply that I do.—Yours ever, Solomon
Malaprop.
The almost daily contention by people who
are always finding substitutes for work,
that the Government should “open a credit”
and thus supply money for all manner of
relief, comes of their having read a lot of war-
time literature and failed to get the inward-
ness of it. In the war-time the opening of
credits was as common as mud. A big
nation, anxious to keep a small, embarrassed
ally in the fighting line, would undertake
to find it so many millions’ worth of arms,
munitions and food. It stipulated that the
goods should be bought from its people, partly
to turn an honest copper by the transaction,
partly to make sure that the money was
rightly spent. Then the small, embarrassed
ally’s rich friend “opened a credit” by de-
positing either cash or something that was
considered equal with some person in the
banking way, and the distressed ally’s
cheques were thereupon good to that amount.
The mistake many amateur Bolsheviks make
is in thinking that the distressed person
can open his own credit, simply by guaran-
teeing himself on account of his poverty,
and, so to speak, putting his own impecuni-
osity up the spout.
4
It was exultantly announced on Saturday
by Theodore, the Queensland Premier, that
the royal assent had been given to the bill
destroying the Leg. Council. * Simultaneously
with the glad tidings the problem of what
was going to happen to Jones, Minister of
Mines and leader of the slaughtered Cham-
ber, was solved by Jones suceeding
Fiiielly, who is on his way to London, in
the representation of Paddington. Jones
having thus been provided for, and a rail-
way pass for life (or until an anti-deadhead
Government comes along) handed to every
nominee legislator whose occupation is gone,
the Uppah Chambah may be pronounced well
and truly dead. In a utilitarian sense it
is no loss to Queensland, for it was merely
a cumbrous and costly instrument for re-
cording the decrees of the party in power
for the time being. But the manner of its
destruction was shabby in the extreme. It
was slain in the last hours of a hurried ses-
sion by a Government representing a min-
ority of the electors and acting in defiance
of a popular referendum, which had de-
clared by a large majority for the main-
tenance of the threatened institution. Very
significant is the hostility of the latter-day
Labor party to the referendum. It flam-
boyantly claims to be the “People’s party”
but rejects the referendum, because the re-
ferendum gives the People too much power
and the Tammany Boss too little.
“Wealsman” : After all, isn’t the settlement
of the North, like the settlement of every
remote or outback district, a matter of
adjusting the rewards to the exertion? Mv
forebears trekked into the remote wilds of
Gippsland long before there was any talk
of a railway, and spent 15 or 20 years wrest-
ling with scrub and wiregrass and supple-
jack and big timber before they could afford
anything but damper and beef and spuds
for tucker, or anything more civilised than
a concertina and tin-whistle for musical en-
tertainment. They went there because the
remote bush was the one place in which they
could exchange their only available capital,
their youth and strength, for a possibly-
payable dairy-farm. Thus is all new coun-
try settled. If the prospective rewards are
good enough white men will settle anywhere,
take on anything in the shape of hardship
and inconvenience, and pull through or burst
in the attempt. Governments desiring to
people their outback districts offer cheap
land as the chief inducement. If the Com-
monwealth Government wants to people the
Northern Territory with whites (and if it
doesn’t it is a traitor to Australia’s dearest
ideal), it is surely only a matter of making
the inducement attractive enough. Those qf
us who hoped and expected that this special
inducement would be offered to the returned
soldiers, with a view to establishing a useful
sort of Cossack control of the Territory, are
now quite satisfied that the least patriotic
class in the community is the class that had
land and other things to unload at famine
prices to the various Soldier Settlement
Boards. And political leaders, Federal,
State and municipal, Nationalist or Labor,
THE STRANDED SHIP.
KING CANUTE DOOLEY: "Here, didn't I give instructions that the tide teas to remain
at the full —till after the elections, anyway?”
who connived at or permitted the brigandage
are very little higher in the scale of com-
parative patriotism; for though they may
not be guilty of actual and personal. com-
plicity in the robbery, their shortsighted
stupidity is colossal enough to be classed as
criminal. It may not be too late to start
some scheme for the Digger settlement of the
North even now. If it is vital that the North
should he peopled with whites, we must cer-
tainly be prepared to pay the doctor’s fee
lest wc have to pay the undertaker’s.
From a man at Port Moresby:—
Judge Murray’s efforts-to relieve the strained com-
mercial situation in Papua by inducing the Hughes
Government to purchase the copra and rubber output
at fixed prices for a .fixed period are being coldly
received by the Planters’ Association. . Considered
purely as a temporary measure of .relief the .proposal
has its points, but the average planter would prefer
the exemption of Papua from, the. Navigation- Act,
with direct access to the world’s ■ markets, reduced
freights and the abolition of, the export duty on
copra. It was. by means similar to these that the
magnificent export trade of German New . Guinea was
built up. In pre-war days the heavily subsidised
N.D.L. line carried the German planter’s copra to
Hamburg, via Sydney, for a trifle over 20s. per ton,
and rice for his laborers—always a heavy item of
expense—was larded direct from Hongkong at a
.correspondingly low rate. The result was that
Rabaul prospered while Moresby . stagnated.. If
Hughes is sincere in his desire to save Papua from
fihaneial collapse, he can do the business by utilising
idle vessels of the Commonwealth Dine, and inaugu-
rating a service between New Guinea and Europe.
The mandated territories produce 30,000 tons of
copra per annum, and Papua’s output is about 5000
tons. Unless the planter is wiped off the earth there
should be a substantial increase in production every
year, but even at the present stage of development
there' is ample loading to keep two vessels profitably
employed. I hate to say it, but the Navigation Act,
backed by powerful interests in Australia, is respon-
sible for our present predicament. You see, we have
no votes.
“Sarn-Major” on our citizen army:—
I agree in the main with “Onediv” (B. 23/2/’22).
During my 20 years as an instructor. I have never
known the position in the Citizen Forces to be
worse. The gap between Army Headquarters and
Divisional Headquarters is nothing compared with the
gaps lower down the organisation. And the greatest
gap of all yawns between the Citizen Force officer
and the higher permanent officer. Since the war
training has degenerated into .a few Saturday-after-
noon and week-night parades, and hopeless chaos has
arisen, notwithstanding the issue of syllabi beauti-
fully arranged by the Military Board.. The average
trainee is- as good as the average volunteer provided
he is handled decently. But he wants a fair
deal, which he is not getting under present condi-
tions. Mass? Greene shouldn’t restrict his field
of* research- to Army .Headquarters. The man who
knows the trainee might convince him that regula-
tions made sin a carpeted room on Yarra’s banks
aren’t necessarily - suitable .for regiments', maintained
under quite different circumstances in remote parts
of the continent. .
4
The remarks of the military “Rio”: — 1
It' would be ;a mistake to drop the Divisional
organisation when we have so many officers trained
in the A.I.F. to work under it. .Six of our seven
Divisional Generals are citizen officers, and all have
merely, skeleton staffs, so the expense saved by aboli-
tion would not be great.. The one permanent .Divis-
ional commander so sets the pace that his staff
complains of overwork. Something should certainly
be! dope with Duntroon. My idea is to make it a
training-school for engineering, architectural, survey-
ing and allied branches, of, the Commonwealth Public
Service. I agree with “Onediv” that there is now
no need for sending Duntroon graduates abroad, and
that much would be saved by abolishing training in
sparsely populated areas. Still, as our best mounted
troops come from these- parts, - there should be pro-
vision for a skeleton organisation. “Onediv” is like-
wise right about rifles. The factory should be
allowed to make other articles. The great cost of rifles
at Lithgow is, because the factory is not working
to its full capacity. As to pay and ordnance,
these branches are no more under military control
than are the railways, whose heads are hon. colonels.
Business men were introduced, by the score six years
ago, and those branches have been re-organised by
Boards under Mcßeath, Swinburne and Ramacciotti
again and again. Yet we are continually told the
branches are still wasteful and inefficient. Why blame
the soldiers?
------- — —_
“Two Gold Stripes” also has military ideas:
Though agreeing with much “Onediv” (B.
23/2/ 22) says I think it would be a retrograde step
to abolish the Divisional organisation. The Division
is a coherent body, capable of maintaining itself,
very powerful in action, and, above all, it is a
formation in which the commander is able te gaiige
the ability of each of his subordinate commanders.
It is incorrect to say the scheme was intended to
perpetuate the ranks of senior regular officers. The
men who have made most out of the Divisional
scheme (as far as rank goes) are the Citizen Force
officers. Glasgow, Gellibrand, Hobbs, Cox, Rosen-
thal and Tivey are all men of the Citizen Force;
they all did well in the war. Brand is the only
regular officer commanding a Division—and no one
can deny that he is well worthy of such a job. As
for the concrete suggestions made by “Onediv,” I
agree with the cutting out of the “Army Council,”
as he calls it, and I would like to see a Commander-
in-Chief in its place—say Monash or Chauvel.
His suggestions that training should be confined to
large centres of population and take the form of
continuous camps are both sound. These would
lead to the abolition of the present useless half-day
and night parades, which cost a lot and teach
nothing. The pay and ordnance branches are a big
problem, and while I agree that pay must be in
civilian control —as it is—ordnance is so essential
to the maintenance of any force in the field, that
it is necessary it should be controlled by a
man who knows a good deal about active service.
This unfortunately is not the case in Australia at
present, as ordnance is a matter for the Q.M.G.’s
branch. But whatever we do, let us stick to the
Divisional organisation.
. :—-♦
“Rachel’s” last word: —
If Louise Dixon in her first article on “Wives
and Mothers” was writing about the uneducated
rank-and-file, then I suppose I should hide my
diminished head. But surely when she referred to
women who have “equal opportunities with men, in
most careers and professions” she meant wbmen
who were mentally equipped for the work. I am
quite willing to admit that I should be exceedingly
nervous about the result of a “house-to-house can-
vass” conducted in “almost any suburb,” but I am
equally confident, if , the canvass were to take place
in any gathering of, say, a thousand women who
had had a High School education, that it would yield
gratifying, and to Louise Dijcon surprising, results-.
♦
“Henry Horsecollar” : I suggest that, in
the present muddy condition of N. S, Wales
politics, a sort of Marquis of Queensberry
rule might be adopted. When a candidate
has made, for his own and his party’s benefit,
10 statements of alleged fact which he fails
to prove on demand before an independent
tribunal, he should be counted opt. of the
contest:. Speakers who are not candidates
should lose their talker’s license. As one
case in point out of many, the tale was cir-
culated that during the short-lived Coalition
spme members of the Labor party were
offered “large sums of money” by criminals,
whom they won’t name or denounce, for their
votes. Particulars being requested, the ex-
planation was made that Brookfield, who
wasn’t a Laborite and who is dead, said
years ago that persons whom he also
failed to define, even under the shelter of
Parliamentary privilege, had “offered him
anything he desired”—the wealth of Ormuz
and of Ind, in fact—in return for even his
temporary support. Now the names of these
people who offered poor old Brookfield the
riches of the jewelled Orient should be
known, and it is up to Carlo Spaghetti
Lazzarini, who is mixed up in the affair,
to supply them. I would like to borrow a
trifle from that crowd myself.
«♦-
A matter of interest to criminologists is the
extent to which a new type has latterly come
into existence in Australia. Formerly there
could hardly be said to be a purely criminal
class here, the great majority of those serving
sentences being ordinary, members of the
community who had fallen foul of the law.
Even as far as the recidivist or habitual
class was concerned this applied, and one
noticeable feature up till 10 or 15 years ago
was that a very large proportion of them
had some sort of an occupation which they
frequently followed while enjoying their
spells of liberty. Now, however, a purely
professional type is in evidence. They have
no other trade. It is an axiom among
criminologists that the ranks of unskilled
labor provide most of the recruits for the
crime-legions. Among those confined as
habituals in one large Australian prison at
present less than 1 per cent, are able to
give an occupation other than that of “lab-
orer.” No doubt, the presence of this new
type is one of the concomitants of a de-
veloped community; but it would be interest-
ing, from a sociological point of view, if
one could ascertain the exact part in the
creation of a criminal class that has been
played by those who have discouraged ap-
prenticeship and put a premium upon un-
skilled labor. It would certainly be a large
part.


Tangible Savings That Reduce Costs.
DORR Engineering&Equipment
For the Mechanical Washing, Removal, Recovery, Classification
or Treatment of Finely Divided Solids Suspended in Liquids.
Floor Space:—Dorr Patent Thickeners, Tray Type, provide double, treble or even quad-
ruple the settling capacity per unit of floor area, as compared with other types of thickeners.
THE DORR COMPANY, Research Engineers, New York, Denver, London.
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES—
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
10-14 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney.
440 Little Collins Street. Melbourne.
i 9
/
POLITICAL
POINTS
S’Africa learned last week in blood and
tears that it is but a step from “the class
war” to civil war. The vanishing of the
premium on gold brought about an indus-
trial crisis on the Rand, where the few
mines that were making profits worked on
the narrowest of margins. Refusing to
compromise on wages and fired by hopes of
“taking and holding” the mines and estab-
lishing a Soviet Republic on the ruins, the
extremists of the Red Federation plunged
into a hopeless rising against the Govern-
ment, in the course of which, as always
happens, mad and bad things were done on
both sides. The t tragedy ,is a warning to
Australians to stick to the arbitration prin-
ciple and the White Australia policy (for
the color question crept into the Johannes-
burg business with ghastly results), and,
above all things, to clear their minds of
the poisonous cant of Imported incendiaries.
Next to foreign conquest civil war is the
greatest calamity that eobld come upon a
country, and gaol or deportation should be
the portion of the criminals whd preach it.
From close up to the proceedings:—
About the general result of N.S.W. State elections
on the 25th there is no certainty. Another dead-
heat is quite possible. Apart from the Progressives
the Liberals have no chance of acquiring a majority,
and there will be half a dozen of the former faction
hostile to Dooley but almost equally dissatisfied with
Fuller. A.L.P. talk is that Fuller is having a
tight go in Wollondilly. It returned him and
two Labor men at last election. This time Mark
Morton is making a hot fight for a share of the
furniture, and the Libs, assert that they will have
two-thirds of it when all the returns are in.
Dooley will get back from Bathurst. Greg. McGirr
will take one of the Sydney seats. Levy is having
the fight of his life f6r Oh® of th§ others. Though
the synagogue is rent in twaiii Danny reckons on
escaping with his scalp. Ilis campaign is one of
the most vigorous the State is watching languidly.
Dick Meagher has again heard the banshee.
His sympathy vote isn’t what it was. Ashford,
Holman’s last Minister for Lands, has gone. Reid,
the wild man from Manly, will require a lot of
luck to keep ahead of the sharks. E. S. Carr, once
Labor member for Macquarie in the House of Reps.,
now a Lib., and one of the solidest of them, finds
the going hard in Cumberland. A local dentist is
after him with a pair of ugly-looking forceps. And
Carr dots not want a tooth pulled. Dooley hopes
for “a majority of three or five,” but it is arith-
metically impossible. The doubtful electorates are
Sydney, Balmain, Parramatta, Wollondilly, Ryde,
Eastern Suburbs and, perhaps, Newcastle and
Bathurst. No party change is likely in the other
divisions.
Some of the cranks who live on this coun-
try though their souls are in Moscow simply
couldn’t stick to Australian business at the
economic conference, but flew off the handle
perpetually in defence of Communism. It
didn’t fail, they said, because the gospel
was rotten, but by reason of the hostility of
outside capitalists. A new faith that can’t
get along except with the aid and support
of outside enemies seems a shoddy tower of
defence. Such movements as Christianity
and Mohammedanism got along-—perhaps be-
cause they had some vitality of their
own. But the supreme jest of the business
is that the Bolshevik Government was the
greatest capitalist in the world, and perhaps
the biggest the world ever saw—until it
muddled its inheritance away. It had
Tooth’s brewery to keep sober on; now it
says that if it had also had the run of
Toolmy’s and Perkins’s and the Cascade it
wouldn’t have got so beastly drunk.
“Go where you will in N.5.W..” says the
impassioned Dooley, “you will find develop-
ment works going on”—with loan money
raised at record high interest. But you won’t
find factories developing because, in all the
country outside Sydney, there were 309
less at the last count than in 1913. And
you won’t find farming and dairying develop-
ing either, for at last count there were
25,448 fewer people employed in these purely
country industries than in 1913. Statisti-
cian Smith gives these figures on pages 333
and 616 of his Official Year Book. A drop
from 112,914 agriculturists to 87,466, while
population grew by nearly 200,000 and great
land-settlement policies went about like roar-
ing lions, is queer “development.” More
than half the product of N.S.W. agriculture
is now required to meet the interest on the
State’s development money. And the man on the
land is getting so tired of it that he is chuck-
ing up the job wholesale. That's what
Dooley’s development works that don’t pay
interest mean.
From a Red Cross sanatorium: —
By last advices from London Banvell is repeating
that the N.T. cannot be settled without colored
labor, and dogmatically asserts that white women
and children cannot live there. My sister in the
Territory is, I see, still contributing to The Bulle-
tin, The last time I heard she had six youngsters,
all healthy, and in her letter, written after 12
years’ residence, she mentioned that neither she
nor her husband would care to live south again. Bar-
well, on the other hand, has never been in the
Territory.; so whether he is a woman or not doesn’t
come into the controversy at present.
Higgins, the non-elected N.S.W. Labor
politician who wrote “The Voice of Labor”
in the Sydney Telegraph until some trouble
occurred on the premises, presented a
quaint sort of case for the proposed child
pensions. The Assyrians, he says, had
the system—and they are dead. The
Manchus brought it to China —and they
are dead. The English gave it up—
and they aren’t dead. It almost seems
a pity, after that, to say that Higgins is
THE WOOING.
DOOLEY: “This bouquet doesn't smell too sweet, but I’ll try to convince her they’re roses.”
a poor historian. But, as a matter of fact,
the Assyrian with a large family didn’t really
receive any pension at all. He got liberal
rebates of taxation, but he had to be a
worker and a taxpayer to get anything. As
for the Manchus, who lasted less than 300
years in China, they were queer baby pen-
sioners for a Labor man to quote, for the
aristocratic Manchu baby was pensioned and
the Chinese baby wasn’t. The English pen-
sion system had nothing sensational about it.
It was simply rotten and died—just as the
Australian baby bonus will die unless it
shows the promised increase in the birth-
rate, instead of the dreary decrease that has
followed it like a ghost.
A new influence has been formed by
syndicating the A.W.U., the Coal and
Shale Workers and the Waterside Workers.
The first is to rule agriculture and fisheries
and make the cocky farmer sit up. The
second is to fix the price and quantity and
delivery or non-delivery of fuel. The third
will boss shipping and cut off cbmmunica-
tions. Among other matters it is proposed:
To reduce working hours; to educate members;
to build an organisation for the purpose of abolish-
ing capitalism and substituting in its place the
social ownership of the means of production, dis-
tribution and exchange, to be controlled by the
workers in the respective industries; to establish
and maintain Labor newspapers.
But the eternal question arises: Are the
affairs of the nation to be controlled by
“the workers in the respective industries”?
In other words, are the present bosses, hardly
one of whom really “works in the respective
industry,” to retire into well-earned obli-
vion? And, especially, will the papers be
managed by the staffs, or will the usual
board of politicians interfere and poke a
non-journalistic nose into affairs generally?
Australia's most serious drawback from
the immigration agent’s point of view
is that it has only live places to put immi-
grants in, or six if Tasmania is a place,
and they are not enough. Also, they are
stale. . If Australia advertised that 10 new
States were opening up, and each wanted
settlers, the old lands would think a new
world had been opened, and would come to
see. In George Washington’s country 17
new States have been created since 1856,
and they are all doing well, and supplying
jobs for dishonest people galore. Also, they
have set going 17 separate new streams of
immigration. In the same period Australia
has stood still like China.
Agent-General Connolly, of Westralia, pro-
poses that the British Government should
stand, or lend, half, and the Commonwealth
the other half, the cost of “building rail-
ways and roads and equipping farms ready
for occupation” in W.A.’s gigantic North.
The Commonwealth can be counted out of
any such scheme right away. It has its
own vast territory tso develop; and already
it has postponed that development to furnish
Westralia with one big railway—which, by
the way, earned half as much per mile in
L 920 as in 1916.
Theodore, of Queensland, who has never
forgiven England for refusing to lend him
£9,000.000 in one heap, issued a warning to
J. Bull during his visit to Sydney
The British Government has too many troubles in
Egypt, India and Ireland to want more troubles in
Australia. There is not a scintilla of danger that
the Imperial Government will withhold assent from
the Legislative Council Abolition Bill.
The question is how this Terrible Turk
would set about making trouble after the
Indian or Irish fashion. He couldn’t go
sniping at British naval or military men, or
diplomatists, or civil servants, for there are
none here unless one counts Matthew
Nathan, and one sparrow doesn’t make a
revolution. He couldn’t mutiny for want of
an army to mute with. He could hardly
secede or stop British trade, for Hughes con-
trols these things. He couldn’t stop pay-
ment of British taxes, for there are none.
To stop payment of interest on the foreign
debt (if the Commonwealth didn’t find a
way of stopping the stoppage) wouldn’t
prove revolt. Every day people go bank-
rupt without going into insurrection. In
short, the question is. supposing Theodore
seceded or something like that, how could he
make enough difference to prove that he had
seceded?
Daily naper item :
As Manildra is a country town, Mr. Dooley picked
for his text: “The Government has indeed done
wonderful things for the man on the land, and the
milk and honey that now flow through the country
have come as a result of wise government.”
He meant “bilk and bunny,” of course. The
bilk can be seen in the decline of the farm-
ing population, and on resumed properties
that are too expensive for settlers bunny
flourishes amazingly.
Day-labor recently got two glittering
advertisements, separated by the width of
the continent. In one case it was harshly
assailed by the new Sydney Mayor on the
discovery that the eity surveyor’s depart-
ment wanted £3OO for whitewashing part
of the Pvrmont powerhouse, and £250 for
creosoting a bit of the Camperdown storage
depot. The city surveyor’s department has
been working a day-labor monopoly, conferred
on it by the Labor aldermen, for three years,
but as a result of these and other pleasant-
ries the contractor is in future to get an
open go. In the other case the Perth Labor
heads, having large additions (about £12,000
worth) to make to their Trades Hall, reso-
lutely advertised for tenders. They are
enthusiasts for day-labor in the expenditure
of public money. But where their own
funds are concerned they just as enthusi-
astically disavow it.
Finding the public indifferent, Hughes has,
as everyone knew he Avould, revoked his
order forbidding the entry into Australia of
half-a-dozen German experts to set up the
briquette machinery at Morwell. All argu-
ments were really settled by the blunt de-
claration of General Monash, chairman of
the Electricity Commissioners, that the pres-
ence of Fritz and Hans for a few months
to set up the plant and break in the em-
ployees was essential to safe working.
The Lawson Government has resolved to
abolish the post of Sergeant-at-Arms and
combine the duty of carrying the mace with
other tasks to be undertaken by a flunkey
much inferior in status to the departed
Worthington. Wherefore the recently acting
sergeant is looking very mournful, and other
aspirants seem to have had a bad day at the
races too.
Lithgow (N.S.W.), which was to be the
Birmingham of Australia, is full of monu-
ments to the basic wage and the 44-hour
week and the great god Go Slow. The
monuments are empty houses with the sign
“To Let” in their windows. Before the
Dooleys came along, Lithgow had what it
called “an acute housing problem” and many
of it lived in tents. To-day, thanks to McGir'r
and Dooley, the problem is gone. So is the
prosperity.
A conference of Vic. employers, employees,
technical-school committeemen, State officials
and a couple of M’s.P. is discussing the
apprenticeship question. Unlike most Aus-
tralian conferences, it means business, and
in order to make it difficult for Lawson to
shelve its recommendations it is going to put
them in the form of a draft bill. The sug-
gestions of two previous conferences, simi-
larly constituted, were pigeon-holed. But
there is very little doubt that Peacock, now
Minister of Labor, is sincerely anxious to
round off his political career by passing an
Apprentices Act.
Regarded as a dead-end occupation it is
hard to imagine anything worse than that of
the “block-boy”—the person who removes
the traces of the horse from the city streets.
But in the washing up that is proceeding
at Sydney Town Hall it has come out
that under the Labor regime many of
the “boys” were able-bodied men, receiving
the full wage of a skilled artisan ; for it is
the new Labor policy to restrict the output
of skilled artisans and encourage dead-
enders. Australia has of all countries in the
world the lowest proportion of people who
haven’t learned to read, but the proportion
who haven't learned the much more' impor-
tant art of making a living looks like a
record.
The most mischievous feature of the so-
called settlement of the nearly year-old labor
trouble at Mount Morgan is the arrangement
whereby the co. is subsidised by the Govern-
ment to the extent of flOOO a week (the
railways allowing rebates to Mt. Morgan
traffic to this extent) on the understan ling
that the wages shall benefit to the extent of
the benefaction. This vicious arrangement
is a political dodge to secure the seat for the
sitting Labor member at the next election.
The candidate will, of course, tell hi.s miner-
electors that the Liberals or Nationals are
opposed to the subsidy business,, and that
if the subsidy is wiped out then wages must
drop to, the extent of, say, I.os. a week—and
the trick is done. But if every failing indus-
try in Bananaland is to be propped with
taxpayers’ money the sooner Theodore
arranges for a steady stream of Yankee
millions the better. They will all be wanted.
Arthur Griffith gives a testimonial: —
In selecting Matt Charlton for its leader the Federal
Labor party has made one of the best moves in
its history. Charlton possesses Fisher’s qualities
of unquestionable probity and transparent fairness
with a good deal of Chris Watson’s tact and initia-
tive. He is not as aggressive as was Ryan or as
versatile as Hughes, but is capable of inspiring
more confidence than either. Charlton’s leadership
will be worth several seats to the partry in the
next Federal election.
“Rio”: I should like to tell “Pick” (B.
2/3/’22) that I have never denied that
“almost every fit man [in rifle clubs]
enlisted.” My figures are those of Captain
Dakin, sec. N.R.A., who in The Bulletin
in August, 1920, said that “25,000 to 30,000
enlisted out of 88,000.” A membership of
over 100,000 had been previously claimed.
My objection is to Commonwealth Defence
money being wasted on the 50,000 or over
who must be unfit. “Pick” (B. 2/3/’22)
says they are not elderly. Well, what is the
matter with them?
THE WOOING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Dooley has promised everybody everything.”
The lover knelt in the dank wet grass,
And the bull-ants chewed at his shins;
The maiden stood where the shadows pass,
And, listening, nibbled a stalk of grass.
“The moon, sweet one, the silver moon,
Is yours if you marry me!
Do you get me, pet? And, oh, make it soon—
Take half the planets, and all the moon.”
“It seems to me it is far from right,”
Said the young mopoke to the bandicoot:
“For this fellow promised the moon last night
To another girl. Do you think it’s right?”
“Oh, that is the ardent lover’s way,”
Said the grey old bandicoot;
“It’s always the woman’s part to pay—
When the lover has sipped he rides away.’-
N.S.W.
FRANK JESSUP.


2* • PooL^
-Vo swa- -#-*
Coui^ry
rt
Crtf.Jl'ts ”
1
3k. \>a.>n \
S.
S+ri/tK thaits it 111
CS+ZklplisV* a cv-edit.
If & country oa»o
do it 2x man cavj .
5.
* .*
TV»«jr» I pi 2kH 1
gTo+ akVxl 3*ll 1 <tv«v bopa
i*d h>kV<z. J*ov- *Tn\ Ui on
A
“ Tir±\ I’ll
OpCMr~> 2k
fcVvDp -
Any WMy
W<z-' 11 C2kll
+ra.cz.
p2k\A/10 sWop •
6 Nowj <rr>ya^f
WtUl OKI
s>a* .
7. ”
Wa.lt, wn 2uo
-Ho vr>akkct »►
€»+**-+ ,}
Som4 vAjbcz.r<z.. i
3.
" H eya., none.
of
m a. \p<ZJntzJ2- s*
ov- I 11
-H>»% b <z,<zjr ovar
9f
y<>'-> -
JOB HOPGARDEN ESTABLISHES A CREDIT.


Telegraphic anrl Cable Address
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director. London House, 97. Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Dunedin 8 Lyttelton.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatins
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
announce their association with the famous Sheffield Firm,
HADFIELDS LIMITED
The New Company—HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED—is
specialising in the manufacture of Steel Castings and Forgings in Carbon
and Alloy Steels to any specification, Machinery Spares, Stone-Breaking
and Ore-Crushing Plants, Mining Requisites, etc., etc.
Note the new name and address:—
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED,
Mitchell Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland National Pastokal
Co., Ltd: —
Reserves.
Adjustment payment by vendors, £50,000.. £50,000
r Dividends % Writ-
Profits. Pref. 7p.c. Ordinaries ten Off.
1915. .£67,083 £17,500 6 p.c.=£36,000 £56,399 7,184
1916. .106,510 17,500 7,, ~ 42,000 21,375 32,819
1917. .110,295 17,500 8 ~ ~ 48,000 21,144 56,470
1918. .124,335 17,500 8 ~ ~ 48,000 21,859 93,446
1919.. 94,176 17,500 8 „ „ 48,000 23,861 98,261
1920.. 64,001 17,500 8 „ „ 48,000 24,833 71,929
Loss.
1921.. 6,096 17,500 Nil 25,606 22,727
The £6096 loss was prior to making provi-
sion for the depreciation of leases. If
£25,606 was a fair allowance on that
account, then, after paying prefs, their divs.
and taxes thereon, the co. was weakened by
£49,202 during the year. The co. is not at
all talkative, and the directors make no
comment on the troubles of the period be-
yond remarking that payment of an ordi-
nary div. is “impossible.” The concern had
had a good run for several years; then
troubles crowded in, and when markets
crashed the co. had to readjust its livestock
values. The leases probably carried more
hoofs at December 31 last than 12 months
previously, but valuations declined in this
way: —
1920. 1921.
Cattle .. .. £492,228 £402,161
Sheep ~ .. 100,215 100,885
Horses . . . . 35,002 25,410
It is possible, of course, that the writing-
down that has been done may later on prove
to have been too severe. The only satisfac-
tory view of a concern like this is to be got
by averaging results over many years. The
published records in this instance go back
only seven.
The Q. N. Pastoral is an offshoot of the Q.
N. Bank. After the crash of the ’nineties,
following the State’s previous borrowing orgy,
the bank had many pastoral and sugar pro-
perties on its hands. After they had been
nursed for many years they were detached
from the bank’s business and passed over
to independent cos. The Millaquin Co.
acquired sugar interests: this one took
over pastoral properties early in 1915. Move-
ments since the first balance have been as
follows: —-
1915. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities .. .. £2,050 £150,630 £84,353
Leases, etc. . . . . 319,969 252,848 248,908
Freeholds . . .. 68,605 68,605
Plant and stores . . 31,042 79,564 80,193
Livestock . . .. 488,808 627,445 528,456
Stocks wool .. .. / 7,308 37,504 % 13,232
Cash, War Loan and
book debts . . 32,856 22,967 26,981
It has, of course, been an abnormal period
in many respects, but the co.’s record can be
epitomised in this way: 7 p.c. p.a. has been
paid regularly on a quarter-million of pref.
capital; divs. on the" £600,000 of ordinary
capital have averaged almost 6| p.c. Mean-
time £195,077 has been written off for de-
preciation and amortization, livestock has
lately been written down, and the co. has
£22,727 of reserves left. After payment of
the final pref. div. it has surplus liquid
assets (including livestock) of £475,019.
Thus the whole of the pref. capital was pro-
tected by readily-saleable assets, and so also
was about £225,000 of the £600,000 of ordi-
nary capital. To back the £375,000 of ordi-
nary capital not covered by liquid assets
there were leases and improvements with ,a
book value of £248,908, freeholds (acquired
since the co. took over) set down as worth
£68,605, and £80,193 of plant and stores.
How long the leases have to run is not
known; but a cautious crowd like the Q. N.
Bank management—-two of.its directors and
g.-m. Hayman are on the Board of the Q. N.
Pastoral —can be depended upon to make
ample provision on that account.
* * v • • . #.
Newcastle-Wallsend Coal Co. (N. S.
Wales) :—•
To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1910. . £15,677 15 p.c. =£15,000 £677 £52,151
1911.. 9,857 10 ~ „ 10,000 52,008
1912.. 11,100 10 „ „ 10,000 1,100 53,108
1913.. 18,656 17* „ „ 17,500 1,156 54,264
Assets written up and £lOO,OOO
transferred to capital .. 63,966
1914.. 20,781 10 p.c. = 20.C00 781 64,747
1915:. 7,370 5 „ „ 10,000 62,117
1916.. 10,041 5 „ „ 10,000 41 62,158
1917.. 21,600 5 ~ „ 10,000 11,600 73,758
1918.. 29,242 8f „ „ 17,500 11,742 85,500
1919.. 32,463 10 „ „ 20,000 12,463 97,963
1920.. 49,190 10 „ „ 20,565 28,625 126,588
1921.. 39,575 10 „ „ 24,549 15,026 141,614
Twelve months ago, when, for the year
ended December, 1920, the directors "had
shown a net profit of £21,393, the “Wild
Cat” estimated net earnings as disclosed by
the accounts at £34,133, and remarked that
£15,057 which had been dropped into a con-
tingency account was probably also profit.
During the past year that contingency
reserve has not been tapped, so the 1920
profit entry in the table has been amended
to include that reserve. For the 12 months
ended December last the directors say that
a net profit of £23,642 was maoe; but that
was after £7500 had been tacked to the
insurance reserve, £5433 to a dividend equali-
sation fund and £3OOO to the contingency
account. So the year’s operations put
£39,575 into the co.’s coffers, after provision
had been made for depreciation. Possibly
actual profits were even larger: it depends op
whether the allowance made for wastage of
assets was more than circumstances de-
manded. No evidence can be got on that
point: the extent of the writing down of
fixed assets is not visible, but it would be
surprising if in such a flush year something
extra was not laid aside. Twelve months
ago fixed assets had a book value of £298,796,
and though considerable new plant, machin-
ery and electrical equipment has been in-
stalled at both the Wallsend and Pelton
collieries the entry has increased only to
£321,394, a matter of £22,598 after deduct-
ing depreciation allowances. Further de-
tails of the co.’s position at different dates
is given in this comparison:—
1915. 1919. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities . . £22,622 £42,999 £25,172 £27,888
Fixed assets . . 230,682 295,270 298,796 321,394
Liquid assets .. 59,056 55,692 97,447 110,575
Since 1919 £50,000 of new capital has been
got by an issue of shares at par: and £16,082
of it flowed in during the past financial
year. But the surplus of liquid assets over
and above liabilities improved £10,400 after
paying away £22,648 in divs., so only about
£5700 of new funds provided by shareholders
was required for additiopal mining equip-
ment and such-like.
These figurings make it very clear that
Newcastle-Wallsend has had a gorgeous
time, and that the readjustment of prices
by the Coal Tribunal following on the
granting of increased wages to the miners
in September, 1920, has suited the colliery
cos. very well. They have also been favored
with excellent markets, but industrial depres-
sion has curtailed trade recently. The inter-
ests of this co. have expanded considerably
over the period covered by the introductory
table; at one time operations were confined
to the Borehole seam, but in 1915 the co.
got into the Maitland field and has developed
a valuable property there. When develop-
ment of this Pelton colliery began the co.
had sprplus liquid assets of £36,434. Since
then £50,000 of additional capital has been
got in and the liquid surplus has moved to
£82,687. That means that while £46,000 of
this £50,000 of new capit"! is held in assets
apart from mining properties, the co. has
thoroughly equipped an important new pro-
ducer, modernised plants at its old pits, and
meantime paid handsome divs. Though only
5 p.e. was paid for three years, that rate
must be considered along with the doubling
of capital a year or so previously by a
transfer of £lOO,OOO of reserves. The pre-
sent.position of the co. is that it has £70,000
of its £250,000 paid capital represented by
assets apart from the mines and plant, etc.,
and a string of splendidly equipped producers
with a book-value of £321,394 to back the
other £lBO,OOO of capital.
* # * *
Sargents, Ltd., caterers, etc., of Svdney
and Melbourne, who started with a deficit of
£46,235, representing goodwill (£45,000)
and preliminary expenses:—
Towards
Reduction
Profits. Dividends. of Deficit. Deficit.
June, 1913. .£9,027 10 p.c. = £4BSQ £4177 £17,169
Dec., 1913.. 9,412 10 „ „ 5000 4412 12,757
June, 1914.. 10,529 10 „ „ 5000 5529 7,228
Dec., 1914.. 11,453 10 „ „ 5000 6453 775
To lte- Re-
serves. serves.
June, 1915.. 8,680 10 „ „ 5208 3472 2,697
Dec., 1915.. 8,454 10 ~ „ 5312 3142 5,839
June, 1916.. 9,524 10 „ „ 5312 4212 10,051
Dec., 1916.. 10,140 10 „ „ 5312 4828 14.879
June, 1917.. 8,158 10 „ „ 5312 2846 17,725
Dec., 1917.. 6,057 10 „ „ 5312 745 18,470
June, 1918.. 9,734 10 „ „ 5312 4422 22,892
Dee., 1918.. 5,396 10 „ „ 5312 584 22,976
June, 1919.. 2,975 10 ~ „ 5312 20,639
Dec., 1919.. 9,789 10 „ „ 5781 4008 24,647
Reserves capitalised. £25,000 ( _
June, 1920.. 15,462 15 p.c. = 9375 6087 )
Dec., 1920.. 11,005 10 „ „ 7812 3193 8,927
June, 1921.. 9,074 10 „ „ 7812 1262 10,189
Dec., 1921.. 12,451 10 „ „ 8125 4326 14,515
Once more it is questionable whether the
earnings claimed by the directors were the
actual net profits for the six months. Several
years ago a taxation reserve was opened with
a credit of £7700. Two years ago £2300
more was dropped in, and 12 months later a
further contribution of £3OOO, making a total
of £13.000 laid aside. Since there were no
extractions to pay current taxes, it seemed
that the £13,000 could reasonably have been
regarded as a genuine reserve, and the three
contributory amounts included as profits
earned in the terms in which they showed up.
But six months ago disclosed net profits fell
off, and £5OOO also dropped out of the taxa-
tion reserve. From latest earnings £6OOO has
again been added to uie reserve, out wnetfier
current taxes have been otherwise provided
for cannot be ascertained from the published
accounts. If they have been, and if all other
necessary provisions have been made, then
the past half’s net profit was £lB,OOO or so.
Disregarding the appropriation for taxes,
the profits shown for the past half were
handsome; they represented a return at a
rate exceeding 15 p.c. p.a. No explanation is
given for the improvement, but no doubt the
fall in prices of foodstuffs has been partly
responsible. Even a slight movement must
have a big influence on profits in a concern
with a turnover like Sargents’. Which means
that the success of the co. depends largely
on alert management. Shareholders have
been fortunate in that respect; Sargents
have succeeded while many - others have
crashed. The co. continues to extend its
business, and nowadays runs three dozen
cafds and tea-rooms in Sydney and half-a-
dozen in Melbourne: the latest addition is
Scott’s Cafe in Sydney Strand Arcade.
Balance-sheet figures over a number of years
have moved in this way:—
_ , 1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Capital .. £90,000 £111,277 £159,931 £165,101
Liabilities .. 12,948 34,755 53,347 26,821
Freeholds .. 19,100 40,300 78,000 85,800
Leaseholds .. 15,400 19,400 13,650 15,300
Plant, etc. . . 28,430 58,030 64,560 73,230
Stock.. .. 3,447 19,788 70,541 37,099
Cash, book debts
and investments 8,370 19,666 16,265 17,134
Not all the additional capital has been
cash put up by shareholders: in 1920
£25,000 of reserves were capitalised, and
that makes the 10 p.c. div. sweeter. That
rate has been paid without interruption
from the beginning, 13 years ago. Mean-
time, besides issuing £25,000 of bonus scrip,
£45,000 of goodwill has been extinguished
and, including the taxation accumulations,
£28,000 of visible reserves still exist. More
than half of the capital nowadays is in free-
hold properties.
D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd., merchants,
manufacturers of foodstuffs, etc., of Sydney:
To Re-
Dec., Net Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1917. . £12,317 8 p.c. = £10,038 £2279 £25,414
1918.. 14,012 8 „ „ 11,775 2237 27,651
1919.. 16,944 8 „ „ 11,775 5169 32,820
1920.. 19,785 9„ „ 17,250 2535 35,355
1921.. 6,206 6$ „ „ 14,625 26,936
Lhe accounts claim a net profit for the year
of £10,892, but meantime £6206 has gone
from reserves, most of it possibly to pay taxes
and staff bonuses in connection with the
1920 financial year. If a fairer way of
presenting results would be to reduce" the
1920 net profits exhibited in the table by
£6206 and give latest profits as claimed by
the directors, then neither the 9 p.c. for
1920 nor the latest 6£ p.c. would be shown
as earned. It is possible, of course, that
some of the reserves which have disap-
peared have been used to write down stocks.
But whichever way you look at the figures,
the fact that the co. has come through the
period of crashed prices with any profit
at all is consoling. Markets collapsed so
suddenly that a big concern like Mitchell’s
might easily have been badly caught with
large stocks of costly foodstuffs. Some tre-
mendously heavy losses have been made in
rice, for instance. Twelve months ago,
however, the management of this co. con-
fided that it had anticipated a decline in
values and had adopted a conservative policy
in buying. The latest accounts support that
claim: the book value of stocks has been
got down since December. 1920, from
£128,350 to £99,456. and the directors report
that the latter figure represents present
market value. An unexpected feature of
the year’s trading was that turnover was
well maintained: considering the nervous
feeling abroad, it would not have been sur-
prising if sales had been curtailed bv re-
tailers reducing stocks to hand-to-mouth
requirements.
Over the period covered by the introduc-
tory tahl» Mitchell and Co.’s balance-sheet
figures have moved in this way:—
1917. 1919. 1920. 1921.
Capital . . £147,186 £147,186 £225,000 £225,000
Liabilities . . 138,005 179,512 145,136 130,630
Properties and
plant . . 20,552 21,044 24,435 27,285
Stock .. 113,155 99.721 128,350 99,456
Book debts .. 178,686 238,174 255,186 254.856
Cash, etc. .. 6,026 7,754 8,770 8,844
It is a very old concern, having been estab-
lished away back in the ’sixties. The
public has been interested only since 1913,
when it was invited to put in £lOO,OOO to
finance extension of manufacturing. In
August, 1920, £77,814 more was got in,
making paid capital £225,000. all in ordi-
naries. A feature of the business is that
the old proprietary interests admitted the
public without demanding anything for good-
will. The whole of the capital is, there-
fore, represented by tangible assets—in fact,
almost entirely by more or less linuid assets.
After payment of the final div. there was a
surplus of stocks, book debts, investments
and cash, over and above all outside liabili-
ties, of £224,651. In addition there were
properties and plant with a book value of
£27,285, and to the outsider that looks a low
valuation of the co.’s fixed assets. Now
that stock values have been got down to
something more like normal, the co. appears
to be comfortable and well conditioned to
maintain its hold on the widened field it has
developed in recent years. The co. manu-
factures about 60 lines and packs -40-odd
others; and that calls for watchful manage-
ment to give profits. There has been no-
thing fat about the co.—divs. have averaged
not quite 8 p.c. over five years—and share-
holders cannot expect large returns from a
co. handling foodstuffs. Nevertheless, given
good management, Mitchell’s should con-
tinue to do reasonably well —perhaps better
than at present when conditions become nor-
mal and the manufacturing end of the busi-
ness is further developed.
Wellington Gas Co. (M.L.), from the
date of the issue of pref. shares: —
—-Dividends.—— N Written
Dec.. Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. Reserves.
1912. £30,327 5 p.c. lOp.c. £24,066 £117,779
Premiums on new shares, £2941 .. 120,720
1913.. 29,328 sp.c. lOp.c. 26,857 £10,500 112,691
1914.. 30,171 5 10 „ 27,072 45.606 70,184
1915.. 28,328 5 „ 10 „ 25,698 72,814
1916.. 28,847 5 „ 10 „ 27.301 74,360
1917.. 23,039 5 „ 5 „ 15,517 3,000 78,882
1918.. 38,404 5 „ 5 „ 15,517 8,000 93,769
1919.. 43,766 5 „ 5 „ 15,747 5,500 116,288
1920.. 34,354 5 „ 8 „ 23,090 4,500 123,052
1921.. 28,446 5 „ 8„ 23,090 16,284 f- 19fi , Ifi
Dropped into taxation reserve, £13,992 j J-' 50 " 110
There is some doubt as to the year’s actual
profit; the £28,446 shown above is the bal-
ance of net earnings prior to making provi-
sion for depreciation. But meantime a taxa-
tion reserve, which had remained stationary
for several years at £16,000, bounded to
£29,992, and there is no guide to the source
whence the addition was derived. The
movement may have some connection with
changes in the depreciation reserve; at the
previous balance there was £35,235 in this
account, and though £11,449 was added last
year, the fund at the balance held only
£30,400. But whether the amount that has
fallen out of the depreciation reserve has
been written off or merely transferred to
another account, the directors appear to be
nowadays taking no risks with wasting
assets. Some years ago, when it was decided
to dismantle old works and lay down new
ones, they found they had not made
adequate provision in previous years, and
£56,000 of reserves were swept away in two
years. The management is now regularly
providing for wastage on the basis that plant
will have an average life of 25 years. The
large reserves shown in the table may not be
wholly true reserves. The £126,116 is made
up in this way:—
Share premiums .. .. . . £42,999
Depreciation reserve . . , . 30,400
Retorts reserve . . . . . . 8,400
Residuals plant reserve . . .. 2,500
Taxation reserve . . . . . . -29,992
P. and L. balance .. . . .. 11,825
Total.. £126,116
In addition, there is £l5OO in a reserve
against the market depreciation of £15,000
of War Loan, and £lOOO in a bad debts
reserve. These and the four in the last table
are contingent reserves, and only those inside
can tell (and perhaps they can’t) what is
a reasonable amount to hold for replacement
of plant, etc., and to what extent other re-
serves are likely to be tapped.
Having made good the book losses in-
curred by having to write down, old plant
values, the div. rate has got back to 8 p.c.,
but the true position is so obscured by the
appropriations for the various contingent
reserves that it is impossible to say what is
the surplus of net profits. Paid capital is
£320.340, in £84.560 of 5 p.c. prefs. and
£235,780 ordinaries. Considerable additions
have been made to plant during the past
year; to finance these £200.000 of debentures
were issued, £185.365 having been paid in at
the balancing date.
* * * *
The Equitable Building Society
(Launceston, Tas.) :
Divi- Added to
Dec., Profits. dends. Reserves. Reserves.
1908 .. £2541 £2257 £284 £15,254
1909 . . 2564 2303 261 15,515
1910 .. 2573 2779 ’ 15,309
1911 .. 3002 2826 176 15,485
1912 ~ 2990 2917 73 15,558
1913 . . 3568 3257 281 15,839
1914 .. 3756 3344 412 16,251
1915 .. 3819 3355 464 16,715
1916 .. 3758 3300 458 17,173
1917 .. 3506 3088 418 17,591
1918 . . 3714 3024 690 18,281
1919 . . 3945 3094 851 19,132
1920 .. 4272 ' 3513 759 19,891
1921 .. 4506 3926 '5BO 20,471
During a half-century or so. this little society
has made close upon 1-J million available to
help oust the landlord; nevertheless, the
demands for advances have lately been
greater than the management has eared
to undertake. Last year there were
142 applications, totalling £46,459, and
102 for £31,060 were put on the books,
the directors being ' “most discriminating
in their selection of securities, both
in regard to locality and amount, and in
all cases insisted on mibstantial margins.”
A much larger business could have been


If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because" of ' ex-
hausted batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt. [4
*** * . .
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— -Advt. [2
The advantages of Pioneer Wood Pipe include
lightness with cheap freight, lower handling and
laying expenses and extreme durability, which reduces
maintenance charges to practically nil, and a carry-
ing capacity of from 15 to 20 p.c. greater than that
of metal pipe of the same dimensions. Pioneer
Wood Pipe is corrosion proof, and is therefore ideal
for the conveyance of acids, brine, mine culm, tan
liquors or clear, pure drinking water. Write for our
interesting 68-page book on the subject; it is free.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77' Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. —Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Kink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDE AS.I—Commonwealth 1 —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coj.i.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide. — Advt.
* * * •
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants.; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate- plants ;
blast furnaces; beating and ventilating plants* etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models”- —“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to. 39-. and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from. Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). — Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure. Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for-particulars. 11. B. Selbv & Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets). Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt
* * * *
FOR SALE—Steam Locomotive; —Makers, W.i G.
Bagnall, Ltd., England.—2ft. '6in. gauge. Double
cylinders, 6in. diameter,x 9in. stroke; 45 1 Jin. steel
tubes; saddle tank; cab with hand brake; sand
boxes; four wheels coupled, 17jjin. diameter; wheel
base 36in., 1501 b. pressure. Forwood Down and Co.,
Adelaide.— Advt.
* * * *
FOR SALE. —Engineers and Machinery Merchants
Please, Note: 1000-k.w. (Ljungstrom Type) Steam
Turbine-driven _ Electric Generator Sets, complete
with motor-driven gears and all necessary aux.
plant. Turbine 3000 r.p.m., 1701 b. steam press,
615° F. super heat. T.H.P. 1250. Generators three
phase alternating current .50 periods, 600 volts.
Motors driving gearing 590 r.p.m. Also similar type
625-k.w. sets. Plants originally’ designed for
marine use, but • suitable for shore purposes. Fore-
going lying at Singapore, open for private sale for
about two weeks only; otherwise will be sold by-
auction. For further particulars apply by letter to
Box 872 G.P.0., Melbourne.— Advt.
* * •* *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Company
of Australia, Limited, desires to notify the mining
industry that it. has issued a revised tariff with a
view to stimulating production, and will- be pleased
to supply a copy ot same on application.— Advt.
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at. 342
Flinders-lane, -Melbourne, for the display of Scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt. .
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydi?°v.—Advt.
R. G. WATKINS <& CO.,
107-100 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS. Auctioneers and Valuators.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
ALL CLASSES MINING MACHINERY AND CONTRACTORS’ PLANT AVAILABLE.
Write tis for information on Machinery. It will pay you.
For all difficult drives or where a belt must operate in a gritty and heated
atmosphere
PIONEER Leather Belting
has no equal.
In such factories as the Federal Brickworks, St. Peters, the Warren Brickworks,
St. Peters, and other establishments where the working conditions are very
difficult, Pioneer Leather Belting has driven for many years, giving excellent
service. Tioneer Belts have 64 years of sound experience behind them, and
can be relied upon to give a maximum service.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York Street, SYDNEY.
Try
0
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALE PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
written : at December 31 there was no less
than £16,571 in public securities and cash.
Still, the new advances were £l5OO or so
larger than repayments. This' shows how
the three principal entries in the balance-
sheet have moved:—
1900. 1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Capital . . £55,048 £47,377 £53,948 £47,282 £50,552
Deposits.. 88,130 62,645 53,371 56,868 55,298
Mortgages 144,188 114,582 104,029 110,077 111,624
Besides the £50,552 of capital, there are
reserves of £20.471. At December 31
£17,250 of the £55,298 of deposits was liquid.
The balance (£38,048) had the backing of
£111,624 of mortgages, and premises with
a book value of £2OOO.
Tingha Tin (N.S.W.) has notified that,
“owing to the excessive wages required and
the low price of tin, sluicing operations have
been suspended until more economic condi-
tions prevail.” The last run of No. 4 plant
produced 7 tons from 11,000yds., or 1.781 b.
per yard, which is too low for current costs,
despite the fact that it is easily-treated
ground. The co. is an amalgamation of three
shows; it has adopted a spirited policy of
water conservation, etc., and under normal
conditions should be a large producer. There
is not now a tin co. working, on wages in. the
whole of the extensive New England field.
* v * • »
There is a demand in Sydney for silver-
lead ore and concentrates for export, but, as
this branch of mining is dead owing to high
wages, heavy road and rail freights and (as
miners, allege) excessive charges, restrictions
and penalties imposed by local smelters,
agents have a resultless quest. It is believed
that buying orders, which are said to be
limitless, are on Continental account —pro-
bably German.
* * * *
The sorrowful official story of the Broken
Hill Prop, for the past four weeks
Coke Ovens: All operations ceased on February 22.
One battery operating till that date
6030 tons; tar, 52,527 gallons ; sulphate of ammonia,
81 tons. Benzol Plant: Started operations Febru-
ary 16 ; produced approximately 5000 gallons light
oil, but owing cessation operations at the coke ovens
this plant is now closed. Blast Furnace Department:
No. 3 furnace only operating; produced 12,559 tons
basic pig iron. Open Hearth: Operations recommenced
February 2; produced 18,351 tons. Iron Knob:
Ironstone stock at Newcastle being sufficient for
No. 3 blast furnace requirements, operations were
suspended on February 22; shipments prior to sus-
pension totalled 16,799 tons. Broken Hill—Under-
ground : No productive operations carried out.
And when anybody talks about the impos-
sibility of carrying on under present condi-
tions Dooley and his Ministers yell about “a
conspiracy to reduce wages.” Still, in
a way they are right. There is a con-
spiracy to reduce wages. But world-con-
ditions are the conspirators. So far as Aus-
tralian bosses are concerned they are as
helpless as the hungriest dog that barks at
their gates.
* * * *
The further drop in copper (it got below
£6O) left the remnant of the Queensland
copper industry in a still worse mess. At
Chillagoe stocks have been held since the
market was £6B, and the Minister shudders
at the interest charges that are accumulat-
ing. He is still hopeful that when “battle-
field” copper has all been disposed of he will
sell at a profit. More serious concern is
felt as to how the further drop will hit
Mt. Morgan. The 20 p.c. reduction in costs
will not- now enable the co. to avoid heavy
loss.
* * * *
Clark’s, the only surviving mine of any
note on Charters Towers (Q.), is pegging
along developing the nine and ten levels
with moderate results, and the rapid deple-
tion of ’ the stopes in the upper leyels has
set the co. prospecting the old Moonstone
reef, where the formation carries leaders of
ore. Prospecting and haulage of mullock are
a drain on; the profits from the main lode,
and the directors have slowed down on divi-
dends; the last 6d. was paid in September.
Values have been maintained; the most re-
cent crushing of 290 tons was worth £8 a
ton. Shareholders will have to be content
with reduced dividends for a while unless
something good turns up in the Moonstone.
Kangaroo Hills (Q.), although the most
prosperous tirifield in the Commonwealth at
present, is_ feeling the depression in the
metal market,: and a lot of shows with good
prospects have been thrown up temporarily,
as nothing under 10 p.c. is any srood to tiie
small miner at’ present. The Sardine, of
course, is going full steam ahead, and the
Sardine North has been raking in calls and
is actively developing the lode in the hope
of picking up the rich Sardine ore. Although
they have struck some rich patches, they
are still off the main run. The Shrimp,
which was jogging along quietly with its
legal complement, has put on a dozen or
more men, and the new show, the Canary, is
looking well. All the others are feeling the
pinch. Yet no field in the Commonwealth
looks to have better chances should a re-
covery in the market occur. • The larger
shows have been recently examined by the
State geologist, but the. field is asking for
a geological survey to define the stanniferous
belt.
The Queensland Oil Co.’s bore at Wolston,
just outside Brisbane, from which gas and
oil were reported, recently sent samples of
its sludge to the Government Analyst. lie
says there are traces of some kind of oil,
but not enough to enable him to determine
its character. Larger samples have now
been sent to see if it is rock oil or merely
lubricating oil which has got into the bore
with the boring tools.
* * * *
The recent oil boom in the Blackall dis-
trict (Q.), which the Government investi-
gated, proves to have slightly more founda-
tion than most oil floats. Traces of oil
have been found in the samples from a depth
of 100 ft.. and the syndicate put down a fresh
bore under the personal supervision of the
State geologist, from which samples were
taken. Dr. Jensen, who investigated, has
been ill since his return to Brisbane, and his
full report is not yet available, but in an
interim report to the Minister he stated that
during part of the boring there was a dis-
tinct benzine odor. The bore ife in cretaceous
strata, thus overlying the “west” gas horizon
at Roma, and he is inclined to think from
the little surface evidence available that the
structures are not G.K. for the formation of
pools of commercial size. The_ cretaceous
of' Queensland and N. S. Wales is known to
have one of the richest marine faunas in the
wprld, thus indicating an abundant initial
supply of material for the formation of oils,
but geologists are doubtful whether it . will
contain commercial quantities. For one
thing, its lack of considerable cover in the
past would permit of oxidation and evapora-
tion of volatile hydrocarbons. ;
*** , *
Associated Northern has .got a quarter’s
exemption on its mines at Ora Banda
(W.A.). The co. asked fori six months on
the ground that it cost £28,000 to buy the
properties and that £123, had since been
expended on plant and development, but
the Warden wouldn’t agree. \ Trioutors are
still getting a little gold on the co.’s Kal-
goorlie holding, but the end seems not far off.
* * * *
Freney’s Oil Co. had its first half-yearly
roll-up in Perth the other day, when con-
tented and discontented shareholders -were
told that (1) the State Government . had
under certain conditions, about which, the
Board is dumb for the time 1 being, extended
the tenure of the co.’s proispecting licenses
from five to ten years;' (2) available cash
resources amount to about £35,G00 and with-
in two months an additional £15,000 call
money will be in hand; (3) the purchasers
of the 10,000 reserve shares sold last month
were Edward Bruce, of Adelaide, and some
people in his and another 1 broker’s office;
(4) not one director was interestedMn _ the
deal; (5) portions of the co.’s two holdings
had been sublet to representatives of Mel-
bourne and Sydney capital, and applications
for other areas were under consideration.
Boring is tipped to start on the Mount
Wynne section of the co.’s. southern conces-
sion about the end of May or early in June.
**. * *
Shepherders and dummies of Westralian
oil areas have been again warned by Minis-
ter Scaddan. This time he, threatens to can-
cel or curtail any holding; if he finds that
the prospecting covenants /are being evaded,
and he insists on monthly progress reports
of work done being furnished as provided by
the Act. He also to sanction sub-
letting of portions of. areas by concession-
holders in cases where he considers no real
prospecting is being done by them.
**\ * *
Great Boulder pays another 6d. div. on
March 31. The reserves ,in the mine are
about 40,000 tons less thaif they were a year
ago, and at the present ’rate of depletion
shareholders can hope for, about 4s. more
from measured reserves. But blocks and
bunches of lodestuff not at counted
on are almost certain to be exposed, so there
is a good chance of more than the sum men-
tioned being distributed before the blinds are
drawn.
*** , *
Pilbarra, Westralia’s farthest-out field,
still produces, a little gold, j tin and copper,
and latterly some attention has been paid
to its silver-lead and asbestos. Diamonds,
too, are occasionally found fin conglomerates
af Nullagine, but so far the finds have not
been attractive.. Scarcity of fuel and heavy
cost of transport have been the chief
obstacles. But if payable oil is discovered
in the Kimberley things will soon change.
* * *• *
According to figures given to shareholders
in Kalgoorlie on Feb. 28, all the ore Mount
Monger Prop, has in sight has a gross value
of £5552-, and some slimes on the surface
are estimated- to contain £2OOO. To date
887 tons have been treated' for £8284.
**; * - *
Murrin Proprietary Co., which talked, so
much about and did so little at Hill’s old
gold-rune in the West, has-resolved to search
for oil.. “A thousand square miles of permo-
carboniferous country’-’ on the west side of
the Northern Territory has been optioned,
and shareholders may expect calls before
long.
After a year or more of idleness the
Kyarra Co. has started work on the old
lioyal Standard, at Yum (W.A.). A lot of
payable ore is said to be blocked out
underground, and with the revenue which is
expected to be derived from its treatment
deeper development is to be done. Hitherto
the property has belonged to a class of gold-
mine so common on the Outback fields in
the West, wdiich produce a good deal of
gold yet don’t earn anything for shareholders.
Manager Arthur Pearson, of the Austra-
lian Petroleum Development Co., assures
The Bulletin that that co. is not “farm-
ing out portions of its area.” “Although,”
he says, “we have had several offers to pur-
chase portion of our areas, my directors
decline to part with any.”
Lyell has closed at last, and thrown out
272 more men. It hung on for a long while,
doing what it could; but all the eloquence
of Demosthenes wouldn’t suffice to shift the
market, and the arithmetic book resolutely
refused to say that five into four would go,
Marx or no Marx.
* * * *
Associated Gil Corporation has decided not
to issue any more shares at par after March
31. It is considered that by then the bore
will be well on its way to the oil that stands
a very good geological chance of being there.
Cock’s Pioneer, Eldorado (Vic.), which
has the largest pump-sluicing plant in Aus-
tralia and the only one tvorked by electric
power, did not maintain its reputation dur-
ing the half-year ended November last. Motor
troubles, floods, landslips were respon-
sible for a loss of £O5OO during the term.
Adding £lOO4, which was transferred to
reserve depreciation, the total loss was
£7504. At the end of the previous term
£5002 stood to credit of profit and loss,
out of which a dividend of £5OOO was paid,
leaving £902 to credit of that account. To
make up the P. & L. shortage £6602 is trans-
ferred from ' equalisation reserve account.
The liquid assets at Nov. 30 exceeded lia-
bilities by £6753. The assets included stores
£14.352, and £10,855 unrealised products,
while the principal liability was a bank over-
draft of £22,840. The co. has paid £60,000
in divs. to date. It is estimated that there
are 12 years’ work in sight. . Last report
states that actual values in the ground
treated during the half-year were “not up
to those indicated by boring.” Necessarily
boring results have to be discounted to cover
treatment losses, but why is it that nearly
all sluicing companies, have to offer this
excuse .‘l Is it because: among sampling en-
gineers there is no standardised system of
working out results ?
* * * *
“Steve Hart”: They don’t all “go slow.”
What is claimed to be a world’s record out-
put of coal in one day from one tunnel was
put up recently at Abermain No. 1, Cess-
nock (N.S.W.). A total of 2483 tons was
sent over the screens. The Abermain No. 2
which is just getting into its stride, got oul
1591 tons the same day. Of course miners
are paid by the ton. Piecework is the real
solution of many of our difficulties.
* * * •
“Bendigonian” on the history of the field:
A recent par, re payable crushings from Monu-
ment Hill and Lansell’s A 7 orth Blue from about
600 ft. reads like a repetition of history. The great-
est glory of Bendigo reefing was attained in the
’seventies at about 600 ft.—a depth at which Geolo-
gist Murchison, after visiting the field, predicted
that gold could not be found, Bendigo to date has
prpduced over £80,000,000 worth of gold. The
highest output was 661,7290 z. in 1853—from allu-
vial. Quartz reefing had a chequered career until
about 1870, when the lode mines produced 241,3800 z.
The records for the six succeeding years are: —
Gold. Dividends.
1871 .. .. 279,719 dz. £434,276
1872 .. .. 360,300 ~ 683,140
1873 . . . . 329,447 ~ 628,006
1874 .. .. 313,965,, 500,615
• 1875 s. .. 295,007,,: 342,865
1876 .. .. 275,208,, 404,695
Then there was a general falling off until the
revival in 1893-94 ; but although the 2Q0,0000z. .mark
has. been passed several times, the 1876 figures have
never been reached. It was in 1871 that Extended
Hustlers “Pups” startled Victoria and , originated
a mining boom the like of which has hot been
equalled in Australia. In November and December of
that year the co. (operating between 500 and 600
feet) crushed 1107 tons for 11,0870 z. The record
for January, 1872, is 'the memorable one of the
field, three “cakes” Weighing 2390,' 3002 .and 3900
ounces being produced. . The co. was not long in
working out this rich reef—--it returned £196,000 in
dividends. The shaft was sunk to nearly 2000 ft.
without any other payable lode being located. The
parent co., working the same reef, had almost equal
results, £363,000 in divs. being paid from it. As
showing the vicissitudes of mining the market value
of Extended Hustlers in 1870 was only £14,000 ; it
rose to £560,000 in 1872, only to fall to £3500
after this rich reef had been worked out. To-day
the world-famed Hustlers Hill is a collection of
mounds of mullock and tailings, mute evidences of
former intense activity which accentuate present
lifelessness. It was also in the ’seventies that New
Chum Railway, Lazarus, New Chum and Victoria,
and Lan,sell's 180 established records for that time
from shallow levels. To-day there is not a mine at
work in that length of a mile. Also Garden Gully
tributes, Rainbow, Pandora, Victory, Unity, Carlisle,
Passby, Golden Fleece and, foremost of all, Watson’s
Kentish contributed their monster cakes to the col-
lections which adorned the bank show-windows on
Saturday nights. Bendigo Caesar of to-day is a puny,
anaemic creature compared with the full-blooded
giant of 1872. If he is to be restored to his Imperial
majesty it is hardly likely to be through the influence
of Monument Hill. This was one of the first spots
at which reefing was done on. the field, but it was
never “much chop,” as the writer has good reason
to know. Still, it is a line on which very little
work has been done, and the Bendigo Amalgamated's
success will encourage prospecting which may lead
to the discovery of other pay-shoots. But to restore
Bendigo to its olden glory—never t


SWAPPING THE PILOT.


m
K.
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
I ntncnn Store Cn 102 Daking House,
Lamson Sfrvlce vu., Sydney.
o!d*rflee\ Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z.—John Proctor. 200 High St.. Christchurch
W.A.—H. Little 6- Co.. 851 Hay St., Perth
During the week- end
there’ll be many occasions
when you’ll relish a bottle
of
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery,
SYDNEY.
K.B.
LAGER
SGEWO%
** EXTRA HIGH GRADE™
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2] R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Arthur Balfour’s Garter puzzled some of
the newspapers fur a few days. They con-
tinued to “Mister” him. although he was a
full-blown “Sir” of the highest order of
knighthood—one of a charmed circle of 25
or so, in fact. It is so seldom that a com-
moner is handed a Garter that the hesita-
tion is understandable. The Garter has
almost always been reserved for a person
alreadv smothered beneath titular frills, and
there has been “no d—d merit” about it.
Death went to the very top of the roll
of N. S. Wales solicitors when he struck off
Henry Deane (Deane and Deane). The
old man was 85, and left off practising
nearly 20 years ago. In his early days he
was a cricketer, belonged to the Albert Club,
and played in a few inter-State matches.
Laurie Eliot, who was John Forrest's
Under-Treasurer and closest financial adviser,
has made his last entry at 77. He handled
the first Westralian loan of £35,000 and was
in office when it was redeemed. He also
lived to see the debt grow to £49,000,000
under 10 successive Ministerial bosses, but
that wasn’t the wise old man’s fault. Eliot
belonged to a Sussex family which hals
made some mark in British history. One of
his ancestors accompanied Drake round the
w’orld in the Golden Hind.
M.L. Minister for Customs Downie
Stewart, who is over iu Australia talking-
reciprocity, is a small, frail-looking man a
little on the wrong side of 40. His father
was one of Dunedin’s prize Tories in the
days of long ago, and like him the son became
a lawyer. Stewart is one of the few’ Massey-
ites with anything like a reasonable mental
comprehension of the issues that form the
root of modern political disturbances; but
circumstances and environment keep him
plodding along in the old rut of his party.
During the w r ar he acquired crutches and
needs them still.
Died in Sydney, on March 9, Charles
Russell Wood, of the Commonwealth Bank,
which he joined in January, 1913, at the
bank’s birth. To do this he relinquished
an interest in a cycle firm ; but he had pre-
viously been in the service of the Bank of
North Queensland, for which he w’as man-
ager at Townsville. He later returned to
that town as manager for the Common-
wealth. In 1916 he was sent to London to
take charge of the bank’s cable department,
and was torpedoed in the Ballarat on the
way. Returning in 1918 he w’as appointed
manager at Geelong. Charley Wood was
in 1886 chamnion cyclist of Australia, his
mount being the old high machine; and he
had some note as a capable amateur in
operatic roles.
Another old North Queenslander, Edw-ard
David Miles, died in Brisbane on the 3rd
inst. Born in Wales, he wms in Ballarat
as a youth in 1563. From there he moved
to Charters Tovvers in 1575, and did what-
ever came to his hand, first as miner and
engine-driver, then as town clerk, later as
mining secretary. Thence on his was one
of the best-known names in North Queens-
land, and what he did not know about the
mining and company laws of Queensland
nobody knew. He was a good pioneer, and
many an old-time miner of the North was
backed by his money. The firm of E. D.
Miles and Co. was formed by Joe Millican
joining the founder in 1882, and the firm’s
name on Charters Towers from then on
was connected with practically all schemes
either for the improvement of the town
or for the development of its industry. In his
later years Miles lived quietly in Brisbane,
having been called to the Council, and at-
tended to his Parliamentary and other duties
to the end.
More than 10 years before the Canterbury
pilgrims landed at Lyttelton (M.L.) and
began to lay the foundations of Christchurch,
two Scottish, brothers named Dean had
settled at Riccar-
ton, a few’ miles
away, and begun
t o farm. Th e y
had some stock and
had started cultiva-
tion by IS4O, and
were thus the real
pioneers of Canter-
bury. Their de-
scendants are still
there. Jim Dean
is president of the
Canterbury Forest
League, and has
one of the finest
tree plantations in
Maoriland.
H. SEPTIMUS
POWER , Aus-
tralian artist,
who produced
some fine pictures
of the Dippers and
the Dippers’
horses in action
in France.
Tom Brennan, one of the brainy Bendigo
family that helps to keep things moving in
Melbourne, is counsel for Ross in the Gun
Alley appeal. Brennan qualified for the
Bar while a sub. on the Argus. For a few
years he had an up-hill climb, and held on
to journalism as a side-line; then he forged
ahead on crim. law, and is now a front-
ranker. Unlike brother Frank, he is a
Liberal, and if Hughes decides to woo an-
other constituency Tom will probably make
a bold bid for Bendigo.
It is four years this month since Law’son
became Vic. Premier. He, McPherson,
Robinson, Barnes, Oman and Clarke are
the survivors of the original dozen. Baird,
Angus, Peacock, Pennington, Merritt and
Davis are additions. Bow’ser, Andy Robert-
son, Ivendell, Hutchinson, McWhae, Camp-
bell, Mackinnon, Hicks and Livingston have
been in and out. Hicks and Campbell are
under the sod. Political necessity may dic-
tate further reconstruction before long.
Peacock “took over” the Premiershin in
1901 from Turner, and in 1914 from Watt.
There are more unlikely things than that
he will “accept transfer” of it a third time.
When Dr. Robert Lindsay, father of
Norman, Lionel and the rest,, was the best-
known practitioner at Creswick, at a time
when gold was being torn from Creswick s
depths in vast quantities, an agitated inn-
keeper from down the road to Ballarat called
one day with an urgent request. He had
given a good customer gin from the wrong
bottle, and if the
hapless wretch w’as
to be saved from
an agonising
death fro m acid
poisoning medical
attention must bo
given without
delay. The doctor
jum p e d into a
waiting vehicle,
with all the neces-
sary appliances for
a case of acid pois-
oning, and they
returned to the inn
at a. gallop. Ar-
rived at the bar
they found a oroat
commotion. T h e
patient was not
dying; on the con-
trary, he wuis on
his legs, m a king
clamorous demands
for more drink
from the white
bottle, and b Q ’d be
hanged if he’d have
any other! The
W’hite bottle . con-
tained the acid.
J. McGOUGH.
chief president of
the A.N.A. in
South Australia.
Prendergast, the Vic. Labor leader, who
has been helping Premier Dooley in the N.
S. Wales elections, isn’t new to Sydney.
When the Daily Telegraph started, he was
one of its compositors. Quitting that job he
helped to run a labor exchange with Fred
Flowers, now President of the Uppah Cham-
bah. Labor-exchanging and an attempt to
run an art journal both being failures,
Prendy joined the staff of the Government
Printing Office. In 1894, having gone south,
he was elected M.L.A. for North Melbourne,
and except for three years, when Watt r uted
him, has held the seat ever since.
Cows lifted Frederick Fredericks, of the N.
S. Wales North Coast, to eminence; and
they also caused his death last week when
crossing the Bellinger with prize-cattle
from the local show. He had won 30 first
prizes and championships at Dorrigo, and
31 firsts, two championships and 16 seconds
at Bellingen within a week of his death. The
family began at Jamberqo I’South Coast)
and has spread over most of N. S. Wales
where the milk-cans rattle.
“T.R.H.” : The new’ Lord Chief Justice of
England (Sir Gordon Hewart) owes his pre-
sent position ns much to the sacrifices made
by his parents as to his own brains. His
father, who is now’ 86, worked in a Lan-
cashire blanket factory at the age of seven.
Much later in life he invented the “Bury
Blanket,” which made him a fortune. Gor-
don was the eldest son, brought up in the
days of struggle ; yet his parents gave him
a good education at Bury Grammar School,
Manchester Grammar School and then
Oxford. At 21 he went to London and was
a leader-writer on the Star and correspon-
dent for the Manchester Guardian. W T hile
on the Star he ate his way to the Bar, and
then joined the 'Northern Circuit. Hewart
has always been a Liberal and Home Ruler,
but with gjowing prosperity has become
more and more Conservative. Owing to the
determination oi the parents, every member
of the Hewart family took a degree of some
kind. The four sons (two killed in the war)
were Masters of Arts, one daughter is a
Doctor of Music, another—the wife of St.
Heller Lauder, the portrait-painter—ls a
Bachelor of Science and another a Bachelor
of Arts.
Henry Edhouse, the Stawell (Vic.) brewer
who died a few days ago. humped his bkny
through Queensland and N. S. Wales, in the
lbng ago. Then he drifted to Victoria, and
presently threw’ aside his swmg and started
a brewery in Castlemaine. When he bought
the Stawell beer-factory he put up a sign
warning children against strong drink, and
kept it there for years.
Tom Gaggin, wbo retired from the job of
Vic. Treasury accountant in 1906, after 49
years’ State service, has drawn his last
pension instalment. He was little more
than a memory to the bulk of present-day
officers. By slow climbing he rose from
office-boy to the second-best post in his
department in the days when the man behind
w’as official heir to the one in front. Just
20 years ago he permitted the first Peacock
Government to be over-sanguine regarding
the finances, and a little later the Premier
had to give the country a shock by confess-
ing in a pre-sessional speech at Clunes that
there would be. a substantial deficit. The
discredited Ministry went down as soon as
the Assembly met. After his retirement
Gaggin acted as chairman of wages boards,
and latterly was interested in an irrigation
lot at Merbein.
John Gale, the 90-year-old press veteran
of Queanbeyan IN.S.W.), belongs to a long-
lived family. A few days ago his brother
Albeit, of btanmore, died at S 7. Originally
a schoolmaster, . he was a keen naturalist,
wrote many articles on nature subjects, and
published books on bees and aquarium life.
Bannon, superintendent of the Vic. C.1.D.,
is retiring after 38 years’ service to become
a private “investigator.” Bannon began
life in Victoria in the Garrison Artillery.
After two years lie joined the police, and
was stationed at Collingwood, where a readi-
ness for battle against any odds soon brought
his red head under the eye of his superiors.
He has had some memorable scrimmages,
and in one encounter with shopbreakers in
1908 had to put a bullet through the hat of
one of the men who was engaging him in
a revolver duel.
From Kalgoorlie the Golden:—
With the tolerance which has generally distinguished
it since the conscription split, and which contrasts
honorably with the savage persecution practised by
other branches, the Westralian A.L.P. isn’t opposing
Jabez Dodd for his Leg. Council seat. Dodd was
prominent in the group that seceded in 1916. It is
unlikely that he could have been unseated, but
opposition would have been a heavy trial to an
ageing man in feeble health, and the A.L.P., mindful
of his past services, held its hand. Jabez used, to
be the greatest power in unionism on the Golden
Mile. A quiet, well-read man, he strove earnestly
for peace, and so great was his influence that there
wasn’t a strike on the Mile for 20 years. When the
Scaddan Government arrived in 1911 Dodd was
appointed honorary Minister. Had he got the reward
his talents deserved —for he had the coolest and
shrewdest head in the party—the history of the
second Labor regime might have been different; but
the hotheads took charge and made a wreck of
things. Handicapped by his unimportant job and
by the oncoming of the malady which has clouded
his later years, Dodd could do nothing to prevent
them. A sound writer, the veteran has contributed
much good stuff to newspapers, Labor and otherwise.
A family law-suit, just heard in Adelaide,
and argued by a large and distinguished Bar,
had an unusual interest because of its sugges-
tions against the integrity of S.A.’s biggest
man. C, C. Kingston died childless, but by
a family arrangement made in 1899 his wife
had received the Marino property of his
father George, and she occupied it till her
death. Latterly other grandchildren of
George (the wife of Stuart, master of the
Supreme Court, is one of them) have alleged
that C. C. Kingston and his wife induced the
trustees to enter into the agreement by fraud
and non-disclosure of material facts. Judge
Parsons, however, said he could see no proof
of such a thing, and he “inferred rather that
the astute solicitors who were engaged at the
time by the respective parties made full
inquiries into all relevant matters and were
satisfied. There is no evidence to show that
there was any fraud or collusion in the pro-
ceedings on the part of either C. C. Kingston
or his wife.”
“Clytie” : All the old hands of the ’eighties
and ’nineties in the Clermont and Thargo-
mindah districts
(Q.) knew, and
many were helped
by Dr. David Gibson
Menmuir, who was
a sort of peripa-
tetic medico in
those days. Now
the poor old chap,
who is well on to
80, has fallen upon
sad times and has
had to enter Dun-
wi c h Benevolent
Asylum. He did
much good in his
day. and it seems
a pity that nothing
in turn is being
done for the big-
hearted old man as
he totters do w n
into the valley.
JIM SCULLIN,
who followed the
late Frank Tudor
as Labor M.H.R.
for the Yarra.
R. S. Wallace, prof, of English Language
and Literature at Melbourne ’Varsity, suc-
ceeds Prof. Archie Strong, now of Adelaide,
as Commonwealth censor of films. He is a
Scot by birth, and took a hand in the Big
Disturbance, and on the way home helped _a
Bulletin man produce the usual troopship
paper. The censorship will, of course, merely
help to fill up his spare time.
THE FAITH OF THE FAITHLESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Adolphus Grimm is not my friend; I met him at
the club,
And quickly diagnosed him as a consequential cub.
I don’t know what induced him to confide his case
to me,
But here’s the tale I gathered from the said Adolphus
G.
One night last week, it would appear, he visited a
flat
Where dwells the gay and handsome wife of Ebenezer
Sprat.
He said that he had quite enjoyed an hour or two
with her ;
That Ebenezer was not home he left me to infer.
That Ebenezer was not home he further made it
plain
By stating- that he stayed until he missed both tram
and train.
He wandered out into the night and hired a passing
car;
He sat beside the chauffeur and he passed him a cigar.
So ran the tale of Mr. Grimm, but I would like ro
be;
He did not hand that chauffeur more than one cheap
cigarette.
However, as he -sped along, returning from his spree,
The driver entertained him with some sound philo-
sophy.
The subject that he chose was the inconstancy of
wives
W’ho used his ’bus to make the pace in leading shame-
less lives.
He said that Grimm would stagger at the number
that there are
Of faithless wives who flit about with lovers in his
car.
The chauffeur waxed emphatic, and he gave it as his
creed
That such as these should all be shot. Adolphus
Grimm agreed.
And then the chauffeur started to contrast his own
dear wife
Who was content to live with him a simple, homely
life.
The opportunities he had to see the other lot
Had caused him to appreciate the faithful wife he’d
got.
He owned he had himself been false, but that he set
at nought:
“She knows I'm just a man,” he said, “and gives
it not a thought.”
When Grimm reached home, and not till then, the
chauffeur ceased to praise
The wond’rous virtues of his wife and all her loyal
ways.
He took his fare, gave Grimm his card; Adolphus
noticed that
ft bore the legend: “CARS FOR HIRE BY
EBENEZER SPRAT.”
“The moral is,” said Grimm to me, “that faithless
men are prone
To see the sins of others’ wives, but blindly trust
their own.”
And Grimm himself has ev’ry faith in Mrs. Grimm,
I know,
For nestling on my knee last night she shyly told
me so.
VICTORIA.
VAIBEN LOUIS.


■Hi
Plptg
wmM
.
V * '-
HI
;X;w
lH i M
WHHM
mWhI
liil
I
n
■ 1
11
Hi
M
IH
■ ■
■
j| "■■Pi-
m
liisial
. % m
m
4&J
ll
: ; ; 1 1 - gk|Sgs^^&^
xx-;" px; •
■ ?
SFRESnMENTS
s
1 1 ",
■
.
M
• ;:
iilillll
/S
Hi
nH T
1
JRlttliiP) - 'v
#
r
■
RRRRi
n h
■■■■l
H
fffi
V,. •••■
ISISI 1
H
I- *
JIB
■
jWWWPwHpHHBHpfI
,
- ■
lIHRHRI
■
HHH
Sill
HHfti
i
I
mmsmi
m
m 3
• vv
■k I ]L *
HKTi
mHbwt..
mm
mbs
m
-O- '■■ : ,p-
-SfIHKP
xPPx ;P ,;••-•■ "
■
H
a
-
■ .
Hi
MR
I
b' ■:
.:. ;
RH
1 1
Sift
H : ,
C W'
: .
c*
MIMMWaiIMB
; ■
US
x
Exfx
||||j
«S»HH
j : ®X
JB .iP-Vipi
1;|8|
Wy 1
n
■
hiJJ
1 i
■
s^mcMrnm£
.
a
Z'>J
:■■
Pi
X
H
iiRMi
■ m
. -■■
1
P HRfflßH«fe
HI
x
RSIIM&S sra»ib
■■Ml
H
M—
■M
MU*®*
mam
;
I ■■
RRi
■ :
s
f
11131
si«wUi Mitr mMkmmmm
Miirmiww
v
: ... ■
i ; :
MR
IMI
IB
H
• ;
khr
HBRIH
K : : ::
111!!
:
H
H
i^gi
hbh
Slllili
Hi
n»
x .:■'■.•■■■. •
mm
m m
mm
■
11l
■
V
H
I
.
iHiiWii iiitlty
■h
B
P ■••:■•
■
P,
MUR
n
*
X.
*
am
■
,
X--
m
%
■
WM
mm
. .
I
R
R
’
, :
-' ■
■ ■ B
m
e -
Ml
-
1 ip
*«
■
■
m
| - P
"X
' ,t'
m
:
Hi
■ Ri
* i
R
■
> ~
:
Smoke
CIGARS
LIKE THE WORD OF A C ENTLEMAN
CAPSTAN
Cigarettes-
n:
The ,
Worlds
Bmi -i
SMOKING
PROHIBITED
Porter. Don’t you see the notice forbidding smoking ”
'* 44 ' ,
Hilarious Party. Shure buttheres other notices beyant wid better advice.
** . ■


Peapes’ New Adjusted Price
for Stetson Hats.
Ħ
Illustrated is one of the newest Stetson
styles. It is of smooth-finish felt, with
medium crown, 21-inch brim, well rolled
at sides, bound edge, 2-inch band with
bow at side.
Colors: Pearl, Granite, Nut Brown.
New reduced price:
57/6
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
Usher’s Hotel ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
“Jarrali”: When I was working with the
Australian Graves Detachment round Corbie
in ’l9 we unearthed the body of a woman
not in uniform in a grave with two Tommies.
The cross above her indicated that “Driver
THE BUSINESS BOOM.
FEIEND: “And have you sold anything?”
ARTIST ( holding one-man show ): “Yes,
almost a dozen catalogues.”
Bright” rested beneath, and his number and
so on was given. In life she must have had
a beautiful h&ad of hair, as in the grave it
stretched to her knees. Nothing was found
on her remains to identify her by. Inquiries
in the neighborhood from people who lived
there before the war met with no result. The
French authorities knew her not. Eventu-
ally she was. reinterred in the same grave-
yard. I have often wondered how she came
to be there and who Driver Bright was.
Incidentally, in the same graveyard we dug
up two French officers. They had the dis-
tinction of being planted in a rough wooden
coffin (a blanket was the usual covering),
and on the breast of one when uncovered
12 gold coins, were found—2o-franc gold
pieces, I believe.
• * * m
“Mills B.”: Ryan enlisted in the first fort-
night of the war. Eliminate a passion for
whisky and he was nearly everything a fight-
ing soldier should be. He was a sergeant
at the Landing, and got his commission, a
mention and a gunshot wound in the leg in
the Peninsula. Back in Egypt, he lightened
the monotony of life at Tel-el-Kebir by a
glorious Wazzir drunk which precluded him
from appearing on any parade for live days.
The C.O. made a strong effort and winked
at his crime, though his salvaging had taken
the M. 0.. the adjutant and another officer
the best pari of three nights’ hard searching.
In France he did it again and got his return
ticket to Aussie. That was half-way through
1917. Before Christmas he was on the
Menin-road and a sergeant once more —
Sergeant Riley. He got his M.M. before the
battalion left the Ypres sector, and his com-
mission in the course of a little affair out-
side Ville-sur-Ancre. Then he went on leave
to Abbeville, looked intently upon the whisky
for some hours, was rebuked by an A.P.M.,
knocked his critic senseless in front of the
officers’ club, was pushed into the local clink
and emerged to face his second court-martial.
Returned empty to his native land, he had
just re-enlisted (under the name of Mac-
Pherson) when the Armistice arrived. Theo-
retically, he was one of the most shameful
cases of the war. And yet I would as soon
have his record as that of some smug young
friends of mine who remained perfectly sober
from the beginning to the end —but always
in Australia.
* * « *
“Splinter”: The Diggers didn’t exhaust all
the preferences in the narrow-shave elections,
apparently. A 12-year-old girl, standing in
the doorway of her home on the Clarence River
(N.S.W.) the other day, felt a stinging sen-
sation on the side of her head. Removing
her hat she found a pea-rifle bullet in her
hair. She took it coolly; but not so coolly
as a mate of mine, whose eye was pierced
by a shrap pellet on the beach at Anzac.
The lead penetrated the roof of his mouth
and landed on his tongue. He spat it out
on to his hand, shook his fingers and dropped
it in the sand. “Dammit it, that’s hot,” he
remarked.
* ♦ *
“Rienzi”: A criminal never knows his
luck under the Victorian law. Colin Ross,
who, if guilty of murdering Alma Tirtschke,
is plainly a sex-lunatic exhibiting a high
degree of irresponsi-
bility, may have to
swing for his impul-
siveness. Another
offender, jealous of a
wife who couldn’t
live with him on
account of his temper,
hides one night in the
bedroom of her
“lodger,” and in a
cold, premeditated
fashion massacres the
man and tries hard to
wipe out his own
family. There was no
doubt about his thirst
for blood. Also, there
was no evidence to
justify his suspicions
regarding his wife.
Yet the jury, ani-
mated by the mob
worship for the Un-
written Law, recom-
mended the prisoner
to mercy, and the
Judge, though he
couldn’t find any
grounds for the re-
commendation, sen-
tenced him to five
years! Which all
goes to show that,
while the sex-maniac
must be mercilessly
extirpated, instead of
being shut up where
he can do no mischief,
the ordinary defender
of his “honor” can
shoot any man on
whom his suspicions
fall, and generally rely on a jury’s outraged
sense of propriety to save him from the full
consequences of his crime.
* * * *
“The Schoolie” : I introduced C. J. Dennis’s
“Book for Kids” into my school library and
watched the result. It was wonderful. In
two days youngsters riding to school were
chanting:—
Robin at the bridle rein, in the middle Kate,
Billy holding on behind, legs out straight.
Copies of the pictures were all oyer exercise-
books and slates, and even the tiniest tot
declared she could draw them herself.
“Barney” (B. 3/2/’22) says it is “an insult
to the children’s intelligence to give them
such a book,” limiting himself, of course, to
the illustrations. I don’t know; but I never
saw my youngsters try to copy May Cibbs’s or
Ida Bentoul’s dainty drawings, and “imita-
tion is sincerest flattery.” Kipling’s “Just So
Stories” with his own clever illustrations is
the only other illustrated book I have seen
appeal to the youngsters to a great extent.
It only suits the older children; but the
lot from first grade to eighth are delighting
in the “Book for Kids.” The only fault I
find with it is the price. Seven and six puts
it out of the reach of the average cocky.
“Diapason”: The old delicensed Adam and
Eve hotel mentioned in connection with
the Gun-alley (Melb.) tragedy has historic
associations. Here Adam Lindsay Gordon
stayed, and you may see the room wherein
he wrote several of his poems. Here too, it
O.K.
“That a cow of a picture
of me they had in the
paper this morning.”
“Oh, a perfect least — but,
darling, wasn’t it like
you!”
is whispered, the Duke of Edinburgh spent
a night or so when on his memorable Aus-
tralian visit in the ’seventies. The outside
of the Adam and Eve is sordid and mean,
but through the wide, double-gate back-
entrace you walk into a bit of old-world
Melbourne. A balcony around which grape-
vines twine looks down upon an old stone-
paved courtyard, and it is easy to conjure
up the old times when Cobb’s four-in-hand
drove in through the gates with a flourish.
The property has lately changed hands and
ve City Newsboys’ Society is soon to put
up a new structure that will stretch from
Alfred-place to Pink-alley.
, * * »
„T ~ „ T -D J ri TT/, , T t
Jobber : In a Red Cross Home to-day I
met a Digger. He enlisted in 1914 and was
at the Landing, where he got a knock, and
was invalided home and discharged as use-
T’hev fravp him a ioh in the Barracks
less.. .Uiey gave mm a job m tne rsarracKs.
blit it was too tame for him. He tried twice
to get away a second time and finally went to
England as a munition worker. In less than
a week he “deserted” and tried to join up
with the Tommies, but was turned back.
Then he answered an advt. for motor drivers
in the Red Cross and got his ticket. He told
them he wanted to go to France. The head
.said he would try to get him attached to the
French Army ; and after being a week or two
THE OBSOLETE FIGURE OF SPEECH.
HE (trying to assert himself): “I'm deter-
mined not to have petticoat government
in my house.”
SHE: “How old-fashioned you are in your
ideas, Charles! It seems ages since I
wore them.”
in Boulogne he had orders to report to a
Froggy brigade. He was allowed to wear
his Digger uniform, but had to put the French
numerals and badges up. He served with
the 4th French Army for over a year, was
awarded the Croix de Guerre for bravery
under fire, and is also to get the Medaille
Militaire. Just before the Armistice he got
an issue from Fritz which put him in hospital,
and unless the age of miracles is not past
he will be pushed about in a wheeled chair
for the rest of his life. The Commonwealth
Government says it cannot help him, as his
incapacity was not caused while serving in
the A.I.F. I suppose it is right, legally, but
fancy such a fighter being left! I’d give
something to grip his hand, but both those
wonderful paws of his are more useless to
him than a child’s.
* » * *
The Commonwealth Meteorologist’s obser-
vations on “O.K.’s” remarks about Mel-
bourne weather (B; 12/l/’22 and IG/2/’£2) :
The records of weather conditions at Melbourne go
back 66 years prior to December, 1921. 1 have cut
this period into three divisions of 22 years each. The
first might be taken as representing the very early
days, the second the intermediate, and the third
present conditions. I find that, instead of the
summers becoming milder, they appear to be (if
changing at all) warmer. Below you will find mean
daily maxima temperatures and mean temperatures
during Dec., Jan. and Feb. for the three periods.
The last line represents the average of these elements
taken over the whole 66 years:—
Mean
Period. Mean. Max. Temperature.
1856-77 .. 77.2 66.3
1878-99 . . 77.0 66.5
1900-21 . . 77.4 C 7.1
Normal . . 77.2 66.6
* * » #
“Mobile Captain”: That yarn about the
sprinting officer and the hare quoted by “Red
Rust” (B. 19/l/’22) was re-
sponsible for a fighting sergeant
being reduced to the ranks and
sentenced to 90 days. His
crime consisted of telling the
story in a letter. The Censor,
a Base wallah, charged the
sarge, under good old section 40,
with “conduct to the prejudice
of good order,” etc. At the end
of the court-martial the sarge
was asked the usual question as
to whether he had anything to
say in mitigation. He replied:
“If a bloke comes a gutzer for
telling the truth, what would
he get if he told a lie?” That, more than
the offence, was responsible for the sentence.
* * * *
“Mulga”: The breed still holds. Austin
Fletcher (19) was after some horses on
Tucka Tucka station, near Goondiwindi
(Q.), recently, when he collided with a tree
and shattered one of his legs. After pushing
back a protruding bone and roughly binding
the fracture, he commenced at once to
crawl to a clearing about a mile away, bush
instinct telling him he would stand a better
chance of being picked up there by a search-
party. It was a slow and painful journey.
Thirst, which added to his agony, the young-
ster partly allayed by chewing pigweed; still,
whpn he reached the clearing his tongue
was so swollen that when he caught sight
of his rescuers he could not raise a cooee.
But with a final effort he attracted their
attention by waving his shirt on the end
of a stick.
IDYLL.
[For The Bulletin.l
Bird of delight
In the thick o’ the 'thorn,
Piping a song
In the yellow of morn —
Slim little throat,
And brown, speckled wing,
God walks on the earth,
Because it is Spring!
Girl that I love
With the brown in your eyes,
And the light of a thought
That is womanly-wise,
The red of your mouth
Is for kisses I bring ;
God laughs in your heart,
Because it is Spring! ,
0 bird of delight
In the thick o’ the thorn!
O girl that I love
In the yellow of morn!
These are two gifts
That the young hours bring—
You with your laughter
And God with the Spring!
QUEENSLAND.
ED. J. FLEMING.


■
,:.vi
M ■
■
m
VP
mm
V
;
I
V.
I'i
■
;
1
■
■
' v
■
Vi A
H
v- r
I
. I
■Hll
■
;fe
m-Z'M
mm
m
■ V 1"I
wmm
Iti
’ I
mm
mmi i
iiiipipi
iilli .
11l 1
HI
■I
md
■H
Jfc Au. §?f
‘ ■ .'' V . .; ‘
Bml
-“■“ti
. vif-'-A': ■■;■;■. ; <v
■■■■■■■ ■
* ; is ■*i>Wia ■ i
MHEMBr '/ ■
mSm J gjfc JHp
v atm p mi
' jp i ,}f
• •- gawp ,>vlv:-;
I -4« r VI p . af * j
l ■ .-,i; I; .. : -V '
m@&rS+ -y,
■/It
g aMMHH k
■ ■'■■:■
I^Mf
wni
Ilf
v> :
1
llSliil
* K^W : 'W'
iSaH' * • v -' ? TsK»£r.sr*?W , - t
i 9 ;
■H
m
HHI
■■■■l
■
UPfpl--
r -47** < •'iJ'xHMP,, / . '
. . JHhB
• , A?.f* . , Filllifi
.A.?..
£ •♦*,*'
mmmm
m .
••• • ’ * v&JW •>
EbR < gf9ntis&
i
■H
?»
M
waw
Ml wm . . -;l *..* mm
BMBMWi -
f f vv
* s
' 1 ■••'“*-■ - f“
b *
iMWljh.
' \ i- -v WW; it''"'
'*•*
;■'
...
1844-1921
m then till t?oi*r


K372.—Elegant Diamond Brooch, set plati-
num and 15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
No. 114.—Three-
Diamond Crossover
Ring, set Platinum
and 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
K444.—Four-Stone
Diamond half-hoop
Ring, set Pure
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £3O,
No. 160. — All Diamonds, set Platinum
Brooch, £3O,
GIFT DISPLAYS.
These illustrations represent New and Exclusive
Designs selected from our varied stock of Artistic
Gift Jewellery. We cordially invite you to
inspect at either of our two Sydney Establish-
ments.
Wristlet Watches in 9ct. Gold, with Expanding Bracelets.
£4/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
Prices:
Stewart Dawson &(<?(W)Ltd.
Si/dneif £stablisments\
385 -187 PITT ST. NEAR KING ST.,
STRAND CORNER *412 GEORGE ST..
K37s.—Fashionable Diamond Brooch,
Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £B/15/'
No. 129. —Seven
Fine Quality Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold, £l4/10/-
Two-Stone Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, set Platinum
and 18ct. Gold,
£l4/10/-
No. 155. —Five-Stone Diamond Brooch,
£l5/10/-
"Ando”: It’s a good job the great Griffith,
who promised Dutfy (now Justice) that he
wouldn t be "seen” after lunch unless he
was wearing dark trousers as well as a dark
coat, didn t have to work with the late Justice
Hensman (W.A.). He at one of the sessions
held m Ivalgoorlie in the late ’nineties looked
down from the bench and said to the Court
m general: “Well, gentlemen, the weather’s
too hot altogether for the habiliments we’re
wearing. I’m going to remove my wig and
gown, and also my coat, and I advise you all
to do the same.” They did.
* * * *
“124” : The new Archbishop of Melbourne
is likely to have an early meeting with a
tough problem—a revival of the Nash case
of precious memory. Allegiance which split
into fragments the congregation of Geelong’s
oldest Church of England has not died in
the dozen years since the eloquent canon
finally bowed his head to circumstances and
left the church, and Dr. Lowther Clarke,
Nash s accuser in the famous controversy,
had not intimated his intention to resign
before some began to talk re-mstatement of
their favorite. Others are cautious. They
have been for years associated with other
congregations, even other denominations ; and
another generation which knows not Nash
HOLY WEDLOCK.
MRS. BINKS: “I’ll get a divorce!”
ELDERLY RELATIVE ( soothingly): “But, my
dear girl, think of the scandal! Be-
sides, you should not lightly sever the
bonds of holy wedlock.”
MRS. BINKS (bitterly): “Holy wedlock!
Yes, that’s what it is! And he’s been
getting out through the holes ever since
we married!”
has matured. But there are still left a few
last-ditchers. These are preparing as a pre-
liminary a petition to the new Archbishop.
Their ultimate object is the return of the
ex-canon not only to the Anglican fold, bnt
also to his old cure of Christchurch. He
still visits Geelong—as “supply” to Congre-
gational and Baptist churches, as open-air
preacher, as rallier of militant Protestants
and Jdiere is always a flock to hear him.
“Miflga”: A Small Debts Court in N. S.
Vv ales is, it seems, much in the pos : tiou
of the fifth-rate showman who lets anybody
shy things at him
for 3d. or so. A
witness at Broken
Hill who refused
to answer que s-
tio n s was duly
threatened wit ii
terrible penalties
for contempt, and
then a question
was raised of how
much boiling oil
he was liable to.
After a few days’
adjournment t o
consider the mat-
ter, counsel told
the Court that it
had only a limited
jurisdiction, and
that if a witness
cares to pay a £2
fine he can tell it
to go to Hongkong
—or even further.
The S.M. said he
had been of that
opinion all the
time. The wit-
ness then paid up
40s. and kept his
mouth shut, and so did the next man to
enter the box.
“Astov”: One feature of the Ross trial
which has escaped comment was the intru-
sion of “Darkey” Upton as a witness for
the Crown. Upton’s evidence about the
midnight visit to Ross’s saloon and the gift
of a bloodstained bottle was frankly repu-
diated by the Crown Prosecutor, who de-
clared that it wasn’t good enough "to hang
a cat on.” As the Crown Prosecutor had
the last word, the defence had no chance to
comment on _ this interesting admission,
though there is no doubt that the Crown’s
use of this extraordinary character would,
m the circumstances, have made every in-
telligent and unbiased jurymen look a little
harder at the rest of the “disreputable” evi-
dence brought against Ross. Considering
the associations of these witnesses the
money aspect of the case cannot bn
ignored. Knowing the locality of the crime
well, I have been asking myself questions
tor which I can find no answer. One is:
If the Crown was so convinced that Alma
lirtschke had drunk sweet wine at Ross’s
cafe, why didn’t it examine the girl’s stomach
to prove the allegation? And another : What
became of the little victim’s large parcel of
sma.l goods? Did Doss eat them raw when
tearing up her clothes, a s alleged, on the
r ootscray-road ?
* * * *
: In the dry-blowing davs
on the Coolgardie fields I saw a Nestle’s
milk case sold by auction at Kurnalpi for
7s. (Id. The buyer
told me later that
he only wanted the
nails, which en-
abled him to finish
a ‘long-tom”
rocker, and fo u r
days’ run resulted
in his winning
3Goz. of gold.
Sieves sold at from
10s. to 305., and
later, when shak-
ers were intro-
duced, good ones
sold up to £lO. A
71b. bag of oatmeal
cost 7s. 6d.; 501 b,
bag flour 355.;
water 2s. (id. a
gallon; chaff and
oats lOd. per lb. I
remember a pros-
pector shouting for
his two camels
after a perishing
journey. It cost
him £l2 15s. The
first lot of Bul-
letins reaching
the field sold like iced beer at 2s. 6d. each.
* * * *
‘‘Moe’s” study in black-and-white:—
Many young Australians have come into the world
in as strange places as that mentioned by Mrs.
Lance Rawson (B. 16/2/’22). Five or six years
ago a young woman whose husband was the manager
of a plantation in the country south of the Warriar
River, New Guinea, just over the border from the
former German territory, refused to go to Samarai
or Port Moresby for the expected event. Three
weeks beforehand business from which there was
no getting away took her husband to the nearest
white settlement, 70 miles along the coast, and
while he was there he went down to malignant
malaria. The news reached his wife by native mes-
senger, and she decided to join him. Taking three
trustworthy “boys” with her, she left in a small
lugger fitted with an auxiliary engine. Not half
the voyage had been completed when premonitory
signs of her trouble manifested themselves. It
would be hard to imagine a more terrible predica-
ment for a white woman —in travail alone in the
cabin of a tiny 15-ton vessel, off the wild coast of
New Guinea, with only semi-civilised savages to do
anything for her. The latter, however, were all
SOMETHING TO SMITH, TOO.
BROWN : “They say Jones owes everything
to his wife.”
SMITH: “No feah! He owes me a tennah.”
ex-members of the native police, and more or less
attached to their white boss and his missus. They
ran for a small village on the shores of a -lagoon a
few miles away ; but shortly after they had changed
course the engine broke down, and there was
nothing for it but to get out the sweeps and pull.
When they reached the entrance to the lagoon they
found that the tide was running out so strongly
that they hadn’t the ghost of a chance of pulling
in against it, so they ran the lugger on the sand,
lifted their passenger ashore, and, .after making a
litter out of boughs and bags, carried her. through
thick bush to the village. Here the patient was
taken in charge by the native women, and a couple
of hours later she became the mother of a fine boy.
“Cartot”: An interesting geographical
relic of early Melbourne came to light a few
days ago in the form of a copy of the chart
of Hobson’s Bay, made by the Admiralty in
1S39, and taken oft' at the time the chart "was
made, according to one of its annotations.
Its principal value lies in the fact that on
it is marked a number of bayside structures,
long since vanished, such as the old jetty
which stood where the present Wil-
liamstown pier is, and a wharf
some distance away from it. In
those days the Yarra, which fol-
lowed a course different from that
of to-day, had a bar at its mouth
on which the average depth was
about 15ft. The principal loading-
place was Port Melbourne, then
known officially as Liardet’s Beach,
and colloquially as the Landing
place. Melbourne itself is indicated by blocks
bounded by Flinders, Lonsdale, Spencer and
Spring streets.
“ J.C.”: A traveller has recently been tell-
ing of a visit to a native State in West
Africa, where the comely queen received him
in royal state in a pair of patent-leather
boots and nothing else. Which reminds me
of a work of art I saw many years ago in
the big carved meeting-house in the Maori
village of Maketu, on the Bay of Plenty
coast. It was one of the carved slabs of
to tar a timber forming the inner wall, and
it boro a realistic presentment of an amor-
ous couple. That was nothing unusual in
a Maori whare of the good old style, but I
observed the Maketu artist had given the
lady, otherwise untrammelled by raiment, a
pair of bright red boots; also, that her
partner was apparently a white man. The
romance was proudly told by old Pokiba.
The effigy represented the nuptials of the
ehieftainess Hine-i-Turama, ninth in direct
descent from the famous Hinemoa. with the
palcehn trader Tapihana, otherwise Hans
Tapsell, a Danish sea-captain of many ad-
ventures who settled at Maketu nearly a
century ago. The red boots were there be-
cause they were Tapsell’s wedding gift to
hm Maori bride. The union was a matter
of great pride to the tribe, for Tapsell was
a trader and schooner-owner of much mana
and rich in muskets and gunpowder: and it
produced a small tribe of its own—Whanau-
a-Tapihana is the name of the half-caste
clan to-day. Poor Fine-i-Turnma was killed
m the siege of Orakau in 1864, bayoneted
b 7 tbe imperial soldiers when they rushed
the Ivmgite redoubt. Her descendants are
good fighting stock28 of the Tapihana men
and youths served in the Great War T
tune I was at Maketu I searched for that
decorative totara panel, but the carved hall
had been remodelled and Hine and her beau-
tiful red boots had disappeared. I fear me
some missionary has collected the relic.
“Herodot”: There is a good deal for both
psj chologists and sociologists to chew over
in the affairs of one Australian family.
Father and mother were of the highest
repute, and they had two daughters and three
sons. One of the girls is the wife and help-
mate of a professional man and the other
took a degree with high honors. The eldest
son is a professional man with a large
practice, and the youngest is following a
similar course with promise of great dis-
tinction The other son is a burglar.
When his brothers and sisters were
taking degrees, he was graduating in
schools of crime. His first conviction came
shortly arterwards, but for his family’s
sake he went to gaol under a name not his
own. On his release he took up house-
breaking as a steady job and has been at
it ever since, except when he has been in
gaol. His ordinary companions are criminals
and prostitutes ; he is said to have a real
affection for his neople, but he never goes
near them. There must be a kink to
account for a man thus brought up prefer-
ring a life of crime to one of respectable
associates and honor, but the question of
how he got it remains to be settled. Some
day, perhaps, when we know a good deal
more about applied psychology than we do
at present, we will devise methods of treat-
ing cases of this kind. To bundle the whole
lot of malefactors in a common gaol is
really very primitive.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Australia gets another unsoli-
cited advertisement in “What Became of Mr.
Desmond’’ by a new English novelist, Nina
Boyle. A young Englishman is dolefully
described as having come here and “made
a desperate struggle to succeed in an environ-
ment totally unsuited to him.” He married
(as one would, marry in Australia, the author
imagines) a woman “half-Creole; half-edu-
cated, too, and wholly impossible to bring
home.” But “the Creole lady, apparently,
had gleams of perception, for she wrote an
illiterate scrawl saying she knew, she could
not bring her sons up well, and there were
no. good schools.” Again, her grandchildren,
visiting England and mentioning casually
that they didn’t think they had ever seen
A LA MODE.
“I think her habits on the beach are shock-
ing.”
“Quite right. She must go to a frightfully
cheap tailor!”
their father, and didn’t worry about it, give
this pleasant picture of our family life r
“There were lots of people who didn’t know
things like that. It wasn’t ever any use
asking anyone anything of that sort, but
no one minded about it. and it made no
difference. It didn’t seem to matter there.’’
Of course, we can’t help ignorant fools writ-
ing things like that; but we might expect
reputable publishers to refrain from putting
the rank and ridiculous libels before their
customers. It is a matter in which Aus-
tralia House might take a little interest.
* * *
“R.8.C.”: “Coot” (B. 2/3/’22) is wrong
*> V'*™*’- G™ Alley * «* “
rear of the delicensed Adam and Eve Hotel,
H is further up little Collins-street—the first
lane to your left as you enter from Exhibi-
tion-street. It is this fact that makes people
who know the locality wonder why the raur-
derer of Alma Tirtschke, if he came from
the Eastern Arcade, took the trouble to go
to the Alley and risk passing the Adam and
Eve (now a doss-house), whose boss had
a habit of sitting up late. Turning to the
right he could have disposed of his burden
in a small, dark lane only a few yards away.
THE GARDEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Adam waked in Eden old
And found Eve with ’im thei'e,
Blue eyes, gold ’air—well, ain’t we told
That Adam found ’er fair ? —-
I guess ’e wasn’t satisfied
> With things, but on the spot
’E some’ow fixed a spade, and tried
To make a garden plot.
If Eden was a paradise
I bet old Adam set
To laying beds out straight and nice
For rose and violet;
Then put down beans in careful rows,
And lettuce, neatly sown,
And then takes Eve around and shows
What ’e done on his own!
The feelin’ lives in ev’ry man
To make a garden grow;
’E likes to mark ’is plot's, and plan,
An’ dig, an’ mulch, an’ sow,
An’ watch the seedlings upward spring
Till blooms upon ’em sit,
An’ feel about each blessed thing
That ’e ’as planted it.
I know—because I know. I guess
I’m gard’ning on my own;
The builders left it in a mess,
But now the place is sown;
And though (the seeds are not up yet)
It all looks rather bare,
I’ve got a picture in my mind
That shows a garden there.
She comes around —her hair is gold,
Her twinkling eye is blue —
And we, who love each other, hold
That garden-dream is true.
I feel a glory in my sweat
When, in the setting sun,
She stands there in her beauty set
To praise what I ’ave done.
x.s.w.
SPARE CORP.


BATTERIES
BATTERV i*
'■j£xi &e
SERVICE
WOOD is harmful in a battery, as the
owners of a certain well advertised separ-
ator say. We agree with them there.
But when, wood has been treated by
certain chemical processes of which we
hold the secret, its deleterious constituents
are removed and the residual diaphragm is
an active agent in sustaining the capacity,
the condition, and the life of the battery.
It is not inert like the threaded rubber
separator, which merely serves to keep the
plates asunder.
Are threaded rubber separators used in:
Submarines? No.
Train Lighting? No.
Vehicle Propulsion Batteries? No.
Stationary Batteries? ... No.
WOOD is.
That’s all—Judge for yourself by testing
two cells—one with wood—one with threaded
rubber SEPARATION or INSULATION (whatever
be the difference).
We prefer to talk about our plates—and their
cranking ability—because they are really the essential
parts of the battery and not the separator. We should
be sorry to have nothing to say about ou.r plates and
to put our selling effort on an inert part of the battery.
BATTERY
SERVICE
BATTERY
r* SERVICE
BATTERY
“gx
SERVICE
f


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-120 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COE lANS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
e. s. & a. bank ch a Hirers
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
KingGe
WHISKY
tllE TOP NOTCH’ scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOW
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Delhi” (B. 9/2/’22) asked for a method
cf ridding his camp of ants. There are. nine and
ninety ways of constructing tribal lays, and from
the 990 ways of getting even with the crawlers that
swarm into the jam and sugar these are selected: — ■
“R.G.0.”: Tell “Delhi” to get a small quantity
of Paris-green from a chemist or seedman and dust
it along the tracks and around the riests of the
ants if they can be found. This stuff, which is
extremely fine, is carried on the legs of the ants into
the nest and poisons their tucker supply.
“Dinkum Buzz”: I left some bluestone ih the
tracks of small black ants. They don’t seem to have
sampled much of it; but they’ve quitted.
“D.S.E.”: Get a bob’s worth of tartar emetic.
Mix one teaspoonful with three of sugar, add enough
water to dissolve the lot, then put the concoction in
a saucer near where the ants come (for the Lord’s
sake don’t let the kids get at it). You’ll only see
about six dead ants; but that’s enough for the rest
—they simply disappear and they never come back.
“Malleeite” : “Delhi” can keep ants from his hang-
ing safe ly tying a piece of rag on the suspending
wire and then smothering it in axle-grease.
“Namwob”: Keeping the ants away from a sus-
pended safe is easy. Knock the bottom out of a
bottle, and bore a hole through the cork to fit
tight on the wire by which the safe is hung. Put
the cork in the bottle, and put it upside down on
the wire and fill with water. If it refuses to stay
straight, a disk is easily made of wood to fit jnside
the bottle, with a hole through the centre of it for
the wire. Place this about half-way up the bottle
: —below water-level, of course. If “Delhi” hangs
the rest of his stores pn the same principle he will
have no further worry.
“M.E.”: If “M.C.” (B. 9/2/’22) is still
troubled with fleas let him try eucalyptus gum leaves.
A few spread athongst his blankets will keep' the
pests from giving him sleepless night's.
“Ecldyson”: The anniversary tea-meeting
was on at the Waddy Sunday-school. The children
had devastated the edibles at long tables running ,
down the right and left walls of the ■ school-room,
but across the top one table remained in all its
glory of unshaken piles of sandwiches and cakes,
unbroken tarts and pies, and virginal dishes of.thick
cream. This was the table for the elders, and con-
tained many delicacies that had been denied the
youngsters. Outside raged the picnic sharks who,
thanks to - the vigilance of Brother
Jacker, had been debarred from partici-
pation in* the feast this year, as infre-
quent chapel-goers and unworthy. The
children being fed, all hands . were
assembled in the chapel next door for
Brother Jacker’s celebrated thanks-
giving. That being over, they were
liberated to play, while “they preachers
and teachers :do regale theirselves' to
the gloory of Gwad-ah,” as the super-
intendent expressed it. Back to the
schoolhouse went the. grown-ups, charged
with grateful anticipations. Oh,'terrible
was the heart-call that went out from
the bereaved on finding the picnic sneaks
all seated at the one table that had been
spared, eating with the energy of bolting
horses, and waste and vacant was the
lovely table, devoured were the sand-
wiches, faded the great piles of .cake,
eaten the fat pies and the clotted cream 1
For one half-minute the hungry brethren
and sistern stared at the desolated
board. Then said Brother Jacker in an
awful voice: “Shut they doors. They
feast be all eaten up, you, and now
grace must be spoken.” Down went
Brother Jacker, down went brethren and
sistern. The superintendent began.
Never had such exhortation been heard
at Waddy, never had high Heaven been
shaken with so terrible an indictment.
Jacker raked the picnic sneaks body and
soul, he scorched their very hearts with
his terrible invective. He exposed all
their sins, he set their souls naked befo-e their
Maker. When Brother Jacker had finished he stag-
gered to his feet, and threw up his hands. “And
noo,” said he “if they doon’t all go to ’ternal punish-
ment ’tis noo fault o’ mine!” Every one of those
picnic sneaks is still living. We are afraid to die.
* * * *
“Centurion”: “Dingaan” (B. 23./2/’22)
thinks the heftiness of the S. African Kaffirs may be
due more or less to the soured milk they consume.
But it is not the main item in the kraal menu.
The Kaffir’s staple diet is mealie meal and t’ch’wala
—that’s as near as I can get to it; anyway, it is
beer made from ground millet (Kaffir corn), fer-
mented in earthenware bowls. This beverage has a
flavor of crushed cockroaches and acetic acid, and is
of a dubious, muddy grey complexion; yet once
drunk it is refused by few white men. The blacks,
of course, are born to it. T’ch’wala is a mighty
fattener. Old Zulus, who can drink it all day,
become obese beyond all belief. Also, since the per-
fect Zulu flapper must weigh at least 2001 b. to
bring a decent price in cattle, the marriage-seeking
virgin lives mostly on mealies and the beer afore-
said. Once she has married she is put to work,
and, as the boss now drinks all' the beer, she rapidly
loses condition while he gains it.
“Wandi”: To the hunted man in the bnsii
his own tracks are a nightmare. A common dodge is
to wrap sheepskin round the boots, wool outwards.
Even that is not always successful; and the failure
marvels at the way the black-tracker can follow
his quarry over thick, short grass, and over stony
NOTHING EXCEEDS LIKE EXCESS.
country where the average white man can’t see a
mark.' Binghi notes here the turn of a blade of grass
or a little branch; there a tiny leaf that has been
crushed; again, a small stone or pebble that has
been disturbed. Stones are shaded on the ground
side, and, however small one may be, if it has been
kicked from its position it is a mark that he can see
yards in front of him. If the foot is placed squarely
on it, unless it lies on, very hard ground, it will
sink slightly, and that-too is easily discerned. Some-
times the pursued tries to baffle the tracker by travel-
ling through thick scrubs. Therein the ground is
covered with dead leaves and twigs, on which he
treads with care, lifting his feet straight up and
placing them squarely down. He: is also careful, if he
is a bushman, not to brush against branches. Dis-
turbed .leaves, snapped vines and broken twigs are
little indications that the tracker looks for.
“Te Whare”: Re,“Morob’s” (B. 9/2/’221
black snake which collected tobacco-tins and crock-
ery. I’ve met a diamond snake (lady) which gath-
ered up scraps of newspaper and rag from a sleeper-
cutters’ camp. But in this instance the intelligent
serpent interwove its plunder, with the dry grass,
leaves, bracken and bark used in forming the largo
spherical nest in which female diamonds usually
produce, their string of soft-shelled eggs. Some,
however, are content with a mere tree or log-hollow
lined with a little dry grass or leaves. The black-
snake abodes I have examined • contained no furni-
ture whatever, the only contents being the furiously
inhospitable tenants themselves.
“Tarago” : What kind of a vegetable" is it
that “Pickles, J.P.,” calls an elderberry-tree (B.
9/2/’22), which bears foliage in the frosty season?
I have four dinkum elderberries around my house
and no fly, blow or otherwise, would seek shelter
under their foliage, in such Weather, simply because-
the foliage isn’t there. One thing I forgot to men-
tion in my original par was that, although my
trees bloom profusely in the spring, they are left
severely alone by the domesticated honey-bee.
“Country Ped.”: “V. 1.8.” (B. 9/2/’22),
whose horse objects to being caught, ought to teach
him to eat bread. Once the animal gets a liking
for it, he becomes as fond of a crust as a politician of
a gold pass. A piece of bread held up on Eurythmic’s
Windward side soon brings him up; Never walk
right up to him. Make him come up, be caught and
then get the titbit.
“Rio”: A Japanese tells me that although
sharks abound in his country swimmers do not fear
them. A strip of white calico about 9in. wide and
4yds. long is wound round the waist, one end being
loosely tucked in. If sharks are about the bather
loosens this end and allows it to dangle in the water
like a tail. Swimmers thus equipped are never taken.
Couldn't Sydney’s shark-baiters adopt something- of
the sort ?
Exul . The red-back or jockey spider
(Latrodectus hassclti ) is being discussed bv tbc
country medicoes of N.S.W. following a remark
(based on personal experiments) of one of them that
the creature is really harmless. Doctors in th<j
Riverina (N.S.W.), where red-back abounds, have
produced overwhelming evidence of its wickedness.
The bite is'immediately painful, and the pain spreads
rapidly to adjacent parts of the body. More or less
collapse and profuse sweats follow and there is
often temporary paralysis of the legs. As the pain
passes off a sensation of tingling is left in the hands
and feet. Recovery takes a week or more. One
experienced doctor believes that the bite of a full-
grown red-hack would prove fatal to a small child/
Recently, however, it has been shown that if the
bite be immediately incised and Gondy’s. crystals
rubbed into the wound, as in snake-bite, all serious
symptoms may be prevented.
* * * *
“Pat, Bushie” : I agree with “Rolls” that
snakes milk cows (B. 9/2/’22). Here’s one in-
stance, and I know of two others of a somewhat
similar nature. When we were living on the out-
skirts of Lismore (N.S.W.) my brother, when re-
turning from school, used to bring home our cow
and "leave her in the yard. It became a regular
thing for us to get practically no milk in the even-
ing, so dad watched. Soon after the cow was*
yarded a sft. black wriggler arrived and started
operations.
A CASE FOR THE AURIST.
WAYBACK (after first visit to the movies):
“I’m gain' straight to the doctor’s. I
didn' hear a word they said.”
“Peppercorn”: Tell “V. 1.8.” (B. 9/2/’22)
to t this with his horse that objects t 0 being
caught . Having once got him, ride him practically
j- 0 a standstill. Then let him go and keep catching
an( j re - C atching him for some time. Give him a spell
an( j repeat the dose; but remember when putting the
bridle on to treat him with the greatest kindness,
jj e >u so on be as docile as old Poll the plough mare.
.
( Continued on page . 22.)
CALF LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s lots of poets write on love,
An’ spin their rhymes out by the ream—
Of blokes who cast their gaze above
An’ kiss some flapper’s cast-off glove
Beneath sweet Luna’s mystic beam.
An’ brainy men fill heavy books
Discussing love in all its kinds,
From passions of romantic crooks
To pure platonic stuff that looks
So fair to philosophic minds.
The muses help the poet’s pen
To measure out his polished lines,
And wisdom guides the learned men
To tell us how an’ why an’ when
Our human nature so inclines.
But as I scratch for new idees
In hair that’s filled with cocky chaff,
No moods inspired my senses seize
To dot my i’s or stroke my t’s
In lines on love that’s labelled “calf.”
Still calf love plays a useful part,
An’ earns a meed of poet’s praise.
It cranks the engine of the heart,
An’ warms it till it makes a start
To throb with strength in manly ways.
The awkward frame on clumsy feet
First learns to strive for grace an’ height
In some pure woman’s presence sweet,
Although in order to look neat
The boots may be a trifle tight.
The crackin’ voice that harshly grates
While barrackin’ some boyish game,
Or singin’ out to noisy mates,
Cooes like a dove when maltin’ dates,
Or lingerin’ gently on her name.
THE WONDERS OF THE GREAT
WORLD.
"Dad, we ain’t got feathers, ’ave we?”
“No, my son.”
“So we ain’t birds?”
“Of course not.”
“Well, what do the restaurants put us down
as stewed chicken for?”
The face that scowls an’ eyes that stare
Will look more kindly yet more grave
When first they meet with courtly air
The gaze of some dear Ladye Fayre—
In all the glory of a shave 1
The boy begins to bear the fruits
That ripen with discretion’s years.
He wears each day his Sunday suits,
An’ bends with joy to brush his boots,
An’ washes well behind his ears.
Calf love is fed, not on the skim
Of human kindness, but the cream,
Though mobs who chew a cud more grim
Regard it as a passing whim,
An’ poke their horns at love’s young dream.
The Fair One should receive with pride
Such love, not choke it off with chaff.
’Tis hers with gracious hand to guide
(Until it grows a thicker hide,
On harder feed, in paddocks wide)
The humble homage of the calf.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


H
Ĥ
Ħ
H
‘ * Motorists—
“Just a Word with You!
“You’re bent on reducing running costs in 1922!
“This cannot be done unless you know how much mileage you are getting on
a gallon of fuel —what brand of tyres give you the most wear—in other words
you must have a good reliable speedometer.
“THE dtewffib SPEEDOMETER
registers your speed with unvarying accuracy —enables you to check up on
fuel, oil, tyres, etc. Four million motorists will tell you that the f&tciVti/it?
Speedometer is as necessary on your car as a watch in your pocket.
“One has only to note the number of cars on the road that are equipped
with the S&euWifi Speedometer to realise how wonderfully popular it is.
The exclusive tSteWWlb Magnetic Principle is the secret of the remarkable
accuracy, dependability and durability of the
S<?U&lVtVib Speedometer.
“Whether you have a new car or an old one a
STEWART is the speedometer you need. Elave it
installed to~day.“
Ĥ
OBTAINABLE FROM WHOLESALE AND RETAIL ACCESSORY DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA, INCLUDING THE FOLLOWING INTERSTATE SERVICE STATIONS:—
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd.,
Swanston Street, Melbourne; Martin Wilson Bros., Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
Cornell, Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide; Arthur Christian, Hay Street, Perth.
GOODRICH MEANS ECONOMY
All Goodrich users are obtaining splendid results, and a consequent low cost of running.
B
7to
'
/MoT 0 *' 1
Woßl.°,
“if you are
BUYING RUBBER.
KEEP THE
GOODRICH
TRADE MARK
IN TOUR EVE "
Read what Mr. J. E. Hill, of Messrs. McCrea & Hill,
writes us: —
‘ Between eighteen months and two years ago I had
a set of your 815 x 105 ‘Goodrich’ Tyres fitted to my
‘Gregoire’ Car, and I have not had any trouble since,
beyond periodically putting a little air into the tyres to
keep the proper inflation.
“I consider that you should know of this perform-
ance, particularly as my car does more than the average
car mileage.
“Yours very truly,
“(Sgd.) JOHN E. HILL.”
DUVAL & COMPANY, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,


WMM(§
K
\
/
So
m
'M
m
9>
m. s
r m
Ms
PURL COCONUT
OIL BLEND
t
tier
Mil
4698
1
m
—*7
ue
P|k
_\ypr the Summer Camp
ABBOTS
LAGER.
THE BEER WrTHOUT a rTval
“R.1.Y.” ; The itch in “F.E.G.’s” mare’s
tail (B. 2/2/’22) may be cured by rubbing kerosene
Nvell into the skin, and the hair will soon resume its
luxuriance. But because the mother has itch it
doesn’t follow that the foal will have it.
* *-
* *
“Mag”: The upside-down attitude of the
joey ’roo which “Kerpatagie” saw (B. 9/2/’22) isn’t
unusual. Joey always dives into his cabin head first
then turns completely round till his back is pressing
against the outer walls of the pouch. With head
then lowered between his hind legs he sinks the
roo-juice. If he is any size his tail will be protrud-
ing, and possibly a portion of the hind legs. Joey
was evidently replenishing his water-bag when “Ker-
patagie” interviewed ma, and when finished would
, lav ®, P°ked out his head to view the scenery.
Another thing, if a joey small enough for pouch-life
is seen sucking from outside it’s a “monte” the doors
are Darred because a minor occupies another teat.
* * *
Old \\ est Coaster”: Touching the discus-
sion as to whether the platypus has a poison-gland
to his spur (B. 12/l/’22). Years ago the late
nmH , Tayl ° r ’ Public Libr arian, Hobart, asked
me to get him some live specimens, as he wished to
continue experiments with the same gland. He said
f, . ejected into the centre vein in the back
of his left hand the substance taken from the spur
gland of a just dead platypus. The result was a
we mg about the size of a pigeon’s egg, which he
reduced without difficulty. At that stage he was
nable to say whether the poison had lost anv of
its potency through the death of the platypus—hence
his desire for a live specimen. But I couldn’t get
one for him, and so heard nothing further about it.
. 1 tO . me Taylor’s statement is evidence that there
*® a poison gland.
(( * * * *
Sapling ; For once the shearers weren’t
growling. Big tallies were being made. “Where
are you sending your w'ool this year, Boss?” asked
the ringer of the shed, affably. The cocky gazed
gloomily upon the bartered jumbucks in the ringer’s
pen. “Well,” he replied, “by the look of them out
there, I m sending most of it back into the paddock.”
Country Ped.”: I saw something re-
cently that suggests “Wanderer” is correct in say-
ing a goanna can carry a live hare up a tree
(B. 9/2/’22). Near Major’s Creek (Vic,) I heard
the squeal of a rabbit, and found a small goanna
trying to kill a cotton-tail, three-parts grown
which unsuccessfully fought to get away from
him. When the go. saw me making for him with a
gun he shinned 10ft. up a dead red-gum, and took
bunny, still Struggling feebly, with him. If a go’
about 2ft. from tail to snout could do this, a decent-
sized old bloke should be able to take a hare
to a higher altitude.
*
Sassafras”: After much Government
money has been spent in trying to eliminate the
blowfly, an ordinary everyday chemist comes along
with a cask each of crude lanoline and mutton-fat,
boils them with a few pounds of arsenic and says
to the Bananaland Agricultural Department: “Spray
the jumbucks with that twice a year, and there’ll be
no need to worry.” This the Department is doing,
and the very latest official report proclaims “ex-
tremely satisfying results.”
Give “Delhi” (B. 9/2/’22) an
old battler’s tip for keeping ants from a suspended
safe. Smear the rope with glue well mixed with
broken glass. The glass cuts their legs off, and
when they fall they break their necks.
DISTINCTION AND DIFFERENCE.
I.W.W.: “That bloke never did a tap o’
work in his life.”
INTERNASH: “Har! Is he a comraae or a
cursed capitalist?”
“Eehap” : That one-armed abo. lassoer on
Durham Downs (Q.), incidentally mentioned by
“Wandi” (B. 2/'2/’22), is “Wingy” Martin. He should
have a place in the Abo. column’s roll of champions.
When about 17 he lost an arm through blood-poison-
ing at Carandotta. The storekeeper lopped it off
OUT OF THE DANGER ZONE.
IT: “I much pwofer being some distance away fwom the hand; the music sounds so
sweetly indistinct heah.”
SHE: "Yes, and the rattle of the collection-boxes so sweetly indistincter. "
with a butcher’s knife, right at the socket, and
seared the wound with a branding-iron. One day
on seeing an abo. mate pelted three times by a par-
ticularly good buck jumper, “Wingy” hopped into
the yard and took his place. Then followed a con-
tract to break in half-a-dozen colts, on which he
fully recovered his punch, and up till the last
time I saw him (when the Big Fracas started) he
still retained it. As well as being an expert with
the lasso, “Wingy” is an adept at throwing. I
saw him, riding with the reins in his mouth, throw
a two-year-old “mick” and prepare him for entry
in the station stock-book as a bullock, a feat that
must rank as unique in stock-riding records, A
sight' well worth remembering, too, was “Wingy”
with both heels ploughing furrows in the ground
as he hung by his teeth to the bridle-rein of a
colt, the saddle poised in his right (and only)
hand.
* * * *
“Wart”: Most writers on the Speck’s
bush mention the yap of the Tasmanian tiger. I
have never heard one yet, and those who know him
best say that he hunts as silently as a shadow, but
occasionally makes a noise like a gander. The
cubs make a noise like the native hen, only very
much faster. The trappers, in the mountains say
the tiger follows them round their snare lines day
after day and eats the kangaroo carcases. If there
is too much tucker about he eats only the liver.
Occasionally one gets caught in a snare, and a
trapper put one in a slab enclosure with walls Bft.
or more high. When he went to have a look at it
in the morning it cleared the wall with inches to
spare.
» * * *
“Warrawee”: Can any Abo. tell me how
“soaks” occur on the top of high mountains ? For
instance, the Baw Baw Range, about 50 miles due
east of Melbourne, is approximately flat-topped (it
is known as the Baw Baw Plateau), with here and
there a bump of 30ft. or 40ft. rising above the
general level; except to the north and north-east
there is an abrupt drop of about 4000 ft. to two
river-basins, and the general elevation is 5000 ft.,
with no higher mountains within 50 miles; yet,
everywhere on the plateau are dozens of morasses
or soaks. These soaks occur right on the topmost
part of the ridges ; they may be 100yds. in circum-
ference, and water may be found almost at any
time of the year if a shallo\V hole be dug in them.
At some periods a strongly-flowing creek may drain
them, at others the creek may be quite dry (although -
some are perennial). The “wet” and “dry” periods
follow no apparent rule or regulation, and seem
totally indifferent to atmospheric changes.
“N.C.S.”: Re that alligator with the un-
canny third eye (B. 2/2/’22). Those blacks may
have been right. In the dissection of the frog we
were always advised to pay particular attention to
the pineal body. This gland is the vestige of a
third eye, but is disconnected from the brain, having
been nipped off by the growth of the bones of the
skull. In the most primitive of the amphibia, the
skull had a large, round opening at this point,
and in them there is little doubt that the pineal
was a functionary organ of vision, which has been
slowly evolved out of existence. The ’gator and
the frog are somewhat akin biologically, and it is
quite possible that the strange organ was really a
third eye.
* * * »
“Y.Z.”: Can you beat it? A resident of
Athlone, Gippsland, a place standing a little aloof
from the line to Sale, caught a fclackfish weighing
over 41b. and measuring close upon 3ft. in length.
It sounds to me like the daddy of all blackfish. *
* * * *
“Dido”: Log-cutting (sawing and chop-
ping) has been added to the list of Australian
sports. Why not stone-breaking? Stone-breaking,
known to old practitioners as knapping, is a
widely pursued Australian industry, and entirely
respectable, even if it is frequently practised in
gaol. It is a game that calls for a good deal of
close training, and expertness is not possible with-
out knack. It is eminently suited for competitions,
and I think the sight of three or four seasoned old
lapidaries hitting it up over a yard of two-inch metal
would be very inspiriting.
* * «
“Cardos” : The other day a man brought
in a clutch of 16 eggs which he said a brown snake
had been “sitting” on. They were slightly smaller
than hen’s eggs, and a dirty white in color. Two
that I opened contained snakes just under 7in.
long. They wriggled vigorously when placed in the
sun. The other 14 were opened in the presence
of a bush expert, who swore that they were a mix-
ture of tiger and brown snakes and said the mark-
ings of each were quite plain. I want to know
if it is possible to find brown and tiger snakes in
the one clutch of eggs; also, what length the babies
would be before they broke out.
“ J.G.W.” on Binghi as a stargazer:—
The abos. had the stars grouped in a thoroughly sys-
tematic manner, gave them names to represent birds,
animals and plants, and in many cases attached
delightful legends to them. Take for instance the
Boorong tribe, that dwelt about Lake Tyrell in the
Malice (Vic.). According to the ancient Greeks the
Pleiades formed a group of young ladies, who were
the daughters of Atlantis. In the Boorong mythology
the same group is a party of dusky damsels playing
to the men in Orion who are going through the
evolutions of a corroboree. The cluster of stars
belonging to the Dolphin was termed “The Big
Fish” ; Sirius and Rigel were male and female eagles,
and Altair and Vega were also eagles, the Northern
Crown being their nest. In fact, the early dwellers
in the Mallee transported eagles and crows to the
sky in bewildering numbers. A pretty little story
Hnir W °AfV d roUl ' d , the group known as Berenices
Hair After a hot and dry summer, a shower of
,m ln ,n ia +l,l a e 'l’ a «d aithough the ground has soaked
up all the rest of the water, a small cavity at the
junction of three branches of a tree retains some
of the precious fluid, and here a number of birds are
represented as drinking. The Southern Cross is a
tree which affords safety to Bunva (the opossum)
w !*? "'as Pursued by Tehingal (the emu), identified
with the Coal-sack.
w * * •
Jim Carew” : A few years back the term
“packsaddle” was commonly applied to station over-
seers all over the country, but nowadays it is never
heard. Can any Abo. explain how it originated?
“R.H.W.”: Re “Mae’s” reference to
“newspaper oil” as a cure for toothache (B. 9/2/’22).
I extracted the “oil” from brown paper and tried
it on a boy who suffered from ringworms, but can’t
say that it cured them. The man who told me
about it said it was an old-woman’s cure for skin
eruptions in Germany. That was 40 or 50 years
ago. The method of extraction was similar to that
given by “Moe.”
“Colub”: A friend of mine trod with a
bare foot on the head of a tiger-snake killed a coup.e
of hours before. He felt a sharp pricking, and inspec-
tion revealed a scratch about half an inch in length.
He and his companion ligatured and excised the
wound and then set out for home. They hadn’t
covered a quarter of their three-mile journey when
the injured man began to experience all the symp-
toms of snake-venom poisoning, and his companion
had his work cut out to keep him moving. Treated
by a doctor the patient recovered and was himself
again in a few days. When he put his foot on the
snake’s head the point of one of the poison-fangs
must have entered his skin, and the pressure on the
gland was sufficient to force the venom into his flesh.
* * * *
“Cardos”: In the Shire Hall grounds at
Yackandandah (Vic.) there is a cherry-tree with a
diameter of 2ft. 6in, sft. from the ground and a
height of over 100 ft. It is the most amazing
fruit tree I’ve seen. Owing to the fact that the
tree when in fruit is thrown open to the school
children, the local doctor, when selling his practice,
always includes it as valuable asset.
“Ando” : “FY7’s” list of the ordeals that
the adult Binghis of Bananaland have to undergo
for illicit loving (B. 2/2/’22) is anything but com-
plete. Out from Thargomindah, the usual process
is to disfigure the delinquents by cutting off the
front of their noses. This is regarded by the other
nigs, as a kind of “Cain brand,” and the de-nosed
parties are ostracised to a certain extent. But in
a case of repeated infidelity the injured party
despatches Don Juan with the first weapon handy.
On Nockatunga, a big cattle run in S.-W. Queens-
land, a nigger who established a flagrante delicto
case against his brother-in-law hacked his head off
with an axe.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Maoriland boasts the smallest
pine in. the world, one that knocks the Japanese
dwarf into a cocked hat. It is a dacrydium, a rela-
tion of the rimu and totara, and of the Huon pine
of the Speck—all sizeable trees. It is confined to
the Alpine regions, and never grows more than a few
inches high.
THE EXPERTS.
THE OLD UN: “Why, my hoy, I've been
fishin ’ all me life.”
THE YOUNG 'UN: “Well, so ’ave I.”
“Jim Carew”: Is one snake’s poison in-
jurious to another? Recently, aided by a medical
friend, I collected the venom exuded in six bites at
a glass rod by a brown snake. Choosing a red-
bellied black snake as our patient and using a hypo-
dermic syringe, we gave him the full dose. We kept
him under constant observation for just three hours,
but as he displayed no symptoms of illness we let
him out into his run. It is just three weeks since
we experimented and our patient is as healthy as
ever he was.


THE WORLD’S
MOST RENOWNED
KSI
m
HIGH-CLASS
CIGARETTES
CIGARETTES
Grades to suit all tastes but one Quality only—the Highest.
VIRGINIA
No. 555
Absolutely Unique
in their Qualities.
25 for 216
No. 333
High-class Cigarettes
at moderate prices.
20 for 1/6
No. 999
Extra Quality
Gold Tipped.
25 for 3/3
ASTORIAS
Billiard-room Size.
25 for 316
DE LUXE
Magnum Size.
25 for 3/3
MY DARLING
Gold Tipped
for Ladies.
20 for
HIS MAJESTY
Cork Band
with Gold Tip.
25 for
AU RE VOIR
For Travellers’ Use.
50 fOf 7jO
TURKISH;
No. 444
Pure Macedonian Leaf.
25 for 3
No. 1
Extra Mild
Turkish Leaf.
25 for 3 G
QUO VADIS Grade 50
Turkish de Luxe.
20 for 3(6
H.R.H
Patent Silk Absorbent
Band, Gold Tipped.
20 for 316
Also Obtainable in Boxes of 10, 50 and 100.
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON.


TiiimiilllllllliilillliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiur
1
m
Ah
A Business Venture
•• » ' j
of National Importance—
Securing Sole Rights
of Fox’s No. 99 Serge for Australia.
This is truly an event of national significance. It has
an important bearing on the personal side of every
man’s life, viz., appearance and pocket. For these
reasons it deserves to share in point of interest with
financial and other leading news items of the day.
Suit-to-order, £5
Fox’s No. 99 Serge.
One hundred and ninety-five years ago the mills of Fox
Bros.’ were established, and to-day the business has
grown to the largest of its kind in the West of England.
Their No. 99 Serge is a special achievement at its price.
It is woven with an extra strand, giving additional
strength, is medium weight, of pure indigo dye—
unaffected by sun, rain or acids—does not shine, and
will wear evenly to the last thread.
Lowe’s
Pay
Carriage.
limited
Country
Readers
Send for
Patterns.
The Leading Men’s Stores,
Box 1622 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
PALINGS FOR
PLAYER PIANOS
OF QUALITY.
Your old Piano taken in exchange
as part payment and its full value
allowed.
Valuations are Free.
Catalogues are at your disposal.
The Player Pianos we import have been specially
selected from the home of the Player industry—America.
The chief point we have studied was to import
instruments that we knew would stand the Australian
climate and at the same time give the most Artistic
Results from the Player action.
These Players have stood the test:
BEHNING - - - AUTOTONE
CHRISTMAN - - - LAFFARGUE
and the incomparable
VICTOR PLAYER PIANO.
SYDNEY.
Branches at BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, ROCKHAMPTON, LISMORE, NEWCASTLE.


Purest
Spirit
irvtKe
H
Ĥ
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's schnap^
"IT STANDS ADO^^-
&
r
r
mFo3
U ,!!(«
m
b»
F.T. 133
LU/Vc
P
Or 1
C
\
fe§3Sl§Bfe
i
ORIS
N?
“REX”
Luncheon Cheese
Is Nutritious
and Appetizing
A taste for Luncheon Cheese
denotes an L.L.D. in Cheese
Education —the lover of “Rex”
Luncheon Cheese is invariably
a judge of good Cheese.
He eats it liberally for he
knows it is rich in nutritive
properties and that, apart from
its good value, it is such a won-
derful aid to good digestion.
So you, too, should insist upon
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese —as a
table delicacy or as a Sandwich
spread for Lunches, Picnics, or
any occasion where “something
different” in Sandwiches
is sought after.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
to do it, and the judgment of this particular
book was small but comprehensive A simi-
larly curt summing-up of Richard Le Gal-
lienne’S "Quest of the Golden Girl dis-
covered in a library volume sticks my
mind: “A chimera chasing a conceit.
EDWARD DYSON.
David Blair
Edward Dyson puts forward (It.IV
23/2/’22) a strong statement of the need
that exists for an up-to-date Australian
encyclopaidia. But though Mr. Dyson asks
for “an encyclopaedia,” what he really wants
i§ the red-faced Nixon so warmly approved of
by the elder Mr. Weller, the one as the six-
penny books gives picters on, and warranted
to be an infallible prophet. Blair’s “Cyclo-
paedia of Australasia,” the only book ot
reference of its kind published ih Australia,
is cited by Mr. Dyson as a work containing
riluch useful information in its way, but he
complains that this compendium of Aus-
tralian topics was compiled by a “journalist
without much imagination and lacking pro-
phetic *,n.” Imagination and prophetic
vision are dazzling qualities, but a man
twirling the, leaves of a book of inference is
usually in too much of a hurry for dazzle,
l'lain facts arid accurate records are what
he expects to find. Blair’s “Cyclopaedia ot
Australasia,” published' in Melbourne in
1881, should, no doubt, like every other
encyclopaedia, bear upon its title-page the
mystic initials '*“E.i & O. E.,” because the
galaxy of • every one of them, even trust-
worthy Chambers’s, shows black gaps in its
information conspicuous as the coal sacks in
the Milky Way. The latest edition of
Chambers's, for instance, which has caught
up to George V. and to aeroplanes, doesnt
mention Melba, though it devotes a head-
ing and illustration to almost every known
musical instrulpent. The war has put masses
of the big encyclopaedias’ information into
the discard. But the editors of those now
on our shelves can hardly be blampd it
searchers after knowledge are unable to find
the headings “Aiizac,” “Foch,” “Profiteer
and “Poison-gas” in their pages.
Blair’s cyclopaedia is silent on such topics
as The Bulletin, Federation and Edward
Dyson, for the simple reason that only a
Nixon, red-faced or* otherwise, could deal with
topics that had not yet swum into the ken
of the public. To blame a cyclopaedia, on
the other hand, for; including .out-of-the-way
topics, as Mr. Dyson does, is very carping
criticism. The book of reference _ which is
loved in a daily-newspaper office is not the
one which ■ tells all about Captain Cook s
voyages, or Adam . Lindsay Gordon, or the
Eureka Stockade—topics on which half a
dozen treatises are always lying around
handily—but the one which will save an
editor or leader-writer a weary and perhaps
unsuccessful search if he can at once put
hik finger on all there is to know, say, ot
Alvarez de Saavedra or Peter Imlay. As
Dqvid Blair’s daughter may I be personal
enough to say that more than one journalist
has told me’that my father’s cyclopaedia is
useful to him on that account? The book is
on the shelves* of nearly every editor s room
in which I have been. .
The strange omission from my father s
cyclopaedia of the names of Australian poets
is a charge brought by Edward Dyson, and
it is justified. The poefs were omitted
because, as Mr. Dyson implies; they were not
considered of enough importance to be men-
tioned. The explanation is that, my father
thought that the fame of those, known m
1881 would be .ephemeral. He was wrong,
of course. His own standard in poetry was
impossiblv high. Only the greater gods were'
allowed on his Parnassus, and verv few were
they in number, but dll enthroned, wearing
the harp and twanging the lyre. Shelley for
his “Epipsychidion,” Shakspeare the
sopnets, Wordsworth for the ode on “Inti-
mations of Immortality,” Keats for his
“Nightingale,” Coleridge for his “Ode -to
Dejection” were front-rankers, and without
flashing, coruscating genius like theirs
nobody could claim the divine spark. This
was not an uncommon frame of mind in
critics of the.pre-BuLLETiN days.. JBut when
The Bulletin school had won its way it
had no warmer admirer than my father. He
often used to express his great admiration
of J. F. Archibald. “There'was the whole
field waiting to be dug at our very feet, and
Archibald is the only one of us who knew
it,” fife said. I venture on these personal
iiotesi because' Mr. Dyson’s remarks were
rather unjust in implying that David Blair
was non-Australian in sentiment. The very
reverse is the fact. In the preface to his
“Cyclopaedia” he speaks of Australia in the
most glowing terms as destined to. become a
mighty nation. He was one of the pioneers
of Federation, and did so ynuch of the real
hard spade-work, at a time when the very
idea was to most people a mere dream, that
it hurts to think that that service should
be forgotten. He was a foremost fighter in
the ' campaign to introduce Australian
articles in the Victorian State-school Readers,
and was instrumental in having the old Irish
National Readers superseded.My father
wrote or compiled most of. the short articles
and lessons in the reading-books that replaced
these in the Victorian State schools. As a
pioneer he met the usual fate ,of pioneers,
took and gave some hard knocks, did much
work of real and lasting value, and met
everything that came as “all in the day’s
work.” But in everything he wrote he was
indubitably inspired with th‘e vision of what
Australia was going to be. There were in
his eves no bars and fetters that could not
lie removed from her path of progress, an 1 he
himself did his.ybest >to remove one great
obstacle —the obstacle of ignorance.
FLORENOE BAVERSTOCK.
Literature for Young Australians
I have been doing some stocktaking. I
have gone through the 1921 School Papers
published by the Vic. Education Department
for use as “readers” in its primary and
higher elementary schools. I have selected
all the pieces, poetry and prose, one could
strictly use as literature studies, and meant
to be so . used ; and in the 11 papers of the
two supplementary grades, where the study
of literature as literature is earnestly at-
tempted, I find that of 38 excerpts only
seven were written by Australian authors,
a mere 18 per cent. Still, that is better than
it used to be, when one was surprised to see
an Australian poem at all.
From bitter experience I know that young
Australians do not appreciate literature
other than that of their own land. Time and
timp again, not because I wanted to, but be-
cause the authorities had decided it so, have
I sought to impress youthful minds with the
manifold beauties of' the thought and langu-
age of the older classical writers and poets,
but in vain. The allusions are too foreign
for our children to visualise and so grasp ;
and this is not to be wondered at, since
older critics • wrangle over meanings and
references of Shakspeare, Browning, Shelley,
Ruskin and Carlyle, to mention only a few.
But when the teacher attempts to inter-
pret an Australian poem, a difference is
noted at once. One can sense a change in
the children at the mere mention of the
author being an Australian. It seems to
give them a sense of kinship. Dysons ihe
Old Whim IlorSe” provided my two upper
grades with many a pleasant half-hour. The
scenes were familiar to the teacner, and. to
some of the children ; thus the interpretation
was easy, and the language, being simple,
straightforward and unaffected, held no diffi-
culties. (Subtle, artificial and involved lan-
guage has a very depressing effect on young
students; and, when all is said and done,
I don’t think such writers ever expected
their writings to be studied by children of
13 and 14.) As with “The Old Whim
Horse,” so with “The Nation Builders of
Essex Evfins, even though this poem is
harder for children to understand —any-
thing with an underlying meaning is. But
when the time came for the studying of one
of the simplest of Browning’s poems, The
Patriot” —well, I am quite certain that my
classes ended up by loathing Browning.
For my part, I would sooner read (and
have done so) “How McDougall Topped the
Score,” crude as it is, than attempt to dis-
entangle some of the meanings of Browning
and Shelley for the edification of a class of
children. Only when children have learned
to like “McDougall” and his kind' will they
turn to better things. Our educationists
seem to want children to run before they
can walk. . . ..
So we need to offer more Australian
poems, stories and essays for our children
to read and study. In fact, we could—at
least, I would —cut out all poets and writers
of other lands, even simple Longfellow, who
seems to be most popular with the School
Paper editors. English children are not
asked to study American or Australian
writers - why should we force our children
to study what is to them foreign literature?
Bv doing so we are only making them hate
good literature. Let them learn to love our
own first,, whether, it is rudimentary or pol-
ished ; hv-and-bye will come the time when
they will learn and love the writings of the
best writers in our tongue, be they English
or American, South African or Australasian.
COUNTRY PED.
Chinese Pens and Pencils
While enthusing over China’s poets, P.
Airey (R.P. 16/2/’22) might have added
that, after all, they did not differ from the
poets of other lands in one respect, Li Po,
China’s most famous poet, having met his
death by drowning through falling over the
side of a boat in a drunken effort to embrace
the reflection of the moon. Introduced to
the Emperor, the latter was so fascinated
with Li that he prepared for him a bowl of
soup with his own Imperial hands. lie also
put him in Easy-street, and Li repaid him
by going on a non-stop bender. Overcome
by one effort of Li’s (written and recited
when intoxicated), the Emperor ordered the
head eunuch to pull off the poet’s boots m
■order to ease his feet. Li must have had
holes in his socks. At any rate, he resented
the order, left the Court, and with several
colleagues started a drinking club, known as
the Eight Immortals of the Winecup, lo
save someone vthe'trouble of telling me that
the Chinese do not get drunk on wine, let me
say that Li Po died somewhere about a.d.
740, at which time, and until long after, the
Chinese were largely addicted to drinking to
excess. So much so that Su She, a celebrated
statesman, poet and ; philosopher, wrote:
“Spirits men will not do without....To pro-
hibit them and secure a total abstinence is
beyond the power even of the Sages.’’ Had
he been a real seer he might have added or
of Pussy-foot Johnson.” China’s present
bane, tobacco and opium—perhaps not such
a terrible bane, after all, because, deprived
of them, she would no doubt return to alcohol
—is of comparatively recent introduction.
The poets were not China’s only great
men. Her painters also deserve immortality.
Wu Tao-'tzu wielded a wizard brush. He
painted a picture of Purgatory, the sight of
which inspired the fishmongers and butchers
with such horror that many of them aban-
doned their callings and i sought a livelihood
in other directions. On one occasion, so the
story runs, when the priests ;at a. certain
temple had been rude to him, he painted on
an inner, wall a donkey which, during the
night, kicked all the furniture to pieces.
Even Leason can’t do that. Wang Wei was
an artist of a different brand. It did not
trouble him if the cart was too big for the
stable-door, or if flowers of different seasons
got into the same picture. Wang was a law
unto himself. He was also somewhat like a
present-day Labor Premier. “It is difficult
to discuss these finer points with the un-
washed,” he was wont to say. Another
artist, Han Kan, is worthy of notice. Upon
two discs, measuring less than six inches
in- diameter; he placed no fewer than one
hundred horses, fifty on each disc, with every
horse in a different attitude. Woodcuts of
these two discs are yet extant. Not to upset
the Chinese reputation for veracity, perhaps
the less said the better of the artist who
painted on a wall the representation of a
mountain stream in which there was one
brush-stroke forty feet in length.
G. L. THOMAS.
A Satchel of Books
Mollie’s Substitute Husband, by Max McCann
(Dodd, Mead, per Whitcombe and Tombs). Wildly
improbable narrative of a dominie who impersonates
a dissolute U.S. Senator to the extent even of
annexing his wife when the Senator shins up the
golden stairs. A bright idea indifferently handled.
Youth and the Bright Medusa, by Willa Cather
(Heinemann);. Eight short stories by an American
writer of uncommon skill and outlook. Most of the
tales deal with the New York musical world, and
the prima donnas who swagger through with their
suites of lovers and hangers-on are etched with a
delicacy that is rare.
Briony, by Curtis Yorke (Hutchinson). Pleasant,
gossipy yarn of a young Englishwoman in reduced
Circumstances who takes, in boarders —two catty
Spinsters and Madame,, a grass-widow. The boarders
and the servants are painted in lively colors, and
are much more interesting than the cold, hard,
proud baronet who marries the girl.
The Black Colonel, by James Milne (Lane). The
Colonel is a raffish Jacobite who recalls, not dimly,
the Marquis of Ballentiae. Successful in love on
his native heath, and unsuccessful in war, he crosses
the Atlantic and becomes a spy for Wolfe. The
novel is singularly lacking in incident, and the
characters don’t grip. By way of compensation
there are some noble descriptions of Highland
scenery. ,
The Magnificent Mr. Bangs, by Joseph C. Lincoln
(Appleton). An eccentric archaeologist goes to Cape
Cod (U.S.A.) in search of health and meets the
most wonderful woman in the world. She is 1
buxom, kindly, altogether charming old maid. A
genial and wholesome book, dealing with a part of
America in which the primitive virtues are still cul-
tivated and the jazz and the cocktail, psycho-analysis
and actress-workship, bootlegging,, drug-taking and
all the rest of the modern improvements are not.
A World to Mend, by Margaret Sherwood (Little,
Brown, of Boston). The dull diary of a well-to-do
American college man who during the war became
a village boot repairer that he might get to really
know the “common people.’’ A thousand stories
have been written of the awakening of the conscience
of the U.S.A. village—and 98 p.c. of them make as
poor an excuse for the tardiness of that awakening
as this one does. But not even the 2 p.c. give
an approximately true account of what Uncle Sam
actually did so far as real fighting was concerned.
Most of them —this one included —have a good deal
to say about Chateau Thierry, and picture it as
ground and blasted to dust in a hellish conflict
between Sam’s boys and Fritz. As a matter of, fact,
when the present writer passed through Chateau
Thierry, after the Huns had been driven 40 miles back,
it wasn’t half as bad a wreck as Amiens, which the
Huns never reached.
Way of Revelation, by Wilfred Ewart (Putnam,
via Dymock’s). One of the few; war books that are
worth while. Apparently a first novel, and it just
misses being great. From the pleasantly inane life
of aristocratic England in the summer of 1914, from
•the everlasting round of receptions .and routs, Cowes,
Epsom and Ascot, the young men of the story are
conducted to scenes of unimagined horror in France.
At home, while they keep their rendezvous with
Death, the girls who were their associates in the
vapid world of fashion struggle more or less reso-
lutely with circumstances which have caught them
as unprepared as the men. The strong characters
triumph over their dead selves ; but there are others.
One high-born damsel joins a set of “coke” fiends,
takes an overdose at the Victory Ball and departs in
the Billie Carlton’ manner. Powerful are the
author’s descriptions of war as the soldier saw It ;
mordant his comments on newspaper generals and
horse-faced politicians who did well out of the
war, and the characters who crowd his glowing pages
are sketched with sympathy and skill. Sometimes
the realism is merely crude, and always there is
a lack of the serenity that distinguishes the great
masters of fiction. But it is certainly one of the
best novels written in English during the past two
years.
Whispers, by Louis Dodge (Scribner’s, per Whit-
combe and Tombs). The best of the latest batch of
mystery-yarns from the exhaustless country that
specialises in that class of fiction. And there isn’t
a. wisp of georgette or a rolled-down silk stocking
in it.
The Pace of the Ox, by F. E. Mills Young (Hod-
der and Stoughton, per Dymock’s). Pleasantly-
written S’African story' of a man who runs a
picture-show and of a country storekeeper’s daughter.
Commonplace as their occupations are, the characters
are quite interesting, and the yarn, though simple
in construction, is clean and human.
Tahiti Days, by Hector McQuarrie (George H.
Doran Co., New York); McQuarrie, a native ot
Auckland (M.L.) and a Cambridge man, served as
an officer in the Royal Field Artillery and went to
the U.S.A. with the Balfour War Mission. When
his health broke dpwn he moved on to the Islands,
and gathered a big sheaf of impressions Which he
has interestingly set forth in this book, more or
less embellished with a series of sketches from his
own pencil. He spent a good deal of time studying
native life and' customs, and he writes vividly of a
trip to the pearl-fisheries of the Paumotus group.
McQuarrie re-introduces us to Luvina, the hotel
proprietress whom we met in Somerset Maugham s
“Moon and Sixpence,” and of whom Frederick
O’Brien has also written. Her real name, says
McQuarrie, was Chapman:
“Luvina was like the rest of her race —a perfect
Christian in everything except her inability to
appreciate respectable morals. But her personality
was extraordinary. One simply had to love her, and
the happiest hours many a man has spent on Tahiti
have been passed listening. to her common- conversa-
tion .... If you were a saint Luvina respected you;
if you were a good-looking sinner, she loved you
and gave you a cocktail with sugar round the top
of the glass; if you were neither, you bored her.”
She was one of the first to die during the influenza
epidemic. And all Papeete mourned her.
Democracy and the Dog Collar, by Studdert
Kennedy (Hodder and Stoughton). Kennedy, vicar
of St. Paul’s, Worcester, whose “Rhymes of a
Padre” had to be supplemented, is terribly concerned
about the divorce between Labor and the Church;
and in this brightly written book Dog Collar and
Organised Labor sit down and thresh it out. Dog
Collar gives away a lot; in fact, if it hadn’t been
for the resolutions of the recent Lambeth Conference
it almost looks as if Dog Collar would have had
harder things to say about the Church than Organised
Labor has. There is in what Kennedy writes much
of particular interest to Australians. For instance,
to the gibe about the failure of the Churches, Dog
Collar retorts: “The Labor party has as yet never
been a Government. Being an Opposition is in
some ways as easy as instructing the Commander-in-
Chief how to win the Battle of the Somme with
matches for armies round a glass of beer on a pub
table: anybody can do it. TJie real test of your
movement will never come until it is called upon
to form a Government.” For this page’s part it
doesn’t believe that the test comes then. At any
rate, not the final test. If it did the Labor move-
ment would have to be condemned in Australia.
It certainly isn’t a case fpr hanging under the First
Offenders Act. It is a case for sending the failure
to the reformatory for more education. Of course
Studdert Kennedy wants to impose something else
besides education. He wants to revive the conscience.
But conscience is a thing that runs in all shapes.
Many a man has made a religion of his sweating just
as others have done of their loafing on the job.
An uneducated conscience is, in fact, one of the
most dangerous things in the world, for it will
drive a man to do wrong with all his might and
keep on doing it.


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
I*l b r>cs 1 i
Weatherboard Houses
Build your new home—exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings with Hardie’s
Australian-made “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and Roof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made in 36 sizes.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House.”
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’grs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Note this Woolbale
and the message it contai s. The advice is
worth taking. Top results are the firm's
strong point.
Write:—
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Woolbrokersi LTD.
Sydney ox* Brisbane.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
SKANDIA
MARINE MOTORS,
4-5 h.p. and up to
500 h.p.
!:
n-
Kit
Miml
--—a;
4-5 h.p.
The latest type of Semi-deisel Oil Engine.
Specially constructed to take the place of
benzine engines. Runs on Crude Oil at a
cost of about twopence per hour. No
Magneto—sparking plug or electrical
devices. A\erage starting time only thirty
seconds.
All particulars and prices can be obtained
from
Nelson & Robertson,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD
Culwulla Chambers.
Castlereagli Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
The Drills for Service
Ħ
YllAftl
MAO* |
CAPITAL
ONLY the finest steel machined by experts
of long experience can result in the perfect
drill—the drill that cuts accurately at high
speeds and retains its edge.
“CAPITAL” BRAND
HIGHSPEED
TWIST DRILLS
are guaranteed to give satisfaction in every
respect. The slight “thinning” at the point
prevents splitting under normal conditions. We’ll
replace any “Capital” drill that proves defective.
Why not give us a trial order ? Table of speeds
and feeds for all classes of material gladly for-
warded. Write nearest address.
The Eagle &. Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Associated Company ARTHUR BALFOUR & CO., LTD., Sheffield,
MAKERS OF ULTRA-CAPITAL HIGH-SPEED STEEL,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 343-48 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
Cliff Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Paul &
Gray, Ltd., Scott Street, Newcastle; H. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle
Street, Hobart; John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd.. 88 90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
NV/// //Si
m //SHI i
i
I
MONEY CANNOT BUY A BETTER PIPE than
H
CORSICAN BRUYERE
Illustrated No. 807.
Silver-mounted,
Sfcv 166 -
We '
will
show
a
shape
every
week.
'm
Made by
French Dig-
gers at St. Claude,
Jura, 1 ranee, trom
the finest procurable
Briar Boot, these flaw-
less pipes are the Worlds
Best. They are made in 98
smart plain and silver-mounted
shapes, and every pipe Is
Guaranteed for
Twelve Months.
Ask your tobacconist for one, or send a post-
card to Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne —and we will
tell you where to get one. [1
For the shop whose needs call for a machine to cut a variety of
L
spur and b.eyel gears, clutches,
sprockets, etc., we offer
BROWN & SHARPE
No. 13 & 13H Automatic
Gear-Cutting
Machines
These machines are a
favorite in the average
shop because of their
adaptability to such a
large range of work. They
will accommodate spur
and bevel gears up to
24in. in diameter, uin.
face, which adequately
fills the ordinary de-
mands.
AUSTRALASIAN AGGNTS
SCRUTTONS LIMITED,
161 Clarence St.,
Dept.
Sydney, N.S.W.
“a."
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Rechercheur”: What would you call this?
An ex-Digger who served on the Peninsula
and was later blinded and taken prisoner ut
Pozieres has recently had his home at Mal-
vern (Vic.) burgled twice.
* * * *
“Wealsman”: Some 12,000 shares in
Brownell Bros., Ltd., Hobart’s biggest de-
partment store, became available the other
day through the retirement of one of the
original firm. It is understood that the
whole parcel stays on the premises, practi-
cally every share having been bought by the
firm’s employees, at something over 18s.
each. It is a £lOO,OOO co., with about 80,000
shares actually issued. Capital has trebled
in 20 years, substantially, it is surmised,
from profits left in the business.
* * * «
“Mountain Ash”: Healesville (Vic.) is
blessed with many fine streams, and so
dependable are some that the Metronolitan
Board of Works is erecting a new dam from
which a large percentage of Melbourne’s
water supply will be drawn. And where
there is water there is cheap power for the
asking. On the surrounding hills there are
unlimited supplies of firewood—another
source of cheap power. But so wise are the
local councillors that to supply llealesville
with electric light they have installed steam-
driven dynamos, and the fuel they use is coal.
* * *
Thus Crawford Vaughan, one-time Premier
of South Aus., after a recent inspection along
the Murray:—
The cotton plots are an unqualified success. The
plants 'are flourishing between vines, between fruit-
trees and in open areas. The plants are mostly
about four feet high; they are about a foot apart,
with three feet between the rows. My association
is bringing out a gin of the roller type to deal
with this cotton, and it will be located at Berri.
It should be a condition in allotting irrigation blocks
that settlers should put in cotton between the young
vines and fruit trees, and thus secure what they
have long been looking for, a substantial return
in the first year; it ought to be between £2O and
£3O an acre. The type we are growing is American-
Egyptian, known as pirn a. It is used largely for
motor-car tyre-fabrics and is quoted at double the
price bid for middling American.
* * * *
“John D.”: The Tasmanian sawmill pro-
prietors, who closed down their mills three
or four months ago allegedly because they
could not make a profit after paying a wage
of 78s. a week, seem to have put themselves
wrong by failing to first apply to the Arbi-
tration Court. The Timber Workers’ Union
has now asked the Court to take a look at
the situation, so that the allegations of un-
profitableness made against certain sawmills
may be tested and the precise reasons for
such unprofitableness (if any) made more
or less plain. Meanwhile all Australia is
interested in the allegation that under pre-
sent conditious the sawmills on D’Entre-
casteaux Channel, which bisects the finest
eucalyptus forest in the world, cannot deliver
sawn timber at Hobart at less than 12s. 6d.
per 100 ft. Cargoes of Yankee Oregon may
be had in the same port for 11s. 4d.
“Rev.’s” sensible suggestion:—
“We want men, men filled with a fiery enthusiasm
for their brothers,” is heard at all the church con-
ferences, but how to get them seems to be beyond
these weighty conclaves. One certainly did strike
a brilliant idea —to send to England for men. My
solution of the problem is simpler. Give our own
young men who want to enter the church a fair
deal. Cut short that time of apprenticeship wherein
the novice has to learn to live on two peanuts and a
sardine per day. Instead of starving the body and feed-
ing the mind, fill both with nutriment—if need be
neglect the mind a little, but at all cost feed the
body. An underfed man cannot do justice either
to himself or to his God, so in all humility I sug-
gest to the troubled ministerial minds that they
should offer to all applicants, for either home mis-
sion work or the ministry, the basic wage. Then
the young man for whom they are looking will
materialise.
“Pollio”: Some time ago on Tiie Bul-
letin’s Red Page I hurt one or two people’s
feelings by protesting against the beliei that
Stephen Leacock was a great humorist.
Against “great” I still protest. But he is a
humorist: he has just proved it. He went
over to England to talk about Empire Settle-
ment. And he proceeded to tell the audience
that there should be a great future in the
Dominions for intellectual people who were
“starving in silence” in London. “In the
science-schools in London,” said the humor-
ist, “young men get an admirable equipment,
but then cannot get a berth. Why don’t
they go out to Melbourne or Sydney and be
sure of being passed on to employment?” I
submit that nothing in “Nonsense Novels”
or “Behind the Beyond” comes anywhere
near that for genuine humor. Yet not a soul
at the meeting seems to have recognised it
as amusing. Leacock said something els.,
also apparently in dead earnest, which should
make our professors sit up and try to think.
“At McGill University,” said he, talking of
his own place, which he ought to know,
“every student walks out into a iob which
is waiting for him.” It’s not exactly the
ideal praise for a true University: for the
crowd of independent technical classes which
is all that most Australian Universities
amount to it would be a valuable testi-
monial. But of them it wouldn’t be true.
Why? Mount Morgan in the days of its
greatness used to order young Sydney gradu-
ates by the half-dozen. Its orders have
ceased, of course; but are there any others?
And if not, why not?
“W.IJ.E.”: It usually takes a dozen sig-
natures and a furlong of red tape before an
account can be passed for payment in the
Commonwealth cashier’s department, but a
miracle happened in Sydney G.P.O. recently.
An immaculately tailored tourist was “doing”
Martin-place on the steps of the C.P.O.
when a bottle of black ink came hurtling
from one of the top floors. It struck the
tourist on the shoulder and transformed his
light-grey suit into a passable chess-board.
He rushed into the building and indignantly
presented himself for inspection; and ink
stains on the outer wall backed up his com-
plaint. He explained that he was leaving
Australia next day, was then asked to assess
the damage and within 24 hours was in
possession of the Commonwealth’s cheque
for £l6-odd.


DltCOiieHT
F *, *• ~V ' (( \(
|«|g§|
V£' * * *>
s_. *•■■■> >3i
> -n
.... . .....'•' 5’ •.. ■■ j
I*
; 4 ; ■
ay-rf^tfStW
s"i.
HI
-
Sill
ma^agSt*
S*l ; ****
iUMi
HfHHHMMHMRr . *. Iv.^
4 «™iwilr i , • •
-.}% fe>
■;:. j•• ,• %■ vAaftj
M
im# 5
i
■I
.
m
i '.F:«r
£# Hi
11
is 3# ? ®
. . ; ;
«se
**'* s**- > assts
% '.
, ,
mm
. ■
r 4
—M
«HHm
-.-■■• i
MM
I
HH
1
■
t m WRBfBfsM
•r
wMm.§
i**
SKJ
m
m
■
MU
K 1
H
.
■ ■: ■
' ' '. v -^';i
tfßllllfflH
ii
1 §ll
'>;
mm
sag m
m
m
SS
• a
m
■ j •
■
m
. LPf
J|l
::.'JS
.
MM ■ B
sJ
H
■
i
Mt^g
i
::
»
sail
»1»v
Ssssi A i
.'T*T?4.-e ■ . * s
4
*.... \
ws®?
I' ..4-/; ;
5 HI 1 HI
8
v
Wm
f^W&K
- . - S’ 'jf&r'-StX't,
srrr" t <*
■ "J.;.
■H
H
....... ■.. -
-V
MM
I
m
i
BSs
3
m?:
.■^rtjgM
Cflili
■■■
te-
HH
iiH
You’re
Interested in
Delco-Light
—and why shouldn’t you
be? Everyone wants to be
happy, and the way to in-
crease happiness for the whole
family is to put into your home
and on to your farm the things
which make life better and brighter.
Delco-Light does that, and it helps
you in your work. That’s why you are
interested.
More than 150,000 families are healthier
and happier since they put in Delco-Light.
You, too, can enjoy its fullest benefits. You
owe it to yourself and to your family to learn
all about it at once.
There's a DELCO-LIGHT man near you.
Write for catalog , prices and fw ther interesting details.
Pays /or Ms elf
OYER 150,000 SATISFIED PSERS.
vSprSS™ WALES - • Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Kent Street, Sydney.
-p','..., Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Bourke Street, Melbourne.
avd J - &E * A * Stewart, Cameron Street, Launceston.
QUEENSLAND Smelhe & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
WISr H aaV.V V - r . SO " S * Robertson, Ltd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA. . . .Gilberts, Ltd., King Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND I & Co *’ Eamb ton Quay, Wellington.
farmers Co-operative Association, Christchurch.
FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS: W. A. Crowle, Limited, 161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
RBH
W
1
*


£
a
a.j.v/.
Boils &
Pimples
«HOUR Complexion is muddy. You look haggard
\| and yellow. Your eyes are losing their lustre.
The trouble is with your liver. Take Chamber"
lain’s Tablets. They will correct that. Then avoid
meats, hot bread and hot cakes. Take frequent baths
and a long walk every day, and you will soon be
as well and as clear complexioned as ever. The person
who enjoys good health is the one who takes
For the Stomach and liver
Edgar Allen
STEEL
for all purposes.
IMP
lAt
"STAC'’ BRAND
rde n i n g
<K
K
9
S d
UNDER these registered
trade-marks is marketed
the full range of Edgar Allen
Steel, which covers every
need of modern engineering
practice. Generations of
experience have produced a
correct grade of steel for
every job, in a quality that
is world famous.
HIGH - SPEED TOOL
STEELS. —“Air Hardening’'
and “Stag Special,” the high-
est grade tool steel made.
SPECIAL ALLOY STEELS
—“lmperial, “Red Label”
and “K. 9” Tool Steels. Also
Chrome Vanadium, Perma-
nent Magnet and Sheet Tool
Steels.
CARBON TOOL STEELS.
—“L.S.D.” series of Tool
Steels, Mining Steels, etc.
MOTOR AND AIRCRAFT
STEELS.—3% C.H.M.S.,
Nickel Chrome and Chrome
Vanadium Steels, Silver
Steel, etc.
Also VALVE STEELS.
SPRING STEELS, HOT
and COLD SAWS, FILES,
HIGH-SPEED TWIST
DRILLS, RAILWAY
POINTS and CROSSINGS,
CRUSHING and GRIND-
ING MACHINERY, etc.
Special booklets and all
particulars post free.
Portable
Electric Tools
a Wmmsßßm
■I ;
r
iiillipP
I J
m
m
Hi
1
* • !
-n ■
IIaSaSgSSBwtfWBM
..
4-h.p. Portable Grinder with Sin. long extension for
A.O. or D.O.
SPEED and thoroughness are maintained at an
impassable limit wherever portable electric tools
are used. Accuracy and greater convenience have
made the portable - electric tool indispensable to
the busy shop. We offer a full range for either
current. ■■ \ i
Portable Electric Drills (hand and
breast), Universal Motor Screwdrivers,
Ball-bearing Buffing Lathes, Tool Post
Grinders, Ball-bearing Buffing and Grind-
ing Machines, Floor Grinders, Internal
and External Surface Grinders, etc.
Write or call nearest address for catalogue and ail
particulars.
See our Engineering Display, Stand 46, R. A. Show, Sydney,
April 10—19.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; Darling Building, Franklin Street, Adelaide; corner Collins and Elizabeth Streets,
Hobart. Also from XR. W. Gardam, Perth.
“Meataxe”: A co. with £lOO,OOO in its
pocket is setting out to give visitors to
Northern Tasmania better nesting-places.
The Brisbane, at Launceston, has been cap-
tured, and is to be remodelled, the Corn-
wall has been optioned, and further acquisi-.
tions arc likely.
“Wondah”: I had been answering the
nine-year-old girl a number of questions
about the Pope. The last two answers—
that he could never leave the Vatican and
that he was not allowed to marry—'got her
thinking. Finally she asked: “Is that why
they won’t let him out?”
South Aus. is pushing an idea, believed to
be new to Australia—the development of the
horse educated for garden work. The idea
is to get the horse “most capable of putting
up an all-round performance on the land,
combined with road work,” and points are
given for ploughing, scarifying, pulling,
appearance and “action.” At the first trial,
before a crowd of market-gardeners and
fruit-growers, the winner got 81 points out
of a possible 100.
The demand that a Labor Ministry should
declare the I.W.W. incendiaries and the
1917 railway strikers not guilty, and rather
worthy of reward, whether they were guilty
or not, is only a beginning. The next
Ministry will find an obnoxious person con-
victed whether he is convicted or not, and
pass a long sentence. A verdict of “Not
Guilty” is quite as upsettable as one of
“Guilty” when justice becomes a matter of
political pull.
The Hindoo influx into Maoriland has
received a sudden check. No Asiatic can
now get in without the consent of the Min-
ister for Internal Affairs. Even after get-
ting that he has to pass any test considered
necessary. A limit has also been put on
the total number to enter in a year. In
1921 there were 139 Hindoo immigrants, but 1
that included a batch of 60 who were on-
their way when the Act came into force. As
to Chinese, the maximum for this year has
been fixed at 100. •,
Adelaide Tramways Trust has put out a
half-year balance-sheet which tells a good
story. Revenue (in thousands) 288, expendi-
ture 206 —-both easily the highest on record.
The apparent profit, 82, is allotted thus: In-
terest, 32 ; repaid to the Government off cost
of construction, 30; renewals, 11; interest,l
s—with something over three added to the
accumulated surplus, now standing at 16.
Gunn, head of the Labor party, has sug-
gested that, now the trams are doing so
well, the extra Id. imposed two or three years
ago on every fare taken out on a Sunday or;
a holiday might fairly be dropped.
“A.E.H.” : Re “Mellish’s” leisurely voyage
(B. 23/2/’22). There are many to beat it;
here are a few :
Blackbraes, ship, Dundee to ’Frisco, 365 days
(repairing at Pt. Stanley, 23/10/1899 —9/2/1900);
Olivier de Clisson, barque, Cardiff to ’Frisco, 301
days (1902) ; T. F. Oakes, ship, Hong Kong to New
York (via the Horn), 259 days (1898) ; Natuna,
ship, London to ’Frisco, 225 days; Clarence S.
Bement, ship, New York to Yokohama, 222 days ;
(1901) ; Palgrave, barque, Hamburg to ’Frisco, 216
days (1906) ; Avenger, barque, London (via Mauri-
tius) to Melbourne, 205 days (1897) ; Beech Holm,
barque, Hudiksvall (Sweden) to Sydney, 203 days
(1901) ; Francois, barque, ’Frisco to London, 202
days (1905) ; Lallah Rookh, barque, Brisbane to
Queenstown, 201 days (1905).
In the Irish Fi'ee State prominent hunters
are already fighting for the skin of the bear
while Bruin is still on the hoof. The State
is under a Provisional Government —an
unavoidable misfortune, to be replaced at
the earliest possible .moment by a regular
election and a People’s Administration
formed by Parliament. But an excited con-
vention, which sprang together without any
very discernible authority, postponed the
election, and the long-sought boon of real
self-government, for three months. There
may be more postponements after that, but
even three months allow He Valera some
time to fish in the troubled waters of civil
war for his lost Presidentship. Garibaldi
was up against much the same question once,
but he retired in his hour of victory, and
went farming. De Valera isn’t Garibaldi.
A curious mixture of skim-milk and pro-
perty” blood flows through politics at the
moment. Thus, while McGirr and Dr.
Arthur talk about motherhood endow-
ment Carlyle -Johnson, who is Premier
Dooley’s colleague, explodes at Batnuis
to the effect that “flashing bayonets
and death-dealing machine-guns wi
roar in the streets if wages dont
keep up. But it is just as well tor
the workers, before they hand themse v
over body and soul to their new Labor
bosses, to reflect that bayonets and maclun
guns may be used for other purposes. -
Moscow, for instance, the Red Government
has called out its Red Army, and used its
bayonets and machine-guns to put down a
strike of its compulsory workers m its u u
Ruddy fashion. The N.S.W. Labor Council,
incidentally, is affiliated with the Auburn lot
at Moscow.
“Adelaide” : One. good thing The Bulle-
tin does quite incidentally is to.info
tered parts of this continent how t•
parts live. A detail that, always
the South Australian is the taken fm
granted reliance on foreigners tr j es
necessary and not badly-paid
Melbourne, it seems, won t ’wash a be
grow a cabbage unless _a Chinam
found to do it, and Sydney cant buy a
banana or a plate of fish except f /g
an Italian or a Greek. The , inf j the
16/2/’22) brings the Dago mn * ut
Sydney wine-bar, and turns Amt l men ,
at closing-time to the tune of Gen
after seex !” All this handing ° ver °£ n g 0 ° wn
industries to aliens is very nearly bout
in South Aus., which seems to be n°w ab r 'U f
the most purely British-Australian
the lot. This is not forgetting the as
admixture of German blood near
but that incoming ceased nearly <9
ago. And, anyhow,. the Teutonic e e
mostly took to farming and staj
land.”


STORAGE
BATTERY
Continued chemical action
weakens wood separators so
that they have to be renewed
at least once during the life
of the battery. Willard
Threaded Rubber Insulation
is different. The rubber re-
tains its valuable insulating
properties clear to the end of
the life of the plates, so that
the user can forget that sep-
arator trouble exists.
llilSl
STORAGE
BATTERY


Hotel de Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the lIARBOU FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Uoad from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 10/- per lay, or from
AYz (Juineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
oj|j O US neSS
Use a simple and effi-
cient corrective that
is mildly aperient and
safe in its action
The ideal medicine is
But be sure and get the
f jenuine. which is m: do
by Felton. Grimwade<st
Co. Pty.Ltd, Melbourne
Have you
ridden a
B.S. A. ?
The real test of a motor
bicycle is only applied by
actual riding. The many
refinements and the quality
of workmanship embodied
in a B. S. A. cannot be
thoroughly appreciated
with a casual, or even a
studied examination of the
machine.
0
A
0
MOTOR
BICYCLES
are thoroughly British and have
by their continued reliability under
all conditions established a repu-
tation which is respected through-
out the world.
ILLUSTRA TED CA TALOGUE
FREE ON REQUEST FROM
D. V. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE*
Illustration shows the B.S.A. 4i h.p.
Motor Bicycle with No. 3 Sidecar
mi:
m
Agents: BENNETT & WOOD LID., Pitt St., Sydney
Ĥ
Electricity
and a Rhodes Motor
Wi!l drive your machines most efficiently.
—and also most economically. The “Rhodes” Motor
runs smoothly and silently ; no heavy fuel bills; a lower
total to your wages-sheet; minimum of fire risk and an
absence of the smell, grease and dirt usually synonymous
with gas, petrol and other engines.
The “Rhodes” Motor is of British manufacture, amply
rated, and complies with the most stringent regula-
tions of the British Board of Trade.
Their double-ring oiling device assures perfect lubrica-
tion. The single-phase motor is of the repulsion induc-
tion type, and starts up on full load ; this feature makes
the “Rhodes” Motor particularly valuable for driving,
hoisting machinery and the like.
Write us to-day for illustrated catalogue and full
particulars.
Manufactured bv Rhodes Motors, Ltd., Doncaster,
England.
Full Stocks Carried by Sole Agents,
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL
PTY
LTD
Head Office and Warehouse: 172-176 William
Street, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Ferrars St eet, South Melbourtie.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street.
“Always Reliable.”
The very name
EL E Y
is synonymous with
Cartridges
Obtainable from
all Dealers.
• ‘ ' '• ■
Agent:
ALBERT ADAMS,
O w
roughton House,
larenee Street,
SYDNEY.
Ħ
m
u
1
II
:
«3
P ; n
&
vXy
Sas
mm
mi
m
rt-vi
m
m
m
It JUST
CANT LEAK!
The Colo Tube and
the Newsom Valve
form a strong combination. The valve
does not depend alone on air pressure
for its efficiency.
Exclusive devices effectively seal the
valve, and maintain a constant stan-
dard pressure.
Ask your garagt
THE COLONIAL ROBBER CO. LTD., Head Office: 5-7 Barrack St.. Sydney
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Courts Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Billy Fogwell (N.S.W.) and Paddy Han-
nan (M.L.) are to meet again for the M.L. sculling
belt. Hannan won it from Fogwell, but had to
forfeit it owing to illness. The third argument is
listed for March 25 on the Wairau; £4OO goes
with the title.
* * * *
The annual swim-through-Adelaide, the
only local fresh-water event, was won this year by
a bov of 15, liastwell. The course is up from the
Torrens weir to where the lake narrows to a bottle-
neck behind the Exhibition. Beaglehole, of Wallaroo,
the winner in 1919, did the lin. 200 yd. in 27min.
45sec., but had no chance with the long- markers,
liastwell took only 32min. 49sec., and had 9min.
handicap. There were over 100 starters, including
a record batch of girls.
* * * *
Death as punishment for holding an extra
and unaccountable ace at a game of poker seems a
severe penalty, but it was what an Adelaide man got.
There was no Wild-West gun-play about it, only
a black eye which somehow caused pressure of blood
on the brain, with a fatal result. The player who
gave him the hammerinp' was found guilty of man-
slaughter under extreme provocation, with a strong
recommendation to leniency, and Judge Parsons
thought the blow was worth only six months.
“Adsuin”: Woodside, minor premiers of
the Hills Tennis Assoc. (S.A.), played a match
recently with the Newman family, of Charleston, a
nearby town. Had and five sons and Mum and three
daughters represented the Newmans, and they made
an exhibition of Woodside, scoring 15 sets (102
games) to 3 sets (48 games). Had, who is 63, won
three sets and lost his fourth, 6 —5, but Mum (53)
was unbeaten. Two sons were absent from the con-
quering team, ar.d four daughters were at home on
the family court, practising.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The beaches of Adelaide
share that immunity from shark attacks which Perth
claims (B. 10/2/’22). The long stretch of clean,
shallow reach, 15 miles without surf or stone, from
Outer Harbor to Marino, is alive with bathers along
most of its length every warm day and night.
Enclosure is not dreamed of; and in 85 years’
history there is no record of a shark attack. The
beast is sometimes seen, and possibly hooked ; but
this only makes more clear that it is not a man-
eating kind, for its opportunities are everywhere.
The very gradual shelving of the sand cannot alone
be responsible, because diving from the end of piers
is a common practice.
“Linesman” : Patterson and Anderson are
much older tennis rivals than most people think.
When Patterson won the schoolboys’ championship of
t ictoria in 1911 he was loudly announced as the
belt kid with the racquet in the Commonwealth ;
but Anderson, who had walloped every other nipper
0i any quality in N.S.W., came over next year and
entered for the event. The pair met in the finals
and Anderson, whose fine forehand swipe was in its
infancy, was too good for Patterson, who was then
laying the foundations of his famous service. Gerald
beat Jim several times in after years, but now the
tall Ma Stater is asserting his superiority.
*•■**#.
“Wealsman”: The Rockhampton (Q.)
Daily Record is delighted to learn that Tatt.’s will
run a consultation on this year’s Rockhampton Cup
(June 16), and opines that the sweep lifts the
meeting “beyond the possibility of 'failure, ’sirring
floods or epidemic.’’ Discussing “the possible+y of
the. £lOOO offered by the club being const»ahly
augmented” the. Record explains- that “lati.-rsall
investors lucky enough to draw horses mostly find
it worth while to lay a fairly decent purse to
nothing in order that their horse raav not be
hampered in putting his best leg foremost.” Which
somehow suggests that a cat is not the only animal
that may be let out’ of a hamper up Rockhampton
way.
* * * ' k *
The body controlling steeplechases ard
hurdles in England—-the Jockey Club does. not .deal
with them —has had to decide a fine point at Man-
chester. A steeplechase open to horses which had
not won one worth £9O was taken by Hectic. He
had won one worth £B5 to the winner, £l5 to the
second; but as nothing else finished he had got
second money too. His right to start in the later
event was questioned by the clerk of the course, but
allowed After he had won by a neck the stewards
were called in. They, disqualified him, and’fined the
owner £25. The public which backed him thus
lost its money without having a chance to win;
and there is a strong feeling that every promoting
club should take the responsibility of seeing that
entries fulfil the conditions before it accepts them.
“Rechercheur”: Cricket is a dull game,
but only sometimes. Recently, facing a score of 62,
our Vic. up-country team had lost 2 for 48 and was '
packing up to go home when the other side put on
its googly bowler. Then things happened. The third
ball was poked back to the bowler, but he missed the
catch ; the next also went back, but he didn’t miss.
The succeeding two broke opposite ways. Each bats-
man ran out, missed, and the wicketkeeper did the
trick. The seventh ball was the fourth over again, but
the bowler’s 4 for 0 record was spoilt by a 3 off
his last. One wicket and 2 runs off the next over
and Googly appeared again. His trusty field
accounted for victims off the first and fourth
deliveries, but missed a chance off No. 5. Two
threes followed, but after the eighth ball the scorer
recorded the last man’s fate as “c. and b.,” the
team’s total as 59, and Googly’s average as 7 for 9
off 16 balls —with two missed chances thrown in.
A. E. W. Hartkopf, captain of Northcote
(Vic.) district XI and a strong candidate for inter-
national honors, is about the finest all-round athlete
Vie. Public Schools have ever produced. He played
with uncommon success in Scotch College cricket
and football teams in the years 1906-7-8-9. -On one
occasion he dismissed a whole side, having nine
wickets to his own credit, and catching the other
man. For some years he played regularly with the
’Varsity football team, then a member of the Vic.
League. At the 1909 Public Schools’ sports Hart-
kopf broke four school records in one day, doing
the 100yds. in 10 3-ssec.. the 220yds. in 23 2-ssec.,
the long jump in 20ft. sJin., and the 440vds. in 51sec.
The last time still stands. At the same meeting he
won the weight putt with 34ft., and was fourth in
the high jump. A sharp shower during the meeting
made his performances all the more remarkable.
He also plays first-rate tennis.
Although Eurythmic has won more stake-
money than Carbine he is never likejy to be given
such prominence in a Parliamentary debate as was
accorded the idol of the ’nineties just after his
departure from Melbourne for the Duke of Portland’s
stable. Jack Murray was the orator, the Vic. Assem-
bly the scene, and Mav 30. 1895. the date. Speaking
in solemn tones Jack took the Government (Turner’s)
to task for not having included in the Governor’s
Speech “some allusion to the loss of one who, although
not horn in Australia, has so endeared himself dur-
ing his six y°ars’ residence here to the people of
this country that he has become their idol —almost
their god.” The House got the notion that Murray
was referring to Governor Hopetoun, who had just
gone away, and although it thought Jack’s language
extravagant it was inclined to agree with him, as
the Earl was a favorite. “I don’t wish to remind
honorable members of the anguGh we all felt when
he severed his connection with this land,” continued
Murray. “I can pay him an hobest tribute —a
tribute to tb" mauv spi°nrlid qualities t’mt distinguish
him above all others of his race: characteristics that
were worthy of his lineage. T. of course, allude-to
the illustrious, the incomparable, the unvanquished
Carbine.” It was only when the last word was
jerked out explosively that the House realised that
it had been sold.
(Continued on page So.)


Save your Flocks from blowfly losses
■‘‘COMET’
SHEEP. JETTER
vs
There are many pastoralists still experimenting with different methods of beating
the blowfly. The collective cost to them must run into thousands of pounds—and
thousands of sheep. But why experiment when a specially appointed Blowfly
Committee and leading Australian sheepmen have proved jetting to be the only
system of cleaning up infestation and giving sheep relief from and immunity against
fly attack? Tne cost of jetting with the COMET Jetter is
One-fifth of a penny per sheep
and no crutching needed.
Equipped with a COMET Sheep Jetter, two men can thoroughly jet 1500
sheep a day—cleaning up any trouble present and guaranteeing relief from the fly
for from two to four months. The elimination of crutching goes a long way towards
paying for a COMET Jetter. Our illustrated descriptive folder gives full details
of the plant and the system. Ask us to send a copy to you, with any other
information you require.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & GO. LTD.
Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville.
“FACTS THAT CONVINCE,”
By a Station Manager.
“Evesham” Station, Eongreach.
24th July, 1921.
We jetted about 80,000 sheep here this year,
using one of your plants driven by a 2-h.p.
engine. It gave complete satisfaction, never
requiring any attention, but feeding with oil
and petrol. We used two jets and a pressure
of over 1001 b. was maintained.
I consider 3000 sheep jetted properly by two
men as many as can be put through in one
day—the sheep, if properly jetted, should be
quite safe from losses from fly for about eight
weeks.
(Signed) E. H. WATTS, Manager.
It* « 4 *V*» 7 N ‘
S.W. 31]
8£
!SMi
v-
: a
«3§P*
s^f
as
Itllsi
vSC*
A-yfos
feslfeS
W"|
m
m
M'!?!
m
M!
mem
j Li \ L
i
nar<
HI 3.
m
W
V'tf
r
When one looks for the reasons why the Hup-
mobile is so generally reg'arded as an exceptional
value, he quickly discovers that beauty of design
is one of the foremost. The Hupmobile is always
spoken of as being; an unusually handsome car.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Body Types.—Five-seater touring car, two-seater
roadster.
Wheelbase.—ll 2 inches (2.84 m.).
Cylinders. —Four, cast en bloc, removable head,
SVtin. bore x 5% in. stroke, 83 x 104 mm.
Starting and Lighting. —Electric—two-unit system.
Ignition. —High-tension magneto.
Carburetter.—Adjustable.
Fuel System.—Vacuum feed.
Lubrication.— Pressure system with pump.
Clutch.—Dry disc type—7 plates.
Tyres.—Bls x 105 mm. clincher or 32in. x 4in.
straight side. Demountable rims.
Wheels.—Wooden (Artillery type).
Color.—Blue or grey body.
L PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
PIICENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 114-122 Pirie
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED, 105 Macquarie
Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
NZ - FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.. Christchurch,
N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, N.Z.
H immobile


A, Saunders’ Breakfast Combination, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, Cut Crystal Glass Bowl, 70/-
A. Saunders’ Asparagus Dish and Sauce Boat, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, highly burnished, £9/9/-
SELECTED TABLE APPOINTMENTS.
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, gilt-
lined, hand-fluted and burnished, £7/10/-
Hal S
A. Saunders’ four-branch Flower Epergrie, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, highly burnished, £7/10/-.
WRITE FOR OUR
FREE
CATALOGUE.
WE PAY
POSTAGE
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA.
A. Saunders’ Double Pickle Jars, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, Hand-cut Crystal Glass
Jars, £5/5/-
mm
A. Saunders’ Vegetable Dish, pure Silver-
' plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished.
9in., £5/10/-
10in> £6/10/-
g/fftmiinffl
Saunders’ Cake . Basket, pure. Silver-plated, A 1 /
quality, highly burnished, £B/10/-
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
BILLABONG PUMPS
HAND BELT DRIVE SPRAY RAMS WINDMILL
MEM
IlilllllllMlHl
c&SJU
48«kJw
GET the right pump for the work in hand.
That is where our broad experience as pump-
makers will help you. No need to order a
more expensive pump than is needed. Solidity of
construction and moderate price are features of the
Billabong range of Pumps for agricultural, pastoral
and mining use, or for water supply for farm, orchard
or home. Write to either of our warehouses for
descriptive leaflets and price lists.
"BILLABONG”
Centrifugal Pump.
ONE of the best rotary pumps made for
raising large quantities of water for irri-
gation or other purposes. It has large
waterways and a steel shaft supported in long
journals of ample size, for cool running at
high speeds. The swivelling feature allows the
chamber of the pump to be turned, and suction
and delivery fixed at any angle. Fast and loose
pulleys are provided for belt power, and an
extended spindle for use with electric motors.
The “Billabong” is made in sizes from lin. to
Bin. in cast-iron, or in gunmetal for use with
mineralised water. Write for leaflet and price.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY., LTD., 324-330 Pitt Street, SYDNEY;
391-403 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.


“Magnum”Up in the New England
(N.S.W.) district recently Bill Murphy was
lined 40s. for being drunk and disorderly.
The magistrate’s name was Murphy, and
Bill was bailed out by a Murphy who was
no relation. The drunk was a Catholic, the
magistrate a Presbyterian, and Bill s cobber
a Methodist. So what’s in a name?
“Fog”: How is this for consistency ? I
Know of a family of six boys; the first born
in the first week of January one year, the
next in the first week of February the follow-
ing year, the third in the first week of March,
and so on up till June. Practically to t_e
day there was a break of 13 months between
each child.
“H.R.” : There’s a one-horse place in West-
ralia called Weam. The yarn goes that it
got its name this way. The inhabitants
petitioned for a siding, and the advisory
Board blew along to interview a deputa-
tion on the spot. The Commissioner sighted
two woolly-nosed cockies reclining against
a post and asked “Do you know who’s going
to wait on me about a siding here?” “We
am,” was the reply. And when it came
to naming the place, there it was.
After pondering over Inspector-General
Mclver’s report for three months, the Vic.
Cabinet has decided to have Pentridge re-
modelled and a new governor appointed vice
Dicker, who is to be head of the clerical
staff of the penal branch. Warders are to
get better pay and status; industrious
prisoners are to receive bonuses and
additional opportunities of earning remis-
sions of sentences, and their friends are to
be permitted to call monthly instead of
quarterly. Also electric light is to be in-
stalled. It is remarkable that it took a
strike of prisoners and the burning-down of
a wire-netting factory to shake up the Min-
istry. How long it will take to carry out
the reforms now “decided upon” Heaven
alone knows.
Legal Notice.
IN DIVORCE 2276.
TO DUNCAN McFARLANE, formerly of
the City of Wellington but recently of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales
Mariner:
TIAIvE NOTICE that your wife Mar-
. garet Elizabeth McFarlane has filed in
the Supreme Court of New Zealand at
Wellington a petition in divorce against
you claiming dissolution of her marriage
with you on the ground that you have
deserted her continuously for a period of
three vears and upwards.
YOU ARE THEREFORE notified that
unless you file ah answer in the said Court
at Wellington within 50 days from the
appearance of this advertisement the said
petition will be heard and determined in
your absence.
Mr. Martin Buckie is solicitor for the
Petitioner whose address for service is at
the office of Messieurs Field and Luckie,
Featherston Street. Wellington, N.Z.
DATED at Wellington this 7th day of
March 1922.
G. S. CLARK, Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are requested
to forward him the foregoing advertisement.
Missing Friends.
Ashford or Middleton.—Wanted
to know the whereabouts of HUGH
ASHFORD or MIDDLETON, now about
31' years of age. Left Aberdeen, Scotland,
about the year 1904 in the care of his uncle
and aunt (Mr. and Mrs.; George Middleton)
for Sydney district, N.S.W., Australia. His
sisters Agnes and Grace are now resident in
Canada and would like to hear from him
very much. If this meets his notice would
he kindly communicate with his sister Agnes,
ndw Mrs. WILLIAM THORNTON, Junior,
Box 843 Coal Creek P. 0., near Fernie, 8.C.,
Canada. ’
IP STATE of MARGARET SCOTT, late
■Vi of Tasmania. Brother, John Scott,
believed deceased. Niece, Ethel McLean.
Next-of-kin please communicate with
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Hobart, Tasmania.
DODD. —Any person who can give information of
the whereabouts, existence, marriage or death
or any other particulars of JANE DODD and AGNES
DODD, children of George Dodd and Agnes Dodd
(formerly Agnes Knight), who formerly resided in
Victoria, is requested to communicate with the
NATIONAL TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
of 113 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria, or the
undersigned.
The two sisters if alive would now be advanced
in years. They may have married. They or their
children (if the mothers are now dead) are entitled
to share in the estate of HARRIET O’BRIEN,
deceased, formerly of Carlton, Victoria, and of
Sydney, New South Wales.
•Jane Dodd or Agnes Dodd may in infancy have
been adopted by or boarded out to some person or
persons and have taken the name or names of such
person or persons.
H. H. HOARJS, 440 Chancery Lane, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the said Company.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
H
Amusements.
SV i) Nk vs CIIIIS I' TIIEAT K E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
BaBES in the wood.
CRITERION:
MY LADY’S DRESS.
ROYAL:
THE MERRY WIDOW.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
MAUDE FANE in
A NIGHT OUT.
THEATRE ROYAL.
LOUIS BENNISON in
JOHNNY GET YOUR GUN.
KING’S THEATRE.
NICOLA.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST WIZARD.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.. MELBOURNE
PANTOMIME ATTRACTIONS.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE,
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN and JOHN FULLER present their Great
Spectacular Pantomime,
BLUEBEARD.
Popular Prices. MatinOes Daily.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also S YON ICY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
GLADYS WALTON in
SHORT SKIRTS.
HENRY B. WALTHALL in
THE TRUANT SOUL.
Prices as usual.
|y| A.IESIIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
PILGRIMS OF THE NIGHT.
ALL-STAR CAST.
MatinOes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
OiniANiMA THEATRE. MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
gy| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
wont n ami st i.zniuk
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
Australian Tour:
MELBOURNE—PALACE THEATRE.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 'I he Banking House. Pitt Street. Svilnev.
rublic Notice.
BRITISH AUSTRALIAN WOOu
REALISATION ASSOCIATION
LIMITED.
Redemption of £5,250,000
Priority Wool Certificates.
Holders of priority wool certificates
in this Association are notified that the balance
due on such Certificates will be payable on May 18,
1922. After such payment the Certificates will be
retired.
PRIORITY WOOL CERTIFICATES (but not
Share Certificates) must be forwarded to the Associa-
tion’s Office, Melbourne, for endorsement before final
payment can be made. Early receipt of Priority
Wool Certificates will facilitate payment.
No cheque will be posted unless the Association
has first received the Priority Wool Certificate to
which such cheque relates.
THERE IS NO NECESSITY TO APPOINT AN
AGENT, but in exceptional cases where the regis-
tered holder of a Priority Wool Certificate desires
that a bank, woolbroker or agent should receive the
moneys so due, he should have the Priority Wool
Certificate transferred to the name of such nominee
so as to facilitate the distribution.
In all cases cheques will be forwarded by post
direct to the registered holders of Certificates, and
the Association should be at once notified of any
change of address, so as to avoid misdirection of
letter.
J. M. HIGGINS, Chairman.
G. F. PARIvES, Acting Secretary,
540-542 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
10th February, 1922.
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-Drink which maintains
Health a :d strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system,
'lake HORLICK’s daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Mi k, Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICKS MALTED MILK CO.
6LOUGH. BUCKS, ENG.
altedjhilx
£^aioTrav^
s,
In 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
The Associated Oil
Corporation Limited
Notice is hereby given that on and after the 31 st March
instant, the balance of the £l unissued Contributing Shares will be
withdrawn from sale at par, but will be re-offered for sale for a
short period at a premium of 2/6, i.e., £l/2/6 per share.
By order,
S. A. C. CARTER, F.C.1.5., Secretary.
H. C. Macfie & Carter,
14 Martin Place, Sydney.
All the great good in milk,
Nature’s all-important food, becomes
available when it is prepared with Benger’s.
The way to prepare Benger’s Food for Infants of all ages
is clearly instructed upon every tin of Benger’s Food, and
special formulae, commenc ng w th babies of from one to
three months old, which have been approved by eminent
medical authorities, are included also within the tin.
Ĥ
Food
b « natural Food, always prepared with fresh new milk, or milk
and water, according to the age of the child.
Benger’s Food is more than an addition to milk. _ It is specially
prepared to perform the important duty of modifying cow’s milk •
to the delicate digestion of a child.
Benger’a 64 page illustrated book, most helpful to mothers, post free, from i
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Bole Proprietors sad Manufacturers BKNOEB 3 FOOD LID, MANCHESTER, England.
ass
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St.,
SYDNEY.
The Plum R azov
HAS THE REAL SHAVING EDGE.
Made from the finest Sheffield Razor Steel,
tempered and ground to perfection—set and
finished ready for use by our own experienced!
tradesmen.
n • to/a PAIR IN' PRESENTATIONOC / I
rnce case, post free, "
Blades fin. and fin. set ready for use, and guaranteed and kepil
in order for two years free. t
£2700 for 11-BLACKHEATH
8LACKHEATH SOLDIERS’
MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee.)
£IIOO First Prize valued £IIOO
£sooSecond Prize valued£soo
£3OO Third Prize valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2!700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 26th. Winning
numbers published on 31st May, liteZ.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post 1/2—Two or more Post Free.
FRANK BURROWS, Queen st.. Glebe, N.S.W.
Tickets obtainable from N S.W. Bookstall Co.,
Hairdressers, Newsagents, etc. through the
State and Samuel T. Green, Hon .■"ecretary.
Council C ambers, N.S.W
Have You
An Open Mind?
—or are you one of these suffer-
ing hesitants still trying to defend
old fashioned shaving soap, while
over two million men blithely
enjoy the gorgeousness of the
Mennen shave ?
The peculiar thing is that most
of these Mennen Shavers were
like you before they succumbed
to my appeals.
It may take you months, but
eventually you’ll fall. Then you’ll
enjoy your first real shave. But
why wait? Your chemist, drug-
gist or perfumer has Mennen
Shaving Cream waiting for you.
Have you an open mind?—
Willing to be convinced ?
-
(.Mennen Salesman)
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO.,LTD.
249 George Street
Sydney
102 Willis Street
Wellington
“Better than Tatts.”
£4OOO for 1 1-
£lOOO
Katoomba Thousand
No. 2.
£lOOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 192 2
Gigantic Art Union
in aid of
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ANZAC MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Bluz Mountains A. H. 8 1. Society’s Show
Ground Improvement Fund,
and Katoomba Soldiers’ Memorial Hall.
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General.
£lOOO First Prize £lOOO
£5OO Second Prize £5OO
£250 Third Prize £250
Total Prizes £4OOO.
Winning Numbers published all States,
September 16th, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS l/-Only
By Post, 1/2. Three or more Post Free.
FIVE TICKETS FOR 5/.
Each Ticket has 241 Chance*,
and can possibly win £4OOO.
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope
for result slip.
Ticke's obtainable from N s.W. Bookstall Co.
(all branches), also Hairdressers and Tobac-
conists in City, Suburbs and Country.
EDGAR BOOTH. Hon. Secretary,
Cadzow. Warrega-street. Katoomba. N.S.W*
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


FULL FASHIONED 8 HOCK SEAMED
HOLEPROOF SILK HOSE
Is appreciated more when it brings with it freedom from the BOTHER
and DRUDGERY of DARNING.
FOR MEN AS WELL AS WOMEN.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DRAPERS AND MERCERS.
Jo)
iV O
■m^>
II
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Babes in the Wood”
Criterion “My Lady’s Dress”
Royal “The Merry Widow”
Hoyt’s Moving I’ictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS lOli COMING WEEK.
Royal “Johnny Get Your Gun”
Her Majesty’s “A Night Out”
King’s Nicola
Princess’s “Bluebeard”
Palace Shakspearean Productions
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
The procession of Shakspeare characters
at Melbourne Palace, Allan Wilkie at the
head of it, continues with in-and-out results.
The number of pleasing impersonations in
each play varies very little, but the effect
of the productions and the performances of
the foremost figures vary a good deal. In
“The Merry Wives,” which is not Shakspeare
at his second or even third best, the need
for fuller staging was always evident; nor
was the dry, hollow-sounding voice of Wilkie
nor the manner of the profusely-padded
actor a bit suited to Falstaff. The Wives
(Miss Mona Duval was a plump and smil-
ing substitute for Miss Watts on one occa-
sion) were supposed to think of Falstaff
as a “greasy knight,” but grease is wanting
in Wilkie’s constitution. He was a satis-
factory fat man in stature only. Neverthe-
less the show was interesting. Robert
Purdie put some good, raging jealousy into
the part of Ford. Roy Workman was a
bright enough Caius, Plumpton Wilson a
very passable Evans, Augustus Neville a
likeable innkeeper, and Lennon and Mac-
donald did very well as two of the human
rotters hanging on to Falstaff. Also, Hamil-
ton Henry presented a Slender both droll
and picturesque. Still, the opinion holds
good that “The Merry Wives” is a poor joke
compared with “Twelfth Night,” and no-
thing but the opportunity for a festive finale
keeps the comedy fairly popular.
* * * *
“Othello” on Saturday showed Wilkie
almost at his best and his worst. He
ranged from powerful bursts of passion and
displays of honest dignity to moments when
his utterance was mechanical and his in-
terest seemed to wander from his part. The
scene in which lago (Robert Purdie) excites
first his suspicions and then his rage was
well played by both men. A balance of
storm and calm was well maintained. The
idea of a colored person wrestling with his
wrath while a remorseless villain wallowed
in . his wickedness was conveyed to the audi-
ence by word and deed. _ Othello, having
choked and stabbed his wife in a consis-
tently murderous manner, was forcibly
though not pathetically penitent when he
found out his mistake. Purdie’s fine figure
of an lago—-a far more virile plotter than
his Cassius in “Julius Csesar” —was weak
only in his exits. The luckless lady in the
ease has never of late years been so natu-
rally presented in Melbourne as by Miss
Hunter-Watts. Her playful pleading for
a pardon for Cassio was sweet comedy; her
protest against death by violence was heart-
“MAGIC;” AT SYDNEY PLAYHOUSE.
Oregon McMahon as Dr. Grimthorpe, W.
F. Jackson as Rev. Smith and S. R.
Irving as the Duke.
rending. Unfortunately Desdemona’s talk
with Emilia before the murder is cut out
of Wilkie’s arrangement of the tragedy, so
Miss Lorna Forb.es lost a little of the im-
portance due to Emilia; but the actress’s
treatment of that grateful character was
heartily effective, and her death had a fine
touch of realism in it. Leslie Manners
made a somewhat heavy Cassio, though he
rose to the occasion in his elocution after
Othello had fired him. Vera St. John was
an admirable little spitfire of a Bianca, Lock-
art, a melodramatic father to Desdemona,
and Roy Workman a new but not unaccept-
able sort of Roderigo. Usually presented as
a semi-idiot (because lago boasts of fooling
him). Roderigo was not necessarily more
ridiculous than any ordinary love-sick young
man of limited intelligence. He was a very
real dupe in Roy Workman’s impersonation,
and the character seemed none the weaker
for not being caricatured. “As You Like
It” has the Palace stage until Friday, and
“The Merchant” arrives on Saturday.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal a demand for
“Johnny Get Your Gun” has set in almost
as a matter of course. The strange com-
pound of conventional drama and eccentric
farce might easilv have struck a frost had
Bennison been a trifle less fleshy in the face
or far-reaching in his smile. As he stands
he is a success, and when he doesn’t carry
the play, the play, which is mostly Leslie
Victor in a wholly fictitious character,
carries Bennison as though it were made for
him, or by him, as is now asserted.
=!= * =1: *
“Paddy, the Next Best . Thing,” has
reached its last night but one at Melbourne
King’s, so nothing more need be said about
it. On Saturday wizard Nicola comes due.
* * *
At Melbourne Majesty’s every night is “A
Night Out,” and every Wednesday its
matinee.
** * *
One. more week will see the last of “Blue-
beard,” at Me 1-
bourne Princess’s.
Even a Fuller’s
panto has to pass
away, pant i t
never so wisely,
and when this
s o und, conven-
tional annual has
lasted 140 times
or so it will go
elsewhere for its
health.
** * *
“All the Win-
ner s,” at Mel-
bourne Tivoli,
continues to be
bright in its
opening episodes,
and charmingly
spectacular in its
black - and - white
and dance-room
scenes. If Ley-
land Hodgson had
a fresher voice and
a more volatile
spirit the Frolics
would be altogether
commendable, but
as it is the fre-
quency of that re-
markable per-
former grows tire-
some. The first
part, bereft of
Maud Fane in
“A Night Out,” at
Her Majesty's,
Melbourne.
Bert Gilbert, has gained Henri de Bray
and May Vivian, who dance and sing and
talk. Though the turn has nothing new
in it the activities of the pair are exhilarat-
ing. Better dancers have been less effective.
The clay modeller continues to talk less
cleverly than he works, and Scott Argyle is
still crowning the place where his patter
and his falsetto notes come from with many
beads of perspiration.
** * *
Henry B. Walthall is being torn from the
drug habit by a beautiful nurse in “The
Truant Soul’’ at Hoyt’s Melbourne house
this week. The process of regeneration takes
nine reels, apparently because Walthall has
already consumed about a barrel of cocaine.
Gladys Walton, in “Short Skirts,” is divert-
ing for about one chapter; after that the
story palls like the third box of chocolate
creams. There is meatier drama in “Children
of Destiny,” and Edith Hallor works hard
as the passionate heroine. “When We Were
Twenty-one” stresses the sentimental draw-
ing power of a middle-aged hero who wants
to marry an American goddess to his dissi-
pated ward. The lady, being sensible as w r ell
as charming, naturally prefers the grave
and reverend seignior to be the father of her
children. The other Majestic item, “Mary
Find the Gold,” is a tedious yarn of a girl’s
struggle for independence, with fetching
Betty Balfour as an extenuating circum-
stance. At the Britannia “Lahoma” is illus-
trating the birth of Wildness in the Ameri-
can West. Tom Mix is loose in “The Night
Horsemen” at the Melba, and the multitude
is enjoying every moment of him.
.* * * a:
Lionel Lindsay has a Melbourne show:—
If Lionel Lindsay’s color were a little richer
he would strengthen the appeal of the water-colors
of Spanish life now on view at the Decoration
Gallery. Everywhere he depicts a sunny land, full
of warm shadows and amazing high lights, and
though the effects are often pleasing he misses
enchanting possibilities in the foliage of gardens.
He hardly has the palette for a village bull-fight
wherein the hot sand, the swirling bull, and the
picturesque and prancing slaughtermen combine
with four shadowy senoritas to make a picture
of uncommon brilliance. Yet of the life itself
he is a keen and affectionate illustrator. There
is no denying the reality of his muleteers, his
gypsies, beggars and priests. Bulls driven across
a vague landscape, imperfectly realised, deserve
full marks for their good drawing, which is not
always apparent elsewhere. And the artist has an
eye for Spanish and Moorish architecture: “The
Watch Tower” is good painting, and “The Moorish
Door” is notable for its green and yellow color-
patter u.
V
“Broadway Jones,” the new-old comedy
at the Palace, Sydney, is the customary
blend of big-town smartness and small-town
sentiment made familiar to Australian audi-
ences by Fred Niblo, Joe Coyne and a dozen
others. Jones, the fatuously humorous blood
who engages himself, broke, to a widow of
the Bull Run vintage and flies from her over-
blown charms to the chewing-gum factory
he has opportunely inherited in Connecticut,
where a true and beautiful accountant saves
him from the blandishments of the widow
and the machinations of the chewing-gum
trust—-Jones is a conventional variation on
a well-worn theme. The same may be said,
with strict veracity, of each of the other
characters, from the tedious old ass who is
Jonesville’s patriarch to Rankin, the English
butler and disguised peer; and the dialogue
—also true to type—is reminiscently clever.
But nothing matters except Jones, and Jones,
as Allen Doone plays him, doesn’t matter
much. His thin voice and deliberate methods
don’t suit this class of play. The author
manifestly expects his star to hustle and
r’ar, and Doone can’t hustle and r’ar worth
tuppence. Unlike Coyne he fails to give the
audience a colorable impression of action
where the play lias it not. Besides, his enun-
ciation hasn’t improved since he went to
Africa and his lapses into indistinctness are
apt to get on the nerves. The plain fact is
that Doone wasn’t built for rapid-fire comedy.
He .would be well advised to drop it and
return to those pleasantly innocuous pro-
ductions, manufactured in America’s Jewry
for Irish actors who have never seen Ireland,
in which he created his Australian public.
* » * *
Doone is well supported. Absence hasn’t
diminished Edna Keeley’s charm of voice
or person, and she acts pleasantly as Josie
Richards, the accountant who works the
oracle. Maggie Moore, as humorous and
full-tliroated as ever, is the garrulous patri-
arch’s wife. George Hewlett works hard
and on the whole successfully as Jones’s
friend and adviser; and he was subtly effec-
tive on Saturday night in prompting the
star. Others who command respectful atten-
tion are Mabel Russell as the widow, Ethel
Bashford as a gushing Jonesville girl,
Ronald Riley as the butler, George Bryant
and Charles Stott. And Eardley Turner’s
just articulation and right emphasis of the
few words he has to speak make even
the jaded playgoer wish for more.
fa w fa *
The Sydney Repertory wasn’t far from
high-water mark on Saturday night when
under Gregan McMahon’s direction it pro-
duced Chesterton’s fantastic comedy,
“Magic,” at the Playhouse. Certainly the
choice of the play deepened the suspicion
of some people that the society is stronger
in histrionic man-power than in actresses, for
“Magic” finds room for only one girl. But
she was ,a winsome representative—Mrs.
Heath Green, who played Patricia Carleon.
Yet the show gave her no scope for tine rai-
ment : in the single opportunity for evening
rig she wore what a man in a front row
described as “a coffee-cake affair with a
witty sash”—an enigmatic thing that kept
you guessing what color it really was. As
the old family doctor the producer was excel-
lent : with his mouchoir twisted round his
neck and carrying his cough mixture with
him (and occasionally sucking the cork)
the picture was perfect. F. H. Day playing
the unimaginative Norris Carleon made
every point, and S. R. Irving was a more
than passable duke. Gerald Carr had the
difficult part of the Conjurer—he and F. H.
Day can be bracketed for first place among
the society’s amateurs—and both M. F. Jack-
son as the parson and Winchester Ford as
the private secretary kept in the picture.
Mowat Carter-provided music that sounded
good even through the chatter, and had for
his other accompanist Mrs. Mowat.
fa * *
“The Merry Widow,” who ha.s been
frivolling at Sydney Majesty's, moves into
the Royal on Friday to. accommodate “The
Babes in the Wood”—they require more room
than the relict. “The Babes” are due on
Saturday. Another pleasing person booked
for arrival on that day is Emelie Polini.
Emelie goes to the Criterion in “My Lady’s
Dress,” accompanied by Frank Harvey,
Harry Roberts and others.
%
Though, as the Ma State election shows,
magicians are as plentiful as wet Sundays.
Sydney Tivoli finds it worth while to star
Pharos, a provider of Egyptian enigmas” •
and if he doesn t solve the riddle of the
Sphinx he at least produces divers comm”
dales from emptiness, and will probably
get a job as 'treasurer if Mr. Dooley win's
A I r 1< M :)by / e V ves “They Built
• M f e ' . and the Two Rascals’
lunmaking is as furious as ever.
"THE MERRY WIDOW.” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Harry Rateliffe as the French gentleman in
love with the Merry Widow’s money.
A D. W Griffiths production at the
Strand, “Way Down East,” is the winner
of the Sydney Celluloid Heart-throb Stakes
this week. Lillian Gish discovers that her
marriage license is a counterfeit, and she
is recuperating with a young rustic when
the holder of the duplicate of the aforesaid
license reappears and disturbs the bucolic
tranquillity. A neck behind is “Under the
Lash.” out of the Lyceum stable, with Gloria
Swanson in the saddle. Gloria’s grievance
is a grim old Boer husband who rules with
sjambok and Bible, and becomes so dis-
agreeable over her entanglement with a nice
young fellow that he has to be put out of
harm’s way. A stablemate is “The Call of
the North”-—not a North Shore Bridge agi-
tation-film, but a thriller with each reel
outdoing its predecessor in good stoush, with
Jack Holt in the middle of it. “The
Penalty,” at the Crystal Palace, combines
the., operating-table with melodrama, and
Chaney as a legless villain is diabolical.
Dainty Shirley Mason toe-trips her way frem
the accompaniment of a street barrel-mpiu
to a star part in musical revue at the
Majestic. Hoyt’s feature “Sure Fire,”
with Elaine Hammerstein in “The Way of
a Maid” for the flappers.
*
“The Babes in the Wood” have had a
crowded fortnight at Adelaide Royal. They
are intelligent but not thrilling kids, and
Percy is the most striking of their sup-
porters. The dancing is good, and the fact
that tights are now allowed to only two or
three of the principals has caused some
remark in wowser circles. At the King’s
popular Jennie Hartley is ending her season,
and there i= now a new Fuller’s revue co. At
the Garden Theatre, in the open, is a real
revue by the Humphrey Bishop Co., locally
written, and with Governor Weigall, Sammy
Lunn and other prominent citizens as charac-
ters. In pictures the grim “Penalty,”
adapted from Gouverneur Morris —the tale
of a boy whose legs were amputated bv the
blunder of a doctor, and who grew up for
revenge—is at West’s; while at Wonder-'
graph “The Wild Goose” tells of an unusu-
ally faithful husband: “admission on the
distinct understanding that no offence shall
be taken at the bedroom scenes.”
** * *
From an Adelaide critic•
The Australasian Painter-Etchers’ Society is giving
Adelaide the finest show of etchings it has yet seen.
They show a Marvellous diversity of ways of doing
the same thing. Three men stand out for individu-
ality: the two Lindsays and Van Raalte need hardly
sign their work. The Art Gallery of Adelaide
acquired a dozen before the show opened. That none
of Lionel Lindsay’s were included must have been
due to-his being already well represented there, and
Norman’s have too much of his later Mannerisms to
make them generally welcomed in Adelaide, though
they dominate one wall of the exhibition. The
etchers who have been bought are Ure Smith,
Shirlow, Sid Long, Bruce Robertson, Edith Hope,
Coffey, Rose E. Godson and the local Goodchild.


‘After all, there’s only one AUSTRALIA.”
HERE in Sydney the finest Hotel in Australasia is
ready to do a great deal towards making your stay
in the Queen City of the South a truly enjoyable one.
Extensive alterations have made available 110 new rooms, each with
complete toilet and bathrooms, giving a total accommodation for
over 500 guests.
Every room is lofty and well ventilated and has a
telephone, reading lamp with bed switch, and hot and
cold running water.
Special features include a spacious and beautitully-
decorated Banquet and Dance H'll, suitable also for
Conventions, etc.; Turkish Baths and Ladies’ and Gentle-
men’s Toilet, Manicure and Hairdressing Rooms.
Conveniences comprise magnificent Lounge, Bars and
Billiard Room; Flower, Sweet and Book Stalls; Theatre
Booking Office, Motor-hire Office, Stenographer in
private office, and Safe-deposit.
A new Promenade Roof gives visitors the finest panorama
of Sydney obtainable.
Your visit to Sydney will be incomplete unless it includes
a stay at this popular hotel.
REVISED TARIFF FROM Ist APRIL.
Single Room \
Double Room I
with Breakfast
( from 12/6
\ from 25/-
/Suites de luxe, complete with hath and dressing-rooms—rates on application.
Luncheon and Dinner a la Carte from If/- Quick Luncheon in Winter Garden, 2/6.
Wire reservations now —Easter Show and Autumn Races
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
The Hotel That Has Modern Sanitary Appointments
is the Only Hotel That Travellers Will Patronise.
LET LASSETTER’S HELP YOU MODERNISE.
as
MR
Commercial travellers in particular are becoming increas-
ingly insistent that HOTEL SANITATION shall be as it
should be— modem and above reproach —and naturally
the tide of custom will be strongest where the Sanitary
Appointments are quite O.K.
LASSETTER’S SPECIALISE in
Sanitary Appointments Suitable
for a Sewered or Unsewered Service
We shall be glad to advise, and quote you, in respect
to all necessary requirements. Good Quality, Long-
service-giving Merchandise of Superior Appearance at
Reasonable Prices are our strong points of appeal.
Permit us to quote for—
PORCELAIN ENAMELLED BATHS, best-grade British
and Australian manufacture.
PEDESTAL PANS, CISTERNS, WHITE GLAZED
LAVATORY BASINS, NICKEL-PLATED FITTINGS,
TILES FOR WALLS, TILES FOR FLOORS, and so on.
F.
LASSETTER & CO. LTD.,
Competent Counsellors in Sanitation,”
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Virginia Cigarettes
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6
A 26
Cool and—
fragrant, made
from perfectly
mellowed and
ripened leaf
from Virginia, “ Prince Ckarming
thoroughly deserves to be called tbe
Prince of cigarettes, Money cannot
buy anything better.
Manufactured ly GODFREY PHILLIPS, Ltd., London . England.
03
£
v
2?
Q^-
x
o
POVERTY
POINT
“Peter” : The Taits will shortly lose their
monopoly as importers of high-priced musi-
cians. Hugh Ward, who has joined the
Fullers, announces that the hiring of high-
class concert artists will not be the least
of the new firm’s energies. Also, E. J.
Gravestock, formerly one of the Taits’ man-
agers, who came to Australia as treasurer
of the Quinlan Opera Co., has become Aus-
tralian representative of an English com-
bination which intends to export musical
geniuses. One result of the competition is
noticed in the keener angling for stars.
Fritz Kreisler is being dogged at present.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Harry G. Musgrove is
doing a vaudeville sprint. Recently he nego-
tiated with George Robey, but the comedian
wouldn’t listen to a sea trip at any price.
So Musgrove signed up Malcolm Scott (who
hasn’t such a big name but is away up
among the stars) ; comedian George Carney,
with a company of five, and Talbot O’Farrell,
who is as big as Fatty Arbuckle and whose
Irish songs are supposed to have been used
for propaganda purposes during the confer-
ence. O’Farrell opens in Melbourne on
April 1, stays .10 weeks and then hastens
to Uncle Sam. His contract with the latter
calls upon him to open the day he arrives.
“N. E. Whare”: They are a queer trio
to be mixing their interests, the Fullers and
Hugh Ward. For Ward, however, there was
scarcely any alternative. Besides the com-
bine he lias just left, the Fullers are the
only people controlling a circuit of theatres
here and in Maoriland. Both about the
same physical weight, Ben Fuller and Hugh
Ward are as the poles apart in ideals. The
Fullers see theatrical enterprise in terms
SLAPOFFSKI conducting the Gilbert and
Sullivan operas at Sydney Royal.
of cheap artists, cheap productions and cheap
seats. Their new associate has visions of
productions glittering in expensive magnifi-
cence—and hang the prices of admission!
“T.R.H.”: If “0.1 v.” (B. 2/3/’22) will
read Bram Stoker’s “Life of Irving” he will
find my statements re the. actor’s death cor-
rect. Bram Stoker was the life-long friend of
and continually-present manager for Irving
for three years previous to his death, and
had a far more intimate acquaintance with
him during his last years than the self-adver-
tising and inaccurate Brereton. Sheppard,
Stoker and I took Irving home from the
theatre. He was dead before we , arrived,
though we thought he was only unconscious.
He never spoke after leaving the theatre.
“Micawber”: There died in New York on
January 28 Pearl Lovell, Australian sou-
brette, who with her husband, Frank King,
a descriptive singer, went to America 10
years ago and made good. Two days of
pneumonia brought the end to a talented
and cheerful little performer who was a big
favorite in the days of Harry Rickards.
“Te Pana” : Yet another Maoriland film.
“My Lady of the Cave” —a screen version
of a novel by Henry Thomas Gibson, head-
master of Waihi High School—is the latest
thing in the Shaky Isles.
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) : Among the Christmas
attractions in London was a revival of old
negro minstrelsy at the Philharmonic Hall.
It was in the traditional form devised by its
inventor Christy 70 years ago—the sit-round
semi-circle, blackened faces, grotesquely-
attired corner-men, dignified interlocutor in
the centre, conundrums, sentimental and
comic songs, plantation songs, etc. Once
so universally popular, the “minstrel show”
had dropped out of the running during recent
years, so it re-appeared as a refreshing
novelty to a new generation of Londoners.
“Whitebait”: Novelist Jack McLaren,
known to Bulle-
tin readers as
“McNorth,” is a
practised hand at
1 e g e r d emain—he
got some of his
practice as a mem-
ber of a travelling
show in Victoria.
He is a ventrilo-
quist, too. Twelve
months ago, when
he was in Fiji, he
manufactured a
small “god” and
made it talk for the
benefit of the
natives on a planta-
tion he was visit-
ing. There was
only, however,
about a minute’s
converse. When the
brown populace
heard what ap-
peared to be their
favorite deity point-
ing out their pecca-
dillos in their own
language (McLaren
had been previouslv
primed by the
planter), the whole
lot fled screeching
into the jungle.
Louis Bcnnison
in “Johnny Get Your
Gun,” at Melbourne
Royal.
“Ike Pagliacci” : Wilfred Lucas, who made
some pictures for E. J. Carroll in this
country, is directing the filming of Bible
episodes at Los Angeles. Snowy Baker
writes me to say that there was nearly a
studio strike because Lucas objected to the
Tower of Babel crowd chewing gum.
“Biobox”: The sooner the various film
censors have a conference the better. In
Sydney we have “The Child Thou Gavest Me”
going strong. Mabriland turned it down,
but is showing “The Notorious Miss Lisle,”
which the Australian censors blushingly
banished to oblivion.
“Lud”: Those busy young Australians
Ken Duffield and Dion Titheradge were re-
sponsible not only for the “Puss Puss” revue
in which the over-advertised Lee White ap-
peared at London Vaudeville, but also for its
successor, “Pot Luck”—still running. It
is practically the last of the revues and a
very bright specimen.
“Private Boxer”: “No good English
plays!” is ever the cry of our local entrepre-
neurs, and so we don’t get any. But the
curious thing is that, according to the Yankee
managers, there are no good American plays,
and most of the reigning Broadway successes
are English-made! Here are a few pieces
which were in the bills in N.Y. when the last
mail left: “A Bill of Divorcement,” by Clem-
ence Dane (it has been running in London
for a year) ; Granville Barker’s “The Madras
House” ; “The Dover Road” and “The Great
Broxopp,” two new comedies by “Pirn”
Milne; “Bulldog Drummond,” “Sapper’s”
drama, which has also been showing in Lon-
don for a twelve-month; William Archer’s
“The Green Goddess”; Charles Hawtrey’s
big hit, “Ambrose Applejobn’s Adventure,”
rechristened “Captain Applejack” (produced
at the London Criterion last July and still
going strong) ; Somerset Maugham’s “The
Circle” —and half-a-dozen others. Australia
has not seen one of these, and the odds are
it never will.
“Pitt Streeter”: Once again the sprightly
and ever-youthful Ada Reeve is in Australia.
Not a vaudeville star this time. She brings
with her several song-and-dance plays of the
revue type, in which she will revive memories
of her musical-comedy successes. A mostly-
imported crowd of comedians will support
the volatile Ada, and the Fullers are running
the show 7.
There are solo stars in the Sistine Choir,
too —among them a boy soprano, whose
“Angels Ever Bright and Fair” is expected
to take Australia's breath away. But the
really truly musical people will be more in-
terested to learn that the choir will sing the
Holy Grail scene from Wagner’s “Parsifal.”
“0.K.”: A puff-par states that “several
of Nicola’s achievements appear almost
characteristic of the superhuman.” Well,
perhaps. But one can live a long life with-
out bumping up against the superhuman,
and die without the least idea of what it is
like.
“Hamfat”: Another Australian to cap-
ture a place which her own country could
or would not give her is Dorothy Leigh,
who was principal boy in “Sinbad the
Sailor” at Edinburgh this year. She
started with a pierrot show on the beach
at St. Ivilda, and showed once in panto in
Australia in the Bailey-Grant-Tait produc-
tion of “Jack and Jill.” Then she went to
S’Africa with Barry Lupino’s co., and so
on to the Fog, where she made a vaudeville
hit.
“Oozit”: There has been some sinister
movie publicity, but the limit was surely
reached in this Wondergraph advt, sur-
rounded by a heavy black border, in the
Adelaide Advertiser the other day:—
NOTICE !
Admission tickets for the Paramount 1922 pro-
duction, “The Wild Goose,” are issued on the dis-
tinct understanding that no offence shall b e taken at
the bedroom Scenes depicted, realism and not roman-
ticism being the aim of the producer. You are
advised not to bring children.
They could have said, just as delicately: “Do
you like smutty yarns? Here’s a hot one—
come along!”
“Coot” : Bland Holt once had some trouble
with his leading lady because in the list
of characters on the playbill her name
appeared at the end' without the w'ord
“and” prefixing it. “Such a ridiculous fuss
to make about an ‘and,’ ” grumbled Bland
to another manager. “Yes,” replied the
latter, “and it isn’t a case of, and and art,
either.”
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) : Cyril Maude has tem-
porarily deserted the theatre and is doing a
turn twice a day at the palatial Coliseum.
He says he will appear next in a new light
comedy that he thinks will suit him admir-
ably. _ He contemplates another visit to
America and Australia after that; but he
has had a handsome offer for a long Ameri-
can music-hall tour, and he feels rather in-
clined to accept. He has got a liking for
the ’alls—their atmosphere, he says, is “more
jolly” and unconventional than that of the
theatres.
“W 03”: Re “N.B.’s” yarn of the drop
curtain that elevated the lady’s skirts
5/l/’22). A travelling cc. was playing
“East Lynne” at Mareeba (N.Q.) a few
years ago, and when the curtain went up
disclosing Lady Isabel's death-bed it took
the counterpane with it, displaying the lady
fully attired, including her boots.
“Carbon”: One reason why the Yanks
beat the Australians in film production is
their lavish expenditure of money and time.
The Los Angeles producer will frequently
make 20 to 50 shots to get a single fleeting
expression and then not be satisfied. I saw
Colleen Moore spend a whole morning rais-
ing her eyes from the floor to the camera.
At length the producer grabbed his hat.
“Well, I guess we’ll get somethin’ out o’ that
lot,” he said. Colleen yawned and stretched
her arms, touching her head. Then she
groaned, “Oh, my hat! I forgot to put on
the ear-rings.” So it had to be done all over
again.
“T.W.”: Of all the Australians in musical
comedy but as yet merely local favorites,
the two who strike me as being the real goods
for Shaftesbury Avenue or the Strand are
Madge Elliott and Mione Stewart. London
in its latest mood is looking not so much
for the dashingly assertive as for a dainty
kick and an air of girlish enjoyment. Madge
and Mione have those qualities as well as
individuality; and, though I don’t want to
lose them, I think they ought to go.
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) : Edward Ledger, long-
time editor and proprietor of the Era, col-
loquially known as “The Actor’s Bill,” left
£450.359, which he parcelled out among his
relations. He must have successfully specu-
lated in other spheres than theatrical jour-
nalism. So long as he was in control, the
Era flourished famously, but after he sold
out to a wealthy member of the Bass brewery
proprietary, the paper fell away somewhat,
and probably the Stage has now the larger
circulation.
“Lond.”: The vanity of actors can take
strange forms. On his appearing at a fresh
music-hall the management actually sent to
George Robey to know what puff he would
like on the bills. “It was a blow to my
vanitv,” he says pathetically. So he just
sent back a savage sarcasm: “George Robey,
wire-walker, with his performing lobsters.”
“T. 0.1.”: In 1863 Barry Sullivan had a
co. at the old wooden Princess Theatre in
Spring-street —the building in which G. B. Yf,
Lewis housed his first circus. It was a relit
of the time when anything with a roof did
for public entertainments. Here I saw Sulli-
van’s production or “Money” with this cast:
“THE MERRY WIDOW,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
Leslie Holland as Danilo, the young Prince
in love with the Merry Widow.
Evelyn, Sullivan; Graves, Jefferson; Sir J.
Vesey, Lambert; Lord Glossmore, Ireland;
Benjamin Stout, Stewart (father of Nellie
and Hick) ; Dudley Smooth, Alex. Fitz-
gerald (an American, with an Irish tongue) ;
Sir F. Blount, Heir; Clara Douglas, Mrs.
Robert Heir (Fanny Cathcart, who as a
widow married George Darrell) ; Georgina,
Doily Green (later known as Madame
Dolores) ; Ladv Franklin, Mrs. Alfred Phil-
lips. “Much Ado About Nothing” and “The
School for Scandal” were also played (Sulli-
van, Benedick and Charles Surface; Jeffer-
son, Dogberry and Crabtree; Beatrice and
Lady Teazle, Mrs. Heir; Herd and Maria,
Rosa Dunn ; Sir John Vesey and Sir Peter
Teazle, Lambert; Verges and Moses, R.
Stewart; Mrs. Candour, Mrs. Phillips; Lady
Sneerwell," Dolly Green). Rosa Dunn acu
Dolly Green are, I think, the only survivors.
“Vaudeville Veteran”: Wilkie Bard has
stilled for the Fog, and there’s a hint that
his panto, rival, George Graves, at present
in Africa, is coming this way. Graves,
looked on as the best man since Dan L°no,
was once badly wanted by Arthur Collins,
of Drury Lane, for an “Aladdin” panto,
written by Burnand, of Punch, but the
comedian resisted all offers, especially as
the dame role had been given to Bard. A
trusted emissary, despatched by Collins,
waylaid _ Graves at Manchester and signed
him up in a joyful interlude after his show.
Next day Graves wired Collins: “Your chief
cowboy has lassoed me and thrown me heav-
ily. Take care of me, dearie.” The two
stars shared the limelight amicably for a
month ; then something happened, and both
Graves and Bard threatened to retire from
the show. Eventually the trouble was
smoothed over by re-arranging the script in
such a way that the pair should meet only
once. After that, not the least part of Col-
lins’s worries was shooing the unsuspect-
ing Burnand away from the theatre.
“Digger Strorat”: Jake Wells, producer of
the Australian “Silks and Saddles” film, re-
ports the American sale of that picture for
£5OO0 —nearly the total cost of production.
Investors in that film, he reckons, are now
receiving 300 per cent, on their outlay. If
pictures can be sold oversea for the cost of
production here, then the Australian earn-
ings are clear profit; and, if the film is all
right, it is. a pretty hefty return.
“Ibsenshaw”: Paris surprised itself the
Othbr week by hissing and booing a Grand
Guignol play. The plot ran thus. An
Apache murders a girl in a cafe. Con-
demned to death, he is locked in a cell with
another prisoner—the girl’s father —who tor-
tures him by describing in horrible detail the
preparations for his execution. The final
tableau shows the guillotine. The con-
demned man is executed coram populo, and a
head, supposedly his, is seen to fall, all
bluggy, into the basket! The authors of
the trifle were quite surprised when they
were not “called.”
RETROSPECT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Those good old days were hard old days,
Yet even now I cry their praise.
Then I was young, untried in art,
And with small talent played my part,
But all I needed did I own—
A pint of beer, a mutton, bone.
My mutton bones had dainty meat,
My pints of beer were ever sweet.
True, for my acting they did pay
Few paltry shillings by the day ;
Yet in an attic late at night
I gnawed my bone with sheer delight.
A bone, some bread, a pint of ale,
When age has not begun to stale
Your noble art, a supper make
Far better than the clicf may bake
Who seeks to feed the jaundiced ease
Of fat and feeble days like these.
I look back on my needy youth
And long for its return in truth,
And even now I would be glad
To joy in suppers then 1 had.
To-day, alas! I’ve no bone here,
Much less the foaming pot of beer.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Bill Muggins and Jim Dooley
in March, 1920, Bill Muggins and
some of his cobbers put Jim Dooley
and Greg. McGirr into power.
They won’t do it again if they think.
When a Man Makes a Promise —*
You naturally want to know if he is in
a position to keep it.
Jim Dooley and Greg. McGirr make
fresh promises every day.
They promise the workers employ-
ment; the value of the promise may
be judged by the fact that there are
40,000 unemployed in N S.W., and
works are closing down every day.
They promise' a basic wage. But
no Government on earth can fulfil
such a pledge.
They promise the farmer 5/- a bushel
and a Government Wheat Pool. The
farmer doesn’t want the pool, and he
had to * wait 12 months for the balance
of the last guarantee.
They promise millions for Housing,
millions for Motherhood Endowment,
millions for Rural Development, millions
for this and millions for that.
How can they possibly secure such
huge sums? Yet without the money
the schemes they propose are impossible
of adoption.
The Dooley-McGirr platform wholly
consists of POLITICAL BRIBES AND
PROMISES.
YOU Have to Pay
If Dooley-McGirr squander.
This is the result of their administra-
tion
1920- Deficit, £445,000.
1921- Estimated Deficit, £2,000,000.
What will be the deficit for 1 922-23?
Something like £20,000,000 if Dooley-
McGirr have their way.
There is nothing more certain than
increased taxation in N.S.W., as the
Government itself has definitely
announced.
The people who will bear the largest
share will be those least able to bear it,
for experience shows that taxes are passed
on to the consumer, tenant and worker.
At a time of unemployment Greg.
McGirr —who says himself ‘he is a rich
man —proposes to increase the salaries of
members of Parliament, including his
own.
He also advocates an increase in the
price of bread in order that the farmer
may bear some of the burdens which
Dooley-McGirr wish to impose on him.
An attractive programme for the
workers: —
DEAR BREAD,
MORE TAXES, MORE UNEMPLOY-
MENT.
YOUR ONLY SAFE COURSE IS TO
Vote for the National-Progressive
and Honest Government, Less Taxation,
Less Unemployment.
National Association of N.S.W., 25 York Street, Sydney. Archdale Parkhill, General Secretary.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHULP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special
Sole Agents : RESCIiS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &.WHITTY MEL&OUI\NE& SYDNEY
11l
“VALLO”
WEED, SCRUB BTREE KILLER
(For the Eradication of Noxious Vegetation).
m
“VALLO” Brand Weed Killer is the Cheapest and Most Concentrated
Killer on the Market. 31b. makes 50 gallons of Solution costing less
than one penny per gallon.
In Powder Form—Mixes Readily in Cold Water.
PRICES: 561 b., 70/-; 151 b., 21/3; 71b., 10/6; lib., 2/-; *lb., 1/3.
Postage within the State:llb., 9d.; ilb. 6d. extra. Interstate: lib., 1/2; Jib., Bd. extra.
Obtainable All Stores and Florists, or direct from the Manufacturers.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals, Sheep and Cattle Dips
and Orchard Sprays.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Branches—SYDNEY: 7 Hamilton Street. BRISBANE: 239 Elizabeth Street.
Correspondence invited. _
M ith 23 starters the Australian Gup was
?,?£ eC f te mn°, be ~ hamping race, and the expectation
was fulfilled. Considering that the very dogs were
barking allegations re the number of starters which
had been hired for purposes of “interference” it
was up to the stipendiary stewards to spread them-
selves around the course at various points of observa-
tion, that Rumor might be proved a true prophet or
an evil-minded liar. And seeing that an early jostle
resulted in one of the horses losing its rider, and
the animal being- left to run loose amidst the field
until the time came for him to challenge the leader
and beat him on the post, Rumor can at least claim
to have had some ground for its prognostications.
It is practically certain, however, that no competitor
suffered from organised interference (if there was any)
to the extent that Sister Olive suffered from the horse
(Double Bezique) that was running loose in the
field, and that wasn’t sufficient to cause the filly to
lose. Backers of the Melbourne Cup winner considei
themselves unlucky, but evervbody can chuckle
over the triumph of Harvest King, the pacemaker.
Interference never worries an animal which tries to
win from the jump. There’s no conceivable means
of “pocketing” a leader in a long race. The one
safe place for a good stayer is the foremost place,
beyond possibility of bumps. All sorts of things
might be happening to some of the other 22 strug-
gles, but nothing could cannon against Harvest King
whilst he was galloping away on his own. During
the race only six other horses ever looked dangerous
—-Stare, Earl of Seafield, Mufti, King of the Forest,
Queen Comedy, and always Sister Olive. Purser
although he finished third was too late in coming
upon the scene. The Rover seemed to be in trouble
more than oner, and Tangalooma was hardly in the
picture ere he began to lose ground. Of the remain-
ing 15 fully a dozen were hopeless cases. The Aus-
tralian Cup result confirms one’s suspicion that the
best of the old seasoned handicap horses still in the
business are, with the exception of Eurythmic, no
class to speak of. Merely good, or “useful” three-
year-olds in Lionel Attwill and Sister Olive finished
third and fourth for Caulfield Cup, a race where young-
sters rarely get placed. In the Melbourne Cup the
same Sister Olive and Harvest King ran first and
fourth, and in the Australian Cup they had all the
old ones badly beaten, with the .exception of
Purser, a respectable third, who had come between
Lionel Attwill and the winner in the Caulfield
event. The three-year-olds that ran first and fourth,
and first and second, in long distance handicaps
are apparently of better class than the older handi-
cap battlers, yet below first-class Derby form.
Furious is a brilliant, commanding finisher in
competition with either Sister Olive or Harvest King.
On paper there was nothing in the Australian Cup
quite so good as Mufti at the weights. The mean
appearance of the mare was regarded only as a
reminder that Almissa, her sire, was an undersized
horse who had won the same race. Also Mufti was
descended from Wallace on the dam’s side, and was
every way bred to stay. Her lightweight made
this the chance of her life, and with little Munro
aboard she had jockeyshpp in her favor as compared
with other lightweights. All the same she was at
a disadvantage in not being an eager beginner. She
was likely to get some bumps, and they were pretty
certain to upset the little bit of a thing. In a
field of half the size Mufti might have been very
hard to beat, but as the Australian Cup was run she
could only have succeeded as a pacemaker.
The Furious so easily beaten by Eurythmic and
Wish Wynne last Thursday at Flemington is not to
be mistaken for the filly who won the Victorian
Derby and Oaks brilliantly four months earlier.
Probably she was not even the Furious who won the
Leger from Harvest King, although the colt was
admittedly short of a gallop or two when he failed
in the classic event. Betting on last Thursday’s
race indicated that Furious was suffering from one
of her frequent bilious attacks, or what not. She is
clearly a mare of aches and pains.
Harvest King emphasised his assertion of solid
merit by winning the two-mile event on the last
day of the V.R.C. meeting. Sister Olive had now
51b. the better of it compared with their Australian
Cup terms, but whereas the mare was in the very
pink of condition on the previous Saturday, the
black-brown horse had been tuned up to concert pitch
in the meantime. Besides, the public, who unaccount-
ably backed David and Stare, as well as Sister Olive,
in preference to Harvest King, had been deceived by
the excuses offered for everything bar the last-named
in the Australian Cup race. Sister Olive got credit
for being more interfered with than was the case.
Stare was said to have lost the race through pulling
too hard at the outset (a very thin apology, any-
how), and David : —well, David has won long-distance
races in Sydney against horses that either lacked
stamina or were dead out of form, therefore the
reputation he brought with him to Melbourne in the
Spring was not quite dead last Saturday afternoon.
But on paper Harvest King was the pick of the
bunch, and so he proved to be. He and Sister Olive
have met on w.f.a.
terms, or thereabouts,
four times. At Caul-
field he ran second to
Eurythmic when the
lady was third, and
in the Australian Cup
he beat her again. It
was only in the Mel-
bourne Cup that he
snun himself out and
finished fourth whilst
Sister Olive was win-
ning. She had im-
proved since then, but
he had probably made
more improvement.
What grounds were
there for preferring
her chance to his last
Saturday, or for
thinking that Stare,
who had never run
two miles like a
stayer, could beat
him?
ERIC CONNOLLY ,
the shrewd owner
of the Newmarket
winner Rostrum
and many more.
David will doubtless do better anon than his dis-
appointing performances in Melbourne thus far, but
there can be no denying that his Sydney reputation
was very easily earned. Last Easter at Randwick
both Salitros and Nautical beat him in the Leger.
He finished second to Eurythmic in the Cumberland
Stakes because there was nothing to prevent him,
but tfie time for the two miles spoke for itself —
3min. Then David won the A.J.C. Plate —•
from whom? From non-stayer Salitros and the
gone-to-pieces Kennaquhair. This season what did
David do? He won the Spring Stakes from Swift
Shot, Syce Knight, Salitros, Kennaquhair and others,
none of whom shone subsequently, with the excep-
tion of Violoncello, who was short of condition when
David beat him. In the Metropolitan the Baverstock
horse ran like the unbrilliant animal he is and ever
will be, and on the last day of the Randwick meet-
ing he got a tremendous boost for winning the
Randwick Plate (two miles) from the same old Swift
Shot, Syce Knight and Salitros. Pitted against three
three-year-olds at Flemington last Saturday the big
fellow found the company very different, and the
pace a good deal faster. At Randwick, where the
times, for some unexplained reason, go two and
three seconds better for the Derby distance than
at Flemington, he won his “brilliant” Randwick
Plate race in 3min. 29|see. Well, Harvest King
won the King’s Plate in 3min. 28jsec.
* * * »
The A.J.C. handicapper reckons Beauford
a pound better than Eurythmic over a mile, and
Six pounds worse over two miles. He has given
the Newcastle flier lost. 51b. in the Doncaster
Handicap, and put Eurythmic and Gloaming on the
lOst. 41b. mark; in the Gup Eurythmic is top-
weight with l'Ost. 41b.. and Beauford comes next
with 9st. 121 b. Gloaming wasn’t nominated. On
these figures Beauford is harshly treated. Well-
handicapped horses in the mile race are Sir Mait-
land (Bst.), Vodka and Dunwil (7st. 101 b.), Brae-
head (7st. 81b.), Popaway (7st. 51b.) and Poitrel’s
brother Poiln (7st. lib.). A likely lot in the Cup
are Keneppil (Bst. lib.), Honey Bee (Bst.), Heir
Apparent (7st. 81b.), King of the Forest (7st. 71b.),
Kashmir (6st. 131 b.) and Bitalli (6st. 101 b.).
Newcastle on Saturday had the privilege
of seeing Beauford and Salrak in action. The
Epsom winner was asked to concede Padora sst.
21b. over six furlongs. He did it successfully, and
only missed equalling the course record by a tick.
Salrak gave Charlemagnette 511 b. and a bad beating.
Had he been pushed he could have shattered the
course record, and as it was he equalled it.
* * * *
The M.C.C. autumn tennis championships
came to a tame end on Saturday. Patterson was
faced in the singles final by Jack Hawkes, who,
apart from O’Hara Wood, is the only Victorian
capable of giving him a run. But the Geelong
youth, who lias lately developed a passion for sliced
returns, could do little against the champion’s deter-
mined attack, and showed a grave lack of strategy.
Patterson, who was again shaky oir the backhand,
was very different on the forehand, and several times
scored with a glittering cross-court ace. The doubles
final (Patterson and Hakwes v. O’Hara Wood and
Mackay) was a foregone conclusion. There was
nothing in the service battery of the latter pair
comparable to the paceful onslaughts of Patterson.
But it would be wrong to assume that Patterson
and Hawkes are the best pair in Australia. Judging
from their great American performances, Anderson
and Todd are better. The ladies’ singles champion-
ship between Miss Boyd and Mrs. Lister resolved
itself into a mournful exchange of half-lobs, varied
rarely by shots of flatter trajectory. Miss Boyd,
possessing a stronger service and more tenacity,
ended the agony in two straight sets (6 —4, 6—4).
O’Hara Wood- and Mrs. Hope were too good for
Patterson and Miss Boyd in the mixed doubles.
Scores 3—6, 6 —3, 6 —3’.
- * * ■
On Saturday the first day of the eleventh
round of Sydney grade cricket, Central Cumberland
(Brown 121) put up 283 against Sydney. L. Best
(82) was particularly severe on Asher, whose 5
wickets cost 90. Manly and Glebe, minus Mailev
and Kelleway respectively, are practically through
with their game. The villagers managed to scrape
together 225. Mair, of Glebe, got six wickets for a bit
o\Jer 10 times as many runs. Glebe, with 6 down for
58, are in a bad way. Paddington just failed to
reach 200 against Wests (Goddard 54). Three of
Wests’ best are gone for 39. Balmain punished
Hendry’s bowling; 4 wickets, average 14.6. Balmain
collected 123, and Waverley have lost 3 for 61,
with their chief smiters to go in. Mosman put
up the biggest score of the season (8 for 409)
against St. George (Chapman 113 and Trenerry 81).
’Varsity lock like downing Norths, who are all out
for 220, while the scholars have 10 wickets intact
and only 175 to make. On the result of this match
rests Norths’ chance of winning or losing the com-
petition. Gordon have already beaten Petersham
with 4 wickets in hand. Petersham succumbed for
14'3. Length-bowling held the MarrickviHe bats-
men up against Randwick, whose fielding was poor.
Marrickville has lost 6 for 342.
* * * *
Jimmy Searle, who “kept” for Manly’s
first-grade team on Saturday, is 59 years old. He
was N.S.W.’s regular wicket-keeper over 30 years
ago. “Ikey” Wales, who was succeeded by j. J.
Kelly, displaced Searie. Last week the veteran made
three runs, stumped one, and let nothing pass. Glebe’s
youthful keeper, on the other hand, was guilty of 22
sundries.
P’ran managed to score a draw with Mel-
bourne on Saturday. On the previous Saturday
M.C.C. had rattled up 369, and losing six wickets
cheaply P’ran made ready its mourning. But Healv
and Haggart clung together, and a respectable 6
for 307 was hoisted (Healy 105, Haggart 86).
’Wood beat Saints by 1. wicket and 160, but even
with the match within their grip the Magpie bats-
ment were inert. Monahan and M. Keating seemed
to dislike giving the fieldsmen any trouble. Fitz-
roy made 75 too many for South, but here again
the smiters lacked energy. A trifle over 200 runs
was the afternoon’s tally (Kiernan 84 and Atkin-
son 66). Hawthorn-East, who won on the first hits
by 102, probably missed a straight-out win over
Essendon by half-an-hour. Of Hawthorn-East’s 205
the ancient McAlister was responsible for 80. Rich-
mond's victory over University by 58 was helped by
43 sundries. Clem Sindrey also did well (70). For
the opposition Shugg took 6 for 69. Though Carl-
ton had scratched up 167, Northcote were 41 to the
bad at the end. Hastings (4 for 10) and Truman
(3 for 41) shattered ’Cote’s hopes of victory. Hart-
kopf was top scorer with. 31. and. only “extras” and
three others reached double figures.
* * * *
Victoria licked W.A. at Perth by an inn-
ings and 72 runs, though the champion State’s team
was by no means, representative. O’Keeffe had lum-
bago, and so his 41 was an even more funereal dis-
play than he usually gives. Despite the fact that
the other run-makers (Mavne, Keating and Bracher)
were more or less emulating the tactics of the
invalid of the side, the phenomenal Woodfull made
153 in a couple of hundred minutes. But the most
remarkable feature' of the game was the last-wicket
stand of Buttsworth (101) and Lanigan (63 n. 0.)
in W.A.’s first innings. They had bowled nearly all
through Vic.’s 485-run innings.
Jamito, Sydney Stadium’s reliable little
trial-horse, was pulled out for another' gallop on
Saturday night. “Bud” Ridley, a Yankee nine-
stoner, constituted the opposition, and he beat the
persevering colored youth nearly all the way. For
once Jamito gave the impression that he had been
letting up in his training: Ridley, on the other
hand, was hard as nails. The new arrival is the
equal of the beautifully-proportioned Filipino in
physique, and he thinks a lot more quickly. Over
and over again he blocked Jamito’s left, and followed
that up by smashing rights to the jaw; and his
two-har.ded salvoes to the body in the second half
were very effective. The decision of the “fat man,”
whom a disguised Bathurst parson detected “urging
the poor boys on,” was acclaimed as inevitably just
by a fair house.
* * * *
The scrap at Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday night was supnlied by Jerry Sullivan, the
Sydney fedder, and Walter Ross, a chunky young
man from Scotland. Ross was in the running for
the British bantam championship till Criqui stopped
him in 11 rounds; after that one or two home-
grown bantams beat the dispirited youth handily.
But half Melbourne had never heard of him, and
when he entered the ring much too generously
fleshed (he had hurried over from Sydney to get
the fight) Israel frantically endeavored to Ijiy 4 to 1
against him. The Scot proved a surprise-packet.
While his condition lasted he got all over Sullivan,
and at the end of the twelfth round a badly-disfigured
and groggy Jerry tottered to his chair. However
Sydney recovered quickly, and Scotland fell away’
Judiciously advised by his “corner,” Sullivan gave
the tiring Ross no peace, and settled him in the
seventeenth. But the loser gave a splendid dis-
play of speed, skill and gameness, a iid there will
be a huge crowd to see his next fight.
* * * .
In N.S.W. amateur athletic champion-
ships at Sydney oil Saturday Oosterlaak met the pick
of N.S.W. sprinters in the 100yds. final and won
brilliantly from Walton Hunt and T. McNamara in
H. KINSMAN, the
visiting S. African
athlete, who has been
on the sick list.
10 l-10sec. He was slow-
off the mark, yet won by
two yards. In the quain-
ter the condition of W.
Hutton (Uni,) was too
good, and R. Johnston
(S’Africa) went down.,*
Winner’s time 51 4-ssee.
Champion 11. S. Grande-
mange collected the mile
in 4min. 36 2-ssec. The
sombne D. A. Leathern
(S’Africa) was a long
way back fourth. After
Dqg Monro had won the
hurdles in 16 l-ssee.,
he was disqualified for
hitting in front—which
was rough luck, seeing
that he didn’t interfere
with anyone 'but himself.
He was consoled by aii
easy win in the 161 b.
shot-putt with 38ft. fijin.
Stan Young’s broad jump-
(23ft. 4in.) was only 4iin.
behind R. J* Honner’s,
Australasian record. In
the javelin throw left-
hander E. G. Sutherland
(Maoriland) made history'
with 174 ft. 7in., which
is 13Jin. better than A.
W. Reid’s Australasian
record at Adelaide in'
December.
Carlton beat their great rivals, St.
Harriers, in the inter-club match on Saturday. In
the “B” Grade Carlton had much the best of it
and won by 11 points, but St. Stephen’s “A” captured
the 120yds. hurdles, the 100yds. scratch and two or
three other events, and in actual wins were well
ahead.
» • » »
A fish-like odor permeated the Austral-
asian amateur cycling- championship gathering at
Sydney on Saturday night during the 10 miles
event. Eventually, after some fine pedal histrionism,
A. E. Hannan (N.S.W.) and W. Coppins (N.S.W.I
were disqualified for collusion and the race given to
A. L. Seotton (N.S.W.). Coppins won the half in
lmin. 15- l-ssec. from Hannan and Seotton, Thurs-
field and Kaltenbrun (S’Africans) being outgener-
alled and outridden. The junior G. Dempsey, who
took the mile in 2min. 15 l-ssec., and was second
to A. Mantova in the five miles in 13min. 15 2-sseci
will he heard of in the higher grades later on.
* * * *
In the race for 21ft. restricted-class dug-
outs under the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron’s
burgee last Saturday Fred Doran’s Inez (owner up)
got away first and was never headed. She led the
Australian champion Gumleaf by 65sec. at the
Manly mark and eventually won by 11 minutes.
It was her seventh success this season in 15 start-.
A, Marshall (Cessnock) had his second
win in N.S.W. single-bowls championship at Sydhev
on Saturday by beating Billy Alderson by 31 to 25.
He began by taking 10 ends out of 14 and leading
by 19—8, and at the 22nd he was up 24—17.
Marshall’s best was three at the ninth, while Alderson
got four at the eighth *and threes at the 19th and
28th.
The salt-water swim from Semaphore to
Lings, a mile along the sharkless (and surfless)
Adelaide beach, was won this year by a 15 year-old
Whitford girl, down from the mines of Moonta for
the occasion. Beaglehole, from the same district,
did the best time (24min. 30sec.), but was as
usual handicapped out of it, and finished 11th. A
boy of 13 was second. Starters, 50; finished the
course 34.
* * * *
In Sydney last week Frank Doyle (aged
13) won the 50 yards Junior,, 50 yards Senior, 100
yards Senior and 220 yards Senior Championships
of Catholic Colleges in 28 4-ssec., 28secs., 64 4-ssee.
and 3min. 2Wees, respectively. And he went on to
snare the 220yds. Junior Championship of Sydney in
2min. 50secs. —which is 12Wees, better than his
school effort and but 22secs. worse than Ludy
Langer’s State best for the distance. Alan Penfold,
at Goulburn, took the 100 yards Championship of
State High Schools in 66see. Ernest Henry, also of
Manly, lifted the All Schools 100 yards title in the
record time of 60 2-ssec., with Ag. Coppleson
(Grammar), State junior 100 yards champion, on
his heels.
* *• * *
Officialdom left nothing to chance when
Pauline Hoeft, of Auckland (M.L.), put up the
440yds. world’s ladies’ swimming record (6min.
25 l-ssec.) at Wellington the other day. Three
timekeepers agreed. The previous figures were held hv
Gwitha Shand (6min. 26 2-ssec.). This lady is
due in Australia any day now.
* * * *
“M.H.F.” : Tassy at last has a swimmer in
Max Reisz, a 16-year-old Hobart State High School
boy. He won the mile State championship last year.
This season he took the race across the Derwent,
conceding minutes to some of the previous season’s
cracks; and since then he has won all the State
free-style championships, from 220yds. to a mile.
He went very close to standard time in the half,
which he won at his ease. The only Tasmanian
representative, by the way, with a standard per-
formance to his credit to date is Charles Rodway,
who filled a minor place in the Australian breast-
stroke championship at Brisbane in 1914.
HOW WE BEAT THE MORTGAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What! Tell you a sporting story, dears? Well,
gather around the pew.
Though only a humble verger, yet, I fancy I’ve
something new—
A tale that will cause astonishment to dawn on
each childish face.
As Sydney’s persistent wet week-ends to their
fountain-head I trace.
The chapel mortgage had grown and grown till it
reached twelve hundred quid.
And part was held by a publican and part by a
hard-faced Yid.
And never a Sabbath worshipper came praying here
all day long;
No “empties” were ever emptier than these pews at
evensong.
Then up and spake a curate pale: “It’s the call of
the surf,” said he:
“Our rivals are (one) the warm red sun, and (two)
the translucent sea.
We’ve often prayed for rain,” he said, “in a vague,
unspecified way:
It now remains to demand a storm on one particu-
lar day.”
The rector saw it immediately; but a deacon made
demur:
“It might look marked and get people narked if it
rained on Sunday—er”—
“You’re right!” the bishop intervened. “We will
harry the hosts of H —ll
By praying for rain on Sundays, aye, and on Satur-
days as well.”
So all fell to and prayed with a will till presently
Mr. Mares
Came galloping, three steps at a time, up our crazy
belfry stairs.
“Give over!” he cried. “I’ll lose my job!” But
we only prayed the more,
Till we heard the rain come swishing down, and
the tempest’s angry roar.
You saw what followed. The surf was shunned.
There began a steady flow
Of bathers making their way to church—there was
nowhere elso to go.
But still our strenuous work went on till one day
the Jew-, amazed,
Arrived with his friend, the publican, to discover the
mortgage raised!
Envoy (and Warning) .
The summer of 1923 may be bright and warm and
dry ;
It may, on the other hand, be wet. If it is I’ll tell
you why:
Because the churches need the cash they can always
get hold of where
They make up their minds to concentrate on a
willing bout of pray’r.
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


Your Pocket Torch is Out-of-date.
Use a HANDILITE
Magneto
Flash
Lamp.
H
THE HANDILITE is a new Magneto Flash Lamp, made in
England by the GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, LIMITED.
It is inexhaustible, easy in operation and GENERATES ITS OWN
LIGHT by a simple operation of the lever.
THE HANDILITE requires no refills and is always in working
order.
Indispensable to the DOCTOR, MOTORIST, SQUATTER,
BOUNDARY-RIDER, or anyone requiring a reliable, portable,
steady light available in any emergency.
THE FIRST COST IS THE ONLY EXPENSE.
Sold by all reliable Electricians and Storekeepers,
or direct from
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC Company Limited,
154-6 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 590 Bourke Street. PERTH: Murray Street. NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.: Scott Street.
NEW ZEALAND: Willeston Street, WELLINGTON; Cumberland Street, DUNEDIN.
Sole Agents BRISBANE: Norman Bell & Co, Adelaide Street; HOBART, Tas.: Medhurst Electrical Works, Ltd.
FIJI: Morris Hedstrom, Ltd., Suva and Levuka.
AVIATION AS A BUSINESS PROPOSITION.
Australian Aerial Mail Services Limited
( Incorporated under Victorian Companies Act 1915.)
CAPITAL £lBO,OOO.
Present Issue: 15,000 8 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each, participating up to 10 per cent.
30,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each.
DIRECTORS:
H. B. HOWARD-SMITH (Chairman), Shipowner, Melbourne.
L. M. MACPHERSON, M.E., E.E. (late Aircraft Production Department), London, Melbourne.
H J. LARKIN, Aviator, Melbourne.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY:
To establish aerial mail, passenger and freight services between ADELAIDE, SYDNEY and BRISBANE, via principal intermediate
country towns, under two Federal Government contracts which provide that the company is to receive subsidies totalling ££9,000 and the free
use of a complete chain of specially-prepared landing-stations at approximate intervals of every 12 miles, provided by the Federal Government.
REASONS WHY THIS COMPANY SHOULD SUCCEED.
1. The Directors have carefully deliberated before launching this
proposition, in order to secure (a) adequate Government subsidies;
(b) a complete chain of specially-prepared landing-stations; (c)
statistics and particulars of organisation of successful European
and American aerial services in actual operation now and during
the past three years.
1. Most modern and efficient aeroplanes fitted with Rolls-Royce
engines, with dual ignition and dual carburettion.
3. Four of Australia’s most reliable and experienced pilots, viz.,
Captain G. C. Matthews, Captain Roy King, Lieut. F. L. Roberts
and Lieut. F. S. Briggs.
4. An experienced specialised staff of mechanics and modern plant.
5. Inspection and repairs (if necessary) after each flight.
6. Provision for hangar accommodation and fully-equipped work-
shops at each principal terminal.
7. Provision of adequate stocks of thoroughly-tested and proved
sound spare parts at each principal terminal ready for immediate
replacements.
8. A well-organised working staff of officers experienced in
commercial transportation, aeronautical engineering and aviation.
9. Exclusive use of only the highest accepted standard quality of
aviation motor spirit and lubricating oils.
The Bulletin review:—“A feature of the float is that there is to be no aerial
surveys, etc.; the fleet will use the Government landing stations.”
Melbourne Herald review (Alex. Jobson) “This proposition has a distinct
advantage over any previous aviation flotation placed before investors, in that the
company will commence business with a guaranteed revenue of £29,000.”
Brisbane Daily Mail review (J. S. Mclnnes, F.1.C.A.) :—“The prospectus
sets out a very fair statement of the proposition, which appears to be a reasonable
one on the whole, and founded on businesslike lines.”
CORRIE & CO., Sharebrokers, Parbury House, Brisbane.
ALBAN GEE & CO., Sharebrokers, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ALAN L. GREIG & CO., Sharebrokers, Pirie Chambers, Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Or OFFICE OF COMPANY, 524 Collins Street, Melbourne.


Gentlemen’s Manicure
Rooms specially fitted, and conveniently situated
near Men’s Boot Section, Ground Floor, Market Street.
EXPERIENCED manicurists, using thoroughly up-to-
date and hygienic appliances and methods, provide a
= service to meet with the approval of well-groomed men.
Prompt attention is assured, but, if desired, appointments
may be booked, to suit patrons’ conv:nience, by ’phoning,
"City, Eleven Thousand.”
HOURS: Daily, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Sat., 9 a.m. to X p.m.
FARMER’S :: SYDNEY.
ee The Store for £Men.” _
n %
Kf
~WATER“
SUPPLIES
This illustration shows Three 25ft.
Alston Windmills on 60ft. Towers,
fitted with lOin. Pumps, pumping
water for the town supply of Donald.
They have been in use for many years,
giving every satisfaction.
We manufacture Windmills in all
sizes, from sft. to 25ft. diameter, and
have .the largest works in Australia,
devoting its whole attention to wind-
mill construction.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use
through Australasia.
Expert advice and Illustrated Cata-
logue free on application.
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS
PTY. LTD,,
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cent 1533, 11609
Australian Cup Day got back this year to
before-the-war extravagance. Yet the dress
of the Autumn Meeting has always been of
the kind that glows with the perfection of
quiet, expensive tastes, avoiding the bizarre.
It is sc much the country meeting; and Aus-
tralian squattocracy does know how to tailor
itself for sport. Certainly several Sassiety
grandmammas profited by the short skirt craze
to show off their small, slim feet, and an inter-
ested world went on learning that there is
quite a neat turn to many a middle-aged
ankle. G.-G. Forster and his lady brought
Mrs. Pitt Rivers, Lady Digby and the enthu-
siastic gent, helps. No aide wants a spell-
oh on a big race-day. Mrs. Fred Payne had
cost her dressmaker sleepless nights plan-
ning the criss-cross and up-and-downward-
ness of her black-and-white striped chiffons.
White socks and black suede sandals finished
the picture. Mrs. Reggie Power, topped by
a toque that towered with ostrich plumes,
pioneered the long-skirt brigade ; but an aunt-
in-law wore knee-length skirts dangling with
jet fringe and covered with points of black
chiffon. Mrs. Thiel wore mushr. om brown,
while daughter Mrs. Gordon Chirnside stayed
domestically at her country home. Mrs.
Forrest, the doctor’s wife, appeared looking
fit after her long illness. She brought the
Bananaland Dr. Fearnley and his wife. Mrs.
Alec Landale, in smart black cloth,
hostessed a lunch-party. Miss Byron Moore,
with her, wore grey. Mrs. Thompson, from
Albury, wore a simple but horribly expensive
gown built up entirely of Irish crochet lace,
bound together with lilac ribbons. Miss
Winter Irving in brown and yellow stripes
looked like a beautiful butterfly. Mrs. Purves
sported vivid carnation pink elaborately
beaded —her last youthful flutter before
launching daughter Valerie into the grown-
up swim. Mrs. Donald Mackinnon showed
off a cloth fringed skirt with her tailoring.
Mrs. Ken Niall, in navy cloth, gave a big
tea-party, arid the racing Hopes, from Adel-
aide, had a neighboring spread. As a matter
of fact, every table in the tree-shaded quarter
was packed for luncheon- and tea-parties.
Much of the tea was brought in gold-topped
bottles.
The carnival finished in record style on
Saturday. Hospitality obligations were so
numerous that Lady Forster and LadyStrad-
broke each gave a luncheon party. One
Excellency hostessed in the vice-regal rooms,
and the other, with her Earl, in the Govern-
or’s room. G..-G. Forster wasn’t there. He
sailed the Yeulba in the Brighton regatta
after looking in at the Hamilton-Wimmera
cricket match at St. Kilda. Lady Forster,
in soft black satin, headed a large party on
the Flemington stand. She had Mrs. Pitt
Rivers with her in a crocheted black silk
frock and Lady Digby in knife pleats of navy
with a short chic cape. The State Ex., with
aides Grove and Palmer, had a busy day with
the bookies. The Countess draped a mush-
room veil round a platter hat and wore a
straight pale cloth gown.
Anne Williams had her triumph. The
Town Hall was crammed with the frockiest
on March 7, and they banked the platform
high with ehough flowers to start three
shops. Anne dimpled and smiled and sang
and bowed in a dress colored like a church
window. Melba, draped in diamonds over
flesh-colored chiffons, led the applause, and
waved a priceless jewelled fan. The Hughes
dame had a seat of honor and a bouquet.
She was clad in autumn tints of silk and
an apricots-and-cream cloak. Some of Fritz
Hart’s songs were on the menu. Star pupils
sold programmes; among them was Billy
Cadzow’s bride, who wore her wedding dress.
The G.-G. follows the inflexible rule of
Windsor in banning the divorce from the
staff. Recently a help arrived from England
whose matrimonial tax had been removed,
though he was ignorant of the unwritten
law banning the decree nisi “down under.”
On discovery he was sent back.
Governor Stradbroke has been' seeing the
wildest parts of East Gippsland in company
with Ministers Oman and Angus, and he
has had the highest peak of Rocky Range
named after him. The school kiddies lined
up at Omeo to have a good look at the Earl,
but the welcome he prized most of all was
that 'accorded him by the 11 youngsters who
trooped out of a creeper : covered bark school
at W. Tree, on the road from Buchan to
the High Plains. In this caboose the three
R’s and a little more are knocked into the
young Australian XI five days a fortnight.
The cream of the Western District seemed
to have emptied itself on to the Moonee
Valley racecourse on Friday to barrack for
the local polo players. The vice-regal For-
sters’ tea was a second attraction. The
squattocracy chiefly viewed events from the
fastnesses of their motor-cars, but the others
spread themselves on benches banked to-
gether at one side of the course. The con-
testants used their tongues as freely as
their sticks, and ably upheld the Anzac tra-
dition. Walter Bayles umpired the matches,
and at the finish the G.-G. handed over the
Niall Cup to Ronald Gumming, who cap-
tained the winning team, and a solatium to
Bob Affleck, captain of the runners-up.
During the afternoon gent.-help Lord Digby,
Beau Fairbairn, Jack Winter Irving and
Warren White, in painfully ill-assorted blue
jackets, played on the losing side in an ex-
hibition match against Camperdown. Lady
Forster, frocked in blue floral foulard and
an autumn berry-wreathed headpiece, fed the
tired little polo-gees on lollies. The vice-
regal tea w-as spread in a tent, and a very
nice tea it was. too. The Stradbroke Coun-
tess moved round in white coat-skirtings
topped by a helmet of gold shot tissue, and
Lady Helena stood by in peach voile fixings.
The form of the vice-regal Court Circular,
published in the dailies, has been revised.
The public is now informed merely that his
Excellency, etc., entertained “a number of
guests” at dinner, and Mrs. Suburbia is left
a prey to devouring curiosity as to w T ho
the guests were. Perhaps it had been sug-
gested that officialdom was glowering to
find a section of T'oorak more favored than
its solemn self.
The other afternoon the Best People drank
tea in the Norman Brookes South Yarra
parlor suite, which includes a glassed-in
verandah where the hostess and her tennis
champion took the salute. Mrs. Norman
fluttered in dove-grey satin hangings hedged
round with trailing fringe. Her hands were
tucked into immaculate white kids, but she
wore no hat, of course. Countess Stradbroke
fluttered round in black chiffon velvet swath-
ings topped by a polonaise of white georgette
heavily embroidered in black silk, while black
ospreys sprouted from a gloomy-looking head-
piece. Daughter Helena was in a peach-
colored voile frock, with a rustic hat, but
without her beauty-destroying tortoiseshell-
rimmed specs. A gent, help or two slipped
the chain after convoying the vice-regal lady
over the front doormat, and worried round
for themselves. Singer Alan Mitchell and
his wife were responsible for tuneful inter-
vals in the music-room. The former, who
lifted a well-polished tenor, is an ex-Anzac,
and he and Mrs. Brookes sang together to
Billjim in Egypt.
Of the latest crop of songbirds no one
seems to be facing a brighter future than
Rosa Pinkerton,
who is pictured here
in a photo by Hum-
phrey. _ She is a
dramatic soprano
who has annexed
three scholarships in
12 months, and has
already shown in
municipal concerts
and elsewhere a bent
for opera. A while
back she was given
the part of Leonora
in a Uni. Conserva-
torium performance
of “II Trovatore,”
and her unamateur-
ish acting helped her
soprano to make an
impression. Nowa-
days she is lending her ear to the advice
of Mrs. Rees-Vogrich, who is taking her
through all the important music of the
Italian. French and German operatic
schools. Already she has browsed on
Gounod, Verdi, Mascagni arid Puccini, and
has had some snacks of Wagner as well.
Incidentally, she is learning the languages
thoroughly, so that she will understand what
she is singing.
Una Bourne’s piano recital filled the Town
Hall the other night. Lady Forster trailed
into the front benches in saxe-blue draperies
with Oriental embroidery. With her was
Mrs. Pitt Rivers in pink chiffonery, her
fair head banded with rose-colored leaves.
Of course Dame Nellie was in the forefront,
bundled up in a golden-brown wrap over
white silk upholsterings and with diamonds
wandering- round her head. All three
clutched presentation bouquets. At the final
curtain the diva, who dearly loves a drama-
tic touch, plucked a handful of carnations
from her little lot and handed them across
the footlights to Una.
The M.C.C. tennis finals brought a great
array of sunshades and colored. stockings to
the Albert Ground on Saturday, but the
tennis was so unexciting that some of the
most ardent supporters of the game sought
entertainment in the picture gallery. There
were tiers of girls, and though they bestowed
applause on the principal performers they
were more interested in Mrs. Lister, who,
in a neat white frock and a smart hat with
a pale blue band, tried to shatter the brutal
male conviction that the unlovely make the
best players. The lady made many youths
ox-eyed with admiration, but she was too
ravishing to win. The efficient Miss Boyd,
•who didn’t attempt the other’s picture-
postcard effects, and who wasn’t ashamed to
|weat like a man, defeated the beauty, who
finished with a perfectly unruffled com-
plexion.
Piano-veteran Benno Seherek is due to
appear on the Block again in a few days,
having dropped his plan for settling down
among the Bigfog music-makers. Benno
went to England last year, his idea .being
to pick up some theatre orchestra and com
duct it, as he used to do. But there had
been a disastrous theatrical slump in Lon-
don, and Australia, after all, is a good, open-
handed land.
Dr. Maloney, M.H.R., is off on a trip
a) Japan. The volcanic little medico, whose
heart is bigger than his body, has been con-
tinuously in politics for just on 33 years—
ever since he was elected as Assemblv mem-
ber for West Melbourne in March, 1889.
Cecil Bald, who in ’IS was editing the
Scots Collegian, is now, at the age of 20,
on his way to Perth ’Varsity as lecturer in
English Language and Literature, having-
just polished off his M.A. finals. While at
Scots and Ormond College he collared all
that was going in the way of English exhi-
bitions and prizes, starting with the Shaks-
peare Society’s biggest pr.ze at School and
finishing up with the English II ex. abd
Sutherland prise at the “shop.” Incident
tally, he was secretary and one of the
founders of the ’Varsity Literary Society,
and at the same time kept the Age informed
on uni. matters,
There Was a great gathering of the Mur-
doch clan the other day at Craigow (Tas.)
to celebrate the centenary of the arrival of
the founder of the family in these parts—
Dr. James Murdoch, of Forfarshire, Scotland.
There are now about 500 descendants of the
old doctor and his wife scattered about Aus-
tralia, and they seem to have all managed
to keep out of gaol, though two, James and
Tom, have gone into the Speck’s Leg. Coun-
cil. The original grant at Craigow, now held
by James, is one of the few properties in the
Speck that has been held and run continu-
ously by the one family'for a century,
After having occupied a place ih the mem-
bers stand for 33 years, Alec Peacock, Min-
ister of Education, was put in the strangers’
gallery by a School Infant last week. When
out inspecting buildings he had his car piffled
np and asked a youngstel- where the Arma-
dale School was. The lad pointed the way,
and added, “I’m going there.” “Jump up
and have a, ride,” said the Minister. The
hoy declined; his mother, ,he said, had cau-
tioned him not to talk to strangers, though
he might answer a question eivilly. Alec
thought of the time when 'he couldn’t resist
the offer of a ride, but “Your mum’s quite
right,” he commented, and drove on. '
Portia Geach renewed her- acquaintance
with Melbourne the other day, and is by
this- time back at Sydney. Portia prides
herself on having refrained from acquiring
an American accent during, her exile, though
she says naught but the nice about Noo Yoik.
To her it was a dream of a city, though a
bit noisy.
The Clive Baillieus have gone to the j Cold
Land a month in advance Of Big Bill, the
head of the family. Regardless of the
IJppah Chambah trienhial election in June,
Baillieu is detetmined to keep his tryst in
Fog town early in that month. The Cocky
pabty intends to put a man in the field
whether Baillieu re-nominates or not for the
northern province. Of course, there is talk
of a baronetcy, and others want to know
what W.L. is going to do about the zinc
contract.
Tallis, of J.C.W., had a big send-off lunch-
party before leaving iff the Narkunda. The
two years’ wander that his wife dreamed of
has been cut down to “some months.” Pro-
bably the Hugh Ward secession has broken
up the leisurely jaunt.
The Tivoli Frolics serve up an effective
dance-for-two. The girl is carried in on a
platter dressed as a fine lobster, and in the
excitement of the supper party the lobster
dances with the waiter. Another bit of
fantasy is when Hodgson begins a flirtatious
dance with a little bit of fluff. She eludes
him, aud he finds her twin at his elbow.
Two more duplicates float downstairs to-
wards him, and a quartette of them dodge'
around screens. The audience gets the im-
pression of dozens of girls—a whole ballet
—frocked alike. At the finish Hodgson bows
between two daintv little dancers—their
slickness has made the whole ballet. The
show is a delightful diversion for tired busi-
ness baldheads.
“This is the first tea-party I’ve ever been
to in my life,” said Louis Bennison to the
petticoated Inky-Wayfarcrs at the Oriental
one afternoon last week. Americans drink
very little tea—as wandering Australians
find to their thirsty discomfort when they
are looking for a good brew in the U.S.A.
Bennison talked about the movies—he has
acted as much for the films as on the stage.
He wrote the “Johnny Get Your Gun” play
in which he is now showing. In the movie
scene in it the' hero pleads for rehearsals
which, Bennison says, are. curiously ,few in
film-land. The majority of flicker actors
hayen t a ghost of an idea of the plots they
work out. The producer says “You dress as
a bank-manager,” and when the actor
appears he is directed like a puppet—“ Stand
Turn your head toward the girl—like this
—and look surprised like this”—and he ends
up Utterly oblivious of any meaning to his
puppet work. His next call might be to
“get into an evenin’ dress-soot”—the indig-
nity that the Wild West cowboy hero in
Johhny Get Y 7 oUi- Ghn” goes berserk about.
As honorary secretary and organiser for
Victorias National War Memorial, Leslie
Bruford is out to
get £250,000 for
that delayed bit of
architecture. As the
same whirlwind is
also voluntary or-
ganiser of the fund
for the Foundling
Hospital, he has his
hands full. But he
is an enthusiastic
rouser of the charit-
able spirit In citi-
zens, and not easily
set aside. When he
organised the Blind
Appeal £2§,000 was
aimed at, bti t
£40,000-o dd was
scored, in earlier
days he did the
spade-work for the King Edward and
S’African memorials; he looked after the
Florence Young memorial, and recently gave
some attention to the City Newsboys, and
helped to get that association out of its
most urgent difficulties. As a youngster
Bruford carried through some big advertis-
ing schemes, and he handled the first (and
only) Victorian motor exhibition for the
Automobile Club just before the war. He
works like a tiger until he gets the machin-
ery of an organisation in smooth-running
order; then he fades into the background.
This portrait of the big-hearted, energetic
young man was made by Ruth Rollick.
A coo-ee from Adelaide--
The Adelaide Glee Chib is planning a buirtper
farewell concert to the Roy Mellishes (you’ll know
her best as Clara Serena), backed by the patronage
df the Wdigalls, Chief Justice Murray, Mayor Cohen
and his wife, and other notables. Serena herself
will sing and her husband will conduct the Glee
Club.
Mrs. Cowan, Westralia’s feminine M.L.A., is a
guest of the Hackett-Mouldens at Lordello. She
thinks the modern flapper isn’t as bad as she’s
painted, and that, anyhow, she is better than she
was three years ago. All the same, Mrs. Cowan is
against cocktails, and suggests open-air cafes a la
France, where “delicious non-intoxicating drinks”
could he obtained. Who has the recipe?
The polo season is getting near its end, and the
Adelaide teams put in last Saturday in the country
in search of Scalps. They annexed one at Strathal-
byn, where the whole comitryside came into tea,
with Mrs. Formby as hostess. But at the Burra the
Mid-Norths laid the Adelaide team low- —10 goals
to 10.
Edith Aird’s clever -plays and acting have raised
a pot bf itlohey for various funds, her latest protege
being a parish' hall for her own suburb, IVoodville.
After a show the other night IVoodville mentioned its
appreciation in a triple presentation—leather suit-
case, handbag and (from the kiddies) some gold
(yes, gold!) to “spend as she liked.” It was one
of the rare occasions when a presentation comes as
a complete surprise.
W. Graham Primrose, writing in London Daily
Graphic, waxes enthusiastic oyer the musical achieve-
ments of “a young South. Australian, ; Kenneth
Lancelot Duftield, who learned to plunk ‘out local
songs on an old banjo in the terrible solitude of
the Backbloeks.” Koonoona, the Duffield station,
isn’t exactly that; but the main thing is that the
S. Aus. composer is getting the recognition his work
deserves.
W. A. West’s Erskine has been chosen as the
charger for George Rex, and will he shipped in
time for the presentation, to be made by Premier
Barwell. He has won more show cups than most
of his class, and is so well-mannered a beast that
he was piloted round a country rirg the other day
by a girl of 10.
A lecture by Dr. Harold Davies on Rhythm was
the star turn at the Elder Conservatorium’s annual
inauguration, plus some congratulations on the return
of William Silver to the staff and the establishment of
an orchestral school under the guidance of W. H.
Foote. The orchestra is starting to collect its own
instruments, too, and has begun with a set of winds
specially chosen by English experts.’
The Girl Guides’ fOte at Government House at
the end of the month will be the last big thing
of its kind at Government House during the Weigall
•regime,' so the public may be counted upon to
roll up.
The new president of the Methodist Conference
in South Aus. —which is about equal to being an
archbishop (for one year) anywhere else—is W. T.
Shapley, English-bred, but an Australian since 1880.
Since then he has been in various parts of South
Ans. with an interlude at Broken Hill and six
years in Queensland after 1905.


GOOD NEWS FOR MOTORISTS ! Here it is
CHANDLER SIX
(The Car that Keeps Faith),
And its smaller edition—the
CLEVELAND SIX
(The Car with a Conscience),
have been subjected to a very solid reduction in price.
These high-grade American 6-cylinder cars can now be obtained as follows:
••
V? td
CHANDLER
Ħ
THE CAR THAT KEEPS FAITH.
THE CHANDLER SIX, Standard Seven-Seater Touring Car, only £695.
$
I
m
£
y
CLEVELAND
H
MARCUS CLARK 8 CO. LTD.,
THE CAR WITH A CONSCIENCE.
THE CLEVELAND SIX, Standard Five-Seater Touring Car, only £575.
It is safe to say that at these prices no better value is offering in the motor world to-day.
REMEMBER! We are not booming unknown and unproved cars. Both these cars have themselves_over
and over again, and challenge FOR RELIABILITY AND SERVICE any make of car COSTING DOUBLE THE PRICE.
Ample stocks on hand. Get YOUR Order in early. Ring City 2567 and arrange a demonstration.
Garage and Showrooms-
-147-51 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


Charles
Nemos
l9ll
QflHflE
ttl PLUS ULTRA
f )
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
THt Y£AR 'ROUND PLAYGROUND
ENJOY JULY
and AUGUST
in America’s Mid-Pacific Paradise. The
cruise offers a holiday of unusual pleasure
—splendidly appointed liners, calm
waters, blue skies, summer breezes.
Then the isles of your imagination:
<3
Gorgeous scenery,
tropic fruits,
trees, flowers;
continuous recreation
including golf, swim-
ming and surfing ; and
incomparable Kilauea,
living volcano. Ask
your nearest travel,
tourist or steamship
agency for new book-
let, or write direct to
Department B,
Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.A.
Visitors to Sydney will
find that the bed and
breakfast tariff system
at the Hotel Sydney
considerably reduces
the cost of their stay in
the holiday city, while
giving greater freedom
of movement for busi-
ness or sight-seeing.
400 Guests.
Hot and cold water in every Bedroom.
Delightful . Jtoof Garden.
Write for Tariff Card.
Management: E. T. CH.EE-SMAN,
moan mot # o
comfort and
siijlo. Do not
take a substitute
All Mercers
Ĥ
Ħ
H
Ĥ
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holepref
hostery
Lord Louis Mountbatten, who was here
with the Prince, is to marry the richest
woman in England. Wilfrid Ashley, a
popular London man-about-town, married
the only daughter of the German financier
Ernest Cassel, and their child Edwina,
whose engagement to Lord Louis is an-
nounced, got the old baronet’s money when
he died last year. She is estimated to be
worth over £3,000,000. Miss Ashley’s father
has a sort of connection with Australia.
After his first wife died he married Mrs.
Forbes-Sempill, a pretty little woman who
was well known in Sydney and Melbourne
a dozen or more years ago, when her sailor-
husband was serving on this station. They
were subsequently divorced. The disposi-
tion shown by the younger royalties to marry
money is seriously perturbing the great Brit-
ish families which relied previously on new
financial blood to keep afloat.
Brigadier-General Clive, who is now in
N. S. Wales after a visit to his friend the
G.-G. in Melbourne, is a descendant of the
Clive who dealt with the man who was
responsible for the “Black Hole of Calcutta”
affair. The Clives have been interested in
Australian station property for many years,
and notably in Collaroy, between Merriwa
and Cassilis, which was subdivided recently
with disastrous results to some of those
concerned. One member of the family mar-
ried a daughter of manager Maher, of Col-
laroy (Dr. Odillo Maher’s brother), and
Spofforth, the demon bowler, who now lives
in London, is husband of another Clive.
Dame Margaret came down to town to
preside at a meeting of child-welfare work-
ers at Government House. The big Easter
Show is clattering up, and it occurred to
somebody that little Billy and Elsie when
taken to it often weep with weariness before
the day is half through. So the idea is to
have some place where, along with an exhibi-
tion of child-welfare activities —day nur-
series, baby clinics, kindergarten union and
so on—there will be a rest-room for mothers
and children. A grant of space having been
secured, Innes Noad sketched a plan for
carrying out things. But, of course, it will
cost money; and there being no magicians
on these Macquarie-street premises, every-
body went off to think up some coin-raising
scheme before the next meeting on the 21st
inst. Dr. Grace Boelke offered her assist-
ance as medical examiner, for it is essential
that no child shall be admitted suffering from
any infectious complaint.
What bait did Charlotte Cameron use to
catch so many men for her au revoir at-home
last week? There were Consuls and jour-
nalists and newspaper proprietors and poli-
ticians and “captains of industry”—mild-
seeming gentlemen who looked as if they
wouldn’t hurt a shark. Among the 70 or
so at the Australia were the lately-
knighted Maynard Hedstrom, from Fiji, and
his lady ; her sister, Mrs. P. A. Morris, from
Bellevue Hill, where the winds rage so furi-
ously ; the Meeks magnate and some of his
family; Geoffrey Fairfax and his stately
wife; “Forty Years on the Pacific” Coffee
and a daughter or two; a T. LI. Kelly, a
Lachlan Beaton and Ruby Adams; Judge
Cohen; some Stewart Dawsons and a group
of Foys. Nina Gordon and her brother made
music and mimicry. The hostess, circulat-
ing gaily, wore glistening black with a white
osprey in her hat, and she unselfishly carried
all the time about seven pounds’ weight of
belladonna lilies on her left arm.
Just before she left Mrs. Cameron had
some pathetic and terrible photographs sent
her by Brother Dutton, who took Father
Damien’s place in Molokai. Some of the
martyr-priest himself before and—after.
And two of sister Emeline, a beautiful
French nun, who worked at Molokai for over
30 years before contracting the plague. Mrs.
Cameron, who left by the Demosthenes on
Saturday, purposes to be back here via Java
and Manila in a year or so.
Every year as Easter approaches Arch-
bishop Wright and Sam Hordern (in his
capacity of President of the R.A.S.) break
a friendly lance over the big Show. The gage
is flung into the arena by the Archbishop
demanding “No Good Friday Desecration!”
and is briskly taken up by Brickfield Hill
with a veteran collection of arguments
designed to prove that N. S. Wales must
have its Show on Good Friday or go out of
the producing business. Neither champion
ever wins; but the Archbishop’s flock gets
timely warning that the Lenten season is at
hand, and the R.A.S. President has a chance
to explain to the Ba deblocks that the Show
is going to be better this year than ever. It
says much for the unworldliness and simple
faith of the daily press that the annual
parley isn’t charged for at advt. rates.
The Queen Victoria Club has had a house-
warming at its new home in Castlereagh-
street, and it happened on a day that called
for something with ice in it. Mrs. Scam-
mell, the new president, received the guests
in rooms which the magic of architect Juste-
lius has changed from dingy barns to
dainty boudoirs. Little Mrs. Joseph Bradley
flitted about looking as pleased as a child
with a new toy. She is the club’s hon. secre-
tary. Some excellent music was provided;
but why will artists choose the saddest songs
for these tea-parties? Certainly “Abide
with Me” is calculated to show off a con-
tralto voice, and Clarice Gibson’s organ
notes were positively electric. Gladys Cole,
Edith Kilminster and Robert L. Harper
were the other artists. The wife of the
Chief Justice and the lady from Crow’s
Nest listened to them, and Mrs. Sidney Her-
ring, looking brown and bonnie after her
Queensland trip, dropped in to nibble a cake.
At the plum-pudding luncheon given by
the Institute of Journalists to Australian
artists returned from the land of the double
income-tax, G. W. Lambert fixed a glassy
eye on Guerin’s “Men of Babylon” while he
made acrid remarks on our lack of national
art. In gentler vein Longstaff lauded the
progress of Leason and the younger school
of Bulletin artists. “The day is happily
gone,” he said, “when the landlady says to
the struggling artist ‘Fancy a strong man
like you doing work like that for a living!’ ”
Handsome Theo Cowan, in sepulchral dra-
peries and .a Minerva casque, looked like a
mural bas-relief, and Thea Proctor,was a
symphony of polka dots on an earth-brown
backgroupd, with a perky canary sail in her
burnt-sienna chapeau. Ethel Turner Curlewis
brought daughter Jean, a cool buttercup in
a moisture-laden temperature of 96.2 deg.
Dr. Charles Maclaurin, with his wife and
daughter and a manuscript or two, boards
the outgoing Orvieto. They will disembark
in Italy, where Sydney’s literary surgeon
will represent the University of which his
father was for so many years Chancellor, at
the 700th birthday-party of the Padua Uni-
versity. Dr. Maclaurin thinks that modern
medicine might give history much help in
making a just estimate of many who have
played its leading parts. Why did Joan
of Arc do as she did and why was Henry
VIII. what he was? There are ten thousand
puzzles; and Dr. Maclaurin, believing that
modern medicine can explain some of them,
has written what ought to be a fascinating
book which some great English or American
publishing house will have a chance to give
the world. The little party expects to be
back in Sydney in November.
R. E. Bush, of Bishop’s Knoll, Bristol,
took a handshake from a number of Diggers
who were patients at the Bush mansion when
it was a hospital for Aussies during the
Great Disturbance and maintained out of
the host’s private coffers. Mr. Bush is one
of the London directors of Dalgety’s, and
the big firm’s offices housed the unceremoni-
ous little ceremony, and heard some hearty
expressions of gratitude to a true patriot.
He went on to Brisbane by the Orvieto, and
found some more hands there.
You’ll know all about this photo (if you
don’t know much more about its attractive
original) from this characteristic note:—
Dear Woman’s Letter,
—When last year my
daughter Bertha gained
her Arts degree and
almost simultaneously
reached her majority,
you could not get a
late portrait of her, as
you noted. AVhile re-
cently in hospital I got
her to have one taken
for her neglectful dad,
and he has so far got
over his pique at hav-
ing a Bachelor of Arts
in the family as to per-
suade his old heart that
he’d like to see this
picture in the Woman’s
Page.—Yours,
Henry Lawson.
And as the Woman’s Page wants to see
itself graced with the winsome girl’s face,
there you are!
With the passing of Mrs. Favenc on Fri-
day Sydney lost a remarkable woman. It
was her busy brain which supplied one of
Sydney’s big firms with most of its needle-
work designs and quaint novelties, and that
it appreciated her efforts was proved when
for health reasons she was sent on a trip to
England last year. A vain trip, for Harley-
street could not do anything to arrest the
complaint which in the end mastered her.
She always regretted that the posthumous
F.R.G.S. came too late to be any gratifica-
tion to her husband, the well-beloved Ernest,
who pre-deceased her by several years. A
daughter, Aimee, is left mourning.
Florence Rodway (Mrs. Moore) has a new
model for her child studies. A little daughter
arrived the other day.
May More, of Randwick, grand-daughter
of the late Thomas Hore, of Cumberoona
station, Albury, has engaged herself to
T. A. Finn, third son of T. J. Finn, of
Canowindra. The Finns are among the
oldest and best-known families of the Middle
West; grandfather Dr. Finn was one of the
first to practise on the other side of the Blue
Mountains. May is a graduate of Sydney
Uni.
St. Gregory’s, Queanbeyan, was crowded
to see Daisy O’Hanlon married to John
Caragh Gorman, of Googong. Bride, in ivory
cashmere-de-soie, had three dainty little
cousins in quaint frocks of apricot shot silk
to help her carry the long train, and sister
Eily, in madonna-blue taffeta, and Moya
Blackall, in beige and henna georgette, with
black picture hats, were bridesmaids. Uncle
Dr. Blackall gave her away, and Mick Gor-
man and Kevin O’Hanlon were the grooms-
men. Bride’s late father was resident
engineer in the long days when E. W. O’Sul-
livan was member for the district, before the
Federation took possession of Canberra for
its capital. The bridegroom, who did his bit
as lieutenant in the A.1.F., is one of a big
Riverina clan. E.J., president of the New
State movement of those parts, is an uncle.
This is Skalski, the young. Polish conduc-
tor whom all the trouble is about. Ver-
brugghen indicated
Alfred Hill, his de-
puty, as acting-con-
ductor of the State
Orchestra during the
Master’s absence;
but the Board of
Advice recommended
Skalski, and th e
Government
acquiesced. Since
then over a dozen
of the leading musi-
cians and teachers
i n Sydney have
made a protest, de-
claring that Skalski
i s “comparatively
inexperienced in con-
ducting,” and that, in
effect, if certain
others could call themselves Hillski, Bradley-
kinoff and Orchardt, and had just got off a
boat from foreign parts, the young visitor
wouldn’t have a chance against them. The
portrait of the interesting young man is by
Alan Row and Co., of the Leighton Studios.
During her trip to Burmah Jessie Chis-
holm, daughter of the Carrawarra (Goul-
burn) Chisholms, met her fate, and (simul-
taneously) Gilbert Stirling. Her two sisters,
Mattie and Ruth, have gone to Java, and
they will all come back together. They are
cousins of Lady Loughborough.
St. Stephen’s was chosen for the wedding
of ‘ Thelma, daughter of Mrs. Shaw, of
Strathfield, to Dr. Frederick Vivian. Lynch
last week. Grandfather Geo. Lewis gave
the bride away: she was a picture in white
and silver, her fair hair shining through the
tulle veil and a wreath of silver leaves.
Mr. Brady, of the Texas Oil Company, and
Mrs. Wheeler, a wealthy Boston widow, who
journeyed together on the Sonoma, were
married quietly at St. Andrew’s Cathedral a
day or so after landing. They have since
been at Usher’s.
A note from Dr. Jack Bean: —
In your account of my wedding you have made
a very excusable mistake. You describe me and my
wife as members of the Liberal Catholic Church. As
a fact we were both born and reared in the Church
of England, and I still continue an active member
of it. I have not the smallest intention of leaving
it. My wife has not maintained active membership
of any church, but she still considers d. of E.
her church, though she has, also, a link of mem-
bership with the Liberal Catholic Church. Its nobly
wide constitution permits of this. It was largely
a personal reason that decided us to be married in
the L.C.C. We both of us have great reverence
and affection for Bishop Leadbeater, and* owe him,
both for his teachings and his personal friendship
and example, a debt of gratitude we can never hope
to repay. Knowing all the statements about him,
both true and untrue, and knowing intimately his
real character, we can both of us say sincerely that
we know of no one else so slandered, misrepresented
and misunderstood. Therefore, apart from the privi-
lege of receiving the Sacrament of Marriage at such
hands, we gladly seized the opportunity of showing,
as publicly as we could, our complete faith in him
and in the church which, for Australia, he presides
over. As private individuals we should not have
bothered to make any explanation in correction of
a very natural mistake; we are both, however, in
rather public positions, in which any misunder-
standings of our actions may cause difficulties to a
good many people.
The news of the death of Mrs. KingsmiH
Shaw, the doyen of Sydney’s singing-teachers,
came as a blow to her friends here. Only
a year ago the handsome woman was given
a send-off by her friends prior to her depar-
ture for Milan, on a visit to her daughter,
Mrs. Carrara. She was a woman of a re-
markable personality, and her letters from
Italy indicated that she was having the tinw
of her life.
Hi. Quaiffe, who felt Woollahra’s pulse for
“any years, passed out a few days ago 'at
Killara, aged 81. Mrs. Sydney Ure Smith
is one of those who are in mourning—she is
his daughter.
A trio of well-known ladies, Mrs. Bertram
Stevens, Mrs. Newman and Mrs. Fairfax-
Smy the, have started the Horseshoe tea-
rooms in Hoskmg-place. Hosking-place a
qinet little thoroughfare off Castlereagh-
street, between Hunter-street and Martrn-
place, is named after John Hosking first
Mayor of Sydney and son-in-law of Sanr
.leiiy, our first semi-millionaire, who had
property close by.
Hugh W ar <i. who is off to America on the
Makura (firemen, stewards and A.B.’s per-
mitting), says there are fine fish in the
sea, and he goes into deep waters for a big
catch ‘The new firm will start with a clean
slate,’ says Hughie. “We shall have all
new plays, if only for the reason that we
own nothing old to revive.” There is truth
in the adage that many a man is crippled bv
his possessions.
Captain and Mrs. Simpson Baikie with
then-small family are due in Sydney next
month for a half-year’s holiday. Mrs
-Baikie was Connie Ussher, who used to
charm Sydney with her piano-playing. Her
husband is Lloyd’s surveyor at Yokohama.
The winter dances held last year in aid
or the Havilah Home were such a success
that it is being arranged to hold a further
series this year. Six dances were held last
season, and brought in over £7OO for the
home. Mrs. Murray Campbell and Miss
Hose Merivale will again be hon. secretary
and treasurer.
Australia has begun to produce' a full sup-
ply of its own kiddies’ story-books. In addi-
tion to the perennial May Gibbes’s delight,
L. J. Dennis weighed in with his “Book for
Kiddies,” a thing of absurd drawings and
rhymes that all youngsters will adore; next
came the friendly “Anne’s Animals”; now
Charlotte J. Lloyd has built “The House of
Just Fancy,” with quaint sketches and
rhymes. Listen to the polite Kangaroo con-
soling Betty and Jean for the bad behavior
of the other animals: —
“How could they know like you apd me
The proper thing to do? ■. i' :■
They’re not Australians, you see,”
Declared the Kangaroo.
And there is George Collingridge’s “Alice in
One Dear Land.” But that, the author says,
is for children of all ages.
Take a wrinkle from the bird fanciers of
Canton. On the outskirts of the city every-
body seems to keep poultry of the same small
white breed • so to identify his own property
Ching Wang dyes his chickens’ tails oranee.
Hung To’s fowls scratch with mauve tails,
and Kyang Foo’s chooks swagger with crim-
son feathers. And now we know where the
feather dusters are born.
Colebrook, Double Bay, is to be auctioned.
There’s some history about that old place.
Soon after coming from Moreton Bay in
1859 to be Collector of Customs, W. A.
Duncan lived there. On Duncan’s death in
1885 Patrick Jennings, the Premier who was
wedged in between Robertson and Par.kes,
made it his home. And when he passed out
Railway Commissioner Eddy got it and died
there. The widow remained at Colebrook
for some time. Then James Macken, of
the Mark Foy family, took it over. He was
followed by another of the Foy dynasty.
James J. Smith, whose executors are now
selling the place.
Purse-snatchers are not utterly without
hearts. Only last week two season tickets
which happened to be among the loot were
returned to the office of the Sydney Ferries.
Hilda Kincaid, who has taken a job as
demonstrator in physiology at Sydney ’Var-
sity, is a doctor of science and bachelor of
medicine and surgery of Melbourne Uni. She
is one of the Kincaid family that took over
the O’Brien home when the Kinkora estate
at Hawthorn was subdivided nine years ago.
A postscript from Brisbane: —
Bruce Macgregor, whose father is associate-editor
of the S. M. Herald, has placed a badge on the
finger of Ellie Wardrop, the only daughter of the
Colin Wardrops. Doris Gilles and Dr. Ahern are
another new pair.
March 22 will be a military night at Cremorne.
Major-General Bruche and Col. J. M. Durrant are
patrons. The proceeds are to refurnish the re crea-
tion rooms of the Permanent Forces at Lytton and
Victoria Barracks.
E. J. Stevens, for many years managing-director
of the Courier and an ardent yachtsman, died last
week. Another old identity, E. D. Miles, passed over
last Friday. He was one of the lucky ones who
did well out of Charters Towers in the old days, and
a prominent Mason. Both Stevens and Miles were
members of the abolished Legislative Council.
The Queensland Art Society, which has been
battling against apathy for 33 years, has elected
some new members to its council, and threatens
really to do a little this year to raise the standard
of art in Bananaland. G. G. Prentice has been
elected to the chair, and Charles H. Lancaster and
Jeanette Sheldon are the vice-presidents.


Hardy Brothers Limited,
Wedding Gifts.
Handsome and useful Table Appointments
in English Silverplate.
Silver-plated double Cake Stand, lOlin. long,
£4 4 0
Silver-plated Egg Frame and Toast
Back combined, 84in. long,
£3 0 0
Silver-plated Cake Basket, diameter
Bin.
The Company has pleasure in announcing a general
reduction in prices. All stocks are now re-marked in
accordance with present-day values.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
&d
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
IJ6-U8 Queen St
Brisbane.
London,
298 Collins St
Melbourne.
A HARRINGTON CAMERA
which is Fine-looking, Fine-working
and a Pleasure to Use and Handle.
The
AnscoVest Pocket
Camera No. 2.
For Roll Films—Daylight Loading.
PRICE:
With Modico Anastigmat Lens,
F 7.5 • • • £6
The Camera which will make
photography more enjoyable
to you, as it has done for
thousands of others.
No posing, nor seeking the best
light is necessary. It takes the
picture where the picture is and
takes it right.
Size of picture, 2\ x inches,
and from the clear, sharp nega-
tives beautiful enlargements
may be made to any desired
size.
H
ITJ
The House for
Good Cameras.
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne. 41a Bundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane. 144 Queen Street, Auckland, ]\.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, IS./.
United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
iff
■■■■
G
i:
0
rnn
mi
lwn>
em
mm
iTnflr"!ir
•Royal Cord'
'Nobby*
'Chain'
•Usco
THE WORLD’S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
V
:>%>• ;
1
1
V
u
,
. <: '
\\
i W// /’ i
W
H i liter's
Chocolates
Packed always in red boxes.
Mailed to you on the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in
Australia.
162 PITT STREET,
And Corner George & King Streets, SYDNEY.


BECOME AN ARTIST!
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
You can
soon mas-
ter the
main prin-
ciples of
drawing if
you take up the
lessons of the
WESTON
POSTAL COURSE.
Simple lessons
from the very rudi-
ments of art right
on to its higher
branches. have
been prepared by
Australia’s master
cartoonist and
poster designer, Mr.
Harry J. Weston,
who PERSONALLY
CRITICISES each
student’s work.
The course is fas-
cinating and cuts
out drudgery, giv-
ing a thorough
grounding in a pro-
fession which leads
to highly-paid posi-
tions.
SEND FOR THE
BOOKLET
“There’s Money in
the Pen,” in which
Mr. Weston tells
all about the
course and
gives examples
of the lessons.
I
i
fiP
i
Mk
Just forward your name and address, with three
stamps for postage.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
118 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY
Si/IRUE Ease i^Wrjting
W'rTHE BRUCE”
STEEL
SHELL
PETMS
{23elected and recommended by
MrJames Bruce .‘Writing Specialist
and Writing Master to the principal]
Schools of Sydney,N SW. & manu/aetured
by the celebrated Penmakers.
Joseph Gillott & Sons. Birmingham
<So/d by a //Stationers
esale =- Alex'. Cowan & Sons. Ltp
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE
"EWReady
Safety
Razor
This UttHWwr
in a box will shave yM
wherever you are .
wherever you go, as long
as you live, for 4/11
Outfit Complete yvith 8 Blades 4/11. Extra Blades 2 6 doz.
POST FREE from
HMNEY ISLES&eE
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
L
Q &
REX—the Duplicator
100 copies in a few minutes.
Works like a £lO machine.
Price 25/-, Foolscap size.
Postage 27-
Write for particulars.
H. DIBBS & CO., Dept. B,
18 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SMITH’S 1922
Double-acting Jack
Fitted with
double-tooth
pawls, which
increases the
lifting
capacity.
Made in three
styles.
w
IB
a
ytrA '
Jljfe
b "J’a
y A',/j .•
, j
m ?f tan
Hi
1 1
i: ,
SMITH, SONS 8 REES LIMITED,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
And at—
-100 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
99 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
BE HEALTHY and BE HAPPY!
m
■ /
You don’t know that life is really worth living unless you are
physically fit. If vour nerves and muscles are working properly
you’ll find that the world is a jolly good old place after all.
You’ll enjoy your work, enjoy your meals, enjoy your leisure
and' enjoy the company of those around you. Good health is the
most glorious asset man can have, and
YOU CAN HAVE IT.
By taking up Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker’s Postal Course
of Health and Strength Culture you can build up the
organs that are sluggish, drive enervating poisons from
the system, and make the whole body work in perfect
harmony, as Nature intended it to. Then you will feel
the wonderful glow of perfect physical fitness. The
difference will surprise you! The exercises are clear
and simple, and are adapted to YOUR particular require-
ments.
You can learn all about the advantages of this splendid
course—if you will send for “Snowy” Baker’s booklet,
“Health and Strength from Self-Culture.” It will be
bound to interest you. If you want better health just
write your name and addressNacross this advertisement,
and send three stamps to us. We will forward the book.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
“The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,’’
65 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
“Fx & R” Spoons and Forks
are the most heavily plated.
They are plated on white,
hard, nickel bases.
They will wear like silver for
forty years.
THEY ARE PRACTICALLY
HEAVY SHEATHS OE
SILVER, COVERING THE
HARD WHITE BASE. .
They engrave like solid silver.
They are the best, yet far'
away the lowest in price
on the market.
They all bear the “Fx & R”
brand, which is always a
guarantee of best quality
at lowest price.
“Fx & R” QUALITY.
Table Spoons and Forks, 87/6 per dozen less 20 per cent.
discount 707-
Dessert Spoons and Forks, 72/6 per dozen, less 20 per
cent, discount 587-
Tea Spoons, 35/- per dozen, less 20 per cent, discount 28/-
We can supply single pieces if desired
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS Ltd.
cash 1 oniy. ures - The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Ĥ
CAREFREE AND HAPPY
in the knowledge that she looks well, and that her
shoes—than which no article of dress is more likely to
be criticised —are smart and fresh looking.
BOSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSINGS
ensure that “just-out-of-the-box” smartness,, and at the
same time add life to the shoes. For Bostock’s
Products—whether Dry Suede Cleaners, Liquid Suede
Cleaners, Creams, Pastes or Liquid Dressings—are
Quality Products, made under the supervision of their
expert Leather Chemists. As Bostock’s are world-
renowned manufacturers of high-grade Footwear, it
is imperative that every„ article under the Bostock
label should be up to Bostock standard.
Ħ
Sp/if
PuHiPlf
Efficiency and economy always go hand in hand—that
is why the SK F Split Pulley spells such substantial
economy to the manufacturer.
Light, strong, compact, quickly mbunted, interchangeable
and without rivets, the SK F Split Pulley on your line-
shafting means highest standard of efficiency in your
power transmission.
Gardner, Waern & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Head Office: 384 City Road, South Melbourne.
Showroom: 369 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at: —
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: 122 Currie Street.
PERTH: Unbehann & Johnstone,
37 Kins Street.
S.P. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. wilt be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Harry B.: But Marcus Clarke got in with
the absurd remark about the birds and trees 20 years
ahead of Anthony Trollope. .. .8.A.C.: Blow the
froth off and get to the beer. The Bulletin hasn’t
any space for preliminary flourishes... .Yacko: We’ll
give you three cheers, anyway... .H.McP.: Don’t
know. Can you tell us?. .. .H.E.R.: “Law” spoiled
by the finish. Why fling the charge of bribery in
the teeth of the police?... .F. Wilson: Yes. The
hanging of Digby Grand and Jones was the most
recent case in N. S. Wales. .. .T.L. (Rockhampton):
Not the goods for this market... .A.A.R.: Very
wooden. .. .King K.: Not up. Scrawling on two
sides of the paper is not fair to us nor to yourself.
....A.S. (Ashfield) : Some of the color in “Sniggin’
Sleepers” is good, but the verse is very rugged. See
if you can’t iiiiprove it.... Hey: They lack point,
and are not bettered by the way they are told. . . .
J.B. (Willoughby) : “Rain” held for another read-
ing ; yarn has too much sound and fury to get a
real laugh. .. .K.L.M.: All are too crude in thought
and workmanship. .. .R.G.P.: Biting yarn doesn’t get
hold of us R.O’R.: Very p00r....E.G. (North-
bridge) : Blank verse of that quality has no chance
. ...8.M.M.: The bleeding strawberries run too thin.
.. . . P.E.S.: Those “Poppies” have often been handled
better. .. .G.F.8.: Avoid the rut and put your own
observation in its place Wally: The lims are
pretty rugged and don’t hang together. .. .Peggy
Rose: The infant of four who tags out her views of
life with French makes us rather sad... . F. 84: No,
only about XYI3. .. .N.C.A.: The verses move
heavily and are too often tagged with commonplace.
Brumby: Honestly, the verse couldn’t be, much
worse. .. .G.H. (Corowa) : Tune your ear, and then
the “morning-dawning” rhyme will give you a pain.
. . . .L.L. (Burwood) : The verse flows like treacle. . .
Colin W.: Flat and monotonous as the One Tree
Plain.... W. J.Y.: Rubbish.... Bland: Misses, but
not a mile. . . .Nescio Quo: Rather too crude and
ragged.... Klaney: You call it “Unutterable,” but
“Incomprehensible” would be a better title:—
Those words (smiling, you watched their soul-ward
dives)
Seemed like a mouse a fortnight dead.
It might have marked an epoch in our lives
If they had not remained unsaid.
... .Sydney B.: Terrible. . . .V.H.G.: It isn’t verse
and whatever it is it is' dull. .'. .R.A.S.: Doesn’t
arrive, but it’s somewhere on the road. .. .Will W.:
Try it again.. . .G.A.H.: No earthly use and all
other uses doubtful J.W. (Colac) : Don’t send
translations unless they have some vital interest....
Neil G.: The verse must be a lot better than that. . .
Beckey: The kitten has got a nice place in the
basket. . . .Tamleugh: “Causerie” misses. . . .D.F.L.:
One stanza as an example of the humping commo -
place we do not want: —
In war, our brave Diggers, immortal in fame,
Enveloped in splendor our country’s fair name
Reinemb ring Gallipoli. Palestine, Fi *ance,
Let this be our watchword, Australia Advance!
Try it this way :
In war our brave Diggers won most of their fame
By original methods 6f playing the game.
Rememb ring Gallipoli, Palestine, France
Mere hash of dull words is chucked out at a glance. -
. • C.E.G.: Please take the last remarks to heart
1V.8.5.8.: “Myra” is not the sort of girl to camp
here. . . .Jerry Ano: Doesn’t get to anything....
L. (Chatswood): “Bottle” is too transparent....
Julian S. : Yoil, take far too, many words to tell the
non-essential parts and say so little about the essen-
tial that it is hardly clear \Vhat occurs... .R.F.
(lllabol : Too vague and incoherent to carry its mean-
ing.... A.S. (Balmain) : “Tessa” sbunds true, but
there isn’t quite enough in the- yarn Isabel G.:
School and grandmother story is not strong enough.
. ...G.G.8.: Yarns of gentle chattering common-
place are no use here. . . Sakalo: “Not to the Strong”
and the “Hermit” miss. The other has a chance. .!.
■• .. The extra syllables in the refrain make each
stanza end like a turkey’s gobble. .. .A.D.K.: It’s
first fault is that we don’t know what it means
< non. So far this paper knows no warrant for the
suggestion that “the English Government is arrang-
ing to terminate (or repudiate) the Australian
zmc contract.” All that has happened is’that some-
body who isn’t even friendly with the Government,
and who evidently didn’t know much about the busi-
ness, has urged the Board of Trade to have the scrap
of paper torn up A.S.A.: Terrible A. V.
Bundle: All right, but makes no new points, and
Tuih B. hasn’t space for mere “hear-hears”. ...
M. : Good. Send some more... .Ophis: The
crow was torn to rags a few months ago....Drys-
dale: Why suppress the gallant major’s name?....
L.McR.: Too close to recent pars. ... Iona: All
rather raw. . . .E.J.D.: Other bright lads have said
it before. .. .H.H.R.: That “If I know ze English
for ze box I blow your nose, by dam’ I am,” now
palmed on to the Observer, is an. old Phil May
joke E.H.8.: Faint pencillings indecipherable
E.A.K.: Length outruns interest. .. .J.A,W: Those
freaks have lost their novelty... .J.H.S.: Your
name’s no handicap. If Bill Hohenzollern wrote a
par that took The Bulletin’s fancy it would be
accepted. Same with you Jacs: No general
interest Esther: That “Wives and Mothers” dis-
cussion has brought The Bulletin more thoughtful
and better-written letters than any other that has
been opened up for years—and four-fifths if them
have come from women. There isn’t the space to
print you and scores of others, but there is space
to say that the Australian young woman seems to
have developed intellectually far in advance of the
Australian young man.... Oilskin: It doesn’t sing...
Graham L.: You don’t show the knack of putting
your story into verse... .Lyum: Pity to wear out
your good boots on so rutty a track.... Memsahib:
Thank y0u,... A.A.W.: Your pen would wander
round two blocks to get to an inkpot on the other
side of the street.... Tasso: Your muse rattles worse
than a Sydney tram Ishmael: Sorry Rita M.:
Some force and color. Wish you’d use them on a
less worn subject... .Swansea: Two verses are good;
the other would spoil it. And what’s your address?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.G.F.: Will use as suggestion... .H.L.J.: Two
people sitting on themselves ruled out... .F.E.O.L*:
Too scratchy... .H.W.S.: All going back. N.R.H.:
Labored gag....L.5.: You’ve wandered into the
wrong office... .L.W.: Will use one idea....W.A.:
Nothing in it... .R.P.: Ditto. .. .H. 8.: Pretty
crude. .. .C.P.H.: Terrible. .. .H.M.: No drawing
there. . . .N.P.L.: They don’t grow those hats here. ..
H.S.K.: Draftsmanship below par... . J.8.L.: No
score. .. .A.S.P.: All miss. .. .L.A.N.: Nothing to
be made of it... .H.H.: The week’s worst... .8.W.;
Old gag....N.C.: Considering as suggestion.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
i _
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. C aiines-de-
Litxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms. 0
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates.- and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
l'el.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydne
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
(h eat Fakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, APRIL 14, 1922,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
I"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. FULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; pasr.enger due in Brisbane. Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 pirn.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PIIILP
& CO., LTD.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 799,243 0 0
Reserve E'uiid .. . . . . . . 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; lion. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart,
Esq,; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA '
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E., Chairman;
George J. Sly, LL.D., Frank N. Yaiiwood, F.0.P.A.;
George F., Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M, B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The .Largest > and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402.
Yielding Reversionary Additions to'
Policies of about V. • .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. . ..£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial .Assurance’Business.
fi. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
Shipping,
eta.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
! SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, 16th MARCH, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 20th APRIL.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 6th APRIL, 11 a.m.
MARAMA, 4th MAY.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET.
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
H
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 31 TO 41 WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £46 to £4S to England. . From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via. Sue? Canal and America.
For particulars of sailings, etc., gpply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
Only One Clas~ Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC ...I. 18,500 tons
I Largest steamer' in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted With Wireless'Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCRES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
‘SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
‘DIOGENES 12,500 tons
*New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
Ĥ
- £5,000,000
- 3,500,000
- 5,000,000
£13,500,000
Directors ;
Tlie Hon. Sir Charles li. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
liohevt L. Faithfiill. Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black,
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
M.L.C.
Auditors': S. ' E, Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manaper: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents’ and Cc respondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
Ħ
J6ank° ( Bißtralta
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches,, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Governor.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London. W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Shinning?,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Huddart ParkcrLi^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. ' Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Ilobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars applv HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, -TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia, ,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address
“IItOQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Etd.,
and Eitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackheath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Ban-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktowu,
H
THE FAMOUS
COD UYEIL
OIL
EMULSION
FOR ALL
ftpplain
and Wasting
k Disorders
mss


EDISON Amberol Records
—practically unbreakable.
Here’s a point to guide you in your choice of
a phonograph—are the records easily broken ?
Do they wear out quickly?
With the thoroughness of a great inventor,
Edison arranged that the records for his
phonographs should be above criticism in
these respects.
Edison Blue Amberol Records have been
played many thousands of times without a
sign of wear. This means a big saving for
Edison owners over that of users of any other
make of record.
Illustrated is Amberola 75 —a fine-toned instrument in
either golden oak or mahogany finish cabinet. Catalogues
and name of nearest dealer post free on request to
Thomas A. Edison, Limited, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
UH
*■* MONARCH
Hand=made from Highest-grade Havana Filler.
THE CIGAR FOR QUALITY.
Special sampling cabinet containing:
10 Cigars, 6/-; 25, 12/6;
50, 23/9; 100, 46/=
POST PAID
TO ANY
ADDRESS
i*
All Hotels
and
Tobacconists.
6d. each.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Syd ney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
Examples of solid
brass hot stamp-
ings or pressings.
Hot Stamping's
or Pressing's
Definitely Displacing many Sand Castings.
EVERY industry should turn its attention to the importance of this
modern process, of which we are the Australian pioneers. Our new
works include the production of solid brass, etc., hot stampings or
pressings.
This method is reliable and exact. It creates a solidity of grain not to be
found in sand castings, owing to the process of pressing the metal while in
a plastic state. It is recognised that freedom from blowholes by this process
is most important.
Accuracy of form guaranteed. Speedy production and low cost. Orders
for mass production preferred. We want your enquiries. Contractors to
the Commonwealth and State Governments.
Austral Bronze Co. Ltd.,
O’RIORDAN STREET, ALEXANDRIA.
Selling Agents:
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY). LTD., 115 Clarence Street. Sydney; 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane-
-17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (MELBOURNE), PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke
Street, Melbourne; Darling- Building, Franklin Street, Adelaide; corner
Elizabeth and Collins Streets, Hobart. Also from GEO KENT LTD Perth
W.A.; and .JONES & CO., LTD., Clyde Quay, Wellington, N.Z. '
mm
rL£5
% ■ik
We carry the finest range i
Australia
Kindly send your Gun License
when ordering.
H
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. 181 n.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Alb
(Postage —N.S.W., ?./3; other States, 2/2.)
26-
Ĥ
_ “Simple and extra strong in construction
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim Are cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all. 37*in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
Freight Paid. 57/0
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
gsjsa
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Riff*. designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim lire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain Y-back sight 33/™
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/S.)
Si
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 High Power calibre, 6
shot, 20in. round tapered barrel, take down, weight 6*lb., muzzle velocity,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; freight
paid
£l4/14 /-
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
Ħ
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
1513. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridge,; weight, oflb^. ;
£6/6/-
H
“A cheap and reliable weapon
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, K.F.,
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b.
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
45/-
Ĥ
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Hammer less
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight silb.
Freight paid, / •
MYRROHL S^eric 1 ". TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardeps the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath, and checks dreaded Pyorrhoea. An Ideal Dentifrice for Smokers.
Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
Ħ
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/2032-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £.B/151-
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £9/10/-
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine, 7/I7 / ft
20in. round barrel, weight about sJlb Freight paid, / /
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
1C
• •
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Dainty Miss Madge Elliott
is a Rexona Girl.
MISS MADGE ELLIOTT (jrom a pnovo.)
All Rexona Girls are beauti-
ful girls, and one of the most
charming is Miss Madge Elliott,
now appearing as “Victorine”
in “A Night Out,” at the
Theatre Royal, Melbourne. She
writes us as follows:
“Add me to your Rexona
Club, please. If anyone de-
serves election I do, for I
use nothing but Rexona Soap
for my bath, my complexion
and my hair. If I knock my-
self in hurrying on or off the
stage, or get a little stiff, I
use Rexona. It is worth its
weight in gold in one’s medi-
cine chest. Please notify me
when elected.
“I am, yours faithfully,
“(Sgd.) Madge Elliott.”
Rexona Soap gives Natural
Beauty to SKin and Hair.
That natural beauty of skin and hair, which cannot be imitated, can be obtained
by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert
this influence. Many of them
contain free alkali. which
tenfls to dry the skin and
destroy its delicate texture.
Even the best of such soaps
can only cleanse; they cannot
heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the
same soothing, healing, anti-
septic balsams as Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, the value of
which in the treatment of
skin affections is known
throughout the world. Simply
use Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap regularly once or twice
a day, and see if it does not
auickly soothe and cleanse
the pores, lessen the tendency
to pimples, and leave the
complexion clear, fresh and
velvety.
Rexona Soap, 1/- i)er tablet.
I
i
mmmv
MEDICATED SOAP
REXONA PRCPRIETARY COMPANY
Sydney. N.S.W.
1
•
aSts-S-W.:.
H
“Metropolitan Razor
manufactured throughout
by CHBISTOPHK K
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
Tor quick and easy shav-
ing- use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
C.J
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst. 50 York Street, Sydney.
THE SUPREME
SUNBEAM
SUNBEAM
COATALEN
AIRCRAFT
ENGINES
100-900 h.p.
A South African Owner says: —
. . After all, spare parts for Sunbeams
are seldom wanted, because they never
seem to wear out.”
Mail for particulars.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR C? L™.
Wolverhampton, England.
EXPORT DEPT.
12 PRINCES STREET
HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.l.
Cable Address : “Subeamoco,” London.
\\\\\\\w,
\\w\\w
mu
U,
24 h. P ; 6 cyl. SPORTING MODEL.
Sole Agents for New
rales:
WILLIAMS BROS., LTD., 822 George Street, Sydney.
Home-Sickness.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WANT my own North land again to-
night,
( St. George and Brisbane, Cairns and
Charleville.
There is a coldness at this mountain height
That touches me with hands too cool and
still,
And sends my thoughts like wandering
summer flocks
There where the Johnstone runs through
Innisfail.
And all the precincts of my Gympie rocks
Are showered with the hoya blossoms pale.
Clouds hover here with promise of grey mist.
I pine for a blue sweep of lotus-sky
Where under hot, gold stars, all ocean-kist,
I know the trim Mourilyan seems to fly,
And spells “Good night” in light across
the sea
To passing ships that likewise answer her,
Heading for Townsville and the memory
Of copra, pearl and Chinese b§che-de-mer.
How can I think of home and check my
sighs
For the bouhinia hills of Herberton,
Cane waving in the spear where Goondi lies
Green as a carpet by a genie spun?
Chill is this moon, clean-cut as pallid ice.
It seems not the same lamp that lights my
land,
All dappled with the dust of tropic spice,
A-swoon in a blue dream and bamboo-
fanned.
I want my home—the beat of the warm
breeze ;
Bowen as blue as morning when her eyes
Are starry bathed for contemplative ease,
Her fruity fragrance that is garden-wise.
I want the cloud-capped point of a green peak
On guard above a nest of sugar towns;
The turquoise serpent that is Auckland
Creek;
The opal spread of peace that is the
Downs.
Give me its scents, its song, its taste again—
The buttery smell of morn-sweet Atherton,
The Lombard laughter in the Ingham cane,
Pawpaws and granadillas drunk with sun,
Long, slender palms luxuriously cool,
; Port Douglas in the-dawn, at half-past five,
The lily-lorn lagoons, the swimming pool
Where some' secluded nymph may come to
dive!
I want my own North land in spite of all
Its hidden horrors that are Eastern-born —
Knives flashing in the dark; the demon call
Of colored curtains, swaying old and torn,
Where, buried in her secret haunt of shame,
Little Osaka San no more may meet
The lost dear sunlights whence dead laughter
came —
Her cherry-blossom childhood chaste and
sweet.
Oh, give me my own home —its carelessness,
Its prodigal wild wealth of fruit and flower,
The spell of its indifferent caress
In scarlet banksia or hibiscus, bower.
Give me its bougainvilhea embrace,
Its stinging trees, its orchids poised for
flight,
The filmy green of the wild cedar lace
Seen through the sleeves of wattles silver-
white.
To-morrow the blue wrens will greet my day
Here in this temperate silence that they
break.
Oh, for the blaze of parrots, pink and grey,
Where Queensland nuts their laden
branches shake j
Oh. that I taight again in laughter catch
“Greenies” and “blueys” from the horse-
hair snare,
Just as I used to do! My senses snatch
Pain from remembrance that I cannot
share.
This sky is grey. It has no touch of fire,
And hides the white moon now from
mortal sight....
And yet I know not any old desire
Stronger than that which holds me here
to-night.
For where two hands have planted ’neath
these skies
Jarool and jacaranda, true dreams live,
And all I long for leaps into my eyes
With every blossom-look Love’s glances
give.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Black Mare.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IF there was one thing Mary Brannigan
took pride in it was her black mare.
It was the one bit of property she pos-
sessed, for the bark skillion by the side of
the road, where the passengers by the weekly
coach ate their midday meal, held nothing
that could be given that name. There were
the bare necessaries of life—crockery, cooking
utensils, a couple of bush-beds —and that was
all. Steve was always talking about getting
a bit of furniture up from town, but then he
talked vaguely about all sorts of things.
And when the contractor’s cheque came he
remembered that they owed money at the
store, and that it would take a few drinks
to persuade the storekeeper to let them have
more credit.
_ Never since she had started living with
him had he shown signs of wanting a
settled existence. They had drifted together,
and had gdfte on drifting. Actually, thev
had been occupying the bark shanty at the
Forty-Mile for over three years, but Steve
had never regarded his job as a permanent
one. There was nothing to do but get a
change of horses ready twice a week for
the coach and prepare a meal for the passen-
gers, so that Steve spent most of his time
pottering about the swamp with a shotgun
looking for ducks.
“It’s no sort of life for a man,” he would
say. “I never stuck so long in one place
before, and it don’t suit me to sit watching
the same patch of scrub every night. When
my leg gets better I’ll have a cut at the old
game again.”
The old game was horse-breaking, but at
that Steve had had his day and knew it.
He was the wrong side of 40, and his nerves
were affected in such a way that he could
never mount a young horse without an ex-
haustive testing of the girths and a flapping
of stirrup-leathers. His legs were full of
varicose veins, and his joints had lost their
suppleness. So little fond of the saddle
was he that it was often an effort to take
the bay colt and run in the coach-horses.
He had had his day, and it had been a
good one. There had been a time. 10 years
before, when he had owned a couple of race-
horses, and had taken on horse-breaking con-
tracts with an air of condescension, driving
round to the different stations in his sulky.
A well-known figure at picnic race meetings
and on the balconies of hotels. Along the
Warrego he had had a name—but he some-
how forgot to ask Mary to share it when
she came to live with him.
“We’ll fix things up some day,” he had
said. “Time enough to think of getting
married when we settle down —if we ever
do. It don’t matter.”
That had been Mary’s opinion, too. She had
left a position of drudgery on a dreary
horse-station to go with Steve, and for a
time she asked nothing better than to drive
round with him in the sulky, cooking his
meals and making things comfortable for
him. She was unobtrusive by nature and
grateful for small glimpses of happiness.
All her life she had been overlooked by men
until Stove came, and the casual interest
of such a notoriety had dazzled her. She
repaid him bv a devotion that never flick-
ered or died down.
But they had not prospered with the
years, for Steve had the weaknesses of his
kind, and money burned holes in his pockets.
When his leg kept him from regular work
he had followed race-meetings from town-
ship to township, losing his horses first, then
his sulky, finally his belief that there was
a living in the game. Horses, he found,
did not run true to their shape. It was
Mary who persuaded him to take the job
of looking after McDermott’s coach-change.
“You want a spell, Steve,” she had said.
“You been going hard for years. Back there
in the mulga you’ll have time to look around
you and think about making a fresh start.”
But after three years of it all they had
left was the black mare. The bay colt that
Steve rode to bring in the coach-horses car-
ried McDermott’s brand, and the very
saddles were McDermott’s. Mary’s instinct
to gather things around her was frustrated
at every point. They could never get ahead
of the bill at the store, for when Steve rode
in with the monthly cheque the Drovers’
Arms was always difficult to pass. He
w T ould come home with a muzzy but unshak-
able conviction of his triumph in getting
further credit from the storekeeper.
The black mare alone provided a fixed
point in their existence. To Mary it seemed
in some way a'symbol of respectability.. She
had an obscure hankering after that ideal,
and in the last few years she had had to
endure many snubs. There were women at
the different stations who refused to know
her: when, for instance, Mrs. Burse, of
Hallam I)ow r ns, travelled past she always in-
sisted on bringing cold lunch and eating it
in the coach. And Burse himself ate the
salt beef and potatoes she provided in the
skillion with the air of a man engaged in
surreptitious adventure. His manner, and
the look of his warm., brown eyes, were fami-
liar to an exasperating degree.
Mary wondered if Steve noticed these
things.’ He did, as a matter of fact, but
only as they appealed to his sense of humor.
What did it matter? Even though her skin
was sun-blotched and her eyes wind-wrinkled,
Mary was as good as the Burse woman.
She wasn’t the soft, either, to take any
notice of what other women said or thought.
Funny how Burse tried to ogle her as
though she was the yellow-haired barmaid
at the Royal Hotel!
But his easy-going complacency received
a jolt when he came home one night and
told Mary he had sold the black mare.
“I met Dunn, of Redd’s Creek,” he said,
“and he offered me fifteen notes for her. I
was bringing her in from the back tnere,
and she caught his eye. Got a contract to
bring a mob over from the Dawson Dunn
has, and he’s finding it hard to get a plant
together.’’
Mary looked at him in dumb dismay.
“You sold her!”
“Fifteen notes,” repeated Steve jubilantly.
“It was a quid or two more than she was
worth.”
“But she wasn’t yours,” Mary flashed out.
“I reared her from a filly. When her mother
died that old drover said I could have her if
I reared her. You hadn’t nothing to do with
her but break her in.”
Some flood of pent-up feeling seemed to
have been set loose in her, but it found an
outlet in her eyes rather than in her words.
Steve was dumfounded by it. In all their
life together he had never known her make
a scene before.
“What does it matter who owned her?” he
said. “I got the chance of a good deal, and
we wanted the money. What’s mine is
yours, isn’t it, and the other way round ?”
She hesitated awhile, her face suddenly
wooden and inexpressive.
“I don’t know.” she answered vaguely.
It was the stillness in her, the look of
paralysis, that impressed him more than her
words. He said quickly :
“I’ll stick it in the bank for xou, Mary.
I won’t touch it —strike me helpless if I do.
There’s a filly McDermott’s got up at Auga-
thella —a little bay with lots of breeding. I
could get her for fifteen notes and break
her in myself. She’d be good to win a
race or two.”
That ended the matter, so far as words
were concerned, but waking in the night he
found that Mary had not gone to sleep. He
could tell that by her stillness as well as bv
her occasional movements. She seemed to
be lying staring at the rafters in the tark,
and for the first time he was curious about
what was going on in her mind. Dim emo-
tions stirred within him. He was not the
man he had been, and he had not given her
(Continued on next page.)


CONTAINS
ANIMAL OIL <
FAT
NO
OR
m
NO*
Dr u S
any
E
1
M
i
1
N
Ci
R u
T S
d
Q
Yds.
cs
V
8
LES
tec
sc
AT
1C
BAD
AT
MAM
CHAPPED
BAC
ADS
SORE
<*Ze&k;
*
FOP
CR/CKE T ERS
UNEQUAL LCD
=)
FOOTBALL
PLAYERS
rs
cyct
/s
7
CEMERALLV
SPORTSMEN
=
&
\o*
f-Vfl
ffOCAT
l
m
There’s SOOTHING &
HEALING in Every Touch.
Everybody needs Zam-Buk. It brings right into the home the
purest, safest and most wonderful healing preparation the
world has ever known. It makes the treatment of skin
troubles at home a practical success.
Zam-Buk is a precious herbal balm, the
result of years of scientific search for an
ideal healer free from the dangers and
limitations of the old-fashioned fatty
ointments and salves.
By utilising the hidden healing virtues of
Nature’s storehouse of medicinal herbs,
Zam-Buk opens up a new and wonderful
era of healing.
Every one of its rich herbal ingredients
has some particular soothing, healing and
antiseptic virtue. Each blends with and
helps the other. Thus Zam-Buk attains
a wonderfully high degree of medicinal
efficiency.
Zam-Buk s power of penetration is extra-
ordinary. It goes to the root of skin
trouble, killing the germs, cleansing the
tissues of poison and disease. Used for
injuries, it instantly stops festering and
blood-poison. If there’s anything wrong
with your skin smear on Zam-Buk and
you will be delighted with the result.
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is specially prepared to
meet the needs of those who suffer with a diseased,
tender or irritable skin. It is invaluable when used
with Zam-Buk Balm for the cure of slcin troubles.
Zam-Buk: 1/6 and 3/6; Zam-Buk Soap: 1/-
per tablet, 2/10 per box of 3; of all Chemists
and Stores, or from C. E. Fulford (Aus.),
Ltd., Sydney.
BLOOD-POISON FROM
A RUSTY NAIL.
Mrs. Beatrice Kidd writes from 13 Went-
worth Street, Glebe, Sydney :—“My husband
had a very bad hand through a rusty nail
piercing it. Dirt got into the wound, caus-
ing blood-poison to set in.
“Though we used all kinds of ointments
the injury did not show the slightest sign of
healing until we began to use Zam-Buk.
When the poison was drawn out and the
wound thoroughly cleansed by Zam-Buk,
new skin began to grow, so the hand was
soon perfectly cured.”
THORN-SCRATCHES THAT
FESTERED UP.
Mrs. E. Davis, 22 Hyde Street, Surry Hills,
Sydney, writes: —“My boy Alfred had his legs
badly scratched by thorns while playing about
in the country. Nasty; sore'places had devel-
oped, but when I started to use Zam-Buk I
soon realised that it was doing him good. It
drew out all bad matter and induced rapid
and perfect healing.”
/
/
/
/
/
the life he had promised her when she first
drove off in his sulky.
“No use worrying,” lie thought. “I’m not
done yet. One of these days I’ll take hold
of things again.”
But he continued to lie awake, listening to
the croaking of frogs in the swamp.
The next day when he rode into the town-
ship to bank the cheque he thought of the
different ways in which he could make a
fresh start. He also speculated on what he
could get as a surprise for Mary. It was
a rertainty that McDermott would let hi._i
have the bay filly for thirteen pounds, and
that would leave a couple over for a present.
Some bit of jewellery, perhaps! He remem-
bered that Mary had never had a ring.
But at the end of three uays his horse
came home without him. Mary stood looking
at the muddy flanks and turned. saddle for
awhile in a stupor, and then she caught hold
of the trailing bridle and rode off to get one
of the coach horses. There was nothing very
novel or disquieting in the situation. She
knew that she would find Steve just inside
the Thirty-mile gate, where he had fallen
off once or twice before.
It was long after midnight, though, before
she got him home, and he was not in a state
of mind to be conscious of anything that
passed. When he came to his senses it was
afternoon, and after drinking a pannikin of
tea silently he took liis gun and went down
to the swamp to shoot ducks, his hat pulled
down over his eyes.
A heavy stillness, broken by no report,
hung about the place, and when Mary looked
out she saw him sitting with his back against
a boxtree, staring out across the swamp. His
dog, sensing that something was wrong, nosed
round him anxiously. But Mary understood
better than it did what was going on in his
mind.
After tea they sat outside the hut, looking
at the dusty road and the stretch of mulga
opposite that was still in the windless dusk.
The dogs shifted from one position to an-,
other round their feet, but nothing else
stirred. Suddenly Steve made a movement.
"I done in that cheque, Mary,” he said.
“I know,” she responded.
There was another short silence.
“You know how it goes,” he went on. “I
met Bill Fallon, just landed in from up on
the Faroe. That settled it. I’d been keep-
ing the lid on for a good long time.”
She did not stir.
“Not too lone,” she said at last. “You
were there the last time the teamsters went
down. It don’ matter.... Look at that
black-and-white cattle pup! Ain’t it a
beauty?”
Steve looked obediently at the pup, but
«aid nothing. He was genuinely moved.
What a wonder, she was! Not like other
women, who would seize any chance to nag
at a man! He sat plunged in thought, his
inward-turned eyes seeming to explore the
recesses of his mind for some way of show-
ing her what he felt. •
“I’ve been thinking. Mary.” he said at
last, “we’ve never had a holiday together
sineb we came here. Mac’s a decent sort:
I ought to he able to touch him for a few
quid after all these years. I’ll tell him
we’re going in to the township to get mar-
ried. That’ll fetch him. I’ve been think-
ing lately we ought to put things .straight,
anyway.”
It was Mary’s turn to be touched. She
felt something leap within her and her eyes
become glazed with a him: thougn she re-
mained still her lingers could not help stray-
ing up to loosen the dress at her throat.
But ail she said was:
“There’s no partic’lar hurry, Steve. Any
time that comes handiest. I’m sorry I made
a row about that mare. She wasn’t of no
account.”
VANCE PALMER.
A Two-up Win.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE counted it twice to make sure.
“Yes, you’re set now, Blue,” I
said.
Bluey Smith turned over the last note, and
pressed it into the pocket of his overcoat.
Well, it’s time I got something, Snow —been
here two years and never had. a Blighty or
nothin’. I reckon this 500 quid is due.”
For the last eight hours we had been play-
ing two-up, and Blue had cleaned up the
school.
We walked over to the Y.M. that night,
and whilst there heard that the big stunt
was coming off in a few days. We were to
take Passchendaele.
Blue then told me of his intention. “I’ve
never had so much money in me life, Snow,
and I don’t think I’ll ever, have as much
again. I don’t like this stunt that’s coming
off. I’m ducking.”
I didn’t try to persuade him not to, as
I knew Blue wasn’t a coward. I knew what
he felt like. When a man’s holding 500
quid in cash he doesn’t like to think he is
going to be killed. It’s different when a
man has £5OOO at home: he can’t actually
see and feel that. But when a man has
500 lovely quid in his pocket, believe me,
there is a big temptation to "duck.”
When we came out of the Y.M. Blue sug-
gested that lie should camp out. He was
afraid someone would go through him during
the night if we slept in our tent. So we
sauntered around until we came to the boun-
dary line —a microcarpa hedge. It was bit-
terly cold.
I warned him not to talk, but it was no
good.
“Snow!”
“What, Blue?”
“When you come to think of it, old Bill
Shakspeare wasn’t far out when he said
‘Money makes cowards of us all.’ ”
I corrected him gently. “Not money, Blue
■ —conscience.”
Blue snorted. “What’s the difference!”
I slept for a few hours.
“Snow !”
“Yes, Blue.”
“Isn’t it a cow having so much money?”
“Yes, Blue. Go to sleep—you’ll need all
your wits about you if you’re going to give
inose Tommy jacas the slip.”
Blue laughed.
"Snow !”
“What, Blue?”
“Believe me, those Tommy jacks couldn’t
catch a fly on tanglefoot.”
"That’s right, Blue. Go to sleep.”
I was dead tired and wanted sleeo badly,
"Snow !”
"Aw, shut up and go to sleep.”
“I can’t sleep, Snow. I haven’t slept at
all yet. I’ve made all me plans out. Listen,
When we’re marching to our possie to-
morrow night I’m ducking, see? I get
up in a Froggy’s rigout and make for the
coast. Bribe a fisherman to land me in
England and then for London, an officer’s
uniform and a good time until it’s cut out.”
“What are you going to do then?” I asked,
“I’ve thought all that out, too, Snow.
If I have the luck to dodge the jacks till
then I am going to get a private’s outfit
and give meself up to the first jack I see.
I’ll tell him I thought I should be in France,
lie will take me to 11. Q., and then I’ll tell
a tale—the last thing I remember was going
up to the line. A shell burst near me. Re-
member nothing more until I find meself
in London. Don’t remember getting here,
so gave pieself- up. The quacks will examine
me, but I’ll still stick to me yarn. It’s ten
to one they’ll put it down to loss of memory.
Dead easy, isn’t it, Snow?”
“Y-p-p-s Blue” T wns inst dozinv off
“Say, Snow. YoTe he’en prettyYeeint
jft , yoS?“° ,tM,I!: J °"’ d mte and
“Thanks, Blue. You might send me over
some decent fags. These woodbines are
a vn a mite ”
' “I’ll send you a thousand Abdullahs,
Snow.”
“Thanks, Blue. Good night.”
“Say, Snow. What time do you reckon
it is now?”
I was going crook on him, but before I
could speak a voice like a bull’s roar broke
the stillness.
“It’s time you T s were out of that.
Get hup!” it roared. You know how an
“Himperial ser’t-majaw” can tell you to
get “hup.” Well, he said it like that, only
louder.
Of course it’s all bluff, this loud-voice
stuff; but bluff works when a man’s nerves
are on edge. Without a word Blue and I
made for our tent.
“Halt—er! Sentr-e-e-e, stop those men!”
Dinkum, I didn’t give ourselves a dog’s
chance of getting there. But it was pretty
dark, and we scrambled in. I looked at my
watch ; it was just three.
For the first time I broke the silence.
“You were asking me the time just before
that bloke interrupted, weren’t you. Blue?”
Blue laughed. “Good night, Snow. I
think I’ll sleep now.”
It wasn’t two minutes before that darned
S.-M. was chasing me all over the place. I
was just about to duck round a corner when
he threw a lump of wood at me and hit me
on the head.
“Sorry, old chap, it slipped out of me
hand.”
I was safe', anyhow. It was only a cobber
cleaning his boots.
Blue was already awake. He rolled over
close to me and whispered, "Are you sure
that’s all you want, Snow—them cigarettes
is all you want? Five hundred quid'll buy
a few things, Snow. I don't suppose I
dropped any out of ihe overcoat when I was
— Snow, where’s me overcoat? Some
has taken me overcoat off me. That'll show
you what the cows’ll do!”
•‘Keep you’re nut, Blue,” I kept saying to
him, and pulled him outside. "Didn’t you
roll ui) your overcoat and use it for a pillow
under the hedge?” Blue laughed, but he
soon dropped his lip again. “It’s gone,
Snow. Anyhow, come on—we’ll see' if a
man has any real luck.”
We walked over to the hedge. Blue didn’t
say a word. He was evidently thinking
hard.
I caught his arm. “Blue, it's there!"
Blue’s eyes sparkled. He was shaking like
a sick man. He stopped, caught hold of
my two shoulders, and looked me straight
in tliG eye.
“Listen, Snow. This is dinkum. I’m
going to send it home to the old lady. When
you come to think of it, a man’s a
to think of spending five hundred qukl on
himself when he knows how it would lift
hell off the shoulders of his mother.”
I knew he meant it. “I’m glad, Blue,”
I said.
"She’s been wanting that five hundred
all her life,” he went on. "The night before
I sailed she laid her head on me shoulder
and cried a bit. ‘George,’ she said, ‘if I
die before you come hack —you —there won’t
be a home for you, to go to when you get
back. I’ve reared you all in this little place.
Sometimes I really think it’s ours except
that the collector comes each week, we’ve
had it so long, son. I wish it was our
own.’ ”
His eyes had been on the ground. But he
looked at me now, and I could see something
in Blue’s eyes that I never suspected he
could show.
“Snow” —he was holding my arm tightly
“it was only a little shanty in a back street.
But she wanted it.” He was shaking like a
man with ague.
“It doesn’t seem as if the coat s been
touched,” I said.
He picked it up, unrolled it. Nervously
he felt in the first pocket, then in the second.
Then he felt in the match pocket, and began
fussing about like a man looking for a lost
stud. Suddenly he dropped it.
“Some ’s gone down on it, Snow!”
That’s all he said.
Blue kicked the coat under the hed'-e. ‘ I
don’t think I’ll want it again, old chap.”
I went to pick it up. He moved in front
of me. “No, leave it there, Snow.”
Two days later we went over. Poor Blue
got a full issue. Pie was next to me when ne
fell. I stopped for a moment to see if he was
badly injured.
“Are you hurt, Blue, old boy?”
He smiled feebly.
“I’ve got something this time, Snow.” He
pulled my sleeve, to make me come closer.
“Look her up when you get back, Snow.”
NORMAN CRARER.


Ĥ
WESTI NGN OUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIMGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane,
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Offioe—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
a
7
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches; Stroke of Piston 2J& inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, mu do expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasiire-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from C to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Kails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
I. 8 W. Chandler Pty.
Ltd.,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
4 r>
:
&
/
V
I -
50
«
I
S . %.
\
u
(-
a
"vX
i
Over Fifty Years the Standard
Brace
The strength of the house of the President Suspender
Company is your guarantee
Fifty years of business integrity stand back of this
product. For fifty years wearers all over the world
have encouraged the makers with their patronage —
registering their mark of approval of SHIRLEY
MAKE BRACES.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY MAKE”
President Suspender Co,, Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
12
1%.
m
V
ei
C-3 /
>
.'ofMaS
emin&tom
UMt
.Revolver and Pistol
Cartridge's
Accurately made and carefully tested in the arms for which
they are designed, these cartridges assure correct function*
Sag and maximum accuracy.
Rs'usc° n ’
for Shooting Right
Regardless'of the make or calibre of your favorite revolver
or automatic, your dealer can supply you with a box of
Remington UMC cartridges—thoroughbreds in every
particular.
Catalogues free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
I) 1). Bryant, Australian Representative, Rox 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
m
i
, nil
•tarn
I'llWM.Jri
STAND
UNRIVALLED.
msm
PERFORATED SHEET METAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For Mining, Harvesting, Flour Milling, Fruit and Seed
Grading, Road Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
MOTOR BONNET VENTS.
D. RICHARDSONS SONSPTY.LTD.,Footscray,Vic.
Ħ
Among Modern Magnetos
the British Production
is now recognised as the World’s Standard.
It’s an undeniable fact 'that no Magneto hitherto produced can surpass the
British instrument for
THE QUALITY of MATERIALS,
THE SUPERB WORKMANSHIP,
THE INTENSITY OF SPARK,
THE CERTAINTY OF PERFORMANCE AT ANY SPEED.
We have sold in the past a large number of British Magnetos, and from all
directions we hear most favorable reports regarding their dependability under all
sorts and conditions of service.
The following particulars will serve to show, too, that besides being good
THE BRITISH MAGNETO IS LOW IN PRICE.
We quote:
Fellow’s British-made Magneto for Single-Cylinder Engine, £lO/10/- ea.
„ „ „ „ „ Four „ „ £lB ea.
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Six ~ ~ £23/15/- ea.
E.I.C. „ „ ~ „ Twin Cylinder Motor-cycle, £B/15/- ea.
Also in stock :• —
THE DIXIE (American) MAGNETO EQUIPMENT for FORDS. Complete
with Impulse Starter, Silent Drive Chain, Mounting Bracket* Switch and
Wiring . Price £22/10/- comp.
SWANS LIMITED,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The House for Motor-engineers , Supplies.


The Spirit of
UNITY
Unity is the very music of
life - a perfect symphony
of thought and action. With
Unity one may live ideals in
a world of wonderful reality.
And its surest foundation lies
in the. genial companionship
and unquestioned maturity of
Betoar’s
