

■*
-
41
m
w
S?:.' - .
-
HSS
I-:'
: *
l , •* •'J
I" Jt;«
££ f
■■ -, V
im
ri- ■ ■ ‘
Au
“ *■ fter all,
isn’t
so much what
we say about
i
vUtihltm
Custombilt
Accessories.
But what
seven million
motorists say
that counts.”
MOTOR-CAR OWNERS!
BASED ON THE NUMBER OF CARS STEWART-EQUIPPED, THE CHANCES ARE
90 TO 1 THAT YOUR CAR HAS ONE OR MORE STEWART ACCESSORIES.
The chances are even greater that they are giving complete satisfaction. They are built for service, and we want you to get To
guarantee your doing so, we have equipped a Stewart Depot in every* Capital City in the Commonwea th, wit e prop
and instruments for adjusting Stewart Products. .
Keep your Stewart Accessory on the job. If, through accident or otherwise, your Stewart Speedometer, Vacuum System, Warnmg: Sgnal
or other Stewart Accessory gets out of adjustment, ask your Garage or Accessory Dealer to send it in to the Stewart Depot for attention.
IMPORTANT: The Stewart Depots or Service Stations use and distribute only genuine Stewart parts. Beware of imitations. I When Prov-
ing a new cable, universal joint or drive-gear for your Speedometer, look for the Stewart Trade-mark. If you do not find the Trade-mark,
you are getting an imitation part. For your own protection demand the genuine article.
STEWART PRODUCTS ARE FOR SALE BY RETAIL AND WHOLESALE MOTOR ACCESSORY
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA, INCLUDING THE FOLLOWING INTERSTATE
DEPOTS OR SERVICE STATIONS:—
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Sydney; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Cornell, Ltd., Adelaide;
Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd., Brisbane; Arthur Christian, Perth.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2227.
Thursday, October 19, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Ported free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, City.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Made in Australia
sdf
THE BEST THAT
CAN BE MADE
ipiMi
P!!!±ISIi!
f sl| I
nmuimjiji
iSila
SS»n;i!!ii!:sii!li
MANGROVITE BELTING
Delivers Maximum Power,
These power-saving belts pay for themselves by conserving
power, cutting down production costs, and by their prolonged
life. Mangrovite Leather or Raw-Hide Belting saves power
where other belts fail. If you have a troublesome drive, take
advantage of our engineering service. Our experts will tell you
how to secure maximum service and effective transmission.
Write or call.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Direotor,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co., Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid and Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Henry Clark k Co. Pty, Ltd., Ilobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel k Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Andrade’s Entertainment
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY <°Pft on)i
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC. 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/.. Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /-.
* CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for. List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS,
WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
ri'iMTOOTW?
r
* *
G-j
FOUR MORE FAROES,
in one book, 2/-
Contents —Our First
Performance, My Turn
Next, Area Belle,
Mock Trial for Breach
of Promise. PLAY
Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/.
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/(> to £5.
HOW TO MATCH UP, G uicle to the Stage.... 1/6
itS
A~e>
'til
%
m
os
TURF
Dir VIRGINIA
DIVJ CIGARETTES
Turf Virginia Cigarettes are made
from the finest tobacco out of Virginia.
They smoke perfectly and there is no
other cigarette on the market that has
the same aroma and softness as the
big “ Turf ” Cigarette.
20 for Two Shillings; they are
irresistible to the man of taste.
Obtain your supply to-day, from any
tobacconist throughout Australia.
Made by ALEX. BOGUSLAVSKY LTD,
55, Piccadilly, London, England.
20
for
TWO
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act,
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumentho!
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.
The Lancet, The Practitioner, etc.
rvNinx
■imnMONn
C.HUDSON
The Red Page
Will England Live?
“England: by an Overseas Englishman.”
(John Lane, London.)
The proposition advanced by the author
of this arresting volume is, brief!y, that
England, the creator and the soul of the
British Empire, is moribund. In giving
itself to the world and to the Empire, it
has given its life. The transfusion of
blood to keep England alive has been a
failure, for the alien inflow has poisoned the
system. England is being slowly squeezed
to death by the centripetal forces of immigra-
tion. The theory has been advanced by others,
and there is a good deal of evidence to sup-
port it. Britain has supplanted England,
and, as Home fell when an Imperial char-
acter replaced the national character of the
Empire, so England is likely to fall as inter-
nationalism replaces nationalism. To-day in
power and prestige England is the least im-
portant of the partners in the Empire. The
English element in the administration Of
England is almost non-existent. At the
Armistice Conference the English mission
included one nominally English—and he was
of partly German origin. The administra-
tion of India is so entirely Scotch, Irish
and Jewish that Simla recently suggested
that the title of the old and. famous Cal-
cutta daily—The Englishman—should be
altered to The Biuton. In the Dominions
it is the same. Hughes is a Welshman,
Massey is of Irish descent, Smuts is Dutch,
whilst the three leaders in Canada are Scotch,
Irish and Quebec-French. So far has England,
as England, lost prestige that there is in the
Dominions a very distinct prejudice against
Englishmen, whilst Scotch, Irish and Welsh
are enthusiastically welcomed. “Pommy”
may be a harmless jest, but it carries a
derisive flavor. The race that created the
Empire, that has impressed its thought, its
manners and its laws over the greater part
of the world’s surface, begins to be regarded
through the Dominions as negligible!
Yet the outstanding fact of history is that
the days of England’s glory have been the
days of the English. Englishmen have been and
remain the corner-stone on which the Empire
rests, and, without a doubt, when England
falls the Empire will fall. There is not one
Dominion nor one colony able to stand
alone, once the corner-stone crumbles away.
It is English character, English spirit, Eng-
lish money and English man-power which
made the Empire in the past, and which hold
it together in the present. The English spirit
of adventure was abroad before the Scots
trickled over the border; and whilst Ireland
was still a bog and a waste. It was the Eng-
lish spirit of fairness, of law and of order,
which gave to the world every parliamentary
institution that exists to-day; that made
conquest an assimilation, so that there was
not one overseas British possession which
failed to send volunteers to the late war;
that made British rule synonymous with
justice and equity. It is England’s money
that has built, up the Empire, and financed
every European coalition against militarism,
from Douis the Great to Wilhelm 11.
Finally, it was English man-power that car-
ried the burden of the late war.
There is an odd impression, which exists
in France very strongly, and even in the
Dominions, to some extent —though not at
all in Germany—that the English did very
little fighting and found very few men, com-
paratively, for the armies. The fact is that
England enlisted and equipped three times
as many as Scotland, Ireland, the Dominions
and India combined. It- is a fact founded
on the official recruiting records that more
than 50 per cent, of the soldiers in Scotch
and Irish regiments were English, due to
the drafting system, whereby recruits had
no choice of units. The disaster of the war
was _ that the commanders of the British
Armies were Scotch or Irish, whose national
feelings conspired to suppress not only Eng-
lish initiative and the English spirit, but
even the records of English success. So
far was this policy carried that both the
Canadian and the French Governments offi-
cially protested against it. And well they
might, when, as in 1916, mobs collected in
the Place Yendome, crying: “A has les
Anglais ! Yivent les Canadiens ! Vivent les
Australians!” And at a time when Eng-
lish regiments were holding four-fifths of
the British line! So far did feeling go that
oh August 20, 1916, the French High Com-
mand issued an Order of the Day reciting
the glorious deeds of the Devons and the
Shropshires, which Order the polyglot Scotch,
Irish and Jewish British H.Q. and War
Office refused to allow publication of in
England.
The late Mr. Page, as U.S. Ambas-
sador, put on record that “the only nation
with the guts to see this business through
is the English.” O’Leary, Y.C., an Irish
hero, told the recruiting meetings: “The
Connaught Rangers are 75 per cent. Eng-
lish I” Gallipoli is a record of Anzac dar-
ing, endurance and courage, but who ever
hears of the immortal 29th Division, of the
Norfolks or the Hampshires. who perished
to a man? History, which has a true per-
spective, and is not written from headlines,
will tell how the old English county regi-
ments were the backbone of the British
Army. It was “poor, bloody, suffering
Tommy” who saved the world, but no one
talks about it much, and, least of all, him-
self.
Apart from this reticence, which is an out-
standing trait in the English character, what
are the things that make, in this race, for
worth, and for worth’s opposite? The English-
man—at home —is good-natured, rather lazy,
fond of amusement, slow to anger, very
credulous, dogged and insular. He is domi-
neering, generous and idealistic. A consis-
tent grumbler, he is a rigid conservative.
Nominally a democrat, he is at heart
a snob. If he has a passion it is for
“justice” and “free speech.” These are'
the qualities that have made the Empire, and
the Empire is the work of England. The
Scotch are not empire-builders, though they
are very capable administrators, and the
great soldiers and statesmen whom Ireland
has contributed have been English in thought
and habit—seed that England has planted.
Whence, then, arises the belief in England’s
approaching end? Firstly, in the control
of administration by aliens, due to the in-
ability of the Englishman to be “as men-
dacious, as ferocious and as deceitful” as
was necessary to meet German methods.
Since Mr. Lloyd George became Premier
every instinct of virtue and decency em-
bodied in the English character has been
daily outraged. Not one of the Dutch,
Welsh and Scotch saviours' of the Empire
lias tradition behind him. Another reason
is, says the author of this book, the effemina-
tion of England. The womanly woman has
given place to a horrible, debased inter-
sexual type. The surplusage of women over
men, due to the emigration of more than
8,000,0.00 marriageable men in the years
previous to the war, has been accentuated
by the casualties of the conflict. England
has lost, a generation of males. The smear
of woman is across the land. The business
of woman is the decoration and lubrication
of society, and when she passes outside
those spheres her work is destructive. The
press, unionism, the sporting mania, the
break-up of the aristocracy, are all elements
suggested by this writer as contributory
causes of the decay of England. Most of
all should we curse the futile internation-
alism, so much the vogue torday.
Empires have risen and fallen; nations
come and go. Yet it is hard to agree that.
England will follow the same way. Her
ordeal in battle; the support and sympathy
of her offspring; the sheer necessity of Eng-
land to the world, and the recuperative and
assimilative force she owns are all reasons
against it. That things are wrong must be
granted, but that they cannot and will not
be righted is inadmissible.
A. M. P.
La Chronique Scandaleuse
The title, that James L. Ford has given
his sparkling volume of reminiscences—•
Forty-odd Years in the Literary Shop (E.
-I\ Dutton and Co., New York)- —is a mis-
nomer. He has little or nothing to say of
literature. On the other hand he is a com-
pendium of inside information about U.S.
boxing (in the days when John L... Sulli-
van was in flower) ; bicycling (during the
bone-shaker period) ; buncorsteering (or, as
we would say, confidence-trickery) ; the
drama, legitimate and otherwise; and crime.
The rest of the book is devoted to person-
alities (he seems to have met every Bohemian
of note who visited New York in the last
four decades), and to the modern develop-
ment of journalism in the U.S. From the
standpoint of a British chronicler of con-
temporary events, he is extraordinarily in-
discreet ; but, then, the conventions govern-
ing the rights of privacy are differ-
ent in the great Republic, and, above
all, the libel laws are different. Ford
began his New York career in the
“Flash Age,” that is to say, when the profit-
eers of the Civil War were coming on the
town with their huge fortunes. The epoch
reads interestingly, like our own—many of
the pre-war families of note moribund, their
places usurped by successful speculators and
retailers, plenty of drinking, dancing, divorce
and general revelry. Ford, by the way, is
no prohibitionist:—•
We all drank a great deal in those days, for pro-
hibition had not yet reared its hydrant head, and
I have no doubt some of us drank more than was
good for us. Yet, to this day, I feel grateful' to
many men, sober and more experienced than myself,
for the counsel and encouragement they used to give
me over beer- and wine-stained tables in and near
Washington square. I cannot imagine such colloquies
as those that taught me so much taking place over
glasses of ice-water. On the whole, I do not regret the
many glasses of cheering fluid’ that passed my lips
in those happy days when it was so easy to get it.
Some of his most revealing asides concern
the art of publicity as practised in his native
land by high and low alike-
Publicity has even become the favorite hand-
maiden of the book-publishing trade, where it reveals
itself in personal anecdotes of authors and in ban-
quets given in their honor. As a giver of dinners
in which gracious hospitality and the main chance
were deftly blended, Colonei Harvey, now the U.S.
Ambassador to Great Britain, was without a peer,
and in the Mark Twain banquet his talents rose to
the height of genius, surpassing even the repeated
efforts of Sir Thomas Upton tfj stimulate the tea-
and-jam trade by the transfusion of “spotting blood”
to his veins. The Mark Twain dinner bore on its
face the aspect of a spontaneous tribute on the
part. of the profession of letters to a fellow-member
of the craft who well deserved the honor, and it
was by fortuitous circumstance that its occurrence
was coincident with the issue of the new and com-
plete edition of his writings.
He has some queer yarns of James Gordon
Bennett, the founder of the New York
Herald, and the most remarkable force in
American journalism of his day. They
mostly concern the great man’s aberrant
doings while on his periodical drinking
bouts, but in conclusion this high tribute
is paid: “He never allowed any editorial
comment on a case while it was before the
courts, nor the coloring of news by editorial
opinion.” The advent of William Randolph
Hearst introduced a style of journalism
which is now belatedly making ; ts bow on
this sidq of the Pacific. “When peace
brooded over the city, and nobody was being
murdered, Hearst would come down to the
office with despondency written on his face
and express the opinion that everything was
going badly; but the tidings of some new
crime or disaster would rouse him to in-
stant action.... In those days I could not
bring myself to take him seriously. .. .The
passing years, however, have convinced me
that at the time he was building better than
I knew, and that he had estimated the. pro-
portion of fools in the community with a
perspicacity for which I failed to give him
credit.” Hearst was the inventor of the
trick of exploiting picturesque accidents or
crimes in such a way as to cast a humani-
tarian glow on himself and his business.
The writing-up was done usually by women
who soon became known in the world of
U.S. journalism, and later to all America, as
“sob-sisters.”
Tidings of a colliery, disaster would send one of
them flying to the scene, and straightway we would
receive a dispatch beginning about as follows: “I
sobbed my wav through the line, the stern-faced
sentinels standing aside to let me pass with a
muttered, ‘The lady is from the Journal ; let her
by.’ I was the first to reach the wounded and
dying. ‘God bless Mr. Hearst,’ cried a little child
as I stopped to lave her brow; and then she smiled
and died. I spread one of the Journal supple-
(Continued on page 25.)


V
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FURNITURE
EMBODIES BEAUTY, COMFORT and ECONOMY.
m,
m
/
y
=^s
=3
m
u '
9
Re
i
m.
£1
Wi
m
m
It is quite evident that furni-
ture such as is here illustrated
needs no further recommenda-
tion than to say that it is up to
Anthony Horderns’ usual
standard of excellence.
THE “CONCORD”
DINING SUITE
(AS ILLUSTRATED.)
IN OAK OR MAPLE, comprising 5 ft.
SIDEBOARD, with 1 Bin Circular Mirror,
2 Drawers and Cupboard; 4ft. CIRCU-
LAR TABLE; 3ft. SIDE TABLE; 6
SMALL and 2 CARVER CHAIRS, with
drop-in seats in either colored Seagrass
or Fabrikoid.
Price, Complete, £34
THE RESTO LOUNGE CHAIR, made
of Silky Oak, with adjustable sliding foot
and back and loose cushions—a really
comfortable Chair and Lounge combined.
Price £6/15/-
THE “JEAN”
BEDROOM SUITE
(AS ILLUSTRATED.)
This beautiful yet inexpensive
suite is indicative of the many
excellent furniture values that
await your choice at the
“House of Economy.”
Made of figured MAPLE, Fumed and
Waxed, comprises: 5 ft. WARDROBE
with two-thirds hanging space and one-
third sliding trays and drawers; 3ft. 6in.
DRESSING TABLE, with wide mirror,
3 small drawers and 2 long drawers; and
2ft. 6in. PEDESTAL BOOT CUP-
BOARD, with drawers.
Price, Complete, £37/10/
4ft. 6in. BEDSTEAD to match:—
Price £7/7/6
GXS^% )
u
§
8
»8
v;; Qe&M
1 . j f,-f. i. r.), Ai, f 1,1,/ruhhUcL
ESs
•32^
PERIOD FURNITURE
is Inherently Beautiful.
sd
JACOBEAN
FURNITURE
indicative of
discrimination
and taste.
□
£3
Exquisite
Pieces
that are
reminiscent
of a
Bygone Age.
fs
JACOBEAN REVOLVING BOOK-
CASE TABLE, with full twist legs,
moulded edge 22in. x 22in.
Price
£ll/15/-
4ft. JACOBEAN BUFFET, Cane oval in
centre of back, with moulded panel on
each side, one long drawer and cupboard
shelf.
Price £l2/15/-
FURNITTJRE DEPARTMENT—FIRST FLOOR.
JACOBEAN TUB CHAIR, with hand-
somely carved pediment and full twist
legs, upholstered in Tapestry.
Price
£B/8/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
Telephone: City 9440.


YOU have often been
pleased with snapshots
one of your friends has
taken—but have you ever
thought how much greater
pleasure it would give you
if you had made those pic-
tures yourself?
Photography is easy by the
Kodak way, for it is photo-
graphy with the worry left
out. Here are some models
described any Kodak
branch or dealer will demon-
strate them to you.
NEW REDUCED PRICES.
No. 2A Box Brownie makes good pictures, 4J
x 2i inches. Price, 19/6.
No. 2 Folding Autographic Brownie has the
famous Autographic device for making notes on
the film at the time of exposure. Very compact.
Price, 47/6.
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak is. the
Kodak you can wear like a watch—makes you
prepared for the unexpected picture. For good
photographs If x 21 inches. Price, 42/-'
No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior is an instru-
ment of high efficiency—with every appoint-
ment for good picture-making—convenient to
carry. Size 2] x ?>{ inches. Price, 77/6.
Of ail Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins
Street, Melbourne; 250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane; The
Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street,
Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street,
Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and
Photo Supplies Co., Perth ; “The Kodak Corner,” corner
Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
X
m
nm
>■
mm.
W
Wm
m
wk
mm
m
> *
m
■
m
You, too, should he
making KODAK pictures!
His Master’s Voice
The Musical Instrument by which
all others are judged.
His Master s Voice” sets the
standard of perfection the world
over, because it never departs in
the most minute detail from the
utmost excellence of workman-
ship, finish or reproductive
power.
When you buy an “His Master’s
Voice” Instrument you know
you are choosing one that is asso-
ciated with the idea of quality
in everybody’s mind. “His
Master’s Voice” Instruments,
the world’s best, range in price
from 1 1 guineas to 91 guineas.
J
f'
rj
His Master’s Voice
it's II
-
> ‘V,
xurr - O
w .»BC-f****>
5 *.-Ji f/A h ;
%zmm
if
1
i .hi
i
3
Important Reduction in Prices
"His Master’s Voice” Records.
Owing to their enormous popularity, and
the consequent increased production,
manufacturing costs have been reduced;
therefore, following on the recent reduc-
tion in price of Celebrity Records, to-day
and until further notice “His Master’s
Voice’’ Zonophone, Black Label and Plum
Label Records will be obtainable from
all our accredited dealers at the following
reduced prices:
10-inch. 12-inch.
Zonophone 4/6 7/6
Grand Opera and Lauder. . 6/-
Back Label 7/6 10/6
Plum Label 6/3 9/6
Write for instrument catalogue, record lists
and name of nearest dealer.
“His Master’s Voice,
Hey. Trade-mark
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street— Sydney.
“Gramophone
Qra. Trade-mark.


T
'V'
V 1
Showing
Bottle
iJo-mountOiJ
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment wi hout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
makingtea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected ; with ordinary care will
last alifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO-
-159 West Second Street. CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TUCKER it CO.. LIMITED. SYDNEY.
(ASKHAMES
For Marking
all Linen
\£
Are a Boon in Svery Home
for identifying any article.or garment.
Any Name woven into a Fine Cambric
Tape in Fast Color.
“A Few Stitches and They’re On,”
df
Actual Size Name Style No. 6.
Prices: 12dz,7!6. 6dz, 5/-. 3dz, 3/6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS
J- & J. CASH III:
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melbourne
WRITE FOR STYJLE BOOK
9
i m
BE YOUNG
AGAIN!
Change yonr
ageing GREY
HAIR to a
deep WA L-
NUT COLOR.
Simply ap-
plied. Assur-
edly harmless
and perma-
nent.
Get a packet
chemist.
Vi
to-clay from your
r
yyi
MEXICAN |
IWAINUT STAINS
Teeth You’ll be
Proud to Show.
Discolored teeth detract from the
general appearance to a con-
siderable extent. Use “Euden-
ta” and possess ’'teeth you’ll be
proud to show.” “Eudenta” is
an antiseptic, too.
Your Chemist stocks
“Eudenta.” He charges
1/- a Tube.
EudcnTA
rfboTH PASTE 1
‘THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN”
Combined Mantel
Alarm Clocks.
An Alarm Clock combining elegance
of appearance with accuracy in time
keeping, durability in wear.
They possess a musical alarm.
Their appearance is choice, being of
finely finished brass work gilt, in
handsome finished Oak or Mahogany
cases. They are made with ordinary
and with luminous dials.
They are manufactured by one of the
largest and most reliable factories in
Switzerland. There are three shapes
of cases.
With Ordinary Dials, Oak Case, 60/-;
with Mahogany Case, 63/-; with
Luminous Dials, Oak Case, 72/6;
Mahogany Case, 75/-.
Alarm Clock, ii
Plain Dial,
handsome Oak Case, 44 inches high,
60/-; Luminous Dial, 72/6
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
23 St 25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
•• •
m
4#
GtMCRAL sToR .-
I
4.
m.
A
•:.■■-
r
:^5
fA A »
>.*•'■■: f
e>rs
w
v^>
ft
a
;ssc
src
'V> £
e' v
jc*
V ! f.Y
isnOß-Er-
TDOROTky?
WHEN NO NEWS IS GOOD NEWS.
The Country Girl: “No letters! Dad must have forgotten us completely as soon as he
reached Sydney."
The Postmistress : “No, he didn't, my dear. See, he has sent you some HILLIEH S
CHOCOLATES
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
October.
Warm-eyed amid her orange-colored hair,
October dresses hill and field in gold,
Showering the hoary rocks and gullies old
With cataracts of lilies everywhere.
From out the ground the orchids shyly dare
To try their wings above the mother-
mould :
And in mild wildness growing garden-bold,
Small yellow pansies sip the saffron air.
Spring’s carried out her winter-dead once
more,
To the flower-music of a. million bells.
Brown earth breathes out the scent of her
first kiss.
Ah, just this morn from my own mountain
door
I saw bare railway cuttings changed to
dells,
Drenched in white cascades of wild clematis.
n.s.w.
ZORA CROSS.
Victory.
No twilight bell, no tender dusk,
Nor yet a ringing call for me;
But straight from threshing out the husk
Of life’s last sheaf, I’d garnered be.
Out of the turmoil and the fret —
To labor bending, yet unspent—
With lust to conquer; nor regret
One step along the road I went —
Straight out, unheralded, I’d g 0....
Nor mourned.. .There need be no good-bye
When merged—as snowflake in the snow—
Within Love’s rhapsody we die!
VICTORIA.
M. B. BATON.
Wild Horses.
Only the storm may spur and stride you,
Twisting a hand in your flying manes
(Heroes unborn o’ nights may ride you,
Stringing the stars for bridle-chains !).
Freedom, a stallion, gallops beside you,
Cloud-white over the golden plains.
Wine of speed for your wild thirst’s slaking,
Furious wings of the outstripped wind
(Valkyr-steeds in their flight are breaking
Storm-cloud meshes that stream behind!),
Thunder mutters, and lightning, waking,
Strikes with a spear that is bright and
blind.
Down the vale like a torrent flowing,
Up the steep like a javelin thrown
(Hooves on perilous errands going—
Flame of a fiery cross outblown,
Torchlit cities and beacons glowing—
Riders scattering sparks from stone).
Out of the gorges of night and thunder,
On to the strand of the‘trampling sea —
Rainbows over and rainbows under,
Wild white horses are running free;
Foam-flowers bloom for a moment’s wonder,
Fairer than flowers on lawn or lea.
Heaven’s hoofed archer leads your stallions—
Stat-shod hooves and a starry bow.
Pageant of knights like golden galleons.
Plumed and visored and cantering slow:
Riders and steeds—O brave battalions!
Into Valhalla the heroes go!
n.s.w.
DULCIE DEAMER.
The Keelings.
Exiled in gallant company,
These crowding palms, and young, brown-
throated men,
Whose fiercest welcome is a mute farewell,
Whose flags cry “Hail,” yet are a courtesy
In parting. Scarce our failing screw
Has stirred the shallows, than the cask is
thrown.
The shouting dies in a loud murmuring
Of steam, and the same urgent tide that
drew
Us swiftly to the reefs speeds our retreat
From their green coppices sewn magically
Upon the heart of ocean uttermost.
The southward currents frothing at our feet
Swing and revolve —and leave, away astern,
The tiny cutter with its cheering crew
Of Englishmen, whose bit of England lies
Here, where a hundred fires of sunset burn,
With none to marvel save themselves, or
gulls’
Wings, like jasmine drooping above the sea.
The darkness is upon us like a storm,
A wind upon its heels that cries, and pulls
The last signals of the sunset down :
The leaning palms, those eager English eyes,
Are lost, as sudden as a smile withdrawn,
As petals dropped into a fountain drown.
THE PACIFIC.
SYDNEY CLARKE.
While I Lay Deep in Sleep.
While I lay deep in sleep last night
A woman spoke to rue.
Her voice was gentle, soft and light
As the wind on a sunlit sea
Stealing in from the arching sky-
From the fading blue of the arching sky—
Softly passing and on to die
Far over a silken sea.
No word she spoke can I recall.
But the hint of sadness enshrouding all —-
The music that lay in the gentle fall
Of her voice is haunting me.
And men have changed in a single night—■
I have heard that this may be.
The very day with the strong sunlight
Seems' softej- far to me
Than yesterday and the days that lie—
The chill and pallid days that lie
Where Death once kissed and passed swiftly
by—
Than those days seemed to me.
No word she spoke can I recall.
But the lilting music that lay in all—
The cadence, the sadness and silver fall
Of her voice is haunting me.
N.S.W.
E. F. S.


c
T,
>1
U
%
FIRST
AND
LAST
FROM cables and wires
to lamps be guided by
trade-marked goods of
known reliability. The Craig-
park trade-mark typifies the
latest developments in wire
and cable manufacture. It is
your guarantee of reliability.
Moisture-proof, impervious to
chemical action, they are
essential where great dielectric
strength is required. A special
insulation for every purpose
ensures reliable service.
All wire is tested for conduc-
tivity, tensile strength and
ductility.
Included among users of Craig-
park wires and cables are: —
The H.M. Government,
Admiralty,
War Office, and
State Governments.
a,
m
99
r:
IT
r
r
EC
itoffliuMHiilllllm
tcwiisv
'/ft*
Ipl ! 11111111111111 l
*lisl iiiii: iiiii
I
/
O)
\K
&
So
m
&
in
HAVE
YOUR
MATERIAL
RIGHT.
USING the correct wires to
connect with proper
lamps will provide
better light at less cost.
No matter whether your chief concern is
brilliance of effect, economy of current
consumption or reliability of operation
Edison Lamps will serve you best.
Measured by increased production and
fewer accidents, their popularity is
emphasised in quicker and more accurate
service, better eyesight and greater all-
round efficiency.
Edison Lamp l , in every holder is
i-<auip v iii cvciy nuictei
your proof that your illumination
unexcelled.
is
Good lighting properly placed is the dif-
ference between congenial surroundings
with everyone at his mental best, cheerful
and contented—in contrast to the dullness
and gloom inseparable from inadequate
illumination.
Better Lighting is half furnished.
Insist on
Edison,
\
o
/so
BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering Supply
Co. of Australia, Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), corner
Edward and Charlotte Streets.
TASMANIA—OIiver & Oliver, HOBART
and EAUNCESTON.
.Australian General Fiechic oJtcl.
“Mazda House,” Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Also Queen and Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
’Phone: City 3510. Box 2517.
’Phone: Cent. 2646. Box 53S G.T.O.
ADELAIDE, SA.—Charles Atkins & Co.,
Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—Charles Atkins & Co.
(W.A.), Ltd., “Mazda House,” 894 Hay
Street.


The Bulletin
.Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2227.
THU USD AY, OCTOBER 19, 1922.
Price 6n.
THE LETTER OF THE BOND.
"By a promise which is embodied in the Northern Territory Acceptance Act of 1910, the Commonealth sgrees to build a ralilway line, but the Act does not speclfy the
route which is to be followed A line which deviated far to the east and joined the Oodnadatta line at Marce would be within the letter of the bond, although it may be
admitted that the parties to the contract contemplated the direct route"-S.M. HESALD. 12/10/22.
SHYLOOTOPUS: "You paid me for a railway, my poy, and this is one. What more do you want"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia fur tlie White .Man.’’
Printed and published by William Macleod, ot
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office cf the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydnev. N.S.W.. \ustralia.
Meldourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS! TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly .*
12 months , £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 montlts, £1 10s,; 6
months, 155.; S months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters ure liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translute any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The TJditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Neivspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — \.e., any picture
ivhich has to be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin cun be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Cordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London L.C.h;
E. T. Hole, Ilolertli Satire Service, 1,6 Fleet Street,
London, F.-.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
tlolborn, London, W.C.t.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown ami Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland liay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. Neiv York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn Co., The Colonial Boole
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street.
Colombo. „
Pai-ua. —Whitten Bros., Samurai and Port Moresby.
Fhl — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. —Gordon ifc Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, EC). „ . _.
U.S.A.—,/. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Ene Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of -The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) :—Throughout the Commonivealth: looz.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: ./oz.,
Hd.; for every additional 20z., id. .United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: )oz. or
part thereof , filsewhere : 2oz. or part thereof,
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1922.
THE ONE THING DEFT.
The Commonwealth’s eighth Parliament has
turned up its toes. Thereby it has rendered
Australia the only service it was capable
of rendering; performed the one meritorious
act of its malodorous existence. It was
unlovely in its life, and dies universally un-
regretted. At the outset of a career that
was both useless and dangerous it handed
each of its 111 members a £4OO p.a. in-
crease, regardless of its being a burglarious
breach of their contract with the electors.
Having looted the public purse of £lOO,OOO
or more, it brightened the gloom of approach-
ing dissolution by going through the farce
of “considering” a reduction of £2OO a year,
applicable, of course, to the next lot off legis-
lators, and mirthfully rejecting it. Those
were the only proceedings by which the
eighth Parliament will be remembered, and
in each case —allowing that there were indi-
viduals who refused to share in the plunder
—it showed itself void of decency and public
spirit. After the salary steal it was clear
that nothing in the semblance of statesman-
ship could be expected from a body of legis-
lators who entered upon their duties by
lining their own pockets, and in that respect
—and that only—they fulfilled expectations.
But, bad as the first session was, the last
was the worst.
* * * *
The Government resumed business in June
with a great show of energy. Thirty-eight para-
graphs, in which twice that number of im-
pending bills was mentioned—this in addi-
tion to the budget, the loan estimates, the
ratification of and legislation incidental to
the six Washington Treaties—were devoted
to the Governor-General’s speech. All the
ineasui.es catalogued were alleged to be of
“urgent public importance,” and there was to
be no rest for. honorable members until the
whole programme had become law. This
pretence of high purpose, lasted until the
funkhole of the Friminister’s choice—
several had been suggested and discarded
because they weren’t safe enough for autoc-
racy—had been got ready for him iu North
Sydney. Thereupon the Government lost
its alleged enthusiasm for constructive legis-
lation and showed itself desperately anxious
to get to the country before the growing
Liberal antipathy to Hughesism broke into
open revolt. With characteristic shameless-
ness it abandoned the most important legis-
lative business of the session and went back
on a solemn pledge that the budget should be
"discussed tnoioughly” to concentrate on
measures calculated to bring in votes —the
largest possible number in the shortest pos-
sible time. Such were the bills in which
cattlemen are guaranteed a bonus on
exported beef, farmers cheap bounty-fed
netting and barbed wire, and canegrowers
an increase of the sugar duties. In the same
category are the income-tax concessions
granted to rich men, the exemption of bache-
lors on the basic-wage line, who will hence-
forth contribute nothing towards the ex-
penses of the war, and the civil service
superannuation scheme, which is expected to
cost the taxpayer £1,308,000 in 10 years,
£4,558,000 in 20 years, and £8,414,000 in 30
years, and may cost three or four times as
much. Superannuation schemes have a
knack of doing that. Anyhow, the estimates
can’t, be depended upon, for the Government
was in a hurry, and no allowance has been
made for the Friminister’s habit of appoint-
ing a fresh swarm of boards and commis-
sioners whenever there is a fine day. But,
whatever the cost, it is calculated that the
scheme will buy the Government 100,000
votes. This calculation is based on the fact
that there are 25,338 persons already in the
service, that thousands more have hopes of
joining it (a) by the transfer of State depart-
ments and (b) by getting appointments as
cinnamon and cocoanut commissioners under
Hughes, and that all the beneficiaries, actual
and expectant, have adult female relatives,
lo ensure delivery of the goods the measure
is to take effect from December 31, 1920.
* * * *
Significant of the spirit in which the
Superannuation Bill was run through the
Farliamentary sausage-machine, in the last
weeks of the last session, was the Priminis-
ter’s remark that “the public servants have
been clamoring for this bill for years, and
it must be passed.” Equally significant was
the declaration of Willis, one of the N. S.
Wales delegates to the congress of the
federal Public Service Federation in Perth,
that “the public servants should barter their
votes to the highest bidder —the man from
whom they can get the most.” Difficult as
it is to imagine any past Prime Minister
lowering himself to that level, it is clear
that W. M. Hughes is determined to be
The Man. It is also evident that he doesn’t
mind what price the people’s employees set
on their favors so long as the people can be
induced to pay it. On another occasion he
protested in Parliament (Hansard No. 19,
page 2316) that the bill had been “de-
manded by the public servants.” “Demanded?”
said Pkowse, a member of the Country
party. “Honorable members are pedantic
this morning,” The Man went on. “I sub-
stitute the. word ‘requested.’ That bill will
be passed into law before Parliament is pro-
rogued.” And passed it was. It is instructive
to compare the gentleman’s new-born regard
for the public servants (and their votes) with
his sudden loss of zeal for the reform
of the Constitution in the direction of giving
the Commonwealth larger powers. If there
is any policy he has been identified with for
the last 15 years, it is that. Three times he
asked the electors for the powers required
to enable the national Parliament to func-
tion properly, and last year he brought down
an abortive Convention Bill designed, among
other things, to facilitate the formation of
new .States. In withdrawing it he an-
nounced that the Government would return
to the subject “at the earliest possible
moment next session.” As late as June he
was so convinced that the constitutional
amendments were essential that he had this
paragraph inserted in the Governor-Gen-
eral’s speech :
The experiences of the war, the general expansion
of internal trade and commerce, the growth of the
population and the development of the continent,
have emphasised the need for an early amendment
of the Constitution to enable Parliament to cope
more adequately with the national problems of Aus-
tralia. A series of measures Will be introduced to
provide for an extension of Federal powers, having
due regard to the proper functions of the States.
Opportunity will be furnished in both Houses for
the free discussion of any other proposals for alter-
ing the Constitution which may be considered neces-
sary.
Taking the Government at its word, lliggs
introduced a measure providing for the
amplification, by popular vote, of the power
to admit uew States, It was promptly rele-
gated to the bottom of the business-paper,
its author not being allowed even the melan-
choly satisfaction of expounding it. Ques-
tions were repeatedly asked about the
fate of the constitutional amendments. Mem-
bers pointed out that if a referendum were
intended the bills would have to be brought
down two clear months before the general
election. No information was ever given,
and the promised “Series of measures” never
made their appearance. Which indicates
that Hughes has abandoned the one policy
by which he was honorably distinguished
among Commonwealth legislators. There
being no votes to be got by it he no longer
stands for making the Federal system effec-
tive. He has lost everything but office.
Office has become the be-all and end-all of
his degraded politics. And a-Prime Minister
whose mind has taken that twist is not only
an obstruction but a menace.
SHADOW-SPARRING.
One of the Storey-Dooley measures which
met with embittered criticism from Nation-
alism in N. S. Wales was the Profiteering
Act. And with reason. It proved farcical
practically from the beginning; and when
friends of Ministers, who had grossly profit-
eered, began to be treated like - wayward chil-
dren who had erred" in infantile ignorance of
the law, the last vestige of public confidence
in the experiment faded out. It is some US
years now since the people of Australia
began first to be definitely aware of the
presence of injurious monopolies in their
midst; and in 1907 the first big effort was
made to grapple with the evil by means of
the Australian Industries Preservation Act.
On reference to the High Court, however, it
was declared ultra vires the Constitution.
A majority of the Judges'"ruled that the trade
and commerce clause debarred the Australian
Parliament from touching a monopoly, how-
ever disastrous it might be to the welfare of
the Commonwealth, provided it could be
shown to belong to a State. And as the
States highly approved of their great mon-
opolies as revenue-earners —Queensland and
its Meat Trust was a case iu point—the
anti-monopolistic movement fell dead. The
World War produced one of those blatant
orgies of profiteering which characterise all
great wars, and N. S. Wales presently fol-
lowed the lead of other parts of the Empire
and passed the Profiteering Act above-
mentioned. This the Fuller Government
pow proposes to repeal and replace with a
Monopolies Act.
* * " " * *
While wishing the Government the best
of luck in its venture The Bulletin finds
it hard to credit that the Nationalist rose
will smell any sweeter in the nostrils of the
harassed consumer than the Labor one did.
A condition precedent to profiteering is the
creation of a monopoly. The Greek who
charges an exorbitant price for fish cannot
do it unless he has agreed on that price
with a number of other fishmongers. And
so with innumerable other commodities from
cabbages to kerosene, and from fruit to
furniture. The N. S. Wales Assembly, like
the Assemblies of the other sovereign States
which make up our Federation, has always
been competent to pass a valid measure
directed at monopolies, or, if it prefers, at
their inevitable result, profiteering. The
only essential difference between Bavin’s
bill, which Nationalism is blessing, and the
Act of McTiernan which it proposes to slay,
is the difference between making a crime
dangerous to organise and making the same
crime dangerous to actually commit. As the
type of malefactor who is capable of robbery
with violence is notoriously ready at all
times to take the risk of stealing revolvers,
jemmies and other tools of his trade, the dis-
tinction betwen what McTiernan did and
what Bavin intends to do is plainly so
slight as to be hardly worth mentioning. The
failure of the McTiernan Act had nothing
to do with the drafting, and the intentions
of most of the M’s.L.A. who voted for it
were sincere to the point of passion. Vic-
tims themselves of a form of robbery which
was almost universal, they would gladly have
seen profiteers in the abstract flayed as well
as fined. Unfortunately these sentiments
did not persist in the case of individual citi-
zens who were lining their financial nests to
the best of their ability. That which w T as
rank blasphemy, commercially speaking, in
the case of a coal baron, was but a choleric
word when breathed over a retail counter by
a friend and fellow-unionist. In short, the
factor which did most to kill the McTiernan
measure was feeble administration, the politi-
cal touch, and nepotism; and there is not
the slightest reason, going on the past his-
tory of the State, to imagine that National-
ism will prove any more immune to such
•influences than Labor showed itselff to be.
* * * #
One of the many disastrous reactions of
the party-government system is the distaste
it creates in Administrations of doing any-
thing to alienate block votes. It may be
seen in N. S. Wales in the fact that betting-
shops, in which hundreds of thousands of
pounds sterling are wagered every year, are
allowed to do business openly in the most
important Sydney streets; in the fact that
there has not been one prosecution for trans-
mitting or illegally treating venereal disease
since the State V.D. Act became law; in
the fact that the Act in question has now been
allowed to lapse altogether, despite the furi-
ous protests of every doctor in the Assembly;
and in a score of other directions. But, per-
haps, the legislative fiasco which bears the
closest analogy to the kind of measure with
which the Fuller Government is now adven-
turing is the Secret Commissions Act which
the Federal Parliament passed at about the
time the anti-monopolies movement began.
The penalty under the Bavin bill for a
secret “arrangement” having for its object
the swindling of the public is, in the first
instance, to be £500; under the Secret Com-
missions Act the penalty where a politician
took money to help through a private busi-
ness deal was fixed at £5OO, with gaol as
an alternative. Bavin proposes to make
monopolistic contracts void, and “every per-
son who aids, abets, counsels or procures”
an injurious monopoly equally liable to pun-
ishment with the principals or instigators of
the offence. The Federal Act provided for
all these things in the case of parties to
a secret commission transaction of a corrupt
nature. The Secret Commissions Act has
failed as completely to stop “graft,” or even
to get people prosecuted for “graft,” as the
doomed Profiteering Act of N. S. Wales
failed to stop profiteering, and, it may be
added, as the Bavin Act is likely to fail to
stop the organisation and operation of
swindling monopolies. A reason for failure,
so far as both the Secret Commis-
sions Act and the Profiteering Act were
concerned, was reluctance on the part of
the Government to move against known offen-
ders. The excuse usually given by the poli-
ticians for inaction was the excuse they
habitually give for not attempting to cope
with venereal disease: the trouble was so
prevalent, they explained, that it was diffi-
cult to know where to begin the attack on
it. In Sydney some of the biggest mon-
opolies, by means of which the public are
being fleeced, are controlled by prominent
subscribers to the Nationalist party funds.
In addition to thousands of “arrangements,”
“understandings” and “gentlemen’s agree-
ments,” of which the Law takes no cog-
nisance, there are many, legalised monopolies
whose owners are earning immense incomes
at the expense of the community’s welfare —
the pony-racing monopoly, for example. llr>w
futile it would be to descend on a vegetable
“ring” and leave The Ring—the betting
Ring, the place of pinched prices for the
public and huge fortunes for the operators
—unassailed ! The invidious rfile of common
informer is dodged b.v most citizens,, and yet
if the Government of N. S. Wales indicates
that it really means business, it will pro-
bably be provided with enough evidence, of
monopolistic practices within a
month of the day its proposed law goes on
Book to kee P busy collecting
±099 hues for years to come. But Govern-
ments in Australia have never proceeded on
drastic lines of the sort, and only an in-
corrigible optimist will envisage one of them
domg it now. The utmost that the public
is entitled to expect on all past form is
that some petty trader—probably a polit cal
opponent—will be hauled up, rebuked
severely, fined lightly and released to do it
all over again. Measures of this sort are
mere gestures which those who are occupied
building up fortunes at the expense of the
wage-earners regard with merited derision
THE CASE AGAINST CO-OPERATION.
Business co-operation originated with the
admirable purpose of enabling a number of
persons, who would otherwise be competing
recklessly and singly, to work together and
find a fair market for their output. In
this way co-operative dairy factories, for
example, came into being. But the very
success of this valid system of co-operation
has brought about a claim for co-operation
and a definition of its purpose which are
injurious to the public. A co-operative
association is concerned with the formation
of a fair and regular market for the pro-
duce of those persons who constitute its
members; it emphatically should not concern
itself with an attempt to form a fictitious
market whereby its members may gain an
undue advantage over the general public.
In other words, it is not entitled to rig
or corner a market, under the pretext of
‘•stabilising” the latter. As an instance of
this process in operation, take the co-opera-
tive dairy factories of Maoriland. Last sea-
son the directors of some of these concerns
agreed with their members to pay the latter
a certain price for their milk and cream. In
order to do it they obtained money from
various financial institutions. At the time
conditions promised that substantially
more than the advance would be
earned, and that a generous surplus
would accrue after all costs had been
deducted. A slump came, and the banks
turned to the factories for their cash. The
factories could only reply that they had
handed the advances over to the farmers as
they were received. The lenders were insis-
tent : the factories made a despairing appeal
to the Government; and the latter, rather
than have the whole industry reduced to
chaos, declared a moratorium—which, by
the way, is still in existence. That is, to
put it in plain words, the factories have
been given an undue preference in the form
of an extended time to pay debts which they
never should have contracted.
In Australia, so far, the co-operative butter
factories have not succeeded in “working
the oracle,” as they did in M.L. But the
thin edge of the proverbial wedge has
already been inserted. Of this certain docu-
ments, which a recently-formed organisation
has sent round to the directors of the butter
factories of the Commonwealth, is clear and
sufficient evidence. This body calls itself the
“Commonwealth Dairy Produce Stabilisation
Committee.” A circular states without any
circumlocution the main object of the move-
ment : “Whereas in order to give stability
to the dairying industry of Australia it is
hereby agreed that the Commonwealth mar-
kets for butter and cheese be regulated irre-
spective of London markets.” The factory
proprietors are asked to agree ( inter alia)
to carry out all instructions and directions
of the committee ; to instruct all agents or
merchants to whom the factory may sell that
such sales are conditional on such agents or
merchants conforming with the regulations
and conditions of the trustees, and to ratify
and confirm all actions, steps and arrange-
ments entered into by the trustees. This is
a pretty comprehensive proposal; and the
effect of such an arrangement, if it be legal,
which is questionable, is to place in the
hands of the committee the absolute
control of the dairy produce of the
Commonwealth, the basic principle of that
control being that it is to be absolutely
independent of London. Put into plain
words, this means that the law of
supply and demand which ordinarily regu-
lates the prices of the world, is to be disre-
garded in the endeavor to fix a basic price
for Australian produce. The committee are
to say to whom, when, under what condi-
tions, and at what price the factories shall
sell—the plain outcome of which is that if
they cannot get the price they want, when
their output is released, they will store
sufficient of that output to enable them
to raise the price to the desired figure. In
other words, the public are to be made to
pay a high and absolutely illegitimate price
in order to suit the book of the committee
and its supporters. Clearly this proposed
scheme may be a case of the Maoriland
debacle over again, with the symptoms varied
greatly for the worse; it can only be at best
a reliance upon the pockets of the people,
either by Government guarantee—which is
the people’s guarantee—or bv the payment of
unfair prices. That is a method of stabilisa-
tion which may seem good to the proposed
committee, whose clients are on velvet either
way, but which is unlikely to make the
slightest appeal to those members of the
general public who possess sufficient intelli-
gence to appreciate its implications.
The same rotten principle may be dis-
cerned in the so-called State or voluntary
wheat pools—though none of the State
Governments will have anything to do with
them, and though they are not voluntary,
except as regards those -who propose to profit
by them. The main principle on which the
wheat pools stand is that the farmer must
send his wheat to them, and they in return
will market it for him. The pools guarantee
the farmers a certain price. Who is to
guarantee the pools? “Oh,” reply the pool-
mongers, “what’s a Government for?” And
they forthwith apply to the Government for
the required assistance.* As it happens, in
the case of these wheat pools the State Gov-
ernments have had more sense than usual:
each of them has turned down the sug-
gestion that it should guarantee its local
pool. But, unfortunately, there is still
another entity, with which we, as taxpayers,
are associated. That is the Federal Gov-
ernment, which buys and sells and guaran-
tees, and so forth, with our money, in tbe
same way as a State Government does.


There are two arguments which always
•appeal to a Government with irresistible
force —votes and elections. And when an
election happens to synchronise with tne
chance of losing votes, even the most toipid
Government will begin to sit up and take
notice. That was the position in which the
Federal Government founcl itself when the
proposal to guarantee the State wheat pools
was made to it. It was in want of votes,
and an election was looming. The farmers
were many, and most of them were
interested in these pools. So the pools
were guaranteed, and. if the price which
the farmers have been guaranteed is
not realised, the rest of us who are
not farmers will have to help pay
the damages. Had the matter been
left to itself, and the wheat sold at its
natural price, as determined by the usual
laws of supply and demand, there would
have been no injustice inflicted on anyone,
and no false stabilisation of the market
would have been engendered.
SYDNELAN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Attempt to Please Everybody.
While the House of Reps, was rushing into
recess, and resembling anything on earth
except a deliberative assembly, a contribu-
tion to the literature of the North-South
railway was added to its miles of uncon-
sidered papers. The essay was the work of
the Public Works Committee, and since all
the collaborators are party politicians about
to go before their constituents, it reflects
their hopes and fears regarding votes. One
man, Mathews, M.P. for Melbourne Ports,
had the honesty to propose—unmindful of.
the feeling in his electorate —that the Com-
monwealth should keep faith with South
Australia by constructing the through line
pledged in the Northern Territory Accept-
ance Act; but only Newland, a South Aus-
tralian Senator, supported him. The result
was a compromise report, framed with a
desire to please. As a sop to the South Aus-
tralians, it is suggested that the 3ft. (tin.
line which ends at Oodnadatta should be
extended miles north to Alice Springs.
If 801 b. rails and steel or concrete sleepers
were used, the estimated cost, plus rolling
stock, would be £3,362,000, but it is pointed
out that “a light low-level line with steep
momentum grades, using second-hand rails,
fastenings and sleepers,” could be built for
£1,558,600. Queensland hopes are encour-
aged by a recommendation that when the
railway at the northern end is taken from
the Katherine to Mataranka (which 64-mile
section was ordered for construction in 1916
but hasn’t been started yet) it should be
continued another 95 miles to Daly Waters
at a cost of £1,001,166. This, “on the un-
derstanding that it is to form portion of an
eventual line from Newcastle Waters to
Oamooweal (Q.).” With one eye still on
the Queensland elector, the committee word-
ily remarks that —
When the time arrives for a through transcon-
tinental line negotiations should be entered into with
South Australia, which would permit of an altera-
tion of the Northern Territory Acceptance Act to
allow of such line being constructed on the route
then shown to be in the best interests of Australia.
It adds, with a sidelong glance at the people
who write contemptuously of “desert rail-
ways,” that the Oodnadatta-Alice Springs
and Mataranka-Daly Waters sections
“would provide sufficient railway develop-
ment in the Territory for many years.” The
report is said to have gratified the South
Australians immensely. Why, it is hard to
say, for it gives them nothing but _ the
shadowy hope of a line ending in the middle
of Australia, 506 miles as the crow flies from
the northern section, and perhaps a poor
thing built with cheap and nasty material
at that. On the other hand, it considerably
heightens the expectations of the. sorry gang
of provincialists who are agitating for the
Queensland deviation. If the committee’s
recommendations are carried out, _ the Daly
Waters railhead will be a few miles closer
to the Queensland system than to that of
South Australia. If the northern. section
is tackled before the southern section, the
difference in favor of Queensland will be
over 300 miles. And a Government hungry
for Queensland support and certain to lose
ground presently in S. Australia is quite
capable of going ahead with Mataranka-
Daly Waters and letting Oodnadatta-Alice
Springs slide. Indeed, it is quite capable
of using the report as a pretext for break-
ing the contract with the Central State —
that contract in which the Deakin Gov-
eminent undertook, on Australia’s behalf
To construct, or cause to be constructed, a rail-
way line from Darwin southwards to a point on the
northern boundary, of South Australia, proper (which
railway, with the railway from a point on the Port
Augusta railway to connect therewith, is hereinafter
referred to as the Transcontinental railway), and to
construct, or cause to be constructed, as part of
the Transcontinental railway, a railway from a point
on the Port Augusta railway to connect with the other
part of the Transcontinental railway at a point on
the northern boundary of South Australia proper.
That was the consideration for which the S.
Australians surrendered the Territory, and
the prospect of acquiring an interest in two
small cheap lines, 560 miles apart, and neces-
sarily unpayable for that reason, shouldn’t
'cause them* to forget it in transports of
enthusiasm. They should hold the Common-
wealth to its bond.
British Freedom and Welsh Humbug.
The careers of Lloyd George and W. M.
Hughes have proceeded along lines so alike
as to suggest plagiarism somewhere. Lloyd
George at Limehouse and Hughes during
his anti-Trust campaign used practically the
same language. They were" both hated by
the rich and worshipped by the poor, whom
they had inspired with an acute form of
class-consciousness. Both got their chance
during a war which was fought as much
with propaganda as with guns, and which
called accordingly for accomplished dema-
gogues at the head of affairs rather than
reticent and conscientious statesmen.' A
brief experience of the company of the
affluent gave both a taste for fashionable
society, and for that dross which they had
alternately sheered at and denounced during
the previous quarter of a century. So suc-
cessfully have they overcome their pre-war
antipathy to capitalism that they are rich
men to-day—and not averse from becoming
richer, to judge by the energy with wh : ch
they pursue good things on the Stock Ex-
change. And now the end seems to be ap-
proaching. Unless the omens lie, those who
have walked together, so to speak, for so
long will not be divided in their political
death ; and with any luck, the dual funeral
ought to occur before the end of the year.
The two men differ widely in mentality and
in certain traits of character. Lloyd George
is as attractive to those with whom he comes
in contact as Hughes- is repellent. It is
doubtful if there is a single man in the
House of Commons who feels towards the
British Prime Minister as men like Earle
Page and Watt feel towards Hughes. “Mr.
Chamberlain,” said a cablegram of last
Monday, “referred to Mr. Lloyd George’s
constant loyalty towards his Unionist allies.”
Mr. Hughes has not been loyal to his Lib-
eral allies: in fact he has pretty consistently
adopted to most of them an attitude of trucu-
lent contempt. But uncouth manners have
never yet ruined a political leader; nor
have suavity and charm saved one. The
fatal disability which Lloyd George
and Hughes suffer from in common,
the characteristic which has always been
most feared, and hated, in British communi-
ties everywhere, is a craze for power of the
sort that brought Charles I. to the block.
The intentions of such meii lire often good
enough, and yet their incessant interference in
the details of administration, and their habit
of assuming responsibility for practically
everything—often over the head of Parlia-
ment —make them more irritating in normal
times, and more perilous to the country dur-
ing a crisis, than an accepted tyrant. Aus-
tralians have exactly the same conception
of liberty as Englishmen; they regard it as
an institution admitting of continuous initi-
ative on the part of all the citizens, high and
low The unforgivable offence in the case
of Hughes, as in that of Lloyd George, is
that he is as incapable of understanding why
Britishers should feel that way, much less
why it is an admirable thing that they should
so feel, as any benevolent despot of the Hark
Ages. So far as Mr. Hughes is concerned
he has instructed his N. S. Wales press, such
as it is, to argue that the movement against
him (a movement which began, and is strong-
est by the way, in S. Australia) has origi-
nated in Melbourne in a miserable jealousy
of Sydney. This attempt to arouse the
inter-State hatreds out of which Hughes
was accustomed to make capital when he
represented West Sydney at the beginning
of the century as a Freetrader of RepubU-
can sympathies, was as unscrupulous m its
wav as the evidently inspired threat of a
member of the Lloyd George Government
last week that the only alternative to the
Coalition was a “revolutionary party
meaning Britain’s pathetically stodgy and
bourgeois Labor party. Both are palpable
herrings drawn across that path of freedom
which the electors in the United Kingdom and
here are determined to tread as they d’d in
the days before the War which afflicted
them with government by meddlesome Welsh
spruikers.
The Deputation.
A pen-picture from Headquarters:
It had been in proceess of arrangement for two
months. Letters had been written, wires sent, tele-
phone bells rung, dates suggested and duly rejected,
fresh dates proposed and further wires, telephone
messages and letters exchanged.
And at last they had arrived.
They had come to see the Great Man on urgent
public business. There was a defective telegraphic
system at Wattabeelagang, and because it—like every-
thing else —came under the Great Man’s personal
control, they were appealing to him for that atten-
tion which they knew him to be ever ready to give
to his faithful lieges, the people of the Common-
wealth. .
They clumped into the room, drowning its scholarly
odor of old furniture and morocco bindings in a
composite reek suggestive of the cow-bail, the stable
and the Outback store. They were charmed to
confused' dumbness ,at the courteous manner m
which the statesman —gleaming blindingly as to his
patent boots, his frock-coat, his satin tie and his
snowy collar and cuffs —superintended the disposal
of their hats, their umbrellas, and, finally, their per-
spiring bodies about his inner sanctum.
He fixed his aeousticon and registered attention
The local member spoke first.
A large, an earnest man, a man of prime impor-
tance within the confines of his own bailiwick; but
in the presence of the tense and vehement little
figure at the desk, the merest worm. The voice so
resonant and self-assured at political and social gath-
erings in and around Wattabeelagang disclosed a
marked tremor of nervousness as it spoke into the
strange apparatus which j'utted from the impassive
and yet terrifying face of the Master.
The local member desired, first, to express the
deputation’s gratitude to the Great Man for his
kindness in arranging to see them. (He refrained
considerately from mentioning the two months’
delay in the country, the two hours’ wait in the
corridor.) They had come from their far homes
on an affair of urgent public importance. They had
come because they knew that in these matters the
fountain head of Justice required to be sought; and
that once its pure waters were found it would not
be tapped in vain. Such was the proud reputation
their Prime Minister had earned for himself, and
so the members of the deputation with which he
(the speaker) had the honor to be associated knew
that they had but to state their case to have
immediate and favorable attention paid to it. He
would now call on Councillor Snivvers to say a
few words. *■
The Councillor, a' fluent speaker, addressing the
aeousticon, recalled himself in ringing tones to the
memory of Australia’s Greatest Son with the re-
mark, significantly delivered, that he was by birth
a Gerringerong Snivvers. Aye, and proud of it!
Their eminent friend would remember, doubtless,
honest Nick Snivvers, of the good old town., Nick
was his—the speaker’s—father. Nor would the
statesman have forgotten, he ventured to say, Mrs.
Nick, wdiose jams had swept the board at successive
A., H. and P. Shows in the district for as far back
as the mind of man ran. Recalling that good wife,
mother and churchw'oman, would not his (the Prime
Minister’s) blood boil to know that, owing to the
wicked, the imbecile —he would not mince words —
the criminal telegraphic system of the district, Mrs.
Nicholas Snivvers had been lacerated in her feel-
ings as a grandmother by a complete hiatus in the
matter of news between Wattabeelagang (her pre-
sent place of residence) and Rabbit Creek, where
her youngest grandchild (the speaker’s niece) lav
writhing in the throes of illness. Nor was this an
isolated case. It was an everyday affair.- The scan-
dal had burst all bounds and become intolerable.
And now the deputation settled down to receive
the Great Man's decision. The delegates, poised upon
expectancy as on a sword-point, showed the emotion
that they felt in sweating brows, bulging - eyes
noisily shuffling boots and resonant nose-breathings.
In the manner of the Delphic Oracle, or of his
great prototype on Olympus, the dictator began.
They had done well to bring this matter before
him in person. He was the Prime Min-is-tev of a
ger-reat Com-mon-wealth. For it was a ger-reat
Com-mon-wealth —the Melbourne provincial press to
the contrary. They were privileged, inasmuch as they
were ci-ti-zens of that Com-mon-wealth; and it be-
hoved each of them so to act that at all times he
would be in a position to give a satisfactory account
of his stewardship if required. Theirs was indeed
a mighty heritage; they were not only citizens of a
mighty continent —a continent capable of holding a
hundred millions of people!—tliej r were also citi-
zens of a mighty Empire. There were those who
would overthrow that Empire as the Empires of
Rome and of Carthage had been overthrown. Hut let
them beware ! “Slene, mene, tekel uphar.sin I” The
handwriting was upon the wall, clear for him who
ran to read.
Now, as to their question.... They had done right
in coming to him. He was their Prime Minister,
the head of this great Com-mon-wealth, which stood
for the freedom of the Empire and a fair deal for all
men, irrespective of race, class or creed. That justice,
the justice with which the name of Britain was asso-
ciated wherever the flag of civilisation breasted the
breeze, they should have at his hands, full measure
and brimming over.
And meanwhile, as to their request, he would con-
fer with his colleagues and see what could be done.
Rising briskly he shook hands with each in turn,
and by some process of motivation, more spiritual
than physical, edged them, as it were, to the door,
and out of it. In an incredibly brief space of time
the delegates found themselves at the head of an
imposing flight of steps, their dazed faces orientated
towards their hotel.
“What a speaker!’’ gasped the local member.
“He has the interests of the country at. heart all
right,” agreed Councillor Snivvehs.
“High and low! They’re all one to him.”
“My oath! Did you notice how he remembered
my old man? An’ the old lady, too! Now I don’t
suppose he met ’er more than two or three times in
his life!”
* # * *
To the Prime Minister, as he sat in his room brood-
ing on high affairs of State, there came now a
henchman —pliant, deferential, the perfect Base Camp
adjutant.
“You have dismissed them, sir?”
“Yes, the blankers!”
“Were you able to grant their request ?”
“What bequest? ’ What the blanlty blank have
I to do with bequests?”
“Their boon, sir” (roaring). “Their favor! What
they wanted!”
“I never heard a blanky weird they said. The
blithering acousticon’s out of order. Come and
play billiards. Let’s see. I gave you 25 in a hundred
last time. I’ll play you 200 up this time and give
you 50. The loser pavs for dinner to-night.”
♦
Norway Kecants.
The Acting Organising Secretary of the N.
S. Wales Alliance wrote to the Sydney
papers on the publication, last week, of a
cablegram stating that Norway had turned
down Prohibition atter a brief (and inciden-
tally disastrous) experience of it. He took
the point that Norway had never enjoyed
real Prohibition, “as the law only applied to
alcoholic liquors containing more than 12
per cent, alcohol in the case of wines” (as
a fact 14 per cent, was the correct figure),
“and 2J per cent, in the case of beers.” The
queer conclusive drawn was that the Nor-
wegians have ..brown out Prohibition be-
cause they did not get enough of it. “Pro-
hibition,” remarked the Alliance official,
“is only a farce if it is not applied
to all alcoholic liquors.” Such a pro-
position discloses the illogicality of the
irreconcilable Cold Tea merchant in a truly
blinding light.- There are wine-drinking dis-
tricts in France which are among the most
temperate localities in the civilised world;
and until the laws regulating the manu-
facture and sale of Calvados (or pear
brandy) there existed French towns and vil-
lages ( Zola dealt with some of them in several
of his books) which were as drunken as the
worst quarter of a modern Glasgow slum.
France, Italy and the rest of the wine-
drinking countries are admittedly soberer
than, say, New York State after two years
of Prohibition; and brandy-drinking Nor-
mandy, which was France’s horrible example
of alcoholism in Zola’s day, has been made
so abstemious by regulation that it has long
ceased to be a scandal. Norway, which has
just decided against Prohibition, had all
these object-lessons to go on, and so had
Sweden, when by a plebiscite taken last
August it decided to have nothing to do with
the Yankee panacea. The plain reason why
Norway abandoned even the moderate form
of Prohibition that it had experimented with,
and why Sweden declined to touch the
policy, was a matter of realising the absurd-
ity of attempting to enforce the unenforce-
able. Both countries are peculiarly unfitted,
in the geographical sense, for Prohibition;
and after Norway had spent a colossal sum
trying vainly to defeat the aims of German
and Danish firewater and wood-alcohol
smugglers, both people and Government
came to the conclusion that it was better to
thrive on cheap and, wholesome spirits
than be poisoned by means of vile and
expensive ones. N. S. Wales, where it is
proposed to institute full Prohibition out of
hand, is in an incomparably worse position,
as regards the enforcement of such a policy,
than either Norway or Sweden. It has
enormous frontiers, no army or navy, and
no Customs service. Should it, therefore,
follow the advice of the Alliance and kindred
bodies it will be compelled either to add to
its present commitments the cost of support-
ing a huge new body of officials on land and
sea, or face the prospect of yet another of
its laws being treated as a joke. Norway,
where it has been found impossible en-
force even partial Prohibition, is, like N. S.
Wales, a more or less sea-girt State; but,
unlike any Australian State, it supports,
Prohibition or no Prohibition, an army of
140,000 men and a fleet of about 50 vessels.
The One Party that is Making Converts.
An impression that survives the late un-
lamented Parliament is that' the smallest
of the three parties into wh : ch it was divided
is destined to be the largest. “Nationalism”
is without pride of ancestry or hop? of pos-
terity, and will obviously fall with Hughes.
What is left of the Labor party has sur-
rendered to the thing that British Labor
hud the sense to turn down—a shandygaff
internationalism whose spiritual home is
Moscow. But the Country party grows
visibly in strength and standing. From the
squalid turmoil of a session in which bills
were passed in two or three minutes and a
£02.000.000 Budget at a couple of all-night
sittings; in which the _ crowd in office
plumbed the depths of political bribery and
the crowd in opposition showed, when the
crisis came, that it had learned nothing and
forgotten nothing since it was prepared to
surrender to a beaten enemy in 1918, the
Cockies emerged with a clean record. In
Earle Page they have evolved a leader with-
out a past to live down, and with a genu-
inely Australian outlook. He is not so
skilled in the tricks of the party trade as
Hughes or Charlton, but he hasn’t de-
stroyed his reputation for courage by bolt
ing from his constituency, or his reputation,
for sagacity by suggesting that if the Turks
renewed their war against the Empire the
question whether Australia should join in
resisting them be referred to an uninstructed
electorate, 49 per cent, women. And no-
thing could have been more effective than
the words in which he dismissed the Primin-
ister’s attempts first to bludgeon and then
to cajole him into a coalition: —
What reasonable body of men could follow a policy
that this year says bounties alone can maintain in-
dustry, last year that bounties would destroy
industry; that last year said constitutional amend-
ments were imperative for (lie proper conduct ot
government, and this year does nothing concernii a
them? Or a party that last year had a policy lor
buying sawmills and extending Government enter-
prises on all sides, and this year appoints a disposal
board to get rid of them; that last year promised
national economy and reduction of expenditure, and
this year presents a budget with a total disregard
for economy, and providing for increased expendi-
ture? It reminds one of a disabled, rudderless ship,
under an irresponsible captain, putting up a sail io
catch every passing breeze, hoping against hope to
reach port.
No one is rushing to joiu either of the older
parties. On the contrary, a Liberal cave is
forming among ue Nationalists, and tlm
Catts group has broken away from the
A.L.P. But the Country is mak-
ing converts everywhere. In Westralia,
where it originated, and where it has marchfC
from victory to victory, it is now' the strong-
est party in the Assembly, containing one
more member than the Labor Opposition,
twice as many as the Liberals, and three
times as many as the National Laborites,
who support the Mitchell Government
Within the last month, Smith, member for
Nelson, and Thomson, member for Clare-
mont, have gone over to it, and Thomson’s
accession is especially significant, for Clare-
mont is a suburban constituency. Another
important point is that the party isf almost
entirely native-born. It isn’t dominated by
the kind of imported politician that is for
ever w’ondering what thev will think in Eng-
land, or bv the sort that broods over the
wrongs of Erin. An increasingly large pro-
portion of the delegates to its _ conferences
are returned soldiers. In effect, its blood and
bones are Australian, and so is its soul.
That being the ease, those who speak for it
ought to drop a designation which will
always expose it to the charge of sectional-
ism and hinder its progress in the cities. Its
name should be the Australian party.
: +
Another Aspect of the New State
Movement.
Dear Bulletin, —There are a pair of
clauses in the Federal Constitution that I
darkly surmise to be clumsy jokes, and one
that may turn out to be tragedy. The jokes
were not the work of the convention of Con-
stitution-makers which the people elected.
But when George Reid and his fellow-
parochialists repudiated their work and the
people’s sovereignty together, two new pro-
visions were inserted as a compromise. One
has reference to our Federal Capital in Two
Pieces, 140 Miles Apart, and the Josh Bil-
lings of the gathering was responsible for
the wording of it:—
The seat of Government of the Commonwealth
shall be determined by the Parliament, and shall
be within territory which shall have been granted
to or acquired by the Commonwealth, and shall be
vested in and belong'to the Commonwealth, and if
New South Wales be an Original State shall be in
that State, and be distant not less than 100 miles
from Sydney.
That taken literally disqualifies Canberra,
which is not “in that State” (New South
Wales), though it was once, but is on
Federal soil. And if it was qualified by
being put back in N.S.W., which could be
done by banding back the soil, it would
be disqualified again by not being on land
that is “vested in and belongs to” the Com-
monwealth. In fact, every place in the
State and in every other State is ruled out,
unless someone can discover a spot that can
be in two spots at once, and a complete fresh
deal seems called for. Even a High Court
decision that Canberra is all right won’t
prevent a new batch of Judges 13 years
hence ruling that it is all wrong. Chief
Justice Adrian Knox and four accomplices
reversed a 13-years-old decision of the
almighty Griffith in the Amalgamated
Society of Engineers’ case, and laid it down
that the Court wasn’t bound by its own
bad precedents. The next oddity put into
the Constitution by George Reid and his
self-appointed committee has to do with the
subdivision of States, and runs as follows :
(123) The Parliament of tlie Commonwealth may,
with the consent of the Parliament of a State and
the approval of the majority of the electors of the
State voting upon the question, increase, diminish or
otherwise alter the limits of the State....
(124) A new State may be formed by Separation
of territory from a State, but only with the con-
sent of the Parliament thereof, and a new State
may be formed by the union of two or more States
or parts of States, but only with the consent of the
Parliaments of the States affected.
The whole future of Australia depends on
the making of new States, so that there
may be more capitals for the people to gather
round (a necessity this, since they have abso-
lutely given up gathering round anything
except capitals), and..the empty places may
at least begin to be inhabited —that is, of
course, unless Australia can find a fresh soul,
and fresh souls are no drug in the market. The
wilds are in very many eases growing
wilder, and where they are not the new
population is too often very mixed. Quite
a drove of New State movements are out
on the almost impossible job of securing
emancipation by Act of Parliament —by per-
suading Pharaoh to do without compul-
sion what Ptiaraoti never did without com-


Farmers’& Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co. of A“ straiia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL --- £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
pulsion yet; in other words, let liis people
fo. Phabaoh roars with laughter at their
opes and efforts, but they toil on. Well,
suppose they achieve the impossible under
Clause 124—perhaps by raising a fund and
buying the votes of sufficient Upper and
Power Housers at £2500 each, with the pro-
mise of a nomination, if required, for a safe
seat in the New' State Parliament, where
the salary will be unprecedented; and that,
I believe, is the only way unless some law-
less person starts a taxpayers’ strike. Then,
I presume, someone will demonstrate that
the scheme will “diminish or otherwise
alter” (very much alter) “the limits of the
State.” Wherefore it will also come under
the blighting influence of Clause 123, and
a majority of the people round the capital,
where all the majorities live, will have to
be bought as well as a majority of the poli-
ticians. That is, unless there is a general
desire to make a considerable sacrifice of
valuable tax-contributors for the joy of
doing a good action and laying up treasure
in Heaven. I have heard of people doing
that sort of thing, also I have heard of their
relatives putting them in mental hospitals.
Likewise I have heard of the North freeing
the Southern nigger, and England freeing
the West Indian nigger, but not of anybody
wilfully freeing his own nigger gratis. There
is also another clause (121) which says
briefly: “The Parliament may admit to the
Commonwealth or establish new States,”
apparently getting its New State material
where and how it pleases, and asking per-
mission of no man, but I expect it doesn’t
count. To finish with, let me recommend
Clause
(119) The Commonwealth shall protect every
State against invasion, and, on the application of
the Executive Government of the State, against
domestic violence.
I fancy that is a slavish copy of Yankee
law. But in the U.S. a State has its own
little army or National Guard, enlisted for
three years, partly supported by the central
Government, armed like regular troops, and
even liable to be swept into the regular
army if required. This is apart from a
compulsory militia force of over 2-i million
excellent paper soldiers. Here the State
Governments are practically unarmed. I
have been told that if perdition breaks loose
in a State (or in all the States at once)
and the Executive doesn’t apply for aid
(it may be dead, or in prison, or terrorised,
or it may be a pure Bolshevik Executive
which is running a civil war itself to abol-
ish elections and make its power perpetual),
it is the bounden duty of the Federal power
to look on with an unmoved countenance
while its income-taxpayers, except those in
the Federal Territory, are butchered, and
all the State capitals burn at once. Per-
haps the State Rights idea may be carried
too far. One never knows.—Yours, etc.,
James Edmond.
«
The Influence of Theodorism on
Industry.
Premier Theodore is concerned to prove
that conditions are more favorable for the
manufacturer in Queensland than elsewhere
in the Commonwealth, and that any tardi-
ness in the development of the Northern
State’s secondary industries must, therefore,
be due to the machinations of political
enemies. Hence the following statement
made some time ago by him in the Assemb’y
and often repeated since:—
The Queensland manufacturing industries show a
greater margin of profits than any of the other
States. These are the figures taken from the last
quarterly summary of Australian statistics
(Knibbs) :
Queensland .. .. 20.67 p.c.
New South Wales .. 12.11 „
Victoria . . . . 16.08 „
South Australia . . 10.79 ~
Westralia . . . . 14.17 „
Tasmania . . . . . . 17.93 „
Now, in the first place, these figures do not
represent the margins of profits, but the
margins of profits and miscellaneous expenses
and charges (including taxation). Iynibbs’s
complete figures are :
Item of outlay. N.S.W. Vic. Q’land. W.A.
Wages . . . . 18.8 20.17 16.89 25.09
Fuel - . . . 2.64 2.06 1.93 2.39
Materials . . . . 66.45 61.09 60.51 58.35
Margin for profit, mis-
cellaneous expenses 12.11 16.08 20.67 14,17
Furthermore, the comparison that Theodore
draw's is misleading, inasmuch as the margin
of expenses varies w'idely with different in-
dustries. How is it that Queensland’s wages
bill is only 16.89 p.c., w'hile Victoria’s is
20.17 p.c., and Western Australia’s 25 p.c.?
Hours of labor are lower and wmges and taxa-
tion higher in Queensland than elsewhere
in Australia. Does Theodore propound the
absurdity that the efficiency of the Queens-
land worker and the methods of manufacture
in that State are so superior that those fac-
tors outweigh the handicap of higher wages
and taxation and less hours of work? What
is the Q. Premier’s explanation of the fact
that in N. S. Wales 66.45 p.c. of the total
value of the output is the value of raw
material utilised, while in the northern
State it is only 60.15 p.c.? Is it suggested
that Queensland’s methods of manufacture
are better? The only other conclusion—
and this, of course, is the correct one—is
that the difference is accounted for by the
difference in the class of manufactured
article. As against the general proposition
that Queensland is a manufacturer’s para-
dise, consider these compilations by the
industrious Knibbs :
Value op Output prom Factories.
State. 1915-16. 1920-21. Increase, p.c.
N.S.W. 70,989,864 136,992,218 66,002,354 93
Victoria 51,466,093 106,008,294 54,562,201 105
Queensland 25,541,024 39,783,678 14,242,654 55
Turn now to the figures for the five years
preceding Theodobe’s accession :
State. 1911-12. 1914-15. Increase, p.c.
N. S. Wales 54,346,011 68,253,332 13,907,321 26
Victoria 41,747,863 51,466,093 9,718,230 22
Queensland 15,675,662 25,444,812 9,769,150 62
The manufacturer, as a matter of plain fact,
has little time for Queensland. High wages,
less hours and high taxation are hitting him
to leg with painful vigor and consistency.
And it is to Theodore and his gang of
thinly-camouflaged Reds that the phenomenon
is chiefly attributable.
When Marriage is a Failure.
“Bay Webb” : The chronic rows between
the churches are doing the public a good
turn by focussing attention upon our mar-
riage laws and customs. The latter are
utterly out of date, as is easily understand-
able when one remembers that they origi-
nated, as regards broad principles, at a meet-
ing of prelates three centmries ago. A pro-
SPOILING THE WOOING.
BILL: “I wonder what can be distracting her attention."
mise to love, honor and obey stretches well
beyond the limits of human control over
the emotions. However sincere, for example,
a bride may be when she makes her vows,
she cannot continue to love and honor a
husband who wallows in drink, drugs or
crime, or who leaves her to run after
strange females. And there is the further
question of the children. Those reared in
an environment of alcoholism, infidelity and
recrimination are not likely to develop into
citizens who will leave earth the better for
having lived in it. An abrupt ending of
a miserable married life will affect only
two persons. Lifelong protraction of the
misery may directly mar the careers of half
a dozen or more, and the ruin of each may
pass calamity forward in multiplying force
through the centuries. What a world this
might be to-day had our fathers of a century
or so back decreed that all married couples
should live together in harmony or separate!
That our boys shall not be sheep amongst
wolves, we teach them something of the
ways of a wicked world; but we make such
a fetich of maidenly modesty that many of
our girls must either stake their happiness
upon a blindfold plunge or shirk the ordi-
nance of the Creator. We sympathise with
the man who enters into a business partner-
ship with a rogue, and the law exerts itself
to extricate him; but that same law is a
sullen obstructionist in many cases where
an uninstructed maiden’s gamble into the
unknown has fettered her for life to a mon-
ster. The main requirement of to-day is
that the Courts should get awav Irom the
mediaeval superstition about the inherent
wickedness of divorce. At the back of this
idiotic notion is the principle which has
made an offence of collusion. Far from be-
ing reprobated collusion ought to be encour-
aged. It is hard to imagine a more rational
ground for the granting of a dissolution of
marriage than the proven fact that that
marriage has become intolerable to both
parties. The sole province of the Judge in a
case of the sort should be to satisfy himself
that husband and wife were both genuinely
dissatisfied with their contract; in other
words, that no duress had been used to bring
either into court. Once that fact was estab-
lished relief should follow as automatically
as in a case (say) of proven adultery. It is
a truism that in thousands of cases a recon-
ciliation is possible where either the wife
or the husband has been guilty of adultery
and that that reconciliation may prove the
stepping-stone to long years of married happi-
ness. But there can be no happiness for
two persons who have grown to loathe each
other; who have nothing to forgive but that
form of antipathy which is unforgivable.
They should be relieved of each other’s com-
pany in society’s interests as much as in
the. interests of themselves and their off-
spring, if they are unlucky enough to pos-
sess children.
The Slaughter of the Unhorn.
“Cartot” : Apropos the recent conviction
in Sydney of the notorious “Butcher”
Bennett, there are few people out-
side the medical profession who realise
the extraordinary prevalence of the profes-
sional abortionist in Australian cities. About
75 per cent, of the practising abortionists
are women, usually unqualified nurses; their
methods are too crude and dangerous for
them to have much of a clientele. The other
25 per cent, are the real menaces, men who,
through the knowledge and skill that they
possess, are able to go on year after year
slaying the unborn in thousands at the
smallest risk of being called to account,
lnere are abortionists in Sydney and
Melbourne who have been practising for
years without let or hindrance, although
their calling is perfectly well known to the
police. Some of them employ women-agents,
who go looking for possible customers in
likely places; others have a post-office address
in some obscure quarter of the city, to which
the girl in trouble writes and is duly seen
by appointment a few days later. But the
more cautious will have nothing to do with
anybody who is not personally intro-
duced and guaranteed. The charges range
from a humble fiver to a hundred guineas,
the dimensions of the sum being generally
regulated by the position and standing of
the parties concerned, particularly the man.
That the professional abortionist will ever
be driven out of existence by police activities
is too much to hope, but a good deal to-
wards exterminating him could be done
simply by means of a broad-minded policy
of State adoption of unwanted illegitimate
children. If there were in existence some
system by which the child could be taken
from the mother, either at birth or as soon
after as desired, and brought up in such a
way that she could have access to it—even
if there were maternity homes into which
young women could be received and no ques-
tions asked —a damaging blow would be
struck at the trade of the murderer. Of
course, to a certain extent, such a system is
in force in some of the States now, but it is
hedged around with such restrictions and re-
gulations that the average unwedded mother
will have nothing to do with it, and does
not by any means look upon it as affording
her relief in her trouble. Doubtless the
people who object so bitterly to v.d. prophy-
lactics would regard maternity homes of this
sort as an additional inducement to comiliit
sin, but with the spread of education and
the resultant growth of a humanitarian spirit
it is to be hoped that the influence of these
medisevalists will gradually fade out.
“Jaga Baik” (Shanghai) :—•
In Singapore in 1908-09 there was a bright little
shop stocked with Australian foodstuffs, canned and
otherwise. Trade possibilities were incalculable,. for
the sizable white population was increasing yearly,
the hinterland held thousands of planters who re-
plenished their larders from Singapore, and the
natives (the well-to-do Straits-born Chinese particu-
larly) were rapidly learning to appreciate the food
products of temperate climes. Competition was not
over keen, and this looked just the shop that might
break down the Singapore preference for goods from
Kngland. The prices were distinctly favorable, and,
once inside the package, the quality convinced. But
the makeup of the package was too heavy a handicap
for any enterprise to carry, and that business died
young instead of growing up and having a family.
In Australia packers have their cans accepted because
the quality is known to be good. Out here, however,
placed on a shelf next to the artistically-got-up Ameri-
can and English packages, the article from the Com-
monwealth looks shoddy and suggests inferiority.
Can’t Australia make decent cases and print service-
able, attractive labels after all these years? Must
the unreal yellow apricot try to fit into the printed
strawberry ? Need there be a leaking can in every
case to produce the black stain?
•
“W.P.D.” retubns to the defence: —
Reverting to the matter of my N.Q. Italian
friends, I must admit that I have no copies of the
birth-certificates of any of them, as asked for by
“Hengist” (B. 7/9/’22). But I have talked to
scores around Ingham, Halifax and Innisfail, and if
what they told me was the truth most of them came
from villages or hamlets on the foothills of the
Pennine Alps, or along the valleys of the Po and
the Adige. There is another test which “Hengist”
will maybe accept—by implication he seems ready to
approve of settlers from the north of Italy. There
is as marked a difference between the intonation
and pronunciation of the Lombard peasants, and
the dwellers in Naples, Calabria or Sicily, as
there is between the patois of the country
folk of Flanders or Picardy and those of Lan-
guedoc or Provence, or between the dialects of York-
shiremen and men of Devon. My knowledge of
Italian is not profound, but I can detect that dif-
ference, and I recognise the northern twang of the
Italian sugar-farmers and farm-laborers in N.Q. The
comparison between these men and the min-
ing camps of Austrians, Slavs and Italians in W.A.
20 years ago does not hold good. The latter were
aggregations of men of mixed races, not at all the
sort who settle down and till the soil; the former
have their own homes, with their wives and families.
I have never heard complaints of defective sanitary
arrangements in towns where Italians mostly con-
gregate, and prosecutions by sanitary inspectors are
rare. When I say that the N.Q. Italians are law-
abiding, I include laws and by-laws regulating sani-
tary conditions. The main point of my contention,
however, has not been touched on by any of the
opponents of Italian immigration to the cane areas,
and that is that until the advent of the men from
Lombardy, Piedmont and Venetia, eugar-growintg
was a dying industry, owing to the inefficiency of
the labor procurable. Britishers and those of
British descent could not make it pay, and therefore
they sold out to those who could and did. If some
of the objectors will point out a way in which the
industry can be worked profitably, without the aid
of Italians, Kanakas or coolies, their suggestions will
be worth consideration. So far, they have entirely
failed to do so


An Italian Felt
/O/- /ess than last year.
This is an ideal Summer Hat, provid-
ing good shade and being steadfast in
color. Peapes recommend it because
it is very light and impervious to rain
and sunshine.
It is of smooth finish Felt, and has
medium crown, flat-set brim
with unbound edge, and 2in. band with
bow at side.
Three colors: Nut Brown, Steel or
Smoke.
Price 35/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
sd
fsd
fs
Write for a copy of Peapes’ New Catalogue, just issued.
The International Reputation
of the
df
Warrants your consideration, because it gives you the assurance
of uninterrupted satisfaction the year round.
All the qualities of Speed, Comfort, Reliability and Economy are
embodied in the range we offer, and the prices represent the most
practical expression ever offered. Therefore buy a FIAT.
GARRATTS LIMITED
173-75 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The cane-sugar industry seems _ fated to
be the sport of vote-hungry politicians. To
placate the consumer, the retail price is
lo be reduced on Nov. 1 to sd. a pound.
To still the growers’ apprehensions, the
Government has raised the duty on raw
sugar from £6 a ton to £9 6s. 8d. — i.e., Id.
per pound. It tried to make the duty on
Java whites £ll 6s. Bd. a ton, but there was
a majority against the extra £2. And now
the planters are so wild at losing their
40 bob that it is doubtful whether they will
support the Little Digger after all.
Victoria’s Lawson Government survived
the test vote on the question of referring the
Electricity Bill to a select committee, com-
posed of six Liberals and Coeky-member Lind,
but its advantage was small—-25 to 22.
Earthing, nominated as a member of the
committee, was absent next door at _ the
schools’ exhibition, and had to be paired.
McDonald was attending to an importunate
constituent in a department, and Snowball
was at a funeral. . Like Bent, he stands
by a friend to the last.
The Turk has changed his mind about
starting another war with J. Bull and Sons.
Faced with an army that looked as if it
meant business, and remembering that there
was a navy in the neighborhood, he decided
that he had better not —for the present, at
any rate. “You mustn’t threaten unless you
mean it,” says Lloyd George, explaining a
bitterly-aspersed policy that was justified by
results. “It is because Britain threatened
and meant it, and the Turks knew that we
meant it, that we have peace.” Of course,
this needn’t prevent the A.L.P. from arguing
that what really scared the Unspeakable was
Charlton’s proposal to take a war referen-
dum some time next year.
Following the example of Smith, M.L.A. for
Nelson (W.A.), Jock Thomson, whom
Claremont elected as a Nationalist last year,
has joined the Country party. Thereby he
has made the Cockies the most numerous
group in the Westralian Assembly, and given
them their first suburban seat. A mineowner
by profession, Thomson served in the Miners’
Corps in France. On his return he got a
concession over the Yampi Sound iron-ore
deposits, took the State Miniitg Engineer up
in a specially-chartered steamer, and sold
part of his interest to the Queensland Gov-
ernment. He stood for the Senate in 1914,
and came tenth in a field of 12.
“Harold Hardupp” : If Percy Coleman wins
the Labor-selection ballot for Reid (N.S.W.L
a curious coincidence will be completed. Reic?
includes the old State electorate of Canter-
bury, which H. E. Peters represented until’
financial disaster engulfed him. Peters fought
in the war under the name of Murray, and
chummed up with Coleman in the London
hospital in which both were undergoing re-
pairs. Before he went west Peters said
jestingly, “I’ll leave you my old electorate
in my will.” It may come to that yet, in
a sort of way.
“Tally Ho”: Speck Labor has selected
J. R. Palamountain to run against Nation-
alist Llew Atkinson for the Wilmot seat,
which Atkinson has held since 1906. Pala-
mountain’s sole claim to distinction is that
he is never seen without a red tie. He has
no chance against Atkinson, but the latter
will have to kiss battalions of babies and
open flocks of bazaars if a solid C.P. can-
didate takes the field.
The 1922 S.A. Budget was Treasurer
Ritchie's third, and will be his last for the
present, as he is retiring from the Assembly
to stand for the Angas seat in the Reps.
There was a deficit of £54,000, and Ritchie
blamed Broken Hill for it. inasmuch as the
Hill hasn’t fully returned to the habit of
work. The public debt has now soared to 54
millions, and the population has climbed above
the half-million mark at last. No alteration
in taxation is proposed, and Ritchie sees no
direction in which expenditure can be cut
down. But if the harvest pans out well and
direct-action doesn’t break out on the Bar-
rier again, he hopes his successor will have
a surplus.
Touching a scene in the ’Ouse: —
For raising a dust in N. S. Wales Leg. Coun-
cil (among other things he likened President Flow-
ers, who looks like a grandfatherly walrus, to the
noisome skunk), Jimmy Wilson has been suspended
from the service of that Chamber. Jimmy must
have made a night of it, for he fell foul of a Mop
who considered his language obscene and his conduct
disorderly—and so did the beak next morning. He
is old enough to have helped in drafting the original
Labor Constitution, and to have been one of the
two Laborites —Hepher was the other—first appointed
to the nominee House. Poor McGowen recalled the
circumstance at his last Fight Hour sports. “John
See told me,” said Mac, “that he wanted a couple
of Labor M’s.L.C., but before he submitted the
THE SUPER-MONOPOLIST.
“The Fuller Government is passing a Monopolies Act, making it a penal offence for any person or
organisation to conduct an injurious monopoly.”
HIS HONOR: “Tom heard this youngster’s terrible story, woman. Have you any reason
to give why I should not inflict on you the severest penalty the law allows ?”
nominations he demanded an assurance that the
pair would be well-behaved. What had happened
with some of our best men after they had got into
the Assembly made him dubious. I assured him
that Wilson and Hepher were as reliable a pair
as we had in the party, and as far as I knew
neither drank. I was prepared to stake my life
upon them.” The Hon. James must have backslid
a bit since. But even as a dog is allowed one bite,
one burst should be permitted a man who has been
in the Uppah House for donkeys’ years. Its solemn
dulness would get on a Savonarola’s nerves.
If the brake isn’t put on Victoria’s Plush
House will become radical. By 11 votes to
9 it passed the second reading of the Melb.
and Geelong Aldermen Abolition Bill, and
then put the measure through all stages.
Before that it had agreed to make skirted
persons (with the necessary proputty quali-
fication) eligible for membership. This revo-.
lutionary spirit is expected to be encouraged
by the Leg. Assembly, which is now wrest-
ling with the daring measures. But some of
the members are gloomily wondering where
it will all end.
In 1919-20 388,159 persons paid Com-
monwealth income-tax. Under the new
vote-catching scheme, whisked through Par-
liament in the last week of the session, more
than half the number—2lo,423, in fact—
have been placed on the exemption list,
which means that they have been relieved
of their liability to pay interest on the war
debt. The principle is utterly rotten, and
will have consequences unforeseen by the
rabble of legislators who have both eyes on
the ballot-box. Pratten, M.H.R., points out
that the Commonwealth and State taxes on
large incomes are nearly as high as the Bri-
tish rates in N. S. Wales, and higher in
Queensland and Westralia. When this was
hinted at by Lang, the late Labor Trea-
surer, Motherhood McGirr’s reply was,
“They can stand plenty more yet,” and
Lang evidently came round to McGirr’s way
of thinking, for he was arranging a 50 p.c.
increase of the tax on companies and such
when his Government was slung out. Com-
pare this blind rage for penalising industry
with the attitude of Maoriland’s Massey, who
has reduced his maximum rate of tax from
Bs. 9d. in the £ to 7s. 4d. (in Australia it
works up to 135.), and talks of lowering it
to ss. in a year or two. They order these
matters with more sanity in M.L.
The Queensland Full Court has confirmed
the conviction of Sleeman and Connolly for
attempting to bribe Brennan, M.L.A., and
the Theodore Government, by a special Act
of Parliament, amending the criminal code,
has confiscated £3200 that was dangled be-
fore the legislator’s eyes. However little
sympathy the unsavory pair may deserve, it
can hardly be contended that there is not
an audacious abuse of Parliamentary power
and a flat defiance of statute-book precedent
in enacting a new and additional penalty for
an offence that has been committed and
making it retrospective. Unless someone
weighs in with the fines (£lOOO in all), the
sentence passed on the prisoners will be
trebled in severity. And that is something
which the Supreme Court Judge who tried
the case clearly never contemplated.
“Harold Hardupp”: Perhaps Jimmy Wil-
son, M.L.C., exaggerated when he declared
that distressed members of the N.S.W.
Uppish House had been obliged to sleep in
the Domain, but some of them have been
pretty near it at times. I recall an impeeu-
ious elder statesman who solved Villon’s pro-
blem' of a lodging for the night by wangling
a sleeping-berth on a country train. Fellow-
passengers, gratified at meeting an M.L.C.,
gladly shouted him breakfast and drinks:
and having started away broke he returned
to town financial, prudently borrowing a
fiver from one of his new-found friends.
What Wilson wants is payment of members.
What is needed is'the abolition of a useless
House.
Though a sensible thinker on some sub-
jects Charlton, the Federal Labor leader, cuts
a poor figure when he discusses war and pre-
parations for war. His contribution to the
hurried debate on the Defence estimates
—though it doubtless pleased the militant
pacifists who believe in leaving Australia
naked to its enemies and are frantically in
favor of Russia having an overwhelming Red
Army—was childishly fatuous. He com-
plained that the estimates were too high and
ought to be cut down considerably. In point
of fact, they have been cut down £1,255,489
in one year; also the ships in commission
have been reduced from 25 to 13, the person-
nel of the fleet from 4843 to 4000, and that
of the permanent forces from 2495 to 1603.
But these cuts aren’t drastic enough for
Charlton. He protested that “we ought to get
back to the pre-war figure.” Likewise that
“men without previous training make just
as good soldiers as those who have been
trained.” As to that, the Digger proved
in 1918 that there wasn’t a better fighting
man in the field. But if there hadn’t been a
sufficiency of trained French and British sol-
diers to hold the line while ho was learning
his job the bulk of him would have been no
more use against a scientific modern enemy
than the men who fought at Crecy or Hast-
ings.
More and more complicated grows the
basic wage business. In Sydney the other
day the bewildering Board of Trade knocked
eighteenpence a week off the legal mini-
mum for women. Most people will agree
that 395. 6d. a week is hardly enough to keep
body and soul together. It may suffice to
feed and clothe the body after a fashion
(the 19th-century fashion), but there are
doubts about the soul. In Melbourne, more-
over, Justice Powers has admitted that,
owing to mistakes made in tin* annual adjust-
ments of the basic wage declared by his
court, the workers have lost £63 7s. 6d. a
head since 1918. The moral seems to be
that nothing is more fallible than a basic-
wage tribunal or more positive of its infal-
libility.
Hughes, with his tongue in his cheek as
usual, on September 15: —
Year after year the discussion of the Budget was
postponed until all interest in it had vanished. Usu-
ally that was the kind of treatment that the Budgets
of the past deserved. But we have now before us
a Budget which is mi generis. Members are going
to have an opportunity quite soon to discuss' it thor-
oughly. Then the estimates must he passed, and
there are other measures which escape my memory
for tlie moment.
Among the measures which he couldn’t re-
member were half-a-dozen constitutional
amendment bills, the urgency of which he
has insisted on every year since he returned
from winning the war. lie managed to for-
get them altogether, and the New State
question along with them. But he remem-
bered to provide millions for the superan-
nuation of civil servants, they having
100,000 votes to burn. As for the sui generis
Budget, the Reps were allowed to thoroughly
discuss it for six hours or thereabouts, and
the estimates were hustled through at the
rate of a million a minute. That is what
Parliamentary control of the public purse
has got down to under Hughes.
Premier Lawson spoke plainly to 70 fruit-
growers who came from all parts of Vic-
toria to demand that the State should either
help to form a pool or .share 50-50 in export
losses on canned exports. He told them that
the sooner people got out of the lean-on-the-
Government attitude the better. Self
reliance, he declared, was the quality that
had helped to make the nation, and it was
time, now that the war had been over for
four years, to get back to normal. The big
lump the Government had put into Sheppar-
ton canning-works and the substantial
guarantee to Kyabram were reminders the
deputation’s Cocky leaders didn’t relish.
However, despite his brave words, Lawson
will find himself forced to do something for
the pleaders, who are really in a bad way.
Like as they are in other respects, there
is a difference between Hughes and his com-
patriot Lloyd George in their attitude to
office. The British Prime Minister, by his
own showing, merely objects to being dis-
possessed of liis job under compulsion.
Quoth he, turning on his critics at -Man-
chester :
I never sought, the Prime Ministership. During the
war 1 offered to serve under Earl Balfour or Mr.
Bonar Law. Again, in 1919, I begged Mr. Bonar
Law to take charge, but he refused. Again, at the
beginning of this year, I suggested to Mr. Chamber-
lain that, as leader of the strongest party in the
House, he should take charge, offering to serve
under him in any capacity.
The other Welshman won’t be able to teli
them anything like that at North Sydney.
So far from ever having been ready to
efface, or even subordinate, himself in the
country’s interest, he has never allowed his
colleagues to forget that he would con-
temptuously refuse to be associated with
any Government that wasn’t bossed by him-
self.
No tennis and cricket will be played in
Melbourne parks on Sunday afternoons if the
pillars and buttresses of the Nonconformist
churches can stop them. A well-organised
deputation of 250 or thereabouts from all
parts of the metropolitan area came along
to Lands Minister Oman to protest against
the Governor-in-Council giving the requisite
sanction to the City Council’s proposal to
throw open Fawkner, Prince’s and Yarra
parks for three months, on trial, for the
racquet and the bat. Fear of a Continental
Sunday developing out of such beginnings
was voiced by . a dozen or more of the
“righteous,” while their following cheered
them on. Oman, who seemed to lean toward
the objectors, said he hadn’t been asked by
the council yet to alter the regulations, but
if he were so requested he would take the
problem to Cabinet, after hearing the other
side, of course. He admitted that he had
been snowed under with protests from all
parts of the State. The people who want
the parks open are not organised ; the church
folk objecting are, and a Scotehbyterian
Cabinet isn’t likely to overlook that.
A DANGEROUS CALLING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
George Foley, M.ILIL, speaking against the pro-
posal to rescind the Salary Grab, said that the
work of a Federal member was a man’s job, fully
worth VlOOO. It unfitted one for other occupations.
When you’ve come from mine or workshop to adorn
the talk (cam-perks) shop,
Or renegged upon the jumbuck and the cow,
When you work your lungs like bellows to uplift
your struggling fellows,
It’s a reasonable quid pro quo —a thou.
Oh, it’s fine to know your business is the nation’s,
But it's bound to queer your pitch on farms and
stations;
To consent to he a Rep.
is a very risky step:
for it spoils a chap for other occupations.
When a screw is yours for bagging where the pun-
dits’ chins are wagging,
Most distasteful are the thoughts of stope and
>haft;
When you sweat your brain like blazes, framing
programmes, coining phrases,
You unsuit yourself for mere plebeian graft.
That’s one reason why the job of legislation
Should carry ultra-fat remuneration,
For it quickly kills all fitness
(You can call me as a witness)
For any less exalted occupation.
Yes, a Parliament’ry claqueur loses all his love of
yakker—
An M.l’.-ship seems to spoil the apparatus.
With a furtive sigh or tear he finds he’s chronically
weary:
lie loathes what might have pleased (say) Cincin-
natus.
Hence the screw a statesman draws should bear
relation
To the disabilities of his vocation.
What’s a thousand quid—or more—•
For a job that leaves you hors
Lie combat for a useful occupation?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Tt-»«. Hots
arrivals alt Jumptup Flat
and «.vaj-y body 16
Impra.4sa.cl .
V/Viila. +K<Z. chumming-up
proCxLSS on I
X>ool<zy slips down town fov
Viis c*r
Ae>d the. Distinguished G«-«tleman '.a
driven to O’Grady's Royal Hotel
Wbstr*., to tt>a. kaa.n di&Appoi'ntrrxlnt o/" Jonsptup’s Upper T«n, V>a“ spends tt«. rest of
i tKa. day sl««pir*g- t+>«. affAC-X* of tt>« tr*»r> journey .
M. r Bwmbla in yfrst ntyf w»H>
NV r -‘f Dooley Kas Viirrs for Viev 2±f\<tY no cm. tennis party
And the t&ka* t)im home for tea wrff* a
Select * library to follow •
The. fo (lowing morru n g !>«. golf's witk "the Dootor .
A*>ol litar of
a SftCClfcl pa.vty
&+ J»k*k- J*'ka>. &wa.wp .
T"Hat evening He tells Mrs ftumViltti Hoo&a
party that lif a is aH
wearily tkVi axtftlWbt .
Thar. old cocky Stir* Sow J.rrl^4.
Stinson •." Placed to rrxeat yo:r. So yooreHa.
gui'd a. week And k<z.ap bloW<z tk« Cov’mant
Sa-nt op /wrtna , yd-f too.'tto.r Coma
aw&y . Iva. got a. lot <tv work you to into
THE MIGRANT’S PROGRESS.
“Interest in Australian migration schemes continues unabated. The Migration Department is inundated with applications. Many of the intending
migrants are men of birth and education, ready to undertake any class of work. A considerable proportion are ex-officers.” —Thrilling London cable.


ww
m
m
J&k
pH
m
MOS
X
1C
ers
'/
\\
EI-ECTFICAh
CO LTD
\\W
GIVE A
CLEAR
SOFT
WHITE
LIGHT
APE
ECONOMICAL
STRONG
AND
LASTING
21 ElijdbeHi SH
Melbourne*
213 Clarence
St., Sydney
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatins
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonator*
Cartridge*
Australian Manufacturers of “MAGPIE” Specialties
I'lour Sifters.
Gravy Strainers.
Wall Vents.
D Gate Latches.
Watering Cans.
“Dreadnought”
Wire Strainer.
Shovels—
Special Steel.
JtPQUTING \ 1 pRACKET
Oartnfed N® 17.J4S 10? May. 1910.
A STRONG. SPRING GRIP.
No Separate Clip or Bolt Required.
TINWARE.
Wire Nails.
Barbed Wire.
Spouting: and
Ridgdng:.
Seweragre Pipes,
etc.
Sheet Metal Work
of all descrip-
tions.
Fry Pans.
TITAN Manufacturing Co.,
Normanby Road, South Melbourne.
Telephones—C2l9l, C 2192.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Perdriau ItUBBER Co. (Sydney),
manufacturers and retailers of rubber goods :
To
Dec., Profits. Dividends.* Reserves. Reserves.
1912.. £ 15,397 124p.c.= £ 12,100 £3,237 £9,526
1913.. 13,126 8 ,,,.10,222 2,904 12,430
1914.. 15,597 10 „ „ 13,000 2,597 15,027
1915.. 32,353 121 „ „ 16,250 16,103 31,130
June,
1916.. 16,436 121 „„ 8,333 8,103 39,233
1917.. 25,906 121 ,. „ 20,659 5,247 44,480
1918.. 30,873 121 „ „ 26,006 4,867 49,347
1919.. 38,048 121 ,, „ 29,946 8,102 57,449
1920.. 43,667 121 „ „ 36,412 7,255 64,704
Loss.
1921.. 924 5 „ „ 21,512 — 42,268
Profit.
1922.. 58,612 10 „ „ 49,086 9,526 51,794
* Including 7 p.e. on £50,000 of prefs.
Unlike its two big Melbourne competitors,
this Sydney rubber-manufacturing co. did not
reconstruct or empty reserves into capital
account during the prosperous years. Per-
driau’s has been developed steadily, and no
device such as the ladling out of gift shares
has been necessary to coax in new capital. The
fact that there have been no “re-arrange-
ments” of capital may partly explain Per-
driau’s creditable dividend record for the past
two years of slump. For 1921 and 1922 the
Sydney co.’s ordinary divs. have averaged 71
p.c. p.a., though £13,000 has gone out of re-
serves to do it. The Dunlop co. has paid
10 p.c. on prefs.—as a result of the boom-
time reconstruction the co. is loaded with
£520,000 of these expensive prefs.—and 8 p.c.
on ordinaries for 1921 and only 41 p.c. for
the past year (average 6:]r p.c.). Barnet
Glass paid 4 p.c. for 1921, but losses for the
past 12 months were so heavy that there was
no div., and 6s. per £1 share is being written
off to extinguish the P. and L. debit. A com-
parison of balance-sheet figures over a num-
ber of years gives this interesting tabulation :
Barnet
Dunlop. Glass. Perdriau.
[1915.. £520,000 £141,951 £130,000
OaDital J 1919. . 1,115,553 347,573 274,820
p .. ] 1921 , 491,598 498,487
( 1922.. 1,691,342 492,983 523,487
f 1915. . 95,601 19,603 32,363
11919.. 177,066 32,686 38,048
Profit* ..( 1920.. No accounts. 41,716 43,667
| 1921.. 149,162 5,633 *924
( 1922.. 103,530 *93,719 58,612
*Loss.
f 1915. . 168,306 58,239 82,757
Fixed assets \ 1921.. 636,650 235,705 161,655
( 1922.. 768,324 259,385 245,589
Goodwill .. 1922.. 180,000 22,500 15,000
The growth of paid capital must, of course,
be considered along with the bonus issues in
both the Dunlop and Barnet Glass cos.
The table shows that the Dunlop co. has
done very well in the adverse period, but that
its capitalisation has affected dividend per-
formances ; that Barnet Glass crashed badly;
and that Perdriau’s has apparently success-
fully negotiated the difficulties of slumped mar-
kets and industrial depression. A further com-
parison of goodwill and reserves shows that
at the latest balance Dunlop’s had £177,702
of its capital represented by the excess of
intangible assets over and above visible
accumulated profits; Barnet Glass showed a
deficiency of £111,985; but Perdriau’s had
the whole of its capital intact and visible
reserves of £51,794 (in excess of goodwill)
supporting that capital.
The affairs of the Perdriau Rubber Co.
appear, from the published accounts, to be
very snug. Though the directors are not
talkative in the reports which accompany
their published balance-sheets, the payment
at the end of September of final divs. making
10 p.c. for the year indicated that they
were thoroughly satisfied with the position.
The management had, in fact, overcome its
worst troubles at the 1921 balance. At the
height of the boom, managing-director E. M.
Perdriau was abroad and thought he saw
signs of a decline of prices. The co., therefore,
decided to proceed cautiously with new
stocks. So when the crash came, Perdriau’s
was not overloaded, nor was it committed to
large purchases. The management, instead
of getting cold-feet, decided to speed up
manufacturing, and the directors’ policy
was “to convert the whole of the crude
materials into manufactured articles, and to
sell these goods and replace them with
goods bought on lower markets.” Prices
were cut at once, and stocks were cleared
quickly. In this way the co. sustained a loss
of £924 for the 12 months ended June, 1921,
but that put the co. on a thoroughly sound
basis for future trading. During the past
year the co. bought heavily in the low mar-
kets, and at June 30 stocks were larger than
at any previous balance. The chairman told
shareholders that stocks had been “taken,
as in the past, at cost, or valuation where
the market price is below cost.”
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows the expansion of the co. in detail: —
1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Capital. . . . £130,000 £373,927 £498,487 £523,487
Liabilities .. 42.712 90,239 89,909 95,187
Stock . . . . 81,015 225,768 253,566 280,679
Freeholds, plant,
etc 82,757 161,655 245,589 284,964
Book debts .. 48,940 160,748 127,922 133,287
Other assets . . 879 2,944 3,587 3,669
At the balancing-date the surplus of stocks,
book debts and other liquid assets over and
above all liabilities amounted to £322,448.
Wright, Heaton and Cos., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers, produce salesmen and suppliers of
station goods :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. serves, serves.
Jan., T 7 . . £8,526 10 p.c. = £SOOO £3,526 £99,167
Reserves transferred to capital, £26,000 74,167
July, T 7 .. 8,125 10 p.c. = 6250 1.875 76,042
Jau., T 8 . . 10,460 10 „ „ 6250 4.210 80,252
Julv, T 8 .. 13,677 10 „ „ 6250 7,427 87,679
Jan., T 9 .. 14,663 10 „ „ 6250 8,413 96,092
Cash bonus (20 p.c.) distributed, £25,000 71,092
Premium on new shares, £SOOO,
dropped into internal reserves.
July, T 9 . . 13,067 10 p.c. = 6562 6,505 77,597
Reserved for taxes £BOOO . . . . 69,597
Jan., ’2O .. 25,878 11 p.c. = 7563 18,315 87,912
Reserved for taxes, £SOOO .. . . 82,912
Julv, ’2O . . 23,275 12 p.c. = 8250 15,025 97,937
Jaii., ’2l .. 14,030 12 „ ~ 8250 5,780 103,717
Julv, ’2l .. 12,225 12 „ .. 8250 3,975 107,692
Jail*., ’22 .. 9.489 12 .. ~ 8250 1,239 108,931
July, ’22 .. 9,380 12 ~ ~ 8250 1,131 110,062
When the back-country suffers this old
carrying co. prospers. The smaller profits
are not an indication that the very robust
concern has lost some of its punch, but that
there has been plenty of grass-feed, and that
Wright-lleaton’s produce department has con-
sequently had a small turnover. But even
when its services in tiie Outback are not in
great demand, the co. is so very comfortable
that, notwithstanding heavier taxation, nor-
mal operations enable it to pay 12 p.c. on
£137,500 of capital. The co. has done so
very well in the past that, after payment of
the quarterly div. in September, capital was
supported by £110,062 of reserves, though
£25,000 was transferred to capital five years
ago, and a similar amount was distributed
as a cash bonus in 1019. At July 31 there
w r ere liabilities totalling £88,735. On the
other side there was a cash balance of
£48,110, £IO,OOO in Gold’s Hosiery 10 p.c.
debentures, War Bonds for £3705, stocks
valued at £53,243, book debts of £139,910,
besides premises with a book value of
£28,897, and £50,155 in shares and advances
in tne McCulloch Carrying Cos., which
the Victorian end of the business. Allow-
ing for taxes and the year’s final div.. there
were net assets with a book value of
£247,500 to represent £137,500 of paid capi-
tal approximately 90s. for each 50s. paid
share.
The Farmers and Settlers’ Co-opera-
tive Insurance Cos. of Australia. Ltd.: —
Year to Net
July, Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Profits.
1916.. £6,540 £1,171 £2,980 £3075
1917.. 11,910 4,911 6,400 ,1553
1918.. 24,024 8,282 14,713 '2078
1919.. 25,868 7,626 16,321 2986
1920.. 29,858 7,281 18,055 5707
1921.. 41,425 12,133 23,444 7354
1922.. 46,962 17,021 27,467 4321
There was a falling-off of gross premiums
last year—from £98,778 to £87,728, “owing
to decreased values m the wheat areas,” says
the directors’ report —-but the co. carried
more of the risks itself, and net premiums
expanded £5537. Both losses and expenses
were heavier: the former took 36.2 p.c. of
net premiums, compared w r ith 29.3 p.c. for
1921, while exes, at 58.5 p.c. were a couple
of points higher. The result was an under-
writing profit of only £2515 (5.3 p.c.). In-
terest from investments gave £IBO6, making
the surplus of £4321 shown in the table. Of
this £3671 has been taken by the usual 8 p.c.
div., the balance increasing premium reserve
to £659. That, so far, is the full extent of
the F. and »S. Co-op.’s reserves, and, of
course, they are only trifling. But this
office differs from most others: it was estab-
lished to induce producers to combine to
carry their own risks, the policy-holder being
invited to take a share interest proportionate
to his insurance business. With the excep-
tion of hail insurance, the business has
proved very profitable in the past, and this
co.’s promoters had hopes that, though
premiums cannot be reduced below those of
other offices in order to secure re-insurance
facilities, in due course good divs. would be
forthcoming. So far the co. has shown total
profits of £27,074 and has distributed £17,019
in divs. Instead of building up a fictitious
reserve with the balance, which is so often
done in a young office, this co.’s management
has utilised most of the surplus in
putting its balance-sheet in order. Besides
the costs of organisation and extension which
have been directly charged against revenue,
the F. and S. Co-op. spent £9396 in early
development. The whole of that amount has
been written-off out of surplus, and the
accounts now show the whole of the paid
capital represented by tangible assets —cash,
public securities and mortgages, £29,911 ;
book debts and field and office equipment,
£21,267.
Paid capital is £45,896, and at the balance
total funds amounted to £50.273. They re-
presented 107 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
which is not so strong a proportion as is
usually looked for. On the other hand, if
the concern is truly co-operative, the group
of policy-holders have combined to back
their own risks, and accepted standards do
not matter to the same extent as in other
offices. But now the establishment account
has been swept away, and provided under-
writing becomes normal, the co. may reason-
ably expect further surpluses which will
permit the accumulation of reserves to
strengthen its position. The office was
established only seven years ago, and has
built up a good business. Lately progress
has not been so rapid : no doubt partly because
there are now active competitors who, having
linked up with the producers’ c-os., have to
some extent cut into the field which the F.
and S. Co-op. had mapped out for itself.
Usher’s Metropolitan Hotel, Ltd.(Syd-
ney!, which started with a deficit of £18,067,
made up of goodwill (£16,573) aud pre-
liminary exes.
To Re-
Writ- duce
ten De-
Aug.. Loss. , Dividends Off. ficit. Deficit.
’14.. £921 -- £18.988
Additional goodwill items, £559 .. 19,547
’15.. 1,070
Profit.
’16.. 105 £lOs 20,512
Prefs.
(8 p.c.) Ordinary.
•17.. 5,774 Nil Nil £I2OO 4,574 15,938
'lB.. 10,650£1320* 10 p.c.=£7775 1200 355 15.583
T 9.. 13,256 500 10 „ „ 7775 2400 2,521 13,002
Reserves.
’20..25,013 560 121 „ „ 9737 1200 13,516 454
'lncluding accumulations.
Assets written up, £54,414.. .. 54,868
Depreciation reserve ( £6000) treated
as genuine reserve .. .. .. 60,868
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £78,000 .. 17,132
Reconstruction exes., £1974.. .. 19,106
Net Prof. Towards
Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
’21.. £18,605 £560 10 p.c. = £15,600 £2445 10.061
’22.. 17,506 560 10 „ „ 15,600 1406 15,255
Usher’s has had another good year; though
the £17,566 profit exceeded the 10 p.c. div.
by only £1406. £2400 had meantime been set
aside for depreciation of plant and furni-
ture and taxes had been fully provided for.
The 10 p.c. gives a 20 p.c. return to old
holders; two years ago paid capital was
doubled by a bonus issue provided by trans-
ferring ail reserves —general and specific—
and by writing-up property account. Usher’s
Hotel was built just prior to the phenomenal
increase of construction costs brought about
by war conditions ; but later, the proposition
having proved handsomely profitable, the
directors decided to take credit for inflated
values and wrote up assets £54,414. That
this co. has been able to pay 10 p.c. to share-
holders in years not altogether favorable,
and on a £163,000 paid capital which in-
cludes £54.414 of water and £15,255 net
represented by goodwill, indicates how very
profitable is the big modern city residential
hotel nowadays. Besides paying good divs.
the co. has also shown this improvement in
six years:—
1916. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities .. £69,944 £60,530 £48,443 £42,191
Liquid assets . . 4,869 22,323 24,543 21,726
Excess liabilities £65,075 £38,207 £23,900 £20,465
In addition to capital put up by shareholders,
the directors went outside for £60,000-odd,
raised by debenture, but that debt had been
reduced to £35,312 at the latest balance.
In the six years the liquid position had im-
proved £44,610 without calling in any new
capital. The improvement during the past
two years, considered in conjunction with
the divs. paid, is remarkable in view of the
mild depression which lias been experienced
by both producers and importers. Obvi-
ously. the prosperity created by war condi-
tions has not abated to any extent. That
the spending capacity of the public has not
diminished to any extent is made clear by
soft-goods houses and traders in luxuries,
who report that, though values have receded,
turnover in many instances has been larger.
Usher’s Metropolitan £l-paid shares are
quoted in the market at around par, but the
investor, attracted by the handsome return
which the present rate of div. gives at that
price, should consider several features of
the concern. The enterprise is now capi-
talised on a basis of the building site having
cost £40,000 instead of £30,000 which was
actually paid for it, and of the hotel having
cost £54,000 more to construct and equip
than was actually outlayed. For all practi-
cal purposes the present co. got into busi-
ness when values were inflated and construc-
tion costs were abnormal. The question is
whether, in the years to come, when con-
ditions generally become normal again, this
hotel can continue to earn handsome divs.
on its inflated capital, and whether the pro-
perty, etc., will be worth the book values,
less whatever may meanwhile be written off
for depreciation out of earnings. The co.
may continue to do well, but compared with
other Sydney hotels which have not written-
up their belongings, Usher’s is certainly on
less secure foundations, and, everything else
being equal, is more liable to suffer curtail-
ment of divs. if trading conditions are not
favorable.
* # * *
The Southern' Union General Insur-
ance Cos. —Last week the “Wild Cat” re-
viewed the affairs of this young office,
which to June 30 had raised £353,885
of paid capital at a disclosed cost
of £101,517. Additional information since
received throws further light on the
float. It appears that for at least six
months prior to the balance, the Security
Underwriters I'ty., the concern which was
given the privilege of selling scrip, was plac-
ing the £1 shares to lie paid to 4s. at a
premium of 2s. (id. According to a state-
ment by the management, in December last
subscribed capital stood at “well over H
million sterling”; at June 30 it was
£1,79(5,805. A premium of 2s. (id. on the
shares sold during that period would have
given anything up to £30,000 cash. The
published accounts of the Southern Union
did not show a penny of it, and the direc-
tors’ report was also silent. The “Wild Cat”
showed last week that a healthy business
several times larger than that transacted
during the 18 months covered by the accounts
was necessary each year to give a reasonably
good return on the large capital, even had it
been raised at par. But notwithstanding that
position, the Security Underwriters Pty.
continued to sell shares to the public, and
from August onwards had the effrontery to
demand 245. per £1 share, representing a
premium of 100 p.e. on the amount called
up. There are several features of the float
concerning which the investing public is
entitled to information, and The Bulletin
invites the directors to answer these ques-
tions ;—•
(1) Who comprises the Security Under-
writers Pty., Ltd., originally referred to in
the prospectus as the Security Underwriters
Company ?
(2) On what terms has the S.U.P. handled
the issue of shares V
(8) Was the S.U.P. given entire control
of share-selling and the prices to be charged
the public?
(4) What justification is there for raising
£400,000 paid capital?
(5) Has the Southern Union’s underwrit-
ing experience to date warranted the issue of
shares at a premium?
(6) Where are the share-premiums col-
lected during the insurance co.’s accounting-
period ended June 30 last?
# •* # #
The Bank of Adelaide has obtained a
unanimous vote of the shareholders for an-
other quarter of a million capital. The
50,000 £5 shares are offered to shareholders
at £O, the present shares being worth well
over £8 in the local market. The policy
of extending to Sydney and Melbourne had
already been justified, the directors state,
and a Westralian branch is to be opened
this month.
* * * #
Mines Ministers Scaddan (W.A.) and
Jones (Q.) are still on the warpath against
the continuance of the Australian Metal
Exchange, but there has been no disclosure
of the attitude of the other States. Vic-
toria, as a producer, has no interest in the
matter one way or the other, but as the
controlling centre of the base-metals indus-
try there is a powerful personal interest.
The secretary of the miscalled “Exchange,”
writing in defence of it, states: “The Ex-
change is an institution consisting of persons,
firms and cos. interested in the mining indus-
try, and stands in relation to that industry
as do the Chamber of Commerce and similar
bodies to their respective industries.” Who
are the persons, firms and cos. in N. S.
Wall's, for example, who, as a matter of
business, think it worth while to pay £59
entrance fee and a big annual subscription?
With a few exceptions it will probably be
found that the people who are “interested
in the mining business” are actually non-
producers—men who take none of the risks
of mining. Premier Scaddan undoubtedly
hits the nail fairly on the head when he
asserts that the Exchange is “made up
largely of smelting interests rather than of
producers’ interests.” The secretary in one
sentence practically denies any association
with the Commonwealth Government, and
in the next admits it: “The Exchange has
agreed to provide facilities for the registra-
tion of contracts of sale of metals and min-
erals for shipment oversea so long as the
Government considers it necessary to exer-
cise such supervision.” That is precisely
the foundation of the objection to the Ex-
change. Registration of contracts may be
desirable, but it ought to be done through
the Customs Department as part of the ex-
porting routine. Most certainly it ought not
to be made the medium whereby, maybe,
rivals in business may get detailed informa-


Scientific Glassware, Crucibles. Scales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-mills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request.—Advt.
* * * „
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Win. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat- by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [3
* * * *
\Y hen the first account for the installation of
Pioneer Wood Pipe is paid the expense is over
for all time. It saves about 33 per cent, of the
cost of metal pipe and never requires cleaning out,
but continually conveys a capacity from 20 to 25
per cent, superior in volume. For low cost and
permanence it is unexcelled. Write for free 68-page
book on the subject to The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.
—Advt.
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
—Advt.
* * * *
Ixventous.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
» * • „
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Svdney. ’Phone
1195 City.—Advt.
Simon-Cauves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors tor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co Ltd
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * •
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engine:
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43“ tc
46-b.h.p Immediate delivery from Sydney stock
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Qua\
(East).— -Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur is impossible
ttj say.
BUT
You Can be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of tiie Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: “London House,V
97 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
Til OS. J. CONFOY, Esq., .
Governing Director.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE HEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates be
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his. estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAR VAN,
Managing Director.
O
L
BOORD£ A S ON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
jSwlft_jt_Comiian.v Australasian Agents. 26'30 Clarence St.. Sydney
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
n
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
don as to other people’s transactions. The
genuine mining-men in all the States have
most emphatically declared that they do not
wish any self-constituted “Exchange” to re-
gulate their overseas business, and it is up
to the Prime Minister to respect their wishes.
Referring to some of his Melbourne friends
Prime Minister Hughes says that “their
Australia is a little part of Collins-street.”
This “little part” has ruled the industrial
world of Australia since the war started.
Does Mr. Hughes’s declaration mean a split
in the camp? If so, what are now the odds
about a much talked-of prospective baron-
etcy, which would add to the swagger of the
“little part”?
* * * *
11. W. Stringer’s office is out with the
prospectus of the Australian Oil Corpora-
tion, N.L., in a million shares of 10s. each,
500,000 of which are being offered to the
public, though 800,000 of them are under
offer to a “London group” (unnamed) until
the end of this month. The A.O.C. is to
take over five prospecting areas : (1) O’Don-
nell’s, 14,200 so. miles adjoining Freney’s
and Okes-Durack; (2) other licenses cover-
ing 12.000 sq. miles or so of areas distri-
buted over the Northern Territory, some
adjoining O’Donnell’s arid Okes-Durack
country; and (8) 2000 acres at Munduran
Creek, Gladstone (Q.). The prospectus is
honest enough to acknowledge that the
hunt for oil in these vast areas is a pro-
position which “for the present must be
regarded as speculative.” So far, very little
is known about the holdings : the flying geo-
logical surveys by .1. L. Strevens, and other
information gleaned from the operations of
geologists in the Nor’-West, has provided
only meagre particulars. The weakness of
the float is the substantial consideration to
t he vendors of the licenses : altogether 100,000
fully-paid 10s. shares and £2500 cash is to
go to them, and 100.000 more fully-paids
are to be taken by promoter It. W. Stringer.
Westralian State Mineralogist Simpson
has confirmed by analyses all that was said
by geologist Blatchford concerning the llin.
core obtained from 120 ft. in the Mt. Wynne
bore of the Freney Kimberley Oil Cos.
Blatchford states that he is confident that
the asphaltum contained in the core had
been derived from oil-bearing strata not yet
tapped, and lying beneath the point where
the core was obtained. So far everything
has. gone well with Freney’s, as asphaltum
has since been disclosed in its bore at Rough
Range, and the technical men are confident
that sooner or later an oil basin will be
tapped.
* * *
Recently there has been a demand in
I’ertli for oil-licenses on behalf of interests
in other States. All Westralia, with the
exception of a very small part for which
applications are already lodged, is held
under oil license. So the only way to secure
areas now is to negotiate with present
licensees. Many of them are anxious to
trade.
* # * *
“Geologist” in reply :—<
tiapt. de Hautpiek (B. 12/10/’22) shows a con-
fusion of the terms “indications” and “conditions.”
What he postulates for the likely occurrence of oil
I am in general agreement with, but no English-’
speaking oil-geologist would refer to them as “indi-
cations.” To the degree in which they occur one
would only speak of the “conditions” being favorable
or otherwise. To emphasise this, F. G. Clapp, whom
the Captain quotes, speaks of “other conditions than
structure” in referring to most of the seven indica-
tions of Be Hautpiek. As to the quotation from
Clapp, “that surface indications are not essential,”
etc., that was unnecessarily mentioned, since I con-
ceded that in my remarks. Even in areas
where all the conditions are very favorable, some-
times no oil has been found, so how could they be
construed as “indications”?
The struggle which has been proceeding
for months between Adelaide and Perth
shareholders for control of the Lass o’
Gowrie co. has ended in favor of Perth in-
terests. Though Perth holds a majority of
shares, its requests to the Adelaide direc-
torate to take an option over Brown’s Re-
ward, at Yalgoo, were ignored. Pressure
was then put on the directors, and they be-
came more amenable. Shareholders ' are
now to be asked to express their opinion
as to whether it is advisable to take a six
months’ working option, the purchase con-
sideration being £IO,OOO cash and 40,000
Lass o’ Gowrie reserve shares paid to £l.
The co. has very little cash in hand, so, if
the option is approved, shareholders are invit-
ing a long list of calls necessary to pay the
preliminary £IBOO and provide working ex-
penses on the Reward. If, as the result of
a vigorous developmental policy, the Re-
ward should stand up to its performances
as a privately-owned concern, Lass o’ Gowrie
will have secured a good property. On the
other hand, the figure at which Brown
parted with the property to the present
owners suggests that he tvas not much im-
pressed with prospects.
Official reports from North Fingall
(W.A) claim a big improvement in the drive
at bottom of the old 300 ft. shaft sunk by
Great Fingall, and it is the intention of the
management to send a parcel of ore for
treatment. If anything like payable gold
is in the reef, the development is most im-
portant, as it indicates a possible recurrence
of Great FingalPs performances. But the
market does not appear over hopeful.
Lately shares have been anchored at 35.;
two mouths ago the market had a couple of
sharp rises, one to 155., on two rich patches
near the surface.
Good developments in Ivanhoe (W.A.)
continue. The crosscut extended from the bot-
ton of the winze at 3000 ft. exposed 24ft. of
ore Worth 144dwt. per ton, and it is probable
that the full width of the ore-body has not
yet been ascertained. The 14|dwt. is well
above the average of Ivanhoe ore, and if
the length of the new body be as satisfactory
as the width the average grade of reserves
should improve.
* * * *
Radio gold-mine, near Bullfinch (W.A.),
has put out a number of attractive yields
during the past four years, with the result that
it lias become popular with option hunters.
The mine has a narrow quartz-vein from
which about 2000 tons have been treated for
an average yield of 3oz. per ton. Dorrie
Doolette recently took an option over the
show (purchase price £30,000 cash), but he
turned it down promptly. It was a very
stiff price even for a 3oz. concern, consider-
ing that there are not 500 tons of reserves
actually in sight.
*" * * «
Tears have passed since Westralia had
reason to be concerned in a deep-lead, but a
revival of the old Kanowna and Bulong boom
is promised by the discovery of deep alluvial
near Jiulong. A number of nice slugs total-
ling 70oz. have already been found, and, as
the discovery is close to old Queen Margaret
lead, alluvial miners are hopeful.
Carbine (W.A.) during the past year
milled 1040 tons for about £22,000. Owners
Crawford and Pimley found no difficulty in
repaying with interest the £BOO advanced
them by the Government.
* * * *
N. >S. Wales gold returns show a start-
ling decline. For the first nine months of
this year the yield was 20,2120 z. (fine)
valued at £85,858. The figures for the corres-
ponding period last year were 41,GG50z„
£176,983, or more than double those of this
year. The State gold returns, at their best, are
misleading, as they do not represent gold-
mining as a separate entity. The bulk of the
gold return is really a by-product from the
smelting of copper and other ores. There
seems little or no hope of any early improve-
ment in the position. Old fields are mori-
bund, and new ones lack any conspicuous
promise. The Lucknow revival is still at the
prospecting stage. If talk and gold were equal,
Gundagai and the southern districts generally
would have altered the aggregate figures, but
the much-vaunted prospects, are still pro-
longed hopes. Muriel Tank, which was
acclaimed as the star which was going to
eclipse Bendigo, to say nothing of \Vyalong,
has so far not reported the production of an
ounce of marketable gold. The new find at
Bribaree, near Young, has done better, a
crushing of 25 tons having been made for
oOqz. with the battery pounding away on
parcels from other mines. Another “promis-
ing” reef lias been found in the same district,
at Victoria Hill —a name in which there is
magic. Victoria Hill, at Adelong, in two or
three years in the early ’fifties produced over
11 ond as for the famous Victoria
Hill, of Bendigo, the figures would be better
expressed in lb. The rich alluvial of Young
never had a corresponding reefing field. It
may be that prospectors are just on the
point of revealing it. This is a district
which the eminent geologist, Rev. W. B.
Clarke, specially indicated as the likely
locale of big gold deposits.
* * * •»
Associated Extended, Emmaville (N.S.W.),
last; run returned 5 tons 13cwt. tin oxide
from 6000yds., or 2.11 b. per yd. There the
sampling chart for the area treated showed
an average of 3|lb. From this section the
00. has treated 22,000yd5. for 28 tons 18cwt.,
or 2.92 lb. per yd.; sampling returns for the
area were 541 b. In view of the heavy loss
arising from the material not being reduced
to sufficient fineness, the managing-director
could “not recommend continuance of sluic-
ing operations in this section until alter-
ations and additions are made to plant Ito
ensure reasonable recovery.” The steady
increase in the value of tin has prompted a
proposal that a plant should be started on
the Wyalong section under the co.’s co-
operative scheme. The same difficulties do
not present themselves in this section, and as
large quantities of wash can be treated fail-
profits should be made at present tin prices.
If this change be made ample opportunity
will be afforded to prepare plans for the
more effective treatment of the richer
material from the other section. The official
report indicates that the managing director
and the manager are agreed that not more
than 55 p.c. of the tin contents of the
Roberts section can be saved with present
appliances.
Morning Star, Woods Point (Vic.), lias im-
proved in the market consequent on a pay-
able tind at the 800 ft. level and the success
of the experiment of employing returned sol-
diers to work in the stopes in place of old
hands, who were not satisfied with either
contract work, at which they could average
£1 per day, or wages at award rates. What
they were really aiming at was for award
wages as the minimum for contract work,
under which rule they might work as fast
or as slow as they pleased. Finding them-
selves hopelessly beaten, the men are very
much disgruntled, and, claiming that the
co.’s action is a lock-out, they threaten to
appeal to the Arbitration Court. The walk-
ing delegate of the mining section of the
A. complains of the alleged discourtesy
of the directors in not acceding to a sugges-
tion of his that he and an officer of the co.
should visit the mine'to try to effect a settle-
ment, to which secretary Dickenson replied
that there was nothing to settle, as the co.
had a full staff of milling workers, and, fur-
ther, there was the objection that the dele-
gate’s “activities in the district have been
more conducive to fomenting strife than
settling it.”
* * * *
Monument Hill, Bendigo, one of the
B. new cos., is reported to have struck
a payable reef over the 050 ft. level. It was
indicated in a recent par that there was an
excellent chance of the co. finding something
payable in this rise. The mine is practically
intact below about 300 ft. Deborah, on the
same line, about half-a-mile south, is meeting
with improved prospects at 300 ft., and is
sanguine of pay stuff soon showing up. This
reef is very persistent, but it has had
only slight attention in the past for the
reason that work on it in early times was
not associated with anything sensational.
Monument Hill was conspicuous principally
as a landmark.
* » * *
“Javelin”: Perhaps it is no use to attempt
to discuss whether the Long Tunnel (Vic.)
had a chance or not at the depth at which
it ended, but it is fair that the credit for
the rejuvenation of the mine should fall on
the right shoulders. True, late surveyor
Foster laid out the angles for the incline
shaft, but the brains that devised that work
and saw that it was properly undertaken
was Lawrence Grayson. The men who stood
behind him were the late Pearson, M.P., and
secretary Dawson, who made his bit out of
the revival of the mine when cheap mining
and better milling were brought in under
Grayson. One geological feature about the
shoots of gold in Cohen’s reef is that when
it and the dyke parted company gold contents
fell. At the bottom of the shaft this had hap-
pened. Grayson, after leaving the Tunnel well
equipped, first had a sad fling at tin-mining
in the Speck, and afterwards became inter-
ested in schemes to get salt from sea-water
by evaporation.
**■ # #
New Blue, Bendigo, as predicted, showed
further improvement in its latest return:
last week 695 tons gave 4260 z., an average-of
12.4dwt.
* * * *
Bux had a mysterious jump last week,
with Bendigo in it. Prospector Boyd is
away in “the East” somewhere, and wild
and woolly stories are afloat that he has
got tip-top oil concessions from the Dutch
East Indies Govt. These he is expected to
empty out in about six weeks’ time.
. * * * Vt
The threatened coal strike in N. S. Wales
was looked on as a good opportunity for
Queensland collieries, and efforts were being
made to keep the miners up there out of it.
Ipswich trade has been in a bad way all
the year. The same applies to practically
all the coalfields. J. W. Brophy, Superin-
tendent of State Collieries, is ready to send
fuel away from either the Baralaba or Styx
fields. He has certainly got good fuel on
the Styx, and now claims that Baralaba is
all it should be. So far it has had a very
poor reputation. Ipswich, by the way, is
complaining that it has never got the pro-
mised State coke works on the Tivoli portion
of the field. Tivoli coal only needs washing
to produce one of the best cokes in Australia.
Edgar Hall, g.m. of Silver Spur (Q.), has
had reason to grumble in the past at the way
the ore-bodies in that show have been faulted,
the trouble being that the faulted portions
wei’e lost. Now the same old “slide” has
butted up against the new lode, which has
been giving such good returns for the past
couple of years. The present trouble seems
to have a silver lining, though, as beyond the
slide there is a formation carrying quartz
and mineral which appears to' be rapidly
widening out and looks so promising that
all hands have been put on to the job of
ascertaining whether it goes on or is only
skin-deep, hugging the fault. Very little ore
is at present being taken out. It is a pity
that Hall cannot get his smelting done on
the spot, as it would save about £5 a ton.
The new development, if it turns out well,
may save the situation by providing suffici-
ent reserves to get the local plant rejuve-
nated and enable the low-grade ore to pay
its way.
f 1 concentrates at Herberton (\ () » are
worth m 10s. fur 70 p.c. metal,‘and at
this figure there have been some highly nav-
Crushl “| s - T - rile boundary, at \Vatson-
b vr? a / Bro , s ‘> completed its last
cim>hing of 177 tons for 86 tons concen-
trates worth £3070, or over £l7 a ton The
Vulcan tributors, who are now in sole pos-
session, have been oil poorer stuff, the last
80 tons producing only six tons concentrates,
a great tallmg-off from previous returns. The
> is ° n Y er y »0d ore, the lode
being up to 6ft. wide, and the crushing now
going through should show an average of
3o p.c. oxide. The field'is in good feather,
and there are a dozen _more_small shows send-
ing m good parcels of high-grade stuff. \nv
one of these shows is likely to break out into
something good.
Silver Lead, Ltd., is being floated to work
the property formerly held by the Brisbane
silver Lead Syndicate, at Indooroopillv
alongside of Finney’s Hill United. This
mine was closed down with the fall in
silver and lead values, and has only lately
been re-opened. The former syndicate sent
away a couple of parcels of ore which gave
very satisfactory returns. The different faces
were sampled recently bv L. C. Ball and
they are stated to have averaged 2.10 z. silver
and 15.2 p.c. lead, but what tonnage the
assays represent is not mentioned. Edgar
Hall gave a very optimistic report on Fin-
ney s, and inspired the belief that there was
a, very big deposit there, and that it was
likely to extend into the adjoining holdings.
* * *
The old Vulcan, at Irviuebank (X.Q.)
does not intend giving up the ghost without
a lack. The small party formed some time
ago to take the show on tribute threw in
the towel after a six weeks’run, the proposi-
tion proving too big for them. Another tri-
bute syndicate has now been formed to
give the mine a spin. It starts with a
capital of £SOO, and the Government is sub-
sidising it £ for £.
The William Morris, Irviuebank (N.Q.),
owned by Ilodgetts and Evans, continues as
a consistent tin-producer; it has now out-
paced McGill and Carroll’s claim, the Gor-
don, which is also looking well. Another
local show which promises to come to light
again is the old Lizzie, at present owned
by T. Brodie. In past years this show was
taken up and abandoned frequently, but
there have always been good pickings for
each new owner.


'lhe (jßAsfc
"Ifie Jloke wfth the ‘ Well
I -fired At hi*w 5o yvw
CAnT blAtv>e, »vtfc. if he
wont leT“ l "
The Salaries’ Reduction Bill was easily.
defeated in the Reps, by 35 votes to 26.
Fop, the-" Term of' mi*
NmTuRAU LIFE- '•
The Anglican Synod, sitting in Melbourne,
strenuously opposed and defeated a motion
that Anglican parsons should not hold life
tenures of their parishes, but should be.
shifted every five years.
'Xesurrect’iorN , vnjt’ "Rcv/ival
chorus of- MiR/Nclfe- AVttf'*
* Professional and business men met at
Melbourne last week and carried resolutions
. forming the Liberal party. J
A 'poor ybßicK —> I Knew l/lnv, toe^ll
" : When the Federal House reassembles
the member for Northern Territory will
- take his seat. He will receivfe £lOOO
per year merely to talk, without the
resDonsibilitV of a vote.
j "the Member |oi- Worth £**
VlViy aft buy adr aw*? bone, lnfre sw&jrt’
t>oj to 7 opsTUr*. rr let tW territory
5e«3 c4ok)m a rcccrd whenever *+* h&<A *
A presto J?roncV\ 1
In a lecture to the Geographical Associa-
tion at Westminster, the High Commissioner
■said that defence and immigration were
closely wrapped up with each other, so far as
Australia was concerned.— Cable item.
Closely Upi r «JI»+L
MOSTLY ABOUT MELBOURNE.


Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, has now
taken over the management of the Hotel
Carlton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. Levy is a well-
known French chef, whose cuisine is
famous among visitors to Sydney.
Registered address, Cable, Radio or
Telegraph: “HOCAR,” Sydney.
Woiv its favor through its flavor.”
Obtainable in
SYDNEY,
BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE.
KB.
LAGER
Obtainable in
MELBOURNE,
PERTH,
FREMANTLE.
You’ll enjoy it with luncheon or dinner.
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
9
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New lii2l Model Hears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to baud, and is
the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers b.v all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been ysed with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Almeric Fitzroy, the septuagenarian Clerk
of the Imperial Privy Council, who was fined
last week for annoying women in Ilyde Park.
London, was the man whose name appeared
on the notification of the proclamation of
the Commonwealth Constitution—that it
would come into operation on Jan. 3. 1901.
and so on. He is a direct descendant of
Charles II. —being one of the Grafton family
—so the heredity cranks will probably have
something to say on the subject of his lapse.
Bishop Kennion, the most unaffected and,
perhaps for that reason, the most popular
Anglican prelate South Aus. has had, said
in his will, which was read in England the
other day: “I earnestly entreat forgiveness
of any good person I may have offended by
word or deed,” and
“I desire to give as
little trouble as
possible; my body
to be buried with
plainness and sim-
plicity. a. n d no
subscription to be
invited, or allowed,
for any memorial
beyond a simple
tablet.” It was
the man himself
speaking.
C. H. WICKENS,
F.I.A., F.S.S., the
new Common-
wealth Statistician.
“Bildad’s” farewell:—
The late Nugent Robertson, obituarised in last
week’s Bulletin, was a dull but picturesque charac-
ter. I forget which English university produced
him. but anybody, who knew the ropes could tell
which it was by the supercilious way he wore his bell-
topper. The hat was an academic land-mark. When he
drifted into the great lawsuit which was a turning
point in his career he wasn’t seeing a friend off, as
alleged. He had really departed so much from his
usual habits that he proposed going to Balmain <T
think it was Balmain) in the flesh, but missed the
boat. Then his demand for free and untrammelled
exit from the wharf, if not for the return of his
penny, led to him being detained in argument with
the old party at the turnstile, and Nugent defined this
as unlawful imprisonment. A minor court gave
him £lOO, and a major court tore it from him.
Then, like another long-distance stickler after
trifles, “Giraffe” Taylor, of Mudgee, he pursued his
case to the Privy Council, and so moved that body
out of its wonted calm that it told him that it
experienced an unholy joy in deciding against him,
he having been “thoroughly unreasonable.” After
that the litigant rushed into print till editors grew
weary. He was one of the “Prudent Federation”
candidates for the Federal Convention. These people,
of the good old Geebung brand, were so prudent
that they wanted to limit the Federal power to the
establishment of a uniform dog-tax or something
like that. I fancy there were five of them, and they
were left in a very solid block at the foot of the
poll. For the rest the deceased barrister was an
amiable but rather mirthless companion. Whether he
ever finished his intermpted penny journey across
the harbor I know not.
“Alastor”: ‘‘The Deacon” errs when he
puts Arcbbish. Redwood down as a native of
Maoriland (B. 12/10/’22). Redwood is an
Englishman, _ and proud of it. He is still
young at S 5. A musician himself, he has
musical relatives in Toowoomba (Q.), and
one member of the family is a notable grand-
opera artist in Italy.
“B.”: Lewis Cohen, who has been Adel-
aide’s mayor eight times, and has now been
asked by the council to reconsider his de-
cision to pull out for good at the end of his
present term, was born in Liverpool (Eng-
land) 72 years ago. After a trading venture
at Levuka, Fiji, he went to Adelaide in ’74
and was soon identified with the financial
life of the city. He was in the House of
Assembly for 13 years and refused two
portfolios, and an
\ gen t-Gen eralsh in.
B e r t Edwards.
M.P.. pointed out
in Parliament a
while back amidst
murmurs of appro-
val th a t Cohen
should have had
the knighthood
that went to Bar-
well—blit the little
man has in the
past bucked
against a. couple
of State Governors
in carrying out his
municipal duties,
and this is believed
to have settled his
chances of winning
favor in London.
Bishop SPROTT.
Wellington.
Maoriland.
The passing of the widow of Matthew
Davies, who was Speaker of Vic. Assembly
from 1887 till 1892, snaps a link with the
politics of the past. She had a brilliant
time, and did things grandly in the boom
days when the knight of Toorakia thought
his possessions ran to about a million. Then
came the smash, and Matthew went back to
inside legal work —and made a fair living.
Incidentally, it was towards the end of his
reign in the chair that the famous mace was
stolen. The thief was never tracked, and
after putting up with a wooden mace for
several years, Speaker Mason induced
George Turner to buy the one now in use
for £3OO.
Gone out, at 59, Dick Sleath, one of the
earlier Laborites who found gaol a stepping-
stone to Parliament. He, with W. J. Fer-
guson, got a two-years’ sentence for the
part they played in western N.S.W. in the
big '92 strike, but, after serving eight months,
they were released by Tom Slattery, then
Minister for Justice, and at the following
elections both were returned. Sleath repre-
sented Wilcannia, and. Ferguson sat for
Sturt from 1894 till 1904 —four Parliaments.
When conscription split the Labor party
Sleath tried to get into the Federal House
as a Nationalist, but the electors looked upon
him as a back number, and then he took a job
under the N.S.W. Government at a Maroubra
stone-quarry.
’’Ball Ryan”: When Charles Gregory
Wade went to the polls after the big
coal strike about 12 years ago, his party was
defeated mainly on the cry of ‘Meg-irons”—-a
reference to those pedal decorations having-
been used on Peter Bowling. Wade had it
hurled at him at every meeting. When the
excitement was at its height a man near
Dungog (N.S.W.), while sinking a post-
hole in front of his house, unearthed a rusty
pair of legirons. And the name of the man
who dug up the fearsome things was—Wade.
S’langdon Bonython, of the Adelaide Ad-
vertiser, who was 74 on the 15th, and thus
10 years older than Sowden (just retired
from the Register), is in his Waymouth-
street sanctum daily, and doesn’t leave till
past midnight. No love is lost between
these two newspaper knights, but Bonython
now has the press limelight to himself. He is
said to be viewing with some concern the
rivalry from the News, an afternoon sheet
to appear a few months hence under the
direction of the dynamic James E. David-
son, formerly of the Melb. Herald.
“Old-timer”: Surely no Australian jour-
nalist has held such a variety of jobs on the
Inky Way as “Banjo” Paterson. In his
verse-making days he was a sort of honorary
member of The Bulletin staff, most of his
poems being taken and printed by Archibald
as they were written. Then came the
S’African War, which he attended as corres-
pondent for the S. M. Herald. Returning,
lie did some freelancing and eventually be-
came editor of Sydney Evening News.* He
held that billet for three years, and was
then transferred to the now-defunct Town and
Country Journal. The world-war broke
out, and he left with the first lot as a corres-
pondent, but was back in Australia in time
to join the “Methusaliers” .(N.S.W. Re-
mounts), who left for Cairo in 1915, and lie
remained in that arm till the end. Coming
home in 1919 he was on the staff of Smith’s
Weekly for a few months, and eventually
was given the editorship of the late John
Norton’s Sportsman, which post he still
holds. He has crowded it all into 5(3 years.
“Hero Worshipper”: A Sydney barrister
named James Young was called a liar the
other day by Crown Prosecutor Coyle; or,
anyhow, Young claimed to be the person in-
dicated, though no names appear to have
been used. And here was where the insulted
party’s “legal training” came in: by way of
reprisals he merely wrote asking the Bar
Council what it meant to do to Coyle, and
then informed the press of his spirited action.
A peerless example, surely, of the Phillio-
street, as opposed (say) to the Anzac, touch!
The most venerable identity on the 50-
year-old Brisbane Telegraph is F. T.
Brentnall, a Derbyshire man, who arrived
in Sydney in 1803 as one of five Methodist
Ministers. He is the only survivor of the
quintette. For 20'years he preached the
Word, and could claim, amongst other dis-
tinctions, that he was the officiating minister
at the marriage at Wagga of Castro or
Arthur Orton, the Tichborne claimant. A
throat affection drove him out of the pulpit,
and he joined the literary staff of the
Telegraph, subsequently becoming a share-
holder. He was chairman of directors of
the company from 1885 to ’93. In 1880 he
was appointed to the Legislative Council,
and held the seat until the House was wiped
out last year. He is still going strong at 89.
Mrs. Clara Surtees, dead at 87, was the
oldest inhabitant of Liverpool (N.S.W.).
She remembered when the asylum building
was used, as a military barracks, and had
many lurid stories of stocks and whipping-
posts. Also, she could look back to the time
when George’s River was navigable right Up
to the town, the supplies of which were
brought in steamers. The old lady’s mother
was the sister of that Lieut. Wilson, after
whom the promontory is said to be named,
but is .not.
“Cartot”: The winning of the Laleaca
Medal for research in tropical medicine by
Dr. Raphael Cilento, Director of the Insti-
tute of Tropical Medicine at Townsville, is
a big score for Australia. This prize, which
is the blue-ribbon decoration of its scientific
branch, is awarded by the London School
of Tropical Medicine to the graduate who
achieves the highest number of marks during
the course of a full year’s study, and it
has never before been won by ail
Australian. Cilento (whose father is
traffic-inspector of 8. A. railways) is
a graduate of Adelaide University, where
he obtained his M.B. in 1918, after
he was placed in charge of one of
the native hospitals in New Guinea, where
he carried out some useful research work. A
short time ago he succeeded Anton Breinl as
the permanent head of the Townsville insti-
tution.
“Morehead”/: The earthly destinies of the
Brethren of the Good .Shepherd, who carry
out their holy operations on an umpteen
square-hundred-mile tract back o’ Dubbo
(N.S.W,),are guided by Rev. Harold Dymqnd
Reel, who took over the job from Rev. (’. 1).
Black-Hawkins a little over a year ago.
Father Peel, as he is known to most, is a
B.A. (Cambridge), and was a curate at
Whitby (England) 1908-13 and priest in
charge at Gilgandra (N.S.W.) 1914-1(3.
He served as a chaplain with the A.1.F., and
on his return was inducted as rector of Bre-
warrina. He has two main ambitions in life
—to divert all classes of out-back sinners
on to the narrow track, and to fill his
brotherhood with Australian ministers. It
has had a markedly English and aristocratic
flavor hitherto.
“The Deacon”: Recent mention of Evis
O’Brien as likely to undertake the
“Life and Letters of Cardinal Moran”
recalls how other Australian priests pro-
duced by Manly College have broken
into the literary game. Father Man-
gan, of Melbourne, already has a book or
two to his credit; but the outstanding suc-
cess is John O’Brien’s “Round the Boree
Log.” The elongated author sketched and
wrote for The Bulletin years ago under
the pen-name of “Mary Ann,” and his
“When the Circus Comes to Town” is still
quoted out back. Nowadays, as the Rev.
Patrick Hartigan, he shepherds a flock at
Narrandera (N.S.W.).
Death ruled out one of the N. S. Wales
1 ederal candidates last week in the person
o Col. I aul, of Bathurst. He had meant
to contest Macquarie, but was killed in a
motor accident at Rydal. He did good
work as C.O. of the 54th Batt. during the
war. °
‘Schnorrer”: Due in Australia, a few
months hence, Dr. Weizman, director and
proselytiser on behalf of the Zionist move-
ment. Australian Judaism took a mild,
very mild, interest in Zionism after the
visit of Israel Cohen, but even that has
Dr. EARLE C. G.
PAGE , M.H.R . for
Cow per (N.S.W.),
Leader of the
Country party.
waned consider-
ably of late. The
reason is, of
course, that the
average Australian
Jew no more
wants to live in
Palestine than the
average Austra-
lian Irish-
man wants to
settle in Ire-
land. It is
possible that
Weinman’s visit
may bring a pawn-
shop or two on
the market, o r
cause a few
bookies’ licenses to
be chucked in—
but I’m not laving
odds on anything
of the sort.
; A Wonderful old lady passed
otit at her home Orielton, Woollahfa (one
time the residence of Chief Justice Stephen)*
a few days ago. in the person of Mrs. Rich,
wife of the Canon who was for so many
years chaplain at Darlinghurst Gaol* She
Was 05 when the end came. One of her
Sons is the High Court Judge, who has been
representing Australia at the League of
Nations Conference : and another is Edison
Rich, a prominent Sydney lawyer, and pre-
sident of the N. S. Wales Law Institute.
“G.P.M.” (Loud.)
Perry Handley, a Rockhampton (Q.) girl, has
had more hair-raising experiences than you can see
on the average movie-sheet. After being educated at
Lismore (X.S.W.), and given a job of work at the
Coast Hospital (Sydney), she left for the U.S. in
1910, and spent four years in the hospital of the
Californian University, went from there to a New
York hospital, and finished up her course at this estab-
lishment as superintendent of the training-school.
Then name the war and five years’ hospital work in
France, including three months at Verdun. In Sep-
tember, 1919, she went nursing Polish wounded in
Warsaw, Vilna and Cracow; then back to Paris, and
in 1021 oft' again, this time to Sen-in* where she put
in a year organising hcip stations for the starving
Servians. She is now in England, taking her first
real spell—after eight years’ continuous setviee-
and is thinking of a trip back to Australia,
“The Deacon”; Coincidence in nomencla-
ture, is it? In the just-finished Riley v.
Riley divorce , case, in Sydney, barrister W.
J. Bradley, briefed by the Crown to upset the
previous decree nisi granted by Gordon, J.,
had to prove the adultery of one Jean Brad-
ley—no relation to him whatever. And just
at that time there ended an Equity suit
Bradley v. Riley—and neither of the parties
was any relation to either of the parties in
the other little mix-up.
“D.E.” : The most straight-laced Anglican in
Melbourne is L. V. -Biggs. Biggs, who works
for the Age, is the only thoroughly devotional
pressman along the Yarra watershed ; but he
makes up in rectitude and stern attention to
sacerdotal duties what his comrades lack in
piety and the matter of Sabbath observance.
A fair young man, with the aggressive, up-
standing hair that so often goes with the
spirit of combative Sabbatarianism, he was
beard from at a recent sitting of the Church
Congress, when in accents expressive of holy
horror he asked if the Church were about “to
engage in a propaganda campaign for danc-
ing?” It is a constant grief to Mr. Biggs
that he must devote to press work much of
the Day of Rest that he would prefer to give
to meditation and prayer, and it was of him
that a profane colleague observed: “He is a
human commination service: I never see him
without realising how thoroughly I am
damned.”
The progressive aldermen" of Launceston
(Tas.), who installed F. M. Nicholl, of the
Hydro-Electric Department as city manager
over a year ago, and have fought with hup
ever since, have now given him three months’
pay and extended him the hand of farewell.
There is talk of a meeting of protest; but
in the meantime F. T. Bellringer, of New
Plymouth (ALE.), who was runner-up for
the job in the first place, and is an enthus : -
ast in civic management, is to be asked if
he is still available.
THE CURSING CHAMPIONSHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Four hundred navvies employed on the Many
Peaks-Monto railway works in Queensland have gone
on strike as a protest against the violent language
of one of the gangers.” —-Brisbane Courier.
Thought you were matchless swearers, did you, eh?
Masters of foxhounds in Whyte Melville’s day.
Deemed you could hold your own in blasphemies,
Did you, my ancient foes, the Thames bargees?
Best are your lurid laurels, dimm’d your lamps,
Explosive second mates of Yankee tramps!
Teamsters, who heretofore no masters owned
At cursing, when the waggons strained and groaned
Across the black-soil plains, and bullockies,
Off with your cabbage-trees,
And manfully admit yourselves at last
Outclassed 1
Oaths there may be to make pale bagmen flush
And agitated bookies mutter “Hush!”
Flowers of Billingsgate cops fear to speak
And place on paper for a startled Beak.
A sailor’s parrot, fairly on the job,
Might quite conceivably stampede a mob
Of Sydney aldermen, or on their ways
Send in wild flight aggrieved Y.M.C.A.’s.
But to what super-heights must rise harangues
To smite with panic u'hole construction gangs,
And set tough pick-arid-shovellers making tracks
In packs 1
A Voice Profane came echoing down the creeks
Of Monto and the crags of Many Peaks;
With blistering nouns it filled those peaceful dell-
And adjectives that cracked like bursting shells.
Before that volley, like a single man.
Four hundred shudd’ring, outraged navvies ran.
Inured to blasphemy that rends and sears,
They crammed rough fingers into hairy ears
At this—and, cover reached, downed tools and swore
To face such lambent eloquence no more.
Give him the belt —him with the Tongue of Flame—
And on the gangers’ honor-roll let Fame
Inscribe his name!
N.S.W,
PIPARDS.


TOBACCO
lliliii
Mi
mmmm
m
V-'r.. V ... . ...
I'v ° i .
/ * *' ' q v (, ?;•: ;
3, *1" £ l--~ ' >«(•’*' » 'V%te /
’ ■ V '. -
■' ■ ' •
J? : jc/£3 £.M *»
:
MMi
S: : .:
BiiiiM
:
111
■
DIUM
■
mm
& ",
ns
mm t - mm w
mmm
H :
H
RHHH
RR
mmm
m
i-iy: "S ; ,
mmm
I
&
mm
WM
■
■ i
I
m
:
mss
■
I
a ra
a | m
■
11111
I
i
• •
■
, =
s
1 : : :
H 8 ..
■
m
H
■
1I
m
y v:
1
■
I
m
MWMMMP
i :
Wmm
m
n
■■
H
.Sff!
H
mmm
S'
■
■
i;
S
THE WORLD RENOWNED BRAND
OF
W. D. & H.O.WILLS.
01 AID
tt *9
a
-
Unique pansfe
of Models.
Obtainable
of all .
Tobacconists
THE PIPE THAT GIVES
DEPENDABLE SERVICE


1 r
Schweppes’
Flavoring Essences.
You only require to use half the quantity
if you use Schweppes’
Essence of Vanilla, Lemon, Pineapple,
Cochineal, etc.
Schweppes’Pure Olive Oil
Schweppes’ Pure Malt
Vinegar,
The best is always the cheapest.
See CANADA en route
BTtEAK YOUR JOURNEY
to the OLD LAND
(AUSTRALIA 1
O'”
Magnificent Mountain Scenery
The Prairies—the “Granary of the Empire"
Great Lakes—Bustling Cities
Land. Forest and Mine Development
Operate through all-steel, solid vestibule trains from Coast to
Coast- Inescelied Sleeping and Dining Car Service
Passengers booked by all Steamship Lines
linking with “the National Way."
For descriptive literature, fares and full information, apply to
CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS’ representatives:—
D. 0. RAMSAY, 251 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. C. S. BINNS. 59 Market Street. Melbourne, Tic.
GORDON F. JOHNSTON, General Agent, Passenger Department. 251 George Street. Sydney, N.b.'V.
GEORGE E. BUNTING, General Traffic Agent, 5 & 6 Ferry Building, Auckland. N.Z.
Canadian National Railuiaqs
SOCIETY
GRALIC
SPECIAL [?]ESERVE
[?] Whissky.
figures of the sort that will “prove any-
thing” are being relied on by both sides in
the anti-liquor controversy in Adelaide. Each
S. Aus. inhabitant now takes, yearly, 11
gallons of beer, and one-third of a gallon of
spirits, as against 12 gallons and a half-gallon
before the war. (The consumption of wine
has remained stationary, at three-quarters of
a gallon per annum.) On the other hand,
this moderate abstinence is pretty certainly
due to High Cost of Liquor, for every Crow-
eater, man, woman or child, averages an
expenditure of £5 on liquor in the year, and
in 1014-15 it was under £3 a head. Convic-
tions for drunkenness have come down by
about 50 pc’* cent, in the same period : but
A SLIGHT
MIS UNDERSTANDING.
'Glut why on earth yo to a lecture on sun-
spots?”
"Well, you know how bad my freckles yet
in the summer.”
it is feared that the tremendously-increased
demand for bottled beer, since 6 o’clock clos-
ing came in, merely means insobriety at home
instead of in a public place.
“10-U-4’s” idea :—•
A misguided R.F.A. captain whom I knew in
l' ranee posted me the latest thing' in snowballs by the
Knglish mail which arrived last week. Originated by
a Yankee major it contains a formidable list of names
exclusively the property apparently of U.S. or
British fighting-men, all military ranks being repre-
sented up to colonels and generals and every social
grade up to viscounts, earls and members of the
Lascelles family. The recipient is instructed fo
copy out the list nine times and forward it to nine
others, whereupon they and he will achieve good
fortune. The disquieting implication clearly is that
he who reneges will be afflicted by bad fortune.
1 have no personal friends whom I dislike sufficiently
to annoy with such foolery, and at the same time I
am superstitious. A disclosure of the way out which
T have chosen may serve as a tip to others in a
similar position—and a mathematical friend assures
me that hundreds of thousands of Australians are
going to be faced with my present difficulty in the
coming months. Those to whom I have passed on
my message of good cheer are: the Pope; the
Archbishop of Canterbury ; lvemal Pasha ; De Valera ;
Trotsky; the Kaiser; Waizeru Zauditu, Empress of
Abyssinia; the Prime Minister of the Latvian Re-
public, and Horatio Bottomley. Some, or all, may
take a chance —a thing that I lack the moral courage
to do —and throw their lists away. I do not prophesy,
as I know none of them. If they do it will help to
end a public nuisance. If not, (1) they may be
visited by good fortune (and Heaven knows most of
them need it), and (2) the names, titles, etc., of
their friends should lend a cosmopolitan touch
to a document which is, at present, fair too Anglo-
American to be picturesque, and generally assist to
brighten up the scheme and give it an international
flavor.
* * * *
“Wymac”: The decision given by the High
Court in the case of Dickson v. Railway
Commissioners of Queensland is an addition
to case law on the subject of departmental
negligence. A Mrs. Dickson entered a rail-
way carriage and sat down, holding an um-
brella in one hand. Leaving the station,
the train lurched, and plaintiff, putting out
her hand to avoid falling, clutched the hinge-
jamb of the open door, which at the
same instant was banged to by a vigilant
porter. She thereby lost the top of one
linger, an injury which has since debarred
her from following her profession as an
organist. A claim for damages was eventu-
ally lodged against the Railway Commis-
sioners, and the jury awarded plaintiff £2OO
damages, but the Judge, on a point of law,
found in favor of the Commissioners. On
appeal the State Full Court quashed the
jury’s finding, and upheld his Honor’s ver-
dict. Then the High Court was appealed
to, and, brushing aside all precedents and
authorities, delved into the previous hearings
and arguments, and clearly established the
outstanding fact of negligence. The Queens-
land Railway Department’s own rule (27N) lays
down “that doors must not be opened by the
Department’s servants before a train stops,
and they must be closed before the train
starts.” Their Honors accordingly reversed
the judgments of both lower courts, and gave
plaintiff the £2OO and her costs.
* * * »
“Harry J.’s” impressionist picture of flat
life:—
Before the cinema arrived, about the worst thing
that happened to a, flat-dweller who had paid a
month in advance was the discovery that he was
bang up against Maudie-Ethel in her morning and
afternoon “practice.” Now the disability is tire
young woman who is qualifying for a position at
the piano in front of a movie screen. Our present
back-balcony flat forms the roof of its prototype, ami
the latter houses a maiden who hopes, later on, to
help the continuous pictures along. The noises them-
selves would not be so bad, but we are haunted by the
imagined presence of the work of art for which
they are provided. Far into the night and
early morning we lie fretful, tossing and men-
tally picturing the hero hanged, the villain rescued
by the faithless wife, and the old woman’s apple-
barrow sent hurtling through the air by the shriek-
ing runaway train that narrowly misses the blissfully
ignorant children. Low and sweet, loud and jazz-
spangled, soft and seductive, clanging to a climax
and dying away to silence, during an all-too-brief
wrist-rest we absorb the lot. “My God, they’ve killed
him!” my wife shouted hysterically at 1 o’clock this
morning, after a brief, dream-haunted nap. I
listened a moment, then corrected her: “He is
not dead. I can hear the triumphant clatter of the
rescuing horsemen.” And, reassured, we fell into a
fitful doze.
* » * #
“Loud”: A London magistrate has laid
down the valuable principle that to merely
stare at a woman does not constitute an
offence in law. The lady complained that
the alleged brute had followed her about
and gazed into her face in a satyr-
like way, but admitted that he had
not spoken. A crafty man, in a
Bulletin picture of years ago, said to the
husband who was threatening stoush, “Dash
it all, if a woman as beautiful as that goes
about in public she must expect to be stared
at!” The London beak took much the same
diplomatic line with the lady who professed
to regard a yearning gaze as a species' of
assault.
* * •
“Bouragi” on a rare decoration:—
“Henry Bateson’s” remarks about medals granted
to the N.S.W. Police for capturing bushrangers (B.
5/10/’22) recalls the fact that many years ago
the British Colonial Office issued a special medal
for officers and men of the British New Guinea
Armed Native Constabulary. It was a silver medal
on a red and blue ribbon bestowed on the police who
earned distinction in the not infrequent frays with
natives. This must be about the rarest medal of
modern times, for only three were issued. One went
to Sergeant Ewai, who in later days was Monckton’s
sergeant for a time. The second was given to
Sergeant Anthony, one of Macgregor’s especial favor-
ites. The third went to the late Captain Butter-
worth, once O.C. Native Constabulary. He got
into a father of a row in South Africa for wearing
the ribbon while an officer in one of the Q.M.I.
regiments. The potentate who roared him up had
never heard of the A.N.C.—and small blame to him.
GEMS OF FICTION.
“I say, do you, know the story about the girl who pulled the pearl out of the stew in a
Dago fishshop ?”
I do not; but I know the one about the girl who got a diamond out of a mug at the
Hotel Splendiferous."
“Bret Vane’s” note:—
Jewry has been celebrating its something-over-
five-thousandth New Year. Apparently the son of
Abraham in this country does not take the matter
quite as seriously as his brother in Irak. Business'
there is entirely suspended for the full period of
such festivals, however long, and the bazaars are
almost dead. There seemed no half measures about
it either —to us who were in those parts in war-
time. The shutters were up to stay up. Even the
old itinerant barber, tramping from Ispahan to
Jerusalem, was off his beat, and his clientele had to
forage for a scrape. But the streets were thronged.
Miriam and young Joseph were all out in silks of
dazzling hues. Their daily promenade nicely topped
off the orgie of fasting and feasting. But the sexes
kept frigidly to themselves. There was nothing of
the “two-by-two, male and female,” about it.
DEAD SLOW.
SYDNEY-SIDER (nearing Melbourne ): “Dam'
funny they should go and advertise it!"
“Sugi” tables some new Samoan drinks:—
Re “Prof.’s” par. (B. 31/8/’22) on prohibition in
Samoa. There is no doubt that the natives and the
half-castes are brewing and drinking some queer mix-
tures. Methylated spirits, with milk and a little
flavoring, have had a great run as a cocktail, and
vanilla was more popular than tea until the Cus-
toms stopped the importation of it. The Chinese
coolies distil a colorless liquid like gin, containing
about 35 p.c. proof spirits, from the cocoa-bean ; it
costs about 15s. a bottle, and is real firewater. I
have seen and tasted a stimulant made by the
Chows from rice. It could not be distinguished
from whisky, either by color, taste or smell. The
Samoan is also discovering what a difference a few
r, a - ?. little rice wil l make to “near” beer,
and what kicking wine can be made from unfermented
giape-juice and a few raisins.
* * * *
“Herodotus”; In his book, “With the
Judaeans in the Palestine Campaign,” Lieut.-
Colonel J. H. Patterson, D.S.O. (author of
ith the Zionists on Gallipoli”), complains
bitterly of the scant sympathy accorded the
- Jewish Battalions by the Palestine Ilead-
f quarters Staff, and especially by Major-
r General Sir L. J, Bols, Allenby’s Chief of
v Stall. At one time the formation of a
f Jewish brigade was mooted, but the idea
> received the official cold shoulder, and event-
: ually only two Jewish battalions were
raised. Patterson commanded one, and
■ Lieut.-Colonel Margolin, D.S.O., of W.A.,
> the other. The actual lighting record of
i Patterson’s lot, as given by himself, is not
arresting. The total casualties of the Batr.
for two years’ service were six killed, 20
died of wounds or disease, and four wounded.
; The Hebrews put up one creditable record
! though. Their wet canteen at Plymouth had
• to close down, as not a single pint of ale
was sold. Even the Army Chaplains’ De-
partment couldn’t beat that.
* - . *
“C’.C.C.” : Revival of the nigger labor con-
troversy awakens memories of New
Orleans (T7.S.A.) as I knew it
some 12 years ago. At that time,
negro lynchings and burnings in
the State of Louisiana were about
as commonplace as Mississippi
mud. One enterprising showman
exhibited a phonograph in Canal-
street, with a poster inscribed,
“Come and hear the nigger being
burned.” By paying a nickel
jukI putting the tubes to their ears
patrons were enabled to regale them-
selves with all the horrors of a wood-
pile lynching. The crackle of burning fag-
gots. the shrieks for mercy from the wretched
victim were all faithfully recorded on the
wax cylinder, and this ghoulish exhibition
lacked nothing in patrons, young and old.
“Randolph Rentless”: The most numer-
ous name in the A.I.F. was not Smith. On
one occasion, being on the trail of a certain
McDonald, whom I had reason to believe
was wounded and in hospital, I called at the
A.I.F. records section to see if I could ascer-
tain his whereabouts. There were several
drawerfuls of record-cards about McDonalds:
the clan beat the Smiths substantially. And
when, thinking that I might get nearer that
way, I asked the Digger rvho juggled the
cards to see if he could find Donald Mc-
Donald, he looked a darned sight more re-
sentful than if I had asked him to look up
William Smith’s record.
(Continued on page IS.)
THE SHIPPING CLERK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No more upon the deep the galleon dips
From Eastern oceans with its woolly fleece
And odorous gums; no more the trireme slips
Its cable for the sunlit seas of Greece,
Or rides deep-laden with the gems of Ind.
Pale, poppy-scented drugs and ambergris,
Rare spikenard, and oils ten times refined,
And wroughten silver from the mines of Dis.
Instead, lie sits upon a high-perched stool,
With mournful mouth and out-worn office coat,
Statistics clog his brain with rankling rule,
And calculations rumble in his throat.
Uo sprawls and yawns; while half the world around
A dirty tramp rolls into Plymouth Sound.
MAORI LAND.
QUENTIN POPE.


JP
mmm
W
ATIiLEWC
ru LL
AUTOM
I C
ELECTRIC LIGHT and POWER PLANTS
The lighting of a town,
FACTORY or FARM and the
power necessary to drive machinery
calls for a plant that will be equal
to the most exacting demands made
upon it night or day, and to do its
work without involving continual
skilled attention.
MATTHEWS LIGHT and POWER PLANTS are Direct-coupled, take the minimum floor
space, and are entirely self-contained on a single bed-plate. Installation cost an “ u P* e ®P
are low compared with other Power units. Generators of any voltage or ca P a “tycan
supplied, either for Direct Current, or Alternating Current for long-distance transmission.
MATTHEWS LIGHT and POWER PLANTS are extremely simple m construction,
vhile showing strength in every part; dependableness is the supreme quality of the
MATTHEWS plants.
FULL AUTOMATIC SYSTEM.—When the demand for Power exceeds the capacity of
3ne Plant, a second Plant can be installed, and the two inter-connected through a
“Paralleling Switchboard Panel.” Either Plant can then be made the Main Plant and wi
carry the load up to its capacity. When the load becomes too great for one plant the second
Plant will automatically switch itself in and assist to its full capacity. Immediately the load
drops to the capacity of a single Plant, the second Plant stops itself. One
Plant can always be used as a standby for overhauls.
Engines run on Benzine, or Suction-gas, using Charcoal or Coke.
5 Models, i to 6 k.w. Full Automatic.
22 Models, 2 to 75 k.w. Generating Sets.
Write for further particulars.
This 40-k.w. plant is capable of gener-
ating capacity for 2000 lights, and will
supply power for all purposes.
SUITABLE FOR SMALL OR LARGE
TOWN LIGHTING.
I
I
>:i *L
II
vS
Sif
-v
>. : -v •<
m
■ : ■
;
■
SOUTH BRITISH
BUILDINGS,
LTE?
O’CONNELL STREET,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Distributors: J. B. CHANDLER & CO., 169 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
' HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
"WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN h CO. PTY. LTD.
"For Ever Best/'
STA 6
LACIER
TOOHEY'S.
“George Rich”: A quaint figure has ap-
peared iu the south-west of W.A., iu the
shape of a political economist who actually
falls over himself to toil, and declines, abso-
lutely and resolutely, to accept monetary
remuneration for it. The freak, a master
tradesman at one time, maintains that he
has a call from God to show his fellow-
workers how money can be done without,
and the capitalistic system thereby smashed
in pieces. For 18 months he has insisted
that his creed —of working for tucker alone
—will create a paradise on earth. So far,
however, his only following consists of dis-
ciples anxious to provide him with employ-
ment.
* * * *
“Millie” (Hongkong) tells exactly what
did happen*:—•
“Anglo-Indian” (B. 24/8/’22) is as far out in
his facts re the recent shootings in Southern China
as was Yinson Lee in his address to the Sydney
Ad. Club-men. The former says that there are no
Indian troops at this station. He is wrong; there
is a whole regiment, as well as a large force of
Indian police. In the shooting which took place
during the big strike four Chinese were killed through
disobeying the Government’s martial-law order that
no Chinese should leave the colony. Tn the Macao
affair 40 were killed and 150 wounded. The scrap
arose as a result of an African soldier mauling a
Chinese woman. Her compatriots came to her assist-
ance and mauled the African. Black reinforcements
arrived on the scene under the command of a Por-
tuguese lieutenant, who was in turn assaulted by
the mob. The blacks then fired into the crowd and
the above-mentioned casualties resulted. Those are
the official facts which I received from the Governor
of Macao, corroborated V tVr Consul-General and
live eye-witnesses.
CAMOUFLAGING COOK.
THE COOK: “I’ve been in this place since the missus teas
first married, an’ I never dared to dress like that.”
THE MAID: “Naturally. I heard her saying only to-day
that she didn’t dare to have a smartly-dressed girl
about the place while her old man was alive.”
“Pro”: As a variety artist in the matter
of expletives the bushman seems to be deteri-
orating. At least, this was the impression
I got during recent court proceedings at
Bunga-Bunga, whore the local J.P. was
straining the quality of mercy. The first
case was “Langwidge, y’r wushup.” “What
is the language complained of?” inquired the
Bench. “Buddy blankard, y’r wushup.”
“Cautioned,” was the sentence. The dialogue
continued: “Next case?” “Langwidge, y’r
wushup.” “What language?” “Ruddy blan-
kard, sir.” “Detained till the rising; this
sort of thing is getting too common. Next.”
“Langwidge. y’r wushup.” “What the —
what was it?” “Ruddy blankard, sir.”
“Fined five bob; and the next ruddy blan-
kard tliat comes into this court charged with
using such abominable expressions will get
a month without the option.”
* * * •
“0. Troop’s” story :—•
“Goldie” was the flashest man in the regiment;
even in the desert his large feathered hat and goose-
neck spurs proclaimed the dandy. But above all be
was proud of his gold-filled teeth. It was a common
thing to see him, with his mouth open, the centre of a
crowd of natives, all struggling to get a glimpse of
the auriferous molars ; and their reverential “Quies !
Quies!” was music to his ears. Suddenly a change
came over the scene. Two English officers were
killed while on leave in Upper Egypt—they had
offended the villagers in some way—and the face cf
one of them was mutilated for the gilded teeth which
lay behind it. “Goldie” never visited a village
afterwards without at least half a troop. “I don’t
want my grinders in any Gyppo pop-shop,” lie
would explain to his gold escort.
**» - »
“Pro”: “T.0.1.’5” reminiscence of Leich-
hardt (B. 5/10/’22) recalls a unique claim
by a Binghi “oldest resident,” who patri-
arched the remnants of his tribe on the Mac-
Intyre River, near Mungindi (N.S.W.), a
few years ago. This hairy old oracle, who
bore all the outward and visible traces of
about 80 winters, would solemnly assure
visitors to the camp that he had seen Cap-
tain Cook ride past on horseback, “long
time in front first white pfeller come.” The
local theory was that he saw one of Leich-
hardt’s ill-fated party of 1848, which must
have passed that way before the district was
settled.
* • # *
“Bouragi”: A missionary named Jones,
who has been spreading the doctrines of the
Seventh Day Adventists among the benighted
heathen of Papua, has just landed back in
Sydney. Jones says he found the natives
“Devil worshippers, obsessed by the belief
that the spirits of the departed were every-
where, and that it was impossible to escape
them.” Which merely shows what a super-
ficial mis-impressionist a missionary may bo.
No Papuan really worships anything, unless
it is his own stomach. He certainly employs
all sorts of dodges to stall off the spirits
of the departed, but he does not worship
them, any more than the average Austra-
lian city-dweller worships band-collectors
or ear-biters. Nevertheless, the Seventh
Day Adventists should do well among the
Papuans. Any crowd which believes in
cutting the working week shorter than it
is will find favor with the discolored work-
evaders of that part of the earth.
* * * *
. “D.F.”: The Fuller Ministry’s scheme of
inducing retired Indian officers to settle in
Australia is but the latest
of a long series of proposals
of the same kind. In 1828'
Governor Darling suggested
that officers in the "service
of the East India Company
should be given land on the
same terms as those given
to naval and military offi-
cers. John Company did
not take kindly to the idea,
and nothing was done offi-
cially. but some Indian offi-
cers did come to Australia"
even in those days. Later,
about half-a-century or so
ago, the Speck became the
land of promise, and ex-
Indian officials started a
“community settlement” at
Castra, on the north-west
coast, while others went on
the land elsewhere. It was
this wave that washed
Edward Braddon, father of
the late “Braddon Blot” and
Henry Braddon, now of
Sydney, to the Speck.
* »
“Cousin Jack”: “Stells-
by,” writing (B. 21/9/’22)
on the memorials to Fawk-
ner now in existence in Mel-
bourne and suburbs, over-
looks what might have been
the first to engage his atten-
tion, viz., the suburb of
Paseoevale (near Coburg).
This land was at one time
owned by John Pascoe
Fawkner, and some years
ago the ruins of his old
house were still pointed out
to visitors there. In the late
’eighties the estate was cut
. ..... raiaw, wao tUL
up into blocks and sold. I know, because,
having the misfortune to be the first male
child born on the estate after the subdivision,
I was labelled by my parents “Pascoe.”
Heaven forgive them—l can’t.
* * * *
A boost from “Wilfrido”:—
The Mormon propagandist collects so few bouquets
that it is fair to indicate one place where
he has proved a wholesome influence. The
average Maori’s outstanding weaknesses are dress,
drink and gluttony, and he rarely works unless with
the ebject of acquiring all three in maximum
quantities. In Porirua (M.L.) there is a small
native settlement whose supervisors are from Salt
Lake City. Here Hori is clean, tidy and moderately
clothed. The lands belonging to the Pa are under
culti\ation as market-gardens, and would compare
favorably with any worked by Chinese. Certain
periods during the day are given up to sport and
out-door exercise, and in the evenings dancing is
indulged in. The parade to church on a Sunday
permits of a modest display of finery, and the fact
that there is no collection nor call of any kind upon
the congregation does not seem to lessen the attend-
ance. In Hawkes Bay there is a Mormon College
where Maori, Samoan and Tahitian boys receive
tuition in the art of agriculture. This is under
Government supervision, and has proved a great
success.
FIXED.
“ Darling , I noticed a fiver on your dressing-table. Would you make me happy for ever
by letting me hare it for a new hat?”
“ Certainly , dear. I'll fetch it.”
“Don't worry , darling. I've got it.”
Spectre”: Barham and Koondrook are
sister towns on opposite banks of the Mur-
ray, and in the midst of the red-gum forest
country. Strolling through the Barham
Cemetery I couldn’t but notice the ripe ages
at which various rude forefathers of the
hamlet had passed out. And in one of the
store windows a while later I struck this:—
EUCHRE PARTY, DANCE AND SUPPER.
MONDAY, JULY 18, 1922.
Mechanics’ Hall, Koondrook.
Benefit for Koondrook Cemetery.
Double Tickets 45., Single 2s. 6d.
What an advt. for the salubrionsness of the
district and its climate! The only bone-
yard in the place in financial difficulties
owing to a dearth of bodies ! If they had
the phenomenon in the U.S. the world would
ling with its fame.
* * * *
From The Bulletin’s tame Puseyite:—
Probably the most valuable asset possessed by
Archbishop Wright, of Sydney, is his masterly adroit-
ness in the handling of a wet blanket. During
recent years his diocese has been freer than any in
Australia of clashes between the “High” and “Low"
factions. His method is simple, and is based on
the sound old theory of catching them young. Before
any N. S. Wales curate is licensed he is required
to undergo a strict catechism as to his leanings, and
he may even be called upon to sign an undertaking
that he will not wear vestments, swing censers or
indulge in any other form of ritualism. And hence
Synod swallows John Charles’s merciless tilts at
Anglo-Catholieism without a protesting murmur. The
object of the English High Churchmen is to, as
they say, “purge the Church of its Teutonism,” and
re-establish it on a more Catholic basis, with an
eye to a re-union eventually with Rome and the
Eastern Orthodox Churches. That is why Low
Churchmen in Australia want to cut the painter.
For what is legal in England must ipso facto be to
here. Synod contains many earnest members at
present who will not be content till the Church
in Australia is clear of Canterbury, and at liberty
to frame its own constitution.
► * • •
“The Oldest Inhabitant” muses:—
Hay (N.S.W.), on the Murrumbidgee, is celebrat-
ing its municipal jubilee. The original name was
Lang’s Crossipg-plaee. It derived its present one
from John Hay, afterwards Speaker of the Leg.
Assembly and later President of the Legislative
Council, who represented the Murrumbidgee in the
Ma State’s First and Second Parliaments. In those
days (the ’sixties) residents of Hay who wished to
come to Sydney, 460 miles away, travelled by Cobb's
coach to Echuca, thence to Melbourne by rail, thence
to Sydney by steamer; an alternative route being
via Alburv and Pieton, and thence by rail. In a
sense Hay was, therefore, one of the pioneers of the
corkscrew method of reaching the coast, which has
been applied since to so maDy other inland towns
with the object of ruining them and their surround-
ing districts, and boosting Sydney and Melbourne.
But the burning little place (Hay and Hell are
usually eon pied when climatic conditions are dis-
cussed out-back any time between November and
March) owes whatever fame it possesses chiefly to
the fact that Fitzwilliam Wentworth (son of W.C.)
neaily ruined himself by the purchase of Burrabcg'.-,
es J across the river. He gained the dis
function, by this deal, of being tlie holder of ihe
biggest slab of real estate in the world. One of the
ilk, with whom Wentworth was connected by mar-
nage a son of the old-tiine city butcher—managed
the place, and managed it well, but could make no
headway against King Drought.
* * * *
“Pro” : Bulletin contributors’ “sex de-
tection theories so wrought upon Bill
Jones, who has the next holding to ours,
that he decided to investigate the matter for
himself. His initial blunder lay in pinch-
ing an egg from the kitchen. In the needle-
and-thread test the rotations of the former
were so pronounced that he. made the second
mistake of inviting his wife to view results.
“The only thing that beats me now,” he
mused, “is what gender the movement indi-
cates.” “Where did you get the egg?” she
asked coldly. “From the kitchen.” “Then
it’s neuter,” she announced, “that’s a boiled
one.”
# # * *
“Pick” exhumes an episode of the hush-
ranging days:—
I doubt if anyone can tell Henry Bateson (B.
5/10/’22) who received the four missing gold medals
(1856-74) for laying bushrangers by the heels, but
I am in a position to name a man who refused one ot
them. This was Jack Abercrombie, then overseer at
Bibbenluke station, N.S.W. The year was 1861). when
Monaro’s short-lived bushranging gang, consisting of
Drynob, Hill and .Jones, after robbing Cambalong.
station, had ridden into Bombala and stuck up Mil-
lington’s Hotel. Drynob kept guard with a double-
barrelled gun while his mates looted- the premises,
the local police having been drawn away by the
Cambalong raid. At this point Abercrombie casually
arrived on the scene, heading for the bar. Know-
SUFFICIENT CAUSE.
“I feel very uneasy about this rain. My wife
went out without her umbrella.”
"No doubt she’ll take refuge in a shop.”
“Precisely. That’s what’s worrying me.”
ing Drynob, who, the previous shearing, had worked
at Bibbenluke shed, he took in the situation at once,
and rushed him. Drynob fired as his attacker
grappled with him, but was overpowered, and hear-
ing the shot, his mates made for the back door and
bolted. Abercrombie was subsequently offered the
Government’s gold medal, but Hill and .Tones were
still at large, and, anticipating reprisals, he accepted
instead a pair of horse-pistols.
A NOTE OF COLOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is an old tradition that all roses were
originally white. The Greeks accounted for the
change of color by more than one story.”— John o’
London's Weekly.
hen the young- world spread green before my
youth—
The youth I held a thousand lives ago,
When what we saw and felt alone was truth—
I met 30U in one dawning’s magic glow.
Each stood amazed, then meeting eyes proclaimed
The wakened love that in our bosoms flamed.
Soul-mates we wandered through the fragrant glades,
Where Spring was rioting in leaf and bud,
To find a nested bower of dippled shades.
Hearts filled with song and music in our blood,
Surrounded by white roses, there we lay. ...
The roses have been blushing since that day.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


BLACK and WHITE
m&>.'!
&
••age and QUALITY."
WHISKY
IMPORTANT NOTICE!
Messrs. James Buchanan & Co., Ltd., Scotch
Whisky Distillers, Guarantee that all “Black
and White” supplied in Australia is PRE-
WAR WHISKY, and that they and their
associated companies hold the largest stock
of Old Matured MALT Scotch Whisky.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD.


ROTHERHAMS
English Watches
as
Are now
Procurable
from all
Jewellers
Foremost throughout the Empire for
over 60 years.
If your Jeweller should not have them
apply to Box 420, G.P.0., Sydney
A Signal Success
«3
-NOTCH Seotck
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
T^^tkSh^g
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS LTD
BMSBANE & SYDNEY
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
CONCLUSIVE
"I here do be two reasons, innate, why this 'ere lead edden
no good.”
"What are 'em, in’ son?”
"Well, boay, wan ez that she do he too narrow . and the
other ez that she edden wide ’nough"
"Oxide” : Blank was trying to sell a moke
which, though broken-winded, retained a wonderfully
good appearance. One day a prospective buyer
turned up and demanded a trial, so the two started
off behind the prad in Blank’s buggy. When they
returned, with the horse puffing and blowing, Blank
remarked, “Well, hasn't he got a beautiful coat?”
“Yes,” replied the other, scratching his chin, “a
fine coat, all right—but I’m darned if I like his
pants.”
"Ned Kelly” : The gin who asked “The
Rumpus” (B. 5/10/’22) for the parings of his finger-
nails wanted them to use in making a charm-stick
that most self-respecting lubras up that way carry,
though for what purpose I don’t know. I inquired
about them often enough, but the gins were dumb
on the subject. The sticks are about an inch round
and about 6in. long, and completely covered with
eagle feathers. When a gin is preparing one she
collects all the human remnants she can find, bones,
skin, nails and hair, and burns them. The ashes
are mixed with gum, and the feathers stuck
on with it. The stick is stored away at
the bottom of the dilly-bag, and only brought to light
when more feathers are to be stuck on. The more
people who have contributed portions of themselves
to the “stickphast” the more potent the charm be-
comes, and the lady who piloted “The Rumpus” to
water and got his finger-nails would have a charm-
stick that would be the envy of the tribe for years.
“Old Timer”: Re queer foster parents (B.
21/8/’22). A dingo took a hen from her family
of 10, and the chicks promptly took up with a
boar, crouching on him at night and feeding off
him by day. He used to lie down quite contentedly
while they pecked the food that adhered to his
head, and his happy grunts as they scratched hi-
carcase and cleared him of vermin were more elo-
quent, than words. He reared the lot. Seven of
them were pullets, and in time they began to repay
him by laying in his sty. He was scoring a regular
ration of eggs when I took a hand and removed the
fowls. The old chap was very discontented for quite
a while afterwards.
“Colub” : I don’t know the proper name of
the New Guinea snake which leaves its fangs behind
as it bites, but I can tell “Bouragi” (B. 21/9/’22)
that it closely resembles the ordinary Porphyriacus
pseudechis of Australia, save that it is smaller. It
is most frequently found in the swampy area between
Morobe and the mouth of the Markham, and some
years ago a recruiter, whom I had no reason to doubt,
told me he had killed three within a few' days on
the banks of the Moe River. One thing that seems
to distinguish this snake is the flatness of its head
which, in some specimens, looks as though it had
been run over by the wheel of a cart. Incidentally,
the amusement I gave “Bouragi” by my slip
concerning the location of loma (w'here I once
spent four months) was amply repaid by errors in
two of his recent Papuan pars.
“W.D.G.” : Was Cubby, the abo. mentioned
by “Pern” (B. 7/9/’22), any relation to another
old Darling River identity, Black Andy, who is
credited with having carried half-a-ton of galvan-
ised-iron from one of the river boats up to the
top on the bank? If Andy’s carrying capabilities
were as good as his appetite, he should have carried
15cwt. I gave him a feed* once, and he demolished
a whole leg of mutton and a fair-sized damper, then
went crook because I had no brownie to offer him.
• * » »
“Borom”: Bo far bacteriologists haven’t
been able to discover the cause of swamp cancer or
equine granuloma among stock in the North. It
■ -g<4s-Mb colloquial name through attack-
ing animals that have been pottering
about a swamp. The first sign is a
tiny sore on the belly, or the inside
Qf the legs, which, in a few days,
develops into a big- suppurating
ulcer. There seems to be little doubt
that a specific organism, perhaps a
‘‘filter passer,” is responsible for the
disease, which bears a close resemb-
lance to the human granuloma of
New Guinea, and the Bismarck Archi-
pelago. It is pretty certain, also,
that the common Australian leech
(Hirudo australis or Quinquestriata )
acts as the carrier of the germ, for
horses can, with impunity, stand all
day in a swamp from which leeches
are absent, -whereas leeches are always
present in the marshes in which
animals have been infected. Arsenic
has been recommended for treatment;
but it is not nearly as efficacious as
mercuric perchloride. The horse
should be removed to dry ground,
then the decomposing flesh should be
trimmed away from the ulcer with a
sharp surgical knife, after which the
part should be liberally douched
with a strong solution of the pev-
chloride (from two and a half grains
to 10 grains to the ounce of 480
minims), taking care to make the
solution up with distilled water,
or, if that be unobtainable, water as
free as possible from mineral salts,
which arg likely to set up chemical
reactions between themselves and ’.lie
mercury, and so deprive the latter
of its bactericidal properties. What-
ever the causatory organism, it will
soon succumb to the mercury, and a
few weeks of this treatment will cure
the worst case.
'An Old "Woman”: Re women qualifying
for the maternity bonus and in a few hours going
on with their household duties. I should like a doc-
tor’s opinion about the matter —-especially a woman
doctor’s opinion. The trouble is that the average
man, after reading a number of the instances re-
cently quoted, is apt to think all women could
do likewise, and that “lying up” is a farce. Add
he will think it even though at the time he is
giving the tenderest care to, and assuring a few
weeks’ spell for, one of his mares that has just
foaled.
* •» * *
“Jim Carew”: Once on the Upper Hawkes-
bury (N.S.W.) I saw a church service interrupted
by a dog-fight. As soon as sounds of canine battle
came from without, the male portion of the congre-
gation began to squirm, but when those near the
door passed the news along in an Irish whisper that
“Blank’s Spot was latherin’ Dash’s big black dawg,”
the men rose in a body and walked out. Spot and
the black dog were noted scrappers, and the ques-
tion of which was the better had been debated for a
long time. Ready feet kept a tribe of other dogs from
.joining in, and some big wagers were made. For
nearly a quarter of an hour the battle raged, but
then Spot got a throat-grip, and Dash said his dog
had had enough. The fighters were then tied up to
prevent them starting again, the bets were paid,
and the men trooped back into church to tell the
anxious women who had won. That dog-fight, by the
way, was the start of a bitter feud which lasted for
years between the Dashs and the Blanks, and although
a Blank is to shortly marry one of the Dash girls, ;t
is still smouldering, ready to break out at any time.
THE CHALLENGE.
"I’m surprized to see you teasing the cat that way."
"Orright. Show us a better way."
“Murranji”: These lVitt-,street stockmen,
who periodically name Australia’s best horseman,
make me tired. I came across an old Btiplbtik par.
tin; other day, in which a chap says lie knows the
four best, but can’t pick the one. I’ve been in the
game a long, long time now, and I reckon no one
can say who is Australia’s best horseman. There
are hundreds of dinkum riders in the back country
who have never crossed a horse in a buckjumping
show. They get all they want in their daily round,
without making exhibitions of themselves. I know at
least four chaps on the Flinders (Q.) who have never
yet received a clean throw, and they are always at it,
taking on the worst of them. But I’ve not heard
anyone proclaiming them Australia’s best. I have
seen dozens of men superior to Baldwin, Kemp, etc.
Riding a real bad horse in the bush, where be can
buck, bolt or smash you against a tree, requires
greater horsemanship than riding one in a yard with
a flank rope on. 1 myself have ridden them all ways
but in a show, taking them as they came, in a knee-
pad saddle or a poley, and have only once been
thrown clean. Still, I don’t reckon myself in the
first 100 best horsemen.
* * * *
When the drought broke the
stock on our run were getting badly bogged round
the swamps, and the overseer told ail hands that; if
they saw any animal in difficulties, the stockman was
to be informed as soon as possible. A “townie"
groom, engaged in Adelaide, and having bis first taste
of Outback, was out after ration sheep in the
home paddock when he saw a bullock badly hogged.
He charged back to the homestead at a gallop, and.
rushing into the men’s hut, shouted at the stockman:
“Hi, Murphy! There's a chestnut bullock bogged
up to the udder in-Pine Swamp!”
“Sucre”: “Hagai*” (B. 2S/9/’22), re adze
artists, makes me trot, out my champion. lie was
a Hindoo at Childers, in the Isis (Q.) cane district.
I once saw- him cutting his corns with a cane knife.
He did all his shaving with the same implement, and,
on the death of his wife—,a white woman—he sepa-
rated his head from his neck with the handy tool
* * * '»
“The Gunman”: Tell “Echap” (B.
14/9/’22) that he can get the re-loading tools,
bullets, powder, primers, etc., for the .22 high
velocity from a firm who are agents for this ;ifle
in Perth, (W.A.). High-velocity cartridges must
be loaded with extreme accuracy, and makeshift
tools will not ensure this.' IVith the proper tools
the re-loading is easy. This rifle is becoming
extremely popular in W.A. owing to the cheapness
with which cartridges may be re-loaded. “Echap”
is right in emphasising the danger of compressing
liigh-v eloeity powder. These weapons are point
blank at 350 yards and are sudden death to kangaroo
when the soft-nosed bullet is used. Also, the life
of the rifle is much greater than the ordinary high-
power weapon; the composition of the bullet is
one part tin to 15 parts lead, and! it does not wear
the barrel like the hard nickel bullet.
“Mag” : That the jack-snipe (B. 21/9/’22)
migiates in the early autumn to northern Asia is
certain; but I can quote one positive case where a
motlier jack hatched a family in Queensland. About
C hristmas a farmer near Maryborough ploughed up
a nest, after previously disturbing the parent. There
were three young ones in it, and the bills were too
pronounced for any mistake to be made. They were
“jacks” all right.
"Xoi'th-TV est”: Prompt action in emer-
gencv ? On Reid and
Reid’s Yellacowie sta-
tion on East-West line,
the boss’s quarters, the
shearers and shed-
hands' quarters, the
cook house and the
store with all contents
went up in a blaze at
about 1 a.m. on Sept.
9. At 3.30 a.m. a man
with a horse and cart
was on his way to the
head station, five miles
away, for tucker. By
the evening of the
10th, out of the ruins
a dining-room and
cookhouse had been
built, and a buggy had
been to a neighboring
station and back for
cooking utensils (the
45 miles each way
over a sandy track
were covered in quick
time through relays or
horses). At 7.30 a.m.
on the llth shearing
was in full swing as
usual. On being con-
gratulated upon what
he had done, Gordon
Blackmore, the man-
ager, remarked: “What
the devil could I have
done if we had not a
good mob of men?”
lie is a son of the first
clerk of Federal Par-
liaments, a great orga
niser and quick thinker,
but one of the quiet-
est and most modest
of men.
“Bogan Bill”: William is a boundary-
rider on a station near Blankydry,, and while he
never refuses a request for tobacco 1 have never
scon his weed accepted. When a cadger stings him,
William puts his hand in his pocket and brings
out a couple of half-plugs, mixed up with a lot
of soda crystals. “Oh, hell,” he'll say, “I was lavin'
some poison this mornin’ and the stricknin’ must a
got loose in me pocket sum-ow. Here y'are, though,
—it wont hurt the terbaccer.” The cadger always
finds he doesn’t feel inclined for a smoke just then.
“Eddy, son” : It was at the Yam Agricul-
tural Show. Trouble arose over the decision of the
judge in the ' Uie-dca' 1 ■ A ion, said judge being Amo-
Ratlin, J.P., the Id it ! her. Katlin fad always
judged the collie-, and o herto his decisions had
been received without pretest. The winner was
always Dave McGuire. This year Ratlin’s niece
entered her collie, Peter, and l’eter was awarded first
prize. McGuire became terribly incensed at this,
and attacked the decision in bullocking language and
with threatening gestures. McGuire said Ratlin .
didn’t know a eollic-dog from an iroubark pumpkin.
He said Ratlin had given a prejudiced decision, and
was not fit to . judge musk-rats. Ratlin was not the
man to stand too ninth of this. Ilis dignity as a
ARRANGING THE MEET.
“Is there any message you’d like to leave.
Casey?”
“Shure an’ there is. Tell that dirty spalpeen
that dropt th’ bale uv wool on me that
I’ll be waitin’ in Hivin for him. — aid
me black thorn.”
,I.l'. was at stake. He arose, his brow was clothed
in thunder. “Mr. McGuire,” he said, “Mr. Sand.'
McGuire, I’m judge here, and I’ll take no more iv-
your lip, sir. Another word from you, and I’ll give
you three days for contempt of this court.” McGuire
shut down.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE BUSH MOURNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The drover out by Cooper's Creek,
The shepherd camped beside the fold,
The ragged deadbeat of the street
Have lived the yarns that Lawson told ;
The miners in the golden west,
The wool-king’s dame with jewels hung,
The soldiers at the battle front
Have sung the songs that Lawson sung.
When nmlga wire and horseback mail
The word had brought that he was dead,
Our pipes went out; our tones were hushed;
And then the news was sent ahead.
From south to north and through the west,
From home to home, the word was flashed;
And many a rumpled sleeve was wet
Where tears of lonely men had splashed.
To us, the men of hill and plain,
The people that he called his own,
W lien sharp and clear the message came,
Twas like a knife-thrust to the bone.
He loved the bush and loved it well;
And one of us that he'd called “Mate”
Remembered things he’d left undone —
And now—the end—and it’s too latel
The sky is dark and dull the sun,
The world itself seems cold and grey;
And rough and rugged is the track,
And long and dreary is the way.
W here sliprail takes the; place of gate
And fences lie beneath the sand
Frond men are they out there to-day
To claim they once held Lawson’s hand.
N'.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


BEST NOVELS by
Australian Authors
1/- each (posted 1/2).
“Bookstall" Series of Australian Novels.
Nearly Five Million Copies Sold.
HAVE YOU READ?
Ensign Calder,
by J. H. M. Abbott
The Boss of Killara,
by Vance Palmer
The Squatter’s Daughter,
by Hilda Bridges
The Oil-Seekers,
by Jack McLaren
Equality Road,
by Vera Baker
Tap-Tap Island,
by J. M. Walsh
In Racing Silk,
by Gerald R. Baldwin
Billy Pagan, Mining Engineer,
by Randolph Bedford
The Fenceless Ranges,
by Roy Bridges
For Turon Gold,
by Don Delaney
The Mare with the Silver Hoof,
by Bob Allen
The Calling Voice,
by E. F. Christie
The Black Opal,
by Jack North
The Colt from the Country,
by Arthur Wright
Rogues and Ruses,
by Con Drew
The Pearls of Cheong fah,
by S. W. Powell
Bodger and the Boarders,
by Ernest O’Ferrall
The Double Abduction,
by H. K. Bloxham
South Sea Sinners,
by Arthur Crocker
Queen Vaiti,
by Beatrice Grimshaw
Fac’try ’Ands,
by Edward Dyson
A Curate in Bohemia,
by Norman Lindsay
Hack’s Brat,
by A. lan Macleod
Wolaroi’s Cup,
by Ambrose Pratt
150 Novels to select from. Write for Complete Descriptive
Catalogue ( free ).
Obtainable at all Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout
Commonwealth.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney,
n
Buy Belting on the Basis
of Tested Service.
The most important factor influencing the choice of a belt
should be the SERVICE it will give.
Records of past performance are a reliable guide in estimating
the probable life of the belting you buy.
For more than half a century records kept in hundreds of the
largest;- mining, industrial and manufacturing plants in
Australia show exceptional service given by
PIONEER LEATHER BELTINC
—in many cases for as long as twenty years.
The illustration shows a 20in. Pioneer Leather Belt in Federal Brickworks,
St. Peters, N.S.W., transmitting 200-B.H.P. Driving Pulley, 13ft. Driven
l’nllev, 4ft. Distance between Pulley centres, 25ft. Length of Belt, 77ft.
Belt Speed, 2500 ft. per minute. This belt replaced two years ago a similar
Pioneer Leather Belt that had been in use on tbe same drive for 17 years.
Confer with us on your belting problems.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD ,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
?"( «T" ii T'
i
=—V -
A—
■
m
Fill Your Lamp and Light It
Spend the evening hours over book or paper in the
steady, restful illumination that invites relaxation.
“Light of the Age” is PURE kerosene.
No smoke or odor to annoy. No thought of care—
you know it’s safe.
“Light of the Age" is refined from high-grade North
American crude oils carefully selected for the production of
a perfect illuminant. It is a clean oil—safe, and absolutely
pure.
Buy it by the tin. Ask for it by name —“Light of the
Age,” the kerosene that pleases.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.,
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
TES/ACO
ij
0
A
The Broken Hill Proprietary
Company Limited
Mine
Owners
Jetty at Whyalla, S.A., where ore is loaded for
Newcastle hy means of Conveyor Belt.
Iron
and
Steel
Masters
Manufacturers of
PIG IRON (various grades),
STEEL INGOTS,
BILLETS and BLOOMS,
RAILS and FISHPLATES,
BULB and PLAIN ANGLES,
ROUNDS, FLATS & SQUARES,
BEAMS and TEES,
CHANNELS, WIRE RODS, etc.,
and
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA.
BRANCH OFFICES:
CONDON: 3 Great Winchester Street.
SYDNEY: 28 O’Connell Street.
ADELAIDE: 28 Franklin Street.
Head Office;
EQUITABLE BUILDING - - - MELBOURNE


iiiiiiiiimiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiii
ROOFING
FLOORING
DAMPCOURSE
The Paraffine Companies, Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
Good toThe
Lasr Drop.
m
' t<P°!
ABBOTS
LAGER
Tfipfippr w/Mov/aftm/.
firmed from Pure/fo/t iftopr On/y
4-aoi
“King Kurrajong”: Before he wrote his
“Driver’s Tale” (B. 28/9/’22) E. F. Murnane must
have brushed shoulders with Mick Doghertv, one-time
driver for (he Ovens Valley Coach Co., and now
valet to the donkeys at the Government Chalet, Mt.
Buffalo (Vic.). Mick is the best-known romancer in
these parts. Everyone knows of his exploit in bluffing
a party of English tourists into trudging fearfully
across the “Blowhard Gap,” on the Omeo-llarriet-
ville road, each anchored against the wind with a
bag of stones in either hand. His story of
how he brought a loaded coach down the
Buffalo, after the wheels had come off, by
whipping his horses to such a pace that the
fearsome grade, combined with the speed, kept the
vehicle volplaning clear of the ground, is equalled
only by his account of the origin of the falls that
bear his name. He claims that the water shoots
down a groove in the rock carved by himself years
ago, when he had a fall on the side of the Buffalo,
and skidded down the cliff on the slack of his pants.
* * • •
“Friday Island”: Tell “Larrapinta” (B.
21/9/’22) and others who still sing the praises of
mud ointment that the kaolin (fine clay) in cer-
EVERYTHING UP TO DATE.
STEWARD ( sympathetically): “Can I bring anything up for you.
sir?"
VICTIM (feebly): “No, thank you. I need absolutely no assist-
ance."
tain marketed poultice preparations is sterilised be-
fore mixing with the other ingredients.. Oases of
lockjaw have occurred even through the use of un-
sterilised Fuller’s earth on a cut. Sterilisation makes
kaolin preparations and fresh mud ointments as un-
like as a politician’s annual statements.
“King Karrajong”: The references to the
effect of stinging-nettle on horses in water (B.
7/9/’22) reminds me of the trouble that we have in
forcing cattle across water in this country (Ovens
Valley, Vic.) owing to the St. John’s wort. This
plant causes extensive raw sores on all white parts
of the body, and when beasts so affected get into
water they collapse, kicking and writhing, and many
drown. I have seen mobs stampeding madly as the
rain falls on their wounds. This rapidly-spreading
DEAD TO SHAME.
“Mon, hue ye sae little respes' for the Loard that ye nuts' dae
yer hoose-breakin' on the Sawbath morn?”
curse promises to rival the pricklv-pear as a pest.
It can be recognised by its clusters of small yellow
flowers, its somewhat lucerne-like leaves, its dead-
brown wiry appearance in' summer, the froth that
appears on it in its early stages, and the alarming
way it spreads.
» * » *
“Kas Ivas” (Hermit Islands) : I wish
some of the late cat-rabbit controversialists could
have a look at a beastie that roots among the rub-
bish round a Chow cook-house in Rabaul. It has the
stiff hair, snout and tail of a pig, but canine legs
and paws. Altogether it’s over the odds.
» * * »
“Magela Bada”: There is a small non-
poisonous snake in Papua which grows to a length
of from 12 to 15 inches,
and in the native belief it
possesses some peculiar
properties. For instance,
when a native is desirous
of success in courting he
winds the reptile in his
woolly hair and goes to
sleep quite certain that
the “ju-ju” will get in its
good work and aid his
suit. It is also a charm
when the tribe goes hunt-
ing. The men rub their
bodies with the snake,
which gives their skin a
mottled appearance that
takes a long while to wear
off. The natives call it
the haino, and believe im-
plicitly in its potency. It
is a dun-colored grass-
snake, and is found in and
around Port Moresby.
* *
“Gouger”: We’ve
settled, all the shearing
and post-hole tallies; now
what about the gun cane-
cutter? How many tons
can he put through in a
day? For my sins (mostly
beer) I’m cane-cutting
now, so I speak with all
due authority. On average
cane lie’s a good man who
cuts and loads three and
a half tons a day, constant
going. On burnt cane a gun
cutter will cut and load
six tons, working the full
eight hours. Many gangs
work 10 and even 12
hours a day, toiling every minute like over-
driven galley-slaves. Of course, these men make
big money, incidentally ruining themselves for life
in a few seasons. But I reckon if a man can’t make
a crust with eight hours’ solid toil in this country
then it’s time to give the whole game best.
“Kilang”: Somebody asked a while ago
if a blaekfellow can blush. He can. I know one
who, owing to having been burnt on the cheek, has a
big white patch there. And you’ve only got to
confuse that gentleman to see the red flush on his
cheek. Certainly it can be seen only on the white
patch, but I guess it spreads all over his dusky dial.
“Bull Ryan”: The miner’s ziff mentioned
by “F.H.R.” (B. 14/9/’22) was beaten by that of a
man who used to
knock about Sydney
10 years ago. He was
fairly tall, but when
his beard was let
down it reached his
feet and trailed about
18 inches along the
ground. Ordinarily it
was not noticeable, as
he kept it tucked in-
side his buttoned-up
coat, but if half-a-
dozen people wished
to see it unfurled he
would take them to a
quiet place and pro-
duce it for a consider-
ation of sixpence each.
He made a sort of liv-
ing by gathering sarsa-
parilla-leaves for sale;
but 1 forget his name.
“N oma d” : A
South Aus. Dorset-
horned ewe put up a
record at the recent
U.A.S. show in Mel-
bourne. A few days
before leaving home
she had given birth to
two lambs, which died
within a few hours.
She was milked by
hand, and on the
fourth day of the show
—lO days after the
birth of the lambs—
she went off' her feed,
and as indications sug-
gested fever, the Soci-
ety's vet. was called
in. Examination
brought to light three
more lambs, all dead,
the fifth showing signs
of mortification. The mother survived the ord°al
about an hour only.
* * *
Bareoo : There have been so many Abo.
pars, recently about females who handled the banjo,
crowbar and other musical instruments as a means
of livelihood that it's only fair “Red
Jack” should get a hearing. Bhe
roamed the Longreach, Muttaburra
and Aramae districts (C.Q.) 20 years
ago, astride an old prad and leading
a packhorse, and the only toil the
lady would accept was post-cutting
or woodchopping to supply the local
steam-engines with fuel. After a job
and they were frequent—Jack
would retire to the most adjacent
township, put up at her favorite pub
and enjoy herself in the approved
male style. The female portion of the
staff was on much free booze, but
Jack scorned to shout for any man.
Her chief delight when mellow was
boasting her prowess in handling
“Douglas.” She swanked continually
of her prowess of endurance while
the cheque lasted, and invited all
and sundry to come along and try
themselves chopping posts against her
for a tenner. When at work she
donned a pair of dungarees and a
singlet, toiled from daylight till dark,
and camped in a tent on the job.
Men she had no time for—turned
the glassy eye on ’em all.
“Flicker’’: It is to be hoped there are
few men in Australia like the one quoted by “Joe
Collins” (B. 21/9/’22) as the inventor of the “novel
scheme” for stopping a horse from jumping fences —
punching a “neat hole in the point of each ear”
and tying string from these under the throat. Any
horseman knows how sensitive a horse is about the
ears. He is constantly moving them, and he would
pass his time in agony with such a damnable
device fastened on him. The moke-owner who
applies it deserves a far worse fate than “Oie
Gidya Bill,” whoss epitaph Bernard Cronin gave us
a few weeks back.,
“Wendouree”: “Jim Carew’s” light-blue
wild honey (B. 7/9/’22) reminds me. In March,
1892, I was staying at Apollo Bay (Vic.) with the
Cawoods, the oldest family in the district, when
we found a wild bees’ nest in the Otway forest, and
cut out a supply of honey of a green-grass color.
Like “Jim” I can’t explain the coloring, but I
can guarantee the quality of the honey.
* * * •
“Worray” : For the skinflint event I’d like
to nominate a cocky in our district. He had been
in the habit of getting all his supplies from town,
and had never made a purchase at the local empori-
um till one wet night, last week, when he roused
the storekeeper up at 1 a.m. to obtain carbonate of
soda, with which to treat three valuable horses that
: eaten wheat and were in a bad way. The treat-
ment was effective, and he trotted back to the store
and demanded credit for a pound of the carb. soda
(2-ld.) which was unused. But the storekeeper got
something extra on the deal—a bout of pneumonia
through being hauled out of bed.
* * * *
“FIT”: Re “Jim Garew” (B. 21/9/’22)
on wattle-gum as a cure for dysentery. The cure of
all others used by Western (Queenslanders of old was
the crystallised gum of the red-gum tree. The
chemists used to dispense it as a matter of course,
with or without a doctor’s prescription. But far
and away the best cure for dysentery I ever heard of
in the bush medicine-chest was a decoction from
pomegranate-skins boiled in milk. The idea hailed
■i.ginally from the West Indies. Pomegranates were
fairly plentiful on W.Q. stations then ; they are
easy to grow—and the peel was always dried and
kept against emergency.
* * » *
“Buzzer B.”: A neat trick was played by
a horse at I ii-hermen’s Bend, Port Melbourne, the
other day. Annoyed at having to haul the family
around on a pleasure jaunt on Sunday, he waited until
the boss had got out, then pitched the whole turn-out
oft the pier into the water. Mother and the
youngsters were drenched when the buggy sank, but
Dobbin carefully landed on all fours in a fisherman's
boat, and waited to be cut loose. The woman and
children were hauled out of the water, dejected and
humiliated, hut Dobbin stood proudly in the boat
while the fishermen rowed him ashore. He hadn't
even wet his feet.
“Gippo”; Inquiring of a farmer friend
about a certain horse I got the reply: “Poor old
Steam ! He's hauled his last load. He pulled him-
self blind. 1 had to turn him out and found him
one day last April at the bottom of- an embankment
with his neck broke.” I was about to make some
jocular remark about a horse pulling himself blind,
but saw ho was in earnest, and when I questioned
him he said he’d known several great pullers that
had gone blind. On my return to town a friend,
said he’d heard the same thing. Does the Abo.
Council endorse them?
* * * *
“Eddyson" : Jumm and Condon quarrelled
over a dog. It was Condon introduced the dog
into the hut. Jumm said he wasn't going to live
with no four-legged flea emporium, and put the
dog out. Condon let the dog in, whereupon Jumm
kicked at the animal, and the tyke bit his shin.
r l hen there arose bad language between Condon and
his mate. Jumm struck the first blow, and received
the last, and after that things were never the same
between Jumm and Condon. The latter had no
reason to suspect any homicidal tendencies on the
part of Jumm, till he discovered his mate doctor-
ing a piece of the steak lie was frying with white stuff
NATURALLY.
“What icon the first race, cobber?”
“The bookie!”
from a paper labelled “Poison.” Finding himself
discovered, Jumm fumbled the paper and the steak
into the fire, and made some absurd remark about
the nuisance the dam sparrers had become. Three
mornings later Condon awoke to find Jumm standing
at the head of his bunk, looking up at the rafters,
and holding in his hand a new half-inch rope most
suggestively looped. Jumm explained he was think-
ing of putting up a swing. Swinging he said was
good for the digestion. After that Condon, having
no desire to fill an early grave, kept a watchful
eye on Jumm. He found Jumm had another packet
of poison, and stole it. Then on another morning
he sat up in his bunk suddenly and confronted
Jumm Standing with a loaded gun in his hand, and
wearing a most diabolical expression. Jumm had
only bought the gun the day before. Jumm, covered
with confusion, went out and fired at a parrot.
Then when the partners and the dog were crossing
the river in the punt, Jumm surreptitiously pulled
the bung out, and sank the punt. Condon had the
narrowest possible escape. Then Jumm weakened
the covering over the old shaft by the track, so
that anyone stepping on it must inevitably go
through. Condon was now going in terror of his
life, in fact he had surreptitiously rolled his swag!,
with the intention of clearing out, when Jumm
blew up the log his mate was in the habit of
sitting on, using a time fuse. Jumm came in from
this exploit wearing an air of triumph. “Now we'll
be all right, Con,” said he, “I’ve done in yer dorg
at last.”
AN OLD SEPTEMBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Upon the Barrier Ranges,
Free as the winds are free —
Where time has worked its changes
On rock and stream and tree,
With mulga round me growing,
And golden noonlights glowing,
And silken breezes blowing —
’Tis there I’d like to be.
Though there no flashing fountains
And rivers leap and run,
Worn walls of ancient mountains
Attest what time has done;
There, hewn by bygone forces,
Lie rugged water-courses
Where drovers ride their horses
From spacious run to run.
Bridge-building memory bridges
Time's ever-growing tide,
And down the mulga ridges
At Fancy’s call 1 ride,
With Spring skies bending over
Young herbage, green as clover—
A roamer and a rover
Once more with friends beside.
Gay times I there remember,
When, like a welcome guest,
With radiant eyes, September
In gold and azure drest,
Blithe birds about her singing,
Bright flowers about her clinging,
Green Mitchell grass upbringing,
Came dancing down the west.
Beyond all weight and measure
Of silver and of gold,
Were they the peace and pleasure
That came to me of old,
Entrancing and enthralling;
When golden lights were falling
On wide horizons calling
To youth, carefree and bold.
N.s.tv.
BRIG ALOW.


’ ' i
• .mßb
• -M
lIPI
■ i'll
• '
! .>c.
, : n
- - -
• -:
' s. ■
* £ G IS H
,
■ “ ■■*»;■*-■
Is •• mmi
13'
.4'
.
3 '*> s
’4| - m
%5§ ■ :d
* > < ;
*
4
'-{< ' '.,/; ,-■ *j
t ' * v ‘ % S •
| ' - • ' s?| .
;
.. •; '
k '
|>; *l«si
*.■
Wks> iDBiiHIBi I
f||t|
v sr™ ”J7*r
33333P ; i
s si j
S:V
lil
.
'* >x : %
■«
EKfl
I f[
* ' A
M v?
i-
S v$S 3
- - ✓/. -, /, ' v
.
jfggfc*.
•s
Motorists all know what this means: A pleasant
outing, no mechanical troubles, no roadside de-
lays for tyre repairs. Many enjoy this experi-
ence month after month, others always appear
to be in trouble—and in most instances they
have only themselves to blame. It does not
matter what the car is, nor how much it cost;
constant care and attention are essential to the
“good run” habit. Again, what an important
part the tyres play in this connection. Some
motorists are careless as regards the tyres
used, and have an unsatisfactory experience.
WITH DEPENDABLE “RAILROAD”
UN
□
O)
fitted, one can be sure of many months of
pleasant motoring, free of tyre troubles.
All you have to do is to see that they are kept
properly inflated, and it’s amazing hoto
the thousands of miles add up before your
“Railroads” show any material signs of wear.
They do not chip or cut, their fine quality with-
standing the hardest driving; and as regards
value—they have no equal. The day you fit
“Railroads” you ensure tyre satisfaction and
economy, and at lower initial cost than any im-
ported tyre. Why not enjoy “Railroad” service?
Obtainable at leading Garages.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES
AND N.Z.


7 REX 7
CAMP
PIE
—a Dish Your Whole
Family will Really Enjoy
It is without any doubt one of
the most tasty—most wholesome
meat dishes you could possibly
obtain.
Choicest meats —the Rex perfected
process of cooking, preparing and
seasoning-—the new hermetically sealed
tins in which it is packed, all combine
to make it the choice of housewives
who practice real economy.
Enough in each tin for s—equally5—equally
welcome served straight from the tin
or with salad of any kind. Sliced thin
it makes an excellent Sandwich filling.
AT ALL LEADING 1
GROCERS.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
saooa
srsrri
cf
ATI
srr'
NJ
at
E
•D
o
5^ —■
0®
X
\
THOROUGHLY BRITISH
Ride a bicycle
built of
u
B
□
FITTINGS
A MODEL TO
SUIT EVERY RIDER
Whatever your need, there is a
bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
to meet it. The well illustrated
B.S.A. Fittings Handbook covers a
wide and varied range of bicycles.
A
THIS
TRADEMARK
APPEARS ON ALL
BICYCLES BUILT OB'
B.S.A FITTINGS.
Illustrated Handbook
post free on request.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
\
m
v
t=L
□
TUI
ra
¥
c
B
r)ne of tlie underlying principles which enables Dodge
Brothers to deliver so much real motor-car value at so low
a selliug price is the fact that this selling price is based on
manufacturing cost only.
This does not include any added charge to cover so-called
free replacements,” or “free service," or any other item for
which every purchase/ would necessarily pay in advance,
but which would benefit only a few at some indefinite future
time.
It is their belief that car owners prefer paying for these
items as and when needed, rather than in a lump sum in
advance, whether or not needed.
•-V
f
c
k
\\m
/m,
\ -x..
M
r A
Ca r#nL Cy r le 1 & Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
Just Charming,
By “PHLOX.
A CAREER is all right, Audrey, as
far as it goes; but I don't think
it is sufficient to satisfy the aver-
age woman’s heart.”
I suppose, Aunt, that’s why you gave
up your medical practice and married Uncle
Edward.”
“Yes. I was getting on in years when I
married. I had begun to feel that want of
companionship with someone I could really
call my own someone who was more to me
than a friend.”
"Those are my sentiments, Aunt. I • feel
I have a more interesting career than most
women with a lectureship at the University
and my research work in archeology, but
there’s something wanting.”
"And that something, my dear Audrey, is
a husband. I've been through the same thing
myself, and 1 know —it’s the same old story,
old yet ever new. I loved my profession as
you love yours, but alone it was unsatisfy-
ing.”
“Yes, Aunt. I realised that when 1 saw
Nita Anderson’s radiantly happy face as she
announced her engagement to be married;
then I realised that even a career does not
compensate for a life of single blessedness.
You remember that jolly girl who passed so
brilliantly in Arts! She’s going to marry
Professor Butler.”
And I think, Audrey, it’s about time
you looked around for a husband. You’re
not cut out for an old maid, though of late
you’ve acquired one or two little prim ways,
and the average man does like a little bit of
fluffiness about a woman.”
"What do you mean?”
I mean that you want to take more pains
with your general appearance; fluff out your
hair a bit, and so on.”
"But I don’t happen to have fluffy hair.”
“Then you’ve got to fluff it; also to im-
prove your skin ; in fact, where Nature has
been deficient, supply the deficiency with
art. That’s what I do. But I promised
to meet Uncle at 6 o’clock, and it's nearly
that now —I must be going. Good-bye,
Audrey, and think over what I’ve told you.”
Audrey Johnson was thinking over what
her practical aunt had suggested when she
was interrupted by; someone wrapping on her
study door.”
“Come in,” she called.
I rofessor Livingstone s pretty wife
entered. She had come to ask Miss Johnson
to join in a send-off to Nita Anderson.
After this had been satisfactorily arranged
.they talked of all kinds of things.
Audrey had often noticed what pretty,
fluffy hair Mrs. Livingstone had, and how
beautifully she dressed it. Why not ask
her for some hints on hairdressing?
Mrs. Livingstone felt quite flattered at be-
ing asked for advice by clever Miss Johnson.
ko much depends,” she told her, "on the
way the hair is shampooed as to whether
the hairdressing will be a success. Per-
sonally, I always use Stallax,” said Mrs.
mvingstone, "and I find it makes the hair
beautifully glossy, fluffy and easy to dress.”
-^ n d that’s just what I want,” replied
Miss Johnson.
“Do you ever use a hair tonic?”
'No, lin afraid I’ve never given much
thought to my appearance, but I intend to
turn over a new leaf in that respect.”
"I can give you a recipe for a simple,
home-made tonic. lou buy a package of
boranium from the chemist, mix it with
a quarter of a pint of bay mm, anu rub into
the scalp occasionally.
‘■JJo you know,” went on bright little
Mrs. Livingstone, "a little while ago I was
getting quite grey, and 1 happened to hear
a woman in a chemist’s shop ask for two
ounces of concentrate of tammalite and three
ounces of bay rum to mix with it. She
then turned to her friend and said that there
was nothing like it for restoring' grey hair to
its original color. I thereupon ordered the
same, and now I haven’t the sign of a grey
hair.”
"I’m glad to know of that, too, for I’m
continually pulling grey hairs out of my
head.”
“But, Miss Johnson, when you begin to
look after your hair you must also look
after your skin, and I find that there’s
nothing like mercolized wax for keeping the
skin soft, clear and free from blemishes.”
“My aunt was telling m e that I badly need
a skin food, but she didn’t tell me what to
use.”
“All the well-preserved women I know
seem to use mercolized wax. It contains
oxygen, and removes the old worn-out skin
so imperceptibly and painlessly that you
don’t know the process is going on until
some fine day one of your friends will re-
mark, ‘I don’t know what you’ve been doing
to your skin, but it’s like a baby’s.’ ”
“Then, that’s certainly the cream for me.”
“Well, if you care to come round to my
place when you have time I will show you
a pretty way of dressing your hair, believe
me, my husband always keeps me up to the
mark, and is delighted to hear people whis-
per as we pass, ‘Look! isn’t she just charm-
ing?’ ”
Eicrolium Jelly for whitening the hands
—all chemists. —Advt.


m
Ml
LLUiWI
C-2
Mi
X 2
CO
1077777751 £
mm
M 3
S 3
S 3
If
KS
9
1
«gg»
ORIGINAL
BALATA
BRITISH
BELTING.
This illustration, drawn from an actual
photograph, shows a 36in. x 8 ply Endless
Dick’s Genuine Batata Belt transmitting
700 h.p. Belt speed is 5028 F.P.M. Length
of Belt is 121 ft.
This is the main drive that feeds the powerful machinery used
in the huge plant of the Tacoma Lumber Co., Tacoma, Wn„
TJ.S.A. DICK’S Genuine Balata Belting was selected for
; this drive from a number of other; belts offering, because it gave
sounder assurance of Dependability, Longer Service, Greater
Efficiency, .Continuous Operation, and Power Saving.
In service this big DICK’S BELT is standing up to reputation.
The power is steadily, silently and fully delivered. Belt trouble
is unknown. There are no belt stoppages.
For full information , price, etc., write for free copy of our
interesting and ■useful catalogue.
JAMES HARDIES COY. LTD..
SYDNEY:
Vork and Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE
581-83 Little
Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
30 Currie Street.
The Queensland Machinery Co./SAlbert Street, BRISBANE
ments over the pale, still face, and went on to
distribute Mr. Hearst’s generous bounty.”
It goes without saying that since most of
the readers of Hearst’s papers are fools, they
take him seriously as a moist-eyed senti-
mentalist with strong reformative convic-
tions.
Day after day a little group of these, each one of
whom believed intensely in something, assembled
in front of Mr. Hearst’s private office in the hope
of gaining an interview with him, who believed in
nothing. Only an oak-door and a determined office-
boy stood between him ai d the invading mob. They
bad waited so long and patientlv that they re-
minded me of the Hitlerites awaiting the coming
of the Messiah, and then one morning, to their titter
amazement, the door was flung open and the great
editor, who was to redress so many wrongs, stood
among* them. But before they could buttonhole him,
or even get out their petitions and documents, a
sweet girl graduate of the chorus darted out, touched
him lightly on the arm, and with a merry cry,
"Tag, Billy, you’re it I” fled down the long- corridor
with Hearst in pursuit, to be seen no more forever
by the waiting cranks.
It would be impossible, within the compass
of any ordinary review, to indicate a frac-
tion of the quaint and mirthful things in
this brilliantly-written book. He need fear
no English-writing rival, by the way, out-
side his own country. About 50 per cent,
of his revelations would be libellous under
the laws of England.
Truth in Art
Not more than one critic in 50 realises
what the whole truth . in art means,
or that it kept the greatest of the
'* Old Masters students all their lives.
Only about one in five appears to be
} aware that if half the modern art theories
were not invented to avoid the hard work
which faces the disciple of truth, they at
least offer a short-cut to a big reputation
and financial success. Both critics and
artists speak of somebody’s "unerring eye,”
and go into raptures about a picture which
gives “more than mere truth.” And who is
not familiar with something like this?:—-
He has made a truthful transcript of his subject,
exact in form, tone and color, but has completely
failed to suggest light-and poetry.
Which is no less absurd than it would be to
say:—
He has made a faithful miniature copy of a cube,
exact iu shape, with six sides like the original and
exact in color, yet entirely unlike the original in
appearance.
But —showing how safe it is to write
about art —few realise that if the artist had
accomplished the astonishing feat of record-
ing the whole truth of what he saw, then
his picture would have embodied the same
suggestion of light and poetry. Its effect on
the eyes would have been different from that
of the actual scene, only because, owing to
the limitations of pigment, the range of light
would be condensed, and the color, perhaps,
less rich.
To nearly all critics and many artists a
picture crammed with minute detail is a
record of truth. But, while the statement
that the subject is composed of small things
does constitute one fact, and the complete
identification of all objects by outline and
color makes many more, still the compara-
tively small virtue of these is easily out-
weighed by the crime of countless falsehoods.
For a picture to contain absolute truth, all
its forms, tones and colors must be in per-
fect relation to the whole, exactly as they
would be in reality; moreover, there must
he nothing left out. Consider the difficulty
in accurately recording only one of the three
elements —tone. It is doubtful whether
any artist could put down 10 of the lights
and an equal number of middle lights and
darks of his subject all in perfect relation
to one another —yet to state everything in
almost any subject means the recording of
thousands. And, as with tone, so with pro-
portions and color. Thus is it possible to
see that not only is the whole truth in art
unattainable, but that no picture is ever
finished ; also that the nearest approach to
a re-creation of life, so far produced by art,
appears to be a perfect re-creation only
because sensitivity of eyesight is undeveloped.
Were that sensitivity heightened to the full
the eye would detect fractional variations
from what would be the exact forms, tones
and colors of every object under the light in
which they were painted. To the crudest
eye a pure black sky in the painting of a
landscape would be wrong. It would still
bo wrong if shown half as light as it should
be in relation to the earth ; but if the process
of lightening was continued a point would be
reached when relationship would appear to
be perfect, though actually it might be far
from that. The Old Masters, consciously or
otherwise, made allowance for this want of
development of the human eye by applying
laws of light, with the result that their work
has survived the centuries. .Just as it is
necessary for the musician to have a keenly
sensitive ear, so is it essential for the artist
to be equipped with acute sensitivity of eye-
sight. Without it his pictures will inevitably
lack harmony, and the most extravagant com-
position, dramatic story, profound philoso-
phy or brilliant ■display of technique will not
make up for the deficiency. On the con-
trary, pictures painted from imagination to
express such ideas will convey little of their
message to the individual with a highly-trained
vision, for he is faced with the necessity of
unlearning something before he can see a
vital suggestion of life in what is to him
only a tinted and shaded drawing of arranged
objects. A realistic painting of a pot of
daisies, because of its harmony, will emo-
tionally affect him more. For exactly as
any artist can draw better when he has a
model to work from, so the statement of light
and shade will be more logical in the simple
record of something seen.
Most artists refuse to recognise any law
because they say all see differently, and
visual truth is therefore a different thing to
each. But while this may be the case in
"ther things, in art truth is the same to all.
Sufficient proof of this would be readily
forthcoming in the form of protests from
both artists and critics if the writer declared
that none of the Old Masters could draw, or
knew the color of flesh, or could convey any
suggestion of atmosphere in their paintings.
But they could draw, and did get near to
true color, and carried their illusion of atmo-
sphere so far as to make it the quality in
their work which is very seldom even
approached by modern painters.
PERCY LEASON.
Australian Publishing
Vance Palmer (B. l'/(i/’22) hits the nail
at the blunt end when lie say;; the Aus-
tralian novel lias very little clianee with the
British publisher these days. Even when
the literary marksman on this side does
score a hit, he might just as well have re-
frained from shooting. If the Australian
author manages to squeeze a royalty out
of the British publisher' (and you’ve got U>
have the heart of four lions to get that)
he finds subsequently that such royalty is
largely a myth. Royalties run from 10 to
25 per cent., but they are paid only on the
British sales. On those copies disposed of
overseas, the author gets a miserable flat
rate of threepence a copy. The Australian
naturally looks for his biggest market in his
own country, and probably gets it there, but
his royalties bring him precious little even
when the yarn sells like liigh-temperature
dough, which it generally doesn’t. If a book
sells 3000 copies in Australia it is doing
prettv well, but the author gets only £37
30s. ' If he sells the same number in Eng-
land, and his royalty is 10 per cent., he re-
ceives three times that amount on a book
marked at 7s. 6d. You can’t get the pub-
lisher to budge from this threepence a copy
outside England, the reason being that there
is no fixed wholesale price to the dominions
or colonies. libyalties are paid on the pub-
lished price, and since that in Australia is
usually 0s. } the royalty should be sevenpence
a copy instead of the starvation threepence.
So far as I can see, there is only one way
of overcoming the trouble, and that, is by
waking up the Australian publisher, if there
is one, and getting Australian books printed
and distributed from here. It is. a tough
proposition, but it can be done if it is gone
about in the right way. At present it costs
about twice as much to publish in Australia
as in England. The British publisher can
afford to sell to the Australian trade at
3s. 4d. a copy and get his profit. C. .1. de
(laris, when he entered the publishing field,
found himself in this position over one book,
that it was selling in the shops for 6s. and
he was losing sixpence on each copy sold.
The position is made more difficult by the
fact that there are Australian duties on all
the raw materials of publishing, whereas the
finished product comes in free. I am not
cavilling at Protection. No sane person
does that. I am convinced that we want a
duty on fiction —I wouldn’t bother about
other books just yet, but I would pop it
hard on to the overseas yarn which is dumped
in this country. I would pile it on so hard
that British publishing firms would be forced
to print their Australian editions here. The
same result could be obtained by a copyright
law which the Americans have, which gives
copyright only to books printed and published
in America, hut Australia belongs to the
Copyright Convention, and could not dis-
criminate against any of the signatories to
that pact. The duty would be the better
scheme, because Australia is in a duty-im-
posing mood just now. Once you got pub-
lication of fiction here, the other kinds of
book would follow.
There is another thing that wants to bo
done before Australian publishing can be
achieved on a large scale. Publishers tell
me that there is every reason to believe that
the furnishers of publishers’ requisites are
taking advantage of the various tariffs on
these materials, and charging through the
nose. I believe there is something in it.
The tariff was never meant to be the. means
whereby manufacturers could profiteer on
the community. We have recognised this
fact by appointing a Tariff Board to prevent
that sort of thing. The trouble is that the
Board has enough work on deferred duties
to keep it going for some years. T was one
of a timid deputation of authors which asked
Massy Greene, when he was Minister of
Customs, to turn the Tariff Board loose on
the manufacturers of strawboard, printers’
ink. etc. He said it was the sort of
thing that the Board could tackle, but there
wasn’t time just then, and wouldn’t be for
a while. I have attended many deputations
in my capacity as working journalist, but
I was never at a more frigid one than that
of which I was spokesman and not recorder.
Authors don’t represent any voting strength,
and it is the safest thing in the world for
politicians to pass out the chilly forequarter
to them.
The Australian Authors’ Association
wants to get Australian publishers together
and try to get the publishing business put
right, but it doesn’t know where to start.
The publishers don’t seem to have any organ-
isation of their own, and there are few firms
which you could call publishers. If you
want to launch your literary effort in this
country, you’ve generally got to pay the
man ; who launches it. I don’t call that sort
of person a publisher; but if there are
any publishers about, I wish they would get
together into some organisation. If they did
that, then they, the authors and the print-
ing trade could go to the politician in power
and demand They would renre-
sent such a large number of votes that there
wouldn’t be any (rigidity about that depu-
tation.
I would put a stiff duty on all fiction, in-
cluding magazines. The high cost of pub-
lishing is the reason why there is no decent
Australian magazine on the market. The'
Australian public is all right. It would
support its own writers. And the writers
are all right. They ■wduM.gjye their public
what it wants. The thing really only wants
a ghost of a chance, and itNdpesn’t get that
now. Writing as a craft will never be any
good to the Australian ui)tll we have a
strong local publishing industry. After hav-
ing tasted the bitters that the’ overseas pub-
lisher hands out to the, .Australian author,
I am convinced of that beyond all doubt.
B.M.W.
The inky Way
J c.t? ,
“A.M.P.”: Dr. Brill (“Fundamental CoYiyeptidiv of
Psycho-Analysis,” page 1): “Psycho-analysis is
mental analysis.” “Woolacott” (B. L4/9/ r 22) : “Psy-
cho-analysis is not mental analysis.” Who shall
preach before two Buddhas?
D. H. Souter:My gratitude to “Thor” (B. 21/9/’22j
for his appreciative par. concerning my drawings. He
is pretty right about the women, but not so right'
about the cat. In his younger days the tile-roamer
wore a wide open grin: all young things laugh
readily. Now, like his delineator, though the humor
of things excites an occasional wink, the passing of
the years.has taught him—except on occasions like
this—to keep his mouth shut.
J. Leonard Forde, journalist and author of “The
Bar of Victoria,” completed his 78th year on October
10. He has been pushing a pen for 55 years in
Hobart, Melbourne and Sydney.
“D.F.”: The late Tighe Ryan was a friend of 11.
L. Stevenson in the Samoan period of the latter’s
life. The thing that brought them together was
the passionate vindication of Father Damien, the
apostle of the lepers, by R.L.S. When Stevenson’s
famous pamphlet flaying Damien's smug and sheltered
critics appeared, Rvan wrote to him, and an active
correspondence followed
“Black Out”: Here’s a brave brute 1 met in the
Saturday Evkmso Post last' night, introduced by
one Dorothv De Jagers:—
...... • ,
"His huge, hard-muscled body, magnificently car-
pentered, the vigorous modelling of his dark leonine
the plunging black eyes above an aquiline
nose -
I’m going to ask the carpenters’ union to build me
one like that to keep on a chain around the place,
The rabbits have been something awful this year.
“Unlike ours in America, English politics—ore
to be that our politicians will do anything for
tldng
StephlTuaToll. *of Canada.
“Blackfriars”: The Symian Agk is chief loser so
far through the involuntary swapping of staffs due to
M™°h al S r 8 da "; n j, ng „ in elboUrne ’ GlOVer ’ S
Kliv ln n CSt f Howeil, a sanguine-corn-
?hn , J
AG n V'* '' ,B. a s< ? missed the captuie of
a Slo,t . han *A° s v treri 7. the , l ‘
,5* Ist1 st the comwg evening attack Finks
sininUnv ha f s . b ?^? n three Sjme men. As editoi
. clnile l and clucl-sub. Stephens are; likely to lay
down their blue pencils in the near future, this
desertion of lieayy-going louhtalism by men in the
r , or d'uely piomotion ought to be something
,no than a hint to Herbert and Oswald not to
waddle so far in tlie rear ol journalistic modernity.
“Thorold”: The literary pretenders with whom
Australia teems have turned their attention from
Lawson to Dennis when they want to sun themselves
in unearned glory and lap up the incidental
beer. At least a dozen casually-met bar-loafers and
other earbiters have assured me in the last 12
months that they are the Sentimental Bloke. They
all looked the part much better than spick-and-span
Dennis, anyway.
“Thor”: The - personality of literary ghosts is not
so covert in Anglo-Saxon lands as “ICewpie” (B.
31/8/'22) supposes. There are several of the kind
in London churning out alleged autobiographies and
the spicier reminiscences of the haughty, and making
no great secret ol it. Old Lady Cardigan was one
of those who allowed the revelations of her own and
other people’s amorous dealings, to he shadowed forth
by a ghost for the world’s delectation, and the para-
graphers were permitted to disclose the alter ego’s
identity almost simultaneously with the publication
of the malicious details. '
“Tally-Ho”: J. I). A. Collier, who formerly chased
news for the Hobart Mercury and saw lengthy active
service with the A.1.F., is now Public Librarian
in the Speck capital’s Carnegie library, lie is one
of the youngest men in the Commonwealth to hold
down such a job. and has begun well by arranging
for a co-ordination of catalogues of all Hobart
libraries which will materially increase the city’s
all too meagre reference facilities.
“Wart”: Re Charles Meydett Goodridge's narrative
of shipwreck at the Crozets. mentioned by “Veronal”
(B. 24/8/’22). Good ridge and' two companions
arrived at the Derwent in the sloop Success in 1823.
Dr. Broinbeley .took them in and headed a subscrip-
tion-list for them with til, which the natives event-
ually swelled to £6 10s. Goodridge stayed in
Hobart for seven years. At first he hired himself as
a boat- and ferry-hand, and received ten bob a week
and his keep. He soon saved enough to lease ferries
and become a boat-owner ; and in 1829 lie weht back
to England. Jn England he seems to have lived by
selling copies of his book. My copy is the fourth
edition, and was printed in 1841, so that he was
getting through about one edition a year. The list
of subscribers is imposing, and runs into nearly 20
closely-printed pages.
“Abbot Park”: Passed out at Brunswick (Vie.)
recently. James George Upton, a pioneer of country
journalism, aged 91. lie owned the Camperdown
Chroniclk, and was one of the six founders of the
Country Press Co-operative Co. Bowser, M.L.A., is
the only surviver of that little band. Upton’s energy
was largely responsible for the. first butter-factory at
Oobden, and he was interested in similar work at
Camperdown.
“E.D.”: When “E.C.,” KecUCPage, September 21,
describes me as a heinous offender for using “iv” :n
place of “of,” when writing in the vernacular, he
simply means that he wears a different pair of ears.
Perhaps mine are the longer, perhaps not. “Cer-
tainly,” says “E.C.,” “ ‘iv’ is never used by anyone
but his characters.” Perhaps 1 am wrong, but I’m
certainly satisfied that the types into whose mouths
1 put “iv” say “iv” when they mean “of,” but not
always different phrasings coming into the' same sen-
tence. “A-course lie's one iv ns,” is the way it
would go in the mouths of the people from whom I
drew Eact’rv ’Ands. They would not say “right-iv-
way,” they' would say “rightaway.” It would go.
“Of all the words iv tongue and pen.” Roughly the
rule appears to be not to open or close a sentence
with “iv.” ,
“Otiola”: “John Smith,” in his “Literature and
the Universities” (B. 28/9/’22), lias made one slip.
11. G. Wells is a B.Sc. of London University, and
all the circumstances of his academic career have
deeply impressed themselves on his mind and ids
books. Lewj»ham,~in*‘ i ‘Love and Mr. Lewisham,” is,
to some extent, autobiographic al; and a college setting
is found in “A Slip Under the Microscope.” Wells’s
first book was a science textbook, and his scientific
training gave him the ideas for “The Time Machine,”
“The War of the Worlds” and countless other stories,
long and short. Nevertheless, “John Smith’s” theories
about the poor showing of university men are sound,
as a general principle, and could be taken further.
A literary-mirfded youth goihg to a university finds
that an extensive course of reading and criticism
offers a pleasant and profitable path to academic dis-
tinction. He learns to analyse, never to construct.
It is all impression, never expression. If scholar-
ships and prizes were as freely given for original
sonnets as for criticisms of other men’s sonnets, they
would be forthcoming. As it is, the eternal reading
and analysis kill the creative faculty. Further, the
university man lias often a very limited outlook on
life, as compared with the man who has roamed
the world efr gone through half-a-dozen\ trades. The
bitdding novelist will learn more of lifet—real life —
from three or four long tramps than from the same
number of ’Varsity professors. He is fairly likely
to find nt least one ex-professor on the road, anyway.
“Wilfrido”: And so “Nimshi” (B. 21/9/’22) is
bored by Joseph Conrad, and after a valiant effort
to read "“Lord Jim,” “Victory” and “Nostromo” he
has given up the struggle, and decided complacently
that the fault is with the Pole and not within him-
self. Indubitably Conrad, like Henry James, is not
for the mob who wish to read as they run. Life to
Conrad is no petty thing, but a conflict of emotion
with emotions, a perpetual strife of terrific immensity.
Yet there is not one of his books but will repay
tenfold the amount, of exertion put into reading it.
1 admit that at times he tends to become weari-
some; so, for that matter, do Hardy, Meredith and
Dickens. But the man is great, and it is “blither”
to say otherwise. As for placing such a second-
rater as Eden Phil)potto above him, critically speak-
ing, such a contention is absurd. And Blackmore!
Who nowanights reads that , tale of the South Downs
—“Alice Lorraine” or “Cripps the Carrier”?
“Nimshi” alone—“Nimshi” whose criticism recalls
an answer made by J. M. Whistler to a critic who
had said that a certain picture by James was no
good. “Don’t say it’s no good,” said James; “say
you don’t like it. Here, old chap, have something
you do like: have some whisky.”


ga
CORRECT
WEIGHTS
for your
RABBIT
skins, and accurate
counts for all other
skins.
Top Market
Values.
Prompt Returns.
That is what
owners secure who
consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen, Sydney or Brisbane.
The firm are expert, painstaking and atten-
tive. Hence the excellent results they
obtain for senders.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
MADE BY R. & J. DICK, LTD.
the rust-proof bright metal,
PLATING of the inside and outside
surfaces considerably increases the life
of the BARRY Steel Split Pulley, ren-
dering: it absolutely immune from rust
and corrosion.
There are no rivets in a BARRY Pulley to
work loose or shear under strain. The tubular
reinforcement inside the rirn preserves the
exact shape of the pulley under heavy loads.
This also ensures true running under all
conditions.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Bts., SYDNEY.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
! WOLFES
| SCHNAPPS
| A DRINK
, THAT IS
AS
REFRESHING
AS IT IS '
BENEFICIAL]
BE SURE |
YOU ASK '
FOR
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
W&W26.
Australian
London Office:
Pinners Hall; Austin Friars,
London, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Fuller-Lehigh Pulverizer Mill.
g
sfg
Pulverizing and Separating Elements ol the
Fulter-Lehigh Pulverizer Mill.
PARTICULARS FROM
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE.
FULLER-LEHIGH CO. AUSTRALIAN ENGINEER,
81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY; 84 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
PHILIPS
%
ivy
'/IWATT
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Well-
ington (N.Z.), Auckland,
Christchurch, New Ply-
mouth.
PLUMBER’S BRASSWORK
Immediate Delivery.
“Medium” or “Country” Lines: |in., fin., lin. Bibs, Hose, Stops,
Ferrule Stops, Straight Ferrules, etc.
WATER-BOARD STANDARD. Melbourne—Brisbane—Hobart,
Perth, Adelaide, Sydney. All usual lines.
RANGE or TANK COCKS, fin., lin.
WINDMILL PUMPS.
ALDERDICE,
Brassfoundry, Warrnambool.
Skandia
MARINE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
MOTOR CRUDE OIL WINCHES
STATIONARY CRUDE OIL ENGINES
PORTABLE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
(HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL)
Most economical, durable, simple
and safest engines of the world.
Nelson & Robertson
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
tttle Agents for Australasia and South Sea Wands.
Business, Robbery, etc.
From S. Richards, supt. Kaudos Cement
Co., about a big blast: —
Two articles (B. 27/7/’22 and 28/9/’22) refer to. a
big blast at Kandos. As neither is quite correct, may
I state, for the benefit of your readers, that the drill-
ing consisted of sin x 6in. holes with an average of 85
feet. These were loaded with 4000 pounds of gelignite,
detonated with Cordeaux Bickford’s detonating fuse,
and displaced 24,000 tons of stone. No claim of a
record was made by us, as two previous blasts were
larger,, and the blast being prepared at the' present
time will be fully twice this size. The only new
thing to Australian quarrying was the use of the
blast-hole drill, drilling from the top of the face to
the quarry floor level, and the instantaneous detona-
tion of all holes at the one time.
* * * *
“Huffin Guffin”: I am gratified to hear of
the axe coming into its own (“Silas,” B.
28/9/’22), though, for my own part, I never
saw much art, for Art’s sake, achieved with
the implement. My generation was too busy
carving homes in the rough to think much
about finer work. But I have seen the axe
used in the bush for most carpentry work,
and splitters’ wood-work on handles, mauls,
etc., was all done with the axe—and broken
glass to finish off. My dad could fit his
maul-rings on to the maul without a hair’s
breadth of space showing between wood
and ring, all with a sharp axe, and make and
fit the handle the same way. The old man
used to get his blade so keen that he could
shave his forearm with it. Tui’key-stoning
did the job, after grinding.
• • * #
“Pro”: Complete manures, as advocated
by “Agricolazyph” (B 21/9/’22) only get
half-way as a remedy for impoverished soils
and the failing efficacy of superphosphates.
The real trouble lies in an unvarying use of
acid-treated mineral fertiliser products, to
the neglect of organic manures. The former
are certainly easily assimilable as plant food,
but their caustic properties have a deleteri-
ous effect upon genu cultures in the soil,
which of themselves produce nitrogen and
other food elements.. Some agriculturists
remedy the trouble by inoculating with a
sprinkling of virgin earth, but the simplest
thing is to include organic manures such as
blood and bone, fish residuals or animal
excreta in the treatment. These not only
introduce fresh bacteria, but provide a
medium for their activities, and incidentally
improve the capillary action of the soil. The
possibilities of city sewerage products in
this regard seem to have had insufficient
attention as yet.
* * * »
“Dabua”: Papua is taking heart again
after the disastrous crash in the rubber and
copra markets, and is commencing to look
into the cotton industry. Cocoanuts are the
“consols ’ of the East, but the cotton crop
looks as if it might count soon. The first
cotton plantation (the staple has only been
grown spasmodically before on cocoanut
areas as a catch crop) is being established
near Moresby by Walter Gors, the founder
of the coffee industry in Papua and
former pioneer in British New Guinea
of the haughty 8.-P. firm. The land
near Moresby is _ very suitable for cotton
culture a never-failing river flowing through
the valley. Thousands of acres are await-
ing the proof that the game is payable. If
proved to be a commercial success, the future
of Papua is assured, for the return on the
investment is in sight at the end of the
first year, not in the eleventh or twelfth,
like cocoanuts. The Navigation Act has put
Papua into a deep rut financially, but cotton
may pull her out and stand her up on her
own legs again.
* * * *
“Lexite” : The policy of restricted produc-
tion adopted by the Australian Dried Fruits
Assoc, will probably mean the forfeiture of
the big profit that might otherwise have
accrued out of the Smyrna fire. Although
Australia’s export in dried fruits has been
steadily increasing, the policy of the Associ-
ation has been to guard against over-produc-
tion, estimating the probable market every
year so as to prevent a glut. Now, if the
big gap in the European Christmas market,
caused by the trouble in Asia Minor, is filled,
Australia may have to go short. If it isn’t!
it is the British firms who have already
bought Australian x, dried fruits who will
benefit.
POTENTIAL WEALTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At Wesley Church the Federal Treasurer (Mr.
Bruce) said that no other country in the world
possessed anything like the potential wealth of Aus-
tralia.”
Potential wealth ! Potential wealth !
Oh, how I love the phrase,
Impyling sound financial health.
I give to Heaven praise. *
Come openly or come by stealth,
Whatever ill,
We all have still
Potential wealth.
Potential wealth is not in pounds,
Nor does it count in pence,
It is not melons piled in mounds,
Nor gooseberries immense ;
Nor is it in a score of health-
Ful industries
That We can seize
Potential wealth.
It is not stored up in the banks,
It’s in the missing waters,
That should (but don’t) o’erflow the tanka
In certain arid quarters;
In barren lands with inessential,
Fat burrs in view,
There lies perdue,
Our wealth potential.
It’s in the work we have not done,
The reefs we have not found,
The farms we have not yet begun,
The wheels that don’t go round.
’Tis dreams of oil with which to drench all,
But ’twill not buy,
One grain of rye—
Our wealth potential.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Western Electric
Power, «w Light
Makes the battery last longer
f
Hi.
r'
MJ.,y
a
L4' - v
>„■
..... V
■tegferjES
fc
i
v, .
:' •;
•' it. \
**■
&
»: ' i-'TTT
/ \iS
/A i!
fiffiS
V\\ K
( CT
•L
M
\$
y/tJ \rOSsk
s< >
S
JIK
LJ
&M:i
•r .
M
j£J
Sflra4«iWwW* , --V^'N
fmlSmi
~~n
/•■f!avv
£
See how it helps all the family!
COMPLETE ELECTRIC SUPPLY
for Country Homes, Stores, Halls,
Churches, Schools of Art, Hotels,
Factories, or other buildings beyond
the reach of a town electric supply.
Mark and Mail the
Coupon To-day
Please forward
post free the
booklets marked
with a cross: X
W.E. Power and Light.
W.E. Clothes Washer
and Wringer
W.E. Dish Washer and
Kitchen Table
W.E. Vacuum Cleaner
W.E. Portable Sewing
Machine
W.E. Sewing l\ achine
Motor
W.E. G rillers and
Toasters
W.E. Electric Iron
Name
Address
A
m
Tj'LECTRICITY is the easy and profit-
able way out of tiring, comfortless
living and working conditions in the
country. You can have that regular hard-
working, money-saving service if you will
instal Western Electric Power and Light.
The Western Electric outfit furnishes
plenty of electric light for your house
and out buildings and runs on about the
same amount of kerosene that you now
burn in dirty, dangerous, disagreeable
lamps.
But as a dependable day-and-night all-
year-round worker “Western Electric”
renders even greater service. Its power-
ful engine and long life battery do most
of your heaviest woik for a fraction of
the cost of man power.
For economical and efficient pumping of
water for the home and stock, for milking
separating, corn shelling, chaff-cutting,
wood-sawing, and a score of other routine
tasks about the farm, you can count on
the power and reliability of Western
Electric Power and Light.
Your domestic servant problem is entirely
overcome when you instal Western Elec-
tric Power and Light, because there’s an
electrical appliance for practically every
housekeeping duty that you can operate
with Western Electric current. With an
Electric Clothes Washer, a Dish Washer,
Vacuum Sweeper, Portable Sewing
Machine, etc., you’ll do the whole of the
housework yourself and without effort in
half the time.
Write for all the particulars now. Ask
for our special 20-page book. Mail the
coupon and mark the other booklets you
want.
Western*Electric Company
fAustra/iajLtd.
192 CASTLEREAGH ST.. SYDNEY, N.S.W. Agents:— G. R. FOSTER, 262 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne; T. TONKS, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane; NEWTON McLAREN, Ltd.,
Leigh Street, Adelaide; Wm. ADAMS & Co. Ltd., 35 King Street, Perth ; MEDHURST
ELECTRIC Co., 11 Argyle Street, Hobart; A. D. RILEY & Co. Ltd., Lambton Quay,
Wellington, N.Z. And at Christchurch, Auckland, and Dunedin, N.Z.
WE 674


f. .
The Streptococcus
Brevis which causes
Sore Throat.
The Bacillus Influ-
enza which causes
Influenza.
Actual photo micrographs taken in the Laboratory.
These are the cause of
SORE THROATS
Disease spreading germs swarm
in the air in countless millions,
always seeking to attack through
the mouth and throat.
EVANS 9
fiastitl&s
are the sure protection. They
resist the germs of Influenza,
Pneumonia, Diphtheria. Fever,
etc., the first symptom of which
is a sore throat.
Be wise in time and buy a box to-day
At the first sign of a sore throat
take Evans ’ Pastilles.
Of all Chemists.
Made by Evans Sons Lescher & Webb Ltd,, London^
New
Improved
leite
SAFETY RAZOR
IT’S EASY TO
LOOK
PLEASANT
WHEN YOU
SHAVE
WITH A
%
f&'t'
%
& 7
.i
N i
"~\(^v:.
« >*-?* \s-v
AJ-JS~ «f.*l
@ . -
A
T,\
srv
d
r\«
w
r
Vx*
-?L
13
32
0/op
6
a
93
g
$
&
b 9
dp
(fg>
&
<ft f
r*
rtM <»
S'^r^ydSp.nP^
Nature has her
mo m ents of
sweetest charm,
not when a tropi-
cal sun scorches the soil,
but when the dew is on the
flowers in an old English
garden and their fragrant
breath lingers in the air.
Those “moments of sweetest
charm” are irresistibly recalled
by the three favorite
£ENOBIA
s
Zenobia Lily of the Valley—a per-
fume with the unique grace of the
tenderest of blossoms.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom —the
original perfume which, in name, has
been widely imitated. Be sure to get
the genuine Zenobia.
Zu n o n i a Night
Scented Stock —-a
perfume as fascinat-
ing as the loveliest
garden by night.
Manufactured only
by
Zenobia Limited,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire,
England.
Sole Agents for
New Zealand
(Wholesale only),
Nkwsox & Co.,
Ltd., P.O. Box
1162, Wellington.
Sole Agent for
Australia
(Wholesale only),
Kenneth Buckmaster,
15 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
7ENQBIA
uih>y
of th
Valley
“W*
a delicate child
give it
"The following convincing letter should be read by
all parents:
65 Station Street, Carlton.
Messrs. Felton, Grintwade & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Gentlemen—About eighteen months ago my little
daughter, 4 years old, had an attack oj bronchitis, which
she was subject to, being delicate ever since she was a few
weeks old. I gave heryour Hypol, and it cured hero.f the
bronchitis, and so strengthened her that she has not had
anything the matter with her since. In fact, thanks to
Hypol, sheds now the picture of good health.
Yours truly ( Signed ) P. C. TURNER.
What HYPOL has done for others,“it can do for you.
HYPOL is a celebrated strength-promoter, and a
proved remedy for unhealthy lungs or other chest
troubles.
This delightful Emulsion has the appearance of a rich
cream, and tastes like it too. Therefore it is most
alluring to children, but
IT BENEFITS YOUNG AND OLD ALIKE.
GET A BOTTLE TO-DAY. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. PROF. LTD.,
Melbourne
""I
&
&
m
w/WJ '.J4M4//AA
’''SSSSSS//'
o
o
<3&©
ONOIO INK—
Best for all Pens
n iv, run
IH
nnfrir
nn*r
r,m
in
HR
Hfi
m
For Lower Production Costs
Your Machinery is Willing ! Are You ?
Friction
The unseen Enemy of
Production in your plant
engine, machine and
bearing in your plant should be
ready to do its best work ; and its
best work is only possible through
continuous use of the most efficient
lubricants you can buy. The con-
nection between production costs
and correct lubrication is direct and
absolute.
1. —Friction steals power which your
engines and cars are supposed to
develop and use.
2. —lVhen you reduce Jriction your
machinery forthwith puts more
power into your production
3. —Correct Lubrication and
nothing but Correct Lu-
brication will cut down
the friction.
Lu&ricaSts
for each type bf Jerwcr
If you will supply each one of
your engines and machines with the
correct oil for its individual needs,
its work will be easier and the
power you pay for will be more
productive.
Our nearest branch can put be-
fore you definite lubrication recom-
mendations based on many years’
experience in manufacturing and
applying correct lubricants to
mechanical equipment.
Every day that you deny your
plant full economy for correct lubri-
cation you pay for the delay. The
penalty comes under the heading of
operating costs.”
You know the pressure of
high production costs. Are
you interested in lowering
them ? If so get in touch with
our nearest branch.
* VACUUM OIL COMPANY PP (jFJ
MOU
Beating 22 other applicants, E. E. Smith,
Federal Director of Works for Queensland,
got the job of chief architect of Vic. State
Public Works Dept, at £lOOO a year. He
is 52 and has had 21 years’ governmental
experience. Wood, a comparatively junior
member of the Vic. Works Dept, staff, was
the runner-up. and it looks as if he will be
Smith’s right-hand man.
“Senojo” : Hardly less asinine is the law
regarding fortune-tellers than that relating
to sweeps. The Victorian Government has
been prosecuting successfully the madams
who supply peeps into the future for a
bob a time, and almost simultaneously the
Commonwealth sanctifies the existence of
“message-givers” by collecting amusement-
taxes from them. Next we may see Autho-
rity prosecuting the bosses of two-up schools
and taxing the winnings of the members, or
sending Rill Sikes an assessment on the pro-
ceeds of his last robbery.
A few weeks ago three police constables,
who were roaming the wilds about 350
miles N.-W. from Alice Springs, discovered
a fine sheet of deep water, 12 miles in cir-
cumference, which they named Lake Sur-
prise. The lake, which is thickly surrounded
by boxwood-trees, was previously unknown.
Three excellent photographs of what may
prove a find of priceless value have been
on view in Adelaide. The Johns were hunt-
ing for abo. thieves when they struck the
water.
The wine industry is an important one to
S. Aus. The Government Statist, reports
that the 1922 vintage totals 6,370',310 gal-
lons, of a value amounting to £664,413.
The principal wine-producing districts are
Nuriootpa, Barossa, Angaston, Tanunda,
McLaren Vale, Reynella and the River
Murray. 1921 saw the State’s biggest
yield, when there was a total of 7,893,345
gallons.
Kangaroo Island (S.A.) thinks that it
has solved a mystery that has been
worrying it since last May. \V. H.
Strawbridge, a prominent business man
of Kingscote, had a lire in his store, and
behaved strangely at the inquiry following
it. He rode out of the town next day, and
never returned, his horse being found wan-
dering two days later. There were rumors
of his having been seen in Adelaide, but the
police and black trackers were confident that
he had not left the island; and now, on
a wild part of the coast a human leg has
been found, the boot on it being confi-
dently identified as his. A coroner’s jury
gave a cautious verdict that death was “pro-
bably caused by his own act.”
“Flicker” digs up some office-bearers of
the House of Hanover: —
The par about the Xelson family being’ still pen-
sioners upon the British taxpayer (B. 21/9/’22)
recalls some of the cushy jobs about the Royal
Household that have vanished. In George ll.’s time
there were a host of these. A “Cofferer of the
Household” got £2OOO p.a., and was assisted in
coffering by a “Deputy Cofferer,” four “Clerks of
ihe Green Cloth”—which suggests billiard-markers
• -and four “Clerks to the Clerks,” who all got
£3OO p.a. Then the “Royal Acatery” (what the
devil is an acatery?) drew £3OO p.a., and had to
assist him in his mysterious job, a “Sergeant” and
a “Sole Clerk,” a Yeoman and two Grooms. The
“Scalding Office” had a similar staff, and the “Wood-
yard” a slightly larger one. But the “Privy
Kitchen” seems to have held the most fascinating-
jobs of all. The “Yeoman of the Mouth” was sup-
ported by a “Bread-bearer” and nine “Grooms of the
Kitchen.” Six “Children of the Kitchen” —a fine
title for a novel —got £4O each, and “The Child of
the Pastry” drew a similar sum. In the Lord
Chamberlain’s department were four “Cup-bearers,”
four “Carvers” and four “Gentleman Sewers”—
which suggests drainage. The “Principal Master of
the Revels” made shift on £4OO p.a., nearly 10
times as much as the “Royal Ratkiller.” The worst-
paid job in the service, if its holder was at all a
grafter, was the “Confessor to His Majesty’s House-
hold,” who received a miserable £36 10s. 4d. p.a.
—in the Court of a George, too. Of all these acces-
sories of royalty two only remain. “The Yeoman
of the Mouth” is still on the pay-sheet, and the
“Confessor to the Household” still clings to his
title, hut a horrible gap after his name tells its own
tale of his vanished screw.
South Aus. and the River Murray fruit-
growing districts have had an odd requisi-
tion from London markets. The oranges
they send are too fine! Especially does
the navel orange of the Murray run to
great size; and London wants an article
it can retail at twopence, not sixpence.
Quinn, the horticultural expert of S.A., has
been appealed to for some method which
may reduce the size of fruit, but says none
is known —until the tree gets old and loses
some of its vigor.
“Lex”: Shopbuilding is being carried to
ridiculous excess in many Sydney suburbs.
The rage possesses both small and large
builders to such an extent that in many
cases whole streets of houses have been
converted into shopping blocks. Houses
which were returning a rent of £BO per
annum have had their fronts made into up-
to-date shops, for which an annual rent of
£3OO per annum is the usual thing, and the
number of them increases, despite the fact
that housebuilding is dead. Somebody is
' > ng to get financially hurt when it is dis-
covered that there is not the population to
support all these potential trading places.
“T.L.11.” : The old Melbourne rag firm
of Robertson and Moffat, just acquired by
Myers, was founded in 1852 by William
Robertson and William Turner Moffat.
Robertson died in 1557. Moffats had a lot
of vice-regal custom in their time, and when
King George visited these parts, 20 years
ago, the firm had the contract to furnish the
dwelling provided for his retainers. Moffats
also managed to scrape through every com-
mercial crisis that hit the State, and they
never were the victims of a big robbery or
a fire. By the way, an old picture of R.
and M.’s first premises in Bourkc-street
shows the inscription, “Herald and Bell’s
Life,” over the doorway next to them.
“Murkah” : “Silas’s” carving axe-artist (B.
2S/9/’22) reminds me that I once heard
a Beach Forest (Vic.) axeman wager that
he would shave himself with his axe. It
took him half-a-day to hone the implement,
but he won the bet.


-
vy
M i I
'**fSBfcl# ,k ««*v j
HP*
«*
y*mi
S?
m
.
i*
•a,-
a**.
*•*s*®^
L
■
:V:l
Wi
yj-
yjr,
a?
/■/V
MjgV
/
GLEBE ISLAND BRIDGE
ABUTMENT, SYDNEY.
Constructed for the Public Works Department, N.S.W.
Engineer : R. E. Jones, Esq., M.I.C.E.
The above picture is, in itself, ample testimony to the advantages of
s
sjusuiasjoiinsu. p e o y
for it shows clearly what B.R.C. Fabric
means in good road construction. On
the left is shown the state of a water-
bound macadam road as against the state
(after five years’ traffic) of a Complete
Concrete Road (as shown on right of
picture), reinforced with No. 9 B.R.C.
Fabric, top-dressed with thin coat of
Biturine.
The traffic over this road is of a very
heavy industrial type, which emphasises
still further the advantages of B.R.C.
Road Reinforcements.
The B.R.C. Road is low in first cost and
low in upkeep—meaning true economy.
Write for full particulars.
AUSTRALIAN REINFORCED CONCRETE ENGINEERING CO. PTY., LTD.,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, ’Phone 8861.
Consulting and Designing Engineers.
Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
Sole Distributing Agents :
Victoria: Gollin & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
N. S. Wales: J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Queensland: J. Wildridge &. Sinclair, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Tasmania: T. Tabart, Jim., Hobart.
S. Australia: Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
W. Australia: Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
Perth. ___
New Zealand: John Bums & Co., Ltd., Auckland
!S&
REED
rrrrrrrrr rrrrrv r.
rrjTTrrrmTvro


Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from No.
4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Rond from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OOl, 3002, 3599.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
Makes
Summer
Dishes of
Delicate
Flavor.
CLIFFORD LOVE & C? UP
Manufacturers SYDNEY.
S H
J Bl
IP
BRAND
ft
\CORN
Flour
Book up at Hotel Carlton
■
Brisbane, q.
Inclusive Tariff
per day 14/-
HOTEL
CARLTON
QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
Is situated in the heart of
the City, and affords easy
access to Business, Rail,
Shipping- and Pleasure
centres. The establish-
ment is essentially mod-
ern, and is conducted to
give Visitors the maxi-
mum amount of Service,
Comfort and Convenience.
Address Communications,
Hotel Carlton, Brisbane.
DOM.
<r
Yes
Sir!
THE PERFECT MILK
IFEGUARD
Condensed MILK
Judge by the Milk in the Tin
Your Grocer Stocks It!
• MISTERED
TRADE HARR
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
wirj
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Longhurst
5O York Street. Sydney.
sudden changes
of Climate—
Satis Rrpn’intaiivts I
THE BRITISH
H. F. RITCHIE & Co Ui
CHINA HOUSE, SYDNEY
You need never fear the vagaries of the weather
if the glass of water sparkling with a “ dash ” of
ENO’s “ Fruit Salt ” forms part of your daily
routine. ENO accompanies soldiers, sailors,
travellers, missionaries and explorers to the
uttermost parts of civilisation —in torrid zones
and polar regions. You should keep ENO at
hand all the year round —every chemist sells i U
ENO’S
FRUIT SALT
The pipe a man chooses
determines the satisfa&ion he gets from his smoke.
Discriminating pipe smokers all over the world are choos-
ing G.B.D. Pipes. The makers of these famous genuine
French Briar Pipes have more than sixty years’ experience
of pipe-making and their reputation for quality stands
behind every G.B.D,
Choose the shape you favour now!
All shapes and sizes, now 7/6. Sold everywhere.
Trade enquiries invited to Box 765, Q.P.0., Sydney.
L 3
“Ack F. C.”: Billjim was trying to repay
the newly-landed immigrant’s “shouts” by
affability, lie kept it up till the fourth
glass, and then an impulsive burst of candor
tore it all. “ ’Strewth, choom,” he cried,
“yer don’t seem like a —— Pommy; yer
speak as good English as wot any of us do.”
A. J. Hampson, who used to be Labor mem-
ber for Bendigo, first in Vic. Assembly and
then in the Reps., before he went into khak : ,
is now inspector of Digger settlements in
Sealake district. He has tried several things
since he came back, and for a while he was
Martin Hannah’s coadjutor in the “Wake
Up, Victoria (Manufacture for Yourself)
Movement,” but that faded out.
“G.C.C.”: Re “Gnarek” (B. 7/9/’22) on
undeserved war-distinctions. I was attached
in 1917 to a railway-construction company
in Palestine. The C.O. was requested by
Headquarters to submit the names of three
officers for the M.C. and three other ranks
for the D.O.M. Up to that time nobody had
heard a shot fired. The C.O. replied to
that effect, but was merely notified to obey
instructions. He then submitted his own
and the names of the two officers next in
seniority: the “other ranks” singled out for
distinction were the three cooks, and the
recommendations were all duly gazetted.
“Bosso”: Re the controversy on walnut-
growing in the Goulburn district, started by
"Skyrider,” my money is on “Kirk” (B.
24/8/’22) for one reason. I’ve tried it.
“Skyrider” (B. 28/9/’22) reiterates his
statement that “there are scores of five-
year-old walnut-trees in Goulburn in full
bearing.” I lived in that windy city for
many years, and in the garden of my house
was a walnut-tree which a former tenant
assured me he had planted five years before.
I waited patiently for 10 years more, and,
the sterility persisting, I knocked it out of
the ground with the back of an axe. In my
opinion, “Skyrider” has mistaken the coker-
nut-groves around Goulburn for walnuts.
After seven years’ strenuous work, Pro-
fessor Ewart has completed a book on the
forest flora of Victoria. It describes and
illustrates 230 species, giving particulars as
to character and properties of the timber,
and an account of special products, such as
oil, kino, honey, tanning-bark, etc. There
are special sections on seasoning, on wattle-
barks and eucalyptus-oil. The Forest Com-
mission stood the cost of preparing the illus-
trations, but they are too hard up to do
anything further, and the latest is “publi-
cation has been suspended.” And think of
the money wasted in printing unproductive
copies of dreary Hansard
“R.F.Iy.F.” : Captain Hurley’s zoological
jaunt to New Guinea and J. E. Ward’s re-
turn from that territory with a consignment
of rare birds suggest Australia’s capacity to
handle profitably a part of the growing world
demand for wild animals. Long ago Aus-
tralia and New Guinea formed a single con-
tinent, where unique marsupials evolved in
splendid isolation. Australia still looks to
New Guinea as its zoological complement, and
lately animal collectors like Ellis Joseph,
J. E. Ward, and Camp, of Taronga Park,
have supplied the Commonwealth zoos with
•creatures from New Guinea jungles and
beaches. Abroad there is a big demand for
wild creatures! Last year Dr. Gregory, of
the', American Museum of Natural History,
came here to collect some rare specimens for
the Australian Hall in the New York
Museum, and a little before that the steamer
Bellbuckle took 4000 Australian living animals
and birds to the New York Park. This
American zoo has not only refilled its cages,
but has traded some of its surplus stock
with Europe and Africa. Germany, which
before the war supplied most of the earth’s
circuses and zoos, is now practically out of the
business. Yet Japan alone has opened 14
zoos during the last two years, and the
prices for wild creatures are constantly
soaring. Australia has a limited but unique
fauna, which is worth preserving both for
its trade value and for its seeretional gland-
grafting virtues. But so fast are our mar-
supials disappearing that Dr. Colin Mac-
kenzie reckons they will be extinct in a couple
of decades.
“T.H.R.”: A 701 b. bag of sugar is a com-
mon sight in the bush, where we buy it that
way as a ruler but a £7O bag of sugar must
be about the limit, even during the scarcity.
A big firm in a northern town, not being
able to account for a missing bag of sugar,
performed the old trick of putting it on to
every yearly account, the resultant yield
being £7O. An employee told me, and he
reckons they never even sent a fiver of it
to the local hospital.
“U.P.” : Before the Kaiser started to grow
a ziff an arrangement was made with the
British Government for £lOO,OOO worth of
British coins to be withdrawn from circula-
tion each year in the Commonwealth, but less
British change came this way while the war
was on, so the arrangement was allowed to
lapse for the time being. However, it is
now being revived, and the British Govern-
ment will pay the Australian Treasury full
face value for the coins withdrawn. This
means that half-crowns will soon be out of
circulation here, as we do not mint these
heavy-weights, which were so convenient for
Ihe 2s. (id. tote on race days.
“D.F.”: Nothing new in s.i.w. cases. A
return made in 1829 shows that five men of
the 3rd and 57th Regiments in N.S.tV. had
maimed themselves with the purpose of
obtaining their discharge. They meant
business, too, for three out of the five had
shot off an arm. Cutting off a thumb was
the other dodge tried. Five others, includ-
ing the fambus pair, Sudds and Thompson,
went for larceny as a way out. It gives
a knock, incidentally, to some of the lurid
yarns about the treatment of convicts to find
that soldiers reckoned they would be better
off as convicts.
“Lexite”: Having decided that he has
risked as many lives as he can afford, John
Logan, the lucky man who was presented by
illness from leaving Sydney aboard the
steamer Canastota, on her last voyage,
is leaving the sea and settling down
to business in the harbor city. Besides his
Canastota experience, he was a member of
the crew of the Yongala, but left her just
before she was lost with all hands; and he
had a similar experience with the Koombana
and four other vessels.


€
»
’
®\
S
■
: si mSSBM
i- ' •
,
SB
-
| i
.
I .mu
• . 'WS&eS®
m
m
s
* I'V
'*. <♦' *
■
■ 1
■ o«C
;;: ,
. •
ll® ■
t
i!
-
- - ■ •*ss&•■
w>
.
*
■M
'
P
Messrs. Beale and Company Ltd.,
Qentlemen,
before leaving on my trip to the Old Coun-
try, Ifeel that 1 would like you to know how much
pleasured has given me to perform on your pianos,
which I have had occasion to do many times in
public. In particular, the tone-quality is excel-
lent—a sonorous bass with a brilliant treble,
making a well-balanced combination that is
unsurpassed by pianos of foreign origin.
Altogether you are to be congratulated on the
many excellent qualities displayed in such a
purely Australian product as the Beale Piano.
Wishing you all the success you deserve,
Yours faithfully,
LI NDLEY EVANS.
■o
i
-r>
V
M
r C Melba I s c /Accompanist pays his tribute
to thelSew °Bea /eO
SUBTLE and delicate—Mr. Evans’ playing is a prodigy of
intellectual interpretation and sympathetic technique. Deeply
emotional, he treats accompanying as the serious art it really is
judging every nuance precisely, in order that the clearness and
timbre of the voice shall be preserved utterly. In fact, his reading
of songs is so refreshingly original that one can readily understand
the enthusiasm with which Dame Melba secured his services for
her trip abroad.
His opinion of a piano is doubly interesting, for in addition to
the ordinary dynamic demands of the virtuoso he requires also
an unusually flexible and responsive action. Above is his letter
concerning the "New Beale Piano.
The "New Beale is sold on one, two, three or even four years terms.
"Silent”pianos taken in part payment.
Lind ley £vans
—the brilliant young
Australian pianist who
has been chosen by
Dame Melba as accom-
panist on her forthcom-
ing European Concert
Tour, is another of the
prominent musicians
who appreciates the
sterling qualities of the
Wrw Beale Piano.
BEALE coiSany ITR
Showrooms :
340 George Street
Sydney
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
Annandale
BRANCHES— N.B.W.: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria; Maples
in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tas.: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston.
S.A.: John Evans, Ltd., Adelaide. Western Australia; Thomson’s Ltd., Perth.
BEALE 6* COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen St. (opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane, Toowoomba,
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay.


A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Necklet,
15ct. Gold,
£l2/1.0/-
A. Saunders’
fine quality double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY.
A. Saunders’ finest-quality double-cut. Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £B5.
A. Saunders’ finest-quality double-cut Diamond Two-
bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5O.
A. Saunders’' double-cut
Diamond Marquise
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ fine-quality uouble-cut Diamond Cluster
' and Bar Brooch, 15ct. Oold. £75.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch, loot
Gold. £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Necklet.,
1 f>ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Sa under-.’
Diamond
(luster Scarf
Pin, 15ct.
Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond ('luster
Ring - , 18ct. Gold,
£3C.
A. Saunders'
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £ 15.
■Cr;-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bracelet, 15ct.
Gold, £4O. Larger Diamonds, £5O.
-uan-L^a
m
A. Saunders' Gold Expanding Watch Wristlet, set
double-cut Diamonds, £3O, larger Diamonds, £4O.
A. Saunders' double-cut Diamond Cluster Bar Brooch,
ISct. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Crossover
King, 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Crossover
King, 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders'
double-cut
Diamond King,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
flue Diamond
and Pearl
Scarf Pin.
1 act. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
J!in!?, ISct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
fine Diamond King,
18ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Oct. Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £l2/10/-
Write for Latest Catalogue.
We Send All Orders, per Registered Post, Free.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Watch Wristlet, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £l2/10/-
Farmers, Station-owners, Professional Men, Store-
keepers and Country Men generally, are you
interested in the question of
Efficient Lighting?
The cheerful glow of powerful yet softly-shaded
lights in every room in the house means the utmost
in comfort and convenience. In these-progressive days
no one can afford to rely on obsolete kerosene lamps.
Wizard Gas lights with a match, and is cheap and
safe, as well as absolutely efficient.
v
i
X
I
©«©
Y/A
V
mi
i
/T
I
P
■
M
WIZARD GAS RING.
USE A WIZARD GAS RING
for all your Light Cooking & Ironing.
It is a priceless convenience, and the treasured companion
of country housewives.
When writing for literature state as nearly as possible actual
requirements, so that we can give definite information.
Wizard Lighting Company,
Head Office: 55 York Street, Sydney.
187 a Flinders Lane, Melbourne ; Gawler Place, Adelaide;
Corinda, Brisbane; James Street, Toowoomba.
Wizard Mantles.
Do you use Wizard
Mantles? They are made
of a specially compounded
vegetable fibre, which
gives maximum intensity
of light, and not of ordi-
nary silk, cotton or ramie
materials. They also last
longer and do not cause
burner trouble. It is quite
important to use them.
They bear the Wizard
trade-mark, and are only
obtainable from the
Wizard Lighting Com-
pany.


Amusements.
SY I> N K Y’S CIII 15 F TII E A TRES*
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
CAIRO.
CRITERION:
AMBROSE APPLE JOHN'S ADVEN-
TURE.
ROYAL: THE NAUGHTY PRINCESS.
ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAIIEAN
PRODUCTIONS.
T
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Australasian Representatives: WILSON & SODEN,
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
JO. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELIIOUKNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
IIEU MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
MARY.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE PEEP SHOW.
A WHIRLWIND OF DANCE AND MELODY.
KINO’S THEATRE. MEI.ISOSi It N Iv
Sole. Lessees: Bert Bailey and Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AT 2.
E. J. & DAN CARROLL present
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
an Australian Comedy in three acts,
by C. J. DENNIS.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & J. FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction MISS SDA REEVE.
TWENTY-EIGHTH WEEK ON SATURDAY.
OVER 200 PERFORMANCES.
THE ADA REEVE RECORD PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best.’’
ADA REEVE.
“The Favorite of all the World.”
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGIITON.
Matine6s Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o'clock.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT'S THEATRES, MELItOI ICNH
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
ENID BENNETT in
KEEPING UP WITH LIZZIE.
Also,
LOUIS BENNISON in
LAVENDER AND OLD LACE.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJKS!IC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
GREAT SHOW-WEEK ATTRACTION.
BLIND HEARTS.
AN ASSOCIATED PRODUCERS’ PRODUCTION.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
QLYMI* I A, MELBO U R N E.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 21
(Caulfield Cup Night).
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS.
A host of entirely new International Celebrated
Artists personally engaged by Mr. George Wirth on
his recent tour of the World.
Prices 7/-, 5/-, 3/- and 2/-. Plan at Glen’s.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
PLUM
RAZORS
8
y
The “Tried
and True”
quality-main-
tained Razor.
For thirty-
five y ears
the “Plum”
has retained
the confi-
den c e and
patronage of
men who
appreciate
its sterling
qualities.
Price ]2/6
Pair in Pre-
sentation
Case, £ 5/_
Post Free.
Kept in
order for
two years
free.
CRAIG anoAITKEN
654 b CEORCEST SYDNEY
Amusements.
Victoria Racing Club,
FLEMINGTON.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY Nov. 4
CUP DAY Nov. 7
OAKS DAY Nov. 9
STEEPLECHASE DAY . . Nov. 1 1
Stakes will amount to over £40,000.
£lO,OOO added to Melbourne Cup.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
Missing Friends.
MISSING PERSON INQUIRED FOR.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM GRAY, formerly of Gat-
lins and Dunedin, New Zealand, _ general
laborer, and last heard of at Nelson 37 years
ago, is asked to communicate with
THE DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
DUNEDIN.
TJE JANE SMITH, late of Joel Joel,
■i*- Victoria, spinster, deceased. Mill
any person knowing the whereabouts of
GEORGE SMITH, known sometimes as
GEORGE BARR or GEORGE SMYTH, a
brother of Jane Smith, last heard of at
White Cliffs, New South Wales, or if dead
the date of death, and where, please com-
municate with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
CO., LTD., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
The Field of COMMERCIAL ART is World-wide.
WHY NOT BE AN ARTIST? TREMENDOUS DEMAND. Our graduates
are filling high-salaried positions. GOOD ARTISTS
EARN £3OO TO £lOOO A YEAR
and upwards, in easy, fascinating work. Our courses of Personal Home Instruc-
tion by correspondence arc complete and practical. Years of experience in
successful teaching. Expert Instructors.
You may INCREASE your INCOME by taking a course of STOTT’S
HOME STUDY. Pick out the Course you are most interested in and write or
call for particulars.
Complete Course Commercial Art, including Illustrating, Drawing, Show-card,
Ticket-writing and Designing.
General Drawing.
Fashion Illustrating.
Book and Magazine Illustrating.
Advertisement Ilius. and Designing.
Ticket-writing.
Caricaturing and Cartooning,
lettering, Designing anil Ornament
Course.
Architectural Perspective & Buildings.
Mechanical Photo Retouching.
In six months’ time from date of enrolment you will be well on the path that leads to
SUCCESS. The world pays well for trained skill. Don’t hesitate. Write or call for our FREE
Booklet, “Commercial Art.”
Stotts Technical Correspondence College
(Backed by 37 years’ practical experience),
70 Pitt Street, Sydney. 100 Bussell Street, Melbourne.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
M
m
k
7 m
Second only t.o the “Swan.”
The '‘Blackbird” is the "SWAN” Pen’s junior
and fully meets the demand for a reliable foun-
tain pen at somewhat below the standard price.
fca
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND IMPORTERS
Made by the "Swan" Pen People.
Illustrated List Post Free.
MABIE, TODD 8 CO., LTD.
Swan House. 133-135. Oxford Street, London, W.l
Manchester, Paris,
Associate House:
Brussels, Zurich. Svdney. Toronto, and Cape Town
Mabie. Todd & Co.. Inc., New York and Chicago.
*
T
Jc
SONG COMPETITION.
£15|15/- PRIZE.
Recognising that the attractions of Manly would receive a tremendous amount of publicity
by the publication of a suitable song which w ould sound the virtues of Manly as a seaside resort,
Mr. J. R. Trenerry, Editor of The Manly Daily, offers a Prize of Fifteen Guineas for the
words of a song which will be adjudged the most suitable composition for setting to music.
In addition to the above prize, the author of the song w’ill be paid half-yearly a royalty of
one penny per copy on all sales for five years from the date of publication. Should the song
hit the popular fancy, the royalty would probably run into a very substantial amount.
CONDITIONS.
The song must consist of four verses and chorus. The verses should preferably consist
of eight lines each, with chorus of four lines. The treatment of each verse with a separate
chorus may be adopted. ~ ,
“Manly by the Sea” must be the title adopted by each competitor. Necessarily the treat-
ment must embody the natural beauty and attractions of Manly, in order that all the outstand-
ing characteristics of Manly as a seaside resort will receive consideration.
No entrance fee is charged, and any competitor may forward more than one composition.
Each composition must be over a nom de plume, and the full name and address of the
competitor must be written on a separate slip of paper, and forwarded, with the competitive
composition, to the Editor of The Manly Daily, 18 Sydney Road, Manly, on or before
October 31.
The proprietors of The Manly Daily reserve the right to publish in The Manly Daily any
composition submitted for competition.
The decision of the judge or judges appointed by the proprietors of The Manly daily to
be considered final and without appeal.
All compositions to become the property of The Manly Daily,
The copyright of the successful composition to be vested in the proprietors of The Manly
Daily.
Following adjudication, a further substantial prize will be offered for a setting of music
to the words.
Missing Friends.
IX THE SUPREME COURT OF
VICTORIA.
To HENRY MARCHANT ROBERT
WARNER late of 90 Neptune Street Burn-
ley. Take notice that your wife MATA
WARNER has commenced proceedings for
divorce against you on the grounds of de-
sertion. Unless you enter an appearance
at the Office of the Prothonotarv of the
Supreme Court on or before 12th November
1922 the suit will proceed in your absence
and vou may be ordered to pay costs.
W. S. DORIA,
469 Chancery Eane,
Melbourne.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND,
WE L LINGTON DISTRICT
(WELLINGTON REGISTRY).
IN BANKRUPTCY. No. 1143.
IN THE MATTER of a Bankruptcy Petition
filed the 23rd day of August 1922.
TO NORMAN HORACE JURY of Lower
Hutt garage proprietor.
TAKE NOTICE that a Bankruptcy
Petition has been presented to this Court
against you by Wright Stephenson and Com-
pany Limited of Wellington Merchants and
this Court has ordered that personal service
on you has been dispensed with and that the
publication of this Notice once in the Syd-
ney Bulletin published in Sydney once in
the Auckland Weekly News published in
Auckland and once in a daily newspaper
published in Wellington shall be deemed to
be service of the Petition upon you AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the said
Petition will be heard at the Supreme Court
at Wellington on Friday the 27th day of
October 1922 at 10 o’clock in the forenoon
on which day you are required to appear
and if you do not appear this Court may
make an order adjudicating you bankrupt
in your absence.
A copy of the Petition will be supplied to
you on your applying for the same at the
Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this 3rd day of
October 1922.
(L.s.) (Signed) G. S. CLARK,
Deputy Registrar.
Sir Kenneth Douglas is the Solicitor for
the Petitioner whose address for service is
31 Hunter Street Wellington.
nji the Will of .TOTIN TURNBULL, late of Dun-
wich, Queensland. Anyone who can give informa-
tion as to the address of the wife of William Turnbull,
of Warwick, Queensland, or, if dead, of the place
where she died, is asked to communicate with the
Public curator of Queensland, George Street, Bris-
bane.
Dated this tenth day of October, 1922.
F. AV. MOLE,
Public Curator, Brisbane.
For Sale.
PNGINE. One Vertical Triple Expansion Drop
L Valve Rotary Pumping Engine, in good working-
order. Makers, Austral Otis Co. Steam Cylinders,
21 inches by 37A inches by 57 inches diameter by
3-feet stroke. Pump Plungers, 271 inches, diameter.
Capable of pumping 9,000,000 (nine million) gallons
of water or sewage per day against 150 feet head with
1601 b. steam pressure. Will be dismantled by
Board’s workmen. On appointment being made can
be seen working at the Melbourne and Metropolitan
Board of Works Pumping Station, Spotswood. Ten-
ders, addressed to the Secretary, 110 Spencer Street,
Melbourne, must be accompanied by a deposit of 5 per
cent, on amount offered, and be forwarded not later
than Tuesday, 24th October, 1922.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
ACTUAL SIZE
The cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6(1. each.
Special sampl-
ing cabinet
containing
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6;
50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Post paid to iii).'
address.
CRAIG gAITKEN,
6548 George Street*
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.


Carlyon’s Hotel, Esplanade, St. Kilda.
The Most Up-to-date and Best Appointed Hotel in Australia.
Telephones in Every Room. Suites on Telephone or Telegraphic Application.
Dine Here, and Dance in our Famous Ballroom De Luxe,
which Enjoys Tremendous Popularity.
Telegraphic Address: CARL YON, St. Kilda, Victoria.
TELEPHONE
Windsor 5330
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Cairo”
Criterion “Ambrose Appleiohn’s Adventure”
Royal “The Naughty Princess”
Hoyt’s Moving I’iciuies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mary”
Royal “The Peep Show”
Palace "Spa ne lc-”
King’s “The Sentimental Bloke”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
The All-Australian Exhibition, now being
run at the Royal Agricultural Show Ground,
"LOYALTIES."
AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Oregon McMahon
as Jacob-Twisden,
and Winchester Ford
as Augustus Boring.
under the auspices of the N.S.W. Chamber of
Commerce, is a rev’elation. There may be
viewed almost every article which is in
everyday use, from furniture to beer. Last
Saturday night saw the opening of an out-
size in musical competitions, which is giving
budding Melbas and Carusos a chance to
win vejcy substantial cash prizes. There are
also free cinema shows, and a representative
collection of pictures by leading Australian
artists. The show will last till Novem-
ber 18.
* * * *
“Cairo” continues to dazzle the eye and
thrill the soul of playgoer, music-lover and
sensation-seeker at Her Majesty’s, Sydney.
For an absorbing, haunting picture of the
immemorial East, and one that eats into the
mind like acid into metal, Oscar Asche’s
magnum opus is undeniably cheap at the
money, amusement tax and all. To see it
is to take a seat on the magic carpet < f
Arabian Nights’ fancy, and to be transported
into a world that riots with romance and
throbs with passion.
Ambrose Applejohn is on the last lap of
his quaint and rollicking adventures at Syd-
ney Criterion. On Saturday week that
excellent comedian Lawrence Grossmitli,
will cease applejacking, and appear in his
original creation “The Silver Fox,” a con-
vention-smashing packet of piquancies by
Cosmo Hamilton.
** * *
The cover has gone down on “The Peep
Show,” after a capital run, at Sydney Royal,
and J. C. Williamson’s New Comic Opera
Co. will resume possession on Saturday
night. The plav is
“The Naughty
Princess” adapted
from the French
by Andr£ Barde,
produced by Harry
Burcher, and with
that talented young
Australian actress,
Kitty Reidy, in the
title role.
** * *
G a 1 s w orthy’a
“Loyalties,” pr e-
sented during last
week to crowded
audiences at Syd-
ney Palace, was
quite one of the
best-acted shows
that the Repertory
people have staged.
The play is subtly
ironical as well as
dramatic, its stir-
ring three acts
being based on the
theft of £lOOO at a
country house-
party. The thief is
that old-established
Siamese twin, “an
officer and a gentle-
man,” so familiar
in the pages of the
Family Herald
species of litera-
ture. In this charac-
Bert Bailey, who is
producing “The
Sentimental Bloke" at
Melbourne King's.
ter the officer touch is indisputable, but Sur-
geon Galsworthy severs his gentlemanly side
quite neatly, though the operation means
death. All the players were good—particu-
larly Albert Collins, Gerald Carr as the
unmoral Captain Dancy, and A. Pritchard
Morris as Ferdinand de Levis. Gregan Mc-
Mahon, as the old solicitor, was excellent,
but rather doddery as to his make-up. Beat-
rice Tildesley, as Margaret Orme, was the
most convincing of the women.
Sydney Tivoli celebrated Wee Georgie
Wood’s hundredth performance (and immi-
nent departure) on Monday night, when auto-
graphed photos of the star in his McGregor
sketch were handed out. Saturday saw the
first vaudeville performance in Australia of
a skating-turn on real ice. Max and Rav
are the ice-breakers, so to speak. Con Col-
lea no is disclosed as a brilliant wire-dancer;
and other acceptable turns are provided by
The Klentos and Burr and Hope.
* * * *
Dorothy Dalton is refreshing in “The
Crimson Challenge” at the Lyceum, which
institution has “The House that Jazz Built”
as a further lure. With the exception of the
three long-distance affairs —“Over the Hill”
at the Globe, “A Yankee at the Court of King
Arthur” at the Strand, and “The Four Horse-
men of the Apocalypse” at the Crystal
Palace—the pictures on the Union Theatres
Circuit are merely passable. At the Hay-
market Guy Bates Post plays the dual rble in
“The Masquerader.” Hoyt’s angle for popu-
lar favor with the hair-raising “Footfalls,”
and a cow-punching thrill named “Step On
It.” The Town Hall is reiving on “The Sin
Woman”—not a left-over from the Artists’
Ball, but a recent import from the U.S.
❖ * * *
“My Lady’s Dress,” at Adelaide Royal,
is giving a great chance to Frank Harvey
and Emelie Polini, with nine scenes each,
most of them powerful. The supporting
players are good, in what little chances they
get. At the King’s “Under Two Flags” is
suffering a revival, with George Cross as
the heavy swell of the period, and Agnes
Dobson at her best as the hopeless adorer
v r ho gives her life for him. At the Prince
of Wales’s Eugenie Duggan and Mary
Anderson contrast effectively in a Divorce
Court drama. Maude Courtney and Mr. C.
have just come into the Majestic, where
Odiva and her seals continue to give their
tank turn with effect. In pictures, the
York has “Orphans of the Storm,” and
Wondergraph "The Half-breed,” who is a
splendid fellow and welcome in society—
until he proposes to marry. At West’s is
Anita Stewart in “Rose of the Sea” and
some gorgeous frocks. Cowboys by Zane
Grey are at the Grand, a’hd Marie Prevost
shows an attractive figure at the Pav.
“Mary” is still inviting attention at Mel-
bourne Royal, and there is no lessening of
interest in the riotous scene where almost
every educated limb in the company has its
moment or two of limelight ere it fades
away into the tout ensemble. Meantime, the
piece is preparing to move over to the larger
stage at Her Majesty’s, v 7 here “The Merry
Widow” finished on Tuesday night. "The
Peep Show,” from Sydney, comes into view
at the Royal on Saturday.
* * >;<
At Melbourne King’s “The Sentimental
Bloke” continues to jog one’s memories of
“On Our Selection.” All round, Ginger
Mick seems truer to type than Bill. Re-
spectability cramps William’s style, giving
him a taste for arbitration, where formerly
he would have settled the argument with
’arf-a-brick. Mick, on the other hand, re-
mains the genial pushite, never letting him-
self get softened by the sentiment that keeps
his old cobber prattling Doreen’s Command-
ments in the mild voice of a Sabbatarian.
S’C Jfi ❖
Wirths’ Circus reappears at Melbourne
Olympia next Saturday night. The build-
ing is vast, but it will not be too big to
house the aggregation of marvels which
Wirths’ advt.-writer describes in 21 panting
superlatives. New equilibrists, aerialists,
jugglers and other acrobats are expected to
challenge amazement along with a menagerie,
w 7 hereof there is a priceless specimen of the
S’African warthog, described as "the ugliest
animal on earth.”
* * * #
“The Scarlet Lady” (no relation to the
Scarlet Wumman) provides a timely turf
sensation at Melbourne Majestic this week.
The yarn belongs to the Nat Gould school,
but a vicar provides some comic relief by
investing a trifle on the favorite to give a
lift to the church-organ fund. Betty Comp-
son is at the Majestic in “Prisoners of
Love,” and both she and her bloke look like
indeterminate-sentence types. Enid Bennett
is beautifying Hoyt’s bustling narrative,
“Keeping up with Lizzie.” Miss Du Pont
dangles from “The Golden Gallows” on the
same De Luxe screen on which Virginia
Pearson is a figure of queenly rectitude in a
burglarious disturbance, “The Bishop’s
Emeralds.” The Lyceum is picturing the
last change of Popes in Rome, and it also
catches Louis Bennison bending in deepest
ceremony in “Lavender and Old Lace.” At
the Melba Agnes Avers is “Bought and
Paid For,” .Tack Holt parting up like a
gentleman. The Britannia has “Lucky Car-
son’ ’suffering dollarium tremens as a Cotton
King.
“T.R.H.”: Isn’t “Caesar’s Ghost” mistaken
in saying (B. IS/10/’22) that “Jack P.
McGowan, one of the first Australians to
appear in Yankee films, went to the S’African
war and hasn’t come back yet”? A certain
Jack McGowan and his wife, Amy Sherwood,
appeared about 1902 with “King” Cole’s Bo-
hemian Dramatic Co. near Prince’s Bridge,
Melb. At that time King Cole, McGowan,
Bill Ayr and co. were acting a picture for
Pathe Frferes. It occurred on my first visit
to Australia, which is why I remember it so
well.
“J.F.H.”: Ellen Terry has originated a
lively discussion in London by denouncing
present-day actresses who go in for midnight
suppers, followed by jazzing until 5 o’clock
in the morning. So different from her young
days or nights on the stage. She always
went to bed punctually when the play was
over. There is certainly a little too much
of this nocturnal gadding about. It makes
actresses too cheap, tends to destroy the
mystery and illusion of the stage, lowers the
vitality f and reduces the working capacity.
Still, girls will be girls.
“J.F.H.”: Some old-time Australian stage
friends were mentioned in a London Daily
Telegraph review 7 of London playhouses
half-a-century ago. In 1872 George Rignold
was making himself hideous and horrible as
Caliban in “The Tempest,” a role that
“Handsome George” subsequently made
familiar to Melbourne and Sydney audiences.
At that time George was leading man at the
Queen’s, close to Govent Garden, then being
run by a certain retired diplomatist named
Henry Labouchere. Labby married Henri-
etta Hodson, George’s leading lady in that
series of Shakspearean revivals. The Bard
was also reigning at the Princess’s, where
Samuel Phelps and William Creswick had
joined forces for a brilliant production of
“Othello.” Creswick came to Australia in
the ’seventies, and his superb impersonation
of Hamlet will be recalled by old Sydney
and Melbourne playgoers. At the Strand J.
S. Clarke was appearing as Paul Pry, a
favorite role of George Copoin at the Mel-
bourne Royal of the pre-Williamson period.
“CAIRO," AT
SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
The Sultan in the bazaar incognito
(Richard Hatteras ).
Coppin always supplemented liis impersona-
tion of Paul with a humorous commentary
on current events. After a final fall of the
curtain he would come to the footlights ex-
claiming, “I hope I don’t intrude” —the
catch-phrase of the play—“but I forgot my
umbrella.” Then he would start a conver-
sational monologue on the political or social
topics that were uppermost at the moment.
“T.W.” : Eva Gauthier, perhaps the most
popular of song recitalists, after Dolores,
yet heard in these parts, has been over to
Europe searching out latter-day lyrics with
which to back up the Nooyoick hoardings,
which acclaim her “High priestess of mod-
ern song.” She coins money in the States
these days, and is said to have put up the
record as an introducer of American ditties
of the better kind.
“J.H.” (London) : Howard Carr, who used
to conduct for the J.C.W. organisation, is
a busy man these days. In between his
work for the Harrogate Municipal Orchestra,
which he has built up into the best thing
of its kind in the U.K., and frequent contri-
butions to the musical columns of London
Daily Telegraph, he has managed to sand-
wich a new English-made opera with the
title of “The Beautiful Mrs. Towne.” Adrian
Ross” is responsible for the lyrics. The
opera is to be tried on the poodle at Harro-
gate, but is destined for the West End.
“Second Murderer”: I understand now
that Oscar Asche needs atmosphere when
before the paying public—breadth he carries
with him. I saw him auction some shawls
and dolls at the “Lilac Matinee” at the
Theatre Royal, Sydney, the other day. Sport-
ing white spats and an ingratiating smile —
not only, but as well- —he made the most
unconvincing stage auctioneer I have ever
endured. Surely at some time in his Thes-
pian career Oscar has wielded the auction-
eer’s gavel in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” or “The
Octoroon”?—every mummer has. On second
thoughts, he may not have done so, for he
told the Millions Club masticators lately that
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin” was “the greatest
tissue of lies ever written.” Oscar should
speak more kindly of the old theatrical sure-
fire. Besides, I would cheerfully spar up
two bob ( plus tax) to see him do Simon
Legree.
“Private Boxer” : It seems incredible that
the theatrical profession should harbor the
belief that any leading mummer who happens
to be connected with a run of plays that fail
to draw is a “Jonah.” But so it is. That
fine old actor, Hermann Vezin, was generally
regarded as unlucky. He gave the secr6t
away in a letter written by him to a friend
in 1883, and recently published in London.
More in sorrow than in anger Vezin wrote: —
Some well-intentioned friends of mine—actors
possessed with a laudable desire of impeding the pro-
gress of aspiring rivals—having industriously filled
the superstitious minds of country managers with the
notion that ill-luck must necessarily attend any
enterprise with which I am connected, these mana-
gers refuse to give me any dates for my intended
Shakspearean tour, and I know no arguments to
influence fools.
So the one-time star, who had been lauded to
the skies when the pieces he appeared in were
successes, was blamed —and finally shelved—-
when the plays were inadequate. It’s a
bowelless business, that of the showman.
THE SHOW OF THE WEEK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The question of severing the nexus between the
Anglican Church in Australia and in England was
hotly discussed by the Synod last week. The ‘cut-
the-painter’ party were eventually defeated, on a vote
being taken, by a considerable majority.”
—Church item.
What time the ruddy claret drops their manly forms
besmirch
The gents who meet within the ring with fistful efforts
search
Around the solar plexus ;
But when the grave and reverend sirs who represent
our Church,
Determine once for all to stand alone upon their perch
(E’en though, perchance, it wrecks us),
They act upon a different plan; they seek a surer
way:
“To do our bounden duty,” you may hear these Nel-
sons say,
“Our Austral land expec’s us!
So let us don our shovel hats, and gird us for
the fray,
And tightly tie our apron-strings; let not a gaiter
stray,
Nor thought of fear unsex us.
Then as we charge—a stout black line —both clerical
and lay,
With collars buttoned up behind, in panoplied array,
Shall any human utterance our mighty efforts stay 't
What logic force rejec’s us?
t>h, can we fail to cut these bonds ? Nay, Echo
answers nay !
The foolish tie that binds us to our ancestors
to-day—
Like turkeys plump at Christmas-time, or early lambs
in May—
Will get it in the nexus I
The nexus —the nexus,
No more shall ever vex us.
We’ll take a vote and cut its throat,
Thus ‘severing the nexus’!”
And so they charged, and charged again, with
many a mighty shout
That split the air and could be heard, there is no
cause to doubt,
From Chapter House to Texas.
But all in vain that black-garbed line of heroes,
staunch and stout,
Spoke one and all, and all at once, around it and
about,
With many a quip, and many a thrust, and many
a verbal clout,
Whose learning doth perplex us —
Their swords were gapped, their lances turned, their
wisdom put to rout,
Their speakers jeered and made the butt of many a
solemn flout,
And all their boasted arguments were roughly
“brought to nowt.”
They couldn’t cut the nexus!
The nexus—the nexus,
Which challenges and checks us—
They lost the vote; and so, you’ll note,
The nexus still connec’s us!
N.S.W.
S. E. N.


SC if
HCiP
CP 5
British
Made
THE STANDARD SET
No. 1 consists of heavily
silver-plated, self - stropping
“Valet” Auto Strop Razor,
12 tested ‘ Valet " n Blades
and genuine "Valet” Strop,
complete 'n durable case
lined velvet and OA/
satin
“If you want a thing Well done
Do it yourself”
I AM Valet Auto Strop Razor.
The man who believes in my motto and shaves himself
should use me because I strop myself. I do not require
stropping machines, I do not waste blades and I need no taking
to pieces. I look after my blades and keep them sharp myself.
I am built that way.
I am the complete shaving instrument—razor and stropping
machine combined. When you slide me up and down my
strop, my blade meets the leather first one side then the other
at the exact angle and pressure required to give a better edge
than is possible with any hand-stropped blade. Ten seconds
to do it. No removal of blade and as easy to clean as to strop.
Ask any good Razor Dealer to show you what I can do.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for
Australasia :
PHIPSON & COM-
PANY, LTD.,
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Of all High Class Dealers.
The word " r alet"
Razors, Strops and Blades indicates the genuine product oj the Auto Strop Sajety Razo, Co., Ltd., 197-207. City Road, London. Eng.
A
“His Master’s Voice”
Gramophone
is
His Master’s Choice.
Look for this Trade-mark under the lid and on all “H.M.V.” Records.
GRAMOPHONES are supreme in their supremacy of performance
PALING'S
stock all Models, from the small portable Model to artistically-
cased Cabinet Models.
We sell them on Easy Terms if you wish. Call in at any time and
hear some of your favorite records.
Blanches at—
BRISBANE
TOOWOOMBA
ROCKHAMPTON
LISMORE
NEWCASTLE.
ir
m
in
a
338 George St.
SYDNEY, i ii'.
©


«**»»*■.
1
M
■
m
I
if
1
%
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
N S W MONT de PI tit
754 St. Sydnev-
Phono City 9325.
OpibJ & 300.000.
Joseph. W. Hill.
Genera/ Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
RE\ LEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd."
Branches at
29 King- St., Newcastle, X.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
10 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
Poverty
Point
L.T. PIVER. PARIS
The FACE POWDER
de luxe
“Norbell”: Nellie Stewart herself told me
this one. It was in the old wooden Prin-
cess’s Theatre, Melbourne, during the origi-
nal production of “La Mascotte.” Nellie
was the Princess Fiamenta to Maggie
Moore’s Bettina, and Verdi was I’ippo.
Sweet Nell's figure was always slim and
graceful, but she was very slender then, and
she decided on an artificial accentuation of
her girlish curves. After a very quick
change of costume her temporarily discarded
"shapes” were inadvertently dragged on
stage by her bridal train, and she was horri-
fied to hear Verdi, like a perfect gentleman,
ask, sotto voce. “Good Lord! Who’s dropped
the plum puddings?”
“T.W.”: Tell “Abbot Park” (B. 28/9/’22)
that when “Stephen Adams” turned out a
new ballad he almost invariably gave it to
Edward Lloyd or reserved it for himself
For “Adams” was really Maybrick, a bari-
tone contemporary of Santley’s. Though a
far greater singer than Lloyd. Santley pro-
bably panned out poorly. If “Abbot Park”
ever heard Larizza, that tenor with a voice
like 20 trumpets who was here about the
same time as the Welshman, he would under-
stand the difference between a robust voice
and a pretty lyrical one.
"CAIRO,” AT
SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Wei-Ban-Wei. a Chinese spy ( Mason
Wood).
‘‘H.A.JV’: T used to ridicule the claim
that the pitchers are of educational value
(B. 12/10/’22), but let me confess that I
was wrong. The sub-title of a “scenic” at
our local film-foundry embodied the infor-
mation that “Capri, as is customary with
islands, is wholly surrounded by water.” It
dispelled forever the impression that they
were occasionally surrounded by beer.
“Dido”: When I was a boy attending a
race meeting at the old Miners’ Racecourse
at Ballarat, I remember a great commotion
arising in my vicinity, when an excited youth
arrived before a fine, upstanding gentleman
in a rather loud suit, accompanied by a
rather louder lady. The newcomer said:
“Look out ” (using the name of a
music-hall performer already well known)
“Mrs. is here. She is carrying a
whip. She is looking for you.” “Never.”
asseverated the star. “Mrs. is too
great a lady to pursue her husband on a
public racecourse with a whip. It must be
Blank Blank she is after.” Blank was
a tenor singer of ballads with whom the
great lady had been linked up in vulgar
rumor.
“Thorold Waters”: Caruso was far-seeing
enough to make 24 new song-discs ere he
died, and these are being rushed out on the
outflow of some
choice publicity
patter. The gag is
that Enrico made
a stipulation that
one of these re-
cords should be
played every dty
for little Gloiia
Caruso, so that she
should never, never
forget her darling
daddy’s voice. This
child is evidently
going to be. worked
for all she is worth
on the business
side. She was re-
cently the subject
of a world-wide
announcement that
all Concerned had
been overjoyed by
a thorax-speciai-
ist’s discovery that
her throat was
exactly the same
as that of Caruso.
Any sensible per-
son must know
that this throat-
talk is so much
bosh. Caruso’s off-
spring might have
a voice-exit as big
as the Arc de
Triomphe, but so
long as it did not
possess the colla-
teral resonance
factories behind
cheek-bone, brow
and chest, besides
“Spangles,” at Palace
Theatre, Melbourne.
A de Reeve singing
Too-roo-ri-roo-ril-i-a.
musicianship, temperament and more than
average brains, the possessor would be cap-
able of little or nothing.
“Lud” (London) : H. L. Mencken, the
American critic, vvhose trenchant articles on
his country’s prohibition law have interested
Bulletin readers, lately descended on this
part of the world. Arriving ostensibly to
have a look round and report on the theatres,
he surprised the profesh by announcing that
he hadn’t seen a play in London, and didn’t
intend to:—
There is not a thing running that would not be
personally offensive to any sensible man. You have
an idea, and you put it all into the first act. The
second act is bad, and the third is horrible. This
applies to all plays, including Shakspeare’s.
Coekneydom seems undecided as to whether
Mencken is to be labelled a joke or a super-
Shaw.
“Nimshi”: In reply to “J.H.” (B.
5/10/’22), I don’t know about Sybil Arun-
dale’s experiences in legitimate drama, but
the lady is no stranger to star parts. She
played the title role in “My Lady Molly” in
Dublin early in the century, and at the
time her picture-postcards were as popular
as any on the London market.
“T.W.”: “Nord” is refreshingly right
when he mentions (B. 5/10/’22) that Clara
Butt “introduced” her sisters at a London
concert in 1908, but his statement bears
out mine, that for years Clara kept her
relationship to Pauline and Ethel Hook a
dark secret. Programmes that I hold of
Queen’s Hall ballad concerts four years be-
fore that give the names of the lesser sisters
as duettists already in need of no introduc-
tion on their own account, but very much
sub-Clara in the matter of that sistership.
“J.H.” (Ixmdon) : Basil Dean, about the
most successful of London’s post-war pro-
ducers—he staged Harwood’s “Grain of
Mustard Seed” and Clemence Dane’s “Bill
of Divorcement”—has set the West End
theatrical world by the ears by hiring a
horde of East End Chinese for his new ven-
ture, “East of Suez.” At no time in its
history has the English stage been in such
low water. Few legitimate shows have run
at a profit during the last 12 months, and
distress among all ranks of the profession is
widespread. Yet this is the time chosen by
Dean to pass over scores of capable British
actors for a mob of grinning aliens from
Whitechapel and Stepney. His argument is
that “ ‘East of Suez’ demands realistic treat-
ment, and it should'be perfectly obvious that
1 could find no English actors capable of
talking Chinese or of representing street
characters at their various vocations.” The
answer to which is that for donkeys’ years
Oscar Asche has provided London audiences
with excellent representations of Eastern
atmosphere. And of the hundreds of supers
who produced the illusion, not one-tenth of
1 per cent, were foreigners.
“Guiser”: Apparently Nellie Stewart is
forging still another link between church
and stage. At the invitation of Rev. Eger-
ton A. North Ash, rector of St. Mary’s,
Waverley (N.S.W.), she is to appear at a
carnival fair at that old church on Satur-
day, November 4. North Ash, like his
father, has a kindly eye for mummers, and
has persuaded Norman Campbell, one-time
actor and s.-m. for “Sweet Nell,” to be the
prelate who is to crown the Queen of the
Carnival on the same auspicious occasion.
“T.W.”: Some of the musicians whom
“Gnarek” noticed wearing silver harps and
other Home Front devices, at London con-
certs, were Australians. Almost without ex-
ception the Aussie concert-performers in
Blighty when the war befell either dodged
over to America at once, or under conscrip-
tion got themselves passed into regimental
bands, Red Cross and other fakes, with
special permission to go on with, the job of
entertainment as usual. Several consolidated
themselves well while indigenous artists
were away fighting. For there is no doubt
that most English singers and other musi-
cians of fighting age did go right into the
thick of the melee, whatever impression
“Gnarek” may have gathered to the con-
trary. Seven singer friends of mine were
killed in action, including Charles Mott,
most promising of England’s bassos, and tin-
owner of a fine Covent Garden record. And
I can recall dozens whose names have never
re-appeared in the concert world since the
Armistice, either because they were slaugh-
tered or maimed, or have been crowded out
by the silver harpists.
“0.K.” objects:—
Having an old-standing quarrel with the silly
classical proverb that only complimentary lies should
be told of the dead, I would like to get in a passing
comment on the alleged “big “heart” and “hasty
temper ’ of the late Marie Lloyd, who made bad
matrimonial ventures because she was very unlike! v
to make good ones. Marie was the luckiest of wage-
eai net s from my point of view, and the money
that came to her so easily was as freely squandered
because she was by nature a gaudy vulgarian. The
ghosts of Rickards and his wife could a tale unfold
ie the lady’s fury when ’Any reasonably suggested the
deduction of a percentage from the £l6O a week she
and her precious Alec Hurley were receiving under
a too-sanguine contract. Marie had already lost her
early force of style when she came to Australia. She
was going out of date. The more refined, or less un-
i efined, sort of serio-comic was threatening danger.
Her two most durable ditties—-“ Everything in the
Garden’s Lovely” and “Twenty Gals, and I Was
One of ’em” —were already well matured. Nor was
she strikingly stronger than the best of her rivals.
Speaking from my own remembrance of Rosie Lloyd,
her sister, I would say the younger woman, wlio
was handicapped with a turn in the eye, was much
the same sort of serio-chronic as Marie, in the
same sort of song and an equally audacious hat.
Two of Rosie’s ditties have stuck in my memory “[
Wonder Why,” and “The Cornfield,” though I didn’t
hear her sing many songs in all. Judging from the
test of time there was little to choose between them,
as interpreters of the naughty.
“Wod g il”; Seeing Oscar Asche as Ali
fcnar, I was reminded of a yarn told bv
one Plesketh Pearson in a recent book of
reminiscences. Tree, whose Hamlet was
tunny without being vulgar, Was taken to
see Oscar in “Chu Chin Chow.” “What do
you think of him?” he was asked. “More
navel than millinery,” said Tree.
“L.H.P.”: The moon scene in “The Peep
Show” recalls Offenbach’s “A Voyage to the
produced at the old London Alhambra
in Mons. Loredan (in Australia with
the Dunning Opera Co. in 1884), Harry
Paulton (here in 1897), and Emma Cham-
bers (one of the Royal Comics in the
eighties) were in the cast. A piquant “Apple”
duet was a feature of the third act, and two
gorgeous incidental ballets kept up the repu-
tion of the Alhambra for that delectable
form of amusement.
“.LIT.” (London) : There’s a slump in the
stock ot American cinema people visiting
England in search of publicity. The Doug
and Mary and Chaplin stunts were so over-
done that you’ve only got to mention any of
these posturing celebrities down Carmelite
House way to meet with the iciest reception.
Phe first know edge most people had that
Mabel Normand had been in England 'for
nearly three months was a four-line par. in
J) e IDh-y Mah, that Mabel was going, home.
Aow the lalmadge sisters are coming to try
their luck, but, despite some vigorous pre-
liminary puffs by their press-agents, and a
suggestion that they should travel through
England by a special train, holding recentions
en r oute,_ to afford the English public an
opportunity of seeing their favorites in the
flesh,” the British Lion remains unmoved.
Also, Fleet-street is ominously silent. With-
out their warpaint and trappings, the Yanks
who have acquired notoriety by' making faces
in front of a camera are largely a collec-
tion of illiterate clowns and promoted fac-
tory Lizzies, conspicuous only for their hid-
eous vulgarity and their ape-like amours. Ex-
cept among flappers, imbeciles, degenerates
and savages, they have exhausted their vogue.
“LOYALTIES,” AT SYDNEY PALACE.
Beatrice Tilde slop as Margaret Ornie .
Q “Orb”: Now that the (partly) Gilbert
and Sullivan Opera Co. has been exiled to
' Hie immemorial East, those Australians who
e haven’t seen “Ruddigore” are not likely to
j make its acquaintance yet awhile. Its naira
r is against it, although it is not really as
e ruddy as it is painted. In the Victorian
- days of its first London production the
t public was shocked at the title. One indig-
nant gentleman wrote to Gilbert about it,
and got this back :
1 cann °t agree with you. Ruddigore is one thing,
1 Bloodygore is another. If in writing to you I said
r you had a ruddy cheek, it would verv inadequate!'
* express my meaning.
j Gilbert also wrote to the Times suggesting
that he should call the opera ’’Kensington
Gore.” The public objected to the end of
" the opera, where George Grossmith, as Robin
Oakapple, descended to blithering blazes in
„ a glare of red fire, and this exit had to be
1 Having swallowed Bernard Shaw’s
bloody,” London is not so squeamish nowa-
l days. “Ruddigore” was last seen by Lon-
doners at the Crystal Palace, of all places,
in 1887.
> “C. Ockney”: Arnold Bennett was once
moved to speak scornfully of the art of play-
writing. He airily remarked that he could
i write three plays in the time it took him
, to write one novel. That was when “The
Great Adventure” was making a hit that
its author had never dreamed of. But “The
Great Adventure” . succeeded on its merits.
In spite of its amateurish construc-
tmn, it contained an excellent idea,
which, aided by Bennett’s caustic dialogue.
Pulled the thing through. Its author no
doubt looked upon the job as easy, for he
had adapted the great money-maker from his
own novel. Since then, however, Arnold has
had time to reconsider his opinion, for
although he has produced half-a-dozen plays
since, not one has made any impression on
the public. “Judith,” “Sacred and Profane
Love,” “The Title” and the others all failed
through lack of grip, story and technique
generally. His latest is a comedy called
“Body and Soul,” which, with Viola Tree
in the lead, was down for production at the
London Regent the second week of Septem-
ber. The Regent is the old Euston musie-
“ reconstructed for the purposes of the
legit.
"M.D.’s” memories:—
I must have heard Marie Lloyd half-a-
dozen times at London Tivoli in the season of
1913 the good old times when , London had ro
thought of coming woe, when three or four revues
were running at the same time, and one could sec
Pavlova dance at the Palace and Karsavina (with the
Russian Opera Co.) pirouette at Drury Lane. 1
remember the “knut3” (formerly “johnnies”) in their
swallow-tails and expansive shirt-fronts, rolling into
the stalls long after 10 p.m.; they had just strength
enough to sit out “turns” 11 and 12—Marie Lloyd
and Harry Lauder. Marie was at the top of her form
at the time, with new gowns and new songs, and
Lauder was introducing “Ta-ta, My Bonnie Maggie
Darling, ’ and “It's Nice To Get Up in the Morning.”
She was greatly in evidence a few weeks later at the
annual fete in aid of the Distressed Actors’ Fund,
which was held in the grounds of Chelsea Hospital.
Although Anna Pavlova was there, and everybody
that counted in the theatrical world, Marie was the
only one who was literally rushed by the camera
men, to all of whom she posed with unfailing good
humor. But she glanced somewhat disdainfully at
Pavlova, who, from a gorgeous flower-decked rickshaw
'lagged by Matheson Lang, was selling soap, scent
and signed photos of herself.
ART AND APPETITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Stormer strutted down the stony street,
The times were bad—he’d rested for a year—
There seemed no hope along- his hungry beat
Of even eleemosynary beer.
lie pondered on the far-off, happy days,
When he was Shock and Scalem’s juvenile,
And played the lead in blood-and-bellows plays,
Dwelling in hospitable pubs the while.
lie mused on fat engagements long ago,
When he, like Hamlet, found “the play’s the thing,”
And went out starring with a touring show,
To thrill the Baekblocks as "The Silver King."
He groaned, “The cinematograph’s a curse,
Their putrid films make the judicious scoff,
Our art’s obscured, we go from bad to worse,
And the Legitimate conies tardy off.”
A breezy mummer hailed the worn-out star,
“What ho, Othello!” But the old man said,
"Ah, laddie, laddie; puff your cheap cigar,
The sight of you proclaims that Shakspeare’s dead !
“Where have you been, you vain, irreverent youth,
Your solvent mien my poverty affronts?”
The youngster grinned, “Well, dad, to tell the truth,
I’ve been to Manly doing picture stunts.
"We played a picnic scene—they did us well”—
Old Stormer snorted, “Pictures, by the rood!
And picnics, bah!” His scornful quaver fell.
“But —laddie—tell me—did they give you food
N.B.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
N? "f
Cm
£iS
333
'33
\
QM
33
XHtai
333
C*p%
»
33
h
*3j
cW
§
I
1
1
•a
i
Ilf Ml( M M || M I MM|
sbi&£kprks
vtucir** a <?<am£tTK*
C'333
*?
1./
■3
K
7
[\\
s y
~ O
The Favourite Brand
Among all good judges 333
are the favourites.
Their quality is always
uniform—owing to the fine
selected leaves that are
used and the entire absence
of sand and dust in their
manufacture.
The result is a fragrant
and delicate cigarette —a
positive joy to smoke.
You can always recognise
them in the famous red
packets.
20^1'6
Made in London by
Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: HCRNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth a.ul Geraidton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
FOR SALE.
Complete Electrical Generating 8 Distributing Set,
Comprising One (1) Beiliss Morcome Compound Engine, Cylinders 13in.
and 22in. x lOin. stroke; 375 revolutions per minute; self lubricating,
direct coupled to British W estinghouse D.C. Generator, compound wound
for 460 volt, ~ _
Surface Condensing Plant, complete with Air and Circulating Pumps,
driven by direct coupled Electric Motors.
Switchboard, complete with necessary instruments and regulating Rheostats.
Also, 28 Motors, ranging from J4h.p. to 53h.p„ and totalling 390.5h.p.,
complete with necessary controlling and protective devices.
Also One-ton Sprague Electric Hoist, and 5-ton Shepherd Electric
Hoist, and One Portable Welding Set, by E.C.C.
The whole plant is at present in use, and is in first-class condition, and
may be inspected at any time.
. Would sell whole, or part only.
For full particulars and prices apply
MEPHAN, FERGUSON PTY., LTD.,
Engineers, Boilermakers and Steel-pipe Manufacturers,
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
History grows monotonous in repeating
itself with Caulfield Stakes results. Saturday was the
third time in succession that Eurythmic won
from stable-companion Tangalooma. Two years ago
Tangalooma followed up his second to Eurythmic in
the Stakes by winning
the Herbert Power
Stakes, on the Wednes-
day, and running third
to the same conqueror
in the Caulfield Cup.
Last year it happened
that Eurythmic was a
starter (and winner)
in the Herbert Power
Stakes, and Tangalooma
had to put up with
third place, after which
he cut up badly in the
Cup, which Violoncello
won. What he was to
do in the intervening
w.f.a. race this year
will have remained in
the lap of the gawds
until this paper has
gone to press.
F. E. SHILLA-
BEER (Mr.
“Monckton Frank-
lin”), a genial
Vic. owner.
Whereas recent Randwick form got credit from
Soorak’s easy win in the Caulfield Guineas, and the
running of King Carnival (first) and Northcliffe
(second) in the Debutant Stakes, it was belittled by
the performances of Eurythmic and The Tyrant in
the Stakes and Toorak. If Eurythmic made Stare
look a commonplace animal, he did as much for
Rostrum, the Epsom winner, whilst the Epsom form
took another knock when The Tyrant beat Fleuriste
pointless in the Caulfield mile race. Yet Fleuriste
appeared to carry, a good deal of Eric Connolly’s
money. Easingwold, from Westralia, looks likely
to beat more in the Cup than will beat him. His
fourth in the Toorak was very satisfactory, all things
considered, and if the handicapper had'let him Tn
easier than Bst. 121 b. one would be inclined to
recommend him as a reasonable place investment.
But several of them strike one as being much more
likely to get a place than to win outright. Sister
Olive and Purser, for instance, are trust-
worthy as compared with the occasional Violoncello;
nevertheless they might be easily beaten by such as
Paganini and Molyneux, of whose Metropolitan form,
as compared with the later Melbourne running of
Stare and Tangalooma, it is hardly possible to judge.
To the writer this coming Caulfield Cup appears a
good thing for nobody, but his preference is for
Tangalooma, Soorak and Stare in that order.
* * » *
“Thomauken”: Soorak won his Caulfield
Guineas so impressively that he looks like taking
no end of beating in the Cup next Saturday. Cer-
tainly the mettlesome Woorak colt failed at 11 mile
in the A.J..C. Derby, but only in the last stride
or two, and. anyhow, the difference between Bst.
101 b. and 7st. 71b., his Caulfield Cup impost, is
substantial. I wouldn’t call Soorak a true stayer,
but a horse needn’t be a true stayer to win the
12-furlong handicap on the heath. In proof of
which take Violoncello, Lucknow, Bronzetti, Laven-
do, Flavinius, Aborigine, Marvel Loch, Sweet Nell,
Ingliston—the list is as long as your arm. The
weightiest argument against Soorak is. that he won’t
be ridden by Pike, who is in splendid form these
days. Still, Johnstone is a decent substitute.
The City Tattersall’s meeting at ‘ Rand-
wick on Saturday provided some nice consolation
stakes for horses that had run unluckily at the
A.J.C. round. One of them -was -the ..handsome
Seremond—Mallaig four-year-old Oranian, who is
improving with every race, and beat a field of
second-raters in the City 'Tatt.’s Handicap with some
thing in reserve. Another was the useful-looking
Highton, who placed the Novice Handicap to his
credit, and two others were Gambler’s Gold and
Belle Shot, whose rousing finishes with Alfort and
Issue filled the handicapper with pardonable pride.
All the winners were well backed, and McShort-
odds couldn’t have had much the better of it. Which
recalls that one 'of him had' the face to allege that
Speciality was a bad horse for the tribe in the
Metropolitan.
* * * *
“Tliomauken”: By winning the hurdle race
at City Tatt.’s meeting at Randwick Gindi
gave Teddy Moon the hat trick. Nowadays
Moon doesn’t seem to trouble whether he
rides or looks on, but whenever he’s legged
up, the books seldom fail to exhibit their
respect for him, by making his mount favorite.
Moon has a cool head and a great pair of hands.
* * * *
The South Aus. Derby was remarkable this
year for an unusually poor lot of colts. The
excellent form of Anton King was probably respon-
sible for keeping away the usual Melbourne contin-
gent, and then at the last moment he was pronounced
not eligible to start, through a technical breach of
rules. Humourist and Lord Hurley were then made
favorites, but a desperate finish, fought out all up
the straight, gave a nose win to Burnished (Bright
Steel-Pride of Murillo) from Parvista (Passing By
' ista). The winner belongs to a local sportsman
who prefers to he known as “A. Kaye.” In the
Morphettville Plate, for two-year olds, Tennant’s Essen-
side looked a good thing, but came a bad second
to Mrs. Baxter’s Silent Might, a St. Anton colt.
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman” : Sergeant Blake, the
London G.P.O. detective, who has just retired after
long service, used to be known as “the bookmakers’
friend.’ His pet job was to bowl out those who
defraud starting-price bookies by backing a known
winner, getting tiie telegram marked with a time
anterior to the race, and then holding it back either
by some clever trick or by plain collusion with a
telegraph clerk. The best fraud he remembers was
worked by a man who used to cultivate a particular
s -'l > - bookmaker till he was a welcome guest in the
office. Sitting there yarning, on the dav of a big
race, lie would—just after the time fixed for it—
gi\e a casual curse at the lateness of the hour. “1
meant to have a good wager on this. It’s too late
now, of course.” 'To which the answer would almost,
certainly be: ‘Oh no. You’ve been in this room
wRh me for the last hour. Back what you like.”
And he did, with uncanny correctness. ’ The fact
that a fifth-rate street musician outside had for the
past minute or so been playing “Annie Laurie,” or
.M\o Lovely Hack Eyes/ conveyed nothine; to The
layei of odds, but to the backer, bv a .simple pro-
arranged code, it told just what he wanted to know.
„An uncoumumiy lino young runner in
A. R. Burns was the hero of Sydney’s G.l’.S. sports.
Bums, who is a 17-year-old and belongs to King’s
School, swept the board by winning the 100yds. bv
five yards in 10 3-10,sec., the 220vds. in ' 23sec'
the quarter-nnie in 53 2-6 sec., and the 120yds. hurdles
V* 2 ' s ? e , c ’ Hls “high” action recalls that of
Jack Donaldson. His arm-swinging is a bit clumsy,
but no school athlete of recent years has shown
greater promise. Another double-winner was E L
Macdonald (Sydney Grammar), who took both long
races—the half-mile by 12yds. in 2min. 2 l-ssec
and the mile in 4min. 49 l-ssec. The high jump
fas won by the nuggetty W. F. Wiseman (Newing
ton ?’ r> fr- B iin., D. Cunningham (Grammar)
and *!?£. e o nB ' thy J V ' Robinson (Scots’) dead-heating
'f lth B > n - The shot putt went to H. C. Panni-
tex (Shore), who registered 43ft. 9Rn. Among the
juniors the most noteworthy was W. W Walker
L ,n^n) ’7 h % a «" the I ' ooyds ’ • (U 2--ssec.) and
the 220yds. (26 l-ssec.), putting up two of seven
records established during the day. King’s won the
senior schools championship (their first victory)
w, h a score of 51 points, Grammar (464) and Shore
(31), finishing next; and Grammar (46) took the
junior title from Newington (39) and King’s (37).
A. straight-out international trial between
a '\ d French athletes on the track resulted
i" i the former, but only by 57 points to
•! , was 'f'J'te consistent. France won
easiiy both jumps (6 feet 3 inches in the high)"
mol weigl il ( there was no hammer) and the 100
metres. England won everything at a longer dis-
tance, and generally by a good margin The
lUted 1 b°v' ty °1 the French sprinters got them dis-
fi3 d s. c s&"j “ ey " re ac “ sed
The 200 cyclists who competed in the
wi h 'n f e !° Urne l road race hah to contend
with a stiff head wind, and towards the finish a
Tnl 6 ° f i onl °, okers obliged the lead-
jng bng-ade to slow down. In the confusion
and "had 6 ?h rrol l d ' Pe J^ lly a " d Mhls toppled ove”
and, had they kept their seats, the plaeings might
have been different As it was, P. Hill, the Maori-
landei, was first home, and motored away in the
If?. I '., car that was the tangible reward of victory
TIiH s handicap was 32min., and his riding time 9hr.
tn w' , 455 ,® c ’ The second man was R. J. Arnold,
the Westralian, and next to him came the Victorians
Bose and Belperroud, and the Maorilander Wright
while veteran P. O’Shea, another man from m"L ’
got 50 guineas and a gold medal for fastest
Bhr. 59min. Bsec. It was a great race and a great
day for the Windy Isles.
“Veteran”: W. A. King, of Werribee (Vic.),
who -rode 14th in the Warrnambool-to-Melbourne'
owns to 43 years and has 10 children. The three
eldest sons rode out on bikes to meet their racing
progenitor, and his wife and the two youngest
(one is a baby in arms) followed him through
. ernbee by car, the rest of the family congregating
m honor of paterfamilias on Ascot racecourse Dad
led to the course entrance, where there was a colli-
sion and the four leaders fell. When remounting
he had the misfortune to find that his bike was
punctured, and he finished on a fist tire.
Although weather and wickets were excel-
lent. bowlers again beat batsmen in Sydney premier-
ship cricket on Saturday. Alan Ivippax (Waverlev)
banged the only three-figure score (117 not out v
Randwick). Disappointing last year, the stylish bat
is in' fine form this season. R. C. M. Boyce (Gor-
don) batted briskly for 75 v. Wests, and the efforts
t? a 'l N ‘/Jil ate i ler -.i for Marrickville, and R.
for.Wests, were also capital. Among
tne trundiers, Wright, a promoted Cumberland
.sot 6 for 82 V. St. George; Dr. Campling
(Balmain) upset 6 for 52 v. Paddington, and C.
Hoff«e (N. Sydney) skittled 6 Mosman wickets for
29. VVaverley, last year’s premiers, got an outright
", ln , b - v an . ln,l 'o gs and 32 runs against Randwick.
Hendlry (8 for 77) and O’Connor (0 for 57) wrought
the debacle. North Sydney (195 and 1 for 63) also
scored a four-point win over Mosman (88 and 167)
arid Gordon, Balmain, Sydney, Central Cumberland,’
Lnnersity and Manly won on the first innings.
MARTIN STAINPORTH. whose paintings
of Australian racehorses have just ap-
peared in book form.
Jhe most exhilarating feature of Satur-
iopS cvleket in Melbourne was Vernon Hansford’s
J, 80 -J 1- ?’ J ol ' Melbourne against Hawthorn-East,
it aided the elegant left-hander’s side to a win
by o wickets and 142 runs. Another good innings
was Liddicutt’s 83 (out of 195) for Fitzrov v.
boutli Melbourne, ’Roy winning bv 77 on the fust
innings Other victories, in which nothing very
noticeable occurred, were gained by St. Hilda
over Uni. and by Richmond at Northcote’s expense.
More interesting was the Collingcvood-Carlton match,
even though it was drawn. Of 15 batsmen that
fell on both sides, only three failed to make double
figures. Keating (67) topped ’Wood’s score, ar.d
toi Carlton Seitz (55) and Stewart (33) were going
strong when time was called, with their side 60
to get and four wickets in hand, ’Wood having de-
clared at 9 for 257. Truman took 5 ’Wood wickets
for 44.' For Carlton Love, formerly of N. S. Wales
made a cautious 18.
There are two interesting possibilities in
Adelaide cricket this season. Dr. Charles Dolling
probably the best bat S.A. produced in the long
interval between Clem Hill and Pellew, is back
from residence in England, and playing for West
Torrens. He made 34 in his first match. Frank
Morton is a tall youth who was run into the State
team at the end of last season as a fast bowler,
but did little. In his first game this year he took
six Port Adelaide wickets for 19.
* * * *
“J.H.”(London) : Very few new stars were
discovered during the English cricket season. Veterans
like Hobbs, Rhodes (whose performances for York-
shire, the champion county, have verged on the
miraculous), Russell, Hendren, Hearne and Mead show
few signs of failing powers. Among the amateurs
A. P. F. Chapman is the batting “find” of the
season. H. Ashton, considered by Armstrong and co.
to be a coming Maclaren, hasn’t quite fulfilled expec-
tations but is distinct “class” for all that. L. H.
Tennyson (in disfavor, for some reason or other,
with the august M.C.C.) has had a bad season. They
say he’s too fond of the gee-gees, and isn't likelv to
captain England again while F. T. Mann, the Middle-
sex hitter, is on deck. As for the bowlers, no one
has yet appeared to take the place of S. F. Barnes.
Durston, the only fast bowler that gave the Aus-
tralians any trouble, has been very in and out
English cricket is still in the doldrums.
* * * *
“T.R.H.”: Tom Armitage, the Yorkshire
cricket veteran, who passed out the other day aged
74, visited Australia with Lillywhite’s English team
46 years ago. After Armitage’s active cricketir.g
days were over the Yorkshire C. C. set him up in
the usual “cricketers* outfitting-” business in West-
gate, Bradford, but Tom could not make it do. He
was no business man, and the club had to come to
the rescue time and again. Among the various
enterprises which he failed to make pay were athh-tie
outfitting, cycling agency, estate and debt-collecting
agency, vaudeville management and cricket “coach.”
In the end some of his old friends in the North of
England bought him an annuity.
* * * #
“Exonian”: Glancing over a Wiltshire
(England) newspaper came across a picture of the
veteran S. M. J. Woods, captaining in a purely
advisory capacity a team of Somerset colts against
11 ditto from the nioonrakers’ country. “Sammy,”
who was born at Ashfield as long ago as April, 186 V.
assuredly represents the most notable as well as most
durable contribution ever made by Sydney to English
cricket and football, albeit he must have left Aus-
tralia in his early teens. I remember when he got
his blue at Cambridge, in 1888, the finest amateur
fast bowler of his day, and one of the keenest and
most resourceful all-round cricketers of his genera-
tion. The same year, to aid a feeble and rather
short-handed Australian XI, he was allowed to play
for it in Test matches. Four years later he was cap-
taining England at Rugby football—query: Did any-
one except ‘Sammy” ever play for Australia against
England at one game, and for England against Scot-
land, Ireland and Wales at another ? For over 20
years he bowled and batted for Somersetshire, being
skipper for quite a dozen, and at 55 there is doubt-
fully any better judge of the game or of youn»
players capabilities in the whole West country. He
wasn t too old to do his bit in the war, either.
* * * *
“Winkle” and averages (B.
12/10/ 12.). It must have been the first year of the
Church competition, or there would have been no
fuss, as these average vagaries are well known.
iSotli Smith and Jones had 28 wickets for 60 runs,
average 2.1. When Jones took 1 for 27 in the last
match, he slipped on the common average, but he
" lc * s °^ or one wicket only. But when Smith took 4
for 37 (average 9.25), though he did not slip to
such a great extent (as regards average), he did so
for four wickets. There is the point. Let “Winkle”
test it by preserving the averages actually obtained
in the last match, but assuming each took an equal
number of wickets, i.e., Smith 4 for 37 and Jones
4 for 108. He will then find that Smithy, with his
despised 3.031, shows heels, visible only with a field-
glass, to Jones with over five. Anyhow, since it
was a church competition, why didn’t he refer the
problem to the Vicah? From his long and painful
experience in averaging the Sunday plate collection,
he would know.
* * * *
The deciding match for the Vic. League
premiership was last, clever, strenuous and a tritle
too willing. Neither Collingwood nor Fitzroy got
far away. from the other, and at the end ’Roy led
by 11 points—79 to ’Wood’s 68. The Magpies strove
valiantly through the last quarter to demonsh ’Roy's
three-goal lead, and would have succeeded but for
failure to watch ’Roy’s smart forward, Freake, who
was deadly, and got 4 goals. In the main the
Maroons owe their premiership to a few tall men
who marked over the Magpies’ heads with splendid
accuracy—Lethbridge, Atkinson, Corrigan and
McCracken. ’Wood’s best were Drummond, Pannam
and G. Coventry. The attendance was 50,054, and
the gate £2221 Is. 4d. Elder, who has umpired
most of the big League games for the last 16 years,
handed in his resignation after the match. He
filled a thankless billet better than many, but he
wasn’t a Trait. J. J. Traits don’t happen every dav.
* * * *
“J.H.” (London) : A. O. Wallace, the
Sydney ’Varsity and N.S.W. crack three-quarter,
ought to walk into this year’s Oxford XV. Since the
war neither Oxford nor Cambridge has produced a
single first-class back. i’ve seen (and played
against) most of the alleged stars since 1919. None
of them could be mentioned in the same breath as
Ronnie Poulton-Paliner, who played centre-three for
Oxford and England in 1911-13, and was undoubtedly
one of the cleverest and most brilliant “threes” that
ever wore the English rose. But it’s sorrowfully easy
to account for the dearth of class Rugger men in
English ’Varsity football. The flower of English
Rugger perished in the war.
* •* * , #
Ilorry Rice was all smiles and wrinkles
when he won the Strathfield (N.S.VV.) tournament
singles for the twelfth time. He met a promising
young player in J. Clemenger, and though the colt
rattled him in the opening set, Rice took the others,
6—l, 6—2. Clemenger and Poulton had a comfort-
able win over Norman Peach and Henderson in the
doubles, 6—3, 6—4.
* * * #
Out of the 17 contests for the Davis Cup
Australia and the U.S. have each won six times,
while Britain has held the trophy on five occasions.
Interviews with members of the returning Australian
team suggest that our prospects of regaining the
bauble during the next few years are not particu-
larly bright. Tennis in the U.S. is the national
summer game, and the chances of producing half-a-
dozen champions out of a population of 110,000,000
are considerable. In Australia the game is on the
up grade, but world-beaters are comparatively hard
to find. The fact that this country has done
so well up to now is something to be proud of,
considering especially that the Commonwealth teams
have had to travel thousands of miles and incur
vast expense during the 20 years of the competition.
Probably Dwight Davis, who gave the Cup, owes
most to Australia for arousing world-wide interest
in the struggle. It is pretty certain, anyhow, that
if the Commonwealth dropped out next year through
the inability of Patterson, Anderson and Wood to
get away again, Uncle Sam will regret it dreadfully.
When Hughie Dwyer came back from
M.L., after beating the best of the Maorilanders
in three divisions —lightweight, welter and middle,
he wasn’t considered good enough to box at the
Sydney Stadium. The whirligig of time brought in
its revenges on Saturday night, when he outpointed
Sid Godfrey and won the lightweight championship
of the Commonwealth after 20 rounds of boxing that
was interesting but not exciting. Godfrey walked
after his man repeatedly, but rarely bogged in.
When he did he had the better of the milling, and
that happened in the 12th, 13th, 14th and 15th
rounds. But in all the others Dwyer’s superb
defence and brainy boxing won him a decided margin
of points. He is a more intelligent bruiser than God-
frey, and his intelligence gained him the title. In
size the crowd was reminiscent of old times, which
was lucky for the new champion. He had to
guarantee Godfrey £3OO to get the fight.
* * * *
At Melbourne on Guineas night Stanley
Mcßride showed a return to the knavish tricks that
made him unpopular in Sydney by fouling Jerry
Sullivan in the third round of what looked like
being an enthusiastic fight. Mcßride lost the decision
and may lose his end of the purse. He certainly
deserves to lose it.
The 38ft. handicap under the Sydney
Flying Squadron’s burgee resulted in ex-champion
Mavis, with A. S. Roberts in command, narrowly
winning the final from the 2inin. mark. She got
away briskly and walked through the long-markers
despite the fluky breeze and a small sail. Easing
away at the turn, with 7sec. to spare from the ex-
Bananalander Pastime, Roberts elevated all avail-
able drapery, and keeping well to leeward of the
fleet, landed the big money from the heavily-
canvassed Crescent (George Drysdale). Roberts
sailed a fine race, considering that he is essentially
a skiff skipper. The other places went to Pastime,
Moyana and Mascotte in that order.
A SPOUTING JOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A distinguished English professor, Dr. Leonard
Hill, appeals to the Prince of Wales, as the
acknowledged leader of men’s fashions, to ‘come out
with a low neck, to rid us of these horribly tight and
unhealthy stiff collars.’ Sun cable.
Teddy, your forebears, history tells the tale,
The fashion set for many a warlike lord
In helmet, greaves, cuirass and coat of mail,
In battleaxe and sword
1 hey led the mode. Especially the cove
Yclept the Black, the second of your line,
\\ hose tempered blade of fine Damascus clove
Stout Frenchmen to the chine.
Then, armorers a-hammcr at their trade
Looked to kings’ sons for new ideas and hints,
And ticketed, belike, the best they made
As “Welded for the Prince.”
A utrea temps, mitres moeurs. No longer royal joints
The armorer in shining steel equips.
But, Teddy... .Vou can give the hosiers points
And influence the snips.
our grandad (whatsoe'er his statues say)
At martial garb and chargers looked askance.
But still —he showed us all the proper way
To crease our Sunday pants.
Teddy, you too could senseless fashion biff
And do rare service to your strangled sex.
Millions of throats would chant your praises if
Vou only dragged these collars, starched and stiff,
From off our British necks!
N.s.w.
PIPARDS.


Edison BSCO Primary Battery — the
ideal Primary battery for all purposes
where reliability counts; its users are
unanimous in their praise. It is speci-
ally demanded for Railway, Telegraph
and Telephone work, where a breakdown
would entail the most serious conse-
quences or even serious loss of life.
Descriptive bulletin free on request to
Thomas A. Edison, Ltd., 364-372 Kent
Street, Sydney.
EDISON
Storage Battery
A long list of battery troubles were eliminated with
the coming of the Edison Alkaline Storage Battery.
An entirely new, scientifically-correct combination
of iron and nickel elements gives a wonderful
permanence of structure, capacity and endurance.
EXCLUSIVE EDISON ADVANTAGES:
Light in weight.
Unbreakable Steel Containers.
No frequent hydrometer read-
ings.
Assembly and connections
simple.
Buckling and sulphating impos-
sible.
Has several times the life of
any other.
May be left idle either charged
or discharged without harm.
© ©
wm
o:««x
©
Vibration has no effect.
Little loss of charge when idle.
No expert attention i 3 required.
Can be put on charge at any
time.
115° Fah. will not harm elec-
trolyte.
No noxious fumes to cause
corrosion or injury.
Excessive charging or discharg-
ing have no permanent
detrimental effect.
We send, post free on request, an interesting bulletin dealing with the many
new adaptations of electrical power made possible by the Edison —amongst
them traction, car lighting, mine and marine service. Write to-day.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
So Easy to Operate.
Underwood
Portable
Typewriter
Has every refinement and device that
the expert could wish, and is capable of
the speediest work.
The keyboard—spaced like the
original Underwood —enables the opera-
tor to work with his full efficiency.
Either one- or two-color, full-length
ribbon, on the usual interchangeable
Underwood spool, may be used. The
ribbon may be disengaged for stencil
cutting.
STOTT & UNDERWOOD LTD.,
70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
426 Collins Street, Melbourne.
305 Queen Street, Brisbane.
1§ f M
WOOL
wmm
Event word
risible.
Underwood Portable Dept., Stott and Underwood, Ltd.
Please send me your Underwood Portable Booklet, with particulars of price and terms under
which I may purchase the Underwood Portable Typewriter. It is understood that this does not in
any way obligate me to buy.
Name
Address r
Date
\
*b
'kmm
Riding Breeches
and Trousers
“Lincoln-Stuart”
Tailored to Order.
We are past masters in the important item of
Cutting, having specialised for very many years
in the production of High-grade Hiding Gar-
ments, and the limit of value is provided at
the prices charged,
A 3061 —“ L.-S.” JUDHPORES, 32/6.
Combining- Trousers and Breeches in the one
garment; does away with the necessity of
Leggings. Flawlessly tailored to order in
Best Khaki Drill. Also in Drab , Beaver
Moleskin.
A3062—“L.-S.” BREECHES, 32/6.
In Khaki Drill —splendid quality —perfect
in Wash and Wear. Tailored in Correct Stylo
with extra full cut —self strapped and
with Cross Pockets, 32/6. BEAVER
MOLESKIN, 50/-. Also in BEST
RIDING TWEEDS & WORSTEDS,
from 70/- to 5 GUINEAS.
A3063—“L.-S.” TROUSERS, 22/6.
Well Cut, highly Tailored Riding Trousers, in
Khaki Drill, of the same faultless quality as
the Breeches. Made with extra-full seat,
tapering to foot, with Cross Pockets. Straps
under foot if desired.
Self-measurement Forms and Patterns
are Post Free. We also specialise in
HATS, BOOTS, LEGGINGS, etc.
We Guarantee Satisfaction .
UNCOLN, STUART & CO
PTY. LTD.,
244-54 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


Travel Needs—
"New-Location Special.”
The announcement of the new location of Farmer’s Travel
Needs Department is heralded by a special value concession.
Polished hide suit case on steel frame, two nickel locks
and inside straps. Size, 24 inches long. Usually, 55/-.
Special Price, for one week... ... 42/-.
c Ura\>el Needs, Ground Floor, Pitl Street.
Farmer’s :: Sydney.
“ The Store for Men. ”
Postal Address : Box 497, G.P.O.
Automatic Rifles,
Shotguns (El Pistols
We .jiiie the leading' people for AUTOMATICS
PDnu-vTv/i RIFLES.
filiOAV NIAG .22 Cal., fire II ordinary Short
A’ eat and effective, 80/-
BROWNING .22 Cal., fire 8 Long-rifie Cart-
ridges, 95/.
WINCHESTER .22 Cal., fire 8 Automatic .22
Cartridges. A splendid hard hitter, £9/15/-
GUNS
BROWNING 12 and 16 g. Five shots. Com-
pact, £l5.
WINCHESTER ,12g., slightly used, £l2/10/-
PISTOLS '
BROW 7 NING.—The world-famed pocket firearm.
25 C’al., 80/-; 32 Cal., 85/-
COLT and WEBLEY & SCOTT.
The BROW NING AUTOMATICS are unrivalled
for quality. IVe are Sole Agents.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than
ever.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
collins St. Melbourne
From Verors
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Central 1533, 1533.
i;,AV Kleas ".'father and racing gave
little cause for coinplaiut at the Caulfield
t '..'Jof a *i ( -n tlun 'f were few sar-
,?A, tfinllS; lhe peerage was adequately
' P «nvf, n M- d Jn tin 1 , vice-regal pen, but only
aiVi ? 1 ! 11 ' u l:? oi tlo second-best could be
stilted on the grandstand and terrace. Per-
nips some ot t)ie richest escaped recogni-
tion, tor the prevailing craze for drooping
< nimne hat-brims kept one continually
guessing as to who walked below. Lady
1 orster, who came along with the G.-G ,
was coated and skirted in navy cloth!
>-<> \\«is Mrs. Pitt Pivers; but whereas
mamma terminated on top with a
severe blue toque, the other wore a be-
connng black-feathered headpiece. Little
i;" d y h " i'll hilt her smile under a
crochet ! e , ,ro . vv " lid - topping brown
PnnSfL The St rad broke
Countess, who trailed satiny biscuit-colored
hrmfirPn ~1u1? 1 ' .,. a wide brown hat-brim,
hi ought the visiting Duchess of Hamilton,
a large pleasant-looking person with a
touch of that haughty aloofness which is the
envy and despair of the climbers. She was
unobtrusively encased in striped tailorings,
brown laeed-up shoes and a black hat of
Pytmiilar pretensions. Both she and
the »S trad broke lady did a little bit of punt-
¥}%’ without backing winners, apparently.
. lore than once the vice-regal Countess was
heard to lament: “Where, oh. where was
• »nd " here was your horse?”—
which suggested that the animals, though
not lost, must have gone behind.
-Most of the best-dressed fluttered in all-
duck trappings. The elder and junior
Leonard matrons, the Dick Casey widow and
Mis. Woodford were grouped sombrely in
the stewards enclosure. Mrs. Geoff S'yme,
atti actively chilloned in black, roamed the
terrace with daughter llilaria, in grev tail
orings with a pink-and-blue hat, while' sister
Mardi paraded under her father’s wing.
Airs Bob Ivnox, just back from the Fog-
aired fluffy ankle-length black georgette
panellings, scalloped at the edges, and a
dejected-looking bunch of grey cock’s
feathers drooped languidly over her black
w[ih e 'fi Iko o ert Whitii* and his wife chatted
iTni,. th r V M S f- p Ml]lpls m the stand, and
Lariy W luting was with his wife, who
spotted a white-spotted effect down the
side of her dark-blue outfit. Mrs. Neil Crow-
ley walked becomingly in black. Mrs. Leslie
Macdonald, topped by a fierce red headpiece
had a blue frock that sported red sleeves’
loudly patterned with white. One bilious
yellow frock was headed by a millinery tri-
umph for all the world like a bluebag in
hysterics, with a scarf of the same uncom-
promising blue wreathed round the neck.
Another misguided dame wore a fiower-pat-
teined kimono, cut short to fit the occasion
One woman wore painfully sunburned arms
and collar-bones, with a short-sleeved, low-
cut dress. Another actually shielded her
complexion with a dressy mauve parasol •
but most of them., just let the sun do its
darnedest.
It was a costly thing for the people of
Australia when a Government joy-waggon
was sent down to Spencer-street to meet Mrs.
I oynton, wife of the Minister for Home
Affairs, and her niece. The car went first to
the department, and then took the two home.
On the latter journey one C. Street was
knocked down, and he claimed £2OOO dam-
ages. Poynton wanted to fight the claim, but
the Law Dept., knowing what a costly game
that is, settled for £9OO. The dailies, who
vyere demanding the names of the women in
the car at the time, seemed to be expecting
something more sensational than they got
when the explanations came. It would be
too much to hope that Ministers’ feminine
relatives will hire cars of their own in future
or ride on trams.
Melbourne has not finished its triumphal
chatter about the Sydney golf tournament.
Victorian women swept the pool. Miss
Hays bagged the championship. Mrs.
MacCtuighan won the Challenge Bowl
and Mrs. Thiel carried off the Ladies’ Handi-
cap. The Victorians declare that the Sid-
ney women did them proud. Most of them
put up at the Queen’s Club, and there was
a mild whirl of dinner-parties and dances.
When they were departing Sydney thought
an aviary had got loose —the mad shriek of
chatter from the farewellers and the fare-
wellees nearly deafened the town.
The agreeable consequence of the juvenile
pageant-cvm-fancy ball, which whirled in
the Town Hall on Friday evening for the
Broadmeadows Foundling Hospital is £5OO
and a bit—a big bit. it is hoped. The old
hall looked like the land of fairy tales come
true, with a slight glossing of modern sophis-
try thrown in. Hundreds of feverishly-joyful
kiddies two-stepped gaily under a canopy of
twinkling red lights, bunches of colored bal-
loons and other decorative trimmings. A
breathless moment was provided by the fairy
pageant—a joyous _ procession of Jennie
Brenan’s clever pupils, led by a sufficiently
impish Puck, who burst his way through a
giant spider’s web, followed by two tiny
golden fairies, who threaten to rival Genee.
Queen Cynthia Brookes processed regally in
gossamer draperies of pink-and-silver, trail-
ing roses on the front width. Her cob-
webby gold train, skilfully adjusted to keep
it from colliding with her silver wings, was
held aloft by a quintette of mauve and
silver fairies, headed by sister Elaine and
Billy Hughes’s much-travelled infant Helen.
An adorable silver-clad Cupid, Felicity Syme,
pattered ahead of the royal advance. Blue
fairies, pink fairies and other colored fairies
fluttered in rather stiff groups in the rear
with flower fairies, wooden soldiers (up-
holstered by Ada Reeve), French girls.
Pierrots, quaint little Dutchies, Frenchies and
others. One of tlie best thought-out little
lots was Mrs. Geoff Symes’s “Nursery
Rhymes,” in which Mother Hubbard trailed
a fearless but slightly bored pet pup, and
1 >iok Whittington cuddled a black pussy, who
seemed to really enjoy his flutter in the
limelight. The judges’ awards were not uni-
versally applauded—they never are. Ted
Dyson’s infant was one of the winning gum-
nut babes. Cynthia Brookes bagged a first
award.- so did Mrs. James Alston’s Ear'v
Victorian set. The best boy (a harlequin)
perversely turned out to be a girl, but got
the prize all the same. The youngest prize-
winner—three and a bit—should properly
have been at by-bye. Artists Christine
Asquith Baker, Esther and Betty Paterson
and Dora Wilson shouldered the thankless
task of judging. The Ntradbroke Countess,
warmly-coated over black velvet, smiled from
the official stand, where she sat with the
1 mmmster’s wife, the Ilennessy dame,
Mayoress Swanson and a band of committee-
ites headed by Mesdames Barry, Thompson,
Ben Hoare, George Langridge, Robins, Pat
McCauley, Norman Brookes, James Alston
and the cheerful little hon. sec., Mrs. Esmond
Downey.
No longer may the Melb. Grammar
exquisites brush their flowing locks back
from their brows. Their efforts to ape the
American movie stars have been cruelly
blighted by an edict from aloft instructing
t hem to get their hair cut. The school Heads,
however, are not primarily responsible for
the heartless order. It appears that the
ruck of dark blue caps, with a virile con-
tempt tor fiashness and anything apper-
taming to the effeminate, banded together
to shear some of the “pretty boys”—and
they did it with much enthusiasm, no skill
and terrific effect. Perhaps the Heads sec-
retly sided with the conscientious objectors
to dandyism ; anyway, they fixed the matter
with the new hair-cutting decree.
Iris Mockridge, pictured here by Mon-
tea th, is an example of juvenile cleverness
that interested Marie Tempest. During the
English star’s last
season in Melbourne
Iris, then about 14,
undertook the charac-
ter of Emmie in
II aro 1 d Chapin’s
pathetic playlet “The
I) nmb and the
Blind.” Later on
she reproduced the
piece from memory
at the A.N.A. com-
petitions, and won
second prize. She
wrote out the parts
for the adults, and
coached them with
all the aplomb of a
stage-mana-
ger. But this was not her first appear-
ance as producer—she drilled the infants
for. a kiddy performance of the panto of
Cinderella,” which, when staged in two
or three suburbs, helped Charity to the tune
of £450, and, after playing in the Tait-
Bailey “Mother Hubbard” panto., she was
again the inspiring captain of a youthful
army in her own well-managed version of
the same extravaganza. Nowadays she is
an assistant teacher at Jennie Brenan’s
dancing school; but if she takes Marie
Tempest’s advice, she will go tq England
for further dramatic training.
Norman Ducker, of Sydney, and Tom
Hogan’s beautiful young widow were married
at St. Paul’s Cathedral, in Melbourne, on
October 4. The affair was kept an almost com-
plete secret until it was over; but a few of
the initiated gathered for a luncheon party at
the Oriental after the wedding. The ‘two
motored to Sydney round the Coast-road, and
took a honey week to do the trip. They are
staying at Clifton Gardens for a brief spell,
and are off to England for a long visit at
the end of the month. Melbourne friends
will see the new Mrs. Ducker for a day or
two. at the beginning of the Spring race meet-
ing. The bridegroom is a Sydney ’Varsity
boy and an ex-captain in the A.I.F.
The annual conference of the Women’s
National League happened last week. There
were two marked points of discussion: “Con-
tinued Education” and “Women in Parlia-
ment.” The League proved itself still obdu-
rate to the Women-in-Parliament idea. There
was spirited talk by some members in favor
of “the cause,” but the “ag’ins” won by a
slight _ majority. The tussle often grows
hysterical when the political shes get at
loggerheads. The League was harmonious,
however, ou the continued education idea. It
plumped for all girls being taught home
duties by compulsory methods after they
leave school. So there is hope of future hus-
bands collecting competent house-girls as
wives.
Herewith the keen countenace of Owen
Williams. lie has a fine tenor of rare
dramatic quality, which, at the instigation
of Charles Santley
and Novello, received
a workmanlike polish
in England. The late
J. C. Williamson
also took the voice
seriously, and ad-
vised a n operatic
career; but the young
W e 1 s h- Australian,
being a mercantile
marine R.N.R. offi-
cer, was tied to the
ocean wave. Still,
1014 found him pre-
paring for the stage:
but the war hurriedly
swept him back to
sea and he saw ser-
vice in the converted
cruiser Ophir and
some mine-sweeping and submarine-netting
sections. A weary spell in hospital put a
period to his anti-Fritz activities, and he
eventually returned to the Orient Company.
At present he is attached to the Common-
wealth Shipping Line, but is still looking to
a musical future. In any case, no very
glorious career is offering these days in the
Commonwealth Line, where officers' have to
sing small under Walsh conductorship.
The visit of the Duchess of Hamilton re-
calls a yarn of her husband’s predecessor.
He sent an order for wine to a London
lirm, and the clerk who received it —being
better versed in the careful habits of his
firm than in the ways of the peerage—noted
that the communication was signed “Hamil-
ton, Brandon and Chatelherault” (the triple
title of the premier peer of Caledonia). The
young man replied that “arrangements would
be made to have the goods forwarded, but,
as Vintner and Co. had not had the honor
of any previous dealings with the firm of
Hamilton, Brandon and Chatelherault, it
would be glad of a reference.” The Duke,
who was a sportsman, supplied the reference’
at the same time warmly commending the
Scottish caution of the clerk.
( The Stork visited the new home of Monty
Grover the other day, and deposited a spank-
ing boy. The Sun, which the father edits,
and the son narrowly escaped simultaneous
publication.
Western District femininity thrilled with
excitement when young Chettie Manifold,
just back trom a six-months’ jaunt to Eng-
land, unveiled the glad news that he had
persuaded General Grimwade’s good-looking
only daughter Gwenda to fix a matrimonial
date with him. He is the only son of the
late squatter-politician of Talindert, Cam-
perdown, who married one of the handsome
Anderson sisters. Golden-haired Gwenda is
a great sport, and can sail a boat as trimly
as any of her yachting brothers.
Dale Collins, who ivent a-sailing with
lankee millionaire McGowan to write up
the log of the yacht Speejacks, is now in
lx>ndon, and opened his inky-way career there
by contributing an account of his trip to the
Daily Mail. Incidentally, he’ll be mobbed
by the Melbourne girls when he returns. He
says: “I’ve seen more pretty girls in Lon-
don m a day than I would ever see in my
own country.”
Paul Bibron’s umpteenth Casino dance
whirled with the usual cheeriness on Satur-
rn’v.l j ’, n the nzac House ballroom,
tables had been heavily booked up before-
hand, and dancers of all weights and ages
stepped tirelessly until Maurice Gutteridge’s
blue-uniformed band folded up their banjos
and other noise-producers and silently stole
away. Paul is a host who simply won’t let
you feel out of things, and anyone who blows
m is sure of a welcome and partners
“Casino dances” on Derby, Cup, Oaks and
Steeplechase nights are to be specially livelv
happenings. •
Leslie Madden Nelken is back in Mel-
bourne with her husband after an exciting
visit to Sydney during Race Week. They
were entertained royally by their Sydney
friends, and danced the clock round in that
jazz-crazy city. Now they are getting ready
.or the further frivols of the Melbourne
Spring meeting.
The cheque to flutter into the Women’s
Hospital money-box as the result of the
supper-dance at Carlyon’s Hotel on Oct. ft.
seemed a small amount as compared to the
time and trouble spent in arranging the affair.
Carlyon gave the room, music and supper,
and heaps of things were sold for the cause.
Kitty Reidy hurried in from the theatre to
auction two cases of sparkling wine. Mrs.
Hiskens put up a record of ticket-selling,
with Mrs. Brodie Ainslie not far behind
her, and the ball-parlor was filled with jazz
ers of all degrees of social pretensions. And
the mouse brought forth by this frivolous
mountain was —£108.
Mrs. Tom Murdoch drifted through Mel-
bourne from Tassy last week on her way to
Sydney. She returns in time for our carni-
val if her powers of cajolery can reconcile
her husband to so long a spell of crowded
pubs.
The St. lvilda Return Ball committee, led
by Agar Wynne, gave the ex-Mayoral Cum-
mingses a final send-off one night last week,
in the local Council Chamber. After the
usual supper and speeches, Agar handed Cum-
mings a pair of gold cuff-links, and his wife
a gorgeous, diamond-encrusted bracelet. The
latter was dragged to her feet to ex-
press her surprise and delight, which she did
with a directness and humor which seldom
creep into feminine thanksgivings. Town-
clerk Fred Chamberlain’s cheery little
missus, on the other hand, had all the ora-
tory knocked out of her by the sudden gift of
a diamond ring. The spree ended with a
knock-up fox-trot in the old Council Cham-
ber.
Ex-Rhodes-scliolar Robson, who, after
decorating the Geelong Grammar School
staff, has been appointed chief of the North
Shore Grammar School at 27. is not only a
fine scholar, but, in the language of the
lads, a jolly good sort. He got his learning
at the Sydney Grammar under the late
dominie Weigall. There is a Mrs. Robson, an
Englishwoman, who is as likely to suit the
situation as is her clever hubby.
Russell Clarke having planked down a
£lOOO cheque for the Janet Clarke Memorial
Hall Fund on condition that another £4OOO
is subscribed, the Stradbroke lady invited
the Most Gilded to a meeting and tea
at to tempt them to ante
up. A little group, including Mrs. Ivy
Clarke Knox, promised cheques; but the
wealthy ones generally sat tightly on their
fat purses. So the S.O.S. call for charity
dances and bridge teas will perforce be
sounded.
Everybody knows that Madame Cecilia
Summerhayes is one of the most deserving
complimentary-concert causes that society
could strike in a day’s march. The affair,
Which comes due at the Assembly Hall on
Tuesday, the 24th, has been taken up by the
Salonites, and Mrs. May Quinnell is secre-
tarying from the Austral Salon, whilst Mrs.
Moore banks the ticket money at Ivanhoe.
Twelve or twenty artists have sent in their
names as performers,; also some of Mrs. Wil-
liam Greene’s brightest pupils are to contri-
bute their tender young legs for Mozart’s
Minuet purposes. What a good turn old
Mozart did for future generations when he
composed that Minuet!
Adelaide drops a line or two: —
Our new Governor is clue on December 4. Mean-
while the Murrays are giving a series of dinners at
Government House —usually with a sprinkling of
officials at each leavened by a further sprinkling of
their personal friends.
The dinner of the week was the Register's fare-
well to its departing editor and proprietor, W. J.
Sowden. The paper has most of its employees on
its books from birth till death, or thereabouts, and
Ernest Whitington, who has been in the office a mere
31 years, felt himself a callow fledgling in compari-
son with most of his fellow-guests.
The week has actually given us a couple of dances
in -private houses. One at the A. G. Fenners’, at
Kensington Park, on Saturday evening, and t’other
the night before, with Dr. Brian Swift and Carrie
Symon as hosts, at Miss Peacock’s house in North
Adelaide. Both were smart and peopled mostly by
the younger set.
Fritz is a queer beast. A returned S. Aus.
traveller saw an English shop window filled with
statuettes of Edith Cavell, and went in to buy one.
Curiosity led him to ask where they were made,
and—they all came from Germany!
A concert in aid of the Rita Coonan Fund, which
is in low water, is billed for the Town Hall in mid-
November, and should bring in more than a trifle,
especially as it is to be fortified by side-lines of
programmes and sweets and flowers sold by Mrs.
Ernest Good, Mrs. Stanley Murray, Mrs. Coonan and
Mrs. Linrrett. Both Melba and Lady Weigall have
promised Rita their backing when she gets to the
other side.
From England comes news of the death of Mrs.
Roy Taylor, who left here with her husband early
in the year and had been more or less ill ever since
her arrival in the Cold Country—so ill that Taylor
cancelled his plans to play in the tennis champion-
ships at W 7 imbledon. There are five small children
who stayed here when their parents went away.
r lhe Duffield clan —Professor Geoffrey and his
wife, and composer Kenneth and his wife —are due in
the Anchises, the former on a visit and the latter
probably to settle for a year or two. Mrs. Warren
Edwards and her children are on the same boat —
bound on a visit to her aunt, Mrs. Walter Duncan.


i
1
&
/
m
% /// '%
P
r
§
m.
m.
*
m
m
p
i
r
wfik Ik \A.
#
w
it
mm.
vW//.
ake your
share j
in
the^
ante
on’t take life too seriously—you’ll never get
out of it alive, anyway !
Grey hairs are not an indication of lost youth. Look
at the young fellows of sixty who energetically turn
over the big deals in business. They enjoy the game
and then go off to play golf and get tired enough to
appreciate sleep.
If the symptoms of weak nerves, insomnia, impaired vitality or
similar nerve and blood ailments are weakening your zest for
business or pleasure, try CLEMENTS TONIC. Its nourishing,
medicinal ingredients impart health, vigor and contentment. "It
puts the 'vital’ into vitality.’’
Men and women, of all ages, of all occupations, have benefited
through CLEMENTS TONIC. It does not contain alcohol or
opiates, and is most agreeable either with water or soda-water.
Purchase from your local chemist or storekeeper.
g
1
m
If you have not yet tried FLETCHER’S PILLS for
stomach and liver disorders, buy a box from your
local chemist or storekeeper. If either are sold out,
send 1/3 in stamps to Clements Tonic, Ltd., Rozelle
N.S.W., and a box of FLETCHER’S PILLS will bt
posted to your address.


Under
Royal
Warrant
sd
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck
wmwmm
SHAMPAGN*
Reims
X I X)
**n—i iCP
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents-
SWIfT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideal I}-* situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
N.B.—The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 0931.
Chateau Napier,
Leading
Mountain Resort,
Leura, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Central Heating System
Throughout.
BALLROOM, BILLIARD-
ROOM, TENNIS COURT,
GARAGES.
All products from Napier Farm.
Tel. 121 Katoomba.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
The lirst round of Dame Margaret’s battle
on behalf of the Rawson Institute for Sea-
men will be fought at King’s Cross Theatre
to-morrow afternoon. Mrs. Jimmy Burns
and a number of other energetic young
women, who are connected by marriage or
birth or both frith the shipping industryf
have organised a Monster Mercantile Marine
Matinee; and with the help of the ever-
eomplaisant theatrical profession they have
been enabled to offer the public a truly won-
derful assortment of turns. Wee Georgie
Wood is, of course, on the bill; when not
giving free shows for invalided Diggers, in-
mates of homes for incurables, or consump-
tives, this astonishing artist is usually to be
found helping some other sort of charity.
Nellie Stewart will be another of the attrac-
tions, and there are to be star moving-
pictures galore. A theatrical garden-party
in the same good cause has been decided on
for the 27th in the Sydney Sports Ground.
At the Government Mouse meeting during
the week, things were got well in train, and
Sydney will have its first glimpse of the way
they do this kind of thing in London, when
stage beauties and matinfie idols parcel up
the sweets and embroideries bought by the
locust-like hosts of wide-eyed middle-class
folk. Oscar Asche, by the way, is to be
the king plum at the “Cairo” cake-stall. The
E. J. Tait couple are taking the affair under
their wing ; and the assistants promise to be
a riot of beauty.
Another function which, though less pre-
tentious, deserves just as much support, is
the party which the S.P.C.A. people are
having on Saturday next to celebrate the
first birthday of the Horses’ Home, "it is to
occur at Little Bay in the Home grounds
(Little Bay is on the La Perouse tram-
line), and a thoroughly sporting afternoon
is assured to those who turn up. Bringers of
gifts, monetary or otherwise, will not be
regarded as the Greeks were in days of old :
in fact they will be received with cheers.
Mrs. Stewart, who died after a long ill-
ness at The Mount, Bathurst, last week,
was about the only person in that conten-
tious locality of whom all classes and creeds en-
tirely approved. Most of her long life had been
spent at the Scotch castle just outside Bath-
urst, which her husband inherited from his
father, General William Stewart. A beau-
tiful, fine-featured little woman, she radiated
goodwill, and was the soul of cheerful,
tolerant charity. She devoted most of hef
time and energy to the local Presbyterian
Church and to a boys’ club which she
founded many years ago; but in a general
way all varieties of good work came alike
to her. Mrs. Sydney Jamieson is a daughter,
and Arthur Allen, Reggie Allen and the rest
are nephews.
. An amazing crowd of youngsters, with a
stiffening of papas, mammas, uncles and
aunts, turned up to cheer the youthful
gladiators in the G.P.S. championships at
Sydney on Saturday. It xvas a day to be
remembered, for the chatter, the noise—and
the dressing of the flappers. Governor
Davidson rested in the vice-regal box for a
while, then roamed the ring and shook
hands with the competitors, and, one doubts
not, mentioned that he used to do the
hundred in 10 2-sths himself in the good
old days before he descended to the govern-
ing business. It was a strenuous day for
the boys, but, after all, nothing that any of
them did—not even the feat of N. R. Burns
in winning four events and the champion-
ship for The King’s School —called for the
athletic effort that was needed to fight a
way out to. and into, the tram-cars when all
was over.
If the Repertory Society ever wants to
re-name itself, the flapper who topped off
Ibsen and “Chains” and a few other ban-
shee magnets with “Loyalties” suggests that
it be christened “The Society for the Pro-
motion of Suicides.” Is it light to let loose
a whole evening off unadulterated misery on
an audience whose pubs close at 6 p.m.?
And yet “Loyalties” played most of last
Aveek to a crowded house. Many of the
chair-warmers : were there been use they are
subscribers —and most of them confessed in
the vestibule to a hankering for an occa-
sional gleam of laughter in the menu.
The musical programme helps not a little
to the Repertory successes, and a fair shai-e is
borne by Mrs. F. Mowat Carter, a clever
pianist, who is nearly always associated with
her husband's work. She is one of a York-
shire family of 11, all of them musicians,
and is related by marriage to the famous
Joachim. Mrs. Carter was accompanist to
the Russian violinist. Max Selinski, during
his Sydney season, and her work with ’cellist
Volrnar is still remembered.
Invitations for the opening of the Mothers’
Pavilion on “Shore’s” memorial playing-
fields on Friday remind old C. of E. Gram-
marians to roll up to the fete in aid of the
playing-fields on the following afternoon.
Mrs. F. W. Hixson is to officially unlock
the front portal of the pavilion; and some-
thing very special in the way of a silver
key has been moulded for the wife of one
of the school’s most generous helpers. Inci-
dentally, William Morris Hughes is booked
to make the opening noises at the North-
side fair.
The decorations at the dinner given by
Owen Cox to the British Cotton Delegation
provided a unique blend of Beauty and Bith-
npss. Cotton in the pod and otherwise was
woven intp a sort of triumphal chorus of
•"“Advanee Australia* 1 Fair!” 1 The scheme
underlying the decorations embraced the
Pyramids and Cleopatra’s Needle—a deli-
cate compliment to old Egypt, which has
remained through all the centuries the
grower of the finest cotton in all the world.
The specialist in Egyptian cotton-growing
was one of the guests, and he smiled with
delight when he nearly bumped into the
snowy pyramid that greeted the guests just
inside the swing-doors of the jazz-room of
the Australia. Before each alcove in the
pretty Wedgwood room stood a tall needle
of cotton, and the balconies were outlined
and tented with the same fleecy stuff, and
carried a bale of the unspun whiteness.
Each table sported smaller bales, and each
guest carried away one in miniature, plus
a pod with the cotton bursting through.
Nearly £l6OO was laid on the doorstep of
the new wing of St. Vincent’s Hospital on
Sunday afternoon, in view, more on less, of
a crowd that overflowed from the grounds
proper into the little park opposite. Gov-
ernor Davidson made the opening speech;
Archbishop Kelly, in all his robes, gave the
building his blessing; Mayor McElhone and
Mrs. Lane Mullins each dropped a few re-
marks into the hat; and Dame Margaret’s
grey frocking, that carried the newest thing
in georgette sleeves, intrigued those who were
close enough to see in detail the graceful
sweep of them.
Lute Drummond repeated her opera lec-
ture on “Thais” the other evening before an
audience that included the State Exes and
a large house-party. Everybodv enjoyed her
poetic translation of the story, which was
etched in by the singing of Jean Drum-
mond and Clifford Lathlean, and by a violin
solo played off-stage by Farnsworth Hall.
Sir Walter, like the rest of her world, suc-
cumbed to the leotturer’s charm, and made a
very pretty speech, thanking her for what
she was doing for opera in Australia.
The death of Tim Keigwin’s tall and
graceful young wife, last week, came as a
shock to many, As Gwen Hughes she
arrived in Australia originally with one of
the J.C.W. musical-comedy companies. He
met her again in London during the war,
and they were married when it ended.
The winsome face pictured herewith by
May Moore belongs to Jean Curlewis, who
has just been given
the job of organising
a children’s section
for the Datly Tet.e-
oraph. She is the
daughter of Ethel
Turner, one of Aus-
tralia’s best-sellers,
who married Judge
Curlewis, and she
took to scribbling at
an age when most
girls have still an
absorbing interest in
dolls. Graceful
verse from her pen
appeared both here
and in America be-
fore she turned to
the writing .of books,
and with her first
volume she won a
flattering success, “The Ship That Never
Set Sail” being sold out almost as soon as
it was published last year. Her next book,
“Drowning Maze,” has just reached Aus-
tralia. with an intimation that a second
edition was called for in London within a
few days of publication. She was born in
Mosman, was one of Miss Badham’s pupils
at the C. of E. Grammar School, and when
she put away her schoolbooks set out to
expand her mental horizon on a tour of
England and the Continent.
Indignation is at boiling-point amongst
one section of Wimmen Clubbers, while
exultation is at a similar temperature as
regards another section. The excitement is
due to the successfully-organised blackball-
ing of a perfectly reputable and extremely
popular woman, whose only known offence
Opnsists in being rich and~ generous. The
perfect, lady who brought the coup off inter-
cepted most of the members as they arrived
to vote, and implored them in the name of
Christianity or something, to be true to
all that was best in them and give the would-
be intruder something to go on with, or
words to that effect. It could only happen
in just that way iu an organisation run
by women. Men blackball, of course, but
they do it differently.
Another traveller who left her native
shores last week was Mrs. Robey. She goes
away to join her husband in Upper Burmah,
where the climate is better and the python
more healthy than in her former abode in
the East. Sister Bea. McDonald, of Reper-
tory and writing fame, threatens to visit her
next year.
This is Lionel Lawson, who was well
known in Sydney before the war as a boy
violinist. While at
the Berlin Conserva-
torium he won the
violin given by the
Kaiser in commem-
oration of the 25th
anniversary of his
accession to the
thre n e. Young
Lawson got out of
Germany just be-
fore the storm burst,
and finished up as a
pilot in the It.F.C.
Since his return to
Australia he ha s
been appearing con-
tinuously at con-
certs, playing solo
with the Sta t e
Orchestra (under
Verbrugghen), while
some time ago he was appointed leader of
the re-organised State Orchestra.
The dance on the Melbourne was a big
splash in a week that otherwise showed
scarcely a social ripple. It was the first
party on the flagship given by the Commo-
dore Addison couple. Everything was to
the good—Spring night, silver moon; and
the barges that swished through the waters
might have been voyaging on some silken
adventure of love instead of purveying
dance-partners to the men of the sea. Flag-
Lieut. Harvey acted as M.C., and Mrs.
Addison added grace to the meet in silki-
ness enfilmed in lace that shone like pewter.
The usual deck space was dedicated to jazz
under the usual red-and-white awning, and
a sort of “peck it on the wing” supper was
on tap all the evening. The Feakes couple
added their popular selves to the gathering,
she mostly in black lace. Very handsome
was Mrs. Mclvor Edwards, in a dress spilled
over with the dull blues and golds of the
Orient. Mrs. Fred McMaster, too, sug-
gested the glitter of the East, in gold tissue
and red velvet. Beatrice Morrisby was there
with her young man. The Hordern dame
brought her daughter Audrey ; and Kathleen
Osborne, the Bolin girls, Penelope Cay,
Muffle Layton, Pauline McMorran and a
host of other young things kept the dance
going, while the not-so-young stood about in
little groups and talked —presumably about
the problem of bringing-out a daughter on
395. 6d. a week.
Naval circles have been busy floating the
Feakes couple off on a tidal wave of tea-
parties. Mrs. Stevenson, whose husband
commands the Adelaide, was one of the
hostesses; but the week’s largest dish of
tea was brewed at the Naval House, where
the Royal Friendly Union of Sailors’ Wives,
in the one loving-cup, sped Mrs. Feakes on
her way, and welcomed Commodore Addison
for the first time to their midst. Mrs.
Mclvor Edwards was mistress of cere-
monies, and Mrs. Addison made an au revoir
presentation to Mrs. Feakes, who thereby
sets out on her travels enriched by a silver
photo-frame and a travelling cushion.
Dr. Dan Kelly had a party on Saturday
night to Commander Pollock and his wife.
He’s the American Naval Governor of Pago.
Warranilla. the newly-acquired Kelly home
at Kirribilli, is built on the old plan of
large reception-rooms around a galleried hall
that is a room in itself—-yet the gathering
was an overflow one that leaked persistently
on to the wide Verandahs. The Commander
is a lean man with a long, narrow face, and
carries a terrace of decorations on his uni-
formed chest. The natives have named him
“The chief with the white hair and the
boy’s face.” Mrs. Pollock is small and dark,
and already deeply interested in her job on
her island home. In compliment to the visi-
tors the music was supplied by an Hawaiian
orchestra. Lee White and Clay Smith
were the other two lions of the evening, the
tall lady with the optimistic song repertoire
being surrounded all the evening by layers
of admirers, among whom there were as
many of the fair as the unfair sex.
Papal Delegate Catfaheo was the guest of
the Catholic Women’s Association last week,
and he wore all his robes —the gorgeous
Vatican purple silk cloak, the soutane with
its purple buttons, and the silk skull-cap.. The
Delegate praised the rooms, the spirit of the
organisation, its president, Mrs. John Bar-
low (who, supported by the papal deco-
ration and black lace frocking, hostessed the
gathering), and, when supper-time came,
{flowed such appreciation over the cakes that
the housekeeper and the matron, who were
responsible for everything from claret-cup
to salted almonds, were tempted to the deadh
sin of Pride.
The Exhibition Hall, on the seventh floor
of Farmer’s, has been given over this past
week to a show of camera pictures, done
by the artists who form the Photographic
Society of N. S. Wales. The little show was
opened by his Ex., who, with Dame
Margaret, waxed enthusiastic over the col-
lection. The work of almost every exhibitor
shows a sense of the romantic. For example.
James Pa ton’s “Harpstrings of HUolus,” a
group of slender gum-saplings on a stretch
of plain, ringed by an infinite horizon, 11.
Ishida’s “White Gum” and a corner of
Camden made immortal by Cazneaux. Other
fascinations are I). J. Webster’s “Idyll” and
White’s “Shadow Curtain.” Monte Luke’s
“Shylock.” “Baldasarre” and “Sheila” grip
the imagination with positive violence.
His Ex. and Dame Margaret will hold a
meeting of the Brotherhood of the Good
Shepherd at Government House on the even-
ing of Oct. 19. The following day they
leave for Kentucky, Armidale and Manilla,
returning to town on Oct. 2(5. They will
give a garden party at Government House
to meet members of the Country Press Asso-
ciation oin Nov. 2, and on the 25th they
are to extend the glad hand to Maclaren
and his cricket team at an evening party
at Government House.
The warm weather is at hand, and the
fair is taking the place of the dance as a
money-raiser for purposes charitable and
otherwise. There is to be one in the
grounds of the Sydney C. of E. Grammar
School on the North Shore, on Saturday,
the 21st, and the committee, led by Mrs.
Purves, the indomitable Mrs. Esplin and
May Rhodes, are appealing to the old boys
and friends of “Shore” to make the thing a
big success. The funds go to the construc-
tion of the memorial sports ground at North-
bridge.
Marjorie Tayler and Horace Picking are
due to be married in London this month.
She is a sister of Laurie Tayler, black-and-
white artist, who figures frequently in Lon-
don magazines. Both artists studied at the
Melb. Gallery, Picking being on the art staff
of Brookes, Robinson and Co. before he en-
listed with the A.I.F. He sports the Mili-
tary Medal.
Australians in London say that Madge
Titheradge had her greatest triumph at the
Queen’s Theatre in “Bluebeard’s Eighth
Wife.” The play is a translation from
the French, and the cold and criti-
cal first-nighters were so charmed by Madge
that they were still clamoring for her at
“lights out.” She is acting with Norman
McKinnell.
Brisbane postscript:—
While Walter Kirby, with a cold, was inquiring
tlie Vther night as to whether Ben Bolt remembered
Sweet Alice, he suddenly lost all interest in lire
lady, and plunged into the National Anthem. Some-
one loudly remarked, with a certain satisfaction,
“He’s forgotten the words!” But it was only the
arrival of a belated, though appreciative, Governor,
with Premier and deputies in tow. Afterwards Mrs.
Theodore and her tall husband carried the Maori
lander to sup at the Tech, in vice-regal company,
through a masquerade where some hundreds jazzed
on an open-air platform for the benefit of the Child-
ren’s Hospital.
Pretty Mrs. Espie Hods and her warrior lord
wpnt with his Ex. to the Musical Union concert,
when conductor King’s daughter sopranoed in pink
and silver. Contralto Lena Hammond (who is hav-
ing an anxious time over the illness of a mother of
84) was in cherry color. Sheafs of bloom, well
directed, reached the singers.
On the 11th Governor Nathan, amidst flags and
pom-poms and dominant red, white and blue, graced
the Anzac Memorial Avenue Ball.
To ensure a long life be appointed trustee of a
cemetery! James Cowlishaw, of the Telegraph,
rounded off 52 years of .trustee-ing for the Brisbane
General burying-ground this week, and is still going
strong. His fellow-trustees charged the hale old
man’s home at Bowen Hills, and said complimentary
things to him for the occasion. He is now 87, and
for 78 years has been life member of the Sydney
School of Arts.
Claire Elliot changed her name to Isles (of the
Isles-Love firm) on the 10th. Sister Pauline sang
“Beloved, It Is Morn,” and their parents, having
decked Killenv in pink and silver, fed many guests
till the bride, in navy charmante, fled south with
her ’groom.
Rosina Buekman and her Maurice are being feted
by' women’s clubs and Private Enterprise, and their
four concerts have proven financially sound.
Ellie Wardrop, amid pink poppies, was lunched
at Lennon’s on the 11th, and, with another bride-
to-be, Mary Corrie, was tea-ed at the same place in
the-- afternoon. Simultaneously, in another corner,
Mrs. Tom Macleod and Mrs. Pierson had a deoch and
doiis with Mrs. Talbot Stanley, who goes north
for goofi.
Many folk went looking for the truth about Aber-
deen lipers, though without lanterns, aboard the
Diogenes last week. Jazzing feet made the decks
shine again, and many smart gowns fluttered in the
summer air. The tally of guests who climbed and
reclimbed the gangways ran to hundreds.


Jewellery of Fine Quality.
SELECTED DIAMONDS.
PERFECT DESIGNING.
SET IN PURE PLATINUM.
£.20
£75
£,30
SELECTIONS SENT ON APPROVAL
TO ANY ADDRESS IN THE
COMMONWEALTH.
Drummond s selection of Diamond Jewellery offers
the choicest that is to be had in quality, design
and workmanship. Every article is made on theii
own premises by highly-skilled jewellers.
Illustrated Ring or Watch Catalogue
sent Post Free to any address.
®2Sm. Brummonti & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
§
WE
!L
IN
HER
i mm®*
for
CONSISTENCY OP
GLUALITV*’
R. A. SHOW—I 922.
AWARDED
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for HOCK
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CHABLIS
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CLARET
14 FIRSTS, 2 SECONDS,
4 THIRDS
Against All Australian Competition.
V\A \ \
VMBWBT9S
OS V NOSNHOf O 6
•’IflU
UUlliljl
I
%
\\
%
Better Floors—Better Homes
Well kept floors— polished with Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste—
lend a note of refinement and good taste to the simplest home, making
a suitable background for furniture, rugs and other home furnishings.
And when you consider the ease with which these floors are kept dusted
and polished, you do not wonder why so many housewives have adopted
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile,
linoleum, &c.
■ JOHNSON’S
c Paste—Liquid Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is also prepared in the Liquid form for
furniture, phonographs, pianos, leather goods, motor-cars, &c.
It contains no oil and therefore cannot gather
or hold dust, or become soft in warm, damp
weather. It imparts a hard, dry and durable
surface that protects the varnish and covers
mars and small surface scratches.
Johnson’s Powdered Wax will im-
mediately put any floor in perfect
condition for dancing.
Tout' dealer has Johnson's
Wax —there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. SW.


Skin Beauty Promoted
By Cuticura
Bathe with Cuticura Soap to cleanse
and purify the pores. If signs of
pimples, redness or roughness are
present smear gently with Cuticura
Ointment before bathing. Finally
dust on a few grains of the exqui-
sitely perfumed Cuticura Talcum.
Soapls.,Ointment ls.nml 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dresfP “R. Towns & Co.. Sydney, N.S.W.”
SENS*" 1- Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
You Can Study Art
b*V\ l
• * &
3
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
at home
and apply
your talent
in a profit-
able field if
you take up the
Weston
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
The lessons are
simple and easy to
follow. Mr. Harry J.
Weston, Australia's
premier poster de-
signer aud com-
mercial artist, has
already turned out
hundreds of suc-
cessful pupils, and
you have the ad-
vantage of his
personal help in
each lesson.
The Weston course
develops your tal-
ent for the pursuit
of a fascinating
hobby and a
money-making re-
creation.
Mr. Weston’s in-
teresting booklet,
“There’s Money in
the Pen,” will be
sent on receipt
of three stamps
to cover post-
age, and your
name and ad-
(tress. It tells all about the lessons, fees, etc.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
116 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
MIDGARD MICROSCOPE
An IDEAL XMAS GIFT from England.
cfsfg
For Students of NATURAL
HISTORY, BIOLOGY or CHEM-
ISTRY who do not possess a
high-powered, expensive Micro-
scope costing many Pounds.
Our MICROSCOPE magnifies up
to 2000 squares, and enables
one to examine the movements
of ANIMALCULA in a drop of
water, the wonderful structure
of the SMALLEST INSECTS,
BOTANIC and MINERAL SPECIMENS, etc. SCIEN-
TIFIC—INSTRUCTIVE— AMUSING. Solid Brass in
Wood Case with 3 Mounted Specimens, post free, 5/-
Prices include Flat and Concave Cover Glasses
HUNDREDS OF UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS
from all parts of the world.
THE SCIENCE ACCESSORIES CO.,
47 Devonshire Rd , Palmers Green, London, England.
■J
sr
STETSON’S
“SOMBRERO”
Simply a Big Work Hat for the Great
Out-of-Doors.
Great protection to the outside
worker—leaf 3i inches, high crown,
grease-proof leather, and consistent
with “Stetson ' usual high-grade
quality.
Grey and Black shades.
MAIL TO DUSK “5.8.”
BROTHERS
LIMITED,
BRiSBAW E Toowoomba.
60|-
EACH,
PIKE
Townsville
NOTICE.
Australian Authors and Artists.
M UTUAL Advantage Enterprise now
moving. Not a school—but a Busi-
ness Proposition. Wake up! It concerns
you deeply, so write now to
W. H. LATTY, sec. pro tem.,
Opp. Ripponlea Railway Station, Vic.
VL
mi
THE GENUINE
BALLARAT COLLAR
BUICT FOR ENDURANCE.
This is a high-grade, lined Top Collar, hand
stuffed with Rye Straw. Nothing that should
be in a good Collar is skimped or left out of it.
The rim and that extra piece laced to the body
side are all in one piece of leather, greatly add-
ing to the strength and wearing qualities of the
Collar. The regular Ballarat is basil lined, but
you can have duck or check at the same price—
-57/6 up to 20in. Over 20in„ 1/6 per inch
extra. Black Collars, 1/- extra.
REDUCED PRICES of HAMES & CHAINS.
Kangaroo Unbreakable, as illustrated on Col.
lar: 32in., 19/6; 34in„ 21/-; 36in., 22/6.
Kangaroo Ord.: 32in., .16/6; 34in., 17/6:
36in„ 18/6. ’
Genuine T. P. Jones Plow or Lead Chains,
1/6 lb.
Reliable Electric Weld, ditto, 1/1 lb.
Empire Tested Link Plow, 1/4 lb.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Orders over £3 in value Freight Free for
Cash to N.S.W. Railway Stations.
WALTHER § STEVENSON LTD.,
395 George Street,
SYDNEY.
r
W
£
\v
r
WW
SHOE CREAM
Protects your footwear during the summer months. It
keeps the leather soft and pliable in spite of heat from
within and without. And, what is more, it gives a radiant
shine.
In Bottles and Tubes. In all colors.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., Box 91, Haymarket.
C3D
THE SOUTHERN UNION
General Insurance Company of Australasia Limited
Nominal
Subscribed
Paid Up
CAPITAL:
- - £2,000,000
- 1,900,000
- 380,000
HEAD OFFICES:
Chancery House, Melbourne.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and
New Zealand.
LONDON BRANCH: 18 Birchin Lane.
FIRE. MARINE. ACCIDENT.
New South Wales
Chamber of Manufactures
All-Australian Exhibition
R.A.S. SHOWGROUNDS.
Open Daily from 12 noon to 5 p.m.
Evenings from 7 to 10.
Don t fail to visit this great exhibition which is
creating so much interest and discussion in
commercial and social circles.
COME AND SEE WHAT AUSTRALIA
V ; CAN DO IN THE INDUSTRIAL WORLD.
Hundreds of Interesting Exhibits
♦ also a
WAR-TROPHY MUSEUM
with a rare collection of trophies seen for the
/ first time in N.S.W.
A, And :f.
OPEN-AIR PICTURES
EVERY EVENING.
Admission fid. ; Children 3d. w. J. DONNELLY, Secretary.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Agricola: “Observations” and “Education”
failed to run into a place. “What Next” would need
a lot of compression and slashing to trim into a par,
and it has no chance in any other class... .Jim
Carew: It seems to be accepted that Gordon cut out
the extra eight lines (not four) himself, regarding
them as superfluous. .. .Manning: Two columns about
the dangers of the common Communion cup. Go to !
. ...Fidus: But mis-spelling Fremantle is not an
exclusively Yankee error. You may even find
“Freemantle” (sic) on the much-admired sun-dial in
Sydney Botanical Gardens... .William H. L.: The “re-
vised version”, is about as attractive as any other
version of the same set of weary and worn ideas....
Hayrick: The yarn takes a long time to say very
little... .Scribair: Very lumpy verse... .Ben : The
state of your present lovemaking is not specially excit-
ing. ... H.G.8.: A man came along with a cigarette
while you were proposing to the girl. Only that;
and you think it makes a yarn S.M. (Perth) : Too
crudely stated... .Gordon M.: You should write native
terms more legibly... .J.S.H.: Doesn’t impress....
Q.P.: “Unbelief” is well done, but not in our line;
“After All” hasn’t enough general interest. .. .M.E.G.:
No use The Nark: Clownish humor P.R.D.:
Nothing in it.... Elsie D.: The same old common-
places, only a trifle more so Despondent One:
Room for 3’our masterpiece:—
“Alas!” cried the little slavey,
« s^le lnee kly scrubbed the knives.
“I’m sure that no one loves me,
I think I’ll commit suicide.”
So she went and got some arsenic,
And put it in her toup.
“But no, this will not do, for it must look
Like an accident. Ah, me!”
So she threw herself on’the railway line
To do this deadly deed,
And the S3'dney express came thundering
along—
And turned off on another track.
“It looks as if the hand of God
Is against me,” she cried,
“So I’ll nobly take up my burden,
And I won’t commit suicide.”
But, ah, alas, it came to pass,
Next day as she scrubbed the knives,
She slipped and cut her throat,
And thus she lost her life.
Ah me! a humble life gone from this world,
To a better one above.
Alas! no one loved the little slavey,
She’s resting ’neath the sod.
.. . .W.W.: Nicely done, but not enough in it. .. .
Cads B.: Spoiled by bad rhymes and faulty rhythm.
Y.U. (Broken Hill): Wanted better telling—
and spelling 8.Z.H.: Screed on both sides of
paper no use... .W.lt.M.: Doesn’t make a story. .. .
Wilfrid L.: No use for garbled stuff of the sort;
Johnson only made an ass of himself over the Mac-
pherson controversy. .. .Ixion : Wooden verses. .. .
Constance M.: “Bo Peep” is not our sort; but there
is no reason why you shouldn’t write stories that
are. .. .Jack F.: Has good spots, but not enough of
them. .. .C.A.H.W.: Too wooden.... Diana G.: Not
up by some distance... .Old C.: Very rugged verse.
.... Boomerang: As crude as the moral you tag to
it. . . .Q.P.: “The Casualty” fails to move u 5....
Jack Horner: Well enough told, but too slight....
Tom P.: Not enough in it Kathleen D.: Moves
pleasantly, but the thought keeps a well-worn road.
’ Bellerive: The simple little idyll of the merry
summer-time must move all hearts:—
I chased it round a summer-house,
And among the pretty flowers.
I pursued it like a demon—
To the leafy garden bowers.
As it lighted on a tender leaf,
I darted forth with glee.
And loudly I did hollow,
I’d caught a honey bee.
. ...A.S.S.: The moth-balls yarn is mere weariness.
J.H.S.: Some hint of an idea, but the verse
wobbles and bumps in a dreadful fashion Mary
N.: Feeble little flutter Don F.: Doesn’t get to
anything worth while P.A.R.: You went up the
hill and saw the sun set, and while you were away a
letter come from your wife. Well, well!. .. . D.D.S.:
Not up by some distance. .. .Alice R.: It has all
been better said before. .. .A.L.L.: Doesn’t strike
us Vincent K.: Can’t find the mirth C.S.A.:
Yes, verses printed in this column are paid for;
but we don’t want them made to order... .John M.:
as far as we can read it it is no g00d.... J.H.W.:
Both miss, but don’t be downhearted... .A.E.C..:
Can’t reopen that hoary controversy... .W.T.C.: All
just miss; try again,
TO UTISTIO (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.W.: Hopeless attempts C.1.C.: But why is
he climbing up a cliff with a sword and top hat?
... .W.R.M.: Look like poor transcripts from photo-
graphs R.S.: Hasn’t got a chance R.E.:
Nothing in it II.O.: Misses fI.A.: You’ve , a
long way to go yet. ... A.E.H.: Not quite up....
V.J.E.: Better learn something about drawing for a
start.... A.W.: They have a strong overseas smell about
’em.. . .Tufrey: Some promise, but drawing not up
to the mark... .F.M.: Nowhere near it R.M,R.:
Shapeless ladies ruled out G.H.: Still below par.
....R.S.: No new ideas there... .R.R.: Drawing
wobbles badly in spots D.R.D.: Not up.
“Flicker” on the pleasures and pex-ils of
the Higher Education :
At Renmark, last fruit season, when driving back
from the distillery, I was stopped by a moth-eaten
object with a demand for a lift. He presently put
the hard word on me for a job, and 1 managed to
get him put on to picking. A couple of days later
he levied a contribution on my pouch, and quoted
something from Carlyle about work. I was not sur-
prised, for the fruit season always brings a full
crop of educated derelicts. But it was on the fol-
lowing Saturday that things happened. I was pass-
ing the pub, when a figure whirled out and fell in
a heap on the pavement. I recognised my seedy
friend. Three citizens followed and grabbed him
with the loudly-expressed determination to “throw
’im in th’ —hie —blanky river.” “We been shouting
for this old blankard all th’ afternoon,” one of
them explained, “and when we asked ’im a few ques-
tions he answered in German.” I cross-examined
Carlyle while the patriots listened in a suspicious
manner. It seemed that, being full of free beer,
he had determined to oblige the bar with the story
of his life, and to that end had begun with the
opening lines of /Eneas’s yarn to Dido, “Conticuere
omnes,” etc., whereupon the cyclone had struck him. I
explained matters to the pickers, who—impressed
as well as mollified—dragged the classicist back
to where the beer was. Peace must have been fully
signed, for when I called at the local police-station
for him on Monday morning the John said that the
scholar was the worst of the lot.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
regular monthly sailings.
. Hte for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
I’irst-. Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-0 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
Ry way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Voseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING. NOVEMBER 15.
SONOMA.
10,0(10 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Unliking, Public Companies,
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . 360,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; lion. G. TV.
Gray; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq. ;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. lIAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Brunches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,523*000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922.. £13*269*793
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman- Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman; George
F. lodman; Duncan Carson; H. A. Russell-
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A. ’
General Manager : C. M. C. SiiannoiJ.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kin"
Streets). Acting-Manager: G. H. Westcott. “
Branches and Receiving Offices at 147 places in
New South (Vales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Ho well.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 23 pfaces in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager ; It. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
• (Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Btreet.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 650,000
£1,275,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625,000
' £1,900,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 98 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St, Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,551,188
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. £2,629,000
Accumulated Funds £47,000,000
Annual Income £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, eta.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
'I'HE NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BEIVVEEN AUSIKALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, 26th OCTOBER, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 23rd NOVEMBER.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
I lie Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey ncross America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Vellowstone Park, Niagara Palis, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MAUNGANUI, 9th NOVEMBER, 11 a.m.
TAHITI, 14th DECEMBER.
l ( or illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
C - UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMUERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELUOURNE.
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island
” and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3i TO 4} WEEKS
Affording a restful holiday amongst
beautiful scenery and interesting
people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
if*
m
Burns-Philp Tours.
Passages booked to LONDON, EUROPE, AMERICA,
AFRICA, CHINA, JAPAN, INDIA, etc.
SPECIAL/ ROUND EASTERN TOURS arranged,
leaving Sydney and calling at JAVA, SINGAPORE, thence to
CHINA, JAPAN, and returning via HONGKONG, MANILA,
BORNEO, etc., or vice versa.
FIRST-CLASS THROUGHOUT, £146/10/-
BURNS-PHILP LINE to Java and Singapore.
Through Bookings to INDIA, BURMA, etc., by this
Route.
Apply for further information to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£5,640,700
3,600,000
5,610,700
£14,881,400
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Blacic
M.D.
, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidlev, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Line*.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
360 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up .. £3,000,000
Reserve Fund .. £2,460,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,460,000
v
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Hater, M.1..C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. J. W. Macarthur Onslow,
M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
11. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers —The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
JENOLAN CAVES TOUR PARTIES
Leave Sydney daily, 9.25 a.m. (Sunday excepted).
Inclusive Cost: 3 days, £5 55.; 4 days, £6 35.; 5 days, £7 3s.
Programme and Booking at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
CH ALLIS HOUSE (opp. G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
Shlnoin*.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND l-'REMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
"Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
fßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen and Towns-
ville.
Huddart ParkcrLlM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa fortnightly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from Sydney only 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
T H F„ North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at 7 p.m. ;
passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. BURRINGBAR SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
ROOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
monev, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISIIA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdnev.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD.,' MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton,’’
151USBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Slighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Etd.,
and Eitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackhealth Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S.’N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.
.Ltd- .• • Canadian-Australasian Royal Matt -Line: 'SnfY
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S;S. iCo;
of New Zealand, Ltd. Iluddart, Parker, Ltd."
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryuorougn, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cook town.


Your Xmas Suit
Will Cost Less
if Ordered Now—
from LOWE’S.
nVuv\\Vv\^s
£OZ
m
■
///A
THE man quick to grasp an opportunity of
‘'getting in on the ground floor” will make
a point of ordering his holiday suit while
Lowe’s present bargain offer holds good. In any
case, the ninth week-end from now will be
Christmas; but, should you prefer it, the Suit ordered
to-day need not be taken delivery of until within
a week or so of that festive occasion. The logical
course to pursue, then, is to order without delay!
Men’s Sac, Suits, to order, from fine English Pure Wool
Indigo Tivill Serge, fast in dye and of Summer weight;
tailored in a fashion most responsive to your individuality,
and representative of what is newest
in style-expression. English, American
and Semi-American models. ; Price was
£B/8/-, now
Twill Serge Suit
to Measure
Reduced from
£8 8 -to £6 6/ *
£66-
PATTERN COUPON .
LOWE’S LIMITED,
Box 1622 G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me patterns of English Fine
Twill Indigo Serge, for suits to order, reduced
from £B/8/- to £6/6/-; also self-measurement
form, tape, etc.
Name
Address
F.D. —19/10/’22
lcswe's*
LIMITED
Merchant Tailors, Sydney.
Stores all over Town; one at Newcastle.
SPORTING RIFLES
We have an unrivalled selection of Sporting Firearms, and
can supply suitable weapons for all classes of shooting.
We carry the finest range in Australia
htvs
“A marvel at the price."
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. ISin.. round steel
barrel: open rear and knife-edged front sights. Q
W eight, about XO
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
df
“Simple and extra strong in construct ion.’’
810. Winchester Single-shot Kiiie, 1904 Model, --
short or long rim tire cartridges. 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of ritie
over all. 37Ain.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip.
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b S'* ’
Freight Paid.
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
You can now purchase Sporting Rifles
and Guns without first obtaining a license.
s
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Ilifc'l. designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim tire.
It can he taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, ISin. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight 25/“*
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
fsc
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
nierless Rifle, 22 High Power calibre, 6
shot. 20in. round tapered - barrel, take down, weight GMb., muzzle velocity,
2Sooft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 120Gft. pounds; freight
paid
£l2lO/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
5£S
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.’'
lil3. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 16-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger.
Straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges : weight, about o| lb. ..
£6
fs
“A cheap and reliable weapon."
112. Stevens’ Marksman liiile, 22 calibre, K.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
.front and rear sights; weight,
(.Postage —N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
45/-
m
One of the liardest-liitting 22 cal. rifles on the marlcet.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight bill* xr q
Freight paid,
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
f
IU4. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-ealibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £B/10/-
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £9
BIG. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine, e j\
20in. round barrel, weight about 551 b Freight paid, 3w / /•*,£>/ •
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
- Tfficfc Simmons Ftf,
Australia’s Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St, NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Men! There’s Real
Comfort in a
REXONA Shave.
Rexona Shaving Soap makes for comfort and hygiene in shaving, and
tempers the skin against wind and bad weather.
It will be found the most economical shaving stick on the market,
but care should Ik* exercised not to dip the stick in the water, but wet the
face and apply the shaving soap dry. A few applications with the shaving
brush will quickly produce a thick, creamy lather, which lasts, and
thoroughly softens the beard, leaving the skin in a healthy condition after
the shave.
Everyone should use a Medicated Soap for shaving, for, after going
over the face with the razor and removing the beard, the skin needs a
protection from the germs carried by the dust, which everyone has to
face.
Rexona Shaving Soap is the highest standard of Shaving Soap that
it is possible to produce, and a good shaving soap means everything to a
shave, for, if the beard is properly lathered, a shave is a delight, but if
the beard is not properly lathered, but is stiff and harsh, it is not only
severe on the user but hard on the razor.
'"V ,:
&
-:-
-
*3S
s*3
r:
Rt'XO
*
*9:
>—. a miamim*****
%
t
Rexona—
The Triangular
Shaving Stick, 1/6.
RYNOGH
AMMUNITION
s
•22 RIM FIRE.
IKYNOCH
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
•m
AUL BRITISH
PUT UP YOUR HANDS
and use them as though you hacl
to defend yourself. See how
absolutely lost and helpless you
are through lack of Boxing
Instruction. Could you hold
your own in a rough-and-
tumble, or would you get the
worst of it?
Learn Boxing by Post
and secure the scientific knowledge that will protect
you from the bully and the thug.
This simple, interesting system of instruction teaches
you all the points of the fascinating art in a series
of easily-graded lessons which anyone can master
Just cut this advertisement out, write your name
and address across it, and send it ip with three
stamps for postage, and you w'ill receive a copy of
the interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your
Home,’’ which tells all about the methods used, terms,
etc. It’s worth while —act to-day.
•v'
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS.
189 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street,, SYDNEY.
Morning Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"I”7rT"AS it only this morning I said, as
\\ the dawn-song silenced the stars,
* “1 will make me a jewel of darkness,
of slumbrous and satiny night,
A jewel of darkness and silence, to shadow
my heart and its scars
From Dawn, like a golden phantom of
beautiful, lost delight?
“For I am the lover of quiet ; and the high
blue belfry of Day
Has ever its restless music under the yellow
sun;
But Night is a hidden moss-rose in a garden
tar away,
That a man may gather and cherish when
the peace of dusk is won !
"Yet Night has its mystic music, that sings
to the heart alone,
Woven of sorrow and splendor, of shadow
and broken gleams,
Sad as a seabird’s crying, o’er the desolate
waters blown;
Yet sweeter than all things mortal, for
the music of night is dreams!”
Then the beautiful morning laughed, and
answered me lover-wise,
“Sweeter, ah sweeter, surely, my lips
than a dream-caress?
And fairer than all night’s jewels that
glamor your dazzled eyes,
The careless, insolent marvel of Morning’s
happiness!
“She, your lady of quiet, does her temple of
shadows hold,
’Mid its pallid silken poppies of silence
and mystery,
Aught that is laughter-hearted, to vie
with my dawn’s swift gold.
That flames to the far hill-purple from
the shield of the burning sea?
“Take me, am I not fairer than she, in your
sight, my dear?
Red, red lips for your loving, eyes that
are amber-bright—
Could you cleave to the stars’ pale witch-
fires, when the beacon of Dawn is
near,
Or dream, with my lips anigh you, of the
shadow-kiss of Night?”
Then the dark, strange glamor of dreams,
that held in my heart its throne,
Waxed faint, as the shadows faded, in the
fervor of Dawn’s desire ;
And my heart grew glad as the brown lark,
that sings in the blue alone,
For I felt on my lips the lips of the young
day fall like fire!
It was only this morning I said, ere the
dawn-flame blinded the stars,
“I will make me a jewel of darkness, of
slumbrous and satiny Night!”
But Day, with its magical laughter, has
freed my heart from its bars.
And set at its core the jewel of Morning’s
passionate light.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Temperament.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was still hot on the hotel verandah,
though the dropping sun already
slanted the shadows of the building
over 20 feet of road, and twice as much
mud, right on to the first ripples of the
turning tide.
The hour of comparative relief was at
hand. Board and brick and the baked
earth itself seemed to be lazily twisting and
relaxing into comfort after a tortured day,
like a newly un-corseted woman. Odd little
cracks and grunts came from scattered
chairs. The first faint breath of the wak-
ing night wind just stirred the head of a
lonely cocoanut palm, solitary and upstand-
ing as some tall sentinel who guarded the
seaward approach to the hotel. The barely-
felt gusts of the breeze might have been the
sighing' exhalations of the earth as it lazily
waited the coming darkness. All nature
writhed and yawned. And I felt boneless
and inert as I lay almost flat on the low-
hung canvas chair.
It was still hot—so hot that big Peter
Kenny, sprawled opposite me, in spite of his
long days in the land, was guilty of such a
feebleness of effort as to spit fairly on _to
the verandah rail, instead of the goat at which
he aimed; so hot that the breathless goat
stood motionless in the dust of the road with
its big, artificial-looking eyes turned longingly
on a delectable boot and a well-labelled tin
a bare 10 feet away from it. The only move-
ment was on the mud uncovered by the low
water. Its sieve-like surface.and forsaken
little pools seemed to bubble with life. Un-
numbered armies of tiny crabs scuttled back
and forth over it. Two tfired-looking birds
stepped daintily about it, or stood pensive
and lifeless for long stretches and then made
sudden, frantic, little, lurching rushes at
some elusive prey.
I lazily watched the hunt until the slight
movement of twisting my eyes grew tiring,
and I closed them and dropped fathoms deep
into drowsy lethargy. The mutter of voices
from the bar behind me came to my dulling
ears like a monotonous lullaby that pushed me
further and further into unconsciousness.
After many hours, as it seemed, I became
aware of a glow of peevish resentment, some-
where in me but somehow detached, a sort
of subconscious rage. The voices were
louder; the growing sound was jerking me
back to unwilling awakeness. Then there
was a whirl of noise that rushed me right
out of the lazy depths. The bar door burst
suddenly open, and vomited on to the veran-
dah a wildly-arguing group that swirled
and eddied about a central shouting pair,
who were evidently the principals of this
wordy duel. The faces of these two were
congested and glistened with sweat; their
waving arms became ever more threatening,
their attitude more defiant. As they came
closer to Peter, deep-set in his chair, he
turned a half-opened eye on them, dull and
disinterested.
“Go to it, boys,” he muttered, “but look
out f’r me feet!”
The tumult surged past him and down the
steps to the road. The ridiculous tail of the
goat wagged a protest, and, disturbed from its
dreams, it leisurely covered the 10 feet to the
investigation of the boot. The argument
rapidly travelled towards the stage where the
futility of words becomes all too plain.
“Mean t’ tell me,” spluttered one, “that
I don’t. . . .Ah-h-h-h, might’s well say I’d
Hamin’ well. ... Gawd, d’yer think a man’s
nothin’ but a born idiot?” “My oath!”
said the other.
Here all negotiations ended and bloody
war was on. In a cloud of dust and
grunted curses the two gladiators battled, the
one tall and lean, with long, waving limbs
that seemed hardly to belong to the gaunt
frame to which they hung, the other nearly
a foot at disadvantage in height but sturdily
put together, and topped by a flaring pledge
of pugnacity in a mop of short red hair. For
a while the flailing arms of the bigger man
kept the invading army at a distance, and a
more or less accidental contact spattered
blood from the nose of red-head. However,
he was a good general, and manoeuvred
warily until a sudden rush brought him.under
and through the far-flung defences. At close
quarters the two tore at each other, panting,
jabbing, heaving. And then the grunting
mass suddenly collapsed, but the good fight
went on as they squirmed and kicked in the
dust.
The goat slowly mouthed the succulent
tongue of the boot. For the rest,
the world seemed to be at a stand-
still, all the more breathless and nn-
rnoving because of the little whirlwind
of energy that marked the struggle in the
road. Peter cast a contemptuous eye on the
fight, but the necessary turning of his head
was evidently too big an effort and he settled
back lower in his creaking chair. Then he
grunted, salvaged a battered derelict of a
pipe that had dropped to the canvas seal
between his legs, and spat, clearing the rail
by a good margin. The spitting of Peter was
an expressive business, a delicate register
of shades of feeling all the way from airy
humor to heaviest tragedy. The atmosphere
created this time was undoubtedly one of
resigned and melancholy disgust.
“It gets ’em,” said Peter; “it’s the tropics
that gets that sort —greatly aided and abetted
by booze, and one thing and another.”
He slowly heaved a giant plug of tobacco
from one pocket, chipped at it with a broken-
bladed knife, and fell moodily silent. Through
a veil of dust I saw that Red-head had man-
aged to jab a knee hard to the belly of his
enemy, and was making all use of the winded
interval that followed. Some dirty little
coaster, outward bound from the wharf half
a mile away, hooted derisively on a husky
siren.
“Know what I think it is?” suddenly asked
Peter, and answered immediately : “Tempera-
ment; that’s what counts. Your learned
professors and otherwise politicians can talk
all they know by the grace of God and a long
life in Melbourne about whether the tropics
are fit for a white man to live in or not. _ I
know! And look here now, son, they’re
wasting time with their physiology and their
wet and dry thermometers. That part of
it’s all right. Look at me! It’s not guts but
good temper they want to worry about. Tem-
perament, not temperature ! There should
be a temperament-examination office, and
nobody that failed to pass the test should be
allowed north of Brisbane.
“No fighters need apply. A man should
have proofs of his mild and forgiving disposi-
tion. Pie ought to be made to show that
he’s always paid his income-tax with a smile,
kissed both cheeks of the boy that pulled the
horse he’d a tenner on, and never thought of
Billy Hughes and any place but Heaven sim-
ultaneous. He’d ought to have been asking
questions in at least three Government offices
and been able to say ‘Thank ye,’ to the last
man he saw when he left. He oughtto”-—-
Peter was interrupted by a deputation from
the warring factions. I had noticed that for
some time hostilities had been suspended and
some sort of negotiations entered upon. A
third party had been haranguing the com-
batants, and once he had pointed to the veran-
dah and said, “I tell yer, Peter’d know.”
Now the two warriors stood on the steps
before us, bearing some honorable scars and
a quantity of dust. Red-head addressed
Peter, holding fast to a semi-detached tooth.
“You oughter know, Peter,” he mumbled.
“Joe an’ me’ve been havin’ a bit of an argu-
ment about whether Jim Brown or Jim
Burke was in the Shannon Hotel at Cook-
town in ’9B. Which was it?”
“Look here, now,” said Peter, “I wouldn’t
give either o’ ye the satisfaction of knowing
ye were right. Get to Hell outer this!”
The bar door regurgitated the little crowd
it had so summarily ejected, and all was
heavy peace again. Out in the _ road the
goat still dined on boot. The hills across
the harbor were taking on a soft, foggy blue.
A lone Jap fisherman, all but becalmed on
the blackening wafer, philosophically re-
garded his dejected brown sail. Peter
spat again. There was unswerving decision
in the sound of it.
“And by the hobs of Hell,” he broke
forth, “no red-headed son of sin should be
allowed north of the South Pole! Their
temperament’s all wrong. They’re not
fitted for peaceful social intercourse. And
it’s only looking for ruin and bloody murder
to let ’em into North Queensland. Why,
after a few months of it a Woodrow Wil-
son’s liable to become a Bill Germany, and
there aren’t any red-headed doves of peace.
I know! Didn’t Mac Masters have a thatch
like a summer sunset? And look what hap-
pened to him.”
I denied all knowledge of Mac Masters.
Somebody in the bar sang a little.
“No, y’re too young, of course,” said Peter;
“It was a good 20 year ago, and in a place
a day or two north o’ this. I’ll not special-
ise further, for various public and private
reasons. Mac Masters was a barrister-out-
of-law and a Scotchman, one of the sandy
sort, with threepenny-bit red freckles all
(Continued on next page.)


r
" E(/epyP/efi/r{
tells a Sfcjy
Is BacKacHe
Crippling' You?
Is that dull, nagging backache making it hard for you
to get around? Are you lame, sore and tortured with
sharp rheumatic pains at every step? It s time, then, you
gave some attention to your kidneys! Nature, you know,
has a way of warning you when all is not right with the
bodily machinery. A dull, persistent backache is one
of her first signals of kidney weakness. You may have
u„j i ... w , , _ headaches, too, with dizziness and annoying
bladder irregularities. You are depressed and nervous—worn out and miserable. You feel years older
than you are Why let this condition continue? Kidney troubles, if treated early, are usually easily
CO >V. eC n ed ‘ ’ N D g f i Cte u’ way is, paved for fatal kidney disease. Don’t take this risk! Begin now
neighbor- 311 S aC^aC^e Sidney Pills. Doan s have helped thousands and should help you. Ask your
SYDNEY MAN CURED.
„ rp JJji-J?’ H° lde r, 235 West Street, North, Sydney, says“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are indeed a wonderful kidney medicine. I have proved this. For a lons time I suffered
hlve y anv OI ?dp baCk f h i e T and tr £ ubl & and on l y those who have been afflicted in this wav
lde » w h at 1 went through. My limbs swelled considerably, the kidney secretions
were thick and cloudy, with a red sediment, and I had agonising pains in my back When I
baT'was so a s«ff &S 1 C T ° Uld d ? t 0 S , taad Up „ straight again assfftanJl; my
Lve d vT, e - „ 1 as eated by a doctor ’ and tried all sorts of remedies, but
mv h hefltfi and when s l ]ght ? st relief. I was naturally very worried about the serious state of
them Tt J )oan a ackacbe Kld °ey Pills were brought under my notice I decided
comnitelv aiand thing for me that I got this remedy, for seven bottles cured me
■.*»» lnghly of Do!ms Pills ' ani ™«omm e nd them with, every
nehe KldJev'pife'"^ l '' "'i" says , : —“ r h J! ve S™ ? he samc »°od opinion of Donn’s Back-
of thf complaint 'sinc h e ” d “ e ° f kldney dlSorder SIX years ag0 > aild 1 have had no return
fsd
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
over him, and gingery hair on his hands.
He’d the peaceable temperament of a tiger
and the thirst of an eighth-day camel. He
was a little man with big ideas, which is a
risky animal at all times.
“He arrived wdthout announcement in a
cargo boat and a hell of a temper. The
manner of his disembarking I happened to
observe, being on the wharf at the time. He
was talking to the mate forward when the
boat tied up, and, all of a sudden, the mate
heaves Mac over one side, where he drops
about five yards into a railway truck, and
his bag over the other side into 20 feet of
water. Evidently Mac wasn’t finished what
he was saying, for he crawls back on board.
Three times he crawls back, and it was
only when the mate had chucked him off for
the fourth time that he forgets what he
wanted to say, on account of missing the
truck and landing on his head on the wharf.
Now, I knew that mate. He was as good-
tempered a sailorman as ever broke a jaw.
So I reasoned it out that Mac Masters had
been saying something grievous to him. What
it was I didn’t find out, for it was driven
out of me head a while after by reason of
having to stop a fight between Mac and
Jimmy, the ambulance man, who wanted to
take him to hospital. The last I saw of Mac-
Masters about then was the red head of him
bobbing about in the middle of an angry mob
of wharf-lumpers like a cork in a whirlpool.
However, I saw plenty of him in the months
that followed. lie put up at the pub I had
at that time, and, naturally enough, being
both educated men, we foregathered a little.
He was a learned man, was Mac, and knew a
number of things that I didn’t, and he’d a
gift of pleasing talk when all was well with
him. For a while he was as quiet and
reasonable as a sleeping volcano, but, what
with the color of him and the little eruptions
I’d seen already, and one thing and another,
I took a serious view of the case from the
start. It wasn’t as if he’d just arrived in the
country. From various reports I made out
that he’d been a twelvemonth or more work-
ing up the coast from one northern town to
another. Of course, you’ll be holding that
his disposition would be the same wherever
ho lived. But look here, now, what I
believe is that if he’d been headed south
instead of north he’d have had a chance of
fighting with his temperament instead of with
his fellow-men.
“Anyway, I took an interest in the case,
and, with soothing treatment, the patient did
as well as could be expected for a while. But
soon enough he broke out into a rash of rum
and riots. It was getting along to the hotter
season, and the climate was unfavorably in-
fluencing his temperament, which started off
by making a mess of Joe, the yardman. Joe
told the hospital people that all he could
remember was calling Mac Mr. MacMiekle
by mistake.
“After that there was no holding Mac-
Masters. In a matter of a few more weeks
he must’ve fought, at least once, with 90 per
cent, of the able-bodied population of the
country, the odd ones, to his bitter disappoint-
ment, being on various night-shifts or other-
wise inaccessible. It wasn’t Mac’s fault
that the job took so long. He’d have been
a deal more expeditious only for the waste
time when the sergeant used to collect him
and put him by for a while. Giving him
every benefit of the doubt, he couldn’t have
won more tuan once in ten, but that made
no difference to him, and beating the lights
out of him on Tuesday didn’t stop ye from
having to fight him on Wednesday. Soon
enough some of them had to consider the
dusting of him as a part of each day’s work.
And the habit of the thing began to be
sickening, as most habits will. It got so
they’d be trying to dodge him every way, and
went near to reforming some of the worst
drunks of the town, because they’d never
know which pub he'd be in. They even had
deputations waiting on him offering him in-
ducements to leave the place for the place’s
good, but Mac couldn’t see it that way,
either. And then all the ‘Pro Bono Publicos’
and ‘Vox Populis’ got together and there
happened a fine example of the power of a
united people striving in brotherly accord for
the common weal.”
Peter stopped for a proper appreciation of
the glitter of this gem.
“ ’Twas as pretty a thing as ye could see,”
he went on; “it just somehow came to pass
that everyone in the town agreed, more or
less unanimous, not to fight with Mac no
matter what he said or did. Of course,
there were some that backslid for' a while,
for Mac had a poisonous tongue and a pro-
voking look to him, but such as fought back
had the error of their ways pointed out by
a sort of volunteer committee, and soon
enough Mac was at his wits’ end to find a
fight anywhere. For a little he felt fine and
all cocfcet.v-whoop at having subdued the
whole country, as it might be, but shortly
the disturbance of his regular ways of living
and all this ungentlemanly gentleness around
began to tell on liim. After a few days of
asking for kicks and receiving kisges, so to
speak, he got to have a kind of dazed look ;
and, when a week went by and still the
most likely prospects panned out never a
licking, you could see that the man was be-
coming frightened. His eye was wild and his
face was pale. He went clean off his food
and began to get thin and pinched-looking.
The fight-hunger was gnawing him and no
way of satisfying it.
“He took to sticking about the wharf and
managed to get all nicely smashed up by a
drunken fireman or so. But the committee
settled that, too. Even the crews of the
coasters joined in the great work and things
got worse and worse. After a matter of six
weeks I was fearing for the little man’s
mind. He would look at ye in a pathetic,
reproachful sort of way that fair drew the
tears to y’r eyes, and he’d walk a mile to
meet a dog that would bark at him. He’d say
insulting things to dray-horses and look at
them expectant.
“Just when I got to thinking that it’d be
ticked up as a good work to turn to myself
and give him the father of a hiding, he hit
on a new and desperate scheme. He took
to writing letters to the Post, that was pub-
lished twice a week. He’d just pick on some-
body that looked likely to kick back and try
to prove how a worm was a fine, up-stand-
ing creature by comparison. Old Bartlett,
the editor, printed them all right, for Mac
had a tickling way o’ talking with his pen,
and, anyway, Bartlett put in extra big type
the notice about the editor not being respon-
sible for the opinions of his correspondents.
And, what’s more, Mac Masters was careful
not to name any names. If the letter was
about Kernan, that was mayor then, Mac
wouldn’t address it to him, but start off, gen-
eral like, with ‘Dear Sir—The mayor, now is
a ,’ or something to that effect. These
letters came regular and the circulation of
the paper began to improve. Mac, himself,
would be standing on the steps of the office
a full hour waiting for the issue to see if
there’d be any come-back to the letter before;
but the town was well trained by this and
never a fight was forthcoming.
“This went on for a longish spell, and the
little red-headed man was getting the despair-
ing look back in his eyes. I was talking
to Doc. Moxliam one day about mahatmas,
and one thing and another, when Mac walks
past. There’s a twinkle , to his feet and a
happy snarl on his face. ‘He’s yours, Doc.,’
I said. But we found the answer in the
new Post. It was a reply to Mac’s last
letter. And we’d all thought that one fairly
harmless, a sign of the man’s failing powers.
It wasn’t against anyone special, but a little
essay on the town in general, showing in
how many and various ways it was un-
worthy of being the sink in Hell’s kitchen.
Nothing much to argue about but this fel-
low, who called himself ‘Ajax,’ loosed a half-
inch of ink denying Mac Master’s statements
and a half-page of it in profane opinions of.
Mac himself. The little man was almost
happy.
“The MacMasters-Defence-Against-llimself
committee set straight off to deal with this
damn fool, ‘Ajax’; but Bartlett claimed he
didn’t know who it was. He said the. letter
was printed and was dropped into the office
box some time during the night. The next
issue had a letter from each of them. This
time the subject of the town was overlooked.
You might say it was a matter of critical
review (the lower criticism) of Mac Master
by ‘Ajax,’ of ‘Ajax’ by Mac Masters. The
sheet fair crinkled in y’r hands, and it
seemed foolish to hold it without a fire-
extinguisher handy.
“And more followed, and what followed
was worse. They tried to bully Bartlett out
of printing the stuff, but with tears in his
eyes he said it was the first real boost the
paper’d got in the 13 years he’d had it, and
be damned if he was going to cruel it. Ordi-
nary bits of news those days looked to be
hiding behind the smoke-screen of the big
engagement. Those two boys must -ve used
the whole artillery of fiery eloquence. In
three lines they could skin from the heavy
passing of dignified rebukes to the heaving
of great fistfuls of most scandalous, dirty
mud.
“ ’Twas a fine argument, or, as they say
abuse is no argument, at afly rate it was
Powerful abuse. ‘Evidently,’ wrote
Ajax in one part, ‘Mr, Mac Masters had some
smattering of education at one time or. an-
other; but it is a well-known fact that the
civilising of the lower forms of the human
race does not usually tend to any lastly
uplift. Indeed, it seems to make for rapid
moral and physical degeneration. In the
slums of Cairo I was satisfied that I saw
the human animal at its limit of degradation.
MaeMa e ste“° ’ ' 1 b *” ” 0 "' «“ *'•
.g
spite of many invitations to come out into
the open, the mighty “Ajax” still hides behind
a pen-name. I commend his caution, and,
t ougli I regret his cowardice, cannot sav
that it surprises me. From his ignominious
hidmg-plgce he continues to emit his un-
seemly, malodorous vaporings like the skunk
that he is. It seems pitiful that the name
lie sees nt to steal should be disgraced bv
such a verminous, noisome beast as this
Ihe real Ajax, though foolish, was at least
open in his defiance. Could not this one per-
suade himself for a moment that he had the
guts of a guinea-pig and unmask? After the
passing of the fit nausea caused by the-
appearance of him, he can be sure of a wel-
come from Yours, etc., “Lightning” Mao-
Masters.’
“ ’Twas a Saturday afternoon, and quiet
enough, when there’s a sound of scuffling up
above and falling furniture and things.
thinks I, ‘“Ajax” at holts with the
lightning.! The door of MacMasters’s room
was locked when I got there. Inside was a
noise like a dancing-school of demented
elephants. Not wishing to the door,
which was fresh painted, I fell downstairs
again and gathered a ladder. Mac’s window
was open, and, as I tumbled through. I
heard somebody grunt, ‘How’s that, ye red-
headed Scotch scut!’ and the water-jug re-
solved into pieces on the floor. The room
showed signs of strained relations. There
were wounded chairs and dead crockery all
about, the place. MacMastera was ovor
against the washstand, blood-spotted and
very groggy.
“I’m just looking around, when Mac sud-
denly hisses, ‘Watch this flash, “Ajax”!’ And
with that he rips in a vicious right, neat and
clean, to his own jaw!”
There followed a fitting climatic pause.
Out in the dusk the goat found voice, sudden,
plaintive and a thought derisive.
“ ’Twas just as I’m telling,” said Peter
defensively; “in two little piles on the table
were the originals of the letters to the Post
—both sides. Not being hopeful of finding
an enemy in the ordinary way, M&cMasters
had become his own, literally, y’ll observe.
Rut his acting of the parts came to be so
life-like and his published opinions of his
two selves so insulting, that confusion set in
and his unpeaceable temperament just natu-
rally ran away with him. The little man
was in a pretty mess, having got it both
ways, as' ye might say.”
Peter spat at the night. There was a cer-
tain dry appeal to the sound of it. As we
passed into the bar he spoke again.
“Mind, though,” he said, with an air of
conceding a small point, though in no wav
modifying his premises, “he was a peculiai
man, Mac Masters!”
A. M. HASESEN.


■s^
m
o
-'V
glfr **
i , ;!• - rit-
'_ -• 1 : .;: » [., ■
,-f', r '3*r*A
sW 1 ' f "'
' I
<*■*
. ■ <-*
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIHGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST. N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Refrigerating 8 Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPEN I) ABI LIT Y counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not oniv to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
WIL.DRI
97 Pitt Street, Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
Discard cuticle scissors. Try
this modem Cutex way of
removing surplus cuticle.
two things
V Iv
and your nails will look professionally manicured
ALL that made manicuring slow and
JTx. diincult has been done away with.
You don’t have to soak your nails—
you don't have to cut the cuticle.
The quickest, easiest manicure
Give yourself a Cutex manicure.
First dip the end of the orange stick
in Cutex Cuticle Remover, work, care-
fully around the nail base, then rinse.
The hard dry edges of dead cuticle
will simply wipe away. Then spread
the Polish on the soft part of the hand
and burnish by passing the nails
lightly over it or, if you want a still
quicker, brighter lustre, coat each nail
lightly with Cutex Liquid Polish.
You can form no idea of how quick
and easy Cutex has made manicuring
until you have given it a trial.
Cutex manicure sets are in four size 3
the “Compact,” “The" Five Minute,”
the “Travelling,” and the “Boudoir”—
all daintily packed and containing every-
thing needed for a perfect manicure.
They may be obtained at leading chem-
ists and stores throughout Australia.
Valdemar Petersen, 379 Kent Street,
Sydney, 382 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
Sole Distributor for Australia.
Manicure Set for 1J-
For 1/- we will send you the Cutex
Introductory Set, containing sufficient
Cutex preparations for at least six
manicures. Use the coupon below.
NORTHAM WARREN,
Dept. 8.2,
370 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Name
Street and No
Town
NORTHAM WARREN
379 Kent St., Sydney
m
The Proof
of a
Cartridge
is the Shooting
YOU cannot afford to let inferior shotgun
cartridges spoil your day’s shooting.
The best you can buy are well worth the price because you
can depend on them to do the work swiftly and accurately.
This means good priming, even loads, close patterns
and —best of all —the Remington special “wetproof’*
process. All this brings SATISFACTION at the close
of the day’s shoot.
Shotgun cartridges of different brands may look alike,
but shooting puts them to the test.
rr-rin
Try Remington, and
D '* see the difference !
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
P. O. Box 686, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
IHlfJlfill l|
inn (111
*»
illiiilllllll
""Mlm
...mil .
-•Hlllllll W
llllllllllin
WMm
111 Kill
1 I
.llllllli
t
Ui
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-Drink which maintains
health a d strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK’S daily. It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Mi k. Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold w iter only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK S MALTED MILK CO.
SLOUGH, BUCKS, ENQ.
rj invp'*
Ss;
In 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
HAWAII
THt YEAR 'ROUND PLAYGROUND
in September
and October
has a delightful climate for outdoor
sports and sightseeing. It is a land of
endless variety; sea and beach, mountain
and forest, marvellous volcanic regions.
You find here tropic fruits, trees and
c :
flowers at their best.
Golf, swimming,
surfing, motoring, ten-
nis and tramping may
be enjoyed every day
in the year.
Booklet from nearest
travel or ticket agency,
or write direct to
Department B,
HAWAII TOURIST
BUREAU,
Box 241 G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bbitisii Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containiag
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
It makes
you want to write.
Waterman’s Ideal, because of
its smooth and easy action,
makes you want to write and
to keep on writing. It is the
link that binds many a friend-
ship, and for that reason alone
is worth many times its price.
Waternfran < ’s
(Ideal)
FountmnPen
Three Types: Self-Filling, Safety, and
Regular. Of Stationers and Jewellers
everywhere.
l. g. Sloan Ltd.. Corner
King way, Lo don, England.
AUSTRALIA: HAROLD D. DIXON,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
add hoping if you
to succeed
■
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.


however willing,
are no match for
Machinery
I
%
>*
THE wise farmer of to-day lets a CASE Tractor do the job.
By this means he not only accomplishes twice as much in an
average working day, but can work into the night when
necessary to beat the weather.
The CASE never tires, is ready for Service at a moment’s notice,
and will do ploughing, harrowing, harvesting, hauling, and belt
work cheaper and better. Read what an owner says:—
r . ... ~ , “Bering," LEIGHTON.
L.A.i>.L. Limited, Adelaide. 30 th August, 1922.
.J n answer to your letter asking for reference to Case Tractors /
wish to say that: The Case Tractor can easily do the work of two
to-horse teams. Wishing you every success, with your Tractors.
Yours truly, ( Signed) ALAN G. DREW.
This man is one of the many satisfied Australian farmers who testify to the money-saving
qualities of the - 3 ®
CASE
Kerosene, Farm and General Purpose Tractor
CASE
POWER - FARMING
MACHINERY is ob-
tanable from the fol-
lowing:—
Branches :
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Kadina
NEW SOUTH WALES:
17 Martin Place, Sydney
VICTORIA:
Clarke Bldgs., 430 Bourke
Street, Melbourne
WEST. AUSTRALIA:
7 & 8 Bank N.S.W. Orbs.,
St. George’s Tee., Perth
WEST. AUSTRALIA:
Sole Selling Agents:
Westralian Farmers Ltd.
QUEENSLAND:
289-291 Queen Street,
Brisbane
Branch being opened in
TASMANIA.
This Tractor wi 11
open up entirely new
conditions of farm-
ing for You. Inves-
tigate the CASE
to-day.
:
'factor that
ows no
mil
(ii!
Srffl
I'iwt
IHli
mminmmiiunmm
flHil
mull
: - :
Sole Australian Agent»
Commonwealth Agricultural Service
LIMITED
H»ad Office: S3-S7 MORPHETT STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Branches throughout Australia !
ngmeer?
V
vo*
4T
«*<sr
v
o°
Taylor 15
