

MOTOR
ARE
INDISPENSABLE to ALL MOTORISTS
Made and Guaranteed by the World’s Largest Accessory Institution.
Rarely will Products be found so Honestly Constructed Throughout.
gf
The Speedometer is the most accurate speed and
mileage recorder ever constructed.
PRICE £4/10/-
The Searchlight is widely used. The majority of
motorists have recognised its superior qualities and
installed it.
PRICE £2/12/6
Vacuum System—feeds fuel to the carburetter automati-
cally and evenly under any and all motoring conditions.
PRICE £5
Warning Signal—a most powerful and effective asset.
Its diaphragm and projector are identical with those
of the trench signal.
PRICE £2/5/-
Hand-operating Warning Signal is the highest-grade
on the market. Slight pressure on the plunger produces
a vibrant, penetrating sound.
PRICE £l/17/6
gf
Obtainable from leading wholesale and retail accessory dealers throughout Australia,
including the following Interstate Distributors:—
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., Pitt Street, Sydney; BERRY & ROCHE PTY., LTD.,
239 Swanston Street, Melbourne; MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., 299 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane; CORNELL, LTD., 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide; ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, Perth.
gf
ƒ
gf
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2207.
Thursday, June 1, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney,’ N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1922 Circulating library Catalogue
now ready. Posted free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
"428 George Street, City.
Some Coughs take a lot of “ shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
S . "
a ■
Ni
L
CQUW
COUGHS
WU^
LUNG
Tjm/Bua
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
©
NO
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSACHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
awaa
ill
ij ra
-
Do Not Leave it to Chance.
Make sir-e that your power transmission is perfect
by inst:i. "™ the belt of proven dependability,
MANGROV,i. E LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING.
Mangrovite belts are tanned by experts, from the
centre cuts of selected Australian Ox Hides, and are
celebrated for the excellent bull-dog grip they
maintain on the pulleys.
Our staff of belting engineers is maintained for your
convenience and is competent to handle every belting
problem. Order Mangtpvite ■ now.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD..
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director, %
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.-
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 597 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth. ; :
TASMANIA : Henry Clark k Co. Ptv., Ltd., Hobart. ;1
QUEENSLAND: Philip FrankeltA Co., Ltd., Brisbane. :■
df
PURE
BREAKFAST
•>,A
THE ENERGY MAKER
FRY’S CHOCOLATE
“For Quality and Flavor.’
Hudson’s Eumenthol
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and
the Prevention of Consumption,
® \
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
-
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a. Dissec-
ted Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
CAUTION.—-The large .sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the- name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
ifuilmv.fp buyi , ng 3Ure and Set
HUDSON S Eumenthol Jujubes. You mav
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen,
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only ;be .sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
. So J d everywhere, tins 1/6;..0r forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Red Page
Palestrina and Polyphony
Amid all the press cries of ecstasy directed'
at the Sistine Choir it is worth inquiring
into the significance of the polyphonic church
music, worth asking what its place and
value are in the creation and advancement
•of the human consciousness. For such an.
inquiry it is of no significance what miracle
of tone or nuance in voice the choir are able
to produce. That is a question of their
natural gifts and training, not of the music
they sing. Spiritually, one performance of
a Beethoven Symphony by the State Orches-
tra is of more value than- a million con-
certs by Melba at which she sings Tosti’s
“Good-bye” and “Home, Sweet Home.”
Virtuosity and ’executive ability are of no
significance; but they are a vile nuisance
by reason of the way in which they muddle
all efforts at valuations in art. The clever
executant at a piano pleases the public in
the same way as a juggler or a trick bicycle-
rider, and in the final analysis is of no more
spiritual value. At a concert in Sydney- a
few weeks ago one of the most applauded
items was an imitation of a musical-box —just
as mechanical and just as ugly and unin-
teresting as the original, but the audience
was delighted with it.
During those ages of Faith —or of Terror
and Darkness—when barbarism destroyed
the Roman civilisation, the only centre of
any stability or order was the Church'. A
dim tradition of culture struggled down the
centuries in the Church, since, in the monas-
teries and abbeys there was at least a certain
amount of quiet and safety, while outside
were violence and sudden death. In music
the Greek, modes were preserved and fitted
to the services of the Church. Out of the plain
song developed the polyphonic harmonies of
the later masses and so on, by giving each
voice its melody; but at this the develop-
ment stayed and decided to remain for eter-
nity. When secular influences began to
appear, it was considered by the. Council of
Trent whether, the whole thing should not
be abolished, and it was only through Pales-
trina’s “purified” examples that it was de-
cided to continue. The Church’s opposition
to development is shown by the fact that, as
ears got better and a feeling for cadence
arose, the semi-tones introduced were sung,
but not written —the Cantus Fictus.
In the poßphonic form of the masses
where each voice is written so as to produce
a complete volume of sound without any one
voice dominating the others, there can be no
real form, but at most only a lump of form
without genuine definition of emotion or
idea. It is monody, the modern harmonic
form, that alone allows the expression of
personal emotion, the analysis and definition
of developing emotion and thought. The
difference between Palestrina and Beethoven
is the difference between an Egyptian bas-
relief and the Hermes of Praxiteles. There
can be nothing sensuous—and, therefore, no
definition —no dance (using dance in the
high sense, in the sense in which the Seventh
Symphony is a dance), in short, no Life, in
pure polyphony ; but only a vague and unde-
fined emotion without content which may
easily pass for ecstasy with those whose
minds are equally vague and undefined.
In one of the Sydney daily papers the
critic described how a friend of his who
had often tried in vain to get any emotion or
sense out of orchestral music went by chance
to a concert of the Sistine Choir, was rav-
ished with joy and went to every other con-
cert. This naivctd, . of course, does not vin-
dicate the valfie of the music, but puts it in
its place as primitive and valueless except
for a primitive mentality. This man who
could not understand Beethoven could under-
stand Palestrina because Palestf-ina was very
near to him, while Beethoven’s music
laughed from a thousand worlds away. To
the vague mind what is vague seems clear,
while what is defined absolutely is the merest
Chinese puzzle. In the same way Mr.
Okakura, a Japanese authority on art, discov-
ered in Europe that the only works he could
find interesting or intelligible were Byzan-
tine mosaics and the French and Italian
primitives. This would not, as Mr. Roger
Fry, who tells the story, thinks, raise the
Byzantine and primitive art to the mar-
vellous pinnacle of Japanese art. It merely
puts Japanese art with the other primitive
expressions in a common dustbin.
Polyphony may be useful for certain mass-
ing effects, or, more doubtfully, sometimes as
a kind of screen of form: but as a general
thing we would condemn’'polyphony in the
sense of the Palestrina, mass. ’Let it rest
there, and if the people wish to get ecstatic
and formless emotions- out of it, let them
do so for the rest of time. But no one
with any artistic sense should talk about
the sublimity and majesty of the-work. One
chord off the' Ninth Symphony silences all
the masses ever written. Palestrina has no
value at all for the modern world. Let the
Debuss.vs and the MoussorgSkys find in-
spiration im the old tonality, the old modes.
In a different way Debussy achieves the same
spiritual vacuity as the strict pblyphonic
writers: though one seems most fluid and
the other most restricted and solid. Both
are equally vague and barren, and, therefore,
equally unmysterious, for each lacks the con-
crete definition of sensuous and passionate
form in which lies mystery. • To respond to
Palestrina is to express a primitive men-
tality, just as it would be to respond to
Giotto and Cimabue: though in a generation,
that is proud of having reached a primitive
Sensibility in all the arts, such a cry may
well go unregarded.
It is Monteve'rde' to whom we turn with
our gratitude, small though the absolute
value of his work may be. To him more
than anyone else do we owe the introduc-
tion of the diminished seventh, the unpre-
pared discords, the use of which led inevit-
ably away from old ecclesiastical modes to
the modern major and minor scales, and to
symmetrical form. Where Palestrina marks
a blind alley (for the function of the Church
as a passive, sheltering body fn a barbarous*
society was over, and Life had begun to open
its eyes again in the Renaissance). Monte-
verde represents freedom and the path to-
wards Beauty. Out of that development,
are born modern counterpoint and musical
form : the gaiety and light kisses, the powder
and patches and masquerade, of Mozart; the
immense and splendid passion of Life and
of Love, the drama'and defiance, s the immor-
tal laughter of dancing gods that is Beet-
hoven ; the sensuous warmth of lyric joy and
passion in Wagner. These are the inheritors
of the Greek tradition, not the polyphonic
masters; for these have the Greek sense of
Life and Beauty, the Greek passionate < ex-
pression-: just, as Shakspeare is far more bf
a Greek than Sophocles. That the Greek
modes in miisic are rejected means no more'
than the fact that the Greek chorus and
dramatic forms are rejected. It is the spirit
that counts ; and in our three invoked gods
of music the spirit remains.
JEAN ANDRADE.
Publishers and Profits
The ease with which the sales of Hutchiu-
soiij.’s “If Winter Comes” absolutely punc-
ture the,hoary saying that. “People are sick,
of books about the war” (it has reached a
combined sale, in England and America, of
half-a-million copies) makes one wonder as
to the extraordinary figures that have been
given about other books. You may not be
surprised if people utterly refuse to believe
them, unless they are confirmed by a * sight
of the publishers’ books; but a statement of
a member of the American publishing firm
of Little, Brown and Co., in addressing the
annual convention of the American Library
Association, is astounding. He declared
that up to the beginning of the year
Gene Stratton Porter sold 8,132,432 books.
Harold Bell Wright ~ 7,250,000 „
Joseph G. Lincoln „ 3,500,000 „
E. Phillips Oppenheim „ 2,000,000 „
outside the United States.
He also said that in 1920 Zane Grey
topped the list with a million copies annu-
ally, while Mary Roberts Rinehart was in
the 300,000-a-year class, and the late “O.
Henry” reached the 4,500,000 mark. These
figures cannot be doubted, and they show a
great advance since “Richard Carvel” made
the record of 059,000 ift a year.
Times have changed a good deal since
John Milton sold his “Paradise Lost” for
£5, or when, 100 years later, Oliver Gold-
smith subsisted mainly on small loans be-
cause his writing did not pay. Most
of Edgar Allan Poe’s tales earned five
dollars apiece, and Henry Murger’s “Bo-
hemian Life” (still selling) brought the
author a total payment of about £4. Dickens
and Thackeray felt the change that Was be-
ginning. Dickens, a great spendthrift, and
unable to get a penny from his books
printed in America, must have earned ten
thousand pounds a year, and left nearly
one hundred thousand pounds. Thackeray
sold the copyright of “Esmond” for one thou-
sand pounds, but he lived to take one hun-
dred pounds for every one of the short
“Roundabout Papers” in the Corniiill
Magazine. '
The Frenchmen of that day were care-
less with money, which came to them so
easily; and Alexandre Dumas, who must
have made, in Ins golden years, anything be-
tween ten thousand and twenty thousand per
annum, was often actually penniless. Balzac,
owing to his longing for frantic speculations,
often mortgaged his brains before using
them. Eugene ,Sue was paid four thousand
pounds for the, serial rights of his “Mys-
teries of Paris” ; and the rush was not to
buy the newspapers, but to take out a copy
at a payment of ten sous per half-hour!
With the eighteen-eighties a change began.
Archibald Clavering Gunter wrote a novel
entitled “Mr. Barnes of New York” which
was “turned down” by nearly all the pub-
lishing houses in America. He refused to
accept their verdict, and brought it out at his
own expense, and actually disposed of two
million copies. George Du Maurier dropped
his London Punch pencil and tried, on the
advice of an American, his hand at a novel.
“Peter Ibbetson” just paid its way ; then
he wrote “Trilby,” mainly on his own ex-
periences, with that telling picture of Fred
Walker, an English painter, and the book
was enormously successful. He wrote an-
other, “The Martian,” which was a complete
failure, although ten thousand pounds was
the *f>rice paid for the American rights only.
R. L. Stevenson was but poorly paid during
his life; but at his death the royalties
amounted to five thousand pounds year after
year.
Our recent visitor, Sir A. Conan Doyle,
was hardly paid at all until the first Sher-
lock Holmes story, “A Study in Scarlet,”
brought him £25. Later, the serial rights
alone for these stories paid him, Bs. per vrord.
Mr. Booth Tarkington’s “Monsieur Beau-
caire” was a tale of only 11,000 words; gnd
he has not been able to keep count of the
earnings from it as serial, book, play and
opera libretto.
Do many of these huge profits find; their
way to writers who have never left Aus-
tralia? There is one man who has had th«
luck to write a pogm which is going round
the world earning princely sums for him
while be quietly resides in a country place
some 20 miles from Melbourne. Perhaps
Mr. C. J. Dennis could let us know. Or
must we wait till after his death?
H. H. CHAMPION.
Fiction for Export
The Australian novel struggles painfully
under the handicap of having to address
itself primarily to a public overseas. It is
a big handicap, and it has not been lessened
in recent years ; rather the reverse. A little
while ago the publication of a novel was
not a very serious undertaking, and a char-
acteristically Australian book might have
hoped to slip through. Now it would have
very little chance. The publisher, to pay
costs, has to be sure .of a minimum circula-
tion of 3000 instead of 1000, and conse-
quently looks solely for something that will
have an immediate anneal for the patrons of
English circulating libraries.
No need to demonstrate what that means!
Tt practically rules out the genuine Austra-
lian novel that takes its native setting for
granted and tries, to render it sincerely.
(Continued on page 53.)


*
nee
Gifts for the Home are Best Bought
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
CX22B—Teapot, Silver-plated
on Britannia Metal, plain de-
sign, with lines, 2-pint size.
Price 45/-
Here are suggestions, typical of Anthony Horderns’
wide range of choice and keen prices, yet only touch-
ing the fringe of the shopping delight in store for
those who wisely choose Gifts for the home—and
all sorts of other Gifts, too, at The House of Economy.
Compare quality and price of these goods, and you
will be convinced that they represent an exceptional
opportunity.
CXl3B—Hot-water Kettle, Silver-
plated on Britannia Metal, engraved
festoon design, 2-pint size.
Price £5/10/-
CX27l—Teapot, Silver-plated
on Britannia Metal, plate
flute design, 2-pint size.
Price 50/-
CX272— Teapot, Silver-plated on
Britannia Metal, plain design.
2-pint size.
Price 35/-
CX234 — Teapot, Silver-plated, on
nia Metal, 2-pint size.
Price
Britan-
-45/-
CX255 Candle-
Stick, Silver-
plated on Britan*-
nia Metal, plain
fluted design.
Price. . 22/6
C X 7 9 Dinner
Crudt, Silver-
plated on Nickel
Silver, 4 Cut
Glass Bottles
aomplete with
Mustard Spoon.
Price . . 45/-
CX293—Cake
Silver-plated
Silver.
2-Tier
Stands,
on Nickel
47/6
CX292—Cake Basket, Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver,
diameter Sfin.
Price 50/-
Carriage Paid on Silver-
plate in N.S.W., and to
the nearest Port on Inter-
state Orders.
C X 1 3 7 Biscuit
Barrel, English
Oak, Silver-plated
on Nickel Silver
Mounts.
Price .... 35/-
CXl22—Sugar Scuttle and
Scoop, Silver-plated ou
Britannia Metal, pretty
chased design.
Price
30/-
CX795 Breakfast
Cruet, Silver-plated
on Nickel Silver, 3
Cut Glass Bottles.
Price .. . 25/-
C X 2 75
CX27s—Salt Cellars, Silvep-plated on Nickel Silver,
bowls gilt inside, complete with spoons.
Price 19/6 pair
CX2G3 —Afternoon Tea Spoons
and Sugar Spoon ( in case).
Price 30/-
CX324— Toast Rack, Sil-
ver-plated on Nickel Sil-
CX362—Bread Platter,
plated on Nickel Silver
with turned-up edge.
Price
Silver-
plain
25/6
l sfZ:
a 3l|
ia*b
Ml?
II
rsr
CX378—Cake Forks, in Silk-lined
cases, newest designs.
Price 25/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
Telephone: City 9440.


Choose an
Autographic RODAR
m
m
:
im
■
Any picture that is worth making is worth
dating, and titling, too —and the easiest way of
doing this is by the Autographic device —standard
equipment on all Kodaks, Folding Brownies, and
some models of the Graflex.
This device is the most notable advance in photo-
graphy during the last twenty years, and without
it no film camera can be considered completely
equipped.
The No. 2 Folding Autographic
Brownie folds like a Kodak and works
like a Kodak, but with the Brownie
trait of extreme simplicity of opera-
tion. It is light in weight, attractive
in construction and autographic—
—makes pictures 2j x inches.
Price 52/6.
A popular Autographic Kodak is the
No. la, with its notable high qilalit.v
of materials, workmanship, finish and
design. It adequately meets the
needs of the amateur —is autographic
—makes pictures 24 x 41 inches —and
is priced at £6/11/0. Other Auto-
graphic Kodaks from 47/0.
The new, complete Kodak Catalogue is sent post free to any address (except X.Z.) for 6d. in stamps
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 2'>(l-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley; 87'Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Butinen Street.
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Kockhampton ; Optical and IMioto Supplies
Co., Berth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Why ARE His Master’s Voice
the most famous Instruments
in the World?
Such fame is not thrust upon an unworthy
instrument —it is the outcome of a constant
adherence to the highest standard of quality.
The perfection to which “His Master s Voice has
attained is the reason why the greatest artists choose
it to reproduce their gifts.
They record with it exclusively, and test and approve
their records before sending them out to give joy to
the world and to you.
When you want to hear the celebrities as they wish to
be heard, play “His Master’s Voice” Records on an
“His Master’s Voice” Instrument with “His Master’s
Voice” Needles. Thus you will obtain the best results.
ss
yy.
wm
His Master's Voic
I
m
S
P
n
c JKe most famous
Musicaflnstruments
m tfielforM
‘•'His Master’s Voice” Instruments, each one peer-
less in tone and handsome in design, range in
price from 11 guineas to 91 guineas.
Write for Instrument Catalogue, Record
Lists and name of nearest dealer.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
[7ix Master'? Vnire‘
Head. Tmiie-mmk.
“Gramophone”
Uegd. Trade mark.


PINRETTES
FOR KIDDIES
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DO YOU KNOW THAT ADD THE
NEW DRESSES ARE WORKED
WITH THE
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER?
It works on any material.
21/- Complete Outfit.
lull directions with every machine.
Instruction Riven at address below.
Send a stumped envelope for a A* REE
• specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTJ.ES.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
d
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
•«
“A Woman’s Glory is her hair,”
and one of the most desirable
beauty assets is hair of
Rich Walnut Shade
go easily obtained with
DR. ALLEN S
WALNUT STAIN
Harmless to the skin. Per-
manent and waterproof. All
Chemist*.
ďa
f
Tooth Paste
ECONOMICAL
AND EFFECTIVE.
Price is not the only attraction in
Eudenta Tooth Paste, for it is a
Dentrlfrice that is refreshingly
fragrant, and an antiseptic of no
mean order.
Your Chemist
Sells it at
1/- tube.
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
FLAG BRAND
Cutlery.
m
Ulster
Cff/‘nto.i><isn
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
Nover requires cleanly, and hoi; 1 " a good cutting edge.
Also. Pocket and Pen Knives, with Rustless and Stainless Blades.
If unable to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York St.ret. Sydney.
y
nil !!,
A
nii|i
lillM
Vi
lil'iw!
Bsjjlji
IM.WH
mb
TClrijite
The hot-water service supreme.
MALLEYS’ COMPLETE SERVICE
This is a system for several rooms in the one home, and for efficiency and
comfort has no equal. Hot water at the turn of a faucet in your bath-
room, kitchen, laundry and bedrooms all at the same time. No trouble
whatsoever—no bother —no big gas bills — no danger. Fully described
in our special booklet, copy of which will be posted free from Dept. B.
Tdeal for home, hotel, boarding-house, hospital, etc. Demonstrations daily.
I 111 I
Jlfttillei/cf
66Liverp00l Ken ( St,
a. few steps from
d
ďfd
A “SWAN” Pen is more than a con-
venience for busy writers; it is a
necessity. It is the pen which
never needs coaxing, for its reliable feed
ensures a steady flow of ink the instant
the nib touches the paper. Never a scratch,
blot or awkward break in the middle of a
word; ju t a smooth, easy glide —that’s
what the “ Swan” Pen means to YOU.
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Self-filling Patterns, Standard Patterns,
Safety Patterns. Illustrated List post] free
MABIE, TODD 8 Co., Ltd.,
Swan House, 133-135, Oxford Street,
London, W.l
Manchester, Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Sydney,
Toronto and Cape Town. Associate House:
Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
ď
Australian Branch (Wholesale):
J. A. BURKE 5, Primrose Buildings, 255 a, George St.. SYDNEY.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My South Sea Isle.
A palm-girt Isle I know which lies
Under the lambent fire
Of turquoise-tinted, sun-shot Southern
skies,
Where spray-starred pinions poise and lift
and flash
Above a sparkling sea,
And mighty combers thunder down and
crash
Upon the barrier reef in devilry!
Sailormen, O Sailormen !
I wonder when we’ll know again
The trade-wind’s song as it sweeps along
Where the red dawns smile
On my South Sea Isle!
1 wonder when....
Dear Isle, 1 love your limpid rills
And those joy-liaunted clefts
Down faery . vales hibiscus-gemmed; your
hills
And wind-whipped shores and cliffs and the
white flocks
Of sun-mad gulls in flight
O-’er painted pools within whose sorrel
crocks
The colored fish swim in blue-opal light !
Sailormen, O Sailormen!
I wonder when we’ll know again
The night refrain of the tropic rain,
When the pink .stars shine
On my Isle Divine !
I wonder when....
N.S.W.
NIYA BECKE.
The Breaking Storm.
The storm is whistling in the trees,
A rainbow spans the hill;
And down the gully’s rocky knees
The sunlit waters spill.
The earth has drunk and drunk again.
The waving bush is seen
Pale gold and crimson in the rain
Above the tender green.
All week the dripping leaves have cried
To skies of cloudy grey,
“The teeming land is satisfied.
Call back the sun to play !”
And now he comes, through rifts of blue,
To dance with wind and shower.
As if his great beams never knew
Their fierce midsummer power.
The jewelled morning glitters wide.
The clocks are striking seven —
The world walks like a radiant bride
Across a glade of Heaven.
N.S.W.
D.M.W.
The Other Road.
The air was full of morning scent,
The sun in splendor glowed:
To left and right the highways went—
And he must choose his road,
And choose he did without a pause,
Though folly ’twas in truth;
Yet. right the cause or wrong the cause,
’Twas ever thus with youth.
’Tis only when grey hairs awake
Grim thoughts that men repine;
He took the way the rovers take
And, singing, found it tine.
Large freedom, ample space it gave
Whereon to set his feet,
Fair founts whereat to drink and lave,
Sweet shade and shine as sweet.
Not built by men, nor paved with stone,
Now lit, and now unlit,
It journeyed on, and Time alone
Took measurement of it.
Up hill and down, and down and up,
lie trod it. blithe and gay.
Content to sit, at bite and sup,
With strollers by the way.
In wayside glens and sunny glades,
Knee-deep in grass and flowers.
With singing men and dancing maids,
He passed the glowing hours.
He took no heed of chance nor change,
Nor how the winds might blow ;
Most folk he met —by all that’s strange !—■
In cap and bells did go.
From fall of dew to crow of cock
Their tavern-tumult rang—
A motley flock, a foolish flock,
They danced, and diced and sang.
But now and then, when joy was rife
And pleasure thrilled him through.
It seemed there was another life,
And other things to do.
And once it fell that, as he drank,
And drank again, and laughed,
A Tapster, grim and grey and lank,
Gave him a subtle draught.
Nor red. nor white, nor sweet it was,
But bitter, like to gall;
And even as he drank, alas!
A change came over all.
He paled and drew apart, and then,
His heart a leaden load.
He heard the march of serious men
Upon the Other Road —
That march which nought might stay or
stem,
Nor ills, nor aches, nor cares.
He could not be as one of them,
Nor match his pace with theirs!
Far back, leagues off, now dim, now bright,
He saw a moving host.
Two roads that ran to left and right,
And Fate their finger-post.
No more with spirits bright and free
And light of foot he strode:
Yet were they happier than he
Who trod the Other Road? .
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


No. 3036 — 16 in. Sudan Bowl
, V
,V
No. 7350 — 10 in. Decolite Bowl
m
■ " '
No. 1311—Decorated Roselle
Bowl
No. 01183 — 11/in. Veluria Bowl
m
*
L
Xa2l
41^0
tf
fim
U
I !/1
w >
m
=* /
W/
Uui ~
VS
' s: Cr^c
r
\S
Combination Semi-indirect
pendant Cittincjj*.
*>J*RXr
Better Lighted
is Half Furnished
How often have you
noticed the “tout en-
semble of an otherwise
artistically furnished home
ruined by defective light-
ing.
The colorings of tapestries,
carpets and furnishings
may be in perfect harmony
—but the lighting posi-
tively repels—it jars.
Modern lighting improve-
ments will provide atmo-
sphere tone, and color to
harmonise with any sur-
roundings.
Artistic lighting is planned
so that color is felt rather
than seen; it should
pro-
vide atmosphere without
forcing itself upon one as a
color.
The correct application of
lighting will provide dis-
tinctive atmosphere at less
expense than any other
expenditure of furnishing.
Proper lighting spreads
the mystic spell when G.E.
lamps are used.
The exquisite design of
G.E. fittings adds charm,
grace and beauty to in-
terior decorations. They
are elegant in color and
contour, enabling you to
attain harmonious lighting
effects.
f
G . h. Guarantee of excellence on
goods electrical.
Our Brochure with suggestions on
lighting gladly mailed.
d
Australian General Ftectric Cd lixT
i Garner Wentworth Avenue i CoulbumSt
I- • •
ďaf
d
Phone: City JSIO Box 2517 G.P.O
Phctxie : Cen. 2646 Box 538 G. P.O.
AGENTS
BRISBANE—The Engineering Supply
Co. of Australia Ltd. (E.S.C.A.)
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.’
TAS.—Oliver & Oliver, Hobart and
Launceston.
ADELAIDE—CharIes Atkins & Co.,
Ltd., Cotrrie Street.
PERTH—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.),
Limited, “Mazda” House, 894 Hay St.
No. 1209 — 13in. Tchiria Bowl
( etclicd )
No. 313 — 12 in. Veluria Bowl.
v,;-?.,..
No. 0389 —l6in. Veluria Bowl
k ■ ■-?
m
■■V
No. 3031 — lJfin. Druid Bowl.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Von. 43.—N0. 2207.
THURSDAY; JUNE 1, 1922.
Price 6d.
THE LYING LABEL.
“This will positively and permanently prevent drunkenness, crime and poverty in Australia."
“Has it prevented them in your country?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
•‘Alistrdlid fdr the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleod,, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tub
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydnev. N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne OFFicis: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ant address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 18s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 155.; 8 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
reiused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words ; are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Lei(ers or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded ds strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is fofwdrded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Thb Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and W'liite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received aie those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Cordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, (6 Fleet Street,
London, E,C.; “The British-Australasian,” ol Sign
Holboin, London, W.Cil:
South Africa. —The Central News Agency; Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others. .
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., khl Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
USA. — Chicago: J. Roland hay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentanos. nth Avenui
and 27th Street, Now York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington..
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn ife Co., jfie Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt. . .
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., I edder Street,
llong Kong. „ , .
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore. „ .... .
Ceylon.—lE. G. P. Perera. 16 Bailhe Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo. . , _ , ~ ,
Vatu a.—-Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva: narry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon & Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
U.S.A.—J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Ene Street,
N, Michigan floulevtirde, Chicago-.
Postitfeti ItateS.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as d
newspaper ) .* —Throughout the Commonwealth : 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: ho::.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
Ail Sea Route: 1605., lid. United States: i t oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere : 2oz. or part thereof, Id.
THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 1922.
A REVOLT AGAINST THE BOLSHIE.
Tug last Federal Labor Conference, and
the Trade Union Congress which preceded
it, were dominated by noisy nonentities Who
—the opposition being faint-hearted, or think-
ing more Of “solidarity” than of Australia —
pitt the brand of Bolshevism Oh the A.L.P.
Congress committed itself _ to the whole
Marxian doctrine, as revised by the I. W.YV.
and by Lenin and Trotsky— socialisation,
revolutionary action* dictatorship of the pro-
letariat and all the rest of it, Conference,
in which there was ah infusion of politicians
with one eye on the A.L.P, executive and
the other on the ballot-box, rejected the
“take-ahd-hold” part of the programme,
which would have alienated every thritty
elector’s vote, and managed to get the
I.W.W. preamble ruled out of order. But
it gave its adhesion to the "socialisation
of the means of production, distribution ana
exchange,” which is Bolshevism without
the*Red Army, and declared its Russo-Ger-
man moonshine to be the objective of Aus-
tralian Labor in place of “the development ot
an enlightened community,” self-reliant and
white . The revolt against the infatuated
arrogance which imposed this hopeless
policy on a party which is nothing if not
Australian has been long in coming, but it
has taken shape at last. It was announced
the other day that the N. S. M ales Laboi
politicians, Commonwealth and State, would
work unitedly at the local A.L.P. Conference
for the rejection of the new objective m
favor of the old. The idea at the back of
this manoeuvre is to get nd of sodalisa
tion” before the Commonwealth election.
To secure the co-operation of other States
beside N. S. Wales a series of special con-
fesses, each with its is proposed.
This is a definite movement of hostility
in the Bolshevisation of Labor by the
bumptious afacl uoisy minority which
has become powerful beyond its deserts
and beyond its numerical strength since
1917. The object may not be imme-
diately attained, for time is limited
and Labor conferences are uncertain quan-
tities ; besides; the Bolshies - have many
adherents among the union-official class and
control most of the Labor papers. But the
struggle against Leninism with the lid on —
given a favorable opportunity the lid would
certainly come off—is a necessary process in
the purification of the party. It is a sign
Of returning sanity and eburage,- and tliere
is hope for the A.L.P. yet. For a Bolshev-
ised A.L.P. there would be no hope what-
ever; It is impossible to imagine free Aus-
tralians subinitting to the iron gospel accord-
ing to LenlN; Or conceding anything more
than the amused tolerance bestowed on Cali-
thiimpians ahd Christian Israelites to the
party that espoused it. The British Labor
party dallied with feolshevism until it dis-
covered that that, high-sounding phrase “the
dictatorship of the proletariat” was .being
used as a screen for a ruthless conscription
of labor. Then, as Sir Ronald Ross tells
the story, it turned away from Moscow in
disgust:—
Theologians declare that there is one unforgivable
sin. To Englishmen, the one unforgivable sin is to
oppose liberty. Labor has often charged that sin
against Capital, but when it discovered that the
very system in Russia which had abolished Capital
stood for industrial slavery, it parted company with
Communism. Silently, but without hesitation or
doubt, it rejected Communism for ever.
Australian Labor is also rejecting Com-
munism, but not for the reason mentioned by
Ross. Considering the fury with which the
dominant section of the party opposed mili-
tary conscription lii its own country, it
has been surprisingly indifferent to the con-
scription of the Russian proletariat by the
motley horde of German Jews and Tartars
whose Oriental system of government Aus-
tralia is urged to copy. That pitiless assault
on the liberty of “our Russian comrades” has
not shaken the allegiance of the zealots who
were foremost in the fight against the 1916
and 1917 referenda. Neither has it had
much effect on weak-kneed persons like those
A.W.U. leaders who* while not personally
inclined to Bolshevism, were Willing for the
sake of harmony, to “give it a fly.” Labor
is cleansing itself from the Bolshevist taint
because it is convinced (1) that the system
would never be tolerated by the Australian
people, and (2) that it has reduced a once-
flourishing country to a state of misery and
desolation unequalled in Europe since the
Thirty Years’ War.
The local Bolshies, a brass-fronted and
thick-hided lot, have learnt nothing from the
ruin of Russia. It hasn’t induced them
either to modify their programme or aban-
don their propaganda for a season. While
the Soviet Government, which has “national-
ised banking and credit,” is appealing to “the
capitalist nations” for a loan of 360 millions
in goid, ptiiS the cancellation of all debts due
to them and their nationals, and the con-
fiscation of all their Russian property i and
while millions of the stricken people are
being fed by the charity of Britain, the
F.S.A. and France, and an army of sturdy
beggars for contributions to the famine relief
fund has been let loose in other countries,
the Commonwealth among the number, the
ffoqd, of articles and speeches in praise of
Bolshevism, that beautiful flower of Russian
culture which could easily be transplanted in
Australia, never teases; In Sydney on
May Day, and there was a
special outbreak. Orators from the Labor
Council, which is affiliated with Moscow,
invaded the Domain and expatiated on the
glories of Sovietism and the downtrodden
condition of the Australian wage-earner com-
pared with the moujik. One lunatic boasted
that before next May Day two Russian war-
ships, flying the Red Flag, and carrying
LEniN ahd Trotsky, if not their fortunes,
would be seen in Sydney Harbor. The day
following this orgy of rhodomontade a mourn-
ful cablegram from the LEnin Government,
setting forth that 20 millions of the Bolshed
nation were starving, and suggesting that
cadging operations in a capitalist C o ™ ll } o * l '
wealth should be speeded up, was handed to
the newspapers by Garden, the Labor Coun-
cil secretary. It had probably been with-
held from publication for a few fays, so as
m..t to.spoil the feast of treason and flow
of slush; The average Australian can see
a hole through a ladder; To ask him to
accept the policy of socialising
by force if necessary, at a time When the
nation which has gone the limit in that,
respect is begging the world to save it liom
perishing among the ruins is an out
rime on his intelligence. loi that reason
—the invincible antipathy of the average
iSrTom^the 11 Labor eS And
biT
useful enough within limits, has been dan
geiOUsly overdone. It has been employed to
such an extent that, without improving the
condition of the workers or preventing
strikes it has made government cumbrous,
Ei S m P „t tiCi He S i a S fnTvid"! S.S
but for the compulsory co-opeiation called
socialism, will, the m«ldlin* »
that seems inseparable from it, he! has no
use It is not in his nature to suffer iegi-
he prefers a system how-
ever imperfect, which gives full play to m
rHvidiial effort. For 31 years the Labor
rrirtv has tried him with one form of social-
sm and anXr. and the results have been
unimpressive. Now that the introspective
nrooess has begun it might occur to Laboi
to try him with something else something
that isn’t socialism at all.
IF N. S. WALES GOES MAD
\ S Wales’s main prospect of missing a
referendum on the Prohibition issue would
seem now to lie in the insincerity of its
politicians. Five members of the Ministry
call themselves prohibitionists, and a con-
siderable majority of the rank and file of
the Assembly is pledged to vote for a refer-
endum in terms of the Act which is already
on the Statute Book. Not pass a new
measure, be it noted, excluding the principle
of compensation —the electors gave no man-
date last March for such a piece of dis-
honesty as that-—-but give the State an
opportunity of saying, yes or no, if it is
prepared to raise £12,600,000, plus Prohibi-
tion-enforcement expenses, that the panacea
of Rev. R. B. Hammond and his friends will
be a success. Once the question is got
before the people it is not difficult to fore-
cast the tactics that will be employed
Genuine temperance reform and the practi-
calities of business and finance will be the
last considerations. The chief appeal will
be to racial and religious hatreds: it will be
argued that the Romanists and Sinn Feiners
are in favor of liquor and will be annoyed
if it is made an illegal commodity. And
Communists, flag-burners, Republicans,
I.W.W. blitherers and other unpopular
and numerically insignificant classes (whose
members have, in point of fact, most to
hope from Prohibition in the way of a revo.
tion of violence) will be held up to scorn
as the execrable friends of Booze. There is
a considerable section in N. S. Wales and
under the ministrations of expert anti-
liquor revivalists it is capable of vast, if
only temporary, enlargement —which never
votes for a principle but always for a preju-
dice. The art of propaganda may be
directed at this mentally inert, though emo-
tionally active, mass with fatal results to
real temperance and the prosperity of the
State. Add to their numbers the electors
who do not drink, and those who have alco-
holists for relations, and labor under the
delusion that Prohibition will prevent such
folks from getting drink, and it is obvious
that the Cold Tea party should mass a
powerful vote when it decides to move.
The emotional appeal (in Prohibition pro-
paganda it takes the form of teariul retei-
ences to the starving women and children,
as well as indignant cries at tne Romanist
or revolutionary publicans who are ruining
the breadwinners) always has an advantage
over the appeal to pure reason. A well-
known soldier said recently that if another
war started he would undertake to tackle
the most disillusioned Digger in the Com-
monwealth, and, by means of the old gags at
which every Digger is now either laugmng
or cursing, shame him into the nearest re-
cruiting-booth, No doubt the teat could
be accomplished. The human mind can be
inebriated with words as easily as the body
can be made drunk with whisky. If the pro-
hibitionists were compelled by law to confine
themselves to the commonsense of the situ-
ation as it presents itself in such a state
as N. S. Wales, their chances of success
would be negligible. Here is a State with
a vast war-debt, none of which has been
liquidated, and a debt for day-to-day ex-
penses (roads, railways, M.L.A. s screws,
and so 'forth) which grows bigger every
year; a budget which can only be balanced
by a super-tax; a record army of unem-
ployed ; a record number of over-crowded and
financially-embarrassed hospitals; a State
where industrial unrest is increasing while
industries are decreasing at the same tune
as a flood of German goods, turned out by
white men at coolie wage-rates, is being
diverted in our direction for the benefit of
those in funds, no doubt, but for the destruc-
tion of many who are merely in jobs. At
this crisis in the State’s fortunes, with e\eiy
sign of a big slump in the immediate offing,
the Gold Tea, people want the Government
to make a first borrowing of 12y millions
sterling in order to put their venture on its
feet. The raising of this sum for the cre-
ation of further unemployed will only be
the beginning of a plunge into almost un-
limited expenditure. When a measure gets on
the Statute Book of a self-respecting country,
and more especially, when, like 1 imbibi-
tion it is one of those measures to which
a great deal of attention has been drawn,
Governments cannot sit down and ignore its
existence, however much they may wish to
do so. They are driven, while the thing re-
mains in the Constitution, to make a valor-
ous show of enforcing it. It has been cal-
culated that the attempt to establish l ro-
hibition in the U.S. (admittedly a failure,
so far, except as regards some of the poor)
is costing the nation more, by and large,
than the Great War; Congress has just voted
an appropriation for Prohibition enforce-
ment of 1,600,000 dollars additional to the
huge sum recommended by its own commit-
tees; and new anti-drink laws, rules and
regulations are being made, and new super-
vising officials are being appointed every day.
The U.S., with most of the world s gold to
play with, can afford this vast expenditure,
and with a population of JOO millions it is
in a position to withdraw hundieds of thou-
sands of able-bodied men from productive
effort and turn them into liquor policemen.
But that is not the situation of N. b. Wales,
which finds it hard, these days, to borrow
the £lOOO which it requires to settle an
immigrant on the land. American States,
such as Maine, which tried to enforce dry-
ness at the same time as their neighbors
remained wet, inevitably became mean .
they remained poor and sparsely populated
while the Californias and New Yorks foiged
ahead. If N. S. Wales is foolish enough to
go drv Victoria (say) is extremely unlikely
to cut its financial throat by following suit;
and it will benefit, inter aha, by attracting
British immigrants who have a traditional
dislike of interferences with their liberty,
and all those Australian workers who cannot
be persuaded that to drink an occasional
glass of beer is a crime.
* * *
Almost every normal Australian elector
can see, now, when there are no Prohibition
spell-binders inflaming his heart and be-
fogging his intellect with nasal cries about
Rome starving children, Communism and the
rest, that real Prohibition is as visionary as
real Freetrade or real disarmament. A
majority of Australians know that after
generations of effort to make the scheme effi-
cacious in parts of M.L. and the U.S. it
is a mockery in those places still: that after
over “wo years’ heroic effort .from one end
of the U.S. to the other the highest expecta-
tions of some of the best of the reformers are
based on a hope against hope that a geneia
tion will eventually be born with no desire
for stimulants—a phenomenon which the
world has not known since ’-ecorded historv
began. Most Australians are aware that
during the past hundred years the British
race has grown steadily m temperance; and
that this upward movement is continuous.
The three-bottle man has almost vanished
from professional and commercial life in the
same way as the habitually drunken worker
has become a rarity in his sphere; the whole
development of modern life being against
them. The Australian, faced with the work of
the Victorian Licenses Reduction Board, as ex-
pressed in the Victorian drunkenness convic-
tion figures, realises that on the drink issue,
as on the betting issue, or the V.D. issue, or
the warfare issue, regulation and not prohi-
bition is the practical method. All these
truisms he understands, and is ready to
endorse, now, when the thunder of the pro-
hibitionist captains and the shouting of their
imported Yankee lieutenants are more or
less stilled. Unfortunately for the pros-
perity, if not solvency, of N. S. Wales, the
present hush is but the lull before a Pussy-
foot storm of great violence. And from the
moment it begins a great army of reputedly
enlightened citizens will depose reason in
favor of the dementia which is engendered
by the antics of a Billy Sunday. It is for
those who dread the results of the assump-
tion by N. S. Wales of an additional load of
debt and an additional army of bureaucrats
to organise a campaign designed to make the
swing-over, when t'he skilled U.S. revivalists
start in earnest, ias small as possible; and
they cannot get to work too soon.
UNCLE SAM —ANOTHER VIEW OF
HIM.
The Bulletin has a reputation in literate
England for a kind of intolerant tolerance;
the idea is that it may smash the head of a
dissident, but will print his views if they
are set out in plain language. Let me, then,
try to show another facet of our common
relative, Uncle Sam, whom W. H. Kelly
has painted in such engaging colors. I am
not saying that this clever writer is ignorant
of his subject; merely that, like most Aus-
tralians and The Bulletin, he will not
see the dark side of this odd civilisation —
only the side which is tinted couleur de rose.
1 absolutely deny that the typical inhabi-
tant of the U.S.A. is the progressive and
enlightened being that suave travellers of
the stamp of Mr. W. H. Kelly represent
him to be.
By way of proof, consider the following
little bag as set out in your own press cables
from New York :
In Georgia a young negro was burned at a stake
for robbing and killing a white woman. Two thou-
sand witnessed the lynching, various persons shooting
at him while burning.—(l9/o/’22.)
At Texarkana, in Texas, a mob smashed in the
gaol doors, seized a negro prisoner, shot him and
then burned the body amidst frenzied cheering ana
gunplay.—(2o/o/’22).
After admitting an attack on a 14-year-old white
girl near Leonidas, Texas, a negro named Joe Winters
was lynched. lie was tied to a stake, his clothes
saturated with oil, and kindling wood was piled high
about him. Thousands of people, including women
and children, were present when the fire was lighted.
(2l/5/’22.)
It is not necessary to have much (or any)
sympathy with these wretched blacks to see
that the impulse which impels the mob to
lynch them is a primitive thirst for blood.
The savage burns the savage. The picture
of the 2000 gaily shooting and yelling round
the stake causes one to meditate over this
immense noisy continent and seriously ques-
tion if, in the last century, much of it lias
advanced at all One xvonders if a few
generations of city-dwelling might not turn
the Congo basin into very much the same
kind of place as the U.S.A. That America
inherits the tradition of Europe, as is
implied by W. li. Kelly, may mean no more
than the fact that Jack Johnson inherits
its tailoring. No doubt the passion for the
outside of an enemy’s head can be subli-
mated into the more respectable desire for
the inside of his pocket in the course of a
couple of generations; and we would wish a
rather more definite emblem of America’s
social salvation than well-cut trousers and
sleekly brushed hair.
To the lists of brutal lynchings and brutal
strikes prohibition is obviously the next
addition. And no psychologist will be sur-
prised at the fact that beside the idealistic
and spiritual fare provided for the family
by such writers of fiction and verse as
Chambers, Vacheli, Lindsay and Ella
Wheeler Wilcox, enormous quantities of
those French publications dealing minutely
with the birches of the perverse are now
pouring into the U.S. Sadism is, of course,
the expression of a devitalised erethism, and
in this fact we hold the pulse of the U.S.A.
and see how weakly it beats—for unless sex
is vital nothing else can be. And that
desperate feebleness that thinks it expresses
power in the dust and racket of the Stock
Exchange naturally joins bands with the
wild feebleness of the sadist. We should
only expect this when we remember the
strong puritanical strain of the North. And
one sees how Puritanism must bring, as its
result, fury and febrility ; how these haters
of life must certainly end by destroying
life. In the case of such an indescribable
mixture of races as is found in the U.S. it
is, of course, impossible to dogmatise; but
still a certain type can be taken as express-
ing the national character. Some years ago
it was Uncle Sam, the Yankee; and, if one
may be allowed to be fantastical for a
moment, he would seem the reincarnation
of the original holder of the land, the Red
Indian, the scalper. Certainly he was lean
and wiry, with high cheekbones and 'an
aquiline nose, and with the same eagle look.
He was dominated, too, by the memory of
starving years, and he produced the money-
grubbing, keen Yankee who scalped merci-
lessly. This type has disappeared from the
best magazines and the beauty-photos of the
nation ; and he is supplanted by a fat. round
face, formless and conforming to all the
people consider handsome and distinctive be-
cause it really lacks all form or distinction.
It seems that this amorphous visage seeks
to deny all the thin cruelty of its predeces-
sor, to" find salvation by flight into its nega-
tion. But this negative resistance is not
enough ; and the spiritual mechanism of
Uncle Sam continues. For the fat, round-
faced person cannot stop it: he shamelessly
grubs for money still, as was shown during
the war, though he is not sure now if he
really wants money so much, after all. The
face seeks something to shape it, to redeem
it again from the vacuity of Dana Gibson
and give it another spiritual direction, away
from the hard, keen lines of the Red Indian
chief. This unfortunate, round-faced man
is left with the tomahawk in his hand, but
he is a little ashamed and a little fright-


ened of the weapon, though he still continues
automatically to use it.
The truth is, America is waiting for some-
one to take the tomahawk away and give it
a banner instead; though all the home-
made bauners from “Excelsior” to "Prohi-
bition” have failed. Frbm this grows the
awful seriousness of thb Ainefiehh. He is
a man with a secret passion for an ideal:
so far, he has never found an ideal, but only
mottoes for his banners. He has yet to
learn that a verbal signpost does not make
a spiritual direction.
One speaks here of the better type of
American mail who lealisbs that there is
such a thing as the problem of intellect,
though not in any way what that problem
is. Of the American woman in this respect it
were best nbt to speak; she does it for
herself.... .
(this consciousness of spiritual
need is shown by the hordes of lecturers; —
missionaries from civilisation to this White
Congo—from Britain and France that in-
vade the U.S. in a continuous stream, at-
tracting large audiences; by the ready
acceptance of any theory, or of any society
or religion that offers a moral or social
panacea ; by the enormous quantities of Euro-
pean art that are bought—the “Blue Boy” is
one of the latest examples. That a vast
percentage of the art bought is worse than
useless‘is beside the point. The fact that
it is bought shows America’s strong sense of
her position. She is the nation that is
trying secretly to purchase a soul—and she
finds the business rather baffling. New York
is at present called the Mecca of Dancers—-
a significant circumstance. The dance is
one of the few moral factors working in the
U.S. to-day. Here some elements of beauty
persist, though primitivism in art lias a
strong hold. This last is hardly the unfor-
tunate American’s fault. Consciousness at
its present degraded level in Europe can offer
nothing else; and the deeply serious Ameri-
can has brought an intensity of fatuous
enthusiasm to the primitive cults that even
a Venetian Futurist might envy.
Meanw'hile, it is an awesome tiling to think
of this vast space and the tiny fraction of
consciousness spread out over it to stabilise
and control it. The round-faced one, for all
his vanity, is beginning to be perturbed by
his position : he senses something maleficent
in the abyss over which he celebrates the
Fourth of July. How may he be saved?
Not by adding to his obscene collection of
money-scalps; not by the primitive antics of
a barbarian like Billy Sunday : not by lip-
service to laws which he sets at naught by
periodical mass-yieldings to the blood-lust;
and certainly not by his special brands of
Puritanism which express nothing so much as
a descent towards the animal. Yet these,
rlespite his apologists in Australia and else-
where, constitute the nation’s outstanding
features, and they unite to make our be-
lauded Uncle Sam one of the most formidable
menaces that the civilised world has to face
to-day.
H. COMPTON FORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Empire Day Lesson.
A certain interest revived in the returned
soldier with the arrival of Empire Day. The
soldier is always spoken of kindly on such
occasions, and then left to starve till another
patriotic date materialises. On the recent
occasion there was actually some attempt
made to get the distressed defenders of then-
country work. Of course, all the organisation
was in the great cities, it being contrary to
the concentration and congestion policies of
the various State Governments to do much
anywhere else. The result was that the
broken man-at-arms hoofed his way into the
big towns from all parts, in the hope of
being sent out again to some kind of
a job. And one dispiriting outcome of
this proceeding was the discovery that
the proportion of the almost unemployable
is out of all reason. Apart from cripples
the men are of a vigorous type, for the army
didn’t recruit from the hospitals, and they
are mostly of good character, as their records
show. And they are young, or at least they
were in 1914. But, to a great extent, they
are the products of the insane and selfish
policy of putting rigid restrictions on a»pren-
ticeship, in the hope of making skilled trades
a close preserve for the men already in them
and having two applicants for each job,
while the goods the missing man should have
turned out were made in Germany and im-
ported. In places the system reached such
perfection that one boy out of three had a
fair chance to learn a trade, while the rest,
bar those who became hangers-on in offices,
delivered milk or sold newspapers. As this
dead-end class was so numerous the wages
of the dead-enders were pushed up higher and
higher to make dead-ending attractive. When
they attained manhood there was little for
the dead-enders to do except labor at build-
ing loan railways. So with deadly persist-
ency the fairly youthful soldier-applicant
registers himself as “laborer” —just coolie,
Gibeonite or beast of burden. The father
was probably a skilled tradesman, and one
who voted for the restriction policy which
made the son the helpless encumbrance he is.
It is quite common for one of the organisa-
tions which try to find jobs for the returned
to have vacant positions which they can’t fill
except by hunting for skilled men outside;
and there is little satisfaction in having «.
hundred men, each capable of being aide,
flunkey or hod-carrier to a real tradesman, if
the real tradesman can’t be produced. Many
applicants are honestly unaware of their
own limitations. Being asked what they can
do they reply cheerfully “Anything.” Being
told that the first vacancies on an alphabeti-
cal list are for a bookbinder and a composi-
tor there sometimes follows the blank query:
“What on earth’s that?” One moral is that
the compulsory acquisition of a trade or
profession is a more essential feature of
education than a .compulsory acquaintance
with the kings of England, who are all dead
but one, who is not himself immortal.
Another is that, pending the arrival of a
new and differently educated generation, the
importation of trained artisans is much more
important than the importation of wheat-
growers, for the import figures show that we
greatly lack the former, while export and
other figures prove that we have a superfluity
pf the latter.
One Cause of these Present
Discontents*
The Ni S; Wales Government is said td
have undertaken to launch a campaign
against betting-shops. If this is so, and
if it doesn’t slow down or fall down on the
job (which job simply consists in Ordering
the police to do their duty in respect of a
number of businesses, city and suburban,
which are as conspicuous as cathedrals);
then it will have something creditable to set
against many fooleries. The s.-p. bookmaker
abounds in all the Australian capitals and
large towns, but Sydney is his special home.
His bfganisatioh i§ so thorough, and the
Law is held in such contempt, that
practically every citizen who so desires can
back the programme on race-days without
leaving his place of toil. For unless he
works in a very small concern Mr. S. Price
is tolerably certain to have a confederate
on the premises. This variety of odds-layei*
is a far greater parasite than his loud-
voiced brethren of the racecourse, because
the Treasury does not benefit to the slightest
degree by his illicit operations. In addition
to absorbing all cash available, the s.-p. shark
or his agent will considerately allow credit
until the following pay-day. Thereby he
catches the married man who is rarely finan-
cial enough to make cash wagers but doesn’t
mind a flutter when there is a week or a
fortnight between him and the day of reck-
oning. If he loses, as is generally the case,
numerous opportunities of getting further
into the soup while endeavoring to recover
his losses present themselves before next
pay-day—trots on Monday, Gosford or
Wyong Tuesday, the ponies Wednesday,
Richmond or Menangle Friday, the ponies
and horses Saturday, and an occasional day
at Kembla Grange or Wollongong thrown
in. On all these meetings the s.-p. man lays
the odds. By the time the ghost walks the
punting Micawber may owe half his salary,
and his wife and children have to go short.
The bookmaker rarely goes short, because in
that event the punter’s credit would be
stopped and all chance of getting square
next session would disappear. In time the
“lizard’s” indebtedness becomes so great that
he is obliged to liquidate it. at the
rate of a pound or two per pay.
Sometimes he takes the balance of his wages
to a Saturday meeting in the hope of a
recovery there, and loses the lot. All over
the city and suburbs this sort of thing is
going on. It is one cause, and a serious
one, of the prevailing discontent. It is a
small business that doesn’t carry at least one
s.-p. agent, who draws a commission of 2s.
in the £ on all bets made. A typical case
may be cited. In a Sydney establishment
employing 156 men three members of the
staff “work” for s.-p. bookmakers. The
liftman also collects wagers for a man who
allows half-a-point over S. M. Herald odds;
he numbers amongst his clients nearly the
entire female staff of two large catering
shops near by. Three neighboring publicans
likewise accept bets. Many of the em-
ployees live in a locality in which (1) the
baker’s boy is an accredited bookmaker’s
agent, (2). one grocer and two barbers make
books on every meeting, and (3) even the
postman has opened a connection with a
bookmaker who allows a point over the
odds. In fact, the betting mania has
reached a stage so acute that half Sydney
seems to be getting its living, or part of it,
by taking bets from the other half. There
is something to be said for the racecourse
fielder (albeit there are far too many courses
about Sydney, and dates should be reduced
by at least half), insofar as the State recog-
nises his unproductive calling and protects
him in the exercise of it. But his s.-p.
relative is a lawbreaker and a tax-dodger, a
loafer and the cause of loafing in others; and
he should be warned off for the undesirable
he is.
The Luck of Premier Lee.
Seven and seventy candidates (Labor 22,
Independent Labor 2, women labelled “non-
party” 3, and Nationalists, including about
a dozen of a Country party. 50) have nomi-
nated for the Speck elections on June 10.
All the 30 sitting members, except Elliott
Lewis (Denison) and Chairman-of-Commit-
tees Sadler (Bass) are asking for another
innings. The last-named retires through ill-
ness, and ex-Treasurer (now Chief Sec.)
Lewis from sheer weariness of politics. In
the last Parliament there were 17 Minis-
terialists and 13 Laborites. According to
Premier Lee’s prophets the next Parlia-
ment will show 20 Ministerialists and 10
Laborites. Labor oracles, on the other
hand, predict that the Lee Government will
be outed—that is, the elections will leave
T,f.f. short of a majority over Labor and the
Country party. Unprejudiced prognostica-
tors declare that Labor, despite tne advan-
tage of the threatened cut in wages 'as an
election cry, will be hard put to it to hold
its 13 seats, and only then if Labor candi-
dates happen to secure what is known under
the Hare-Clark voting system as “the luck
of the fractions.” And as the three or four
Cockies and Independents likely to be re-
turned may be expected to promptly fall in
behind Lee when the only alternative is
Lyons, Labor’s chance of obtaining office
looks meagre. If the issues were purely
political, Labor, on its legislative and admin-
istrative record, ought to win. But, heart-
ened by the N. S. Wales reaction to the
sectarian issue, the Nationalists of the Speck
are working it too; and Labor, with a big
crowd of R.C.’s amongst its selected candi-
dates, has helped the enemy in a most oblig-
ing manner. Among the 15 anti-Labor starters
in Denison, only one (ex-Senator Mulcahy)
is not a professed anti-Mannixite. Mulcahy,
thjugh no longer young, is the most present-
able and capable among the Nationalist mob,
but Hobart Mercury, chief organ of the
Nats., conspicuously omits his name from its
daily list of the “six best Nationalists.”
Though Labor’s finance is (judging by its
almost forgotten record and its present pro-
posals) less calamitous than that of the
Nationalists, there is a fear in the hearts of
most property holders, small and large, that
if the party again gets into the Treasury
there will be heavy taxation for various
socialistic schemes. That dread may or
may not be justified—probably it isn’t—but
Premier Lee is keeping it well to the front in
his election speeches and has already got
Labor-leader Lyons on the defensive with cor-
rections, denials, repudiations of the 0.8. U.
objective, and so forth. The Nationalists are
not a happy family at the moment, but, on
the whole, they appear to hate one another
rather less bitterly than their opponents do ;
which means that they are less distracted
and better organised. So that, on the whole,
though the Lee Government is probably the
most shameless “cuckoo” ever hatched in
Tasmania, or elsewhere, though it has done
more to bring Parliament into derision than
any of its predfecessors, and though it has
been for six years an administrative calam-
ity, yet the political weakness of the other
crowd, added to their alleged partiality for
the Vatican, will probably save the mistw.ble
Tory sinner from the axe and give him one
more opportunity of repenting in broadcloth
and office.
4
The Projected Sheep Railway.
The Federal Public Works Commission
which is pervading Queensland taking
evidence about a Federal railway acquires
strange slabs of testimony with a curious
sameness about them. In fact, one slab
might almost as well be kept in type and
reprinted with the name of the witness
changed. This, for instance, which appeared
recently was from Melville, Queensland
Under-Secretary for Lands, but any other
name would have served: —
It was assumed that the area to be benefited in
Queensland was about 150,000 square miles On a
sheep basis the country was now carrying an average
of about 621 sheep per square mile. It was esti-
mated that there were about. 100,000 square miles
suitable for sheep, and that, on the basis of 107
sheep to the mile the sheep country would be capable
of carrying 10,700,000 sheep. The remaining 50,000
square miles should carry about 400,000 cattle.
And then: —
W. W. Williams, Lands Commissioner of the
Cloncurry, Boulia and Normanton areas, considered
that the most advantageous route would be the one
passing through Camooweal and Boulia, thence con-
necting with the N. S. Wales lines.
All these witnesses stick to one safe text —
that it would do Queensland a pile of good
to have a vast Federal public work built on
its property and seven-eighths of the cost
charged to other people, and the fact may
be admitted. Anybody would feel the bene-
fit of a benevolence like that. The question
that is never answered is, what great and
special service the Theodore State (and
its accomplice in this matter, N.S.W.) have
rendered that Victoria, South Australia and
Tasmania should be taxed for their benefit.
The district which wants a railway so badly
at other people’s cost isn’t accused of moun-
tains like the Macdonnell Ranges on the
centra’ route, nor of minerals, like the South-
ern part of the Northern Territory. Its
more-or-less rivers wander into S.A. and end
there. Even its own officials describe it as
no more than pastoral land, capable at a
favorable estimate, of carrying a little over
one meat creature to nine acres. It is
already touched by several bankrupt State
railways, and is settled to the extent of one
sheep to 10 acres, but if millions of Com-
monwealth money are spent on it there may
lie an improvement, to the extent of one
jumbuck to six acres—44l more jum-
bucks per mile to pay for the upkeep
of the whole gigantic undertaking. The
most fervid supporter doesn’t foreshadow
towns, human population or agriculture
along the track. Meanwhile the con-
tract which exists for a line through
Federal, and not State, property, is so de-
finite and so widely known that even the
“Statesman’s Year Book,” a standard work
published in remote London, quotes it as a
matter of course (1921) :
The Territory formally passed under the control
of the Commonwealth Government on January 1,
1911....1t took over by purchase the railway from
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta, and it undertook to con-
struct a transcontinental line from Pine Creek south-
wards to the boundary of South Australia, and to
connect these two railways.
Australia’s honor is involved, if the Hughes
Government has left it any. And a vote-
catehing deviation which is to produce settle-
ment to the extent of 441 problematical
sheep to the square mile isn’t enough profit
to make the sale of the nation’s honor worth
while. Judas Iscariot got more per mile
than that.
Maoriland’s Railways,
Henry Bateson on a losing proposition:—
Will Lawsox (B. 13/4/’22) considers that the
M.L. railways are losing £3OOO per day chielly
because the lines were built originally over wrong
routes. Although the present Government has been
left, as a legacy of the bad old days when political
influence was at its height, a number of dud lines,
there is not the slightest reason why they should
show a loss. Bad management and high overhead
costs are really responsible for the present state of
affairs.
Canada can teach M.L. a valuable lesson in
regard to making insignificant lines pay. In 1917 the
total railway mileage there was 38,604: at a rough
guess I should say the total mileage now is over
the 50,000 mark. The Government controls three
lines—the National! Transcontinental, the Canadian
•Northern and the Grand Trunk Pacific. The only
opposition comes from the all-powerful Canadian
Pacific. As a result of the three smaller com-
panies having become amalgamated under the Gov-
ernment, competition has become keener than ever
and both companies are launching out in various
directions. There is no doubt that the Canadian
railways are about the most up-to-date and efficient
in the world.
A Board of Control governs them. It consists
of a number of experienced commissioners, whose
duty it is to see that every line pays. They are
supplied ivitb. full returns, showing the number
of passengers travelling over a certain period, the
amount of goods carried, the rates and fares charged,
the amount of wages paid, with the cost of the service,
and similar information. They are thus able to
see practically at a glance exactly why the service
on any given line is not paying. It may be that
the cost of running a daily service is too great and
the volume of traffic too small. In that case they
order the daily service to cease and inaugurate a
bi-weekly or tri-weekly service that will fully
supply the needs of the particular district which it
serves and yet show a profit.
The difference between the M.L. and Canadian
railways is that the latter are fostered from infancy,
while the former reach the adult stage before they
have outgrown their childhood. Those lines in M.L.
which serve a small district where the volume of traffic
is such that a daily service fails to show a profit,
should be built up slowly—at first a weekly, later a
bi-weekly, and then a tri-weekly sendee. Not till
the line has been sufficiently nourished to carry a
daily service to a profit should one be inaugurated.
In order to make the M.L. railways remunerative
and efficient, the present method of management niuM
be scrapped and scrapped properly. A State-owned
railway can only be made to pay when it is free
from the control of politicians who know not the
first thing about the running and management of
railways; A platitude; 1 of course, but it can’t be stated
too often. The Comffiissidnefs system has already
been given a trial here: it failed because the work
of the commissioners was invariably wrecked by
some highly-placed politician. Then an expert was
imported, but although he was told he would be
given a flee hand he was shackled hands and feet
w'ith heavy chains. A Board of experienced business
men, free from political influence, could make our
railways pay handsomely within a year.
A Maorilander” (B. 4/5/’22) reckons the 3ft.
(>in. gauge a cheap investment. Yet it is partly
on account of this gauge having been adopted in
M.L. that the Government shows a large loss per
day. Maorilander” mentions all the benefits of
the narrow gauge without mentioning any of its
disadvantages. In the first place the cost involved
in purchasing rolling-stock is terrific. Every car-
riage, truck and locomotive has to be specially
built. The extra cost involved prior to the war may
may not har e been very great, but to-day, with raw
materials sky-high, the amount means that every
vehicle lias to run for many months before it has
returned its purchase price.
This is being proved in M.L. to-day. The rolling-
stock is so inadequate and in such a state of dis-
lepair that new stock of all classes has to he pro-
cured at once. At the end of the present year many
thousands of pounds will be posted in the “over-
head charges” ledger against this item. Had
the M.L. railways been built on the broad-gauge
principle in the first place they would not now
be losing £3OOO daily. The cost involved in
changing from the narrow to the broad to-day
would, however, prove too great. And the same
remark applies to Australia, Both countries have
made bad mistakes, but none of them is irretrievable
—provided the politician can be kept on the outside
doormat while the experts are at work,
- «
Theodore and Co., Beef Barons.
Of all the mad State-run gambles that have
bloated the establishments and disordered the
finances of at least three States, not to men-
tion the Common wealth, none has been more
extravagantly puffed or lied about than
the Government cattle-runs in Queensland.
\\ hen these gay experiments were new, and
the experimenters were enthusiastic, marvel-
lous results were said to have been attained;
It was alleged that the struggling proletariat
was getting Government steak for next to
nothing, and that huge profits were being
amassed in the process. The Meat King, it
was asserted, had been smashed irreparably,
and so much damage had been done to the
principle of private property in beef, on the
hoof and on the hook, that in time not a
single bullock that wasn’t Government-owned
would be seen grazing between Hungerford
and Cape York. But that was before the
bloom had faded from the i\ye. At Rock-
hampton, the other day, with the air of a
man who was conferring a favor on his audi-
ence by saying it, the Labor Premier ad-
mitted that the cattle-stations had been "a
bad investment.” He added that his Gov-
ernment had “bought lit the top of the market
aud unfortunately suffered loss ’ —bought in
the dearest market in short, and was selling
in the cheapest. Protesting that his Minis-
ters weren’t supermen and that it was a
Poor Government that never made ft mistake
Theodore hurried on to the next subject,
leaving the Auditor-General or the Commis-
sioner of State Enterprises to supply the
gaps in the narrative, which presumably they
will do in time for their reports to be sup-
pressed until after the general election. Last
year the Auditor-General reported that there
was no likelihood of the socialised stations
returning interest for years. The Commis-
sioner, for his part, announced that the debit
balance for 1020-21 had reached £58,271.
On June 80 the amount of loan capital in-
vested in the properties and the depreciating
assets eating grass thereon stood at
£1,628,965. He is a bold man who would
give the odd £628,965 for the whole outfit at
the present time. Certainly, the runs are
worth little compared with tile stock, and
stock values, according to the Commissioner,
dropped over 40 per cent, in the first six
months of 1921. since which time they have
continued to drop. In an estimate prepared
on .Tune 80, 1920, the value of the cattle,
Hank-flappers and calves thrown in, was set
down at £5 6s. Id. per head. This seems an
absurdly high valuation, considering that the
slump was then in sight—'Compared with;
current market prices it is grotesquely high
—and apparently only 15s. a head was writ-
ten off in 1920-21, the statement that “cattle
values have declined by over 40 per cent.”
notwithstanding. The fact is ttfa.t all the
profits made during the good years weren’t
nearly sufficient to meet the losses in one
bad year, which means, among other things,
that the whole community is being taxed to
provide a favored section with butcher’s
meat at a good deal less than the cost of
production. And the Government’s position
is that it bought cattle by the thousand at £6
and £7 a head and can’t sell them at £2 a
head. Which position is so bad that it
couldn’t be much worse. Yet the Theo-
dores began their war on the hated pasto-
ralist with many advantages. For a start,
they used 5 per cent, money to buy and stock
their ranches —that is to say, they called
it 5 per cent. money, although a
large proportion was borrowed at a
higher figure—whereas the private operator
has to pay at least 6 per cent.; sometimes
more. Then, having its own retail shops
and possessing a lot of institutions that are
large consumers of dead cow, the Government
was assured of a local market that ought to
be profitable if it isn’t; its competitor, on
the other hand, had to take his chance (it
has been a rotten one lately) of selling his
beeves at home or abroad. The Government,
moreover, hasn’t i;aised the rent on itself,
and pays neither rates nor taxes. Since
the Labor party entered upon its noble mis-
sion of ruining him the cattleman who is a.
Crown tenant (most of him are) has had his
rent doubled, even trebled; what is more, he
has to find two swingeing income-taxes, at
least one land-tax (sometimes two), rates to
the shire authority, and a host of petty
imposts from which the Government, in its
capacity of beef baron, is exempt. Yet, bad
as his position is since the bottom fell out
of the bullock market, it is not so desperate
as that of the coW-feeding Administration,
which is now using some of the rent- and
tax-money it wrings from him to meet part
of the losses if. has incurred in trying to


T h i Farmers’& Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
drive him out of business. Truly, when a
Government rushes into trade for vote-
eatching purposes, a curse roosts on its roof-
tree.
Bars—Saloon and Fourpenny.
The views of a Victorian practitioner:—
The Bulletin is quite right about the mud-
slinging barrister —and quite wrong. It assumes,
in the first place, that the habit pays—and so well
that if it is established, as a convention, by the
leaders of the profession, it must find imitators
amongst the smaller men eager to make money
easily, if infamously. It has long been a truism
at the London Bar, and it is pretty well understood
in most parts of Australia, nowadays, that there is
no surer case-winner than this method —for the other
side. The modern jury listens (often, it must be
admitted, with a good deal of pleasure) to the
excoriation of a plaintiff or defendant, and then
usually salves its conscience by finding in the
assailed litigant’s favor. Something. the same line
of reasoning is employed, apparently, as in criminal
cases, where an acquittal often follows in the teeth
of the evidence because the penalty fixed by the law
is too severe for the sentiment of the day, and the
presiding Judge bears a reputation for undue severity.
It is the rough justice of the common man.
It is the business of counsel, then, not only to
refrain from mud-slinging, but to warn his client
of the deadly peril of it. Every young barrister,
while defending in criminal matters, has been faced
with the temptation of the rotten alibi. The accused
is naturally anxious to give himself every chance;
and his misguided neighbor, who thinks that a little
perjury is neither here nor there where the saving of
a friend is in question, is all readiness. But counsel
must step between friend and client in such circum-
stances, and say to the former: “You are asking me
to put you in the way of several years’ penal servi-
tude ; and I am not justified in doing so.” Similarly
in civil suits, where bitterness exists, one party or
the other is nearly always stirred to a berserk
longing to see his enemy flayed. The business of
the exasperated cne’s legal advisers is clearly to tell
him that they are not there to sate his passion for
revenge, but to win the suit. They must dis-
criminate between charges which are credible and
charges which are not, for on their success in this
direction will lie the difference, probably, between
success and disaster.
The Bulletin claims that it is the duty of Judges
to protect witnesses from unseemly attack, and it is
right up to a point. Undoubtedly the fear of dread-
ful accusations which, however baseless, are never
forgotten and are accepted by a certain class of
muddled mind as true merely because they have
been made, keeps many people out of courts where
the control is lax, and so defeats the ends of justice.
Undoubtedly, too, the weak Judge and the bullying
advocate are found in suspicious conjunction. But
where is the Judge to begin censoring? And where
is he to stop? An apparently innocuous question
may be pregnant with shameful meaning; a short,
suave cross-examination may be ruinous to the repu-
tation of an honest witness; while one all sound
and fury extending over hours, even days, may leave
a scoundrel without an additional stain on his charac-
ter. No; the control, in this respect, if it is to
be effective, must come, not from the Bench (though
of course the Bench can help), but from the Bar.
The Judges of England did not drive Sergeant
Buzfuz from the Temple and its environs ; the
credit belongs to the long line of courtly and fair-
minded men appearing before them who have gradu-
ally built up, in their own ranks, a traditio-n
of good behavior. And it has been the same at the
V ictorian Bar, wnere, with the inevitable excep-
tion or two, the reckless and abusive type of advo-
cate has for the past 30 years or more been virtually
unknown. It is here, and only here, that the
regeneration of the N. S. Wales Bar will be effected.
Every Bar gets the barristers it deserves.
-♦
The White Man for the Australian
Tropics.
The writer of an article under the above
title replies to a critic:—
A load like unlimited ballast was lifted off my
mind when I read Mr. G. H. Blakemore’s remarks
(B. 25/5/’25) re the “true” tropics and the “false”
tropics, and the impossibility 0 f white settlement
in the former. Still he leaves something to be
desired. The Blakemore view is apparently that
the only genuine all-wool tropics are not the regions
s 0 marked on the map, but any hot and damp
locality, like the inlands of a Turkish, bath. The
trouble is that “tropics” have no real meaning
other than the accepted one. The basic word means
a turning, not a burning nor a raining. So the
true tropics, and the false ditto, and any dubious
or non-committal tropics that may be around are
limited by the two familiar old lines where the
sun apparently turns on its tracks. Mr. Blake-
more airily disqualifies as tropics some of the places
between Cancer and Capricorn, where white men
work and live and prosper, because they are high.
Evidently real tropics must be low, wherefore I
recommend the vale of Jericho, which, though not
in the Torrid Zone, being moist and boiling hot
and 1292 ft. below the Mediterranean level, looks
the one solid Blakemore tropic on earth. Yet one
summer I found a white man running a hotel there
and apparently in good spirits—also selling the
same. Mr. Blakemore brushes other places aside
because of their military or commercial character.
In fact, he has a way of his own, and is a mighty
brusher before the Lord. But the real question is
the suitability of Northern Australia for a white
population. All else is subsidiary. Here is Mr.
Blakemore’s view:—
A high, dry- bulb thermometer is not the deterring
factor against the white man and his woman settling
the North. The lion in the path is a high, reef-bulb
thermometer, and the grave importance of this indi-
cation of extreme humidity cannot be too strongly
stressed. When the humidity reaches saturation
with a temperature of 70 degrees on the wet-bulb
thermometer that is the limit of comfort to the
white woman.
He quoted Einasleigh, apparently his one experi-
ence, as a stunning example. But, on this view of
the case “the North” is really a dashed good place
for white men and women, bar some exceptions
that are almost too small to count. Going north and
about the centre one enters Tropical Australia (the
official “North,” and there are 1,149,320 square
miles of it) where there is a large region with an
annual rainfall of nine inches and a fraction.
People of a despondent turn say there isn’t enough
humidity to raise a perspiration on the apparently
death-dealing wet-bulb thermometer. North of this,
and east to about Charters Towers, and west to the
Indian Ocean is another vast area with a
rainfall of about 16in. per annum. The in-
habitants hereabouts are alleged to have pawned
the wet-bulb thermometer and spent the proceeds
on drink. Further on again and still in the Tropical
North is the belt with an average fall of 25in.
(Sydney has recorded a ten-years’ average of 51in.).
This extends east to the hills that almost look
down on Townsville and Lucinda Point; west to
the Indian Ocean, and north to the Gulf of Carpeu-
THE WEEK-ENDERS
“IRELAND: Week-end outrages, etc., etc.”— Cab le item.
“Did you enjoy the week-end, dear ?”
“Who would not —with you ?”
taria. Most of the southern coast of the Gulf is in
this fairly dry, though not drought-stricken, belt,
and in one of its lighter moments it impinges on
Cambridge Gulf —also on the north coast. The
people of this part have heard of the wet-bulb
thermometer, but many deny its existence. And
there are two really wet spots on all the 1,149,320
square mil'es —quite humid, in fact. One is
a very narrow strip along the north-east
coast between Cooktown, or rather Port Douglas,
and Townsville, and extending far enough west at
one place to include Einasleigh. (Cooktown itself
has less rain than Sydney.) The other is the modest
peninsula on which Darwin is situated. Unsophis-
ticated visitors and annoying folk who rush at con-
clusions, looking in from the sea, take these places
for the whole North, and blither accordingly.
To put the matter another way, there are in
tropical Australia 1,149,320 square miles. Of this
area about 135,000 square miles have a rainfall
that nearly equals, or equals, or exceeds that of
Sydney. The excess area is limited. The rest of
the place doesn’t trouble the wet-bulb thermometer
nearly so much as it would like to do. Mr. Blake-
more’s theory is that the “true” tropics are the
humid tropics, where “the humidity reaches satura-
tion with a temperature of 70 degrees,” whereupon
the white man wilts and the white woman fades
like the flower that is to-day and to-morrow is cast
into the oven. Other, or “false” tropics” are habi-
table, but this sort is devilish. And because of a
visit to Einasleigh he assumes that tropical Australia
is accursed, generalising from a germ to an elephant
as illogical persons do. But, as a matter of obvious
fact, there isn’t enough of the “false,” humid, fatal,
v. et-bulb-thermometer kind of tropics in Australia
to make a bonfire with. Of Westralia’s 364,000
square miles up above Capricorn a paltry 3376 miles
have over 40 inches of wetness per year—and New
York beats that, also Tasmania has thrice that area
of moist country. Our Great North is the dry,
clean, healthy sort in which the white man flourishes
much better than he does in the big southern cities.
Therefore let us go nap on our tropics, and also go
the whole hog there, a*nd establish new States there,
and put the Federal capital there, and live up to
our glorious destiny as the model white tropical
State of the globe and of history.
♦
The Powers that the Commonwealth
Does Not Possess.
Protest from “Sol. M.” :
Surely an error crept unbeknownst and like a
venomous serpent into the leading article entitled
“A Policy for the Commonwealth” (B. 25/5/’22).
'Therein it was stated that
The nation urgently wants uniform and compre-
hensive laws dealing with banking and insurance,
bankruptcy, marriage and divorce. If none of these,
things can be got, as alleged, without a •constitutional
amendment, then it is the Government’s business to
begin a campaign for a referendum and to go on
campaigning.
Now who under the broad canopy of Heaven
alleges that none of these things can he got without
a constitutional amendment, unless the Federal Gov-
ernment does as an excuse for shirking, cowardice,
laziness and incapacity? This is how part of the
Constitution has it: —-
The Commonwealth Parliament has, subject to the
Constitution, power to make laws for the peace,
order and good government of the Commonwealth
with respect to —
(8) Astronomical and meterological observations.
(13) Banking, other than State banking; also
State banking extending beyond the limits of the
State concerned, the incorporation of banks, and
the issue of paper money.
(14) Insurance, other than State insurance: also
State insurance extending beyond the limits of the
State concerned.
(17) Bankruptcy and insolvency.
(20) Foreign corporations, and trading or financial
corporations formed within the limits of the Common-
wealth,
(21) Marriage.
(22) Divorce and matrimonial causes: and in
relation thereto, parental rights and the custody
and guardianship of infants.
It would surely take a ton of ingenuity to show
how any need for a constitutional amendment can be
shown before these powers, and a good many more,
can be exercised. If it is so, then I suggest that
an amendment is necessary to legalise the army and
navy, and the revenue, expenditure and deficit. But
some politicians, who hate doing things because
it is safer and quieter to leave them undone, or who
are still anti-Federal at heart and hate to see the
Commonwealth exalted, would be glad if ten refer-
endums were necessary. My view is that the
Commonwealth should exercise all its powers, and do
so to the limit. The saving of time, confusion,
law costs and the superfluous swelled head of State
functionaries would be great.
“Sol. M.’s” remedy, like most heroic cures
(Prohibition, the prevention of V.D. by the
abolition of sin. etc.), has a fine heartening
sound which makes the critic look rather a
mean-souled creature. But it is imprac-
ticable. What he suggests is that the Com-
monwealth should exercise not all its pow-
ers, but all the powers that ninety-nine Aus-
tralians out of a hundred thought it pos-
sessed 20 years ago. Since those days what
Boutmy calls “a small oligarchy of non-
elected itremovable Judges” has invalidated
an immense number of Federal Acts by an
unexpected interpretation of the Trade and
Commerce clause. To put it briefly, “Sol. M.”
wants the Federal Parliament to say that
the Commonwealth is virtually unified and
act accordingly, while the High Court, which
is Australia’s master in this connection,
denies Parliament’s right to do anything of
the sort. The principle has been laid down
in a score of judgments, the following pas-
sage being typical—
' If terms are used in the grant of particular
powers to the Federal Government, which, according
to one interpretation, would, from their compre-
hensive nature, impair the Federal character of the
Union and establish in effect a unitary system
of government, or which, according to one construc-
tion, are inconsistent with the maintenance of
powers in the States which the Constitution else-
where reserves to them, an interpretation is to be
preferred which supports the Federal scheme or the
reserved powers of the States respectively.
It is true that a recent judgment (the A.S.E.
case) by a different set of oligarchs some-
what modified the above. In fact, W. A.
llolman, K.C., a confirmed State-righter,
cried in his anguish, immediately after read-
ing the decision, “It definitely sounds the
knell of the State Governments of Austra-
lia.” But it did not. A lawyer as sound as
Edward Mitchell, K.C., has laid it down
that the “initiative and referendum” is in-
valid for Federal purposes (under clause 5
of the covering clauses) ; that the achieve-
ment of anything resembling unification
would require the assent of the Imperial
Parliament; that legally the Federation can-
not even handle Crown Lands for the benefit
of returned soldiers. Its impotence as re-
gards the passing of, say, uniform company
or insurance laws is understood (and
cursed ) wherever a few knowledgeable busi-
ness men are gathered together. In short,
the situation is one that cannot be straight-
ened out on the higb-handed lines advocated
by “Sol. M.,” though all such proposals are
of value, inasmuch as they draw attention to
an absurd and muddled and thoroughly un-
satisfactory state of affairs.
«
“Tiiorold” : Like' most people whose com-
fort has been more or less permanently inter-
fered with by Germany’s world-lust, I hate
the Hun ; but it looks to me that “Nestor’s”
notion (B. 11/5/’22) that this continent
should wait round for some Australian to
contrive machinery to deal with its brown
coal is that of an old lady who wouldn’t go
round the corner to the dairy when the
milkman forgot to leave her regular morn-
ing pint. Does “Nestor” realise how many
years Australia has wasted already waiting
for someone to do something with its brown
coal? More than 20 years ago the Vic.
Government packed off samples of the dusty
deposits to be tested in Germany and made
into briquettes, and since then it seems to
have sat and waited in wearisomeness for
the engineer “Nestor” talks about to dis-
close himself. Victoria’s wise men even sent
a few tons of the coal abroad to be exhibited,
and, as director of the State’s display at
the Franco-British Exhibition in London, I
can testify that the crude show of apparent
builder’s excavation dirt was a source of
much merriment among Britishers who are
used to unlimited quantities of black seam
coal, and that I was mighty glad when the
unsightly stack had crumjiled within a few
weeks to the ghost of its former self and
could be removed with full justifica-
tion and dumped away with various
other crudities—such as a horrifying set
of pictures of local plant pests—Vic-
toria had sent along to encourage the
immigrant. Everyone agreeing that the
Vic. and Soustralian brown-coal deposits are
worth working, surely the best plan is to
work them without any further loss of time.
If the Germans have the machinery ready
and we haven’t, then let’s use their machin-
ery. If we don’t, and for want of it we
fail to utilise the brown coal for another
term of years, we wall have the Huns run-
ning all over us in the numerous contin-
gent industries we might have been starting.


For Wet Winter Days.
For the many wet days that Winter is sure to
bring, Peapes provide a strong Fawn Double-
texture Macintosh of medium weight.
It buttons to the neck with a storm collar, and has
Raglan shoulders and windguard cuffs.
This coat is cut on very full-fitting and comfortable
lines, and is absolutely waterproof.
PRICE 57/6.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height and chest measurement.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS.
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
The MODEL 501 DE LUXE
10/15h.p., 4 cylinder.
f
Price £620.
Complete with spare tyre and tube,
Standard Body, £595.
THE MOST PRACTICAL EXPRESSION
OF VALUE for money which has ever been
made.
THE DE LUXE MODEL FIAT 501, built
on the famous 10/15-h.p. chassis, is a delight-
fully finished car for those who care for that
little TOUCH OF INDIVIDUALITY, and
costs but little more than the Standard
Torpedo car.
Your own particular desire for color har-
mony in general finish is for you to choose
at no extra cost.
A special one-hand hood, most simple and
easy to manipulate, is one of the many fea-
tures which distinguish these luxurious cars.
We have several on view in our Showroom
now, and invite your inspection.
GARRATTS LIMITED,
173-75 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ALICE McNEIL, General Manager. ’Phones: City 582-3-4.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Outtrim’s Optional Act is killing vaccina-
tion in Victoria. In 1921, of 35,593 young-
sters born, conscientious objections were
raised and allowed in 21,464 cases. Outtrim
is an old man now, and the good—or evil —
he has done will live after him. To hear
the praises or curses of a non-inoculated
generation he would require to reach the cen-
tury.
The Irish Coalition Cabinet, composed of
five men who fully purpose that Ireland shall
remain in the Empire, and five who have said
that they will wade and wallow in gore and
spatter the land with human brains rather
than give up the hope of getting out, is at
least an interesting experiment, provided it
lasts long enough to leave a record. It is
doubtful if anyone thought of quite the
same thing before. If President Poincare
and Kaiser William had put their heads
amicably together about 1916, and formed a
Coalition Ministry of five Frenchmen and
five Germans, each country retaining its own
policy and its own opinion about the war,
that event would at least have been a pre-
cedent.
Australia is a land of too many holidays.
It knocks off work more often that it can
afford to do, and the worst offender is South
Oss. The leading timber firms drew pointed
attention to this by declining to close on
May 8 for the King’s Accession. It is a
statutory holiday in S.A., though no other
State keeps it. Clarkson, president of
Adelaide Chamber of Commerce, proposes to
ask Parliament to abolish this holiday and
also June 26, the Prince of Wales’s birth-
day, which half the other States take no
notice of. England, by the way, never
dreams of observing either, or the King’s
own birthday for that matter. And the
royal family has not been heard to com-
plain.
“Lex”:—
One of the unpleasantest features of last week's
stream of recrimination and innuendo which is
politics in N. S. Wales was a statement by E. J.
Loxton, M.L.A., that the late John Storey had given
him certain detailed information as to his difficulties
in Cabinet with his R.C. colleagues. Storey is
dead and so cannot contradict a charge which, if true,
—and only those who never knew Storey will believe
it is true—presents, him as one who broke the
traditional pledge of secrecy which is implied all
over the Empire by the acceptance of Cabinet rank.
No one other than the Sovereign (in Australia it
is a Governor, representative of the Sovereign) has
a right to know what has passed in Cabinet; and
so jealously is this principle guarded that Ministers
are forbidden even to take private notes of the
proceedings lest they fall into outside hands. ' What
Loxton has done, therefore, is to accuse his dead
friend of doing the equivalent in a doctor of publi-
shing a patient’s confidence, in a priest of breaking
the seal of the confessional.
According to gossips in the Federal lobbies
Blundell and Story will lose their seats at
the general election. Adelaide, it is alleged,
will elect a Laborite —probably Yates —in
place of Blundell, and the lumoering Story
will go down to the already selected Liberal,
Duncan-Hughes. Poynton will also lose the
number of his mess if the Liberal Unipn can
dig up a good man to oppose him. Mean-
time, the Limon is concentrating on the other
electorates and has started a sweeping can-
vass for votes. One of the scenes of activity
is Angas, the political realm of the melliflu-
ous Gabb. Gabb has already received notice
to quit—at least Ritchie, the S.A. Treasurer,
has been nominated, and in Liberal circles
that is considered to be much the same thing.
Realising that they are in danger of being
permanently cheated out of their North-
South line, although it was promised in the
bond, the Soustralians have revived the old
Railway and Territory League, under the
presidency of that good Australian, Simpson
Newland, and with G. A. Hargrave as secre-
tary. One of its first jobs will be to find out
who authorised the Commonwealth Bank to
publish a map indicating one of the Queens-
land deviations as “the proposed North-
South Railway.” It is an impertinence that
can do with inquiry.
The programme on which the Vie. Parlia-
ment will expend its legislative energies
during the session billed to start on July
15 may be useful —probably is. But it is
certainly not brilliant. Immigration is to
be featured, and bulk rates will be fixed for
the current from Morwell. Bills to register
nurses, imnrove apprenticeship, reform the
THE COVERALL.
N.S.W. Statesman: Note , my dear, just put this cloak on over that shabby dress, and
I can take you anywhere without anybody being able to say a word .”
’Varsity constitution, extend the school age
from 14 to 15, test herds, and eradicate
weeds will follow, and Morley will be given
facilities to get a decision on his Tote Bill.
Tf McPherson throws up the Treasurership
in August—it is dependent on the Reps,
accepting the redistribution scheme creating
the new Deakin seat-—Lawson will become
Finance Minister and do his own Budgeting.
A Bendigo Nationalist’s note:—
“West Sydney’s’’ story (B. 25/5/’22) about Arch-
dale Parkhill’s ingenuity in making the new North
Sydney seat safe for himself was more interesting
than his references to the Priminister’s fears about
Bendigo. Let me tell him that Bendigo never
looked better for W.M.H. The statement that
Wally Marks reported otherwise is as incorrect as
the story that Marks went electioneering in Bendigo
“all last week.” Actually, Marks arrived at the
southern boundary of the constituency (Woodend)
at 4.15 p.m. one day and quitted it at 11.15 a.m.
next day. He was in the electorate exactly 19
hours. I know, because I was with hifn.
In a burst of candor, Theodore, the
Queensland Premier, admitted recently that
the Government cattle-runs, in which over
14 million has been sunk, were “a bad
investment.” One of the properties included
in this encouraging statement is Buckingham
Downs. The Government bought Bucking-
ham at a valuation of £7 per head. To-
day the stock may be worth 30 bob a head,
but it is doubtful. At latest, Buckingham
was short of rain, and as there is no bore on
the pi’operty capable of watering more than
400 head of cattle, the outlook was dispirit-
ing. Writing a few months ago the man
who keeps the accounts of the State runs
estimated that cattle values had ‘‘declined
by over 40 per cent,” which is more depress-
ing still. But though the Government is
full of trouble and deficits it hasn’t for-
gotten that the private pastoralist’s difficul-
ties are equally great. That citizen has
been encouraged to continue the good work
by having his rents raised by the Land Court.
Also, several tax-gatherers have gone in
pursuit of him (the Government stations
don’t pay taxes), and look like catching up.
Forward, a Scottish Labor paper, has an
article on poor old Andra Fisher aDd the
rejection of his nomination as Labor candi-
date for Kilmarnock. Andra, it seems,
addressed a local Labor conference and
declared himself a Socialist, but the dele-
gates soon found that his socialism was not
their brand. One of them asked if the
£500,000 paid to the royal family would
be better spent upon the unemployed? ‘‘The
royal family are worth every penny they
get,” replied Andra. “Are you in favor of
disarmament?” was another query. “No,
I’m not.” retorted Feesher. “I’m in favor o’
strengthening the British Navy.” Then the
undaunted mon intimated that he was against
the nationalisation of mines. That settled
it-—and him. The delegates turned him
down by 42 to 18.
N. S. Wales’s Fuller Government is trying
desperately to shift the Broken Hill incubus.
But no permanent cure for the Hill
except its transfer to South Aus. provided
that State will take it. To cut 400 miles
(largely non-railroaded miles) off the dis-
tance between the rulers and the place ruled
may make all the difference between a profit
and a big loss. It would be worth while to
appoint a Royal Commission (it is at least
three days since a Royal Commission was
appointed) to find out (1) what kind of a
steady loss N.S.W. makes by hanging on to
its Silver Elephant, and (2) what sort of
chance there is of anything except loss.
There were five Labor members in Groper-
land’s Upper House before the ever.v-second-
year elections. But three of them had to
be reapproved by their constituents, and two
failed to secure endorsement. Panton, the
A.L.P. president, was rejected in the West
Province (Fremantle), and Cunningham was
dispossessed of the North-East Province seat
(Kalgoorlie). So that the Labor tally has
now been reduced to three, in a House of 30.
Since the Labor split of 3916, not only have
the eastern goldfields M’s.L.C. who were
bumped out of the fold for advocating con-
scription, held their own seats with the
greatest ease, but conscriptionist Laborites
have captured two that were previously
A.L.P. strongholds.
Thus Prime Minister Hughes, sitting on
the fence at Murwillumbah (Northern
N.
You have now come to the conclusion that unless
you get the New State .you cannot go further. I
hope I will be able to support you, but I first want
to understand something about the whole thing.
Hughes has dabbled in and lived on politics
since childhood’s squalling hours, and New
State movements have been in the air for 60
years. And, rather than risk votes by taking
either view, he wants to know “something
about the whole tiling.” Yet if his small girl’s
teacher asked to be told something about the
alphabet he would probably suggest that one
who had so fallen down on the job deserved
the sack.
So overwhelming is the importance to the
politician of his own goings-out and comings-
in that the worst snag ahead of the N.S.W.
Ministry appears to be, not the £5,500,000
deficit, or the vanished sinking fund, or the
New State movement, but the amended Elec-
toral Bill. The Dooley-McGirr infamy of
filling vacancies in the Elective House with
nominees to prevent the people voicing their
disgust with McGirrism must go. M hether
the 3-5 member constituencies will also go,
with all the complicated and costly counting
and re-counting, is a side issue which
threatens civil war. The prize crank-sug-
gestion comes from Minister Ley, who has
proposed that when Member Smiff drops out,
say, 18 or 24 months after the general elec-
tion, the old votes shall be re-counted to see
which of the old defeated candidates shall
have Smiff’s place. That would shut out new
blood and give each precious old candidate
a second run for his money. But the
blessed use of a by-election is to show what
the community. thinks of the Government
now, not what it thought 18 or 24 months
ago.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Though nominally the Federal Labor leader,
Matthew Charlton doesn’t wield such influence in
the Caucus as Arthur Blakeley, the party’s secre-
tary. Blakeley, who got into Parliament as a
champion of arbitration and constitutional behavior,
has lately swallowed his early principles and now
vaunts Garden’s Bed objective with every breath.
Cynics are not slow to ascribe a reason for
Blakeley’s change of front. If Parliament
approves of the proposed change in his constituency,
the next election will find him bidding for the votes
of Broken Hill; and everybody knows the futility
of that proceeding without a few mouthfuls of
O. patter and a loud belief in the weapon of
the Strike. So Blakeley is not altogether disin-
terested, even if his opinions have been altered by
the more militant atmosphere in the Australian
Workers’ Union. And it is probably on this
account that he commands more attention in the
Caucus. He is always a fighter, and his thin,
bilious voice, charged with the consciousness of his
outside power, can be guaranteed to put the ruddiest
case for Labor. Which is a pity, in a way. A man
of undoubted ability, Blakeley is at heart a moderate,
and his influence ought to be exerted on that side.
The famine in Russia drags its weary skel-
eton into its third year, and the accepted idea
begins to be that, the Government being
capable of nothing, the nation must just
go on skeletoning till the population drops to
the same zero as the food supply. Dr. Nan-
sen, sent along as International High Com-
missioner, reports from the Crimea and
thereabouts:—
You meet people who have eaten their children
or sisters or brothers. You see people lying like
skeletons in houses waiting for death. You see
hospitals where starving and other sick are brought
to receive care, but there are no beds, linen, medi-
cine, and often no physician. The patients are lying
together ori the floor in the utmost misery. You
see heaps of dead bodies, no one having, strength to
bury them.
Outside folk have almost given up being
shocked, having come to regard skeletons as
natural in Soviet Russia, like ruins in
Turkey. Each State has a sort of poet’s
license of its own. Nansen reckoned
4.000,000 victims of the policy that numbers
of humanitarian Australian Laborites have
acclaimed in his corner of Trotskyland.
State Treasurer McPherson, who has
already begun his campaign for the Deakin
seat in the Reps., is going bald-headed for
the abolition of the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court, but is careful to explain that
he is still a supporter of conciliation. He
would substitute Wages Boards, on the Vic.
pattern, for the compulsory principle em-
bodied in the Court. To return to
the old doctrine of tooth and claw is. he
thinks, impossible. The Single Purpose
League, which aims at sweeping away the
Arbitration Court and putting nothing in
its place, can hardly regard Mac as a dis-
ciple.
A BALLAD OF BALANCING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I am not to be counted as an adherent or an
opponent of the New State movement; I am simply
ready to hear arguments.”— W. M. Hughes.
You want to know my mind ? Get hence !
A Yes or No you ask for, plump.
Am I the Prince of Innocents
Or do you count your Bill a chump ?
Which way the cat is like to jump,
Before I speak, I needs must sense.
Let Pros and Antis take the stump—
I sit impassive on the fence.
My game’s to wait upon events
And ascertain which card is trump.
What good or ill the scheme presents
I simply do not care a dump.
It may be purely parish pump,
It may be statesmanship immense.
While Ayes and Noes the table thump
I sit impassive on the fence.
Let Dr. Page, with vim intense,
Through would-be States his bluey hump ;
Let city-dominated gents
Assail his plan with biff and bump,
With savage kick and vicious clump.
Amid the clash of arguments,
With open mind and balanced rump
I sit impassive on the fence.
Envoy (in a burst of candor ).
Tell me which way to take will pay,
And mighty soon I’ll chuck pretence.
My simple aim’s to hold my job
fry siding- with the larger mob.
Till that is shown me, s’w’elp me bob 1
I’ll sit impassive on the fence 1
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


HE PAGED THESE THREE FOR US.


&
\ /
w
XL
m ,
r_C£>. -1C: :\
k
R
V_IF NOT THIS , THEN THIS J
When you cannot go to the sea bring fresh breezes into your
home or office by using “THE WHIRLWIND FAN”
Elizabeth St.,
MELBOURNE
M^fgkefflN
213
Clarence St.,
SYDXEY
NOBEL
GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuee
Detonator*
Cartridges
Australian Manufacturers of “MAGPIE” Specialties
Flour Sifters.
Gravy Strainers.
Spouting. Brackets.
D Gate Latches.
Watering Cans.
“Dreadnought”
Wire Strainer.
Shovels—Special Steel
Wall Vents.
TINWARE.
Wire Nails.
Barbed Wire.
Spouting and Ridging.
Sewerage Pipes, etc.
Sheet Metal Work
of all descriptions.
Pry Pans.
TITAN Manufacturing Co.,
Normanby Road, South Melbourne.
Telephones—C2l9l, C 2192.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Mar., 1913. .£23,052 8 p.c.=£l2,ooo£li, 052 £1,95,459
Sept., 1913.. 22,637 8 „ „ 12,000 10,637 206,096
Mar., 1914.. 23,069 8 „ „ 12,000 11,06.9 217,165
Reserves disclosed .. 15,000 232,165
Sept., 1914.. 20,180 8 p.c. = 12,000 8,180 240,345
Mar., 1915.. 19,316 8 „ „ 12,000 7,316 247,661
Sept., 1915.. 17,255 8 ~,,12,000 5,255 252,916
Mar., 1916.. 19,485 8 „ „ 12,000 7,485 260,401
Sept, 1916.. 19,590 8 „ „ 12,000 7,590 267,991
Mar., 1917. . 22,164 8 „ „ 12,000 10,164' 278,155
Sept, 1917.. 22,307 8 „ „ 12,000 10,307 288,462
Mar., 1918.. 25,256 8 „ „ 12,000 13,256 301,718
Sept., 1918.. 26,180 8 „ ~ 12,000 14,180 315,898
Mar., 1919.. 29,413 8 ~ „ 12,000 17,413 333,311
Sept., 1919.. 41,489 9 ~ „ 22,500 18,989 352,300
Mar., 1920.. 46,696 10 „ ~ 25,000 21,696 373,996
Sept, 1920.. 55,230 10 „ „ 25,000 30,230 404,225
Premiums on new shares, £40,000. . 444,225
Mar., 1921.. 59,194 10 p.c.= 37,500 21,694 465,919
Sept., 1921.. 58,216 10 „ „ 37,500 20,716 486,635
Mar., 1922.. 58,722 10 ~ „ 37,500 21,222 507,857
Disclosed net profits are now more. than 24
times _ those, shown in pre-war terms. The
Royal’s business has grown very rapidly; its
deposits have more than doubled in eight
years, and a lot of new capital lias been got
in to help the expansion. Three years ago
paid capital was £300,000; it" is now
£750.000, and the last issue also brought in
£40,000 of share premiums. The management
has found profitable employment for the new
money entrusted to it by the public and
shareholders, and nowadays 10 p.c. is paid
on the three-quarter million with greater
ease than 8 p.c. was paid formerly on
£300,000. Gross profits, less clips for con-
tingencies, and expenses have grown in this
way!-
March
Half-year. Gross Profits. Expenses.
1914 .. .. £37,420 £14,351
1915.. . . 35,166 15,850
1916 . . . . 37,881 18,396
1917 .. .. 42,873 20,709
1918 .. .. 47,383 22,128
1919.. .. 55,446 27,898
1920 . . .. 76,119 29,423
1921 . . . . 98,828 39,636
1922 . , . . 98,912 40,191
The Royal is one of the younger Australian
banks—it started in ’BB—and 20 years ago
gross profits had not reached the £lO,OOO-
- Its rapid development has no doubt
been helped by the big commercial interests
represented on the Board.
This shows how balance-sheet figures have
moved, since just prior to the war:
Luiuuties.
March,’l4. March,’2l. March,’22.
Notes ... .. £1,103 £845 £B4O
Bills, etc 59,322 465,240 300,658
Free deposits .. 833,490 2,055,759 2,271,543
Fixed deposits ..1,491,800 2,652,154 2,485,194
; Assets.
Liquid assets . . 1,261,233 1,430,289 1,592,160
Advances . . . . 1,590,682 4,841,729 4,606,132
Premises, etc. .. 62,965 155,400 155,300
The Royal is now paying interest on approxi-
mately; a million more of the public’s money
than it did eight years ago. Oh the other
side it has three .millions more advanced to
customers, and has a quarter-million or so
in public securities compared with £73,6(39 in
1914. The feature of the comparisons, how-
ever, is the relatively small growth of liquid
assets: in pre-war terms more than half
of all liabilities was held in liquid form. The
proportion was unnecessarily large, and the
fact that the management was in a position to
afford considerable further accominodation
to customers when required perhaps had
some influence on the rapid growth of the
bank. Advances have not diminished during
the past 12 months to the extent that might
have been expected; they expanded from
slightly more than three millions in March,
1920, to £4,841,729 a year ago, when the
flood of imports swamped traders, and de-
clined to £4,606,132 at the latest balance.
The liquid position is, therefore, not so strong
as formerly : about £3l of every £lOO of all
liabilities was held within easy reach at
the latest balance. To protect the £3,466,075
of liabilities not. covered by liquid. assets
there were advances with a book value of
£4,606,132 jand premises, etc., set down as
worth £155,300. Put another way, there
were assets of 275. 6d. shown by the accounts
to.support every £1 of public’s money not
covered by cash and gilt-edged securities.
The Royal’s position from the point of view
of creditors thus looks very secure. The
proportion of shareholders’ funds to liabili-
ties is the reason: at March 31 all liabilities
to the nublic exceeded five millions; capital
and reserves after payment of the latest
div. totalled more than 1J million. So only
about £4 of the public’s money was held for
every £ of its own funds. The Royal could
practically double its holding of outside
money before what is generally regarded as
a safe trading limit would be exceeded. So
though, owing to .abnormal .trading condi-
tions, the liquid position is at present not
ail it might be, the extent of shareholders’
funds provides very substantial security.
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
who sell instruments for making musical and
other noises, etc.:—
'• ‘ To Re : Re-
Profits. Dividends. . serves, serves.
Mar., ’l4 . . £6,365 74 p.c. = £5248 £lll7 £40,943
Sept.,’l4.". 5,021 ' Nil 5021 45,964
Mar.,’ls.. 5,008 *6 p.c. = 8397 42,575
Sept.,’ls.. 3,655 5 „ „ 3499 156 42,731
Mar.,’l6.. 6,014 7 „ „ 4898 1116 43,847
Sept.,’l6.. 5,936 7 „ „ 4898 1038 44,885
Mar.,’l7.. 8,08110 „ „ 6998 1083 45.968
Sept.,’l7.. 7,968 10 „ „ 6998 970 46,938
Mar.,’lB.. 7,741 10 „ „ 6998 743 47,681
Sept.,’lB. . 8,037 10 „ „ 6998 1039 48,720
Mar.,’l9.. 7,970 10 „ „ 6998 972 49,692
Sept.,’l9.. 8,212 10 „ „ 6998 1214 50,906
Mar.,’2o.. 9,821 10 „ „ 6998 2823 53,729
Sept.,’2o.. 10,093 10 „ „ 6998 3095 * 56,824
Reserves eapitaljsed, £52,587.. 4,237
Mar.,’2l.. 11,184 10 p.c. = 9641 1543 5,780
Sept.,’2l.. 10,413 10 „ „ 9622 791 6,571
Mar.,’22.. 10,748 10 „ „ 9641 1107 7,678
*6 p.c. paid for the full year.
This co.’s position is steadily getting back
to normal. Huge stocks were unexpectedly
delivered early in 1921, and at the March
balance in that year the book value of stocks
and hire-agreements was £319,740, which
was nearly £127,000 more than paid capi-
tal. Consequently liabilities were very
heavy. During the _past 12 months stocks
have been reduced £52,000, and debts have
been lessened in this way:—
Alar., 21. Sept., ’2l. Mar., ’22.
Overdraft .. ... £53,242 £28,203 £11,549
Sundry creditors .. 93,907 84,180 . 79,812
Trust account .. 1,868 312 240
Rills payable .. 8,699 , —• 4,764
£157,716 £112,695 £96,365
The surprising feature about operations dur-
ing the past 12 months has been that in the
process of unloading the costly stocks prices
have evidently been maintained: profits for
the year ended March were only £lOO less
than those of the previous 12 months. In
view of the losses shown by soft-goods
traders and others, Nicholson’s has been
extremely fortunate. That hints that the piano
trade is not fiercely competitive, and that there
has been no slaughtering of prices to effect
sales. Fortunately for the co. during the
period in which huge stocks were held, the
purchasing capacity of the public was not
disturbed to any extent, consequently all
traders disposed of their goods much more
successfully than would have been the case
had general depression been experienced
along with the .slump in values.
Disclosed profits have been ample to pay
10 p.c. divs. on capital, which nearly two
years ago was increased from £140,233 to
£192,820 by a transfer of reserves. These
distributions have lately been made at the
directors’ discretion; or, more correctly, per-
haps, at the bank’s discretion. The £9641
approved for distribution in November last
year was handed out only a few weeks ago,
and the latest div. for a similar amount is to
be withheld until the cash position improves.
Liabilities are still very heavy, but the worst
dangers have apparently been successfully
passed. The book value of stocks and goods
sold by hire-purchase at March 31 (£267,140)
was only £36,000. larger than at the balance
fust prior to the war, but whether the goods
now on hand are largely, purchases at boom-
prices, or mostly new stocks bought in lower
markets, is not stated. The co. had a very
successful run throughout the war years
and since, but Selling conditions continued
favorable even' in the darkest days; of the
world upheaval. A feature of the accounts
nowadays is that there are visible reserves
of only £7678 to support the £192,820 of
paid capital.
* * * *
Provident Life Assurance Co., of
Dunedin (M.L.), which, is also doing busi-
ness in the Commonwealth :—-
Ordinary and Accident Branch.
Added to Assur-
Ex- Assurance ance
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Fund. Fund
1913.. £9,856 £1,867 £2,365 £5,652 £25,150
1914.. 12,127 3,043 2,533 6,551 31,701
1915.. 14,136 4,230 2.853 7,053 35.754
1916. . 16,455 4,731 3,014 8,710 47 464
1917.. 20,003 5,187 3.268 11,5.48 59,012
1918.. 25,564 11.494 4,484 9,586 68;598
1919.. 28,985 6,238 5,214 17,533 86,131
1920.. 33,688 5,759 6,185 21,744 107,875
1.921.. 38,176 6,312 6,857 25,007 132,882
Industrial Branch.
, Dividends to
• Shareholders
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. (5 p.c.). Funds.
1913. . £41,502 £10,453 £25,123 £673 £50,890
1914.. 46,302 10,287 26,513 856 59,536
1915.. 48,625 8,774 24,573 • 1050 73.764
1916.. 52,605 13,115 25,943 1050 86,261
1917.. 6,1,439 12,793 30,088 1050 103,769
1918.. 68,701 17,793 33,142 1050 120.485
1919.. 75 200 22,837 35,457 1050 136,341
1920.. 82,062 19,782 37,246 1050 160,325
1921.. 90,512 23,300 39,074 1050 187,413
This is a co-operative office, but though it
has been writing Industrial business for
many years—it took over the Provident and
Industrial Insurance Co. 18 years ago—and
established an Ordinary department in 1908,
it is not fattening shareholders. Paid capi-
tal is £21,000, on which divs. of 6 p.c. p.a.
are paid : 5 p.c. comes from the Industrial
department and approximately £ p.c. each from
Ordinary and Accident branches. Policies
in the Ordinary department are issued
on a true co-operative basis : the Provident
undertakes to make 90 p.c. of all profits
available as bonuses for policy-holders.
Though the volume of business handled is
small considering the age of the office, good
progress has been, made in recent years.
Ordinary income has almost doubled, in four
years and funds are £78,000 larger. Indus-
trial income is also steadily expanding.
Combining all operations the - Provident has
grown in this way since 1890:
Total Expenses
Income. Claims, (inc. diva.).
1899 .. .. £9,177 £2,835 £6,462
1904 .. .. 15,289 3,434 8,449
1909 . . ~ 30,785 8,369 20,650
1914 .. . . 58,429 131330 29,902
1919 . . .. 1Q4.185 29,075 41,721
1920 .. ' 115,750 25,541 44,481 ;
1921 .. .. 128,688 29,612 46,981
The introductory tables go back only eight
years: prior to that Ordinary and other
operations were not separated in the
accounts.
The co.’s Ordinary business looks sound.
Valuations are made quinquennially, and the
next estimate of policy-liabilities is not due
until December, 1928. The 3918 investiga-
tion, conducted on an assumed interest rate
of 31 p.c.' disclosed a surplus, and the
position has no doubt been strengthened
since that ’ valuation. Claims have been
normal and the expense rate has been kept
low. Ordinary expenses for the past year
were 16.4 p.c. :of total income, compared
with 17.3 p.c; for 1920, and 18 p.c. for 1919.
That is an entirely satisfactory cost rate,
particularly in view of the fact that £l3 of
every £loo.of income represented premiums
on new policies, which are invariably expen-
sive. The Provident is apparently writing
its new business more cheaply than most
life offices. Adopting The Bulletin’s
usual formula of assuming the cost of old
business at 7 p.c. of renewal premiums and
charging the balance of expenses against
new business, the latest accounts show £5077
of first premiums to have been won at a
cost of £4102, or less than 81 p.c.
Investments are healthy. Combined
reserves of Ordinary and Accident depart-
ments now total £132,882, and the balance-
sheet shows liabilities of only £1973. There
is £128,027 in public securities and cash,
and the £6827 balance of assets is loaned to
policy-holders. As previously mentioned,
policy-valuations are calculated on the
assumption that funds will average 8£ p.c.
over the course of contracts. Last year
average Ordinary funds earned £5 14s. 3d.
P.c. ■ . #
Expenses in the Industrial branch are also
being got down. Eight years ago they took
60.5 of all income: in 1919, 47. i p.c. •
1920. 45.4 p.c.; and last year 43.1 p.c
Funds , now total £187.413. but the £21.000
of capital is also included in the balance-
,sheet of this department. Assets comprise
£3i4,346 of public securities, £11,861 of
cash and book debts, £11,465 of mortgages,
£ool4 loans on policies, £7390 in premises
and equipment, and £lOOO of Union Steam-
ship prefs.
* * * *
Bagot’s Executor and Trustee Co., Ltd.
(Adelaide). The deficit with which the co.
began, represented formation costs :
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£351
1911.. £24 £24 327
Additional preliminary exes., £13.. 340
1912.. 138 138 202
1913.. 68 —■ 68 134
1914.. 88 88 46
1915. . 26 26 20
Loss.
1916.. 13 t ;■ ' _ 33
• Profit. Reserves.
1917.. 611 611 578
1918. . 1004 10 p.c. = £625 379 957
1919.. 1013 10 „ „ 625 388 1345
1920/.- ,1022 10... ~ 625 397 1742
1921.. 1387 10 „■ „ 625 762 2504
1922.. 1803 10 „ „ 625 1178 3682
The table illustrates how rapidly a trustee
co. becomes a good div. payer when it gets
into business with an influential backing.
S. Aus. has three trustee cos.: the E. T. and
A. of S. Aus., which has been established 42
yearsElder’s. wh ; ch b”gan in 1910 with the
support of Elder-Smith heavyweights; and
Bagot’s which was started about the same
time as Elder’s by Bagot, Shakes and Lewis
connections. The co. had a paid capital
of £6250—50.000 £1 shares paid to 2s. 6d. —
and after eight years had written off the
£364 of preliminary costs and commenced
payment of regular 10 p.c. divs. The value
of the estates now administered is not dis-
closed, but in 1920 £559,707 of funds were in
the, management’s care, and good progress
has since been recorded. During the past six
years P. and L. figures have moved in this
way:—
Commissions. Interest. Expenses.
1917 .. £1096 £203 £687
1918 .. 1963 319 1278
1919 .. 2225 345 1558
1920 .. 2703 360 2041
1921 . . 3326 388 2326
1922 .. 4453 439 3089
Last year’s net profit gave almost 29 p.c. on
capital, and at March 31 reserves consider-
ably more than half the amount of original
capital had accumulated. In February the
directors decided to double paid capital by
issuing at par another 50,000 shares to be
paid to 2s. 6d., and the scrip was promptly
snapped up, £5914 of the £6250 having beeii
paid in at March 31. The co. at the balance
thus had funds of its own totalling £16.159
and £750 in a commission reserved account
which will be drawn upon as the services are
rendered. Except for £3OO of furniture
(written down from £479) and £1470 ad-
vanced to estates, all funds were in Govern-
ment securities and cash.
West's, Ltd., which took over West's Pic-
tures, Ltd., when that concern joined the
him combine :—•
1913 h ’ Iffnx Dividends. sems* series.
1914"- ?! ~ £9208 £9,208
ini!" 8,248 la p.c. = £14,466 - 2,990
1916" 14 7%4 ” 19,289 5253 8 > 243
1917" H’nin Hi"' ” 12,055 2799 10,952
1918" Jt” -- 6 > 028 2423 10,994
1919" Q9M HI" ” H’ 260 242 n > 236
• s’?7« l\ ” ” £233 2033 13 > 269
too? ' .HI? » 7, 233 945 14,214
1922" fi’orf 19 , ” » 9,644 7270 21,484
1922.. 6,954 7i „ „ 7,233 21 205
West s Pictures, Ltd., was one of Sydney’s
C °f ’ f td '> reconstructed
tne old co. when the early competitors got
together in the General Film Go. of Austral-
asia, Ltd. There was a generous sprink-
ling ot water in the film float, but West’s
did no, write up its capital to correspond
™ «» share interests in that concern. It
holds £B6,not! of fully-paids, and £36,682 of
the holding is represented by £36,682 in a
capital reserve ’ in West’s balance-sheet.
Ibis policy has enabled the co. to pav a
good average dividend on its own capital
and meantime accumulate substantial re-
serves. Wests income is won from (1)
running its own theatres (there’s £49,000-
odd in freeholds, leaseholds and buildings) ;
(2) divs. from General Film; and (8) a
trifle from the few thousands invested in
V\ar Loan and on deposit. This compari-
son shovvs how the co.’s position has im-
proved since the issue of the first balance-
sheet after the reconstruction :
T . ...... 1913. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities .. £34,777 £6,332 £5,852
1-reeholds, plant, etc... 30,034 32 475 32 47->
Leaseholds . . 33,838 17 068 16,’ 578
S®®* 1 p°- . • • 107,397 100,936 100 936
Book debts and cash .. 5,797 11,862 10 947
At March 31 there was a surplus of cash
assets over liabilities of £5095. This sur-
plus and the properties represented £54145
of the paid capital of £96,443. In addition
tim General Film shares West’s held
£10,400 of debentures in that concern and had
advanced £4OOO otherwise. The £86,536 fullv-
paid Films thus support £27,900 of West’s
capital.
Profits have been erratic owing to variable
returns from the General Film. Last year
no divs. were paid by that co.—the directors
do not otter any reasons for their absence
so even the 71 p.c. distributed was not
wholly earned. The properties are not
giving such profitable returns as they did
a few years ago: in 1916 the directors re-
ported that the oo.’s own theatres were “con-
sistently returning sufficient to provide
almost 9 p.c. on capital.”
* * * #
Many attempts have been made to float
movie-producing cos. in the Commonwealth,
but most of them have ended disastrously.
Another float now before the public has "a
greater appeal than its predecessors. Ray-
mor.d Longford, producer of Steele Rudd’s
Selection ’ films. Den’s “Sentimental Bloke”
and “Ginger Mick,” “The Blue Mountain
Mystery,” “The Silence of Dean Maitland”
and a dozen or so other successes, plays lead
in this new float. The co. is the Longford-
L.yell Australian Picture Productions, Ltd.,
with a capital of £50,000. The promoters
get £6OOO fully-paids, which- in a float like
this is not an excessive consideration in view
of Mr. Longford’s wide experience as a pro-
ducer. and 44,000 shares are offered the
public. Mr. Longford estimates that £20,000
will cover management and production costs
of four “star” pictures in the first year. Pro-
fits of several films are given to support earn-
ing prospects: for instance, “The'Fatal Wed-
ding” 10 years ago gave a profit of £16,000;
‘The Blue Mountain Mystery” lias been ap-
praised for exhibition purposes in U.S.A. at
£20.000; and pioneer movie-man C. Spencer
attests that several of his locally-made films
have “shown a profit of Several hundred ner
cent, here, and then netted more in London
alone than the whole production cost in Aus-
tralia.” The Longford-Lyell promoters esti-
mate that their first year’s four “star” films
should give £30,000 in Australasia, and that
£25,000 more should come from overseas
rights. Of course, these are merely antici-
pations _ based on the assumption that first
productions will be “stars.” But probably
nobody in the Commonwealth is more cap-
able of producing marketable films than Mr.
Longford, who, with Miss Lottie LyelL
undertakes to remain in the service of' the
co for seven years. Conditions for film-
production arc admitted to be excellent in
Australia, and the .enterprise should be sue-
cessfm if capably directed.


Dalgety 8 Company
'Limited—-
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking otot
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing Investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAB VAN,
Managing Director.
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fitting's which carry the O.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Win.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. fl
The amazing difference between the flow from
metal pipe ana Pioneer Wood Pipe after the same
length of service has led progressive engineers to
specify Wood Pipe when planning a water service.
Rust, deposit and pitting of the pipe speedily lessen
the volume of water discharged from an iron or
steel service; but the smooth interior bore of a
Pioneer wood pipe allows no sediment or organic
growths to accumulate, the pipes themselves remain
sound, and the flow unimpaired after years of use.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
• * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagb
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents,— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. ConnisoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
• • • •
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces ; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * #
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). — Advt.
&
I
pOORD^SOM
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
■vTTJJa
Ve
1 Swift & Company lAi\.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CC. 5
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
289 Elizabeth Street.
In his “Geology of Broken Hill” Govern-
ment Geologist E. C. Andrews deals exhaus-
tively with the prospects of additions to
proved ore reserves of individual mines.
Owing to the complex geological problems
which intrude, no satisfactory summary of
this portion of the report is possible, but
these brief extracts give some of Mr. An-
drews’ conclusions:—
Broken Uill Prop, and Block I-}.—Below the
lowest points worked in these mines the trace of
the lode tends to merge into the undulating dip of
the hanging wall basin on the one hand, and of the
deeper isoclinal basin of the Broken Hill basin on the
other hand... .It might seem an easy matter to advise
a co. to sink a vertical shaft to a depth of 5000 ft.
approximately, and in a position lying a little to
the north-west of the outcrop, on the confident ex-
pectation of a recurrence at depth of bodies similar
to that worked at present by the Broken Hill Prop.
It might seem, also, that no valid geological
reasoning could be adduced against such procedure.
....In this connection, however, it would be neces-
sary to take the independent testimony of the sur-
face geology before accepting such a statement, see-
ing that the lode map and the 20-chain map are full
of information....
.... The evidence, then, is that another lode may
be expected underground north-west of the Pro-
prietary deposit, but that it will be inconsiderable
in size and that it will be discontinuous, considered
both in horizontal and vertical directions.
The Central and Block 10. —If future mining work
should show that the lode terminates downward in
a closed fold without trace of indicator or crush
zone beyond these points, then, as in the case of
the Proprietary mine, there would appear to be
little hope of finding other bodies of commercial
ore by boring to greater depths. The prospecting
should not be abandoned in a downward direction,
however, until all trace of lode or associated crush
has been lost. The drag-fold may be expected to
contain large swellings at any point, which should
produce considerable quantities of ore. So long as
any trace of lode occurs along the main zone of
flowage or dragging, there is ground for expectation
of other important ore bodies.
The South .—The plans of the mine suggest that
several independent lenses, or pipes, exist in the
workings pitching south-west from the Central mine.
A detailed examination, however, of the under-
ground workings indicates decidedly that the largest
bodies, apparently independent when studied in plan
only, are really only decided crinkles and contor-
tions ornamenting one dragfold.... The geological
examination suggests that this fold persists for
several hundreds of feet in a vertical direction,
but with decreasing width at the base, and that it
"ill be broadly in the nature of an asymmetric and
irregular anticline with a marked undulation in
pitch, the general pitch being to the north. This
body of simpler form may be expected to be large,
but the details cannot be forecast on the law of
symmetry. In addition to the known ore reserves
the South Mine may expect a further 1,000,000 to
2.000,000 tons, inclusive Of the fold rising from
1100 to 700 feet within M.L. 7.
Zinc Corporation and South Blocks Extended. —
The amount of ore expectant in the Zinc and in the
South Blocks Extended cannot be estimated with
any pretence to certainty, but the outlook would be
excellent if the pitch of the drag-fold should flatten
below the 1400 ft. level.
Both the Zinc Lode deposit and its associates form
sub-parallel lenses to the main foot wall body. The
evidence available indicates that they are large,
siliceous bodies with moderate values only of silver,
lead and zinc,' developed sporadically through them.
Viewed in the light of the present prices of lead
and zinc, prospecting work on these sub-parallel
bodies in the hanging wall is not promising.
The British (Blackwood and Thompson Shaft Sec-
tions). —As in the case of the Block 14 a decided
necessity exists for the mapping of the whole struc-
ture of the lode and the associated country rock in
detail, with a view to the preparation of a model
of the lode so as to indicate tne existence of local
bulges and spurs of importance which may exist both
below the 1200 ft. level and to the east of the pre-
sent ore bodies.
The Junction, the Junction North and Marsh Shaft
Section of the British. —The Junction lodes show the
existence of asymmetrical folds which have been
replaced to form important ore bodies, but which
are not so large as the .bodies in the mines asso-
ciated both north and smith of them. Perhaps it is
in this mine that the greatest necessity exists for
the detailed logging of structures, so as to forecast
the existence of ore masses unknown or unsuspected
as yet.
North Mine. —The main ore body in this mine pre-
sents a most interesting study. The main problems
are: (1) What is the chance of an ore body of
commercial importance being struck bv the cross-
cuts from the 1550 ft. and 1700 ft. levels? This is
the problem of immediate importance. (2) What is
the hope of locating commercial bodies of ore beyond
and below the main shaft ?....The main conclusion
which becomes clear from a close examination of the
form of the ore bodies, in the light of the forms
ascertained elsewhere along the line of lode, is that
an a priori case has been established for the work
done, and that the North Mine Company is justi-
fied in sinking and cross-cutting as it has done, for
this is just the portion of the Broken Hill lode
proper where the laws of symmetry may be applied
with justification if at any place along the Main
Lode. If the laws of symmetry hold for lode
such that the pitch be maintained to the _ 1700 ft.
level hear the main shaft, then the co. owning this
mine may expect an addition to its ore reserves
exceeding 2,000,000 tons.
Mr. Andrews adds: “Ore bodies do occur at
considerable depths at Broken Hill in posi-
tions not yet prospected, but the real diffi-
culty is to give a reliable statement as to
the size of these' more deeply-seated bodies,”
and. as mentioned by the “Wild Cat” last
week, he has ffiigh expectation of 20 million
tons more ore from the Broken Hill line, of
lode. The volume should be of great value
in future prospecting: the latest survey has
disclosed that “vast sums of money have been
expended wrongly”: bores have been driven,
shafts sunk and crosscuts put into country
from which a structural geologist could ex-
pect no commercial ore bodies.
* * * *
Chief-Geologist E. C. Andrews, of the N.
B. Wales Mines Department, has issued -a
timely warning regarding the dangers of
over-capitalising cos. formed to work the
south-eastern extension of the old Lucknow
field. Over-capitalisation -was one of the
curses of the English cos, which worked
the field in the long-ago. For instance,
Wentworth Goldfields Pty. was floated in
London in 1890 with half-a-million capital
—150,000 priority shares and 350,000 ordi-
naries both of £1 each. The co. recovered
£531,000 of gold and distributed £300,000.
Aladdin’s Lamp, floated as a subsidiary to the
Wentworth, started with a paid capital of
£lOO,OOO, only £lO,OOO of which was pro-
vided as working capital, the parent receiv-
ing no less than £65,000 in scrip. The co.
won £338,000 of gold and paid divs. total-
ling £175,000. D’Arcy Estates was capital-
ised at £75,000, had £50,000 available for
development, but paid no div. However, it
is doubtful whether Mr. Andrews, when issu-
ing his warning, had not an eye on the
present market gamble rather than on the
cos. now operating on the field. The South
Lucknow syndicate having proved the exist-
ence of the joint in its ground and the pres-
ence of favorable factors, and having had to
reconstruct to secure fresh capital, the ques-
tion arose as to what valuation should be
placed on the promising leases and on work
done. The syndicate got £26.062 (in
shares) and itself oversubscribed the 100,000
3s. 6d. contribs. offered, nominal capital
being fixed at £52,500. The subscribers to
syndicate and co. have together so far put
in £4lOO, all of which has been honestly
spent in prospecting and necessary equip-
ment, Also, work has been assisted by Gov-
ernment aid. Actually, therefore, the capi-
tal put in by the co. has been very small.
The value placed on the show by the market,
however, is entirely another matter. As
The Bulletin has pointed out on several
occasions, not a single ton of payable stone
has yet been definitely proved, and the
market valuation is wholly speculative, as
it generally is in respect of most mining
shares. Had the vendor syndicate taken
the £26,062 in shares and then left the
public to subscribe all the contribs. the
float, would have been very different. The
justification for that valuation on the pro-
position for purposes of the float, or for
any valuation for that matter, depends en-
tirely on work not yet done. And if only
one-fifth of the number of shares had been
issued, who could guarantee that the market
would not now be offering five times as
much as it has been paying?
* * * *
Lucknow Pups, operating between the
South Lucknow and the old Lucknow
(N.S.W.) workings, is considering floating
a tribute co.. to handle portion of the joint
in its area. The Pups ground includes the
Snobs vein, from which £20,000 was won
from 80ft. of formation in the late ’sixties.
A party of shoemakers worked this vein, but
seem to have given up owing to water and
after having failed to follow the contact in
a 150 ft. drive at the 120 ft. level. The
proposal is for a Snobs Lucknow Tribute
Co., in which Pups shareholders will get
partially-paid shares, to take over and repair
an old 150 ft. shaft lOOft. towards old work-
ings from the Pups shaft, and then drive on
the contact towards the old Snobs ground.
Mahony. of the Vic. Geological Survey,
who is with the Okes-Durack party, supports
Blatchford’s good opinion of Kimberley
(W.A.) oil possibilities. He confirms the
presence of indications of oil in the form
of bitumen, and also concurs in the opinion
that the structure of the beds is conducive
to the retention of oil. He adds that boring
alone can prove the existence of oil, but,
as far as geological data goes, the outlook
is favorable.
# * » •
The curtain is almost down on Westonia.
Edna May, Central and Consolidated are
water-logged, and Deeps has worked out its
last stope. Central has a considerable ton-
nage of 12dwt. to lodwt. ore in its bottom
levels, but, owing to water trouble, this is
unlikely ever to be recovered. Central and
Deeps both still have tailings heaps to treat,
and this work will probably be the full
extent of future mining operations on the
field. The payable ore of Westonia was
contained within 24 acres, yet there were
four cos. and four treatment- and pnmping-
plants to deal with it. Had there been only
one concern with one plant, Melbourne
would have received nearer £1,000.000 in
divs. instead of the £400,000 distributed.
Westonia should be noted as much for its
Melbourne affliction as for its high-grade
ore-shoot and heavy water inflow.
* # * *
Golden Butterfly, a descendant of the Bull-
finch boopi, has decided to cease operations
on its Banker lease, south of Southern Cross.
The Banker, when worked by Single and
Rowe, was a fair two-man show, but it has
since show r n no promise of becoming any-
thing more. The former owners -won £4OOO
from 1000 tons, and then sold to the Butter-
fly, which recovered 2000 oz. (fine) from 4500
tons. The Butterflv has flown over the
goldfields considerably during the past 12
years, and has tried hard to secure a decent
property for its shareholders. At the
moment there seems nothing left for it but
the oil-option business or liquidation.
Hampton Daisy, a Hampton Plains wild-
flower that was thought fit to transplant
in the back country at Lawlers, has changed
its name and management. The company
acquired the old Queen mine, and is now
known as the Daisy Queen. A ne-w mine-
manager has been appointed, and Edna
May’s metallurgist has been sent up to assist
him. The co. is working a lode of fair
length with values averaging 15dwt. But
width is on the slender side, except at one
point where the lode bulges to 12ft. The fact
that values persist with depth is a satis-
factory feature, and generally developments
warrant the payment of a few more calls.
The call-list is already a long one, but
Perth shareholders still have much faith in
the show.
• • • •
Since Murrin Pty (W.A.) was aban-
doned 10 years ago by W. Hill, who had
won about £40,000 net profit from it, Adel-
aide investors have put much capital and
effort into the show, but it has proved only
a call-making proposition for them. Hill
hopes to repeat his Murrin success: he has
taken a month’s sampling option over
Brown’s reward, at Field’s Find. If the
option is exercised the purchase consideration
will be £4OOO. Brown brought the lease at
the end of last year for £2500, and has since
milled from it 300 tons, worth £7OOO.
Duncan Milsom, a U.S.A. master of en-
gineering-geology, considers that the mica
leases 100 ibiles east of Esperance (W.A.)
should at depth disclose a “remarkable mica
mine.” These micaceous were dis-
covered 15 years ago by geological-surveyor
C. F. Chaplin when prospecting for phos-
phates, and have only recently been given
attention. On one lease of 108 acres at
Paisley Hill Milsom reports a main peg-
matite dyke and five smaller dykes or feed-
ers. all of which show mica on the surface.
He estimates that at the surface 51b. com-
mercial mica can be won per c. yd., and
considers that quality and quantity will im-
prove with depth. At another 100-acre lease,
the Bellinger, there is “quite a lot of mica
which could be graded for electrolytic pur-
poses, while the remainder could find a use
as a constituent of ruberoid roofing and as
a lubricant.” The Mica Envelopment Syndi-
cate, which has been opening the deposits,
is raising capital to open out the Paisley
dyke.
* * * *
Anglo-Persian geologists Mayo and Gray
have come south after a two months’ geolo-
gical reconnaisance of the potential oil
country of Western Queensland. After
having a peep at the Roma bore and getting
records of drilling they traversed the country
of Injune Creek and Carnarvon Ranges, and
thence over the permo-carboniferous marines
of the Upper Dawson and un to Springsure.
Their report will be for the preliminary
digestion of the Commonwealth and Queens-
land Governments, after which the public
may get a hint as to what they think of the
prospect of commercial oil-pools being found.
In any case the Queensland Geological Sur-
vey thinks that the Roma gas-field should
turn out a payable proposition apart from the
question as to whether oil will be found be-
neath it. A weighty committee, on which
Professor Steele figures, is_ going into the
question of its best utilisation.
* * » *
The pi’omising Ulam (Q.) white-marble
industry of a year or two ago has retro-
graded, there being very little demand for
the product at present. A couple of years
ago it created quite a mild boom in Rock-
hampton, and local syndicates were jostling
one another to get the best quarry sites. A
few thousands were spent on acquiring up-
to-date machinery, some of it from Uncle
Sam, but for the first quarter of this year
the two cos. could get orders worth ouly
£474. Sculptor Harold Parker has just
given Ulam marble a boost for quality, but
as a good deal of Italian white marble
was imported last year it looks as if
most orders are going outside of Australia
to the detriment of a local industry.
♦ * * *
Charters Towers is rather sceptical of a
dark horse on Alabama Hill, where a belated
attempt to work a oft. lode, estimated to
average an ounce, is being made. The
prospector who has made the “come-back”
left the show eight years ago. Anyway, the
environs of Alabama Hill are reticulated
with old workings of the Peabody Alabama.
North Australian (one of the very best of
the early reefs) and a host of others of lesser
fame.
* * * *
The Gordon, at Irvinebank (Q-), which
has received mention on this page several
times as a show with a likely future, has
recently put through another nice little
crushing of 80 tons for 11 tons tin concen-
trates worth £BBO. Of all the shows on the
field the Oordon looks about the most likely
to help fill the gap left by the demise of the
Vulcan.
The depression of sapphire mining at
Anakie (Q.) may be gauged from the March
and April returns, which were estimated at
£l5OO and £BOO worth of stones, respec-
tively. For the first four months of the
present year the total was only £sooo—or
equal to only about a week’s output in the
boom of a year or so ago. The few left on
the field are scarcely earning a crust now,
and the poor old Government is to be asked
to dole out advances on gems held in antici-
pation of a rise in prices, which may not
soon be forthcoming.
» • # •
Although the Canary, Kangaroo Hills
(N.Q.), is yet only a prospect, from appear-
ances down to 40ft. it looks like developing
into a tip-top mine. The 50-odd tons so far
sent to the battery from these workings
have carried over 20 p.c. tin, and the ore is
up to 24ft. thick. It is too early to pro.
phesy, though, whether it will be another
Sardine.
* # * »
The feverish hunt for oil now proceeding
throughout the Commonwealth gives added
interest to world’s petroleum figures for 1921.
Total production was 759 million barrels,
compared with slightly more than 694 J
millions for the previous year. The United
States produced more than two-thirds of the
world’s output, and Mexico one-fourth, these
two countries together providing 87.6 p.c.
The outputs of the principal producing coun-
tries, in millions of barrels, were as follows:
U.S.A 460.6 Poland . . . . 3.6
Mexico .. . . 195 Peru . . .. 3.5
Russia .. .. 28.5 ’;pan .. .. 2.6
Dutch East Indies 18 Vrinidad.. .. 2.3
Persia . . . • 14.6 Argentina . . 1.7
Roumania . . 8.3 Egypt .. 1.1
India .. .. 6.8 l Venezuela .. 1
«. * * *
American Beach Oil, Kangaroo Island, is
another local oil venture which struck
trouble early in its drilling career. The
drill broke in January, and fishing has failed
to hook the gear. So the hole has been
abandoned, and two shifts per day started
on a new bore. The latest office statement,
solemnly records the weighty testimony that
“local residents are still satisfied that oil
will be located at no great depth,” and Cap-
tain Hautpick’s blessings on the Mersey
(Tas.) oil float are interpreted as “encour-
aging the belief that the strike of oil will
extend through Kangaroo Island to the vari-
ous localities in S. Aus.”
* # # #
Rabaul Prospecting and Exploration Co.
sent F. Darling to prospect German New
Guinea for oil, and at the recent meeting in
Melbourne he produced samples of crude oil
taken from a seepage near the Wapik River.
As the local New Guinea officials refused to
grant him either lease or license he went
prospecting for gold and found a dredging
proposition on the Waria River, which he
reckons is worth 4s. per c. yd. and would cos*
Is. to treat. But is there any really sound
reason for preventing people prospecting for
oil in New Guinea, when thev can by law
prospect for gold, tin, copra, hemp, bananas
or converts to Christianity?
“D.F.”: Next year will see the centenary
of the first recorded discovery of gold in
Australia. In 1823 Mcßrian, a surveyor
woz-king on the Fish River, near Bafhurst
fN.S.W.), wrote on a page of his field-book,
still preserved in Sydney Mining Museum :
“At this place I found numerous particles of
gold in the sand in the hills convenient to
this spot.”


A MARTIAN SUNDAY AFTERNOON.
Scientists are arranging to photograph the planet Mars, which is approaching the Earth. They say it has “an atmosphere similar to ours; also poles with snow.
mountains, valleys and other physical conditions very like our own.”
And The BULLETIN would not be surprised if the cameras revealed other similarities.


m
i
BECKON
Northern trades cool
Hawaii in July and August,
making it an unparalleled
vacation resort. Surfing and
swimming —NO SHARKS
sailing, game fishing, golfing,
hunting, hiking, motoring,
mountain climbing and ivil-
auea—living volcano —all lend
enchantment to the Crossroads
of the Pacific. Booklet from
nearest travel, ticket agency,
or
Department B,
Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii,
U.S.A.
DURING THE vAtER MONTHS
HAVE
TOOTH’S
“BULL”
STOUT
with luncheon or supper!
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO. LTD., Kent Brewery, Sydney.
w
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1921 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is Just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years
research by the Scientists at the Hears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.^
The Hears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
“Wilfrido”: Edwin George Jellicoe is not
the eldest brother of Maonland s G.-G., ia.s
alleged by a Bujxetin correspondent last
week —an error, by the way, which was
repeated in Sydney Telegraph last Tuesday.
He claims to be a; cousin; but the little
admiral has reserved his decision on the
point. E.G. is a barrister of some tonnage
practising at Wellington.
About 30 years ago two brothers named
Pollock, small, frail, pallid men, arrived in
Australia from Ireland. One was a lawyer,
the other an engineer, and both were brilli-
ant. The lawyer died just as he had made
good : the engineer, Professor Pollock, F.R.S.,
of the Chair of Physics in tlie University,
passed over last week. He set an example
to some of the alleged “rejects” by joining
un with the A.I.F. at the age of 58; was
given a commission in the Mining Battalion,
and served in the Ypres salient during the
months when the region between Shrapnel
Corner and the line was as unhealthy as any
.place of its size in the world. He was in
Charge of a school at Poperinghe when it was
being bombed almost nightly, and in the
intervals peppered with a “toute suite"j and
she did good work in the mining which pre-
«ceced the taking of Messines. A sister is his
only living relative in Australia.
W. H. Edgar, who was Health and Works
Minister under Murray and Watt, is an
odds-on chance for the jolr of Chairman of
Committees of the Vic. Council in succession
to J. Dfysdafe Brown, Ayho faded out a few
weeks ago. The screw is only £3OO a year;
but then the House sits for less than one
month in the 12.
“Thor”: A sackful of to-day’s box-seat
politicians graduated from the “Union Par-
liament” which was made up of the glibbest
products of Syd-
ney’s many debating
societies a bout 30
years back. Holman
was its first “Pre-
mier” and Hughes his
“Minister for Lands,”
While Oakes, Danny
Levy and that almost
forgotten Federal
battler Wilks also
aired themselves. I
was “Government
Whip.” The “Parlia-
ment” assembled in the
Pitt-street School of
Arts, but was not so
brilliant as the old de-
bating society at
which in the same
hall Barton, Reid and
.Crick made oratorical
sparks fly.
E.A. EVA, manager
the Commonwealth
line of steamera
in Australia.
y n nM %>niT£>vcrsy has been revived in
Adelaide ab » aming of Hergott
Springs ino>tFflU a , There seems to be
m doSbt thaLiN !»»•!'*■
Mueller called Mm fe''and hie own
wrote him both, several
signature is a scrawl that might be either.
But his obituary notice in 1861 seems to
settle the question:—
On the 17th October, at Melbourne, in the 36th
year of his age, David Hergolt, artist and naturalist.
The deceased was a native of Bavaria.
Bill Dyson is in harness again in London
—on the staff of the regenerated and rejuv-
enated John Bull, which was Horatio Bot-
tomley’s ultra-jingo weekly, but is now in
other hands sworn to conduct it on different
lines. Dyson gets £l5OO a year for a page
cartoon a week. Another Australian on the
staff is Harrison Owen, Bill’s brother-in-law.
Harold Ellison went originally to London
as a youth on the recommendation of Fitz-
roy, Earl of Euston, once a popular figure in
Adelaide society. After toiling for years
in the office of the Agent-General for S.A.
George Reid invited him to join the High
Commissioner’s staff. Latterly Ellison has
been sec. of the committee for hospitality to
visiting Australians, and he is now back
in the Commonwealth at the direction of
Hughes.
“Butler’s Hump”; Kingsmill having been
relieved of the Presidency of the Groper
House of Ham Pat by the metropolitan elec-
tors who grew -Aired of being represented by
him, it is generally believed that old Ned
Witteuoom can have the job for the asking.
“Ten-foot Ned,” as the alluvial diggers once
christened him, is the
out-and-out doyen of
W.A. legislators. He
first won a seat in the
old Council in 1883,
years before there was
an Assembly, and he
lias sat in the present
Council with very few
intervals—t he only
long one being when
he was Agent-General-
ling for four years—
since 1894. Desper-
ately reactionary ns
are Ned’s views (he
even looks with an ur>-
disguisedly hostile eye
on free secondary
schools and universi-
ties as tending to un-
settle the- youth of
W.A. and unfit them
for their natural w<A‘ki
with their strong right
arms) he is regarded
rather affectionately
by most of his fellow-
Parliamentarians.
ROBERT GARRAN,
Billy Hughes's trusted
adviser on matters of
constitutional law.
“T’other Side”: That caricature-portrait
of Nicholas Loekyer (B. 11/5/’22) reminds
me that he once produced for my benefit a
volume of sermons nearly 300 years old in-
dited by his namesake who was a chap-
lain to Oliver Cromwell. Ten generations
ago the creed of the clan smelt rather much
of a personal devil and his sulphurous at-
tendants. Loekyer nowadays devotes all his
energies to repatriation, a.nd his cour-
teous manners, born of his own innate
decency, are a great asset in the job.
Some June birthdays
W. O. Archibald (Adel.), late Federal Minister,
72, on 3rd; Minister W. B. Propsting (Speck), 61,
and medico-knight David Hardie (Q.), 66, on 4th;
Mrs. Jeannie Gunn (“We of the Never Never”),
Bishop Radford (Goulburn), 53, and Col. A. M.
Martyn, 41, on 6th; Major-Gen. T. W. Glasgow, 46,
and W. M. Marks, M.H.R., for Wentworth, 47, on
6th; J. J. Knight (Brisbane Courier), 59, on 7th;
Bishop Gilbert White (Carpentaria), 63, on 9th;
M. E. Kernot (Victorian railways), 70, on 10th;
Alexander Peacock (ex-Vic. Premier), 61, on 11th;
Senate President Givens, 58, and C. E. Herbert
(Papua), 62, on 12th; G. H. Knibbs, 64, and Prof.
Harry Allen (Melb. Uni.), 68, on 13th; G. H. Castle
(Federal Crown Solicitor), 62, on 16th; Henry Law-
son, 55, and Bishop Maxwell-Gumbleton (Ballarat),
50, on 17th; Federal Senator Robert Best, 66, Frank
Tate (Vic. Director of Education), 59, and T. L.
Atford, V.C., 27, on 18th; Brig.-Gen. Elliott, 44,
on 19th; explorer David Lindsay, _ 66, and J. M.
Fowler, M.H.R., for Perth, 57, on 20th ;■ Brig.-Gen.
W. Martin (Speck), 66, on 21st; T. G. Ellery (Mel-
bourne’s Town Clerk), 50, on 23rd; J. G. Aikman
(ex-Lord Mayor of Melb.), 63, on 24th; Frank B.
Moulden, 46, on 25th; Judge H. Moptgomerie Hamil-
ton (N.S.W.), 68, on 26th; Lieut.-Gen. John Monash,
57, on 27th; Federal Senator Keating (Speck), 50,
on 28th; S. S. Cameron (Vic. Director of Agrie.), 56,
and artist A. M. Patterson, 45, on 29th; Prof. T.
Hudson Beare (formerly of S.A.), 63, on 30th.
“D.F.”: Governor Macquarie was Aus-
tralia’s first censor, according to a letter
from Benjamin Vale to Lord Bathurst, writ-
ten in 1818. Benjamin alleges:—
I was also particularly requested by the postmaster
at Sydney to say how much he felt oppressed in his
situation by the conduct Of the Governor in always
opening the mail himself and taking what letters he
pleased before the postmaster had them; to deliver.
“Inner Temple’s” memo.:—
Horatio Bottomley, who got seven years for fraud
on Monday, was England's most vehement Imperial-
ist. In fact, like many of our own noisy Jingoes,
lye did a lot to make a fool of a fine idea. Needless
to say it was a business with him—as it is with
our own professional patriots. John Bull, which
he used to express this side of his character, had a
good deal of influence with the Tommies in the
early part of the war, and it was to be seen all
over the Western Front right up to the Armistice;
but long before then the bulk of the Army had
“rumbled” Bottomley for the cynical impostor he
was. He was probably the most effective platform
orator in England. With a rough crowd, for example,
he easily outdistanced Lloyd George himself —the chief
reason being that he got down immeasurably lower.
But he was at his best in court, arguing a bank-
ruptcy-law point before a Judge. The Judges were
always pleased to see him, though they considered
him one of the biggest scoundrels in the Kingdom:
he provided them with an intellectual treat which
few li.C.’s were capable of supplying. He would
have made a fortune at the Bar, but about the time
he discovered his ability the Benchers discovered
him and intimated that they would not have him at
any price. Short, stocky, and with an enormous
head, wide actor’s mouth and long upper lip, he
resembled Holyoake (whose nephew he was), and
still more, Bradlaugh, with whom he was politically
associated. rßradlaugh, however, Bottomley
was always clamantly religious. Rarely has there
been a more conspicuous example of a man who put
great natural abilities to stupidly base uses.
Pat McKenua, just dead at 83, claimed
to have served every Vic. Treasurer as mes-
senger or despatch clerk till he retired eight
years ago. If he had been a chatterer he
could have told some scandalous tales of
goings-on witnessed by him in his half-
century of service. But he was discreet, and,
being human himself, made allowances for j
politicians’ little failings. Latterly he used
to read the early Hansards for recreation,
being persuaded that the giants all died 10
years after Federation.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” explains:—
I -have been taken to task for not naming George
Howe as the first Government Printer (B. 11/5/’22).
Howe came to Sydney in 1800, but there was a
printer, George Hughes, who printed Government
Orders in 1795 for Governor Hunter. Howe was
allowed £6O a year as printer of the Gazette, dat-
ing from January 1, 1810. In the ’thirties James
Tegg printed the Council papers and the Sydney
Herald (the Government gazette), first issued in
1832. In 1840 it was decided to establish a Gov-
ernment printing office, and all tenders for printing-
called for were cancelled. In that year John
Kitchen was appointed as the first “official Govern-
ment Printer,” which must be taken to mean that
he was the first appointed to take charge of the
newly-established office. The first frames and types,
with the usual' machinery, were set up in a cottage
on the site of the present building. In 1849 the
office was removed to the building now used as the
District Court, at the top of King-street. The
new offices on the present site were first occupied
on April 26, 1856, but they have been much added
to since.
Archdeacon Nash, who built the Quetta
Memorial Church on Thursday Island, and
used to superintend Anglican affairs all over
Carpentaria whenever the bishop was away,
followed Gaiters White to the northern
South-Aus. district of Willochra a few
years back. He now moves on to sample
the excitements of life in the parish of
Farningham, in Kent.
“Coot” parades some old-time corpses -
John Batman’s are not the only interesting bones
recently disinterred in Melbourne’s old cemetery to
make room for the extension of the Victoria Market.
Not far from them were found the remains of J.
Conway, who took to England the first cricket XI.
The tombstone over Edward Curr, “the Father of
Separation,” who died in 1850 just when severance
had been consummated, was in a good state of
repair, as was also the memorial to William Kerr,
founder of the Argus and Melbourne’s second Town
Clerk. Another link with the early Argus was the
grave of Mrs. Lauchlan Maekinnon, whose husband
was of the original firm of Wilson and Maekinnon.
There were also exhumed the remains of J. C. King,
Melbourne’s first. Town Clerk; Capt. C. W. Cole,
owner of the City of Melbourne, the first screw-
steamer built south of the equator; Capt. J. W. Cain,
who built the first sailing-vessel .in Melbourne;
W. E. A. Rucker and D. C. Melbourne’s
pioneer bankers; T. Elder Boyd, founder of the
Colonial Bank and J. H. N. Cassell, first Collector
of Customs and member of 7 the first Executive and
Leg. Council. A well-preserved red-gum slab
which marked the burial-place of W, Pascoe Crook,
a Pacific explorer, pioneer missionary, and founder
of the Congregational Churchin has
gone to the National Museum. Distinguished early
Victorian medicoes whose rest has been disturbed
were Dr. C. E. Hobson, founder of Natural Science
in Victoria; Dr. J. Watton, first Protector of the
Aborigines; Dr. P. Cussen, who performed the first
surgical operation in Melbourne; and Dr.
McCrae. The oldest person buried in the
cemetery was one John Madden,'' wliq died in ,
the ..’fifties, aged 100 ; and interred with him were
two sons over 80, and a couple of younger children
aged 60.
“Dr. Nil” sees an old warrior:—-
Simpson Newland is not only the man who wrote
“Paving the Way” ; he is also one of the men who
paved it. I met him for the first time in his
office in Adelaide this morning. He is small, very
small, physically, and old, very old, chronologically;
but his heart i 3 young- and his soul is big. For the
last 30 years he has been the champion of the
Northern Territory, and for 20 years (or more) he
has been the foremost in the fight for the direct-route
North-South railway—not for any possible chance
of personal gain, but simply because he was one of
the first to see what Kitchener saw later, and what
most reasonable Australians now see, that upon
this railway’ depends our safety, eommerciallv,
politically and strategically.
George Charles Sim, who passed out
suddenly at Wynnum
(Q.) the other day,
was one of Banana-
land’s earliest Labor
members. He had
some culture, had
been a professor of
elocution in his day,
and when he sat 'for
Carpentaria in the Q.
Assembly they called
him the “silver-
tongued orator of the
North.” Sim was
expelled from the ver-
milion inner. ►Labor
circle a eotrple of
decades back, and
after that made his
little crust by journal-
istic work. He was
a Bradford (York-
shire) man, and a
well-known coasting
inptain used to swear
that he once met him
ii pV-11 a 1 y travelling
fwith -a valet in at-'
tendance.
GEORGE FULLER ,
N.S.W. Premier.
C. E. Hughes, the Aussie graves man on
Gallipoli, sailed from the Speck as a private
in 1915 with an engineer unit, and has been
on the “other side” ever since. He was a
captain at the Armistice, but jumped to
Lieut.-Colonel when he assumed his present
job.
Annie Besant has an ex-son-in-law in Aus-
tralia—Prof. Ernest Scott, who handles his-
tory or something of the sort at Melbourne
’Varsity, and who married pianist Emily
Dyason two or three years ago. The Prof.,
when a simple Vic. Hansard reporter, mar-
ried Mrs. Besant’s daughter, and took the
name, tacking “Besant” and a hyphen on
before the Scott. Subsequent incompatibility
intervened, and Besant-Scott became plain
Scott again, otherwise his name now might
have been Besant-Dyason-Seott, which would
have been too much for even a professorial
sense of proportion.
One of the 20 candidates for Denison
(Tas.) is C. W. Grant, a director of the
Cascade Brewery and a score of other con-
cerns. His father was engineer-in-charge, and
later on general manager of the Tasmanian
Main Line Co., Ltd., before it was. acquired
by the Government. C. W. Grant is a native
of Hobart, and his beautiful home, High
Peak, 1800 ft. up Alt. Wellington, is one of
the show-places of the island. King George
and his missus put in most of their stay in
Hobart at High Peak.
Bishop Kennion, just dead in the Cold
Land at 77, was easily the -most widely
popular gaiters S. Aus. ever had. He came
to Australia in 1882, young, active and in-
tensely sympathetic. He built Anglican
churches everywhere, but he was popular
with the other sects owing to his broad-
mindedness, and he had an ear for the claims
of Labor altogether rare in those days. In
’94 he moved on to Bath and Wells (Eng.)
and governed that quiet diocese with one
hand while he held a Cambridge Chair of
Theology in the other.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos the Chirnsides of the
Werribee and the military craze. The first
Volunteer encampment was held on the
Chirnside estate at the Werribee, in 1862,
an unusually wet week. Writer was then
a full private in the Carlton Rifles, and
carries the rheumatism which he gathered
there to this day. At a banquet on the
ground one of the Chirnsides, in response
to his health, claimed that he had done
something for Australia. He had introduced
hares at a cost of a guinea each and red
deer at some much more imposing figure.
“F. 0.” : i Archbishop Redwood (M.L.) is
in his 83rd year—not 70, as recently pub-
lished. and if he lives until March 14, 1924,
he will have had a half-century of bishing.
In fact, he is the senior bishop in regard to
consecration in the whole R.C. world. The
late Cardinal Gibbons, of Baltimore(U.S.A,),
when he was alive, was his only senior.
SATURDAY MORNING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A couple of hundred years from now some other
gir] will walk
Through the clangor of Sydney trams and the cry
of the men who hawk
The violet flames of June, and the piled up,
petalled snow
Of daffodil and chrysanthemum and rose. She, too,
will go,
With love and hope, joy and resolve making a.sqng
in her soul, V-
Stored like a hive with the honey of kiss and vow
that was last night's toll.
Past tlie mellow glow of a stall she will! flash,
her eye on a fleecy scarf
Of cloud that seems to cut the immemorial sky in
half.
And maybe, then, she’ll remember a thing that I
never can—
To keep to the left of that tall, flat-footed, blue-clad
traffic man.
N.S.W.
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.


GOOD SPORTS
Smoke
t J.
\ /
/
3
i
<.UM„
I
wsts
••••V.V/
J
4
V,
sr.
///
! .
m
m
V//s.
////<
W.D.<S H.O.WILLS.
The
Three Cattles
w
Brand of
Cigarettes
Footballers take hard
exercise and breathe
deeply. Their palates
revolt against inferior
tobacco . They keep on
smoking the cigarettes
that win universal
approval l»y their perfect
quality and incomparable
flavour: the inimitable
‘Three Castles': The
Footballers know csz*>


đ
Schweppes’Essence
Competition —
Closing date 30th September.
Every bottle of Essence of
Vanilla, Ratafia, Lemon, etc.,
purchased has the chance of,
winning a Prize.
Prizes
£65
Each competitor must send in five labels.
The numbers on the five labels will be
totalled, and the aggregate highest numbers
of the five labels will be the winners.
Address to SCHWEPPES, LTD., 67
Foveaux Street, Sydney, and mark the
envelope “Essence Competition.”
Closing date No. 1 Competition, 30th
September.
Ask your grocer for further particulars
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Salo for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to 10in. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
CoronA.
Weight
but
61b.
f
Price
£l7/17/-
The outcome of 1 5 years prac-
tical manufacturing.
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
43 Martin Place, Sydney;
470 Collins Street, Melbourne;
305 Queen Street, Brisbane;
17 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
SOCIETY
A SIMPLE MATTER.
“Do you think you can secure sufficient evi-
dence against my husband?"
“ Don't worry, madam. If the worst comes
to the worst, ice can get him to co-
operate with us."
Seventy years ago to-day—June 1, 1852
—-the first gold escort arrived at Melbourne.
The Treasury was then in a large stone
building in Queen-street, the property and
dwelling-place of a gentleman with the good
old name of John Thomas Smith. In those
days there was a thing like an upended
coffin on the pathway, and an armed soldier
did sentry-go before it day and .night.
•* * * *
“Skipper” presents a bird’s-eye view of
“Birdie” on his rounds: —
In France, where Fritzie’s observation was good,
the General’s retinue was meagre, but on Gallipoli
he was compassed about by a multitude of be-
tabbed courtiers. I have a vivid remembrance of
one brigade inspection of front-line troops, typical
of many. First came the C.O. of the battalion and
Birdie, the latter pausing occasionally to have a
yarn with the Digger squatting at ease upon the
firestep. After them trailed the Brigadier, 8,M.,
senior major, staff captain, adjutant, Q.M.,
D.A.Q.M.G.’s, G.S.O.’s, D.A.A.G.’s, orderly dogs with
map cases, field glasses, periscopes, etc., and two
armed batmen with rifles slung bringing up the
rear. It was an awe-inspiring sight, and platoon-
commanders quaked in their shoes. But the Digger
looked calmly on and smiled; this was his chance
to bring complaints direct to the boss. We were
issued with a vile conco< tion called “Lovechild’s
Apricot Jam,” and strongl.-worded complaints had
all gone unheeded. As 1 irdie hove in view an
opened tin of oozing yellow fluid suddenly appeared
in the fairway directly at his feet. “Ev—-what s
this?” he asked. A Digger pulled his pipe out
of his mouth and upspake. “That’s the sort of
stuff they're givin’ us to fig at on, Mr. Birdwood,”
he drawled. The retinue stood petrified, but Birdie
spoke, notebooks flashed and “Q.” birds stuttered
explanations. That was our last issue of “Love-
child’s Apricot Jam.”
♦ * # . * it •
“Thor”; Looking round some of the fami-
lies of mv acquaintance, it seems to me that
“Hawker” (B. 18/5/’22) hasn’t very much
to go on wlien he tries to award the girl-
breeding prize to the lady who runs to
plumpness. Two of the slimmest women I
know had respectively six and five girls
in the quiver, and no boys. Their slender
daughters have gone in mostly for dupli-
cation of themselves. Contrariwise, the
most spherical feminine figure I ever saw
outside a dime-show devoted itself to the
provision of seven strapping soldier lads for
the late trouble, but her one daughter, who
is quite thin, has gone in for girls. If the
“Hawker” theory had an ounce of worth
in it, surely evolution would long ago have
pointed the way automatically to control
of sex. * * *
“Ack F. C.”: “Bouragi”(B. 18/5/’22) sug-
gests that aeroplanes doing exploration duty
in the Papuan jungle might find landing-
grounds in the open glades “covered only
with high lalang grass.” As an airman who
was with Hawker in 1913, and who has been
in the game more or less ever since, I would
merely remark that if “Bouragi’s” lalang
is anything like its .namesake that grows
close to some Ka-naiks I know of in the
Malay, he can do his own landing. But I
should advise him in a friendly way to use
solid tyres, an all-metal ’bus and asbestos
breeches.
« * * #
“Cheiron”: “Distaste for the work” was
■not the only reason why the new super, of
the Melbourne Hospital decided to exclude
women doctors from casualty work. One of
his ideas is that a lady is out of place where
booze and profanity are emanating from a
mob of toughs. Whether women should be
forced to lose valuable experience derived
from the more pleasant side of casualty duty
on this account is open to debate. Anyhow,
most of them drift into matrimony, Coluns-
street, the civil service or bacteriology, for
which casualty wards are not the best train-
ing ground. .
“Billern”: At an American
hospital in Etaples a Digger in
the bed opposite me, recovering
from a slight gassing and suffer-
ing badly from Blighty-itis,
commenced to chew cordite. He
had the inexperienced Yankee
medico bluffed on it, and the
white cliffs of Dover loomed
very near, when one of our own
quacks strolled around with the
house doctor. “Here’s wan o’
your boys,” said the Yank as
he gave the Digger the glass
tube to suck. The Aussie
Galen looked at the chart, felt
the patient’s pulse and. then
whispered something to his col-
league. “Feel bad?” he queried.
“Yes, sir” (groaningly). “Feel
as if a good spell would do you
good ?” Muttered acquiescence.
“Well, you just keep on chew-
ing it, old man. You’ll get your
spell all right. Last Post and firing party,
too.”
* * * *
“Lip.”: In one of the A.I.F. hospital
camps at Weymouth (Eng.) there was a
shortage in the blanket stocks. Careful
search in likely places having failed to
bring to light any of the missing articles,
headquarters suggested that, as blankets
were frequently put to uses for which they
were not intended, e.g., covers for office
tables, screens, etc., further search in un-
likely places should be made. If any were
found, particulars of their number, location,
the person responsible for them, and the use
to which thev were being put, were to be
supplied for future reference. One n.c.o.
in charge of a small supply, practically
every blanket of which he knew by sight,
traced three absentees, and reported: “One,
Upwey, boy, overcoat; one Dorchester,
horse, rug; one, Royal Hotel, W eymouth,
barmaid, costume.”
* * * *
“0.K.”: One of these years the Law may
reconsider its old-established ideas concern-
ing punishment of sexual crimes. In Mel-
bourne last week the press reports recorded
a light sentence on a 31-year-old engineer,
convicted of a disgusting and idiotic but (as
the Law regards it) trivial offence ihe
“light sentence” was six months hard labor.
In this, as in all similar cases of a mind
diseased, the Law ministers to the lunatic
by throwing him into the company of u>eu
whose instincts are mostly criminal, and thus
it subjects him to a degradation previously
foreign to him. Not in six months’, expen-
ence of prison life is an engineer likely to
acquire the self-respect that is first factor
in the preservation of prurient-minded men
from those lapses which represent the trans-
lation of their thoughts into action. Citizens
in general are prurient-minded, otherwise
there would be no smoking-room stories or
JAZZ-SO
HORACE: “Do you know I believe I could dance like this for ever."
GERTIE : “Oh, cheer up. In a couple of yea rs or so you'll be able to dance real well."
Societies for the Suppression of Immorality
by a pretence of being awfully shocked at
it. The only apparent hope of a cure for the
prurient man who has drifted into the habits
which he loves so to discuss, lies in the
establishment of schools for the teaching of
commonsense, controlled bv medical men —
sanatoriums where the lecturers would sym-
pathise with the utter absurdities of their
weaker brethren, and where well-chosen
libraries would be so many encouragements
to mental culture. There are Mental
Deficiency Acts for the cure of more or less
idiot children, which have done an immen-
sity of good. Their activities need to be
extended to our business and professional
morons.
QUITE ANOTHER MATTER.
“I’m afraid our new maid is dishonest.”
“Oh, Harry , you shouldn’t judge from appear-
ances!”
“I’m not. I’m judging from disappearances.”
“Bill o’ Costs” on fool-wills:—
The will case decided by the S.A. Supreme Court
(B. 18/5/’22) in which a section of land described
by a number was held to mean a totally different
one, propounds no new rule of construction, but is a
very- good illustration of the incorrigible habit of
amateur draughtsmen (and a good many inexperienced
professional ones, for that matter) of needlessly ampli-
fying description, or particularising in the way most
liable to serious error, If, instead of making devises
of “sections so-and-so in the hundred of such-and-
such, containing so many acres,” or “my 150 paid-
up shares in the Wowser Brewery Limited,” the will-
maker would fce satisfied with the words, “my farm
Cowfields” or “my brewery shares,” generally speak-
ing all would be well; but he usually takes the
double risk of mistaking numbers or description, or
worse still, omits numbers, and that blunder cannot
usually be rectified. By way of bad example I
sometimes “refresh my memory,” as we say to the
witnesses, by reading my grandfather’s will, ambling
in long lines of a yard or so across the old-fashioned
parchment probate. He left section 78 for an imbe-
cile son and the residue subject to involved trusts.
He never had section 78, but he did own 87. There
wasn’t the legal machinery in those days for a
comparatively cheap solution of these problems, and
the only method was an equity suit. When the
scared parties heard this* they got the old-time con-
veyancers to work to repair the mistake with con-
veyances, declarations and indemnities from trustees
and legatees, with many “whereases” and
waxen seals. Whenever that section of land changes
ownership I know that the purchaser will weigh-in
with “requisitions” for further declarations, assur-
ances or indemnities from long-dead trustees and
beneficiaries, and the pile of title deed will go on
mounting. If the old man’s spectre ever sees me
gloating over that packet of deeds ho must kick hi 3
own shadow for not having had the sense to simply
say, “the Deep Well Paddock.”
• * * *
“Cheiron”: At last uniformity in the mat-
ter of degrees in surgery conferred by Aus-
tralian Universities has been attained. For-
merly, Sydney students, on completing their
five years’ course, were permitted to label
themselves Masters of Surgery as well as
Bachelors of Medicine; the Melbourne man,
however, for the same amount of work, had
to be content with becoming Bachelor of Medi-
cine and Surgery; to obtain a Master of
Surgery’s degree he had to expend two to
three years or more at extra reading, clini-
cal work and dissection in order to pass the
high-class examination at the end of them.
Hence it came that annually Melbourne
turned out two, one or no Masters of Sur-
gery, while Sydney was bestowing nomi-
nally equivalent degree on anything , p to a
hundred or more students each year. Now
Sydney has adopted the Melbourne curricu-
lum, and the Master’s degree will be of the
same value in all States.
(Continued on page 18.)
HALOS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am getting rather weary of the halo that 1 wear,
For the simple reason that it doesn't fit;
It has wrinkled up my forehead, and has rubbed
away my hair,
And I get the fed-up feeling under it.
But I’m told it is an honor to be decked in such
a lid,
And they point to the inscription round the rim:
“Given to a young Australian for the gallant things
he did
For Australia in the war now growing dim.”
Which is very stimulating when you take it with
a beer,
Or recite it at your leisure after meals;
But it’s somewhat cheap and trashy, let me whisper
in your ear,
When your belly’s got so hollow that it Squeals.
That a halo has its uses I have not the slightest
doubt,
Though the Jew that took my watch won’t take
it in,
And the coves that never had one seem to do so
well without,
That they celebrate its absence with a grin.
But I haven’t knocked off hoping, though my head
is rather sore;
For 1 have a scheme for making halos pay—
I am going to chat my cobbers who came smiling
through the war,
Through the cheering and the blather and the
bray.
I propose to rope in halos from the Gulf to Stink-
er’s Flat,
And to let them out on patriotic days;
For decorative purposes—a dozen for a sprat,
Refunded if you lose them —and I’ll bet my socks
it pays.
N.S.W,
SPLINTER.


' .
MODEL “E,” 300 LIGHTS.
FULL
AUTOMATIC
S
ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER PLANTS
5 TO 1000 LIGHTS
s.
(
IP
MODEL “H ” 15 LIGHTS.
The Highest Development in an Electrical Plant—Automatic
in all its controls —requires no starting or attendance. The
full Automatic Control, an exclusive feature of this Plant, gives
confidence to its users and renders safe and efficient service.
Starts
and Stops
Itself —
not just
Self-
Starting.
MODEL “JR,” 50-LIGHT PLANT.
FULL
AUTOMATIC
—it
Works
without
Watching.
FULL AUTOMATIC PLANTS.
Jkw
lkw
2kw
4kw.
6kw
With Storage Batteries
32 volts
32 volts
32 volts
110 volts
110 volts
and “Full Automatic”
15 lights
50 lights
100 lights
200 lights
300 lights
Switchboards.
GENERATING SETS, FIXED or PORTABLE
Direct Current. Any Voltage.
Kw. 2,3, 4,5, 6, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 40, 60.
Alternating Current.
K.v.a. 30, 50, 75.
$8
Hoskins U Hoskins Ltd.,
SOUTH BRITISH BUILDING,
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
■* Telephone B 2295.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES FOR
Matthews Full Automatic Lighting Plants.
Duro Electric Pumps and Water Systems.
Sharpies Electric Milking Machines.
d


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
/Cm
/ vir*
LEVERX-
;
\/l =
NDASI
SHAVING CREAM
THE LAST WORD
IN SHAVING LUXURY
FOR MEN
AN ACCEPTABLE
GIFT
“For Ever Best.
t*
STA 6
LA<SER
TOOHEY'S.
“Ajax”: This happened at Collie (W.A.),
during the hearing of a criminal charge in
the lower court. Counsel for the accused
produced a decision of the House of Lords
which, he claimed, showed clearly that his
client ought to be released on the spot. The
spokesman of the Jay Pays brushed the plea
aside with : “It’s no good talkin’ to us Collie
magistrates about what the House of Lords
says. The House of Lords is a totterin’
institooshun, and the Collie magistrates are
not goin’ to be dictated to by a lot of old
buffers in England.”
* * * *
“D.F.”: There are three appropriate as
well as interesting items in the N.S.W. His-
torical Society’s show of old-time relics at
David Jones’—the said show being in honor
of the firm’s 84th year in the glad-rags busi-
ness. One is the wedding-dress which Mrs.
Marsden wore at her marriage to the Itev.
Samuel in 1793; the second the wedding-
dress of their daughter, who became Mrs.
Hassall; and the third the official red waist-
coat of old-time Surveyor-General Oxley.
“H.K.W.’s” entry for the Missing Chow
competition :
It was in the old days when the storm-waters of
the Murrumbidgee town where I lived ran along-
side the police sleeping-quarters in a swirling tor-
rent. One pelting night a Pong disturbed Trooper
S. with Hie news that there was a row on at the
Chows’ camp on the flat. Would he come down ?
Thj trooper declined with lurid trimmings, and went
back to bed. An hour and a half later the Chow
again knocked up the Law with a communique to
the effect that his brother and three cousins were
being murdered. The trooper mentioned a few of
the things he would see happen to all China
rather than adventure abroad on such a night, and
got under the blankets again, after shooing the
Celestial away with difficulty and a stirrup-iron.
In the desolate hours before the dawn, the officer was
once more roused with hysterical bangings and cries
of “Miste’ P’leeceeman, bad Chineeman takee allee
money.” It was too much. The emblem of Govern-
ment rose up, and there was the sound of a heavy
body being kicked •'into a raging flood. Next day
the Chows' camp seethed like a disturbed ants’ nest,
HE SWALLOWED THE INSULT.
“Dad, one of the chaps said I looked like
you.”
“ An ’ what did you say?”
“ Nothin’. He’s a good bit bigger than me.”
for their vanished emissary had been popular among
them, it seemed, take him for all in all. But his
gardening implements passed to another, and his
stock of opium was cut up amongst the crowd, and
in a little while all was as though he had never
been.
“Yarrum”; It was a Pommy painter living
at Five Dock (Sydney) who unburdened
himself to me. “There be a movement here
to get the name of this dang’d place changed,
and they can count me in. I'm with ’em.
Ay, all the way.” I inquired what was
wrong with the name, and he came back at
me with concentrated bitterness. “Why,
lorbloomey, don’t yer know that the lowest
part of my native place, Liverpool—lower
even than what your ’Loo is—is called Five
Dock? The missus writes home to her
SAME AS BEFORE.
“And your friend really married his ty piste. How do they get on?”
“Oh, same as ever. When he dictates to her she takes him down.”
pairyants from here, and neither she nor they
likes it. How would you like to go to the
Old Country and be obliged to write to
your friends in Horstralia from Whitechapel
or Petticoat-lane?”
* * * V' *
“Rio” : Will some biologist kindly inform
me why it is that SO per cent, or so of the
winners of Sydney’s many press beauty com-
petitions reside in East Sydney, Darling-
liurst, Hyde Park or the Lower Domain,
while not one ever comes from contiguous
W oolloomooloo ?
“Globe”; “Diggers’ Bat” (B. 18/5/’22)
never apparently saw the most futile of all
varieties of court-martial —the hospital-ship
brand. Medical men frequently outdid any
fighting officer for sheer Prussianised .swank
and Ilohenzollernish flapdoodle. In a case
in which I was corporal of the guard
the malefactor was tried with much
saluting and springing to attention and
furtive study of the “Red Book” (he
was a sergeant and had been
caught drinking with an in-
valid), and finally it was de-
cided that he should forfeit his
stripes. We were ail lined up
for the promulgation and dele-
tion ceremony. Amidst an im-
pressive hush the order was
barked out: “Sergeant Brown,
two paces forward.” The boss
amongst the medicoes delivered
a short address about the re-
volting nature of the Sarge’s
conduct and the beauties of dis-
cipline, and then, with a hope-
less gesture, suggestive of
Napoleon deciding to evacuate
Moscow, he turned to the w.o.
saying, “Do your duty.” The
doomed man’s stripes, already
loosened in anticipation, were
then pulled off. Just as the
order was given, “Private
Brown, two paces stebback,” a
minor sawbones " hurried up
with the inevitable “Red Book”
and pointed something out. We
learned afterwards that the
stunning discovery had been
made that our C.O. could only
recommend a penalty, and had
to wait for confirmation of it
till he got to Cairo. The posi-
tion was finely retrieved. A
hurried consultation occurred
with the w\o.; _we saw him nod understand-
ingly, salute with a mighty sweep (he was
an old Imperial man), and then; “Sergeant
Brown! 'Shown! . Two paces forward!”
The stripes were sewn on again. “Sergeant
Brown, two paces stebback! Parade!
D is-miss /”
* * * *
“O. Blin”: Mont Park Lunatic Asylum,
Melbourne, contains some interesting char-
acters. Perhaps the most pathetic is an
expert hat-snatcher, who distributes his plun-
der on the tops of small shrubs and tree-
stumps to prevent the vegetation getting
sunstruck. Travellers along the Plenty-road,
which skirts the asylum, are often puzzled
by stumps to which distance and a battered
hat give a weirdly human appearance. I
know another poor chap, “General Foch”
(not a returned soldier), who is convinced
that he is nearly surrounded and has most
of his communications cut. Nevertheless,
he tries to call up reinforcements by tapping
in alleged Morse on a fencing wire. Then
there is the “Grand Duke of Scotland,” who
lately had a fall-out with “Billy Hughes.”
The other day he was asked the reason for
the sundered friendship, and explained peev-
ishly : “He owes me three-and-ninepence, and
though, in addition to his twenty-five
thousand quid, he’s just been and pawned
Australia, I can’t get a penny out of the
cow.”
» * * «
“Farleigh”: Strange are the ways of the
persons who draw up glossaries designed
ostensibly to assist unsophisticated outsiders
in the comprehension of Australian slang,
genuine or alleged. Scores of the words in
the “Sentimental Bloke” appendix are pure
Cockney; some of them may be found in
Dickens. An Inky Way par. by “Pollio”
(B. 11/5,/’22) mentions various scraps of
so called “Australese” which one “Snowy”
Baker has been considerately interpreting for
the benefit of Californians in a San Fran-
cisco paper. One of the words is “bush-
whacker.” Yet you will find “bushwhacker”
in a bit of verse by Bret Harte published
some 60 years ago (“the face of that bush-
whacker, Cherokee Hall”). And published,
I have an idea, in San Francisco.
* * * •
“Legal Plaint” from Melbourne: —
Big business only comes to the Vic. Bar in long
cycles. The first happened in the ’fifties ; then, with
the exception of a few big mining cases in the
’sixties, there was little doing till the late ’eighties,
when the land boom brought abundant and well-paid,
work. There followed 30 miserable ill-paid years
until 1920, when more and better-paid work came
along with (owing to recent elevations to the
Bench) fewer experienced men to share it. But the
richest melon cut up in all these 70 years was surely
that provided in the Badak case. Each of the
three accused had two barristers and, queer coinci-
dence, each was paid exactly the same refresher, viz.,
£33 ss. for the senior man and £22 10s. for the
junior. Now, as there were 22 of these refreshers, it
follows that each accused coughed up in this way
alone £1227. Add to this the fee each counsel got
for reading his brief (75 and 50 guineas respec-,
tively) and the total barristers’ fees for each accused
came out to £1352. But, then, there are the solici-
tors’ costs on top of this, and a prudent estimate
would be as much again, say £2700 per man.
However, as the evidence showed that Clarke, Orton
and Scarborough made a profit of £103,000 on their
scrip dealings, thrice £2700, or £BlOO for the three
of them, is, after all, only a modest income-tax
of about nine per cent.
* * * *
“Jack Hogan” : Neither could argue, and,
utterly disregarding all rules of debate,
they had, for more than an hour, abused and
yelled at each other outside the tent where I
was trying to sleep. At times it was just
the rumble and roar of voice striving to
drown voice; anon one or other would
become faintly articulate. I caught frag-
ments like : “Don’t talk rot! If ever a man
earned a trip to England, Cook did.” “Rats!
He did nothing before he went, and has
done damn little since he’s been there.”
“Who’s a better man to represent Australia?”
“What’s he ever done, anyhow?” Then
again unintelligible, uproar; howls of de-
lision ; terrier-like snarls of dissent. I dozed ;
na wnen I woke the controversialists seemed
nearly exhausted. The bellowing v r as less sten-
tonan, and then came the sudden end of the
wi angle: “W ho the blazes could have done
better work at Genoa?” “What the hell are
you talking about? Genoa! Where’s Genoa?”
, " 2, at > you don’t know that Joe Cook went
to Genoa. "Joe Cook! ’Struth, I don’t
mean him Pm talking about the bloke who
was knocked out by Carpentier!”
* * * •
“Skipper” : “Old Gertie,” of the Ninth, men-
tioned by “Howitzer” (B. 11/5/’22), though
he had a lynx eye for leadswingers, and
though his examination was as thorough as
that of a Harley-street specialist, had a
kindly side to him, too. More often than
n i 0t ’,„. as tlie sorrowful scrimshanker was
shuffling off, the M.O. would growl, “Cor-
poral, give him an egg.” “Gertie’s” basket
of eggs never failed; it had all the mystic
qualities of the widow’s cruse of oil. Very
different were the methods of Bertie, M.O.
of the Nth. He regarded every man on sick
parade as ipso facto a leadswinger, and he
shooed many of them back to the line with
threats of personal violence. Strolling round
one evening I bumped into a discussion con-
cerning Bertie. “The only way to get
aparst the blankard,” said Marmaduke, spit-
ting viciously, “is ter break yer crimson
false teeth, so as yer can’t eat the flamin’
biscuits!”
* * * •
“T.W.”: If he were an English official,
the N.S.W. Registrar-General would not
bother to make any inquiries such as “Pat
Bushie” mentions (B. 11/5/’22) in the
event of offspring happening a day or so
after the wedding. By way of pushing along
the war, I made an examination of a London
training battalion’s records, and found that
of 470 married men with children, the wives
of 193 had been so impulsive as to convert
their husbands into fathers within six
months of the nuptials. Five of the infants
started yelling within a week, and two very
precocious ones on the day following the “I
will.”
“Harold Hardup” re-writes a Scriptural
parable:—
A new version of the return of the prodigal conies
from a western (N.S.W.) district station. The
erring son was given a cheque and passed off the
property 10 years ago. Tales of the patrimony the
outcast had blewed and the husks he was devouring
presently ceased. As a matter of fact the reprobate
THE REAL OFFENCE.
“What a cheek lie's got sticking his ana
round your waist!”
“Yes. That teas horrible. But I think he
was a mean pig telling you he did it
absent-mindedly.”
had got a job as groom in a racing-stable. Not long
since he that was lost reappeared at the old home-
stead, which was now pretty well owned by the bank.
He had bluey up. No fatted calf was killed for him.
All he got was hard words, swagmen’s rations and
a doss in a station shed. After three days he took
the hint and melted away. A couple of weeks later
the old man received the astounding information that
his mortgages had been paid off and his bank over-
draft wiped out. Followed a note from the wanderer
intimating that, although he had gone home in rags
to see w’hat sort of a welcome he would receive, he
was a w'ell-established bookmaker who didn’t worry
about a thou, or two, wherefore he had paid the
family debt. He also mentioned that he was send-
ing something to remind the household to treat
prodigals better in future. In due course the gift
arrived—a prize bull calf purchased at the R.A.S.
S.O.S.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘George, ring as promised; be friends. Forget
and forgive. Love.—Peanut.” —Adelaide Advertiser,
SO/5/’n.
George, darling, should we part
For good ’twould break my heart
In fragments small,
So be a dear old thing
And give that promised ring—
That longed-for call!
’Twas all my fault, I know.
How could I treat you so?
But now it ends!
No other man to me.
Shall ever bow the knee;
George, do be friends 1
Tis little that I ask—
In your dear gaze to bask,
Or proudly strut
Beside you in the street;
Ah! do not chuck me, sweet,
Ring soon —Peanut.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
W.J.D.


'Ppp-.
IP
, . mm m
I
t *v-
WgZ 'l. fti
-■
'PPI'P;:;
« : ss :™si;si
—I I
, w»m{
i • &•* \# , tß&r ««. 'i
' " Alljr
I
Ski
iSilliii
l jam
' lllfc *'
p 1
&HF9
i BH
x Y'f'-
sB < > -8:
IP ..r
•' V
Ifpp
PMali
\
>1 fS
K*l
■MHn:,i
C,/ '-
■
. • ”.;■••
' ; PP’-'IPPP
iiiiii—fe>..
Hg
111
n
-PV\P
P <#■ • "'
liiiil
: ffl
;P'ip-
Htv
H
% -vl^bcP
. ..ppp..
,■•■■■•; ■
HI
iKli
I
, ;
IP” •■
8§»
■ " ■' v.;p : ,ifep
—Bai
::«■
Pp-lppfc'
iISPi
/ WMM
■HHB • HHHHI
-p: ;P : P;>PP : I| I:
• ' ■ ■.' . , ■ ■'. .
ifepipPHii
" ¥|PPa;CG;«vP:
aSistiEjilSi
** -
I’ I:
■ g
BMppl
■
:•. .
1
■; : r ; >
HE
II
mill
ff/Jte response io evert/
mood iS* inStan ta.neouf’.
The technique of the Mwßeale Player-Piano
is so perfectly under control that it enables
the performer to interpret instinctively. The
response of the instrument to every mood is
instantaneous.
This unusual flexibility, together with the per-
fect technique, provides the untrained musician
with the means of personally rendering the
most difficult compositions in a cultured, finish-
ed style. The instrument’s capabilities are only
bounded by the performer’s own imagination.
The strange capacity which human beings
have for being so pleasurably affected by
melody and harmony are intensified by the
ability to personally interpret. This pleasure
the possession of a modern, sympathetic
player-instrument will bring to your home.
Printed matter post free.
BEALE £> COM PANY IT p
Showrooms :
340 George Street
SYDNEY
Head Office & Factories :
41-47 Trafalgar St.
ANNANDALE
BRANCHES— N.S.IV. : Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn.
Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tas.: Williams Bros.,
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S. A.: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
W.A.: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE 6C COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen St. (opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane, Toowoomba,
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay.
fr4i. ...111l


CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castleraagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
pen Day.
Smart!
Serviceable!
We should
sai| so!
Why don't
you wear a
A
SHIRT?
MAKERS
ALEXANDER STEWART ,
AND SONS LTD
5u
1
Mars
BRISBANE
AND
SYONEY
"WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents s
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
A DINKUM AUSSIE CHIDE.
TTRACKER: “Coin' in to git married , chi Won-
der you didn't do it over in England like
all the other Diggers."
JIGGI JOE: "Well, yer see, that kind of thing
is playin' it plurry low down on our
girls; and, anyway, an Australian girl
is good enough for me."
Nik Sim”: If, as certain Abos. have
alleged recently, a prad will seek his boss when he
hears the Last Post sounding for him, then one who
passed out the other day must have mistaken his
owner. It was at Coorparoo, a Brisbane suburb, in
the dead of night, that the call came to this Dobbin.
Jn setting out to spend his last hours with the
boss he must have got bushed, for ho steered into
a stranger’s kitchen, and startled an already alarmed
household by falling dead across the stove.
* * *• *
“FY7”: The “scorpcenoid” fish, which
“Veronal” mentions (B. 20/4/’22) as having been
found by Clement Wragge in Tahitian waters, reads
very like our old friend the stone-fish, dreaded
above all other living things by Torres Strait pearl-
divers. The stone-fish loves to lie hidden under the
flat weed-patches wherein the diver gropes for shell
with his naked hands. When touched the terrible
poison-laden dorsal spines go up, and so does a mad-
dened diver, who often prays for death long before
it comes to end the agony.
“The Overlauder’s” night of horror: —
One evening at dusk, near Yalpunga, in far-western
N.S.W., Hugh Bell, the local storekeeper, was return-
ing from Tibooburra in a sulky, when his horse took
fright at a motor and bolted. Bell was thrown out
and the seat and a case of sundries landed on top
of him. ResultA leg broken above and below
the knee, the thigh-bone sticking out through the
flesh, elbow split open and the split filled with stone
and gravel, a sprained ankle and a sprained wrist.
The horse, after making a wide circle with the
empty sulky, came straight for the helpless figure
on the ground. Bell managed to call out “Whoa,”
and the animal stopped dead within a few yards of
him. It stood there all through the night. For
about 12 hours the man lay in agony. He made an
effort to drag himself to the sulky to get a drink
from the water-bag hanging at the back, but found
he could not move. At sunrise the local mailman
watered his horses within a few hundred yards of the
spot and noticed nothing amiss. Then about 7
o’clock a keen-eyed bushman and his little girl
spied the horse and sulky standing away out on
the plain, and they investigated. Bell was carried
on a stretcher to their home, and with the aid of
an old bush woman they did what they could in the
way of first-aid. Later the sufferer was driven by
car 30 miles to Tibooburra, where he was overhauled
by a nurse, no doctor being there, and was then
sent on to Broken Hill, another 210 miles, where
he put in 20 weeks in hospital. That was about
four years ago, and the old chap—he is now 68 —
has been in and out of hospital ever since.
“Iola”: “Cartot” evidently believes that
yarn (B. 30/3/’22) about Bill, the Aussie hunter of
paradise-birds in German New Guinea, who carried
the ,1191 b. doctor 150 miles through the tolerably
well-populated country around Eitape. For some
time I’ve been looking for the most credulous person
in the world, and now I’d like to meet “Cartot.” I
want to discuss with him a nice little rubber pro-
position on Paga Point in Port Moresby.
* * * *
“Moo”: As “X.8.M.0.” points out (B.
20/4/’22), the amount of ricin which I mentioned in
my previous par. (B. 10/3/’22) as being sufficient
to kill a full-grown man, is not a very large quan-
tity, as poisons go. I owe an apology, as, by a
slip of the pen, I wrote “1-25,000 th,” when I
intended to write “1-250,000 th” part of the body-
weight as the minimum lethal dose. By a strange
coincidence, the former amount is given as a mini-,
mum toxic dose in Oppenheim’s “Toxins and Anti-
toxins,” a recognised standard book on the subject;
but Svante Arrhenius, Mandel and others give it as
1-250,000 th part of the body-weight, and 1 have
had actual experience myself of a quantity close
to that amount causing the death of a rabbit!
* * * *
“Colub”: The harmless Fijian sea-snakes
which can be freely handled, according to a Sydney
girl (B. 4/5/’22), are decidedly different to those
infesting the Pacific further north,
anywhere along the coast of New
Guinea, the Bismarck Archipelago or
the Solomons. At loma, Burna Bay,
in Papua, a few years back 1 saw
a native who had been bitten by
one on the ankle (ollapse and die in-
side two hours, despite everything
done for him from scarification and
cauterisation to substantial injections
of strychnine. Further up the coast,
at Kitape, a nig', died within an hour
of being bitten. Among the fatal
cases in which white men were the
victims I knew those of an Australian
soldier bitten at Matupi, New Britain,
in 1916; a white recruiter who col-
lected his bite at Madang, German
New Guinea, about the same time, and
a wireless-service man who was nipped
in New Ireland, in |I9IS. The
natural habitat of the venomous sea-
snake extends from as far north as
New Britain to as far south as Cairns
(Q.), one of the most thickly-infested
places being the shores of the Gulf of
Carpentaria. It is not to be won-
dered at, however, that it should be
distributed over so wide an area, for I’ve seen them
swimming at sea 30 or 40 miles from the nearest
land.
* * * *
•Mias Snell”: Boycs was holding the drill
and Ryan striking. For some reason Ryan was
shockingly out of form. Once he missed, and knocked
a piece of skin as big as a florin off the forearm of
Tommy Boves. Tommy sighed, but made no com-
plaint, and the pair went on with the hole. Again
Ryan hit over the side. This time he peeled the
hide off four of Tommy’s knuckles. Again Boyes
sighed wearily. When Ryan, with his next miss,
broke a small bone in Tommy’s forearm the man’s
patience was exhausted. This time he spoke. “Paste
her dead level from now on, Dan,” he said gently.
“Another miss and I’ll lose me job.”
* * * *
Jim Carew”: When “Bill Bowyang” (B.
4/5/’22) says an abo, can’t throw a boomerang left
behind by a dead member of the same tribe his
experience differs from mine. I have three boomer-
angs that I bought from three abos. near Nyngan
(N.S.W.) some years back, and different abos. have
thrown them and pronounced them O.K. When I
left Nyngan for the South Coast a Binghi from Wal-
laga Lake threw the three missiles without any diffi-
culty. I can manipulate them fairly well myself,
but as I have had plenty of practice with them that
doesn’t prove much.
“Blue Bar”: “Mac P.” (B. 27/4/’22) is
wrong when he says finches suck water up like
pigeons. They lift their heads after each beakful.
I don t say they do this to let gravitation take the
fluid down, but they certainly don’t keep their beaks
in the water until they have finished their drink.
PERFECTLY SAFE.
Here, aren't you going to pay for that tea and sugar?"
"Orright, boss —you good, pheller—I trust you plenty."
Pigeons (all domesticated and some of the wild
varieties) are the only birds that can do this.
They immerse their beaks until the water is nearly
level with their eyes and keep them there till they
have had their fill. And “Mac” thuds again when
he says parrots keep their heads to the water. Some
varieties of cockatoos drink like finches (one mouth-
ful at a time), but parrots get a beakful and hold
their heads well up while the moisture is swallowed.
Let “Mac” shout for the next quarrion or rosella
he comes across and he’ll see.
“Wynfrith Revell”: Tell “Crooked Mick”
(B. 27/4/’22) that when a damper is taken off
the fire and laid on a solid surface it becomes heavy
and doughy. By standing it on edge evaporation
takes place on both sides, thus lightening it. For
a similar reason scones are wrapped in a cloth when
taken out of the oven.
FASHION'S LAST CHANCE.
"Now. ladies an' genlemen , I will sell just
one more of these beautiful dress-rings,
after which I will close the establish-
ment.”
“Gouger”: The other day I shot a duck
on one of the tropic swamps here in N.Q., and my
intended feed fell well out in the dirty brown
water. I knew there-were alligators in the swamp,
but there’s some driving power in an empty tummy,
so, stripping off, I waded out, nerves tingling with
dread, and toes twitching each time they scraped
against anything. When the- water was well over
my chest, three bubbles rose to the surface, straight
ahead, 25ft. away. Then a line of lazy bubbles
came right for me. My mouth clicked open for the
death yell, us I stood there frozen stiff. Nothing
more happened for 10 seconds; then, suddenly
released from the paralysis of terror, I lit out for
the shore. I'd only gone a step or two when, along
the line of bubbles, there slowly rose to the surface
a long tree-limb which I had levered up by standing
on the shore-end. All I got out of it was a hell of
a fright and no supper.
“E.S.S.”: “D.F.” (B. 4/5/’22) credits
•John Hilton Mackay with the invention, when Pro-
fessor of Engineering of the Tas. ’Varsity, of the
cow bail that is worked from the rear with strings.
I would like him to give the date of the first
demonstration. Alf Taylor, of Casino (N.S.W.),
and I made and used that contrivance at Deep
Creek, an out-station of AVooroowoolgen, Richmond
River, over 30 years ago. I believe it is novy a
common breaking-in bail on N.S.W. northern rivers.
* * * *
“Booyong” : “Pick’s” reference (B. 4/5/’22)
to a hare seeking human protection when attacked
by an eagle calls to mind an incident on Rosebery
station, on the Richmond (N.S.W.) years ago. A
mate and 1 were waiting at the foot of a spur to
pick up some cattle being driven off the range when
a grey mountain kangaroo suddenly came on the
scene with a dingo after her. Both were badly done
up, and the ’roo, making straight for us, was just
able to hop alongside our horses, where she flopped
on the ground and lay there, panting. The dingo
stopped a little way off and went down to take the
count, too. But, in his case, a well-aimed lump of
basalt rejuvenated him sufficiently to enable him to
change his address with fair promptitude.
* * * *
“Perks”: “8.E.8.” (B. 4/5/’22) wants us
to believe Tom Hanson created a record when he
spayed and ear-marked 233 cows in 11 hours. Not
on your life! I have seen that tally beaten lots of
times, and I nominate as the world’s champion
Edward Bates, who was a feature of the Central
Queensland landscape a few years back. On Rook-
wood station in May, 1911, he put through a mixed
lot of 128 head, including a percentage of in-calf
cows in 3hr. 20min., single bail only, and operator’s
hands and tools disinfected after each operation.
Bates got into his stride after that, and 12 months
later on Mount Lucas (Q.) spayed 112 cows in 90
minutes. The passage method was used on each
occasion, but he was pretty good on the flank, too.
I saw him do 100 heifers through the flank in 1912
in 2hr. 48min., a single bail being used.
(Continued on page 22.)
LIGHTS OF MALLAROONA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Riding when the curlews
Chorused eerily,
Homestead lights at nightfall,
How you greeted me;
Riding through the darkness
Under pine and oak—
Lights of Mallaroona,
I/it by kindly folk.
Riding through the darkness
Under oak and pine,
Song and mirth you promised,
Fellowship and wine,
Gracious folk to bring one
Cheer of heart again—
Mallaroona’s women,
Mallaroona’s men.
Like bright harbor beacons
To a ship at sea,
Lights of Mallaroona,
Thus you beckoned me,
Riding through the pine scrub—
When there came your gleam,
All the stars of Heaven
Paled before that beam.
Lonesome in the darkness
One may roam and rove
If within no window
Shines the lamp of love;
Lonesome is the hollow,
Lonesome height and slope.
If within his vision
Burns no star of hope.
Homestead lights at nightfall,
Shining bright and clear;
Scattered is that household
That was once so dear.
Gone, but still their kindness
Through my memory runs—•
Mallaroona’s daughters,
Mallaroona’s sons.
K.s.W,
BRIGALOW.


TWO NEW
AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
“THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.”
Adapted from the play by Bert Bailey and Edmund Duggan
by Hilda M. Bridges.
An excellent novel of the popular play.
“A COLT FROM THE COUNTRY,”
by ARTHUR WRIGHT.
Another great story by the author of 1 4 popular Australian
novels, whose sales run into hundreds of thousands.
1|- each I|2 posted.
THE SAME PRICE AS ALL VOLUMES IN THE
‘‘Bookstall” Scries of Australian Novels
118 Novels by the Best Australian Authors.
New novels added every month. Complete descriptive catalogue
posted free on application.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout the Commonwealth.
NOW IN THE PRESS:—
“The Pearls of Cheong Tah,” by S. W. Powell.
“The Boss of Killara,” by Vance Palmer.
Place your order now for these novels by two
of the Commonwealth’s foremost authors.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney,
THE Fiction-publishing House of the Commonwealth.
*x
MJ km o
!■
it.
limed
Rf cu».p*T.orr.
: * :*»
_ w »»Ctur««
*OKT * K * AT ’W U
TEMCO
You’ll Only Need a
Ladder and a Hammer.
It’s a simple matter to lay a Texaco Roof,
and there’s real satisfaction in having a roof
yon can rely on. Especially when the roof
has cost so very little.
Texaco Rooting is low in first cost. It is
durable, and therefore exceptionally econo-
mical.
It is manufactured from selected roofing
felt of the highest quality, thoroughly satu-
rated and coated on both sides with Texaco
Asphalt, ihe finest waterproofing material
known. 'Texaco Hoofing is weatherproof,
sun-proof, wind-proof, vermin-proof and
highly lire-resistant.
You can get Texaco Rooting in rolls con-
taining 210 square feet (20 square meters),
every roll furnished complete with two
quarts of lap cement, a liberal supply of
nails, and printed instructions. Ask for
Texaco Hooting in any of the various weights
made to suit every type of building. There’s
no better prepared rooting manufactured.
THE TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited
Head Office —Auto House,
143= 145 Castlereagh St., Sydney
Branches throughout Australasia.
■xfas&as®
Factory records show that 50 per cent, of
Hupmobile sales are made to people who have
driven Hupmobiles before. To our mind there
can be no stronger testimonial as to the service
the car actually yields—its unusual economy
and its extraordinary performance.
STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
5-seater Touring or 2-seater Roadster body.
Speedometer.
Electric starter.
Head, tail and dash-board lights.
Rain-vision windscreen.
Fuel gauge.
Oil pressure gauge.
Electric horn.
Ammeter.
Foot and rug rails.
Tyre-carrier—extra rim.
Side curtains —door curtain carriers.
Tonneau carpet.
Hood (black or khaki).
Grease gun.
Pump, jack, full set of tools.
I. PHIZACIvERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 112-120 Pirie
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonpovt, Tas.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurch,
N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, N.Z.
Hupmobile


Every roll of genuine MALTHOID carries this label.
m
MM
MALTnOID
TRADE
MARK
£
m
w
SS
The Paraffine Companies, Inc. (F. M. Prince,' Australasian Manager), Sydney.
Good to the
Last Drop
m
m
vs*-
A \ x
I ill*
r A
M
ABBOTS
LAGER
TA<?3eprw//Aou/d/?mI.
73r<?>Sp</ from Purpffa/tiflop? Only
“Iola” charges a fellow-northerner: —
Globetrotters who write about their wanderings in
Papua tire “Bill Bowyang” (B. 30/3/’22) and “Bill”
tires persons who wander in Papua and misleads
others who perhaps would like to wander there.
Anyone who has been off the beaten track knows
what a tremendous area is still to be explored and
what a task is ahead of those who have to do the
job. Yet “Bill” would have us believe that Captain
Osborne, Sloan and party, bug-, plume- and orchid-
hunters, and Meek, “the most widely-travelled of the
lot,” have left none of Papua uncombed. The
Astrolabe range, given by him as the combiug-
ground of Captain Osborne, is but a pinpoint on
the map. Joe Sloan will laugh when he sees the
statement that he has prospected “all over Papua,”
and as for Meek, why, he frankly admits that the
sort of country he has visited in Papua is less
dangerous than a Sydney street. The few scratches
made on the map by “Bill’s” bug-, orchid- and plume-
hunters could be done with half a dip of ink and
then be hard to detect. There is a stretch of coun-
try between Mount Lawson and the Dutch border
waiting to test the strength and courage of empire-
builders, and there is a body of men in Papua known
as district officers whose job it is to open that. up.
These men get little enough credit as it is, so don’t
say anything that might reduce it.
“Wart”: “Cambronne” (B. 4/5/’22) is
wrong in saying the she-oak will soon be a thing of
the past because the stock eat the foliage of the
seedlings. Neither cattle nor sheep worry about she-
oak while there is anything else handy. Small boys
chew the tender shoots for the pleasantly-stringent
taste ; but small boys aren’t likely to exterminate the
tree. The fact that she-oak is the best firewood in
Tas. has more to do with its growing scarcity.
“Ragar”: The mesmeric powers of snakes
don’t amount to shucks, and if “Bill R.” (B.
6/4/’22) and others had given the matter a thought
they must have seen that it was terror, sheer para-
lysing terror, that rendered the rabbit unable to get
away. I’ve seen the same kind of thing in Africa
with a lion and a small buck, and I’ve never heard
that the lion had any mesmeric powers. In this case
the lion was crouched for the spring, while the buck
stood motionless and unable to move.
WHEN THE NOVELTY WEARS OFF.
“I suppose after you have walked a little
way you get used to this ‘carrying your
swag ’?”
“ Yairs, after the first ten or fifteen thousand
mile or so yer don’t notice it much.”
“Booyong”: I don’t want to start the cat-
rabbitos going again, but I do want to remark that
I have just seen at Upper Beaconsfield (Vic.), a
black cat with a pronounced strain of the ring-
tailed ’possum in it. Its fur is almost as long as
that of a Persian, the collar being tinged with grey.
When running it has the same gait as the ’possum.
But the most striking feature is the tail. This is
covered with a light-brown fur and curls inwards
exactly as a ’possum’s does; and, what is more,
when the animal was a kitten it used to lower itself
from one branch to another by its caudal appendage,
which was just as prehensile as that of a ring-tail.
“Cow Horn”: Be .“Boote’s” request (B.
9/3/’22) for a cure for his sheep-dog leaving his job
to hunt kangaroo. My dad got over this difficulty
with three cattle-dogs by cutting off three ’roo tails,
leaving portion of the flesh and skin at the butt
attached, and then wiring one up closely to each
dog’s collar. After five or six hours of such torture
I’ll guarantee Fido won’t look a ’roo in the hind-
quarters again.
THE PENALTY OF EXTRAVAGANCE.
“There’s old Redrust stuck up again. ’E
was fair took in over that motor. ’E
give nearly fifty quid for it.”
“Mallee-ite”-: My entry for the Stay-at-
home Stakes is a Wiinmera (Vic.) cocky, who was
born within 30 miles of where he selected, and has
had occasion only once to travel into foreign parts.
That was in the ’l4 drought, when he took his
stock 40 miles south. He has never seen a boat
and never been in a train. And he is worth over
£30,000.
* * * *
“Moroh”: I know that by mentioning it
I’m running all sorts of risks, but I’m willing to
chance it. Some dogs in crocodile-infested districts
have a cute way of getting across
a creek or river in safety. The
sagacious canine first stands on
the bank and barks loudly. By
keeping this up for five miuutes
or so he attracts every croc,
within hearing, to say nothing of
smelling, to the place; having
done so, he goes like a red-shank
along the bank to a safe dis-
tance, then takes to the water,
and gets over before his slow-
moving enemies can come within
coo-ee of him. In spite of the
incredulity with which this is
bound to be received by Pitt-
street bushmen, it is, nevertheless,
a fact, as anybody who has ever
lived in the districts of the
North, where crocs, are to be
found, can testify. Once, some
years ago, I saw a dog get across
a creek a short distance from
Cairns by this means, and I’ll
back that same stream to contain
more crocodiles to the square
yard than any other in Austra-
lia. The only time I ever heard
of the scheme not working was
in the case of a cattle-dog, near
Cooktown, who, after barking for
about 10 minutes at one place
hurried down about 200yds. or so
and started to swim over, only to
to be grabbed by an old-man croc, who was some-
what late in going up to investigate the cause of
the noise, and so chanced to be passing the real
crossing-place.
* * * *
“Bogan Bill”: A South Coast (N.S.W.)
cocky friend of mine, after a short trip to Sydney,
returned with a wife, whom he had met per medium
of a “View mat.” advt. “Of course I haven’t known
her long,” he confided to me, “but she’s a bonser
tart; and so’s we can get to know each other’s
points of view we’re going to have little friendly
arguments on all sorts of subjects every morning at
breakfast.” Three days later I was riding past his
place about breakfast-time. I saw Cocky on the roof
of the house busily pulling the ladder up after him.
* * * *
“Jumbo”: “Moralist” (B. 11/o/’22) de-
clares that gelignite, etc., cannot be exploded in
open air. If he wants a quick passage to other
regions let him insert a No. 6 detonator attached to
a fuse in the regulation way in a packet of gelignite,
then open the lid so that the air can get to it,
light the fuse and hold the parcel till things happen.
“Mag” (B. 27/4/’22), who became truly thankful
for his salvation after some me had dropped 10 plugs
of gelignite down a 30ft. shaft to him, was quite
safe, however, as that drop would not be nearly
sufficient to explode the charge, though I have
known blows from hammers and picks to do the
trick.
* * « *
“Rab el Bram”; A mate of mine told me
of an incident that equals the case of “Lagani-
Namo’s” nig. (B.
23/ 3/’22) who got his
head out of a shark’s
mouth. On the N.-W.
pearling grounds about
35 years back he taw
one of his “boys” com-
ing to the surface in
a cloud of blood. As
he lifted him in he
could see his entrails.
The nig. had teeth-
marks from head to
libs. They ban-
daged him and kept
him for some time on
a diet of whisky and
condensed milk; and
he eventually recov-
ered and was diving
next season. The
boy’s yarn was that
he was groping for
shell round a big
boulder when some-
thing took him in
and spat him out.
Pearlers argued as to
whether it was a
shark or a giant rock
cod (groper) which
has been known to run
to 12 or 15 feet in
length. Curiously
enough I recently told
this yarn to a Warden
in the West, and he said he had seen the nigger,
scars and all.
* * * *
“Ombak,” from somewhere in the Celebes,
sends a call for information:—
There must be Bulletin contributors who appa-
rently know a lot more about turtles than I. This
is an appeal to them for enlightenment. I know a
spot where there are any amount of both green and
haw'ksbill turtles. The natives declare that the
green ones eat the eggs of their relatives, and that
on account of this the latter are decreasing. Can
anyone tell me if this is so? Also, I would like to
know some good dodge for catching turtle in deep
water ? The Kanakas, I am sure, miss more than
they get when they go spearing ; in fact, Mr. Turtle
generally sees fit to disappear below before the
pursuer is within range. One thing more; these
islands are a regular breeding-place for turtle, and
are 20 miles from any other land. Would I, by
visiting them frequently, and perhaps staying a
day or two, scare away the turtle altogether? At
present the Kanakas—there are none on the islands
themselves —only make periodical raids three or four
times a year, staying perhaps a week, and slaughter-
ing everything that comes within reach.
* * * *
“Hargo” : Bob Gibson, of Rosewood, Con-
dobolin (N.S.W.), has a cow running on his property,
bred by himself, who has handed him five calves in
two years. Her tally is 11 in nine years. Two
others in his herd presented him with twins this .
year, and one of these can call six to the family
board with a maximum age of three years. All
are of the Shorthorn-Durham variety. A moke on
Rosewood also does her best to keep up the reputa-
tion of the place. Within 12 months she had two
foalings—twins each time.
* * * *
“Parnell”: I presume “Billy Muggins”
(B. 4/5/’22) and “Irons” (B. 29/12/’2l) are dis-
cussing the performances of healthy, grown men.
“Billy M.’s” tally of 60 branded in 594 minutes
seems good to me. And I wonder if he’ll award
me a bar to my shoddy Victory Medal for putting
through 51 in 60 minutes? (I had no pre-war experi-
ence either.) My team consisted of self and five
Bing boys, all under eight stone, and a donkey for
“pulling up.” I performed the surgery and was
the slowest member of the team, mainly on account
of a gas-t.b. combination.
» * * •
“Billy T.”: Dance, the hawker, came
charging into Goldsborough on that Sunday morning,
scattering the township right and left as a fast
motor-boat cuts the water. The people homing
from morning service surged right and left, dogs
scuttled and poultry fled before him clamorous
with fear. Dance’s black mare was out of control,
and her rider, tugging at the rein, could do nothing
with the hard-mouthed brute. The collision with
Finn threw that “bould boy” head ove'r tip into the
Hill Top mine’s deep water race, and Finn arose
therefrom a little shaken but full of fight. “Fwhere
is he?” roared Finn, dancing like a Red Indian
around the stake. “Fwhere’s him what done it?
Let me at the bla’guard !” Then, in the excess of his
fury, he started to run after Dance. A quarter of
a mile up the road he met the knot of men about the
prostrate hawker. “Lave me to him!” cried Finn.
“I’ll bate the head off him, I will that.” Dance
had been thrown. He lay very still. “I’ll smash
him!” yelled the infuriated Corkonian. “Will ye
let me at him?” “liush. said Larkin, deceived by
Dance’s stillness. “He’s dead, for sure.” “Begor,”
cried Finn in his bitterness, “the luck of some men! ”
Anac on murphy and his cousins:—
] ( ' B , - 20 / 4 /’ 22 ) wants to know if what
he briefly, and no doubt inaccurately, describes at
a. potato-tree has any connection with the vara
of America. Presumably it is a yam: but it is
certainly not a “potato-tree.” Popular names are
misleading and differ sometimes within range of a
tew miles. The name of potato has been tacked on
to a queer collection of plants, some of them no
aiore a potato than an onion. There is the “Telinga
potato” of tropical Asia, the Society Islands and the
l 1 iji Islands. In the islands the fruit is sometimes
eaten as bread. The “wild potato” of California
belongs to the lily family and produces a bulb The
Gca potato,” which is really a yam, belongs to
tropical Asia, Pacific Islands and the West Indies.
1 lie ail potato is yet another yam found in the
same localities. Then there are: “Chinese potato” (a
Chinese yam), the “Pondicherry sweet-potato” (East
Indies), the “prairie potato” (or Indian turnip of
Missouri and the Rocky Mountain region) and the
“swamp potato” (Europe, Asia and N. America).
The above are the only edible “potatoes” outside of
Solanum tuberosum murphy (the common spud).
* * * *
“M.E.”: Jack Murray arrived in Roe-
bourne (W.A.) on April 13 with 14 horses to bring
out the Mount Enid waggon from Phil Kennedy’s
blacksmith’s shop. On the 14th he halter-broke 10
of them—four-year-old station-bred colts and fillies
- —in the Commonage yards. Next day he yoked the
whole 14 horses (10, of course, in for the first time)
on to six tons. The team duly arrived at the station
0.K., 120 miles out. Anyone beat it?
“The Overlander” : Re Paddy White’s 200-
mile ride from Nappa Merri station to Tibooburra
with a dislocated shoulder, mentioned by “W. Blis-
ter” (B. 30/3/’22). Paddy rode the journey all
right, but his brother Ted saw him as far as Ashby
Vale station, about half-way. Then another brother,
“Gilly,” accompanied him the rest of the journey.
By the way, a few years ago when the father, Jim
White, was very ill, “Gilly,” then only a lad, took
him per camel-back from Nappa Merri to the Tiboo-
burra hospital.
* * * *
“McTrochus”: I support “Bouragi” (B.
23/3/’22) when he says the diselored inhabitants of
Rossel Island were cannibals. The incident cited
by Gov. Macgregor is not the only one known to
the older residents of Papua. Take the case of Phil
Joubert’s cook-boy, Billycan. Joubert was a trader,
and while visiting Rossel roped in young Billycan as
his food-ruiner. After a trip through the Louisiade
Archipelago and down to Samarai (in 1898) he put
in to Rossel and was induced by Billycan’s relations
to leave him there for a holiday. On his return
he found no Billycan, but was shown a nice white
skull, which the cheerful citizens affirmed was all
they had left of him. Apparently Billycan had frac-
tured some tribal law, and he had been smothered
and scoffed in the bad old way. Sorcery was domi-
nant at this time on the island, and death and
disaster were always attributed to the malign influ-
ence of the most unpopular member of the tribe.
A deputation of the grandfathers would wait on
the proposed joint, who would be firmly informed of
the unpleasantness awmiting him, and he would
unobtrusively depart to the hills. After giving him
a fair start the men would take the war-path and
hunt him down, for being keen sports they liked
the excitement of the chase before a kill and the
subsequent banquet. These little parties were very
popular, for one had the added zest of not knowing
when he would play the star part in a similar stunt.
MISUNDERSTOOD.
“Hullo, cocky, ole feller. Shay ‘Prerry cocky,
cocky wanna drink.’”
“FY7”: “Settled Soldier,” who asks (B.
27/4/•’22) how to eradicate yabbies from his bore
drains, might try stocking with Murray cod or yellow-
belly (golden perch), two of the most consistent
yabbie-eaters I know. I have never heard of the
Murrumbidgee cray as a yabbie-exterminator. Pisca-
culturists, however, hand him the medal as an eater
of fish spawn, especially the big eggs of the cod, on
which he chiefly lives.
THE LITTLE RED WIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I buried my soul in an old grey wood,
A whimpering childish thing,
And when I returned to the grave that stood
In my own remembering
I found a red little autumn wind
And nothing there beside —
A chill little stinging air that sinned
In the lilt of the fear it cried.
I gathered my soul from the darkness there,
A shuddering woman-child.
1 took it away and I kissed it fair
With a dream-kiss strange and wild.
But still at night when I sit alone
And think no thought by choice
The little red wind will come and moan
Like the wail of a dead child’s voice.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


... ;_■>■
V> \ '
■
■
i:
*» W$ v m#®*m;;
■
...
s
■ -4
111111111 IS
|
f, . ■< »
■ .A* .J
V FT.
’. * T ''
m
m£
K;f
■
llilil
• •:•
.at.
... 1.
i
; . |
1 /
I
»
'll i
■ '
■ ' ;'"'..| ..:'-... . ■','■>■
mmSs
•". : 'V: ■---.'■ , : . ■'” :
-r.'< V~'v>si •: -
m
, - -
insli
8
o
o
£3
users of the roads and highways are indebted to
rubber for increased comfort, speed and efficiency.
Motorists, cyclists, and users or passenger vehicles
such as buggies, jinkers, etc., by the tens of
thousands use and derive benefits from the use of
D
□
Motorists and cyclists are everywhere to be seen
using “Dunlop” pneumatics, whilst “Dunlop”
solid rubber vehicle tyres play an equally im-
portant part in ensuring personal comfort and
added life to the vehicles fitted with these long-
wearing, non-shifting rubbers. In all three
branches of transport “Dunlop” quality ensures
long service and freedom from trouble, at the
minimum running cost, and whether you use a
car, motor-cycle, bicycle, buggy, or jinker, you can
be sure of obtaining satisfaction, with economy, by
specifying “Dunlops” when ordering new tyres.
All agents can supply. List on application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA Ltd.
All States and N.Z.


22
3
Oa
K
'in
W.
m
w,
mb
In securing the Sole rights, for Australia, of distribution of Fox’s No. 99
Serge, Lowe’s had no misgivings—the merits of the cloth were too obvious for
that. But sanguine as Lowe’s were, it was not anticipated that public
appreciation would be so unprecedentedly great.
:'»*PVS
To meet this demapd, Lowe’s immediately cabled for the shipment, 18,000
yards, which has just arrived, and take this opportunity of advising clients that
all orders can now be fulfilled.
Sac suit to-order £5
The reason of the popularity of Fox’s No. 99 Serge is, that it is a special achievement
on the part of the Manufacturers. It is woven with a special strand, giving additional
strength; is medium weight; of pure Indigo Dye—unaffected by sun, fain, or acids; does
not shine and will wear evenly to the last thread. Tailored to-order in any desired style,
including latest Semi-American and English styles. PRICE £5 0 0
Country residents are reminded that distance is easily
and faithfully bridged by Lowe’s Mail Order Service,
and that Lowe’s guarantee of a perfect fit, or money
refunded, applies to them as well as to City dwellers.
Address all Letters and Requests
for Patterns to Department F
e
MERCHANT TAILORS
Stores. All Over Tomn
Box 1622,
C.P.0., Sydney
\
\
\\
V
r\
'
i
\\
i
n
C
S!
*s
11
r°
099
u
J
se»9 e
i
c
/
/
/
4 <
S
ec
*
5
\ Ml
PP>l
A
*5
o^(s
K
lU
ri
✓
¥
ii
*
•Si
W 7
Sr#ki
That Elusive Something.
By “PHLOX.”
Y'OUB husband is flirting with a pretty
dark woman.”
“The wretch!”
“He’s asking her to take afternoon tea
with him,” went on the fortune-teller,
nothing abashed by her client’s interjection.
“Where are they going for tea?”
“I can’t tell you that, but at present
they’re dancing.”
“Is my husband dancing?”
“He is.”
“Oh, dear, what would you advise me to
do ?”
“I did not undertake to advise you,
madam, but to tell your fortune, llaif-a-
crown, please!”
Mrs. Marsden left the fortune-teller with
rage in her heart and revenge ill her soul.
Who was this woman, she asked herself, who
was usurping her husband’s affections? That
explained his attitude towards her lately,
lie had begun to criticise her, and pass un-
complimentary remarks about her figure and
her complexion.
Indeed, lie had hinted that she was passe.
Why, there was her husband and the
woman walking towards her. John has
recognised me, she thought; now I wonder
what he’ll have to say for himself. That
fortune-teller is certainly a clever woman.
“How fortunate we met you, Mary. This
is Miss Heath —our supervisor of agencies,
who has done such good business for our
publications. We were just going to have
a cup of tea while we talk over business
matters, and it will be nice for you to come,
too.”
Mrs. Marsden gave Miss Heath a formal
bow, and a cold, “flow do you do?” When
her husband said they would go to the Went-
worth for tea, she was more than ever con-
vinced that the fortune-teller was a witch.
The trio sat down at a table, and before long
Mrs. Marsden, succumbing to the cha.m of
Miss Heath, almost forgot her annoyance
and jealousy. Her husband merely talked
business with Miss Heath, who from time
to time politely referred to Mrs. Marsden
for approval of plans she promulgated. And
when Mr. Marsden said that he would be
working back at the office that night, and
suggested that Miss Heath spend the even-
ing with Mrs. Marsden and regale her with
the latest Paris fashions, she was quite
agreeable.
Miss Heath, the daughter of an Anglican
clergyman, was born and bred in Paris, and
having just come from the gay city, was able
to give Mrs. Marsden interesting fashion
notes.
Before long, however, the eternal feminine
asserted itself, and Mrs. Marsden wondered
why Miss Heath, with her charm and beauty,
had never married. She told Mrs. Marsden
that the only man she ever loved was killed
on active service.
From this they talked of rejuvenescence,
the subject ever uppermost in the mind of
the woman who has passed her first youth.
“If only I could reduce myself,” sighed
Mrs. Marsden.
“You can, easily.”
“Oh, of course, the French know the secret
of remaining beautiful, practically for ever.”
“What I take to keep my figure slim is no
secret, Mrs. Marsden.”
“My dear, I shouldn’t have thought you
needed to take anything ”
“Indeed, I do; or I would soon fall into
flesh. Directly I find myself putting on
weight, I just get a package of clynol berries,
and take one after each meal.”
“Do they affect the heart?”
“Oh, dear, no; the most delicate person
can take them with safety.”
“I shall certainly take them, and I won-
der, Miss Heath, if you know of a good face
cream that doesn’t grow hairs.”
“Indeed, I do; and I’m most grateful to
the manufacturers for what it has done for
me. I never use anything but mercolized
wax. It is similar to the preparation used
by the famous French beauty Ninon
D’Enclos, who at sixty had the complexion
of a child.”
“How very fortunate I met you, Miss
Heath ; I shall certainly add mercolized wax
to the list of things I want from the chemist.
Do you know I’m rather distressed about
my hair; it’s greying fast, and my husband
suggests that I dye it, but I hate the very
thought of dye.”
“I can assure you, Mrs. Marsden, there’s
no necessity to use dye. When I lost my
fiance my hair began greying fast, but I used
Tammalite, and now you won’t find a grey
hair in my head —it simply worked wonders.
It’s quite simple to use. You just get two
ounces of concentrate of tammalite, and mix
it with three ounces of may rum. Apply to
the scalp at night with a small sponge until
the hair has gone back to its original color.”
“Thank you very much for the informa-
tion. May I ask what soap you use, Miss.
Heath?”
“Certainly, I never use anything but
Pilenta.”
“It’s awfully good of you, to be at such
pains to tell me about these delightful pre-
parations.”
“Not at all; I think it’s a woman’s duty
to contribute to the beauty of the world,
and if you will notice, a woman who takes
pains with herself has that elusive some-
thing that is so fascinating. But it’s time
I was going.”
“I will send you home in the car. You
have given me fresh courage in life. I’m
now bent on cultivating that elusive some-
thing.”
Barri Agar—Ideal Face Powder —all
Chemists. —Advt.


Purest
Spirit
in tke
Uwtd.
d
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's SCHNAP^
“IT STANDS ADO^®-
>5
1
<3
llllllliiiiiiiiaiii«iiiiill!ll
A
&
A 3609 ft. Dick’s Beit
in One Length .
This illustration, drawn from a
photograph, shows a Dick’s
Balata Conveyor Belt which was
recently supplied for service in
the Potash Mines of Alsace. The
belt, which is 3(>o9ft. long x 24in.
wide x 8-ply, is believed to be the
largest belt in the world made and
supplied for service in one length.
DICK'S Original Balata Belting is
invariably specified where conveyor
belts are required for use in Mines.
Metal Quarries and other large indus-
trial concerns. Its great tensile
strength, unique toughness and rugged
wearing qualities make DICK’S the
world’s premier conveyor belt for ser-
vice under light or heavy service.
For full particulars, prices, etc.,
write for free copy of Balata Belting
Bool'.
JAMES HARDIE 8 COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY:
York and Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE:
581-3 Little
Collins Street.
QUEENSLAND:
ADELAIDE:
80 Currie Street.
The Cueensland Machinery Co., Albert Street. BRISBANE.
Such a .novel might possibly be popular
because of definite narrative qualities, but it
would find it hard to get over the publisher’s
barriers. Publishers have quite fixed ideas.
One of these is that there is a fair market
for “colonial” fiction if it runs true to type,
but that any tampering with the type is dan-
gerous. It must keep close to Western
American traditions, dealing with breezy,
picturesque men, who temper their violence
with sentimentality and show by their every
action that they are the old figures of rose-
water romance, rendered in wax or wood.
The English public, growing tired of the
costume novel, has turned to this “colonial”
version of it. Not very enthusiastically,
or course, but definitely enough to make it
worth the publishing. We hear occasion-
ally of English publishers being anxious to
secure Australian fiction, but all they want
is a supply of this very raw product. And
there will always be writers who will try
to meet the demand, under the impression
that it will lead to fame and fortune. It
will not, though. The market is limited,
and as far as money is concerned there is
more to be made, with less effort, in careful
purchases of suburban allotments. More
fame, perhaps, as well!
The notable thing is that the powerful
machinery of English publishing, with its
virtual monopoly and its control of book-
selling agencies, is of very little use to us in
a literary sense. Practically all that we
call Australian literature, has grown up with-
out its help. Take our fiction, for instance.
“For the Term of His Natural Life” and
“Robbery Under Arms” were certain y pub-
lished in London, but only af ;v t ! 1 n d
made their public as serials v ./n
papers. “Robbery Under 1 fid
have been a different book if 1. on
addressed primarily to English re..i of
so good a book. Probably it Wi. ot
have been written in that rich verm. _nlar
that gives it such a large part of its dis-
tinction; and the racy bush life would have
been rendered self-consciously, with notes of
explanation. Such changes would have
been enough to destroy its atmosphere, and
indeed its whole literary value. As for
Marcus Clarke’s book, it is safe to say that
it Avould never have been written at all if
it hadn’t been commissioned as a serial for
an Australian journal.
There are a few novels published in London
that have the look of genuine Australian
work—Bedford’s “True Eyes and the Whirl-
wind,” Louis Stone’s “Jonah,” Barbara
Baynton’s “Human Toll,” and a regent novel
of Katharine Prichard’s, “The Black Opal.”
Let it be admitted that these have added to
our scanty store of literature, and that
probably they would never have been pub-
lished in Australia. But it is a meagre
list. All our short-story writers, from
Lawson downwards, have done their main
work within our own borders, and have
slowly given a character to Australian fic-
tion. It is a character that is definite,
distinct, as recognisable as a gum-tree. You
feel it in men as widely different as Lawson,
Price Warung, Tom Collins and the narrator
of the story about the champion bullock-
driver. For us it has the glamor of
reality—our reality—and whatever its
limitations, it can safely be said that any
Australian fiction of the future that has
literary value will blossom from this root,
and no other. But is there any possibility
of its growth being nurtured by London pub-
lishers looking for something that will reach
the 3000-mark at the first time of asking?
Well, hardly.
As for poetry, it is a hardy plant that
doesn’t need much nurture. Ours has grown
up with even less help from oversea pub-
lishers than our fiction has received.
Luckily it costs very little to produce a book
of verse; and so the shelves marked “Aus-
tralian Literature” have three-fourths of
their space given over to it. It is often
said that we are a poetical people. < How
much of that is due to the question of
economics? A fairly large circle of readers
is necessary for the publication of a book
of prose, but many a good book of Austra-
lian verse has had to be content with a
handful. And even the most inspired poet
is never without a few friends.
The man who hopes to write the Great
Australian Novel, though, will have to wait
until he has a public in his own country, as
well as the machinery for publishing. The
question of an audience, which can be ignored
by the poet, is of the first importance to
him. If he writes with his eyes on an over-
seas public he will find everything vital
evaporating from his work; if he writes for
himself and the people around him the Lon-
don publisher will fix upon him a frozen
stare.
Perhaps the publisher’s fixed ideas are
economically justified. It is no use saying
that a good book has the same appeal every-
where. and that discerning people in Brix-
ton will be as eager for a revelation of reality
in Bourke as in their own suburb. They
will not. Brixton is their reality and Bourke
is their dream. And if we turn with a yawn
from the last “colonial” novel it is because
there is nothing so boring as listening to
the dreams of other people.
VANCE PALMER.
In Praise of Liquor
No one is more irritating than the fossil
who is forever comparing to-day with the
“ ’seventies” —to the disadvantage of to-
day. We have all heard enough of the vir-
tues of vanished ages to sicken us of this
senile chatter; but it is unfortunately true
that the literature of liquor has lapsed. In
the middle ages philosophers and theological
students waxed rhapsodical over the pottle-
pot : Gargantua, Pantagruel. Jerome. Ooig-
nard and the rest could all hold their half-
dozen bottles: and the best of drinking songs
have come from days a century dead. In
the times of the merrie coterie of the Mer-
maid tavern, and at the swashbuckling revels
of Carew, Lovelace, Suckling and the whole
bunch of the Cavalier poets, they had no
lack of cheery ditties. They preserved some-
thing of the love of wine shown by the
Greeks—a love which needed no apology.
What the ancients thought of drinking we
can guess from the passage in Xenophon,
where he describes the address of the great
Cyrus to his troops. They were about to
start for the attack on Babylon (the time
is 500 years n.c.), and had to traverse the
desert. Hear Cyrus
The journey will take 15 days, and not a vestige
of food shall we find from end to end. We must
collect enough corn, without which one can neither
fight nor live; and as for wine, every man must
carry just so much as will accustom him to drink
water... .but to avoid too sudden a change and
the sickness that would f0110w.... we must begin
by taking water with our food. We can do this
without any great change in our habits. For every-
one who eats porridge has the oatmeal mixed with
water, and everyone who eats bread has the wheat
soaked in water, and all boiled meat is prepared in
water. We shall not miss the wine if we drink
a little after the meal is done. Then we must
gradually lessen the amount until we find that,
without knowing it, we have become water-drinkers.
No backing, this, for the blue-rihhonites!
But, whatever the reason, from an accepted
and necessary adjunct of life, drink has been
relegated to the ranks of the seven deadly
sins. Nowadays a man dare not drink
during working hours, and the convivial
gatherings at the tavern are seldom heard of.
The bar has become the happy hunting-
ground for Masefield and the low-life novel-
ists, and the words “tipplers” and “tankards”
are erased from the dictionary.
This, of course, has been reflected in our
literature. The men of to-day do not “troll
the bonny bowl.” Chesterton, almost alone,
blows the froth from his beer in the midst of
the roadway. lie toasts the moon in public
and defies the prohibitionist. You can see it
for yourself in “Wine, Water and Song”:—
The “Saracen's Head” looks down the lane,
Where we .shall never drink wine again,
For the wicked old women who feel well-bred
Have turned to a teashop the “Saracen’s Head.”
Or hear again this champion of a lost cause:
Tlie song of the sorrow of Melisande is a weary
song and a dreary song;
The glory of Mariana’s grange has got into great
decay ;
The song of the Itaven Never More has never been
called a cheery song,
And the brightest things in Baudelaire are any-
thing else but gay'.
But who shall write us a riding song,
Or a hunting song or a drinking song
Fit for them that arose and rode
When day and the wine were red?
But bring me a quart of claret out,
And I will write you a clinking song,
A song of war and a song of wine
And a song to wake the dead.
While the plea made for alcohol has long
left room for doubt and debate, the place
of wine in literature is sure. We have only
to think of Villon in his drinking dens, Ver-
laine seldom sober, Julius Caesar carried
home on the shoulders of his men, Socrates
and Seneca, Murger, De Musset, Poe, Addi-
son, Steele, Carew, Sheridan, Burrs, Charles
Lamb, James Thomson and a hundred others.
Yet few of them all have left us anything
in praise of liquor. They drank and left
it at that.
Still, as long as we have Mr. Chesterton
why worry? Take his inspiration that “the
drinking of decent fermented liquor is just
the triumph of vegetarianism.” The rhyme
may weaken occasionally', but the spirit is
there: —
You will find me drinking rum
Like a sailor in a slum,
You will find rue drinking beer like a Bavarian.
You will find me drinking gin
At the lowest kind of inn.
Because I am a rigid vegetarian.
No more the milk of cows
Shall pollute my private house
Than the milk of the wild mares of the Barbarian.
I will stick to port and sherry,
For they are so very, very—
So very, very, very vegetarian.
QUENTIN POPE.
A Novel of French Canada
After 300 years French Canada has at
last seen its story written. In “Maria
Chapdelaine,” Louis Hemon, with sympathy
and understanding, and so with perfect art,
has mirrored the soul and life of its people.
The amazing thing is that the masterpiece
—for such French critics deem it—was
written by a Parisian of the “Vie sportive”
who had lived in Canada barely two years.
Born in Brittany, and so perhaps having
remote kinship with these exiles of old
France, he lived most of his life in Paris;
but the longing for the wide lands of the
new world drove him, like the “voyageurs”
three centuries gone, to Canada. He lived
in Quebec for two years and wrote in the
end the story of the lives of the simple
good folk of the province. It is as if a
great Australian story were to come from
the hand of, say, a Scottish lad trained at
Oxford.
Hemon, living as hired man on a small
selection, saw with the discerning eye of
genius the secret of the valor of these adven-
turous hearts —the delight in battle with
hard Nature and the sweet savor of victory.
Samuel Chapdelaine, father of the heroine,
like so many of his kind, finds no content
in the well-ordered farms of “les vieilles
paroisses,” yielding crops season after season
in monotonous rotation. His ancestors were
pioneers winning from the forest bit by bit,
in eternal conflict with the seasons on the
lands they broke and sowed and abandoned
again for virgin lands farther and farther
on. In the settled lands life was too easy
and monotonous.
Hemon draws with a sure touch, and,
above all, with delightful economy. His
selective “flair” never lapses. The tempta-
tion to make a large descriptive canvas must
have been great to a Parisian fresh to the
life; but, instead, we get only simple, ex-
quisite glimpses through brusque, almost
monosyllabic conversations of the homes and
hearts of these men and their womenfolk.
Without being dramatic the work has all the
effectiveness and vivid reality of good drama.
At the close, when Maria has lost her first
sweetheart in the blizzard and is tempted by
a new lover to leave the dark forest and
cruel winters for the warm south, to leave
her toiling people and the simple man of her
race who desires her hand, Hemon sums up
in her thoughts all the truth and beauty and
pathos of these lives: —
Elle disait: “Nous sommes venus ici il y a trois
cents ans et nous sommes restes.... Ici, toutes les
choses que nous avons apportees avec nous, notre culte,
notre langue, nos vertus, et jusqu’ a nos faiblesses,
deviennent des choses sacrees et qui devront demeurer
jusqu' hla fin..'. .Au pays de Quebec rien n’a change.
Rien ne changera parceque nous sommes un temoig-
nage... .c'est pourquoi il faut rester dans la province
ou nos peres sont restes et vivre comme ils ont
vecu”.... C’est pourquoi Maria Chapdelaine, un soir
qu’il viendra veiller repondra a Eutrope Gagnon,
l’homme patient de ia terre:
“Oui, si vous voulez, je vous marierai comme vous
m’avez demande, le printemps apres ce printemps-ei,
quand les hommes viendront du bois pour les
semailleS. ”
Louis Etymon was accidentally killed in
Canada at the age of 33- To Lim monu-
ments have been erected and a lake in Quebec
province near which he worked now bears
his name. And in the hearts of the folk
he loved and raised to something like epic
glory his name is a hallowed legend. Among
them his book will live for ever....lt is a
work Worthy of such happy fortune.
J.V.D.
The Inky Way
“W.M.”: So few people pronounce the English lan-
guage correctly that a disquisition on pronunciation
is always interesting and educative. “C.”(B. 23/3/’22)
objects to the manner in which we pronounce such
words as “medicine, Monday, Tuesday,” etc. Annan-
dale’s concise English dictionary says “med-sin” or
“med-i-sin,” while m.v Webster writes “med-e-sin.”
Webster also gives “Mundy,” but Annandale declares
for “Mun-da” ; and, in fact, emphasises the “da”
right through the week’s daily names, as does Web-
ster, except in the ease of Monday. Here are clear
cases of doctors differing; therefore why blame the
unfortunate layman ? A word, however, that I have
heard butchered, alike in Maoriland and in Aus-
tralia, is “finance,” through speakers of all classes,
including politicians, lawyers and parsons, persist-
ing in placing the pronunciation on the first syllable
instead of the second, and on the second instead of
the third in “financier.” Other words commonly
mispronounced by Australasians are “amateur,”
“furniture,” “feature,” “nature.” Webster does not
pronounce the “a” short in “dance,” but quite a
number of Victorians do. In fact, I have been told
that the short “a” has become a mark of Victorian
birth; In years gone by Jones condemned the short
“a” in “past,” “staff,” “pass” as “a mincing affec-
tation,” and Webster also declared against a prac-
tice which, on the other hand, Smart said reflected
the pronunciation of well-educated London people
under Go or 60 years of age.
“J.H.” (Lond.): The Daily Mail sent an inter-
viewer to Liverpool the other day when Berkeley
Basil Moreton, fourth Ear] of Ducie, returned to
claim the ancestral home after an absence of 67
years in Bananaland, and the well-known accuracy
of Carmelite House when it sets its reporters loose
on matters Australian was once more demonstrated.
When he was told he could have luncheon on the
boat-train, Lord Ducie said: “Well, in Australia we
have to get out to eat. And, by the way, I travelled
in the first train ever run in Australia —from Bris-
bane to Parramatta.”
“Veronal”: Papua has its own little journal en-
titled The Papuan Courier, published at Port
Moresby. From the ads. it appears that fresh
mutton, beef and sausages fetch Is. 4d. a pound in
Papua, with an additional sd. per pound for steaks
and sirloins. Apples are worth 3s. a pound, and
lager beer 2s. 6d. a bottle. Cables are radioed to
the Courier from Melbourne —-a unique service.
Port Moresby has its musical and dramatic society
“Merely Moresby” being one of the recent success-
ful performances. A tropical chemist’s ad. lauds
the virtues of “Dr. Koch’s Fever Mixture,” “Skeeto-
bane” and “Mulgrave Headache Mixture,” guaran-
teed to relieve the worst headache that ever came
out of a cocoanut. The little inky spokesman of the
Far North is distinguished by the size and clear-
ness of its print.
“Thorold”: Tom Roberts’s picture of the Federal
Parliament opening will always lack some value
because of its substitution of a crowd of now almost
forgotten fat men for the representative group of
journalists who stood immediately behind George and
Mary and the Linlithgows. Among those pressmen were
several who to-day are known throughout Australia,'
and even in far-off 1901 were top-notehers in their
line. It was taken for granted that mere scribes
must remain perennial, self-effacing nobodies.
Hobart celebrated Anzae Day with a children’s
picnic at Bellevive. It was a great day, and the
Mercury young man fairly let, himself go:—
“The scene as the crowded vessels drew away in
procession from the wondering wharves was one that
will live long in the memory of many. One by
one the familiar ferry-boats, transfigured by the
ennobled richness of their human freight, faded into
the waning light, hundreds of their homeward-borne
youngsters drooping into the rich contentment of
dream- filled sleep. Across the face of the evening
sky, blue now with the coming of night, trailing
clouds of glory, drifting from that west into which
the fallen brave have won ahead, glowed with the
splendor of the God who unites them with those who
gave them, and, still, serving, wait their full re-
union.” ■
The Bellerive atmosphere seems to produce that kind
of poetry. By the way, Marie Bjelke Petersen occa-
sionally receives worshippers there, and Joe Tischler,
formerly “The Rover” and now affectionately known
to all Bulletin verse-lovers as “Bellerive,” picked
up some of his art in the vicinity.
“Wallabaloolah”: Mary de la Riviere Manley and
Mrs. Aphra Behn, mentioned in my par. re Isaac
Manley (B. 4/s’/’22), were about the first women to
earn a crust with their' pens; but, as Mary died in
1724 and Aphra was before her as a writer, neither
ever saw Australia. When her father died Mary
Manley married her cousin, but after three years 1 he
announced that he was already a married man, • and
deserted her. She then took to scribbling for a
living. Swift and others collaborated with her.
Perhaps Isaac Manley, of Cook’s ship Endeavor, was
a descendant of hers.
THE ARITHMETICAL POET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Surrounded by banana skins,
The tasteless husks of mouldy sina,
I raise my voice and send it high
For gods along the quiet sky,
Adventuring the intense inane
Of dreams... .some shillings thence to gain.
And land on earth to count the prize,
Measure its monetary size,
And chop the ecstasy divine
At fourpence for each winged line.
That’s three and four. I’ll make it seven,
Then cease to flap my wings at Heaven,
And all the careless angels shame
To see such dusty wings and lame...,
A few more lines if I invent,
Will see me settling up the rent.
Another two, and, free from sorrow,
For breakfast I am safe to-morrow.
A little further squeeze the stuff—
Two beers are mine. .. .There, that's enough.
N.S.w.
PANURGE.


' k >y
At the Yards!
If you want top rates for your Fat Cattle, Sheep
and Lambs, consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Market, Sydney; or Enoggera
Market, Brisbane.
CYCLONE
f
High-Speed
Chain Hoists.
Highest Awards
Panama-Pacific
International
Exposition—l9ls.
STRONG POINTS.
Speed.
Absence of Vibration.
Accurately cut and
Strong Gears.
Durability.
Safety.
Strength.
“CYCLONE” and all other Chisholm-
Moore Moisting: Blocks stocked by us
are Tested to 33601 b. to the ton—so%
overload.
The peculiar gyrating movement in the
“Cyclone” Chain Hoist, and the perfect bal-
ance of all its parts, make possible a very
high speed with practically no vibration.
Write for Free Illustrated descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
581-83 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/C Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
SKANDIA
MARINE MOTORS,
4-5 h.p. and up to
500 h.p.
4-5 h.p.
The latest type of Semi-deisel Oil Engine.
Specially constructed to take the place of
benzine engines. Huns on Crude Oil at a
cost of about twopence per hour. No
Magneto—sparking plug or electrical
devices. Average starting time only thirty
seconds.
All particulars and prices can be obtained
from
Nelson & Robertson,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sola Agents for Australasia and Bcuth Sea islands.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZSNC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address—■
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PLUMBER’S BRASSWORK
Immediate Delivery.
“Medium” or “Country” Lines: 2-in., fin., lin. Bibs, Hose, Stops,
Ferrule Stops, Straight Ferrules, etc,
WATER-BOARD STANDARD. Melbourne—Brisbane—Hobart,
Perth, Adelaide, Sydney. All usual lines.
RANGE or TANK COCKS, fin., lin.
WINDMILL PUMPS.
ALDERDICE,
Brassfoundry, Warrnambool.
[i
%
n
a
er
m
n!“Y
v x'
iK
wl
P/nm
GOMJDJSATSEn
/"lakes Lovely _ Cakes
and Babies tlinve on if
PIPES
mn
For Every Pipe-Smoker
—who enjoys a cool, sweet smoke —
there’s a world of satisfaction in a
GBD.
With your favorite tobacco alight in a
GBD you can smile at the gloom of
dark Winter days.
These quality pipes are made from genuine French
Briarwood—thoroughly matured and shaped by
experts.
Get acquainted with one of these London-made
pipes to-day.
Many
Popular
Shapes.
From
8/6
On
Sale
Everywhere.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Wessel"’: Australia has had inquiries by
the Institute of Science and Industry into
the use of mangrove-bark for tanning, and
solemn reports about it. But in the Nether-
lands Indies they are a long way past this.
As far back as 1915 they exported 17,383
tons of mangrove-bark, and in 1919 the
quantity rose to 20,754 tons.
* * * *
“Pat Bushie”: Just prior to the recent
elections a Coonamble (N.S.W.) joker
booked a couple of bets at satisfactory odds
that the public would not know the result
of the Wammerawa election before Christ-
mas. Those who snapped up the wagers
now realise that Christmas was bound to
know first. He happens to be the return-
ing-offieer.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Rosewood (Dysoxylon fraser-
anum) is one of the most beautifully
marked of Australian timbers, but it has
fallen out of favor with furniture-makers
because it “sweats” in some cases. It is
now used, along with Queensland maple,
which it much resembles, for the propellers
of aeroplanes; but so far one good tree would
supply all the propellers made in Australia.
* * * #
“Mr. Ocky” : Melbourne’s busy suburb of
Prahran, engaged in a campaign of boost,
has informed the new generations that the
first railway engine built in Victoria was
the work of Enoch Chambers and his men
at a foundry near the site of the present
Town Ilall. It was run from the foundry
on to the Brighton line. P’ran traders re-
call with pride that Graham Berry and
James Munro, each of whom became Pre-
mier, ran grocery stores there. In its less
prosperous days the old place produced
chiefly bricks and cabbages, turning an
honest pound or two also by selling firewood
to Melbourne Town.
* • • .
“D.F.”: If N.S.W. Ministers really decide
to palter with the accursed thing to the
extent of letting Vic. railway lines cross the
Murray, perhaps they will break through the
educational dead-line on that river. If a
kid at Wentworth or thereabouts is foolish
enough to qualify for admission to a high
school he is given a choice between Wagga
and Broken Hill. Wagga is 500 miles away
by road, and the Hill over 150, while by rail
each is over 1000. There is an excellent
high school at Mildura, 17 miles away, but
that is on the enemy side of the Murray.
» * # *
“Huffin-Guffin”: Not that it matters
much, perhaps, but the steamer Edina is
not the last visible connection between Vic-
toria and the Crimea (“Lucius,” B.
4/5/’22). After the Crimean War some
of the portable huts used by the troops
were sent out here. One at least still re-
mains in a paddock near Coleraine (Vic.)
which was portion of Edward Henty’s
Muntham estate. It is used as a cowshed or
something similar. The galvanised iron is
still sound. They made galvanised iron
stronger in those days.
* * * *
“Gregor” : In an outer Melbourne suburb,
about 200 yards away from a small creek,
is an industrial plant, from which coal-tar
is produced as a by-product. That the
substance is regarded as valueless may be
deduced from the manner in which it is
allowed to go to waste. From the plant
to the creek a drain has been dug, through
which the tar is run off in considerable
quantities. An English chemist has cal-
culated that 20 per cent, of tar consists of
valuable by-products. If this is so, for every
five tons of tar that goes through the drain,
one ton of chemicals, such as benzine,
saccharine, cresol, naphthaline, are lost to
the country, and so have to be imported from
less wasteful lands.
“Wynf-rith Revell”: For many years it
has been the ambition of many South Sea
Island dreamers to invent a machine that
will successfully extract the oil of the tuti
or candle-nut tree. The vegetable is a quick
grower and of handsome appearance. It is
also a prolific bearer. The nut (about wal-
nut size) contains a white, pleasant-tasting
kernel, and the kernel contains a great pro-
portion of oil, which, however, is not per-
ceptible to the taste. This oil is a very
strong purgative. It is a favorite and well-
seasoned joke of old inhabitants to present
newcomers with a handful of these nuts.
The thanks of the recipients are at first
venuine, but in due course change to curses.
In olden times the natives used the candle-
nut tree as an illuminant, and even to-day
torches are made from the kernel of the
nut.
“Ship Rock”: “Cambronne’s” (B. 4./5/’22)
experience of Australian-made axe-handles
must have been on his woodheap. Spotted
gum (not stringy) handles are as good as
best American provided the wielder doesn’t
leave his axe in the sun. Have been using
the same handle for 31 months on rung iron-
bark and tallow-wood. Scrub-fellers round
here are using handles made of black ti-tree
and prefer them to any other. When the
handles are nroperly seasoned and made
there are a dozen Australian woods better
than the immature hickory rubbish now com-
ing from America.
BABY-FARMING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’re living in a little flat
Where children are allowed
On several conditions—that
They never push or crowd,
They don’t make loud, nerve-racking calls,
And never scribble on the walls —
That they don’t swing on open doors,
Nor in a passage play,
Nor ever pound upon the floors,
Nor in the hallways stray.
They must not sit upon the stairs
Nor horse about the rooms in pairs.
On balusters they must not ride,
Nor even move at night,
Nor on the hall linoleum slide,
Nor ever cry or fight.
No babe of ours e’er runs or whoops.
We’re rearing all of them —in coops!
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


_
< / S>
a
Urn
yvn‘ <5 ,
I
0
%mM,
ii
- £
Why soap and water
improves your s\in
IF you have the superstition that
soap does not agree with your skin,
one of two things is wrong. You are
either using the wrong soap, or the
right soap the wrong way.
You should know that the skin is com-
posed of countless minute glands and
tiny pores on which depends its health.
They must be kept free from an accu-
mulation of dust, dried perspiration,
powder, rouge and natural oil secre-
tions, for these combine to coat your
face with a film which covers it like a
mask and seals up these glands and
pores.
Use the right soap
Ordinary soap brings but ordinary sur-
face cleanliness, but Palmolive soap
penetrates below the surface, gently
but certainly entering the very pores
of the skin and removing all clogging
impurities.
It requires a highly scientific process to
make a soap which does that, and in the
doing soothes and feeds, fostering the
natural suppleness and softness of the
skin.
Palmolive is the right soap because it
contains a blend of the natural oils of
the palm and the olive, the self-same,
rare and valuable oils used by the
beauties of Royal Egypt to cleanse and
beautify the skin.
c A.
\-A • /'
m
/'.i
i
IP.
V.S7
A
r *y
tv?.
W
How to use Palmolive
Work up a handful of the creamy lather in
pleasantly warm water, and massage lightly
into your skin with your two hands. Rinse
with ciear water till every trace of the soap
is dissolved, then finish with a dash of cold.
Bedtime is best
Do this thorough cleansing the Palmolive
way —just before bedtime. Remove the pow-
der and rouge of your evening toilet ; they
shouldn’t stay on all night—not if you value
the charm of a good complexion. So long as
you continue this regular bedtime, beneficial
cleansing, you will wake day by day with a
clear complexion aglow with radiant health.
The guest-size cake of Palmolive Soap will be sent
post free, on request, by The Palmolive Company
( Australasia) Ltd, Broughton House, Clarence
Street, Sydney.
First prove Palmolive Soap, then test the perfection of
Palmolive Cold Cream; Palmolive Vanishing Cream; “Violet of the Nile” and “Egyptian
Fose” Talcums; “Palmole’'Face Powder, Palmolive Face Powder, Palmolive Rouge ;
Palmolive Shampoo.
PALMOLIVE
sells everywhere at 1/3 per cake
p
m
■


d
he largest selling
quality pencil in
the would.
VENUS
V PENCILS
ď
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS .MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Potastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
fd
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
Broughton House,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
A DRINK
THAT IS
AS
REFRESHING
AS IT IS
BENEFICIAL
BE SURE
YOU ASK
FOR
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
SVRECVKC Fo/t
(CSEMA
"hat itching spot of Eczema
can be at once relieved by
using
UGMOLUENE
the sure and permanent cure
for all skin diseases.
W. MALYON & SON, LTD.,
Sturt Street, Ballarat.
ď
CUT OUT THIS
C SEND WITH US \
FOR SPECIAL SAMPLE |
URODONAL
THE SAFETY PLANK
of Uric Acid Sufferers.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT.
STONE,
GRAVEL.
ARTERIOSCLEROSIS.
OBESITY,
ACIDITY.
Si
S3
S3
■; 1 1
Prepared by
J. L. CIIATELAIN,
Paris.
URODONAL stands out from amongst “remedies and cures
for RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, GOUT, and the many and varied
affections due to an excess of uric acid in the system; and the
REASON why URODONAL stands out as something quite unique
among curative and preventive treatments is that it is an essen-
tially SCIENTIFIC method of dealing with the trouble, and goes
right to its root by DISSOLVING THE URIC ACID, no matter in
what state of combination it may exist, and expelling it from the
system by natural means.
As a solvent of uric acid, URODONAL is thirty-seven times
more effective than Lithia, and it naturally follows that it has
the support and approval of leading members of the Medical
Faculty in France, as well as in the U.K. and in all countries of
the world.
“URODONAL is now so well known, both as regards its
composition and its general effects, that it is hardly necessary to
insist on its efficacy. The numerous treatises and articles which
have been written on the subject of this remedy during the last
few years have taught us what we may expect of it in the treat-
ment of gout, alcoholic poisoning, biliary lithiasis, in sufferers from
Arthritis or Arterio-Sclerosis, etc. This proves how useful it may
be in the treatment of what is really Arterio-Sclerosis of the Liver.”
—Dr. GARGAM (of the Faculty of Bordeaux), Consulting
Physician at the Saintes Hospital. +
Price per bottle . . . . 9/3
Obtainable from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australia,
or from Chatelain’s Australasian Agency, 352 Kent Street, Sydney,
from whom also can be obtained Booklet containing Medical
Opinions.
SB*®
3
E
il
|||;X |--
iO
mmm
APPLIED TO INTERNAL
SURFACES WITH A BRUSH.
HALVES THE BOILER SCALING BILL.
CONTAINS NO OIL.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET.
SYDNEY: The Austral Engineering Supply Co., Ltd., 490 Kent St.
BRISBANE: John Reid & Nephews, Charlotte Street.
MELBOURNE: The British-Australian Engineering Co., Collins St.
ADELAIDE: E. Treliving, Grenfell Street.
PERTH: W. Adams & Co., King Street.
A pioneer of the Gunn 1115 (N.S.M.) 6 1S ‘
trict died the other day—Richard Sherriff,
who went there 66 years ago at the age of
20 and did cobbling and dealing till a few
years back. Incidentally, he reared 11 of
his typical old-time family of 13.
“B.”: Knight Robert Gibson, the new
president of the Vic. Chamber of Manufac-
tures, is probably the brainiest man the
organisation owns. He has been the soul
of the Board which has coal in
times of stress and strife in his State. A
strike has no terrors for him. He organises
coolly all the resources he can command to
minimise inconvenience to the community.
He doesn’t bother to hate anybody, isn t
hated by anybody, and isn’t class-conscious.
Money-making is only incidental to liis
existence and not the sole purpose _of it.
Premier Lawson regards him as a genius.
“P.T.0.”: Take this as an example of the
imbecility of some juries. The case was an
action for defamation of character of a gross
nature, and the sum claimed was a modest
£lOO. The jurors—three prominent business
men —retired and quickly decided that the
plaintiff deserved the full amount claimed.
Then one of them remembered that defend-
ant would have to pay costs. He reminded
his colleagues of this and they sat down
once more and worked out the expenses of
plaintiff and defendant combined at £B5.
Then they did a hurried sum in simple sub-
traction and brought in a verdict for the
plaintiff for £l5!
“Hambone” : The two French transportees,
Fulop and Sziber, who escaped from the El
Ivantara while the vessel was at Newcastle,
had the worst of luck. In the first place
a nosey Argus reporter disclosed their pres-
ence on the boat, and so put the police on
the alert. They broke out and spent their
period of liberty during the first wet week-
end of the season. The Dago freighter on
which they were recaptured was coaling only
a few yards away from the berth occupied
by the El Ivantara when they escaped. They
boarded her because they saw the Italian
flag at the forepeak, and believed that, once,
under it, they would be fairly safe, ignoring
the fact that' the vessel was not on the high
seas. Yet if the arresting constable had not
had other business aboard the Dago, their
presence there would probably have gone un-
discovered till the boat was at sea. As it
is their address for life is the Isle de Pines.
“No. 1 Brownie” describes a night at
Wongi Wongi:—
The yardman at the Shearer’s Rest died on Satur-
day afternoon, and his employer decided to show
respect for the dead by lodging him in No. 5, the
best bedroom, to await the undertaker’s pleasure.
There blew into Wongi Wongi late that night Black-
law, a commercial, slightly boozed, and accustomed
to occupy No. 5. He accepted the assurance of a
yawning barman that his usual haunt was “Orright,”
and lurched upstairs. He regarded his room-mate
with a glazed eye. “Never had ter share No. 5
before,” he soliloquised. “Wongi Wongi must be
lookin’ up.” Then he rolled into bed and prodded
the occupant. “Move over, mate,” he murmured.
No response. He made the injunction louder. “Hey,
mate, I don’ min’ sharin’ the bed with yer, but yer
might move over a bit an’ lemme get comf’able.”
Still no response. A push followed, but the corpse
rolled back on Blacklaw, who grew annoyed at such
lack of courtesy. “Dam’ yer!” he growled, “if
yer don’ move over, I’ll bump y* out o’ ther blanky
bed!” For the best of reasons there was neither
answer nor compliance, and, with a couple of well-
directed kicks, Blacklaw jettisoned his bedfellow
and moved into the strangely-chill depression in the
middle of the mattress. He was just settling down,
still full of indignation, when the publican appeared
with a candle. “What th’ ” he began in a
hushed voice. The infuriated bagman immediately
took up the running. “I tol’ ’im I’d kick ’im out.
Wouldn’ move over w’en a man arst ’im to. An’
w’en I pushed ’im over, ’e called me a blanky selfish
blankard, an’ ” —he finished in a white heat “I
won’ be called that by any man!”
Pathetic are the attempts of the Ma State’s .
late Motherhood Minister to regain the glory
that was Greg.’s. Last week he dashed into
the capitalistic newspaper offices with the
news that he proposed to lift J. H. Catts’s
scalp in the Cook electorate. Before that he
was going to stand for Granville. When the
Granville notion struck him he took a florid
and well-advertised farewell of State politics,,
after which he went up to Cootamundra and
found the going bad, rushed back to Sydney
with a nomination for the selection-ballot that
was declared bogus, and finally shoved the
hapless Buckley, one of his own followers,
out of his seat. Meantime he did his best to
manoeuvre Dooley out of the party leader-
ship, and quarrelled violently with Loughlin,
the Lands Minister. There may be suitable
avocations—polishing weathercocks, for in-
stance, or grooming chameleons—for a man
who can’t make up his alleged mind or stick
to one course of action for 10 minutes, but
politics is not one of them. The Federal
Labor party, now tottering under the weight
of its many troubles, is scarcely exulting over
the prospect of McGirr being added to them.
“Sol’s” endeavor to be helpful:—
Sydney’s Millions Club strongly urges Australians,
nowadays, to See Australia First, and to learn it by
heart before going to strahge lands. -In pursuance
of this “slogan” some of the Millioners lately made
a week-end pilgrimage to Jenolan Caves and got the
fact inserted in the papers. Some day these ex-
plorers may go so far as to lead a well-equipped
and strongly-armed expedition to the Botanical
Cardens, but the one venture will no more resemble
the act of seeing Australia than the other. People
of boundless energy, who really want to See Aus-
tralia First and give it a lift, might find an outlet
if they formed themselves into a working-bee to
make a real road from the Daly River settlement
<N.T.) to the railway, and give that place a chance.
The Dalvites have no road, no railway, and the Gov-
ernment boat has ceased to call. Private craft look
in irregularly, but the settlers don’t run to a boat
of their own. The first crop of tobacco (it is a fer-
tile region) was, it is said, taken care of by the
paternal Government, which then forgot about it for
three months. This brutish neglect is ascribed to
the people having no votes. The Daly River is sug-
gested because, after years of hard land-agenting in
the Sydney suburbs (that is the calling of most of
the Millioners), it would be a complete change.
Representing the oldest and newest, the biggest and
smallest, also the two ends of the continent, a
thorough study of these two places would really be
Spping Australia First.


■ r
st
All B S.A. part*
are guaranteed
interchangeable.
RIDE A
BICYCLE BUILT OF
BSA
FITTINGS
THOUSANDS of cyclists rep-
resenting nearly every country,
testify to the value of bicycles
built of B.S.A. Fittings.
The health and pleasure of trouble-
free cycling, enjoyed when using
a good machine, will very soon
repay you your initial outlay. All
usage after that (including your
numerous business calls and holiday
touring) is a handsome bonus or
dividend derived from your wise
investment.
Thoroughly British
The searching tests and careful
analysis to which every component
of the B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle is
subjected, eliminate the possibility
of poor material, bad workmanship,
or a flaw in the finished article.
ILLUSTRATED HANDBOOK
FREE ON REQUEST TO
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
V
Dodge Brothers Motor Car has become almost an in-
ternational institution.
Its reliability, its freedom from repair, its economy and
its long life, have won universal acknowledgment.
These attributes have created such deep and abiding
satisfaction on the part of owners in every part of the
world, that Dodge Brothers Motor Car may now be
said to have attained international respect and regard.
The petrol consumption is unusually low
The tyre mileage is unusually high
*
r
Pi
Ml
m.
vVtU
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
f |V
\
Vl
\-
S 0
V
YOUR HOME
WILL BE MORE
ATTRACTIVE
if you instal one of our
ws
riT
v '
PIANOS or PLAYER PIANOS.
We import the best instruments that money can buy, and that all-important point, “Quality,’*
is never lost sight of. We have been continuously selling Musical Instruments for close on 70
years, and have built up the biggest business of its kind in Australia by selling “goods of
quality.’’ We shall be pleased at any time to show you our magnificent stock of Pianos and
Player Pianos, and if you wish will sell you any instrument on Easy Terms.
FULL PARTICULARS AND
CATALOGUES FREE BY
in
a
338 George St.
SYDNEY;
ranches at
BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA,
ROCKHAMPTON, LISMORE
and NEWCASTLE.


Hotel de Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 10/* per Jay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
IP
fc-r:
SI
I, life
m
Ml
11 JS. (fir
or !“&
Q> & V ffJP,
“■\
V\
NATURE’S
SECRETS
are unlocked in the lovely
Zenobia Perfumes. The subtle
charm of the flowers at their
sweetest moment is found in
perfection in these exquisite
favorites. There are no per-
fumes truer to nature than
fd
Zenobia Lily of the Valley —is as charm-
ing as the tender appeal of the living
flowers.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blos-
som —a triumph of deli-
cacy and fidelity to nature.
The original perfume of
the name.
Zenobia Night-scented
Stock —as sweet as the
perfume of an old-world
garden—a great favorite.
Manufactured, only by
Zenobia Limited,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England.
Sole Agents for New Zea-
land (Wholesale only) :
Neivson & Co., Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1162, Wellington.
~ Sole Agent for Australia
(Wholesale only) :
Kenneth Buekmaster,
15 O’Connell
Street,
Sydney.
i
kum.
°
l 1
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEIJRY, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio. Barcelona, Spain.
m
a
JL
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Mrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or f ood or cold
refreshment wiihout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
makingtea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
if you have
a delicate child
give it
The following convincing letter should be read by
all parents
65 Station Street, Carlton.
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Gentlemen—About eighteen months ago my little
daughter, 4 years old, had an attack of bronchitis, which
she was subject to, being delicate ever since she was a few
weeks old. I gave her yourHypol, and it cured her of the
bronchitis, and so strengthened her that she has not had
anything the matter with her since. In fact, thanks to
Hypol, she is now the picture of good health.
Yours truly ( Signed) P. C. TURNER.
What HYPOL has done for others, it can do for you.
HYPOL is a celebrated strength-promoter, and a
proved remedy for unhealthy lungs or other chest
troubles.
This delightful Emulsion has the appearance of a rich
cream, and tastes like it too. Therefore it is most
alluring to children, but
IT BENEFITS YOUNG AND OLD ALIKE.
GET A BOTTLE TO-DAY. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by FELTON.
GRIMWADE &
Melbourne
CO.
L
PROP. LTD.,
đ
fd
a*
'■to
\«
>:\i-r
55*?
*8
SR«
N
>.*fV!
GOT
if
/
/
Well Satisfied!
fet> PLUME SPIRIT
Easy svteel running more miles.
Motorists who have tried
the new Plume Motor Spirit
speak in the highest terms of
praise of its easy starting quali-
ties, splendid pulling power,
mileage, and sweet running
under all road conditions.
They are well satisfied.
Because of its correctgroup-
ing of boiling points the new
Plume Motor Spirit is highly
volatile, every drop being in-
PUIMf
&oR SPltf'
stantly and
completely
vaporised
ensuring a
perfect ex-
plosive mixture. This elimin-
ates any possibility of liquid
petrol working past the Piston
Rings and so breaking down
and ruining the lubricating
qualities of the oil used.
Test Plume in your car
to-day. Whenordering do not
say—“ Give me a fill up of
Petrol” but ask for Plume
Motor Spirit.
Forhighestpossible Engine
efficiency use the correct
grade of Gargoyle Mobiloils
for your Car, as specified by
Vacuum Oil Company’s
Chart of Recommendations.
" VACUUM OIL COMPANY P? UK
Q.14.a.
We will
show
a
shape.
every
week.
ď
f
F.L.C. Pipes
are made by
French Diggers at
St. Claude (Jura), France,
and only the finest flawless
Briar is used in their manufacture.
98 Smart Shapes, Plain and Silver-mounted.
Ask your tobacconist for one, or send a postcard to
Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne, and we will tell you where to get one.
THE WORLD'S BEST PIPE.
NON-CRACKING CORSICAN BRUYERE.
d
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS
Against Cracking or Burning.
Any F.L.C. doing bo within that
time will be replaced FREE.
Illustrated is Style 502,
Silver-mounted,
15/-
Sydney Beach, who was comparatively a
youngster when the present Stock Exchange
of Adelaide was formed during the Broken
Hill boom in ’B7, is now the only foundation
member left. Weaver, Fotheringham and
Wills have all passed out lately, the last-
named suddenly a few days ago.
“S.R.M.” : There came up the coast from
Tas. the other day a little ketch commanded
by Capt. E. Taylor, who modestly owns up
to 70 years. Although he has commanded
40 vessels and sailed in 43 during his 62
years afloat, he has never been out of Aus-
tralasian waters, and the largest craft he
has been in was a 340-ton whaler.
“Hoppy”: Melbourne hadn’t the only
dolorous Eight-hour Day procession (B.
11/4/’22). The Townsville (N.Q.) turnout
consisted of a band, a banner, 20 union
officials, a dozen kilties and a car advertis-
ing a picture-show. This outfit meandered
lugubriously to the Showground, where it
made contact with two strikes. First, Christian
Noses refused to field for £3 3s. a proboscis,
and unavailingly offered £2 2s. Then the
peds struck. Luckily the pubs did not. But
the significance of these fiascos is that the
new international brand of unionism and
Labor politics inspires no enthusiasm, except
among a rabble of cranks and loafers.
“J.E.” : A matter which no authority is able
to get into its timber cranium is that companies
should be taxed on a lower scale than other
employers and capitalists—if, indeed, they
shouldn’t be exempt altogether, and merely
the individual shareholders taxed on their
dividends. Companies are the most com-
mendable features of our civilisation, bar
hospitals. But for them big enterprises
would either be left alone, which would mean
a return to the aboriginal condition, or they
would depend wholly on millionaires, and it
would be necessary to breed millionaires for
the purpose. Companies represent the only
way by which infants, lunatics, widows of
moderate capacity and male venerables can
take a hand in the industry of the nation,
for partnership, with its unlimited liability
and its unlimited responsibility, is impos-
sible for such people. A company is a finer
exposition than a church of ail that is best
and noblest in the human make-up. It con-
sists of a number of people, poor and rich,
who get together with sufficient faith in each
other’s honesty and decency and intelligence
to believe that they can work together. In
many cases the poor predominate, and in such
cases plainly special taxation on companies is
an attack on the poor. Companies don’t get
drunk, or use bad language, or go off with
wives that don’t belong to them. In fact,
their respectability is almost painful, and
in many other respects they deserve much
more applause than they get.
An old S.A. family matter in court:—
Vosz, one of the founders of the Adelaide glass-
and-paint business now Clarkson and Co., died in
1883 and left his widow £2OOO a year for life.
His trustees set apart £40,000 to bring in that
income, but something must have slipped, for the
Public Trustee told the Supreme Court the
other day that the fund is now worth
only £ 19,000-odd, and the income has for
years been under £lOOO. And the widow still
lives. He asked the Court to say if she is to have
a full £2OOO annually, with about £lO,OOO arrears
—which means digging still further into the capital
that was to go eventually to certain named chari-
ties—or does she chance the luck of a decrease in
values. The Court decided that the setting aside
of £40,000 was only a step towards the testator’s
main idea, which was £2OOO a year to his widow
all the time; and she must have it.
Passed out recently at 86, John Flanagan,
of Rocltwood, Gunbar (N.S.W.). He came
from Ireland in ’54, did some carrying, then
ran a store and bakery, and eventually
humped bluey to the Yass district, where he
was about the first to select land under John
Robertson’s Act, taking 100 acres of Cap-
tain Argyle McCallum’s Good Hope station
on the Murrumbidgee. A squatting venture
on Copper’s Creek proving a dud, he re-
turned to Yass and worked his selection till
’B2, when he sold out and went to the Hay
district, and in the end had the deeds of a
large freehold in his safe.
“S. Q. Lapius” X-rays the so-called X
disease:—
With the recrudescence of an obscure nervous
disease among children in Southern Bananaland the
dailies have foamed with headlines of “X” and
“mysterious” disease, although there is nothing at
all mysterious about the outbreak. In reality it is
the rare cerebral form of infantile paralysis (acute
ventral poliomyelitis) where the virus attacks, not
the ventral horn cells of the spinal cord, but the
very delicate areas at the base of the cerebrum. In
all probability the virus gains entrance through the
naso-pharynx. Clinically it is distinguished from
meningitis by examination of the cerebro-spinal
fluid; but there is great difficulty in diagnosing it
from encephalitis lethargica, which it closely re-
sembles—so closely in fact that many investigators
suggest that they are identical, while others consider
the relation between them to be comparable to that
known to exist between typhoid and paratyphoid
fever. So far no specific treatment has been devised.
“Frechencourt” :
Last week I used the lifts of three big Sydney
buildings containing offices, photographers’ studios,
milliners’ shops, etc. All were worked by girls, one
being a child of, perhaps, 16. Is this kind of thing
not an explanation of the Digger with the money-
box and the couch in the Domain? In passing, the
building where the child of school age was
employed belongs to one of the most voluble Empire
patriots in the State.
“Yoyang”: Coal was first discovered in
N.S.W. on May 12, 1797, by three of the
survivors from the wreck of the Sydney
Cove. The tassel left Bengal for Port Jack-
son the previous November. She became
leaky, the second mate fell overboard and
five of the Lascars practically died at the
pumps. Finally she was beached on one of
the islands of the Furneaux Group, and
the longboat dispatched northward to Port
Jackson with two men in charge of a crew
of 15. Bad luck still followed them, for
they were cast ashore, their boat in pieces
and all their provisions lost. The party
started to walk to Port Jackson on March
15. Clarke, one of the men, kept a diary,
and we find that on May 12 they saw a cliff
of coal about 20 miles south of Botany Bay.
On their arrival at Port Jackson they re-
ported their find, and Governor Hunter sent
George Bass to report on it. Before long
coal was being exported, and 44 years after
the discovery (on May 24, 1841) Sydnev
was first lit with gas. *


Start this Winter Free from Colds
“I think Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery by far the best remedy
I have ever come across for colds.
Its lightning effect on a cold are
little short of marvellous.”
MISS MAUDE FANE.
Last Winter how many times did you catch a cold? How much
time did you lose from business through illness? How many nights
were your children kept awake by coughing? Shall this Winter be a
repetition of last? No! Start this Winter right. Prepare for trouble
before it troubles you.
A bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a safeguard against
the ills of Winter. In the home where it is always found coughs and
colds do not obtrude. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery prevents colds
as well as destroys them.
A dose taken before exposure to inclement weather fortifies the
system. A dose after exposure prevents the danger of a chill. Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery is the most certain preventive of just such ills
and is suitable for man, woman or child at any season and at any place.
So start the Winter right. Don’t wait till you are sent in a hurry for a
bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery; but, by having it ready, defeat
the forces of Winter’s host of enemies of Mankind before they have
you in their grip.
“Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
is the only remedy that does me
any good when I have a cough or
cold, or when my throat feels sore
or strained. It is an excellent
remedy.”
MISS RIZETTE PARKES.
Stops
Coughs,
Banishes
Colds.
-*c_cENm*r* es
v*- 1
TRADE
MARK
H
Q
yFoR?
(GUGHS
AND
Colds
DOSE. ONE TEASPOONFUL
FIVE OH SIX TIMES A OAY.
THIS MAYBE INCREASED TO
OOUBLE THE QUANTITY FOR
ADULTS IF NECESSARY THE
LAST DOSE BEFORE RETIR-
ING TO PREVENT COUGHING
AND THUS ENSURING A
GOOD NIGHT'S SLEEP.
Prepared Bv
•31-135 CLARENCE STREE
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Best for
Children and
Grown Folk,
too.
“I have used Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery with excellent results.
It is a remedy in a thousand, and
I am sure that everyone who tries
it Avill think likewise.”
MISS SARA ALLGOOD.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
—The Family Cough Remedy.
In thousands of homes Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a household
name, known and liked by all, from father down to baby. It is an
unequalled remedy for relieving Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis and all
Throat and Chest Troubles. Don t forget to take a bottle home to-night.
Don t wait till to-morrow. It s little colds that grow into big colds—the
oig colds that may end in Bronchitis and Pneumonia. Don’t wait
till to-morrow to treat the little colds, for one dose of Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery for Coughs and Colds will break up a cold if taken at
the beginning.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a safe and reliable remedy. It is
the mother s helper and the children s friend through all the winter
months. It can be given to the youngest child and to the sturdy school-
children, to the college student, or to the father of a family. Wherever
there is a cold, Dr. Sheldon s New Discovery is the shortest pathway to
good health. Remember, “A Dose in Time Saves Nine.” Never will
you prove this old proverb truer than when you take a cold in hand early.
A cold in the first stages can be quickly remedied with a dose or
two of a good remedy like Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, but a neglected
cold soon becomes obstinate and harder to treat. Get in early. Always
keep a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery in the house, and take
a dose at the first sign of a cold.
“Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery
is not only pleasant to take—it is
effective when taken, and does
its work in a most tenacious
manner. I owe my freedom from
colds to its invaluable aid.”
mss GRACIE DORAN.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery


4'U 12 i -r >
/* # 10*-SAUNDE»fS 2*'
9
a*.
8
4;
:-.7
54
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, jewelled movement, £lO.
Others, £6/10/-, £7/10/-s £B/10/-,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Neck
let, set Aquamarine,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Links, 30/-
15ct. Gold, £2/10/-
A, Saunders’ Gent.’s high-grade, open-
face keyless non-magnetic Lever Watch,
40/-. Higher grade, 50/-, 60/-,
70/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Nellie Stewart Secret Snap and Joint
Bracelet, 40/-. Lighter, 30/-. Larger, 50/-, 60/-.
Isct. Gold, £3/10/-, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
four Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 1 Set. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Broeoh, set Pearls,
25/-, 1 act. Gold, £3.
M
*
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet Strap Watch, jewelled
movement, 30/-, 40/-. Silver Case, £2/10/-,
£3, £3/10/-, £4, £5. Gold-filled Waltham or
Elgin, £5. 9ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ tine
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ loct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Pearl, £2.
Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Scroll Brooch, set
Aquamarine, 35/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
King, set Aqua-
marine, 30/-
15ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Scroll Brooch, set Aqua-
marine, 30/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.'s Oct. Gold
Signet Ring,
20/-
Lady's size, 15/»
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Solid Gold Curb Albert, £3/10/-. Heavier, £4, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/
Gold-filled, guaranteed, 30/-. loot. Gold, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
A. Saunders’ -Lady’s solid Gold Lever Watch, Gold
Expanding Side Bracelet and Leather Strap, £o.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s fine Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily en-
graved, 20/-. Heavier,
25/-, 30/-. 15ct.
Gold, £3, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Necklet, set
Aquamarines,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Hunting Keyless f-ptate
Lever Watch, £4/10/-. Extra quality,
£5. 15 Jewelled, £6/10/-. N ickel
movement, £7/10/-
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
/
SP
A
HBI
‘Brighten Up the Home
Renew the varnish on your woodwork, floors, furni-
ture, &c. , with an application of Johnson’s Prepared
Wax —the polish that imparts a hard, dry and bright
lustre, that protects, and covers mars and surface
scratches. A soft cloth and Johnson’s Prepared Wax —
all that is needed for easier dusting and brighter home.
JOHNSON’S
Liquid and Paste
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste is the most conven-
ient and satisfactory form for use on floors of all
kinds—wood, marble, tile, linoleum, &c. Floors fin-
ished with this are easily dusted and polished with a
soft cloth or Johnson’s Light Floor Brush.
There is also Johnson’s Prepared Wax Liquid that is
especially recommended for furniture, phonographs,
pianos, woodwork and motor-cars. It contains no oil
and cannot catch or gather dust. It is clean to use
and durable in its effect.
Include a supply of these Johnson Products
with your next order from your local dealer.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. * Sydney, N. S. W.


Legal Notice.
r\ THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
[ ZEALAND,
WELLINGTON DISTRICT
(Palmerston North Registry).
IN DIVORCE.
To OLGA LILLIAN WALLS, tlm wife
of Frederick Nelson W alls, of I oxton, mill-
hand. .
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been lssiieb
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Pal-
merston North citing you to appear and answei the
Petition of Frederick Nelson AValls, of hoxton, mill
hand wherein he prays tor a dissolution oi .ns
marriage with you on the ground of desertion, and
such Citation intimates that in default o■ J oui ‘P
doing the Court will proceed to heal the said Peti
tion and to pronounce sentence X herE
ing vour absence. NOW THERE!OKE iAIvE
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you are
within 45 days after the date of this publication
to attend in person or by your Solicitoi at the
Supreme Court Office at Palmerston North in, hew
Zealand and there to enter an appearance, without
which von will not be allowed to address the Court
at anv' stage of the proceedings. A copy of the
said Citation and Petition will be supplied to you
on your applying for the same at the Supreme Court
Office at Palmerston North aforesaid.
Dated this lGth day of May, 1922.
E. W. CAVE,
Deputy-Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to her the foregoing advertise-
ment.
Mr. A. M. Ongley is the Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, whose address for service is at the Offices
of Messieurs Gifford Moore, Ongley and Tremaine,
Solicitors, 31a Rangitikei Street, Palmerston North,
New Zealand.
IN the estate of THOMAS OLIVER, late
of Yenda, New South Wales, shopkeeper,
deceased intestate.
Charles Oliver, brother of the deceased, or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, is requested
to communicate with the undersigned.
T. W. GARRETT. Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
ÜBEBT CHARLES REYNOLDSON
GRIFFITHS or WESTON, served in
Australian Expeditionary Force. Height,
6ft. 4in.; age, about 38; spoke with Ameri-
can accent. Will hear of something to his
advantage if he will communicate with
Hilleary’s Solicitors, 5 Fenehurch Buildings,
London, E.C.; or H. C. Mossop, 50 Mark
Lane, London, E.C.
Last Few Weeks.
DON’T MISS THIS CHANCE.
£2700 for 1/-
Blackheath Soldiers’
Memorial ART UNION
Tn aid of the Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee),
£llOO Ist PRIZE £llOO
£5OO 2nd PRIZE £5OO
£3OO 3rd PRIZE £3OO
and
105 Other Prizes valued at £BOO.
Positively Drawn 30th June, 1922.
Winning: numbers published in this
paper July 6, 1922.
1/- ONLY —TICKETS —ONLY 1/-
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
and Local Agents throughout the State; and
S. T. GREEN (Town Clerk), Hon. Secretary,
Council Chambers, BLACKHEATH, N.S.W.
MONARCH
df
YOURS-
FOR A BETTER SMOKE!
Better, because every
Monarch cigar is hand-
made. Every leaf of the
filler used in its manu-
facture is high-grade
Havana, blended to pro-
duce a satisfying mel-
lowness that you will
appreciate.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each.
Special sampling
cabinet containing
10 cigars, 6/-; 25,
12/6; 50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Post free to any address.
Craig&Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil Cigar Factory.
Amusements.
Y 1) N E Y’S CHIEF TIIEAT It E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’, LTD., present
lIEK MAJESTY’S:
A NIGHT OUT.
CIO I EHION :
THE LIE.
ROY’AL:
JOHNNY, GET YOUR GUN.
PALACE:
THE WHITE-HEADED BOY.
Public Notice.
Sydney Technical College.
Technical training' by Correspondence in
AGRICULTURE,
BOOK-KEEPING,
STATION BOOK-KEEPING
SHEEP-CLASSING,
WOOL-CLASSING,
CARE OF ANIMALS or ANIMAL HUSBANDRY.
IN THE PAST, people in isolated parts of the State
requiring instruction in these subjects have been
unable to obtain it unless they could go to compara-
tively few centres. *
NOA\ they can bring themselves by Home Study
into closest touch with the chief centre of educational
activity, and can be specially taught and trained by
the leading experts in their particular profession.
THE SYDNEY TECHNICAL COLLEGE provides
instruction of the soundest practical and scientific
character by Correspondence in the following subjects
also: —
ARCHITECTURAL DRAWING,
BUILDIN O CON STRUCTION,
BUSINESS PRINCIPLES,
CONSTRUCTION DRAWING,
CARPENTRY AND JOINERY,
DOMESTIC SCIENCE, COOKERY and HOUSE-
HOLD MANAGEMENT.
DRESSMAKING AND MILLINERY,
DRAINAGE AND WATER-FITTING,
TRADES CALCULATIONS,
ELEMENTARY ART DRAW’ING,
INSPECTION OF MEAT AND ANIMALS,
PENMANSHIP AND CORRESPONDENCE,
PRINTING AND COMPOSING,
PLUMBING,
SHORTHAND,
STYLES OF ARCHITECTURE,
SANITARY ENGINEERING AND SANITARY
LAW.
Send for Syllabus, “Technical Education Extension
by Correspondence,” to
JAMES NANGLE,
Superintendent of Technical Education.
( Y. 3288)
If any illustration appearing in The: j
Bulletin tnkes your fancy, write to the i
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
TUE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
P HOI) LOTIONS
QUEENSLAND TOUR —Commencing JUNE 5, 1922.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Ranking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
■ ATT If ACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
NEW COMIC OPERA CO. IN
A LITTLE DUTCH GIRL.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE BAT.
THE BAT IS A SUPER-MYSTERY PLAY.
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
|y|A.)ESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
WHY GIRLS LEAVE HOME.
A WARNER PRODUCTION.
MatinCes daily at 2.30. Nights at S.
QV TOUR. DIRECTION LIONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OP THE MOUNTAINS.
NOW TOURING QUEENSLAND.
HOYT’S THEATRES, .MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, ROUIIKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
WHAT WOMEN WILL DO.
A Drama for Wise Men and Wiser Wives.
FRANK MAYO in
GO STRAIGHT.
Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: SIR BEN & JOHN FULLER.
Direction
THOMAS QUINLAN and E. J. and DAN CARROLL.
THE SISTINE CHOIR.
FAREWELL TO AUSTRALIA.
JUNE 3 AND EVERY NIGHT FOLLOWING.
MatineCs Wednesdays and Saturdays.
II E FAMOUS E N G L I S II
HUMPHREY BISHOP
COMEDY AND OPERATIC COMPANY.
Under direction J. and N. Tait,
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
CRAIG & AITKE?^
654 Gsorge St.,
SYDNEY.
The Plum r
HAS THE REAL SHAVING EDGE.
Made from the finest Sheffield Razor Steed,
tempered and ground to perfection—set and
finished ready for use by our own experienced
tradesmen.
T 2 ' - 1 o/a PAIR IN PRESENTATION on;/,
rrice case, post free, *' 3/ ,
blades fin. and Jin. set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free.
the
Ask to see the
New Streamline Model
The Aristocrat of Pens.
The Pen de luxe.
The Pen for the man or woman
of taste, of refinement, of
discrimination.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., Ltd.
Bunhill Row. London, E.C.I,
Onoto Ink —Best for all pens.
—guaranteed to sustain
the test of comparison
Every “New Edison” is guaranteed to sustain the highest test
of realism in the world—that of direct comparison with the
performances of living artists.
Isn’t this the phonograph that you want for
the entertainment of your family and your
friends —an instrument so perfect that no
criticism is possible?
You should hear the “New Edison” and
judge for yourself—write now for catalogue.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LIMITED,
864-372 Rent Street, Sydney.
The NEW
EDISON
M
Mill?
m
Amusements.
PALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & J. FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
A GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the’ best.’’
ADA REEVE.
“She has no - equal:” -
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGHTON.
MatineC's Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o’clock.
Box Plan at Allan's.
jgRITANNIA THEATRE. M ELKOUHN 15
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
jy| ELBA THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
Showing tlie pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORM) and SELZNIOK.
Stands for Turf
the Cigarette that
s
should smoke
Go
right away
xL
for a packet
TO-DAV
TURF
Dir VIRGINIA
DlvJ CIGARETTES
20 for 2/""
Made by
Alexander
Boguslavsky Ltd..
55 Piccadilly.
LONDON,W.
ENGLAN D
d


A Signal Success
*3
The TOP-HOTCH’Scotck
Very heavily electro-plated on hard white metal Coffee Set and
Tray, with white China Cup aiid Saucers £6/51-
Less 20% discount 1/5/-
£5
WEDDING PRESENTS.
Small shipments of the latest novelties arriving regularly. Exquisite designs
in Coffee Sets on Trays, Sugar Bowls, Jam Dishes, Spirit Decanters, Egg Cruets,
Muffin Dishes, Afternoon Teaspoons in cases, Cake Stands, Fruit Dishes and
a host of other new lines too numerous to mention.
All our prices are in conformity with the present market rates
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 & 25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's, “A Night Out”
Criterion “The Lie”
Koval "Johnny, Get Your Gun”
I'alace "The White-headed Hoy”
Host's Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “A Little Dutch Girl”
Koval “The Rat”
Palace “Spangles”
Princess's The Sistine Choir
Lino’s Humphrey bishop Co.
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
H° v ' r ' s .... Moving Pictures
To sc ha. Seidel’s concerts at Melbourne
Town Hall would be among the most excit-
ing happenings on local musical record if
the attendance of enthusiasts were as large
as the young man’s merits deserve. But
the boosting of the unimpassioned Heifetz
forbade a like uproar over the soul-
ful performances of the artist who
is months too late. Seidel is a
charming violinist most of the time. Not
at his best, perhaps, in the largo movement
of Handel’s E major Sonata, out a young
master of emotional expression in ail sorts
of Pieces. For an encore number from
Seidel—who is not unduly lavish with en-
cores—oue would pick Paderewski’s Minuet.
His facial deformities and extravagant body
movements are disturbing to an onlooker, for
they have a weird fascination which prevents
one from not looking at them. Moreover,
they are out of harmony with the action of
the gifted pianist, who bobs up and down while
the violinist sways. The play’s the thing,
however, and the playing of Seidel is a rare
treat. To-day (Thursday) he gives a
matinge, and on Saturday he will stir the
feelings of the Town Hall yet again.
v * * s:
The Sistine Choir’s return visit to Melbourne
will last six nights, like the opening season, but
the location this tiir.-c will be the Princess’s
theatre. Reports of the Choir’s success in
Sydney should assist the new' rush for seats,
and a matinCe on Wednesday next will sup-
ply a reaj winter want.
* s!« $ *
The Humphrey Bishop Comedy Co. has
come to Melbourne King’s at a time when
there is no crying need for the class of
goods it offers. Described as “something
new, something different,” the outfit is the
offspring of a fairly happy union between a
stage revue and a natty seaside show. The
opening has a touch of graceful .novelty and
a charming infant Cupid, also the idea of
Bishop, as conductor of his own capable
orchestra, introducing his co. to the audience
in descriptive doggerel rhyme, as though they
were characters on a panto programme, is
oddly effective. The entertainment that
follows is just vaudeville, only a little more
refined, a trifle “softer,” a shade more like
'drawing-room stuff’.” The show does not
drag. It soothes and cheers, but it
does not inebriate. It has the commercial
defect of being much stronger on the male
than on tjie female side, musically and
theatrically. With the exception of Ida
Newton, who talks a song or two in some-
thing of the contralto tone a.nd style of
Daisy Jerome, the girls contribute little more
than pretty faces and figures to the
“ JOHNNY, GET YOUR GUN," AT
SYDNEY ROYAL
Geo. Blunt as Jerne, the butler.
f Lind. George Ross, a pianistic humor-
ist ; Edward Elliott, a ventriloquist
who differs from the late Sydney James
in leaving other people to patter with
his doll; Joe Brennan, a bright com-
edian who beats the record in a '‘dame”
impersonation; and Harry Avondale, another
piano humorist who presides over a rag-
time quartet, are individual hits. The
finale is a well-staged farcical sketch in
which Ida JS T ewton and Joe Brennan have
most to say, and the latter commends him-
self further to popular favor by appearing
to purloin live gold-fish from a bowl and eat
them raw.
* v
Another spasm of “Going Up” at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s allows Frith to farewell as
the semi-imbecile aviator who is driven by
his affection for Maude Fane to put up a
pose of reckless courage. Frith isn’t an
appealing lover, but it can be said that, in
his serious moments with his divinity, his
face forgets to look like the frontispiece to
a History of the Gazeka. Maude Fane makes
a pretence of fond concern for her airy
adventurer, and tootles of birch canoes and
other irrelevant matters in frocks that beg
your pardon for her thinning upper register.
George Willoughby is followed by Cecil Kel-
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Henry De Bray, the comedy Frenchman
with a lively step.
la way in the part of the gambling Douglas,
and the change amounts to the dmerence be-
tween a jazz palais and a church synod.
Kell a way s gentlemanly composure may be a
trine too quiet, but his moderation is delight-
ful after the forced effects elsewhere, i'aul
Plunket’s gaspy diction practically doubles
the extravagance of the French aviator, Gail-
lard, whilst Cyril Ritchard’s uneducated
tones as tlopkinson Brown contain an echo
of the loutish artlessness he expressed in “A
Night Out.” But Cyril can be forgiven much
for his dance with Madge Elliott, whose
winsome sweetness gets little chance to
knock the baldheads in the background rdle
ol the telephone girl. Field Fisher repeats
las I' alstaffian Sam Robinson with great
success, and Harry Wooton’s emphasis pre-
vents one forgetting the publisher, James
Brooks. Among the minor identities none
are more conspicuous than Jack Hooker and
Rita Nugent in an acrobatic dance as air-
mechanics in blueys. To-night Frith savs
good-bye to his multitude of admirers, and
on Saturday comes “A Little Dutch Girl.”
4 * *
“Spangles” lias acquired confidence at
Melbourne Palace, and the names of
Gus McNaughton, Harry Gould, Nora
O’Malley, Jess Sweet and other recent
arrivals are getting known in the land. Ada
Reeve had a good grip of Australian require-
ments before she fixed up “Spangles,” so
the success of that remarkable show-woman
and unique artist (nobody has dared to steal
Ada’s oldest songs, because nobody else
could make them go) is not surprising. She
has put good stuff into her medley—expen-
sive dressing, beautiful color schemes, and
denis with an all-round appeal. Some parts
of Spangles” are “as good as a pantomime”
for matinde purposes. Therefore the end
of her experimental Melbourne season is not
yet, and Lisa will sing of the days when she
was young until further notice.
** * *
"The Bat,” despite its lean, low-spirited
orchestra and dangerous disposition to wrap
itself in gloom, is doing very well at Mel-
bourne Koyal. One way of becoming reason-
ably interested in “The Bat” is to treat it
as a good joke. In the first place audiences
went there to be thrilled and remained to
titter, but now they mostly go to smile and
remain to roar.
4$ $ $
How a female with a reckless passion for
wealth is made eligible for the Christian
Endeavor Society is fully demonstrated at
Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week. The film is
entitled “What Women Will Do,” and Anna
Q. Nilsson is the example of avarice wbo
condones much of her fatuity with her
heavenly charms. At the same house “Go
Straight” seems a, covert injunction to Frank
Mayo’s dirty left, which clears the film of
its burden of scoundrels. Frank is supposed
to be <i parson, but all through he preaches
rrom the Gospel according to Stoush The
Majesties programme, which is now pre-
ceded by organ recitals and spares a few
f « r the Minster Quartet, has Clara
Kimball Young fashion-plating the young
person in “The Easiest Way.” Eugene Wal-
ter s old play is a meatier titbit for the
than the other Majestic subject,
VVild Heather,” in which Chrissie White is
a dream of innocence. Tom Moore, as a
romantic road-cleaner, is qualifying for the
Noo Yoick Four Hundred in “Hold Your
Horses, at the Britannia. People with a
Past that encumbers the Present are getting
some sage advice from “Don’t Tell Every-
thing,” now on view at the Melba.
* * * sis
Drama is very intense in Adelaide just
now. The P. of W. has the monopoly of
the spoken form. Fitzherbert, as usual
does awful things to John Kirby till nearly
curtain-fall in "A Woman’s Calvary ” with
special designs, this time, on Agnes Dobson.
Darcy Kelway and Mildred Carlton provide
comic relief, and in particular make a
monkey of _ the Law in a Divorce Court
scene. Variety at the King’s is strong on
the musical Side: . Otis Mitchell’s banjo is
good, Miller and Rainey introduce a saxo-
P, a P d Pastor and Merle provide one
skilled violin and one rich contralto voice.
In screen drama, Wondergraph shows Gloria
Swanson Under the Lash” of a Boer hus-
band an Askew story which appeals greatly
to women patrons. Strong also is “The
I evil at the York, with George Arliss a
poking and unmistakable fiend throughout
lhe Pav. completes the sensation list with
a revised “Man They Could Not Hang”
fact worked up into fiction. On the other
hand, Over the Hill,” at West’s, is all
domestic sentiment on Will Carleton lines
with much insistence on Mother. The
Royal has been showing some of the best old-
time films, Intolerance” and so on, till the
gentle humors of “The First Year” come
along.
** * *
i r T i* e . i Lie ’” Sydney Cri., is about as
detestable a. falsehood as ever furnished
playwright with a plot or actress with scope
tor a display of passionate emotion. To
put it as briefly as may be, Lucy Shale,
grand-daughter of a decayed baronet, fastens
her unauthorised baby on her sister Elinor,
who has saved her from open shame. By
so doing she robs Elinor of a lover and, as
it that were not enough, annexes him her-
■* i, ,^ a^es , Elinor some years to get
f u , strength of the vile treatment to
which she has been subjected. The artifici-
ally the early part of the play is some-
what obvious; but as the Dlot develops the
atmosphere becomes tense and electric. The
last two acts with feeling.
Etnelie Polini is given an opportunity to
display a form of art in which she excels.
5 I 1 - lj i mds the devoted, self-effacing Elinor
ot the first two acts is transformed with
convincing effect into another woman, pas-
sionately abhorrent of the butterfly de-
ceiver who has traded on her sisterly love.
h>he deserves a more congenial husband than
Gera.d Foster (Eric Harrison), the con
structor of big dams in Egypt. Eric Harri-
son still lacks something of the lights and
shades m character personation. Frank
Harvey as Noll Dibdin is admirable, all ease
and naturalness in a difficult part. Mira
Kefiham, as Lucy Shale, is effective through-
out, and rises high in the concluding scene.
/-ouper, as the dilapidated baronet,
whose fortunes and garb and fare gradually
improve, till, from slipping out of his ances-
tral halls, in the first act. for a precarious
nip at the Shale Arms, he arrives at the
luxury of champagne and foie gras, in the
fourth, lingers pleasantly in the memory.
* * * i|i
“Firefly,” in which a plump soprano ineffec-
tually conceals her generous curves in the
apparel of the other sex, was revived for
four nights on Monday, at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney Except that Kitty Reidy took
Edith Drayson’s part of Geraldine, the
young woman on whom Claude Flemming
lays a massive hand in the way of kindness,
the cast was the same ns in the original
production last year. Miss Iteidy’s bright
work justifies her promotion. Miss Max-
well s voice is so good that one wishes her
Eou Vernon’s singing
of Beautiful Ship from Toyland,” is another
pleasant feature of a not very remarkable
revival. When it is said that “Firefly” is
moderately tuneful and amusing strict jus-
tice has been done, and there is no occasion
for the heavens to fall. On Saturday Maud
Fane, Madge Elliott. Fve Gray,’ Frith,
Fisher and others will participate in “A
Night Out.”
$ if: # 2;
Louis Bennison, as Johnny, continues to
Get his Gun at the Theatre Royal, and
riotous .applause therewith. Among the un-
savory storm of theosophical and political
controversy the Johnny of Louis is a healthy
and altogether pleasing circumstance.
** * *
The Two Rascals looked in at Sydney
Tivoli on Saturday for a final run. In
strong contrast to this fast and furious
pair is the matronly Talbot O’Farrell who
alternates heartbreak with humor as suc-
cessfully as ever. A pleasing new item is
the concertina-playing of Harry North a
swaggie who does his turn while the billv
boils. The Fan jacks are a muscular pair
who perform all manner of twists and
tumbles without creasing their immaculate
clothes.
Si! * *
On Tuesday next. Dame Nellie Melba gives
another of her delightful farewell matinees
at Sydney Town Hall. Everyone of anv
note in vice-regal circles will be there, and
Miss Clarice Coles, the new Australian con-
tralto, will sing, with Una Bourne at the
piano and John Lemmone behind the flute.
** * #
“The White-headed Boy,” at Sydney
Palace, is now in its fourth week,* and
gathers more laughter as it goes. Begin-
ning quietly, the Irish Players have com-
pletely captured all that is intellectually be«t
in Sydney; and their next play, “Harvest,”
should be one of the booms of the year.
# ❖ *
The celluloid gem at Sydney Havmarket
just now is called “The Sin of ‘Martha
Queed,” and the lady’s slip is condoned
when the patron sees the troupe of lunatics
she had to contend with. The additional
at this house is a Selznick comedy. “The
Prophet’s Paradise” is its name, and Eugene
O’Brien does some waggish things in a. Turk-
ish harem before the reel is through. In
“Shattered Dreams,” at Hoyt’s Australian,
a chic little Parisian sculptress becomes
enamored of her cave-man model. When
the cave-man, who is an apache whilst off
duty, starts to get serious also, it is dis-
covered that blue-blood flow's through his
veins, and that shell-shock caused his moral
undoing. Miss Du Pont, w 7 ho is reputed to be
the “world’s most beautiful blonde,” is the
loving lady. Dustin Farnum is quartered at
Hoyt’s de Luxe, and keeps things moving
in “Iron to Gold.” The comedy draw is
“Get Rich Quick, Peggy.”
•* * * #
Hugh Fisher’s etchings at the Fine Art
Society, Melbourne, will appeal strongly to
The late ROY
REDGRAVE, the
well-known actor,
well remembered
for his Flambeau,
the Grenadier, in
“L'Aiglon .”
the architectural stu-
dent, whilst the clever-
ness of his needle-
work will take the
fancy of the connois-
seur. Fisher has an
eye for ancient build-
ings, beautiful spires
and campaniles, and
he sets down every
bit of ornament with
an ant-like industry
and application. Criti-
cism gasps at the
patience of the man
in recording the intri-
cate detail of Giotto’s
Campanile, Florence,
from a position whe
the perspective is ex-
ceedingly difficult. He
has a more arresting
study in “St. Etienne
d u Mont, Pari s.”
though the effect is
melodramatised by the
unrelieved night be-
hind. Several studies
of Winchester Cath-
edral and College
show his regard for
these famous piles.
Also “The Carillon,
Bruges Belfry,” de-
monstrates his dex-
terity in the handling
o f shadows. Bu t
Fisher is not so at-
tractive in other
aspects of his art.
“The Old Orchard” is
almost an engraving,
and “The French
Ilat,” seated on the
head of an unprepos-
sessing female, is as
wanting in pictorial
interest as the doleful set of tigers’ heads
for which he asks guineas.
*# * *
S.A. Society of Arts has a modest but
attractive winter show 7 , confined to its own
members. The old names are mostly there,
w T ith some new ones coming on. The pictures
are mostly smaller than usual, and Sydney
Harbor has for once a notable influence,
Gwen Barringer and James Ashton having
made good use of eastern visits. Ashton,
veteran as he is, show's in a Mona Vale
(N.S.W.) seascape the best thing he has
done for years. Rose Low r cay, John White,
and Edward Davies are solid as usual in
landscape, and Seppelt’s portraits stand out,
in a line, in which Adelaide has not shone.
Also the astonishing James Ferries continues
his classical compositions. He has original-
ity, and his anatomy is improving. Art
Gallery President Sow 7 den opened the show
with some suggestive remarks, regretting the
comparative absence of black-and-white, and
the utter lack of any attempt at sculpture.


Murdoch-made
Unte arable
Trousers.
TLT'OU would never think it to look at them.
* A nice, soft woolly Serge, dressy, but—try to tear
these Trousers:—they will resist anything short
of a circular-saw.
.Murdoch’s untearable Serge
Trousers, besides being unusu-
ally strong in the quality of the
cloth, are strongly reinforced at
vital wearing points as a fur-
ther safeguard. Side and hip
pockets. Being Murdoch-made
you buy direct from the
manufacturer for
22|6
(Wonderful Value)
POSTAGE PAID.
When ordering simply send
waist and inside leg measure-
ment ; address your letter to
DESK R.
MURDOCH’S^
In Park St. Ltd., Sydney, vj
"The World’s Largest Men’s 8 Boys’ Wear Store.”
J?
w
:
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
The Fertiliser Richest in Nitrogen
The Staff of Plant Life
The following brief extracts from a report on the
Fertiliser Trials conducted at the South Australian
Experiment Orchard at Berri tell their own tale:—
Elberta Peach.
Over a three-years’ trial trees to which SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA has been applied have given the heaviest
weight of fruit, and those to which Superphosphate and
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA were applied are placed
in the second position.
Moorpark Apricots.
The greatest weight of fruit has been produced by the
trees to which SULPHATE OF AMMONIA has been
applied.
Late Riverside Apricots.
The SULPHATE OF AMMONIA TRIAL gave the
heaviest return in the eleven tests with the Late Riversides.
Washington Navel Oranges.
The heaviest returns of navel oranges were gathered from
the row to which Superphosphate, SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA, Sulphate of Potash, and Lime were applied.
In the Grape Vine Tests, conducted at the same Orchard,
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA applied to Muscat Gordo
Blancos, Zante Currants, and Sultanas, either alone or in
conjunction with other fertilisers, was consistently to
the front.
QUOTATIONS WITH ALL PARTICULARS FROM
The Broken Hill Proprietary
COMPANY LIMITED
EQUITABLE BUILDING - - - MELBOURNE.
Or 28 O’CONNELL STREET - - -SYDNEY.
“FIRENZA.
SAFETY FIRST!
/; ‘ - . - - • : )
Earthenware Electric Fires are Shock Proof.
An earthenware electric fire is the only form of radiator
which provides absolute freedom from the risk of shock.
Easily cleaned by polishing with a damp cloth —ornamental
and economical.
Stocked in various colors: White, Brown, French Grey
«nd Black.
Our showrooms in all centres dis-
play earthenware fires, and types of
radiators to suit any home.
Illustrated list on application.
BRITISH MADE.
British General Electric Company Limited
NEW SOUTH WALES, except Newcastle District—-MAGNET HOUSE, 154-56 Clarence
Street, SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE—London Bank Chambers, Scott and Bolton Streets.
VICTORIA & SOUTH AUSTRALIA—MAGNET HOUSE, 590 Bourke St., MELBOURNE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MAGNET HOUSE, 203-07 Murray Street, PERTH.
QUEENSLAND—Norman Bell and Co., Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
NEW ZEALAND—MAGNET HOUSE, 8 Willeston Street, WELLINGTON;
238 Cumberland Street, DUNEDIN.
TASMANlA—Medhurst Electrical Works and Telephone Co., Ltd., HOBART.
FlJl—Morris Hedstrom, Ltd., SUVA and LEVUKA.
mrnmmmm
Kwl
mmmwmmm mmm mm%.
mmmmmmmmmmMm
mm t
I
SMS
{nag mmmwoMmm i
sassssssski
Wiwrnmmmm
mmm
mma
m
* j
MODEL *‘D.”


%
M
1
1
mi
fe
¥
%
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
NSW MONT de PIETE
7"4 Castlere«a«£h. St. Sydney.
Phone City 9325.
Capital §. 300.000.
/ ........... *.,,,,,M****MSSSSSSSS/M/SJ/SA/SSS////S///f//yS/.
Joseph . IV. Hill.
Genera! Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
fs excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doorr.
of the N.S.W. Mcnt de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.
Branches at
29 King St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
2T5 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
POVERTY
POINT
“O K.” lowers the curtain :
Roy Redgrave, who died last week, would probabß
have left a deeper footmark on the sands of theatrical
time had he ever been identified with a famous
character in some much-revived production of not-
able drama. His Australian experience dated baca
to 1904. He came from America as one of an
unsuccessful touring company, from which J.C. *V ■
selected Tittell Brune and himself to make a ‘ first
appearance in Australia” when “Sunday” got his
send-off in Melbourne. Redgrave played the color-
less part of Colonel Brinthorpe in “Sunday,” but at
the end of the year he was appearing as Flambeau,
the bluff veteran of Napoleon’s Grand Army, m
“L’Aiglon.” Then it was that he suggested big
possibilities as a humorous character actor. But
the opportunity never came. Certainly, he played
Mercutio to Tittell Brune’s Juliet and Thomas King-
ston’s Romeo, but they were a deplorable pair of
principals for the immortal love-story. Who remem-
bers that Shakspearean revival wherein the late
Tommy Kingston was disguised as Romeo? Or the
revival of “La Tosca” where Redgrave figured as
"THE BAT” AT MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Mayne Linton, as Anderson the detective,
and Rupert Lumley, as Dr. Wells,
regard each other with suspicion.
Baron Scarpia, and the utterly misfitted Tittell took
the name part? Redgrave was Kleschna in tne
“Leah Kleschna’’ production, and Peter in Zangwills
“Merelv Mary Ann,’’ but neither play is remembered.
Other 'things in which the Firm exploited 'tittell
Brune’s popularity are now clean forgotten, and so
Roy Redgrave, who appeared in the plays aforemen-
tioned, was only a recognised good actor, rather
than an accepted favorite, when he joined the Ander-
son co. and played hero or villain -in a series -of
shockers. He was a terribly hoarse-voiced Red-
grave before Anderson retired from metropolitan
management, and when he dropped into unemploi •
ment circles his voice grew hoarser. The last tiling
I saw him do—and do well —was the showy charactei
of Baldasarre in “The Maid of the Mountains.
VA.J.W.”: The exclusion of women from
R.C. choirs (B, 18/5/’22) is only a phase
of a subject that has vexed the Vatican
for years. Pius X. banned a number of
litanies cm the ground that they were more
theatrical than sacred in their tone. I
predict that R.C. Church music will be re-
volutionised in Australia within 12 months.
A commission of authorities on sacred music,
presided over by Cardinal Merry Del _Val,
is about to pronounce judgment, and it is
expected that its decision will be m favor
of Gregorian music, with male choirs. St.
Ignatius' Church in Richmond (Tie.) has
a male choir, and only Gregorian music is
sung. Rev. August Fleury, a French Jesuit,
and an authority on motets, chants and the
like, is conductor.
"NorbeH” : On my thrippenny programme
of “The Bat" at the Melbourne Royal 1
read the management’s solemn warning, “one
moment you are thrilled until your hair
fairly stands on end; the next you are
plunged in a perfect paroxysm of laughter.
This promulgation was closely followed by
“A few Toilet Hints for the llair.” I com-
“ JOHNNY, GET YOUR GUN.” AT
SYDNEY ROYAL
Robert Homans as a movie director.
posed myself for electrification, but my
chevelure and whiskers were not disturbed
during the evening. Neither was I plunged
in a paroxysm, though I plead guilty to a
laugh now and then when, by the rules of the
game, I should have been emulating the fret-
ful porcupine. As to the mysterious secret
so loyally kept by the 20.000.000 artless play-
goers of Chicago, New York and Hicksville
(Neb.), and which “the Authors and the
Management” implored me not to divulge
because “the pleasure of future patrons will
be enhanced if they, like yourself, are kept
in suspense until the final curtain,” all 1 can
say is that a yawning gentleman on my right
languidly solved the en.gma for me early,
in Act 2, to the scorn of a flapper on my
left, who had tumbled to it in Act 1. Per-
haps they had been there before. No, the
real mystery of the production is the extra-
ordinary charm and vivacity of Emma
Temple in the leadin' 1 ’ role. I saw her make
her first appearance on that same stage as a
fairy in “lolanthe” 36 years ago. She was
arch and charming then —she is the same
to-day.
George Mackay, a full-blooded abo., was
recently carried into the Melb. Hospital suf-
fering from debility and exposure, and he
died a few days later. Mackay used to be a
popular circus clown. A travelling show
picked him up in Bananalnnd when he was
a youngster and gave him a general job and
the name of the town where he was found.
)H.e stayed with the circus until a year ago,
and when he deserted the sawdust he went
to pieces. He was 43 at the finish, and left
a widow and two sons, all circus performers.
“Thorold Waters”: Coming face to face
with the name “Florence Austral” on Smoke-
town posters, I rang up the agent who bossed
the Albert Hall concert the lady was singing
at He agreed that she was Australian, and
that it was like anyone’s audacity to choose
the huge mid-Victorian barn for a first
■appearance, but said Florence had the goods.
John Amadeo and Aylmer Buesst took me
round to see her just after she had hit it
with the multitude, and there I found her
handing over a leaf or two of the laurel
wreath to Herrman Grunebaum, the kindly
coach who has done much for many Austra-
lians, including Rosina Buckman, at his
London School of Opera. Florence Fawaz
“Austral” was handed by the Covent
Garden people to Grunebaum, probably the
soundest Wagnerian teacher m all Britain.
Nobody knows better than Grunebaum how
hungry the Britishers have been for a new
English-speaking Brunnhild and Isolde since
Agues Nieholls and Cicely Gleeson-White
wore vocally thin.
“Blaekfriars” : A London critic, with com-
plimentary tongue in cheek, has been animad-
verting on the appearance of Ellen Terry in
screen show’s, and bemoans the absence of
Ellen’s "still magical voice.” It is a pity
that the fading partner of Irving’s triumphs
did not. give herself up to film work 15 years
back, for her voice and memory were collap-
sing assets even when she appeared in
“Captain Brassbound’s Conversion,” just
after wadding James Oarew, and three or
four years before her hopeless Australian
tour. Humorist Joseph Blascheck, who man-
aged that tour, was convinced that Austra-
lians would make much of the old lady just
because she was a piece of stage history, but
he bad forgotten the misfortunes of Toole,
Albani (on her second visit) and Edward
Lloyd.
“T.W.”: If “F Major” (B. 18/5/’22)
really wants to know anything about the
bloke who made Toscha Seidel’s fiddle he had
better look up Grove’s Dictionary of Music.
There the whole Guadagnini family are
passed in review, and it is taken for granted
that one of the original Guadagninis—who
also called himself “Cremonensis” —worked
under the chief of the Stradivari clan and
captured the secret not only of the Strad.’s
graceful build, but also of its varnish pecu-
liarity, probably more important still. With-
in the last generation there have been Gua-
dagninis making liddles in Turin, but they
might as well have been making ukuleles.
“O. Blin” : Probably the oddest character
that Roy Redgrave ever undertook was
hump-backed Michael in the Bill Anderson
production of (I think) “The Prince am'
the Beggarmaid,” at Melbourne King’s. Red-
grave, a' tall man, had to excite public soli-
citude with an attempt at curvature of the
spine about the region of the collar-stud,
and a long, loitering leg, after the style of
Allan Wilkie’s Richard 111., added greatly
to the pathos of the picture. Redgrave was
well satisfied with his pretence of deformity.
Not so Temple Harrison, who had a mawk-
ish part in the piece. “Can’t you get a
better hump?” wailed Harrison for the
manyth time one day. “Well, I might have
borrowed yours,” answered Redgrave
smartly, “but the dashed thing has slipped
to the front.” This allusion to Harrison’s
growing portliness shut him up for the rest
of the season.
From a Melbourne organ loft: —
A Melbourne newspaper discussion has been raging
about the unfairness, or artistic impropriety, or
national impolicy, or something, of renting the
metropolitan Town Hall to picture showmen instead
of reserving it for the use of distinguished musicians.
Among minor managers of conceits, too, there is a
disposition to accuse the Taits of grabbing at all
dates available for musical shows to the exclusion of
artists who are not under management to them,
which accusation makes no concession to the fact
that the Taits’ legitimate requirements are more num-
erous, anyhow, than those of all the other managers,
and that they themselves cannot always obtain a Town
Hall roof to oover their profits. It is an involved
discussion, and the picture-show side of the argument
gets no look in. Complaining concert managements
give no consideration to the fact that certain Dig
Pots in the movie business appear to control all
Melbourne buildings suitable for picture-shows, save
the Town Hall. “The Sentimental Bloke,’’ for
instance, was screened there by the Carrolls. From
a public point of view the use of the civic building
was then a real boon to a most deserving all-
Australian enterprise. If a brilliant local platform
entertainer—an Australian Alexander Watson—were
to come to light, his only chance to escape “pom-
bine” domination in Melbourne would be in securing
a number of dates at the Town Hall. Why this
sudden protest against renting to other than con-
cert managers the place where a former
generation flocked to hear Charles Clarke
lecture? A few years ago the Town Hall was said
to be a shockingly unsuitable building for
costly concert purposes, and the Taits built their
Auditorium, and got it completed in time for Claia
Butt to appear as house-warmer. Then it was ecorn-
fullv declared that the Town Clerk of the period
couid do as he liked with his dirty, draughty,
dismal, extortionate barn. Jubilation over Mel-
bourne’s possession of a “proper” concert hall
lasted a few years, and then —the Taits leased their
Auditorium for eternal movie purposes! If it didn t
pay the Taits, with their own big concert business,,
to run the Audi, as a concert hall, why should the
City Council be railed at for not dedicating its once-
despised barn to the service of the musical world
solely? There are more citizens devoted to melo-
drammer on the screen that to high-class music.
Why don’t the -.esthetic agitators for a State or
Federal Orchestra set about the job of supplying
the city with a guaranteed concert hall ere they
agitate for a guaranteed orchestra to put in it?
Meanwhile a vilified Town Clerk is only doing
occasionally with the municipal barn what the Taits
are doing all the time with their Auditorium.
“First Old Man”: What “M.R.” (B.
25./5/’22) has to say re imported producers
insisting on imitations by local mummers of
something thev have remembered seeing in
N’Yark is only too true. It all arises from
the American manager’s craze for ‘‘types.'’
As a rule, no actor is engaged over there on
his merits, but on his face. The same thing
bapnens when the play is reproduced here:
and* the business has been so grossly over-
done that both theatre and movie shows ar»
feeling a draught—the pictures especially
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Talbot o’Farrell breathing shamrocks be-
tween slabs of songs about Quid Ireland.
so. Last month, according to a trustworthy
authority, 25 per cent, of the U.S. picture-
houses were closing owing to poor business.
I think the reason for the tremendous slump
is that the public is not only fed up with the
ridiculous “plays” offered, but sick to death
of seeing the same old types played by the
same old actors. It is no pleasure for the
average Australian playgoer to watch a
mummer’s work nowadays, and it isn’t the
mummer’s fault. He generally has the same
part year in year out, and goes through it
perfunctorily, mechanically—the result of
Yankee producing or re-producing.
“Blighty” : John Deverell, who is receiv-
ing rattling good notices from the Tendon
critics for his work in “Thank You, Phil-
lips,” made a hit in Melbourne as the
Bounder in Mathesou Lang’s production of
“The Passing of the Third Floor Back,”
but has never bragged about it. In the
second act John was supposed to play "lhe
Wedding March” on the piano. He was no
musician, and consequently a dummy piano
was used, the genuine article with the musi-
cal director at the keyboard being immedi-
ately behind it off-stage. It was Deverell s
business to say, “What price ‘The Wedding
March’?” and rush to the piano, whereupon
the opening chords of Mendelssohn s com-
position would be heard. But one night,
after three bars had been sawn out, the
piano-stool gave way, and John sat heavily
on the stage-carpet. He remained down
more than ten seconds, and meanwhile Ihe
Wedding March** rolled on. Yes, Deverell
made a hit that night.
“Fax": How adroitly, and with what lov-
ing care, did some representative of the
J.C.W. interest apply the murder of Audrey
Anderson in Melbourne to the sweet uses ot
advertisement for “A Night Out in Sydney.
Sydney Sun reporter was filled up witn
information as follows:
Audrey Anderson had been understudying Madge
F.lliott as the maid Victorine, in A Night out-
She was a member of “The Exquisite fvight, _
beauty chorus which provides an incidental dance,
and in the scene entitled “The Wooing of Fnnette
gives a delightful setting. The scene represents an
idyllic love affaii' in Pierrot-land.
As a matter of fact, Audrey Anderson never
was understudy to Madge Elliott, nor had
she rejoined the co. whilst A Aight O
was running in Melbourne. ® ’
Study” invention enabled that attrac iv
reference to the idyllic love affair in Pierrot-
land to be attached to the SUN s news ot a
“Double Shooting Tragedy” in Melbourne.
“Orb”- “T. 0.1.” refers to “Tom Har-
getts. a Dago with performing dogs, as
appearing at the Newcastle (N.S.W.)
theatre in ’73 (B. 25/5/’22) This must be
Inv old actor-cim-mi.nstrel friend, late oi
Bendigo, but Tom Margetts was no Dago-
lie was an Australian, I believe. He set "
in Bendigo in the ’nineties, and did weU
there in the furniture business.
helped along many a charity entertammen,
and his blood-and-bellows Richardson s show,
with a 15-minutes’ shocker, was a feature or
the annual Easter Fair for many years.
THE REWARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
And would you hear the sorry tale
Of one who lives the super-life,
A life austere, profoundly stale.
Sans little children, home and wife?
I am the man who leads the blind
In ‘Tot and Kettle” at the King’s.
My pay it does not run. 1 find.
To drink or any pleasing things,
And time flaps by on leaden wings.
The play in which I lead the blind
Has run two hundred weary nights.
I hate its dull, demnition grind,
I hate its sounds and smells and sights,
I hate the people in the stalls,
The actors who like puppets stand,
The manager who swears and brawls,
The lending lady tall and grand,
And, heavens, how I loathe the band!
Two hundred dreadful nights I’ve towed
That blind man through the desert play.
For all those months I’ve borne the load
Of one comedian grimly gay.
It was ipy bi-ead and meat and tea ;
But, Lord, the boredom and the pain,
The dulness I must hear and see
In weary matinfies again,
Like water dripping on the brain.
Then comes a happy moment when
Luck seems to cast a smile my way.
A fat and greasy citizen
Has dropped his purse. “Good sir,” 1 say.
“ ’Tis yours.” He takes the purse from me.
A sleek, white hand bedecked with rings
Dips in. “Take this, my man,” says he,
And gives, of all infernal things
A circle ticket for the King’s!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


WHISKY
d
RSE
«S
ft
BY APPOINTMENT
T
in
m
m
m
■*m
>
2gf-
VJT////S
////«
riiiriii! ill
ruin
lIP till I ill
I
2
Z 2
J"
/AX
M
§!
m
m
m
, Mr///////A
y v.
'/////A
'/W//SS/,
V///W'
l I
IhJLM
y /
£ 2
2 Z
yy///M'i
V///W*
y///m*
Great Age
and
BouQueF
Genuine Pure
Scotch
MACKIE & COX DISTILLERS 1™
GLASGOW. ISLAY & LONDON.
THOMPSON & CO.
(CASTLEMAINE)
Proprietary Ltd.
Telegrams and Cables
THOMPSON’S,
CASTLEMAINE.
ENGINEERING WORKS,
CASTLE MAINE, VICTORIA
BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
We Specialise in the Desig'n and Manufacture of
Pumps & Pumping' Machinery
and Complete Installations
sm
Capacity 17,500 gal. per minute
against a total head of 96 feet.
Efficiency of pump 82 per cent.
under guaranteed efficiencies for
Waterworks
Sewerage
Irrigation
Mining'
Dredging', etc.
Send
us
your
Enquiries.
AGENTS
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE j
Engineering Supply Co.
of Aust. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd,
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes,
Fenchurch Street.


RESCH'S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Correctly Cut
RIDING
TROUSERS
57/6 pair
To Your Own Measure
THE meticulous care in Tailor-
ing—the robust quality of
materials, and the approved fitt-
ing for Riding Comfort are the
distinctive features of these
Riding Trousers. They are
tailored from serviceable shades
of Fawn, Grey, and Brown
Garnett Gabardine of sturdy
durability, an possess remark-
able resistance to wear. Write
for Patterns and S. M. Form.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba
CARTRIDGES.
“A.P.” Fresh-loaded Cartridges aie loaded on
the premises by automatically correct
machinery. Only the best smokeless powder
and chilled shot used.
“BLUE SEAL.” The universal rabbit Cart-
ridge, 21/- 100.
“KILOS.” For Quail Shooting, unsurpassed,
22/- 100. 4
“INFALLIBLE.” A splendid hard-hitting
Cartridge, 24/- 100.
“APOID.” Deep brass gas-tight cases, for long-
range shooting. Once used always wanted,
25/- 100.
“A.P. SPECIAL.” Deep brass gas-tight cases,
loaded with Ballistite smokeless powder.
Long range, 25/- 100.
CARTRIDGES loaded with Schultz or Amberite
or smokeless Diamond or Ballistite powder,
23/- 100.
WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
Ca)
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
St. All, a well-credentialled bay by St
AUvyne—Demure, has come over from South Oss to
win the A.J.C. Hurdles, to be run at Randwick
on June 3, and until he started at Rosehill on Satur-
day he was as well fancied as anything in the 19-
furlong race. Now his early backers are wishing
he had remained beyond the Murray. Carrying
list. 51b.-—7lb. more than his Randwick weight—
he was backed at 2’s and 5 to 2 to beat a field
of 11, and never looked like landing the money.
Spear Song (Pst. 21b.) set a pace that was too hot
for the favorite, and he finished in the rear division
of a strung-out lot, the steeplechasers Grand Foote
and Taralie beating him home. The second favorite,
Gold Snow (9st. 71b.), won impressively from the
pacemaker and Montagne le Roi (lOst. 31b.) in the
fast time for the 2 miles of 3min. 42Jsee. A service-
able-looking brown by Ian —Primrose, he jumped
like a stag and galloped # as if he could stay for a
week.
Gold Snow has 9st. 21b. in the big race next
Saturday, and must have a chance. His most dan-
gerous opponent among the Sydneyside hurdlers will
probably be All Aboard (lOst. 51b.), who won over
the sticks at Warwick Farm on May 20 and has
shown decent form at Randwick when no hurdles
were in the way. The V.R.C. handieapper has
given All Aboard lOst. 51b. in the Grand National and
Fiscom list. 61b. In the Randwick event Fiscom,
who has been scratched, was asked to concede All
Aboard 301 b., instead of 151 b., as at Fleming-
ton. Ecarte (lOst. 91b.). is another well-performed
flat-racer who was been much more lightly treated
by the A.J.C. weight-
adjuster than by the
V.R.C. man, who has
given him lOst. lllb.
liarring accidents, one
or the other should
win. A horse with a
rough chance is Tim-
ber Prince (9st.
10lb.), but his con
nections may prefer to
start him in Monday’s
Steeplechase, in which
ha has a nice weight
—lOst. lib. Failing
Timber Prince, the
winner of the Steeple
may come fro m
Spethogc (9st. 121 b.),
Basil K. (list. 21b.),
and the Soustralian
pair Doiran (12st.
31b.) and Ilaoma (list.
131 b.).
ARTHUR J.
NIEMANN, the
Adelaide jockey in
the Seal King case.
Although K. D. Bowman’s black horse
Denacre (Linacre— Lady Denman) was never sighted
in the Goodwood Handicap, he ran away with the
six-furlong Totalisator Handicap on the last day of
the A.R.C. Cup meeting. On this form he was
heavily backed for the City Handicap run at
S.A.’s Victoria Park on Saturday, but, not so heavily
as the disappointing Melbourne filly Isa. bach
carried 9st., and both were prominent m the early
running, but the Linacre five-year-old left Isa and
the rest of a big field at the turn and came on to
win by three lengths from the unlucky Sweetmagne
(7st. 51b.). who was about the same distance ahead
of The Storm (7st. 13ib). The winner was ridden
by Medhurst and paid £7 9s. on the £1 tote,
Sweetmagne’s divvy being £3 Is. Sweetmagne’s
pilot was Morley, the Westralian lightweight, who
added two more winners to his list—Cadelgo, in the
Adelaide Stakes, and Chief Tone, in the second division
of the Toorak Welter. Produced again in the nine-
furlong Parkside Stakes, Isa ran third to the con-
sistent Crusader (Passing By—Antiope) and Charzil,
the winner, a warm favorite, returning his backers
£2 9s. for each £l.
* * • *
“The Vet”: Having declined his A.R.C.
engagements, Easingwold will be back in Melbourne
anon with a view to making amends for the defeats
he suffered last Spring. Though a crack in Westralia,
it is still doubtful whether he can foot it with the
best in the other States. The colt may be “almost
as good as Eurythmic” or no better than was sug-
gested by his Melbourne failures eight months ago.
Since then a Perth Cup-winner in Earl of Seafield
has been licked in the Australian Cup, though he
certainly ran decently, and, moreover, showed re-
spectable form when he beat all but Mufti in the
Woodcliff Handicap at Caulfield. No apologies were
necessary in Eurythmic’s case when he started on
the job' in Victoria. He came, and ran and con-
quered. Easingwold came and lost several races,
after which he returned to the West, and again made
a brilliant show against local talent. The change
to a strange climate may have upset him, but it
will not be safe to put one’s sox on the big chestnut
until the strength of his Westralian form has been
fairly tried away from home.
* * # *
“Billy T.”: It was at a club meeting.
The gentleman jock, had ridden Donnybrook Fair down
the straight, and his mount was flirting among the
nags at the starting-gate when Egbert appeared.
Possibly Egbert was not his name, but he must-
have had a name of sorts, and Egbert suits his
appearance. Egbert was one of the boys from
Collingwood or Richmond, and was nearly choking
with the beer he had consumed. He clumsily vaulted
the fence and went swaying down the course. The
spectators yelled derision after him. Egbert was not
disconcerted. An official rode to intercept him.
Egbert evaded in an awkwardly clever fashion. The
racecourse dog strove to bite him. Egbert went,
on, scorning even the fat constable who was rolling
in his tracks. Then Egbert reached the rich young
fellow who was riding Donnybrook Fair. He took the
■horse by the bridle and spoke confidentially. ‘ Loo
’ere, ole boy,” he said, “I gorrer a quid on thish
’orsh. I just want to tell you you’re laid five bob
to noshin’.” Then Egbert, affable to the end, was
borne away by the fat cop. #
“Te Pana”: Hori dropped the paper, and
confided in me: “Py corry, ehoa, I like to read te
sporting. You know te paper man, ha tell you all
you want to know about te game. You remember
te big feller Paddon. Bcfoa I go Wanganui, I like
him too much. I see him ope day on te river.
He pull like hell. Py corry, he te chap for me.
Then I read te paper, and te paper say ‘Paddon no
good He got te crook back ; he too heavy; he sink
te boat. Hadfield he te feller.’ So I put te poun’
on Hadfield, all because te paper man he say so.
Py corry, ehoa, I lose te quid. Now I want te tip
for te horserace. Te paper man he say ‘Biff short
in te wind’ ; ‘Sniff can’t jump, he too lame.’ Very
good te paper jnan. Py corry, I back Sniff and Biff
on Tuesday 1 Then, ehoa, my missus and me take a
long holiday.”
* * * •
Rugby Leaguers got a surprise when
Newtown beat South Sydney at Sydney Cricket
Ground. About 15,000 spectators saw Newts, do the
trick by 12 points (2 tries 3 goals) to 11 points
(3 tries 1 goal). South, who were top of the com-
petition list, started off furiously, notching 8 points
in as many minutes, but by sol d tackling, excellent
hooking and sterling forward play, Newtown gradu-
ally reduced South’s lead, and, with 20 minutes to
go, Mansted got the try that gave them a well-
deserved win. B. Wearing, South’s winger, was the
nippiest man on the ground, and Bolewski was New-
town’s best. In the other matches North Sydney
larruped Uni. by 21 points to 8, Glebe donkey-licked
St George by... 41 to nil, and Balmain scored 12 to
Western Suburbs’ 3. Glebe and North Sydney are
leading with 8 points apiece, Balmain and South
Sydney are next with 7, and Eastern Suburbs and
Newtowp share third position with 6 each. A
strong side has been selected to meet the Maoris
next Saturday. So much guff has been written about
the capabilities of the visitors that the public will
expect much of them —more, perhaps, than is in
them to give. Another fiasco like the deplorable
match between N. S. Wales and the M.L. team that
came over last year will do the Rugby League a heap
of harm.
*** . *
In the last Rugby international of the
season Ireland beat France by 8 points to 3. The
form was inconsistent, France having made a draw
with both England and Scotland, while Ireland had
lost to both. Wales had already won the champion-
ship comfortably. In Soccer there was a much
closer finish. England beat Wales and drew with
Ireland. Scotland lost to Wales and beat Ireland.
Thus the result hung on the last match. A tie with
Scotland would' have been enough to get England
the championship, but the Scotsmen won outright
l)v a single goal scored when the goalkeeper bad
slipped down in the mud. The heroes of the game
were the two Scotch fullbacks; both of them and
the goal-scorer and two others of the side had been
recalled for the occasion from English and Welsh
clubs with which thev have professional engagements.
Scotland has now won 20 games to England’s 14,
with 12 drawn.
* * * *
There were some strenuous football
matches in Melbourne on Saturday. The unbeaten
Essendon went to Fitzroy, ard a 30,000 crowd viewed
a game that was neither brilliant nor courteous but
was desperately exciting. At lemon-time Fitzroy
looked fairly safe, but the ’Dons swiftly wiped out
the 11-point deficiency. Three times in that last
quarter the scores were level, and they ended so —
51 all; but Fitzroy have their rotten kicking to
thank for. a draw instead of a win. Those old
opponents, Melbourne and Carlton, drew a 20,000
mob to the Prince’s Oval, but the Red Legs seem
to be falling off, and Carlton won easily—96 points
to 64. St. 'Kilcia surprised South Melbourne by get-
ting away with a long lead and sticking to it—77
points to 61 at the close. Saints are playing a
fast, ODen game, which is prettier and more profit-
able .than South’s rushes. Geelong gained their
first victory for the season by downing the mighty
Richmond. It was only a 2-point win, but it was
enough. The kicking was great —Geelong 11 goals
9 behinds; Richmond, 11 goals 7 behinds.
“Tren”: Professionalism, open and un-
ashamed, prevails in Australian football this year.
Sanneman, the Bendigo crack, has been secured
by St. Hilda, but so keen was the competition tor
him that he will be the highest-paid man in the
team, a fact which is bound to cause unpleasantness.
Nowadays country clubs must have their captain
and coach, and over 50 have boldly advertised in
the Melbourne dailies for metropolitan players, the
salarv being, generally, £5 per week and board.
It is amusing to recall that in 1905 Monagle and
Chris lieirnan (now captain of Fitzroy C. C. and
still one of the best bats and fieldsmen in the State)
were offered a weekly payment to transfer to Coi-
lingwood, but when they applied to the League for
permits they were disqualified for life as profes-
sionals, though they never actually received one
penny. #
There was an odd reversal of football
form when North Adelaide, previously unbeaten, met
Norwood (whose new coach is the veteran T oin Leah}’,
formerly the North Adelaide captain). Norwood
had so far done only moderately, but in this game
they turned loose and broke all sorts of local records
—putting on 9 goals and 2 behinds in the last
quarter alone. Hart kicked 10 goals for them-—l 7
in two games. Norwood won by a margin of lib
points, scoring 22, 13 to 4,. 5. The result left W est
Torrens the only club unbeaten.
* * * *
Maoriland is being visited by a team of
Australian Soccerites, who opened their winning
account against Wanganui, scoring three goals to one.
J. Oumberford, a brilliant Queensland forward,
found the net twice, and W. Bratten, another
Queenslander, got the other goal. There are 13
matches on the programme, with tests at Dunedin,
Wellington and Auckland.
* * • *
' Frank Griffin, the M.L. middleweight, is
game and can punch, but of the defensive part °*
the boxing business he knows little. He demon-
strated at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night that
he hasn’t developed a stop for a straight left. Charlie
Ring, the Victorian, owns a good left, and applied
with force and judgment, it won him his fight
with Griffin, the towel coming in at the end of the
twelfth. Ring, who used the right little —boils
made it painful for him to punch with that weapon—
showed promising form and is deserving of more
chances than likely middleweights have received
from the Stadium people of recent years. When
Griffin discovers that boxing is the art ot self-
defence he will also repay handling. The trouble
with Australian pugs is that they don t get sufficient
opportunities of learning their trade. That is why,
speaking generally, they are inferior to the i anks.
I,t is doubtful if Jim Tracy, who fought Brennan
in New York recently, has had a dozen ring contests
in his life. Brennan, on the other hand, has had
22 fights in one year. Battling Levinsky had 30
in one year, 21 in the second year and 28 in the
third. It is nothing
for men like Leonard,
Britton, Lewis and
Dundee to box every
three weeks, and keep
it up for a term of
years. That is how
it comes to pass that
even second-raters
trained in this school
beat the comparative
novices who are called
champions in Austra-
lia after winning a
few 20-rounders from
pugs as inexperienced
as themselves. One
way of restoring the
old eminence of Aus-
tralian boxing would
be to cut the 20-
rounder out.
CHARLIE RING,
Victorian middle-
weight champion,
who defeated
Frank Griffin at
Sydney Stadium
last Saturday.
Harry Stone outpointed his fellow-
American Ilunefeld at Melbourne Stadium on Satur-
day night. As generally happens when two Yanks
meet in an Australian ring it was a rotten scrap,
but those who hooted the referee for awarding the
honors to Stone only proclaimed their ignorance of
the game. Harry won right enough. He is too fast
and skilful for the lumbering type of pug that the
Stadium management brings across the Pacific nowa-
days. When Stone was a mere lad he fought a 15-
round draw with Abe Attell, then fedder champion
of the U.S.A. He has had two no-decision mills with
Jack Britton, who holds the welterweight title, and
went 20 rounds with Kid Lewis, conceding him about
141 b. He has twice beaten Frankie Russell, who
has licked men like Rocky Kansas, now Benny
Leonard’s most dangerous opponent for the light-
weight belt. Stone is really out of Hunefeld’s class.
* * * *
“Sir Spen”: At a football match in
Moree (N.S.W.) on a recent Saturday the scrapping
was wild and woolly. Approximately half the mem-
bers of the teams were left in the embarrassing posi-
tion of having portion of their nether garments
ripped off their symmetrical limbs. Of course the
torn apparel was replaced as hastily as possible. But
there is a limit to all things. The supply of extra
pants ran out, and in the end the spectators became
amusedly speculative over one player, who, when-
ever he raced for the ball, was followed by a noise
like the cracking of stockwhips. He finished the
game in his overcoat.
• * * *
“Ex-Oxonian” : Thirty or forty years ago
it was the custom in English public schools, at the
end of the cricket season, to publish not only the
batting averages, bowling analyses, etc., of the school
XI, but to append a few descriptive lines about the
merits or otherwise of every individual performer.
The preparation of these “characters” was generally
entrusted to some outside critic who was expected, if
he couldn’t honestly say anything complimentary
(an infrequent contingency), to dodge saying anything
which v'as the reverse. Even this wasn’t always
easy, however, and there was a tradition of a hapless
youth who v'oke one morning to find himself
scheduled in print: “Blank, gained a place in the
XI for his bowling, which subsequently degenerated
into a throw; poor bat and worse field.” Dash,
however, who had performed all through one season
with a terrific lack of success, and who hardly dared
to think of what the verdict passed on him would be,
fared better than Blank. He got a drop of honey at
the bottom of tire vinegar. His epitaph ran: “Dash,
very unreliable bat; sadly erratic bowler; disappoint-
ing field; but excellent judge of a run.” This was
always quoted afterwards as a fine illustration of how
a'benevolent critic can temper the wind to the shorn
lamb —-if he is determined. It was a mere detail
that Dash had hardly made a score of runs himself
in the whole season, and had doubtfully participated
in the amassing of as many more.
* * * *
It is probable that Tilden and Johnston will
again represent Uncle Sam in the final scrimmage
for the Davis Cup. A while ago it was announced
that Johnston W'as retiring from the game, and
that brilliant young Vincent Richards would help
Tilden to hold the Cup ; but now' Johnston is re-
ported to be hard at play with a view to appearing
for the U.S. in September. It is evident that the
little Californian is in good form, for he has just
scored another victory over Tilden, whom he has
beaten in the U.S. singles championship more than
once, Richards also walloped Tilden last year, so
that with three and probably more of the world-
champion class to call on the Yanks will prove a
formidable proposition to the Australians, if our
fellows can reach the challenge round.
• * * #
“Linesman”: Rupert Wertheim, the Vic-
torian tennis-player, who has just been licked by
Norton, the S’Afriean champion, in an English tour-
nament, has been likened by a London Times critic,
both in play and appearance, to the celebrated Wil-
liam Tilden. Actually there is no resemblance be-
tween them. Tilden is almost a blonde, with a
gentle Greek nose running to flesh at the base,
whereas Wertheim owns a dark, midnight counten-
ance of a pronounced Semitic type. Tilden is cer-
tainly tall and lithe, but he is a midget beside the
other, vvho is the skyscraper of all tennis-players. As
regards their game the disparity is not so pronounced,
but Tilden’s all-round brilliance makes comparison
hurtful to the Victorian. Not that Wertheim is a
second-rater, however. On his day he will try the
very best, but his days are so rare and his flashes
of streaky play so frequent that he has never been
considered seriously for a Davis Cup team.
» * * •
Jack Hawkes’s re-appearance for Geelong
in Vic. pennant tennis was shown by the massacre of
Malvern “B” on Saturday. Out of the four rubbers
won by Geelong Malvern’s second-best collected only
one set in 19 games. Mawkes and his brother ran
home in straight sets in both their engagements, in
which the enemy retrieved five games. Geelong’s
other pair, the ancient Keays and Baird, dropped one
set to Noske and Wood, but they scored 6-4, 6-0
against Dawkins and Scotney. Malvern “A,” headed
by the veteran Rainey, had a close tussle with
Brighton, and a comparison of the aggregates at the
finish left Malvern with a majority of 5 games. Grace
Park, who have Buckley and Roberts to lean on in
time of trouble, were never worried by South Yarra
“B.” Grace Park grabbed the four rubbers, the
enemy showing 2 sets and 33 games as the reward
for their perspiration. The argument between M.C.C.
and University had to be postponed owing to the
absence of the latter team in Adelaide.
• » * »
(H. W. McLelland and C. R. Boyce regis-
tered a fine victory in the N.S.W. foursomes at Ken-
sington. Playing unorthodox but effective golf, they
showed the best card (78 —38 out and 40 in) at the
end of the morning round, and although they fell
away after lunch, when the conditions were rather
better, theirs was the winning aggregate—l6l.
Only a stroke away were the outsiders, M. P. Aron-
son and A. Leone (80 and 82), and hard on their
heels were O. W. Bundle and G. T. Balcombe (82
and 81). It was an inspiriting match, but Erie
Apperley and E. J. Pope, the title-holders, fared
badly. Their total was 167.
* # * *
W. Hutton (Wesley) was again in fine
form at Sydney Uni. inter-collegiate sports. He won
the 100yds. in 10 3-ssee., the 220 in 23 3-ssec. and
the 440 in 51 4-ssec. The Harbisons (St. Andrew’s)
also did well, J.K. taking the 120yds. hurdles in
17 3-ssec. and the broad jump (21ft. Bin.), besides
dead-heating with Roy in the high jump (sft, 6in.).
L. W. Tunley (Wesley) had easy factories in the
880yds. (2min. 8 l-ssec.) and the mile (smin.
56 3-ssec.), and, thanks to his triumphs and those of
Hutton, Wesley (24 points) took the shield from St.
Andrew’s (19), St. John’s (3) and St. Paul’s (2).
Unluckily for Sydney Uni., the Harbisons are not
available for the inter-’Varsity championships at
Adelaide.
* * * *
The Murray Bridge (S.A.) boat has
decided to give up any idea of going to Henley.
Apart from the difficulty of getting the entry.:
accepted, the thing is next door to a physical impos-
sibility, as the racing begins on July 5. South
Aus. will now take its time, and consider sending
the River crew to the next Olympic—at Paris in
1924. The amateur definition is not so cast-iron
there.
• * * *
Gov.-General Forster has a mild passion
for coursing, and was “among those present” when
the twice-postponed Derby and Oaks races were de-
cided at Rooty Hill (N.S.W.). Favorite for the
big race was the Victorian Derby-winner Alto Chime,
but the strain of running seven courses in three days
and then travelling 600 miles by train, all within
a fortnight, proved too much for him, and he was
outed in the first round. In the deciding course of
the Derby the N.S.W. dog Birdwood beat the Vic-
torian Picardy after the most thrilling seen
on Rooty for years. Persian Bride annexed the
Oaks from Hazel Wh’te, and the Woodstock Cup
was won by Bon Chien, another Victorian, froin
Hazeldawn. An odd incident happened on the second
day. As two dogs drove at a hare and its death
w'as noisily proclaimed, the quarry leapt clean over
one hound’s back. Getting in another tight corner,
it repeated the performance. Old coursers were
heard to say they had never seen anything like it.
* * * •
Ma State’s new 20-mile walking champion
is G. A. Smith. The holder of the title (W. Pitt)
was a non-starter, and A. C. Kitchen, regarded as
a certainty, killed his chance by over-exertion in
the early stages. When Kitchen w'as picked up by
the ambulance officials, M. J. McNamara took the
lead, but Smith passed him and then M. Hamblin
(a promising youngster of 17), and won w'ith lmin.
ssec. to spare in 3hr. 37min. 16sec.
THE UNCHRISTIAN MARTYR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He stood among that bar-room crowd.
Not bloody was his head, but bowed.
His forehead creased, his visage pale,
He gloomily absorbed an ale.
His eyes no curious gaze could brook:
They had the strained, despairful look
Of one whose hopes the Fates have dashed —
Whose ’plane, Expectancy, has crashed.
Nodding, he passed into the street,
A very picture of Defeat.
“You know each other, I can see.
What is his name?” said Jinks to me.
“He must have had some rotten luck
To look so like a dying duck.”
“He has,” said I. “That’s Binks, old beaja.
The press photographer, I mean—
The man whose job it is to take
Leg-pitchers for the Daily Fake,
A lurid rag whose special sins
Are homicide and underpins.
The wimmen’s tennis tournament
Arriving, poor old Binks was sent
To gather, for a gloating press,
Glimpses of silken loveliness:
A scurvy trick —you’ve seen the sort
Of Jane that frisks about a court.
But Binks, a conscientious man,
Essays to earn his daily scran ;
And so, from morn till eve he goes
In search of something choice in hose.
Day after day he seeks the haunts
Of maters and of maiden aunts,
This bloke who nothing does by halves,
To snap a scrumptious pair of calves”...
Jinks wagged an understanding head.
“Poor illegitimate!” he said.
x.s.w.
TUART.


Undoubtedly I have a sharp
tongue, in my head
ď
f
d
ďf
ď
STANDARD SET (No. I)
contains heavily silver-plated,
seif-stropping razor, 12 tested
<• Y. a^ blades and genuine
Valet strop, complete in
durable case lined
velvet and satin -
27/6
I take good care of that.
You see, for safety razors, a sharp tongue is a virtue—
you need it for your morning shave. ~ It is certainly
the only kind of tongue whose sharpness is tolerated
before breakfast.
I am Valet Auto Strop, the razor that sharpens
itself. I need no “gadgets” or stropping machines—
all I want is my strop. If you will let me slide up
and down that strop for ten seconds every morning
I’ll undertake to give you at least a month of perfect
daily shaves with every “Valet” blade.
That s the way I save men trouble and expense.
You will find me waiting for you at any good
razor shop.
“VALET"
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australasia:
PIIIPSON & COMPANY. LTD.,
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The word - VoUr 0 „ R azors , Strep, and Blade, indicate the genuine product of lie Auto Strop Safety Razor Co.. Ltd.. 197-207. City Road. London. Eng.
BE PREPARED TO MEET THE BULLY!
You should learn “how” to box—
learn to defend yourself. Such a
knowledge will never be a burden
to you, but at times of need will
prove your best friend and protector.
No man knows the day or the hour
when he will be called upon to avenge
some insult, or the time when he Will
have to defend himself against some
bully or ruffian.
We Teach Boxing by Mail
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
The boxing instructions are very thorough
—you’ll find them most interesting, and be surprised
at the quick progress you will make under our
coaching. The lessons provide an enjoyable pastime,
and are cramful of health-giving relaxation and
exercise.
W rite your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and post it to us, and we will send you by
return mail the interesting booklet, “Scientific Box-
ing in Your Home,” which tells all about the
methods, terms, etc. Please send three stamps for
postage.
m
m
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
" The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
and brothers,
11 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
K.YNOCH-
AMMUNITION
đ
•22 RIM FIRE.
ďf
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed*
twe.
ALL BRITISH
ting Boot
LIHED tan WILLOW CALP
BELLOWS
TONGUE
WELTED.
SEWN ALL
WAY ROUND
/AX
THREAD
HAND STITCH£O
INSERTED RUDDER LAYER
In Finest
TUSCAN CALF
84
Freight
Paid.
Here’s the Shooting Boot you want—a marvellous
production—so strongly constructed that you wonder
if it can possibly wear out —a Shooting Boot really
worth double its price, 84/-
Made in the Finest Tuscan Calf, with stalwart soles ;
sewn welts ALL THE WAY ROUND, Jin. rubber
“in-between” soles; bellows tongue firmly stitched
to sides; with the “BOOT-WITHIN-A-BOOT” fea-
ture of BEST TAN WILLOW CALF LINING and
strong wax stitching throughout, this Boot ensures
dust-dry feet though ankle-deep in water.
This combination of “GOOD POINTS” will make
you marvel at the value at 84/-. All sizes.
WRITE NOW.
LINCOLN STUART £ C° PTYITP


The Four Winds
Cigarettes
#s»£i
v “"" ' Nm
Carriage paid
Box 497, G.P.O
—can be smoked in any breeze.
The ultimate test of a cigarette is the
character of its devotees. "The Four
Winds ” Cigarettes claim a discriminating
clientele—that this patronage is rapidly ex-
tending is further tribute
to the quality. Appreciative
men discover in them a very
distinctive Virginian flavour
and fragrance that satisfies.
255, 35.; 50s, 65.; 100 s, 1116.
FARMER’S :: SYDNEY
"The Store for Men.”
BREW YOUR OWN BEER
NON- INTOXICATING
>
*
If it __
It's Better
A tin of "BE VAR A BEER” contains
the exact quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast,
&c., with instructions to quickly and easily
make TWO GALLONS of the purest
and best Beer. No chemicals whatever.
Failure impossible.
Six varieties, viz., Ginger, Hop, Pale, Malt,
and Bitter Beer and Stout. The PERFECT
drink for Men, Women or Children. The
BEST proof is that ONE family last season
drank 100 gallons of " B EVARA.”
Price 1/6 from all Grocers and Stores
r i v.. c ,|i chons Civil Service Stores, Anthony Horderns, Lassetters, MarkFoy’s,
Grin Bros ßalmain Cos£ Moran and Cato (all shops , Savage Stores, and all leading stores
in suhnrhs and ronntrv - nstage paid 1 9 from
M. R. GREEN, Manufacturer, CARLTON, VIC.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[P]
MISSESE MONK & DOYLE
Phones central 153, 1609.
Governor Stradbroke formally brought
Preston the glad news that it was a town
the other day amid loud cries of gratifica-
tion and relief on the part of Mayor Crispe
and his people. Preston was once Pig-
town. It has four large bacon-factories'
Early Prestonites could not have slept peace-
fully without the lullaby of “Oi, oi, oi!”
chanted by the pig herdsmen in the night to
the soprano accompaniment of their doomed
charges.’ This is changed nowadays. Fac-
tories are isolated beyond large recreation
grounds, and the pigs proceed to their ends
by an outer-circle route. As a councillor-of-
old remarked one time in conclave, “Preston
’ugs ’Eidelberg. ’Eidelberg is a garden
suburb. Preston must match its neighbor.”
That energetic Bumble started the improve-
ment fever, and now there is a 16-acre lake
set in acres of gardens; sports clubs and
their reserves, a £12,000 picture-theatre and
rows of model suburban villas for some of
the 10,000 residents. The towm has a
revenue of £30.000 —it has new electric
trains, and is prepared to bet that very
shortly it will be a city.
The Viscountess Dupplin who dashed into
the imminent matrimonial breach the other
day to rescue her 20-year-old son from wed-
lock is partially Australian. She is a grand-
daughter of Nigel Gresley, who was once a
bank manager in Hobart. Her parents,
Colonel Harley and Lady Charlotte Bacon,
lived for some years in Adelaide. Another
Gresley girl married Lord George Loftus,
heir to the Ely marquisate and a member
of the clan to which the most impecunious
Governor in the history of N. S. Wales be-
longed.
Alicia O’Shea Peterson, a candidate for
Parliament in the Speck, has just lost a
suit about a boundary fence between her
property and that of the John Latham
estate. She conducted her own case, and
now she declares she will go to gaol rather
than comply with the order of the Court.
Which suggests an unfortunate disrespect
for the law on the part of one aspiring to
be a maker of laws.
The Melbourne Music Club induced fiddler
Toscba Seidel to perform at the Lyceum the
other evening. A full house rushed the barriers
under the pathetic delusion that it was to
be a free show —only to be intercepted by a
white-capped attendant, armed with a col-
lection plate, who demanded supper-money
at 9d. a head. It was all right for the
affluent, but embarrassing for the woman
who had come along with nothing but a
tram-fare tied in the corner of her hanky.
The little violinist and an ever-so-like-him
brother trotted in under convoy of their
plump, dark-eyed mamma, and manager
Claud Kingston hovered in the offing. Tom
Brentnall. an inveterate amateur musician,
spoke the welcome piece, to which Toscha,
one vast expanse of smile, made reply.
Mamma Seidel then arose and released quite
a flow of flowery oratory prefaced by the
explanation that she was making her dash
i,n a bare three weeks’ study of English. It
is that sort of woman who mothers heroes —
and geniuses. Thereafter the star guest
and his relatives stood in splendid isolation
in the centre of the room, chatting to the
chosen few and most of those invited to
meet him had to be content with a long-range
view of his back contours. Meanwhile Dorothy
Murdoch sang, and Nellie Billings pianoed,
and the party ended up with coffee and
cream cakes, which were awarded imparti-
ally to those who had paid anc those who
hadn’t.
Janet Cumbrae-Stewart is off in the
.Eneas. She goes under the wing of a
married sister, and as this is her first trip to
the haunts of the Old Masters we may expect
to find her art outlook much widened wnen
her over-sea canvases come to light.
Dutch Vice-Consul Buttingha Van Wichers
spread a perfectly be-autiful tea-party in
Buckley’s Elizabethan rooms the other after-
noon for the official opening of the exhibi-
tion of products from the Dutch Indies on
the floor below. The Consul and his wife—she
was a Delprat—shook hands by the doorway,
and a platoon of picturesquely-clad Javanese
stewards from the Houtman handed round
ices and Java tea and coffee. The host
spoke a piece about trade between Java and
Australia, and Minister for Customs Rodgers
did .likewise, but also got in more than a
word about Mayor BeDher and the proposed
Empire Exhibition. Among those who drank
in the tea and the eloquence were the Van
Asches and Delprats, Buckley s managing-
director Felix Lloyd, Mrs. Miebaelis and
the sauatting Lambs. One Lamb sister, by
the way, is now able to walk round again
after an encounter with an ill-mannered
motor-car in St. Kilda some months back.
In. a vast gathering of ’Varsity folk the
Gov <* nor opened the new Macrarland
Library building last week. It is an impos-
ing extension of Orniund College, and is
named in honor of John MacFarland, hrst
master of Ormond. Lady Stradbroke ca ™ e
along with his Ex., and the wives ot the
profs, kept her company and asked her to
tea. Among the speakers were J. G. Latham,
K.C., president of the Old Ormond Students
Association, and Prof. Skeats, president of
the Professorial Board, and as they spoke
from the second-storey windows it was dis-
covered that the addition of the new build-
ing had turned the quad, into a rather won-
derful out-o’-door auditorium, in which the
lightest voice “carries” with amazing dis-
tinctness.
The meenisters and elders o’ the Kirk,
sitting in General Assembly, have decided
that a man is of some use, even in a pro-
fessorial chair, after 50, but that stock must
be taken of him every three years after oo
to see if he still carries a punch. The argu-
ment started over the appointment of a prof,
of Old Testament studies, and the Theolo-
gical Hall Committee had the temerity to
suggest that nobody over 50 should be
eligible, and that the man selected should be
bundled out at G 5. A broad hint was given
by the committee that Methuselahs were not
wanted. There was candor and piquancy m
the debate, but age and experience carried
the day. Meenister Brodie’s sly dig at some-
body—all seemed to know who was meant—
that if a prof, attended to his own busi-
ness there should be nothing to prevent him
leading a godly life and being ot some use
after 65. was particularly relished. But
fancy wanting a Scotclibyterian cleric to
attend merely to his own business !
Sac suits are permissible at the Earl’s
levde at State Parliament House to-morrow
(Fridav), though mayors can, of course,
wear their rabbit-furs, ’Varsity graduates
their gowns, and Diggers what the moths
have left of their uniforms. The private
entree cards have been sent out pretty liber-
ally, and as his Ex. is popular the hand he
shakes with is in for trouble.
The medical James Barretts’ second
daughter, Bertha, has gone to. Rabaul undei
the wing of Dr. Marion Wanliss.
Henry Harper’s son Colin and Winifred,
the Toorak Walter Butlers’ girl, have become
engaged. Harper senior is now on his way
to the U.S. He will stay a few weeks and
then join his'wife and daughter Maidhail m
England.
Dorothy Murdoch, pictured here by Lafa-
yette, has just returned after 18 months or
limelight in the song world of Londou. At
her hrst concert
there she leapt into
notice, and it was
not long before She
was warbling to the
accompaniments of
Sir I-andon Ronald.
Then she sang in
the provinces with
Robert Radford, one
of the pillars of the
new British National
Opera Co. at Covent
Garden, which in-
cludes Australians
Gertrude Johnston,
Florence F a w a z,
Elsy Treweek and
Fred Collier. Rad-
ford wanted her for
his production of
“Samson and Deli-
lah,” but she wasn’t keen on tne operatic
stage, though no less a personage than Melba
tried to turn her ambitions thither. Under
the wing of the Dame she went to Paris to
studv several roles and acquire the operatic
pose, but three masters failed to wean her
from her affection for the concert platform.
One of her treasures is an autographed photo,
from composer Bemberg, addressed to the
“Voice of the Century,” or French to that
effect.
The Herald is bouncing into a plain- and
fahcy-dress ball in the Melbourne Town
Hall on Thursday, June 8. One sug-
gestion is that someone should go as the
over-worked X that always marks the spot
where the tragedy took place. Incidentally,
a guest of honor is to be W. Cross, president
of the Authorised Newsagents’ Ass. of Vic.
News comes that violinist Daisy Kennedy,
wife of pianist Benno Moiseiwitsch, has
increased the census figures. Daisy is the
cousin of ’cellist Laurie Kennedy, and the
pair and their respective belongings used to
play together at the former’s home, where
Kreisler and other musical nabobs were also
heard. These affairs were terribly select,
and the amount of genius that was often got
crammed into the Moiseiwitsch music-room
was rather appalling. The Moiseiwitsches,
by the way, have bought an old Englisa man-
sion, Avhere the new papa proposes to enter-
tain week-end parties in the good old Eng-
lish way.
Grim news is to hand from Northern
Nigeria of Lieut.-Col. W. R. Ffrench,
D. 5.0., M.C., Mrs. Robert Power’s relative,
who took a billet as District Officer m those
parts after the war ended. At latest advices
his command, or whatever they call it, was
surrounded by some hundreds of natives, who
have been encroaching on his preserves for
some time, and there seemed every likelihood
that he would be given a chance to make
use or some of that special knowledge which
lie acquired in 1015 and onwards. Though
a Victorian he ioined up originally with the
4th Battalion, being in Sydney at the time
and a friend of Colonel Onslow-Thompson,
and he served with the 4th till, after fighting
for some time in Flanders, he was transferred
to the sGth.
This is Frank Keon, one of our best-
known Repertory amateurs, who lent his
energy and experience to the success of
Louis Esson’s “The Battler,” at the I lay-
house, the other night. His Watty in that
production was so good that he will probably
have a part in Dr. Stuart Maeky’s historical
Australian drama, “John Blake, to oe
staged by the Pioneer Players next month.
Keon’s ability to
plav anything from
a pavement saun-
terer to middle-aged
rouds and grand-
motnerly parsons has
been revealed many
times. It is a far
dramatic flight from
Gibson in “The Pri-
vate Secretary” to
the fat and vulgar
amorist in “The
New Sin,” but he
has done the trick
with credit. Lately
he tried the Comte
de Varville in
"Camille” for one of
the Railways Insti-
tute’s Saturday
nights, and shortly he will pose and prose as
the Dean in “Dandy Dick’’ for the same
society. His confidence is superb—no diffi-
culty abashes him. He was with Bryceson
Trehearne in stirring Adelaide’s Repertory
movement into life, was one of the first,
to appear in Gregan McMahon’s “literary
shows in Melbourne, and has since helped the
Mermaids whenever he was wanted. Keon,
who is still in the early thirties, was born
at Mudgee (N.S.W.).
Maitland MacMicking, the pretty . elder
daughter of the late Germain MacMicking, of
Manus station, Tumbarumba (N.S.W.), and
Mrs. MacMicking, of Toorak, writes from
Arizona, America, where she is staying with
her aunt, Mrs. Sprott Boyd, to say that her
marriage with Jock Maclellan, youngest son
on Mr. and Mrs. John Maclellan, of Long-
dale, Windsor, Melbourne, will be celebrated
at I,os Angeles in July. Jock is at present
at Cambridge University. Bride-to-be, who
is just out of her ’teens, is related to Lord
Denman, the G.-G. the Holman Government
evicted from Sydney Government House.
The young couple, after some travelling, will
probably live in Melbourne.
Old fire-eaters of the army and navy
lunched at Sargent’s cafe a few days ago
in honor of those who had served prior to
1886. One of them, D. C. Holmes, aged 90,
was at the Crimea aboard the Bellerophon.
Base-commandant Luscombe presided. Gov-
ernor Stradbroke was a guest, and said he
regretted the reductions foreshadowed m the
army and navy; and other big guns made
speeches, the general tone of which suggested
that everyone was looking forward eagerly to
the Next War.
The passing of Torn Bostock will mean a
sad loss to Geelong. The cheery woolbroker
was three times mayor of the place, and he
helped in an important way to get it a water-
supply, trains, electric light and all sorts ot
other amenities. He was an expert oars-
man, horseman, golfer and cricketer, and in
between times he “trusteed” for the Geelong
racecourse and the agricultural ground.
His widow is a sister of Donald Mackmnon,
“the soldiers’ best friend.”
Saturday at the King’s was what would
have been called a “vice-regal night ’ in days
when the presence of an Ex. and party had
a greater theatrical value. The Stradbrokes,
probably incited by favorable reports on the
Humphrey Bishop Co. from friends travel-
ling in the East, had brought the family to
the merry and mixed entertainment. The
Countess,‘ rather gorgeous in gold brocade
and glittering adornments, sat far back m
the box, and refreshed her nose with roses
provided by the management when a song-
stress was 'skating over thin ice, but when-
ever the “turn” on the stage was adapted to
the innocence of childhood she and her sporty
Lord helped their pair of nice-looking urchins
to enjoy it. The ventriloquist and the
comic pianists tickled the little brothers of
Lady Helena nearly to death. Even she
appeared to think laughter permissible.
Lady li. had some enviable white ermine
to keep her warm, and her outlook on the
world, through heavily-rimmed specs, was
more cheerful than usual.
Doctor Kritch —the woman who says she
has isolated the germ of typhus—is a re-
markable character. She is director of the
Sokolmichersky Hospital laboratory, is (or
was) one of the richest women in
Russia, and has spent a fortune in
experiments. Russia has for some time
encouraged women in the medical pro-
fession. Doctor Klatchko, the mystery
Adonis who caused so much feminine interest
in Melbourne, had charge of one of the Kritch
lady’s clinics, and when here was fond of
showing portraits of himself surrounded by
students— black-eyed beauties of the Russian
blue-stocking variety.
The Scotchbyterian education institu-
tions in Vic. are making a raid on all the
money, glory and positions to be gained at
the end of ‘ the medical* course. In 1920
Brown (Scotch and Ormond) topped the
poll while in 1921 Longden and Searby
(Ormond) and Kelly (Scotch) ran into the
places. This year they have been more pre-
datory, Andrew and Burnetto (Ormond)
coming first and second, with three Macs
filling the next three positions—Macnamarn
and Mackay (Pres. Ladies’ College), and
Macßae (Scotch).
As other towns are busily powdering their
noses and adding a touch of color, Bruns-
wick intends to be beautiful also. Mayor
Millward is discussing planting an avenue
of 1000 trees —a belated Anzac-avenue.
That’s the sort of civic vanity to be admired.
Any idea involving the planting of trees is
a good one. The pity is we can’t inspire
'all’' Australians, especially those out back,
with that old Arab ideal—that every man
before he dies should plant a tree, sink a
well and beget a son.
A coo-ee from Adelaide: —
The ’Varsity is in the middle of a whirling pro-
gramme—its own sports on its own Oval, a ball
in the Elder Hall, iiiter-’Varsity tennis and inter-
’Varsity sports and boatraces. At the sports the
prizes ‘were handed out by Mrs. Arthur Rymill.
One of its most generous and keen supporters, she
has been made a life-member of the sports asso-
ciation. The ball was a huge success. Over 400
turned up, among them a couple of dozen debs, who
pranced through a special dance, arranged by the
Moulden dame, after making their curtseys to
Oha ncellor- cum-Lieut.- Governor Murray and his
sister.
From London comes news that four of Bessie
Davidson’s pictures have gone to the Paris Salon-
one a portrait group (which is to be reproduced in
the catalogue), a couple of interiors and a still
life. . .
The Adelaide competitions at the Victoria Hall
unearthed a new infant prodigy—Roma Jean Holler
—who, with her fifth birthday only a month or
two behind her, won the silver medal for piano-
playing in the under-11 class.
Josiah Symon has given Power’s “Forest Teams
to the Art Gallery, thus bridging the gap between
the first work the Board bought from him (“After
the Day’s Toil”) and the lately-acquired “Battle of
Villers-Bretonneux.” He also gave a pencil sketch
of Hedley Park, Mt. Gambier, a one-time show-
place of the hospitable South-East. The artist in
this case was the late Alexander Tolmer, once Com-
missioner of Police here, and commander of the first
gold escort from Victoria to this State.
The Stock Exchange has a new soldier-member in
W. Fowler Brownsworth. He had been with the
Imperial Forces at Khartoum before coming here
in IDI2, and he joined the A.I.F. as a lieutenant
and left it a lieutenant-colonel with three “men-
tions,” an M.C. and a Belgian Croix de Guerre.
Mrs. Grainger’s will leaves the whole of her
estate, valued, according to American cables, at
£200,000, to her pianist son. Had she outlived
him her proprietary rights in any of Percy’s com-
positions were to have gone to Cyril Scott.
Gone west, aged 80, Amy May, widow of the late
Charles May (once a master at St. Peter’s College),
daughter of the John Morphetts, of Cummins near
Gleuelg, and through her mother one of the Fisher
c ] an —settlers of the very early days who did much
good for the State. She had been gravely ill for
months. .
The South Australian Society of Arts is having
its annual show, with pictures, china-painting and
leather-work as the chief exhibits. Indefatigable
James Ashton is among the exhibitors, as are Edward
Davies, Gwen and Herbert Barringer, Rose Lowclay
and May Grigg. , , . ,
The Stock Exchange has been greatly interested
in a slander action brought by Crespin, secretary of
the Club attached to the Exchange, against J. B.
Lawrie, a broker, who told two fellow-members that
the reason for a loss on the Club’s working wai
“too many secret commissions.” Lawrie pleaded
that the words didn’t refer to the secretary, and
were privileged, anyway. But the Court thought
they went a bit beyond legitimate comment, and
were worth £lOO. , .
J. p. Megaw was born in Ireland, started oust-
ness at Hamilton (Vic.), and died the other .day
at 57 in Adelaide; but it is at Broken Hill that
he will be best remembered. He went there for
Elder, Smith and Co. originally, but later became
an auctioneer. The firm was at first Souter and
Megaw, then Megaw and Hogg- In leisure hours
he was a prominent Freemason and racing-man.


Western Electric
Power, Light
Makes the battery last longer
MBS
c :
HSfeM ft.
f i
S'
Iff
.
Here is a typical Western Electric Power and Light Plant. The owner
is about to start it. He merely presses a switch, as shown, and the engine
starts to charge the battery. When battery is fully charged the engine
stops. The whole plant is simplicity itself. A child can manage it.
Electric Light makes reading and
night work easier and more pleasant.
An electric sewing machine makes
sewing easier and quicker.
d
Here you see a belt being slipped on
to the Western Electric engine pulley.
Plenty of real engine power for all
needs.
Keeps Everybody Happy and
Contented on the Land
A country home with Western
Electric Power and Light means a
happy and contented family.
This plant solves the problem of
discontented young country people
drifting to the city. It gives them
almost every city comfort and con-
venience.
Western Electric Power and Light is
a veritable blessing for all the country
family, since by the mere pressing of a
switch darkness is dispelled, and the
hard work and drudgery of daily tasks
eliminated by wonderful electric ap-
pliances. Over 100,000 users through-
out the world enjoy the benefits of
Western Electric Power and Light—a
powerful plant of big capacity with
over 50 years of electrical engineering
experience behind it.
An important feature of any Electric
Light plant is the battery. This is
where Western Electric Power and
Light shines. It has a capacity of 288
Ampere Hours (S.A.E. Rating) nearly
twice the capacity of other lighting
plants. A lighting Plant Battery must
be built for lighting and power service.
The Western Electric Battery is
specially made to resist strain and
eliminate the danger of injured plates.
But! A battery, like a good horse,
soon breaks down if it’s badly treated.
In order to positively assure the
Western Electric Battery gets the right
treatment, the Western Electric Plant
is equipped with a device which controls
the Battery at all times and protects it
from careless treatment. It is charged
by a gradual automatic process and
cannot be overloaded. This feature
alone puts “Western Electric” head and
shoulders above other plants. It makes
it the plant for you.
This wonderful Western Electric
Plant is now at your service. Switch
on the electric lights throughout the
house—out on the verandahs, down the
drive, out in the stable, barn —any-
where. A few extra lights don’t worry
Western Electric Power and Light.
Equip your house like an up-to-date
city residence. “Western Electric”
makes it easy. Let your family have
the benefit of an electric vacuum
cleaner, electric washing and wringing
machine, dish-washing machine, electric
fan, toaster, sewing machine motor and
many other devices that make life
worth living. You can use all these
appliances because the Western Electric
Battery is built to carry them.
Last, but not least, the H.P.
Engine will do for you what any
separate engine will do. It will drive
practically any machine—it runs on
kerosene, is air cooled, throttle-
governed, and the last word in engine
construction.
Without a doubt you want Western
Electric Power and Light. Remember
too, it earns its cost, and is easy to buy.
Write to nearest address for 20-page
descriptive book and all particulars.
W.E.661.
Wes fern Electric Company
fAusTru/ia)ltd
192 CASTLEREAGH St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Lane, Melbourne; T. TONKS, Elizabeth Street,
Street Adelaide; Wm. ADAMS & Co., Ltd.,
TRIC Co., 11 Argyle Street, Hobart; A. D.
ton, N.Z. And at Christchurch, Auckland and
AGENTS:—C. R. FOSTER, 262 Flinders
Brisbane; NEWTON McLAREN, Ltd., Leigh
35 King Street, Perth; MEDHURST ELEC-
RILEY & Co., Ltd Lamhton Quay, Welling-
Dunedin, N.Z.
The Western Electric Dish-washer
and Kitchen Table takes all the thrice-
daily drudgery out of washing-up.
Merely place crockery in dish-washer,
press a button, and the “washing-up”
is done in a moment, and automatic-
ally dried.
Complete
Electric
Supply for
Country Homes
Stores, Halls, Churches,
Schools of Art, Hotels,
Factories, or other
building's beyond the
reach of a town electric
supply. Capacity of
Plant Battery, 16 cells,
288 ampere hours
(S.A.E. Rating). Engine
3} H.P., Air cooled,
Throttle - governed,
Kerosene driven,
Generator, 1500 watts.


Under
Royal
Warrant
ďf
To H.M.
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
d
CHAMPAGNE
'JJarksHeidsiea^
Heims
9SBBSS&
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT ft COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City s most brilliant
social life.
N.B. The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’-pvirvr, Q nnai
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
When Billy Hughes arrived at Tweed
Heads on his northern tour strenuous efforts
were made by the town John Hop to keep
Jacky Lynch, a very well-known local abo.,
in the background ; but he broke through the
cordon of school-children ranged round the
Ministerial car. The Priminister, with a
friendly grin, thrust out his hand and
heartily shook Jacky’s black paw. Further,
he called out for his Dame to shake with the
dusky citizen, too. As he called “Mary” the
face of Jacky split into a great, understand-
ing smile. “Gripes,” he echoed, “Mary—all
same my ole gin !”
Lady Hayes, who was Alice Wilkinson, a
daughter of the late Judge and a sister of
Harry Wilkinson, of Deniliquin, has arrived
in Australia on a long visit. Her home is in
Donegal (the baronetcy is, of course, Irish),
but the place is too like a front-line trench
just now to be attractive to a lady of peace-
ful habits.
It take the Rolls Royce and the Ford to
catch up with the beginnings of history.
Last Saturday afternoon the Historical Re-
search Assoc, and the Millions Club made
a date, and by the magic of their pooled
limousines slipped back to the milestone of
1779. They found it at St. John’s, Parra-
matta, where nearly 100 of their members
wandered through the Norman doorway that
links the two towers designed by Mrs. Mac-
quarie. They were introduced anew to par-
son Samuel Marsden, of the ever-read y
riding-crop and the appraising eye of his
time for the “females of complete respect-
ability” who sat under his triple pulpit.
There was fascination in the tablet to Pene-
lope Lucas, the governess who arrived in
1805 to teach one Elizabeth Macarthur.
Was she young, was she pretty, and did she
flutter her eyelashes at one of the dashing
red-coated officers who sat on the benches
to the right of the pulpit? Elizabeth Farm
was visited —the first Macarthur homestead,
surrounded by wide stone-flagged verandahs
and flinging wide, cedar-sashed windows to
the sunlight. It has enormous, heavily-
beamed kitchen and laundries and an his-
torical olive-tree at its front doorstep. The
name “Verbrugghen” on a brass gun that
once did service in the Sirius seemed to
verify Director Henry’s claims to descent
from a famous house of ordnance-makers.
Solicitor Aubrey Halloran, K. R. Cramp,
secretary of the Research Association, and
Miss Swan, the present owner of Elizabeth
Farm, acted as historical. excavators.
Captain Claudie Cumberlege and his wife
have taken a house at Henley for the sum-
mer, he having wangled six months’ leave on
full pay. They entertained some idea of
dashing* out to Sydney, where he swears he
will settle when the Navy has done with
him, but the steamer-fares cooled their
ardor. The Colin Duncans are also living
by the Thames—at Marlow.
A cheque to Monsignor Rella for £lOO for
his very own pocket and a silver spoon with
a blue enamel kangaroo and the word “Syd-
ney” on the handle to each of the choristers
mark the Tom Dalton family’s appreciation
of the Sistine singers. The gifts were
handed over at a garden party at Wheat-
leigli on Saturday afternoon. The hostess
smiled on the proceedings from luxurious
wrappings of ermine and mole velvet. Dr.
Dan Kelly’s wife left the Normanhurst old
girls’ reunion to walk across the sodden
lawns in company with contingents of Dal-
tons, the impressive Dr. O’Haran, the
rector of Riverview. and a retinue of guests
whose names read like an R.C. “Who’s Who”
or a list of gilt-edged securities. Ex-Attor-
ney-General McTiernan talked Italian so per-
sistently that he had cramp in both arms
long before the festivities concluded.
Rain spoiled the dance given by this hos-
pitable pair; not more than 7U dancers and
Itiverviewers facing the long, cold drive. Mrs.
T.J. contrasted her intense fairness with
vivid green georgette softness. The law,
medicine, some politicians and their best girls
danced or sat out in the full glare of elec-
trics —the lawns being a washout and nobody
being intrepid enough to explore the back-
stairs. Mrs. Toohey, in black velvet and dia-
monds, made an eye-arresting duenna; but
at half-past 10 she had t 9 share the honors
of interest with Monsignor Rella who
arrived plus his entire choir.
Mrs. Wesche, of the Red Cross, whose
husband manages the P. and O. in Sydney,
has taken a flat in London with Austin de
Lauret’s sister, Mrs. Werner, who used to be
Mrs. Atchinson. At a recent house party
in Hampshire she foregathered, with «Ted
Simpson’s daughter Helen, Admiral Poore,
well and favorably known in Australia, and
Mrs. Elliot, who was Molly Langer-Owen.
The Stuart Osbornes were staying nearby
with the Bovills—Kathleen, Stuart Osborne s
sister, married a naval man of that name.
Half the well-known Sydney people on
the other side of the Avorld seem to be in
Paris and the other half at St. Jean de Luz.
At the former bright spot are Mrs. Bob
Bowker (wife of the doctor and sister of
Theo Marks) and her daughter Barbara,;
the Reggie Allens; Justice Rich of the High
Court, Enid Rothe, Helen Buchanan and
her mother, and Helen Faithful. At the
other place are Mrs. Lee Lord and her
daughter, Mrs. Hiley; Nita Verney, only
sister of the Walker twins and wife ot the
Chelmsford A.D.C., who was afterwards
military secretary to the. same h°ss when
he became Viceroy of India ; Rendel Street,
youngest brother of the Judge, and a heap
of others.
Tom Foster, for long stage-manager of
the Palace, is to open a school of acting in
Sydney. He has been associated in the nro-
duction and stage management of the J. C.
Williamson plays for 27 years and has
directed altogether 177 plays, 118 ot tnem
the Firm’s productions. It was this genial
stage-manager, by the way. who plucked the
press-women’s matinee from disaster even at
the eleventh hour and made it the success that
meant a happier Christmas at Matraville and
a warmer winter at French’s Forest.
Doretta Russell and Lieut. Moore, R.N.,
have proclaimed their intention to start tor
the matrimonial stakes. She is a daughter
of Harry Russell, the solicitor, whose father
was the late astronomer for N. S. Wales,
and he has a job on the Tingira.
News has just arrived of the death of Mrs.
Stirling, widow of the Admiral of that name.
She was Helen Deas-Thomson, a popular
Sydney girl of other days and a member of
the big Stephen clan.
Rhodes scholar “John” Wallace (lie was
christened something else, but everyone
knows him as John) goes' to Oxford in
August. At present he is hopping about
on crutches as the result of acquiring a
broken ankle in the football field a few
weeks ago. The popular young man. who is
a happy combination of brawn and brain,
hails from the North Coast.
The Colin Stephens’ girl, Helen, gave a
small dance to some young friends and a
handful of others last Friday night. Rona,
the Edward Knoxes’ home, was lent for the
occasion, and every available Government
House frivoller turned up.
This is Belgian-Consul Segaerths pretty
young daughter Hen-
rietta. She is not
yet. “out” in the
social sense, but. has
already spread a
pair of fine histri-
onic wings before
Sydney audiences in
the Alliance Fran-
caise production of
“Le Retour.” The
youngster is a bril-
liant pianist, and is
making a charming
hostess of the Mos-
man home during
her mother’s absence
in Belgium. “Le
Retour” is to be re-
peated early this
month, when Hen-
riette will again play the part of the mis-
understood wife.
Pianist Teddy Cahill and tenor George
Brooke gave an au revoir party _ to Ella
Shields the other morning at the sign of the
Horseshoe —the teashop run by Bertram
Stevens’s little widow in Hoskins-place.
During the tea-drinking Ella let out the
secret of her life —she is writing a book of
her travels. “Burlington Bertie s navy
tailorings were as immaculate as those she
wears on the stage, though the lower gar-
ment was on different lines. In her tight-
fitting hat she wore a plume of snowy
delight.
A star position at the Junior Red Cross
Exhibition, opened in the Town Hall yester-
day, was given to the handicrafts of the sol-
diers in hospitals and convalescent homes.
Trays and baskets, stained and tooled leather
goods, dainty white and colored embroideries
have been worked bv the fingers, whose grip
of gun and bayonet kept the world still a
glad place for some of us. The exhibition
is open to-day and to-morrow, and you can
leave orders for this wounded soldiers’ work
with Miss Hayward and Miss Bray.
Doris Vera Coutts, of Sydney ’Varsity,
carries a heavyweight brain under an un-
assuming manner. This year she topped the
Uni. lists in Economics and Arts, and so
carries the King’s travelling scholarship,
after being runner-up to last year’s winner.
The scholarship is worth a P. and O. saloon
passage and a yearly allowance of £250.
The Loughboroughs are giving up the
Ashtons’ house, which they have been rent-
ing. After a spell with the Wills Allens
at Gunnible, they are proceeding, children
and all, to stay with Melba at Coombe Cot-
tage.
Lute Drummond commenced what threat-
ens to be an intensely interesting series of
music lectures last week, choosing for her
plunge the three shprt operas of Puccini:
“The Cloak,” “Sister Angelica” and “The
Jester.” She translated the Italian stories
and illustrated the changes in the theme, on
the piano; and sister Jean and tenor Sidoni
sang the most thrilling arias. At the end
the difference between ancient and modern
musical architecture was demonstrated by
the quartette from “Rigoletto.” It was
Lute who wrote the first English translation
of the libretto of “II Trittico” for Rieordi’s
in London.
This is an effort by
Fagan, of Brisbane,
to portray the beauti-
ful Nancy Mac-
Naughton, who liras
come to Sydney to
study singing profes-
sionally under Mrs.
Hugh Ward. Her
father is the Queens-
land Jud g e, who
practised at the Syd-
ney Bar for years as
a young man, and
her mother was
lovely Catherine
Hayes, of Towns-
ville.
Sydney shook the
mothballs out of its
skates last Thursday
and made for the
Glassy-harem. Dame Margaret, with the
now recovered Daphne and Diana and Judge
Gordon’s velvet-eyed wife, went along under
the wing of Mr. Blandy, who Aides for
the sheer love of it, and the; turn of the
afternoon was the exhibition by Max and
llaye, whose facile gracefulness broke the
hearts of many of the more impressionable
onlookers.
Edith Rowsell, one of the most consistent
but least limelighted of war-workers, has
been for some time an inmate of St. Lukes,
where she parted company with the only
appendix she ever had. She started doing
her bit for the soldiers in ’l4, and for the
last five-and-a-half years the Soldiers’ Club
has looked to her for counsel and encourage-
ment in the day’s work. Taking delivery
of fruit and flowers and telephone messages
for the sick one from “the boys” nearly
drove the hospital staff on strike last week.
Mrs. Ernest. Bloomfield and her husband,
who is a Maorilander, are arriving on the
Ormond with their daughter Margot. She
was popular Alison Rose, of Sydney.
Captain “Bertie” Scrivener, of the Indian
Armv, arrived in Sydney by the Malwa with
his English bride, and is spending bis
furlough with his people at Hunters llill.
lie left the ’Varsity at the outbreak ot the
war, joined up with the Imperial Forces,
and managed to see a fair run of service
before stopping the bullet that permanently
injured his leg. His present military head-
quarters are Meerut.
A family that has not had a death in it.
for 50 years must be unusual. One such is
that of John Kingsbury and his wife (who
was a Miss Whateley, daughter of an old-
time Mayor of Newtown). They were mar-
ried in 1872, and had seven children; and
they have also been made grandparents 16
times, to date.
Capt. R. N. Walters, who is in charge
of the Naval College at Jervis Bay, and Mrs.
Walters are the guests of his Ex. and Dame
Margaret at Government House.
The Malwa brought eastward D. H. Law-
rence and his wife, who had had a fortnight’s
break in Groperland. He is the author of
a group of craftsmanlike novels —including
‘The Rainbow” which missed the popularity
of its fellows because it had to be with-
diawn from publication when somebody said
it flashed too luridly on the literary sky
or something. In view of the sheiks and
shrieks that the literary flappers are freely
wallowing in these days one wonders what
sort of spectacles that. Somebody wears.
The musical sensation of the moment,
Clarice Coles, bade her native city a musi-
cal farewell from the Town Hall platform
last week, and by the look of the packed
house she’s already a rival draw to the Sis-
tine Choir. In the words of one of the
attendants there was “nearly a thousand
ouid” in the house. Some of it —though not
a great deal—was represented by purely
Sassiety fluff, but there was a ballasting of
genuine music-lovers, such as the Herbert
Marks pair, Mrs. Alec Gordon, the H. R.
Denisons and the Mayoral McElhones. The
tall, slim girl with the wide-apart grey eyes
wore an unassuming manner and a white satin
frock that blossomed into a red spray at
its waist-line, and when her organ-like notes
pealed out Liddle’s “Abide with Me’’ Sub-
urbia got positively devotional. She came
back to give her encore, clasping a modest
bouquet—her proud dad’s contribution to
the mass of vegetation that had just been
laid at her feet. The monotony of the inter-
val was broken by the stage entrance of
Deputy-Town Clerk Layton, who read in
impressive tones Dame Melba’s telegraphed
good wishes. Lionel Lawson’s melodious
fiddle, pianist Henry Penn, Leslie MacCal-
lum, the songbird’s beaming teacher A. R.
Richards, City Organist Truman and Verb
Barnett assisted at the triumph.
“Burlington ■ Bertie” (Ella Shields), on
her trip to London by the Orsova. will have
as fellow-passengers Annie Besant and his
Gaiters of Melanesia.
The G.-G. and his lady spent a day with
the war workers of Yass last week, and filled
in time by blessing the foundation-stone of
the Soldiers’ Memorial Hall. It will cost
about £lO,OOO. and only one thousand has
still to be raised. Lady Forster, attended
by aide De la Cour, of the dimpled chin,
spent the greater part of the day with the
Red Cross workers, V.A.’s and soldiers’
mothers, and in the evening the whole dis-
trict turned up to the vice-regal ball.
Sparse Playhouse audiences laughed hol-
lowly last week at the S.U.D.S. presentation
of Oscar Wilde’s “Importance of Being
Earnest.” In a galaxy of wavering stars
Violet Ivilien’s Miss Prism, the governess,
was nearly human. Of the remaining lasses
in the cast one wore smart jazz garters, and
another displayed the prettiest head of Titian
hair ever seen in or out of a beauty com-
petition. Leslie Gaze, made a capable job
of the producing.
Myrtle Cole says the Redfern branch of
the City Mission holds its annual sale of
work on Friday and Saturday. If you feel
like pushing a good thing on, contributions
and cheques can be forwarded to missionary
Tom Henderson, 1G Bond-street, Newtown.
Mrs. Holman staged an at-home at the
Repertory Theatre Society’s rooms last week.
A large crowd chattered and drank tea and
listened between whiles to music, and the
Irish Players dropped in and draped them-
selves artistically around a dower-decked
table in a corner. The White-headed Boy sur-
veyed the company thoughtfully through his
tortoiseshell-rimmed glasses, and the Murphy
colleen smiled from under her tarn. Tall Miss
Fitz Gerald was wearing a gold silk-knitted
suit, and Harry Hutchinson was lost in reverie
over a very up-and-down trip he had made to
Manly the previous day. Manager Walsh,
who brought his handsome wife along in a
fur coat and cap and is an Australian first,
as he oroudly asserts, made friends with
everybody in a. short speech. Incidentally,
lie urged the society to fare forth and con-
quer the outside world with an Australian
play. Sister Una Kidgell, daughter Portia
and Mrs. John White helped Mrs. Holman,
who was all in autumn brown.
The Dowager Countess of Derby, who died
last week aged 82, was married about GU
years ago to a younger son of the famous
Earl of Derby, three times Prime Minister of
Britain, scholar, litterateur and pre-
eminently a sport, whose own title and the
title of his family estate are immortalised on
the Turf by the Derby and Oaks fixtures,
and whose ungratilied ambition was to win
the classic race that had been named after
his grandfather. He is said to have been
offered and refused the crown of Greece. He
had to see his elder brother off the planet
ere he succeeded to the valuable London pro-
perty of the Derbys, and that elder brother,
the 15th Earl, was a kleptomaniac. The
Dowager had probably helped, in her time, to
restrain her brother-in-law 7 from pocketing
silver forks, spoons and more valuable port-
able property, at the mansions of the rich and
great. The emptying of his Lordship’s pockets
of any stuff he collected and the restoring
of it to its lawful owners was the job of his
Lordship’s valet, but his near relations, if
they happened to be around, were expected
to do their best to keep his itching fingers
from picking up smld and silver that. didn’t
belong to him. The kleptomaniac kink in
the 15th Earl’s brain accounted for his being
but a faint-hearted son of the fiery father
whom he facially resembled. Yet it didn’t
prevent him serving as Foreign Secretary,
and from even getting the refusal of the
Premiership when his influential Tory friends
paid him the empty compliment of proposing
it to him. On that occason the grave old
stager is said to have burst into tears, crying
“ You know my weakness,” of w r ords to that
effect.
The Claude Parburys are on their way to
Australia, wdiere he will take a hand in this
e,nd of the firm’s business for three years.
She was Doris Blomfield, a sister of Dicky
Blomfield, the volatile youth who rose to be
a flying colonel in the war, and a niece of
Elwyn and Frank Blomfield, of picnic rac-
ing fame. They have let their house in
Hans Crescent to Molly Lazarus (Mrs.
Harry Levy’s eldest girl) and her husband.
Mrs. Lazarus has just presented her gratified
spouse with a son and heir.


/or
CONSISTENCY
oluality’
OF
R. A. SHOW—I 922.
AWARDED
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for HOCK
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL forCHABLIS
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CLARET
14 FIRSTS, 2 SECONDS,
4 THIRDS
Against All Australian Competition.
Exquisite and Exclusive
Jewellery.
ď
IfXTRA'QUALITY
DIAMOND A SAPPHIRE WATCH
Diamond, sapphire & frosted
CRYSTAL BROOCH-SET IN PLATINUM
£4-0
Diamond & sapphire
RINO-SET IN PLATINUM
£ 75
SET IN. PLATINUM Jf2 50
PEARL, DIA MONO & SAPPhiPE
BROOCH- SET IN PLATINUM
DIAMOND & SAPPHIRE
RING-SET IN PLATINUM
€ 9Q
DIAMOND St SAPPHIRE PENDANT
SET IN PLATINUM
£ 150
Drummonds’ Jewellery is exclusive in character and
possesses the quiet elegance that marks high quality.
Illustrated Ring or Watch Catalogue
sent Post Free to any address.
OTm. ©rummonb & Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
\
:
rr
\j\xe famous
Sox'
and name
guarantee
Sualify
Hillier’s Chocolates.
Mailed to You the
day they are made.
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- & 30/
l*ost Free to any address in Australia.
162-166 PITT STREET; also Comer
GEORGE AND KING STS. : SYDNEY.
IP
no
r
g
(1H
8
m
Wm
°f?r
F 0 OD
pKI
zmm
m
%r<>
&. \
// AM/fe. ✓'n \7
•' / " // €Pv4"
JILrS?Ss4-V?
>
t'j
: W
1
«> cl I
*S±S
s \
4-\
rZ^C tf 3'
X
;Ot • |
rr>.
A PICNIC PARTY
HERE YOU SEE!
Right handy to the deep blue Sea. Comely girls are
Sue and Mabel, together spread a tempting table.
“Rex”
Camp Pie
and Cakes and Fruit are just the
things Boy’s tastes to suit. Take
Cue from Sue and dainty Mabel,
spread a tempting picnic table with
“Rex” Camp Pie, it's such a treat,
compounded of the choicest meat.
Serve it cold from out the tin—for
Sandwiches you slice it thin. A
Salad will enhance the flavor. But
anyhow it wins your favor.
Include “Rex” Camp Pie on
this week’s grocery order.
Foggitt Jones
Ltd.
f.j. 140


Learn to Draw
"There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
i
The (
above is
the title
of our book-
-1 e t, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing—
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARRY J. WES-
TON, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
successful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet —
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
134 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY,
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
lAUNDRENA
The Dainty Womans favourite Starch
Ideal for delicate fabrics,
fine linens and lingerie.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE &C»L™ SYDNEY.
¥
'Sx
¥
Judge Yourself:
Which is the best way to
MARK LINEN?
There’s no question that for a Clear, Neat
and Durable Name to mark any garment
or Article
UldlfcHUUSlS
Are Unrivalled. Beats Marking Ink.
Easily Sewn On.
Be sure and ask for CASH’S Names.
Prices: 12 doz. 7/6 —6 doz. 5/- 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers.
HSVD T ? f
Pty.
Ltd.
85 Cubift St.
Richmond, Vic.
WRITE FOR
STYLE BOOK
CS**-
(Jorvn-
.
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
" Missing Friends.
IF RICHARD KEANE, a brother of
Thomas Keane, late of Portland, Oregon,
United States of America, compaunicates
with the undersigned, he will hear something
to his advantage.
WALSH & MCLAUGHLIN, Solicitors,
Rockhampton.
PEARSON.— PRANK MORRIS PEARSON, at one
time of Number 403 Victoria Parade, East Mel-
bourne, and Footscray Road, Kensington, and
THOMAS ALEXANDER PEARSON, sons of
ROBERT ALEXANDER PEARSON, formerly of
Fernsdale, Sisters Creek, Tasmania, late of Number
20 Laing Street, South Yarra, retired sheep-farmer,
deceased, please communicate with the undersigned
when you will hear of something to your advantage.
Any person knowing their whereabouts or of their
death kindly forward particulars to THE EQUITY
TRUSTEES CO., LTD., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Victoria.
RE GEORGE RICHARDS, LATE OF
NEW ZEALAND.
ANYONE who can give information as to
the address of George Richards, late of New
Zealand, or. if dead, of the place where he
died, is asked to communicate with Messrs.
Chapman, Skerrett, Trip and Blair, Solici-
tors, Wellington, New Zealand.
POLO
Write for our Free Polo Booklets con-
taining the rules and illustrations of
gear used.
We have the largest range of polo
sticks in Australia.
Polo Helmets & Caps.
HORSE RUGS
Write for Price Idst and samples of
canvas used. We stock the famous
Eureka Patent Horse Bug.
fd
*3
WHEREVER THE WHIPS ARE CRACKING
“K’BURRA” WHIPS LEAD THE WAY.
KANGAROO LEATHER RIGHT
THROUGH, WITH PLAITED BELLY.
PLAITED BY EXPERTS.
Thongs 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
12-plait 17/- 19/0 22/6 24/6
16-plait 19/- 22/- 25/- 28/-
20-plait 23/6 27/- 31/- 35/-
Handles to Match, 16/6, 18/6 and 21/6,
but if for 9ft. thongs add another 1/6
for loading.
K’burra Whips Post Free for Cash.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
SADDLERS & POLO SPECIALISTS,
395 George Street, Sydney
That “just-out-of-the-box”
freshness lasts—
Provided you use
Bostock’s
Dry Suede Cleaner
COLORS: White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne, Brown and Nigger Brown.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., Sydney.
ďf
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
What Do You Need
in a Razor ?
The
jurhaJ
[UPLE
Safe Razor
combines the three great
essentials of shaving—Com-
fort, Safety and Dispatch.
IlillUll
All Good Dealers Sel! the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to your dealer to-day—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it in
your hand —see how it balances —then take it
home and shave with it. It's a revelation 1
■*renmn
rtgnrren
SH^Wrte
§
the mn run
COMP&riY
m
AFTERSHAVING
USE
nrnnEn
TRIE W 1 FORM
Will give you a
quicker, cleaner,
more pleasant shave
than you have ever
known.
Be good to your
face to-morrow and
use Mennen’s.
210
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY ffion).
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
SOME MAGIC.
Playing Card to Matchbox 1/3
Haunted Ace Trick 2/-
Billiard Ball Trick 3/6
Linking Rings (pocket size) .... 7/6
Diminishing Pack of Cards 5/-
Chung Loo’s Fire Eater 3/6
SOME THINGS—
Grease Paints, Wigs, Beards, Masks,
Ventriloquial Heads.
( *O*J
>&=±s=
SOME BOOKS.
Simple Oard
Tricks That
Anyone Can Do
With Ordinary
Cards, Without
Sleights.. 1/6
Up His Sleeve,
the latest book
for the profes-
sional .... 8/6
Funniest Four
Farces, in one
book 2/-
CATALOGS FREE.
How To Make Tlp. Guide to the Ktaere.. 1/6
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except oj a hostile character) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Maine E.: Send something coherent and
Interesting in favor of prohibition, and it will be
printed quickly enough. Say, an account of some
place where the policy has won the same public
acquiescence as any other law, supported by official
statistics and other data. Cries of “Prohibition
will come in Australia; make no mistake about that’’
are useless unless supported by your reasons for the
assertion. .. .H.J.G.: Stupid stuff....Patrius : Poor
verse... .F.R.D.: Very lumpy.... J.K.8.: Wooden
lines. .. .T.P. (Holbrook): Can’t find anything to get
excited about in that statement of the case.... Sucre:
Crude. .. .A.M. (Waverley) : The same old thing in
the same old way.... Navillus: The solemn account
of your “enjoyable and beneficial holidays” is about
as interesting as a piece of soap... .F.C.M.:
“Power” no use. . . .H.K.W.: Rubbish.... J.0.M.:
You can’t get any real fun out of horseplay like
that. It is built on the supposition that all people
found 10 miles from a town are congenital idiots....
Alice H.: They will not clutch and cling and shudder
in this paper. .. .L.N.C.: Not up....Exul: The
“Celestial Cake” is dough.... Athos: Below par....
J.T.A.E.: Not bad, but bad enough. .. .G.8.L.: Send
it to “Mary”.... J.A.S.: Nothing there.... Klaney :
Kiss it away and hare done with it....Ecce: Not
enough in it. .Helena W. : Album verse. .. .A.E.F.:
No yarn there. .. .Old Timer: “The Bull Fight” lacks
devil. .. .Will V.: A par padded out to inordinate
length... .R.L.C.: Not up....Bunyip : Old vaudeville
gags... .R.G.C.: Struggling lines... .C.E.P.: “The
Trees” are not green enough... .E.H.G.: Doesn’t
strike u5.,..P.8. (Lindfield) : The furs can’t be
changed here... .Gwen P.: Too slight... .Stella B.:
The friend with the voice like the summer wind
might be able to stand it.... Daisy H.: Thin little
thing.. . .Orion: Both miss... .D.F. (Strathfield) :
No use.... Klaney: Don’t know what it means....
W.E.P.: “Bread Upon the Waters” is out of our
line P.8.P.: Rubbish T.W.S.: It bumps
Stephen L.: The writing is horrible, the arrangement
bad and the yarn poor. If you write, present your
copy decently... .W.J.D.: “Skinny” doesn’t con-
vince... .L.L.W. and W. J.: Doesn’t strike us. More
color was needed to make it live.. . . A.E.D.: You
have some distance to go yet.... Hunter: Lacks
point. .. .0.Q.: Trick verse well done is no good;
yours is badly done. . . .Gunner 3095: No use for us.
. ...J.W.H.: Doesn’t get the spirit of the bird....
Twitch-Stick: Getting near... .Elvee: Can’t find the
mirth. . . .Harry T.: Why send verse when you know
it’s a “poor thing” ?.... Fanuela: Your poem has
asthma... .A. W.R.: A variation of an old yarn....
E.C. (North Carlton) : That theme has been worked
thousands of times. . . .J.M.L.: The writing is as bad
as the paper is dirty... .S.S. (Randwick): Only
worth a six-line par. . . .F.J.C.: Very bad. .. .
H.G.H.: No use sending us a mile of loose, thin
verse that merely slithers along saying things that
don’t matter Jendi: Matter poor; verse worse...
C.L.R.: Untidy as to copy, matter and manner....
C.M. (Auckland): Sorry; not up.... Lee H.: Doesn’t
strike us. . . .W.S. (Broken Hill) : Moves very heavily.
.... J.F.M.: An ancient mode of making mirth....
L.P. (Windsor) : Nice verse of its sort, but gets to
nothing. .. .Searchlight: Unlock your passionate
despair:—
Oh! to think that I will see Maisie no more,
Nor will ride her as in the days of before.
All that I’ve left is her image on paper,
No more will she trot, or round the yard caper.
But little I thought as I said with a laugh
“Goodbye!” as she ate unconcerned her chaff,
That soon she would be underneath the bull field;
But, alas, from our birth, our fate it be sealed.
A fortnight ago she was healthy and strong:
Sudden the call came and she answered the gong.
To-day Maisie resteth where oft she did roam.
Buried, but scarcely a stone’s-throw from her home.
That there is a Heaven for humans we know
Let us hope that there’s one where ponies may go.
.... Mullarula: Doesn’t g'et there.... R.F.0.: Album
verse for someone whose album isn’t too strictly kept.
.... James B.: There’s nothing to prevent your going
to Cornwall; but please take the verse with y0u....
V.L.: Not well enough done. . . .E.P.K.R.: Those
verses wouldn’t help the cause.... Arby: Bad verse.
.. . .Jay M.: Not up. .Horace: Very lame. . . .A.M.T. :
Horrible stuff... .1.1. F. (probably): Judas can’t
crow here. . . .F.D.F.: Wretched attempt.... Dora L.:
Doesn’t arrive. .. . A.McC.: We don’t reprint. .. .Anito
L.: “Chickens” too discursive.... Anna C.: It is
neither verse nor prose. . . .Emily B.: Not nearly up.
....E.C. Brisbane): “The Lyre” misses.. . .M.S.:
“Blindness” too technical. .. .G.C.P.: Too extrava-
gant. .. .H.R.Y.: “Pro Verbis” isn’t quite in our
line.. . . H.F.: The Fixed Idea” must go back,...
A.B. (Waverley) : No use. . . .F.T.K.: Doesn’t strike
us P.J.G.S.: Not enough interest... .Bellerive:
The little bit of natural history moves us strangely:
Said a frog to a eel:
“You wriggle and swish,
Your half a snake,
And half a fish.”
Said the eel to the frog:
“Your bandy ai d green,
And the ugliest freak
That ever I seen.”
... .A.IL.M.: Thin with nasty touches. .. .J.L.1.:
“Crystal” not our style.... Mag: Pretty enough, bi t
no use... .Way back: The start is the best of it....
P.D.P.: Might sell to some magazine.... Stella H.:
No earthly use here... .R.T.S.: Pretty but without
feeling. . . .W.C. (East Toowoomba) : Commonplace.
. ...C.D. (Ipswich): All too 1005 e... .A.W.D.:
“Quiet” too slight. .. .Ernest F.: Not for u 5....
“Fovant”: Glad to hear the Rev. John Tait, of
Scots’ Church, Sydney, acclaimed The Bulletin in a
sermon. But why not? Many valued Bulletin
writers are parsons. .. .J.L.D.: Sorry, not worth the
space... .Quidam: You take too long to say it....
S’fact: No; everything is judged on its merits....
Slug: One of the minor tragedies* that the lino-
type has brought to pass. The line “production of
a new Henry Arthur Jones play,” should have
appeared between the words “Gregan McMahon’s '
and “The Lie”... .N.L.P.: The name of the
article was “Kaiserism is Dead —Long live Ivaiser-
ism” ; and it was an attack on the Hughes Govern-
ment’s War, Precautions Act Administration. The
other yarn was the sort of idiocy people like Anstey
get off their chests w r hen they start to froth in
public. The fact that it bears no relation to the
truth does not concern such blitherers.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.G.: An old joke, and the very worst nigger to
date.... J.R.W.: Youth with the deformed hand go-
ing back.... Bilbo: But a real artist has illustrated
that incident in The Bulletin already. .. .J.M.:
Can’t introduce you to the accountant yet.. .F.G.G.:
Nothing in it... .P.W.: Bad drawing 8.G.R.:
The Bulletin is always on the lookout for new
artists whose work is up to the mark. Yours isn’t,
yet... .H.8.H.: Both miss.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 14.
VENTURA.
10,0U0 Tons, j i Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Hanking:, Public Companies. &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 799,740 0 0
Reserve Fund 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,069 4 5
Directors— James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; lion. G. \Y
Gray; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq •
. A. C. Luya, Esq.
Genekai, Manager —M. G. lIAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Lip .. .. .. ..£ 1,200,000
lieserve Fund .. .. .. .. £2f>o 000
Directors: Mark Sheldon, Chairman ; ’ Herbert’ R
Lysaght, 0.8. E .; George J. Sly, LL.D. • Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ; George F. Todman •
Dtjncan Carson. ’
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Comer George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street),
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world
Every description of Banking Business Transacted
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1.886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund ~ .. .. .. 650,000
£1,275,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625,000
£1,900,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,502,572
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,575,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £47,000,000
Annual Income .. •• •• •• £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. \V. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, ete.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LAR GEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BE 1 WEEN ALSIRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, 22nd JUNE, 11 a.m.
MAICURA, 20th JULY.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Fran cisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe,
the Great Cities of tlie United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, Bth JUNE, 11 a.m.
MARAMA, 6th JULY.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
ss
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3i TO 4h WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
I’iiid-up Capital
lieserve Fund
Heserve Liability
d
- £5,000,000
3,500,000
5,000,000
£13,500,000
Directors:
Thomfis Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc; B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Blaek, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager■ Oscar Lines
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Thread needle Street E.c"
358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London'
Agents and Ci rrespondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
.. £2,909,025
.. £2.360,000
.. £3,000,000
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
£8,269,025
ďf
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. E. liater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
J. W. Maearthur Onslow.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 ltirchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parrs Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Hotel RosciusKo.
Winter Sports in Australia.
, ,J n ° r,lel ’ m ®et as far as possible the hitherto unsatisfied demand for accommodation
at the Hotel Kosciusko m the \\ inter Season, arrangements have been made to reserve
certain rooms for parties of gentlemen or parties of ladies from four to ten in number
Large Bed-sitting Rooms with cheerful open fireplaces have been furnished at considerable
outlay in order to meet the requirements of such parties.
Comfort is guaranteed, and anyone interested is recommended to apply for full
particulars of bookings for the coming winter season to the Manager, Hotel Kosciusko
or the Acting-Director, Government Tourist Bureau. Kosciusko,
Special concessions on ordinary rates for travel and accommo-
dation are offered in the case of parties of six or more.
FULL PARTICULARS AND BOOKING AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis Home, Sydney.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA”GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
A AUSTRALIANS visiting London
XA- should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Shlnpln*.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma). MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Brisbane, Mackay (passengers only), Townsville
and Cairns.
fßrisbane, Port Alma (passengers only), Mackay,
Bowen and Townsville.
Huddart Parkei L|s?
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. LtdL
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from “Sydney only 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"["HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
Tlie speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE': 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDA Y ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD.,' MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
"Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address
“IROQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and T'itzroy Estates, Etd.
Blaekhealth Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co
Queensland Line ot Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd!
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown,


REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
THE NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(With which are merged
The Colonial Bank of Australasia, Limited, and the Bank of
Queensland, Limited.)
The Balance-sheet of the Bank as on 31st March last and the Profit and Loss Account
for the year which then terminated are now submitted to the Shareholders.
The net profit, after deduction of all expenses, etc., including £77,925/17/4 for
Income, Land and Note Taxes, amounted to KRftoS i- >
Add balance brought forward from previous year * ”
Leaving available
From this sum the following appropriations have been made
Interim dividend of 10 per cent, per annum paid in November last
out of Australian profits for the six months ended 30th September
preceding iVonno
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account o-’onn
Reduction of Bank Premises -D.UW
£235,000 0 0
And it is recommended that a Dividend be paid on the fully-paid and
ordinary shares at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum out ot the
Australian profits up to 31st March, 1022
103,050 0 0
£338,050 0 0
Carry forward :> > 1
£400,793 3 1
The purchase of the Bank of Queensland, Limited, as approved at the Extraordinary
General Meeting of Shareholders held on 9th January last, has been completed, and the
business of that institution from Ist February of this year is merged in the statements
of accounts now submitted.
The new issues of 145,000 Ordinary Shares of £B—paid up to £5 —referred to in
notifications to shareholders by circular, were over-applied for, and subject to necessary
adjustment in connection with fractional interests, etc., allotment has been duly
completed. Of these new shares, 30,939 have been allotted on application at £) pei
share to former shareholders of the Bank of Queensland, Limited. lhe premiums
received on the new shares up to 31st March, amounting to £163*164, have been credited
to the Bank’s Reserve Fund.
During the year, apart from the addition of 40 Branches of the Bank of Queensland,
Limited, the following alterations have been made in the establishment: —
A Branch was opened at Caulfield, Victoria, and the Branches at Dalyston, Victoria,
and Cleve, South Australia, were closed.
Agencies were opened at Balaclava Road (Melbourne), Dalyston. Digby, Last Malvern
(Melbourne), Gymbowen, Leitchville, Springvale, Waverley Road, Caulfield (Melbourne),
Whorouly and Yallourn, all in Victoria, and at Mayfield and Hamilton (near Newcastle)
in New South Wales.
Some unprofitable agencies in various States were withdrawn.
The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held in the Boardroom at the Bank’s
Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, 31st May, >at noon, when the
Shareholders will be called upon to elect two Directors in lieu of Mr. Hugh Murray
Strachan and Mr. ,T. Newman Barker, who retire by rotation, and are eligible for
re-election. There are no other candidates.
The Shareholders will also be called upon to elect two Auditors for the ensuing
year, in lieu of Mr. C. H. Tuckett and Mr. John Bishop, who retire, but are eligible
for re-election. There are no other nominations.
By Order of the Board of Directors,
E. H. WREFORD,
Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia, Limited,
Head Office, Melbourne, 18th May, 1922.
Balance Sheet of the National Bank of Australasia, Limited,
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 1922.
Dr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’ Capital—
-02,000 £lO shares
fully paid-up . . £620,000 0
401,547 shares paid
up to £5 . . 2,007,735 0
227 shares paid up
to £3/15/- . . 851 5
11,224 shares paid
up to £2/10/-.. 28,060 0
3,583 shares paid
up to £l/5/-.. 4,478 15
To Reserve Fund Account
To Profit and Loss Account
0
0
0
0
0
- £2,661,125
. 1,593.164
171,793
To notes in circulation . .
To bills in circulation
To Government Deposits—
fiot bearing inter-
est . . • • £301,365
Bearing interest 2,122,517
£2,423,882
To Other Deposits—
Not bearing inter-
est .. ..12,552,485
Bearing interest 12,481.224
£4,426,082
49,003
697,849
7 1
1 9
8 ]0
16 5
15 9
£25,033.710 12 2
— £27,457,593
To interest accrued and rebate on
current bills . . • • • •
To balances due to other banks.. 207,391
£33,195,076
Contingent liability, as per con-
tra. in regard to obligations of
customers and others on letters
of credit and guarantees
£539,844/6/3.
0 0
0 0
3 1
3 1
10 0
0 0
1 0
13 8
13 7
1 4
ASSETS. Cr.
By coin, bullion, Australian
notes, and cash at bankers .. £6,486,883 2 10
By Government, municipal and
other public stocks, debentures,
By liabilities
others on
drafts, and
contra
of customers and
letters of credit,
guarantees, as per
. . £539,844/6/3
£33,195,076 1 4-
PROFIT AND DOSS ACCOUNT.
To Expenses at Head Office, 2f>.>
Branches, and 123 Agencies . .
To Income, Land and Note Taxes
To Interim Dividend
To Transfer to Reserve Fund
To Reduction of Bank Premises
Account
To Balance
£0 2.1,6(53 17
77.92.1 17
109,000 0
110,000 0
25,000 0
171,793 3
7
4
0
0
0
1
£1,010,382 18 0
£56,624 17 2
By Balance brought forward
By Gross Profits, including Re-
coveries, less Rebate on Bills
Current, Interest Accrued on
Deposits. Repairs to Premises,
and Rent
953,758
0 10
£1,010,382 18 0
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
..£1,593,164 0 0
£1,593,164 0 0
By Balance last year . . . . £1,320,000 0 0
By Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account . . . . . . . . 110,000 0 0
Rv Premiums Received on Nev;
Issue of Ordinary Shares . . 163,164 0 0
£1,593,164 0 0
The customary Auditor’s Report and Statement of the Directors and Chief Manager to comply with
the Companies Act (Victoria) appear on the official Report.
E. 11. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
Dependable Guns
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
Kindly send your
GUN LICENSE
when ordering.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/6 each, post free.
d
820. The Cert Co.’s
rebounding locks, left choke.
D.8.8.Li. Gun. 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about ££*s/12/6
Delivered, £6/5/-
821. The “Cert” Cun. as above, but with X bolt
WE REPAIR
GUNS § RIFLES
SUNOL ™ Tobacco
The World’s Best.
ďf
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.8.8.L. Gun, 1 2-gauge, 28-ineh
[ barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks, CIA il A !
j patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 7}lb. Freight paid, *77**T/'
Marble’s Waterproof Match
Boxes, for the Outdoorsman.
Post Free, 3/10.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
IMuuajaiU.
119. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Hi”eon Gull (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top aver,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file cut rib, pistol
crip, chambered for 2ifin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7Jlb. 1 IS/l /•
Tested for Nitro l’owders Freight paid, 3-* IVJ/
_ -
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repealing
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, Steel bnrreh. take-down
svstem, magazine holds six cartridges ; weight
about 71b Freight paid, 3-0
S. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot ® un F *, e V h ' t *p a : d *
B 2
POWDER
AUSTRAL * /6 lb *
DIAMOND GRAIN lb *
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Guns 9/0 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 8/0 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS lO O lb.
PIiEAjSE NOTE. —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.VV.
d
barrels, both choke,
beautifully engraved
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.Tj.
Bio eon Gun. 12-gauge. top action, bar lock.
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28 inch sUel
D <!£ F. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2|in. cartridges, 4?]A/IAJ.
... , x ... Freight paid,
weight about (fib
myrrohl
antiseptic
TOOTH PASTE
HEALING.
Made in
America.
—CLEANSING
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 2/- tube.
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
ď
top action,
pistol grip,
an ordinary
solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or
walnut stock; weight about 6}lb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
Double-barrel Gun. 88-
Ejector, 65/* Freight paid.
BC
J
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
branches—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Girls! Rexona Soap
“Stands Alone” as a
SRin &. Hair Beautifier.
m
■ v
■
Mis*
OUIA
DEAXE
(from it photo).
“I am simply delighted with
Rexona Soap. ‘Absolutely lovely,’
is how I would describe it for the
skin and hair. I have been a Rexona
Girl for more than two years, and
always will be, for I cannot imagine
how any Soap could be as nice as
Rexona.
“My skin and hair have consist-
ently improved since I started to use
Rexona Soap, and 1 advise any girl
who cares for herself to at once use
Rexona Soap. lam sure she will be
delighted with it.
“Very sincerely yours,
“(Sgd.) OLGA DEANE.”
c/o Pauline’s Song Shop,
111 King Street, City.
Rexona Soap—Purest and
Best Soap Known.
That natural beauty of skin and hair which cannot be imitated can be obtained
by regular use of Rexona Skin and Racial Soap. Ordinary Toilet Soaps do not assert
this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin and
destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse—they
cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same
soothing, healing:, antiseptic bal-
sams as Rexona, tlie Rapid
Healer, the value of which in the
treatment of skin affections is
known throughout the world.
Simply use Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap regularly once or
twice a day, and see if it does
not quickly soothe and cleanse
the pores, lessen the tendency to
pimples, and leave the complexion
clear, fresh and velvety. Rexona
Soap, 1/- per Tablet.
w/dfo.
Iff;
fep
y/y.
y/S//>V/?/S/SSSSr//Z"/7?yW77777Z’
ttwm
VO*”
m
V?,.
V//,
mk
m
vs
*7 CIUAHSCJ
I
U HEALS
1 Purifies
SKIN
FACIAL
m
m
fli
m
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
(“The 1.0. A.”)
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE.
Head Office —265 George Street, Sydney,
- ■% '• " ,
The majority of the Shares in the above
Company are now vested in the NORTH
BRITISH & MERCANTILE INSURANCE
CO., LTD.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £2,437,500.
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £25,000,000.
The business of the two Companies will be
transacted separately as hitherto, the contracts of
“The 1.0. A.” being now guaranteed by the
North British & Mercantile Insurance Co., Ltd.,
which affords ample security to Policy-holders.
COLIN R. COLQUHOUN,
Manager for Australasia,
North British & Mercantile Insurance Co., Ltd.
\V. R. CAVE,
General Manager,
The Insurance Office of Australia, Ltd.
Mailacoota Bar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON Gabo —standing high and lone
To make Australia’s corner-stone—
A tall red-granite pillar lamps
The homeward-turning of the tramps.
We watch it, flashing, in the mghts,
Its message to some steamer s lights,
And wonder what :%nd whence they are,
Who pass by Mallacoota bar.
Blue daylit bills of Nadgee dream;
Broad sunbars down their gullies stream,
And Howe, a solid bastion,, stands
On guard o’er scrub and drifted sands,
That shoreward winds have mounded up ;
And, like a willow-patterned cup,
There lies in sheltered calm below
A crystal lake the cygnets know.
Aglitter through the wooded hills
Our tidal inlet ebbs and fills;
Its placid coves, unruffled bays,
Through silver nights and golden days,
From Bogong to Ginoa Range,
In quiet pass from change to change—
Each tinted hour a glory, strewn
With special jewels of its own.
When sunlight yields to wind and cloud,
That flat and hilltop fast enshroud,
One loves to hearken once again
The cool oncoming of the rain;
To see the wind-whipped water rise
In futile protest to the skies;
Then, lashed and driven, turn, to smite
The stolid shores in ancient spite.
And, oh ! when misty evenings fall,
Tis good to hear shrill spurwings call.
Brown whimbrel on the saltpans cry
And seagulls in the dusk go by ;
’Tis good to breathe a mingled scent
Of sea and forest, subtly blent,
When tumbled surge throws far and wide
Its restless gleanings on the tide.
And when in Ilunnish anger roll
Those grey battalions from the Bole,
At Otway’ and “The Prom,” we know,
Fierce furnace fires in answer glow,
And gloomy Macs ’midst crank and rod,
Invoke a Caledonian god,
That he may bring them, ’spite the shame
Of sin remembered, safely hame.
When froth and fungus tell a tale,
And river branches track the gale;
When yellow creeks in echo roar —
Though blue skies arch the land once more—
A rain-wet forest to the sun
Bings low a song of Youth re-won,
And through the sweetness of its rhyme
There runs no hint of Death or Time!
But shining kelp and seaweed write
Another story of the fight;
And curling combers, on a shore
With flotsam littered, sullen roar.
While cloud-banks, in the distance set
O’er tumbled waters, threaten yet,
And o’er their massive ramparts play
Red lightnings at the close of day.
Beyond that cloud-rim —low and high—
The coasts of foreign countries lie;
Yea! Coasts of Dream and Isles of Gold,
Whence came the seaworn ships of old ;
Whence sailed De Quiros, Torres grey,
And Abel Tasman in his day,
Or some seawolf who never more
Unto his homeland grimly wore.
But oft, at night, one strangely seems
To vision through one’s waking dreams
Those tall old ships; and ringing clear
A voice that thrills the heart to hear,
Where from a high poop proudly set
Boscawen hails to Carteret,
Or Cook or Cavendish or Drake
Go past with swirling surge awake.
Their topsails bellied with the breeze,
They come to dare uncharted seas-
Great Hearts of Oak! who knew no fears,
But led the Vanguards of the years.
One sees them when the moon sets low,
Across this wide Pacific go.
And hears their ship-bells faintly call
The lonely watches through it all.
And though great steamers outward bound
At Gabo now swing proudly round;
Though dingy tramp and liner neat
Go by with rhythmic roll and beat.
My heart is with those captains still,
Who, stout of sinew, strong of will,
Subdued these seas that trumpet far
Their fame from Mallacoota bar.
From Mallacoota bar to-day
Still spreads the same blue plain away ;
From Hobart to the Hebrides
Still runs the Highway of the Seas;
With all its splendid story brave
The shipman’s roadway or his grave.
It runs to Reikiavik afar,
And home—to Mallacoota bar.
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.
Jim Waggon’s Elopement.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WRITING a letter may be as dan-
gerous as falling out of an aero-
plane.
Dear Mr. Walker,—
It is just a year since I asked you to let me
marry your daughter Dolly. Your refusal nearly
broke rny heart. Since then I have recovered and
learnt enough of Dolly to tell you that I owes you a
life-long debt of gratitude.
James Waggon.
It was in the middle of his breakfast that
Mr. Walker read Waggon’s letter.
“What on hearth’s the matter, John
Walker?” asked his wife. A stricken silence
fell on the rest of the family.
“Matter!” lie roared. “Where’s my
boots? The’ ’obnails?’
The children glided from the room as
unobtrusively as ghosts, Mrs. Walker
picked liis boots up and handed them to
him. By the time they were on his face
was purple. “Dolly!” he shouted, though
she was only on the other side of the table.
She stared at him from wide eyes, blue as
cornflowers. Her skin of peaches and cream
was pale. She was too scared to speak.
“Whv don’t v’ answer me?”
“Yes, dad.”
“Have v’ ever spoke to that .Tim Waggon
since I lnmted him off the place?”
“N—-no, dad,” she said tremulously, as if
searching her conscience in some doubt.
"ihen never you mention his name agon.”
“No—o, dad. Why not?”
"Why not! Where’s my stockwhip?”
One of the girls leapt to the kitchen door
and took it down, her eyes aglow with plea-
surable anticipation, as it was none of the
brothers who was to be treated to it. lie
flung his arm through the coils. “Get outer
my way.” And grabbing his hat he clumped
stormily out.
He covered the mile and a half between
the farm and the township in record time
and made for the hotel. There were several
men in the bar as he entered who involun-
tarily stepped back as his flaming eyes
scanned their faces. Murphy was wiping
down his counter.
"Have any of yous seen Jim Waggon
about this mornin’V” None had.
“What’s the matter, John?” asked Murphy
gently.
“Matter. Paddy Murphy—look at that!”
And he tossed the letter to him. As Murphy
read it he reflectively rubbed his plump
chin, while his face turned red, and a sup-
pressed glow came into his small eyes.
“When you meet him, John, wale the
liver outer him. I’ve heard tell that he’s
courtin’ Mary O’Flynn.”
"H’you see the aspersion he’s cast on my
Dolly, Murphy?”
“I do—l do, John. Wale him for it, or
maybe Mary O’Flynn will marry a bad
man. It’ll be a mercy to Mary for you to
wale him, John. Which reminds that he’ll
be coming along the road to here by this.
Keep to the road, John, and you’ll meet
him.” Walker shook out the coils of his
whip and banged his fist down on the
counter.
“I will,” he said, and clumped out
of the bar. Murphy watched him go.
Then hurriedly calling his wife to mind the
bar he went and sought one of his progeny.
Three minutes later a little Murphy was
scampering over the paddocks to Waggon’s
place as if his father were behind him with
a stirrup-leather. Mary O’Flynn was
Murphy’s niece.
Crossing the railway track Walker
arrived opposite the vicarage just as the
vicar came out. He looked extremely solemn
when he saw Walker’s angry face.
“Mr. Walker,” lie said, “one moment; vou
are evidently, from your perturbed manner,
in need of spiritual comfort.”
“No, I ain’t, Mr. Simpkin; but there’s
one of your flock that’ll need both medical
and spiritual comfort when I’ve done with
him.”
“Allow me, Mr. Walker; my duty, my
ministrations may be useful, to both of you.
Who is the other erring member of my
flock ?”
"Read that, Mr. Simpkin.” With gentle
deliberation Mr. Simpkin adjusted his spec-
tacles.
“Dear me, dear me!” he murmured.
“There is surely, quite certainly, some mis-
take. Your dear daughter Dolly, just been
confirmed, too; she’s too ingenuous, too —
ah—too innocent to merit this slur. Some
mistake”
“Mistake! Slur!” rumbled Mr. Walker
breathing hard. “You’re quite right, Mr.
Simpkin, but I ain’t goin’ to make one.”
He shook the coils of the whip violently
under the nose of the vicar, then strode on.
With his head bent in thought, the vicar
walked some distance in the direction he had
first intended to follow. Then he abruptly
turned off through a fence and hurried across
the paddocks towards Jim Waggon’s place.
In the township the people were gather-
ing into excited knots, dispersing and re-
gathering, their eyes full of excitement, their
tongues wagging with rumor. By some it
was felt that a dreadful tragedy impended ;
a feeling that stimulated the imagina-
tion of Mrs. Amos, till she asserted
that John Walker, with a gun over each
•shoulder, was gone to burn down Waggon’s
house, with Waggon’s bullet-riddled body
inside it. The evidences of exaggeration
awakened a desire for the truth, and in
twos and threes, a few with guns, men began
to trickle across the paddocks towards Jim
Waggon’s place.
The cause of all the turmoil was shaving,
and he had already cut himself in three places ;
because with Satanic enjoyment he had been
chuckling, as he scraped, at the thought of
the effect of his letter upon Mr. Walker.
Jim Waggon was not Satanic to look at, for
his face and head were round, and his mouth
gentle.
But the gentlest heart will harden under
insult. He had never forgiven the burly Mr.
Walker’s contemptuous rejection of his offer
for the hand of Doliy. More particularly as she
had been quite willing to give it to him. And
it was moi*e than undignified to have to dodge
chunks of firewood. He had tried to meet
her afterwards, but Dolly’s fear of her father
was stronger than her affection for Jim. Their
subsequent love-passages took place at a dis-
creet distance, in the speaking eloquence of
their speechless eyes. It was a sorry world.
But the letter squared his account with
Mr. Walker. He gave himself another gash
at another chuckle, as he thought of Walker
writhing with humiliation and regret. Then
he looked solemn.
It was at the thought of Mary O’Flynn.
His knowledge of Mary Jim owed entirely
to the proud and practical Mrs. O’Flynn.
He thought Walker possessed the same know-
ledge, and that he would fully realise Dolly
was not a patch on Mary, when he read the
words: “Learnt enough of Dolly to tell you
that I owes you a life-long debt of gratitude.”
But Walker’s knowledge of his neigh-
bors came from his wife, and she knew so
little of Mary’s virtues as never to have men-
tioned them. Mrs. O’Flynn had seven para-
gons like Mary, but only one was a paragon
at a time.
Jim wiped the blood from his razor, ami
began to mop his cuts with cotton wool,
when he heard the swift patter of bare feet,
and voung Murphy dashed in. breathless.
“Dad ses ter clear out like blazes, Jim.
Walker’s after yer with a gun for callin’
Dolly names.” Jim’s round face went pale.
Young Murphy grinned. “Gripes, Jim, you
looks shot up already.” The gleeful tone
in the boy’s voice stung Jim keenly, made
his fear turn to hope that the lad was jok-
ing: from hope to belief was but a step, and
he kicked the boy out.
He had scarcely done so when Mary
O’Flynn surged into the room. The boy
(Continued on next page.)


Tired, AcHy—All
’Evety Picture
Tells a Story”
h* 1
ua *
/r^zrz
: jg
& '
Jk
Backache Kidney Pills.
Th
ey have helped
Played Out?
Are you dull, tired, achy all over —bothered with a “bad
back ? Do lack energy for the day s work? Evening
find you all played out”? Don’t worry so much about
it! You can’t expect to feel up to par if your kidneys are
not acting right. The kidneys need help occasionally,
just as the bowels need help. A dull, nagging backache;
soreness, lameness and sharp, sudden pains are all
symptoms of neglected kidneys. You may have head-
aches and dizziness, too, and perhaps some annoying
kidney irregularity. Don’t wait for more serious
troubles. Get back your health and keep it! Use Doan’s
thousands and should help you. Ask your neighbor!
SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
AN ALEXANDRIA RESIDENT.
Mrs. A. G. Cox, 70 Garden Street, Alexandria, Sydney, says:— “For a long
time I suffered from kidney trouble, the worst symptoms being severe pains in my
back, bad headaches, dizzy attacks, disordered secretions and a dull, tired feeling
that I could not shake off. The pain in my back was- often almost unbearable,
and every movement seemed to increase my suffering. As time went on I got worse
instead of better, nothing I took doing me the least good. I was really far from
well, and badly in need of a medicine that would cure me. At last I heard of
Doan’s Backache Ivdiney rills, so I bought a bottle to try them. They proved
to be the very thing I wanted, three bottles of the pills curing me completely, and
I have had no return of kidney trouble since.”
Ten years later Mrs. Cox says:—“My cure has proved a perfect one, for I
have not had a sign of kidney trouble since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
me ten years ago. I always keep this remedy in the house, and take it occasionally,
because I think the kidneys need a tonic sometimes.”
A HARRIS PARK RESIDENT.
Mr. Walter Niddrie, Cowper Street, Harris Park, Sydney, says :—“I suffered
terribly with my kidneys, the worst symptoms being backache and rheumatism.
Sometimes I would be doubled up with the pain, and unable to move. Hearing
Doan s Backache Kidney Pills very highly spoken of as a cure for all ills arising
from disordered kidneys, I decided to try them, go got some at once. They acted
splendidly, a few bottles banishing the backache and rheumatism entirely and
giving me complete relief from pain. Previous to taking these Pills I would' often
sit down and it would be fully ten minutes before I could get up again to a
standing position. I was unable to stoop to lace my boots in the mdrning, and
my wife had to do it for me. I am quite free of backache and rheumatism now,
and I consider that without Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills I would have had
to give up my billet.”
Twenty years later Mr. Niddrie says “I have been free of backache and
rheumatism since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me twenty years ago. I
never suffer with my kidneys now, thanks to Doan’s Pills. This remedy keeps
me free from those trying ailments.”
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
f
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
howling outside, and Jim’s bleeding face, con-
firmed her worst fears. She clung to him
desperately.
"Oh, Jim, darlin’, I’m too late—too late.
Where’s his corpse?”
“Whose corpse? What the —what the —I
say, Mary—Mary.” She sank to her knees
and slowly rolled over on her side. Being
built on Dutch lines she looked more solid
than picturesque; but she hoped for the
best, and closed her eyes. Jim reached for
the jug and poured water on her head. At
that moment Mr. Simpkin walked in, and
stood stricken.
“Young man, young man!” His voice was
deep with solemnity and dismay. “That
young woman, dishevelled and fainting. You,
with your face torn!” He backed towards
the door, trembling. “You will explain,
young man, this con —conduct, to those who
—who”
"Oh, dry up,” said Mary, sitting up and
wiping her face with her skirt, “lie thought
—I mean I fainted, and he poured water on
me.”
"I’m pleased”———
“I’m not,” snapped Mary. She made
him feel somehow in the way, but he re-
lievedly recovered liis sense of duty.
“Young man, you wrote a very indiscreet,
and very thoughtless, letter to Mr. Walker.
Justly angered, he seeks to injure you. It
is my duty, to a member of my flock, to urge
you to seek a place of safety, till his
righteous wrath is soothed by his friends.”
“Walker’s coming for you with his
bludgeon, Jim. Come home with me, hard
as you can lick,” said Mary hurriedly, and
grabbing his arm. “Quick, Jim, Dad come
.special to tell me.” Jim was not quick at
thinking; but it suddenly appeared to him
that O’Flynn could have saved time by com-
ing direct.
“ ’Ere ’e comes, Jim, through the slip-
panels, a gun on each shoulder !” shrilled the
small Murphy from the doorway, and then
vanished. He was incurably optimistic.
Without waiting to thank either Mary
or the vicar, without even stopping to put on
his coat, Jim dashed out and raced for the
stable. When he came out on his horse Mr.
Walker was at the front gate. Making a
dash for Jim, he uncoiled his whip. The
crack was like a pistol-shot behind the horse,
which leapt like a kangaroo and took the
back fence in its stride. Walker vented his
disappointment in whip-cracks, which in his
excitement Jim took for revolver shots; be
even thought he heard the bullets whistling
past his ears. He galloped till the horse
was winded. Then he looked about him.
A quarter of a mile away was Walker’s
farm. His first impulse was to turn and
gallop somewhere else. But where could he
go? What could he do when he got there?
Then he saw a figure coming from the dairy,
and recognised it as Dolly’s. He rode
up to her, with a vague idea of remonstrat-
'ng about the conduct of her parent.
When she saw him she blushed deeply, and
two dimples shadoAved the peach and cream
of her cheeks. Jim’s heart turned to wafer.
Then it turned to iron under the spur of
sudden resolve.
“Come on, Dolly. If he’s going to kill
me he can kill us both.” She stared at
bun in astonishment.
“Where to?” she asked. Then into her
eyes of cornflower-blue came a light of
understanding. But she hesitated.
"If you don’t, it’ll be Mary O Flynn,” said
Jim with a scowl. She ran to the fence
and climbed up. Jim rode alongside and
drew her on to the horse’s withers.
The registrar at the next township, six
miles away, did the rest.
W. E. B RENTON.
After Harvest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
was silence in the steaming
g kitchen. She had given him the
letter to read. He took his pipe from
his mouth and put it back again. She could
hear it click against his false teeth. She
made a dash at an adventurous hornet with
her apron, then took to looking apatheti-
cally once more at the rows of plates on
the dresser.
“Well?” she said at length in a rasping
voice.
“Reckon Em’ly’s in for a good holiday,”
the man said with a noisy yawn, handing
back the letter. “But ’nw th’ hell’s she
think you can go from here? Money grows
-on gum-trees —aw yis—I don’t think!” He
called to the dog and stood hunched for a
minute against the post of the door, a
stumpy, thickset man with a burnt, good-
natured face and uncovered neck. “Hot in
here, lass! But a darn sight hotter down
in the paddock sewing bags.”
He took his battered hat from the top
of the Coolgardie and went off.
That was all, then! The woman sat down
heavily on a wooden chair. Strangely
enough, though he was gone, his words still
seemed to be echoing about the room.
“Money grows on gum-trees. Aw yis—I
don’t think !”
They seemed to be real living things,
those words, with bodies —like the hornet
with its hanging yellow legs or the flies
drumming against the window or the ants
that ran in a little black trail across the
dresser. Try as she would she could not get
rid of those ants. Kerosene somedne had
said —or inseetibane. “Money grows oh
trees. Aw yis—I don’t think.”
She read a part of the letter again. “Dear
Jess,—l have a house at Black Rock with
the children. It is just a stone’s throw from
the beaclu Can you get down for a few
weeks? Yon need a change, living up there
in that God-forsaken North. And you never
get away Come at once Don’t bother
about clothes. I have any amount. ...”
Emily was the lucky' sister. She had
married a man who had made good. Jo had
not. He was always struggling along under
the disadvantages of the small farmer’s lot.
She could never picture him doing anything
else.
“Money grows on gum-trees. Aw yis”.. ..
She would <ro mad if she couldn’t get those
words out of her head!
She looked out through the door. The
long yellow plains seemed to he wavering
in the heat. Faint lines like rows of thin
transparent water hung over the yellow
grass. Strange, quivering trees etched them-
selves on the sayline. The peppers had
dropped untidy, pink berries all over the
yard. Once she had thought those berries
pretty. Some minahs were fighting over a
tin under the tap. “Yah, yah, yah!” they
erred derisively. They seemed to be jeering
at her—at the hot sky, at hie:—everything.
She took an iron oh the stove and began
to iron. Then something splashed on the
iron and sizzled. Another and another. The
table looked blurred and unsteady. She put
the iron down gently.
“Ah, God!” she whispered poignantly.
She thought she would choke. Red-liot
pains pricked behind her eyes. There was
a tightness at her chest. The tears ran
down over her lined, yellow face. Her thin,
pale lips quivered. Her hands clutched at
the blouse over her flat chest. Each summer
she told herself that she couldn’t hold out
for another without going away. Each sum-
mer found her, when March came, getting
ready for the ploughing with the same dead
weariness. It would always be the same.
Not that Jo was hard. He had simply no
imagination, and what he did not ‘ feel
did not exist. She clutched her breast. The
sea! How she could remember it! Some
nights when the heat was intolerable in the
little bedroom and the mosquitoes pinged on
a high note, she dreamed of those little
chains of pools glowing like jewels. They
ran seawards from the fine yellow sand. The
rocks were covered with green bead-things
—as a child they had called them mermaids’
necklaces. She could remember yet how they
squelched softly under the toes. The sweil
came in from the outer sea, and the water
gurgled with laughter in the narrow cracks.
Just for one smell of it....
“Money grows on gum-trees. Aw yis. ...”
The intolerable loneliness of this life —the
ache of it! She looked at her ugly, con-
vulsed face in the shaving-glass. How old
she looked ! And she was only 35! A sud-
den thought made he- catch her breath.
Why shouldn’t she go—at once? Without
asking Jo? Jo had failed in understanding.
She would take it on herself. Her thoughts
tumbled one over the other. There would
be no packing to do. She had no clothes
apart from her one “best” dress that she
would care to take. Not even one of those
yellow nightdresses with the coarse embroid-
ery at the high neck. But Emily would
understand. What had she said? She read
the letter over for the fourth time. She
went into the bedroom. On the boarded wall
was a- picture of a woman engulfed in a
tremendous sea clinging to a cross. There
was a text under it. She lost the meaning
of the text, and told herself what fin awful
sea that was to be caught in. She laughed
tremulously as she dressed, starting every
time the peppers dropped their soft contri-
butions of berries and little twigs on the
roof. She was ready at, last. She wore her
good black dress, and had an umbrella and
a bag. There was enough money for her
fare in the cracked tooth-mug. Jo didn’t
know that it was there. It was money
“saved” from the housekeeping, and, there-
fore. justly hers.
She went out the back door. “Shoo!” she
cried to the minalis. She hated them with
the yellow on their curiously old knowing
faces, their jeering cry of "lah, yah, yah 1 ’
It was a. long walk to the station. Quite
three miles. But she would have plenty of
time. The train didn’t come in till four,
and it was always late. She went on with
her -dragging, spiritless step. She had left
no word for .To. She would send a message
with Dave Sharp, who would be over with
the wheat at the station. A message that
would not give her away to him, of course.
The dies crawled into the corners of her eyes
Her dress was covered with a white film of
dust. The silvery seeds rose softly from the
brown thistles, and some of them" settled on
her skirts.
At the second mile she heard a cart com-
ing over the culvert. The cart drew up
when it came close to her. A man got out
wiping the dirt and perspiration from his
face with a red handkerchief. It was Dave
Sharp.
"It’s the boss, Mrs. Day,” he said heavily.
“A stroke of the sun with sittin’ out iii
it. lie would sit out and his hat was thin.
We took him into the doctor who was visit-
ing in the town. He says it’ll he a matter
of a few days. He’ll be onconseious a bit yet.”
He wondered at the woman’s expi-e.-sion-
less face. All the life seemed to have been
drained out of it. And where was she ott
dressed up like that?
“I was going across to McKay’s,” she
volunteered dully, reading his thought.
She got up in front of the cart. She" said
nothing else. Once she wiped her dry lips.
Her heart was beating in great hammer-
blows. What if she had gone? What if
her sick man—her .To—had been brought
back to an empty house? What if he had
wakened to find her gone? The thought of
what she had so narrowly escaped made her
feel sick. Again the tears scorched her eyes.
Her man—her Jo! Dave Sharp helped her
to get him into the house. ITe made no sign.
He lay like a log. Well, he would never
know how nearly she had shamed him. The
minahs were crying in softer, more inquir-
ing voices : “Yah, yah, yah !”
Two days later Jo woke to consciousness.
He turned his red, heavy face on the pillow.
“Lass!’’ There was some hungry quality
in his voice that hurt her.
“You’re there, lass? I had a kind of dream
that you had game. I —you’re there?”
“Yes, I’m lienh.” she said in her soft drawl.
“Lie still, dearie.”
“Lass!” Again his troubled voice came.
“It. isn’t that you were grievin’ about
Emily,” he said indistinctly. “T thought of
it all the afternoon, sitting in the sun' won-
dering. You wasn’t grievin’?”
“No,” she said with a shake of the head.
“I wasn’t grievin’.”
After a while he spoke again. “Money is
tight jes’ now,” he said dully, “but never
mind. We’ll see what we can do about it—
after harves’. After harves’.”
After harvest! A faint, sweet smile of
mockery stole into the woman’s eyes.
That was what she had heard all her life.
That elusive wonder-time when the magic
of success would make all things possible!
That mocking mirage! She smiled again.
After harves’!
MYRA MORRIS.


Ss *
■ tr .-#'■■
_«*■'- \ J£ass-}
*? i
«jj* i “ •’fcWS-J
1
IP* .'***- II
,i,v '* '-"/iifija-. ?«-
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency. •
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH) Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Fautheraton Street,'Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
t
m
D2E
3,7 V
ro
y->
MOTOR CARS
The evenly-balanced weight of the
Li&ht-Six chassis and its long semi-
elliptic springs make it possible to
drive over rou&h and rutty roads
with comparative smoothness and
absence from side-sway.
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
This is a Studebaker Year
£555.
Refrigera
Ice-ma
41 #
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care talcen in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at vour service.
rating
tsKs
Requisites
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney. ?„“i b SSXi“d r ,‘*iS.i?*'
ď
15 Short or
11 Long or 10 Long
Rifle Cartridges
May be loaded in the magazine of the .22 Remington
Repeater.
After the first shot, just slide the fore-end backward and
forward which operation ejects the empty cartridge case
and passes the next cartridge instantly from the maga-
zine into the chamber —ready for another shot.
The Remington .22 is light, splendidly balanced and
easily taken apart for cleaning and carrying.
f
A Splendid Rabbit Rifle !
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
■ D. D. BRYANT, Australian' Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
•"iiiillllllllflllllilll
•Mill
%
jjj,
•XMt111.... ll
Will'
«*•!
llilillln
—•mu
•••ill
'®"^llllllli/i»
f||p
SLufjiimJ
I*
III! -If
•WlllliSI)
llllllm
a
miimmiUitlliUu
■ 1 BBHB I
gjjjjjjlliim.j •
’"IIIII'IIiBhUI
11111111 l
MIIIJ
liiinniimmi
ujiiil!
■mini
Jm
<Q«
uni
m
•iiiiinii'j!!
•tv*'
11111111 l
'Wtttuill!ll!ll,;
mull
* c <.E Ol* ►
Appreciated in the
World’s Mining Centres
WE mdke a specialty of high-quality mining steels.
Our brands have been known and appreciated in the
mining centres of the wbrld. for very many years—appreci-
ated for their long, dependable sefvice and reliability on
the job
“An Eagle on a Globe”
Miners’ Drill Steels
are thorough British products and available for every
mining service. Octagon (solid §in. to 2Jin.). Hexagon
(hollow Jin. and tin.). Heavy aJid Light Cruciform sec-
tions ( Jin. to 3in.). Specially recommended for hard ground.
Send us your orders and ask for post-free book, “Balfour’s
Hints on Steel.”
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company ARTHUR BADFOUR & CO., LTD., Sheffield,
MAKERS OF UETRA-CAPITAE HIGH-SPEED STEED,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney: 342-48 Swanstoh Street, Melbourne;
Cliff Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Paul &
Gray, D’td., Scott Street, Newcastle; H. 1,. Milligan, 82a Argyle
Street, Hobart; John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 .Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; Charles Atkins & Co., Did., 88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If
the liver is active and well, good health
and happiness prevails. If you allow
Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Biliousness,
Constipation, Headaches and Melancholy
to assail you, they will result in lack of
energy, loss of memory and ill-
Small Pill
Small
Dose-
Small
Pried
rITTLE
IVER
PILLS
health; but
remember
Carter’s Lit*
tie Liver Pills
touch the liver
and cure all
liver ills. Try
them to-day
and see how
much better
you will be
to-morrow.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made In a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
V Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W. /
\V. In 3 si/.es of all Chemists M',
and Stores. ///I
’/Si
w
•\7
* w
det
"'■'•tlTwS'*
* > «
i»
5*W*“S
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILKG
PLOUGH. BUCKS.
ENG.
R. G. WATKINS <&. CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.


Born 1820 Still going Strong /
111
it
*'
m
a
\
<£
/2k
=**
fr^sgs?
fr
H
ow*
Owak«v
1
3^
&
%
%
X>
\N
'T
V,
'V
t
2TS
V'
htk
y
/
z:
-r
7
3
/
*3^
33
a
V
/
YE OWE CHESHIRE CHEEi
Famous Old Tied Street
■
frequented by Dr. Johnson
SHADE of Dr. JOHNSON : “As Boswell has recorded, I told
Ogilvie that/ 4 the noblest prospect which a Scotchman ever sees is
the high road that leads him' out of Scotland! You Johnnie
Walker, have made it equally pleasant to the rest of the World/'
JOHN WALKER & SONS. LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND#
