

■ ' .
N
■
I
Xvv*-;'.h;
w
\. v -.f * *- ■*. -••
ss©
Si
M
I
'"r ,
y
■
/
m.
r
-*, '<‘ VJ
V ; : >- w
-■
-
1
- • :;
■
■ -.m
/
K.v •
, *£
■ *
...
’'“■■S'.
‘n,\ v>
■ ;
.'. -*S •-> >
>* -V v' r ''T
t- w; t. v-> St
:fe3?
■w.** 1 . .r-l, - '' ■
!? -■'' .- i '-'r‘ ■
S£
..
,
a
m,
-I ■ -.**
it
- '
.
=
'
urn
mm
ss
||c
6®
;sa*s
srifi
W
*rf a
Afc
:v
> -
- *'
ifmm
mm-
/
.
-.e
*%s£
■mwt
r
■m
■ - 1
;
-
'
„
•• V
5«
‘ .* 1£ .
» .... . T : -.
m
•w.
.
■>«<**!
kns«%
XC
I
isr
jre&wss
mm
m
■
- T
■
The Island of
Vanishing Men.
Would you have the nerve to visit cannibals in the
primeval, unexplored regions of Papua? Captain
Frank Hurley is at present leading an exploration
party there. With the aid of sea-planes, they will
survey the jungle and mountainous country never
before entered by white men.
Included in the party is Capt. Andrew Lang, R.A.F.R. Pilot,
and holder of the World's Altitude Record, 30,500 feet.
Referring to that, Capt. Lang writes:—
“ After my world’s Altitude Record Flight in England, the
strain, accentuated by the taking of oxygen, seriously affected my
nerves. They became very ‘ monkey.* However, I continued
4 flying for a few months and then decided to come back to Australia.
Upon my arrival here a bad re-adion set in—l felt I would never
be well enough to fly again. A friend recommended CLEMENTS
TONIC, and after a month’s trial I felt totally different. In fad,
I feel it is due to your excellent medicine that I am now able to
continue my aviation career.”
You will also find CLEMENTS TONIC an excellent restorative.
It does not contain alcohol or narcotics, but imparts health
and energy through palatable, medicinal ingredients. Buy a
bottle and test it CLEMENTS TONIC is on sale throughout
Australasia and New Zealand.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43. — No. 2231*
Thursday, November 16, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1922 Circulating Library Cataloguo
now ready. Ported free to any address.
DYMOCK’S book arcade, ltd.,
428 George Street, City.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
M
PURE
A Welcome “ Refresher”
in Hot Weather.
FRUIT DROPS
Made by CADBURY-FRY-PASGALL, Claremont, Tasmania
£55
IS I2SSSSRS
ilia
-
KS
m
m
Power Transmitting Capacity.
The efficiency and exactitude with which Mangrovite Belting
transmits every ounce of generated power to the machines, cuts
down production costs and ensures maximum output at minimum
cost, is the reason why it is invariably chosen when big projects
are contemplated. Write or call to-day.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing: Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), 3YDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid and Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Henry Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 5 Bedford Row, Christchurch.
KILL THAT FLY.
• *
MUSTDIE
&
=3^
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
wmm
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/- 17
The Red Page
The Superior Man.
“The Problem of China/’ by Bertrand Russell.
( George Allen & Unwin.)
Bertrand Bussell is far better knovvn as
a mathematical genius and for his brilliant
philosophic speculations than he is in the
capacity of political student. In charm and
daring his “Analysis of the Mind” and even
his “Introduction to Mathematical Philo-
sophy” will rank high when his excursus into
the political abstractions of Soviet Russia,
for example, are happily forgotten. It was,
however, inevitable that he should write a
book on China, for Peking, where for some
time he held the post of professor of philo-
sophy, ought to be the spiritual home or
philosophers. He writes _so effectively on
his own subject that his intrusion into the
political field, where he has nothing parti-
cularly new to offer, is rather regrettable,
though he dresses his subject in attractive
style. After all the immediate future of
China, whether to be sliced up amongst the
Powers or gobbled up by Japan, is compara-
tively unimportant. The real problem of
China is hot primarily the problem of Japan
or of the individual Powers. It is not
material history, though it may be material
politics, whether France having abandoned
the Entente allies with Japan, or whether
Britain having abandoned the Alliance pools
with America.
The real problem of China is—China. At
the Washington Conference Dr. Wellington
Ivoo severely snubbed a Japanese delegate
by reminding him that China was an empire
1500 years before lived Jimmu Tenno, the
mythical founder of the Imperial Japanese
dynasty. During 40 centuries China has
retained her civilisation, and it is the nature
of that civilisation which makes the real
problem of China and of the world. The
future of China, of Japan and of Australia
depends on whether China retains her ancient'
code or not.
Chinese civilisation is largely contempla-
tive and inactive, or perhaps indolent is a
bfetter word. Hustle, bustle, efficiency and
progress have no place in it. “The superior
man is within himself,” wrote Confucius, and
therefrom Chinese civilisation is the 'truest
expression of the much misused phrase “cul-
ture.” Chinese and Western civilisations are
the poles apart. Their comprehensions of the
worth-wlnie are antithetic. The restless acti-
vity of the West aims always at material
benefit. The contemplative indolence of the
East finds happiness in moral superiority.
“In China the best soldiers do not fight,” yet
the earliest records of Chinese history give
us the ideal policy, achieved by the Emperor
Yao, “universal concord.” That was in the
third millennium b.c. At the end of the
second millennium A.n. the West is vainly
conscious of the same ideal, but very far
from achieving it.
If we seek the reasons for the persistence
of Chinese civilisation through 40 centuries
we shall find them in the immensity of the
population; in the use of ideograms rather
than an alphabet; in the substitution of a
morality for a religion; and in the subjec-
tion of heredity to intelligence. These four
causes gave the whole empire an identity
of culture which bound it together in a
coherent whole. Shantung and Sze-Chuen,
Kwantung and Honan all reacted sympa-
thetically to the same test. So united the
empire was too vast to be disunited.
The ideograph is the expression of an idea
and not of a sound. The Chinese have no
alphabet and no phonetic writing, as the
Japanese have produced in the liana. The
ideograph is impervious to dialect changes
as is the monosyllabic spoken language. To-
day a rescript can be read throughout tlm
republic, but if a Cantonese, a Pekinese and'
one from Hankow shall meet interpreters
are necessary, for though mandarin is the
commonest spoken language it acquires pro-
vincial inflections which baffle
In just the same way the spoken Spanish of
Cuba varies from that of Madrid and from
that of Bogota. Certainly it is a historical
fact that alphabetical nations have displayed
a far lesser degree of solidity and stability
than have the hieroglyphic nations. The
civilisations of China, Egypt and Babylon
have a much longer history than those of
Greece, Rome or any of the Arab States.
The morality of Confucius —there is no
such thing as a Confucian religion, though
the sage was elevated to godsliip in 1911; —
has been a supreme influence on China’s life
and history. Perhaps he is the most remark-
able influence the world, East or West, has
ever known. He can rank only with
Buddha, Mahomet and Christ, and he is
above Buddha and Christ in that there is
nothing mythical concerning him. We know
all about him: when he was born, where,
his youth, his manhood and his old age ; the
offices he held; the laws-he administered; the
“carts” he wrote. His-outlook on life was
essentially conservative. His morality con-
sisted in the cultivation of duty to one’s
neighbor. His aim was towards peace and
prosperity. Of religion he had none but the
vague monotheism of the age, which included
ancestor worship. It was this last which
induced the doctrine of filial piety so closely
associated with the Master’s name and
Chinese ethics. In it is to be found the main-
spring of Chinese prolificacy and the barrier
against Westernisation, or, indeed, against
any change. Family sentiment has offset
public spirit. Patriotism was subjected to
filialism. The Confucian code in great part
is a book of etiquette, the conduct of the
superior man. Take any chapter from “The
Great Learning” or from “The Analects,”
and the reader will find that it consists of
words, sentences and phrases illustrative of
good or bad conduct in given circumstanecs.
Take that in chapter 16 of Book 2 of “The
Analects” : “The study of strange doctrines is
most injurious”—a warning against curiosity
and a barrier to progress, for to the illi-
terate everything not in the Four Books and
the Five Classics is strange and new. Or
“The superior man is not a partisan”—a
warning against enthusiasm: “Four horses
cannot overtake the tongue”—do not gossip:
“The superior "man does not go out of his
place”—mind your own business ! Moderation
is the test of superiority by the Confucian
code. Based on such teaching, progress in
the modern sense could only be acquired by
slow degrees. . ,
Until the classical examinations were abol-
ished as a punishment for the Boxer Rebel-
lion —though whom the Boxers rebelled
against is cryptic—China had been governed,
except for the Tartar military officials, by
literati, appointed after exhaustive competi-
tive triennial examinations. This system was
established by Hung Wu (1368-1398) and
lasted until 1905. It produced statesmen
and scholars, maintained a high literary
standard and a moral teaching which sur-
vives to the present day. In that it vvas
founded only on classical learning, which
reached its zenith in the “Eight Legs Essay,
it failed. It was this restriction which finally
caused its downfall. But the advantages
■were many: it was democratic —it compelled
industry—it induced learning—and it pro-
vided a class of administrator, plentiful and
intelligent, which evaded the necessity for
an hereditary bureaucracy. Its defect was
that it was not progressive, that it was un-
able to meet modern developments with
modern methods. In some respects the Brit-
ish Civil Service had before the war fallen
into the same groove and from the same
belief —that Hsui-Tsai (8.A.) can run an
empire.
These are the bases of that civilisation
which has kept China practically intact for
four thousand vears; and the real problem ot
China is the extent and the manner in which
that civilisation will be changed to meet
modern conditions. The modern Chinaman,
a snappy dresser, horn-spectacled, educated
in America, with American ideas of com-
merce, politics and morals, is as much related
to the real Chinaman as a dingo to a collie.
In many cases he can neither read, write
nor speak Chinese, and he has as many be-
liefs in China as a frog has feathers. The
treaty ports are not China, and it is beyond'
them that the solution of the future must be
sought. China is changing. The West is
forcing it to change. The importance of that
change will be in proportion to the extent
to which China adopts Westernisation.
Western science with Eastern philosophy, it
is to be hoped, will be the resultant mixture.
But if China adopts with Western science-
also Western philosophy, the consequences
will be colossal, not only for China, but for
everv other nation. Then, indeed, that ex-
tinction of the white races which Bertrand
Russell foresees may well eventuate.
Jean Curlewis
When “The Ship that Never Set Sail”
appeared, Miss Jean Curlewis instantly
found an audience. Though there were many
tiints of immaturity about the work, it had
a thoughtful charm ; and though the author-
ess had no story to tell she had a good
many bits of stories and suggestions of
stories. Everything was convincing, from
the girl who ran with boys under cover of
night on the long mountain roads, to the
middle-aged sea-lover who set out to see the
world too late. Every reader felt that there
was great promise in the little book, and
that here was the ’prentice hand of one
who might develop into a real novelist with
a grip on life and a charm of writ-
ing that would find wide acceptance.
In “Drowning Maze” (Ward, Lock and
Co.) there is still something of charm,
but the promise of the earlier book is so
far from being fulfilled that the reader is
left wondering whether it is not some child-
ish effort touched up a little in places in
answer to a publisher’s demand for another
book before the authoress had time to write
one. The story rushes from incident to
incident, and improbability to improbability,
with breathless haste. There is a wander-
ing king from the Balkans with a grand
duchess sister roaming round Pittwater;
another person from the Balkans goes about
Newport and Palm Beach with three Ger-
man chemists, and carries the stolen Crown
jewels in an insecure handbag; a very small
boy with a dirty face takes a racing motor-
boat from the . Hawkesbury to Sydney by
sea, pausing on the way to land the Crown
jewels at the foot of the cliffs; a young lady,
who cannot steer, takes her lover’s place
in the same motor-boat and, starting _ some
pages after the other competitors, wins a
race. These are a few of the things that
happen; and only a very clever handling
of the surrounding circumstances could make
any of them believable even to a very young
reader.
Yet there is a fine idea in the leadership
of a boy, who has spent most of his life in
a sick-room and is longing for adventure, in
search of something wild and strange to
make the summer holidays worth while. He
persuades older boys—prefects of his school
—to come with him and even to obey his
orders; and the very best thing in the book
is his confession that he has no definite
object and is only waiting for the big thing
to happen. Then, just when there appears
to be nothing in view, the mad whirl of
adventure begins. If only the actual story
were in keeping with such a preface the
work would be striking enough; but the
imagination of the authoress does not get
beyond a well-beaten track of sensational
fiction. Every turn of the tale suggests
something similar in other books which hold
a very low rank in the fiction of the day ;
and the only real difference is that the hap-
penings are rushed upon the reader in such
a fashion as to make them wholly uncon-
vincing.
As against all this, there is a faint hint
of character sketching in the pictures of the
four boys—two big and two little —who are
the chief actors; and there is also some
charm in the setting of so wild a tale almost
at Sydney’s front door. Drowning Maze
—a dense thicket of mangroves near New-
port—is a very proper place for mystery;
and the LI ole-in-the-Wall —a great cave
under the cliffs —makes a good setting for
the grand duchess when —'for no better
reason than that she would be murdered for
them if anyone saw her—she puts on the
whole of the crown jewels to spend the night
in while waiting for anything that may hap-
pen. The reader feels that a good story
might have been woven round these places
(Continued on page 25.)
ON THE SAFE SIDE.
“I’m, sure you forgot what I tied the knot in your handkerchief for.”
“Yes, dear; but I knew I couldn’t be wrong if I brought home HILLIER'S CHOCO-
LATES. You always want them.”


JL
a
41PP
'■■■■. 2
m
m
V :<>£
K-\yk
■\ • \
;•
m
m
m
1.,
7 /
Men’s Wear Department
Ground Floor,
George Street.
Our Claim on Your Attention!
SMART READY-FOR-SERVICE SUITS at
59/6
with all the Refinements and Finish of a Twelve-Guinea Suit.
Illustration No. 1.
No. 1.—5.8. ENGLISH SAC SUIT, of Tweed, in
Greys and Browns. Coat has 2 buttons, long
lapel, outer breast pocket, seam in back, no vent.
Vest has a medium opening and four pockets.
Trousers have side and hip pockets, plain of cuff
bottoms. Offered in all men’s sizes.
Price ..... 59/6
The same suit in Grey and Brown Australian
Tweeds, 79/6; Dark Grey Australian Tweed, 84/-;
Fancy Marrickville Tweeds, 95/- and 97/6; Fancy
Worsted, 115/-, 126/-, 130/-, 147/-, 159/6;
and in a fine Navy Serge, 115/-, 119/6.
Illustration No. 2.
No. 2.—A SMART TWO-PIECE SPORTS SUIT,
in Assam Silk, of excellent cut and well-tailored.
Coat has medium lapel, 4 patch pockets, half-
belted back, and no vent.
Trousers have side and hip pockets, belt loops and
turn-up bottoms. Offered in all men’s sizes.
Price 68/6
The same Suit in Tussore Silk of British Manufac-
ture, 98/6; in Marrickville Tweed, 63/-, 75/-; and
in Irish Tweed, 95/- and 100/-.
Kindly state chest, waist and inside leg measure-
ments.
We pay carriage on all men’s wear lines throughout
New South Wales, and to the nearest port on
Interstate Orders.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
Telephone: City 9440.


mm
m
5*
i
X
mmm
Batman Avenue, Melbourne, Victoria.
Wood-block surface on concrete foundation reinforced with B.R.C.
Fabric. For the Melbourne City Council.
H. E. Morton, Esq., A.M.Inst.C.E., City Engineer.
m
Qj
sjuauiasjojuiau pe°d
In these days of fast and heavy motor traffic roads receive no mercy, but the road
which is built on a foundation strengthened with B.R.C. Steel Wire Fabric asks
for none.
The use of B.R.C. Fabric in road foundations has grown, is still growing, and has
become the maxim of sound road construction both on the economic and
engineering sides.
Write for Full Particulars .
AUSTRALIAN REINFORCED CONCRETE ENGINEERING CO. PTY., LTD.,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, ’Phone 8861.
Consulting and Designing Engineers.
Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
Sole Distributing' Ag'ents:
Victoria: Gollin & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
N. S. Wales: J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Queensland: J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Tasmania: T. Tabart, Jim., Hobart.
S. Australia: Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
W. Australia: Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
New Zealand: John Burns & Co., Ltd., Auckland.


Cuticura Talcum Is
Soothing For Baby’s Skin
After a bath with warm wa-
ter and Cuticura Soap there is
nothing more cooling and re-
freshing for baby’s tender skin
than Cuticura Talcum.
Soapls. ,Ointmentls.and2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress "R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
SW’Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
f|AWA||
THt YEAR 'ROUND PLAYCROUNO
In November
and December
has a delightful climate for • outdoor
sports and sightseeing. It is a land of
endless variety ; sea and beach, mountain
and forest, marvellous volcanic regions.
You find here tropic fruits, trees and
flowers at their best.
Golf, swimming,
surfing, motoring, ten-
nis and tramping may
be enjoyed every day
in the year.
Booklet from nearest
travel or ticket agency,
or write direct to
Department B,
HAWAII TOURIST
BUREAU,
Box 241 G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast..
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
SHIP BRAND
Cornflour
7i
Stimulates
Jaded
Appetites
Throughout
Summer.
Man -ufa c turers
CLIFFORD LOVE &C? LTP SYDNEY\
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
J 2.
n
0
Greet Youth
Once More!
Become
Young again
by transform-
ing your
GREY HAIR
to a youth-
ful WALNUT
SHADE!
Easily and permanently obtain-
able by using Dr. Allen’s Mexi-
can Walnut Stain ! Quite Harm-
less to the Skin—Waterproof !
All Chemists.
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
tOi
m
is
1
At All
Chemists.
A Delightful
Dentifrice
—and not only a delight-
ful one, but one that
thoroughly cleanses the
teeth. “Eudenta” is
a powerful antiseptic,
although so charm-
ingly fragrant.
The Little
LEVER
2k
is "BOXED in
so -that it will
not break
v%
<“a.y
An exclusive
Waterman
Patent
(No 5790/15)
The lever in a Self-
Filling Fountain Peri
may be a source of weak-
ness —AND annoyance—or
one of its strongest points. In
Waterman’s Ideal Self-Filling
Pen it is “BOXED” in. This
Metal Box is ,stronger than the vulcanite
it replaces. It enables the lever to operate
smoothly, quickly and efficiently, and does
not get jammed, break off or work loose.
Watermans IdSl Fountain Pen
Three Types: Self-Filling, Safety and Regular. Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN LTD., CfytJpCtL (Tenter London, England.
Australia ; HAROLD D. DIXON, 105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
a reft\
thirst quencher
—just dissolve a “dash” of ENO’s “Fruit
Salt ” in a glass of cold water and you have a
cooling drink that pleases and invigorates add
a squeeze of lemon or orange and it is even
more delicious. After cricket, tennis, golf, or
other outdoor exercise ENO is an excellent
“ reviver ” without any “ lowering ” effects.
Get a bottle from your chemist and try it!
ENO’S
FRUIT SALT
S"
B*ha Rtfreientarivel I
THE BRITISH
H. F. RITCHIE Of Co Lt 4
CHINA HOUSE, SYDNEY
GAILLE “PERFECTION” MARINE ENGINES.
<o
3
FfowcnwttooM
A Type to Suit Every Hull.
Now’s the time to buy if you want
your Engine this season.
BIG REDUCTION ON
ALL ENGINES .
New shipment of 4-h.p. Engines, com-
plete with Igniter, just arrived.
We have stocks for immediate delivery
at the following reduced prices:—
Neptune Outboard . . £32
5-Speed Outboard . . £43
Liberty Drive Outboard £34
Inboard Motors:
2h.p. £34, 4h.p. £47/10/-, Bh.p. £BO,
2 Jh.p. £45, 6h.p. £57/10/-, 14h.p. £l5O
WRITE, ’PHONE OR CALL.
Sole Agents for Australasia and Pacific Islands.
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED
76 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 107-109 Queensbridge Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Cable Address: “BROSBENSON.”
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Knitting.
Dear, as I watch you by the window there,
Fashioning God knows what on needles
two
That click a melody of jazz that’s rare,
And twinkle like the loving eyes of you;
I think I see Fate —just another you—
Sitting inscrutable behind the world,
Fashioning God knows what on needles two:
Knitting the yarn of life, now plain, now
purled.
Long time she knits; the fabric soils per-
haps
(Cotton will wash, a satin keeps the
stain).
Lost stitches here and there leave tell-tale
gaps;
Knots must be tied: some hold, some slip
again.
Life is a knitted mesh, wife ; you and I,
Two threads that mingle as the needles ply.
VICTORIA.
Allan W. Dawes.
The Ballad of Last Night.
The clouds had put the white moon out.
The air was still as death.
A wind awoke with a wild shout,
Shuddered and held its breath.
'I put the candle to the pane
And beckoned one outside,
Whose wet, grey eyes sought mine again
And watched me, terrified.
“Who shall I say has called?” I cried,
“When the rose Dawn comes in?
Who shall I say was there outside
So spectre-like and thin?”
“Say that the Dark remembers still.
Say that I love her well.
Say that on yesterday’s green hill
I wait her birthday knell.”
The voice died like a memory,
And Dawn cried in the rain:
“Last night shall never come for me
Nor tap your pane again.”
N.s.w.
ZORA CROSS.
To-.
A memory’s spun gold were crude
To bind night-dreaming to the day,
And Thought’s own fingers over-rude
To fashion to the finer clay
Of song—the living of a mood.
Only when music spurns the bars
Of sense on passion-shadowed wings—
The old dead magic-madness jars
With shock of strange, ecstatic things,
The peaceful vigil of the stars.
And dreaming back in bygone ways
With your warm beauty by my side,
I know how knights of ancient days
Rode through the world, and fought and
died
For grey eyes and a slim throat’s praise.
Possessing what endureth still
When love’s own self shall pass and die,
Heart to serve ever, and fulfil
This wistful, vague immensity
Of Aspiration’s virgin will.
VICTORIA.
H. RUSSELL.
Reminiscence.
Within your eyes my eyes divine
The phantasy of the far years,
A whispering memory, yours and mine,
Which none but that within us hears—
A spirit breath transfiguring
(Like Psyche in another birth)
The life to which our bodies cling
In our epiphany on earth.
Our gazing souls expand, we touch
On lives in visionary lands;
As if we sometime wandered much,
And saw what none now understands—
As if we had through cold and heat
Been laboring in an old decay,
Or in a dream divinely sw r eet
Time after time put all away.
A subtle seeing might reveal
Some weariness we have foregone.
Some wound that death gave time to heal
Before our days again came on:
And thus, not all forgetful, we—
’Tis sweeter so —our lives recall;
And I in you, and you in me,
Recover what is best of all.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
Romance.
I found a lonely elfin thing,
Wandering in the years a-stray.
His eyes were misted into tears,
His locks hung grey.
The song that stole along his lips,
Fell spent and broken in the dust.
The sword that clattered at his thigh,
Was rouged with rust.
Sad-stepping on his way he went,
As one who unretuming goes.
I saw down-dropping from his belt
One blood-red rose.
“Ah, homeless one, have you no place.
In this age, vast and many-halled?
Your gaze is bent on vhostly things.
How are you called?”
I heard strange echoings of songs.
Of laughter, love, of lance on lance!
He turned, and looking backward wept
“I am Romance.”
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


~T1;
ii
f*«»U :
Q
l
/
lr
HiS
K
)S
(3
n
jm
*»S_ ■'
ri
$
fesp 1
%
<»
Hi I
Ig
4
i ,
xty SnviVe'J - witk a
G*E FA N
7~M
FANS
for
Summer
Comfort.
'“PHE one solution of
oppressive and sultry
surroundings.
ELECTRIC FANS
provide refreshing breezes —
restful nights, zestful days.
The Guarantee of
Excellence on Goods
Electrical.
Australian General Electric Q ltd.
Mazda House,
Wentworth Avenue,
SYDNEY.
Box 2517 G.P.O.
’Phone—City 3®lo.
Cr. Queen & Little Collins Streets,
MELBOURNE.
Box 538 G.P.O.
’Phone Central 2646.
BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering; Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd.
(E.S.C.A.), corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
TASMANIA.—OIiver & Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., “Mazda House,”
894 Hay Streeet.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.'VY., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2231.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1922.
Price 6d.
HISTORY DECLINES TO REPEAT ITSELF.
KING CIVILISATION: “Will none of you rid me of this base, turbulent nigger?”
SIR SAM: “Wa’al, King, I guess I don’t mind it bein’ done, and I don’t mind advisin’ you how to do it; but I kayn't help. We don’t do anything like that
outside Amurrika.”


The Commonwealth Electoral haw.
Any matter in this paper which refers to
the coming Federal elections has been writ-
ten, after discussion, to express the views
of The Bulletin, by John Dailey, dames
Edmond and J. E. Webb, all of 214 George-
street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia lor the White Man."
Printed and published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street. Sydnev. X.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERM K TO RT7 T! SC RT TIERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 m.onths, ISs. 6d.; S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 155.; S months, Is. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The liditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Klack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — \.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin cun be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, I t 6 Fleet Street
Loudon, F.C.; “The British-Australasian,” ol High
llolborn, London, 1 V.C.1.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. —O'. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
f J S A. — Chicago: J. Roland liay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley Neivs Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27 th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Kciypt.— Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
llong Kong. „ .
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.—lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo. . , _ . „ .
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
fu,. — A. Barker, Suva : Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Sura.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon tfc Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, ECh. . . .
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) :—Throughout the Commonwealth : looz. 9
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: j§oz. 9
lid.; for every additional 2oz. f Id. United Kingdom 9
All Sea Route: IGoz., Ud. United States: f t oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, Id.
ffie'i&idldMi.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1922.
THE “UNWRITTEN LAW” IN
STATECRAFT.
The upheaval in Italy, which is not going
to terminate with the acquisition of power
, T , . , , , Kir
by the Fascist leader, should be studied by
Australians who desire to see the King s
peace maintained, at least as closely as it
certainly will be studied by those who dream
of Moscow and the pleasures and profits of
Revolution. Mussolini is a kind of W. M.
ivt.vuiui.iuii.
Hughes, only more so. He was an anti-
c i? r3 Sf l . sy v , D 4 l f i a lS^ f w ]l eil
all that hatred of the p pe o , -
going classes which is engendered in men 01
his type by years of failure. Hatred ot
Church, State and King was hereditary in
him : his father was an anarchist and atheist
before him. He was one of those who agi-
tated against the entry ot Italy into the
war, and he had to be conscripted before he
would fight. Then a change came over him
which is common enough in men of his tem-
perament. He found the violent atmosphere of
the front line congenial. He exchanged his
internationalism for an equally fanatical form
of nationalism. A malign figure, represen-
tative of Austria, took the place of his old
bugbear, the top-hatted, champagne-swilling
Fat Man. He was the same man, the only
difference being that he had something new
to hate. When he found that his old asso-
ciates, the Socialists, had not experienced a
similar change of heart—due, in some cases,,
to natural perversity; in others, perhaps, to
the fact that they and their relations had
been less fortunate than himself in their
army life —he added them to his gallery of
monstrosities. It was much the same spiri-
tual revolution, in the essentials, as Australia
has witnessed in Mr. Hughes. Hughes,
like Mussolini, changed in a few short
months from a fervent pro-worker into
an equally fervent anti-worker; from
an ulua-democrat into one capable of
swinging the knout of a War Precautions Act
as vigorously as any old-time Russian official
in the presence of a recalcitrant moujik. But
Hughes, when the war ended, found himself
in power, the friend of the plutocrats whom
he had been denouncing all his public life, and
with the prospect of soon becoming a pluto-
crat himself; Mussolini was faced with the
spectacle of a Government to whose Liberal
principles he was opposed, and the prospect
of poverty and oblivion.
* * * *
What the ex-anarchist has accomplished in
Italy is really the very thing that the Coun-
cil of Action is attempting to do here. He
got his chance owing to a number of adven-
titious circumstances, the like of which might
quite conceivably come to pass in this coun-
try. Our Council of Action aims to over-
throw constitutional government, and replace
it by a form of government unknown to con-
stitutionalism. To bring off a coup like that
there must be intense provocation somewhere.
In Italy Mussolini found a proliferation of
officials, at a time when taxes were excessive
and poverty rampant; he found the atheistic
propaganda, in which he had himself engaged
in the past, being conducted at a time when
the country was experiencing a religious re-
vival ; and simultaneously the indigenous Bol-
sheviks, spurred on from Moscow, broke loose
and half-ruined a number of important in-
dustries. Naturally the Government, which
was unable to check these exasperating mani-
festations out of hand, became unpopular.
However, if the remedy for weak administra-
tions is going to be coup d’etats brought off
by irresponsible adventurers, civilisation
might as well go back to the tribal
system. It is precisely the Musso-
lini touch which our own Howies and
Walshs are trying to introduce to
this part of the world. The effort to pre-
vent a 48-hour week in the N. S. Wales
iron trade is a case in point. Under our
laws certain Courts are authorised to regu-
late, amongst other things, hours of labor.
The Courts having decided that ironworkers
shall toil for 48 hours per week, it only re-
mains, in the last resort, for them to con-
form, or for the Government to make them
do so. What our Howies and Walshs
most yearn for is a Government that will
not attempt to enforce its industrial laws,
or, better still, that will attempt to enforce
them and meet with defeat —as the prede-
cessors of the present Italian Government
virtually did over the factory outbreaks in
Piedmont shortly after the Armistice. Such
occurrences may not produce a revolution
at once, but they pave the way, and if, in
conjunction with them, other devices can be
discovered, or other conditions created,
whereby the multitude may be inflamed, re-
volution becomes inevitable. Suppose, for
example, the Council of Action in N. S.
Wales, had managed the other day to provoke
a general strike in the interests of the 44-
hour week principle. The Government, and
those citizens who were in favor of support-
ing the authority of the law as stated by the
nation’s industrial Courts, would have been
driven to do many things calculated to mad-
den the upheavalists. It was no fault
either of Australia’s Communists or of any
Australian Government that there was no
general strike; but simply a matter of the
reasonableness and sense of the citizens
concerned. Now imagine that, in one
way and another —by over-taxation, by
lack of employment, by the spectacle of
dishonesty in high places—the traditional
solidity of our citizens was under-
mined by the arguments of a leader as furi-
ously internationalist as Mussolini is
nationalist. It is not hard to picture much
the same things occurring here as the cables
have described in Italy. At the end of last
month “only the Italian King’s action in re-
fusing to approve of martial law saved the
country from civil war.” In other words,
the Government threw up the sponge, leav-
ing its supporters at the mercy of their ene-
mies. In similar circumstances in Austra-
lia we might expect to hear of militant
Nationalists being murdered, and of less ob-
jectionable ones being dosed with castor-oil;
the offices of papers like the S. M. Herald
and Argus would be burnt, as happened in
the case of the journal run by that eminent
Liberal humanitarian, Francesco Nitti ;
the rest of the anti-Bolshevik papers would
be required to cease publication, and Nation-
alism would be disciplined generally on the
lines which appeared best for Communism to
those bent on maintaining the Moscow creed.
The revolutionary, whether he calls himself
a monarchist or a republican, a conservative
or a communist, instinctively proceeds in his
hour of triumph on the lines laid down by
Machiavelli, even though he may not have
read that author. “And whoever,” wrote
Mussolini’s countryman, “becomes the ruler
of a free State and does not destroy it, can
expect to be destroyed by it.”
It is eloquent of the wooden-headedness of
our Nationalist leaders and newspapers that
not one word of disapproval has come from
any of them in; regard to the performances
of the new Italian Prime Minister, who is
no less a disloyalist and an anarchist from
the fact that he has forced his King to
kneel in prayer with him at the Unknown
Warrior’s tomb. What is at the base of all
political thought but the idea of liberty?
Liberty in one form or another has been the
justification of every rqform offered by state-
craft to humanity for the past 5000 years;
and that it is still a universal first con-
sideration may be found by Studying em-
ployers who clamor to be freed of all legal
shackles, and workers who complain unceas-
ingly about their chains. Italy may have
gained a number of things by the blow which
has just been delivered to the cause of the
Third International, but in another direc-
tion it has suffered an irreparable loss and
stored up for itself a vast quantity of future
trouble and tragedy. The figure of the
King praying beside the man who had just
humiliated him was symbolical. “The secret
of happiness,” said Pericles over the un-
known dead of Athens after the Peloponnesian
War, “is liberty, and the secret of liberty
is courage.” The King of Italy and his
Government have sacrificed their liberty,
and the liberty of thousands who had pre-
viously been behind them, because, when the
pinch came, they lacked the courage to stand
up to a usurper. The fact that he has
been talking the jargon of freedom, while
depriving of their freedom all those whose
political views do not accord with his, is
merely a symptom which is common to most
tyrants. Actually, in every case, the up-
rising of men of the Mussolini type must
mean the immediate death of freedom, not
only to his enemies, but also, later, to his
followers. The civilised world has painfully
evolved, in what we call constitutional gov-
ernment, the nearest approach to real tree-
dom that the human mind can conceive,
The Lenins and Mussolinis, the Howies
and the exploiters of war laws m the inter-
ests of parties or persons, are traitors to
freedom; and they are also the friends ot
civil strife, inasmuch as even where they
score a win it can only be a prelude to
crimes of violence committed by the other
side m the effort to swing the State Kck
to the only form of government acceptab e
to a modern civilised people.
THE BOOMING TRADE OF McROOK.
Spring is the season in which people, nor-
mally sane, go crazy about horse-racing.
They have been crazier than ever this year.
Never within the memory of the oldest sport
have there been such Spring meetings. Never
have the stakes been richer or the crowds
bigger. Never has Mcßook lied harder about
his losses or plucked a juicier crop
of mugs. Including re-attendances, it
has been calculated that 60,000 ladies
paced the lawns at Randwick, Caul-
field and Flemington, and that each
exhibited £2O worth of wearing apparel
to the critical gaze of the other cats. In
many cases—those of “society” women and
bookmakers’ wives, whose custom it is to
attend every fashionable meeting and wear
a different dress each day—the cost would
be more like £lOO than £2O, wherefore the
bill for feminine finery, hats and shoes in-
cluded, may have been nearer £1,500,000
than £1,200,000. Still, massive as it was,
it fell far short of the betting bill. During
the four days at Randwick £350,972 10s.
passed through the totalisators. From this
sum the club deducted, for itself and the
Government, 124 per cent, and fractions of
sixpences; in short, the public lost nearly
£50,000 of what it speculated on the machine.
But the money planked on the Randwick totes
is small compared with what is handled by
the bookmakers. And the proportion that
remains in the bag, for the nourishment of
Tommy and his horde of hangers-on, is a
lot more than 124 per cent. At Caulfield,
where there is no machine, Mcßook, the
mug-pluclcer, probably holds as much as
he does at Randwick. At Flemington he
holds a good deal more. And for every
wager made on the racecourse in respect of
the big handicaps five or six are made
through the betting clubs and shops which
swarm in every Australian town. In the
lack of evidence to the contrary, there is
no difficulty in believing that £4,000,000 of
good Australian money was gambled
on horse-races beginning with Rosehill
(N.S.W.), on September 16, and closing
with Williamstown (Vic.), on November 13.
Which estimate doesn’t include the rivers
cf paper currency poured into sweeps.
* » * *
The marvel is where it all came from.
Certainly the prodigious prosperity of the
gentry who produce nothing more market-
able than acres of torn betting-tickets has
no parallel in other industries. Gloomy is
the outlook for W.A.’s Golden Mile. Broken
Hill hasn’t returned to normal after its
two years’ lay-off. Mt. Morgan and Chil-
lagoe (Q.) are kept alive by Government
subsidies. Newcastle, or such of it as isn’t
engaged in the export ccial trade (and that
isn’t what it used to be), is living on doles,
loan jobs and hopes that the steelworks
will resume business. The cattle industry,
once so affluent, has had to be helped with
a bonus. Hundreds of drought-stricken N.S.W.
wheat-cockies are wondering whether the
Government, which had to assist them in
1919 and 1920, will come to the rescue
again. The problem of finding a market
for his apricots, peaches and citrus is mak-
ing the fruitgrower look serious. That this
pi’onounced depression in industries that
matter, and to which Australia looks for
help in meeting its annual interest bill,
should coincide with an extraordinary out-
break of Spring horse-gambling is remark-
able indeed. Not that the betting boom
is associated only with the Beaufords and
Violoncellos, or that it ceases with the
Spring. Pony-racing, the festering sore of
the Big Cities, was never more virulent.
It has reached such proportions in Sydney
that recently 373 worthless crocks 'were
nominated for one meeting. An army of
able-bodied men, who might be doing some
useful toil, is engaged in ministering to
these undersized brutes, who are far better
cared for than thousands of Australian
children. Another army, more numerous
and with even less excuse for being at
large, gets its living by laying the odds
against them, or signalling the odds from
one part of the course to another, or col-
lecting bets for the odds-layers in shops or
offices; or by finding punters who will back
the broken-winded runts, or ruffians who
will dope them, or mannikins who will
stiffen them. A great deal of the squalor
and turbulence of Sydney’s slum population
is traceable to the pony-racing habit. The
pony courses are haunts of larrikins and
loafers; nurseries of crime.
* * * *
One of the Fuller Ministers is under-
stood to have a scheme for the estab-
lishment of Prohibition without compensa-
tion to those who will be ruined thereby.
His Government would be far more usefully
employed in tackling the over-racing scan-
dal. The thing could be done without
destroying valuable industries (leaving the
brewers, publicans and vintners out of the
argument) by a simple amendment of or
regulation under the Gambling and Betting
Act. No legitimate interest would be injured
by a 50 per cent, reduction of racing dates,
nor would anyone be deprived of a livelihood
that is worth while. In Queensland, after a
lot of backing and filling, the Government
has decided that Brisbane’s abominable un-
registered racing must be cut down by half.
The reform thus announced was promised
years ago. There is a suspicion that it was
delayed out of consideration for Wren, and
it remains to be seen how far that “good”
Labor man will suffer under the new
arrangement. However, the abolition of
even one superfluous racing date represents
a gain for industry and genuine sport. It
deprives a rabble of idlers of at least one
excuse for dodging work, and removes from
misguided men and women at least one
temptation to waste their substance on equine
malformities many of which would be better
poleaxed. In any case, the Theodore Govern-
ment has furnished the Fullers with an
example that it will be hard for them to
ignore, however much they may desire to let
things slide. One of those who believe that
all is for the best in this best of all Worlds
is Oakes, the Chief Secretary. After the
futile police raid on some of the shop book-
makers who infest Sydney (there is vague
talk of licensing a limited number of these
persons, whose profits are so enormous that
they can afford to pay their agents 2s. in the
£ of every wager brought in), Oakes was
asked by a Daily Mail reporter whether his
Government intended “to curtail the exces-
sive pony-racing that is going on.” The
flabby reply is subjoined
No representations have been made to me that
pony-racing should be curtailed. Until some have
been made I am rather averse to opening the Gamb-
ling and Betting Act. Anyway, there would not be
time to do so this session.
This is the attitude of a shuffler. If Oakes
can’t or won’t see that pony-racing, as
carried on in Sydney, has become an enor-
mous moral evil and an insupportable bur-
den on industry, he is not fit for his job.
JOHN BRIGGS—SAVIOUR OF HIS
COUNTRY.
As young men Rod Quinn, Henry Lawson
and I organised a debating society. It had
regular monthly meetings and a syllabus.
The president afterwards accomplished a
cometic political career and perished, of his
own indiscretions. John Briggs, however,
was of smoother calibre: he was of the type
that Heine’s sardonic deity hall-marks for
inevitable success. He possessed little or no
brains, but infinite cunning. A large mouth,
with two strong rows of discolored teeth, a
narrow forehead, a firm jaw and a pasty com-
plexion were his distinguishing features. He
never spoke from the Radical cross-benches,
but took up a safe position with either Gov-
ernment or Opposition, according to the way
things were going in the society. We soon
discovered that he was unscrupulous, mean,
timid, and that he had a remarkable gift for
constructing sounding phrases, which meant
nothing. But we never realised how far these
qualifications were destined to carry him.
Over post-oratorical long beers at an ad-
jacent pub we criticised Briggs. We
burned him with the acid of youthful con-
tempt. We were faithful to our ideals in
those dim, dead days. We cultivated wide
visions. We dreamt continental dreams.
And we would have roared our derision at
the idea of the detested Briggs being des-
tined to outdistance us by leagues in the race
for celebrity. That was one of the little
ironies Time holds ever in store for artless
Youth.
When the association fell to pieces and
died, Briggs attached himself to a Free-
trade organisation. In those days Freetrade
stood for political righteousness. It was no
uncommon thing, at election times, to see
isolated barrackers overwhelmed and beaten
for affirming that Australia should make its
own boots. Wearers of colonial tweeds,
caught in laneways at midnight, were ren-
dered insensible; and fined by unsympathetic
magistrates next morning for riotous be-
havior. In addition to being a vociferous
buttress of the then Importing majority,
Briggs became a pillar of propriety and a
gargoyle of the edifice which is founded on
the tenets of Cold Tea. As we went about
our Bohemian world, still inspired by
dreams and intoxicated by the continental
idea, in conjunction with the wine of the
country, Briggs occasionally attached him-
self to us. We hated his smug and circum-
spect mentality, but, somehow, he continued
on our horizon and grew to manhood with
us, alien, apart, yet constantly visible. When
the political cataclysm of 1890-91 sounded
the death-knock of the old Bullock-dray
party in New South Wales, Briggs, who
had officiated as hat-holder during the cam-
paign to one of the most prominent of the
defeated Freetrade candidates, re-acquainted
himself with us. We learned with surprise
that he had become a convert to Protection.
At the next elections he secured a nomina-
tion in that interest. By this time his
mouth had grown larger, seemingly at the ex-
pense of his forehead ; but he still preserved
a strong jaw and an unhealthy complexion.
One day I met him on an omnibus,
one of those old two-deckers that
were still carrying on a hopeless com-
petition with the steam-trams. I was
then editing a Labor newspaper—which
may have accounted for the omnibus. Briggs
was effusive. Watching me carefully out of
the corner of his eye, he announced that he
had lately become interested in, and in fact
almost converted to, some of the planks of
our platform. He was also anxious to know
what I thought of the future of Labor —politi-
cally. I replied of inward conviction that,
in my opinion, Labor, as a political force,
was destined to overwhelm and reconstruct
the political, economic, social and mental life
of the community. I quoted authorities.
Briggs listened. When I got off the ’bus he
followed. He asked me to have a drink. I
called for “draught English.” To my aston-
ishment he ordered a shandy. He hastened
to explain that he had abandoned temperance,
as being not strictly in accordance with his
present advanced views. He, also bestowed a
wicked smile on the barmaid! Then he pro-
duced a notebook and took a memo of the
authorities. He said he wanted to read the
subject up. For one brief moment, I almost
believed in Briggs. At the next general elec-
tions he ran for a country seat held for a
generation by Freetrade members, and was
elected —as a Protectionist! In the House
he achieved some reputation as a moderate —
a safe man. The next time I encountered


CHRISTMAS NUMBER,
which will see the light on December 9,
contains the pick of the work done dur-
ing the past 12 months by Australia’s
best writers and artists. Many, such
as the late Henry Lawson, Leon Gellert
and Hugh McCrae, have nominated the
contributions by which they desire to
be represented. Conor O’Brien has a
thrilling romance, with Sydney journal-
ism for its background, and the Page of
Verse contains a fine poem by David
McKee Wright. Altogether it is as fine
a sixpenn’orth as Australia has ever
been offered.
him was in the street. He did not see me.
It looked then as if the Protectionist party
was destined to live for ever. It
had supplanted the Freetrade party as
a symbol of Respectability and Righteous-
ness. However, times and fortunes change.
Early in the present century I happened to
be, nominally, controlling secretary for a
Labor-Protectionist combination which pre-
luded Labor’s accession to direct govern*
ment. I was surprised one day to receive
a friendly, an effusively friendly, call from
Briggs. He came into my private office
with extended hand, a cold, dead-fish hand,
the kind of hand that sends gooseflesh all
down a man’s soul. He suggested drinks.
I was dry—to Briggs. Years bring a cer-
tain discrimination. He proceeded to un-
fold himself, not the real Briggs, but the
simulacrum, which such people present to
the crowd. He wanted a nomination, either
Labor or Protectionist, but he would like a
“fair chance.” I said I would refer the
matter to the selection committee. He
made particular inquiries about every man
on that committee, and went away, talking
of old times and youthful friendships.
Briggs was turned down!
Shortly after the ddbwcle I went to reside
in a suburb where Briggs was domiciled.
He was a member of the local progress asso-
ciation. While I still dwelled in that
area, nonchalant as regards the politics of
my native land, and tentatively devoted to
things commercial, Briggs formed a Labor
League there and became its president,
having meanwhile added some money to con-
siderable experience. The suburb, through
the accident of industrial evolution, was
converted from conservatism to radicalism.
Briggs secured a nomination by the consti-
tutional practice of “packing” his league,
fitid stood among the chosen!
The last time I met him was just before
the Conscription issue. He told me, sadly,
that any politician who opposed Conscription
would suffer d fall. Briggs did not suffer.
His career during the past few years, as an
ardent Nationalist, has been phenomenal. He
is a.director of several companies. He has
received distinction. Despite an increased
enlargement of his mouth, a growing bald-
ness,_ which still further emphasises his
cranial peculiarities, an even more un-
healthy pallor and a truly terrifying
jowl, he pursues the paths of Re-
spectability and Righteousness. The women
of his electorate vote fervently for
him. A majority of his male supporters
are understood to believe that Briggs is one
of those true-blue, dyed-in-the-wool All-
Australian patriots sent specially by a watch-
ful Providence to save his native country
from unspecified wolves of disaster.
The moral of the story, if any, is that to
be entirely successful in political life one must
be a Briggs.
E. J. BRADY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Prophet without Profits.
The fatally eloquent Bob Ross is staining
reams of paper in expounding the great
Labor policy or lunacy of socialising indus-
try “by the constitutional utilisation of in-
dustrial and Parliamentary machinery.”
This is Robert’s explanation of the differ-
ence between the new Labor socialism and
the old :
Nationalisation is ownership by the nation as a
capitalist concern. Socialisation is ownership by
the people as a co-operative concern. Nationalisation
is merely trustified capitalism. Socialisation means
that in it there is neither profiteering nor profits.
Nationalisation represents merely a change of capi-
talistic proprietaries. Socialisation will represent
the change from capitalistic proprietaries into social-
ism. There you have it.
Obviously we have it. Another thing we
have (only Bob doesn’t refer to it) is a
towering pyramid of debt resulting from the
fact. that the now-despised nationalisation
has been tried by a long succession of Labor
and good-as-Labor Governments, and failed
magnificently. Which isn’t much of a re-
commendation for the new chimera, especi-
ally as those who are proclaiming the vir-
tues of Sosh used to be equally cocksure
about the transcendent merits of Nash. But
Bob has a lordly contempt for the financial
side of the business. Silent is he, also, about
the interesting local experiment in the social-
isation of industry—the N. S. Wales
trawlers under the S umm ergreene-Payne
regime—-although he can quote foreign theor-
ists by the mile. The central idea of Sosh
is. that the community will provide the capi-
tal and foot all bills, and that the industry
so established will be administered by the
“workers” on class-conscious lines. That, as
has already been pointed out, was the way
the N.S.W. trawlers were run when Dooley
was consul. Premising that all charges
would be met by the taxpayer the Govern-
ment handed over that industry to a happy
band of Labor men of the ' most class-
conscious brand. One of the consequences
was a contract for the purchase of 60,000
tons of coal —it wasn’t referred to either the
Crown Solicitor or the Stores Supplies Com-
mittee —the price being 6s. per ton more
than “coal of a similar or better quality
could have been obtained for had ordinary
business methods been applied.” Another w T as
the discovery that Summergreene, the man-
ager, had the odd habit of hiding large por-
tions of his personal estate under carpets.
Further facts are gradually being dragged
to light, although the whole story may never
be told. It has been elicited that Summeb-
greene, who is class-conscious to the finger-
tips, paid one Gostellow £soo—'this with-
out reference to the Minister; —-for his inter-
est in the lease of a seedy shop in William-
street, Sydney. The same gentleman engaged
Cam Brothers, a firm of agents, to sell fish
for the trawling industry at the Redfern
markets. The fish they sold realised
£10,718 and their bill amounted to £1338.
On every pound that passed through Cam
Brothers’ hands the Government lost a
penny. Another of Summergreene’ s tran-
sactions was the purchase of a second-hand
Oakland car from J. F. Mclnerney for
“about £575.” Concerning which an official
report says:—
’.lr. Summergreene’s letter to Mr. John Payne for
Ministerial approval reported that, “from expert
advice the car is easily worth £675.” The expert
is not named, but in a memorandum Mr. Summer-
greene states that Mr. Payne (the then Minister’s
secretary) had inspected the car and decided that it
was cheap. Eight months after purchase £125 was
spent in overhauling the car (lesser sums were spent
previously), which is now estimated to be worth
£175. The movements of the car since its purchase
cannot be ascertained, as the late manager directed
that running sheets should not be kept.
Which, it will be conceded, was very
thoughtful of him. One fancies that if the
socialisation of industry ever comes to pass
on a large scale persons like Summer-
greene will have a glorious time. Another
respect in which the trawlers con-
formed to the socialist ideal is that there
were no profits. In StJMMERGREENE’s last
year there was an admitted deficit of
£33,000, or about 17 per cent, of capital.
According to the latest computation the
melancholy fishboats cost £195,000 and the
losses are about £160,000. It is needless
for Bob to insist that under the socialisation
of industry there would be no profits. No-
body would dream of disputing it.
• —
The Speck’s Little Colored Problem.
One of the Speck’s minor troubles is the
failure of several more or less earnest
attempts to deal effectively with the dis-
colored population of the State’s dependen-
cies in Bass Strait. The somewhat frowsy
problem of the half-caste native still pushes
itself into public notice, and rebent reports
from Cape Barren Island indicate that the
condition of the mutton-birders is more
squalid than ever. A report compiled by Dr.
Morris (Director of Public Health) and
Colonel Lord (Chief Commissioner of
Police) shows, among other things, that the
few score of half-castes on Cape Barren Island
reservation (an area of 6000 acres of the
best land on the by-no-means unfertile islet)
are over £3OOO in debt, and have practically
given up work. Most of them spend their
time loafing around the beaches and get-
ting into such mischief as appeals to the
minds of disorganised and undisciplined half-
castes wherever they may be herded together.
The local bailiff, in an official letter to the
Police Commissioner, alleges that the whites
are unsympathetic towards the half-castes,
and that storekeepers exploit the birders by
charging exorbitant prices for supplies and by
refusing to buy mutton-birds except at star-
vation rates, thus making it next to impos-
sible for the unfortunate natives to regain
any semblance of solvency. The fences of
the reservation are left unrepaired, and the
cattle of adjoining lessees wander at will,
eating the grass and obliterating whatever
crops may result from the half-castes’ spas-
modic attempts at farming. It is further
reported that sickness is prevalent, and,
there being no doctor on the spot,
the sick must depend on a few simple
drugs supplied by the kindly but unmedical
schoolteacher. So hopeless have the half-
castes become, although there is no place on
earth where an easier living can be made,
that they will scarcely bestir themselves to
gather the always-bounteous harvest of
mutton-birds that annually drops from
Heaven upon the land. The investigators
declare that the only visible chance of a
remedy is in the setting up of a Government
depot to supply goods in exchange for island
products, the appointment of an intelligent
and impartial supervisor to instruct the
natives in (a) modern methods of farming
and (b) the most profitable manner of har-
vesting the mutton-bird crop, the total abo-
lition of the right to recover debts from
the natives by legal process, and the setting
aside of Babel Island (the most prolific bird-
ing spot thereabouts) for the exclusive use
of the half-castes as a hunting-ground. Pre-
cisely the same suggestions were made by
Police Commissioner Lord as far back as
1908, but they were turned down by the then
Government, presumably because they seemed
to involve a too-drastic interference with
Private Enterprise. Certainly if prompt
steps are not taken the islanders will become
as extinct as the fur seals which a century
ago enticed Yankee sealers and other white-
skinned sea-rovers to Bass Straits—a visit
to which the present generation of mutton-
birders owes its complexion.
Charlton. Creswell and Some
Communists.
There is a volume of evidence that most
Australian wage-earners are dead tired of the
Moscow maniacs who have imposed their
poisonous doctrines on the big composite
unions and the A,L.P. The speedy collapse
of the trouble in the N. S. Wales pipe-
moulding industry is the latest of many in-
dications that the movement towards Mus-
covitism has reached its limit, and that the
tide is running strongly towards Austra-
lianism and Sanity. Like the Cockatoo
Island boilermakers, whose madness took
the form of a refusal to work labor-saving
machines, the pipe-moulders, or, rather, their
youthful assistants, were bluffed into a hope-
less strike by the imported Council of
Action. The failure of these imbecile
manoeuvres has covered the Council of
Action with ridicule, and ridicule is fatal
to such organisations. Once they begin to
be laughed at they are in process of decay.
Another sign of the return to commonsense
was the abandonment by the “definitely re-
volutionary” Seamen’s Union of its efforts
to set up job-control on the Commonwealth
line of steamers. Still more significant was the
failure of the shearers’ strike in N. S. Wales
against the Powers award. That strike was
defeated by a unionist revolt against the
A.W.U. executive’s command that a judg-
ment by which it had agreed to be bound
should be treated as the Huns treated their
scrap of paper. It was one of the fruits
of a misguided attempt to graft communism
on the Tammanyism for which the union has
become notorious of recent years. In the
result the A.W.U. executive will be com-
pelled to revise its policy and to disown
the Council of Action. Most of the craft
unions have repudiated the Council of Action
already. Oddly enough, while the Bolshies
are being beaten out of the industrial field,
they still dominate the Labor party, in a
manner of speaking. That is to say, the
Labor politicians are still bound by the
communistic programme which they tamely
accepted in 1921 in a weak attempt to unite
the industrial and political wings of “the
movement.” They are fighting the election
on a platform in which 98 per cent, of them
profoundly disbelieve. It is a coincidence
that the same unpalatable dose —the same
imported gibberish about “the socialisation
of the means of production, distribution and
exchange”—was swallowed by the South
African Labor party. But there has been
a revulsion of feeling in that party since
the fatal Red revolt, and more especially
since it was made clear by the report of
the Judicial Commission that the local
agents of Lenin and Trotsky were trying
to stir up a black rebellion against the white
employer. Bolshevism has no color-line. It
is incompatible with a White Australia or
a White South Africa. Realising this,
Creswell, the Australian-born leader of
S’African Labor, is trying to rid his party
of the Bolshevist taint. He has denounced
the “socialisation” lunacy and proclaimed
his opposition to the Third Internationale
A similar declaration from Matthew Charl-
ton would be applauded by all except the
ragtag and bobtail of inflammatory pacifists.
But Charlton is no Creswell. He leads
his ragged regiment from the rear.
No Point of Agreement?
Sky Pilot” on Labor and the Churches:—
The Rev. Absalom Deans, retiring chairman of
the Congregational Union of N.S.W., referring the
other day to a conference held between certain mem-
bers of Ms church and representatives of Labor, said:
“I was keenly disappointed at the results. We can
have no dealings with these men, for we have no
point of agreement with them.” The conference was
convened for the purpose of finding a common basis
on which united action might be taken in the inter-
ests of the community. This objective was simple
and should not have been beyond the compass of any
dozen good men. They failed to reach, or even get
near, it, chiefly because they comported them-
selves like polemical battlers out after, scalps
rather than brethren seeking to get each
other’s perspective. Yet at bottom they were
as near akin spiritually as it was possible for any
12 men similarly selected to be. The members of
each side had their visions and were altruistic, only
they looked at life and things in general from differ-
ent angles. This difference became apparent as soon
as the modus operandi for reaching their respective
goals was formulated. One side said it was by grace
the race was to be saved the other maintained that
only on an economic basis was salvation possible.
How typical of the theorist, whether clerical or poli-
tical, to quarrel about methods on such an occasion !
And, anyhow, does not the one problem involve the
other? Religion is futile if it fails to secure econo-
mic justice, even for the weakest, and there is little
enough religion in the existing system, seeing it makes
economic justice to all impossible. As to the churches
“having no dealings with these Labor men,” it is
clear that they must have dealings with them. Labor
has come to stay, and will prove either the friend or
foe of the churches. All, or anynow much, will
depend upon the attitude of us sky-pilots now. Things
are topsy-turvy. Economically the world is upside
down, and no amount of sermonising will put it right
side up. This can only be accomplished by doing
away with divisive activities of all descriptions, and
clergymen should be the first to undertake the work
instead of, as at present, fostering dissension. Sec-
tarianism is of the Devil, and likewise class contempt,
and so, relatively, is every other form of sectionalism.
Every one of these manifestations is an admission,
more or less definite, that Christianity is a failure.
And the failure of Christianity involves the failure of
our social system which in theory is so largely based
on Christian principles—and should be so in practice.
Let the Churches and Labor once get together in' the
sense of understanding and trusting one another, and
they will be jointly stabilised as institutions, while
at the same time the end of much of our present
industrial strife will come in view. Let them per-
manently find no point of agreement and they will
open the way for that anti-clerical Sovietism which
must mean the ruin of both organised Christiahity
and organised Labor.
Our Hoarded Gold.
Dear Bulletin, — Is there any good reason
in the present state of world affairs why
Australia should continue to back its note
issue with about 50 per cent, of gold bul-
lion V Lying idle in expensive vaults,
watched by costly guards, and worried over
by those responsible for them, these coins
are an extremely expensive proposition, apart
from their non-earning characteristics. Recent
figures show that the actual bullion reserves
held in the British Treasury to-day amount to
less than 8 per cent, of the total of bank-notes
issued. No one doubts the realisable value
of the Bank of England note, despite the lack
of tangible “quid for quid” held in some
vault or cellar. And the notes of the Bank
of England can be negotiated in every little
town in the world where there is a man with
sufficient intelligence to recognise them for
what they are. England has realised that
gold lying in safes is gold doing nothing, so
this nation, which before the war had a
standing gold backing of over 50 per cent,
of its note issue, is now setting its
money to work, and as a consequence
England has won peculiar fame abroad as a
debt-payer. Meanwhile the Yankees don’t
know what to do with the flood of sovereigns
that keeps pouring in in settlement of the
British debt. This is becoming more appa-
rent as time goes on, and American experts
are puzzled to find a remedy for the ex-
tremely awkward financial position in which
their country’s £800,000,000 of non-produc-
tive gold has landed it. Instead of export-
ing our huge stock of coined gold, we in Aus-
tralia are content to hoard it up for eventu-
alities that even the most pessimistic must
realise to be far distant. In interest alone
the present gold reserve would produce an
annual income of one and a quarter million
pounds sterling. This nice little sum should
be placed well out of the reach of vote-
snatching politicians, , and devoted (in the
form of a sinking fund) to reducing one or
other of our many future liabilities for which
no present provision is being made. If the total
of issued notes were to be limited to a round
figure of, say, £55,000,000, and the control of
the issue placed in the hands of a non-politi-
cal Board, there need be no suggestion of
“printing-machine” currency. To main-
tain the present average circulation figure
and also provide for future requirements con-
sequent upon an always-increasing population
figure, an amendment might be made in the
Constitution, empowering the Federal
Treasury to issue notes to the total amount
of not more than £lO in notes per head of
population. This would provide a sufficient
and workable maximum, and by making the
provision a part of the Constitution
it would be safe from the meddlings of
parliaments or treasurers. Present indi-
cations are that the “payable in gold” clause
on our notes has no foundation in fact, and
so there would be no upsetting of the popu-
lace if some such scheme as outlined above
were brought into operation.—Yours, etc.,
N. Kayess.
After Ten Years.
“A.R.’s” review:—
The Hughes Government has reduced the R.A.N.,
which was designed on the Henderson plan to con-
sist of eight battle-cruisers, with light cruisers, de-
stroyers and submarines in proportion, to three light
cruisers, three destroyers, one depOt-ship, one sur-
veying sloop and a picket boat, while the shore
establishments are confined to Flinders Naval Depßt
and Garden Island. Now, it is generally agreed
that a navy is a useful thing to have about the
house. That lesson, which England first learnt in
Alfred’s day, was taught to us in 1914 when, but
for the R.A.N., there would have been another
Coronel in Australian waters, with disastrous results
to our coastal towns and shipping. The Com-
monwealth is not going to own another big navy in
our time. Let that fact be accepted. How can
we make best use of what we have?
The chief problems of the immediate future are
the provision of warlike stores, the disentangling of
naval affairs from party politics, and the retention
of the trained personnel. The first is a national
problem, and concerns the Army and the Air Force
as well. The second, apparently, depends on the
goodness of God, although the revival of the office
of Commander-in-Chief and the abolition of the Navy
Office (on the doormat of Parliament House) would
help. The third is the most pressing of the three,
and requires immediate attention. Very few men
sign on now after their first period is up ; and their
places are taken by men with no experience,
whose training is very expensive. Latterly, the period
of service has been altered from seven years to
twelve. This may stop the rot to a certain extent,
but it will not alter the “F.1.F.” frame of mind.
So far, there is no naval class handing on service
traditions as a family affair.
The chief reason for the non-retention of the per-
sonnel is the deferred-pay system. It is an encour-
agement to men of the Lower Deck to abandon the
service just as they have learned their jobs. A cir-
cumstance which helps both to drive men out of the
R.A.N. and keep men from entering it is the fact
that there is no foreign service. The old R.N. motto
was: “We don’t get no money, but we do see life.”
The R.A.N. never “goes foreign,” and half the
glamor of seafaring is thereby lost. A System of
interchanging one ship at a time for one year with
the R.N. on the China, East Indies, S’African or
North American stations would make a deal of differ-
ence in this respect, and would not cost any more.
Also, the fact of a R.N. ship being with the R.A.N.
The Penalty of Greatness.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“General Wilson was murdered; the head of the
Irish nation was murdered; the head of the German
nation was murdered. I have received my third
warning of assassination.” (Loud laughter.)—
Walter Marks, to his Wentworth constitu-?
ents.
The flowers fall that most conspicuous show
Where Bolshevism lifts its head accurst;
When hurricanes and wanton blizzards blow
The loftiest forest monarchs are the first
To be uprooted ; where the red coals glow
The biv<rest roasting chestnuts soonest
burst.
Which makes my outlook you must grant
m< uite
The opposite of bright.
Wilson, all bullet-riddled, fell between
His home-conveying taxi and his door;
In Cork the skulking rebels “plugged
Mickeen” ;
Hun schoolboys steeped their hands in
Rathenau’s gore.
Each was a nation’s pride, and might have
been
Its idol. Hence, as I observed before,
I ponder, apprehensive and perplexed;
May’t not be my turn next?
The hardest grafters for their fellows must
Ever beware of the assassin’s knife.
D’ you mind how Brutus and his cobbers
thrust
Their daggers in the gent, who owned for
wife
Calpurnia, and beneath old Pompey’s bust
Watched him exhaling his Imperial life.
What was his crime? Just that he’d climbed
too high.
Maybe so, too, have I.
In every age by bravos’ hands there fall
Men on whose greatness friends and foes
agree.
Lincoln, McKinley, Carnot —patriots all.
And lawyers (prophets also), just like me,
With others whom I can’t just now recall—
Aroused the deadly animosity
Of murderous, malevolent fanatics
With rodents in their attics.
Each man who towers above the common
herd
In days like these invites a Bolshie shot.
Thrice have they tipped me a mysterious
word
Of menace about “putting on my pot.”
Why you should be to strident laughter
stirred
I cannot tell. I know that I am not.
The kookaburra hoots it in the narks,
Wher’er the red flag flies, the mongrel barks:
“They’ve got it in for Marks !”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.of A ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
6 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
CAPITAL - - £250,000
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land*
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soun y
established and progressive Company. R DIMOND, Managing Director.
on this station would foster healthy competition,
which is at present lacking.
With regard to the personnel itself, it is. on
the whole, giving the taxpayer his moneys worth.
One disadvantage of the officer lent from the HJN.
is that he hasn’t got to “keep the baby. ’ In other
words, he goes back to England at the end of two
years content to leave several sleeping dogs behind
him. Up to date, the R.A.N. has been fortunate, on
the whole, in its borrowings from the R.N. However,
more, much more, could be done to attract the right
type. For example, the Australian Government might
barrack a little harder for promotions for those who
have served it well. Also, better conditions should
be offered to senior officers: they have to be bought
in the open market, and we want the best.
Sydneyitis is one of the worst diseases with which
the R.A.N. is afflicted. On a cruise the ships are keen
and hardworking, but everything goes by the board,
as a rule, the moment the Heads are passed. De-
cidedly, Sydney should not be the base of the fleet.
Otherwise, the disciplinary standard of the Lower Deck
is very high, and, given the opportunity, the R.A.i .
A.B. and petty officer might be moulded into the best
afloat. On the whole, Australia has done well in the
last 10 years. It has shown the world that it can
turn out a sailor as efficient and well disciplined, in
the essentials, as any country; and it has discovered
in itself a class with a natural love for sailoring,
which only needs to be given a fair measure of
encouragement to produce a steady supply of good
stuff. It will be a thousand pities if our politicians
are allowed now to kill an institution which may mean
the life of the country in years to come. Vet they
may do so. There are very few votes in a navy during
peace-time.
#—
The Catch iu It.
Dear Bulletin, —There is danger of the
cotton proposition in Queensland and the
Northern Rivers (N.S.W.) being made ruin-
ously attractive to the grower. Cotton-growmg
as an industry is not being planted on its
own pins: it is being spoonfed at
the expense of the general taxpayer,
in the form of a Government guar-
antee of fivepence-halfpennv per lb. to
iiroi) the show up for the first year
or two. As there are 31b. of cotton to Jib.
of lint, it would be better to consider this
guarantee as Is. 44d. Picking, storing,
freight and other charges are estmiated to
bring the total up to Is. 7d. per lb. as the
cost of production. But this is threepence
or fourpence over the ruling price ottered
for the product. How, then, is the grower
going to get on when the Government bonus
stops, and he has to accept the ruling price
at the ginneries owned privately by Lan-
cashire and Australian philanthropists?
Just at present the Queensland grower is
cotton-mad on the attractive figures placed
before him. He is under the impression
that all the land that he can put under
cotton will return him up to £2O an acre
until the cows come home, and that the
supply can never equal the demand. Queens-
land in a vear or two is to have seed for
750,000 acres, which is to return a trifle
of £15,000,000 per year to the growers.
There are to be oil mills, seed-cake mills and,
some day, even spinning mills. Gladstone
is to become another Sydney. _ Every
cow’ cocky and sheep cocky and maize cocky
is to v’ax rich upon the great side-line of
cotton. Which might all happen if the Is.
44d. per lb. guarantee was related to Tenny-
son’s brook. But it can’t go on for ever.
The world parity must inevitably be the
final court of appeal.—Yours, etc., O’D.
Sunshine and Beer.
“F.S.”: 1 have a sombre feeling that the
fight for prohibition in Australia is already
won. This dark thought first sw’ept over
me in a little village cafe alongside the
temple of the Sybil in Tivoli. The sky was
grey, and the wind across the busy little
waterfall where the women were washing
clothes was no warmer than it should be in
the month of April; but the expression of
that cafe w’as entirely sunny. I remember
many other sunny cafes up and down the
world. There was one on the banks of the
Hsi Hu at Hangchow’, w’hose fat landlord
took you down to the lakeside to look at
the menu which swam lazily about in a
bamboo enclosure. This cafe served samshu
hot, but it also kept the wine of the spirit.
Kyoto has some pleasant spots where one
may sit and drink rice-wine or Japanese
beer amidst a landscape of mountains laced
w’ith rocky torrents and crowned with pines,
with stone lanterns and torii at their feet,
all of it tucked aw’ay in a quarter-acre block
in a back street. I remember in Macassar
a flying inn borne on the shoulders of a
sturdy animist, who sold to the midnight way-
farer illicit arrack and bits of buffalo meat
stuck on skewers. There was a pleasant
cafe looking dowm on Moscow’s golden roof
where 20 blue-smocked giants, With the
large, hard hands of peasants and the faces
of rapt dreamers, sang choruses with the
power and volume of a steam calliope. Fin-
land and Sweden have plenty of sunny cafes,
although their summer ration doesn’t amount
to a sixth of ours. Few of these cafds are par-
ticularly ornate; the wine of the snirit needs
no bush. We wandered into a small cafd on
a, main street in Ostend once so early in the
morning that it was quite unoccupied. _ The
waiter wouid not allow us to sit down inside ;
he took a table and two chairs under his arm
and placed them resolutely on the pave-
ment, completing the picture by planting
a stunted nr stuck in a green tub on eacn
side of us, and drawing a striped awning across
over our heads. The citizens who had busi-
ness to perform that morning skirted round
our little island of ajsthetic indolence with-
out protest. Presently more customers
arrived and more chairs and tables and firs
in green tubs were put out. Soon the
passers-by were walking in the street, but
nobody seemed to mind. On the Continent
the pavement has never degenerated into
a mere highway for the use of pedes-
trians. Fortunately and unfortunately . the
white races have carried their characteristic
institutions with them all over the world.
Saigon is a hectic little Paris, with the
jungle noises and the murmur of the Mekong
drowned by the voices of the singers in the
cafes chantants. Singapore, where a mili-
tary band plays in the park about once a
month, is typically British. Under its cloak
of prestigious respectability it harbors the
drab irregularity of Malay-street, though until
the war there was a pale reflection of the
continental spirit in the Tingle Tangle,
THE HARMONIOUS HARDCASES.
“Convicts at Pentridge Prison have demanded that they shall be allowed to go in for community sing-
ing once a month. Major Conder is favorable to the idea.”— Press item.
CHORUS :-
Now, us convicks is full of de-jeck-shion,
And we sing wif a catch in the front,
For there’ll soon he anuver e-leck-shion,
But the Lor don’t allow us no vote.
Ri-tooral-li-looral-i-liddy-day, etc.
where fading Austrian ladies, with a heavy
price imposed by the Austrian Government
upon their heads, discoursed sweet music or
danced when requested, and ordered drinks
at your request by way of payment. Hong,
kong is a city of gaunt hotels, where the
white woman lives in domestic harems, while
her lord and master practises his secret vice
in hotel bars and clubs. It is hard to under-
stand why the Australian, with his long
summer and almost perpetual sunshine,
should prefer to have his drinks dispensed in
dingy caves rather than in the shade of the
leafy boulevard, where his wife and family
might join him in the perfectly commonplace
business of quenching his thirst. The air
of sinister mystery at present attaching to
the matter gives it something of the romance
of an esoteric rite only to be performed by
the male members of the tribe: like circum-
cision or the initiation of an aboriginal buck
into the warrior caste; and that is largely
why the women are so jealous of it as to be
ready to vote it out of existence. That they
will succeed, unless our drinking habits are
changed, is more than likely.
Promotion by Seniority.
“Senojo”: Australia is becoming a vast
benevolent asylum for Government em-
ployees. The curse of its seven over-manned
services is promotion bv seniority or special
recommendation instead of by demonstrated
efficiency. Sometimes the special recommen-
dation may be hastened by getting _ sweet
with the "head”; then, if you are in the
close running, a timely transfer of a dan-
gerous opponent smooths the way for another
cushion to be added to a spacious armchair.
But, for the most part, a man gets pro-
moted by waiting Ins turn, whether he is
fit to be promoted or not. As a rule ~ ) to
40 years elapse before a real plum is plucked.
A “head” of my acquaintance is due to re-
tire shortly after 54 years in the one depart-
ment. Most of these long-service men lose
all initiative in the first 10 years. After
that period they become mere channel-fash,
wielders of the rubber-stamp, followers of
procedure set down by their grandfathers.
Cut off entirely from the ways of the busi-
ness world, they cannot understand the caL
for modern methods and the protection of
the publ.c purse. A public servant may
draw his salary for 40 to 50 years without
being called upon to pass a single test or
demonstrate his capacity to fill positions, for
which he is qualifying in the process of
the seasons. A standard of mediocrity is
sufficient to carry an official to the top rung
of his department. The system is so iron-
bound that it would be folly for an inside
individual to attempt the gigantic task of
remodelling the service. He is simply part
of the cumbersome collection of old cogs
that rotate in their ordered sphere, and for
one cog to rebel is impossible. Departmental
heads and sub-heads should be selected by
a series of tests that would give a man of
ability a chance to keep his organising and
administrative capacity fresh, and put the
mediocrity and the incompetent m their tit
places. As things are, brainy men stay in
the departments just long enough for the
job to be a shelter while they study for some
profession. Then law, accountancy, journal-
ism and kindred professions snap them up,
while the “duds” settle down in cushy cor-
ners of the Government tramcar and ride in
undisturbed drowsiness for the rest of their
days.
•
Thebe are two little oases in the tragic
waste of Queensland Stafle Enterprises.
The report of the Auditor-General, published
last week, shows that these were the profits
from beer under the heading of the Babinda
State Hotel and the refreshment rooms, and
from the retail butchers’ shops. But even
with these thrown in the accumulated loss
on State trading in Queensland up to June
80 last year was £440,070. Theodoke and
co. succeeded in adding £356,191 of this vast
total last year. The State stations have
played the leading part in building up the
huge deficit. They have accumulated
£400,355 on the wrong side of the ledger.
Beside this the losses of £38,113 on the
canneries, £30,502 on the fish shops, and
£5289 on the produce agencies look mere
nothings. The total indebtedness to the
suffering Treasury under the Loan Fund
account, after allowing for the amounts to
the credit of the paying enterprises, is
£1,263,040, and under the Trust Fund ac-
count £760,867 175., the latter sum being
an increase of no less than £173,499 15s.
lOd. for the year. After an adjustment of
all accounts, the total liability to the
Treasury at June 30 last was £1,663,262
os. 2d. A very marked decrease in the turn-
over at the butcher shops during the year,
amounting to 42.6 per cent., was attributed
to two factors: <a\ loss of custom due to
competition of Private Enterprise, and (6)
reduction in the retail prices. It would
seem to the ordinary eye that these reasons
were closely related. The shipment of
1400 tons of frozen meat to London dis-
closed a loss of £37,924 6s. 2d., which would
appear to indicate that State Enterprise
takes risks at which its private brother would
baulk. To try and square this little item
the Commissioner appropriated the surplus
profits of the butchers’ shops—£22,449 11s.
2d. These means were also tried to camou-
flage other losses. For instance: £250,000
was transferred from the railway refresh-
ment surplus, in order to reduce the liability
of the produce agency to the Treasury, and
£lO,OOO from the butcheries for the same
purpose. Of course, the Commissioner will
attempt to justify the State Enterprises, but
he will have a hard job. So will Theodore
when he goes to the post. He will hardly
have the hide to say, with the Auditor-
General, that the competition of Private
Enterprise, is responsible for much of the
disaster.
“Dr. Nil” : “Cartot,” writing on “The
Slaughter of the Unborn” (B. 19/10/’22),
may be right in his contention that “75 per
cent, of the practising abortionists are
women —usually unqualified nurses the
other 25 per cent, are the real menaces.” But
the points he has missed are as follows:
Foundling homes and maternity hospitals,
“with no questions asked,” have no attrac-
tion for those rich married women who are
unwilling to bear children, and who acknow-
ledge no moral restraints. They do not
go for help to “Cartot’s” “75 per cent.,” or
even to the “25 per cent.” If they did they
might lay themselves open to blackmail.
Therefore they consult a well-known special-
ist of unblemished reputation, or a “lenient”
family doctor, according to their pecuniary
status. The diagnosis is “endometritis,” and
the fee is “How much have you got?” Please
do not misunderstand me. My 75 per
cent, (of the Australian medical profes-
sion) are men who would rather sell
papers for a living than practise abortion.
But my 25 per cent, have amongst them
fully qualified' and highly esteemed medicoes
—whether in or out of the B.M.A. matteis
not —who look upon the beans when they are
ripe and are ever ready to gather in the
cheque when it is long. So much for the
rich. As to the poor—that is. the compara-
tively poor—and the unmarried, maternity
homes where there are “no questions
have few attractions for them, either. They
don’t want a place in which to be confined
of an unwanted child. They don’t want the
pain and risk and obloquy and certain loss
of value in the marriage market caused by
having the child at all. They all, both rich
and poor, want the unborn to be slaughtered,
and they are prepared to pay for the slaugh-
ter according to their means. The rich go
to Dr. Forceps —president of the Neo-
obstetrical Society—and pay £lO5. The
poor go to Madam Aborcini (“look for the
blue-red lamp”) and pay 105 s. And no
amount of law-making will prevent it.
“Phthisis” : Theo Tartakover claims that
it is impossible for immigrants suffering from
T.B. to reach Australia. I suggest that it is
impossible to exclude cases in their early
stages without something in the nature of
a prolonged quarantine with periodical ana
thorough examinations by specialists. Take
my own case. When my trouble was diag-
nosed I was informed by the specialist that
the disease had been active for at least two
years, and was in its incurable stage. Yet
during those two years I had been examined
by quite a dozen doctors, including some per-
sonal friends, who all assured me that no-
thing serious was detectable, my symptoms
being due to overwork. Also, in those same
two years I had passed medical examina-
tions for both life assurance and military
service. Since then, though incurable, 1
have travelled considerably and passed port
health-officers in Australia over a dozen times
without once being queried. In W.A. I met
a lot of “Pommies” with affected lungs who
had emigrated on the advice of their family
physicians; while the number of sufferers
who travel first-class must be enormous. It
is worth remembering, by the way, that many
of Australia’s leading citizens are men or
the sons of men who originally came to the
Commonwealth “for their health” —which, m
the majority of cases, implies T.B.


Peapes' Lace Cotton Underwear
Light and Cool, yet Durable.
When Underwear has constantly to he subjected to
laundering, there is no wiser choice than this strong yet
open-woven quality.
Peapes recommend it for reliable service:
Lace Cotton 34 36 38 40 42 44
Undershirts,
half sleeves 10/- 10/- 10/6 11/- 11/6 12/-
Trunk Drawers
to match,
solid seats 10/- 10/6 11/- 11/6 12/- 12/6
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for a copy of Peapes’ New Catalogue.
y
lilm
Italy’s Best
All the qualities of speed and comfort, reliability and economy are embodied
in the range we offer, and the prices represent the most practical expression of
value. There is—-
THE MODEL 501, 10/15 H.P., the embodiment of comfort
and economy, Price £595.
THE MODEL 505, 15/20 H.P., touring car “Par Excellence,”
Price £825.
THE MODEL 510, 20/30 H.P., the acme of perfection, speed,
power, luxury combined. Price £995.
GARRATTS LIMITED
173**75 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
POLITIOCAL
POINTS
Massy Greene, whose opponent in Rich-
mond (N.S.W.) is a namesake without the
final “e,” has facetiously suggested that in
order to avoid confusion his portrait should
be printed in colors and broadcasted about
the electorate. To which the C.P. man
smartly replied that the electors could avoid
mistakes by remembering that he is plain
Green and, further, that he wears a returned
soldier’s badge and only one leg. Another
point is that Digger Green is an eloquent
supporter of the New State movement, on
which his rival is a lot more indefinite than
he might be.
“Gallery” : Atkinson, M.H.R. for Wilmot
(Tas.), will have difficulty in answering the
gibe that he joined the Country party
to save his political neck. It was a common
scoff in the last House of Reps, that Llew.
would rarely back his opinion with his vote.
At times he has made a pretence of an inde-
pendent attitude, but, whatever he might say
against the head of the Government, he
always expiated the crime when the division-
bells rang. Naturally he has been scath-
ingly criticised. It was Anstey (I think)
who sardonically remarked, apropos of Atkin-
son, that “A worm feels like a girder when it
looks at you.”
Pre-selection has been abandoned by the
Vic. Cocky party, but there are ways of
freezing out unwanted candidates. A truly
rural comrade wanted to contest the N.E.
seat in the Dreary House, but the inner ring
of the F.U., to show how keen it was on
cementing the amalgamation with the Towns-
people’s Leagues, plumped for Zwar, of
Beechworth. Zwar will work, as far as pos-
sible, with the Cocky quartette already in the
Council—Crockett, Goudle, Abbott and
Harris.
As was the case in the Cook (N.S.W.)
electorate, it took two “irregular” ballots
and a vote by the A.L.P. heads to determine
the Labor candidate for Reid. Percy Cole-
man, who survived this exhausting process,
was in the A.1.F., and is secretary of the
Australian Clerical Association. He has
been earning his own living since he was
13. It is nothing against Coleman that the
Reds and Tammany regard him with dis-
favor, but he has taken on a tough contract
in Reid.
Quaint extract from an 1872 issue of
Brisbane Courier :
The surplus seems to have occasioned a great deal
of unnecessary alarm. Some will hardly believe it
to be real; others look upon it as not likely to con-
tinue ; and a third party is anxious that there
should be no remission of taxation. Pay off the
public debt is their cry; let us keep up the taxes
and strain every nerve in favor of posterity. But,
whether they think it or not, it is not this genera-
tion, now in its pfime, that would benefit by keeping
the load on their shoulders. Supposing that we
maintained this surplus, it would probably take us
30 years or more to get rid of what we owe. Why
should we voluntarily assume so great a burden—or
rather why should we not?
Which shows that the old Tory took the
same line of argument on the disgraceful
business of passing the burden on to the
kiddies as the Labor Tory of to-day. Still,
modern Queensland finance beats the 1872
style in one respect. It no longer has “any
surplus in the revenue to occasion any un-
necessary alarm.’’
“G.R.”: J. J. Simons’s break with the
Labor party surprised no one in the West.
Heard the qUeSLon of J.J.’s Laborism hurled
at a group of union officials seven months
ago, and the silence that ensued left a sus-
picion that Something was amiss. Simons
Is being opposed for East Perth by one
Hughes,, a civil servant, Who is a big pot
at the 'Trades Hall. But he will probably
find Hughes less difficult than Charlie Hep-
pingstone, Ohce a lieutenant in the Light
Hbrse, who stood for the same electorate in
1921 and polled Uncommonly well.
“Gallery”: I.can’t see MasSy Greene lead*
ing a Liberal-Cocky fusion in the next Par*
liament. ThCrfe would have to be a Spec*
tacular Liberal, triumph to fiiake it possible.
Allowing fof the Cocky and Liberal gains
that th? party optimists are prophesying,
there is a solid Nationalist Section that will
cling to Hughes through thick and thin,
Such men as Marks, Marr, Ryfie, Lairiond,
Johnson, Mdxivell, Bruce, JaCksOn, Cam*
Cron, Grodrh, Bamford, Foster and Pbyfitoh,
who are all pretty certain of rettirn, are
hot likely to abandon Billy. As a matter
of fact, if Massy means to climb higher, he
will have to fight against a rather Obtrusive
tendency towards self-admiration. Hughes
has enough egotism for the whole Cabinet.
The signs indicate that Premier Lawson
(Vic.) will weather the session somehow,
and go on his projected tr,p to the Cold
Land, liis stillest gate will be the Bung
Bill, which is to contain, in addition to the
provision for transferring £lks,o<JU from tue
incensing b und to revenue, clauses suspend-
ing local-option polls for five, eight or ten
THE WRONG DUCKS ARE FATTENING.
years, and wider powers for the Reduction
Board, to enable that body to wipe out mere
boozing saloons and enforce better inn accom-
modation. The Cocky party will be surer
of itself after March, when the expansion
movement recently decided upon is con-
firmed by the annual conference. The Labor
moderates are not anxious for a rumpus at
present. For which reasons the blowing-up
of Lawson and co. may be postponed until
July or August.
A comic feature of the North Sydney elec-
tion is that Hughes is being hotly denounced
by the Joynton Smith interest. It is not
so manv months since the same people were
praising him to the skies. In the exuberance
of those days the Little Digger was publicly
offered the editorship of .Toynton Smith’s
new daily at a salary of £5OOO a year. He
has never explicitly rejected the gift, and
the story now goes that, if adversity over-
takes him next month, he will formally
accept it and signify his willingness to start
at once.
Significant that two of the lawyers who
were included in the Australian delegation
at the i’eace Conference returned home with
a bristling antipathy to Hughes. F. W.
Eggleston, now member for St. Kilda in the
Vic. Assembly and an international publicist
of considerable repute, is one of the pair
who regarded Billy as a child in diplomacy.
The other is J. G. Latham, the Melbourne
K.C., who hopes to give Bobby Best a run
for Kooyong on December 16. Latham, who
is the candidate of the Australian Legion,
won a decoration for his work in the Navy
Office during the war. He is also an M.A.
and L.L.M., and for some years lectured at
the Melbourne Uni. on the law of contracts.
In default of a vigorous Opposition to
fight with, the N. S. Wales Nationalists can
be reLed upon to quarrel acrimoniously and
incessantly among themselves. The latest
row has been raging over the question
whether Premier Fuller, before he leaves for
England, shall appoint Chief Secretary Oakes
as his locum tenens, or have Ley thrust on
him by a caucus vote in which Fuller will
have no more say than the most insignificant
member of the party. In W.A. recently, the
C,P. members of the Ministerial party com-
pelled Premier Mitchell to put one of their
owfi men above Colebatch, who, as senior
Minister, has hitherto always filled Mit-
chell's place when the latter was out of the
State. Having a majority in the Coalition,
they were in a position to dictate. Seem-
ingly, the W.A. example hasn’t been lost on
the N.S.W. Nationalist cave.
Remarks of another prophet:—
Jowett (C.P.) has a mortgage on Bendigo. Rodgers
(Customs) and Wise will have hard fights for Wan-
non and Gippsland, but will just about pull
through. Boyd will give Francis a close run
for Henty, and may just do it. He and Watt made
things unpleasant for Bent in the State House till
Tummas laid his net and landed Boyd as an honor-
ary Minister. Coldham (Hughesite) will shake
McGrath (Labor) very badly. But if the changes in
other States are to be no more remarkable than in
Vic. the hurly-burly will be hardly worth the noise.
From the second line of trenches: —
A brisk combat is raging in Henty (Vic.). Besides
a Laborite, who has no chance, there are two
Nationalists, Francis and Boyd ; a Liberal Progressive,
Harry Gullett; and Mrs. Glencross, of the Housewives’
Union. All are vigorous and vocal and have some
particular interest to serve. Mrs. Glencross expects
to be carried in on a wave of enthusiasm for cheap
sugar. Francis, who has been assiduous during the
last three years in stiffening his hold on the electo-
rate, is grimly defying the machinations of Rome.
Boyd, the bluff ex-Admiral of the defunct training
ship John Murray, has been publicly blessed by the
Wimmen’s League, and will probably run Francis
very close for the lead in the first count. Gullett,
a good journalist and an excellent speaker, has the
support of the Australian Legion. What that amounts
to remains to be seen, but the platitudes of Francis,
Boyd and the Glencross lady sound tawdry beside
Gullett’s statesmanlike sentences. The young man’s
outlook is as broad as the continent. There is no
narrow morning-paper provincialism in his make-up.
It is also to his credit that he voluntarily gave up
a big post which his conscience had made untenable
to accept a smaller salary on Melbourne HERAim.
Gullett may not be elected next month, but his time
will come.
A Queensland Arbitration Judge has been
wrestling with the annual application for
thump.ng increases of wages and an 81
per cent, reduction of work in the State
Railway Department. But it didn’t take
him long. The Auditor-General had simpli-
fied his job by collecting the following statis-
tics regarding the Queensland railways:—
Deficit for 1921-22, £1,743,270.
Deficits for seven years, £8,407,292.
Net earnings per employee: £B6 9s. 7d. ins
1911-12; £54 17s. 2d. in 1916-17; £2l 17s. Bd..
in 1921-22.
Interest charges in 1921-22, £4 6s. p.c.; actual'
return, 14s. 2£d per cent. The difference had to>
be met by the taxpayer.
There are 15.726 persons in the railway ser-
vice, and it was coolly suggested that they
should get another £300,000 in wages and’,
labor concessions—in short, that the tax-
payer should add to his previous benefac-
tions by presenting them with £lO Is. 6d..
a head. The Judge looked hard at the:
authors of this engaging proposal. Then he:
remarked that the application had failed.
“Daw”: A point not stressed by “Wad”'
(B. 9/11/’22) is that 12s. of the 16s. per
capita contr.buted to the Tas. revenue'
through Tattersall’s is paid by sweep inves-
tors w’lio are not residents of the island.
Nearly one-fifth of every living Tassy’s share
of taxation (roughly £3 ss. per head) is pro-
vided by “foreigners,” mostly mainlanders.
and Maorilanders. It is not a large amount,
certainly, but the Lord help the Speck’s
Treasurer if he had to demand that 12s. per
head from local taxpayers.
There is no provision for State or muni-
cipal delivery in the Vic. Government's Pure
Milk Supply Bill. The municipalities are
to have wholesale supply-depots, and may even
retail there, but delivery is to be by private
enterprise, subject to inspection. Other
features of an interesting piece of legisla-
tion are that the block system is discarded as
theoretical, and herd-testing is to be made
general. Matt Baird launched the bill for
the Ministry, and Prendergast. the Opposi-
tion Leader, after a snarl at it, got the-
debate adjourned. Whether the thing passes
or not, a good milk supply for infants has
been arranged for the summer —that is if
there is to be any summer in Vic.
“Lip”: When George Black, now a mem-
ber of the N.S.W. Obstructive Council, was
a Cabinet Minister, he brought many curses
to typists’ lips. Though a busy man, he
was never too busy to scan with an eagle eye
the correspondence submitted for his signa-
ture, and the letters that got by him at first
try had to be something out of the ordinary.
Usually they came from his room so altered
that little more than the “I have the honor”
6f the original remained. Even those of his
own drafting were at times subjected to the
same rigorous sub-editing. On one occasion
a much-mutilated letter went astray about
his office, and a callow youth set to look for
it described it as one on which the Minister
had “drawn a lot of darn’ balloons, and
scribbled in ’em.” Black’s comment, when
the incident, was related to him, was, natu-
rally, that “it was a kite-flying letter any-
way.”
Lieut.-Colonel Hurry, the Nationalist can-
didate whom Edmund Jowett expects to beat
for Bendigo, is a Kyneton solicitor. He
captured bis first decoration (he owns two)
on Passchendaele Ridge. The 6s. Bd. busi-
ness which he controls was founded by his
father. Beyond serving on the local council
Hurry has had no experience of public life,
but he is not too old to acquire it.
“D.E.”: The cold, heat and rain of the
campaign have brought a number of old
political wombats out of their burrows, T. R.
Ashworth, The Bulletin’s old friend
“Trashworth,” of Melbourne, among the
rest. Ashworth is, and always has been,
the great exponent of lost causes. Involved
in a resurrection of such of the Tories of
1880 or thereabouts as are not dead, or, being
dead, are not yet aware of the fact, he is
given an opportunity of expanding his re-
cord. “Trashworth” evidently imagines the
anti-Labor recrudescence to be a disinterment
of the dead bones of the Freetrade era; in
fact, he is bone of that sort himself. But
whatever happens to Hughes it will be as
nothing to the shocking confusion awaiting
the crowd with which Trash is associated.
The Commonwealth Electoral Act.
The addresses of the artists whose pictures deal
with the coining Federal. election in this issue are,
respectively, Percy Leason, 214 George-street, Sydney;
and Tom Glover, 268 Flinders-street. Melbourne.
A PAIR OF BILLIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Queensland Mr. Hughes warmly supported thfe
candidature of Mr. Higgs hor Caprieornia.
Before my break from Caucus ranks I made
We were as brothers. Passionate flapdoodlfe
tVe hurled at everyone possessed of boodle;
And to the sweating gallery we played;
Tivo knockabout comedians. A pair
Of kindred souis we were,
Then,.caihe estrangement. Billy Higgs abode
Stili with the piush to nie abhorred, unclean;
Hence turning on him my invective keen
I dubbed my old affinity “a toad,”
His habitat “a cesspool.” And thereat
He labelled me “a rat,”
Truly you might have thought that nevermore
We’d fraternise; but when the Labor lute
Rifted anew, and Demos’ hobnailed boot
Propelled another patriot through the door,
A neck, excepting mine, whereon to fall
How could he find at all?
Forgotten are the gibes that seared and bit:
As thick as thieves again we take the stage
And in our patter-turns once more engage.
What though they win no plaudits from the pit
And from the gallery only owl-like calls?
There still remain the stalls.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


PoKTER.' &low W<Z l <3v\d ;
“bListad all y<zV lzj§>gacg<£
Ok don't nvznhott it,
no h'oubli at all te Vay.
3 tt<ZW lot
M own-no litKZ-up of S 5 <£« g<zV3 to
f6V<ZWcU gurnet upon 2>vyW2>l 2>S"
\. "Hfc C 1 by
G. is'b'f'X: R'&.y Hus iv\tenv'aplriOY't / kub tf- you
lyd\<Z.S Cguitc towsV\<zd n/ouv* convex s&+-
-iovN wc will stevb
EQdfvES
'dionnin' , wk&toctev-
y<zv iik<z tev toctey^'
lnc.idgM.to'
aided old -50
■fe* \iy*sc{s 2>S to
k&tt cVovm top
to a-n obliging} “"po^te^
Ticket cou -ect©k - - fov 2> knoc-k-p W<zil I
frnisVt 2>Mvvo,sol -M2>y dvop oVev* totfbz links send kawy
-nine Vtotes vriik y<zT"
i&.dy fk-^slusk: Ibank you, Mow don
fowaef -vny G'&vden if? ovt
%. ikivtee-vrtk.
ekg\ke oRweK.- y<zv owe”
on. iHev cz'.so. Ibsir-nusktr kurnme you
was <£> 'f?ictes J ‘c2, fall tbiitev 1 -tk<2 toz<z+k yey vos i
GETTING TOGETHER.
“A railway porter is no more and no less a servant of the people than a Judge or a Cabinet Minister is. There should be insistence for a due recognition that a
Government employee is entitled to courtesy and' respect.” Sydney daily.
The N. S. Wales Railways as they might be.


m
Ok
GIVE A
CLEAR
SOFT
WHITE
LIGHT
ARE
ECONOMICAL
STRONG
AND
LASTING
21 ElijciboH) Sh
Melbourne
W\\
///'//// /•/ / / rn*“Prrr\ \\ \ \\v \\\nx
wvmm
W/
/ ELECTRICAL
L (
CO LTD.
213 Clarsnoe
St., Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Australian Manufacturers of “MAGPIE” Specialties
Flour Sifters,
ofravy Strainers.
Spouting Brackets.
D Gate Batches.
Watering Cans.
‘ ‘Dreadnought”
Wire Strainer.
Shovels —Special Steel.
Wall Vents.
TINWARE.
Wire Nails.
Barbed Wire.
Spouting and Ridging.
Sewerage Pipes, etc.
Sheet Metal Work
of all descriptions.
Fry Pans.
TITAN Manufacturing Co.,
Normanby Road, South Melbourne.
Telephones -C2191, C 2192.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Sept., 1913. .122,637 8 p.c.=£12,000f10,637 £206,096
Mar., 1914.. 23,069 8 „ „ 12,000 11,069 217,165
Reserves disclosed . . 15,000 232,165
Sept., 1914.. 20,180 8 p.c. = 12,000 8,180 240,345
Mar., 1915. . 19,316 8 „ „ 12,000 7,316 247,661
Sept., 1015: .= 17,255 8 „ 12,000 5,255 252,916
Mar., 1916.. 19,185 8 „ „ 12,000 7.485 260,401
.Sept., 1916. . 19,590 8 „„ 12,0.00 7,590 267.991
Mar., 1917.. 22.164 8 „ „ 12,000 10,164 278,155
Sept., 1917.. 22,307 8 ~,, 12,000 10,307 288,462
Mar., 1918.: 25,256' 8 „ „ 12,000 13,256 301,718
Sept., 1918. . 26,180 8 „ „ 12,000 14,180 315,898
Mar., 1919.. 29,413 8 „ „ 12,000 17,413 333,311
Sept., 1919.. 41,489 9 ~ „ 22,500 18,989 352,300
Mar., 1920.. 46,696 10 „ „ 25,000 21,096 373,996
Sept., 1920. . 55,230 10 -25,000. 30,230 404,225
Premiums on. new shares, £40,000. . 444,225
Mar.; 1921.. 59,194 10 p.c.= 37,500 21,694 465,919
Sept., 1921. . 58,216 10 „ „ 37,500 20,716 486,635
Mar., 1922. . 58,722 10 „ „ 37,500 21,222 507,857
Sept., 1922.. 58,392 10 „ „ 37,500 20,892 528,749
The div. rate was lifted to 10 p.c. for the
first time in 1920, and while £200,000 has
since been distributed to shareholders
£186,450 has been added to reserves. Put
another way, for every £1 paid in divs. a
visible 18s. 7d. has been left to strengthen
the bank. The Royal’s business has grown
very rapidly; when the war started it held
slightly more than 2| millions of deposits;
at the latest balance deposits not bearing
interest exceeded 2i millions and £2,216,420
more was at fixed deposit. Paid capital in
a few years has moved from £300,000 to
£750,000, and new issues brought in £40,000
of premiums. Earnings and exes, for Sep-
tember terms have expanded in this way:—
Sept, half, Gross Profits. Exes.
1900 .. .. £8,930 £3,067
1910 .. 28,731 9,887
1914 .. .. 35,309 15,129
1919 .. . . 69,525 28,036
1920 . . . . 89,995 34,765
1921 .. .. 97,095 38,879
1922 .. .. 100,157 41,765
The Royal is a comparatively young bank,
haying been established only a few years
prior to the big smash. That disturbance
retarded its development for many yeqrs, and
only since the war began have its figures
grown rapidly; additional deposits entrusted
to it during the past eight years exceeded
the total held after it had been 26 years in
business. Abnormal conditions —particu-
larly- the heavy war borrowings—have in-
flated the figures to some extent, but apart
from those influences the Royal has made
good progress. The directorate includes
some commercial heavyweights who have
probably influenced a lot of business; and
the establishment of a London branch just
prior to the war no doubt also gave good
pickings from exchange operations.
This compares balance-sheet figures at Sep-
tember 30 for the past three years :
Liabilities.
Sept.,’2o. Sept.,’2l. Sept.,’22..
Notes .. . .- £859 £845 £B4O,
Bills, etc. . . 540,023 657,927 279,473 i
Free deposits .. 2,201,745 2,283,889 2,545,080
Fixed deposits . . 2,218,549 2,310,096 2,216,420
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 1,707,145 1,719,336 1,851,921
Advances . . 4,204,297 4,652,206 4,354,892
Premises, etc. .. 155,580 155,350 151,250
Government deposits were reduced by r almost
£200,000 during the year, but £365,485 more
of private depositors’ money- was left with
the bank; so the improvement was even
better than the figures in the table indicate.
All liabilities to the public totalled £5,021,813
at. September 30, but though the realisation
of abnormal stocks by traders and others
reduced advances by nearly £300,000 the pro-
portion of liquid assets to liabilities improved
only from slightly less than 33 p.c, to 37
p.c. The Royal thus had a full quota of its
available funds at work. The relation of
funds to liabilities is unusually strong : capi-,
tal and reserves total £1,278,749 and lia-
bilities slightly more than five millions. For
every £1 of its own funds the Royal held
less than £4 of outside money. Its
funds are adequate to carry almost double
the present business. In other words, the
bank can continue to grow considerably with-
out shareholders being called upon to pro-
vide additional protecting funds. The sup-
port for creditors at September 30 was as
follows: £1,851,921 of the total liabilities of
five millions-odd was covered by cash and
liquid assets: the balance of £8,169,892 was
backed by advances with a book value of
£4,354,892 and the bank premises. These
assets would need to lose 30 p.c. of their
book values before a penny of outside money
would be in doubt,
Queensland State Government Insur-
ance Office:—
Fn;n Department.
Ex- To Re- Re-
Incom?. Losses, peases, serves, serves.
1917 .. £B,lBB £744 £2,602 £4,842 £4,842
191 S .. 30,602 3,327 13,889 13,386 18,228
1919 .. 38,872 8,740 15,267 14,865 33,093
1920 .. 68,468 18,451 28,479 21,538 54,631
Added to reserves . . 9,554 64,185
1921 .. 71,949 13,427 45,000 13,522 77,707
1922 . . 93,741 29,711 44,522 19,508 97,215
Three-fourths of the business in this depart-
ment of the State Office is in respect of
dwellings, so risks are for the most part
of the safer class which spells good profits.
Loss and expense ratios, calculated from the
figures in the introductory table, have been
as follows:
Loss Rate. Expense Rate.
1918.. .. 10.8 p.c. 45.3 p.c.
1919.. .. 22.5 ~ 39.3 „
1920.. ~ 26.9 „ 41.6 „
1922.. ~ 30.6 „ 47.5 „
Last year’s losses wove the heaviest so far
experienced. The feature of the latest
accounts is that though income for the 12
months was £21,792 larger than for the pre-
vious year, expenses were a few hundreds
smaller. But after a detailed investigation
12 months ago, the “Wild Cat” refuses to
take the expenses of any department' too
seriously. They are divided into two sec-
tions : those definitely known to have been
incurred by a branch, and the portion of the
“general administration account” of the
office debited against branches by the Com-
missioner. In previous accounts there were
indications that the Fire branch, and probably
other departments, too, were being over-
charged to the advantage of the Life Sec-
tion. On this occasion, the Commissioner
reports that, “as in other departments,”
administration costs in the Fire branch have
been “carefully watched.” Notwithstanding
the increased revenue, the costs were lower
—£30,985 compared with £31,558 for 1921.
Fire operations have given handsome pro-
fits, and results to date indicate that this
is a department in which a revision of rates
would he justified. Surpluses accumulated
over six years represent no less than 106; p.c.
of last year’s net premium income. But all
of the reserves of £97,215 shown in the
introductory table are not held by the
branch. Reserves for specific purposes,
particularly unexpired risks, totalled
£50,918, and a balance of £10,981 was at
credit of Profit and Loss. But from time
to time amounts now totalling £25,316 have
been put into the general reserves of the
office, and £lO.OOO more is held in the aggre-
gate balance-sheet as an “additional depart-
ment reserve.” Since the balance £6OOO of
the P. and L. credit has been transferred
to the general reserves and £3OOO to the
departmental reserve. The Commissioner
has not dispensed with Private Enterprise in
Fire operations: gross premiums last year
amounted to £130.569, but £39.151 was laid
off:—local reinsurances. £14,651; treaty,
£11,608; internal, £12,892.
Marine Department.
To Re- Re-
Income. Losses. Expenses, serves. serves.
1920.. £3095 £723 £859 £1513 £l4ll
Reserves taken in . . . . 449 1860
1921.. 4085 127 1459 2495 4355
1922.. , 5982 756 2437 2789 7144
This branch has also been contributing to
the general reserves of the office for the past
two years: £l5OO has been transferred since
the 1921 balance. Gross premiums for the
past year were £9848. hut of that £4761 was
taken to re-insure risks.
* *. * *
The Warrnambool Woollen Co. (Warr-
nambool, Vic.) -
Writ- To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves. , serves.
1912. . £2',490 5 p.c.= £1,207 £1,125 £l5B £517
1913.. 5,637 6 ~„ 1,557 2,712 1,368 1.885
Premiums on new shares . . 65 1,950
1914.. 8,956 6 p.c. = 1,749 2,498 1,659
Premiums on new shares . . ' 235 1,894
Forfeited shares . . . . 31 1,925
1915.. 12,428 10p.c.= 5,143 300 6,985 8,910
1916.. 11,737 17 „ 8,072 500 3,165 12,075
1917.. 4,168 12 5,912 10,331
Premiums on new shares .. 5,000 15,331
1918.. 9,198 12 p.c. = 6,073 3,125 18,456
1919.. 6,174 12 „• „ 7,114 17,516
Premiums on new shares ..." 9,163 26,679
1920.. 14,531 12 p.c. -- 8,669 - 5,862 32,541
Premiums on new shares . . 2,504 35,045
1921.. 33,521 18 p.c. = 15,389 18,132 53,177
Premiums on new'shares .. -8,333 61,510
1922.. 1.8,716 15 p.c. 14,695 10,000 55,531
This has been one of the Commonwealth’s
most successful woollen-manufacturing cos.
Other mills have made handsome profits
since 1915, but this one was established
only a dozen years ago, and was just get-
ting into its stride when the war gave it
big Contracts. So. unlike some of the older
concerns which had had many years’ struggle
to compete with imported woollens, this
Warrnambool co. has never experienced a
set-back. . Nevertheless, a few shareholders
evidently did not think much of their in-
vestment in the early years: the 1912
balance-sheet showed a small parcel of
shares as having been forfeited. Ten years
ago paid capital was £26,678; it is now
£lOO,OOO, and the directors propose to
raise £50,000 more for new plant and ex-
tensions. Gross profits have moved in this
way over 10 years:—
1912.. £4,713 I 1917.. £24,334 1 1920. . £38,078
,1914.. 7,591 I 1918.. 19,542 ( 1921.. 54,607
.1916.. 31,897 | 1919.. 22,467 | 1922.. 46,280
Net profits have been erratic owing to
taxation and to the varying amounts set
aside for depreciation and other purposes.
A lot of plant was purchased;, when machin-
ery was costly, but £lO,OOO has lately been
written off book values to bring them into
line with replacement costs. But after mak-
ing regular and special depreciation allow-
ances, setting aside £5OOO for an employees’
provident fund and paying the very hand-
some divs. shown in the introductory table,
the co. has accumulated reserves of £55.531
to support its £lOO,OOO of capital. _ Pre-
miums on shares have,- however, contributed
£25,331 of that reserve.
Another view of the co.’s amazing growth
is given by these comparisons:—
1912. • 1917. 1921. 1922.
Capital .. - .. £26,678 £48,968 £87,208 £lOO,OOO
Liabilities . ■ 8,682 4,108 3,581 25,873
Properties and
buildings . , 7,383 11,040 20,544 32,525
Plant & machinery 19,423 26,480 42,556 94,535
Stock .. .. 7,651 28,079 44,279 50,349
Sundry debtors . . 1,313 6,206 14,767 15,669
Other assets .. 1,850 5,056 37,512 5,378
Last year a now worsted plant was in-
stalled, and additions to fixed assets
cost £77,000, which was only £lO,OOO less
than the total paid capital, with which
the year opened. Though £13,250 was
written oil during the 12 months, funds
tied up in land, buildings, plant and mach-
inery have doubled since September, 1921.
But shareholders cannot reasonably expect
all the new additions to produce profits on
the scale of those of recent years. The
same remark applies to the numerous new
mills which have .been established or are con-
. templated throughout the Commonwealth.
With overseas manufacturers more or less
off the Australian market and war con-
tracts available, the local mills had excep-
tional opportunities during the past eight
years. But as conditions become more
settled throughout the world, the local wool-
len manufacturer is likely to experience still
keener competition. The future of the Aus-
tralian mills depends largely on manufac-
turing costs: a good local market, should
be assured with adequate; tariff: duties, but
the big opportunities will come when local
industry can reverse the old order and
compete in the world’s markets. _ I util
prospects become assured, the industry
should not attempt to pay over-large divs.,
hut accumulate as much as possible in re-
. serve to assure a reasonable return to share-
holders should trading conditions become less
favorable.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Mont dk Piete Deposit and
Investment Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
' June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1912. . £12,005 12| p.c. = £9,763 £2242 £36,169
Premiums on new shares .. 2915 39,084
1913.. 13,440 12* p.c. = 11,626 1814 40,898
1914.. 16,297 121 „ „ 13,211 3086 43,984
1915.. 11,792 10 „ „ 10,830 962 44,946
1916.. 13,342 10 ~ „ 11,250 2092 47,038
1917.. 13,897 10 „ ~ 11,250 2647 49,685
1918.. 14,993 Hi „ „ 12,656 2337 52,022
1919.. 16,038 12* „ „ 14,062 1976 53,998
r Reserves capitalised, £28,125 .. 25,873
19.20.. 19,621 12* p.c. = 16,023 3598 29,471
1921.. 21,726 12* „ „ 19,939 1787 31,258
1922.. 26,351 12* „ „ 23,754 2597 33,855
All through the prosperous war years and the
indifferent period since the boom faded,
the queue of borrowers on this old money-
lending concern’s doormat has been increas-
ing. Its loan business has grown so large
that in five years the annual dividend dis-
tributions have doubled. But a lot of new
capital has been introduced to accommodate
borrowers. In 1915 paid capital was
£ 112,500; at the latest balance, £175,080.
But £28,125 of the increase was a transfer
from reserves three years ago, and the re-
turn to old shareholders is, therefore, even
sweeter than the 121 p.c. which is regularly
declared. Besides its capital the co. has
£33,855 of reserves, and at the balance was
working on an. overdraft of £4227 and owed
£13,588 otherwise. No less than £220,041
of total assets of £255,455 was in one bundle
—“advances on mortgages, pledges and other
securities.” Premises and furniture stood
in the books for £27,460, and the balance of
assets was £1954 of cash. The co.’s posi-
tion depends wholly on the care the manage-
ment has exercised in selecting securities,
and in this class of business a substantial
margin is generally allowed. There are
occasional losses, of course, but a_ co. with a
big business such as the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete probably keeps a bit up the sleeve for
such contingencies. This one always shows
its income “after providing for bad and
doubtful debts.’ - Anyway, capital is pro-
tected by £33,855 of visible reserves, or
nearly 3s. in the £ of the book value of loans.
_ * ¥.- -3- *
The County of Bourke Permanent'
Building and Investment Society (Mel-
bourne)
Busi- Net Pru-
nes?! fit on To Re- Rp-
Sept., Profits. Sales. Dividends, serves, serves.
1912.. £13,297 £3550 10 p.c.= £9,636 £7211 £60,010
1913.. 13,425 1500 10 „ „ 9,868 5057 65,06.
Premiuiiis on new shares . . 1923 66,990
1914.. 15,000 1000 10 p.c.= 12,064 3942 70,932
1915.. 15,370 750 10 ~ „ 13,750 2370 73,302
Transferred to Capital ..£25,000 48,302
1916.. 15,620 95 10 p.c.= 14,819 896 49,198
1917.. 15,721 77 10 „ „ 14,916 882 50,080
1918.. 15,652 209 10 „ „ 15,000 861 50,941
1919.. 15,339 —lO „ ~ 15,000 339 .51,280
1920.. 16,271 —lO „ „ 15,000 1271 52,551
1921.. 16,059 —• 10 „ „ 15,000 1059 53,610
1922.. 16,041 —lO „ „ 15,000 1041 54,651
There are reserves of £54,651 to help divs.
on £150,000 of paid capital, and that ex-
plains the 10 p.c. which this old building
society regularly distributes to shareholders.
Latest profits gave a return of 7.S p.c. on
total funds of £204,651. Every penny of
those funds is out on loan, together with
£37,119 of deposits and £4983 of overdraft.
These debts are very small in relation to
the mortgage business, and the security is,
therefore, excellent: at the September balance
every £1 of liabilities was supported by £6
of assets.
There have been no balance-sheet move-
ments of any importance in recent years.
During the war-period the society curtailed
its lending business, and though it is now
larger than at any other time accumulated
profits have provided the additional funds,
deposits still being less than in 1915, The
following comparison shows the recovery
which the County of Bourke Society made
after the clean-up of the ’nineties’ debris: —■
1900. 1915. 1920. 1922.
Capital.. ... £98,150 £125,000. £150,000 £lso*ooo
Deposits . . 6,211 40,265 36,551 37,119
Other liabilities 1,897 6,062 3,923 4,983
Foreclosures .. 66,536 1,662
Advances . . 49,339 249,655 250,504 L 04,240
Other assets .. 5,907 811 21 l.>
Values proved to have been written-down
too severely, and for many years, realisa-
tions gave profits over book values. In 1916
the £25,000 of capital which had been swept
away was replaced from reserves, and in
1920 the last of the old foreclosures was
unloaded. On paper, the society nowadays
looks to he in sound condition, and as the
management learned its lesson in the boom
of 30 years ago it has no doubt exercised
eaution with the business it has placed on
the books in the recent abnormal period.
* * * *
The Malay Queen Rubber Plantation,
Ltd. —For the 12 months to June 30 this co.
harvested 90,0361 b. rubber from its 493
acres at Membang (F.M.S.), but 88,1141 b.
sold realised an average of only 8.19 d. per
lb., and the all-in cost of production, includ-
ing- interest on a loan from the Malayan
Government, was 11.32 d. There are not
many industries which keep going _ when
costs exceed the market value of their pro-
ducts, but the rubber-planter is not in a
position to shut down on operations until
his market becomes profitable—-estates must
be maintained in good order and free of dis-
ease. The industry throughout the world is
in a bad way. So many of the plantings
following the boom of a dozen years or so
ago have gradually come into full bearing
that output greatly exceeds the demand
under present conditions. The world’s pro-
duction is approximately 350,000 tons, which
is about 50,000 more than the consumption.
Various devices have been suggested to con-
trol supplies to put the industry on a profit-
able basis again. Last year a scheme of
alternate tapping was adopted, but though
output was restricted in that way the mar-
ket was not effectively controlled. The future
of the industry is quite uncertain. At pre-
sent the indications arc that many of the
smaller plantations which are unable to cut.
their costs will be squeezed out.
When the Malay Queen had valued its
unsold stocks of 26,0651 b. at 7.08 d. per lb-,
its books showed a net loss of £1164 for the
12 months to June 30. The Malayan Gov-
ernment a couple of years ago assisted the
co. with a loan of £5133; it. falls due in
December and will not be renewed,, although
the directors are still hopeful that the Gov-
ernment “may be persuaded to accept £2OOO
and give further time for the balance.” At
the end of October there was only £7TS in the
till and £5OO callable on the prefs. The
directors are, therefore, confronted with the
problem of having to raise new capital under
conditions which are entirely unfavorable.
Failing satisfactory financial support from
outside, shareholders will have no option
except to put up the necessary funds them-
selves to prevent a total wreck from which
there may possibly be no salvage. Capital
.is now £25,036 in 10,036 £1 prefs., carrying
a very stiff 25 p.c. cumulative div. and
£15,000 of ordinaries.


Scientific Glassware, Crucibles, Scales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-mills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request.—Advt.
* * » •
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.P. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Win.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
* * Hr *
If you are looking for a pipe that carries a greater
capacity for its size than any metal pipe, your choice
will rest with Pioneer Wood Pipe. Its superior
capacity never decreases with age, but increases,
owing to the smooth inner surface becoming smoother
with use and offering less resistance to the flow. This
conduit saves about 33 per cent, of the cost, and its
maintenance charges are practically nil. All in-
quiries to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * •
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
—Advt.
* » « *
Inventors.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
w n *
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
* « * «
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors lor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-produCts; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). — Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur is impossible
to say.
but
You Can be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: “London House,”
97 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Esq.,
Governing Director.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE HEATH HUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to bis estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Heath Huties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
tiie purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of tiie estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Hirector.
&
3 O ORD&S ON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
ft
DT
Swift *V Com nil n > 1,1 d.. Aiiki AtPiits. 28 80 Clarence St.. Sydney.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VAIiLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
£5
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
Australia Power Alcohol, Ltd., with a
nominal capital of half-a-million, is being
formed in Brisbane to establish works at
Marian Creek (Q.) to manufacture indus-
trial alcohol. Agreements have been entered
into with three Mackay sugar-mills for the
supply of surplus molasses for 10 years, the
deliveries for the first two years to be paid
for in shares. The enterprise is being backed
by a number of Brisbane heavyweights, and
the co. has called in Prof. Steele and A. de
Bavay to advise on the technical side. For
a start 240,000 £1 ordinaries are offered.
The cost of establishment of the industry
is estimated at £150,000, leaving about
£90,000 for working capital. It is proposed
to allot 10,000 fufiy-paids and £2OOO cash
to Percy Griffin, who is to be managing-
director, for all the spade-work and promo-
tion services. The technical reports accom-
panying the prospectus anticipate a profit of
£29,000 for the first year from a production
of 1,100,000 gal. to be sold at 25., and
£44.000 for the second year with the output
doubled, but with a reduction of 3d. in sell-
ing price. Better results are expected as
production is increased, and when the output
of by-products is developed.
* * * *
“Didymus” on Sydney’s “open” exchange
proposal:—
An Open Exchange Co. has been formed in Sydney.
Just as its pretensions are mighty, so will its
performances be meagre. Open exchanges have been
tried in the capital cities and in important mining
centres, and all have been conspicuous failures.
That which held out the longest was run in George-
street, near Gardiner and Co.’S old warehouse, in
the time of the silver boom. Others were located
in Pitt-street, and they promptly succumbed after
the first or second settlement-day. Melbourne has
had them by the score, but the “big” Exchange,
with its thorough organisation and unlimited financial
backing, soon gave them their quietus.
The crucial tests have been on the goldfields.
In the ’seventies, when the communities were share
mad, Lydiard-street, Ballarat, was so thronged every
evening and on Saturday afternoons that all vehicular
traffic was blocked. At Bendigo the crowd swarmed
over the Mall, and a big slice of Rosalind Park
was fenced off and a gigantic weather-shed was
erected fdr their accommodation. At Charters
Towers and Gympie the same excitement prevailed
later on.
It might be thought that with those eager crowds
intent on putting their bits on favorite stocks
open exchanges would have flourished, but all that
were tried had 1 an ephemeral existence. It was
then, as it is now, and will ever be, that speculators
knew their brokers and the brokers knew their
Clients; the mutual trust made properly recorded
transactions obligations of honor. If open exchanges
were failures under conditions which then existed
when “time” and contracts were almost unknown,
how are they likely to succeed now, when probably
two-thirds of brokers’ business in mining stocks is
on the “call” basis —now more than ever brokers
,and clients trust each other. It stands to reason
that there may be men who would be the soul of
honor as between themselves and individuals, but
will have no compunctious visitings of conscience
about repudiation if it suits, when a co. is con-
cerned. An open exchange in Sydney will not earn
sufficient in commissions to lubricate the caller’s
throat unless it be prepared to take the risks of
“time” business, and, in case of default, how is it
to safeguard the non-delinquent buyer or seller?
» • * «
The Commonwealth is suffering an in-
vasion of a small army of foreign oil geolo-
gists and experts whose affixes run through
thfe whole gamut of the alphabet. The
public accepts most of them on their own
valuation, and it is nobody’s business appa-
rently to inquire too closely into their
antecedents. The opinions variously expressed
by some of them as to our petroleum pros-
pects confirm the suspicion that the Com-
monwealth has become fair game for the
co. promoter. One or two of undoubted
qualifications must be exempt, but the fact
that Australia is exposed to the devices of
the unqualified man, who is practically only
a promoter, is surely some justification for
legislative action, whereby an outside oil
expert might have his status determined by
some representative scientific body before
he js allowed to lure hard-earned cash from
the uninformed by depicting wonderful pros-
pects of mighty gushers simply waiting to be
tapped. There is not much doubt that the
discovery of oil supplies has been delayed
by the inexperience and ignorance of many
of those drilling prospects. The technique
of oil production is highly complex, and is
probably not understood by Australian geolo-
gists beyond what they can learn theoreti-
cally from oil literature. Bores are now being
put down in many localities in the Com-
monwealth, but the great majority lack the
necessary preliminary work to justify their
existence. In most cases months of work
should be done in the way of topographical
and geological surveys, so that the nature
and the structure of the strata may be known
and data become available for recommend-
ing or turning down trial boring. The
boring being done at present is much more
speculative than it need be, and it is highly
speculative at the best of times. Thus we
have promoters telling their subscribers in
some cases that one bore will be sufficient to
prove a field or damn it. Another sees a bit
of a seep and says, “We’ll get oil here,”
without taking the very necessary precau-
tion of looking for structures that favor the re-
tention of oil. Failing legislative action, which
would compel the registration _ of qualified
foreign experts, a representative scientific
body, such as the Commonwealth Bureau of
Science and Industry, might invite endorse-
ment of their qualifications by that body
for the benefit of the public. The invitation
need not be extended to well-known world-
authorities, but for the lesser lights it would
be a cheap and simple method of mustering
the true merino. And the latter would pro-
bably jump at the chance of endorsement so
that he might not be confused with the goats.
* * * *
Roy Fife, the Californian driller imported
by Associated Oil, is getting a move on at
that co.’s Mt. Gambier bore. The show is
equipped with percussion and rotary plant,
but the latter was not sufficiently understood
by the locals. Fife now has everything
running smoothly, and got down 75ft. in
eight hours recently. The bore is now 760 ft.
deep, and when larger pumps are installed
Associated intends running three shifts.
* * * *
Most of the plant for Okes-Duraek
(W.A.) is now on the ground, and sufficient
casing to go down to 3500 ft. is on the
way from Fremantle. The co. hopes to
average 150 ft. per week. At first the hole
will have a diameter of 12in., then 10in.,
Bin. and, finally, 6in.
* » * *
The Beaudesert (Q.) oil-seekers are be-
tween the Devil and the deep blue sea. Mil-
som had a good look round the district, and
told them that while there was a possibility
of commercial supplies there, he wasn’t fav-
orably impressed at that stage, and that they
had Buckley’s chance of getting any quan-
tity at Dunn’s. Shortly afterwards, J. L.
Strevens blew along and said he liked the
chances of getting petroleum there. Anyway,
a bore will go down, and now it’s a case of
wait and see who is right.
* * # »
Dorrie Doolette and a few other well-
known Westralian speculators have formed
a syndicate, The Emp : re, and takhn an
option over a couple of likely looking shows
at Hancocks, near Sandstone. Big hematite
bodies containing several shoots of gold
have been located, and two crushings aggre-
gating 500 tons have been treated for re-
turns ranging from 26 to 35 dwt.
* » * *
Lass o’ Gowrie, having secured the much
desired Brown’s Reward lease at Yalgro
(W.A.), considers it has done well. Some
shareholders, however, think otherwise.
Brown treated 300 tons from the show for
a yield of £7OOO, and then sold to O’Connor
for something like £2500. Connor passed
it on to Lass o’ Gowrie for £lO,OOO cash,
of which he has received £lOOO and 4000
shares. If, after extracting £7OOO, Brown
valued the property at £2500, what has
happened since to justify the co. taking an
option for £10,000?
• * * «
An attempt is being made to raise the
Mainland Consols (W.A.) from the dead.
This show was one of the bright spots on
the Cue field in the late ’nineties, but like
many other Westralian producing mines of
that time it went to pieces at depth and
was shut down. Now a little prospecting in
new ground is being done, and to keep the
pot boiling small quantities of picked ore
from old dumps are being crushed.
* * * *
Retaliation Reward, at the south end of
Yalgoo field (W.A.), is shaping well near
the surface. Several costeens 6ft. deep
have proved the reef to be about 7ft. wide,
and to average about an ounce. Sinking is
about to be started, and if surface prospects
go down there is a chance of Westralia
having a new gold find of promise. Colors
have been located at various points out-
side the Reward, and three cos. have already
been floated in Melbourne.
* * # *
Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), on present pros-
pects, bids fair to keep well in the running
with Morning Star, Woods’ Point, and New
Blue, Bendigo. Each is solus in its own
district as a div.-payer, and the three are
in widely divergent localities. Honors are
likely to go to Daylesford, as there are
mines contiguous to the Ajax which ought
soon to share in the developments in that
mine. In these days, when mine-surveying
is supposed to be a working routine, it is
surprising to learn that for three months
past the Ajax hag been driving on the wrong
formation in the 600 ft. north level. In the
south end, where the lode has exactly the
same dip and bearing as at 500 ft., stone of
good quality is being broken, and if this
body can be located in the north end a good
run should be assured. The Ajax group of
mines is quite distinct from the old Cornish
group, which was worked for many years by
English cos. Some spasmodic work was done
on the Ajax lines in the early days, but
they were quite outclassed by the other main
group. For years a veteran of Jim Crow
(as Daylesford was known), Tom Price
(not the gallant captain of “aim low” re-
pute), hawked the Ajax group about Mel-
bourne with so much persistency that he
was voted an out-and-out nuisance. He did
not survive to witness, or profit by, the full
realisation of his sanguine expectations.
* * * *
New Blue, Bendigo, had an improved re-
turn of 3740 z. from 666 tons last week. A
Is. div. was declared, bringing the distri-
butions since January to £24,750. The co.
is negotiating for a 30-hd. battery, with
which it is hoped to show a saving ot 3s. 6d.
per ton.
• • * *
Antox, Ltd., now in process of formation
to produce pigments from antimony ore, has
so far not taken over the old Costerfield
(Vic.) gold-antimony mines, and they con-
tinue to produce on their own account. The
latest monthly return was 110 tons concen-
trates, averaging 63 p.c. antimony and 3oz.
2dwt. gold from 233 tons crudes and 391 tons
old tails. The concentrate is in demand over-
seas, but the successful old proprietors are
looking forward to the time when Antox,
Ltd., will put up smelting works to treat the
stuff, save bagging costs and freights, pro-
vide ready cash from the gold content, and
establish the manufacture of antimonial pro-
ducts as a local industry.
* * * *
Muriel Tank Corporation (N.S.W.) re-
ports that a trial parcel of 3i tons of ore
from Toomey’s shaft, sent to Port Ivembla,
has been assayed for 131dwt. per ton, and
that the ore in the 80ft. drive is worth
about half an ounce. Why so small a parcel
as tons should have been trucked, and
why some preliminary sampling was not
done are mysteries. The reports are regret-
table, in view of the steady decline of the
gold-mining industry of the State to a mere
cypher. This was the field which was said
to have a better showing than Wyalong had
at the same stage, and which ultimately was
going to eclipse Bendigo. During the first
five and a half years of its existence Wya-
long produced 181,2680 z. of gold worth
£712,358. A new field which would give a
s ; rrplar return would be a godsend to the
State.
* « » »
Audley Adams, who has been identified
with tin-mining in the New England and
Stanthorpe districts for over 20 vears, has
been appointed manager of the Nawng Pet
in the Malay States. He is the inventor
of revolving rakes, for which it is claimed
that they will keep tin free from the gangue
in the sluice boxes, and do away with boxmen
altogether. These rakes are to be fitted to
the dredging plants run by the Ratrut and
associated cos.
* * * •
The syndicate formed by energetic Cairns
broker Arthur Clarke to look into prospects
on the old Palmer field (Q.) has secured a
lease of 19 acres at Mt. Buchanan and 25
acres at Mt. Madden. The Buchanan is
only six miles from the old Anglo-Saxon,
which produced nearly a quarter-million of
gold. The syndicate has so far not learned
sufficient about the shows to establish min-
ing prospects, but preliminary inspection
gives promise of big open-cuts averaging
sdwt., while experience on the Oaks field sug-
gests that 3dwt. should pay working exes.
The syndicate proposes to undertake a thor-
ough sampling after the wet season.
* * * *
Recent prospecting at Mount Clearview,
near the Cape River (N.Q.), has consider-
ably enhanced prospects there. The main
reef has been tunnelled, and a winze sunk
on it for 90ft. revealed a well-defined reef
for the whole distance, which has split into
3ft. on the hanging wall and 2ft. to 3ft. on
the footw'all. The gossanous portions of the
reef dolly up to 2oz. and 30z., but the 10ft.
of country and reef are stated to average
B,dwt. A battery is to be put up, but the
first hurdle is water, and so far boring has
not located a good supply. Nearer the Cape
the Oxley King has been sunk on 70ft., the
top 45ft. following a reef 18in. wide worth
3oz. Picked assays give up to 19oz. The
owners at present have to cart to Mt. Emu
battery, and that will be too big a load
for this show' to carry. A battery between
there and Mt. Clearview would revive this
isolated strip of country in which there are
quite a number of untested shows.
• * • *
The rise in molybdenite to 425. 6d. per
unit has brought in one producer, the Vic-
tory, on the Wolfram field. This is the first
to open since the slump. The plant on the
Wonbah mine, formerly the chief producer
in the State and about the most promising
in the Commonwealth, has been dismantled
and sold, but despite that there is talk of a
co. getting hold of the ground and working
again shortly.. It is proposed to put up an-
other flotation plant of a different type.
Royalties w r ill have less say than in the old
De Bavay plant. Costs will certainly have
to be considerably reduced; when the mine,
was last going it cost over £3OO to produce
a ton of 90 p.c. concentrates.
■* * * *
There are still optimists in the Irvinebank
district (N.Q.) who are not convinced of the
demise of the Vulcan after all the pros-
pecting work done last year below 600 ft.
and down to 1400 ft. xinother crow'd have
a £lOOO to go on with, and expect to get
? lo l'' e il operations give promise. Lat-
terly the tnbutors have been on poor stuff,
but the fragrant memory of the rich old
mine s output 10 years back, when it regu-
larly produced 300 to 400 tons of tin con-
centrates annually, still clings to the old
timers. Although there are a number of
promising mines around, none gives evidence
of turning out another Vulcan.
* * * »
About Badak’s Papuan prospects:—
Badak’s talk of dredging possibilities in Papua is
interesting old hands. Early in 1900 considerable
excitement prevailed when experts from Australia
sampled Tamata Creek and the Yodda River.
But after the sanguine promoters departed south to
raise capital a dull silence descended on the field.
Years later another lot of optimists blew in to
Tamata and raced each other along the streams, belt-
ing in pegs as though their lives depended on the
extent of frontage secured. But again the promises
of the “experts” were without fruit.
Nothing further eventuated for several years, then
another more strenuous crowd took hold and floated
a co. to develop the flats between the Mambare and
Koko Creek. They assembled a sluicing plant at
Buna, and with the aid of a small portable tramway
started off cheerfully to tote the heavy machinery
to the claim, 65 miles up-country behind a 1600 ft.
range of roadless jungle. Toiling like galley-slaves
they sweated and fought the jungle, fording a couple
of broad streams, and eventually succeeded in laud-
ing their burden in a grass patch five miles from
Buna. And there it lies to the present day. Five
miles is a short distance in Australia; in Papua,
where the jungle is a solid green wall, and overy
step has to be hewed out of the rioting vegetation,
and the soil underfoot is a quaking quagmire, five
miles is a tremendous distance when you are wrest-
ling with stupid natives and awkward, heavy
machinery.
Badak’s advisers will discover that they require
something more than a few miles of portable line if
they wish to put the dredges on the field in quick
time; the monetary cost will be very high, for every
inch of the way will need corduroying, water-courses,
bridges and punts to ferry the broader streams. The
“jump-up” will require a properly-graded road across
it, and that costs much good coin in a country
where the rainfall averages 300 in. a year. Still,
if all difficulties can be overcome, the success of the
venture should be assured once the buckets commence
to chew into the auriferous beds, if the opinions of
the original prospectors of the field are worth any-
thing. Mat Crowe, premier explorer and discoverer
of most of the present Papuan goldfields, is very
optimistic of winning good profits from the Yodda flats ;
but he pins his faith to hydraulic sluicing. All the
surrounding terraces and ravines produced rich gold
in the early days, and it is not at all unlikely that
the erosion and rains of centuries have peppered the
lower country with a golden shower.


THE PLYING WELSHMAN.
“Speed limits simply do not exist so far as the Prime Minister is concerned. When he enters his car the orders are ‘Full speed ahead,’ and no car has ever been known to pass him, which is not surprising, for 80 miles an hour takes
a lot of beating.” —Admiring pressman on tour with W. M. Hughes.


Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, lias now
taken over the management of the Hotel
Carlton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. Levy is a well-
known French chef, whose cuisine is
famous among visitors to Sydney.
Registered address, Cable, Radio or
Telegraph: •‘HOCAR,” Sydney.
Have the best!
Rd
•Jd§
LAGE/R
It costs no more
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & CO., LTD., Kent Brewery, Sydney.
A
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1921 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years'
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Hears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fullv explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
“Tren” : I struck the Earl of Winterton,
the new Under-Secretary for India, when
he was a major in the Camel Corps. Directly
after the battle of Beersheha I was sent
with a dispatch to this long, lean noble-
man, the gist of which was that all camels
had to be saddled up so that the Turks
might be immediately pursued. This was
no easy job at midnight, and the Earl
showed his appreciation of the situation by
unloosing a flow of
profanity that as-
Tonished me. Then,
fearing, I suppose,
that I would not
understand his cul-
tured oaths, and
remembering, too.
that his order had
a reputation for
courtesy to sustain,
he attempted to ex-
press himself in
Australian with;
“My God! Din-
kum, is not this
most perfectly
bloody ?”
R. STEWART
GARNER, general
manager Carrolls’
King’s Theatre
(“Sentimental
Bloke”).
“Pick” : The birth certificate of Jim Ker-
shaw, of Bungendore (N.S.W.), recently re-
ceived from his native village in England,
proves that he is 104 years old, which cer-
tainly puts him in the running for the Oldest.
Inhabitant title. He still possesses all his
faculties, and his memory of early colonial
times is remarkably keen.
“Bullwlianger”: The smallest man in the
British Army was “Doe” Whitton. a Vic-
torian. He was a chemist, and, after a
spell in the home service branch of the
A.M.C., went to England, enlisted again and
was drafted to a R.A.M.C. unit in Palestine.
I came home on the troopship with him, and
be showed me a photo of himself in full
infantryman’s equipment, from topee to
ammunition boots. The rifle muzzle was
well above his topee brim, and the ferrule
of the bayonet scabbard was dragging on
the ground. But he had plenty of grit,
could “carry on” with the best, and lobbed
home with three stripes.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos the Vaughans (B.
9,/11/’22). All of them weren’t priests. The
eldest soii of Col. Vaughan, of Courtfield,
on the Wye, Hereford, succeeded his father
and was also in the Army. Roger Bede
Vaughan, Archbishop of Sydney, often spoke
of his brother and the “old home
on the Wye.” also of that of his
uncle, Thomas Weld Blundell, of luce
Blundell Hall, Lancashire. The Vaughans
are family connections of the Welds, one
of whom, Frederick, came to Maoriland in
1844, became Premier, and ivas later suc-
cessively Governor of Westralia, Tasmania
and the Straits Settlements.
“Jacaranda”: Over half-a-century ago
Alexander Kennedy, who is now 86, took
four months to travel in a bullock-
waggon from Longreach to Cloncurry
(Q.), where In 1 established a cattle-
station. A couple
of years back he
retired and made
his home in Bris-
bane. When his
golden we d d in g
came round, a little
w bile ago, he
wanted to celebrate
it by an aerial trip
to Longreach with
his wife, but the
flying men in Bris-
bane at that time
refused the job, <>n
the plea that he
was too old. He
bided his time, and
the other day went
to Longreach by
train, and was the
first passenger by
the aerial mail ser-
vice between there
and Cloncurry. It
took him six hours.
MAXWELL, Fed-
eral Rep. for
Faulkner, known
as “The Blind
Lawyer.”
“T. 0.1.” : Good runners-up to the medical
Sleemans (B. 9/11 /’22) a re the family of the
late St. Vincent Welch, insurance manager.
Four of them sported red lamps, and one,
after long service in the war, mainly in
Egypt, went down to an attack of ’flu on re-
suming practice at Neutral Bay, Sydney.
Again, Dr. O’Reilly, who holds a N.S.W.
.Government appointment, is the son of a
medical father, grandfather, great-grand-
father, and so on, back for seven genera-
tions of doctors. A sister is also in the
medical line, and practises on the North
Shore.
"Harold Ilardupp” : J. 11. Gann is looked
upon as a probable discard when the N. S.
Wales Railway Commissioners become ripe
for reappointment—or shelving—-next year.
George Cann is fairly popular; but T.H.,
who achieved a cold, impersonal and almost
supercilious air when he landed a Ministerial
portfolio, has outdistanced any regard he may
have enjoyed.
"Tay-Pay” comes back
lie the Theologian who spoke through the horse’s
mouth (B. 2/11/’22). (1) Cardinal Moran did not
leave the vice-presidentship of the Irish College at
Rome to come to Australia. He was Bishop of
Qssory, Ireland, for many years before he took over
the Sydney See. (2) Leo XIII. never appointed
him to Dublin, for the simple reason that Irish
bishops, priests and people did not want him, but
did want Dr. Walsh, who was sound on the Home
Rule question, which, at that time, Dr. Moran dis-
tinctly was not. Whether he got the Red Hat as
a solace for wounded feelings is doubtful. As Arch-
bishop of Sydney he was Primate of Australia;
whereas, the Dublin See would place him in a second-
ary position to the Irish R.C. Primate, who episco-
pates at Armagh and is usually a cardinal. (3). I
never expected the Apostolic Delegate here to be
made a cardinal, and never said he would be. Pius
X. may have decreed —I never heard that he
did—that no delegate could be a primate.
Even so Pius X. is dead, and Pius XI. reigns.
Different Popes, different policies. (4) England,
with a Catholic population much less than Aus-
tralia has now, and an Episcopate of not quarter
the strength, had two cardinals, no less, existing at
the one time —Manning and Newman, America had
three up till quite recently ; and there are countries
of less portent to the Papacy than Australia where
the scarlet robes form part of the episcopal furni-
ture. Hence my money is still on Michael Kelly,
D. 1)., for the step he has unquestionably earned.
Albert Marshall, just dead in Adelaide at
something over 60, was a sort of Dickens
character. He sold books at Tyrrell’s, was
very small, never lost his North of England
accent, and used to lay down the law on
literature, ancient and modern, with a cyni-
cal pose which covered a kindly heart. He
had no known relatives in Australia.
Beating Liberal Bell, of Ballarat, and
Labor-leader Jones, Goudie, of the Cocky
party, got the Vic. Uppah Chamber nomina-
tion on the Railway Standing Committee in
place of the late “Dad” Ivendell. The vote
was taken in caucus outside the House, and
there were two ballots. In the House the
appointment went without dissent. Of the
six members of the Railway Committee
(four Assembly and two Council) three are
Liberals, two Labor and one Hayseed.
John Mildred Creed (who shares with
Henry Moses the title of Father of the
N.S.W. Leg. Council, eacli_having been ap-
pointed on August 31, 18So) will be 80 on
November 21. He comes from Gloucester-
shire, and got his medical diplomas in Lon-
don and Edinburgh in 1866. He was in prac-
tice at Scone when he was elected for the
Upper Hunter in 1572, but he sat in the
Lower House for only one Parliament. He
has edited the Australian Medical
Gazette, has written much on health
problems, and was twice president of the
N.S.W. branch of the BALA.
Gone out at 08, P. I. McDermott, 1.5.0.,
Under-Sec. to Queensland’s Chief Secretary.
He had half-a-ceutury of public service,
during which lie was variously school teach-
ing, Registrar of Patents and Under-Secre-
tary of Agriculture. McDermott’s literary
ability was the spotlight of Brisbane’s John-
sonian Club and the Irish Club, and it was
he who, when Fihelly described England as
the home of cant, humbug and hypocrisy,
stood up and submitted the toast “Gentle-
men: The King.”
Philip Toohey, who has iust died, spent
most of liis life out of Australia. A son of
Jim Toohey, MX.A., lie participated in the.
profits of the brewery that has made the
family name known throughout N. S. Walep.
lie held a commission in the Cheshires for a
while, and only recently returned to Sydney.
Charles W. Laver, the six-foot sawbones
from Kalgoorlie (W. A.), has looked into Mel-
bourne full of enthusiasm over his new
mining hope on the Golden Mile. He comes
from the Castlemaine (Vic.) family, which
bdasted Frank the cricketer, who died a year
or so ago, and Alfred, superintendent of the
Cheltenham Asylum. Charles was among the
early whites to go through the Kimberley
( W.A.) district and has been mixed up in
mining ever since he qualified. Laverton,
away up beyond Kalgoorlie, gets its name
from him. Meantime, his plate is near
Hannan’s Club, and, when not talking min-
ing, lie treats patients.
H. Byron Moore, secretary of the V.R.C.
for 41 years, is now in his 84tlx
year. lie came to Melbourne in 1852,
and climbed from a draughtsman’s job
in the Survey Office, Geelong, to that
of Assistant-Surveyor-General. But on
January 8, IS7B, he was among the Black
Wednesday victims, so he struck out for
himseif. He it was who suggested and built
the "Melbourne Exchange.” On the death of
R. C. Bagot he was elected to his present
berth. Moore is not a racing expert, and has
never made a bet or given a'“tip” of the
turfy sort. He was ipusiCally active in his
early days’ and produced, for the first time
in Australia, Mendelssohn’s “Elijah,” for the
Geelong Philharmonic Society.
C. M. Fockem, a fourth-year mining engi-
neering student at Queen’s (Methodist)
College at Melb. ’Varsity, is the latest Vic.
Rhodes Scholar, Middle Park State School
and Wesley College claim credit for his
grounding; he has several exhibitions and
scholarships on his belt, And he has acquired
merit as a tennis player and sculler. He
will specialise on Physics at Oxford.
“T.R.11.”: “C. Ockney” (B. 2/11/’22)
says that “The Lights o’ London” brought
the late George R. Sims £40,000. Possibly.
His “Mustard and Cress” in the Referee,
his melodramas and his “P.S.A. Poetry”
gave him a very large income—but he left
only a little over £7OOO. At his house in
Regent’s Park he wrote 3000 words a day
for many years, but he was the prey of beg-
ging letter-writers and casual callers, to deal
with whom he kept a special secretary who
interviewed the applicants and did his best
to separate the sheep from the goats; but
even the professional cadger was seldom sent
empty , away—unless he smelt like a brewery.
Victoria musters no fewer than 17 cen-
tenarians, and eight of them are women.
There are in the State also 108 people
between 95 and 99, while 863 sturdy young-
sters claim to be between 90 and 94. One
of the centenarians has lived a round 100
years in Australia, and 14 have put in over
90 years here.
C. E. Merrett, president of the Vic. Royal
Agricultural Society; D. Andrew, ex-Mayor
of Bendigo ; and A. W. 11. White, of Echuea,
ex-MX.A. for Rodney, are the Vic. Liberal
Union-cam-Cocky candidates for the Senate
to run against Swinburne, Plain and Bolton
(Hughesites), and Barker, Barnes and
Findley (Laborites). Merrett is the best
known of the three. He is the nominal
chieftain of the new L.U.
T. M. Jude, the Labor candidate for the
seat from which Hughes bolted, is president
of the Bendigo Trades Hall and of Bendigo
West Labor League. Born near Ballarat 47
years ago, he was
a butcher till he
turned to mining,
and about 10 years
back he got the job
of secretary to the
miners’ section of
the A.W.U. His
uncle, Martin .Rule,
had a monument
erected to him at
N e weastle-on-Tyne,
for his work in
assisting to ameli-
orate the horrible
conditions of the
English coa 1-
miners.
DONALD
McLEOD, M.L.A. ,
leader of the
Country Liberal
Party, a former
Chief Secretary
and the Assembly’s
oldest inhabitant.
A Melbourne daily the other day featured
a cable about an English lawyer, running
for West Bermondsey as a Conservative,
who is using the gramophone to spread his
speeches. But the idea isn’t new. George
Meudell tried it in Vic. years ago; but
his friends weren’t enthusiastic about it.
The machine couldn’t answer smart inter-
jections, and was consequently no fitting
deputy for a nimble-tongued candidate. Ami.
anyhow, a well-directed Warwick egg might
easily put it out of action for the night.
Vic.,has fewer surviving ex-Premiers than
8. Aus. Peacock, Minister for Education,
who first took the helm in February, 1901,
is the senior ex. Then come Iceberg Irvine.
Watt (who is expecting to be re-elected
M.11.R. for Balaclava to-day, or at latest on
December 17, if there is a contest), and
Bowser, Cocky MX. A. for Wangaratta.
Peacock and Watt had two turns each as
First Minister.
Vic. Parliament, for the first time in 21
years, has a member whose surname begins
with Z—A. M. Zwar, tanner, of Beechworth,
who got a walkover for the late “Dad” Keii-
dell’s seat for N.-E. Province in the Uppah
Chambah. Zeal, who was originally in the
Assembly, was President of the Dreary
House till April, 1901, when he went to the
Senate and left the House zedless. Zeal was
chosen for the chair when he was P.M.G.
in the Shiels Ministry (1892) and his Cabi-
net colleague, John Cavan Duffy, then
quoted' aptly from the vineyard parable,
“Unto this last,” as he congratulated him.
Zox, MX. A. for E. Melt*., the best-known
zed Vic. Parliament lias had, died before
Federation. The only other one was W. L.
Zincke, M.L.A., who represented the Ovens
nearly 40 years ago.
Septimus Hungerford, of Mosman
(N.S.W.), who is in his 98th- year and is
quoted at 100 to 1 on for his century, is a
son of Captain Emanuel Hungerford, of the
South Cork Militia, who emigrated to N. S.
Wales in 1828 and settled at Farley, near
West Maitland. The Captain intended the son
—one of a family of 10 —for the law, but he
switched over to the Church, and was
ordained by Dr. Tyrrell, Bishop of New-
castle, in 1854. Armidale was his first parish,
and it then embraced the whole of the New
England tableland, with some of the north-
western slopes towards Inverell. He was
incumbent of Armidale for 21 years; of En-
field for 16 years, and, after various other
short services, retired in 1895. He mar-
ried a daughter of Henry Incledon Pilcher,
solicitor, of Maitland, father of the K.C.
Incidentally, this fine old man is the last
cleric entitled to draw a stipend under the
Act of 1863.
A somewhat tardy movement has been
started in S.A. for a memorial to A. H.
Peake, Harwell's predecessor in the Premier-
ship, who died in harness. The form sug-
gested is a Peake scholarship at Adelaide
University, and a portrait painting to hang
in Parliament House. A strong committee
of both Houses,, with Hudd as secretary, has
the matter in hand.
THE YANKEE TWANG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Ward, who seems to have developed a slight
American twang, looks very fit and happy. He lias
engaged 40 leading artists from England and America.
Nineteen are coming next month, and two arrived
with him to-day on the Sonoma. ‘1 intend to foster
Australian talent,’ he said, fas I have always done.
I consider Australian talent compares more than
favorably with that of any other part of the world.’
Mr. Ward has secured the exclusive rights of 25 new
productions, all of which, lie says, are up to the
highest standard, and are sure to appeal to the Aus-
truliah audiences, which he describes as the most
appreciative in the world.” —Interview -with Mr.
JJuyh M’nrd in Sydney Daily Mail.
"(limine the Aussies all the time!”
The spruiker said with fervent stress,
“For drammer, farce or pantomime
They’ve surely gait the goods, j guess;
I’m gonna boost the whole shebang !”
(lie said it with a Yankee twang.)
He gave liis gum a dexterous twirl;
At once the eager scribe began
To pounce on every verbal pearl
Cast forth by this loquacious man,
Whose true Australian harangue
Was tinctured with a Yankee twang.
“I’ve towered Amurrika, ole boss,
From Raw Dog to Saskatchewan,
Each livewire gink I come across
I snared for my noo caravan.
There’s forty mummers in my gang,”
1 He added with a Yankee twang.
“Australians love the best of plays,
And them’s the kinder plays they’ll get;
I’ll give ’em Boston’s culture craze —
I’m gonna foster that, you bet!”
(It seemed as 1 hough liis racy slang
Was tempered by a Yankee twang.)
“Australian talent’s great, my son,
But first I’ve hiked some Noo Yack dope;
However, kiddo, when that's done,.
The dinkum Aussie’s gotta hoped”
His voice with warm affection rang,
His speech disclosed a Yankee twang. •
“I figure us Australians are
The most appreciative guys,”
He winked, and putted a fat .cigar,
“You get me, Steve? I see you’re wisej
Do to it bo.V ! You’ve got the bang”—
His laugh had quite a Yankee twang.
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


Hi
m
m
■ ■
IHBBI
m
...
W-,
Ms*
w_r
r x *
W. D.«f H. o, WILLS (AU
MILD
FUL
«
X
1
4^ s
r
Pi*
■
iP^
H B
■BIS
H
flap ■ I
H
■
hh
■
';&v v ..,.
BMHI
HH
11111
£B
HI
u
9 99
€€
99
Have you tried Capstan?-
Smoked it all my life
The World Renowned Brand ofWD&HOWiIIs


THE HENRY LAWSON
MEMORIAL.
We have received the following:—
Town Hall, Sydney,
3/11/1922.
The Editor “The Bulletin,” Sydney.
Dear Sir, —At the last meeting of the
Executive Committee of the Henry Law-
son Memorial Fund it was decided that
the memorial should take the form of a
statue, and if sufficient funds are avail-
able also to provide a scholarship at the
Sydney University.
It was resolved that the Lord Mayor
should open a fund, that the press be
asked to open their columns for sub-
scriptions, and that “The Bulletin” be
asked to open a special “Bulletin” Henry
Lawson Fund, owing to that paper’s
association with Henry Lawson’s work,
and its unique circulation.
In pursuance of this resolution, the
Lord Mayor desires me to ask if you can
see your way to open a subscription
list in your columns. The Lord Mayor
feels that your help in this direction
will materially assist the fund, and will
be highly appreciated by the Executive
Committee.
Yours faithfully,
W. G. LAYTON,
Joint hon. sec. Henry Lawson Memorial
Fund.
Contributions should be addressed to The
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
THE HENRY LAWSON FUND
SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. .. £lO5 0 0
(,
to
EM
Schweppes’
Flavoring Essences.
You only require to use half the quantity
if you use Schweppes’
Essence of Vanilla, Lemon, Pineapple,
Cochineal, etc.
Schweppes’Pure Olive Oil
r
Schweppes’ Pure Malt
Vinegar.
The best is always the cheapest.
A
String'
of
Pearls.
The gift that every
woman loves.
They faithfully reproduce
the rosy Orient tint and
glowing lustre of real Oriental
Pearls, as well as the important properties of weight and hardness, and no lovelier necklets have
ever been offered.
The pearls are absolutely indestructible, and are the nearest approach to real pearls yet
produced.
15-inch length, £9/9/-; 18-inch, £lO/15/-; 20-inch„ £l2/10/-; all complete with
fancy gold snap and dainty case. Others from £6/6/-
Fancy Snaps extra —pearl set as illustrated, 35/-; diamond set from £3/3/-
We cordially invite Orders bv Mail, on the understanding that MONEY WILL BE
REFUNDED IF YOU ARE NOT SATISFIED.
ANGUS &l COOTE LTD
Sydney’s Leading Jewellers,
“ On the Great White Way,”
406 t-» 505 G«fORC,E STI2EE , SYDNEY
Society
ZCALLIC
SKCAL [?]
[?]
“Dominie”: The youngsters are required
to bring a written authority to attend the
Bible lessons at the knowledge-dispensary
which I am temporarily managing. One of
them turned up last week with this:—
If there will be a Catholic priest comes to the
school I would like Thomas to attend his lectures
as I am a Catholic. Also the presbyterian lectures
as his father belongs to tbat creed. In fact as far
as I am concerned I would be just as weU pleased
if he attended none of the lectures.
Yours truely,
Philomena Fitzjohn.
Can you beat it for affability and a tolerant
desire to please all parties?
CAUTION WINS.
“The man who hesitates is lost."
“Yes; and so is the woman who doesn't."
“Digger’s Batman”: I well remem-
ber the “Village Blacksmith’s Chestnut
Tree,” referred to by “Gnarek” (B. 9/11/’22)
in the valley of the Avon, near Salisbury
Plain. I remember, too, that there were
occasional controversies in the huts as to
whether “The V. 8.” was the production of
Longfellow, Shakspeare, Tennyson or Rud-
yard Kipling; but I’m prepared to bet that
it wasn’t only the owner of the smithy who
made money out of the chestnuts. I knew a
Digger at Larkhill, who offered some army
straw for sale to souvenir-hunters, with a
yarn that, when in London, he had visited
the King’s stables, and had grabbed it sur-
reptitiously from the mouth of the King’s
favorite charger. He found buyers, too, in
some of the new arrivals, eager to send back
curios to Australia.
* * * *
“U.P.”: S. Aus. revenue is augmented to
a large extent each week by fines against
motorists for exceeding the speed limit, head-
lights either inadequate or over-dazzling, and
other petty offences. As a result the S. Aus.
Automobile Association employs patrols to
look after members’ interests, and these
officers rush about on motor-bikes to warn
car-owners where there is likely to be
trouble. If a member of the Association
sights a “trap” for the undoing of the un-
wary, he rings up the A.A. officials, and they
have their uniformed patrol on the spot with-
in a few minutes to give other motorists the
oil. This naturally annoys the police, after
they have arranged a nice little trap to
catch the speed-hogs and others, and the
Johns have frequently threatened to make
things unpleasant for the A.A. satellites if
they don’t quit. Now we have the quaint
spectacle of the Automobile Association
appealing to the Commissioner of Police to
protect the men who are employed by the
A.A. to frustrate the work of the police.
* * * *
“D.F.”: When Charles Sturt started on
his expedition to Central Australia in 1844
he took with him a boat to be launched on
the supposed inland sea in the centre of the
continent. But he failed to find anything on
which to float the craft. There is an inland
sea of a sort in Lake Eyre, though it is not
near the centre of the continent, but so far
no one has emulated Coleridge’s Ancient
Mariner by bursting into its silences. Two
Sydney men, G. 11. Halligan and 11. O.
Fletcher, tried unsuccessfully to do it a
while ago. They took up a boat, intending to
launch out from the mouth of the Frome
River; but when they struck the Frome it
had gone dry, and the lake, as far as the
eye could reach, was a crust qf salt over
soft mud.
* * * *
“Eddyson’s” strange tale of the Hills: —
The action opens with Hill prowling on the
grounds of a superior boarding-establishment at St.
Hilda, at an hour when all decent citizens should
have been a-bed. He was not a guest of this particu-
lar residential, and might have been a burglar.
What he really was will appear in the sequel. He
stole to the side verandah, and seemed on the poiut
of climbing a post when the faithful house-dog
attacked him in the rear. Turning and backing
precipitately, Hill stumbled, and fell into the dark-
ness behind the verandah-blind. His arrival some-
where was greeted with a terrified scream. Hill had
fallen into bed with a lone lady. That there was
no impropriety in this will presently be shown.
Shocked, Hill scrambled out of bed and fled for the
front gate, the screams of the lady and the protesta-
tions of the dog following him. He was intercepted
by two male boarders homing late, and con-
ducted back to the house under a dark cloud of
suspicion. To a small committee in the hall Hill
explained his innocence of any evil intent. At this
point he recognised the female into whose bed he
had fallen, and all romance was knocked out of the
episode when he explained that she was his wife.
The lady did not deny the impeachment. Long arm
of coincidence? Bless you, no. Hill was seeking
his runaway wife, and acting on information re-
ceived was exploring the place, when he fell into
bed with the missing dame —marriage lines produced.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: The Papuan Civil Service
must be getting very lugii-flown nowadays, if,
as alleged by “Magela Bada” (B. 2/11/’22),
it runs to a white hangman. In the
long ago, most of our executions were car-
ried out by members of the Native Con-
stabulary, who gave every satisfaction. It
is true that William Macgregor, in his earlier
period, employed a white member of the
Merrie England’s crew as a topsman. But
once he was satisfied with the efficiency of
the home-grown article, he speedily dis-
pensed with white labor, whose excessive
cost always caused the famous pro-cdnsul
great mental anguish.
* * • •
W. R. Govett, who was an assistant sur-
veyor in N. S. Wales under Major Mitchell,
wrote a series of articles on N. S. Wales
in the Saturday Magazine in 1836-38. In
one of them he showed himself something
of a tipster:—
The principal roads which lead from Sydney are
the main road into the interior through George-street,
the road to Botany Bay, and the South Head-road.
The two last pass through what is called Hyde Park,
an extensive open space of ground, which is rather
more than half a mile from north to south, and
about a quarter of a mile from east to w r est. At
present it may be said to be at the back of the
town, but it is probable that, before the lapse of
many years, it may be in the centre.
* * * *
“Thorold’s” view of it:—
I am astonished to find “J.H.” tardily defending
Australia House against Oscar Asche’s ill-founded
attack. Two years ago a journalist with the same
initials , got all the blame in Australia House itself
for some tremendous attacks in Melbourne Age
against that institution and all its forces, down to
the most diminutive messenger. The truth is that
Australia’s shuttlecock in the Strand wears a very
beautiful look when struggling scribes are getting
crumbs of revenue or some kind of pull from it, while
it is the ugliest blot on the universe in the eyes of
the same men if they are baffled in getting exactly
what they want. The Australia House staff is good ;
there is not too much of it; it consists of Austra-
lians wherever there would not be criminal extrava-
gance in employing them ; and it would do its work
a lot better if it were not headed by dodderingly
obsolete Cabinet office-grabbers and constantly inter-
fered with by Hughes, Hughes’ Ministers and a
host of Hughes’ hangers-on. If Australia House
gets irritable or disconsolate at times can
anyone wonder at it, with Hughes, Pearce, Watt,
Millen, J. R. Collins, Edward Braddon, Ramaciotti,
Shepherd and a bunch of others all going there with
official “reforming” missions within three short
QUITE WELL, THANK YOU!
“That your husband? Jove, don't a face like that get on your
nerves!"
“Not like it used to —you see, he's been dead eighteen months,
and ' I've only had nightmare twice since the funeral."
years? It is also slightly tired of its less official
reformers, including scribes who write it up or down,
Whichever way the pennies fall.
“Dune”: “ Wilfrid o” (B. 2/11/’22)
quotes the courtroom as a good field for
malapropisms. My old Cornish miner friend
is nearly as good. He astounded me one
day with the information that he was once
“found for attempt of court,” and on another
occasion mentioned that his employers sent
all their ore away to a neighboring town
for “consecration.” And his way of convey-
ing that swagmen were going up and down
the road all the year was to assure me that
there was a “constant fluctuation of sun-
downers.”
* * * *
“Little Vincey”: “Faceplate’s” experience
(B. 9/11/’22) in getting shown the door
because, when asked his religion, he made a
wrong guess at that of his prospective
employer, reminds me of my own case.
Although reared in a churchy and prejudiced
atmosphere I long ago ceased to belong to
any denomination, being satisfied to leave
religion to those who like it, or live by it.
The job was in my hand, salary was fixed, and
everything O.K. when I was asked where I
was educated. I’m still looking for a job.
# * # *
“Nimshi”: “The growing tendency of Aus-
tralian children to bolt from home”(“Harold
Hardupp,” B. 2/11/’22) received further ex-
emplification last week when two Sydney 13-
year-olds, bound for Townsville, were inter-
cepted at Howard (Q.) and sent back to
home and harbor beauty. They had won a
fiver between them on a horse, and professed
to know a “shot bird” for the Melbourne
Cup. It looks as if “pickshers,” lotteries and
racing, between them, were sowing a big
crop of disturbing ideas in juvenile minds.
The other night, greedily absorbing the “re-
sults” pasted on a newsagent’s window, I
found a knot of lads between 10 to 15, each
of whom had something knowledgeable to say
about the bearing of the latest form upon
“futures.”
* * * *
“Randolph Rentless”: A Sydney after-
math of the Melbourne Cup was the argu-
ment between the News and Sun as to
which delivered the goods first. It was brisk
work in either case, and the News claim
(which seems the better backed, and is
worked down to fractions of seconds) is that
the Cup finished at 3-38.28 f p.m., and the
“specials” were being distributed at 3.41.
The word came by special ’phone. The
quaintest point about the business is the fact
that both papers had boys ready to bolt off
and, figuratively speaking, defile the hated
rival’s doorstep—Or. to drop periphrasis, sell
papers near it. In this amiable enterprise
the News, which is besting the Sun in
several directions these days, was a winner
by minutes.
‘Blackfriars”: After
taking a hen’s-eye
view of a few Bri-
tish cities, Hume
Cook commits the
glib foolishness of
informing Mel-
bourne that there
is no rival to it
except, possibly,
Edinburgh. Surely
the Vic. capital is
self-satisfied enough
without stuffing it
with such palpable
nonsense! Paris
consists of half-a-
dozen Melbournes,
all with better
architecture,
greater beauty, and
more life and
fascination to the
square inch than
Hume Cook’s met-
ropolis has to the
square mile. There
is no comparing
Melbourne with
Vienna or Brussels
in any of the items
mentioned, and it
will have to get a
big hustle on if it
wants to catch up
inside a thousand
years with one
small span of Lon-
don stretching from
the Abbey to Ox-
ford-street, or an-
other section from
Charing Cross to
the R-o ya 1 Ex-
change. I have
heard much brag
about Melbourne’s
growth, but after
long absence Was
astounded to find
it so like its own
self of 20 years
back, except that a smug Hume Cook-like
complacency had supplanted its go-aheadness.
AN INSIDE PASSENGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Soft evening shadows held her face obscured,
But piercing sweet her voice rang through the
coach
As blithely she recounted ills endured
And dwelt on subjects people seldom broach.
Parts anatomical and hid from view
Became familiar-—phosphorescent glowed—
In minds receptive of each picture new;
And someone muttered hoarsely, “I'll be blowed!”
’Twas clear the surgeon’s knife had deftly ripped
And snicked and trimmed, then lightly ripped
some more;
Like some soft spong'e in scarlet liquid dipped,
Her simple mind was soaked in gory lore.
So vital parts were neatly brought to light,
And in an expert’s hands were shaped anew;
Then hidden once again from vulgar sight—
The yarn waxed vivid as it grew and grew
And swelled with luscious details, till at length
The journey ended and the dame took breath.
Whereat a male of coarse plebeian strength,
Who knew not it was sweet to toy with death,
Spoke at his own hoarse whisper’s fullest scope;
“To see the old girl’s phiz I’ve had no chance:
I wouldn’t know it from a bar of soap—
But, gosh! I’d know her innards at a glance!”
VICTORIA.
RIN CHIN.


■:V;.
I
3U-
\ •'
V,\
■:: ' -
i ...
mMmam
■ ,
..
Ml
LMMUivw'"' '
WmfW
>'■: ■ :
.
v :.
•>
JgmM " •"
Z' ,"'f'/
: |p
Electric Light
and Power Plants.
Town councils or citizens’ associations can light their towns electrically. Better
light with less trouble and cost.
Everyone who can have it wants electric light and power.
There must be a reason.
A twenty-four continuous service for Electric Light and Power without any
attendant—just the requirement of many country towns.
THE MATTHEWS “FULL AUTOMATIC” LIGHT AND POWER
PLANTS give this service continuously, and only require attention once
weekly—otherwise they “Work without Watching."
THE MATTHEWS "FULL AUTOMATIC” PLANTS make it possible
for any small town or settlement to have Electric Lighting in the streets,
at the Railway Station, Public Hall, School or Hospital, and power to
pump water or supply current for Electric Irons, Fans, etc., at a small cost.
THE MATTHEWS “FULL AUTOMATIC” LIGHT AND POWER
PLANTS are so compact that they can be placed in the corner of a
small building, and require no special housing or costly foundations.
Write for full particulars of the complete plant installed, and the
actual working cost.
The Matthews Engineering Company manufacture Full
Automatic sets from 1 5 to 600 lights, and Generating
Sets from 100 to 5000 lights.
6-K.W. 300-LIGHT
MATTHEWS
AUTOMATIC
PLANT, with Auto-
matic Control Switch-
board for lighting
small towns.
Starts and stops it-
self automatically.
\
V
111
m
1
:
9
m
in
rm
m
m
m
wm
l
IB HH
‘':l;.vl
1
’■• -
mm
■
m-
•’• » '•‘l
1
*.«.
mmmmmbmbii
■ * ■
111111 ■■■■nHiM
IPMMWgWSW
LI
h
INC
INJ
SOUTH BRITISH
BUILDINGS,
LTE?
O’CONNELL STREET,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Distributors: J. B. CHANDLER & CO., 169 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Raths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J, USHER,
Managing Director.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents t
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
“For Ever Best/’
STA 6
LA(sER
TOOHEY'S.
“Paragot” (Sandringham, Viq.) : The
summer season has arrived here. A sure sign
is the opening of the street matrimonial
agency, which starts business with the first-
spell of decent weather, and dwindles to
inactivity when the autumn winds blow cold.
There is no membership or other fee. The
amorist simply writes his or her name, ad-
dress and age on some handy telegraph
post and awaits results. The more punc-
tilious or conscientious patrons of the agency
erase their names after the first acceptable
answer turns up; but now and again one
still encounters the name of some last year’s
hopeful, weather-worn and grey with age.
Either blank indifference or extreme opti-
mism may account for the continuance of the
mute appeal.
“The Deacon”: Re “Cutter” (B. 2/11/’22)
and the car tyre used to import snake-juice
into dry King Country (M.L.). In my time
the method was much more simple. Several
outsizes in drauglit-horse collars were
fashioned, with a tin interior instead of the
orthodox padding. It was only the fre-
quency with which these collars’had to be
sent to Auckland for trifling repairs that
blew the gaff. That is what the wowsers
want to thrust on Australia.
* * * *
“Stellsby” bovrilises some creed statistics:
For the 10 years ended 1921 C. of E. adherents
in the Cabbage Patch increased from 451,087 to
A FATAL OBJECTION.
“You should marry Muriel. She’s as pretty as a picture.”
“The frame’s too expensive.”
G 01.809; lt.C. from 271,754 to 315,718; Scotchby-
terians from 234,553 to 257,072. Meanwhile, the
fruitful vine of the lesser lights sprouted to this
extent; Methodies from 170,662 to 183,829 ; Baptists
from 31,244 to 32,305; Church of Christ from
16,511 to 22,250; and Salv’army from 7799 to
9183. Congregationalists fell from grace to the
tune of 591 and the Chosen increased from 6270
to 7677. Stravs atlieistically inclined numbered
3810, whilst 12,953 didn’t have the “guts” to say
what they were.
"Dingo”: Talk about White Australia —
and then come and look at the strains which
are being bred in our northern ports. At
Broome (W.A.) there is a family of which
the mother is a half-caste ("father English,
mother black gin) and the father a Malay.
There are seven children, and the three
eldest daughters are married and have
families. One is matrimonially yoked to a
Chow, another to an Afghan, and the third
to a half-caste American negro.
* * * »
“Father X.,” ritually argumentative:—
“Tame Puseyite’s” reference (B. 19/10/’22) to
Archbishop Wright moves me to point out that the
latter has no direct jurisdiction outside Sydney
diocese. After Bathurst diocese rejected his sug-
gestion and elected a High Church bishop, other
Sees followed suit. Armidale took Sydney’s leading
“High” for its bishop, Coulburn fell into line,
and even Grafton went to Melbourne for a “High”
man rather than the Archbishop’s nominee. Fully 90
per cent, of curates outside Sydney in N.S.W. arc
more elevated than, or at least as lofty as, their
brethren in other States, and even in Sydney things
are steadily improving. As for the Nexus, England
is frankly Anglo-Catholic. If we don’t cut the
painter we will certainly be bound by Anglo-Cath-
olic England, as your “Puseyite” reader observes,
but the latter will probably insist on all that Arch-
bishop Wright detests.
* * * *
“Chick” : About a dozen of Melbourne’s
commercial artists are holding an exhibition
at the Athenaeum next month, and although
they belong to an unfortunate class, in the
eyes of a superior few, they are likely to
put up a great show. After all, the great
men must not forget that the drudgery of the
lithographer and the process-worker is an
excellent foundation on which to build a
thorough knowledge of color analysis and
technique. Although Streeton professes to
look back with abhorrence on the days when
he was a lithographer’s apprentice with old
Troedel in Melbourne, he should be the first
to acknowledge that lie learned a lot of
useful stuff in those years, both from Troe-
del himself (who was a better litho-printer
then than the present day “offset” cranks)
and Wendel and the other “stone” experts
of that day. Doubtless Norman Lindsay
found line blocks for The Hawiclet front
page good practice. And Percy Leason was a
litho artist long before he dreamed of being
an eminent black-and-white draughtsman and
painter in oils.
* * * #
Kangaroo Island (S.A.) is an odd mix-
ture. The north is occupied ; the west is
kept as a national reserve for birds, beasts,
and plants (no foxes have got across to the
island, so it is a para-
dise for wild turkeys
and such slow crea-
tures) ; and the south
coast, where the
breakers come straight
from the Pole, is wild
and little trodden.
Shipwrecked sailors
have suffered hard-
ships there in the
past, and now a depot,
with boots, blankets
and such things, has
been established near
the cliffs for emer-
gency use. The re-
sult is that K. 1., half
of which is Adelaide’s
favorite seaside resort
in summer, has just
achieved mention in
the London papers as
one of the world’s
desert islands.
* * *
“O’D.”: I recom-
mend that a bar be
added to the bun to
be awarded to Too-
woomba for honesty
(Bulletin Routine
Orders, signed by
“Sucre,” 2/11/’22).
Following on the £3O
left lying on the rac-
ing club’s table, the
Mayor (Aid. A. R.
Godsall), when ramb-
ling about the local
quarry, found a wallet
containing £240 in
notes. It belonged to
a bottle merchant,
who had sold a Ford
truck on the Satur-
day, too late for the
money to be banked,
and had chosen a
plant in the quarry as
safer than his own
home. It might
also be mentioned in dispatches that re-
cently a lady left £lOO in notes in a car in
a Toowoomba garage overnight, and recov-
ered it next day. Toowoomba honest? Why
the bloke who refused the £3500 bribe came
from Toowoomba !
* * » »
“Rostron”: “Borom’s” yarn (B. 2/11/’22)
of the N.S.W. prisoners being found in a
sozzled condition Is quite believable. At the
Pentridge (Vic.) Gaol more than one
prisoner has quite recently received “con-
finement to cell” punishment for being drunk.
In “Pen.” a stick of gaol tobacco (value 2d.)
will purchase from the cookhouse a baked
dinner (far more tasty than the boiled one)
and a bottle of yeast beer. Some months
ago there was a rumor that an attempt had
FOREDOOMED TO FRIVOL.
“Looks swift, eh?”
“Um, y-e-s. I'm afraid She's got a past in front of her.”
been made to blow up the gaol. But the
terrific explosion, which undoubtedly occurred,
was ultimately traced to the cookhouse. Too
much yeast had been used in making the
day’s brew, and the entire consignment had
gone off like one bottle. On another occa-
sion, in the dead o’ night, a prisoner “rang
up sick.” The first idea was that the man
was suffering from elephantiasis, but he pre-
sently confessed to the oflicials that he had
merely been breasting the yeast bar at the
cookhouse!
“Tren”: “Topee’s” island word “Maski”
(B. 2/11/’22), meaning “Who cares?” comes
late on the scene. All soldiers who took in
Egvot during their world tour remember
and still use that consoling word “Maleish,”
which is, being interpreted, “Nebber mind”
or “What does it matter?” Gyppos used this
expression to excuse all their own shortcom-
ings, and to condole with all persons in dis-
tress. During the raid on Amman, when the
Camel Corps were without sleep for 48 hours
and were forced to drag their beasts after
them because of the driving rain and the
miry nature of the ground, “Maleish” was
badly overworked. A happy-go-lucky staff-
serg.—Stan Nye, by name, and the only
worldling among a large family of Methodist
ministers —summed up the situation thus:
“We’re floating around in a sea of melan-
choly on the barque Maleish !”
“Bouragi”: “A.P.’s” reference to Asiatic
labor in Australia (B. 2/11/’22) re-
calls the fact that numerous Chinese
were working as shepherds in Queens-
land in the ’forties. Later, Kanakas
were tried for the same purpose, and proved
far less effective. The gold discoveries of
the ’fifties was the end of the Chinaman
in the role of Strephon, and the Kanaka
was soon superseded by the wire-fence and
the white boundary-rider. The Islanders, how-
ever, continued in favor as houseboys and
station rouseabouts until the ’eighties, when
Sam Griffiths’s Act put an end to them save
as sugar-workers. Hearsay credits Ben
Boyd, of N.S.W., with having employed
kanakas as shepherds at Twofold Bay.
“Peto” : Re “Billy T.” on woman-spanking
B. 2/11/’22L I worked once for a
cow-cocky named Kelly, near Masterton
(M.L.). Kelly, when well and truly soused,
used a supplejack on h ; s soul-mate with
grievous effect. One Saturday night I
essayed to interfere, whereupon the entire
Kelly gang, father, mother and youngsters,
took to me. Matilda and T were emptied out-
side, and I had to tramp, moneyless and wet
through, five miles to the nearest town. Ever
since I have been able to sympathise with
the wait-and-see attitude so often adopted
by neighbors when domestic dissensions
occur.
"F.L.’s” reminiscences:—
“T.0.1.’5” rnusings about Hay fB. 19/10/’22) sug-
gests to me that I am
perhaps the individual
with the earliest per-
sonal recollections of
the place. I vividly
remember as a child
going to “Mungadal”
in 1861, the train
from Melbourne run-
ning only to Wood-
end ; a few small
houses constituted
Hay. Shields was the
name of the P.M.
Frank Chambers then
held Pevensy, Loughnan
was at Burrabogie,
Firebrace at Toogimbie,
and the first agitation
for severance from
Sydney was in full
blast. Jones, of the
Pastoral Times, Den-
iliquin, was an active
propagandist, a n d
Gideon Lang was
chairman of the move-
ment. In 1853 the
brothers Lang—
Thomas, Gideon and
William —w ho had
arrived in Australia
1839-41, after squat-
ting at Buninyong,
Vic., and at the mouth
of the Glenelg, reached
the Murrumbidgee
after an arduous jour-
ney with 700 cattle.
Gideon remained at
Mungadal, William
took Wargam, and
Thomas Wanganalla.
Hay was called Lang’s
Crossing for years.
There is still a
“Gideon’s Clump” on
Mungadal, but few
know whence its name
came. Gideon was
found sleeping there-
under by his brothers
when he ought to have
been watching his cattle —and the blacks.
AND ANOTHER, WAR STARTED.
“If the olive branch is the emblem of peace,
father, what is. the emblem of war?”
“The orange blossom, my child.”
SUNDAY NIGHT: COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1' rom the cathedral comes a distant roll
Of honeyed praise assailing the still sky,
As, all indifferent to her precious soul,
The Shame of Shames fluffs by.
A deep Te Deum thrills the avid air.
Faith glows. On God men’s burden of care is cast.
•Still, Satan chuckles low in his nearby lair....
The Shame of Shames goes past.
\\horn God hath joined”.... Priests mumble and
bigots scream.
And yet by sin must Misery crawl from Hell
To freedom in that warmer but deadlier stream
The Shame of Shames knows well.
The organ peals. The innumerous night of stars
Shines on. There seems no infamy anywhere.
But, God !... .the tearing wounds, the loathsome scars
The Shame of Shames must bear!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
A BALLAD OK BEAUTY AND BREAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In the famine-stricken districts of Russia beauti-
ful girls are being' daily exchanged for loaves of
bread.” —News item.
Time was when Zoff the baker through a rusty,
matted beard
Leer’d avidly as Beauty rare unto his sight appeared.
And many golden roubles he’d have gladly paid to
share
The favors of a maiden who was merely passing' fair.
Yet now that mighty Russia has gone definitely Red
A perfect Venus can be got for one small loaf of
bread.
O precious loaf, the only coin that buys entrancing
beauty,
To praise thee morning, noon and night would seem
one’s bounden duty.
But here’s the rub. When perfect curves are offered
by the ton
The baker has not flour enough to make a farthing
bun!
“Ah me!” he sighs, “If only I possessed a fair-
sized sack
My cherished hope—a harem—l should now no
longer lack!”
maoriland.
KEMO.


THE BEALE ACCLAIMED
roresston
« •
usicums
■vv”!
warn
BH
Ill’ll
m
r >
OH
1
' ■
t
I
*
m
m
m
m
■
:» 1 :
mm
81-
I ,
"• V:''
7-M% ■ ■ .
-mm..
V4V4V
WmV
ee
aßeak Vta/w
For many years now I have been
playing pianos in many theatres
in many parts of the 'world\ but
I can truly say that never have I
been more completely suited than
with the exquisite , little Beale Baby
Grand I am at present using at the
Tivoli. SMy wife — (<s\diss Lee
White) heartily endorses me in
this opinion. She, like myself, has
had an unusually extensive associ-
ation with good pianos and realises
to the full just how an excellent in-
strument can help in "putting across
such a turn as that in which we speci-
alise. Our heartiest congratulations
on the production of an instrument
so worthy to rank with the very few
makes upon which one can absolute-
ly depend for tone, endurance and
unusually flexible dynamic effects.
CLAY SMITH
LEE WHITE
TELLING stories in a captivating, husky-toned, charm-
ingly-pitched voice; singing delightful songs in a delight-
ful way ; laughing, talking—this, together with the musical
contributions by her husband, Clay Smith, is the Lee White
that Australian theatre-goers have learned to love.
In every part of the world these two charming entertainers
have delighted thousands—relying on nothing except the
absolute finish and refinement of their performance. Having
used pianos of practically every make, their letter alongside
is of exceptional interest.
Beale is sold on one , two or three years' terms.
"Silent”pianos taken in part payment.
BEALE
WAND m
COMPANY
JJD
Showrooms :
340 George Street
Sydney
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
Annandale
BRANCHES— N.S.W.: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. 1
Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tas.: Williams Bros., Hobart;
Launceston. S.A.: Savory’s Pianos, Ltd., Adelaide. IF.A.; Thomson’
Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen St. (opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane, Toowoomba,
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay.
ieioria :
Maples,
s, Ltd.,


ROTHERHAMS
English Watches
Are now
Procurable
from all
Jewellers
Foremost throughout the Empire for
over 60 3'ears.
If your Jeweller should not have them
apply to Box J2O, G.P.0., Sydney
A Signal Success
tBB
King Cjeorge IV
wmsiar
HieTOP-NOTCITScotcfL
Smart!
Serviceable!
We shoctld
sat| so!
Why don't
you wear a
isjje
"shirt?
MAKERS
\aiKANDER STEWARh
\ AND SONS LTD
BRISBANE
A NO
SYDNEY
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES- LINSEED OIL
“Pick” : I have measured the jumps of all-
sized kangaroos, and agree with “Boomerang” (B.
26/10/’22) that the 37ft. mentioned to him by a
station-manager takes swallowing. My best was
31ft., but then the take-off was from a hillside ledge,
and the landing on a soft grassy patch fully 6ft.
lower. At Windellama (N.S.W.) I once saw a pet
female ’roo belonging to Jack Croker, of Pleasant
Hills station, tear wildly over a level half-mile with
a fast hound close after her. In the way of animal
speed it was the fatsest race I ever witnessed. After
she had, distressed and panting, landed safely over
the palings into the orchard we carefully taped her
jumps far along the sandy track. With almost un-
broken regularity they measured 27 feet.
* * * *
“W.W.R.” tells a woman’s snake story :
I had always doubted that music would charm
till recently. I was staying with friends in N.
Queensland, and while playing Chopin’s “Berceuse”
on the piano, I was startled by the violent screech-
ing of the pet galah. On going out to remonstrate
I saw a huge black snake coiled on the verandah
with his head erect and poised in a listening atti-
tude. That he was in a state of reverie or trance
was evident from the fact that my appearance did
not disturb him in the least. 1 rushed off for a
man, and when we returned the snake was still on
the verandah, but was now going through a series
of seemingly ecstatic gyrations in and out of the
railings. It was still unalarmed at the presence
of human beings, and unheedful of cockie’s blood-
curdling screeching. To make a test, I left the
man on guard and went into the house and resumed
playing. In a few seconds the snake coiled itself
as before and started wagging its head in rhythmical
motions, as though marking time. It didn’t take
long to put an end to its rhapsody. Another proof
that the music must have been the attraction is the
fact that, although the place abounded in snakes
of all kinds, it was regarded as a unique thing
for a black wriggler to approach a dwelling and
climb up verandah-steps, and this was so recorded
in the local newspaper.
* * * *
“C. Troop” : During the advance across
the Sinai desert, a number of experiments were
carried out by commanders of different units to see
whether horses would do better on two drinks a
day or three. The result of these tests was conclu-
sively in favor of two. Not only did the horses
improve in condition quicker -than those watered
three times, but it was proved by actual measure-
ment that they drank more water. So when the
force arrived at El Arish watering twice-a-day was
generally accepted as the standard. Do we shout
too often for our working-horses?
* * * *
“Barcoo”: The old overlander who quiet-
ened camping cattle by encircling them with numer.
ous lights (B. 12/10/’22) was applying an idea well-
known to numerous drovers in the far Gulf country
for years. It is the best way of
giving confidence to a herd of young
steers that are inclined to stampede
off their night camp. It is only
necessary to suspend half-a-dozen lan-
terns (upon stakes where trees are not
available) about a hundred yards out
at intervals around the mob. “Bogan
Bill,” in saying that “the quieter
and darker the camp the more sub-
dued the herd,” is quite wrong as far
as the average mob of travelling store
bullocks is concerned, though he
would be quite right with regard to
the coastal-bred,; poddy-calf type of
mob. Cattle bred in the open bush
and plains of the Far North require
different handling, and that’s why
“inside” men taking charge of the
big station-bred cattle meet so many
Waterloos —they have not the remotest
idea of the way to handle the ner-
vous, timid beasts. It requires great
tact and patience to get used to the
road 1000 or 1500 young bullocks
that have been practically unhandled
except at branding time. Any unusual
sound on a dark night, such as a man
suddenly sneezing, or the camp cook
dropping an armful of tin cooking
tools, or the night horse shaking it-
self with its harness on and no one
aboard, will cause the mob to leap to
their feet as one beast and in a flash
break into a stampede, the wildness
of which is quite unimaginable ex-
cept to those who have experienced
it. But the cattle seem to gain con-
fidence when surrounded by lights,
and any unusual sound does not
appear to startle them. The experi-
enced overlander in charge of a
“jumpy” mob will quick and lively
pass out a stockman who does his
watch riding round the camping herd in silence. All
cattlemen know that he who sings or whistles
through his shift rarely has a rush. Many a man
has become an expert mouth-organ exponent through
practising on the instrument in his watches on the
cattle camps.
* * » »
“Ragar”: The kookaburra would take a
less cheerful view of life if he had to depend on his
nose for locating his dinner. As long as the tucker keeps
out of sight and makes no movement in the sur-
rounding scenery Jack goes hungry. He depends
almost entirely on his wonderfully keen sight. I’ve
seen one plane down from a dead gum 50 yards
away and pick up a mouse feeding among the stones,
and I’ve known him pass by a square feed hidden
under a scrap of old sacking. The sense of Smell ’s
weak in all birds. The vulture never investigates
shot game that has been covered with a blanket or
grass- —I’ve proved that more than once in Africa—
NOT FOR SALE.
“What’s that old idol worth?”
“About quarter of a million sterling. It’s the boss!”
whereas if the carcase is left in view the vulture is
on to it before the “boys” can get there to cut it
up. Experiments recently made in America have
proved that caged birds will starve if their feed-tins
have even the lightest covering. If they can’t see
the tucker they don’t know it’s there. The crow
seems to be the exception; but he’s more devil than
bird. These black scavengers have been known to
assemble on the roof of a house in which a man’s
body was lying awaiting the undertaker. Keen sight
plus keen hearing seems to fill the bill of the average
bird, be hp songster or scavenger.
* * * *
“Pat Bushie”: At our pub the other day
the waitress brought a big bulloeky a single very
diminutive chop. He eyed the morsel savagely for
a moment and then roared: “Look ’ere, miss; I ain’t
no bloomin’ gormandiser, but I want a blanky feed,
and bringin’ this ter me is like takin’ a flamin’
caraway-seed on a plate to an emu!”
* * * *
“Ney”: Queer situations can arise in the
bush where money is often useless. I remember one
Christmas I spent alone on the track after the
sheds had just cut out. My Christmas dinner con-
sisted solely of doughboy boiled in the billy and
eaten with treacle. I had £340 in my swag.
* * * *
“Murranji”: I can assure “Gippo” (B.
19/10/’22) that free, staunch horses,
constantly pulling heavy loads, usually
go blind in time. Some years ago I
had a four-horse van hauling and
loading up the Blackall Range from
Landsborough to Maleny (Q.). It
was four miles of climbing on a metal
road, with grades ranging from 1 in
12 to 1 in 3. My off-side leader, a
big roan gelding, had been on the
road some years. He suddenly went
stone blind one day, and remained so
the rest of his days. I drove him in
the lead for three months after his
sight went, and he never made a false
step. The Maleny butter-factory
people had several of their van horses
go blind the same way. In each case
it was the freest and staunchest that
lost their sight.
“Ned Kelly”: Re queer foster-parents (B.
19/10/’22). Last year on the Monaro (N.S.W.) a
motherless lamb that was brought to the home-
stead to be “poddied” presented itself to a collie,
the mother of a young litter. She objected
violently at first, and snapped at the lamb whenever
it went near her, but the young jumbuck persevered,
and soon took its position as one of the family.
The lamb grew up among the pups, and at present
is a butting nuisance about the house.
* * * *
“Nor’AVest” : This will bear out “Wobb’s”
theory (B. 26/16/’22) that a solitary snipe is a
scout. A few snipe were in the habit of coming
to a dam near Gravesend, Warialda (N.S.W.) dis-
trict. One year a single snipe came, and I shot
it. No more arrived that year, and the next year
the same thing happened—l bagged the scout again.
The following year I saw a solitary snipe at the
same dam, but not having a gun it remained un-
molested. Three or four days later I saw five at
the dam; and, unfortunately, the pot-hunting in-
stinct being strong in me then, I bagged two, after
which tragedy the others disappeared. It may
interest “H.V.E.” to know that four years ago, when
the effects of the great drought were just beginning
to be felt, I shot two painted snipe in the bed of
a creek 10 miles from Warialda. In over 20 years
in that district I had never seen these birds about
there before, and neither had the oldest inhabitant.
They were evidently a long way out of their “tauri”
—probably i the drought had some influence on their
straying.
» * » •
“Yet”: “Te Whare” has many errors in
his par (B. 26/10/’22) re “staggers” in sheep. It
is the immature stage (the hydatid stage) of Taenia
ccenurus, which is known as Ccexiurus cerebralis, and
which is present in the brain of the sheep, causing
the condition known as “staggers,” or “gid.” The
mature parasite, Taenia ccenurus, is parasitic in the
small intestine of the dog. Liver flukes belong to
quite a different parasitic order and never at any
stage are they known as hydatids. While it is true
that liver flukes undergo their early development in
certain species of fresh-water snails, no known
hydatid uses these molluscs as a host.
MAIL BAY.
THE TRAMP: “’Struth! And I’ve only got
Matilda!”
“Mape”: Re this argument as to whether
Mack people blush. I’ve had it settled for me, right
fre-m the stable. A black woman (daughter of an
African negro) living next door to us had a bath in
the afternoon, and, having forgotten some essential
underlinen, made for her room in something near to
nature’s garb; but the front door had blown open,
and when she turned into the passage she was con-
fronted by a hawker standing on the mat. “I
blushed all over,” she said solemnly when she told
me of the incident. My face evidently betrayed dis-
belief, for she flashed out: “Well, I can blush, dam’
you, even if I am black!”
(Continued on page 22.)
RINGER AND THE BRAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a horse called Vallentine,
New England’s joy and pride;
He bucked off all the local cracks
Who thought that they could ride.
Jack Dempsy journeyed from the North
Old Vallentine to meet;
He sat the third buck, but the fourth
Found him a second seat.
Then came a voice across the ground—-
“He’ll meet his Waterloo;
For I have got one hundred pound
To back young Ringeroo.”
The wager made, the big stakes laid,
They brought old Vallen. down
O’er hill and dell through Inverell
To Warialda town.
They spent no time in prose or rhyme
But girthed the horse up tight;
And Ringer in the saddle sprang,
For Ringer’s step was light.
There someone stood with watch in hand,
The rest the railings lined.
The saddle flew off on the sand ;
But Ringer slipped behind.
The girths were spent, the crupper went,
The bridle left his hand,
And nothing stuck to Vallentine
But Ringer and the brand.
He bucked away the livelong day.
The sun was westward bound ;
But Ringer’s seat was firm and neat,
He never hit the ground.
They fed him with a shanghai, too,
To give him strength to stick.
The boys all roared for Ringeroo—
“Oh, Ringer, you’re a brick!”
SCIENCE SPURNED.
“New manager do be very clever chap, Billy.”
"Praps ’e ex. I’d sooner see a good practical miner. I
aren’t got too much time for these chaps what ’are
been all their lives working in lavatories.”
Once more the sun in all his pride
Had given morning birth,
As Vallen. bucked his last —and died—
And Ringer struck the earth.
They raised him gently from the sand,
Held brandy to his lips.
He pushed it off with trembling hand—
“ Kind friends, I want no nips.
“I loved, as none ere loved, that moke;
He was Australia’s pride.”
Those were the last words Ringer spoke;
He sank by Vallen.’s side.
They laid them both away to rest
Deep down beneath the sand,
The two who stood the final test—
Brave Ringer and the brand!
N.S.W.
C. F. CARR.


“ENSIGN CALDER"
By J. H. M. ABBOTT
“THE GREY GOOSE COMEDY
COMPANY"
By EDWARD DYSON
New Bookstall Novels by two of the Commonwealth s
foremost authors.
‘“Ensign Calder” is a series of excellent Australian
historical stories.
“The Grey Goose Comedy Company”—one of the most
humorous Australian novels ever published.
Other Recent “Bookstall” Novels —
“THE BLACK OPAL” by Jack North
“THE PEARLS OF CHEONG TAH” by S. W. Powell
“THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER”—
Adapted from the famous play by Hilda Bridges
“THE CARDS OF FORTUNE” by Roy Bridges
“ROGUES AND RUSES” by Con Drew
“THE BOSS OF KILLARA” by Vance Palmer
“THE FEATHERS OF HEAVEN” by Jack McLaren
“A COLT FROM THE COUNTRY” by Arthur Wright
ONE SHILLING each.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout the Common-
wealth, New Zealand and South Africa. (Posted 1/2.)
5,000,000 “BOOKSTALL” NOVELS Already Sold.
Complete descriptive catalogue obtainable free from the
Publishers.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney,
the restful lig'ht.
Texaco Kerosene, “Light of the Age,” burns with the
soft brilliance that’s safely restful.
Safe, because the Texaco refining process rigidly main-
tains the “high-flash” Kerosene that’s worthy of your
confidence—always.
Restful, because the peculiar softness and color of the
light from PURE Kerosene removes the eye strain so
commonly experienced with many forms of artificial
illumination.
Use Texaco “Light of the Age” for your evening’s
relaxation, work or study. It’s the light that has the satisfying
qualities you’ll enjoy.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.,
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
TEmCO
THE VICTOR PIANO
m
■*■« tSSsti
prrrm
vmrrm
rrrrrm
rm
SHI M ' ' .. 8,
(tf ..«iI«H<H..tMIIM
UUM
iff
(BPT
i
S
a
The ever-popular Academy Model, showing inside view.
Go where you will, right throughout N.S.W.
and Queensland, and you will find VICTOR
PIANOS giving great satisfaction.
The climate does not worry them, great heat
or severe cold are all the same to them;
They are built to last a lifetime, and have our
huge experience behind them —now nearly
three-quarters of a century.
Sold fully guaranteed in every way.
Catalogue and price list are free for the
asking—write for one to-day.
VICTOR PIANOS are sold on our famous
easy time-payment system.
W. H. PALING CO. LTD
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
and at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE,
LISMORE, TOOWOOMBA,
ROCKHAMPTON.


jCqIIAU
ROOFING, FLOORING. DAMPCOURSF.
GENUINE Maltkoid Roofing lasts
indefinitely.
GENUINE Malthoid Floor Cover-
ing it is almost impos-
sible to wear through.
GENUINE Malthoid Dampcourse
has never let moisture
through, and has been
in use for 18 years.
The Paraffine Companies Inc
( F.M.PRINCE AurlraWian Manager)
Original Manufacturers of CHALLIS HOUy»
P & B Matcrialf. ?v»n P et
off ike Ice
ABBOTS
LAGER
Uho Beer
Without a Rival"
BREWED FROM PURE MALT & HOPS ONLY
M
7
iimmimiiiii mm mYi
11 It 111H11111111111H 111111
“L.M.L.”: “An Old Woman” (B.
19/10/’22) asks for a doctor’s opinion on the subject
of “lying up.” I am a doctor, and my experience
of the subject is extensive and includes cases from
Mrs. Silvel'tail in her palatial residence to our un-
fortunate sister by the roadside. Of course a woman
should “lie up” for physiological and anatomical
reasons. The physiological reasons are common to
all placental mammals, and the anatomical reason is
that woman is a perpendicular biped and not a hori-
zontal quadruped. I am old enough to be a survivor
of the regency of Mrs. Gamp, whose chief qualifica-
tion for practice was that she had undergone some
half-dozen or more experiences herself and was apt
to pride herself on the quickness with which she
“got her patients up.” I remember one good lady
who spoke with scorn on the way “you doctors” let
the patients stop in bed—“ Pure laziness, I call it.
I never stopped in bed after the third day.” I
looked at her and she had a drawn face. I said,
“Do you ever have pain in the back?” “Oh, yes,
doctor! I suffer cruel at times.” “Ah! And did
it never occur to you why?” Nuff sed.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: Last year’s Abo. discussion
on jumping jumbucks was recalled at Newmarket
(Vic.) saleyards a few day's ago when a shorn
merino weather jumped clean over a gate 4ft. 7in.
high.
A DEAD LOSS.
COHEN: “Vot you cry for, Shacob? Id don’
hurt you to have a nose bleed."
SHACOB: “No, f adder; but it’s all goin ’ out
and nothin’ coinin’ in."
“Yardley”: “Oka” (B. 2G/10/’22) is
wrong in saying an albatross cannot rise from the
deck of a ship. I once saw a bird make the best of
a 30ft, run of clear deck. He spread his wings as he
waddled along, the flap of a sail gushed an extra
draught under the wide expanse of feather, and he
made a leap which gave room for one full stroke
of his wings. In the fraction of a second he was
soaring skywards, and the seamen were gazing after
the miracle with eyes goggling with surprise. Not
a man amongst us had ever heard of such a get-away.
“Bogan Bill”: “Boomerang” (B.
26/'lo/’22) needn’t have doubted his station-managing
pal who said he measured a kangaroo jump of 37ft.
Near Nyngan (N.S.W.) some years ago our motor
badly scared an old man of the grey-flier type. He
raced along in front of us for a while, and when
a fence loomed up in front he jumped it, Four of
us measured the leap, front where he took off to
where he landed. It was 41ft. 7iu.
“Mirza”: The diminutive insect which
fired smoke-bombs at “Boomerang” (B. 26/10/22)
is in all probability the bombardier beetle, which
WASTED EFFORT.
“Aren't you going in this morning?"
“I had my dip before breakfast this morning."
“Why, there couldn’t have been anyone to see you!"
when annoyed or attacked ejects, from an aperture
on its abdomen, a white puff which deters, if it
does not incapacitate, any tiny assailants. The
bombardier is fairly common in Victoria, being very
prevalent in the Ovens Valley. He can eject fairly
rapidly four or five puffs of what appears to be
smoke ; but, tested chemically with moist blue litmus
paper, the white puff proves to be an extremely fine
spray of acid.
* # # #
“Nor’-West”: I can back up “FY7” (B.
26/10/’22) in saying the Scottish deerhound is a fine
dingo-killer, and the crossbred deerhound and grey-
hound is as good or better. Some years ago I
sent a pure-bred greyhound bitch, which had dis-
tinguished herself in coursing, from Pittsworth, on
the Darling Downs (Q.), to my brother in New Eng-
land (N.S.W.), and he mated her with a pure-bred
deerhound. Their progeny became famous as the
best warrigal-killers in the north. A boundary-
rider on Boonoo Boonoo station had two of them.
He trained an old cattle-dog to follow up the scent
and start the dingoes out, and when the cross-
bred hounds once sighted the quarry they seldom
missed a kill —and generally there wasn’t much left
to scalp either after they had finished. The hybrids
grew to a huge size, were far bigger than either
parent, and were strong enough to pull down i
bullock. Crossbred deerhounds are very popular as
fox-killers in New England at present.
* * * *
“Byramine”: My entry for the Queer
Accident. Stakes. Old Jack McDonald,
of Bark Hut Creek (N.Q.), while
riding a colt, was leading an old
mare with a length of clothesline.
The slack was coiled in one hand, in
which he also carried an old-fashioned
Snider rifle. The mare began to hang
back, and in the mix-up, fearing be
would be pulled off with the line
around his hand, Jack threw both
rope and rifle from him. The weapon
went off on striking the ground, and
put a bullet (the size of a man’s
finger-top) through his thigh and
into the oilskin strapped on the pommel. Still
more strange, it was some time before the old chap
knew he was shot.
* * * *
“J.W.R.” : The discussion on the introduc-
tion of rabbits (B. 5/10/’22) reminds me that bunny
meant my introduction to the sordid, debasing influ-
ence of money—l earned my first half-crown by
trapping a pair for a mining magnate. That was on
the Loddon River (Vic.) in the early ’sixties. Rab-
bits were there in fairly large numbers, but they
were all varieties that had been pets. We used to
catch them with wire gins. He was a proud boy whe
had a butch containing a pair of white pink-eyes, or
lop-eared mottled grey-and-blacks. The current
story then was that they had escaped from a warren
at Mount Franklin, near Daylesford. They could
hardly be the origin of the big pest —unless the
strain reverted to the common cotton-tail.
“Arthur Russell”: Dad had solemnly
warned the old woman about the city spielers, but
it was no use; within two hours of her arrival in
Sydney she was taken down. A collect telegram was
dispatched for more money, and Dad when he had
got through with his swearing, wired back a tenner.
A little While later the old chap began to grow
apprehensive. What if he’d been the one taken
down? Perhaps someone had used Sarah’s name to
sting him for the money? As he thought over it he
became more and more convinced that it was all a
huge frame-up by the Amalgamated Society of Rich
Fijian Uncles to bleed him. “I’ll beat ’em,” he
growled, after a few minutes of deep thought, and,
saying nothing to anyone, he lodged the following
urgent telegram:—
To the Postmaster, Sydney. Please identify Sarah
Johnson before paying her ten pounds. She has
birthmark just above left knee.
* * #
“D.F.”: If the platypus hibernates in
winter it is an exception among our native animals.
But if it does not, how does it manage in such
waters as Little Pine Lake in the Tasmanian moun-
tains, which is sometimes frozen right over for weeks
at a time? There are.plenty of platypuses there in
the summer, and it isn’t likely that they go down
country for the winter like the sheep.
* # « •
“McC.”: “Old Timer’s” wheelbarrow (B.
26/10/’22) may have been a record in construction,
but it didn’t carry the record load. Back in the
’eighties Russian Jack and a mate were pushing a.
couple of wheelbarrows to the Kimberley (W.A.)
gold rush when the mate became ill. Jack placed
his goods and chattels on top of his
own load and they went on. In a
day or two the mate became so bad
that he asked to be left by the way-
side. The giant Russian then placed
the sick man on top of the already
double load and wheeled the lot to
the goldfields. Years later, on the
Murchison (W.A.), I heard Jack
asked. “Did you wheel a man 250
miles?” AVith a voice like a foghorn
he replied, “No; it’s a blanky lie—l
wheeled a man 150 miles.” When
told he was a hero the Russian said
disgustedly, ‘What was, I to do —
leave the man there to die?” Jack
ate half-a-dozen eggs and a pound of
steak for breakfast well up towards
his death in Perth Hospital. The
sawbones said he was the finest
frame of a man they ever put a knife into. If my
memory serves me right one man (publican Billy
Jones) attended the Russian’s funeral, and there is
no statue erected to him.
* * * *
“Sucre”: As a cure for dysentery (B.
26/10/’22) I nominate flour of banana as ah abso-
lute k.o. Get a green banana, bark it, and then
use a nutmeg-grater on it ; dry the shredded powder
on a piece of tin over a slow fire, drop it into a
pannikin of water, and then take the mixture aboard.
In 20 minutes you’ll be as right as a bank.
* * * *
“Ned. K.”: “FY7” (B. 26/10/’22) makes
a curious statement when he says half-bred dogs are
always useless. I have seen hundreds of half-breds
that were as good, if not better, workers than pure-
breds trained for the same work. The best
cattle-dog I ever saw was a cross between a
cattle-dog and a dingo. He belonged to Phil Hogan,
a Western (N.S.W.) drover, who, for all I know,
has him still. Also, thousands of men prefer a
cioss between a sheep-dog and a cattle-dog to a
puie-bred, saying they are far better workers. The;
aie practical men, not city theorists, and they
know. Also, the best dog for wallaby- and kangaroo-
chasing is a cross between a cattle-dog and a kan-
garoo-dog. These have the necessary size, Strength
and stamina, and at that game are unbeatable.
I urthermore, I have a cross between a bulldog
and a fox-terrier, and I’ll back him against any dog
living as a watch-dog and as a protector of young-
sters.
A-H.C.” : Re the lubra who asked for the
Parings of the finger-nails of “Rumpus” (B.
6/10/’22). This extract from p. 37 of’ “The Story
of Hie Bible," by Macleod Yearsley (Watts and Co.,
London, 1922) may' interest him: —
To take an example of the second magical idea—
that things which have once been in contact will
continue to act upon each other after the contact
is broken—the medicine-man believes that, provider!
he can obtain some object which a person has worn,
or some part of his body, such as his blood, spittle,
hair or the parings of his nails, he can affect that
person by injuring or destroying it.
* * * »
“Veronal”: Not only the crushed leaves
but also an oil extracted from the pennyroyal plant
is a good fly and mosquito bane while the pungent
odor lasts. 1 have found a mixture of about one-
third pennyroyal’ oil to two-thirds sweet oil, smeared
on, effective in keeping flies away from horses’ eyes.
It is said that the acrid extract from native penny-
royal (used here for the same complaints as it is in
England) is much more powerful than that contained
in the European variety. The plant has bright green
leaves and a small white flower, and grows about
river-banks and other damp places. There is no
mistaking the peculiar fragrance which the plant
exhales.
“Jim Carew”: When “E.J.D.” (B.
26/10/’22) says he watched four bullock-drivers
fail to persuade a beast to stand up, he makes
me doubt if he has ever seen a bullock, much less
a bullock-driver. If a bullock lies down and refuses
to budge, all you have to do •is to get two short
sticks, place one under and one on top of his tail,
and rub them briskly up and down, in opposite
directions. No bullock (unless he is dead) can
stand this for more than a couple of minutes, and
there isn’t a bullock-driver in Australia who doesn't
know the dodge.
* * * *
“Quilp”: “Gippo’s” friend (B. 19/10/’22)
is correct in saying his horse “pulled himself blind.”
I knoiv of two horses so affected by hard hauling
over hilly country. Also a friend to whom I men-
tioned the subject, said he knew of several instances.
Some people think the trouble is due not so much to
the actual pulling as to constant strain on the
optical nerves in watching the road, as horses that
hold their heads up and instinctively chance the
track are rarely so afflicted.
* * * *
“Harry Hardtimes”: A cattleman at Bar-
row Point (Q.) wants information about some
marked trees on his run. There are five trees that
he knows of, and they all seem to mark the camps
of some old-time prospector or explorer. Each tree
has a big square cut out, and above the square is a
star. On some letters and dates seem to have been
cut, but these have mostly grown over. All the
trees marked are big box, and the only letters dis-
tinguishable are “G.” and “G.V.” over the star. I
made inquiries in Cooktown, and some of the old
hands said that Dr. Jack, the geologist, had done
the marking, but others said it was George Starr, a
prospector. Perhaps some Abo. can throw light
upon the subject.
THE MISSING DETAIL.
“What was that noise I heard, William?"
“Overcoat (hie) fell downstairs, my dear."
“But an overcoat wouldn’t make all that
row."
“Quite rightsh, my dear. I was in it."
“Murranji”: “Bogan Bill’s” old drover
must have been trying to stretch his leg when he
told him he steadied a mob of rowdy cattle with a
ring of lanterns (B. 12/10/'22). If it was any sort
of a mob at all, say 1000 head, and they were pro-
perly camped, it would take about 25 lanterns
spaced 20yds. apart to make a ring of light around
them. Whoever heard of a drover having half that
number of lanterns with him? Anyhow, rowdy
cattle always camp far better on a dark camp.
Fires and lights make them restless; though nearly
any mob of lively cattle will fizz the first few rights
on the road.
DROUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If the rain wofild fall! AVould fail!” he moaned.
“If, If l”. mocked his tortured brain;
But the skies above were a sea of blue
And exquisite azure plain.
And wistful-eyed, round the creeks of sand
Crept his fragile wife Elaine.
Their three months’ son was a lusty pup
And tugged at his mother’s breast
" here a font of life swelled palely—
And he sucked with a hungry zest.
The selector brooded over him
As he lay secure in his nest.
“1 have a tale from the northern blacks,
A tale that is black as Hell,”
Said the Catholic priest who spent a night
At the place called Coona Bell.
“I’ll tell you the tale,” said the genial priest.
And he told the story well.
Till the dawn’s first sigh, the selector sat;
Red lamps were lit in his eyes.
“So they burned the child by a creek of sand!
And gazed at the darkling skies,
And the thunder that rolled from the heavy hills
Was the mother’s tragic cries!”
The rain fell down upon Coona Bell,
The green sprang soft in the night,
The creeks of sand overflowed their banks,
The skies were a wailing light;
tint a woman sat clutching fast to her breast
Bones that were small and white.
The Catholic priest says Mass each morn
In a far-off northern town,
A madman laughs in his little cell
Where the Gladesville barriers frown;
The tears have dried in the woman’s eyes,
And the land is a shrivelled brown.
N.S.W.
CORALIE STANLEY McKELLAR


—_ - ~ » . - ■
xml
:■■ ■
raPC*: : rw»jgSs.ag?gvs
jgN n
:■ •:>
s-LcM
- 4
’ M): • •
••• ;
!*!«
rah
vc •:
«
. ilcl
UftffSSf
l.#>‘ * J
icm
m
KSS
....
m
| n U lt l__.
m
m
i fi lw
I
hi
Mi
n
* *H»
.
'4l
. I
1 -
Lid #
:
x
#ll |jgj|
■i m
WmikMSm
WBm m
m
.<*■l
I'lIilV:
. ■ • T ... . .
■
Si
<h
'
Most homes have their garden or lawns.
They beautify the surroundings and are the
pride of the household. During the hot
months the preservation of the flowers,
shrubs and lawns is a matter of concern.
Frequent use of the Garden Hose is the only
salvation. The cost of a good hose is not
much—especially when it is of the hard wear-
ing, non-kinking, non-splitting type such as
DUNLOP
Garden Hose
Millions of feet of this Australian-made Hose
is in use throughout Australasia giving
years of service and satisfaction to users. It’s
being dragged about and subjected to all
kinds of ill-use, but its fine quality and con-
struction gives it the durability to stand up
to years of such use. It is made in three
brands—Dunlop, Oceanic and Federal—and
is without doubt the most economical and
dependable garden hose made. It costs
no more than other hose—the difference is
in the excellent and certain service you get
from it. Ask for Dunlop Hose—its your
guarantee of satisfaction.
Obtainable in various types and all sizes at Leading Stores.
ILLUSTRATED LIST
ON APPLICATION
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES & N.Z.


■■ a
*4 • »
z
»/
H!U
O
a*
«D
£p&
LLY
UT.E
ft
FOOD
REX
CAMP
PIE
—a Dish Your Whole
Family will Really Enjoy
It is without any doubt one of
the most tasty—most wholesome
meat dishes you could possibly
obtain.
Choicest meats—the Rex perfected
process of cooking, preparing and
seasoning—the new hermetically sealed
tins in which it is packed, all combine
to make it the choice of housewives
who practice real economy.
Enough in each tin for s—equally5—equally
welcome served straight from the tin
or with salad of any kind. Sliced thin
it makes an excellent Sandwich filling.
AT ALL LEADING
GROCERS.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F 1 275.
■
r>^€
* •* o
H
:-A
* /4 > lS
©■■■■'
m
m
• • i/I
w.
(K
i<:<
\n
%
( °j
E ature has her
moments of
sweetest charm,
, not when a tropi-
cal sun scorches the soil,
but when the dew is on the
o flowers in an old English
' garden and their fragrant
breath lingers in the air.
Those “moments of sweetest
charm” are irresistibly recalled
by the three favorite
£ENOBI£
Zenobia Lily op the Valley—a per.
fume with the unique grace of the
tenderest of blossoms.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom— the
original perfume which, in name, has
been widely imitated. Be sure to get
the genuine Zenobia.
Zenobia Night
Scented Stock —a
perfume as fascinat-
ing as the loveliest
garden by night.
Manufactured only
by
Zenobia Limited,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire,
England.
Sole Agents for
New Zealand
(Wholesale only),
Newson & Co.,
Ltd., P.O. Box
1162. Wellington.
Sole Agent for
Australia
(Wholesale only),
Kenneth Buckmaster,
15 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
ENO
Valley
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
D
1
HI
H
<m
HI
0
u
E
i>3l
c
□
All
You will encounter many features which
exceed your expectations—never one that
falls below them.
The car might have beauty without comfort,
or comfort without either beauty or economy
—but when owners find all three combined in
a high degree it is easy to understand their
extraordinary enthusiasm. The maintenance
cost is a source of real satisfaction to the
owner. The consumption of petrol is light,
and the tyre expense is reasonable, because
the size of the tyres is right for the weight
of the car.
In short, the fundamental purpose of the car
is evident in every detail to render practical,
every-day service at a minimum cost
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cbeney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
That Elusive Something
By “PHLOX.”
YOUR husband is flirting with a pretty
dark woman.”
“The wretch!”
“He’s asking her to take afternoon tea
with him,” went on the fortune-teller,
nothing abashed by her client’s interjection.
“Where are they going for tea?”
“I can’t tell you that, but at present
they’re dancing.”
“Is my husband dancing?”
“He is.”
“Oh, dear, what would you advise me to
do?”
“I did not undertake to advise you,
madam, but to tell your fortune. Half-a-
crown, please!”
Mrs. Marsden left the fortune-teller with
rage in her heart and revenge in her soul.
Who was this woman, she asked herself, who
was usurping her husband’s affections? That
explained his attitude towards her lately.
He had begun to criticise her, and pass un-
complimentary remarks about her figure and
her complexion.
Indeed, he had hinted that she was passe.
Why, there was her husband and the
woman walking towards her. John has
recognised me, she thought; now I wonder
what he’ll have to say for himself. That
fortune-teller is certainly a clever woman.
“How fortunate we met you, Mary. This
is Miss Heath —our supervisor of agencies,
who has done such good business for our
publications. We were just going to have
a cup of tea while we talk over business
matters, and it will be nice for you to come,
too.”
Mrs. Marsden gave Miss Heath a formal
bow, and a cold, “How do you do?” When
her husband said they would go to the Went-
worth for tea, she was more than ever con-
vinced that the fortune-teller was a witch.
The trio sat down at a table, and before long
Mrs. Marsden, succumbing to the charm of
Miss Heath, almost forgot her annoyance
and jealousy. Her husband merely talked
business with Miss Heath, who from time
to time politely referred to Mrs. Marsden
for approval of plans she promulgated. And
when Mr. Marsden said that lie would be
working back at the office that night, and
suggested that Miss Heath spend the even-
ing with Mrs. Marsden and regale her with
the latest Paris fashions, she was quite
agreeable.
Miss Heath, the daughter of an Anglican
clergyman, was born and bred in Paris, and
having just come from the gay city, was able
to give Mrs. Marsden interesting fashion
notes.
Before long, however, the eternal feminine
asserted itself, and Mrs. Marsden wondered
why Miss Heath, with her charm and beauty,
haa never married. She told Mrs. Marsden
that the only man she ever loved was killed
on active service.
Prom this they talked of rejuvenescence,
the subject ever uppermost in the mind of
the woman who has passed her first youth.
“If only I could reduce myself,” sighed
Mrs. Marsden.
“You can, easily.”
“Oh, of course, the French know the secret
of remaining beautiful, practically for ever.”
“What I take to keep my figure slim is no
secret, Mrs. Marsden.”
“My dear, I shouldn’t have thought you
needed to take anything ”
“Indeed, I do ; or I would soon fall into
flesh. Directly I find myself putting on
weight, I just get a package of clynol berries,
and take one after each meal.”
“Do they affect the heart?”
“Oh, dear, no; the most delicate person
can take them with safety.”
“I shall certainly take them, and I won-
der, Miss Heath, if you know of a good face
cream that doesn’t grow hairs.”
“Indeed, I do; and I’m most grateful to
the manufacturers tor what it has done for
me. I never use anything but mercolized
wax. It is similar to the preparation used
by the famous French beauty Ninon
D’Enclos, who at sixty had the complexion
of a child.”
“How very fortunate I met you, Miss
Heath; I shall certainly add mercolized wax
to the list of things I want from the chemist.
Do you know I’m rather distressed about
my hair; it’s greying fast, and my husband
suggests that I dye it, but I hate the very
thought of dye.”
“I can assure you, Mrs. Marsden, there’s
no necessity to use dye. When I lost my
fiance my hair began greying fast, but I used
Tammalite, and now you won’t find a grey
hair in my head—it simply w T orked wonders.
It’s quite simple to use. You just get two
ounces of concentrate of tammalite, and mix
it with three ounces of may rum. Apply to
the scalp at night with a small sponge until
the hair has gone back to' its original color.”
“Thank you very much for the informa-
tion. May I ask what soap you use, Miss
Heath?”
“Certainly, I never use anything but
Pilenta.”
“It’s awfully good of you, to be at such
pains to tell me about these delightful pre-
parations.”
“Not at all; I think it’s a woman’s duty
to contribute to the beauty of the w r orld,
and if you will notice, a woman who takes
pains with herself has that elusive some-
thing that is so fascinating. But it’s time
I was going.”
“I will send you home in the car. You
have given me fresh courage in life. I’m
now bent on cultivating that elusive some-
thing.”
Barri Agar—ldeal Face Powder —all
Chemists. — Advt.


ORIGINAL
BALATA
BRITISH
BELTING
Why is it that DICK’S Genuine Balata
Belting is specified for service on
practically every drive where the
conditions of service are abnormal?
Ask the Practical Engineer!—he will tell you that DICK’S
Powerful Belts are everywhere solving the brute strength and
durability problems of huge main drives. DICK’S Balata Belting
efficiently overcomes abnormal conditions of service on any drive.
It is built to deliver full power without loss, without slipping,
without accidents, and without trouble. The accidents that
happen to the average belt are unknown to DICK’S Genuine
Balata Belting. It overcomes all conditions of dampness.
The remarkably long life of DICK’S Genuine Balata Belting, its
absolute freedom from trouble; and its efficiency, make it the
cheapest-per-year belting on the market. Specify it for every
drive in your plant.
FREE CATALOGUE SENT ON REQUEST..
JAMES HARDIE 8 COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY:
York and Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE
581-83 Little
Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
30 Currie Street.
QUEENSLAND;
The Queensland Machinery Co.. Albert Street. BRISBANE.
and that the thing lacking is fresh imagina-
tion.
Miss Curlewis will be well advised to try
her hand at an entirely different kind of
work. Her earlier book showed that she
could write with real sympathy of things
she had closely observed. She is too philo-
sophic to appeal to children alone, too
original to be a mere follower of inferior
writers. “Drowning Maze” has very little
literary value; yet it is far too literary for
the lover of “Deadwood Dick,” who is the
only person that might reasonably be ex-
pected to accept its absurdities. Miss Cur-
lewis can do much better; but the better
work cannot be done in a hurry. Haste is
written all over the present volume. Even
the proofs have been hastily looked at; for
on page 181 we read of “Podmore, who was
laying in the bottom of the boat.” A good
book is worth the time it takes to write; a
bad book is not worth the time it takes to
read. The promise of this new authoress
is still to be looked for in “The Ship that
Never Set Sail.”
A Reformer in a Hurry
Practically a complete chapter is missing
from Under New Management, by Hugh P*.
Vowles (George Allen and Unwin, Ltd.), but
the book is just as good, or just as bad,
Without it. Hugh P. Vowles is an organis
ing engineer, and his mission in publishing
his innermost thoughts is primarily to com-
bat the idea of the Federation of British
industries, that all which is required to re-
construct industry is peace—industrial peace.
Let the bad old world go on in the bad old
pre-war way, and happiness will inevitably
follow.
But the world, and especially the industrial
world, is not going back peaceably to pre-
war conditions. It is not again going to
see its work blotted out and its life
endangered by politicians playing about
with war, credit and exchange. On
the other hand, it is impossible to be-
lieve that Mr. Vowles’s remedy is much
better than the system he denounces, though
perhaps this is because he is a man of action,
not of words, an engineer and not a writer,
His proposals, anyhow, are so incomplete, so
inchoate as to make their consideration at
least premature. Any fool can destroy a
Ming vase, but who shall make one? The
industrial and political systems of to-day
are the result of long evolution. No icono-
clastic or revolutionary outbreak can im-
prove those conditions. Improvement must
be evolutionary. It is axiomatic that states-
men are “Gadarene swine,” “idiots,”
“charlatans,” “knaves,” “fools” ; that finan-
ciers are “terrible rascals” and “impudent
thieves,” but calling them such names will
not induce their sympathy. It is true that
a tiny minority, perhaps 30 men in all, con-
trol the world by their control, not of money,
but of credit. It is possible that the trans-
ference of credit-control to the people might
improve matters. But how is this to be
accomplished? Major C. H. Douglas, who
originated the theory, is eloquent of the
advantages of the transfer; but his mouth-
piece, Mr. Vowles, devotes less than two
pages—and extremely incomprehensible pages
at that—to the methods of accomplishing the
change.
The most Utopian of socialists can do
better than that. At least, Red Ragger,
Guildsman or Fabian can explain the advant-
ages of his particular system of salvation, and
lias a fairly precise idea of how it is to be
brought about. Ineffective propaganda harms
the best cause. The Douglas scheme may be
very good when we learn something about
it—but an incoherent jumble of abuse, with
highly explosive ideas on wealth, capital,
demand and credit, interspersed with irrele-
vant poetry, merely produces an impression
that the author set out to write his book
before bothering to master his subject.
The Declining Birth-rate in Novels
. , , „ ~ . , Tr
About 10 years ago the late Henry James
cast a paternal glance over the younger
novelists of the day and picked out four as
Worthy of particular attention—D. H. Law-
rence, Gilbert Cannan, Compton Mackenzie
KiS Ug \r a | P ° ! ''- <*s"• he ““Sled out
Compton Mackenzie ns the most promising.
It was a bad error of judgment on the olci
JtJSSt'lf TVT al " has
s °^ e steadily' do\\ nhill m the last few years,
and his flashy romances have already the
smell of yesterday — or, perhaps, the day be-
fore yesterday — about them. ‘
Lawrence is the only one of the quartette
who has dovelooed stPHflilv and Honrv
wno nas ucvcioptu steacuij, ana nenry
James did not think much of Lawrence,
There was not enough architecture about his
work to satisfy a man who believed that
form, not subject-matter, was the solid sub-
stance of a work of art. Lawrence was
burrowing and exploring; not designing and
building. Yet something has come out of
Lawrence’s excavations, and though he has
not written another novel as good as “Sons
and Lovers,” he has created some beautiful
things in poetry, travel-essays and fiction.
What is more, he leaves an impression that
he bm not snent all liK strene-th TTo oHll
ne nas not spent ail nis stiengtn. tie Still
Vibrates sensitively to the touch of life. One
of these days, probably, he will gather to-
gether all his powers and write a novel, not
tortured and awry with passion like some of
his stories hut steened in n more norm an put
honiitv ’ P in a more peimanent
De “H, y ‘ , , ~ . _
What about the younger men m England,
though—the men who take the same place
to-day as this quartette did when Henry
James wrote? To tell the sober truth, there
ai*p Tio outstanding vnnno* tyipti nf nrDconf
SF? ® *L y at present.
Tor some reason or other there has been
a declining birth-rate among novels of the
first rank. The men who stand in the glare
of the limelight are writers of verse and
criticism, like J. C. Squire, Edward Shanks
J. Middleton Murry and Robert Nichols. All
competent of course, but not dis-
tinffnishpd foi* orpativp ■nnwpT* Tt- la
whether work P would hove Ka
tul wnetner tneir work would have lifted
them rrom the ruck 10 years ago, or whether
a critic like Henry James would have been
aware of their existence.
No powerful voung novelist has emerged
since the war. There is Aldous Huxley, of
course; a cleverish maker of phrases with
a touch of the Yellow Book about him. Gold-
fi«b like him have alwav<s heen
I s ! VaJS a ee fi.-u y
ful m the English pond, though. Then
there is Katharine Mansfield, the Maori-
land girl, whose short stories and sketches
have been compared with those of Tchekhov.
It is proof of the low quality of present-day
fiction that such praise should be poured
over her. By concentrating all her vision
on some small corner of life she achieves a
certain intensity, but it is the intensity of
light refracted from a small bit of broken
looking-glass. Her talent is feminine, ner-
vous, thin. After reading a dozen of her
stories you feel you have been at a moving-
picture show where there was no music.
Francis Brett-Young has certainly shown
talent, and has tried to bring the poetry
of the English country-side into his novels;
but any praise given to him must be for
intention rather than accomplishment. His
work, as yet, is streaky and incoherent. St.
John Ervine has turned from tentative ex-
periments at novel-writing to plays and jour-
nalism. A sedulous worker, with a strong
strain of Belfast toughness in him, he has
never quite achieved a style. In turn he
imitated Belloc, Chesterton and Shaw ; and
when he came to novel-writing he could find
no better model than the Wells of “The
New Machiavelli.” It is nearly six years
since his last novel, “Changing Winds,” was
published, and there is no sign that he means
to write another.
Finally, there is James Joyce, the one
writer of genius who has appeared above the
horizon in the last few years. Perhaps he
shouldn’t be included among English novel-
ists, for he is an Irishman who publishes
on the Continent. A teacher of modern lan-
guages at Trieste and Zurich he won a
European reputation with his second book,
and his third, “Ulysses,” was widely com-
mented on by the journals of all the Latin
countries when it was running serially in
the Little Review. Joyce is an innovator
who loves to explore the Freudian caverns of
the mind and disturb the bats. He has in-
vented a style that changes from the dull to
the dazzling, according to its subject matter,
and occasionally he uses a post-realism that
must make Zola blush with modesty in his
grave. But with this last novel of his Joyce
has shot his bolt. He is not a professional
writer, and claims that after the 730 pages
of “Ulysses” he has nothing left to say about
life. The texture of his closely-written pages
shows that he has a literary conscience, so
he can be trusted not to repeat himself.
But who else is there to keep up the
standard of the novel? The lack of promis-
ing writers in England is an extraordinary
fact, and almost justifies a Royal Commis-
sion. Is the scai’city due to natural causes,
or to the conditions of English publishing?
There al - e plenty of good modern novels be-
ing written in France and the Scandinavian
countries, and even in America the standard
of fiction has improved out of all know-
ledge.
Probably the prominence given to poetry
and criticism has something to do with the
decay of English fiction. Young men do not
usually know where their strength lies, and
are tempted to go where there is the greatest
glitter of lights. But more likely the decay
has been caused by the changed conditions of
English publishing. The minimum (under
which no novel is a paying pi-oposition) has
taken a startling leap from 1000 to 3000
copies. A novel now has to bear the brand
of a moderate success on its first 10 pages,
or the publisher’s reader will scan it with a
frozen eye. And no first novel of quality
ever bore those marks. That is why the
Authors’ Society in London is talking about
doing some uneconomic publishing of its
own.
VANCE PALMER.
The Inky Way
“Rae-akiaki”: I nominate Ivan M. Levy for the
journalistic long-service (one-capacity) stakes. He
has been shipping reporter for the Wellington Times
for just over 20 years, and he knows by name each
cockroach of every steamer that blows into the windy
port.
“Borom”: Ettie Rout’s book has not only been
prohibited in M.L. (B. 26/10/’22), but is now being
refused entry into the Commonwealth. An official noti-
fication to that effect was recently made by the
Censor. The ostensible ground, most likely, is that
usually taken in these cases, viz., that the subject
is a medical one, and that Miss Rout is not a
doctor. At all events, this has served as a reason
before for the barring of books which are equally
useful sociologically and equally harmless in the
moral sense. In the meantime, frankly salacious
magazines, like Peppery Stories, and veiled porno-
graphy, such as “The Sheik” and “Simon Called
Peter,” continue to fairly pour in.
“Nimshi”: What purports to be a bookseller’s
list of “the 40 most-read English writers in
America” was published recently, and if it can
be taken as truly representing Uncle Sam’s taste,
he is rather to be congratulated than otherwise.
Novelists, of course, figure largely, taking about
two-fifths of the places; yet Caine and Corelli are
absent! The list, indeed, is more amazing in its
omissions than in its inclusions, and while few
will cavil at finding Hardy and Kipling first and
second, it is difficult to understand how sterling
Hedonists like W. B. Maxwell and Compton Mac-
kenzie come to be overlooked. Of the more recent
“arrivals” Sheila Iv. Smith and Hugh Walpole are
the most prominent, but preference over them is
accorded to such old and tried entertainers as Wells,
Bennett, Galsworthy, Doyle and Hewlett. Mase-
field is prominent among the poets.
“D.”: Sir Thomas Browne (B. 28/9/’22) is one of
the three authors known to me in English literature
who became immortal, so to speak, in spite of
themselves. Browne never intended “Religio Medici”
for publication, but was content to have it circulated
in manuscript amongst a learned coterie. It was
pirated, and to save it from being mutilated Browne
rushed in, and curiously enough gave the job of
issuing an acceptable edition to the printer who had
pirated it. Anthony Hamilton, from pure laziness,
combined with modesty, adopted a similar plan
with regard to his “Memoirs of the Count de Gra-
mont.” He was horrified to find that a copy of
his MS. had gravitated from Paris to a rascally
printer at Cologne, who altered both the title and
the text. Pepys’ “Diary,” I presume, was never
intended to be seen by human eyes, let alone be
published. All three compositions achieved lasting
renown, and I am unaware of a similar happen-
ing in the literature of any other nation. Contem-
porary writers would do well to emulate the modesty
of Browne and Hamilton; but they usually resort to
publication before the ink is dry on their MSS.
“Vulangi”: I recently ran across the following in
a widely-circulated religious weekly (Australian) :
“This is -one of the best histories of Ireland yet
produced. The archives of the centuries have
been thoroughly explored, and the results as here
set forth we recommend to the earnest study of all:
to the old that they may be reminded, and to the
young that they may learn, of the long series of
outrages and injustices Ireland has had to suffer
from England since the earliest times; and to both
old and young that they may never forget.”
Then I turned a couple of pages and read this :
“Answers to Correspondents: ‘Student’: No, the
Inquisition is dead long ago. No country would
approve such an institution to-day. The Inquisi-
tion was one of those growths of past ages that
developed in an atmosphere of too much zeal and too
little knowledge. It should be buried with the
past and would be, save for some base and small-
minded persons whose aim is to stir up strife and
ill-feeling between men at the present time by
raking over history that is far better forgotten. We
cannot find words to express our contempt of such
people and their practices.”
A perfect example of sauce for the goose being
condemned as poison for the male bird.
f E ; D - , : A s a ver y P r °l>fic verse-maker in Australia
tor about 40 years, I take much pleasure in giving
a straight denial to the broad assertion of “C.0.M.,”
writing on George Sims in Australia, that the local
poets of my day and generation derived their in-
spiration from George in all his rhythmical glory,
t think the better-known of the Australian writers
of verse of my time are sufficiently alike to have
had a common impulse. That impulse has been vari-
ously ascribed to Bert Harte and Rudyard Kipling,
say the former had a much bigger say
than the latter; indeed, I fancy Kipling owed his
measures, and in a large way his methods, to the
same influences as affected Australians, and that
influence was never George Sims. In point of fact,
isims s success was a purely Cockney triumnh,
and was scarcely noticeable in Australia. I never
heard a Sims recitation that I can recollect, and
never could bring myself to read through George
K. s blatant rubbish, turgid as a gorged drain flecked
with the stale onions of bathos, and noisy with the
clamor of drowning cats. The long swing of such
a measure as “Banjo’s”
“There was movement at the station, for the word
had passed around,”
or as in Lawson’s “The Star of Australasia,” was
adopted from Gordon, and possibly from “John Gilpin
was a citizen of credit and renown,” because it
lent itself to the beat of the horses’ feet, or because
it was admirably adapted to the rush of stirring
narrative. Heptameters were written before Sims
lived and breathed; they will be written now that
he is no more, more as Macaulay wrote them, I
hope:—
“Now glory to the Lord of Hosts, from whom all
glories are;
And glory to our sovereign liege, King Henry of
Navarre.”
Surely it is a more reasonable thing to find here
the incentive to “Jack Dunn of Ne-vertire” than in
the poor piffle with which Sims flooded the Fog.
“We chaps were smoking after tea, and heard the
swell inquire
For one as travelled by the name of ‘Dunn of
Nevertire,’ ”
always suggested Macaulay’s “Battle of Ivry” to me.
A Satchel of Books
Human Confessions, by Frank Crane, D.D. (John
Lane). These days half the people, in America seem
to be writing books advising the other half how
to order their lives. This is another of them-
300-odd pages of comment and counsel on exactly
172 subjects. It’s all very wise, oracular and —
unnecessary.
The Femland Story Book, edited by Donald Barr
(Whitcombe and Tombs, Ltd.). A new Australian
kiddies’ annual with the promise of popularity ahead
of it. The story and verse, mostly with a .bushland
flavor, are from such writers as Donald Macdonald,
“The Beachcomber,” Furnley Maurice, Mary Grant
Bruce and Maud Isobel Peacocke. There are plenty
of illustrations (including six colored plates), the
best of them by Esther and Betty Paterson.
Australian Bird Maps, by Robert Hall, C.M.Z.S.
(Monotone Art Printers, Hobart). A painstakingly-
compiled little volume, originally conceived, dealing
with the distribution, coloration and other salient
features of the 800-odd species and innumerable
variations of birds in Australia. On every second
page is a little map in which is shown where various
birds are found, the lines of flight of the migrants,
etc. The author points out that size decreases from
south to north in the same species; color increases
in intensity the same way; in the mountains the
colors are darker than those of the same species in
the drier interior, there are certain breaks over
which many birds don’t pass (e.g., the Hawkesbury
system in N.S.W., Bass Strait and desert country
with an eight-inch rainfall) —and it’s all shown
graphically in the little maps. Mr. Hall, who is
a past president of the Royal Australian Ornitholo-
gists’ Union, dedicates his book to the Boy Scouts
and Girl Guides (“with any profits that may occur”) ;
but it is going to find a place on the shelves of
many grown-ups interested in our bird life.
The Swedish Fairy Book, edited by Clara Stroebe
and translated by Frederick H. Martens (T. Fisher
Unwin). The latest volume in Unwin’s which
threatens to compass the fairy stories of the world.
Though each country impresses its own color, there
is a curious family resemblance running through all
fairy lore, and we get many instances of paraphras-
ing identical themes. There are few peoples who
have not, for instance, a variant of Aladdin among
their fairy tales. We get it from Sweden, in “Lasse
my Thrall,”: though with quite an original twist.
Clara Stroebe seems to have made a careful and
representative selection, the translator has done his
work breezily, and the book is admirably illustrated
by George W. Hood.
Australian Nature Studies, by J. A. Leach, D.Sc.
(Critchley Parker Pty., Ltd., Melbourne). A remark-
ably comprehensive and lucidly written volume by
the Organising Inspector of Nature Study and
Senior Inspector of Schools in Victoria. He says
he “hopes that the non-expert, the nature lover, the
teacher, the scoutmaster and others interested in
boys and girls will find in it such direction and
assistance as will enable them to see and understand
enough of Nature about them to lay the founda-
tions of the observing habit.” They should certainly
do that; but, what is more, many young folk who
dip into the book themselves will find it hard to
drop it and will return often for answers to little
nature questions that are always cropping up in
minds not made of wood. The first two sections —
plant life and animal life —cover an amazing field,
from seeds and their development and general plant
studies to notes on the lower invertebrates and the
higher mammals. The third section is a miscellan-
eous one dealing with such things as the action of
wind and water, rock and shore studies, the soil and
pond life. etc. The volume is prodigally illustrated
(including half-a-dozen fine color-plates of birds),
and forms an excellent book of reference from which
high-sounding technical terms are commendably
absent. This fine all-Australian production should
be in the hands of every educationist; but it is
going to have a far wider sale than that.
The contents of Comparative History, by the Ger-
man ex-Kaiser (Hutchinson and Co.), were collected
in 1919 by the author to serve as memoranda for
use in preparing the dreary “Memoirs,” which are
now appearing in serial form in the Australian press.
The two volumes may thus be disposed of at ohee. No
one with a knowledge of modern European history
can pass any other verdict than that of gross stu-
pidity upon them. Even if every incident chronicled
were a fact, the books cannot affect the iriain question
to the solution of which they are presumably sup-
posed to be a contribution—the responsibility for
the war. The ex-Kaiser’s reconstruction of history
has for its object the suggestion that Germany's atti-
tude was purely defensive: that Prussia was the vic-
tim of “Edward the Encircler” and his allies, Rus-
sia and France. For this belief there is considerable
support in Germany,’ and with some reason, inasmuch
as the legacy of the Bismarckian system as con-
ducted by the Kaiser could only be the Dual Alliance
and the Entente. Bismarck clearly foresaw this,
and thence came his fierce condemnation of the
failure of Caprivi to continue the Reinsurance Treaty
with Russia, and his campaign by the pen of “Apos-
tata” against the interference of Germany in Balkan
affairs. There are indications that “Comparative
History” and the “Memoirs” constitute attempts on
the part of the ex-Kaiser to quieten his own con-
science. If they were meant to prepare the way
for a return of the Hohenzollerns to the Prussian
throne, they must fail in their object, for, whilst
the Prussians might endure and even collaborate with
a knave, they will certainly not submit to the restora-
tion of a self-conceited fool.


A QUESTION OF SELECTION.
STOCKMEN! Seasons vary.
You have taken that risk. Take no more.
Make certain of top market values.
Consign Cattle, Sheep, Lambs
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Expert Salesmen, Sydney or Brisbane.
HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
B-ihroßif^
Weatherboard Houses
Build your new home—exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings—with Hardie’s
Australian-made “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and Roof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made in 36 sizes.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York 8t Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z
HOTEL
CARLTON
IN THE HEART OF
BRISBANE
Business Visitors and Tourists
will find many exclusive a 'van-
tages at Hotel Carlton.
Essentially Modern in every re-
spect, the establishment offers
a service measuring up to the
best standard of Modern Hotels.
The Carlton is cen-
trally situated, and
affords easy access
to Business, Plea-
sure, Rail and Ship-
ping centres.
Correspondence invited
Inclusive
Tariff
per day
14/-
a
tr
JSL
Showing
Bottle
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from J-2-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or f ood or cold
refreshment v.i hout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
ISuilt for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro»
tected; with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name IClf-HOT on bottom.
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A,
W&W26.
London Office:
Pinners HalL Austin Friars,
London, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association [ld.,
Contractors tvith the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Fuller Pulverized Coal Equipment.
Australian
Distributors;
ELDER, SMITH 8 CO.,
LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Pertb.
Fuller Engineering Co.’s
Australasian Engineers’ Office,
79-81 Pitt Street,
Sydney,
and
84 William Street,
Melbourne.
Fuller-JLehigh Pulverizer Mill.
PHILIPS
WATT
«sr:
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Well-
ington (N.Z.), Auckland,
Christchurch, New Ply-
mouth.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Patou & Co.)
Specialists in the Manufacture of
Telephone and Switchboard Apparatus for
Magneto, Common Battery & Automatic Working,
7 Macquarie Place, SYDNEY; 509 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
pjj
REGISTERED
tIACE M4B«
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
Australasian Representatives :—•
has a finer appearance than anything previously Norman Baker & Longhurst
obtainable. Never requires cleaning. 50 York Street Sydney.
lESM'c,&
SSkfWa&l
Skandia
.
MARINE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
MOTOR CRUDE OIL WINCHES
STATIONARY CRUDE OIL ENGINES
PORTABLE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
(HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL)
Most economical, durable, simple
and safest engines of the world.
Nelson & Robertson
15-17 Loftus Street* Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Business, Robbery, etc.
A carefully-selected little collecting body
from Adelaide is to be taken by Professor
Wood-Jones, of the University, with Waite,
the Museum Director, to the “sanctuary”
area on Pearson Island at Christmas.
Murray, Chief Justice and Chancellor, de-
frays the cost of transport.
* * * *
“Frank Dee”: Two veteran kauri-gum
diggers struck a profitable patch on the
Wairua (M.L.) fields recently, and dug it'
out in a day. When the time arrived for
boiling the billy for tea they had filled two
sacks which scaled 3601 b., worth £45.
* * * *
Tasmanian apple-growers experienced a
deplorable spin of outs last season. During
the estimates discussion in the House of
Hayes, Campbell, M.H.A., stated that the
average profit received by growers who ex-
ported fruit to England was £5 per 1000
cases. He did not mention what the middle-
man's cut amounted to.
* * * *
“T.P.”: In N.-E. Vic. last season Moserop
brothers grew three-quarters of a ton of
tobacco-leaf, and put it on the market. The
British Australian Co. has just paid 2s. lid.
per lb. for the consignment, and congratulated
the growers on the general get-up. This
means a fillip to an industry which should
be one of the main features of the district.
* * * *
“Frank Clinton”: In rebuttal of “Bosso’s”
contention (B. 19/10/’22) that walnut-trees
are a failure in the Goulburn district
(N.S.W.), accept by assurance that be-
tween the Lands Office and the Court House
is as fine a specimen as he could wish to
see. It is between 30ft. and 40ft. high and
about 2ft. through the trunk. During the
years I was in the town the tree constantly
bore a bumper crop, which was regarded as
legitimate spoil by the staff of the Lands
Office and the local lock-up keeper.
“U.P.” : South Aus. is turning an eye to
its brown-coal deposits, too. The State Govern-
ment have promised to help the Common-
wealth Power and General Electric Power.
Co., who undertake to establish a model
suburb, like Bourneville or Port Sunlight
(England), on the selected site at Moorlands,
where the power is to be produced. The
whole S. Aus. plant and equipment it is
intended to manufacture in the State, creat-
ing employment for 4000 local workmen,
although it will be necessary to bring some
experts and skilled workers from abroad.
* # * *
“Sucre”: “Archbell” (B. 12/10/’22) asks
why silky-oak is not more extensively used
for furniture-making. The answer is that
it is. If he pokes his eye into the leading
furniture-shops of Brisbane, “Archbell” will
say, “Don't they make any other sort of
furniture in Queensland?” Recently a big
jewellery firm in Sydney bought heavy
stocks of Queensland-made silky-oak clock-
cases. Notwithstanding all of which, I have
seen cow-bails made of: silky-oak in the
Cairns (N.Q.) district.
* * * •
“Blackfriars” : Back of the rumpus caused
by the first refusal of the Empire Exhibi-
tion’s bosses to confine their restaurateurs
to the use of Dominions’ foods is the biggest
vested interest in the catering world. All
feeding arrangements at the bigger London
exhibitions for a number of years have been
in the hands of one of the multiple-shops
concerns, which buys, makes and distributes
through a single depot. Insistence on the
use of Empire stuff will be a serious inter-
ference with a settled plan of profit-making,
and Australia’s Agents-General were right
up against Jerusalem the Golden when they
made their useful protest.
“U.P.”: No goods purchased from abroad
are cheap if they displace our own labor,
find some of them would be dear at any
price. There are tons of imported trash at
present handed to Australian children every
year in the form of toys. The Germans
have included quantities of toys in their
initial shipments, and the Japs at present
practically control the market. I got
sick of the trumpery stuff my kids were
pulling to pieces, and secured a few sub-
stantial articles, locally made by returned
soldiers from “stringy”—a small barrow, a
railway engine, etc. These have stood the
wear and tear of the back yard for 12
months, and are still intact. The “Made in
Japan” trash was fit only for kindling within
24 hours.
THE COUNTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Although the census was taken in 1921, it is
not yet possible to say whether there are more-or
less than 1500 Japanese in Queensland. That was
the number shown at the census of 1911.
The facts that one and one make two,
And four, repeated twice, makes eight,
Are being tested now anew
With reference to the northern State.
For eighteen months with furious zeal,
And eager, unremitting pen,
The counter tries to bravely deal
Alike with unit and with ten.
Last week he added eight to three,
The week before set. one to five;
And still with splendid energy
At sure results we will arrive.
His accurate addition stands
A monument for years to view ;
His brow drooped on his thoughtful hand
He bioods on nine and fifty-two.
He counts and counts. The numbers rise
To awful volume on his page.
How many dips of ink and sighs
His fierce arithmetic assuage V
A fearful task is his indeed,
Beneath such toil his hair grows grey ;
While all men marvel at his speed—
He almost counts three Japs a day!
When shall we know the worst or best ?
When shall he make the tale complete?
When shall he pause at last to rest
And leave his shining office seat ?
Ask me no more! I cannot tell.
Only in faith his deeds I view,
And murmur softly “All is well —
I think that one and one make two.”
x.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


Order Your Christmas Suit,
w
p Sf o
m
•■: ■'
ffj
m
m
m
w
m
'm
If
it*
8
Mb'
im
m
o Stores m all
tores all OYerlown
to measure,
from
an organisation
that counts
Lowe’s
Men’s Sac Suits, to order, from hard-wearing English
Tweed in the shades of brown and grey that are most
popular. For a comfortable, inexpensive, and service-
able suit these Tweeds are unex-
celled, and will be found a sterling invest-
ment at this price. Tailored to order.
Price
M
Men’s Sac Suits, to order, in any style, from the follow-
ing famous materials: Fox’s No. 99 Indigo All-wool
Serge; Vicars’ Marrickville Tweeds in Summer weights
and the latest patterns; English Tweeds in light and
medium greys, pinheads and pencil stripes; Bliss’s English
Tweeds in exclusive patterns. These
materials are worthy rivals of one another
and are world-famed for smartness and
durability. Tailored to order.. Price . .
£5
Men’s Sac Suits, to order, from West of England
Worsteds in grey and brown shades, blue pencil stripes
and pinheads; also, fine Indigo Twill All-wool Serge of
Summer weight. Lowe’s tailoring staff embraces cutters
who are specialists in particular styles; thus, no matter
what “cut” is required, clients are
assured of having their suits tailored to
individual preference by an expert.
Price
m
Men’s Sac Suits, to order, from West of England
Worsteds in new and exclusive shades; and fine Twill
Indigo All-wool Serge of the highest manufacture. These
are the season’s latest suitings and are
specially appropriate for men who desire
“advance-of-the-moment” exclusiveness
in patterns. Tailored to order. Price . .
m
Overhead expense is the bugbear of any
business. Lowe’s, through their huge
organisation which permits of buying
large quantities at concession prices, and
of dealing direct with mills, are enabled
to materially reduce these charges. This
saving is reflected in the selling prices and
is one of the strongest motive forces
behind Lowe’s policy of “Sell it for Less.”
The advantage of purchasing suits-to-order from a firm
which passes on to its clients the benefits of such
economical advantages must be obvious. Christmas is
only five weeks off; good judgment urges you to place
your order without further delay—let it be to-day.
COUPON FOR COUNTRY RESIDENTS.
w
S'
Rowe's
BOX /6ZZ GP O Sydney:
Please send me patterns for suits to order at the
following Prices B4/-, £5, £6/6/- and £7/7/..
Also self-measurement form, tape, etc.
Name
A ddress .... t
Note.—Please cross out prices not required.
Special note to friends in the Country.
Lowe’s take pride in informing you that
never in their history have they had a wider
range of exclusive and popular suitings than
those now available. Fabrics have been
specially chosen for smartness, serviceability
and all-round appropriateness for Summer.
Through Lowe’s modernly-equipped Mail
Order Service, Country clients are assured
of having the same field of selection and
the same strict attention to their needs as if
personally shopping over the counter. If
coming to Sydney for Christmas be sure to
look us up. We are always glad to see you.
'** Lowe’s sell
it for Less /
MERCHANT TAILORS.
Lowe's Pay
Carriage.
Stores all over Town.
One at Newcastle.


WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
A DRINK
THAT IS
AS
REFRESHING
AS IT IS
BENEFICIAL
BE SURE
YOU ASK
FOR
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
CASH’S
WOVEN
NAM ES
Are the Best
to Mark Linen
No trouble as ■with Marking:
Ink. It’s the perfect way to
mark any article or Garment,
Any name woven into a Fine
Cambric Tape in Fast Color.
A few Stitches and they're on
The Prices are Moderate:
12dz 7/6, 6dz 5/-, 3dz3/6
Sold by All Best Drapers
J- & J. CASH £&
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond,
Melbourne
Write for Style Book.
vs
Ideal for
School
Outfits
D.O.M
<r
Yes
Sir!
mini. iiijiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiniiimiiiiniiiiiiimimiim.iu.iiiiii.imiiiiiiii.uiriTTnTiliUM
iiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiimillffl
Keep his stomach sweet
and wholesome with
small doses of Kruse's
Fluid Magnesia, and
watch how affable he
becomes
It baby Is teething, there's
nothing like the genuine Kruse's
to allay feverish conditions—
Ask mothers Who have used It
—they know
A safe medicine with a
great influence for health
Codling In Summer
Reliable always
Sold Everywhere
Wr i
The Genuine Kruse s is made by
j{( Felton, Crimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd.]
Melbourne
GBD
oAll
shapes
noii)
Ruy One
To-day l
The pipe smoker who has experienced the satis-
faction of a G.B.D. needs no one to help him in
his choice of a pipe. Selection of this good
pipe assures a cool, sweet smoke at all times.
Made from, genuine French Briarwood—thoroughly
matured and neatly shaped, embodying that good old-
fashioned quality that makes a pipe into a pal. With
your favourite tobacco in coalition with a G.B.D.
success is assured.
All shapes and sizes, now 7 /6. Sold everywhere.
Trade enquiries invited to Box 765, Q.P.0., Sydney.
L 0
PLUMBERS
BRASS WORK
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
Medium
Country
Melbourne
Sydney
Brisbane
Hobart
Perth
Adelaide
''Bib Cocks, Hose Cocks, Gully Bibs, Stop
Cocks, Shower Cocks, Ferrule Cocks, Straight
. Ferrules, Path Cocks, etc.,
TANK COCKS, fin., lin.
WINDMILL PUMPS
ALDERDICE, Warrnambool.
[B
“CERTAIN RARE BIRDS.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. A. H. Chisholm (State Secretary of the
Royal Ornithologists’ Union) will leave to-morrow
for Goomeri. From Goomeri Mr. Chisholm will go
to Fraser Island and Gayndah to inquire into the
position of certain rare birds.” — Brisbane Courier.
I am filled with a joy that is deep beyond words,
And my heart that was sad throbs with pleasure,
Now that Chisholm is off in pursuit of rare birds,
As that fine old bird Drake sought for treasure.
This Bananaland quest is a different sort,
In a different age and condition;
K blending of politics, science and sport—■
An attempt to define “the position
Of certain rare birds”—not the roc or great auk;
Not the dodo or long-vanished mca,
But a new breed of statesman-bird —one who won’t
talk,
And financially isn’t a goer.
Then the Sinking-fund Bird —which is almost extinct
Since last century’s loan-cataclysm—
May be found once again and described in succinct
And felicitous English by Chisholm !
Perchance he may have the good fortune to find
The Oil-bird, elusive and mocking,
Or the Crested l)e/icit which, times out of mind,
Has set all our railway-lines rocking!
Who knows? He might sight a Gold Surplus again,
—This bird’s every year getting rarer —
Or the rapidly-vanishing Dividend Crane
That once was a gift to the snarer!
[f Fortune is kind, and if Luck leads his feet
In prosperous paths and directions,
He may even discover the holy retreat
Of the Ghost-Fowl —that governs elections!
But this thing is certain: however he tries
To capture these “rare birds” that we adore,
Or “find their position,” he’ll never set eyes
On the Fox-tailed Finance Bird of Theodore!
QUEENSLAND.
O. C. CABOT.
“T. 0.1.” : No. 602, Catalogue Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society’s Exhibition, is
given as a “Daguerrotype of G. V. Brooke*
Actor.” It is not a portrait of that ill-fated
tragedian, whom I saw both on and off the
stage a great many times, nor is at all like
him. A lady in her Blst year, who, like my-
self, saw Brooke repeatedly, concurs with
me in this judgment.
“Coot”: “T.R.H.’s” par (B. 26/10/’22)
regarding the church “brought out by grand-
father from England,” recalls the iron
theatre, for the construction of which George
Coppin arranged when visiting the Cold
Country in 1854. The building arrived in
Victoria the following year, and the founda-
tion was laid by G. V. Brooke on April 18.
It was erected in six weeks at the south-east
corner of Lonsdale and Exhibition streets,
and was dubbed by Coppin “The Olympic” ;
but to its patrons it was always known as
“The Iron Pot.” The opening pieces, on
June 30, 1855, were “The Lady of Lyons”
and “To Oblige Benson,” and the company
included Brooke, R. Younge, Coppin, Harry
Jackson, Fanny Catlicart and Julia
Matthews.
“M. Magee” : It may be news to “T.R.H.”
(B. 26/10/’22) that the iron church at Lid-
combe State Hospital had been on one or
more sites in the neighborhood of Sydney
before coming to rest on its present loca-
tion. It wasn’t new, either, when it
arrived in Australia, having previously done
duty in the Old Country. As a place of
worship its capacity seems to be ample when
the harsh, strident jangle of the ancient
cracked horse-bell summons to prayer, but
for entertainments the seating accommoda-
tion _is quite inadequate. Professional
Stadium packers might possibly cram 350
into it, but no more, and fully one-third of
the old people who attend are obliged to
stand or sit on the floor.
Charlie Gale, of Vic. Education Depart-
ment, who has been made head clerk of the
tech, schools branch, is one of the most
likely of the younger contingent in the ser-:
vice, and is tipped to head a department one
day. He picked up an M.C. in France. Lat-
terly he has been private secretary to Alec
Peacock (Minister of Education), ‘ and it is
worth noting that Skewes, Bottoms, Heather-
shaw and McLean, who served Alec in the
same capacity, all climbed high afterwards,
“Dingo”: I found this on the wall of a
billet near St. Omar: “The wages of sin
is death. The wages of the 2nd Bucks is
something too bleedin’ awful for words.”
And, judged by A.I.F. standards, they
probably were.
“Kirk”: “Skyrider” has dropped on a
good proposition (B. 28/9/’22) in those
walnut-trees which come into bearing in
five years. There is no great difference be-
tween the climate of Goulburn and the north
or the Speck, where I live; but my own 12-
year-old trees have only just produced their
first nuts, a handful per tree at that. The
soil is rich volcanic, on strong clay subsoil,
equal to anything anywhere. Neighbor has
a grove planted 22 years ago, and these are
just giving commercial returns. The money
is good if you can wait for it, £5 per tree
being secured from trees 30 or 40 years old,
and I suppose in a century or so the timber
will be valuable. But I wouldn’t advise
anyone to wade in with the hope of gettinr
any money back in five years.
“U.P.,” his jam jeremiad:—
Although there are prospects of a record crop in
most of the States this year the Australian fruit
industry, to quote the S. Aus. Minister of Agriculture,
“is under a greater cloud than any that has over-
shadowed it in the past.” The Federal Government
has built up sugar in Queensland at the expense of
the jam industry. The manufacturers cannot take
the fruit from the grower when there is no hope of
selling the jam. The high price of jam has already
made it a luxury to the public, and one often gone
without. Without the new season’s crop there is
ample fruit in Australia to carry over next year
and 200,000 cases of jam held by last year’s pool
are still unsold. Victorian jam-makers will probably
soon be closing down, and-Adelaide factories may
do the same shortly. So the people of the Com-
monwealth can expect cheap fresh fruit this season,
and the pigs will probably have numerous fruit
luncheons , but the Digger who has been encouraged
to plant fruit trees and has just got them in full
bearing is due for a bitter disillusionment.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OP
Australian Oil Corporation
No Liability
(To be incorporated under the “Companies Act 1915” of Victoria.)
CAPITAL: £500,000 divided into 1,000,000 Shares
of 10/- each.
500,000 Shares are offered for public subscription at 2/- per share
on application and allotment. (It is anticipated that no call
on these shares will be necessary for a period of 12 months
from date of allotment.)
200,000 Fully Paid 10/- Shares to be allotted to the Vendors and
Promoter, which together with the sum of £3500 is the
full purchase consideration for the oil concessions herein-
after set out.
300,000 Shares held in reserve.
1,000,000 Shares Total.
NOTE.—Of the above issue of 500,000 Shares offered for subscription, 300,000 are
under offer to a London group.
Provisional Directors:
RALPH S. FALKINER, Esq., Pastoralist, 103 William Street, Melbourne.
•J. A. C. BLAIR, Esq., Solicitor, Royal Bank Chambers, Melbourne.
.1. E. ELLIOTT, Esq., Goldfields Diamond Drilling Company Pty., Ltd., 331 Collins Street. Melbourne.
•T. M. STEARNS, Esq., 123 William Street, Melbourne.
D. H. GIBSON, Esq., Chairman, Victorian Wheatgrowers’ Corporation, Ltd., 39 Queen Street, Melbourne
Bankers:
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
Auditors:
FLACK & FLACK, 128 William Street, Melbourne.
Solicitor:
ARTHUR PHILLIPS, 60 Queen Street, Melbourne.
London Agents ( provisional) :
H. W. WEST & CO., Worcester House, Walbrook.
Manager and Office (pro tern.):
R. W. STRINGER, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
OBJECTS:
The Australian Oil Corporation is being formed to acquire certain oil licenses
in the North-East Kimberleys of W.A., the Northern Territory and Queensland, as
set out in the full prospectus.
Further, to obtain leases, licenses, options and permits to search for oil and
minerals m any part of Australia, Timor, Borneo, Burma or any other country where
it is considered expedient and in the interests of the Corporation to do so.
The. concessions to be acquired cover a total area of approximately 25,000 square
miles, with the sole right to bore and search for oil thereon for a period of five years.
The Kimberley License No. 19H has an approximate area of 14,200 square
miles, with a long coast line, and the port of Wyndham is only 50 and 80 miles
respectively from the two bore sites already decided upon after careful geological sur-
veys made by Strevens and party.
The Northern Territory areas include extensive permo-carboniferous country
already located. Most of these areas have ideal transport facilities, with extensive
natural harbors and waterways deep enough for the largest shipping.
The Queensland area is included in the Port Curtis district at Munduran Creek,
Brladstone, close to the seaboard, with good transport facilities.
A special arrangement has been made by the promoters to acquire on behalf of the
Corporation certain licenses to bore for petroleum over large areas in the Beaudesert
district in Queensland, where light petroleum has been discovered in geologically favor-
able country.
“After visiting Beaudesert, where I examined the
petroleum seepage and took samples and tested the
oil, there is no doubt, in my opinion, that this seepage
represents the lighter fractions of a true crude
petroleum coming from depth, and I recommend
immediate boring in the district after a detailed
geological survey.”
(Signed) J. L. STREVENS.
The Corporation will have a strong reserve at its back, and if its efforts meet
with success it is proposed to organise subsidiary companies to deal with crude oil
storage, transport, etc., etc. The Corporation will, of course, have a controlling interest
in such subsidiary companies.
~ J- L - STREVENS, A.M. Inst. P.T. (London), who reported on behalf of two of the Vendor Syndicates
the Australian Petroleum Development Co. N.L.,” and the “Great Central Petroleum Development Co. N.L.,”
states l
“Both the sandstones and limestones are gently to moderately folded into anticlines of extensive
area and wide closures. Such conditions are ideal for the accumulation of petroleum, and the shales in
the areas could constitute the necessary cover rocks for its retention.”
Mr. Strevens further reports:—“To sum up, your area possesses:—
“(a) Structural features favorable for the accumulation and retention of petroleum.
“(b) Apparently original conditions of deposition of the sediments and accompanying organic matter
favoring the formation of petroleum.
“(c) Indications that petroleum exists thereon.”
MR. T. BLATCHFORD, of the W.A. Geological Staff, in his report on the Okes Durack Company’s
property, which adjoins this Company’s areas, reported upon by Mr. Strevens, states: —
“The discovery (glance pitch) is certainly the most definite indication of mineral oil residue which
has been found in the State, and certainly one of the most important indications yet recorded.
“With regard to the possibility of the existence of a payable , oil basin in the underlying beds it
would be mere conjecture to offer an opinion. It is certain, however, that mineral oil did once exist
in the locality, and the certainty as to whether it still exists can only be proved by systematic survey
work and boring.”
PROFESSOR SIR EDGEWORTH DAVID and other prominent geologists state that in their opinion
if oil in payable quantities in the Kimberley district, it will probably be over very large
areas. “TVs is not only because mineral oil has recently been definitely proved to exist at distances
hundreds cl miles apart, but because the necessary geological conditions for the storage of oil in
quantity by nature are apparently ideal, and uniformly so, over immense areas.”
MR. D. J. MAHONY, M.S.C., F.G.S., Petrologist to the Geological Survey of Victoria, and Mr.
Hubert F. Kessal, a petroleum engineer of considerable experience ia the U.S.A., both report favorably
on the prospect of liquid oil being discovered in the neighborhood of the Ord-Negri Junction on the
Okes-Durack oil area, Kimberleys. Mr. Kessal states there are “definite indications of oil, and good
cover rocks of impervious shales and mudstones.”
SIR DOUGLAS MAWSON (Adelaide Advertiser, 15/10/’2l), says:—
“The recent report issued by the Geological Survey Department of Western Australia definitely
establishes the existence of petroleum in that region, and the formation of the country is favorable
for the storage of oil.”
Full prospectus with reports and maps, together with forms of applications for
shares, may be obtained from sharebrokers in the various States, or from R. W.
Stringer, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
When Service
Really Counts.
Gunmetal Bolted Cover Stop
Valve. External Screw, Spindle
type.
Standard Pattern Gunmetal Wheel
Valve, with Screwed Ends.
England’s Finest Fittings
for Every Steam Service.
On British Admiralty List for
Stop Valves of Every Description.
UNITED BRASSFOUNDERS AND ENGINEERS, LTD.,
are listed at the Admiralty. They rank to-day as
manufacturers of England’s highest-grade Valves and
Mountings—noted throughout the world for their accuracy,
great strength and long service. These are good valves and
fittings that assure you of complete plant protection on con-
tinuous service under the severest conditions of modern steam
practice. The price is probably not nearly so high as you
expect to pay for England’s Finest Fittings. As agents we
have large stocks of
“Super Fearnought” Renewal Disc Steam
Globe Valves, Gate Valves, Check Valves,
Stop Valves, Gauge and Boiler Mountings,
Pressure Gauges, Ship’s Pumps and high-
quality Fittings for every use.
See our stocks and get our prices before buying steam fittings;
or write us for illustrated matter and full particulars of any line.
PARKE & LACY
CO. LTD.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Fig. 6.
PIG. 1. Bourdon s Patent Pressure Gauge, standard pattern.
PIG. 2.—Showing internal “movement” of Bourdon’s Patent
Pressure Gauge.
PIG. 3. —No. A 163, Gunmetal Water Gauge, with Pull
Asbestos-packed Cocks.
PIG. 4. —No. A 181, Gunmetal Gauge or Test Cock.
FIG 6. —No. A 183, Gunmetal Asbestos-packed Test Cock.
Fig. 4.
150
ISO
120
o°r
60
50
2TO
300
PRESSURE GAUGE
Fig. 1.
Fig. 2.


Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
lIARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from No.
4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mosinan.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
4% Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OOl. 3002, 3599.
J2.H
Stands for Turf
the Ggarette that
should smoke
Go
IBS
ght away
for a packet
TO-DAV
TURF
nir Virginia
DUJ CIGARETTES
20f0r2/~
A fade, by
Alexander
Boguslavsky Ltd..
55 Piccadilly.
LONDON,VC
tN CLAN D
BOYS! YOU CAN BUILD THIS WONDEBFUL MODEL AUTO CHASSIS WITH
MECCANO
ENGINEERING FOR BOYS
The reason why you can build with Meccano such wonderful models as this
Auto Chassis is that every part is a real engineering piece, all perfectly designed
and accurately made.
You never come to the end of Meccano fun. All the models, Cranes, Bridges,
Towers, Wagons, etc., work just like the real thing, and each new model as it
is completed, “ tuned up ” and set going brings intense joy and satisfaction.
ANYWHERE BETWEEN 5 and 70 is the correct age
to start Meccano. The youngest boy can begin to build
the moment he gets his Outfit home. Every Outfit com-
plete, nothing further to buy.
FULL INSTRUCTIONS. A big Illustrated Book of
Instructions goes with each Outfit, making everything
perfectly clear.
FREE TO BOYS
A Splendid New Meccano Book.
This is a beautiful new book which shows‘boys
how to enjoy every minute of their leisure hours.
It is beautifully illustrated and explains in a simple
way the joys of Meccano.
How to get a Free Copy.
Just send us a postcard giving your name and full
address. Put No. 2 after your name for reference.
When you receive the booklet show it to your
chums and get them to send for copies too.
MECCANO
DUCK
Grand £259
Prize Competition
This Compe ti tion
brings golden oppor-
tunities to brainy in-
ventive boys. There
are hundreds of cash
and other prizes award-
ed. Write us for par-
ticulars or ask your
dealer (or an entry
form
MECCANO PRICES
No. 0 Outfit, 7/6
No. 1 „ 12/6
No. 2 „ 23/-
No. 3 ~ 36/-
No. 4 Outfit .. 60/-
No. S „ 80/-
No. S ~(wood) 125/-
N 0.6 „ .. 210/-
1 BUILT
IT
MYSELF
No. 7 Outfit (wood) 540/-
safe
Meccano Motor Chassis made entirely with
Meccano parts.
THE MECCANO DEPOT, 379, KENT ST., SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 1832.
ALWAYS ORDER
King of Table Waters!
From the Crystal Springs of N.S.W. The Finest of
Mineral Waters. Rich in Curatives containing
Lime, Soda, Lithia and Magnesia.
ROWLANDS. PTY.LTD.
BALLAKAT MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
PURVEYORS TO VICE ROYALTY
Friction—
The unseen Enemy of
Production io your plant
3K
a
H
m
m
imr™
nw 1 1
(gna
rKR
m
lih *
nn
■HB
For Lower Production Costs
Your Machinery is Willing ! Are You?
tj'VERY engine, machine and
bearing in your plant should be
ready to do its best work ; and its
best work is only possible through
continuous use of the most efficient
lubricants you can buy. The con-
nection between production costs
and correct lubrication is direct and
absolute.
1. —Friction steals power which your
engines and. cars are supposed to
develop and use.
2. —When you reduce friction your
machinery forthwith puts more
power into your production
If you will supply each one of
your engines and machines with the
correct oil for its individual needs,
its work will be easier and the
power you pay for will be more
productive.
Our nearest branch can put be-
fore you definite lubrication recom-
mendations based on many years
experience in manufacturing and
applying correct lubricants to
mechanical equipment.
Every day that you deny your
plant full economy for correct lubri-
cation you pay for the delay. The
penalty comes under the heading of
“operating costs.”
3. — Cort'ect Lubrication and
nothing but Correct Lu-
brication will cut down
the friction.
■tsgnlt
Lubricants
Abrade /or each type </aor*k»
You know the pressure of
high production costs. Are
you interested in lowering
them ? If so get in touch with
our nearest branch.
VACUUM OiI.COMPANY -
FATHER WILLIAM AGAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
.... “And the Prime Minister will speak in the
Exhibition Hall on November 7 next.” — Brisbane ness
item.
“You are old, Father William,” the young man said,
“And you don’t look remarkably hearty;
But I notice you still keep a trifle ahead —
Pray, how do you manage your Party?”
“In the days of my youth,” Father William replied,
•‘I regarded all politics lightly;
It was ever my scheme to roll on with the stream;
And my whole career shows I did rightly.”
“You are old,”, said the youth; “you have had a
long run,
And the mob you control’s hard to shepherd ;
Yet they follow you though you keep changing your
spots
As often as any wild leopard!”
“In the days of my youth,” Father William replied,
“I would preach that all change is attractive —
Which really was rot, for, of course, it is not;
Though change keeps one uncommonly active ! ”
“You are old,” said the youth, “but you know how
to talk
And perplex those who speak of you vilely;
Yet they finish by voting you back to your job—
Now, what is it makes you so wily V”
“In the days of my youth,” Father William replied,
“I dubbed ’em all comrades and brothers;
And praised each crowd’s worth as the salt of the
earth,
But — 1 never let on there were others!”
“You are old!” cried the youth, “but, my word, you
are swift!
And this game—do you hope to renew it ?
Quite two-thirds of the pack swear you shall not
go back,
So how will you manage to do it?”
“As I hinted just now” —Father William observed—
“ When cabals came at me I’d deride ’em
In public—but, privately —well, you shall see
In a week or two how I’ll divide ’em!”
“Though he’s old,” thought the youth, as he saun-
tered away,
“And the other crowd say he can’t trick ’em,
I really believe lie’s got more up his sleeve
Than they think. The old beggar may lick ’em!”
QUEENSLAND.
O. C.
“0.P.H.” : Looking back 33 years the only
Vic. Judge I can remember who had a son
that rose to the Bench was Robert Moles-
worth, of the Supreme Court. His son,
Hickman, was Insolvency (County Court)
Judge, and for the best part of one year
was an Acting-Supreme Court Justice. Lat-
terly Judges’ sons seem content to be asso-
ciates.
“Frinigga”: Langer, director of the
Theatre Guild, has returned to New York
endorsing the opinion of other good judges
(on this side) that the London stage has
gone off. Its high-water mark, he says, was
in 1904 and 1905, with Shaw, Galsworthy,
St. John Hankin and Granville Barker;
these are not now what they were, and the
only successors who show promise are Milne
and St. John Ervine. The acting hardly
compares with American except in one par-
ticular, but there it scores heavily: “When
a gentleman’s part has to be played it is
played, in London, by a gentleman.”
“D.”: Mention of Cardinal Cullen (B.
2/11/’22j recalls what a confirmed nepo-
tist he was. He got the vice-presidency of
the Irish College in Rome for his sister’s son,
Patrick Francis Moran, then had him made
Archbishop of Sydney, failed only in the last
stride to make him Archbishop of Dublin,
and finally pulled the strings for the Red
Hat. For his brother’s son, Paul, he was
just as solicitous, though as that nephew
joined the Missionary Order of St. Vincent
his scope was more limited. He placed him
so advantageously that after getting various
high jobs in the Order in England and on
the Continent he has finished up at Ashfield
(N.S.W.) as the Very Rev. Paul Cullen,
C.M., the head serang of all the Vincentian
Fathers in Australia. Physically and men-
tally, Paul Cullen is the equal of his better
known cousin, but the resemblance stops
there with a bang. Moran was assertive
and loved the limelight; Cullen is gentle,
gives the lesser man his chance, and hugs
the background.
“Piper”: Doris Gilham and Herbert Mil-
lard, two of Marie Tempest’s erstwhile com-
pany, are responsible—along with the author,
Norman Campbell—for a clever little sketch
at Sydney Tivoli. It is to the credit of
vaudeville crowds that a tabloid comedy of
local manufacture, capably presented, is gen-
erally secure of a good reception, while it
is often a toss-up with stuff that comes with
the hall-mark of London music-hall appre-
ciation. Campbell’s playlets—this isn’t the
first, by any means —are full of snap and
vitality.
“Stellsby” : Wood, runner-up for the chief
architcetship of Vic. Public Works, (B.
19/10/'22) has been in the department all
his life, is a fully-qualified architect, and
has carried out the whole of the work in the
metropolitan area for months past. It.
must be a bit galling to one with such
a record to be denied the chance of proving
himself in the top departmental job. Its
bitterest enemy can’t accuse the Lawson
Ministry of parochialism. Probably it will
ransack China and Persia for its chief chauf-
feur when the job becomes vacant.
“5.N.0,” : Add to 11. Bateson’s list (B.
5/10/’22) the brothers Faithful! —W.P. and
G., awarded gold medals for resisting Gil-
bert, Dunne and Hall, early in 1805. The
mementoes were handed out in connection
with a running fight on the Braidwood-road
when the brothers gave Gilbert and co. the
oil that a closer intimacy was not desired.
“Kip” : Re “D.’s” statement (B. 26/10/’22)
that most of the cocaine now circulating in
Paris originates from Germany, it is worth
noting that the French Government has
found it necessary to increase its Customs
staff at the frontier, and to appoint two
special magistrates to deal with cases of
trafficking in this drug. Almost every
packet of cocaine seized in Paris bears the
mark “Merch, Darmstadt.” The profit made
by the retailers of cocaine, which is usually
adulterated with boraeic acid and bi-car-
bonate of soda, is anything up to 600 per
cent.: and it is in the fashionable quarters
principally that they effect their secret sales.


That
‘ ‘ Kraschen ”
Feeling.
u
i_o
?
$
j
&
[iTfr
/
<3
H.'
J <
—X
N.S. 62
Are YOD in form to-day?
How often do you get
up in the morning with
that glorious feeling that
you are ready to take on
anything and anybody?
How often do you carry
that feeling with you
throughout the day,
knowing nothing of morn-
ing irritability, of after-
lunch sleepiness, of five
o clock weariness, and
utter dejection of body
and mind?
How often do you re-
turn home fit to enjoy
every moment of your
hours of leisure, taking
your recreation with all
the greater zest because
during the day you have
got through a full-size-
man’s job with a full-size
man’s keenness and effici-
ency?
How often? Once a
week? Once a month?
Why not every day?
Let Kruschen show you
how.
You can, you know. |
Kruschen will show you
how, as it has shown mil-
lions of others.
That tiny pinch of Krus-
chen Salts you take in
your breakfast cup of tea
every morning—you can’t
taste it, but it has a most
amazing effect. It restores
! liver and kidneys to
their proper state of effici-
ency and regularity, clears
away all the impurities
that have been clogging
your system, and sends j
new, pure blood driving
through your body. If you
were living a life where
you got plenty of fresh air
and exercise, where you
were free from worry and
overwork, where errors of
diet were unknown, your
body would provide itself
with the vital salts that
are necessary for healthy
existence. But, as Nature
is not carrying out this
work for you, Kruschen
offers you just the very
salts your body needs.
'O.
U
Tasteless in Tea
Put as much in each
breakfast cup as will lie
on a sixpence. It’s the
little daily dose that does
it.
frfalts
Good health for a farthing a day.
The dose of a sixpenceful taken
every morning is found in practice
to be just the right amount for a
most invigorating daily tonic. The
medicinal dose for persons suffer-
ing from pains of Rheumatism and
Gout or habitual Constipation, with
inactive liver, etc., is half to one tea-
spoonful in a tumbler of hot water
before breakfast. Every .Chemist
sells Kruschen Salts—each bottle
contains 96 morning “sixpencefuls”
—enough to last three months. Get
a bottle to-day.
Australia Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
11. & W. Grear, 119 to 12H York Street, Sydney ; also at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. Direct
Indents executed by the- manufacturers through
London Buying Houses.
New Zealand.—Trade supplies of Kruschen Salts stocked by
Fairbairn, Wright and Co., Christchurch, Welling-
ton, Auckland and Dunedin,
The World's
best known
Modem
Writer
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
Genuine Eversharp—the
pencil that changed the
writing habits of the world.
Handsome, certain in writ-
ing, with the exclusive tip
that holds the lead firmly.
All styles here—gold, sil-
ver and enamel. A price
to suit every purse.
For Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York U. S. A
Be sure il's an
EVERSHARP
The name Is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HOARE, Ltd.,
Remington House. Liverpool St.. Sydney
4S«s3F
B
m i
m
mm
mmm
I W IS
FLEXIBLE DIAMOND BRACELET SET IN PLATINUM
£3OO.
wm m %
tV
X M \\\H *'
DIAMOND SET WRISTLET WATCH. £lO5. [
JEWELLERY OF FINE QUALITY
Wm, DRUMMOND 8c CO., JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
SINGLE-STONE DIAMOND RING.
£2OO.
DIAMOND CLUSTER RING.
£l5O.
DIAMOND PENDANT
WITH PLATINUM AND
DIAMOND CHAIN. .
£3OO.


A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Wristlet Watch, set double-
cut Diamonds, Platinum settings, full-jewelled
chronometer balance, £75.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Bow
Necklet, 15et.
Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l3.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Wristlet Watch, Silk
Bracelet, solid Gold Catch and Mounts, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Scarf
Pin, 15ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £2O.
Larger Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’
fine double-cut
Diamond Marquise
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders*
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond two-bar Brooch,
16ct. Gold, £7O.
» Smaller Diamonds, £5O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bracelet,
15ct. Gold, £l5.
Larger Diamonds, £25.
V
*4
m
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Solid Gold Patent Expand-
ing Wristlet Watch, £7/10/-. Others, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5,
SEND FOR FREE CATALOGUE.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold ' Expanding Wristlet Watch,
set 8 double-cut Diamonds', full-jewelled lever move-
ment, compensation balance, £2O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
Diamond and
Pearl Scarf
Pin, 15ct.
Gold, £B.
A. Saunders’
double-eut
Diamond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
double-eut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. . Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Necklet
15ct. Gold,
A. . Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Necklet
15ct. Gold,
A. SAUNDERS,
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £l2/10/-
JEWELLERS, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY*
m&vswfssfsi
&
PETER
K- ;
m
DAWSON S
.“. 4 V.'7 / v-SI SSu?/./ f/XJSfJIM: l
#3^
Oi*
SCOTCH WHISKY
The brand of historic lineage .
exquisite brand
giving real satisfaction.
ShiDDed direct from Scotland by
PETER DAWSON, Ltd., 82, Great Clyde St., GLASGOW,
01
&°T e
*#*s>*¥
U2J3©
Dawsoh
'Scoren Whis* y
lari
{y&


Fosition Vacant.
The Queensland Pastoral and
Agricultural Society, Ipswich,
INVITE APPLICATIONS FOR FULL-
TIME SECRETARY.
Salary £250 p.a., plus Commission.
For further particulars address —
The President, Box 64 P. 0., Ipswich.
Applications, stating qualifications, and with
copies of Testimonials, close Nov. 30, with
the President. Enface envelope, “Applica-
tion for Secretary.”
F. G. WOODWARD, President.
.Legal Notices.
p THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
To ALEXANDER HAROLD MURRAY, formerly of
Goulburn Street, Hobart, and thereafter of Philip
Street, Surry Hills, Sydney, New South Wales: —
TAKE NOTICE tnat your wife, Mauu Theresa Mur-
ray, of Darlinghurst, Sydney, has filed a Petition
in this Court praying for a dissolution of marriage
on the ground of desertion. Unless you appear on
the said proceedings the case will be tried in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs. If
you intend to appear you must within thirty-one
days from the last publication hereof enter an
appearance in the Office of the Registrar of this
Court, where you may on application obtain a copy
of the Petition and Citation herein.
PAGE, HODGMAN & SEAGER,
Macquarie Street, Hobart, Proctors for the Petitioner.
TO HERBERT TEMPLE, formerly of
Yarraville, Victoria, and Newtown,
New South Wales, Laborer.—Take Notice
that your wife, DULCIE EMILY TEMPLE,
has instituted proceedings against you for a
divorce on the grounds of a repeated act of
adultery, of adultery coupled with desertion
for two years and upwards, and of desertion
for three years and upwards. Unless you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court at Melbourne
on or before the sixteenth day of December,
1922, the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs.
SECOMB & WOODFULL, 446 Little Col-
lins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
For Sale.
Farming and Grazing
Bargain.
BEAUTIFULPROPERTY.
8 miles from OAKLANDS, N.S.W.,
FAMOUS NEW COAL FIELDS. To be
connected by Railway to Victoria.
1400 ACRES. Title perfect. 14/- due j
to Crown.
COUNTRY is undulating to level. 500
acres puffy black soil, RICH FAT-
TENING, HEAVY TREFOIL COUNTRY, I
balance rich chocolate loam. IDEAL j
WHEAT LAND. Timbered with box, pine 1
and boree, only shade trees left. 200 acres j
under wheat, heavy yield assured, splendid j
crop. Subdivided into 6 or 7 paddocks
with good, solid fencing. Watered by 4
tanks and a well 154 ft. deep-—always carries |
20ft. water, never less. Windmill —water
laid on to Homestead and garden —splendid !
young orchard, nice garden. HOMESTEAD
of 10 rooms, verandah three sides, detached
kitchen, barn, 14-stall stable, large imple- \
ment shed. One of the best properties in j
that famous district. Topped the district
for fat lambs in the Melbourne market this
year. Every inch valuable soil —not a
waste inch. RAINFALL 20 INCHES. NO j
RABBITS.
PRICE £4/15/- per acre
Very easy terms—£looo deposit, balance
6 per cent.
Do not write. WIRE FOR OFFER.
An undoubted bargain.
CLAUDE D. MACLURE & CO.,
Stock and Station Agents,
PROPERTY SPECIALISTS,
ALBURY, N.S.W.
Lv,
'V&rdleys
016 (Enc^lis'f?
Lavender Soap
The chosen Soap of the Lady
of Fashion, and one of the
daintiest items of her toilet.
Made of extra fine materials and
luxuriously perfumed, it clears
and refines the skin and en-
hances the beauty of the com-
plexion.
Large tablet 2/-. Three in Box 5/9.
Sold by the best Chemists and Stores.
YARDLEY & CO., LTD.,
8, New Bond Street. London, W. 1.
FOR IMMEDIATE SALE
—OWNER LEAVING DISTRICT.
Cronulla (Burraneer Bay)
Residence.
ABSOLUTE water frontage. Grounds
two acres. Torrens Title. Buildings
consist of Brick Bungalow, six rooms, exten-
sive verandahs three sides, electric light,
motor garage. Immediate possession. Price,
£2250, below cost. Apply owner, J. WILSON,
“Burranhurst,” Burraneer Bay.
Amusements.
CVI>N 1C VS cIII 15 I 1 ’ TIIISAT II K S.
w J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
CAIRO.
CRITERION:
THE SILVER FOX.
ROYAL: THE NAUGHTY PRINCESS.
“THIS ALLAN UILKIIS SH AKSPISA REA N
1 IMtODI''CTIONS.
NEW ZEALAND TOUR: NORTH ISLAND.
Australasian Representatives: WILSON & SODEN,
17 Tiie Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
J c. WILLIAMSON. LTD., MKLISOCUNJS
ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
MARY.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE PEEP SHOW.
A WHIRLWIND OB’ DANCE AND MELODY.
Amusements.
I Mi’S THEATRE. M IS I. It O .i IS N I.
■ v Sole Lessees: Bert Bailey and Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AT 2.
E. J. & DAN CARROLL present
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
an Australian Comedy in three acts,
by C. J. DENNIS.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
UDVI’S THEATRES, MEI.ItOII RNE
1 1 Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURNE STREET, and LYCEUM (ove.
Prince’s Bridge).
FOOLISH WIVES.
A UNIVERSAL JEWEL MASTERPIECE.
Prices as usual.
|yj a. I KST IC THEATRE, NEUROL'KN It
GREAT ATTRACTION.
ROSE O’ THE SEA.
A STUPENDOUS PICTURE PRODUCTION.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
QLYM P I A, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matin£es Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS.
A host of entirely new International Celebrated
Artists personally engaged by Mr. George Wirth on
his recent tour of the Worid.
Prices, 7/-, 6/-, 5/-, 3/- and 2/-. Plan at Glen’s. j
Schweppes’ Essence Competition.
RESULTS OF No. I—CLOSED SEPTEMBER 30.
Ist PRIZE.
Mr. J. Simpson, Ashfield, £25.
2nd PRIZE. 3rd PRIZE.
Mrs. S. Saunders, South Townsville, £lO. Miss Emily Skene, Hay, £5.
25 PRIZES OF £1 EACH.
Miss J. Stevens, Lidcombe.
Mrs. R. Duggan, Hay.
Miss Rose Pettitt, Turramurra.
Miss Gladys Parr, Hay.
Miss ,T. Wood, Ashfield.
Mrs. R. Dunwoodie, Bowral.
Mrs. Nellie Ryan, Chatswood.
Mrs. R. W. Donohoe, Hay.
Mrs. J. Childs, Lidcombe.
Miss N. Skene, Hay.
Miss K. Archbold, Roseville.
Mrs. Ridley, Lidcombe.
Mrs. R. J. Douglas, Bowral.
Mrs. W. Jarman, Canterbury.
Miss Short, Petersham.
Miss Soden, Woollahra Point.
Mrs. Sturgess, Lidcombe.
Mrs. Boardman, Hughenden.
Miss Pearlie Boardman,
liughenden.
M. Pollard, Kensington.
Miss Alice Clare, Lidcombe.
Miss G. Ah Moon, Townsville.
Miss Stevens, Lidcombe.
Mrs. R. Liu, Croydon.
Mrs. W. Johnston, Paddington.
A REAL
RAZOR
EDGE
' v\\
I'.WwN
WWWwW'
fk
The
PLUM
RAZOR
Made from the finest Sheffield
Razor Steel, tempered and
ground to perfection—set and
finished ready for use by our
own experienced tradesmen.
126.
Pair iiv Presentation Case,
Post Free ... - 95/-
Blades §in. and fin. set ready
for use, and guaranteed and
kept in order for two years free.
Craig 8 Aitken
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
HUGE STOCK C
Relies on the^l^l
COMET”
m
n
*
A-t-jL
LET THESE FACTS GUIDE YOU
31st March, 1921.
Goldsborough Mort and Co. Ltd., Sydney.
We have much pleasure in informing you that the
"Comet” Windmills you have supplied and erected
for us, during the past twelve years, on our various
properties in Queensland and New South Wales,
have given complete satisfaction. They are working
at depths from 50 to 400 feet. They work in the
lightest wind and will stand the heaviest storms.
We can confidently recommend your Mills as the
best we are acquainted with, for watering either
small or large numbers of stock.
(Signed) KEN U CUDMORE, Mgr.
IT is only after severe and prolonged
trial and test that such a huge
organisation as Goldsborough Mort
and Co. pin their faith to any make of
equipment.
The “Comet” Windmill has won their
first choice because of its all-round
superiority in all weathers, its freedom
from, breakdown trouble and repair cost,
and its greater pumping capacity.
There are reasons for this supremacy.
Investigate them for your own benefit. Here
are but a few of the features back of our
three years guarantee, and responsible for
the superior performance of “Comet” Mills
in transforming wind power to water
supply.
STRUCTURAL STRENGTH—onIy best
quality materials in a “Comet.” LARGE
BEARlNGS—running in continuous oil
bath, practically eliminating friction and
wear. LARGE DIAMETER SHAFT—
—ROLLER GUIDES—“SET” OF SAILS
—perfected after trying every conceivable
type and angle of sail, to give maximum
pumping power in the lighter winds.
SPECIAL SPRING GOVERNOR—to pre-
vent racing and damage in high winds.
SUPER-SENSITIVE BALL-BEARING
TURN-TABLE, etc. Let us give you all
the facts. Write to-day for catalogue and
particulars.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS
AND CO., LTD.
WORKS—
Constitution Road, Dulwich Hill, SYDNEY
CITY OFFICE—
-255a George Street, SYDNEY
ALSO AT ROCKHAMPTON
BRISBANE & TOWNSVILLE!
*


Literally
Pouring in.
Christmas goods are literally pouring
in. This Christmas, presents will
be of a markedly useful type. The
market for years has been so bare of
the usual table and home utilities
that now they are once again avail-
able they will be snapped up.
Through having an energetic and
up-to-date Buying Staff in London,
we are in the fortunate position of
receiving all the latest goods, and,
as we pay spot cash against delivery
in London; our costs are the lowest
possible.
Then, our Jewellery we make.in Sydney, and so we show the latest
goods in great profusion, and at bedrock prices.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Heavy Sterling Silver Manicure
Set, in Suede Leather Roll,
60/- net; 5 pieces, 54/- net.
A
Blouse Hangers, in
Soft Suede Leather
Case, for Travelling,
12/6.
Plain Figures.
Cash onlr.
23 St 25 Hunter Street.
trim®
■sssssss-
///X/ W
ws*
'""SSSSSSSSS,,^
\ ” ' w ~'
/<v f/ ,j.fSSSSS//SSS/SSSSSSSss*sssssssssssssssss**sssjv*ssssssssssss„„^/p'
SSSS/S/SS'
's/yVss
l p'/S/////////SSSSSSSS.
S/S/////S
ONOTO
INK
Best
for all
Pens
Wsssss/S*
ifs*?
V/S.'/SS.'
r//y/s/s///s
M
.<7
4^
!■«/ t.All<tJw
;/"■ % cf‘
CHRISTMAS
GIFTS
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s •■•• •• • • “Cairo
Criterion “The Silver Fox
Royal “The Naughty Princess
jj o v r ’ S Moving Pictures
MKLROURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mary’’
Royal “The Peep Show
King’s “The Sentimental Bloke”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
The partly human, but mostly picture,
entertainment which replaced Ada Reeve at
Melbourne Palace strikes one as a puzzle
intended by Providence for unravelment by
picture bends in particular. The allegation
that brain atrophy is encouraged by cinema-
tograph-drama sounds ridiculous in face of
this remarkable contraption at Melbourne
Palace. "Fool’s Paradise” begins with a
shapely chorus, followed by the strange inci-
dent of a professedly blind young man, pre-
senting every appearance of his affliction
(save a little dog with a tin collection-box in
its mouth), who sings, in a flat, stale and
unprofitable manner, a dismal yet somewhat
haunting ditty to the effect that a Fool’s
Paradise is very nice, but its blissful inhabi-
tant must pay the price, and so on up the
scale of ragtime doggerel. Whereupon the
ballet laughs at the mild intruder until Bea-
trice Holloway, wearing a capacious short
gown of red and black, informs the ballet
that she loves the sightless person. Then
the screen drama proceeds to explain how
the young man became blind through the
giddy lady (who, on the screen, didn’t re-
semble Beatrice Holloway any more than
the hero resembled himself) having served
him with a doped cigar on account of his
having refused her dissolute advances. In
this way the “Fool’s Paradise” lasts three
hours or more, the screen story introducing
sundry Mexican misdoings, as well as the
King of Siam in his own country, and a
thousand other complications. With in-
credible theatrical performances depicted on
the screen, and its acting and singing per-
formances by humans, especially the ballet-
chorus, not forgetting a neat little orches-
tra which always keeps things tuneful,
“Fool's Paradise” should appeal to those who
love their entertainment mixed. The inter-
rupted picture has some beautiful photo-
graphic moments, whilst the penitent pas-
sion of Poll Patchouli for an imposed-upon
blind man, who recovers his eyesight in Siam,
is a popular brand of American mush among
women kind.
At Melbourne Town Hall the farewells of
Rosina Buckman and Maurice D’Oisley will
be resumed to-night (Thursday) and con-
cluded on Saturday, Last Saturday the
sweet melody-makers were back in the place
where the Gaud Mayor lately lavished food
on hundreds of undeserving citizens, and
their treatment of old and new items on the
programme was as charming as their be-
havior to encore numbers. The world that
takes sugar in its music wants nothing
sweeter than Musetta’s song for the soprano
alone, or the duets from “Manon,” “Trova-
tore,” and the finale from the first act of
“Boheme.” The Willow Song and Ave
Maria from “Otello,” so often sung by Melba,
are helping to decorate Miss Buckman’s reper-
“THE SILVER FOX,”
AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Ashton Jarry as Chris Stanley.
toire since Melba went away, and in all
these things the artists were admirable.
*£ £ *
A noticeable change in “The Peep Show”
since its first night at Melbourne Royal is a
new leading lady in place of the one who
went to Sydney recently for other busi-
ness purposes. An interval between them
was filled by a tall, blonde chorus girl who
was just beginning to talk as though she
were not repeating a lesson when Sheila
Gale was billed as the new “Light o’ the
Moon.” Sheila differs from the original
Light in not having red hair or a
treacherous intonation, but all things con-
sidered, she is nothing to write home about.
The best section of “The Peep Show” is the
beginning of the second act up to Dickens-
street (wherein many of the impersonations
are painfully feeble), whilst the worst of the
dialogue is associated with a cinematograph
and emphasised by the self-respecting bari-
tone when he exclaims “I’ve had enough of
this rubbish!” So have the rest of us, but
we are not so outspoken as the undramatic
baritone.
a: * £ Ss
“Mary,” at Melbourne Majesty’s, is the
same old heartless story of a stately widow
wlio lost enormous wealth at one swoop, and
then engaged Maud Fane to mend the fam-
ily’s fortunes by marrying the biggest heap
of dollars in their social set. Meanwhile, a
designing other widow (Madge Elliott) is
alienating the affections of gallery girls by
her exceptional cattishness, and the plot
would invite the scorn of the righteous were
it allowed to matter. Constant incursions
by Exquisite Eights, Seductive Sixes and
Fascinating Fifteens leave the plot no room
to matter.
Will Collinson, with a racing sketch, came
to the rescue of Melbourne Tivoli bill
last Saturday. Also a wire-walker will be
there to assist in carrying on the fight now
that Lee White and Clay Smith are going.
❖ * * £
The address of the “Sentimental Bloke,”
dramatised, is Melbourne King’s. Until
Taits want the stage for panto purposes the
Bloke and Doreen will be there, together
with Ginger and Strore ’At, likewise Artie
and his merry bit of muslin and other mem-
bers of an innumerous cast.
No mishap has called special attention to
Wirths’ Circus
since last report.
One or two lions
look quite willing
to cause mishaps
if given the oppor-
tunity, but mean-
while those pic-
turesque animals
continue to pine in
captivity, like the
warthog, whose
ugliness is an at-
tractive feature of
the show.
* * ri *
“Foolish Wives,”
at Hoyt’s De Luxe,
Melbourne, is a
study of over-ripe
Jove, which, while
enrapturing the
impure of heart
gratifies the wow-
ser with a virtuous
ending. The most
prominent impro-
bability is Eric
von Stroheim.
Marie Prevost does
better in “Don’t
Get Personal,” at
Hoyt’s Lyceum. At
the same house J.
W arren Kerrigan,
i n “T h e Green
Flame,” keeps his
nose to the trail
Cass Downing, musical
director of “The
Deep Show,” at
Melbourne Royal.
of a gang of jewel-robbers in a praise-
worthy manner. Majestic audiences are
offered “Winning a Bride,” a topical tale
of the turf, wherein the favorite is the cause
of an incredible conspiracy. At the Melba
“The Bachelor Daddy” delights the multi-
tude by gathering a creche'about him. The
Britannia’s big attraction is “Stolen Mo-
ments,” in which Rudolph Valentino is the
principal embezzler.
$& # £
Miss May Vale (Mrs. Gilfillan) is respon-
sible-for a modest little show in the northern
gallery of the Vie. Artists’ Society. The
main features are studies of Australian flow-
ers, such as Sturt’s desert-pea and the
Bendigo wax-flower, and they are all painted
with more skill than the artist exhibits in
her water-colors and charcoal drawings. The
best of the water-colors is “Near Battersea
Bridge,” a graceful enough rendering of a
placid river scene. Her enamels are grow-
ing more thrilling in color and design, and
her miniature of a young lady has pleasing
qualities, but she carries most weight in her
portraiture, whereof “Learning Her Lesson”
can lie commended for the drawing, whilst
“Copper-Top” gets another favorable men- v
tion for an endearing winsomeness of aspect
in the model. The landscapes are not very
startling, though the painter strives to bear
testimony to the alleged beauties of Belgrave
in the Dandenong Ranges.
“The Boy,” at Adelaide Royal, is a matter
of Arthur Stigant and some others. Nearly
all the work rests on him, and he gets the
audience so thoroughly with him that ulti-
mately he need only fall down, to be
acclaimed as a prince of humorists. Rosie
le Varde, somewhat reminiscent of Florence
Young in style, is a good find, and Lance
Lister gets away with the always difficult
“leading juvenile” part. Nell Payne shows
a distinct advance in her art. while Chisholm
and Gladys Moncrieff, Leslie Holland and
Sherras get a mere occasional look in. At
the Majestic, Stilly and Mo have revived
their Banking absurdity, but the brightest
spot in the bill is Claude Dampier. Other
shows are mainly first-class includ-
ing piano recitals by Merle Robertson, who
as a mere kid went to London for training
six years ago ; and pictures, with,
of course, the Melbourne Gup
everywhere. George Cohan is at
Wondergraph In a film of the
TJ.S. in pre-Pussyfoot days. Larry
Semon, foolish but funny, and
Montague Love, intense and also
funny, are at West’s. The Pav.
relies on Tom Mix, the Grand on
Charles Jones, and the York pro-
mises William Farnum in some-
thing big. The seals are touring
the suburbs with Odiva —who is,
by the way, a girl about half as
old and twice as pretty as the
Odiva limned upon the posters.
For pleasant thrills and stimu-
lating shocks that make an even-
ing fly it would be hard to
beat “The Silver Fox,” on view at Syd-
ney Cri. Some persons, when Black
Care behind them knocks, bethink them of
old Horace’s advice, Nunc vino pellite curas.
Much better see the Silken Socks, so naught-
ily and elegantly nice, of Infidelity, where
Lawrence Grossmith shows what acting is,
and fair Miss Wilson's Art nigh equals his.
“The Naughty Princess” continues her
fascinating career at Sydney Theatre Royal,
where Gay Paree comes into view with the
vividness of a peep-show picture. Kitty
Reidy, Grade Lavers and Jack Cannot leave
little to be desired, and Marie le Varre com-
mands increased interest since she confided
to a press interviewer that idyllic little
pastiche of how she once went into a Maori-
land butcher’s shop, after reducing her weight
by nearly a stone, and demanded to be shown
what 141 b. of raw beef looked like in the
lump.
“Cairo,” at Her Majesty’s, has beggared
the Sydney press of adjectives long since.
The. scenes that Oscar Can devise to-witch
the senses and the eyes, his keen, resource T
ful enterprise are things we all admire-oh.
Each other person in the biz, whose efforts
are compared with his, appear a hopeless
tyro. He’s made a splash, has Oscar Asche,
and snared the cash with “Cairo.”
Ethel Hook and Arthur Argent, with their
accompanist, Edith Page, are still filling Syd-
ney Tivoli with melody. Dulcie Hall. Laur-
ence Harding and Adele Inman do a little
sketch. “The Vamp, the Frump and the
Gink,” which might cause more amusement
locally if it were in English instead ;of Ameri-
can.! The bibulous Gene Gerrard is still
doing his zoo turn. Of the song-and-dancers
the best is the elongated Billy Maloney,
though Lloyd and Raymond are t a close
second. The beach pirate. Horace Jones,
as piratical as ever, is still calling for a
“Lancashire cocktail,” and inset on the pro-
gramme is the announcement that Lee White
and Clay Smith are returning on the 25th.
Agnes Ayres and Milton Sills are figuring
in “Borderland” at. Sydney Lyceum. “Divorce
Coupons,” at the Rialto, contains a moral
lesson: the villain is plugged before the
fade-out. Larry Semon, elicits shrieks of
innocent mirth in “The Bell Hop” at the
same show. Rudolph Valentino is bidding
“For Big Stakes’’ at the Majestic, “The
Font Horsemen /of the Apocalypse” lms
moved to the Empress, and Hoyt’s have a
thriller called “Her Night of Nights.” Charles
Chaplin and “Madame X” are to be seen at
the Crystal Palace. “Orphans of the Storm”
.pursues its way at the Strand, and “Over
Che Hill” signs off at the Globe next Satur-
day.
v *<* • *l* $
The mordant author of “English Bards
and Scotch Reviewers” would have certainly
something exceptionally blistering to say and
write if he were alive to see himself on the
fillum at Sydney Palace. This alleged story
of Ford,Byron’s life is of British origin, and
is, therefore, less pretentiously vulgar than
if it had been fashioned at Los Angeles. And
yet it remains a ci;uel .thing to do to a dead
poet. Incidentally, the wrong sort of crowd
is being attracted by the ads., which describe
Byron as the “super-sheik of a hundred years
ago,” the.“voluptuous genius” and much else
that is unpleasant and banal.
“J.11.M.A.” discourses :-
In Sydney, last week, the Royal Australian Histori-
cal Society concluded its second loan exhibition of
objects of interest having to do with pretty well
every phase of the story of Australia. The big art
gallery of the Education Department was filled to
overflowing with 666 pictures, manuscripts and relics
that varied between two bells of the original peal
of eight presented to the harbor city by the Duke
of Clarence in Governor Hunter’s time, and hung in
old St. Philip’s Church, and a collection of 21 books,
papers and pictures associated with Henry Lawson.
There was not a single item hut had its own pecu-
liar value in the telling of the story of Australia,
and never before lias so comprehensive a lot of
material for the local historian been got together.
Meanwhile the need for a permanent historical
museum on the lines of the Musee Carnavalet in
Paris is being increasingly felt.
“CAIRO” AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Chorus of Ziffs in the desert singing the
praises of Allah.
President Ferguson, of the R.A.H.S., voiced the
opinions of many when he said recently
“We shall see with great anguish the dispersal of
this magnificent collection. These objects should
be on permanent display, reinforced by many others
at present easily available. Every other civilised
country has its historical museums, where the differ-
ent epochs of national life are reproduced in all
their detail, and the great pictures, documents and
relics of the nation are. displayed, but Australia is
singularly lacking in such collections.”
It must be granted by anyone who saw the recent
exhibition that, in a permanent form, it would be of
the utmost value to the. community. And to make it
available does not mean that it would have to be
purchased. The experience of the Council of the
R.A.H.S. has been that people have always been
willing to lend their, treasures for display to the
public. It is simply house-room of a secure descrip-
tion that is asked for, and-such an institution as the
R.A.H.S. might safely be entrusted with its care.
More than once' the State Government has had a
chance, which it has not taken, of providing some-
thing of the sort that is desired. Vaueluse House —
already a State property—and Burclekin House, in
Macquarie-street, might have been secured. But as
the former stood in need of extensive repairs, and the
latter was not to he had for nothing, the expense was
objected to, and the idea of utilising either of them
turned down. Something suitable could be acquired
at the cost of one Premier’s picnic to England, one
politician’s scamper about Maoriland to find out, for
the manyth time, what the Tote is really like in
action, or several other extravagances’ not nearly
so justifiable as the institution of ah histori-
cal museum. However, Governments being what they
are, it is more than probable that the R.A.H.S., or
one of its moneyed friends, will eventually have to
find its .own museum.
* * * :!=
Basil Burdett hangs a black-and-wjkite
exhibition at the New Art Salon that pre-
sents a striking contrast between the artistic
attitude of a decade ago, when the subject
was considered of first importance, and that
of the present day, when the subject appears
to be generally accepted as merely a prop
for a display of that precious individuality
wliich most artists think they possess. To
turn from the half-dozen old lithographs In
Prout, Webb and Isabey to the red chalk
panel by John Moore is to find the con-
trast at its most striking, and to. discover
what is chiefly wrong with the modern artist.
He is lazy, and the ruling false valuation of
individuality has been created to hide the
fact. Unfortunately, it hides it all too well.
Otherwise if is inconceivable that anyone
should have the impudence, to price
at from two to six guineas some of the
trifles included in this- show. Better work
appears in almost any illustrated magazine
and is passed over as merely an illustration
to a joke or story. A. E. Newbury, Hans
Heysen, S. Ure Smith, J. B. Godson, A. M.
E. Bale and J. S. McDonald show the best
stuff in the Australian section, which con-
tains fair representative works in pencil
and pen by other well-known local men.
“Orb” : The Rev. Egerton A. North Ash,
rector of St. Mary's, Waverley (N.S.W.).
has just finished running a 10-days’ carnival
in the grounds of the old church with much
eclat and a strong flavor of greasepaint.
Nellie Stewart went out to smile on the
good work last Saturday. By the way, the
Rev. O. C. J. Van, North Ash’s understudy,
is totally unlike the tea-and-muftin curate
beloved of Bulletin artists. Van is a
virile shepherd, and he cheerfully doffed his
canonicals to assume the motley and grease-
paint of principal comedian at the corona-
tion of the carnival queen. Norman Camp-
bell was the officiating “Archbishop of the
Eastern Suburbs” who crowned pretty Nada
Sylvester, one of the belles of St. Mary's,
at this churehomime.


A
□ cr:
' '
<3
IS
8W*8»j rT
/. "
o
r Additional >
central bar,
placed where
most wanted for
extra wear, and
strengthening
boomerang
tread
Boomerangs
crossing bar
forming a tread
which grips road
and eliminates
V skidding
■fa*®
lili!
* • ' . '
MV I
'
I
: ■ ■
mm
-* '
SfIHM
V- a:;-
v
mm
11
■
:V•, ■
.*
I
..
1
mm
:
: :
■mi
jpo**}; v
SB*
jr Additional
* rubber, forming
an extra strong
tread underneath
L design
Boomerangs
neatly tapered
at ends to prevent
concussion j
Reinforced
casing with heav
ier canvas and extra
plies, to corres-
L pond with J
V «.<! /
Openings
between Boome-
ran g s preventing
clogging and reduc-
ing possibility of
punctures
BARNET GLASS RUBBER C? UP
FOUNDERS OF THE ROBBER
INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALASIA.
J Extra thick- \
ness of rubber '
wall, preventing
stone cuts and
V blow - outs §


M
E
m
k
'"'mm*
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
NSW MONTde Pl£T£
T 4 CcLstlereci&hL St. Sydney. 74
Phono City Q 325.
Joseph . IV Hill
Genera! Manager.
Capital & 300.000
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Utd.”
Branches at
29 King St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagb Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West. Sydney.
Poverty
Point
L.T.PIVER, PARIS
The FACE POWKER
de luxe
“Orb”: tie is a stage Adonis, and nightly
walks the streets of “Cairo” with O. Asche
and co. Off stage he plays housemaid’s
hero, and dresses the part. Everything he
wears recalls the lady novelist’s “immacu-
lately-dressed” and "well-groomed” Apollo.
I am privileged to know him slightly, and I
sat next him on the Manly boat. Presently
a well-known barrister strolled past. My
exquisite friend gazed at the K.C.’s pants in
horror, and then glanced down at his own
beautifully-creased sine qua nons. “Allah !”
he bleated. “Look at his trousers! Great
Heavens, what must his home be like?”
“Pom Pom”: Whether the best gramo-
phones faithfully report the best musicians
is a hotly-disputed point. But whenever I
hear some second-rate virtuoso praising the
machine because it has given him an audi-
ence that he doesn’t deserve on his merits,
I am reminded of the anecdote of Vladimir
de Pachmann. One day the great old inter-
preter of Chopin was invited to hear the
celluloid version of one of his loveliest Noc-
turnes. After the massacre he sighed
heavily and said: “How true it is your Eng-
lish saying dat listeners nefer hear any
goodt of themselfes.”
AT MELBOURNE TIVOLI
Will Collinson as “a member of Tatt.’s.”
“Billy T.” : Old Benton’s wife was a com-
monplace, fat frau, with a huge hairy mole
under one eye and a face like a watery
sunset, and she gave the old man the time
of his life all his life. She confided in me.
She said Benton was not the man she should
have married. “You see, me first hushing
was a hartist,” said Mrs. Benton, “a real
hartist soul he had. He was trfivellhi’ for
years with a calculatin’ goose and a two-
headed goat and Benton’s celebrated wax-
works from the metropolitan theatres. I
s’pose you heard of Benton’s celebrated wax-
works from the leadin’ Melbourne theatres?
But the calculatin’ goose was the best draw.
Oh, a clever bird, just like a child of me
own, that goose was. But it died, an’ poor
James (James was me first hushing) never
got over the blow. He died, too. Then it
was I married Benton. I shouldn’t have
done it. My advice to a hartist is never
marry out of the profession.”
“Nella”: I accept “Filkoil’s” statement
(B. 9/11/’22), that O. Asche has “a pro-
found contempt for the chattering dunces
who infest the theatre,” but I wish he would
exhibit some of George Rignold’s active
hostility to all fatheaded disturbers of the
Auditqwum harmony. At “Cairo” the other
night ''light or ten front-row seats in the
middle of the d.c. horseshoe were occupied by
a gang of louts who kept their feet on the
plush balustrade in front of them most of
the time. These blatant asses made fatuous
jests and interjections throughout the per-
formance, and annoyed all the decent folk in
their neighborhood. They were hoodlums
of about 18 years of indiscretion, and had
each had a devil of a time on, say, two
small shandies. I should have loved to see
Ali Shar put them over his knee as they
deserved, but he preferred to half strangle
Peter Felix. As to the ushers—their
troubles!
“Tren”: Wee Georgie Wood’s attempt at
Neil Kenyon’s “Postman of Dunrobin” re-
minds me of the time when Kenyon was here
in the flesh. After doing all his Scotch
songs and sketches on the Rickards circuit
he Darned in the Williamson pantomime,
“Jack and the Beanstalk,” and the line of
one of his songs,
“He was more like
a friend than a
husband to me,”
has passed into
the common stock
of suburban wit.
But he is best
remembered by ore
of his topical
wheezes. With the
mistaken notion
that beer needed
popularising the
Carlton brewery
people were cover-
ing the hoardings
with a poster
showing an old
miner looking
wistfully at a pint
of ale. So when
Kenyon was asked
by the principal
boy, “Oh, mother,
do you ail much?”
he answered, in the
words put into the
mouth of the old
man of the poster,
‘T alius has one
at Eleven.” It
“The Silver Fox,” at
Sydney Criterion.
Lawrence Grossrnith
as Edmund Quilter.
was poor stuff, but .
the audience invariably applauded with vio-
lence. I have never heard a smutless joke
that went so well.
“Peto”: A casual reference to Wallace
Brownlow (B. 2/11/’22) set me recalling
my one night of glory. I had struck a
silver bookie at Wellington (M.L.) for a
whole £lO, and was supping in solitary state
at the Trocadero when Brownlow came in.
We fraternised, and the baritone in-
troduced me to May and Maud Beatty,
both stunning girls. There wasn’t much
of the tenner left when the waiter brought
the bill, but the supper was worth it. I
was slushy at the Empire pub, and Brown-
low knew it all the time (he had seen me
toting counter-lunch to the private bar), but
May and Maud never imagined that I wasn’t
an irresponsible member of the jcunesse
doree burning some of bis superfluous dross.
“Norbell”: I suspect that the Harcourt
Bland referred to by “L.H.P.” (B.
9/11/’22) as having played a version of Sir
Walter Scott’s “Waverley” at the Edinburgh
Royal, in 1852, was the father of our old
friend Harcourt Beatty. Anyway, Beatty
said that his sire was Harcourt Beatty
Bland, a teacher of elocution in Glasgow.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: An odd convention of
vaudeville is that no purely physical “act,”
however good, may head a bill. Otherwise
Colleano, now at the Sydney Tivoli, might
have all the cap letters going. His wire-
walking turn, with its hair-raising double
back somersault, beats anything of tile kind
previously seen in Australia. Hitherto
Colleano has been hiding his light in the
bush. He travelled with a circus that
belongs to the family.
“Dido”: I Was sitting in the dressing-
room with the actor-manager. I smoked and
drank whisky while he busied himself get-
ting into the costume of a bulky laboring
man. We were discussing the possibilities
of my great comedy. Presently a minion
opened the door, just wide enough to allow
hip to push his head into the room, and
said: “Mr. Blank to see you, sir.” “I can’t
see him,” said the actor. The head was
withdrawn, and after three minutes it re-
appeared. “Says it’s rather important, sir.”
T know very well it is nothing of the kind.
Tell Blank to come to-morrow.” In a very
little while the occiput was thrust in
again. “Says he won’t keep you five
minutes.” “I can’t see him!” snorted the
actor. Head withdrawn. The actor took
up a bootjack and stood ready. “If he comes
again”—said he. At that moment the door
opened, a head appeared, the actor person
let go with the bootjack, and nearly knocked
the block off poor Blank, a well-to-do, too
persistent admirer of the leading lady.
“Beamish”: Harry Lauder, who is on his
way to Australia, is being preceded by the
usual cloud of ca’ canny stories. The best
of them tells of a couple of Scawtch gowf
caddies discussing their earnings after a
match in which Lauder had played. Said
Sandy to Jamie: “How much did Harry
louder gie ye’J” “Fb’pence,” answered
Jamie. Sandy was paralysed and could only
mutter feebly: “Ma guidness, ye must ha’
saved his life.”
“T.W.”: Tommy Beecham, pillman by
heredity and musical conductor from choice,
has been given a bad gruelling by the
Smoke’s bankruptcy registrar, who thinks he
should stint himself rather than leave 33
members of his collapsed opera-venture with-
out their salaries. This recalls the noble
oration made by Beecham on a Manchester
stage before he took over the Denhof opera
combination, otherwise “Covent Garden on
wheels,” with which his operatic ambitions
got into their real stride. The well-inten-
tioned Denhof had taken on 200 people, in-
cluding the London Symphony Orchestra,
for a great touring season of Wagner’s
“Ring” and eight other operas, the lightest of
which was “The Flying Dutchman.” But the
theatres simply wouldn’t hold the money to
pay the way, and when the crash came Bee-
cham, who was one of the conductors, re-
buked and patronised Denhof by turns. After
that tempestuous night Tommy hurried off
to raise the wind from his scandalised parent
in the St. Helen’s pill-factory. Actually
grand opera was about the least costly of
Tom’s hobbies, if one may call them such.
“Cluck”: A printer used to employ me to
give quotes to and take deposits from com-
posers whose ambition it was to teach their
own particular song of victory to the wait-
ing nation —at eigliteenpence a copy. While
the boom lasted we did a roaring biz, and in
most cases it was a crime to take the money.
Success was earned by the most unlikely-
looking individuals. One was an elderly
hawker in an up-country town, who sold
his song to his fruit-and-vegetable customers
on the round. H«? came back for three re-
peat orders of 1000 copies each. A returned
soldier was tne next best. He bought 2000
songs with his own photo on the cover, and
retailed them in small lots to other Diggers,
who sold them from door to door. This chap
was a good customer, but I lost him when
one of his pals came to say he was in hos-
pital and planked down the cash for 1000
copies, which he got. Next morning the
composer arrived with the news that he
hadn’t seen the hospital, and that the per-
fidious pal was retailing his song to his
canvassers at a lower price than he was
charging and was “dam’ good with his fists,
too.” The victim of circumstances blamed
me for the loss of his business and never
returned.
“ J.G.D.,” from Philadelphia :
“Pink’s” remarks on our film market overseas (B.
27/7/’22) reached me just as “Silks and Sallies”
was being shown in the West Philadelphia Theatre.
I renewed old acquaintances and found that under
its new title of “Queen of the Turf” it portrayed a
romance of Kentucky, all Australian references hav-
ing been carefully removed. Tb' clothes and head-
gear of the actors being unfamiliar, the audience
regarded the movie as being ancient and treated it
accordingly. “The Queen” may have been “running
well” when “Pink” wrote, but he can believe me
that she is properly winded by this time.
“D.F.”: Cosmo Hamilton’s “Silver Fox,”
now being played at the Criterion, Sydney,
may be brilliantly original, for all I know,
but as much can hardly be claimed for the
title. The two clever Irishwomen who col-
laborated under the names of Martin Ross
and E. Oe. Somerville wrote a story called
“The Silver Fox” years ago<
“0.K.”: Jane Austen’s “Pride and Pre-
judice” hardly strikes readers as being a
book to make a modern play of, but a dra-
matisation has been staged in London with
some success. The dressing would help to
make it a pleasing show, of course. English
social life at the time was marked by just
as much slovenly and shabby attire as nowa-
days, and bathing was not nearly as popu-
lar, but on the stage an 18th, or early 19th,
century “costume play” presents everybody
in quaintly picturesque disguise, whilst the
fact that they are all carefully clothed and
contrasted to look sweet, though old-
fashioned, is forgotten in the glamor of the
scene. Art is responsible for an awful lot
of fraud upon the public, but in nothing is
it more outrageously false to fact than in its
glorification of our ancestors’ general outfit.
In the picture—stage or oil painting—
people- lived only in immaculate apparel,
spotless, unwrinkled and harmoniously
colored. Hogarth showed regard for the
truth about toggery, but the rule was to pre-
sent genteel society in the neatest of mas-
querade, instead of the disorder of derrink,
which must have been a common thing in the
two-bottle days.
“Snell”: Prank had written a play. It
was beautifully written on the best paper,
divided into four elegant acts, each stapled
with pink ribbon, rvrapped first in tissue*
paper, then in a ereamlaid wrapper. Each
“The Peep Show,” at
Melbourne Royal.
Mona Magnet in “The
Piano Next Door.”
act had a cover of
pale gold, the whole
was covered with
mock vellum, and.
finally, the play
was contained in a
portfolio for which
the playwriter gave
a guinea. “I be-
lieve in making a
good impression
from the jump,”
said Frank. *‘l
gave the play to
the manager I con-
sidered most hope-
ful, and he seemed
quite delighted with
me for giving him
the opportunity of
securing it at first
hand. He kept it
seven weeks, and
then, when I grew
very urgent, told
me to call round at
his office, where he
offered me my play
back, looking very
orderly, just as
when I delivered it
into his hands.
“We can’t do busi-
ness, then?” I said
mournfully. “I
dunno,” was the
reply; “perhaps we
can. I’ll give you
ten and six for the
■ portfolio.”
“Russ”: Who is Australia’s oldest mum-
mer? In Bourke-street, Melbourne recently
I met Harry Daniels, who is venerable
enough to have played with G. V. Brooke.
To prove that his memory was still good,
the old ’un recited several passages from
Shakspeare.
“Norbell”: In these darg days it is quite
expensive enough to have to smash the second
quid for two decent seats when you take
Gwladys to see “Cairo,” besides sparring up
for the ice-cream, chocs and cloakroom, but
6d. for the programme, with Oscar’s, name
in big letters nine times, and 60 ads., is over
the odds. “The Silver Ifox” and “The
Naughty Princess” bills-of-fare cost only 3d.
Is the extra tray demanded for the “lyrics”
of Oscar which occupy a couple of pages?
To my mind “Bellerive” could do much better
than—
I am any old thing,
Cook, sew, play.
Ting-a-ling,
And his juggler am I,
Juggle balls,
Mind your eye!
And so on. And in “Bellerive’s” case one
would get his pungent realism, with all the
rest of The Bulletin thrown in, for six-
pence. Allan Wilkie’s programmes, quite
destitute of ads., used to be only Id. each.
Verily, Ali Shar is the strong man.
“T.W.” : While Melbourne’s Bertie Zelman
is no doubt right in claiming to be the first
Australian to conduct big orchestras right,
through a night’s programme in London and
Berlin, Percy Grainger and George Clutsam
have handled the stick in both cities when
their own works were being performed. Zel-
man is one of the most earnest and know-
ledgeable musicians in Australia, but it is
surprising that he has got his show after
such small opportunities in Melbourne. With
millions behind him, Thomas Beecham battled
for several years to work his way. into the
close corporation of English musical con-
ductors, then limited for all practical pur-
poses to Bridge, Parry, Stanford, Cowen,
Mackenzie, Wood and the not very English
Richter. This in spite of the fact that he
was able to hand out fancy salaries to a
special orchestra of i:'s own, about the first
real musician in history who could.
“Todgil” : “Fax’s” aliushm(B. 26/10/’22i
to “a couple of veteran acrobats and bal-
ancers,” announced to appear in the panto
of “The Forty Thieves,” at Melbourne
King’s, might be interpreted to mean that
the gymnasts (Fortonello and Cirillino) have
grown bald-headed in the business. As a
matter of fact, the n-iir are quite, young
men—ltalian, I believe, in origin—and
had the distinction of folding up Teddy
Woodbine in immoderate laughter when they
appeared at London Coliseum. On the word
of the Firm, they were engaged over two
years ago.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRAMA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To make a great Australian play
You take some people from the bush,
Born idiots mostly, by the way,
And half-a-dozen of the push.
You make the latter talk a lot,
A kind of stuff you never hear,
And flourish lib’rally the pot
That holds the beer.
The man from Outback has a ziff;
A sublimated ass is he.
A greater ass the female, if
’Tis possible that that may be.
She makes love to the whiskered one,
And resolutely calls him “dear.”
Well, out of this you get your fun
If helped by beer.
You have a hero virtuous,
But such a manly devil, too.
The heroine approves this cuss
But turns him down (they always do).
But presently they’re reconciled.
She wipes away the starting tear,
And then, if things are going mild,
Brings in the beer.
The evil wretch, a city chap,
A spieler of the darkest dye,
Would rob poor Dad of every rap.
The hero pokes him in the eye.
The booze is brought again. I think
The paltriest make-believe is here,
For no one ever gets a drink
Of dinkum beer.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Undoubtedly I have a sharp
tongue in my head
STANDARD SET (No. I)
contains heavily silver-plated,
self-stropping razor, 12 tested
"Valetblades and genuine
"Valet” strop, complete in
durable case lined 07/ fi
velvet and satin - *
I take good care of that.
You see, for safety razors, a sharp tongue is a virtue—
you need it for your morning shave. It is certainly
the only kind of tongue whose sharpness is tolerated
before breakfast.
I am “Valet Auto Strop,” the razor that sharpens
itself. I need no “gadgets” or stropping machines—
all 1 want is my strop. If you will let me slide up
and down that strop for ten seconds every morning
I’ll undertake to give you at least a month of perfect
daily shaves with every “Valet” blade.
That’s the way I save men trouble and expense.
You will find me waiting for you at any good
razor shop.
“VALET’
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australasia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD.,
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The word ' Valel" on Razor/, Strops and Blades Indicates the genuine product of the AutoSlrop Safely Razor Co., Lid., 197-207, City Road, London, Enf,
HIS ,
MASTERS
VOICE’
homes are the happiest.
“His Master’s Voice’’ is the one
Instrument that presents in the
home the best music of the celebri-
ties in tones of actual reality.
The genius, the power, the beauty
of every voice and every instru-
ment are yours to command in
“His Master’s Voice’’—you can
be entertained by the diverse gifts
of the foremost artists in the world.
When you play His Master s Voice’’ Records on an “His
Master’s Voice’’ Instrument —the only way to obtain perfect
results—you duplicate in the home the public triumphs
of those great stars, famous in every country of the world.
“His Master’s Voice** Instruments, each one a triumph of good
workmanship, range in price from 1 1 guineas to 91 guineas.
Write for Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists and name of nearest dealer.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
J
His Master’s Voice
\t-»
y*y
-
•tl
c
iix
tu. 1116
•eS
' W/ -,>
5-a5l
7S
artTi
<u/'^
0
“His Master’s Voice,*
liep. Trade-mark.
"Gramophone ”
Reg. Trade-mark.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
X
RANGER
THE “
KHAKI
RIDING
TROUSERS
13/9 PAIR.
3 PAIRS FOR 40/-
fimbodies every principle conducive to
Riding Comfort. Fadeless Material,
strong, hard-wearing. Finished with
Cross Pockets, Loops for Belt, and real
Stockmen’s cut, with straight top.
Mail to Desk “S.B. " stating size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
BRISBANE
Townsville Toowoomba.
Automatic Rifles,
Shotguns (El Pistols
We are the leading people for AUTOMATICS.
RIFLES. m ,
BROWNING .22 Cal., fire 11 ordinary Short
Cartridges. Neat and effective, 80/-
BROWNING .22 Cal., fire S Long-rifle Curt-
ridges, 95/-
WTNCHESTER .22 Cal., fire 8 Automatic _.22
Cartridges. A splendid hard hitter, £9/1 o/ m
GUNS.
BROWNING 12 and 16 g. Five shots. Com-
pact. £l5.
WINCHESTER ,12g., slightly used, £l2/10/-
PISTOLS. ,
BROWNING. —The world-famed pocket firearm.
25 Cal.. 80/-; 32 Cal., 857-
COLT and WEBLEY & SCOTT.
The BROWNING AUTOMATICS are unrivalled
for qualitv. We are Sole Agents.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Violoncello’s capture of the C. B. Fisher
Plate last Saturday completed his trio of w.f.a. wins
at the V.R.C. meeting. The distance —12 furlongs
—made it less easy for the big' < hestnut than his
previous victories, but the fast time left no question
of his being able to last the mile and a half, fast or
slow. Tangalooma, who gave him a good shake up,
likes 12 furlongs (and no more) better than Violon-
cello does, neither of them seeming to have the
stamina of Easingwold, who made the running and
then stuck to his work after the brilliant pair had
passed him. The respectability of Easingwold’s
performance was attested by the -failure of Harvest
King to beat him for third place money. But he
will never he successful in first-class company if
the boy on top tries to win all the way.
Evidently the excellence, or otherwise, of
Violoncello is a matter of climate and temperature.
Sydney has never seen the imported stallion at his
best, but in Melbourne he lias now accounted for
five good stakes —always on a cool day. The com-
parative chilliness of the late Melbourne racing car-
nival was right into the hands —or feet—of Violon-
cello, and his capture of the Caulfield Cup last year
was equally due to the weather. The English horse
scored his big win on a. cold, wet day. He has been
favored by something approaching his native condi-
tions, whilst other visitors from N.S.W. were resent-
ing the change of temperature and running below their
Sydney form.
The Cypher, in the hands of V. Sleigh, some-
what surprised the bookmakers by taking the
V.R.C. Handicap in brilliant style after they had
lengthened the odds against him from a penurious
2’s to a confident 3’s. The colt’s performance in
the Cup had suggested that he was rather overdone
than underdone in his preparation, and might be
going quite stale by Saturday. His spurt-away vic-
tory in the V.R.C. Handicap indicated that the long-
gallop on Tuesday had done him good. How poor
was David’s chance in the Cup was shown by the
result in this ease. David led round the last turn
from Purser and the tiring Brilliant Sunshine. A
furlong from. home The Cypher ran past David and
beat him by 21- lengths, and this when David was
meeting him on 91b. better than Cup terms. Not
for years has the V.R.C. Handicap been contested by
a field of such good class.
Sir Prim probably ended his long career
when he fell and broke something in the Vic-
toria Steeplechase. For the present, at any rate,
punters will be spared further losses over this faded
flower of jumping races. Three years ago the old
ex-hurdler, who had a long and costly career over
the minor sticks, won a Grand National and did
other big things over the big jumps. Since then he
lias waned, and of late, with the weight beirig gradu-
ally removed from his old back, Sir Prim has been
a mere trap for the unwary. He was always going
to win, but he invariably didn’t.
The public at Flemington, or as many
of them as knew the number of racing beans required
to make five, expected some sort of official say
concerning the extraordinary failure of Lady Reynard
in the November Nursery. The filly, after running
wide in a race at Caulfield, took the Maribyrnong
Plate almost as easily as she had won the second
division of the Maribyrnong Trial on the Flemington
course. The bad race at Caulfield, where she started
favorite, came between two brilliant performances,
but, as there was no turn in the Flemington straight
for Lady Reynard to run ■ wide at, it seemed very
good business to hack her for the November Handicap
on Cup Day, with only a 101 b. penalty to carry.
This time the filly was ridden by a cross-country
jockey, Gray, in place of -T. Harris, her former rider.
Starting at even money the good thing dropped out
of the lead almost as soon as she got going, and
finished a long wa3 r back. Many thousands of
pounds were pouched by the books when Lady Rey-
nard ran nowhere and a rank outsider won. An
inquiry might have been held, if only as a matter
of courtesy to commonsense. But it wasn’t.
* * * *
’Raised only 91b. for his Hotham Handi-
cap and Mebourne Cup triumphs. King Ingoda had
a soft thing on in the Williamstown Cup. Backed
down to 5 to 2 in a field of 15 he moved from last
to third in a couple of furlongs, joined the leaders,
Easingwold and Switch, at the entrance to the
straight, and won without difficulty by half a length
in 2min. 32sec. for the 12 furlongs. Switch was
second, the S.A. colt Anton King third, and the
unlucky Easingwold fourth. The handle apper took
a risk with the King in letting him in with Bst.
He has been a great moneyspinner for Scobie and
for Dubois and Bennett, his S.A. owners, this spring,
“Yet” : The result of the Melbourne Cup was
foreshadowed, to a considerable extent, by the netting
market on the day. Rivoli and Whittier had been
expected to become very hot fancies, hut thev 1
remained merely warm, whilst The Cypher and King
Ingoda had rapid rises of temperature. Rain on the
Monday and on Cup morning was only partly account-
able for the cramping of odds in some eases, and
extension in ' others. Harvest King continued to
enjoy the confidence of the proletariat on account
of his Melbourne Stakes form, despite his big
weight. David went out of favor. The public
finally decided that he was a Randwick fetich, much
favored by circumstances in the rich w.f.a. events
lie laid annexed. The weather made little difference
to the growing disbelief in handsome David. How
far it affected the chances of the topweights nobody
can say. Seeing that Sister Olive, tne least power-
ful of them, finished fourth, it can hardly be pleaded
that the going gave them no chance. Apparently
this was a Cup struggle in which topweights were
only moderate as t.op-notchers go, and the two Derby
winners were not real stayers. On that supposition
it is quite understandable that in sticky going only
the lightweights with good stamina looked danger-
ous in the last quarter of a mile. Basella and Para-
too were, in turn, leaders until Cypher and King
Ingoda came along and made a match of the
finish. The ultimate winner, a four-year-old
with only 7st. lib., carried the heaviest burden of
that little lot. Little mare Mufti, with 7st. 91b.,
assisted to show the want of “class,” or lack of true
stamina, in the rest of the field by working into
third place, a length or two ahead of Paratoo.
King Ingoda is a light-barrelled, rather mean-looking
animal with conspicuous ears, who doesn’t give one
the idea of his ever becoming a weight carrier of
note.
“0.K.”; Very green amateurs are members
of the A'.R.C. these times. In the stand reserved for
members it used to be understood that those seated
could see as much of the race as those standing.
An exciting finish might bring a percentage of hysteri-
cal hackers to their feet, with the inevitable result of
compelling men behind them to rise in self-defence,
but. until the last turn was made, nobody in the
members’ stand ever exposed himself to the indignity
of being told to sit down and not be a fool. Things
are different these days. The first half-mile of the
Cup race indicated that. Shouts of “Sit down!” were
UNDERSTANDABLE ANNOYANCE.
“It says here, ‘the horse that finished last in the Melbourne Cup was Furious.’ ”
“Well, what about it? Wasn’t it only natural?”
wasted on the first two or three who arose and im-
peded the view of their fellow-clubmen. But what
did they care about causing general inconvenience.?
Five pounds’ worth of anxiety deadened them to all
sense of duty to their fellow-punter. They persisted
in standing up. Panic spread through the main
company of hotheads, and up they popped like jack-
in-the-boxes, here and there. After which nobody
could see the race unless he stood up, and even then
he couldn’t watch it easily if the bloke immediately
in his line of vision had the bulk of an elephant
and the hind legs of a giraffe. The shades of old-
time sports probably glided amongst Johnny Raw mem-
bers, wringing ghostly hands, and wondering why
these parvenus didn’t know enough to keep Still in
their places, as good men did in dear old Carbine’s
days.
By adding the 'Queensland Cup to his
owner’s possessions, Kingslot confirmed the sus-
picion that he is a colt of class. Favorite at 7 to
4, the Shepherd King-Lotchen youngster took charge
at the distance, and beat the 20 to 1 chance Elpes
home by half a length, with Lochiel Dhu, a 50-to-l
shot, in third place, and the second favorite, Ship,
fourth. The two miles were run in 3min. 26sec.,
and Kingslot was dead beat at the finish. No doubt
the race took something out of him, for in the 11-
furlongs Prince of AVales Stakes on Saturday he
was beaten at w.f.a. by both Tom McCarthy and
Tolley Scott, who were among his victims in the
Cup race. Tom led from start to finish, and left
the distance behind in the Australian record time of
2min. 17£sec.
The style in which Cymric, an imported
six-year-old by Cylgad-Trepida, annexed tue 10-
furloug Rosehill Handicap on Saturday suggests that
he will he dangerous in one or more of the Christ-
mas handicaps. There were some fairly good cattle
in the field, but the Englishman had the race in hand
a long way from home. He was the third favorite
to arrive during the day. But the victories of three
15-to-l chances enabled Mcßook to protest that he
nearly broke even on the seven races.
* * * *
“Y.Z.” ; Jacky Black was riding for Blaney
in the Autumn Handicap at Mossyside, and Blaney
had decided that, all Idlings considered, it would pay
him far better for his horse to lose. There was a
good deal of public money on Umar, and Blaney was
o;i excellent terms with the bookmakers. So Jacky
Black was duly instructed. “You pull him plurry
head off, Jacky. Him no bin goin’ to win this
time.” All right. Jacky thoroughly understood.
The race was started, and Omar led all the way round.
Coming into the straight he fell back, bvit after enter-
ing the straight the nag bit into the bit,; digging his
heels in and pulling like a bullock, and won by half a
length. There was then the devil to pay in a quiet
coiner of the course. “You big one plurry lunatic
feller, Jacky. Mine tell you pull his head off.
Mine bin say to you no win, no win, Jacky.” Jackv
hurled the sweat from his ebon brow. “My worrd,”
said he, “you bin tell um me, you big one damfool
no bin tell um horse.”
* * * *
Maclaren’s visitors will need to perform
better than at Adelaide if they are to capture laurels.
South Aus. hadn’t its best team, the two Pellews,
AYhitty, A. Smith and Rundell being all absentees;
but it had two opening batsmen good enough to
collar the English bowling and smack it all over the
field, and with 256 on the board when the first
wicket fell, the home side were on velvet. The two
Richardsons (A.J. 150, V.Y. 118) got the runs, by
merry batting, in a trifle over two hours. No one
else performed more than respectably, the innings
closing for 442. Tyldesle.v, with 5 wickets for 100,
was the only M.C.C. bowler who showed class. Nor
did the Englishmen, when their turn came, impress
as a powerful batting side, although there were at
least three batsmen who played good and plucky
cricket. The side was dismissed for 205 (AVilkinson
64) and 294 (Wilson 61, Chapman 53). This left
South Aus. at 5.30 on Monday with 58 runs to make
to win, and rather less than half that number of
minutes to make them in. They put through the
contract by taking chances and losing 4 wickets,
Murray (28) getting nearly half the runs. It was
a bright, sporting ending to an interesting match.
“Adelaide” : Madaren’s team is easier to
identify than some others have been.. The captain him-
self is grey, looking all of the 51 he will be on
December 1. Colonel Hartley cannot be far short of
that age, and he and Wilkinson are distinguishable
by heayy moustaches. Freeman, the Kent googlie
bowler, is probably the lightest cricketer ever
seen on a field, and Titchmarsh is very little taller.
Tyldesley (who, though he comes from Lancashire, is
no relation to the international batsman of years
ago) is short and sturdy, quite the old-fashioned
type of English professional. At the other end
of the scale is Chapman, a very tail left-hander, as
brilliant in the field as with the bat. Maclean, a
wicketkeeper, also looks some inches over six feet,
and Calthorpe is almost as tall. Hill-Wood has red
hair to distinguish him, and this leaves very few
to puzzle over in the field.
No outright wins were registered in the
fourth round of Sydney grade cricket. All eight
matches were decided on the first innings. The
briskest partnership of the season was that of G.
Chapman (119 n. 0.) and R. C. M. Boyce (135) for
Gordon v. St. George. The pair knocked up 220
runs for the fifth wicket in two hours, and helped
their side to a substantia] victory. For the same
team A. Lawrie took 6 for 58, and N. Phillips (Rand-
wick) followed up his score of 142 by bagging five
N. Sydney wickets for 54. Randwick won easily.
Waverley, last year’s premiers, are leading with i 2
points, followed by Balmain and Sydney (11 each),
Cumberland and Gordon (10 each). In the trial
match Collins’s team beat Macartney’s by 135 runs.
For the losers Macartney made a sparkling 57 ;
and Scaness 61 (top score) was quite first-class
Scanes played wul, the W.S.W. Uolts a-afnrt
.Douglas s XI, but was out for 0 and 3 ThK ™
be is in fine form. Asher, who bowls googlies (i j,
most of the damage—he got 6 for 59 off 19 over-
He has earned his place in a more representative
wn V he , l "". I :uva - v lU - Oldfield kept wicket for
both sides and aid it well, in a total of 645 the«
were only three byes. CI eu
The closest contest in Melbourne’cricket
on Saturday was the M.C.C.-University fixture, the
lntellectuak ultimately getting home with a margin
of four runs Irvine, who carried out his bat for
f 2, ln a total iof 130, was the only comfortable per-
foi itter for the students, the next best being l* 0 iT.er
in’ vr h four others failed to score. Hansford
and got 3’fo?^4 ln ’ * riec lJ lis hand with the ball
anci got 3 foi 34. Hawthorn-East were 36 behind
Prahran s total of 147 on the first hits, Wallace again
performing well with 6 for 55, whilst Grimmett
finished the other four for 48. Philpott (7 for
was the disheartening factor in North’s unsuccessful
struggle against Carlton. North patted up 100
which was 134 short of the Carlton total. Rich:
mond were 178 behind Collingwood, seven of the
casualties being due to L. Keating at the small cost
of 21 runs Though Northcote’s 21G was 76 more
than Essendon could manage, the ’Don’s did better
in the second innings. Time robbed St. Hilda of
a win over South Melbourne. They had only 27 to
make, with six wickets intact, when the proceedings
were closed. s
* * * *
Linesman : The idea, of dividing the
world into two zones for the Davis Cup, the Euro-
pean countries fighting out the preliminaries in one
and the Pacific nations doing the same in the other
ought to attniit the Australian Lawn Tennis A-socre
Don If the suggestion is pushed to an agreement
i:i the projected conference in London or Paris, Aus-
Dalia will save a lot of expense; and if Japan, as
seems likely, is unable to become a serious com-
petitor, our fellows will have an easier run to the
final. In the Pacific zone the only probable starters
at present are Canada, Hawaii, the Philippines, India
Maoriland, and possibly South Africa, and, without
knowing anything about the quality of the tennis in
Hawaii and the Philippines, one should say that the
Australians would not face the same opposition thev
have encountered in Europe. If Japan drops out.
it may be a source of complaint that Australia has
got the best of the arrangement; but still on financial
grounds the proposal ought to appeal to everybodv.
The country that wins in Europe is guaranteed by
this scheme more than the recovery of its expenses
in crossing the Atlantic, to America, since it would
meet the winner of the Pacific half of the draw in
the final —which always produces a substantial gate.
.Another point is that there would not be such heavy
withdrawals for the first heats, with the result that
the contest would be enormously enhanced in interest
as well.
* * *
Lawn tennis threatens to oust cricket as
Australia’s national game, and one of the latest signs
of the times in this connection is the appearance
of an elaborate shilling monthly entirely devoted to
the sport. Australasian Lawn Tennis 'is the name
of it, but it deals with tennis all over the world,
and is decorated with an admirable lot of photo-
graphs. Jt has been adopted as the official organ of
the A.L.T.A.
More poultry was served up at the Syd-
ney Stadium on Saturday, Freddie Jacks, of England,
being found guilty. He was adjudged to have
fouled Billy Grime, of Sydney, by hitting him below
the belt in the 15th round. Few agreed with the
referee that the punch had landed on forbidden terri-
tory, and the stout official was lustily hooted—so was
Grime, for that matter—as he retired to his den.
Grime won the. first 10 rounds easily, but the English-
man was fighting hard and looking a likely winner
when he was disqualified. From the 11th round on.
Grime clinched at every opportunity, and the verdict
was manifestly a great relief to him.
«*• * »
Harry Collins, the Newcastle (N.S.W.)
lightweight, is a strong, game lad with a good left,
but he has still a lot to learn about the subtleties
of the game. Harry Stone imparted some instruc-
tion at Melbourne on Saturday night. For doing
so he got the thick end of a substantial purse. Little
damage was inflicted by either combatant, and the
margin of points in Stone’s favor was by no means
great. But he landed more blows, and eluded more,
than the solid youth from beyond the Murray, and
the referee’s verdict, though fiercely questioned, was
right.
* * -X- *
Frank Albert’s big green flier Rawhiti
(sc.), piloted by E. E. Saver, and Bradley ami
Towse’s Bona (9min.), coaxed along hv Len Patrick,
had a great race for the Fairfax Cup under the
Royal Sydney Yacht, Squadron’s burgee. The bauble
looked a gift for Bona when she headed the long-
marker, Eun-na-mara, hut 50 yards from the finish-
ing point Albert’s craft ranged alongside, and bcal
the Maoriland-huilt boat home by half-a-second.
Eun-na-mara, with the owner, Andrew Wilson, up,
took third money. Nettle, wonderfully handled by
owner W. E. Arnott, recorded her third win in
three starts by annexing the 21ft. restricted-class
event from the G.-G.’s Corella (Don Taylor) and
Gymea (R. A. Carter). Corella chewed the blow
until Middle Head was abeam. Then Nettle took
charge and wasn't afterwards troubled.
With Tommy Benstead away H. R. Hodg-
son had small trouble in winning the N.S.AA. five-
mile motor-cycle championship in smin. ssec. He
also landed a five-mile handicap from scratch in
smin. 46see. At Brisbane, Benstead had li
mile to spare at the end of a 20-mile race involv-
ing the State title, and covered the journey in
ISmin. 43seci Both rode Harley-Davidsons.
By way of showing that be is in fait
trim for the Dunn Shield .-contests, “Slip" Carr, the
Sydney sprinter, won a 100yds. race on Saturday in
10 l-ssec.. and a 75yds. spin from scratch in Ssee.
Carr hadn’t been seen in action since he beat the
half-fit Springboks at Adelaide last year. He is
undoubtedly a fine runner, but the public would
have liked to see him measure strides with Avres-
Oosterlaak when the Afrikander was at his best.
* _ * ■* *
R. L. Raymond, the latest N.S.W. Rhodes
Scholar, was the toughest three-quarter the M.L.
ltughy Union footballers bumped in Sydney last year.
Another Australian recruit for the Oxford XA .
THE BLASTED HOPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Hope beats high in the Cup sport’s heart
And pleasure shines in his eager eyes:
When frocks are new to their Cup Day part,
And boys look spruce as their girls look smart,
And elderly gents profoundly wise,
There’s a gladsome tune in the Cup Day air;
Prophets and punters have pounds to spare.
The race begins! At the cry, “They're off!”
Grey shadows fall on the Cup crowd’s face.
No loud laugh now, but a nervous cough;
One hears no more of the oracle’s scoff,
So full of knowledge before the race.
Bright Hope tones down to a shade of doubt
As the air is rent by a Cup Day shout.
When Hope has done its delusive dash,
Again is the tale of Cup Day told;
The sanguine fellow, who lost much cash,
Regrets the faith which, in moments rash,
Had dazed his brain with a dope of gold.
The Cup Day tune is a doleful air,
For not a pal has a pound to spare.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


WAKEFIELD
e>
u
Retail Prices are Down
Per Gallon—
1-gall. Tins. 4-gall. Tins. 3-gall. Drums. 5-gall. Drums.
8/6 7/9 8/6 8/3
Buy “Castrol” in 5-gallon Steel Drums, fitted
with the Patent “Wakefield” Locking Tap
at 10/- extra,
for security from accident or theft. Then refill from 4-gallon
tins for economy.
We allow you, until 30th November, 1922,
ONE TAP FREE
w:.S each 5-gallon drum, when order is sent to us accom-
panied by the attached form.
0. G. WAKEFIELD & GO. LTD.,
Atlas Buildings, Sydney.
’Phone, City 11782.
C. C. WAKEFIELD & C'O., LTD..
Atlas Buildings, Sydney.
I enclose payment for 5-gallor. steel drum/s of
‘Castrol.” Please send me PATENT "WAKEFIELD”
LOCKING TAP/S FREE, as per Bulletin. ,
Name . ~,. ......... ...
Address
Car and lI.P.
Garage
Date
Please credit my local garage with this order.
$lO
mm
1. m s jig
*.# i
:
WM2i
HW'm'-'yi
jn
v. s*««>
mfeA
•T"*.
27/6
BlacK or Tan
(Freight Paid).
if
r«
§
Riding Bppfe
'/ :
>y' : ' >/ i% *!‘/*/ 'v7 'Z^' '/Zj/
fczzg
''■ %8 *
m&
ml *
43
*S
j>
Mb
X-;
ff ! *
.-' ~■//,'/X:
ftp/.sy. ;« t:
\
!to£*
w
I
'll IS
JWP
Is
..Mi
' V'l'.'.?
w
—-*^ss
- «*1 >Ax«“»" l * , "~~
'll
=l=»sa.
| EfcatHifufjy. '’constructed - ifr' fine~
strong
- Elastic Sides and Double Tags; -
'Dusf^ahii'^aferproof; light,-
. comfprtabie,- serviceable; —easy-
oftjhe
man "- H a boot _that .no Auf-
[Ttrafianhorsemair should be with-
out." ObfainaUe injalLsizes. i
utia
) Pidsiojro
m retur si
•ill nach you b
Lmcoln, Stuart & Co.
gi
V 3
244-254
3^===
oim
Remington
Portable
EXAMINE this wonderful typewriter. Write
on it. Note its simplicity and ease of
operation; the facility with which you can
handle all your writing, and you will realise that
this is the machine you have been waiting for.
It fits in a case only four inches high and can be
carried and used anywhere. It has the STANDARD
KEYBOARD, with four rows of keys and no
shifting for figures. It has the automatic ribbon
reverse. It has every feature you associate with
typewriting at its best.
The Ideal Christmas Present.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO KNOW MORE
ABOUT THIS WONDERFUL MACHINE?
Then sign and mail this Coupon TO-DAY—
Please forward illustrated descriptive matter —
“YOUR EVER HANDY HELPER.”
Name,
Address
(State whether you desire particulars of our easy terms.)
Dealers, apply for our profitable dealership terms.
DELIVERED ANYWHERE IN AUSTRALIA FREE .
Only 19 Gui n 6 as, Ca ord«-! th
TERMS CAN BE ARRANGED.
FOR SALE BY BRANCHES AND DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
REMINGTON SALESROOMS:
New South Wales:
STOTT & HOARE, LTD., Liverpool Street, Sydney.
(Central Showroom), 86 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Queensland:
STOTT & HOARE, LTD., Edward Street, Brisbane.
Victoria:
CHARTRES PTY., LTD., Collins Street, Melbourne.
South Australia:
REMINGTON AGENCY, LTD., Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
m


Christmas Hampers of Good Cheer.
Farmer’s have inaugurated a service of Christmas hampers,
packed with specially selected dainties. They may be ordered
by mail, ’phone, or personally. Prices vary according to quantity
and diversity of contents, ranging from 30/- to £5/5/-. Send or
call for Christmas Hamper booklet. They are carefully packed,
and will be sent to any address. Farmer’s do not pay carriage.
Farmer’s :: Sydney.
Chateau Napier,
Leading
Mountain Resort,
Leura, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Central Heating System
Throughout.
BALLROOM, BILLIARD-
ROOM, TENNIS COURT,
GARAGES.
All products from Napier Farm.
Tel. 121 Kntonmba.
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
pro[?]
Phones Cent 1533,11609.
The ball at the grey house of the Governor-
General is always the centre-piece in the
Race Week frivols. This year conventions
were flung to the winds —and the winds
were boisterous enough, Heaven knows!
There was no two-and-two Noah’s Ark pro-
cession of a reception, and there was
no vice-regal “set” of Lancers. The
G.-G. and his house-pEtrty came quietly forth
to the canopy at the end of the ballroom,
and jazz took the floor from the word go.
Their Exes, moved about with an informal
saunter, and said “How-do” to the people
lined up on the elevation which surrounds
the room. The gay and frivolous and the
young revelled in the innovation. Jazz was
the beginning, the- centre and the end of
the party. The sedate old chooks who live
for the G.-G. ceremony from one year’s end
till another, were shocked to the very core
of their carefully-corseted bodies. It was
unthinkable —no Lancers in which to figure
importantly; no chance of showing their
long-practised curtsey in a formal reception
and presentation; no chance to gloat over
parading on ahead of that other cat. With
all this, and “Cairo” music and other mod-
ern tunes setting the dance-crazy feet whirl-
ing, there was not a shred of the old regime
left to cling to. Life became the blankiest
of blanks for the ancient gang. Guv’ment
House Ball, at least, used to be left to
the grown-ups, but now, with the irruption
of youth, all they could do was to glare and
wait for the supper. But that supper was
a gorgeous affair, and should have brought
comfort to their souls. It was in the State
dining-room, spread among huge silver bowls
and tripods of roses in every color. The
G.-G. and his lady had an exclusive party at
the top table —the Earl Governor and Lady
Stradbroke, William Irvine and his wife,
Rear-Admiral Alan Everett, Harry Chauvel
and his pretty lady, Dame Mary Hughes,
Adrian Knox, Mrs. Lawson, tlie Arthur
Robinsons, the Stanley Bruces and Mrs.
William Collins.
Lady Forster wore black —a clinging
gown, heavily encrusted with green and gold
embroideries and lit up with many dia-
monds. Lady Stradbroke was all rubies and
diamonds and dimity blue. Her three
dainty daughters had a perfectly happy
time. One was in fuchsia tulle —
an adorable frock —another in pale blue
georgette, and the baby one wore pink with
silver tulle. Lady Digby hit up her sur-
roundings with damask brocade of black,
blue and gold. Mrs. Billy Hughes was
brilliant in silver embroidered georgette with
her D.B.E. sash; and the wife of Irvine,
C.J., wore pale amber brocade of a sufii-
ciently severe cut. Sheila Loughborough
sported all-black frockings. Mrs. Pitt Rivers
was a pleasing vision in misty white, inlaid
back and front with bugle-bead panels. Mrs.
William Collins achieved all-black effects,
and Mrs. C. li. Duncan was in white. Artil-
lery Director Coxen and his wife convoyed
two pretty debutante daughters. Mrs. Theo-
dore, the Queensland Premier’s missus,
looked splendiferous in the blue satin dress
she wore at her Court presentation in Lon-
don. She is black-haired and dark-eyed, and
has the “Toowoomba complexion,” which is
very like that of Christchurch (M.L.). The
South Aus. Moulden dame affected mauve,
and Mrs. Norton Grimwade, just back from
a world tour, was a blsze of gold tissue.
Beauty honors went to a Westralian miss
who recently returned from England, and
dimpled enchantingly in rose-colored brocade.
The chiffonery side of the affair was simply
topping, and signalised the triumphant re-
turn of the long frock. Legs are out. One
uninformed damsel, who swung transparent
flouncings over a knee-length petti, looked
positively dowdy.
Governor Stradbroke and his lady had
bad luck as regards weather for their two
big parties. The Derby eve reception struck
a very wintry blast, and as for the ball on
Monday night—well, there! An icy rain
utterly spoilt the terrace-moonlight effect.
It was hard luck, because the race-week
guests are legion, and Stonington is as
cramped as the usual suburban home for
room, the pony Governor having to depend
on his wide verandahs and fine terrace
lawns for general foot-space. Some of the
guests wished they had brought eiderdowns
or blankets for comfortable wrappage—the
fluff of evening-gown cloaks was quite in-
adequate.
There was a rush at intervals for the
careful make-up of blue and red noses. The
nasal organ is a difficult feature to ‘‘make-
up”—the very cutest pigments refuse to stay
on except under most advantageous condi-
tions. We have had beautiful Australian
noses that defied the worst, but the days
of Mrs. Maesmore Morris and Mrs. Charlie
Wallace (as was) are no more. The modern
proboscis seems to run to bulk. Anyhow,
it was a lovely party despite the indifferent,
not to say, deplorable, npse-show. Between
dances the guests rushed the big wood fires
in the cosy corners of lounge and drawing-
room, and'kept themselves warm discussing
future bets on favorites. Lady Stradbroke
was a graceful picture of hospitality, tightly
gowned in duck-blue charmeuse —a long nar-
row affair that tailed off into a narrow train
lined with gold tissue. A tiara of diamonds
radiated cold gleams, and she hung rubies
and diamonds round her neck. Mrs. Tony
Hordern, from Sydney, made a sensational
effect with her gold-embroidered black satin.
The “drape” was absolutely perfect. Mrs.
Ernest Watt hung heavy black georgette
from a bodice of wonderful jet. Judith
Black (W.A.) had a gorgeous gown—-shaded
pink blossoms embroidered in thick silk on
soft pinky-purple georgette. Mrs. AValter
Marks chose dull black hung with dangles
of jet, and Mrs. Ernest Robertson had her
gown covered with jet like snake-scales.
At midnight the gent.-helps produced
baskets of snowballs (make-shift snow d la
New York frivols), and a good game of
snowballing hit up the excitement in the
marquee. (I forgot to tell you there was
a pale-pink-lined marquee with a decent
floor to take in some of the overflow.) More
aides produced ravishing squeaking toys,
and the Rich and' Near-Rich avalanched
back into childhood’s happy days with much
cacophony and snowball bashing.
The Cup was a surge of 115,000 tensely-
excited people. The weather let them down
'easily—soft and srey with no sun-glare,
which meant that there were fewer ex-
hausted females and scarcely any tired feet.
The arrival of the G.-G. in his open car-
riage with the postillions, many horses and
much guard of honor, was an imposing event.
The vice-regal party was neatly Gor-saved
into its specially-decorated pen, and the
crowd went off happily to help the bookies
add another storey or two to their for-
tunes. A few people saw the Cup run—
the others jumped frantically to get an elu-
sive peep, or stood on steps (and the other
fellow’s toes), and trusted to the roar in
front to tell how the race was going. Lady
Forster observed it through lorgnette race-
glasses from under a shady hat of rucked
grey silk. Her gown was soft cloud-grey
satin muffled round with dark fux*s. The
Stradbroke Countess toned in with soft
browns and fawns. She is becoming a real
Australian sport—has some two-year-olds in
training and will be putting up her own
colors very soon.
A buzz of rumor went round Flemington
that the startling Connie Waugh had
drifted back to Australia. “Have you seen
her?” was the one-woman question. If
Connie appeared at all, she was hidden
under a dark veil. The hope of the Lawn
for a sensation was unsatisfied. Rumor will
have it that the lady is trying to get her
old house, L’Aiglon, and some rumoresses
even know whose gardener and cook she has
snavelled.
When his stock of available cash for punt-
ing had run out a salesman in the motor
trade took to estimating the value of the
cars parked about the Flemington course,
and his figures totted up to £1,650,000. But
Clapp got the bulk of the traffic —the rail-
ways carried 48,000-odd to and from the
course.
The community bravely tried to live up
to its Oaks Day reputation for frocking,
though a sleety cold froze out the real gar-
den-party dresses. Lady Forster decked her-
self in powder-blue with little blue flowers
in a big blue hat, but she was forced to
take refuge in furry wrappings. Lady Strad-
broke wore her favorite neck-to-ankle type
of frock. It was in pale fawn cloth, and
buttoned up tight to a fur-rimmed collar.
Social parties were the order of the day.
The G.-G. Excellencies gave a luncheon in
the vice-regal rooms, and the Earl lunched
with the committee, while his Countess en-
tertained in the Governor’s room. Lady
Stradbroke invited General Harry Chauvel
and his lady to lunch, along with the Mauds-
leys, the Norman Falkiners, the Norman
Armytages and the Adelaide Hopes.
Mrs. Jack Wallace had a large party, at
which the guest of honor was the Irvine lady,
in a trim outfit of navy blue. The hostess
decked herself in black, of a true Parisian
cut, with a hat topped off in turquoise blue.
Mrs. Tom Dixon, from Sydney, was with
them, and showed what Sydney could do
with the fashionable beaded gown. The
Sydneysiders seem to be mad on beads, the
expensive things embroidering every kind of
fabric. Mrs. Andrew McHarg put a bril-
liant red turban into the scene, topping a
confection of brown lace silk and enviable
sables. Mrs. Hammond Clegg also plunged
on the fashionable brown which is a soft
cross between beaver and the tobacco tint.
Mrs. George Kettleweil was in real wash-
day blue softened with sapphire and peri-
winkle. The Bob Whitings gave a great
party with much popping of champagne
corks. The Deniliquin Wilkinsons, whose
sister has bagged a real English title for
the family, were there. Mrs. Eric Harri-
son—Roma, of the Giiden Clarkes —-was in
silver grey, with the newest of shawl wraps.
The nearer one gets to grandmamma’s shawl
these days the more envy one gets
from other females—and envy from the other
woman is the height of bliss. Judge Wil-
liams was with his wife and daughter; also
the Walter Winter-Irvings, who are related
to Scarlet’s owner. The Reggie Clarkes,
the Staughtons and Mrs. Tony Hordern were
also at this jolly party, along with the
Walter Bayleses and their debutante daughter
The warm weather on SatUrday-—Steeple-
chase Day—brought out the carefully-hoarded
summer dresses at Flehiington. and vari-
colored pahasois made things ga.y. The Vice-
regal crowd flung ceremony to the winds
and haunted the birdcage and paddock. Lady
Forster, in cool grey, wore English. fokget-
me-nots in her hat. Lady Sti'adbrbke was
gorgeous in ivory soft satin and Limerick
lace. Mrs, Collins, With the hduse-iiarty;
looked like a snowball in white gCdrgette;
Mrs, Russeil Gabb, exulting, over the win
of PrihCe Tressauy, Was in a duck of
a White georgette with big choux of white
feathers in her shady white hat. Sam Mac-
kay’s wife was a picture in pale grey that
fluttered in the fashionable odd lengths round
grey-clad ankles and feet. Naval Paymaster
Bobbie Ramsay (he succeeded our very own
Tracey) was out with his wife —a charming
vision of pastel-toned duds and dimples.
Bobbie “backed the card” at each meeting
with one exception—he missed the Cup-
winner. The lunch- and tea-parties were a
wild and woolly but good-natured scramble.
Host and hostess waved vaguely to the
butler-in-charge, and rushed for the noisy
betting paddock; and guests grabbed a sand-
wich or a leg of a chicken or fizzed out a
whisky-and-soda and then followed suit. The
Naieest ignored individual invitations and
bunged in for a bite at the table of the
nearest pal. Some severely sedate guests
arrived at one table at the appointed time,
and “absolutely couldn’t get a cup of tea,
my dear.” “Bedlam!” they said. “Times
are not what they were.” Young girls and
hostesses were alike jazz-jaded, and it took
crates of bottles to pull them together. Tea?
—who ever heard of such a thing!
The Clints, as in the case of the McCraes,
have been talented for at least four genera-
tions. Alfred Clint,
now in his 81st
year, and pictured
herewith by May
Moore, is the grand-
son of George Clint,
who painted por-
traits of Edmund
Kean and other
stars of his time.
George had four
sons Luke, a
scenic - artist;
Raphael, a gem-en-
graver ; Scipio, a
medallist; and
Alfred, a landscape-
painter. It was the
last-named who was
the father of our
veteran scenic-artist,
and he in turn has
three sons, Alfred, George and Sydney, who
all continue the family tradition.
When Keith entered 1 his bedroom, late
on Cup night, he was greeted with
a shrill cry, and the voice of a
female in great distress protested: “You
are in the wrong room. Oh, please, don’t
strike a light. Don’t! Don’t! If it’s my
ipistake,” proceeded the soprano, “I am very
Sorry, but you mustn’t strike a light.” Then
the floor was opened, and the unknown fled
down the passage. Not till quite a time
after did Keith discover that his win-
nings on King Ingoda had disappeared
from under the mattress. The hall
porter says the person who raced down the
stairs and fled through the front door was a
man.
The George Ellisons’ pretty younger
daughter, Fonnie, one of the daintiest of
ballroom dancers, surprised her pals at the
Stonington dance with the news that she’s
engaged to Douglas Shennon, a Maorilander
now earning a buttered crust in South Aus-
tralia. He has long worshipped at the shrine.
Sunlight saved the day for the garden
party at Government House, despite the
chill in the air. The frocks had an innings
in the first parade. For tea, the guests took
to their furry wraps, and thanked
Heaven that they had at least shown their
festive garments. The G.-G. and his lady
weighed lightly in the balance, so long as
they could show the other cats just what
they had achieved. The G.-G. and his lady
(she was a dainty sketch in sepia) stood for
an hour on the leeside of some heavy shrubs
and welcomed the Pied Piper advance. There
were lovely gowns—and some fantastic
frights. The fluffy, frivolous frock, you
know, demands the acme of expert, expen-
sive manipulation. Some of the Also-Rans,
who only get their chance of a swaggah garden
party once a year, yearn to appear really
garden-partyish; they closely observe ela-
borate Parisian models, make surreptitious
sketches and notes in carefully-concealed
books, then rush in the homely dressmaker,
who sews diligently for a few bob a day and
her fares and victuals —and the result makes
vaudeville for some and tragedy for others.
After the revue parade the gent.-helps care-
fully shooed the guests into the ballroom,
where there was warmth and also food spread
round gold gaskets filled with red roses,
Mrs, Harry Emmerton leht her South
Yarra place to the Victoria League for its
party oh Monday afternoon to meet Lady
Forster. She also acted as hostess-in-chief
in becoming bladk draperies garnished With
white Under a flowet-edged toque. It Was
a crowded, chfeery affhir despite the wfef
weather. Lady Forster was in blue flowered
silk and she had flurple, grapes neatly ,dished
on her blue hat. With her was Mrs. Collins,
flying white plumes from, the wide .hat which
topped her all-black dress, and Captain
Titt Rivers; miserably conscious of his un-
splendid isolatibh as the only man in a Vast
multitude of petticoats. Dame Hughes and
the Irvine lady perched in the vice-regal
corner for the musical events supplied by
Dorothy Murdoch and Clarice Malyon. A
lavishly-equipped tea was spread in the
billiard-room; and, as daughter of the
house, Mrs. Norman Brookes, an attractive
study in brown, helped to see that no one
went hungry away.
The Walter Bayles’ Cup-night Ball, at
Woorigoleen, tonned all the private-house
dances during the whirling week. There
was a King Midas touch in the decorations.
The courtyard of the palatial place was
canopied in with gold and amber cloth;
vivid scarlet and jade and amber lanterns
hung from the beams and gold baskets
trailed with Fortune’s Yellow roses. An
Epicure’s supper was served with dishes
grouped round gold vases. The hostess was
dressed in lilac, shot with void, and >' u
a wreath of gold berries in her hair. Baby
Betty was allowed to “stay up” and wore
pale gold georgette. All this glory was
designed to usher Miss Shirley Bayles into
the social world. No debutante’s white for
her—she was decked out in ruffles and
embroideries and silks of hydrangea blue.
She had a dinky little tight-fitting bodice
of shirred silk, and the rest of the elabora-
tion fluffed out from an obi sash with pink
petals on the hem. Her sister Barbara—
who budded a year ago—shone in color of
rose. Lady Stradbroke and others came on
from the G.-G. dinner party.
Rosina Buckman and her Maurice bagged
a fine vice-regal showing at the Town Hall on
Saturday night. The G.-G. and Lady Forster
came a-wearied, but obviously enjoyed the
concert, and set the gent.-helps to work to
pound out applause for more. Rosina looked
sweet in a white gown dripping with crystal
beads. It gave the impression of a cool
fountain —and her voice was just as cool
and sweet. The two stars gave a supper-
party after the show at Menzies’, and toward
the smali hours of the morning crowds of
the Norman Falkiner dance-guests came
along in fancy dress. Young Yeneken—a
brother of the recent bridegroom—made an
appearance fresh from England, and the
adoring girls whispered ecstatically : “He’s in
the Embassy.” They haven’t bagged much
of the William le Queux class of official yet
for dancing purposes, and the sensation pro-
vided a unique thrill in consequence.
Some gossip from Adelaide: —
The annual Minda f§te in the Town Hall, organised
by a feminine committee, with Mrs. T. C. A. Magarey
as its president, was opened by Mayoress Cohen, and
turned in a nice little cheque. The helpers included
the T. H. Jones, Tassie, Johnson, Meill, E. Harvey
and A. W. Piper matrons. St. Augustine’s, Unley,
ran another fair to raise funds for building the new
church, of which the Lieut.-Governor laid the founda-
tion-stone t’other day. The Barwell dame declared
the two-days’ effort well and truly open.
On the voyage to England in the Narkunda,
Madame Mouehette started the ball rolling for a con-
cert in aid of the rebuilding of the French village of
Dernancourt, and when Melba boarded the boat at
Bombay the little French lady prdmptly secured the
Dame’s interest. The manager of Workman’s Aus-
tralian D’Oyley Carte Co. organised the show, and
Melba took round the plate. She was so pleased with
the result that she sang four songs herself. Madame
landed £lOO for the shattered village.
Merle Robertson made her bow to an Adelaide audi-
ence for the first time for six years at the Town
Hall the other evening, and took the whole of an
amazingly wide programme on her own shoulders.
She has made remarkable strides since she left here
as an Elder Scholar, and, thinking it over, Adelaide
is beginning to plume itself as a musician-producer.
Miss Edith Napier Birks is among the throng who
have booked passages for England in the early New
Year.
The Community Singers’ final effort for the year
filled the Exhibition to overflowing, and brought a
special word of thanks from president Cohen to
Mrs. Weston, the originator and organising sec. of
the movement that began so modestly little more
than two years ago. Helene Taylor was the star
performer of the evening, and the collection added
a further £74 to the fund that is to take her to
London.


-<Kr
E»\
OtL
'm
! > > V-'
?S
5%
iC
Wffl
<TS
omal
4
ROUGE
T t p
] |M
L *^ n Sparkling WiN^ 5 • -5
UST
c ONT
SOUT
FLU
ENTs
NT
THE RED SPARKLING
WINE OF AUSTRALIA
OMALO
ROUGE
Possesses all
tke ekarttL - -
Vttto s Ity and.
"Bouquet of tke
rare s t Treuek
Sparklutg ~ -
D ttrqtttvdUes't
New South Wales
Victoria
'South Australia
Western Australia
Queensland
Tasmania
AGENTS
Collins 8C Watt Limited
Cohn Bros. Limited
Adelaide Wine 8C Spirit Co. Ltd.
J. M. Seward 8C Co.
Samuel Allen dC Sons Ltd.
E. Chancellor
Johnston dC Wilmot Ltd.
Sydney
Melbourne
Adelaide
Perth
Brisbane
Hobart
Launceston


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
Kin 6
George V
CHAMPAGNE
champagne
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9931.
o/t la ‘Reine des Fleurs :: Established 1774
L.T. PIVER, Paris
COMPLEXION POWDERS
de Luxe
Supplied in all Shades and Odours. These Face Pow-
ders are made in France by a Firm Established 150 Years;
they are of exquisite fragrance, perfectly adherent, and
will suit your skin; the name is the guarantee of quality.
Exquisite ’•Perfumes created by the
House of L. T. PIVER :
Le Trefle, Azurea, Floramye, Safranor, Pompeia,
Esperis, Mismelis, Gerbera, etc., etc.
OBTAIN ABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Porfuman
Soaps
Powders
Cricketer Archie Maclaren, and Mrs. Mac-
laren are to be the guests of his Ex. and
Dame Margaret Davidson at Government
House during their stay in Sydney. About
the time the cricketers are here the G.-G.
and Lady Forster will come to Sydney,
and Dame Margaret will /put them up, too.
The author of “Simon Called Peter”
gave a lecture at Sydney Protestant Hall, last
week, partly in the interests of his book
sales, partly to help St. Margaret’s Maternity
Hospital. It purported to be a discussion
on Modern Marriage, but turned out to be
a plea for divorce. By 8 o’clock the queue
outside the gallery entrance was as long as
a .first-night waiting list at Her Majesty’s.
Nice old ladies In depressed millinery and
black-cotton; glofyes waited sedately, though
Heaven knows what part hims, ancient or
modern, could play in their philosophy of
life. Young married men and women were
there, a few grandfathers, heaps of flappers
of a mellow vintage, and a sprinkling of that
type of young man who looks as though he is
not afraid to face the problem of Sex —you
know the kind; he sings “The Indian Love
Lyrics,” and accompanies himself with im-
pressment and the wrong bass on the board-
ing-house piano. It was a wonderful lec-
ture. Mr. Keable held the boards and said
nothing eloquently, to the accompaniment of
isosceles triangular arm movements, for the
space °f am Four or so; while his chairman
and George, Fitzpatrick, the organiser of the
hospital cainpaign, tried to register apprecia-
tion of the' young man’s highly irregular
views, even: though each was conscious that
the wife of his bosom was in the front row.
Not so the Albert Gould knight. With one
gasp of horror he fled from the platform
before the lecture was 10 minutes old. His
voice, raised in protestation, could be heard
from the back of the stage, but diplomacy
got him into a taxi before he could rush for-
ward to offer testimony to the sacred ties.
As a lecture the speech hadn’t much holding-
power, but as a quick settlement of St. Mar-
garet’s milk bill it was a winner hands down.
And it is bound to sell a number of Mr.
Keable’s novels.
The big flutter at Singleton during the
week was the permanent linking of Mollie,
daughter of the Dick Dangars, of Neotsfield,
to Denis Allen, only son of the Arthur
Allens, of Merioola. When the bride turned
up at the village church of All Saints’ she
was mostly diamonds, where she wasn’t cloth
of silver, all the “in-laws” having appa-
rently showered her with gems. Joan Dowl-
ing bridesmaided in yellow georgette, and
small Billy Bourke and Dick Austin did the
page act in frilled linen suits of the same hue.
The wedding toasts were drunk in a marquee
on the lawp of the bride’s home by family
friends and relations, hosts of whom jour-
neyed all the way from Sydney for the knot-
tying.
In the freshening breeze and sun of Thurs-
day afternoon the big decks of the Nar-
kunda made themselves pleasant for the
kiddies who came to its party. There were
slides and Punch and Judy and Aunt Sally
for the delight of the little ones, while the
more sophisticated were supplied with in-
toxicating flashes of jazz. Rose Merivale
and Mrs. Jimmie Burns engineered the func-
tion, which was to help the Dame Margaret
Appeal for the Rawson Institute, and Mrs.
Waley, with a flutter of summer girls in
attendance, looked after the fascinating bran-
pie. Roy de Mestre, Mr. Blandy and Captain
Green were amongst the few males present,
and his Ex. made a fourth for a fleeting space.
Dame Margaret was there, and brought her
two girleens and Miss Henderson. Mayoress
McElhone chaperoned another group of
small children, and surgeon MacCormick’s
sweet-looking wife was another hostess.
Mary, Dinah and Anthony Hordern made
an attractive group, as did the Rundle chil-
dren. Madge Cox and Grant Hanlon had a
hand in affairs generally; and Mrs. Oscar
Paul was one of the deck attractions among
the grown-ups.
Just gone out in her prime, Kate Arm-
strong, of the Richmond River (N.S.W.)
a fine horsewoman both at rough work aiid
in the ring, who will be particularly missed
at the Shows. Owning a half share in Dis-
puted Plains station, she bred, trained and
rode her own show jumpers, and scored a
remarkable string of successes. The district
gave her a unique send-off at Casino. Her
horse Pretender was swathed in all the show
ribbons she had won in the last 25 years,
and the jockeys from all the racing stables
escorted her with the colors up to the
cemetery. Her brother and partner died
recently, , but her sister Maggie, a second
edition of herself, will keep up the family
reputation for hospitality and the prestige
of Disputed Plains in the show-ring.
Among the recent matrimonial knots tied
by Canon Bellingham w T as that by which
Lancelot Nisbet, of Staumore, nephew of Sii 1
Richard and Lady Fry, of London, and Lily
Atkinson, of the same suburb, were hiottt'eu
together for life. Lily is grfe&fc-grand-
daughter of Sir John Atkinson (one of the
Old Black Watch) and grand-daughter of
John Horne, of Glehcairne estate (Vic.).
One of the new playing fields of the Syd-
ney Grammar is named the Weigall Me-
morial, in honor of the famous old head-
master, and to raise funds to complete the
laying-out of the field, the school and its friends
arranged a fair in the new grounds in Rush-
cutter’s Bay. The Fuller lady did the
opening, supported by a gorgeous armful of
roses. All the usual stalls were scattered
about the green, and of these the lucky
packet and the cigarette stands were the
speediest traders —all the summer-frocked
young things drifted to the smokes as inevi-
tably as they afterwards tracked down the
ice-cream and the dancing in the pavilion—
the jazz music for which, by the way, was
transmitted by wireless.
Gertrude Lewis (who was Gertrude
Tait) is back in Sydney, more assured
than ever that there’s no place like
Australia for the Australians. Mrs. Lewis
has seen post-war London, where Beatrice
Grimshaw is holding her own, lecturing ahd
writing, mostly on “Cannibals t Hav'6 Met,
but Who Have Not Made Meat of Me.”
In New York she met Randolph Bed-
ford, looking very prosperous but terribly
homesick. America doesn’t want Australian
writers—the big people won’t look at their
stuff, and only an occasional small agent
will handle it. But here’s something for
the Feminist Club to ponder-. Illith Taylor,
schoolteacher, then barrister, quite attrac-
tive and somewhere in the late twenties, has,
against great male opposition, been elected
Judge of the Westchester County Children’s
Court, at a salary of 17,500 dollars a year.
She had a majority of 30,000 votes; and it
was the women’s vote that put her in. West-
chester is the county where only millionaires
grow, so the poor lady is likely to die of
ennui, for, of course, there’ll be no juvenile
criminals in that neighborhood.
Mrs. Maclurcan the other evening enter-
tained her staff and their friends in the ball-
room at the Wentworth Cafd amid the gor-
geous decorations from the Rose Ball and
the strains of the Wentworth jazz band.
There was supper, and a temporary staff was
engaged to wait on the guests. Mrs. Mac-
lurcan said that she couldn’t run the busi-
ness but for the staff, and they assured her
that she was their best friend. When a
hall porter spoke of how Mrs. Mac. had
gathered her flock together to give them a
good time that lady fairly beamed, and when
that same gent., in immaculate evening dress,
showing a wide expanse of shirt front,
danced with his hostess, a cobber remarked,
“Don’t William look as if he were in
Heaven.” A tall, slender aristocratic-looking
chef made a speech that was almost as good
as his cooking.
Herewith Florence Yates, the Northern
Rivers’ girl who, the other evening, raised
a rich contralto voice massaged to the last
degree of mellowness and flexibility by Mary
Campbell, of the Melbourne Conservatorium.
She has also had the
advantage of Nellie
Melba’s own tuition,
and the diva said so
many pleasant things
about her voice that
she is off to Europe
under Mary Camp-
bell’s guidance next
year. Her recital at
aur Conservatorium
was a welter of
youth—the only per-
former with the
weight _of years
upon his shoulders
being Charlie
Smythe, and he’s
scarcely at the tot-
tering stage. A small
boy named Berry
proved to possess an
extensive violin repertoire, which he dis-
pensed with a dashing and impartial air;
and Ernest Archer breathed tenor love sighs
while 11. C. Crellin looked after the accom-
paniments.
A tower of strength to the R. A. Histori-
cal Society is 11. Selkirk, who recently
retired from the Lands Department and is
spending much of his time in his beautiful
garden at Killara. Here numbers of tall
blue-gums raise their trunks from a car-
net of delicate maiden-hair and the
stronger bracken fern. He grows most
things, but specialises in daffodils—
he has some thousands of them, and
by artificial fertilisation has created new
sorts. He must have the patience of Job,
for it takes seven years before the seeds
become mature plants. Selkirk put ill
much time at the Historical Exhibition, and
took his turn as showman. He interested
Dame Margaret in Cohrad Martens; stli'd his
artist daughter Mefebbtk ' Wh'd, wias repre-
sented by Several ,Wdrkk. The daffodil-
grower ffhii .Becky Martens had been play-
mffttes iff their youth. It was Selkirk, by the
way, who unearthed the little-known Conrad
Martens depicting Admiral King’s funeral in
’56, which attracted much attention at the
exhibition.
Dorothy Howell-Price, who is to be
married shortly, lost three of her brothers
on service with the A.I.F. One became a
Colonel and another a Major, and all were
men of phenomenal bravery. The lucky man
is Keith Bentzen, of Ashfield.
Word from London _ tells that Florence
Smithson, whose bird-lilte notes are pleas-
antly remembered by Australian audiences,
has met with a nasty misadventure. While
fufilling an engagement at Blackpool, she
slipped on a staircase at the Hippodrome and
sustained a serious injury to her spine. She
was brought back to her London home, and
carried in an ambulance through the streets
of the great city where she has so frequently
figured as an entertainer. All her engage-
ments have been postponed indefinitely.
This is ff receiit photograph by Monte
Luke Of Walter Baker, who in the days
when iheiouratna waS a power in the land
saved many an in-
nocent che-ild from
the clutches of
sneering villainy as
Bland Holt’s leading
juvenile. I-Ie hais
retired from the
boards, but the old
habits persist, and
last week he moved
spine of the theatrical
firms to fury, and
others to cold scorn,
by proclaiming that
the conditions under
which they make
poor but virtuous
girls and trusting
che-ildren work are
a b o minable. Mr.
Baker’s grim al'lega-
tions are inevitably discounted, not only
by his romantic temperament, which drives
him to sympathise with the indigent wher-
ever found, but also by the fact that he is
president of the Actors’ Federation of Aus-
tralia. Still, there is a vague general idea
that there “may be a good deal in it ail,”
and that “a man like Baker ought to know,
anyhow.” All of which presages added conn
fort for the classes he is championing dur-
ing the coming panto season.
Mrs. McDonald not only handed over the
pretty grounds about the Palace Hotel at
Watson's Bay In the cause of St. Mar-
garet’s one afternoon last week, but also
gave the tea-and-cake end of the party, to
which large slabs of Vaucluse and Watson’s
Bay womankind turned up. There was a
fortune-teller in a grove of mystery con-
trived of greenery and the Union Jack; but
there was neither orchestra nor raffle, the
first because of some archaic by-law which
forbids mhsic in front of licensed premises,
and the second in fulfilment of the Bavin
dictum, _ Mayor Mclntyre and his lady flung
the civic mantle about the afternoon, and
tall Sister Ker Win represented the “better
babies” institution.
Esther Mitchell drops a line from
New York and, incidentally, settles the
matter about the. Booth Theatre and O. P.
Heggie s Ownership. She saw Heggie give a
delightful performance in “The Truth About
Blayds” in the Booth Theatre, West 45th-
street, New York—which theatre is owned
and controlled by Mr, Winthrop Aimes.
Heggie, she says, is knOwn in U.S.A. as an
actor, not as a manager. She has just
finished a hard-working season at the Neigh-
borhood Playhouse, and is now rehearsing
lead in Shaw’s “Pygmalion,” the part made
famous by Mrs. Pat Campbell. Later in
the season a psycho-analytical melodrama is
billed for production, the same having a part
specially written for the Sydney girl.
Mrs. M. Williams, who will be 93 years
old on Christmas Day, was born in Druitt-
street, Sydney, and since then has never lived
further from it than the Glebe, which is her
present place of abode. Mother of eight
children, grandmother of 24, great-grand-
mother of 44 (and there are four infants of
a newer generation), she is so hale that
scorning the trams, she walks daily to
Abercrombie-street, Redfern, to minister to
an invalid daughter.
The play-acting ’Varsity girls and bovs
played pitch-and-toss with Sheridan re-
cently, and it isn’t their fault that “The
, for Scandal” has a leg to stand on.
With the exception of John Gould, as Sir
I eter Teazle, the lads and lasses were so
conscious of their clothes that they could
scarcely put one foot before the other. Some
i seemed so distressed over
displayed by their knee-
breeches that they occasionally tried to tele-
scope themselves. What the young men’s
woUlt l be .if suddenly thrust before
aii audience in hilts beggars the imaging
tion. However, a special round of applause
goes to John Gould for his presentation of
Mr Peter. The King’s Hall housed the
tragedy.
1 rank Payne and Alice E. Norton (aliases
for two young matrons, Mrs. F. A. Q. Ste-
phens and Mrs. Andrew Clinton) have pooled
their canvases, and the result is a creditable
art show in F. E. De Groot’s rooms, in
1 hillip-street. Alice Norton’s ' art busies
itself with tree and sky, and little garden
places from Queensland to Mount Wilson.
The bits of Ivameruka and Bodalla are full
of true coloring; and “A Grey Garden” is
well worth its modest price of three guineas,
h rank Payne busies herself with the imma-
ture male and female of the human species,
and places them on beaches and in gardens,
fowlyards and other sunlit spots. Her
pictures are always vividly alive, and convey
the impression that the Queensland girl suf-
fers from no complexes, but finds the world
a jolly sort of place after all.
A patriotic lady in Northern N, S. Wales
received a shock a few days ago. During
the whr she khitted socks for soldiers abroad,
and before despatch placed thfe Usual note
inside one of each pair, stating tMt tne'jj'
were going to France to warm a hero’s toe§;
Now, from a remote part of Natal, Sdutli
Africa, she has received a letter that a pair
of socks were purchased in, the locUl stdre
by ,the writer, who discovered her hotd iqsiqG
and he thanks her for the tfrarinihg of hi§
extremities.
The Country Women’s Association is estab-
lishing a club-room where sisters from the
Outback can drop in and be sure of meeting
other country women. It ought to be a
popular institution.
Among the new Australian compositions
published by Paling’s are five works by John
Lemmone, of which “Valse Bluette” and
“Spring Time” are particularly charming—
fresh and off the beaten track. Esther Kahn
contributes two or three gems to the new
music, among which “The Watermill” rises
to high-water mark. E. E. Brier’s “Three
West Indian Tunes,” and C. Sauer’s “Aqua-
relles” deserve special mention; as does E.
H. Tyrell’s “Great Red Dawn.” Among
the song-makers is Rachel Pitt Rivers, whose
“Three Women,” which was sung by Melba
at her Sydney farewell, is tinged with a
delicate charm.
One of the _ most striking exhibits
at the Historical Exhibition is the
navy and gold uniform of the late Captain
Gother K. Mann, of the Bengal Artillery,
a_ well-known figure in Sydney military
circles in the ’forties and ’fifties. It was
lent by t Miss K. Mann, one of a bevy of
six maiden sisters who still live in the
old Mann home at Greenwich Point, North
Sydney. In the ’forties Captain Mann held
a post at military headquarters, Sydney.
Another member or this family was the artist-
surveyor John Frederick Mann, born in
1819, and educated at Sandhurst. He came
to Australia in ’4l, was second in command
of Leichhardt’s Second expedition, married
a daughter of B|ir Thomas Mitchell, and was
one of the founders of the Historical
Society.
A Brisbane postscript!—
Her Grade Of Hamilton has been Staying with Sir
Matthew at Government House. She has visited
and after she “does” Mrs. Lumley Hills’
home at Bellevue, where the mounted hoofs of
famous racing sires are shown, She passes on to the
Coochin Bells. Grace DeshOn, of Mitchell Downs,
is also at the Governor’s gunyah, With the E. It,
Tullys chaperoning,
A wallet with a sensible cheque was handed t.O
southward-flitting A, H. Chisholm on behalf of the
Field Naturalists. His Ex. did the .handing, and
said nice things about the ydting ornithologist, whose
hook, “Mateship with Birds,” is being published by
Whitcombe and Tombs. The same day a travelling-
bag was gathered in, packed with the goOd wishes
of the district A.J.A.
Derby Day saw white frockings on most of Bris-
bane’s Smart Set and black hats, big and little,
were almost a uniform. Mrs. Harry Mills, who used
to be Hilma Ohman, relieved the situation in rose-
colored georgette,' and her black hat had feather
edges. Mrs. Forster obtained a cool and pleasing
effect in jade green and mauve. Bishop Lefanu’s
lady brightened her white with red beading, and
there were hints of apricot about Mrs. Cecil Palmer’s
white and lime-colored check silk.
Dulcie Crane is gathering laurels at the new
Theatre Royal, while fcousin Colin teaches the young
idea to baritone.
To farewell Mrs. Dyson {nee Norwood Brown),
who takes the Darvall chick under her youthful
wing to India in the Narkunda, Mrs. Cadell Garrick
and her daughter teaed a number of friends in the
lounge at Lennon’s amid bowls of larkspur and
gladioli.
The Grammar School Old Boys’ Association, which
boasts over a thousand members and a quarter of a
century’s life, dined itself in the Caf6 Majestic the
other night—and did itself proud.


ill
. .. . ;.;i .1 :
"WSS3
,
mam
'
Is Your Power Transmission
Equipment Efficient ?
Check up carefully the efficiency of the belting in your plant—particularly
main drives and those where working conditions are exceptionally difficult.
What is the average life of a belt on the more important drives? What
time is lost in repairs and replacements?
Are you wasting power tlii" ' ,r h slippage or belts not running true? Make
certain that the fault is not in the way the belt is being employed, rather
than in the belt itself.
Is the CORRECT belt being used on each drive —width, weight, materials,
quality?
Your belting problems may best be solved by allowing us to specify the correct
PIONEER LEATHER BELT
for each drive. Test it thoroughly and compare results carefully.
For sixty-four years Pioneer Leather Belting has been used in many of
the largest mining, industrial and manufacturing plants in Australia.
The illustration shows a 20in. Pioneer Leather Belt, transmitting 200 brake-
horse-power, in use in the Federal Brick Works, St. Peters, Sydney. Driving
Pulley, 13ft. Driven Pulley, 4ft. Distance between Pulley Centres, 25ft.
length of Belt, 77ft. Belt speed, 2500 ft. per minute. This Pioneer Leather
Belt replaced a similar Pioneer Belt which had been in constant use on the
drive for SEVENTEEN YEARS.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
WE
IL
m
CONSISTENCY Op
ohjauty”
R. A. SHOW—I 922.
AWARDED
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for HOCK
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CHABLIS
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CLARET
14 FIRSTS, 2 SECONDS.
4 THIRDS
Against All Australian Competition.
p
%
Brighten Up the Home
Renew the varnish on your woodwork, floors, furni-
ture, See. , with an application of Johnson’s Prepared
Wax— the polish that imparts a hard, dry and bright
lustre, that protects, and covers mars and surface
scratches. A soft cloth and Johnson’s Prepared Wax-
all that is needed for easier dusting and brighter home.
JOHNSON’S
Liquid and Paste
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste is the most conven-
ient and satisfactory form for use on floors of all
kinds—wood, marble, tile, linoleum, &c. Floors fin-
ished with this are easily dusted and polished with a
soft cloth or Johnson’s Light Floor Brush.
There is also Johnson’s Prepared Wax Liquid that is
especially recommended for furniture, phonographs,
pianos, woodwork and motor-cars. It contains no oil
and cannot catch or gather dust. It is clean to use
and durable in its effect.
Include a supply of these Johnson Products
with your next order from your local dealer.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.


Learn to Draw
"There’s Money
in
th? Pen.”
<i*s\
Send for
Mr. Harry
J. Weston’s
instructive
and interesting
booklet, “There’s
Money in the Pen.”
It explains clearly
and concisely how,
by the Weston
method, you can
develop your artis-
tic talent through a
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
Examples of the
lessons and speci-
mens of students’
work are given.
The Weston method
is simplicity itself,
for it eliminates
drudgery, and by a
series of easy, pro-
gressive lessons
gives you a
thorough grounding
in the basic prin-
ciples of art.
Commercial artists
make big money.
Why not do as so
many successful
Weston pupils have
done? You have
the benefit of
Mr. Weston’s
personal advice
on every lesson.
Send three stamps to-day for booklet.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawinij,
177 Onion House, George Street, SYDNEY,
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKEH
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
Special
sampling
cabinet
containing
10 Cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
CraigsAitken
6548 Georgs Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigar Factory.
Situation Vacant.
WANTED.— MANAGER, lay out and
run New Sawmill. State salary
required. References, etc., to RED GUM,
c/o Bulletin.
Missing Friends.
ALBERT EDWIN MAYFIELD.
IT will be to the advantage of ALBERT
EDWIN MAYFIELD, late of Adelaide,
in the State of South Australia, clerk (born
in 1867), who was last seen in Adelaide in
1905, and who was a son of WILLIAM
SHEPARD MAYFIELD, of Adelaide afore-
said, upholsterer, and CAROLINE JANE
MAYFIELD, his wife, now both deceased, if
he, his representatives, or any person know-
ing anything of his whereabouts or move-
ments since 1905 will communicate with the
undersigned.
Dated November 7, 1922.
BRIGHT & BRIGHT, Solicitors.
Unity Chambers, Currie Street,
Adelaide, South Australia.
rpo FRANCIS McCOURT, son of
JL Thomas McCourt, late of Millicent, in
the State of South Australia. You are
entitled to a sum of money under your
father’s will. Please communicate with the
undersigned with a view to obtaining it.
DAVISON & DANIEL, Mount Gambier,
South Australia.
BRACEY.— HERBERT and ERNEST,
last heard of Adelaide, S.A. Anyone
knowing whereabouts write Suiter, 132
Bridge Road, Richmond, Vic.
WHIPS
“K’Burra” Stockwhips are Kangaroo Leather right through, and
not filled with sheepskin, as is done in low-priced Whips. They
are Expert Plaited, and have an inside plaited belly. There are
no better Whips.
Thongs.
12-plait
16-plait
20-plait
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
17/- 19/6 22/6 24/6
19/- 22/- 25/- 28/-
23/6 27/- 31/- 35/-
Handles to Match.
16-plait, 16/6 24-plait, 18/6
32-plait, 21/6. If for 9ft.
Thongs add 1/6 to above.
The “Gainsborough” Stockwhip is a superb example of Australian workman-
ship, and makes an acceptable present. The handle has a neat diamond-plait
handpart, with a unique Turks head, and 40-plait above the handpart. It has a
6ft. 24-plait K’burra thong, and the price complete is 78/6 posted.
No. 161 Kangaroo Plaited Riding Whip, 24-plait, on Zair’s best steel-lined
foundation, 20/-. Postage, 1/-
Write for Catalogue of Greenhide Stock- and Bullock-whips and Saddlery.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
395 George St,
SYDNEY.
r
vV
W
8
_<2E)
WHITE LIQUID DRESSING
White footwear stays white much longer when Bostock’s
White Liquid Dressing is used. It is an ideal preparation
for Canvas, Nubuck and Suede leathers. Will not rub off.
6d. per Bottle.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., Box 91, Haymarket.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY
(Opp.
Station))
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/.. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/.. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/-. Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /..
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List, or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS,
WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
it* w
T
Cj
FOUR MORE FARCES,
in one book, 27-
Contents —Our First
Performance, My Turn
Next, Area Belle,
Mock Trial for Breach
of Promise. PLAY
Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/-
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage.... 1/6
CATALOGUES FREE.
Cutex sets are in four sizes,
the “Compact,” the “Five
Minute, ”the‘ ‘Travelling, ’ ’
and the “Boudoir.”
«i ,A} Hi]
iv-' •
V;
Lovely Nails—withs —with no fuss or bother
TEN minutes for a manicure! That
is all the time you will need with
the Cutex Set.
No cuticle scissors! The Cutex way of
manicuring has done away with the old
harmful method of cutting the cuticle.
Just a dip with the orange stick
wrapped in cotton wool into the bottle
of Cutex, a dab around the nail base,
a rinsing of the fingers, and the dead
cuticle will simply wipe off. Then the
Nail white squeezed under the tips and
finally the delightful, jewel-like shine
the Cutex polishes give. It is all so
quick and so easy.
Cutex manicure sets are in four sizes—
the “Compact,” the “Five-Minute,” the
“Travelling,” and the “Boudoir.” They
may be obtained at the leading chem-
ists and stores throughout Australia.
Valdemar Petersen, 379 Kent Street,
Sydney, and 382 Flinders Lane, Mel-
bourne, Sole Distributor for Australia.
Manicure Set for If-
For 1/- we will send you the Cutex
Introductory Set, containing sufficient
Cutex preparations for at least six
manicures. Use the coupon below.
NORTIIAM WARREN,
Dept. 8.3,
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Name
Street and No.. - .
Town
Address
NORTHAM WARREN
379 Kent St., Sydney
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insujficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
R.H.D.: The idea is good, but the verse
is killed by its slovenliness. “Entertained” doesn’t
rhyme with “ascertained,” or “dignified” with
“countrified,” “mortified” and “horrified”.... Hes-
perian : Your supposition is correct; basketed it is.
....Wagtail: No Groper: Protest noted that
Lloyd George and Hughes shouldn’t be compared be-
cause “the former brought to light more first-rate
intellects than were ever on the stage at one period
of British politics, while the latter gathered about
him the greatest lot of deadheads it is possible to
imagine”.. .M.P.S.: You strike a good subject in bad
verse.... A.M.K.E.: “First Water Gems” received;
unfortunately the verses are paste H.C.8.: Vil-
lainous doggerel about the ex-Kaiser received. Why
is it that every lame rhymer and stumbling metrist
fastens on this wretched man? We await a reply
from the battalion of illiterates who have so offended.
.... Rusticus: No room for essays, even when en-
riched with the wisdom of Plato, Aristotle and
Marcus Aurelius A.W.D.: His Son’s photograph.
....Robin A.: A bit too crude in places... .Sucre:
Doesn’t amount to anything. .. .F.G.J.: Your “en-
trancing one” can’t do his league-long kissing here...
R.C.M.: That sort of noise has been made too often.
... .C.L.R.: Too thin and rambling. . . .H.S.S.: Heavy
commonplace in sorry jingle L.G.: (Albury) : Not
enough there Margie M.: Horrible verse Ger-
I trude M.: Amazingly empty Florence G.: Poorly
Written verses about nothing in particular....
G. : They don’t strike u 5.... Alec Me.: They
wobble and bump all over the place V. de S. G.:
Dreary narration C.A.A.: The thing has the stag-
gers K.A. (Burwood) : Commonplace.... L.J. A.:
It has a quiet charm that must move all hearts: —
No one to love, and no one to kiss,
How often I think of the joys I have missed;
No one to greet me when to home I return,
Except the dear landlady, and she me doth spurn.
No one to love, no one to adore,
No comfort to be found inside a pub door,
Though not a woser, strong drink I don’t take,
I would sooner have onions and a nice piece of steak.
But there is no one to cook it and make it taste nice,
A thing that could be done by a good little wife;
No one to say will you have any more,
It is a case of pay at the counter and walk out of
the door.
Is there a girl, what be her name?
Who will come to my rescue before I am slain?
Is there a girl who will hold out her hand
And be willing to give it to a poor single man?
. ...J.M.F.: You can’t write verse like a telegram
without inviting curses Marjorie E.: So because
men are tired you want them to stop work and catch
kookaburras or something. . ..J.S.T.: No wonder you
don’t want your name attached to such a palpable
theft.... Syd S.: None of them arrives... .W.M.W.:
Thin imitation... .R.D.C.: It doesn’t even touch
mirth... .Q.P.: “Books” too crudely handled....
H. : We don’t want shocking examples made to
order.... Trixy: Feebly fluttered to the basket....
A.H.H.: Take it home and sprinkle disinfectant on
the worst parts... .C.R. (Geelong): There isn’t any
yarn there... .F.S.T.: Have it your own way. It
may be altogether lovely ; but we don’t want it... .
H.E.R.: “On the Hoof” is a good idea, but too rug-
gedly handled... .A.F.M.: You haven’t caught
“Fame” this time....C.M. (Grafton): “Toward
Dusk” doesn’t get near.... Don: A jig-jog of heavy
commonplace... .Hinda F.: Not our grammar....
C.H.S.: “The Moon” is not up....R.8. (Palm
Island): No g00d.... K.G.H.: Same old thing....
Cetherloch: The battles with billygoats are too
print-worn to interest... .I.R. (Leichhardt): Creaks
a bit at the joints... .T.N.J.: Very lumpy verse. .. .
Alice R.: You go a long way round to say very
little and you say it badly... .F.R.A.: Haven’t an
idea what’s it’s all about.... Phiz: Nothing there...
The Wanderer: It wanders. In fact, it’s about the
most nomadic poem we’ve met for a fortnight... .
Oliver B.: “Retired Life in the City” touches emo-
tions deep as agriculture and solid as its cucurbi-
taceous products:—
Well, hear am I a lonely fellow,
Ah, yet, in the busy town ;
Rather see ground that’s fallow,
One wished he’d never came down.
Although well up in years,
One seems to miss the country life;
Often it brought the tears,
Hear it’s only one the dear old wife.
Yes, one do miss the dear old home, the old farm,
Of which years and years was spent;
Hear one hasn’t room to stretch his arms,
In fact, rather be out back in a tent.
Of course one has to get out,
To make room for younger ones;
Takes one all his time to get about,
Still it’s carried on by the sons.
....Gladys M.: Try to write about something....
A. : Not up by some distance Eschap:
“The White Gin” is well enough done, but it is a
bit extravagant in idea. .. .N. J.M.: Doesn’t move us.
. ...A.J.H.: One stanza of the lovely outpouring:—
Far from Thee on vast plain shining,
’Neath the rays of noonday sun,
There, Dear Mother, am I resting
With this letter just begun.
.... S.S.M.: In spite of all your passionate pleading
we absolutely refuse to sing to you of “love black
edged with guilt” C.C.: The “Triangle” is not
for us.... Camp Smoke: The lie is only moderately
embroidered... .H.R.8.: Not enough in them....
Jack A.: Moves very heavily... .F.A.M.: You can’t
rhyme “Spring” with “seen” in this paper. .. .
B. : Misses.... Trevor D.: Neither convincing nor
attractively written,.. .W.J.T.: The song is hoarse
and the matter slight.... Dubby: Let loose the
growls:—
BILL’S GROWL.
I am a wage plug I would have you all know.
I work four and forty hours and I “go slow.”
Why should I work hard when I know of Jim Brown,
Who works but from nine to five in Sydney town.
Who enjoys an extra hour’s sleep as I work,
Who lives like a great big lord, who is a “clerk.”
JIM’S GROWL.
I am . a poor clerk in the town, you must know
I work hard from nine to five; I don’t go slow.
As there are not jobs enough to go all round
I dare not go slow, oh. I am a poor hound.
I long for a spell in the open, but how
Can I save and live well on the basic wage now.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A. 8.: Poor drawing... .8.D.: Nothing to show in
these efforts whether you’ll be a black-and-white
artist or a burglar... .P.M.8.: Try to fill in the out-
line of the figure under that dress and see how you
get on. The trouble with most amateurs is that
they will forget that some clothes with a head to the
north and boots to the south don’t make a human
being... .M.H.: Nowhere near it....G.H.: As usual.
....8.D.: No signs of genius there yet....A.J. :
Skirt gag old ; drawing hopeless in other sketch.


ShlPPina: .
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, DECEMBER 20,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY,
telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
IHE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . ...... .. . . 360,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.GG9 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; lion. G. W.
Gray; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PIiESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WOULD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,523,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922..£ 13,269,793
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman; George
F. Todman ; Duncan Carson ; H. R. Lysaght,
O. ; Lieut.-Col, T, L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting-Manager: G. H. Westcott.
Blanches and Receiving Offices at 148 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (204 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. llowell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 23 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 llundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodiel
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office : St. George’s Terrace.
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£625,000
650,000
£1,275,000
625,000
£1,900,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office* 11 LEADENHALL SiRLLT, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted. _____
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,551,188
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policfes of about .. .. .. £2,629,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £47,000,000
Annua) Income ~ •• •• •• £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping:, eta.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The AM Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
M l KIRA, 23rd NOVEMBER, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 28th DECEMBER.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 14th DECEMBER, 11 a.m.
MAUNGANUI, 11th JANUARY, 1923.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM' SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island
and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3} TO 4i WEEKS
Affording a restful holiday amongst
beautiful scenery and interesting
people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
' w
m
m
Burns-Philp Tours.
1. To JAVA (The AVonderland of the East) and
SINGAPORE, by the favorite steamers
MARELLA and MONTORO, sailing from Mel-
bourne and Sydney every month.
7 weeks’ trip for £9O.
2. ROUND EASTERN TOUR,
Sydney to Japan, thence to Singapore and return
to Sydney via Java and North Queensland Ports.
11 weeks’ trip, First-class throughout, £146/10/-
Apply for further information to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 18X7.
WALES.
raid-up Capital
Iteserve Fund
llenerve Inability
ism
Directors;
- £5,610*700
3,600,000
- 5,610,700
£14,881,100
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclcellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.: A. G. Milson, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falldner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
General Manaaer: Oscar Lines.
Heatl Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
3GO Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places BTRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Capital paid up .. £3,000,000
Reserve Fund .. £2,160,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,460,000
Established 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. J. W. Macarthur Onslow,
M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane. E.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORTiD.
JENOLAN CAVES TOUR PARTIES
Leave Sydney daily, 9.20 a.m. (Sunday excepted).
Inclusive Cost: 3 days, £5 55.; 4 days, £6 35.; 5 days, £7 3s.
Programme and Booking at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
CHALLTS HOUSE (opp. G.P.0.), SYDVEY.
Shlnplnf.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne lor Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide lor S.A. Gull Ports;
and at Fremantle lor Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough. Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Brisbane, Maekay, Townsville and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma, Maekay, Bowen and Towns-
ville.
Huddart Parker LjM'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW. ZEALAND —Regular .sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from Sydney only 10 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdoil&ld,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
-THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m.; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m. : passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at * p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/o/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY,
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD. . !
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA,MANILA,
lONQKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
iVIUULIUV oaum&a luciciun *.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
money b NIppON YUSEN KAISIIA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IKOQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and lighter Owners.
managing agents fob
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co./ Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackhealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Lins
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktowo.


m.
\
:r
m
“Koh-i-Noor” HB
is the writer's degree.
“Thank goodness it’s back,
writing will become a pleasure
again wrote one enthusiast. No
pencil is so silky in touch, or so
long-wearing as is a
THE PERFECT PENCIL.
The favourite of everyone who has once
used it. Made from a formula exclusive to
L. &C. Hardtmuth. Entirely free from grit.
In 17 degrees, 6B to 9H.
From all Stationers, Drawing Material Dealers and Stores.
Agent for AUSTRALIA :
Mr. JOHN MACDOUGALL, G.P.O. Box No. 165, SYDNEY.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, - 10, Bothwell Street,
Factories — Budweis, Czecho-Slooakia.
GLASGOW.
For motoring,
holidaying,
picnicking.
p,
\t
wm.
J
m
•• v°W
*Wvt
fiwif
£|||f
*
«5
ES
Motor Lunch Sets
£l2/10/-
Secure one Now, and have the full benefit of it
during
CHRISTMAS
HOLIDAYS.
These MOTOR LUNCH SETS are one of the finest things ever
conceived for the convenience and comfort of motorists and pic-
nickers. No rushing around packing utensils at the last minute,
for everything needed is conveniently at hand. The set illustrated
is for FOUR PEOPLE, just a nice motoring party, and contains
four Aluminium Plates, four Linen Serviettes, four solid Nickel-
handle Knives, four solid Nickel Spoons and Forks, two one-quart
Vacuum Flasks, two solid Nickel Food Carriers, and two Aluminium
Salt and Pepper Shakers, with patent tops. The
whole is securely fitted in waterproof, lock-up
case. Size 21 x 14J.
PRICE £l2/10/-
Lunch Sets for School or
Office.
LUNCH SET, containing half-pint Vacuum
Flask, and Universal Food Carrier, in
neat and compact leatherette case, com-
plete 18/6
Vacuum Flasks.
UNIVERSAL VACUUM FLASKS, good,
serviceable and reliable Flasks, with
Aluminium Cup, Shoulder and Base.
Pint size, 10/6; Quart size, 15/-
In solid Nickel, corrugated cases.
Pint size, -15/-; Quart size, 22/6.
We can always repair and refit the above
lines.
SIX ORDERS SECURELY PACKED.
%
I
LUNCH SET, in strong leather-covered
case, with one-pint Universal Vacuum
Flask and air-tight Food Carrier. Use-
ful, strong and serviceable. Price 38 / 6
Motorists’ Drinking Cups.
NICKEL SILVER DRINKING CUPS, the
very thing for motorists and tourists.
Made of the finest-quality Nickel Silver.
Will not rust or tarnish.
In nests of .... 2 4 6
Price. ... 9/6 15/6 22/6
SEND FOR OUR CHRISTMAS CATALOG.
NOCKfcKIRBY'S
188Geor$eSt
SYDNEY
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE. 99
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
Everything for TENNIS.
£
K
RACKETS.
4. M.S. National
5. M.S. Special or Premier ...
10. C. 8.8., Double Strung ..
11. Hay market
14. Haymarket, extra special
15. Britannic, concave tbroat
16. Oceanic, concave tbroat ..
17. Titanic, concave throat ..
18. Cyclonic, concave throat .
10. Bussey’s Standard
20. „ Conqueror
21. „ Handicap
22. „ A 1
23. .. Invincible
24. Ayre’s Sandown
25. „ Handicap
26. „ A 1
28. Ayre’s Matador
29. „ Central Strung
15/6
80/-
27/6
30/-
70/-
45/-
55/-
65/-
80/-
25/-
30/-
32/6
35/-
50/-
80/-
37/6
40/-
55/-
60/-
31. Special Sample, cork-ribbed grip
34. Spalding’s Tournament
35. „ Continental
36. „ Gold Medal
37. Davis Riseley Hexagon
40. Slazenger’s Renshaw
46. „ Doherty
47. „ Stadium
48. „ Lambert Chambers..
50. „ Patterson
52. li. C. Lee’s Senaca
53. „ Spartan
54. ~ The Bat
55. ~ Monogram
56. The Winner
42/-
40/6
55/-
70/-
87/6
45/-
65/-
63/-
77/6
80/-
85/-
87/6
90/-
90/-
95/-
55/-
70/-
90/-
100/-
95/-
RACKET REPAIRS
SPECIALTY.
TENNIS BALLS.
Dunlop Regulation Grey
Dunlop’s Champion, 1922
Each. Doz.
1/4 15/-
2/7 30/-
Each. L>oz.
Ayre’s Court 2/2 25/-
Ayre’s Champion, 1922 2/9 32 /-
32/.
SLAZENGER’S Championship, 1922 (airtight tins)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriae®-)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full 6ize,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Acme (square) Posts, pair •• • •
Tennis Court Markers, 37 / 6
Tennis Tapes 2,2/6
Gut Solution, for renovating tlie strings
of rackets, bottle 1/-
Each.
Racket Covers 2/6, 5/6, 7/
Tennis Ratchet 7/6^
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/(5
Racket Handle Grips .. 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books •••••••• 1/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6, 6/6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-
illustrated^
TENNIS PRICE LIST FREE
ON REQUEST.
boxing
GLOVES
PyW
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES.
Set of 4.
o rea j leather, special value 12/6, 13/<
jiD ii ’ Fighting, tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 16/6, 18/6, 21/-, 23/-
PFRFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather .lined, padded wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz., 25/-, 30/-
WTCH GRADE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 35/-, 40/-
THF "‘LIGHTNING ” made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively used by
Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by Mr.
Ref L. (“Snowy”) Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
BOYS’ GLOVES. Set of 4
napa leather, hair stuffed ''''''
isuperiu , Le^ther t> laced palms 9/-, 9/6, 12/9
” (Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
mr'TC' STRAPS. best quality (Postage 3d.) 6/6, 7/6 each.
TUVXTVG BOOTS, English Leather, extra light, weight 340 z. (Postage 6jd.), 15/6, 17/6 pair.
Price List of Boxing Gloves, Punching Balls, etc., post free.
PUNCHING BALLS.
u
A
THE
ABMY
PORTABLE
m£ EXPERT
ARMY S-winging Ball, reg., for fast work, 10/6, 13/6, 17/6, 21/-. 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
-VRMY’ extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable
and perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made 45/-
PYPERT double-end Ball, medium size, elastic cord for floor and rope for ceiling. .12/6, 15/6
EXPERT’ double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
PYPPRT’ double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings,
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.) 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
I’ORTABLE BALL, Strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and bladder
complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) 105/-
All above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
SUNDRIES.
Ball and Socket Swivels • •
Double-aetioil Swivels, 6/- each.
Ball Gloves 3/9. 4/9 pair.
l/6, 5/6 each
Ball-bearing Swivels 10/6 each
Punching Platforms, 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
ac
I ZJ
Australia’s Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Forbes: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; Edward St., BRISBANE.


Nasal Catarrh Cured After
Forty Years’ Suffering.
MR. J.
BEATTIE
{from, a photo.)
- _ z
fed
if
%
m
%
i
s**
i>Vv
m
m
I
“For over forty years I liave been
a sufferer from chronic nasal
catarrh; my left nasal cavity has
been completely choked for the. past
fifteen years. After trying many
fifteen years.
“After trying many so-called
cures from time to time with-
out receiving more than tempo-
rary relief, I began to despair of
ever being cured of the malady.
Within the last decade my right
nostril became affected in like man-
ner, which compelled me, especially
at night, to breathe through the
mouth. This necessitated keeping
a glass of water by my bedside in
order to moisten my parched
tongue.
“Some two or three years
ago my hearing became so badly
affected I was unable to converse
on the telephone. During the past
two months my right eye became
affected with catarrh, and life for
me began to assume a gloomy j>ros-
pect. Having proved the efficacy of
Rexona as an antiseptic and healer
I always kept a pot of it on my
dressing table.
“About a fortnight since my left
eye also became affected, and
on retiring at night I applied
the Rexona to the eyelid, rub-
bing it well in. Tire effect was
marvellous! From the first applica-
tion the inflammation and soreness
began to subside, and alter six
dressings my eyes were as well as
ever.
“Needless to say, I was delighted with the result, I then experimented with that
SOVEREIGN BALM on the nostril passages, with a like result. Every night and
morning I inserted Rexona into tlie nostrils, not for one moment dreaming that the
effect would be so startlingly sudden. From the first application relief came to one.
“This experiment, which without advice from anyone was made only a short week
ago, and astounding as it may seem, it dislodged the congealed and stubborn mucous,
apd cleansed the nostril passages so completely that I can now, for the first time in
fifteen years, breathe freely from both passages. The feelings of joy and thankfulness
at the result took such possession of me that I considered it my duty to convey to
you the marvellous effect Rexona had on my long-standing malady.
“From personal knowledge and observation I have no hesitation in s: tying that fully
65 i>er cent, of our population are affected in a greater or lesser degree with that
abominable disease. Therefore it is with the utmost confidence I can recommend all
such sufferers to use Rexona, and for their benefit I trust
you will publish this letter, either in full or condensed form.
“I am, sirs, yours truly and thankfully,
“(Sgd.) JAMES BEATTIE.
“Carn-Brae, Tryon Road, Eindfi#ld, N.S.W.”
THE RAP/D FfEAi\ER
AMMUNITION
•22 RIM FIRE.
Black and Smokeless Powder.
1 horoughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
nat--
A CL BRITISH
BE PREPARED TO MEET THE BULLY!
You should learn “how” to box —
learn to defend yourself. Such a
knowledge will never be a burden to
you, but at times of need will prove
your best friend and protector. No
man knows the day or the hour when
he will be called upon to avenge some
insult, or the time when he will have
to defend himself against some bully
or ruffian.
We Teach Boxing by Mail
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. The boxing instructions are very thorough
—you’ll find them most interesting, and be surprised
at the quick progress you will make under our coach-
ing. The lessons provide an enjoyable pastime, and
are cramful of health-giving relaxation and exercise.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and post it to us, and' we will send you by
return mail the Interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which tells all about the
methods, terms, etc. Please send three stamps for
postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS,
218 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
Rose Wisdom.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT is the month of roses,
And all the airs move gaily.
Brownly the clear eve closes,
And the great sun daily
Kisses the buds that have broken
Their green clasps in the night.
Saying, “Be golden or white
Or red, since the year has spoken.”
Listen! The year is speaking
Out of its great green fulness.
While the breezes are seeking
With hands of coolness
Valleys where grasses are dreaming.
My heart surely knows
The great word that the rose
Heard when morning was gleaming.
It is the month of roses —
The month of the world’s completeness—-
And over the broken sod
As the blue day closes
A scent goes up to God
Crying: “Has Heaven more sweetness
On the way the angels trod?”
Who knows a rose knows this.
However we stumble and miss
The best path under the sun,
There is more joy curled
In the close bud of the world
Than our petalled summers have won.
The world is a rose
Yet unbroken;
the wise heart knows,
When the years have spoken,
How its fragrant breath
Will blow over life and death,
Over evens and morns
To the sky’s blue ends
Making soft amends
For all the thorns.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Captain-General.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CAPTAIN MATTHEW FLINDERS,
R.N., a short, slight, active figure
of a young man, stood by the window
of his apartment at the inn in Port Louis,
where he was virtually a prisoner of M.
le Capitaine-General Charles Mathieu Isidore
Decaen, the unbending and uncompromising
Governor of that gem of all the oceans, the
beautiful Isle of France. It has been the
Isle of England ever since his time, but never
has it had such a faithful ruler, or one so
devoted to its interests, as the very able
gentleman who had been the trusted lieu-
tenant of the great Moreau, and was des-
tined to do Flinders such a lengthy and
unnecessary bad turn.
The already-celebrated navigator was talk-
ing impatiently with one of Decaen’s aides-
de-camp, the excellent Colonel Monistrol,
and from the expression of concern in the
latter’s kindly face it was easy to under-
stand that he did not mince his words, or
diplomatically check the expression of his
very righteous indignation.
“Mais non, mon char Captaine Flindare,
my good Men’, but you are wrong,” said the
Colonel, holding up his hands in protest.
"M. le General, ’e is parfaitment cn regie.
No one, not even I, your very firm friend,
Jean Marie Monistroi, a votre service —no
one in the poseetion of M. le Capitaine-
General could do . otherwise than ’e ’as done.
Compose yourself, I beg it of you, good
Monsieur Flindare, and considare without
passion the poseetion of M. Decaen. Eet is
but right you should do so.”
Flinders looked out over the roofs towards
the lagoon-like bay, and the wide band of
blue Indian Ocean that stretched to the
horizon. Port Louis was a typical 18th-
century colonial town —-solid, compact and
what we call “Georgian” in its architectural
characteristics, with its citadel, the massive
stonework of its quays and its great church,
set amid tropical trees and flowers that gave
it an exotic beauty of its own. • But for the
vivid green of the foliage, and its brighter
colors, the place reminded him a little of
Sydney-—rather in its situation with regard
to the sea than for any other reason, per-
haps, though the brand-new, ultra-modern
prison village, which had been his last rest-
ing-place ashore, lacked that air of lazy,
sensual refinement that was of the atmo-
sphere of this pretty capital, half seaport'
and half country town.
He was very angry, but anger seemed
almost to be unnecessary brutality in the
presence of this courteous, thoughtful and
considerate Frenchman. He turned towards
his visitor.
■‘Ah, my dear Colonel,” he said, “you must
make allowance for my situation. I am a
castaway escaping from a desert isle in mid-
ocean, and impatient and intolerant of all
that makes for delay. You must remember
the har-d time I’ve had, and have patience
with rne. If I seem to find his Excellency’s
proceedings vexatious and hard to under-
stand, you must remember that a man in
my situation is scarce in the mood for a
calm review of circumstance. General
Decaen may have very good reasons for his
conduct towards me, though, for my part,
I confess I find them extremely difficult to
discern.”
“Discern —what is this ‘deescern,’ then?
My English”
“To comprehend, to grasp, to understand
a reason for. I wish that my French were
as good as your English, Colonel.”
“Let us hope, M. Flindare, that you may
never have such an opportunity of "learning
”ny language as I had of acquiring yours.”
“What was that, sir?”
“I was a prisoner of war in England for
three years, M. le Capitaine. One had faci-
lities to learn the language then. I do not
think your stay amongst us here will be
as protracted as was mine in your interesting
country.”
“God forbid!” muttered Flinders.
“As to the brave General,” went on Monis-
trol, “you see in him, above all else. Mon-
meur, the very personification of duty. ’E
is strictly a soldier before evervthing. ’E
is the very soul of duty—stern, vigorous and
exact. Depend upon it, he would subject his
own brother to the same inquiries and exam-
inations that your very natural impatience
complains of. He is the very spirit of pre-
cision in all his actions, and no circumstance
would render him otherwise. But ’e ’as —
how do you say it —’e ’as le bon coeur, and
is benevolence itself. Patience, mon ami-
un pen de patience! That is all that is
necessary.”
Flinders sighed and turned towards the
window again.
“Well, well, it is probably as you say,
my dear Monistrol; but I cannot for the
life of me perceive what difficulties the
speediest consideration of the case of the
Cumberland present. I have the honor to
belong to that band of maritime investiga-
tors in which are numbered the names of
your own distinguished countrymen—La-
perouse. Baudin and many others. My naval
service ~is devoted to the benefit of all civib
isation —to French as well as British—and
my objects are as . much for your advantage
as for that of my own nation. There is
amongst all the maritime Powers a common
understanding as to the assisting of all such
exploration as is useful to all the world so
far as is mutually possible, whether there
be peace or war between them. Now, what
on earth can your Captain-General suppose
the little Cumberland to be up to? One
would almost imagine that I commanded a
line-o’-battleship, and had come to bombard
Port Louis!”
The French soldier shook his head, and
made a gesture of dissent. He rose to his
feet and held out his hand in an amicable
fashion to the British officer.
“Voyez: vons, cher, M. Flindare, ’tis but a
mere matter of form, I assure you truly.
Come with me now, and all will be set fight.
The General but wishes to put certain ques-
tions to you that the requirements of his
office as administrator of this colony demand
he should ask. I am sure that you will
give him the fullest satisfaction, and that
your visit to us will remain mutually a plea-
sant memory. Cela va sans dire. Of course,
with such seamen as the distinguished Capi-
taine Flindare, my country is never at war.
Nevaire! How could it be? Eet is not to
be thought of. You will find, le Capitaine-
General everything that is reasonable to-
day, I assure you of it. Come with me now
and all will be adjusted.”
He walked to the door and bowed for
Flinders to precede him through it. The
latter took up his hat from the table and
put it on.
“Ah, well,” he said smilingly, as they
passed out, “I trust I will find him a little
less brusque than at our first interview, my
dear Monistrol. I confess that he got my
back up at our previous interview.”
“The back-up? Comprends pas. What
ees that?”
“He annoyed me,”
“Ah — non, non—pas de la contrariete
aujourd'hui, mon Capitaihe! Nothing but
good-fellowship, sympathy—a complete un-
derstanding.”
It was, indeed, hardly to be supposed that
Captain Matthew Flinders, homeward-bound
from New South Wales, by way of Torres
Strait and the Dutch East'lndies, after liis
disastrous experience upon Wreck Reef with
his Majesty’s illfated ship Porpoise, should
find his treatment by the official world of
the Isle of France too joyously satisfactory.
He was a young gentleman whose legiti-
mate aims and, brilliant performances had
long secured toihim a very prompt and will-
ing compliance with his wishes. When he
had put into the, Baye du Cap, on the south-
west coast of tfte island, in the wake of a
small coastal schooner, which had very amus-
ingly taken alarijn at the appearance of the
tiny Cumberland- —she was only 29 tons—it
had been with no idea of trespassing upon
French hospitality for a longer period than
would suffice to patch up his leaky little
ship, stow some" much-needed fresh water
and provisions, and repair his defective
pumps. Even though a state of war might
exist between France and Great Britain, his
passport—issued (to him at Sydney by Gov-
ernor King for the. Investigator, and pre-
sumed to hold gqod with the Porpoise and
the Cumberland, since they were but her
substitutes —was .a well-recognised and legi-
timate introduction, upon which he might
safely depend in iseeking the hospitality even
of unfriendly nations. It was a charming
amenity of warfare that had long obtained.
He felt perfectly \ secure.
But the Frencli—or, at any rate, his Ex-
cellency the Captain-General, Monsieur
Decaen —had affected to regard him with
suspicion. His passport was for the sur-
veying-ship Investigator—why, then, did he
appear on their coasts in the armed schooner
Cumberland, acid .seem to have given chase
to a vessel flying the French flag? It hardly
looked as if he weye quite what he professed
to be, or was. acting in good faith. More-
over, it was a very strange thing that an
officer of Capitain Flinders’ rank should be
sent off on a voyage home of 15,000 miles
in a craft tbiat was very little better than
an open boat. On the other hand, the
schooner was just the sort of vessel that
might be unostentatiously employed upon
charting for hostile purposes the coasts and
soundings of French colonial possessions that;
were temptingly handy to British bases of
attack in India. General Decaen, in the
face of these facts, might very reasonably
feel that he had grounds for instituting in-
quiries into the bona fides of the excellent
M. Flinders —however world-renowned his
discoveries had already made him.
That was the French point of view—and
it may hardly be deemed to have been an
unreasonable one.
The very distinguished Norman—he was
a native of Caem —who cpnstitued the gov-
ernment of the Isle of France in his own per-
son, was one who stood wef: with the First
Consul, and an official employment
in that distant colony by np means implied
his retirement from the aqtive furtherance
of the mighty schemes of world-domination
with which Napoleon had inspired such en-
thusiasm in ajl Frenchmen. He was not
so much the Governor of a little remote
island in the Indian Ocean, as the trusted
commander of an outpost of observation
upon the English in India.
He had been a general of division at
Hohenlinden, when Moreau so crushingly
defeated the Austrians under the Archduke..
John, and his skill and valor, rapidity and
dash, had done everything, as his commander
ungrudgingly acknowledged, to ensure the
overwhelming success of the. French arms on
(Continued on next page.)


Every Picture
Tells n Story n
Home Again—with the
Same Old Backache!
Does every day bring the same old, nagging backache?
Do you rise in the morning lame and stiff? Drag
through the day with your back a dull, unceasing ache?
Evening find you “all played-out,’ thinking only of a
little rest before to-morrow’s weary grind? Then don t
be discouraged. Realise it s merely a sign you haven t
taken good care of yourself—-been overworking and
haven’t had enough exercise, rest and sleep. This has
probably strained your kidneys. So, instead of worrying, just take things easier for awhile and
help the weakened kidneys with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Then, if it s kidney backache,
you’ll soon get over it, and the headaches, dizziness, tired feelings and bladder troubles will go, too.
Doan’s have helped thousands and should help you. Ask your neighbor.
TWO INTERESTING CURES.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Thomas Spence, Harriet Villa, Park Road, Auburn, says:—'“For years I
was an engine-driver on the N.S.W. Railways, and for a long time prior to my
retirement suffered greatly with my kidneys. I think the constant exposure had
the effect of weakening these organs. The first warning I had of anything being
wrong was a pain in the small of my back. This soon began to trouble me a good
deal, and I was often so bad that I could hardly move. I took medicine of all
kinds, but I got no better, and sometimes I used to wonder if ever I would be
free of the nagging ache. Well, to make a long story short, I at last got Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and they soon fixed me up, a short course banishing the
ailment completely, and I have not suffered with my kidneys since.”
Four years later Mr. Spence says:—‘T have had no return of my old complaint
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me four years ago.”
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. j; Smith, Bonnie Doon, Duncan Street, Arncliffe, Sydney, says“My
kidneys were in a bad way for some time and I suffered terribly from
backache in consequence. I could not stoop freely; in fact, all my movements
were handicapped owing to the nagging ache that used to catch me across tne
kidneys. My rest at night was broken, and during the day I felt tired aiiu
languid, having no energy for anything. I w*as advised to try Doan s Backacne
Kidney Pills, so sent for some at once. They worked wonders in my case, givin„
relief almost immediately and gradually effecting a complete cure, Six years
have elapsed since I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I have been w
all that time.”
Five years later Mrs. Smith says“l still have great faith in Doan’s Back-
ache Ividnev Pills. I always keep a bottle in the house, and whenever 1 teel a
little off color take a few doses, and I am soon quite all right again.
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists anil Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
that bloody battle in the snow. So he came
into high favor with the terrible little judge
of mankind who was so unerring in his
judgments.
One day. having dined with the First
Consul at Malmaison, and whilst strolling in
the grounds afterwards, Napoleon asked him
how his ambitions lay.
*'l have my sword for the service of my
country, ’ replied the General.
"But what would you like to do with itV”
Napoleon asked him.
Decaen mentioned that he had lately been
reading the story ' of the exploits of La
Bourdonnaye and Dupleix in India, and had
thought much over the possibilities of French
expansion there.
"Have you ever been to India?”
"No, biit I am young, and, desiring to do
something useful, I should like to undertake
a mission which I believe would not be
likely to be coveted by many, having regard
to the distance between France and that
part of the world. And even if it were
necessary to spend 10 years of my life
awaiting a favorable opportunity of acting
against the English, whom I detest because
of the injury they have done to our country,
I should undertake the task with the utmost
satisfaction.”
And so Charles Mathieu Isidore happened
to be the ruler of the Isle of France when a
member of the high-handed race he so de-
tested—and what sort of Englishman could
be so truly detestable as a naval officer? —
was so unfortunate as to find himself cast
upon the island. Which really mix unfor-
tunate for Matthew Flinders.
General Decaen was walking up and down
a large reception-room at Government
House, when the. Colonel and Captain Flin-
ders were announced. At a table sat a
spectacled German clerk, whose imperfect
knowledge of English was to bridge the gulf
of language that, lay- between his Excellency
and the Englishman. The Captain-General
had caused - him to write down, at his dic-
tation, a number of questions to which he
required Blinders’ answer.
If ever any Englishman had bitter cause
to curse the innate superciliousness which
is the heritage of his race, it was Matthew
Flinders. From his entry into the room, he
was the despair of the friendly Colonel Mon-
istrol.
The distinguished French soldier—--and it
was something to be a distinguished soldier
in the Napoleonic days—-stood bareheaded
to receive the English captain. No gentler
soul in his relations with his fellows ever
existed than' that Lincolnshire sailor, no
man was ever so courteous in his dealings
with subordinate!? and strangers, or so re-
spectful to the authority of those in other
services than his own. And yet—it seems
almost incredible —the interpreter’s first
remark, on behalf of his Excellency, was: —
“Der Gabitain-General has to regwest dat
Monsieur Vlinder vill be so gind as to re-
mote his liadt.”
With a muttered apology, Flinders hastily
uncovered bis head. Perhaps his solecism
had been but a result of absence of mind in
the impatience of his mood. At any rate, lie
sought to convey as much to his Excellency
through the interpreter.
“Le Gabitaine Vlinder s’cn fait un rc-
proche, Monsieur .” The German goggled
through his round glasses at the Englishman
as he addressed Deeaen.
“Did you tell him I was sorry?” snapped
Flinders.
"Ju, mein —yez zur. I haf egsblain to his
Egzellenzy.”
"N'bnporte !” said the Captain-General,
gruffly. “It does nod madder.” translated
the interpreter.
The examination proceeded.
Why had he come to the Isle of France ?
AVhat business had taken him to Timor on
the voyage thither? Why were none of the
Investigator’s officers with him? Why had
he chased the little coastal craft —and why
have come to leeward when all the sailing
directions pointed to the other side of the
island as the best way for approaching Port
Louis? Why had he hoisted cartel colors?
Did he know of the war? Had he spoken
any ships at sea? How, in short, could he
justify himself for having come at all? To
all of which Flinders gave lengthy, and what
should have been satisfactory answers,
which were laboriously written down by the
flabby German. When he had signed his
statement, the Captain-General withdrew
into the next room, after bowing coldly to
the examinee.
“Ah, my good friend,” whispered Colonel
Monistrol. as the door closed after his Excel-
lency. “you should have been more concilia-
tory.”
Flinders snorted. He was about to say
something, when the door by which Deeaen
had retired opened again, and the German
waddled into the room.
“His Egzellenzy zay—yill Gabdain Vlin-
der be bleasod to dine with him arid Madame
Degaen ?”
“Oft, hell /” he blurted out. Then, seeing
the look of hoyror on the Colonel’s face,
remembered himself, and smothered the oath,
lie addressed the interpreter gruffly.
“Thank you—no. You may tell the
General that if I were at liberty I should
feel flattered.by his invitation. But other-
wise I will not sit at table with him. Hav
ing been grossly insulted, both in my public
and private character, I cannot debase the
situation I have the honor to hold. Tell
him that !” To himself he muttered —‘‘.And
he damned to him!”
“.1 ft—-ccs Anglais! Qn’ils sont impos-
sibles!” lamented Colonel Monistrol. “Cap-
tain Flindare —I pray that you may not re-
gret your error!”
More than six years after the unfortunate
occurrence outlined above, Captain Flinders
gave the good Colonel Monistrol the un-
feigned private satisfaction of assuring him
officially that he had the pleasure of inti-
mating that his captivity was at an end.
“(Had the matter rested with me, my dear
M. Flinders, I think you will understand that
I would have gladly made this announcement
to my most esteemed friend at least five
years ago,” he wrote.
Flinders had grown used to his captivity,
and a sort of philosophical resignation had
succeeded his mood of bitter resentment. The
Captain-General he never saw, but all the
rest of the inhabitants of the island had
become his kind arid affectionate friends. He
took leave of the estimable Madame D’Ari-
fat, at whose hospitable estate in the district
of Wilhelm’s Plains he had lived during the
last four years of his detention, with sincere
regrets. It was strange that this little
farm should have once belonged to Laperouse.
Long afterwards —in 1897- —the French
Comite des Souvenirs Ilistoriques caused the
following inscription to be carved upon a
great rock standing in the midst of the
place hallowed by its associations with the
two great navigators.
LAPEROUSE
ILLUSTRE NAVIGATEUR
A achete ee terrain en Avril 1775 et l’a habitG.
LE CAPITAINE FLINDERS dit:
“In this spot he once dwelt, perhaps little known
to the world, but happy.”
Here it was that the English captain—a
direct descendant in the family of navigators,
through William Bligh, who had been his
tutor, from Captain Cook, who had taught
to Bligh the Art of Voyaging—prepared the
material of his great ‘‘Voyage to Terra Aus-
tralis,” which remains to us his lasting
record. Like Laperouse, Flinders had even
found something of happiness in the Plaines
de Wilhelms.
The day before he was to sail in the cartel
Harriet, to join Commodore Rowley’s squad-
ron that was blockading the Isle of France,
Flinders took a solitary stroll about Port
Louis, to look for the last time upon the
place that had been associated with the frus-
tration of his life’s work and most of his
ambitions. Even his bitterness was a little
softened, as he called to mind the many kind-
nesses he had experienced in the island from
its generous colonists, and he felt something
of affection for the beautiful spot that he
was about to leave. Ho was quite alone, and.
late in the afternoon, as the sun was setting
in the vast waters of the blue Indian Ocean,
outside the harbor of Port. Louis, he sat down
to smoke upon the edge of a little clump of
palm-trees beyond the outskirts of the town.
. It was a dreamy, quiet, warm evening, and
the charm of the lovely prospect lying before
his eyes was accentuated by the happiness
that had at last come to him, after his long
purgatory. The blue smoke curled into the
clear evening air, and he felt at peace with
all men.
“Monsieur Flinda re !’’
. Startle.d . out of his reverie by the soft
voice behind him, he sprang to his feet, and
turned to behold a very beautiful woman,
who stobd amidst the palms, as though desir-
ing to. make use of their shelter to screen
herself from other observation, and gazed at
him with au air of shyness and entreaty.
She hesitated a little, before she spoke, and
looked at him with soft, shining eyes.
“Madame?” he said—his French had be-
come so perfect that he found English difficult
when he left the island —“Que voulez-vous,
■tnadame?”
He had bared his head, and bowed, and
stood before the handsome creature wonder-
ingly. She spoke to him in French.
“Ah, monsieur—would that your, good heart
had saved your angry spirit thus, seven years
ago. If you had but bared the head thus—to
my husband !”
“Your husband, madameV lamat a loss.
Pray” ;
“I am Madame Decaen,” she said simply.
Flinders was struck dumb. He had heard
that the wife of the man whom he regarded
so bitterly, as an enemy, was very beautiful
and good, but when he saw her in the shadow
of the palms, the warm glow l of the setting
sun tinging her delicate complexion, and
changing her plain muslin gown, of the
style that the Empress Josephine has ren-
dered famous for all time, into a soft pink,
and burnishing the dark, coppery masses of
hair piled above her white brow, and invest-
ing her with the appearance of some gentle
spirit from another world —he was over-
whelmed by her sweet loveliness, and could
only stand and stare at her.
“Monsieur Flindare —you owe me an
apology !”
He found his voice.
“An apology—MadameV”
“Ah, yes—good Monsieur Flindare,” she
smiled a't him. “It was my invitation to
dinner that you so rudely put aside —the
day of examination by my husband. Ah,
that you should have permitted yourself that
lamentable rudeness to one who only wished
vou well! It was this that my husband—
the best, the bravest, the most generous of
men —could not forgive. How I have wept
for you, all through these years! But you
are happy now —is it not so? Ah—’tis not
my fault that you were not happy long ago!”
'For a moment ho could not find his
tongue. Then, With bowed head, he
humbled himself to the wife of the Captain-
General.
“Madame —I was a boor! 1 beg of you
that you will have the kindness to carry
from me to your husband my profound re-
grets for m.v ill conduct to yourself—and to
him. I shall never cease to lament it."
She smiled at him happily. For the rest
of his all-too-short life he never lost this
sweet vision in the palms.
“A/t, Monsieur Flindare —votis etes vrat-
ment gen-til! dele sentis ton jours. Bon
fortune, Monsieur”
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Interlude.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When their star seemed faint and far-
gleaming
Thus cried the priests of Art and Song:
“We build this world with our mad dream-
ing ;
But, children of cities, the task is long.
“Our thoughts from the world of quiet are
driven,
For the spirit which moves us knows no
rest;
Our hearts are a . rabble of hopes that are
riven,
And after all your way is the best:
“There is peace for you, and a homecoming.
Laughter at eve, and little of pain;
For us there is only the restless drumming
Of the mind’s song and the blinding rain.”
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERAID.


/
**
f r
\ - '
-••■ -:
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane
H.Z. Office—93-107 reatiierston Street, Wellington ’
Victorian Office—oB Queen Street, Melbourne.
Conklin Pen Mfg. Co.—B in. x Single Col
No. 843.1—English—J. Roland Kay Co.
Popular
CONKLIN Pens and Pencils are
recognized as the Thoroughbreds
of Writing Instruments. This is
proved by their ever-increasing
popularity.
-For sale bjl the best
stationers and jewelers
CONKLIN Crescent Filler Pens
20/- and up
CONKLIN Automatic Pencils
12/6 and up
\23AuL\
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed t think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
s'
HOKLICKS
MALTED
MILK
It * Food-Drink which maintain*
health aad strength nourishes
*?d invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK'6 daily, ii
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Milk. Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition or hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK'S MALTED MILK CO.
SLOUGH. BUCKS, ENQ.
was
In 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices,' 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Missing Friends.
T>OBERT B. CRUDEN, late Fraser-
&urgh, would like to hear from his
brother James Louie Cruden, last heard of
in Melbourne 25 years ago. Write 7 Rae-
burn Place, Aberdeen, Scotland.
_
=s&a
assess
"■-■■■
if If
.
15 Short or
11 Long or 10 Long-
Rifle Cartridges
May be loaded in the magazine of the .22 Remington
Repeater.
After the first shot, just slide the fore-end backward and
forward which operation ejects the empty cartridge case
and passes the next cartridge instantly from the maga-
zine into the chamber—ready for another shot.
The Remington .22 is light, splendidly balanced and
easily taken apart for cleaning and carrying.
A Splendid Rabbit Ride !
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
G. P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
People
Invariably
fetched
?0&-
While tjj.® s?i'® ate ® t SeJli,1 S factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the time*
-their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions thev can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 vears ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
Requisites
SINCLAIR
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland. N.Z.
J
%i
Marred furniture!
Scarred woodwork!
Sapolin makes them good as new
WHERE furniture and woodwork show signs
of wear and ugly scars and scratches, you will
find it very easy to renew the brightness with Sapolin
Varnish Stains.
Sapolin comes in a great number of colours and fin-
ishes for every use. It is so easy to apply: just fol-
low the directions on the tin. It works well under
any climatic condition.
The genuine has the name prominently displayed on
the label.
Sold wherever paint is soldi
SAPOLIN
VARNISH STAINS
•Iso
SAPOLIN Floor St Furniture Stains
SAPOLIN Carriage Gloss Colours
SAPOLIN Imitation Gold Glaze
SAPOLIN Decorative Enamels
SAPOLIN Hot Pipe Aluminum
SAPOLIN Aluminum Enamel
SAPOLIN Bathtub Enamel
SAPOLIN Aluminum Glaze
etc.
varnish
STAINS
tv*#*
Sros., New York, U. S. A.
Also manufacturers of “OUR FAVORITE” Imitation Gold
Enamel, washable. Best imitation of genuine gold leaf. Eco-
nomical and easily applied-


sm
m
I
f.Xs
K!
m
m
m
w,
M
WSlipSIP^nM
sHU
SHU
;;!:S!!^
«&S.
M
: ;'!
*--
sat
'! '
xwm
I3g
&
• <->
*
Vitf
if*
zgSfifff/ii
ml*
m
m
■
i@si
iSi|;=i|
ip
jSSiiS
-i : .=!":::''). * :
Nile
jjfsKSST I
m
iiUlii
illiili
m
I
a
a
-Z'X/.^
m us
H*)i
lisssni*
wsSi
liiiiiiiii
C? \
mm
m
■4) .;• - '-Mr ;
, N
/*
I l ' 1
'IH.
m/
•Sill
I J
I
iiirtifP
Htjlllljlji'jjiii
1
jl|li|l|i)l|l:l
'‘S.v-
PURITY !
