

9
A
PINEAPPLE BRAND
HAMSfi
BACON
mm
y
A
&
l>:
V
\
N.
V' - '
m:
/
S 5
"^J>
4%
m
’mzi
m
BS®
Wm,
j^T\
ma> i
m^f'
m
=3f=~
• vf - fc “
S>
s_
r //
v
BRAN SL.
iWMftS
\\ /
All Grocery and
Small Goods Stores
FRANK
NN/TB
■
■
-
*
FACTORIES AND
WAREHOUSES
Brisbane, M elbourne.Canterbury, N.S.VV.
(acents-PRESCOTTSLTD,sussexst.Sydney)LAUNCESTON(tas)FrEMANTLE(w.a)
S.A (AW.SANDFORD S CO., ADELAIDE)
A.S.M, ADVTG. BU/S.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2225.
Thursday, October 5, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Ported free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD..
428 George Street, City.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSACHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
OURNYULE
THE COCOA WITH THE DELICIOUS FLAVOR
CADBURY’B CHOCOLATE—“The Standard of Quality."
iK!enuuiiin:i:ia
ijijiji
>{;;;•
t:i:i
■
ISISI
mj:
s
wilii:i!lSi!iii
Maximum Power per Revolution
Power saved on the main drive is saved all over the
factory. Couple your drives with
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING,
and ensure every ounce of power benefiting the
machines. Try it on the main drive, and cut down
production costs. Immediate delivery can be had
in any size up to 12in. wide. Write or call to-day.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Btreet (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: .John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright k Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henry Clark k Co. Ptv., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel k Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
dfgdfgdf
Ih
A Pipe with
a Pedigree!
When you buy a G.B.D. Pipe you have a good pipe made
by a firm of pipe-makers with sixty years’ experience.
You will never want a better pipe because the G.B.D.
reaches the pinnacle of good old-fashioned quality and
gives you all the satisfaction your taste desires.
Fill up with your favourite tobacco and realise the
cool, sweet smoking quality of this pipe with a pedigree.
All shapes and sizes, now 7/6* Sold everywhere*
Trade enquiries invited to Box 765, Q.P.0., Sydney.
LI
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes ol
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture.&c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Anstralian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
irrno°AiT,i vh ? buying to be sure to get
HUDSON S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they aye ‘just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
. Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and
TO
O
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lunge.
The Red Page
The Threat to Civilisation.
“Peaoeless Europe/' by l'raneesco S. Nitti,
ex-Prime Minister of Italy.
(.Cassell <£- Co., Ltd., London.)
In bis villa at Acquafredda in Basilicata,
perched above the blue waters of the Adri-
atic, Francesco Nitti, statesman and philo-
sopher, and one of the world’s foremost
financial authorities, watches and thinks and
writes. This book is a statement of the
author’s political ideas: of his policy when
he succeeded Orlando as Premier of Italy;
of the conditions which prevailed at Paris
and San liemo; and of the results which
inevitably must follow in Europe. The wis-
dom of the writer has been justified of
events. The conditions which he foresaw
have materialised. In his opinion the de-
cadence of Europe to-day is the consequence
rather of the Peace Treaties than of the
war, and that decadence cannot be arrested
or even delayed except by totally scrapping
the treaties and beginning the whole busi-
ness over again. The bonds of solidarity
among the Allies, which endured so firmly
during hostilities, snapped on the day of the
Armistice, and the dissolution of Europe
must follow, unless those bonds can be re-
newed for a no less noble cause, the relief
of suffering humanity and reconstruc-
tion of the world. A common danger threat-
ens a civilisation which is torn by dissen-
sion, rancor and intrigue.
. No one with any knowledge of the work-
ing of the Paris Conference can doubt the
correctness of Nitti’s view that the trouble,
began there, because, not only are the terms
of the treaties unmoral, but they are the
negation of intelligence. Nations cannot
live by hate alone, yet that is the condition
the treaties created. Europe, like Gaul of
old, has been divided into three parts—the
losers, the victors and the revolutionaries.
The losers have not only to keep themselves,
but to pay an utterly impossible figure in
indemnities: the amount of the indemnity
can never be fixed, because the losers have
to pay arbitrary figures, ever increasing, of
the cost of control. The victors have lost
as much as the losers, and are unable to
produce themselves, hence the exaggerated
demands under the name of reparations Re-
volutionary Europe, the series of States
created _ by changing the names of enemy
populations, has nothing and produces no-
thing, and is ready to prey on either of
the other parties. In fact, a condition of
war has been continued under the title of
peace.
The peace was made by three men, not
one of whom had any knowledge of Euro-
pean affairs. Lloyd George was bliss-
fully ignorant of Teschen, of Transylvania,
aaid of many other places and things.
Wilson believed that Danzig was on the
Mediterranean, and confused Silesia in
Europe and Cilicia in Asia Minor. Clemen-
ceau was indeed not much better, but
concealed his lack of knowledge by the per-
sistency with which lie stuck to realities,
lhere was no question during the delibera-
tions of humanitarianism or idealism. The
League of Nations was never mentioned at
the Conference. Nor were the various de-
clarations of the Allies issued during the
war. The whole business was a hasty
scramble to get material benefits, and over
all the proceedings was the pall of election-
eermg promises. If the principles for which
the Allies fought had been carried into the
peace debates, a condition of mutual confi-
dence would have been inspired, and Europe
to-day would not be a cauldron of unrest.
ln j N^ tls ?P inior b the Treaty of Versailles
u e otller treat ies are the negation of
the honor of the Allies, whilst the manner
in which they have been applied has been
insanely unjust. His opinion is well worth
consideration, for he was a Minister of
Italy; the president of the San Remo Con-
ference; the greatest authority in Europe
international finance, and, in the words
ot Bonar Law, has “the clearest foresight of
any statesman of the day.”
The effect of the treaties has been to
break up the great ethnic unities of Europe •
to create a host of small States with no
economic or financial stability; to erect a
dozen Alsace-Lorraines in Europe, each a
potential cause of war; and to set up a
non-national Poland, which one day will be
again partitioned by Russia and Germany.
On the vanquished an impossible demand for
leparation has been made, and simul-
taneously the means of paying that repara-
tion nave been taken away. Strange to
say, this is largely the result of an incident.
Ihe insertion in the terms of the Armistice
ot the words Reparations des dommages”
was an afterthought, which was later unjus-
tifiably expanded to cover many of the bur-
dens of the war. The reason for this was
that France incurred only one-twentieth of
the total cost of the war, but on a basis of
damage she was entitled to 65 per cent, of
the receipts. Hence, Clemenceau the real-
ist s apparently naive request for the inser-
tion of those three words cn principe. The
.consequences we see tb-day, when the de-
mands to cover the costs of the reconstruc-
tion of the devastated areas exceed fantasti-
cally the capital wealth of the country.
Clemenceau’s moral gesture became the
accepted policy of the British delegation,
largely says Nitti, owing to Hughes and
Noithcliffe. Hughes, “a small-minded, in-
sensitive and violent man, though at bottom
sincere,” directed a furious campaign in
favor of a huge indemnity, a campaign to
which Northcliffo lent the power of his press.
Lloyd George, “admirably intelligent,” be-
lieved neither in an enormous nor even in a
vbry large indemnity, and laughed at the
possibility or usefulness of trying the Kaiser
The electorate was hypnotised by Hughes
and the press, and Lloyd George had to
follow. In Nitti’s opinion, Germany
cannot, and never will be able to, pay even
one hundred milliards of gold marks ’Every-
body knows it, or ought to, if they have'a
glimmer of intellect. The Teutons could
pay only the half of this bv an industrial
production which would bankrupt the Allies
As Loucheur admitted on leaving office—lie
was P’rench Minister of Reconstruction
he asked for 358 milliards, hoping to get 80
milliards. How can Europe be reconstructed
with such irresponsiblos in charge of affairsv
As president of the Conference of San
Remo, where the Treaty of Sevres was
drafted, the author is of very topical in
terest, and expresses no less decided views
All the peace treaties followed the lines
laid down at Versailles. It is merely
question of which is least endurable by the
oppressed, who, like Andromache, can say
“Let it please God that I have still something
more to fear.” Demographically, Turkey
has been divided among Britain, France,
Italy, Greece and various anaemic national
Republics and States, most of which have
already ceased to exist. Greece secured the
lion’s share, thanks to the persuasive oratory
and persistence of Venizelos, who “asking
had the air of offering; and obtaining had
the appearance of conceding.” Venizelos
got his way by Wilson’s acceptance of the
Gladstonian “bag and baggage” policy. For
this the U.S. President threw away the
Fourteen Points and the principles of nation-
alities and minorities. France and Britain
sponsored Venizelos in return for an under-
taking that Greece would militarily protect
those countries’ interests. Italy opposed the
Greek demands on the ground that Greece
coukl not cafrv the burden it was assuming,
and the Powers would havd to take it up
themselves. The treaty ignored the fact
that a vast hinterland with huge stores of
munitions lay open to the Turkish nation-
alists, which would involve Greece in an
important war. Secondly, it forgot Time,
which has ever been Turkey’s ally. The
reason that effete country has lasted so
long is that the Turk regards time as a
friend and not as an economic value.
Further, the Turk has a fanatical dignity
born of race and religion. Nitti warned the
Cretan of his risks, but Venizelos never
doubted his own star, and the exact result
the Italian Premier foretold is with us to-
day.
Peaceless Europe is a companion
volume to J. M. Keynes’s “Economic Conse-
quences of the War.” It is a ruthless ex-
posure of the futility of the treaty system,
and of the incompetence and ignorance of
the public men of the day. The exposures
of their insanity are almost inconceivable,
whilst the cynicism of their dealings is pain-
ful in the extreme. It is futile for the world
to seek to avenjje itself on the enemy. The
world is at a crisis, which needs forbearance
and confidence, otherwise there is no alter-
native but dissolution.
“The Pomp of Power”
In this remarkable volume (publisliet
by Hutchinson and Co.) an anony
mous author discusses with refreshing can
dor sundry Frenchmen and Englishmen wh
played a prominent part in the war. Joffre
it seems, w r as no military genius. He hac
served as an engineer officer under Gallien
in Madagascar, but “had never directly com
manded any body of troops.” Also, “he wa
incapable of directing any operations in th
field.” And, apparently, he was only
appointed to the High Command in 1914
because Pau and Gallieni, who had th
strongest claims for the job, were considered
too old for the responsibility. Pau, a vet
eran of 1870, did well, however, in a sub
ordinate command, and Gallifei organised
that masterly attack from Paris whicl
crumpled up Yon Klxick’s right and precipi
tated the retreat which Foch’s tired and
worn divisions in the centre nearly turnec
into a rout. Von Kltick, who is big enougl
to appreciate the cleverness of an adversary
speaks highly of the effect of this operation
but contends that much of Galligni’s triumph
was due to the wonderful recuperative pow
ers of the French soldier. “That men who
have retreated during 10 days,” says Kliick
“that men sleeping on the ground and half
dead with fatigue, should be able to take up
their rifles and attack when the bugle sounds
is a thing upon which we never counted
It was a possibility of which there was never
any question in our schools of war.”
. It is interesting to note that Joffre’s prin
cipal feelings about Galli6ni’s success were
that it drove him to retaliate before he was
ready, and, furthermore, directed the search
light on a sector which he had never re
garded as the venue of critical operations
Joffre’s reputation steadily slumped after
this affair, and when it became known thai
he had followed a plan of concentration
which had left unprotected the rich Briey
region that supplied France with 90 per cent
of her ore production and cast-iron, and
furthermore, had neglected the defences ol
Verdun, every possible means, short of the
direct sack, were employed to get rid ol
him. Despjte an amazing amount of thai
intrigue which is inseparable from French
politics, he hung on till the end of 1916,
when he gracefully retired with his
marshal’s baton. .The subsequent search
for a successor reveals the part religion and
politics play in military appointments in
the Republic. De Castelnau, the defendei
of Nancy, who smashed the Germans on the
Grand Couronne; Sarrail. an able general
who had been responsible for a brilliant, but
unauthorised, movement, at the Battle of
the Marne; the great Foch, Petain and
Nivelle were all in the running, and it is
impossible to avoid the conclusion that the
selection of Nivelle, who was, incidentally, a
Protestant, was due not to his own consider-
able merits, but to various personal discrep-
ancies in the others. De Castelnau and
Foch, for instance, xvere “practising Catho-
lics, and on that account were objectionable
to the Extreme Left and other sections in
the Chamber of Deputies; Sarrail was a
turbulent Republican, who was likewise dis-
qualified on account of his views; whilst the
mordant Petain (also a fervent Catholic)
openly despised politicians and had greatly
offended President Poincare by remarking:
“Personnc n'est mieux placee que vous . M.
le President , de savoir que la France est
ni qouvernee ni commands How Petain
came eventually to follow Nivelle, and was
himself scrapped in favor of Foch as Gen-
eralissimo of the Allied armies, is cynicallv
explained by a writer who was evidently ki
the prompt corner when every scene was
staged.
To the Australian reader, however, the
book is most important for the critical and
sometimes caustic pictures of Englishmen
who have become established in the popular
mind for qualities invisible to those who
kne w them. No one was more boomed than
(Continued on page 25.)


CaiJ)oaoefde^s/k$ e
Economy in Men’s & Boys’ Wear
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Economy in Men’s Suits
4 «*!
RJH
wa 59
WRSI
WRSI. —Men’s High-grade All-Wool
Sports Suit (as illustrated). Coat
has patch pockets, and trousers are
designed with side and hip pockets and
cuff bottoms. In neat Dark Grey
effects.
Price 65/-
WRs2.—Hordernia Ready-to-wear
Sac Suit (as illustrated.) Coat has
two-button front, medium lapel; outside
breast pocket. Vest has four pockets
and medium opening. Trousers possess
side and hip pockets, cuff bottoms. Ob-
tainable in the newest effects, in Grey
Tweed Mixtures.
Price 95/-
Men’s Distinctive Headwear
it
Men’s Soft Fur Felt Hats, 2iin. brims,
with binding on edge (as illustrated).
In Slate, Steel and Grey.
Price 21/-
In Slate, Steel, Grey and Fawn.
Price 27/6
Men’s Loft Fur Felt Hats, 2-}in. and
2§in. brims, with plain edge, 2lin.
band, in Slate, Steel, Drab, Black,
Brown and Fawn.
Prices 18/6, 27/6
Men’s Soft Fur Felt Hats, 2|in. brims,
with welted edge, in Slate, Steel, Grey,
Fawn and Brown.
Price 25/-
Men’s Soft Fur Felt Hats, 21 in. and
2§-in. brims, with plain edge, 2in. band,
sweat-proof head leathers. In Slate,
Steel, Grey, Fawn and Black.
Price 25/-
The savings in Men’s and Boys’ Wear are very
worth while at Anthony Horderns’, and the
substantial excellence of every garment bought
there will make the savings doubly appreciated
as time goes on and proves its quality. Depend-
able in construction, attractive in appearance,
each article will pay dividends in satisfaction for
the money expended on it.
Save Money
on Boys’
Clothing.
Boys’ Durham Suits (as illus-
trated). Coat has belted back,
and knickers are made in two
styles—plain, or with band and
button. Obtainable in Dark
Fancy Mixed Tweeds. Sizes C
to 12.
Price 34/-
Kniekers with band and button,
2/6 extra.
Boys’ Navy Drill Shirts, with
collar and pocket atached.
Sizes— 12,121 13,131 14,141
Prices . . 6/6" 6/11 7/3
Boys’ Golf Hose, all wool and
ribbed, with dressy turnover tops.
In Black or Heather shades.
5 7?% 81 9 91 10 101
Prices
3/6 3/9 3/9 4/- 4/3 4/6 4/9 pr.
Ui r
m
Boys’ Ranger Shirts, made in
our own workrooms, from reliable
British materials. They have
one pocket and buttons for
attaching to knickers.
In Striped Duro Zephyrs—
Price 4/11
In Striped Duro Nurse Cloth —
Price 4/11
Men’s Serviceable Footwear Keenly Priced.
Men’s Box Calf Yearling Lace Bo.ots, medium or broad toes, leather lined,
welted soles. Obtainable in all sizes from 5 to 10.
Price 19/11 pair
Men’s Black Box Calf Lace Shoes, medium toes, welted soles.
Price 22/6 pair
Black or Tan Crocodile-grain Albert Slippers, Veldt sewn soles.
Price 8/11 pair
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
We Pay Carriage on Men’s and Boys’ Clothing and Footwear
in N.S.W., and to the nearest Port on Interstate orders.
Aertex Cellular Underwear
ft* ;
*
m
m
\\\'
'\\u
f/|
MEN’S AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR. _
Undershirts, Sleeves, sizes 34 to 44
chest.
Price 7/6 each
Undershirts, J Sleeves, open coat style.
Price 8/- each
Trunk Drawers, sizes 34 to 44 waist.
Price 7/6 pair
Combinations, 1 Sleeves, Trunk Length,
34 to 44 waist.
Price 13/6 pair
Men’s White Aertex Day Shirts, all
soft, with single cuffs and soft neck-
band. Sizes: 14$in. to 18in. neck.
Price 12/- each
Attractive Shirt Values
*?
i
\\Z
XII
Men’s Golf Shirts (as illustrated), with
soft double cuffs a,nd collar to match,
made from reliable Duro Zephyr, best
finish, V-cased front, and obtainable in
the smartest striped effects. All sizes.
Price 9/6
Men’s Serviceable Working Shirts, in
Striped Harvard.
Prices 5/6, 6/9, 9/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
Telephone: City 9440.


KODAKS and BROWNIES
reduced in price
Now is the time to choose your
Kodak and start this pleasant
hobby —for all models of
Kodaks and Brownies (as well
as numerous other sundries)
have been considerably reduced
in price.
With spring here and summer
coming, all out-of-doors calls for
Kodak pictures—those attrac-
tive little photographs of home
and friends, of sunny scenes
and happy times —that are so
easy to make.
TP
to
SOME OF THE PRICE REDUCTIONS.
Vest Pocket Kodak
No. 2 Box Brownie
No. 2A Box F ro/vnie
No. 2 Folding Brownie ...
No. 2 Folding Brownie (R.R,
No. 3 A Folding Brownie
No. lA Kodak Junior
No. 3 Autographic Kodak
Lens)
.. was 47/6
.. was 16/-
.. was 21/-
was 52/6
was 63/
was 90/6
was 92/
was £6/11 /6
now 42/-
now 14/6
now 19,6
now 47/6
now 57/6
now 80/
now 82/6
now £5/17/6
Ask for the new revised price-list, which will
make your Kodak catalogue up-to-date.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
Kodak (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-52
Queen Street, Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth
Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East
Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; “The Kodak
Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
gd
Why
“His Master’s Voice”
g'ives the perfect reproduction
“Tone” is an inherent quality in a violin, a voice or
any instrument which produces music.
One of the reasons why “His Master’s Voice” is the
best musical instrument of its kind is that it
reproduces with absolute accuracy the individual
tone of the individual artist or artists.
That is the secret of its world-wide fame. When you
hear it you, as it were, actually hear the artist or
artists as though they were present to perform for you.
All the foremost artists who record for “His
Master’s Voice” realise this, and that is why they
record exclusively for “His Master’s Voice.” They are
satisfied that it alone reproduces their art perfectly.
Look for the Dog Label on the instrument you buy.
It is the symbol of supremacy.
m
We specialise in sets of complete
operas. Write for catalogue and name
of nearest dealer.
Instruments from 11 guineas
to 91 guineas.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
V
•3*l
9*
J(S*
,0i
u
Votf*
*r'.-
•>>,
L
& ~*** \'
H^\\
p3^!A
(164)
L gMrt,*, oT) v
1
His
Master* voice
C*»*
“Bis Master’s Voice,
Reg. Trade-mark.
<l Oramophone,’’
Reg. Trnde-mark.


PINRETTES
FOR KIDDIES
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children ; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Di. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SHIP BRAND
Cornflour
rS
Makes Delicate
Summer Dishes.
SOLD
EVERYWHERE.
Man -Ufa cturers
CLIFFORD LOVE & C? LTP SYDNEY]
If you are
languid and
weary, you
need a light
stimulant,
such as
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
which has a sure
yet gentle action
on the Kidneys
and Bladder.
It is as good for
women as for men
and is the purest
of all drinks.
Obtainable in
LARGE AND SMALL
BOTTLES
9
i
n
WHY LOOK
OLD?
There is 1.0
need to, Dr.
Allen’s WAL-
NUT STAIN
t r a n s forms
GREY HAIR
to a youth-
ful WALNUT
SHADE with-
out any harm
to the most
delicate skin.
Absolutely permanent and water-
proof. ALL chemists.
fg
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
dfg
A Popular Dentifrice.
Judge a tooth-paste by results,
imparts a pearly whiteness to
teeth, then you may be sure it
worth its price. “Eudenta” does
more, for besides having wonderful
properties it is an antiseptic of
order.
If it
your
is well
this and
cleansing
no mean
©
/
“Eudenta” is sold by
all chemists,
1/-
a tube.
THE PERFECT MILK
lIFEGUARD
Li Condensed MILK
Judge by the Milk in the Tin
Your Grocer Stocks It /
<1
l\
sJ
o
o
D
ONOTO INK—
Best for all Pens
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
'LET THE BOYS PADDLE THEIR
OWN CANOE’.’
iMfr
M
m
v
90
---
Ti
MALLEYS
REDWING CANOESr J
Nutliias you can buy will provide your boys with such endl
fun and health-giving amusement as a REDWING CAN
REDWINGS are soundly built of galvaniscd-iron, ar '•
constructed THEY CANNOT SINK. They have a 7 cuviit
bulkheads and compartments—are strong, durable ay ® t
desirable. Only 701 b. in weight—easily carried—exce ptinna ]i v
easy to paddle. /
Call in at our showrooms and see them, or writ' p
for information. PRICE 147/- (packing extra '
MALIEY’S PORTABLE STEEL. <S \V
Three convenient sizes, all ready far
Blue prints on application Ifap'
-TD.,
SYDNEY.
M ALLEY’S
86 Liverpool Street,
AGE.
■ection.
B.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Harbinger.
The almond blossom has come and gone—■
A glorious fugitive, fragrant ghost!
Light on the wind ’neath a waning moon,
Stray petals dance in a rigadoon—
Silver heels of a fleeting host.
The buds broke pink when a making moon.
Slender and glittering, twinkled high;
Thick and fresh on the shining bough.
They waxed while the white moon bloomed,
but now
Her last pale petal drifts down the sky.
Seeing, instead of the argent pride
That her full magnificence gazed upon,
Seeing, instead of bejewelled sheaves.
Sobered branches all swathed in leaves.
The almond blossom has come —and gone!
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
The Auction Room.
1 wonder did he dream, who wrought
Her loveliness, her slender grace.
Visioned it and in marble caught.
And held the vision of this place,
Thronged where she glimmers, cold, remote
From the appraising crowd, though coarse
Fingers flick at her pretty throat.
Her small head drooping, while the bourse
Voice from the rostrum blares her worth.
Little strayed goddess, pure and white
As moonrise over pagan earth.
Faint stars in Spring, the silver light
On a still lake through forest trees —
She trembled first, somehow I know.
Out of strange dreams of these, ull these,
Into his soul who wrought her so.
Round her a medley, tawdry, rich,
Jarring together—mirrors gilt,
A tapestry with gleaming stitch.
Ar old sword with a twisted hut,
Cabinets, bowls, a tall brown clock,
Indifferent pictures iu a stack....
Fat women push, shrewd dealers tiock,
Keen for a “snap”—and elbowed back
A limp man and bis ponderous wife
Lament some bargain proved amiss.
Oh, artist-soul, whose dream took life,
I w’onder did he vision this.
N.SAV.
A. SMITH.
Remembrance.
His name is music drawn from muted strings
Of treasured memories, vibrant, haunting,
sweet. .
It sounds along the resonant years, and rings
Above the matin boll at morning prime ;
At vespers floats above the silver chime.
Its gentlv falling cadences complete
The night’s devotions, and its tender tone
Wakes answering echoes in our hearts alone.
Beloved ! Remembered ! From behind the bars
Of life we stretch towards him eager
hands.
He listens to the singing of the stars, _
The rapturous music of the rhythmic
spheres. .
How shall our calling fall upon las ears?
In the blue courts of space to-day he
stands,
Hearing, before Eternity’s white throne.
The golden trumpets of the morning blown.
He, who loved beauty so, beholds her now,
And in that revelation he is crowned
With the immortals, wears upon his brow
The jewel of achievement. Ah. but will
He quite forget the sunset on the hill.
The moonlight on the sea, the happy sound
Of children’s voices? If we could but know
That he remembers us, who love him so!
Remember us. oh, happy spirit. Still
Wo bear the increasing burden of each
year;
The winds of loneliness blow bleak and chill.
Tjove and remember us. It is too much
To hope for sight of thee, for voiee or touch ;
But come to us, that, listening, we may
hear , . ,
Thy passage like the sound of wind-swept
strings.
Or the soft beating of approaching wings.
VICTORIA.
G. ETHEL MARTYR.
Mirage.
Here, where the bracken sings all day of sea :
Of sea, bough-hidden, just beyond the
bush, .
And wiry shrubs whose crimson berries stain
The hollow, and across the hot noon hush
The small grey dove sends forth its liquid
call —
Here I lie dreaming, in the ferny crush
Of one who was not worth it, after all!
I see earth’s gardens filled with many a rose ;
I range the acres of pale blossomry
With down-dropped lids, greedy for beauty in
The vague horizons of dear mystery,
Fine minarets and tiles of Persian blue —
I spin these things from love-calls and
from tree
And an unfaltering memory of y0u,,,,
Is this all Time has left me from the years—
Years that were full of change, black
tragedy
And scarlet passion, and soft green of dreams
That were more real sometimes than life
to me? .
Chance to my hand let wide experience fall.
And yet in pain I paid my largest fee
For one that was not worth it, after all!
Here, where the bracken burns to autumn
gold
(Wave upon wave it apes the unseen sea.
And the brown stipes are dark as mermaids’
hair),
I think how wonderful the earth can be. . .
And vet rav heart is sick of forests tall
And gloss of fern because of memory
Of 0ne....wh0 was not worth it. after all.
(HTKKNST,A^'n.
M. FORREST.


You Can Buy Two
Adding Machines
in One
vA
fm
flirt
si!
i
The Burroughs Duplex—a double adding machine
It will add two sets of items at one time; it will print
tfie individual totals and if you wish, combine them
for a grand total.
Or, it will give you the totals of many individual
groups of items, then automatically produce a grand
total. In that case, it saves the relisting necessary
on a straight adding machine to get a combined total.
It saves time and many chances for error.
These short cuts to sales analysis and other figuring
work are saving money for thousands of business men
every day. Why not put a Burroughs Duplex to work
for you today?
Read the column at the right to see a few of the
many uses for the Burroughs Duplex. Then write
us for a demonstration.
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines
IRA L. & A. C. BERK
Challis House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers,
Hobart.
Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.
New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
Burroughs
Duplex
—anything a straight addling
machine will do—plus many
other advantages that mean
profit and saving in your
business.
For instance: You can group
the day’s sales slips by clerks,
list and add them quickly, get a
total for each clerk, then a grand
total for the day—without re-
listing a single item! At the
mont h-end you can get each clerk’s
total sales and a grand total
for all —in one operation. You
can classify sales by days, lines
and departments just as easily
—the machine adds the groups
separately and then automatically
accumulates and prints the grand
total.
Distributes Sales
and Cost Figures
Rapidly
In any distribution work re-
quiring group and grand totals
the Duplex saves a great deal of
time and money. When proving
ledger postings, it totals debits
and credits in one run. It’s a
great help in taking a trial bal-
ance, handling wage sheet work,
and other double adding jobs.
The Duplex Fits
Any Business
For the retailer, wholesaler or
manufacturer there many ways
in which this remarkable machine
can be adapted to/a (wide range of
figure work. In {[your search for
new ways to decrease expense,
stop losses and increase profits,
let us send you completedetails.
A Burroughs for
Every Figuring Need
-—for Adding, (Bookkeeping, and
Calculating.
m
4452
Adding —Bookkeeping— Calculating
Mach i n e s


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43. —No. 2225.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1922.
Price 6n.
COLD COMPORT.
BATTLING BOLSHIE: “Don’t be afraid to tackle him again, Jacko! Remember, I’ll challenge if he outs you this time.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street. Svdnev. N.S.W., Australia.
Mulbouhne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERM. S TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address ik Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, is.
To any address Oveuseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 155.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager,
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters ai'e liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge iii the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received me those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Loudon
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IK. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Dreams buildings, London E.C.b;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 56 Fleet Street,
Loudon, E.C.; “The Dritish-Australasian,” 51 High
llolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., tfbl Hastings
Street, Vancouver, D.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co.. J6I East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Houlevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn Jk Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Sfreef,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua.— Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon & Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, EC).
U.S.A. — J. Roland liay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper ) : —'Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: joz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., Id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: koz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, Id.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1022.
BARWELL AND HIS LITTLE AXE.
Returning from Britain by the U.S. route,
S.A. Premier Harwell, that man of hasty
judgments, caught glimpses of Canada from
his Pullman car, and beguiled the tedium
of the overland journey by . reading a pam-
phlet on the Canadian method of dealing
with industrial disputes. The result is a
bill in which that method is incorporated
bodily, at the expense of the Central State’s
own industrial machinery, which, cumbrous
as it is, has worked fairly well. It is a
sudden piece of legislation, inasmuch as its
author was committed to the wages-board
system before he set out on his travels, but
Barwell is a sudden politician. He has
a gift for founding impetuous conclusions on
insufficient evidence, or on none at all. Hav-
ing discovered that the Northern Territory
was unfit for white settlement without ven-
turing further north than Quorn, he found it
easy to perceive the full beauties of the
Canadian plan while rushing through the
country to catch a boat. Harwell’s pro-
posal is to do away with the Industrial
Boards and Court, and set up ephemeral
Conciliation Boards on the application of
parties to disputes. Each board is to con-
sist of (1) an employers’ man, (2) an em-
ployees’ man, and (3) a chairman nominated
by them. If they can’t agree as to the
chairman the Government will appoint him,
and one of fh e delegates also if either side
defaults. # * *
But the tribunal thus constituted is to
have no power to enforce neace. Its duties will
be, first, to implore the disputants to shake
hands and be good fellers; and, that expedi-
ent failing, to” prepare a report (or two
reports, majority and minority), embodying
the facts of the case and recommendations
(or two lots of recommendations) for a
settlement. Thereupon it will draw its
fees and fade out of being. The report
will be published, at the Government’s dis-
cretion, for general information, and,
in order that public opinion may be brought
to bear on the contumacious party. Pro-
vision is made in the bill for the registration
of voluntary agreements, which are to be
terminable at a month’s notice, for the
application of the common rule to employers
not bound by an agreement, and for the
punishment of persons who (a) refuse to
offer or accept work on the terms of an
agreement, and (b) do anything in the
nature of a strike or a lock-out (picketing
is included), when a board has been applied
for or is engaged in investigating a dis-
pute. These compulsory clauses might be
useful if it were certain that they would be
enforced regardless of votes and independ-
ently of changes of Government, but there
is not a million-to-one chance of that hap-
pening. Ministers fearless enough to exact
a penalty from every person engaged in an
illegal strike—and in most parts of Austra-
lia strikes have been illegal* for 20 years—
don’t bloom in these parts. Even if they
did, their work would assuredly be undone
by their successors: that is to say, fines
wrung from strikers by a strong Liberal or
Tory Government would be returned to them
by the ensuing Labor Government, and the
law would be either emasculated or repealed.
Nor is any good likely to come out of the
Conciliation Boards. That sort of media-
tion, reminiscent as it is of the armyless and
navyless League of Nations trying ty> stop
the war between Turkey and Greece, may
suit Canada, but would be useless in Aus-
tralia alongside the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court. In all the early State
Arbitration Acts these benevolent bodies,
powerless except to spin words and collect
honoraria, were contemplated, but they never
came to anything. It was found that they
couldn’t live alongside courts with even the
show of power. In Westralia the Govern-
ment tried to get a board for the mining
industry, and a well-known unionist was per-
suaded to nominate for the ballot that it
was arranged to hold. lie was the only
workers’ candidate, and he didn’t get a vote.
After that the idea was dropped.
Such are the fruits of Harwell's trip
from New York to .Seattle, or it may have
been \ anconver. The scheme is ponderous
and costly, and its expectation of life is poor.
Without Labor co-operation it hasn’t a ghost
of a chance of succeeding, and Labor co-
operation has been refused. The industrial-
ists are violently opposed to it, but not more
violently than the politicals, who threaten
to contest every section and paragraph of
the measure, and stonewall all spring and
summer, if by those methods Harwell can
be intimidated or tired out. Amidst the
hullabaloo there is much testimony to the
value of compulsory arbitration, or the
tiling that goes by that name, and this tes-
timony would be impressive were it not for
the fact that one big union—in fact the one
big union—has been on strike for weeks
against the award in the shearers’ case, and
another is revolting in sections against the
judgment increasing the working week from
44 hours to 48. Justice Higgins said re-
cently that the opposition to industrial tri-
bunals came from extremists on both sides:
On the one side from men whose minds are steened
in the revolutionary doctrines of Marx; on the other
from certain employers who resent any interference
with their autocratic powers.
But the enemies of arbitration could be
overcome if its friends would only give it
a chance. Hughes, with his incorrigible
habit of meddling in industrial matters, and
his custom of covering his surrenders to
strikers by the creation of imitation
tribunals, which deliver make-believe
awards, has done the thing more
harm than the autocratic type of
employer. And the out-and-out Marxian
is not so menacing to it as the kind of union-
ist who proclaims his belief in the principle,
but refuses to take the bad with the- good.
The Bolshevik union official often has a
sneaking regard for Arbitration Courts. lie
relishes the advertisement they give him,
and revels in their unnecessarily provocative
procedure, which gives an appearance of
reality to the doctrine of the class-war. And
when the judgment goes against him he
refuses to be bound by it, thereby exposing,
in a highly effective way, his contempt for
the standards of an effete civilisation and
setting an instructive example of triumphant
lawlessness. All the same, the win-tie-or-
wrangle attitude of such persons (Walsh,
of the Seamen’s Union, for example) is less
mischievous than that of faithless arbitra-
tionists, or professed arbitrationists, like
Blakeley and Lambert, of the A.W.U.
Blakeley’s offence is particularly rank, for
he not only used his influence as president
of the A.W.U. to stir up an infatuated
strike, but took advantage of his political
invulnerability to traduce the Judge who
delivered the award, and from whose court
the union has derived substantial benefits.
Justice Higgins is rght in contending that,
with all its imperfections, arbitration has
been useful to Australia. Divested of its
legal flummery and administered without
respect to votes or persons, which has never
happened yet, its usefulness could be multi-
plied tenfold. Although manifestly in dan-
ger the system will survive such open attacks
as Barwell’s, in South Australia, and such
indirect assaults as Fuller’s in N. S.
Wales. It is strikes like those of the
shearers and the engineers that will destroy
it, if destroyed it is to be.
THE POOR MAN AS A CAPITALIST.
It is a business truism that “only the rich
can borrow.” It is equally true that only by
borrowing are the majority 1 of the rich men
enabled to become richer. Moreover, the
rich borrow, for the most part, from the
poor, who are themselves unable to borrow,
and are to that extent prevented from be-
coming rich. The explanation is obvious.
Modern business is organised on the large
scale. Its type is the joint-stock company,
the capital of which is mostly borrowed in
small amounts from the many small men
who wish to find, an investment for their
small savings. But no joint-stock company
could carry on if it worked exclusively on
its own capital, and so it continually bor-
rows additional working capital. Ostensibly,
it does so from a bank; but that bank has
money to lend only because the small man
in his thousands has deposited therein his
small savings, getting in return a small
annual interest. Yet the bank—which
makes its money out of the small
man—has no money to lend him.
A bank —like any other business —lives
for profit. It must, therefore, buy
cheap, sell dear and cut the cost of its
overhead expense. It buys the use of money
at a low rate; it sells the use of that money
at a considerably higher rate; and, finally,
it sells only to those whose ability to repay
may be assessed without a lengthy—and,
therefore, expensive—investigation. That is
why its sales are largely to the big business
interests, whose status is a matter of public
record; whose balance-sheets are certified as
correct by reputable public accountants, and
whose assets, as set out in their balance-
sheets, are easily verifiable —consisting as
they usually do of buildings, plant, stocks
and debts owed to tin} concern. These last
can be estimated by the bank at very nearly
their full face value, since most of them will
be owed by concerns whose affairs are also
made public, while, for the rest, a bank can
trust a modern business organisation only to
extend credit conservatively.
* * * *
Big business gets its loans, then, because
bankers prefer to play a simple, safe, inex-
pensive game, in which the actual skill re-
quired is rather less than that demanded,
say, in a successful pawnbroker. But this
is no reason why the poor man should be
debarred from the privilege of cheap and easy
borrowing. Borrowers are of two kinds—
those who want money to pull them out of
a pit of their own contriving, and who usually
end up in the office of a Hebrew financier of
usurious tendencies: and those who seek to
borrow in order to begin or extend a small
business. The latter, provided they were
accommodated with money, would put it to
work, and make it produce after the best
model of the big business. These are the
folk who should be encouraged to borrow,
since their borrowings would be a national
asset. Yet our Australian banks will have no-
thing to do with them. What is the remedy?
The small investor might, if lie were fool-
ish enough to make the attempt, force the
banks to consider him by organising a strike.
Not a strike against work ; merely an organ-
ised withdrawal of his small bank-deposits.
Such a plan would have immediate and far-
reaching effects. It would certainly force
the banks to consider the claims of the small
man. But the cost of the concession would
be too high to all concerned; and in any
event such a boomerang-like weapon is un-
necessary, since tiie small man can obtain his
reasonable loans by peaceful means. All the
small man needs to do is to combine with
some hundreds of his fellows in making a
pool of their combined resources. Then, as
a society, lie can apply to the banks for loans
with certainty of success. This is a sound
and practical plan which has been tried and
proved successful in several countries. It
was first developed nearly a century ago by
one Schulze-Delitzsch—a Herman. From
its inception by this genius, the scheme has
proceeded on these genera! lines. A number
of laborers, artisans, tradesmen or farmers
form a society. Each subscribes a small
amount—say, £5 —to the capital of the
society, but this involves an unlimited
liability. Thus, in effect, each pledges the
whole of his property to the society, which
thus possesses assets of considerable value,
which form an adequate basis for nego-
tiating loans from even a conservative bank.
Loans are made to members, but only for pro-
ductive purposes. The granting of these
loans is at the sole discretion of an honorary
committee of management; and since every
member of the society is directly responsible
for the repayment of any loan, "the members
constitute a definite check one on the other.
So effective is this check that in Germany,
where there are over one thousand such
organisations, the losses —at the last official
report—w r ere less than one-twentieth of one
per cent.
* * * *
The advantages of the plan are manifest.
It provides a means for the individual of
energy to escape from the ever-increasing
monotony of our minutely-organised indus-
try. It invites small men to embark in co-
operative enterprises—large enough to com-
pete in the modern business world, and yet
small enough to admit of that individual ser-
vice which is. only possible when proprietors
are themselves at work. Moreover, the plan
can be readily adapted to meet the needs of
the small agriculturist, and this should be
especially significant to a country which is
endeavoring to develop along the lines of
intensive farming. Here, again, the organisa-
tion of credit societies would be certain to
foster the introduction of some measure
of co-operation in agricultural production,
since men, bound together by the pooling
of their resources, will be likely to perceive
• the savings in time, plant and labor wh'ch
can be achieved by co-operation. Australia,
with its intelligent and highly-educated work-
ing class, is the ideal country for the forma-
tion of ci’edit societies; and if the Govern-
ment banks would give a lead by encourag-
ing their formation it is probable that a
mighty impetus would be given to the de-
velopment of the country.
PROHIBITION AS I SAW IT.
“In here,” said my Western American
friend. One of the big old-time bar-rooms,
brass-footrails and bottles complete—Scotch,
rye and gin to order. Ahove us the office-
building lifted its 15 or 20 storeys; and the
two bartenders were busy with the tenants.
“Prohibition?” said my friend. “Forget it.”
We forgot it.
“In here.”
A restaurant and dancerooin, silent
and empty in the daylight. My friend
led us to the ronm behind the bar. Further
choice of Scotch and rye, and an introduc-
tion to a police-official and a Judge.
We forgot P'rohibition once more.
The office of one of those Westerners, who
are so like Australians that the only appa-
rent difference is a few tricks of speech. A
great strongroom, occupying almost all of one
wallmassively doored, as if for a public safe-
deposit. The Westerner, a cheerful soul,
with the directness of an outback Australian,
the brick-red face that comes of sunlight
and wine, dark Spanish eyes and the small
black moustache of the Spaniard, agreed that
under Prohibition the American nation had
“!'9 h of its cheerfulness; but believed
Prohibition to be a good thing.
-I don ’t S *J” said he, "that it has made
for more efficiency—the joss we worship.
, Business yells for it in its rank and file
but Big Business doesn’t want efficiency in
its own methods. There’s more easy money
in waste and manipulation. Rockefeller
knew what he was about when lie put up
a million dollars for the Anti-Saloon League
If he gets a dollar a man of better service
a year his million dollars go back to him
ihen he has big drug-store holdings; and
Prohibition has made drug-stores a Tilt-
edged investment. All the liquor on pre-
scription is sold through drug-stores at 300
per cent, over the pre-Prohibition prices-
drug stores sell soft drinks and ice-
cream and candy, and Prohibition has in-
creased candy sales beyond all imagining
because people have to get their alcohol in
some form or other. I wouldn’t be surprised
to find that Prohibitionists own the thou-
sands of pastry-shops that have sprung ud
all over the States since Prohibition came
in—-the pastry-shops that are making New
Yorkers as fat as Fifth-avenue Jews. Still,
it is good for the working-classes, I
think, on the whole. You’ll come
back to lunch? Right! I won’t be
able to see you Sunday till the afternoon
Its my Sunday for the ginmaker to call
Yes, he makes his rounds regularly, and next
Sundays my day 1 have the ingredients
ready, and he comes here once a month and
makes my supply. I keep it for business
acquaintances; but I’ve something better for
a real friend.”
He crossed to the strong-room, unlocked the
great door and threw it open. The safe-
deposit was full of bottles of gin. brandy.
Scotch and rye and corn whisky, of Cresto
Blanco, an excellent chablis 'of California,
and claret and burgundy of France.
"A cocktail?” said the Westerner, and made
two.
“But Prohibition’s good for the working-
classes,” said I.
“Hell!” replied the Westerner. “We’re
not working-classes. Drink hearty Ynd
you’ll have a dry time on the train. I’ll
send a couple of bottles of claret to your
hotel.”
Prohibition is fine for the working-classes-
but it bits only one class, although all classes
can get. liquor by paying three times its
value. 3be profits must be enormous,
although the payment for immunity is high;
but the traders regard it as double license
fee—the national revenue losing license
money, Customs duties on imported liquors
now smuggled, and income-tax on the earn-
ings of the traffickers. The working-classes
get the bad liquor; although wood-alcohol
can outstep the boundaries sot for it and
kill the rich, too, by virtue of poison sold
with a forged label and at a price which
of itself inspires confidence. Two million-
aire brothers—automobile manufacturers—
were killed that way, dying of one quiet card-
party with a few- drinks to it.
But the good stuff is in plenty too. An-
other YV estern friend ordered in two game-
cocks for my entertainment, and they fought
a main or two while we drank the good
Cresto Blanco, an excellent white wine,
though not in the high class of some of our
Australian hocks. That Westerner also sent
Cresto Blanco and Scotch for my refresh-
ment across Arizona, and a week later, in
the snow of New York, I had the last of it.
There were a newspaper-man of Londou
and a movie-picture man of Australia wait-
ing for me in New York. They cursed the
snow, and were angered that a Broad-
w-ay cabaret had charged them a dollar
a throw for poor rye the night before. But
the Australian movie-man had news that
obsessed him.
“I bought a fine edition of Shakspeare
for my boy,” he said. “Beautiful plates and
a splendid commentary. Only cost eleven
dollars. That cabaret charged us a dollar
a throw for poor rye.”
“Will you have a drink of Scotch?” I
asked, ready to open the bottle.
“My oath !” said the Australian, the Eng-
lishman remarking that he didn’t mind.
They had one _ drink—two drinks.... and
were loud in praise, and told me I must tell
them the story of its origin again. This
done, they had another drink.
“Prohibition is the stupidest thing ever
put over on a people,” said the Englishman.
"With whisky like that in the world,
it’s”——
“It’s blan —blasphemous,” said the Aus-
tralian. “Di’ tell you bought splendishun
Shakspe’r’—thirteen doll’rs ?”
“Yes, but it was eleven dollars last time.”
“Thirteen doll’s—splendishun.”
“You can get liquor in every block here.”
said the Englishman very solemnly, and care-
fully selecting his words, as if the slightest
mispronunciation would endanger his life.
“Ev’ry block. Thanks! I’ll get the ice-
warr-ice-water.”
“B’jove feel fine,” said the movie-man.
“Di’ tell y’ bought splendishun Shakspe’r’,
’leven doll’s fifty cen’s?”
“Yes ; but it was eleven dollars, then thir-
teen.”
“ ’Leven or thirteen or ’leven-fifty—marrer
ten bobber two bob. Splendishun—bought
for my boy. That’s great stuff. Won’t mind
dam’ snow so much n0w.... Splendishun
Shakspe’r’—thirteen doll’s an’ fifty cen’s.”
With another bottle I could have raised
the price of the Shakspeare to 38 dollars 17
cents; but Prohibition made it shrink to
31 dollars next day.
In Maryland a prescription costs 2 dol-
lars, and a pint of whisky in Washington
costs 2 dollars 50 cents ; but outside of the
price there is no difficulty. Wet, if expen-
sively wet, is the United States. Kentucky
has been allegedly a dry State for many
years; yet the other day a moonshiner was
arrested with a still in full blast, and he
said he had been making whisky for 40 years
and never knew that there was a law against
it. Stills are sold openly in 50 shops in
New York; almost everybody home-brews;
men compare recipes for gin-manufacture
with the holy joy of pedants discovering liter-
ary curiosities; the Prohibition U.S. Govern-
ment runs Government Atlant’c liners that
sell liquor, and states that if it abolishes
liquor sales on American ships it must get
out of the passenger business. Quebec is
using the American thirst to relieve itself
of debt —the Government now owning the
liquor monopoly; and on this day of writing
24 motor army-trucks, mounted with
machine-guns, leave New York for the Can-


horder. These will operate with a
fleet of motor-boats in the attempt to pre-
vent whisky-smuggling along the bUar
rence To prevent smuggling along this
treat river with its thousand miles of water-
hue and its many thousands of islands is a
ob for 100,000 police. Public opinion here
that is not hopelessly one-eyed concludes that
Prohibition will be effective when every
second man is a Prohibition officer. Fifty
machine guns and army-trucks, of a speed
mi to 70 miles an hour, can have no notice-
able effect on the flood of alcohol that is so
profitable to Canada; as it is also to British
Columbia, Cuba, Mexico. Britain and the
countries of the Mediterranean. The
trade in British Columbia is a Government
monopoly, as in Quebec; and the Attorney-
General of British Columbia has announced
•i reduction of 25 cents a bottle in the price
of whisky and of 75 cents a bottle in the price
of "in. An excellent wine is made of the
dandelion, and the U.S.A. Government lias
now declared the dandelion prohibited tor
manufacture. But almost every household in
New Jersev has its children collecting the
little flowers, and almost every housewife
makes wine of the weed. It is a thin and
delicate wine with a distinctive and \eiy
delicate bouquet. The Prohibition Depart-
ment is also inquiring into the crimes of the
mission-fig of California, which makes a
liquor with a sizable kick in it. the market
price of mission-figs having doubled since the
discovery of the kick. .
The U.S.A. Government passenger-ships
continue to sell liquor at sea; while the
humorless Department that pretends to en-
force Prohibition now begs the Governments
of Britain, Canada, Cuba and Mexico to help
it enforce the law against importations of
liquor, which law it is incapable of enforc-
ing with its own machinery. The reply of
Britain is reported as "‘sympathetically non-
committal” : it is certainly polite, but the
politeness cannot help showing the amuse-
ment of the answerer. The Prohibition De-
partment also asks that the three-mile limit
should be made a 12-mile limit, so that
smuggling shall be more difficult, but theie
could be no end to the shifting of a limit,
and with a limit of P2OO miles smuggling
would continue, because the long coastline
could employ thousands of guards and still
fail. Prohibition is a joke where it isn't a
business. , ~ . ..
Through the swing-doors the man in th<
street may see men each with a toot on the
brass-rail, as if Volstead had never existed.
There are a score of these open places, know n
to me, a stranger ; and many others, known
to me. more furtive in their trade and more
circumspect in law-breaking. These are the
places that have either not purchased im-
munity’, or that have purchased immunity
thev cannot be sure is absolute. I asked
one" restaurateur in the M abash district
how he managed to get such bulky stuff as
beer safelv delivered. lie answered quite
seriously that he had a policeman engaged
to watch the waggon during delivery. At
this and other down-town restaurants "’alt-
ers openly carry trays of cocktails and open
bottles of 6 per cent, ale, for all the world
to see, at least for as much of the little
world as is interested. Some of the whisky-
joints demand cards or introductions, but
there are immune saloons in the shadow or
the buildings of authority, selling openly to
all-comers, and displaying the whisky-bottles
on the counter. Up-town service vanes from
formal introduction of the stranger behind!
closed doors to delivery of whisky or gm
in medicine-bottles in wide-open restau-
rants. To be served behind closed doors
means that the bootlegger is taking al the
profits and all the risk —and paying nothing,
or very little, to Prohibition officers or
P °The old-time decent saloons still flourish :
the half-doors swinging to the entry and exit
of customers, the brass footrail and the
liquor on the bar. These pay three informal
license fees —to Prohibition officers, to htate
police—where there is a State, as well as a
Federal, Prohibition law —and to the city
police. They are not quite immune; a new,
raw policeman, who is not a participant in
the graft, may make a sudden call, but he
draws a blank always. In one case I know
the raw policeman made his visit while a
policeman, not raw, was in the back parlor
selling seized liquor to the saloon-keeper.
For that is the end of much of the seized
liquor—as political clubs of the reigning
faction know well.
The seizure of liquor has its feuds just as
rival bootleg gangs have their gunmen. In
Downing-street, New York City, two weeks
ago, a crowd of screaming women and chil-
dren suddenly dashed for safety to house
entries and cellars, and left the street to
the gunmen. They were rival factions of
bootleggers—Spaniards and Italians. The
Spanish gang bought the bootlegging con-
cession of the Downing-street and Bedford-
street quarter, and the Italian bootlevgers
tried to poach on the Spanish preserves.
When the police arrived the factions had
withdrawn, leaving half-a-dozen revolvers,
one injured Spaniard and an unconscious
Italian.
The great headlines of the newspapers are
mostly of evasions of the Prohibition law,
the important evasions starred from day to
day—the thousands of usual and , regular
evasions unnoticed. Among to-day’s head-
lines are “Explosion in Rum Raid Wrecks
House and Puts Five in Hospital—Seven
Policemen Injured. Two Big Stills I ound.
“Quarter-million Dollars of Liquor Seized
in Three Schooners from Bahamas. Pro-
hibition Navy Boards Rum Pirates; 7000-
ton Rum-ship Escapes.”
To turn to another aspect of it, the
deaths by alcoholism in New York in 1021
were 80 per cent, greater than in 1020;
and. so far, in 1022. there is an increase of
30 per cent, over the corresponding figures
of 1921.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
If War Comes.
All the omens point to another war on the
grand scale; and it is as likely to come
soon as late. The League of Nations re-
sembles an unarmed policeman in a rough
district, an elderly lady attempting to stem
the tide of Y.D. with a handful of tracts,
or anything else that is pathetically futile.
It has been said, and Moscow, which is
fomenting the present trouble m the Near
East, undoubtedly hopes, that the British
Empire will not survive another world war.
And it probably will not —if the next is
run in all respects like the last. The pre-
sent-day citizen, who will be to-morrow s
soldier, knows too much to be humbugged
on the old lines; and nothing is surer than
that the first serious attempt to do it will
result in tragedy. In 1914 the only con-
ventions accepted by the war-lords were
those of a period when kings led mercenary
armies into battle, while their respectn e
nationals looked on, largely unaffected by
the disturbance, unless it raged through the
towns tbev were inhabiting or over the
fields they were cultivating. And hence the
court-martial system; the civil tyranny
which was the basis of the ar I recau-
tions Act; and much else that is anachro-
nistic. The old-time British mercenary, who
fought less for country than for cash or
loot, recognised how logical it was that the
Army Act should be employed for the con-
trol of such “bloody murdering villains as
Wellington said he was. Civilians did not
mind what embargoes were put on them in
respect of war-criticism provided those
who were conducting the war left them
alone otherwise. But the days of what may
be called private-enterprise wars are lor-
ever over. Everyone is going to have a per-
sonal interest in the next war, as everyone
was forced to have in the last long before
it wore to its ruinous end. Lhe first uusi-
ness of Parliament, then, must be to en-
sure that the nation shall not again be
bludgeoned into silence after the style a
village in the Low Countries under Alva;
and that citizens shall enjoy exactly the
same legal rights while fighting for their
country as they have been accustomed t
enjoy while serving it as civilians, these
innoVations are not nearly so startling as
the military M.P.’s (nearly all of whom aie
disciplinarians of the old English school,
which is little different from the old Prus-
sian school) will try to make out when the
subject is brought up in the House. By the
end of the last war the court-martial system
had been practically abrogated in the held .a
legal adviser sat with the combatant mem-
bers of every court, and directed them in
law and procedure. And had it not ,9®®®
that papers like the London Daily Mail
possessed the nerve and power to defy the
censorship it is more than likely that 811-
tain and not Germany would now be a
republic. It is easy, in the event of an-
other war, to imagine newspaper and other
criticism which may be harmful to the
national cause; but not half so easy as it is
to imagine the calamities which will inevit-
ably follow upon attempts to blanket
criticism. It is certain that the ter-
rors of the wild justice of a field geneial
court-martial will keep a few fighting me i
up to the scratch; but equally certain that,
the punishments of these tribunals, if they
are allowed to function on the old lines,
will create multitudes of potential revolu-
tionaries. After all, during a national war,
the best guardian of the public press is
likelv to be the public, and the greatest
terror of a cowardly or traitorous soldier
is likely to be his own comrades. Let the
Parliamentarians of Australia weigh these
problems well, when W. M. Hughes asks
them, as he surely will, to give him back
the powers which lie yielded up with such
reluctance the other day. It is on then
decision in the matter. probably. that th .®
fate of the Commonwealth will depend it
war comes again.
•
The Morbid Habit of Burial.
Outside the regulation Christian (in theory,
at all events) city, with its life and bustle
and disordered haste aud crime and tram-
cars, lies another city which doesn t hustle,
and where practically nothing happens
except new arrivals. It is a silent sort of
place, which produces nothing edible, thougu
it grows a.u amazingly large and amazingly
expensive crop of stone and marble the
best part of a billion tons of stone in some
cases. This place expands at a great rate,
for its inhabitants don’t die off, they, being
all dead already. Nor do they grow tired of
the spot and shift to other parts. Live cities
tend to be bigger than they used to be,
wherefore the attached dead cities tend to
be bigger also, just when there is least room
for them. Space in a dead city is enor-
mously expensive. No one pretends that
the place is healthy, or that the water which
percolates through its consecrated soil is to
be recommended for drinking or washing
purposes. Burial is more or less related to
ancestor-worship in a crude form—-to the
desire to know where the ancestor is located,
so that the worshipper can get close
up to him. In olden days, when
whole nations roved from place to
place, because there were oodles of space
to rove in, some Scriptural and pre-Senp-
tural characters planted their dead in caves,
where the inmate had elbow-room and
space to swing a cat supposing the beast
intruded. That was before the supply of
caves ran short. Even dead Lazarus is
said to have had a whole rock drawing-room
to himself, and the place that is shown to
the visitor, for a consideration, as his is
lar°e enough for him to entertain his fellow-
ghosts in if so inclined. Those were times
when a king who built a new city—and
kings did that once, though it isn t
done in Australia now had to. depopu-
late an old one in order to fill it, which
probablv explains how great centres like
Memphis and Babylon fell into the sere and
empty leaf. Burial on the modern plan is
a gloomy combination of overcrowding among
complete strangers, of silence, blackness,
airlessness and hopelessness, with a dreadful
weight above and a worse one below. The
deceased is put into the earth to hasten his
decay, having first been shut in a mostly, solid,
solemn, gruesome box to retard his decay. He
is planted in his entirety that he may T rise
again, and weighted down with a world ot
ballast to prevent him rising. It is well-
known that graveyards fill. Then they are
closed. Then in long course of time they
pass out as graveyards, and their dust ceases
to be held sacred and is disturbed in all sorts
of ways. It this didn’t happen, small,
densely-peopled lands would be. nothing but
cemeterv long before Resurrection Day lags
along on its halting feet In some cases
cremation and a good solid urn might hold
the deceased better together, and hold more
of him together for the great but , do ? bt^ u }
Event than the present method. lhe bunai
system is intended to give relatives an oppor-
tunity to do rites of ancestor-worship at tne
proper spot, but only morbid families keep
these up long, and even the most morbi
families sometimes remove, into the next
State, leaving the shrine behind them, bnuei
the portable policy of cremation they could
take it along and continue to morb as long
as thev pleased. Two dismally unpleasant
thoughts hang like ghosts round the burial
habit. One is that no one knows—and no
one is ever likely to know till someone in-
vents a practicable thinkograph to register
inward and unspoken and even unformed
thoughts—whether consciousness leaves the
human tenement when the power of express-
ing it completely and permanently departs.
Still less does anyone know how long it may
linger. This opens up the dreadful idea
that most burials may be of the premature
order, and premature burning, being short
and decisive, appears preferable. Again, no
one has ever proved that the departed and
wandering spirit may not return, .in
indefinite time, and under some indefinite
circumstances, to its human envelope. TOM-
LINSON’S is recorded as having come back,
and the last words which the Devil said to
Tomlinson were that unless he made a devil
of a pace he would wake underground and
die over again. Whether the miserable
householder arrived back in time to counter-
mand his own funeral, or whether he awoke,
and went mad, and bit himself, and sutlo-
eated in the innards of the earth is not
stated, but readers choose to assume that he
was just in time. With this possibility in
view it seems better for the returned ghost
to find that his human envelope has been
burned and to stay homeless. Some homes
may be worse than none at all. Which all
leads up to the proposal that cremation
should be made a national institution—a
sort of burning State Church, so to speak ;
that facilities should be provided for it
everywhere; and that no pains should be
spared to discourage and repress the un-
wholesome habit of burial.
•
Sovietism Issues a Challenge.
With the Turks threatening a new war,
the Russians feeling their oats again and
another coal strike developing in A. 8.
Wales, the Labor Council , of Actiom that
vaporing Australian embodiment of Soviet-
ism (and defeatism') has suddenly thrust
itself into prominence. The coal trouble
may be nothing more than a symptom of
Spring fever. It isn’t time yet for the
annual shipping hold-up, but when the surf
calls to Amelia Ellen, and Beauford is
showing his paces at Randwick, the young
miner’s fancy lightly 7 turns to thoughts of
strike. Or the thing may be subtly con-
nected with the situation in Europe, ter-
tainly. there is sinister talk among the local
Bolshies of “a prolonged upheaval,” and of
“confident reliance for help in this struggle
with the tyrannical master-class on our
comrades overseas”; by which observation,
since the British and American workers
have been impoverished by their own coal
strikes. Russia must be meant. Having been
rescued from the grip of famine by the
charity of capitalist countries, the masters
of Muscovy are repaying their benefactors
with typical Tartar ingratitude. There is
more than a suspicion that they are egging
Abdul on in Asia Minor (no doubt, part of
the gold and jewellery they looted from the
Allies and the Church is still avail-
able for propaganda and the financing of
military operations), and that if it comes
to another struggle between Europe and
Asia they will be on Asia’s side. And simul-
taneously with the resurgence of Bolshevist
militarism in the northern hemisphere, there
lias been a new outbreak of Bolshevist paci-
fism in the Commonwealth. Having learnt
nothing from the 1917 strike or the white-
flag Labor Congress of 1918, the Council
of Action announces that it has decided: —
To organise the workers in all industries so that
the manufacture of army supplies and the transport
of troops and war equipment be prevented at all
costs. „ „ , . „ .
To organise, in addition, all effective forms oi
opposition, including general strikes, strikes in key
industries, open-air demonstrations, etc.
To secure adequate sanction from the trades-union
movement to declare such general or sectional strikes
or to take other measures tor quick and summary
action in case of imminent or actual war projected by
a ny Australian Government under the existing order
of society.
To hold those individuals who precipitate the
people into such a war personally responsible lor the
death or mutilation of any member of the working
class.
That is the result of allowing the forms of
Sovietism to be established 'in Australia by
an unwhipped and mostly imported mob. It
is an insufferably arrogant challenge to de-
mocratic institutions, and, come peace or
war, it will have to be resolutely taken
up. For if the Government doesn’t suppress
the Council of Action, some day the Council
of Action will suppress the Government.
The Agrarian and the Octopus.
"Saaedi’s” parable:—
Consider the case of Blinks, M.L.A., of the Coun-
try party. Before his election he earned an honest
living as a mixed farmer. He knew the difficulties
which beset the man on the land —none better. He
knew that the latter’s produce was being hauled many
expensive miles—past spacious but neglected ports —
by a line that resembled nothing so much as a cork-
screw gone mad, to feed a bloated city. And he knew
that in consequence the inhabitants of his constituency,
’Cornville, were getting fewer in number and more
and more impoverished in pocket as the years rolled
on. Blinks was consumed with hatred against the
octopus city. He was also consumed by a very real
desire to rectify his fellow-farmers’ grievances.
These things he said to the electors of Cornville
in loud, emphatic tones. And the hopeful horny-
handed toilers banged their horny palms together
and whooped approval of his sentiments. Blinks
was an ardent and emphatic advocate of New States
in those days, and trenchant in his denunciation of
the army of political and private middlemen that
was preying on the producers. The young and pro-
gressive farmers were entranced by his eloquence
and obvious sincerity. The old and conservative ones
admitted that he might grow into a fair lad in time
if he continued on his present course. Everybody
agreed that he was the right man to represent rural
interests, and for his own part he was absolutely
sure of it. And so he came to Sydney.
Blinks had now secured a lucrative job that
involved his constant attendance in the big city. He
travelled on the city trams and boats and drank in
the city bars. He fraternised with Million
and Million Farmers. The former wanted to entice
everybody to Sydney; the latter longed to entice
everybody—save themselves—out of Sydney. But
they didn’t quarrel with each other. Blinks remem-
bered the corkscrew line, and marvelled at the hope-
fulness of the Million Farmers. Later, when he
learnt the elements of political self-advertisement,
he ceased to marvel. Both Million Farmers and Mil-
lion Clubbers gently depreciated Blinks’s New State
ardor, and urged upon him the necessity foi cau-
tion They hinted at mysterious and insuperable
obstacles, and some of the fire and enthusiasm went
out of Blinks’s heart as he listened. The right thing
to be done, they explained, was to be practical and
sensible—and float a loan. All their schemes started
that way, somehow. Then with the borrowed bullion
they would plant new settlers in a mallee scrub or a
howling wilderness to grow asparagus or peanuts,
or something—these products to be brought to Sydney
by the old corkscrew or gyroscopic route, as the idea
of a new port to send them to was visionary and
empirical. Blinks used to say, at first: “But why
not do something for our present settlers first ! ’ And
then lie would be interrupted. “It’s new settlers,
new settlers we want,” the Million person would
insist, prodding the Agrarian member in the waist-
coat with an imperative forefinger. •‘Surely you
can see that!” And Blinks— being by this time
somewhat bemused by his host’s liquor and logic—
would probably agree. But though the Millioners
(who included unofficially nearly everyone in the big
city in their effective fighting ranks) brought be*
wilderment and despair to Blinks, he yet decided
that they were mostly dashed good fellows personaln.
Some of their easy affability he absorbed through
association with them, and later even extended it
to embrace the multitude of bureaucratic kites roost-
in.' on the Parliamentary doorstep. Gradually
Blinks came to forget the woes of far-off Cornville,
while he remembered the tips for Saturday s races.
He purchased city property, and began to take an
interest in tramway extensions. He ceased to be
consumed with hatred against the city in which he
moved, and read his papers and drank Ins beer. He
ceased to be consumed by anything except enthusiasm
over the way his new home-town was growing >n
wealth and importance. He abandoned lus New
State dream, and in time became fit to coalesce with
the Nationalists—in fact, he became fit for anything.
In theory Blinks is still a rural champion, and lie
is ready at any time to produce a sophisticated
stock of promises by way of proof. Actually, how-
ever the fiery Crusader, with cross and sword, has
degenerated into a professional dashed good fellow.
\n expensive but inevitable product of city govern-
ment—this dashed good fellow politician—for whom
posterity pa vs the piper and expediency calls the
tune, 'in his expansive moments Blinks vasf.ely
visualises himself as reformer-in-chief of bloated
cities. But the octopus by the sea merely smiles, tor
it knows that in its belly reposes—albeit a It tie
uneasily at times—the Political soul of Blinks, M.l .
t
The Drug Addict in Australia.
“Grfgor”: A fast-increasing evil, which
Australian legislators have, so far, practi-
cally ignored, is the spread of the drug habit
within the Commonwealth. Jake a number
of other vices which, at one time or anothei,
have threatened the human race, this, the
principal form of narcotism, came originally
from Asia; and the moralist might find
several texts in the fact that at a penod
when opium-smoking looked as though it
were about to die out, England fought a
war with China in order to revive it, by
forcing the product of the opium factories
of India on the Chinese natives. this
greatly benefited the Indian revenue at the
time, but it also saddled Britain, later, with
an appalling social problem in the shape of
a widespread morphinism among all classes
—a problem that is growing with every year
that passes. Drug addiction, unless dealt
with rigorously, is a thing that might quite
easily undermine a greater empire than
ours; and within a few generations. In
Australia, at the present time we have
the evil; hut, fortunately, to a far less ex-
tent than the United Kingdom. So far, ao
serious steps have been taken by eit <
State or Federal Governments m the direc-
tion of checking its growth, beyond the
introduction of a couple of measures forbid-
ding the sale of morphine, cocaine or heroin
except on the written prescription of a doctor.
However, since these compounds have been
similarly restricted in their sale by the
provisions of the Poison Act of every >- <
for years past, it is difficult to see what
value the recent Dangerous Drugs Act has,
or why it was put into force, apart from the
behest of the League of Nations which has
created a special bureau to deal with nai
cotism in the signatory countries. Every-
body with the least knowledge of the mutter
knows that addicts will obtain the drugs
they crave, and that measures which are
seldom enforced will have no effect whatever
in restraining them from doing so. In the
meantime the evil is gathering in fresh
devotees, so that when the day eventually
conies that our Governments are compelled
to sit up and take notice, it will have its
ramifications in a thousand and one different
directions. Now is the time, when drug
addiction has scarcely passed beyoncl its
incipient stages, for Australia to take action,
for it does not require a superabundance ot
intelligence to see that results are likelier
to accrue from attacking a social problem
when it is weak than by waiting till it has
gathered strength.
Dogmas and Dog-collars.
From another sky-pilot:—
The cleric who asks “What is wrong with the
sky-pilots?” (B. 21/9/’22) talks more sense about
dogmas than he does about dog-collars. Surely he
must know that most of his brother-clerics wear
distinctive garments purely for purposes of identifi-
cation. The collar is the most convenient, least
flamboyant badge; and so it remains. For the
rest, you can see parsons throughout Australia in
grey, ' black, white and khaki clothes, and this
tendency towards simplicity of dress is growing
amongst all denominations except the Roman Catho-
lics. In this connection lam reminded of an
incident at Gallipoli. A section of reinforcements
was making its way up Shrapnel Gully. An Anzac
carrying down empty water-tins stopped to have a
chat with one going up with a load of jhells.
“More Aussies,” said No. 1. “Yes,” said No. 2,
“and I see they’ve got one of them blanky sky-
pilots with them.” “That’s right,” rejoined No. 1.
ITe hesitated a moment; and then: “What dp you
think of them?” he inquired. No. 2 deliberately
removed his fag, spat on the ground, and replied,
“Right on their job all the blanky time. If a
sky-pilot is right on his job all the time he soon
feels the absolute necessity of a dog-collar. Recog-


Tt e Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.ofA ustra,ia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £100,000.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
nised as a parson, he has an unchallenged entry
always to our public hospitals and institutions.
W ithout such recognition he is hindered at every
turn. Visiting the sick or needy, unless he wears
at least a dog-collar, he is liable to be mistaken
for a book agent, canvasser or life-assurance man,
and given short shrift accordingly. In places
where he is known, people seeing him dressed as a
layman would be justified in concluding that he was
ashamed of his job, or off it.
A friend of mine was refused admission to a large
Sydney public hospital out of visiting hours,
although he had been asked to call on a dying
patient. The matron declined to believe he
was a parson, and charged him with presenting
another’s card. She had reason; foT, dad in grey,
with a colored tie and a straw hat. he looked the
picture of a professional bruiser. As for robes,
elaborate headgear and the like, “Sky-I’ilot” might
well take his grievance to the Law Courts, or to
the Universities, where such “vanities” are as com-
mon as in any church.
V here this contributor does strike the nail on
the head is in the matter of dogma. It should
be restricted to the college and the study. I’reaih-
ing outworn and non-essential dogmas is keeping
many educated men out of the churches to-day. On
the other hand, some of the most senseless and
unscriptural dogmas are attracting a certain class
of credulous wonder-seekers, and infecting them with
blighting error, whit h cuts the nerve of all con-
structive Christian effort. The superstitious flock to
hear about the second bodily advent of Christ, the
setting-up of a Millennial Kingdom on earth, and a
sanguinary “Armageddon”—which is nowhere taught
in Scripture. On the strength of these vain but
popular dogmas, which inflame the spiritual pride
and tickle the ears of the groundlings, one N.S.W.
denomination has set its Theological College prin-
cipal adrift. lie is a sound scholar and an honest
thinker, but the Pharisees have persecuted him
successfully. And the ablest cleric in this per-
suasion in Victoria has been so hampered in his
work, on similar lines, that he is resigning his
charge and returning to England.
If, as “Sky-pilot” says, the Churches would turn
the iight of Christ’s ethical teaching on society,
they would have a powerful influence for the
cleansing and uplifting of humanity. Hut they
waste their time in dogmatic fireworks, and in mak-
ing “their calling and election sure” to the new
kingdom which is to be set up on earth, without
any effort on their part, by Christ’s personal reign.
This is simply a comforting way of justifying their
own moral sterility and inanition. They attempt
to transfer, by false teaching, which happens to be
popular with a certain class at the moment, their
own responsibility back to Christ, conveniently for-
getting that lie entrusted them, with the duty of
setting up the Kingdom of God on earth. Dogma
is quite logical for a Roman Catholic, who accepts
the authority of the Pontiff and the Church, but to
Protestants, who claim intellectual freedom, it ought
not to be made a test and sign of membership.
The Growing Cloud.
The culmination of a series of unsavory
manifestations, which have appeared in
many jiarts of the Commonwealth since the
World War began, was the conviction, last
week, of a couple of men in Brisbane who
had attempted to bribe one of the Queensland
Labor members to betray his principles and
his party. For months it had been com-
mon talk in the North that there was a
small fortune to be picked up by any Labor
legislator who would consent to effect the
downfall of Theodorism. But rumor is
as cheap as proof is expensive; and it was
only by an arrangement even more elaborate
than that by which, a few days later, the
N. S. Wales police were able to sheet home
the guilt of the abortionist Bennett that
a conviction was obtained. There may not
be nearly so much boodling in politics,
Federal and State, as the man in the street
is beginning to imagine. Attempted cor-
ruption of the sort that was exposed in
Queensland, last week, is probably rare. But
undoubtedly the right atmosphere for the
purpose of undesirable financial transac-
tions in political affairs has been created;
and for this some of the most prominent of
the party leaders are to blame. Notably
W. M. Hughes. To say that he is insensi-
tive on points of eorrectitude as regards the
acceptance of monetary gifts, and of help
which may be as good as money; is to put
it mildly. Ilis £25,000 presentation may
have been made up by thousands of smail
subscribers, who had received .nothing from
him but public service, and who had nothing
to expect from him but that. However, as
no names were published, the uncharitable
and the censorious are at liberty to imagine
that the rich were responsible for much of
the money, and that some of the cheques
were drawn either in memory of past favors
or in expectation of future ones. The mere
existence of such grounds for such sus-
picions in such a quarter lets down the
whole tone of public life. In N. S. Wales
one remarkable ciz-cumstance after another
has been dragged into the light of day in
the last few years. Many of these tran-
sactions, if not all of them, may have been
perfectly innocent; just as the various pro-
cesses by which Mr. Hughes came into
possession of his £25,000 were doubtless not
merely innocent but a credit to all con-
cerned. Yet most of them have given rise
inevitably to cynical comment, and they are
accordingly disastrous at the present junc-
ture, when that cross-eyed section of the
community which is looking to Moscow for
salvation, is simultaneously looking to capi-
talism for evidence of the truth of the Mos-
cow creed. The latest incident —dragged
into the light of day by Sydney Daily Mail —
is typical in several directions. The N. S. Wales
Government had neither a denial nor a satis-
factory explanation' to give to the accusa-
tion that it was preparing to hand over the
State wheat silos to two private companies,
in one of which Joseph Caebuthebs (who
has been practically running Fullerism for
the past six months) holds 500 shares, while
in the other his nephew holds 1)703 shares.
Once more, this condition of affairs may
admit of an explanation which is perfectly
honorable to all concerned. But a situation
calling for such explanations should never
have been permitted to arise. There is
every indication that the Empire will eventu-
ally have to fight another war for its life,
and perhaps the test will come very soon.
When it does, if this country is to see the
thing through in the same spirit of unity
which it brought to its last great effort (in
other words, if it is not voing to become the
prey of revolutionaries), it will have to
start out with at least the same degree of
confidence in the financial probity of its poli-
tical leaders as it enjoyed in 1914. It does
not possess that confidence now, and the
COGITATIONS.
WATT : “A bit passe, perhaps; but with a ti tle smartening up"
leaders, however guiltless of actual wrong-
doing they may be, have themselves to thank
for it.
« .
The Man They Did Not Hang.
“Tuart” : Very white and old he looked as
he stood in the Sydney dock to receive his
sentence. Volubly he protested his inno-
cence and his chivalrous regard for the sex
that bobs its hair and advertises its stock-
ings, but five of his silly patients tripped
into the witness-box to testify against him,
and the case was clear. Reproachfully he
gazed at the pretty ladies (plainly he con-
sidered them ungrateful hussies) who had
sworn him back to the cells. But Judge
and counsel treated them with extraordinary
consideration. They were permitted to veil
their faces and their names were kept out
of the papers. Even the photographers who
minister in the afternoon prints to the public
appetite for glimpses of legs and under-
linen were instructed to leave them alone.
“Three years’ hard labor in Bathurst Gaol,”
sa d Campbell, J., and the sting in the tail
of the judgment made the ancient’s jaw sag
as he shuffled out of the dock. Hard labor
is a dread punishment to any man, but it
is not more than this 75-years-old criminal
deserves. For all his mild and benevolent
appearance, he has been the means of de-
stroying more Australian lives than any
three German aces or machine-gunners. It
hanged 20 years ago. In some parts of the
Commonwealth" abortion is, nominally at
least, still a hanging matter. But, of course,
no one is ever scragged for anything now in
moral N. S. Wales.
Experts v. Honoraries in Municipal
Management.
A year ago Launceston started out to set
Australia an example in municipal manage-
ment. The lesson took the form of the
appointment of a business manager at £lOOO
per annum. For a city of less than 20,000
inhabitants the project seemed ambitious,
but the aldermen had grown temporarily
weary of being honorary workers—the rate-
payers having just looked coldly on their
claim for £2OO per annum apiece. In
theoi’y the change was more than justified.
Glowing accounts were to hand of the suc-
cess of civic business managers in Maoriland
and the U.S.; and F. M. Nicholl, an engi-
neer of repute and formerly second-in-com-
mand to Butters, of the Hydro-Electric
Department, started his duties under the
brightest auspices. Subsequent happenings
are epitomised in a statement made recently
by Alderman Crawford, that at every coun-
cil meeting attended by him under the new
regime, there was more or less acute un-
pleasantness. The keynote of the situation
was indicated pithily by ex-Mayor George
Shields, brother of Tasmania’s Honorary
is 18 or 20 years since I heard him get seven
years’ penal servitude in Perth (W.A.).
Long before those days he was known to the
bloods of at least two capitals as “Butcher”
Bennett, and a ’prentice hand doesn’t
acquire a sobriquet like that. Even when
the century was young the man looked
stricken in years, and I recall the remark
of a detective, made in a spirit of relief
and approval, that the old blankard would
never come out of quod. But out he came
and returned to his horrible trade. For a
time he flourished mightily, and eluded all
the attempts of the police to catch him, until
the death of a girl in harrowing circum-
stances—a mere child she was—delivered
him into their hands. Overcome by despair,
for the facts admitted of no dispute, he
tried to end his evil life, but this was
another of the operations that be botched.
Again he got seven years, and again the
prophecy was made that lie would never
survive his term. An impression exists that
the Judge was of the same opinion. But
there is a quality of toughness in the aged
villain —the toughness, not of the oak but
of the mangrove—and he lived through the
seven years, less good-conduct remissions,
and, Perth being now too hot to hold
him, he migrated to Sydney. There
he resumed the practice of his ghastly pro-
fession, and tvhen the police descended upon
him he was conducting about the most exten-
sive business of the kind in these parts. It
is a pity for Australia’s sake that he wasn’t
Minister, as follows: “If Launceston wants
a business manager, then that official will
lequire to have full control of the administra-
tion of the city. If full power is to be
given to the business manager, then aider-
men should be relieved of responsibility.”
Ihe result of 32 months’ experience is that
tbe councillors have decided “that the
office of city manager be abolished as from
December 31 next.” Xiciioll complains
indignantly that he has been made a scape-
goat ; that he has had sound constructive
recommendations repeatedly turned down by
the council; and some of the aldermen and
most of the ratepayers are with him. The
trouble seems to have been that both aider-
men and business manager set out with only
the haziest notion as to their exact relation-
ship and respective functions. It would be
preposterous to argue that this represents the
last lasmanian effort to establish the sound-
ness of the principle of putting trained men
in charge of municipal undertakings. In
fact, Launceston’s ratepayers are likely to
have a good deal more to say on the Xiciioll
case during the coming elections in December
fut that apart, the growth of the cities of
Australia, coupled with the increasing need for
each man’s personal attention to his private
alfairs, points to a time when civic control
will have to be taken away from the hono-
lanes altogether, and vested in experts
Much inefficiency, extravagance and financial'
loss in local government are condoned to-dav,
and the only way to obviate them is to put the
chfforcnt departments under men schooled in
the difficult technical business of eliminating
waste, and to let their decisions on all mat-
ters be final. The unpaid, and more or less
irresponsible, toiler never has been much real
good to the world in any capacity.
Brugglesmitii” : Some recent Bulletin
articles on unscrupulous cross-examiners set
me looking for the words uttered bv an Eng-
lish Judge over half-a-century ago. The Judge
Avas M a misty, and the occasion was when
some utterly irrelevant incident in a medical
witness’s past was being raked tin by a mud-
tlirowing counsel. Manisty expressed him-
self in the following admirable language:—
I have always set my face against turning the
witness-box into a pillory, and J always shall do
so as long as I sit on the Bench. Witnesses come
to give evidence mostly against their will, and,
it they are to have their whole lives laid bare bv
cross-examination, and every unhappy failing or
misfortune of their early days raked up for (lie
purpose of throwing discredit, as it is called, upon
their testimony, it is a form of torture that no one
will voluntarily submit to, and the cause of justice
will suffer. No one will come forward to give
evidence, for no one will be safe. Few persons could
stand an examination into the whole of the inci-
dents and errors of their past lives. Witnesses
should be protected in the ncrformance of a public
d «t.V- and matters which do not directly affect their
credibility should not be dragged forth to the public
gaze. I repeat it: You have no right to turn the
witness-box into a pillory.
By the way, what a powerful tribute was
paid to this sound principle in Sydney, last
week, when all the female witnesses for the
Crown against the abortionist Bennett were
permitted to remain veiled and anonymous
Had they not had an assurance of such pro-
tection they would no doubt have refused
to testify. It is because no one can be sure
of similar immunity from the hired bravos
of the Bar that Justice so often miscarries
both in civil and in criminal cases.
“Bio” stands up for a maligned class:—
The vituperation of the Brass-Hat, the Staff-Officer,
and the rest of the back-area men —common after
ei ery big war is being overdone here as regards the
late upheaval. Why shouldn’t these people have
had decorations, in view of the fact that without
them the war wouldn’t have been won? War is like
a large business: success depends less on what is
done in the workshops than on what goes on in the
manager’s room. The infantry firing-line is the un-
skilled labor of an army. In all nations it is the worst
paid and has the least time spent on its training.
Of a batch of raw recruits those expert in mechanics
and in telegraphy, men experienced with animal or
mechanical transport, members of the constructive pro-
fessions, and even miners, butchers and bakers are
taken for other “arms.” The firing-line gets the
residue clerks, teachers, laborers, lawyers and so
on. Of course the front-liner takes the most risk
and has the worst time, but so does his prototype,
the low-paid railway-, mine- or factory-employee.
And just as in peace it is the managers, accountants,
travellers and other specialists who get the most
pay, so in war do the higher staffs and departmental
corps. And it is right that they should. To say
that only the firing-line should be considered for
rewards and peace appointments is analogous to sup-
porting the extreme “Red” doctrine that as only the
workers produce wealth only they are entitled to
share in its distribution. As to the allegations about
cold-footedness, it is the duty of a high commander
to keep out of the front line during action. There,
besides the noise and discomfort, his attention would
be distracted by, and undue importance given to,
events occurring in his immediate vicinity. His
telephone wires would probably be cut and his
messengers killed, so that orders from and reports
to him would miscarry and his power of control-
ling his troops be lost. Provided he knows the
ground it is better for all hands that he should be
in a quiet, well-protected possie as far away from the
seat of trouble as possible. Brains are a good deal
rarer than bravery.


jK/
An Exclusive Sports Suit
Priced by Peapes at 70/-
- . •_ _ nnrplv Australian production, demonstrating the perfec-
K Austmlian-made goods featured by Peapes
The 6 material is a Grey-Green Summer-weight Tweed, best described
as giving a Donegal effect. , ~
The coat has three-button front, four outside patch pockets, half-
belt and seam only at back.
The trousers have side, hip and fob pockets and permanent turn-up
A° useful Suit for Summer wear, excellently cut and finished, very
light and cool. pEApES pa y POSTAGE.
Please state height, chest, waist and
ihside leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for a copy of Peapes’ new Catalogue, just issued.
df
Low in First Cost, Economical
Maintenance Follows.
Price £360 complete.
F.I.A.T.
You can get Immedi-
ate Delivery of the
Model 501 10/15 h.p.
Prices £595 and £620.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A Brisbane jury decided last week that
Sleejnan and Connolly, two pressmen ot
sorts, who hang about the fringe o
Queensland politics, had tried to bribe Bien-
nan, member for Toowoomba, to turn out
the Theodore Government, but recommended
them to mercy. Justice Macnaughton sen-
tenced them to three months and a line of
.£5OO apiece, nine months being the default.
It is presumed that the people who pei-
suaded the interesting pair to take on the
dirty contract will spare them the necessity
of doing the nine months' if the thing can
be managed without self-condemnation. T ej
are not likely to swarm down to the Sup-
reme Court with the fines in their hand..
Thus far the identity of the principals re-
mains a mystery, although at lea ®t°ne abor-
tive attempt was made during the tual to
fix the blame. ,
When Digger settlement started m Vic.
there were abou£ 50,000 who used the land
for a livelihood. The number has since
been\S to by 9000. . H 10,000 inom-
grants are brought out in the next five
years, as proposed by Lawson and co., a d
if local people take up blocks to the num-
ber of 1500 a year, as they will have the
opportunity to do, there will be an increase
of 50 per cent, in the soilocracy m ia
decade. At any rate that is Lawson s
“objective.” But it is the kind of objective
that is seldom, if ever, attained.
“Lexite”: The N. S. Wales Labor party
has never been properly grateful to the late
Wade for the benefits he bestowed uP°n A-
Unbend ably honest, but taetiMß and with-
out guile, Wade’s political career, from the
party politician’s viewpoint, was a long suc-
cession of blunders, and Labor thrived on
them. The worst of them was connected
with the leg-ironing of Peter Bowling and
his coal-strike colleagues. A Reid or a
Lyne, even a John See, would have pro-
fessed horror at the incident, repri-
mands to all and sundry, and generally
made the best of a bad business.. But Wade
held it his duty to defend the indefensible.
It was good chivalry but bad politics, and
it helped not a little to put McGowen in at
the 1910 election.
Labor in South Aus. has shown some re-
spect ior the Arbitration Court, and is bit-
terly resisting Barwell’s Industrial Disputes
Bill, which designs to replace it. Harwell,
in introducing the measure, was met with a
shower of interjections wh.ch nearly drowned
his voice. Not till Speaker Butler threat-
ened to “name” Lionel Hill could the Pre-
mier get anything like a hearing. If this
bill passes thousands of moderate men will
become direct actiomsts” said Gunn, leader
of the Opposition. But Barwell is an obsti-
nate man and is going on.
“G.R.” : Smith, M.L.A. for Nelson, hav-
ing gone over to the Cockies, that party now
contributes 17 members to the Westralian
coalition as against the Nationalists’ 16—
1U Libs, and 6 Labs. The Country party
is now as strong as official Labor. Conscious
of its power, it recently objected to its three
Ministers being junior to Mitchell, Cole-
batch and George, and demanded that Maley
should be made Mitchell’s deputy instead
of Colebatch. George jibbed at the ultima-
tum, but Mitchell is yielding. It s his
only alternative this side of London.
By the requisite constitutional majority
Yic. Leg. Council passed Labor-member Dis-
ney's bill conceding the right to sit with
the peers to skirted persons who have the
propputv qualification. Prendergast has
taken charge of the bill in the Assembly,
and has asked Lawson to provide facilities
for putting it through.
From one of his supporters: —
Stewart, M.H.R. for Wimmera (Vic.), may be
artless, but he doesn’t come from Echuca (».
21/9/’22). He hangs out at Carwarp, in the .ar
N-W malice. Set it to Stewart’s credit that he
persuaded the Vic. Farmers’ Union to abolish pre-
selection. He entered politics in 1917, but not
until he had been twice rejected for war service.
“Gallery”: The Darling (N.S.W.) elec-
tors will presently be asked to choose be-
tween Blakeley and Oonsidine. wholly im-
personal reasons I hope they will give Con-
sidine another term. The cheery gent, with
the woolly hair has added to the GalLiy
gaiety on numerous occasions. A witty anti
resourceful speaker, with a gift for repaitee,
he is always pleasant and spod-tempeied,
and he almost convinces one that his Bol-
shevism is an amiable weakness worn per-
versely to disturb the uncouth guid. Dn
A RISKY COMRADE.
THE LITTLE DIGGER: “Take this, old man, and hog in with me ”
EARLE PAGE: “Are you sure you've left the pm in?"
the other hand, Blakeley, the gramophone of
orthodox Labonsm and a . ng
sneaker on a heartfelt subject, is not a like-
able politician. He has the bitterness of
gall and is so bent on making unpleasant
impressions that even ordinary questions
without notice are delivered m an atiabili-
ous tone. Another thing about him is an
irritating air of cocksureness. But it must
be said in all fairness that if Blakeley were
outed the Federal Labor party would lose
about half its brains.
Frank Brennan’s pacifist friends are get-
ting anxious about his seat. H .e has he.d
Batman (Vic.) for 11 years, but in 1019 his
maiority over the aged Spence was less than
4000 and the electoral redistribution has
deprived him of thousands of his old sup-
porters. It has cut off parts of Fitzroy and
Carlton, in which Labor voters predom-
inated, and added on sections of Northcote,
Preston and Alphington, the residents o_
which are mainly anti-Labor. J ar {*es Ba
rett, the surgeon, is out against Biennan,
and Barrett is well known in the electorate.
Besides being a prosperous specialist, he is
a University lecturer, president of numerous
societies and associations, and a pronnc
letter-writer to the Argus on any matter
that happens to be m the public 4 e >e. Dm
ing the war he was one of the A.l.h. medi
cal heads. Martin Hannah will also be a
candidate, and Martin is a manwho -always
polls well. If Hannah and Barrett pull
together, the peace-at-any price crowd stands
a good chance of losing its most demonstra-
tive spokesman.
According to Australia’s Dooleys and
Theodores, the golden key (or screw) of
prosperity is held by the tax-gatherer, and
the higher the taxation the greater the
abundajice of wealth and work. Massey, of
Maoriland, rejects this belief so thoroughly
that he has wiped out his super-tax on in-
comes, which amounted to one-fifth of the
ordinary impost. . The M.L. income-tax will
now start at Is. m the £ and end at 7s. 4d.
In N. S. Wales the lowest rates. State and
Federal combined, are Is. 7d. in the ±, and
they work up to i2s. The Maoriland income-
tax' schedule presses lightly on r
some of which will eet the benefit of the Is.
Ste In Australia the tendency.is.to regard
companies as aggregations of criminals and
in Queensland they are pursued With such
unreasoning rage that if a company makes a
Kle profit "of £lOOO the
(State and Commonwealth, but mostly
State) takes £313 6s. Bd. of it, the rate being
6s 32d in the £. The result is that joint
stock enterprise has gone out of fashion in
a country singularly adapted for it, an
doles fed‘by American loans have been sub-
stituted for work.
“S E.N.”: Motoring back to Moree from
Goondiwindi, recently, we struck some ol
the “pear” country. There is an aban-
doned selection, not far from the road, wheie-
from the pear has driven the unfortunate
owner altogether. The driver told us the
pest had grown right over the roof, and that
recently, when somebody tried to cut
a passage to the house, he came upon a bul-
lock waggon completely buried and forgotten
beneath" the spiky trouble. I have heard yarns
that are harder to believe. In one place the
pear is rampant on one side of the road and
almost absent on the other. That s a
Government reserve,” explained our autho-
ritv, pointing to the “dirty” land. And barely
a hundred feet away were the well-looked-
after acres of the private owner, Putting
up a heart-breaking fight to kSep the stutt
off his land —and losing; as the little out-
crops here and there inside his boundary-
fence bore bitter witness.
“Lucias”: Captain Ted Morley, whose
Tote Bill in Vic. Assembly deserved a bet-
ter fate, has an eye on a Federal seat.
Naturally, Corio is his fancy, because his
present Vic. constituency forms part of it.
But Corio is held by Lister, another Dig-
ger and Morley does not like the idea ot
dog eating dog. Lister’s position, however,
is a bit shaky. He is “not speaking to
Hughes, although a supporter of the Gov-
ernment, and the Corio NoLonalists aie
looking at him askance. L Morley stands
it will probably be as an independent
Nationalist. Donald Mackinnon, also, had
designs on Corio, but is going to have a cut
at Cook in Indi. Donald may do better
there, but he had even less chance of wui-
ning Corio than Hughes had of retaining
Bendigo.
Remarks of Hughes to the National Fed-
eration in what used to be the N. S. Males
headquarters of the Liberal League:
You have heard a lot about the resuscitation of
the Liberal party. The report is a bogey—a bogey
to frighten children with. The Melbourne press says
that the Liberal movement is again on foot. You
can take it from me that it is not on foot, but on
a bath-chair, being wheeled about. Sometimes it is
a little better. Sometimes a little worse. nut
always it is on a oath-chair.
The PrimiLister’s sycophants were moved to
mirth by this utterance, but it has set some
of the Liberals thinking and others leaping
with rage. They recall that but for the
soft-headed complaisance of the label al
leaders the Hughes faction would have been
obliterated in 1017. It brought into the
coalition only 13 uncertain seats. The Lib-
erals had the funds, the organisation and
36 members; the Labor Opposition had
Of the 13 Hughesites two were defeated at
the polls, two others fled from their seats,
and, without Liberal support, the remainder,
Hughes included, must have been extin-
guished. Since those days the Hughes group,
though contemptible in numbers, has been
allowed to shape the Nationalist policy, such
as it is, and grab half the portfolios, includ-
ing the Priministership. Yet, the only iisf
the ungrateful little man now has for the
party that saved him from destiuction anc
enabled him to become a dictator is to sneer
at it in its own home.
“Gallery”: Premier Lawson’s position in
the Vic. Parliament is becoming dangerous.
The Cookies talk of forcing an issue which
will ultimately lead to a reconstruction with
Kookaburra Peacock at the helm Peacock
is naturally embarrassed, but I don t think
he would raise insuperable objections if he
were again asked to lead Nor would Law-
son decline to serve under him. and this
arrangement would probably prove accept-
able to a majority of the Assembly provided
that the reconstruction went far enough to
provide Baird, Oman and Pennington with
graceful exits. Hostility to Baird is almost
General. Though his war record was good,
he is not a brilliant administrator. Months
ago Lawson promised to stand for Bendigo
if Hughes skipped to a safer seat, and his
enemies in the Assembly thought lie would
stick to his bond and save them the painful
necessity of throwing him out. Now that
he lias decided to cling to the Premiership
for the pleasure of a problematical trip to
London, lie has satisfied nobody—least of all
the bi- body of electors who expected him to
keep the Nationalist flag flying in Bendigo.
A shout from the inside: —
The Macdonell House ward bosses affect to sneer
at the Labor group led by Catts, M.H.R., for Cook
(N.S.W.), but in reality it has got them scared.
And with good reason. Last, week Skelton, M.L.A.
for Newcastle, who has joined Catts’s crowd, was
selected hy the railway employees as their senior
representative on the departmental Superannuation
Board. Skelton easily topped the poll, scoring 6491
votes to 4663 recorded for the next man, Kelly, who
was also elected. This shows that the wave of
feeling on which Skelton rode into Parliament last
March—though a man without a party, a tyro m
politics, and little known, he polled 13,132 of the
52 126 No. 1 votes cast in what was reckoned the
safest Labor constituency in the State —is as strong
as ever. The movement has been falsely alleged to
be wholly sectarian. It is only sectarian to the
extent of being a reply to the challenge flung by the
other kind of politico-sectarianism, hitherto m the
ascendant, by virtue of which that eminent rebel,
Dr O’Reilly, was able to boast, when leaving Aus-
tralia to attend the Sinn Fein Congress in Pans,
that he had been endorsed by the A.L.P. Funda-
mentally it is a protest against the Celtifieation
and Bolshevisation of Australian Labor —against the
elements which have made such papers as the Sydney
Worker fanatically pro-Soviet, pro-Sinn Fein and
anti-British—and it is a healthy protest withal.
Make no mistake, Catts will be returned for Cook.
And the chances are that he will carry Evans and
Mitchell in with him.
With a “Back-to-Castlemaine” movement
raging, Vic. Premier Lawson is unable at
the moment to concentrate his thoughts on
politics. A difficulty of his own making
confronted him over the appointment of a
select committee on the Electricity Bill, but
he will find a tvay of bridging that with
the assistance of Peacock, that, master of
expedients. If Hughes had been in Lawson s
place he would have had 40 members reach-
ing out for' places on a select committee.
Lawson hasn’t the tactical agility of the
William Morris-dancer.
THE VOTER PAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fm the elector up-to-date,
My humble name is on the roll.
I’m he for whom the candidate
Imperils his immortal soul,
With whispered bribe and wicked ruse
To win me from my honest views.
The time is nigh, in fact it’s ripe,
When they’ll come at me, two by two.
I hear the whining, wistful pipe
That tells the things they mean to do,
The fine true things all understood
To be for my especial good.
They’ll throw a bridge across the sky,
They’ll run a line to Heaven’s gate,
My taxes will not be so high,
And great shall be my bod3 r ’s weight.
Because of benefits they’ll bring
I’ll presently wax fat and sing.
They’ll cause the wilderness to bloom,
The greatest boon of all they’ll grant.
Wherever there’s an acre’s room
They’ll set a splendid immigrant;
And every man of them’s intent
On giving me “good government.”
On every side I feel the thrust
Of eager hands, each with a gift,
And I am asked to take on trust
Their good intents, whereof the drift
Is that they’ll make the earth so nice
No man need sigh for Paradise.
Appealing whispers in my ears,
Caressing creep of fingers cold,
And all the time I cherish fears
It is my own good, honest gold
They squander all so fine and free,
Corrupting mine and bribing me.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


THE BUSY SITTER AND THE CONSCIENTIOUS ARTIST.


IIEB
PORTABLE-RADIANT
The COSMOS Electric Fires are Sound
in Construction and Economically
Efficient in Operation—TßY ONE!
icKers
CO- LT D
CLECTJUCAL
21 Elizabeth St., Melbourne; 213 Clarence St., Sydney
And at Macquarie St., Hobart, Tasmania.
: : ; v: •;
s
.; ; . :
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
A RECORD OF CONTINUED PROGRESS.
TRUST FUNDS. 1905
£5,758.000
TRUST FUNDS, 1915
£11,890,000.
TRUST FUNDS, 1922
£20,399,000.
INCREASE FOR THE YEAR 1922, £1,960,000.
There is no better evidence of the Confidence in which
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
is held by the Public than the growth of the Trust Funds committed to its care, as
illustrated above.
The Company is Empowered under Special Act of Parliament to act as
EXECUTOR UNDER WILLS : TRUSTEE : ATTORNEY, etc.
Write for Explanatory Booklet.
Xos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Manager.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
the Dunlop Rubber Co. (Melbourne) :
.
Pref. Def. Orel. Total To Re- Nominal
juiv, Profit, p.c. p.c. p.c. Div. serves. Reserves.
191$! .£66,768 10 9 10 £49,637 £17,131 £17,131
Premium on new shares.. .. 60 17,191
1913.. 72,891 10 9 10 51,100 21,791 38,982
1914.. 77,003 10 9 10 51,100 25,903 64,855
1915.. 95,601 121 9 10 56,100 39,501 104,386
Co. reconstructed. Other reserves dis-
closed, £l3O/614 .. •; •• 235,000
Shares in new co. issued otherwise than
for cash, £235,000 .. .. ••
i-yfcar td To Re- Nominal
julv Profit. Div. on All Shares, serves, Reserves.
19lfl. . £38,063 10 p.c. = £36,197 £1,866 £1,866
Premium on new shares, £721 ~ 2,587
Year ending
July*
1£117.. 105,865 10 p.c. =s 87,679 18,186 20,773
Premiums on new shares, £5064 .; 25,777
1918.. 145,596 10 p.c. = 106,403 39,133 64,910
Premiums on new shares, £23,110 ~ 88,020
1919; .177,066 pic.} 123 ’ 744 1 33 ,322 121,342
Staff fund, £20,000 I
Cd: reconstructed; assets written up and reserves
capitalised. £292,000 bonus ordinaries offered.
1921. .149,162 145,684 3,478 3,478
1922.. 103,530 1104, 7io 2,298
The Commonwealth’s biggest rubber-manu-
facturing co. appears to have been more
carefully nursed during the years, of high
values than its published accounts indicated.
At the height of the boom the co. was recon-
structed with the object of coaxing in new
capital, and in the re-arrangement £292.000
of bonus ordinaries were offered. Inciden-
tally, that was the third reconstruction in
10 years: original holders of £lOOO of scrip
put in £l7BO more cash, and after three re-
constructions held £2OOO of 10 p.c. cum.
• prefs. and £2560 of ordinaries.. In the 1920
reconstruction stocks were evidently taken
over at a conservative valuation ; properties
and other assets which had been written-
down hard in previous years provided
balance-sheet surpluses for the bonus shares.
Anyhow, after having written down stocks
to cover depreciation when cotton- and rub-
ber-markets crashed, at the 1921 balance
Dunlop’s paid 10 p.c. on profs, and 8 p.c.
on ordinaries, whereas similar cos., parti-
cularly those overseas, were disclosing heavy
losses. Evidently 1921 stock values were
not got down low enough to give the co. a
good profit margin during the past year, and
industrial depression and further slumps m
values left the co. with not quite enough to
give ordinaries 4J p.c. for the period. But an
average for the past two troublesome years
of 6j p.c. following on a third reconstruc-
tion has been a performance beyond expec-
tatioUs, and certainly better than the. general
experience of the trade locally and in most
othetf countries,
Dunlop’s latest directors’ report does not
state Whether stocks at June 30 were valued
at current replacement cost} but no doubt
that was the basis of the balance-sheet
npprdisehiGnt. The features of the. accounts
were the big decline of stocks from £1,487,343
at the 1921 balance to £808,546 at June 30
last, and the reduction of book debts by
£50,758. Further details are given in the
following tabulation, which, for comparative
purposes, also presents figures prior to the
1915 and 1920 reconstructions: —
1915. 1919. 1921. 1922.
Stocks £305,108 £855,533 £1,487,343 £808,546
Book debts 118,908 186,687 290,857 240,099
Investments „ „ „,.
and cash.. 6,659 5,345 10,130 10,04 l
£430,575 £1,047,565 £1,788,330 £1,058,687
Liabilities 123,947 214,733 829,255 249,801
Net liquid „ „
assets. .£306,628 £832,832 £959,0/5 £808,886
Properties, „„„„„
etc. . . 82,846 171,109 30/,386 ~400,013
Plant, etc. 85,460 186,186 329,264 363,311
Net assets£474,934 £1,190,127 £1,595.725 £1,577,210
Goodwill.. 180,000 180,000 180,000 180,000
Smaller stocks and trading accounts released
almost £730,000. and the co. reduced its
liabilities by £579,454 —from £829,255 to
£249,801. Liabilities were not curtailed to
the same extent as liquid assets, because
during the year £131,674 net was added to
properties and plant.
Paid capital is now £1,691,342. in 520.0C0
£1 10 p.c. prefs. and 1.171,342 £1 ordinaries.
The prefs. are excellently protected: the
surplus of liquid assets over all liabilities at
June 30 exceeded the pref. Capital by
£288,000, and there were net assets equal to
three times that capital. No doubt the big
co. has got through the worst of its troubles,
and prospects for ordinaries should brighten.
But the weakness with respect to that scrip
is that £177,702 was represented by goodwill
when divs. had been paid.
David Jones, Ltd., softgoods retailers
(Sydney)
Dividends.
Ist 2nd
Net Prefs. Prefs.
July. Profit. 6 p.c. 71 p.c. Ordinaries. Reserves.
£175,765
1920.. £101,249 £9OOO 10 p.c. =£4,0,980 227,034
Surplus from sale of property . . £9,000 236,034
Provision for depreciation of stock, £60,000 176,034
1921.. 3,984 9000£8573 71 p.c. = 37,090 125,355
1922.. 85,262 9000 8485 10 „ „ 49,453 143,679
The accounts to July 31 show profits
£18,324 in excess of the amount required
for divs. on two lots of prefs. and 10 p.c.
on ordinaries. That was a good perform-
ance in view of the further decline of prices
during the period and considering the extent
of funds tied up in unproductive property :
the old High School, purchased a few years
ago as a site for a new building, is practi-
cally worthless as a letting proposition.
Evidently the £llO,OOO reserves which had
been set against stocks —equal to 3s. in the
£—fully protected them against the slump.
The year’s divs. were also assisted by the
large* reserves still remaining when stocks
had been written down, and though con-
siderable funds are tied up in the new build-
ing-site, David Jones, Ltd., has no shares
issued against' goodwill for which it has
to find divs. During the year the co. sold
for £lOO,OOO 100 ft. of the property it does
not require for Its new buildings, but the
directors do not disclose whether the sale
gave a surplhs on the purchase price which
has helped the year’s profits. It now appears
that the whole of the £OO,OOO transferred
from reserves 12 months ago to provide for
stock depreciation was required so, instead of
the profit of £3084 shown for the 1021 finan-
cial year, there was a loss for that period
of approximately £56,000.
In addition to the recovery in the Profit'
and Loss account, a big improvement is
shown in the balance-sheet. Two years ago.
when the public was Offered a quarter-million
71 p.c. cum. prefs., heavy stocks and exten-
sive* property purchases had increased lia-
bilities to the huge total of £626,833. The
pref. issue brought in only £114,304; but
the unloading of stocks reduced hank over-
draft and trading debts, and, assisted by the
sale of property, liabilities at the 1021 balance
were got down to £420,942. At July 31 last
overdraft had been extinguished and total
indebtedness reduced to £107,361. This com-
parison details movements since the 1020
balance: —•
1920. 1921. 1922.
Deposits . . .. £14,369 £9,565 £12,558
Overdraft . . . • 287,259 174,980
Sundry creditors .. 121,620 89,113 84,43.>
Mortgages, etc. . • 203,585 147,284 100,308
Total liabilities £626,833 £420,942 £197,361
Fixed assets .. 520,250 496,325 404,981
Stock (less reserves) 669,308 595,954 462,807
Book debts . . .199,632 208,688 198,692
Investments, cash, etc. 49,470 25,400 11,853
Property and plant are now shown in the
books n’t £389.981 ; the figures in the table
include a £75,000 mortgage in connection
with property sold. The feature of the
latest balance-sheet figures was the reduc-
tion of stocks by £200,000-odd since the 1020
balance. The co.’s position is now comfort-
able : apart from mortgages on property, at
the balancing date liabilities were slighCy
less than £97,000, and there wore liquid
assets with a book value of £673.352. The
backing for scrip, after payment of final divs.,
was as follows :—•
Ist Prefs. (6 p.c. cumulative), £150,000. —Assets
with a book value of £902,512, exceeding £6 per
share.
2nd Prefs. (74 p.c. cumulative, £114,304. —
£752,612 of assets, equal to £6 11s. per share.
Ordinaries, 494,529 paid to £1. — £638,208 of
tangible assets, or 255. 9d. per share.
The co. is visibly not quite so strong as
when it published its first accounts, at the
height of the boom. But when it did
come before the public, David Jones’s did not
reconstruct or give its old proprietors any-
thing for goodwill, so it has come through the
troubles of the slump period with its finan-
cial position thoroughly sound.
Melbourne Co-operative Brewery Go.,
Ltd.: —
Share
Pie- Trade Divi- Written Re-
Profit. miurm. Bonuses, (lends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1911.. 48,849 1,323 18,778 19,006 6,505 60,672
1912.. 62,871 445 21,868 21,635 7,703 72,782
1913.. G 2,684 27,021 24,437 24,328 9,037 104,685
1914.. 60,611 488 23,558 23,906 !),669 108,651
1915.. 73,022 396 26,299 26,212 13,067 116,491
1916.. 40,493 163 20,474 20,357 12,420 103,806
1917.. 39,479 29 20,408 20,009 ? 102,987
1918.. 41.970 52 13,409 14,014 9,131 108,455
1919.. 40,942 27 11,631 12,264 11,072 114,457
1920.. 67,944 ? 11,391 ? 7
Co. reconstructed: one fully paid £1 share
apparently issued for every ss. paid.
Written Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 57,016 16,806 14,958 25,252
1922.. 92,894 ? 29,794 ?
The Melbourne Co-op., which runs the
Abbotsford Brewery, was established about
18 years ago by a few hotelkeepers who de-
cided that ike brewers were squeezing them
too hard. The enterprise developed so suc-
cessfully that others linked up, and the long
list of share-premiums shown in the intro-
ductory table tells how they paid for the
privilege. On the other hand the rebates on
pdrchases and the very handsome divs. up
to 100 p.c. has been paid for a year—tells
kow they have been rewarded. At the be-
ginning of 1920 reserves were approximately
four times the size of paid capital, and it
was decided to reconstruct. Details of the
re-arrangement are not available, but appa-
rently a fully-paid £1 share was issued for
every one previously paid to ss.
Though the published accounts detail
operations and assets, the co. says very little
about itself elsewhere. For the year ended
July 31 the gross profit from manufacturing
was £309,554. Working exes, took £213,40-
and various allowances for depreciation
absorbed £19,794, leaving a net profit of
£77,100, £lO,OOO of which has been allotted
to a general depreciation fund and £4OOO
set aside for taxes. Of the £63,100 remain-
ing, interim quarterly divs. absorbed £15,9-6,
but the directors’ report does not announce
the rate or amount of the final div. At
July 31 the co. had £94,257 in land and
buildings, £93,157 in plant and machinery,
£57.414 in stocks, book debts totalling
£100,205, and cash and other liquid assets
amounting to £27,413. Liabilities totalled
£45.776. The surplus of liquid assets was
£139,316. The co. is, therefore, very snug.
A feature of this brewery is that every penny
of capital and reserves is represented by tan-
gible assets; having been established as a
co-op. brewery goodwill has never been taken
into consideration. Paid capital is £212,410.
* * * *
E. Tlicn and Co., Ltd., merchants, station-
supply people, etc. (head office in Brisbane,
formerly in Sydney) ;
Available for
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1010.. Jti 10.10 G 8 p.c. = £9,902 £294 £4,871
J9ll 13,778 5 „ i, 9,902 3876 8,747
1912 2 223 4 „ „ 7,921 3,049
1018!! 9,018 4 „ „ 7,921 1097 4,146
1914 . 9,118 4 ~ ~ 7,921 1197 6*34.3
1915.. 15,687 6 „ „ 11,882 3805 9,148
1916.. 15,325 6 „ .. 8,912 6413 15,561
1917 18,918 8 ~ „ 16,843 3075 18,636
1918 27 451 10 19,804 7647 26,283
1919.. 16 151 8 ” 15!843 308 26.591
War-time Profits Tax, £4310 . . 22,2,81
1920.. 19,258 8 p.c. = 15,843 3415 25,696
1921.. 11,918 6 ~ ~ 11,882 36 2t>,732
1922.. 19,703 Nil fi > 029
This old co. has been in trouble again. At
one time it was controlled from London, but
it had a rough spin in droughts, and for
some years was nursed by Dalgety’s. Later,
control was shifted to Sydney, but the co. s
recovery was very slow. A few years ago
it was decided that Queensland offered the
best opportunities, and headquarters were
moved north. N. S. Wales interests were
confined to running the. big Circular Quay
stores, and station-supply operations in
Queensland were restricted mostly to the
larger pastoral cos. and to wholesalers and
storekeepers. When station products were
fetching h%h prices, the co. did better; divs.
were improved and substantial additions were
made to reserves. Last year there was an-
other set-back, and to extinguish losses re-
serves have slipped back to pre-war level.
It has been fortunate for the co. that the
management did not distribute more of the
profits it thought it was earning in the boom
years.
E Rich’s latest troubles have been due
to two causes: (1) the holding of large
stocks bought in high markets, and (2) the
absence of buyers. The pastoral industry in
the northern State has been in a bad way
since markets crashed. A good deal of
Rich’s stock dribbled out at prices below
what had been paid for it. Other losses
were sustained, when balancing, by writing
down stocks to “absolute replacement value,
nothing of a doubtful nature being carried
forward.” But even after using the knife,
the co.’s stocks had a value larger than at
the previous two balances, indicating that a
considerable volume of new goods had found
its way into store since the 1621 stock-tak-
ing Balance-sheet comparisons follow :
1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities .. £19,816 £25,114 £9,641 £16,105
Freeholds, etc. . . 69,767 63,469 62,881 62,389
Book debts •• 88,681 56,997 43,147 47,410
Stock • •• 56,588 93,614 93,139 94,213
Shares in other c.os. 2,907. 1.907 2,007 2,007
Public securities . . 38,881 ,>2,885 l-,969
Cash .. 27,980 3,882 6,292 1,182
Even with values down, the co. cannot claim
to be out of the wood until orders help to
shift the heavy stocks. The outlook lias
brightened so far as wool is concerned, but
the livestock market is still sick. Meantime,
hook debts, as well as stocks, are uncomfort-
ably large, though, as the co. is working
almost wholly on its own funds, it has no
creditors to hold off until settlements are
made Two years ago Rich’s held £42. <(>d
of cash and Government securities, hut at
the latest balance only £14,151. All out-
side liabilities totalled £16,105. For the
past 10 vears divs. have averaged only 6
„ r p a ' That return is the poorer, too,
because the directors state that the co.’s
freehold properties in N. S. Wales and
Queensland, when recently revalued ‘on a
conservative basis,” were, found to be worth
approximately double their book value, lhat
hints that the co. might do better if it could
find buvers for some of its property, and
return some of its capital or employ it m
more profitable investments.
V limited-liability co. which has more
capital than is needed for its business, de-
ciding to return portion to shareholders, will
find the process is longer and requires much
more legal knowledge and skill than a
straight-out liquidation. The conditions of
the law are so unusual and exacting that,
unless the co. is in an undoubted position of
being able to pav off in cash every creditor,
or satisfy every supposed creditor —no
matter what the claim may be, or in whatever
part of the world he resides —the difficulties
are enormously magnified. One co. has just
got through a pref. capital reduction after
almost eight months of complications, legal
delays and pinpricks. Another has been
on a similar job since July, 1021, and has
not yet finished, whilst a huge concern in a
neighboring State is still grappling with the
problem.
* * *
Wallaroo and Moonta Co. (S.A.) :
Written Re-
Dec Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1911. . £37,056 2}p.c.= £B,OOO - £20,635
1912.. 88,438 18} „ ~ 60,000 £B,OOO 41,01 3
1913.. 54,166 174 „ „ 56,000 39,.39
1914.. 39,997 74 „,, 24,000
1915.. 168,085 18} „ ~60,000 _“ A , 163,321
Reserved for taxation, £136,000 ( 133 826
1916.. 231,505 374 p.c. =120,000 1
Taxation reserves, £136,000, restored
to accumulated profits .. 274,826
1917.. 133,292 31} p.c. = 100,000 308,118
1910 war-time profits tax ( £38,786) ami
provision for taxes (£7858) written off 261.474
1918.. 75,775 25 p.c. =s 80,000 — ll -01,24.)
June, Loss. .
1919.. 21,860 Nil. \ 206,306
1916-17 War-time Profits Tax, £29,083 )
1920.. 34,305 74 p.c.= 24,000 148,001
Refund of War-time Profits Tax, £38,088 182,089
1921.. 106,187 Nil - jjJjg-
-1922.. 105,344 Nil 25,442
The period ended June 30 was a disastrous
year for old Wallaroo and Moonta; the
Federal Arbitration Court having granted
a six months’ suspension of awards, mining
and smelting operations were resumed on
August 22 last year, but on February 18,
costs being too high for the low copper mar-
ket, the management shut down again, ihe
six months’ productive operations, find re-
pair and maintenance work during the
closure, resulted in a working loss of
£109,356, which was reduced to the figures
given in the introductory table by £4012
interest on Government securities. That loss
possibly also included some of the costs in-
curred in connection with new plant; anyhow,
though the coal-pulverising plant is almost
completed and the reverberatory furnace well
in hand, the accounts show no additions to
plant account, mines and works being valued
in the balance-sheet at the same figure as
12 months ago. The loss shown by the
directors lias absorbed all reserves, and for
the first time in a dozen years the I. and U
account has moved to the wrong side of the
balance-sheet, the current year opening with
the large debit of £25,442. Another view
of how the co. has fared is given in this
comparison :- im9 mi 1922>
Investments . . £105,000 £100,558 £100,289 £104.481
Copper stocks 186,957 78,944 44,449 61,085
Stores, etc... 123,128 117,036 164,668 131,374
Cash and book , „„ .
debts . . 7,708 50,314 1.010 4,324
£422,793 £346,852 £310,416 £291,274
Liabilities 92,575 79,652 111,511 198,005
Surplus . . £330~218 £267,200 £198,905 £93,269
The surplus of liquid assets over liabilities
was £105,636 smaller at June 30 than 12
months previously. Even allowing for im-
provements which have been made to treat-
ment plant, that was a serious decline. Ihe
drift is worse when comparisons are made
with a few years ago. In 1919 W allaroo
and Moonta had the whole of its paid capi-
tal of £320,000 represented by surplus liquid
assets; now only £93.269 is so covered.
Meantime shareholders have not had a div.
From a mining point of view there were
no outstanding features during the period
under review. Production compared with
other years as follows: —
Wallaroo Mixes.
Copper Contents.
Total Tonnage. r —-— A
Handled. p.c. tons.
1911.. .. 114,438 4.30 4924
1915.. .. 211,665 3.03 6403
1618 .. 163,412 3.40 5558
1920.. .. 68,996 3.39 2339
Moonta Mines.
1911 .. 36,783 4.26 1649
1915" .. 38.798 3.51 1468
1918.. .. 56,461 2.61 1472
1920.. .. 8,905 2.57 229
Both Mixes.
1921 .. 86,045 3.32 2856
1922.. .. 50,769 3.72 1887
Smelting gave 1977 tons refined copper,
8790 z. gold (fine) and 821 oz. silver. During


Scientific Glassware, Crucibles, Seales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-mills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request.— Advt.
* * * ,
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that be can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Win.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [1
* * * ,
The problem of decreased flow, due to encrustation,
is solved when Pioneer Wood Pipe is the conduit.
I H or clean water, acids, brine or mine culm it is
unexcelled. A large dairy in N.S.W. uses wood pipe
to convey milk, and reports unexpected success. If
you have a troublesome pipe problem or contemplate
the placing of a new line, write for free 68-page book
to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
• • A - E - Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.. Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
—Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. — Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Basse], Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colltson & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors lor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants; coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants:
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * #
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43~- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East).— Advt. '
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur is impossible
to say.
BUT
You Can be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: “London House,”
97 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Esq.,
Governing Director.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN',
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada 'on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred.
Gt. Britain ..
New Zealand..
Canada
31-
4|d.
2/4
1/6
Week-end.
fid. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
•i/o J 7d. (minimum
TT 1 11/8,20 words)
U. S. A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mar be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 George Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346
(3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St.. Melbourne.
Tel. Central .034
J. MIT.WARD. Manager in the Pacific,
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
B**
YC
BOORD&So*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
7
DT
SwiTt X- Coni pony Ctii., A list r;i la*inn Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.,
Sydney .
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufactured Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
the past three years Wallaroo and Moonta
has produced 7485 tons copper, 2lBooz. gold
and 22210 z. silver, and its accounts have
meantime shown an aggregate loss of almost
a quarter of a million. That is eloquent
evidence of the desperate condition of the
Commonwealth’s copper-mining industry
since the metal market crashed.
■* * * *
The talk of the closing down of Mount
Morgan, unless there is another wage-cut,
or a fairly substantial rise in copper, is the
aftermath of 27 weeks’ experimental work-
ing, during which it was well known that
operations were not paying. The closure
will mean cutting down the northern State’s
mineral production by nearly a third, for,
since Cloncurry ceased to produce, the
Mount has brought forth nearly 80 p.c. of
the total. The value of the mineral returns
for the June quarter, exclusive of gold and
coal, was £129,544, and of this Mount Mor-
gan’s contribution was £92,595, £76,572 of
it copper.
* * * *
Assistant-Government Geologist Blatch-
ford has reported an asphaltum seepage in
the Mt. Wynne bore between 110 ft. and
122 ft., and traces of oil in Price’s Creek
bore between 40ft. and 130 ft. But though
“such evidence left no doubt that oil existed
somewhere in the vicinity,” the specula-
tively-inclined should remember iProfessor
David’s warning: “The discovery of oil and
payable oil might be two very different
events.”
* * » »
Another ’Murkan oil man, Roy Fife, of
Long Beach, California, has arrived to take
part in the local oil-hunt. He is to superin-
tend the Associated Oil Corporation’s bore,
which is now down 356 ft. near Mt. Gambier
(S.A.).
* * * . »
From a well-known geologist:—
Russian geologist De Hautpick, who landed in Aus-
tralia with the expressed intention of showing us
where our oil-fields lay, just when public interest in
the stuff was at bubbling-point, has ingratiated him-
self with the unknowing by declaring that
Europe, Asia and America did 'not show
better oil indications than the Commonwealth. I
construe his utterances to refer to surface indications,
since underground indications are located only by
the driller. As a matter of fact, this island continent
of ours is singularly devoid of superficial oil indica-
tions, and in saying this I do not wish to depress
oil-prospectors, for actually the present most
prolific fields—the mid-continent fields of Okla-
homa, Kansas, etc. —was mighty barren of surface
evidences. We haven’t yet got an authenticated seep,
'my notable gas emanations, or pitch ponds like
those of Trinidad, or even mud mounds or volcanoes
associated with other oil phenomena. At best we
have asphaltum cast up at numerous spots on the
shores contiguous to Bass Straits, and recently some
asphaltum from Elcho and Melville Islands in the
North. It has not yet been stated whether these
have been found in situ%
While I still number myself amongst the optimists
who fervently hope to see petroleum produced in Aus-
tralia, I fail to see the tremendous indications of
it. I would be delighted to observe some of the
old-fashioned signs of it found in other countries,
which D e Hautpick would have us believe are sur-
passed by ours, such as the seeps of Titusville, Penn-
sylvania, where Col. Drake first bored and got gushers
at a depth of 60ft., and v/here stream and lake
burned with terrifying effect when the surface acci-
dentally ignited ; or the gas explosions, accompanied
by seeping, at Toronto, Canada; or, perhaps, the
Cerro de la Pez (Hill of Tar), or the Chijol and
Tempoal seepages of Mexico. To state that our
indications surpass these is to invite criticism of the
sublimely ridiculous.
* * • *
Broken Hill has put up an imposing
record. From 1885 to the end of 1921 the
value of its products was £113,896,363. Divs.
and bonuses paid totalled £26,836,584. Pro-
prietary heads the list with a distribution to
December last of £12,453,499. Sulphide
Corporation has paid £2.709.375; South,
£2,535,000; and North, £1,978,940.
* * * *
Y-Water Co. (N.S.W.) still has £21.516
of _tin ‘on hand or in transit.” So far,
iIo.OOO worth of plant has been sold. The
book value of the remainder is £lO,OOO, but
what it will be sold for may be another
matter. The co. owes the bank £20,347, and
sundry creditors £968, together £21,315. On
the other side are liquid assets for £21,892.
Mick Williams and Tricks took only two
days to float the Retaliation Reward and
Retaliation Junction in Melbourne. The
shows adjoin, and are situated about 70
miles east of Wubin, on the Northim-Miv
lewa railway (W.A.), and are known as
the Me. Singleton find. Surface values
average an ounce, and are claimed to be
fairly well distributed over the length of
both leases. Lower values can be obtained
over a length of a mile. At present the
shows are purely surface ones; only a few
potholes, exposing a quartz reef sft. wide,
having been sunk.
* * * *
Old Bay ley’s Reward (W.A.) has again
come under notice: the present leaseholders
have just treated a ton of arsenical ore for
500 oz. gold. Incidentally, William Ford,
who, with Bayley, discovered the show in
92, is still hale and hearty in Sydney, and
assists to direct one of the younger life-
office
* * * *
_ Captain McLeod, a one-armed Digger, has
discovered a reef near Marble Bar (W.A.),
which E. J. H. Nicholson, one of Freney’s
directors, has turned over to an Adelaide
co., the directors of which include S. Aus.
Treasurer Ritchie and Mosely, M.L.A.
McLeod has been prospecting for a consid-
erable time, and, despite the loss of an arm,
he is probably the most successful soldier-
prospectof.
* * # *
Dr. Basedow is back from Darwin to
tell Mararoa that its little oil-plot there is
barren of everything save dust or mulga.
It had cost £l4OO to June 30 to find that
out, and a bit more cash has to flow before
this latest wild-goose chase ends. The co.
has £14.400 cash to play with, £0(500 of
plant at Light of Asia, Cue (W.A.),
and £2250 of stores. Even hard-up tribu-
tors have given the Light of Asia claim the
cold shoulder, so the rails are out and the
water up in the shaft. Most of the Cue
leases have been abandoned,, and the last
stages of cleaning up at and around the bat-
tery is proceeding. When the remaining
tailings have been treated the machinery
man will be called in.
Melbourne is still confident of success
with Devon Consols, Linden (W.A.). Addi-
tional capital has been provided for a new
10-stamp battery, together with roasting
plant. The Consols is a sulphide proposition,
and its performances to date are nothing
to enthuse over. Nevertheless supporters
are hoping that the new plant and an exten-
sive develonmental policy on which it is
intended to embark will' reward them for
their long wait.
* » * *
Bendigo Amalgamated reconstruction pro-
posals were agreed to by votes representing
390,580 shares against 1308 shares. Share-
holders will be allotted eight shares in six
new cos., which are described as being
‘free” ; but to continue to keep them holders
will have to pay calls at once, so that the
free” suggestion is a pure myth.
* * * *
The successful re-opening of the Morning
Star, Woods' Point (Vic.), mainly as the
result of a loan of £lO,OOO from the Govern-
ment (which has been repaid with interest),
has led to a revival of prospecting through
all the Alpine region. The stimulus has
extended to Walhalla—a veritable home of
golden immortality. It was the richest one-
shoot field in the State, Cohen’s reef, worked
by the Long Tunnel and the L.T. Extended cos.,
% r P, < ?. l^ nuous section, having produced over
wort h °f B°ld and paid about
±l. <50,000 in divs., the Long Tunnel Co.
heading the Victorian list with £1,283,400.
4he closing chapter in the Long Tunnel his-
tory marks the most enterprising project,
and the worst debacle, in Australian mining
records. The original shaft, which had
reached about 3400 ft. was a series of dogs’-
hind-legs, which made working most incon-
venient and costly. It was decided to sink a
new shaft the surface, and powerful
up-to-date electrical plant was installed. By
crosscutting into the footwall from various
points in the old shaft and working a series
of rises simultaneously, the new shaft was
ouicklv nut down—the late Harry Foster,
then M.P. for the district, gaining much
kudos for the accuracy of the surveys made
by him, the several connections being made
almost in true alignment. The depth of the
new incline was 4051 ft; thence the shaft
was sunk vertically for 600 ft.; the total
depth being equal to 3625 ft. vertical. The
£S nment contributed £17.000 (of which
£5OOO was secured on the plant) to “assist
cmming of two new levels at 3500 ft. and
3625 ft.
The official record as to what hap-
P? n f r < ? stage doesn’t read like a sample
ot V ictorian enterprise. Here is part of the
Mines Secretary’s cold-blooded statement:—
the co. for about 18 months contributed £ for £
of the heavy expenditure required, but some of the
principal shareholders ceased to pay calls on the
declaration of war, and it soon became apparent
that, it operations were to continue, the State would
have to find most of the money to see the accepted
programme through. Such a burden would have
been unfairly heavy for the public purse, and it
was decided to discontinue operations. The exceed-
ingly heavy ground met with in driving at 3500 ft.
and the absence of an early favorable development
were, no doubt, contributory causes of non-payment of
calls. It had been fully recognised that to give the
deep levels a fair test, it was necessary to drive at
least 800 ft. southerly from, the shaft, but the 3500 ft
level was driven J,37ft. and the 3625 ft. level only 187 ft.
Perhaps another six months’ work, had it been prac-
ticable to continue, might have achieved a successful
issue.
Such a deb&cle as that is quite incomprehen-
sible—an abrupt dead-ston when the objec-
tive was practically in sight. Admitting the
seeming soundness of the contention that
continuance of operations would have been
an “unfairly heavy burden” for the State
to undertake, it is hard to understand why
the Government did not make some arrange-
ment to keen the magnificent plant intact
pending further efforts to raise the requisite
capital to complete the project. The Mines
Secretary continues:—
The best that can be said now is that in a future
generation, under different economic and industrial
conditions, a re-opening of the Great South Long
tunnel ground may be attempted, when operations
might conceivably trend towards the gold-bearing
stone now abandoned under the 3375 ft. level at
about 1000 ft. south of the shaft (new). Full p’lans
of the workings will be issued, so that it will be
an easy matter at any future time to ascertain
exactly how matters stood at the cessation of work
in 1914.
Wealthy Australian mining cos. have an
army of trained mining engineers travelling
from China to Peru in quest of desirable
properties. Is it possible that their atten-
tion lias not been directed to Wallialla possi-
bilities?
* * * *
Castlemaine (Vic.) had, probably, the
most extensive and richest alluvial goldfield
in the world. For miles either way there
was not a gully or creek which was not
exceptionally rich, and overlooking all were
many basalt-capped plateaux, which covered
ancient river-beds that were equally rich.
The immensity of the bodies of wash in these
old channels point to enormous erosion and
vastness of volumes of water such as we
can hardly contemplate. But as a quartz-
reefing field Castlemaine has been a con-
spicuous failure. It may be that erosion re-
duced the original elevations by thousands
of feet, and thus removed aqriferous strata
almost to their lowest point. Quartz reefs
are numerous, but only in patches at shallow
depths have they made any decent showing.
The Spring Gully mine, at Fryer’s Creek,
was the most successful producer; but it
seems to have petered out absolutely at
about 700 ft. Forest Creek and Wattle
Gully, Chewton, have alwavs been favorite
spots for speculative enterprise. English
and local cos. have spent hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds there without meeting with
any permanent payable lodes. Attention is
again being directed to this locality by the
success of a syndicate working on Burns’s
reef, which, from a depth of 40ft. has had
two crushings, the first of 14 tons returning
loz. 12dwt. per ton, and the second of 22
tons averaging 2oz. sdwt. per ton. A pro-
ject was mooted some years ago to put down
a series of bores through the sedimentary
rocks to the bed-rock of grano-diorite to
prove whether or not there would be a repe-
tition of the Maldon feature of lodes being
enriched on the contact of the two forma-
tions. To the scientific geologist this was
a most fascinating proposal, but the prac-
tical speculator regarded it as too fantastic
for his fancy.
* * » *
.At Blackwood (Vic.), Tyrconnel North,
with “Bobs” Roberts in control, has found
a saddle under the old Sultan line of work-
ings. This big formation is opening up
better than most imagine, but Victorian
mining being so out of favor, as in the case
of New Reds yields will have to set the
fashion. Another enterprise Alex. Pea-
cock’s office is piloting is the Christmas
Reef, near the ’Possum, at Bendigo. This
is another neglected bit of mining country
which has been raked out of the dustbin. Not
a pick has been put into the ground for
nearly 20 years, though in the old days the
cap of a shallow saddle was worked for
about 800 ft. north of where Peacock’s
crowd are now sinking on the eastern leg.
There always was plenty of stone at Christ-
mas Hill, but with the old ’uns wedded to
the central lines the Christmas Reef claim
was forgotten directly water got trouble-
some.
* * # *
The Sardine, at Kangaroo Hills (Q.),
goes merrily on its way. The last crushings
of 98 tons ore gave 23 tons tin concentrates,
averaging out at around £2O per ton. There
have been several promising developments in
the mine during the past couple of months,
new shoots, apart from the original ore body,
having been opened up. There may be
unexpected reserves ahead, as the ore runs
in a crushed-slate belt, the width of which
has not yet been defined, and which is apt
to carry values where least expected.
* * * *
The report of a promising discovery of
white marble close to Warwick (Q.) a
couple of months ago turns out to have been
an unnecessary boost. The deposit has just
been examined by E. C. St. Smith, of the
Queensland Geological Survey, and he con-
demns it It covers a large area, but its
main defects are course grain, banded struc-
ture, and it is likely to be too flaggy to be
available in large blocks such as are quarried
by up-to-date channelling methods. The best
of it is considered to be no better than Ulam
marble, and the quarries there have not been
doing well during the past year.
* * * *
The promising prospects of Mount Coolon
goldfield (Q.) have been referred to several
times on this page during the oast year, but
it is still in the ruck. Some of the remarks
applied to the Tyrconnell (B. 21/8/’22) are
equally applicable to this field. Nearly seven
years ago rich crushings were obtained, and
though since then there have been good re
suits, to-day there is not a hole 100 ft. deep.
1 jm.dity ot outlook and the omission of
appraisement of possibilities by a mining-
engineer of repute and vision have resulted
m a promising field still doddering along on
pot-hole methods. The main-lode affords a
good opportunity for development. It
outcrops for 700 ft. and down to 50ft has an
average thickness of sft. to 6ft. In addition
a number of branch reefs, which promW
well, have been located. The adjacent coun-
ty is considerably fissured, and there are in-
dications that the main lode goes down sona
hundreds of feet. Anyway, what is opened
up is good enough to justify several moder-
ately deep shafts and a judicious number of
crosscuts, which alone can ' establish possi-
bilities. II results are satisfactorv, costs
could then be reduced by nearlv half bv
introducing modern methods and working
°n big tonnages. Recent crushings of 4'to
tons gave 4530 z. of smelted gold worth
i 1143, so that with the values from th-
sands included the ore would be worth nearlv
, a t° n - wh ic“h is a decent figure for a sft
lode.
* * *
Mt. Quamby (N.Q.j second crushing ha*
given a most disappointing result: 200 tons
yielded a trifle more than 4dwt. per ton It
is reported that the bulk of this ore came
from L open-cut. The mine-manager in
a report dated August 2, stated that’the
C cut had been ‘‘opened up to a depth of
between 4ft. and sft., and a width of 20ft
sampled and assayed, showing a value of
18dwt. taken diagonally across the face.”
* * *
Development work is being pushed ahead
and additional surface plant erected at the
Styx River (Q.) coalfield by superintendent
Bropby. The coal is of excellent quality
and apparently an undisturbed locality has
been found, the faulting of the seams having
given much trouble in the past. Brophv’s
objective is now 1000 tons daily. A new
shaft is being sunk, and sites for'two others
oojort een lliar ked off, enabling an area of
3000 acres to be reached. For the export
trade the Styx has a start from the other
Queensland fields: it is first-class steam and
coking coal, stands handling, and the site is
right on the seaboard and verv close to deep
water. There is a rush to catch an export
coal market in the northern State. In
addition to the Styx, Blair Athol has started
excavation to enable it to open-cut its coal
Bowen has just been connected up by rail
to the coast, and is scouting for orders.


ALARMS AND THE MAN.
“What time does the war start, Dig.?”
“Go to blithering blazes —can’t yon see I’m busy?"


Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, has now
taken over the management of the Hotel
Carlton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. I.a\y is a well-
known French chef, whose cuisine is
famous among visitors to Sydney.
Registered address, Cable, Radio or
Telegraph: “HOCAR,” Sydney.
“Won its favor through its flavor.”
Tooth’s K.B. Lager
a piquant appetiser
with luncheon.
Obtainable in all the
Commonwealth capitals.
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO., LTD., Kent Brewery, Sydney.
#
gdf
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1921 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Btreet, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
If Vic. Premier Lawson hadn’t been going
to England in January the opportunity pre-
sented by the Imperial Education Confer-
ence m May is one Alec Peacock should have
found it hard to resist. So far he has put
up something of a record—33l years in
Parliament, and more than half that time
in office, yet he has never allotted himself
a mission outside Australia.
“Gallery”; Jackson, M.H.R. for Bass
(Tas.), is not certain whether 13 is an un-
lucky number. He was 13 when he started
work and it was on the 13th of the month
that he looked after a race meeting where
the tote was first used in N. S. Wales. On
Aov. 13 he was nominated for the Reps.,
and on the same day a month later he was
returned. But o,n another 13th he went
into hospital and paid £l3 13s for 13 days’
illness. And he was married in 1913. So
it is hard to say what sort of influence the
number has had on his life; but, summing
up on the foregoing information, I find
against the numeral, with costs.
Ho” : J- C. McPhee, the Speck’s
new Chief Secretary, is a quiet, plain-spoken
man, whose lack of brilliancy is counter-
balanced by a heap
o f commonsense.
He topped the poll
for Denison in the
recent elections,
and (barring Hon.
Minister Tas.
Shields, who can-
not be persuaded
to sacrifice his Bar
practice for a fnllv-
fledged portfolio)
is about the most
promising member
o f hard-working
Premier Hayes’s
new team.
THOMAS
HENLEY, M.L.A.,
of N. S. Wales. A
Comforts-Fund
Colonel and a
K.B.E.
Archdeacon Hornabrook, just dead in
Adelaide on a Monday after doing his usual
Sunday job, was one of the eldest of the
family which includes Dr. Rupert, now of
Melbourne. The Arch., who was of the
muscular Christian type, was a fuHy-quali-
fied architects before he started as an Angli-
can curate at Newcastle (N.S.W.). His
later life was spent at Kapunda, Port Adel-
aide, and latterly at St. Mary’s mission in
a back street of Adelaide, which he worked
up into an important church.
Rev. R. H. Codrington, who died recently
at Cliicester (England), for many years
conveyed the Word into dark places for the
Melanesian mission, and made a close study
ot native languages. He wrote a dictionary
"I le M ota and also translated much
of the Bible into that strange tongue. When
a young man lie labored in the Nelson
(M.L.) vineyard.
The overseas guests of the Colonial Office
at the time of Queen Victoria’s Jubilee,
numbered 11. The whole seven representing
Australasia are now dead—Seddon, Braddoii,
Turner, Reid, Forrest, Kingston and Nel-
son.
The late Justice Wade once appeared in
court as a technical witness. It was before
Acting-Justice It. E. O’Connor, when John
Norton was charged with having discharged
a pistol at R. I). Meagher, after Richard
had assaulted John on the head with a whip.
\\ ade was Crown Prosecutor at the time,
but as the Crown called lvm as an expert
witness as to the time 100yds. could be done
in following a whack on the head, Walter
Edmunds held the Crown brief. The late
•Judges technical evidence as to the sprint
helped the verdict of acquittal.
“Chris”: At Oihi, Bay of Islands (M.L.),
where Sam Marsden preached his first ser-
mon to Hori on Christmas Day, 1814, Mrs.
Hows, now of Whangaroa, was born 90
years ago. Her father, James Shepherd, once
of Kissing Point,
Parramatta River
(N.S.W.), was
with Marsden on
that memorable
Christmas Da y.
The parson wanted
him to take charge
of the mission
boat, but Shepherd
preferred to be a
missionary, an d
went back as one
next year. I n
1819 he revisited
Sydney, married,
then went back to
Oihi, where he was
when Marsde n
made his last visit
to the It ick e t y
Isles in 1837. Mrs.
llows was five
years old then.
She has a brother,
George IL Shep-
herd, aged 79. liv-
ing near Whan-
garoa.
W. FORSTER
WOODS, chair-
man of Melbourne
Stock Exchange.
“T.P.” : Education-Director Tate (Vic.)
was once invited by the Government of an-
other State to come over and discuss the
appointment of a new educational leader.
“What is the first qualification?” he was
asked. Tate’s reply came pat. “He must
enjoy getting out into the field, rubbing shoul-
ders with subordinates and seeing schools
actually at work.” “Rubbish,” said an Irish
Minister. “He can send out circulars of in-
struction from his central office.” Tate care-
fully examined his fingers, then drawled:
“In my garden at Kew I got some old lengths
of spouting and fixed up a home-made drain
from the pump to my orange-trees. One
day I toiled at that pump till my arms
ached; then an indignant council employee
rushed in to know why I was filling ‘the
whole damn street with water.’ A bit of
spouting had shifted. I thought I was
watering the trees. I wasn’t.” The Min-
istry appointed a man who got about. The
yarn did it.
That rolling-stone of the tramway system,
A. E. Ford, continues to gather moss. South
Australian-born, lie learned the electrical
business in Sydney, was resident engineer
of the Electric Supply Co. at Bendigo
(Vic.), became traffic superintendent for the
Tramways Trust in Adelaide, then moved
on to Auckland as assistant manager, and
has now been made general manager and
chief engineer of the city trains there.
“Blackfriars” : When Dr. “Pat” Croom, who
died the other day, was returning from Eng-
land in 1913 to establish himself in Mel-
bourne, he operated on a girl passenger for
appendicitis, thus anticipating by several
years some generously-advertised stunts of
the same kind. Croom carried out his “op.”
in the smoking-room of a liner overcrowded
with her own full complement of assisted
emigrants and 300 from another ship which
had struck trouble in Biscay’s Bay, and
while he was using the knife about 50 of us
had to form a police cordon to keep back a
heaving surge of curious women. Croom
never nuite got over the death of his bride,
a few months after their marriage. She
was pretty Mary Stirling, daughter of
Maggie, and herself a songstress.
The death of Wade leaves but two Judges
on the N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench who
have been in politics—the Chief Justice, who
was member for Camden and an M.L.C., and
James, who represented Goulburn for 14
years and was a Minister of the Crown.
The Hebrew New Year recalls the vener-
able ages of some Jewish community lead-
ers. Herman Myers, of Melbourne, was
congratulated this year on his 88tli birth-
day. Sam Benjamin, the Hobart Syna-
gogue's president for countless years, was
83 in July ; and George Judah Cohen, who
used to hold the same position in Sydney,
but has been succeeded by his son, Samuel,
was 80 in April. Theornin, president of
the Dunedin congregation, is 76.
“Rienzi” : Reference to Hughes’s billiards
(B. 28/9/'22) recalls that he plays a fair
cue at snooker also. He made one of his
rare trips to the billiard-room at Federal
Parliament House a while back, just after
he had torn the Bolsheviks to pieces in a
speech full of whizzing sentences, and in a
game of snooker was bagging the balls in
great style, when one of the objects of his
late attack dropped in and sourly watched
the little man. Billy spotted him, smiled his
sweetest and said to the morose visitor:
“Don’t like me potting the ‘Reds,’ do you?”
“Mr. Ocky” : Senator William Plain, just
re-elected as president of the National Fed-
eration in Vic., was a farmer at Lara when
he joined the Labor organisation at Geelong,
and a little later was pushed into the chair,
chiefly because there was nobody else suit-
able. Then a Labor candidate for Geelong
in the State House was wanted. Plain, a
practically unknown man, was put up, and
surprised even his own circle of friends by
getting in easily. His general popularity
increased with amazing rapidity, and he
could have had the Geelong seat for life.
He got into the only Labor Government Vic.
has had—the Elmslie 13 days’ Administration
—as Minister for Agriculture. He broke
from Labor in the conscription split, and
his popularity and straightforwardness put
him into the Senate, where he has remained.
Plain is really Hughes’s right-hand man in
Victoria.
L. T. Foenander, dead a few days ago in
Melbourne, was with Atlee Hunt, the
nucleus of Barton’s External Affairs De-
partment in 15)01. Most of the men chosen
for the immediate support of the Common-
wealth’s first set of Ministers were taken
from the same States as their chiefs, and
Foenander went to Melbourne from Sydney,
where he had been prone to lift a decent
voice in song and wmve a well-informed
baton over R.C. choirs. In Melbourne he
took up the same hobby for a while, but
soon Australia’s external affairs left him
very little time for that sort of thing.
Martin Henry Donohoe, as correspondent
for the London Daily Chronicle at Con-
stantinople, is now busy cabling news from
the latest seat of trouble. Donohoe is
always to be found where things are happen-
ing. Born in Galway, Ireland, he is
34 years of age. He started on the Inky
Way in Sydney in ’92, and one of his jobs
was the tracing of that prince of hvperbolists
De Rougemont. He went to the Boer War,
was captured, and released on the fall of
Pretoria. He marched with the Japs in the
Russo-Japanese war. At the Turkish Revo-
lution in 1909 he was the first to inter-
view the ,new Sultan. The Portuguese
Revolution Wias his next pleasure trip, and
he got away from Lisbon in 1911 with a
great news scoop. He reported the Italian-
Turkish scrap, and then went to the Balkans.
During the World War he was an officer in
the British Intelligence Corps, served in
Greece, Roumania and Russia, and did good
work in the North Persian expedition.
Sam Leon, K.C., second Crown Prosecu-
tor, who is acting as a County Court Judge
in Melbourne, doesn’t seem to be hitting it
too well with counsel appearing before him..
He ordered one out, the other day, and
threatened another with similar medicine.
“He’s getting as bad as Mr. Guppy’s
mother,” commented a lawyer’s clerk who
knows his Dickens. Still, the bewlgged will
have to put up with him till Nov. 30, as his
term has been extended till then.
W. N. Hedges, M.11.R., for the Fremantle
(W.A.) division from 1907 till 1913, is
going to have another cut at his old seat.
Burchell, as a Labor-man, dispossessed
Hedges nine years ago, and has held Fre-
mantle since, once from London, but always
strenuously opposed by the crowd he left
when conscription split the party. It seems
doubtful whether Burchell will stand again.
Hedges, who is a successful railway con-
tractor, a goldfields wood-line promoter, and
nowadays a wheat-grower with the premier
show-place in the State, has twice unavail-
ingly offered himself for Swan since his
old leader, Forrest, died. Although he is
said to be the tiller of more acres than
any other man in W.A., lie refused to sign
the C.P. platform at pistol-point; hence the
amiable insurance-expert, Prowse, voices the
sentiments of Swan in Melbourne.
C. F. G. McCann, of Adelaide, formerly
Trade Commissioner for S. Aus. in London,
thc° Siu i the Argentine as manager of
the Southfield and Argentine Meat Co.’s
or . , at Aarate, has recently been given
tne job of general manager of the co. in
tne Argentine, and has now pegged out a
permanent claim in Buenos Aires.
‘‘ Caat ” : lie “Iford’s” claim (B. 21/9/’22)
that the name Jabez “seems to confer on its
possessor a sort of hallmark of rugged dem-
ocracy. The only .Tabez who has represented
a Victorian Federal constituency was Jabez
Coon, a Tory, who, in the teeth of bitter
I.abur opposition, won the Batman electorate
\\ Hen 1 leakm was Priminister. Jabez boasted
at the end of his
term that he had
never missed a
division, and he
also claimed that
he had refused to
pocket the extra
£2OO a year when
th e Representa-
tives voted them-
selves their first
rise. However, only
the Treasury bene-
fited by his abnega-
tion, for at the
following election
he was tossed out,
and Lnborite
Frank Brennan in-
stalled in his place.
W. F. C. CARy-
CROSS, Speaker
of ALL. Legislative
Council, and pro-
prietor of the
ELTHAM ARGUS.
“Philosopher” : “Footslogger” forgot to in-
Lieut.-Col. Cyril St. Clair Cameron,
C.l>., G.8.E., in his list of fighting politi-
cians (B. 21/9/’22). Cameron was a Speck
Senator in 1901-04, and again in 1907-1.4
He has tin; Afghan Campaign of 1878-80, the
Boer War (in which he commanded the Tas.
Mounted Infantry) and the Gallipoli Cam-
paign to his credit. Incidentally, he bossed
the Commonwealth contingent at Edward
Vll.’s coronation.
Richard Ilouison, who died at Westmead,
the. other day, at 77, was a Parramatta
native, his father, James Houison, being one
of the old town’s pioneer architects and
builders. A brother was Dr. Andrew Iloui-
son, one of the founders and first president
of the Australian Historical Society.
In Harold Templeton the Vic. State ser-
vice loses a first-rate man. He is retiring
from the jobs of Master-in-Equity, Master-
in-Lunacy, Registrar-General, Registrar of
Titles and Registrar of the Supreme Court
to chase Costs with the ancient firm of
Malleson, Stewart, Stawell and Nankivell.
Revisiting Adelaide, John Collett Moul-
den, the first student enrolled when the
School of Mines started there in 1889. lie
went on to London in 1891, and came bat k
for experience at Kalgoorlie (W.A.) and
Cockle Creek (S.A.). For the last 14 years
he has been manager of the great zinc works
at Seaton Carew (England), and technical
adviser to the Sulphide Corporation, in
whose interests he is now visiting Australia.
He is an elder brother of Frank Moiilden.
lately mayor of Adelaide. John and his
brother Eldin, who died young while second
in command of the Tramways Trust, were
about the only members of that well-known
Adelaide family who didn’t take to the law.
“S.E.N.”: Young Merfield, of the Mel-
bourne Observatory party, wb,o went to
“Goondi” to view the eclipse, is a bit of a
marvel. Still, in his early twenties, he
was entrusted with the sole supervision of
the work of taking spectrograph records of
the “flash” and coronal spectra. He ruled
the metal plates for the production of the
spectra himself; by means of the “Grayson
Grader,” the marvellous machine, invented
by the late 11. .T. Grayson, of Melbourne —
the astonishing character Avho gave up
market-gardening when his genius for the
construction of delicate scientific instru-
ments made itself manifest. The lines on
these plates are sharp and distinct —and
there are 10.800 of them to the inch!
Which is—to put it roughly—as if lines on'-
foot apart were drawn across a belt two
miles long, and then the whole thing shut
up like a concertina into an inch-long strip.
Merfield has also distinguished himself by
inventing a method of boring holes of almost
inconceivably minute diameter in diamonds
and emeralds. He does this by extracting
a fibre of quartz, coating it with diamond-
dust, and using it as a boring tool. His
scientific bent is hereditary: his father
being that Merfield who was for so long
associated with the Sydney Observatory, and
whose name, as a computer of the “elements”
of comets and as a discoverer of minor
planets, is known the world over.
NO OBJECTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Giving evidence in the attempted bribery case
at Brisbane, F. T. Brennan, upon whose political
virtue an unsuccessful assault was made, condemned
capitalists and ‘idle rich,’ but admitted, in cross-
examination, that he had no objection to people
making money.”
If you seek the proletariat’s approbation,
And, therewith, a Parliamentary place to fit,
You must never spare contemptuous condemnation
Of citizens who “sit behind a bit.”
You may pour cold scorn on chaps with great pos-
sessions
And lavish fierce contumely on pelf,
But you needn’t be deterred by such professions
From endeavoring to make a punch yourself.
Being opulent’s a most offensive habit;
To have quantities of coin one should be loath ;
Still, if you’ve a chance to turn an honest copper
'io embrace it’s not the slightest bit improper,
Or even to reach out both hands and grab it.
Our oath!
Assuming you’re a merchant or a squatter,
It should hurt you if you’ve socked away a bit;
For it makes you, in the soap-box scheme, a rotter
At whose name a lusty democrat will spit.
Still, there’s nothing that should merit Labor censure
In attempting to become a millionaire
By indulging in a Whittingtonian venture—
Though you know you’ll cook your goose by
getting there.
’Twould be hard to have your honest home located
in Toorak, or some other haunt of sloth,
But if you hear of (say) a tempting double
And the information’s solid, never trouble!
You must boldly take the chance of being slated.
Our oath!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


■
: ■
ffi '
' v? 1 ' '
'U '
'
v’ ' . ' b'uS v,
' r
-, v ' ?,'< - 2
< ' s - SS?;
,;.< . V'; ;
'...
. ~; '
J
S-
:
! V.ViSt' ft 'VP#
■I
'S v 1 «HM|n -■• - m + »
. - ■■■'. - . , .
' - ...
:-V \■■■'.■ ."
"I*:
I | -/ | ill lfl| !
*.'» * - £ : m:, 1 ~ i v
m
..
■
■
; -v - .
.
X
, .
:
.
H
/
■
V V
■
■■
1 m
—»
W: / ' j
v; >* <?v v
,
■
ill
#
- ■
.
•L,'' «• “ j
v m. - { m
: ■■■■:.■■ ■■■..•
■
m J I
M
■V' . ..:
.
1 ■ Hi
V ■
Hi
tX
-
- :
A-
iAv
■
:
i
11
■lll
„ “
DU
m
v
/
'
:'Miv J
. j«HWWfc
MHW
HI
■gPll
■
■
E
/
X,
111
R
S,##' t" : : /S
■ • "... ■ ■■:;■■■;
Ife, A
■ n
m
"■■ if.,. . J
.. . '-j
■
B»ilIllllgigi:MlillliiJilj
:
MKj;.;
t ***§
V
-
S:'' v
««> |
I
K
illll
s_ /
;: ........
M 8
...
". '•*
«pyii;
I
:1 i
m ■—
/ *#» mw '
sss» «;
lllliMiiiiillilMh ."
■iiiiiiiii
L /
M : i
rail
■:-;■■
, :
:
■
■
m
m
m
w
o
99
o
o
o
IS UNAPPROACHABLE FOR ITS
FRAGRANCE & EXCELLENCE
PACKED IN THREE* STRENGTHS
mild-MEDIUM-full
TOBACCO W.DsHO. WILLS
CIGARETTES


twJ // :
X
\ r
Schweppes’
Flavoring Essences.
You only require to use half the quantity
if you use Schweppes’
Essence of Vanilla, Lemon, Pineapple,
Cochineal, etc.
Schweppes’Pure Olive Oil
Schweppes’ Pure Malt
Vinegar.
The best is always the cheapest
\
/A
l AUSTRALIA j
NEVA*,
o ZEALAND
See CANADA en route
BREAK YOliR. JOURNEY
to the OLD LAND
Magnificent Mountain Scenery
The Prairies—the "Granary of the Empire"
Great Lakes—Bustling Cities
Land. Forest and Mine Development
Canadian National Railuiatjs
Operate through all-steel, solid vestibule trains from Coast to-
Coast. (jnexcelied Sleeping and Dining Car Service
Passengers booked by all Steamship Lines
linking with “the National Way.”
For descriptive literature, fares and full information, apply to
CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS' representatives:—
D. 0. RAMSAY, 251 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. C. S. BINNS, 59 Market Street, Melbourne, Vic.
GORDON F. JOHNSTON, General Agent, Passenger Department, 251 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
GEORGE E. BUNTING, General Traffic Agent, 6 & 6 Ferry Building, Auckland, N.Z.
Society
ZCZ[?]LIC
SKCAI [?]ERVE
Ninghtand Whi[?]
[?]
“Lip” views a suburban thrill
Too much movies may be bad, I admit, for the
child mind, but I have evidence that at least one
adult has turned his knowledge of the ways of bold,
bad gunmen to useful account. The other morn-
ing I was awakened from my bunk on the side Veran-
dah by the sound of voices raised in anger. In-
vestigating, I discerned, on the lawn of a house a
few doors down, a young man. His arms were
raised straight above his head, one hand clutching a
white, boomerang-shaped object. His harassed gaze
was directed at the gas-box on the verandah of the
house. On the gas-box sat an elderly man, smoking,
and covering the other with a revolver. I
called to the man on the gas-box for particulars.
He said he had missed his paper for weeks, and,
being of a suspicious nature, had got up early. He
had sent his boy for a policeman, and, meanwhile,
was giving the passers-by some Bill Hart stuff.
QUITE OBVIOUS.
DORA: “Still sitting to Tommy McGilp?”
OLIVE : “Yes. He says I have a difficult
face to do. What does he mean by a
difficult face?”
DORA : “Difficult usually means hard,
dearie”
However, after a dozen tramloads and a score of
pedestrians had viewed the tableau, he relented and
let his man go. He hadn’t sent his boy for a
policeman, he told me afterwards, having no boy
to send, and the revolver was unloaded ; but I think
the young man will buy his paper in future, even if
he has to pay three-ha’pence for it.
* * * *
“Uramac”: Henare is an optimistic soul,
and seeks on all occasions to infect others
with a like spirit to his own. At a meet-
ing of creditors at New Plymouth recently
the Maori bankrupt was asked by one of a
number of irate persons who had sold him
goods whether he could made any offer. “Sup-
posin’ I pick up te purse full o’ money and
can’t fin’ te owner I pay te gentlemen,”
replied the creditor; and the light of his
smile almost served to illumine the sordid
gathering.
“Gnarek”: One couldn’t help noticing in
England, during the war,
that competent concert art-
ists and theatrical stars
were, with few exceptions,
medically unfit or something.
The Digger on leave who
went to the Sunday League
Concerts at the Palladium
was amazed to see the strap-
ping figures in khaki that
appeared during the evening
with uniforms adorned with
the “silver harp,” denoting
that they were either en-
gaged in blowing up the big
drum or indexing music for
some army band. This busi-
ness was not overdone in
the A.1.F., but there was a
fair amount of it. Anyhow,
in case of accidents, I am
giving my boys more prac-
tice with the piano than
with the rifle at the moment.
* *
“Two Seas”: Apropos the
remarks about swindling at
church bazaars (B. 21/Q/’22),
I recently cashed up two
shillings for the chance of
acquiring a stupendous tea-
cosy from the f omen ter s of
our local church bazaar in
aid of the eternal building-
fund. A vision in pink
crepe de Chine handed me
the box and dice, and to my
amazement I tipped out
three sixes. Returning
later to the stall of the smil-
ing pirate in charge of the
operations I inquired if I
had won anything. “No,”
she replied sympathetically,
“but you very nearly did.”
“How many have I to throw
off with?” I asked. She
looked so blankly ignorant
that I had to explain. “Oh,
no one,” she said brightly.
“Miss Blank threw 19 and
returned the cosy to us, so you can have
another try. It will be only one-and-s x
this time,” she added, with an ingratiating
smile.
» w * *
“S.E.N.”: The worthlessness of the evi-
dence of the human eye has rarely been
exemplified more clearly than at Goon-
diwindi during the eclipse. Prof. Von-
wilier, of the Sydney Uni., arranged that
the famous “shadow bands” should be
observed by a party which included the Gov-
ernor of (Queensland and his “offsider,” two
lawyers and at least two trained scientists.
The “bands” duly appeared both before and
after totality, and were watched by 16 eyes
for at least half a minute on each occasion.
/After the show one section .declared that the
bands travelled north of east, and the other
swore blind that they went south of it. Their
distance apart was variously given as from
two to ten inches, and as to their size and
rate of speed, everybody was furiously argu-
ing for hours afterwards. And yet the
casual spectator of a street motor-smash is
held up to ridicule and contumely by the
gentry in horsehair if he can’t give the
exact'details'of the affair Weeks afterwards
and without a note! No, as a witness, the
eye is as unreliable as any that ever came
into court.
*..y* » #> .
“Stellsfey” on Chanak :—-
When the Unspeakable saw- reason In 1918, and
H.M.S. Superb and Temeraire and cubs, with the
attendant French, Italian and Fish-and-Chip Fleets
negotiated the* Narrows, it is doubtful-if any of us
who were privileged to view the conglomeration cf
mud-huts, prehistoric buildings and antiquated forts
(with’modern guns) when passing Chanak, featured
the village as the possible pivot of another war.
It is a dangerpus place for a handful of British
soldiers to be cooped in. From the opposite side
of the strait the Allies could defy John Turk indefi-
nitely, but if Kemal Pasha’s ragged janissaries get
it into their noodles to run amok, not one of John
Bull’s Tommies will escape, unless he is fairly pro-
ficient at swimming straits against an eight-knot
current. Foch was correct when he foresaw the
possibility of the British Fleet being bottled up in
these waters. It beats me why the Allies didn’t
extend the neutral zone a few miles further east of
the Asiatic shore. If Kemal brings up his artillery
the Fleet can only operate with long-range guns
from the Sea of Marmora at one end and inside
Cape Helles at the other, until ah efficient air force
is available to dislodge the followers of the Prophet.
* * \ *
“Henry Bateson” : The practice of present-
ing medals to those who captured or re-
sisted bushrangers was begun in 1875.
The police received silver medals: civilians
(in most cases) gold ones. The head
of the Queen, with the inscription “The
Colony of New South Wales,” appeared on
one side of the medal; on the other the Aus-
tralian coat of arms surmounted a floral
wreath in which was engraved the recipi-
ent’s name, with the lettering, “Granted for
Gallant and Faithful Services.” My re-
cords show that seven gold and three silver
medals were presented. The silver ones
went to Sergeant John Middelton, the taker
of Gardiner; Constable Walker, who was
responsible for Thunderbolt’s capture; and
NEGLIGIBLE.
HE (at the dance): “Who is that fellow over there? I
notice he’s done nothing all the evening except fol-
low us around and glare.”
SHE: “Don’t worry about him. He’s only the man who
bought me my ticket.”
Beauvais, an innkeeper at Pine Ridge, who
shot Rutherford. Assistant Gold Commis-
sioner Keightly, who killed Burke, of the
Ben Hall gang; David Campbell, owner of
Goimbla station, who shot O’Meally, of
the same gang; and the widow of Captain
McLerie, Inspector-General of Police from
1856 till 1874, received gold medals. Who
were the other four?
* » * *
“Dido”: Mrs. Carter had died in the
night, and Carter had sent for the under-
taker, who arrived in
due course, and took
the necessary measure-
ments, a process which
the bereaved ma n
watched with great
concern. That same
evening Carter drove
up to the establish-
ed Pine and Wood-
house, general under-
takers, and, jumping
from the waggon, en-
tered the shop, where
he encountered Pine.
“Are youse ready ?”
demanded the widower.
“Ready for what, Mr.
Carter?” asked the
polite coffin-architect.
“Why, ready for the
missus, I got her out
in the waggon.” “But
we will call for the
body at your house
with the hearse, when
the funeral is due,”
said the astonished
undertaker. “Y e s,
yes,” replied Carter
testily, “don’t I know all that, but shan’t
you want a try-on?”
“Doongan’s” sidelight on Turkey’s great-
est soldier: —
How many people are aware that Mustafa Kemal
was really the first enemy leader the A.I.P. found
themselves up against during the Great War.
It was he who, on the memorable 25th of
April, 1915, blocked the progress of the
Anzacs, and prevented them from attaining their
objectives on the Peninsula. At that time he
was commanding the main Turkisli reserve in the
centre and south of the invaded territory. He was
disposing his forces for a field-day in the direction
of Anzac, when he received the news of the landing.
Realising the danger to the Turkish communications
if once the invaders gained possession of the main
heights of Sari Bair, which dominated the road
down the Peninsula as well as the Narrows, Kemal,
without waiting for orders, himself set out for
Anzac at the head of the already assembled regiment,
the other regiments following shortly afterwards.
During that long day the fighting was exceptionally
severe, Kemal’s determined counter-attacks being
pushed hard against the many weak points in the
Australian position, with the result that at nightfall
neither side was capable of further effort. The next
day was spent by both sides in recuperating and in
attempting to form a connected line, but on Tues-
day, the 27th, Kemal for the second time assailed
the whole line with all his strength, in a forceful
endeavor to dislodge the tenacious invaders from the
narrow foothold they had gained. The Turks were
repulsed with heavy losses, but, none the less, the
position was saved for them. C. E. W. Bean, in
“The Story of Anzac,” says: “It was Kemal’s swift
determination, and that alone, which had prevented
the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps from
reaching the all-important height of Chunuk Bair.
By his action the exhausted invader, after an effort
almost passing human endurance, was completely
hemmed in by a formidable force under a formidable
leader, in country which would have been well nigh
impassable even in peace manoeuvres.”
» * * »
The Law took a very fine point lately in
an Adelaide police court. A new member of
the force arrested a man on a charge of un-
lawful betting, and was asked “How would
a fiver appeal to you?” The money having
been produced and handed over, the insulted
John Hop changed his ground, and, escort-
ing his man to the police station, charged
him with “having given a bribe to induce
me to neglect my duty.” In his virtuous
indignation the constable apparently forgot
all about the charge of unlawful betting;
and this enabled a clever counsel to get up
and argue in court that the case “fails'hope-
lessly. There is no evidence that a legal
arrest was made, and nothing to show that
defendant was doing anything in the .nature
of betting. In that case a gift would not
be unlawful.” And the case was dismissed.
* * * *
“Bilbav” takes a look round :
Berry’s Bay, North Sydney, might more appropri-
ately be called the Bay of Contrasts. Its eastern
headland, Blue’s Point, is occupied by the Sydney
Ferries depot and coal-bunkers, and is always a scene
of bustle. Opposite towers Balls Head, a rugged,
unoccupied cliff which looks as if it had strayed in
from some out-of-the-way Hawkesbury inlet. At the
back of the ferry depot is a tangle of modern flats
and ancient stone terraces and houses, about the most
venerable of which is the Fig Tree Hotel—the first
pub that ever sold beer in North Sydney. Along the
water-front are baatbuilders’ yards, where the latest
designs in racing-craft are turned out, and anchored
just off the slips are the rotting hulls of bygone
vessels. One of them —an ancient of pre-clipper
build—used to be a store ship for explosives in
Middle Harbor, while another is the old Anglian, at
one time a flash inter-State passenger steamer. The
ill-fated American schooner Inca is moored alongside
the Anglian. An up-to-date timber-yard is wedged
in between the railway, the bay itself and another
ship-disembowelling establishment. The area to the
north was the battling-ground of the once-notorious
“Cow’s Flat” push; it is now covered with neat
modern villas. Further around the bay is a plant
for treating timber to make it white-ant proof. Then
there are more rotting hulls mixed in with neat
gardens beside the towering gantries of a coal and
oil bunkering concern, which sprawls itself over the
narrow peninsula into the next bay. Altogether a
queer mixture of ancient and modern is Berry’s Bay,
THE MAIN ITEM.
“Heavens, but your clothes are absolutely
transparent!”
“Brute! You are about the only man who
would mention it to me.”
which, amongst other uses, defihitely divides the
upper harbor into two parts, the pleasure end and
the business end.
THE NEUTRAL ZONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
*he is another’s girl, and being so
No alien kisses must henceforth be placed
Upon those lips of red. But should you go
To where the dancers twirl the lissom toe
You still may wind an arm about her waist.
Fledged is she and affianced. Does it irk
To feast your eyes on what you may not own?'
Maybe. Yet let in this . some solace lurk:
s he needs must keep, in common with the Turk,
A neutral zone.
U.e has a mortgage on her mouth—and yet
If you could catch her ’neath the mistle-bough,
Proper although she be, I wouldn’t bet
A kiss you mightn’t be allowed to set
Upon a not un-acquiescent brow,
those lips are kept for him, not me or you ;
His is the lien and not for us the loan.
Still, between locks of black and eyes of blue,
You might perchance discover —others, too —
A neutral zone.
And when, which will bo shortly, she is wed,
The boundaries of his kingdom, I suppose,
Will even clearer be delimited.
And none but one shall stroke that dainty head
Or make a peck at that alluring nose.
All will be trespassers excepting he,
nought beyond a warm hand-clasp alone
Serve to recall that Eve, when Adam's “she,”
Still kept some morsel of herself to be
A neutral zone.
X.B.W.
PIPARDS.


' ■
i. i
n
y*^
!§'
& X
yj'
nii
§b
%
5<
i
■'^Ti
A
- *>
m
<m
kl
V /
'
sss
HB
fei
fcj
\
©s
W
ilU\
as?
%
n
'{
’ :
IlP*' is< '"
i
SP
I ;
*3^
Hi
i&v?
4>.y
!»*
M
4
<1
J
WB
w
•sal*
CHATEAU TANUNDA
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED.
our Uran
dv Sir/


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-I.uxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
WORLD.FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
“For Ever Best/’
STA(j
LASER
■BBHnHnHBBBBM
TOOHEY'S.
Adelaide ’Varsity, which is ’thinking of
celebrating its jubilee, was originally in-
tended to be a training-college for Non-
conformists. However, the first “meeting
of gentlemen favorable to the establishment”
(which, by the way, was attended by many
whose names are famous in the history of
Adelaide) resolved “that it is desirable that
the said University shall have power to make
statutes for the affiliation of any collegiate
institutions, irrespective of religious belief.”
And when the necessary Act was going
through S.x\. Parliament, some practical per-
son carried the insertion of a clause that the
governing body, of 20, should never contain
more than four ministers of religion at one
time. To-day there is only one, and he is
there as headmaster of St. Peter’s School
rather than because of his “cloth.”
* * * *
“Galway”: Re pork as nutriment for
fighters (B. 14/9/’22). This deponent, who
arrived in England in the beginning of 1915,
and was billeted for a few weeks at
Romsey, Hants, had bacon for breakfast,
pork for dinner, lard for tea, and dreams of
swine the whole night through. Pig seemed
to be the staple article of diet in Hampshire.
The next move was to Belgium (with the
17th Imperial Division), and at that time
in all the villages you could get a pork chop
for 7d., have it cooked for Id., and sur-
round a helping of chipped potatoes and a
basin of coffee for 2d. more. This was much
sought after by the soldiers fresh from the
line, even though the Belgian pigs had less
stripes than a lance-corporal.
UNANS WERABLE.
THE VOICE: “John, you have been drinking
again !”
JOHN: “No; really, my dear! I swear — I”-
THE VOICE : “Then how did you come to
purchase that necktie ?”
“George Rich’s” cheerless picture:—
Many of Westralia’s newest immigrants are being
pushed out-back, for experience, at wages which an
English farm-laborer would spurn. Numbers of
these men arrived in the West with the impression
that they only had to leave their cards on the
Lands Department to be straightway escorted to
prepared estates. In the circumstances the news that
they had to put in 12 months picking up points
before getting leave to tickle the soil on their own
account, came as a shock, and many are looking for
a ship to take them back to London. There are also,
swelling the chorus of dissatisfaction, a number
who have filled in the 12-months term without be-
ing able to secure the promised farm. The Depart-
ment appears to have lost its head somewhat, and
Perth is full, of new arrivals who are infuriatedly
spending their cash while waiting to be placed.
Unless someone sticks a sharp instrument into a sensi-
tive part of Jimmy Mitchell’s anatomy, and thereby
wakes him up from his present state of optimistic
somnolence, W.A. is going to get one of the worst
advts. of its lifetime.
• » • *
“Billy T.” : The burglar had barely stepped
into the darkness of Miss Bron’s bedroom
when the storm
broke, and he felt
himself surrounded
by raging ele-
ments. The con-
tent of the wash-
stand jug was
thrown over him,
and the wind blew
and the thunder
roared. He was
knocked horribly
on the funnybone
with a footstool,
and the aforesaid
jug was broken
over his head.
Mingling with the
general hubbub
went the strain of
a complaining
hum an voice,
strung to high C
in alt. A chair hit
his ear, two~hands-
ful of hair were
torn from his head,
his moustache was
almost uprooted,
an d a perfectly
good tooth and two
fictitious ones fol-
io wed the soap-dish
half-way down his
throat. Next he
got an impression
that someone was
trying to push his
face off with a
pair of scissors,
and here he de-
cided to abandon
the whole enter-
prise. Rushing to
the dim light of
the window-sill, he
said: “Lady, I
called with honor-
able intentions. I
designed offering
you my hand in
holy wedlock, but
after this demon-
str a tion I oon-
not but conclude
th;it my person is distasteful to you.” At
this stage he was pushed off the sill, and
fell 22 feet. He has now retired, and is
earning his bread as a Presbyterian dust-
man.
* * * *
“J.E.” on the most notorious of all tee-
totallers :—•
The prohibition Turk is the same wooden-headed
destroyer at all times and seasons. When the Greek
campaign in Asia Minor collapsed and Smyrna re-
turned to its old owners they set it on fire —apparently
from sheer force of habit. Which was characteristic.
The Turk is absolutely no builder, either of poetry,
prose, legend, fantasy, statuary, paintings, philo-
sophy, science, machinery or cities. lie practises
his borrowed creed in stolen towns and often in
prigged churches which he has turned into
mosques. He is associated with ruins
just as the Spaniards and Portuguese are
with constructive work. They captured
a continent and a half and built cities of
stone all the way from Arizona to Pata-
gonia. The Turk got possession of a
large section of three continents, and
tattered down indiscriminately the works
of Assyrians, Babylonians, Egyptians,
Greeks and Romans. Providence is
alleged to have drowned all the original
prohibitionists in their own beverage,
at the Deluge, reserving alive only the
primitive distiller Noah and his family.
But the race revived somehow. And
when one looks at the Turk and con-
h» habita -. one , * he f suspici ° n
that in the handling of the Hood the Creator made
a mistake.
* ' * * *
“TOT ” with n Leichhardt reminiscence-
wUb a laeicnnaiat reminiscence.
“The 19th accounts in the estate of the late Henry
Lind Nathan, late of Liverpool-street, Sydney, gentle-
man,” were filed in the Supreme Court last week.
* , <T . ... . „ , ,
Ihe names “Lind” and “Nathan recall events o
cloSe upol > 80 years ago Captain Robert Lind
™ aS ba y ack ‘ master '"T 1 ! °* d w !.T™n
? re f ’P.. c 1S , ’ , f • . . Tndwie-
7 a? I *** ’ i P !! f,, . S
, elc al ' ’ e e * p 01er - len . c a ® r '' as °. n
b, f f ort Ess^ n Ston expedition, in 1844-4 , his
fiends, Captain Lind among them, believed that
he had been klUe “ T .£. tb ? blacks J, 7. nd
' vrote an eiegy on Leichhardt s Grave, which
Isaac Nathan > the composer of Byrons Hebiew
melodies, set to music, and which was to be sung
at the theatre 011 a fixed n, S ht - However, on the
same m S ht Leichhardt called on his friend Lind
the barracks,. having leturned unheralded by a
Newcastle boat, just in time to hear the elegy sung,
Captain Lind died in Auckland in 1850 ; Nathan
was killed on the horse tramway in Pitt-street in
January, 1864, and Leichhardt went on another
expedition in 1848 and never returned.
“Jobber”: How many Diggers had
experience of the women John ’Ops in Lon-
don? While on leave I spent many even-
ings in Llyde Park with the “cheese and
kisses,” and was often molested by these
hawks. I remember one night, when one of
them, accompanied by a dinkum John, put
IMMUTABLY ROTTEN.
“What changeable weather you get in Melbourne!”
“Changeable! If it were changeable we'd hare changed it
years ago.”
her nose in my face. I politely remarked
that we were a respectable married couple,
and asked her if she would like to see the
“lines.” Another Digger, who had a half-
Nelson on a tabby, a few yards away, was
less fortunate. I hadn’t time to give him
the oil, and he was too occupied to notice
the Johns; the last I heard was “You come
alo,ng o’ me,” and they went.
* * # »
“Exul”: Touching this sex-detection fool-
ery. As long ago as 1854 Chevreul, of
Paris, showed that the movement of a needle
suspended by a thread held in a human hand
was due to the thought (not will) of the
holder of the pendulum, and took place as a
result of the unconscious response of his
muscles to that thought. Thus, if the holder
of the thread thinks of an egg as a more or
less circular thing, the swing will be in a
circle; if of the distance between its two
ends it will move to and fro. “Dunederra”
says the swing won’t occur over any other
object than an egg. Let him try with a ball
or circle drawn on a piece of paper, and at
the same time think of the shape of the
object in question, and I’ll defy him to pre-
vent the needle taking a circular swing. In
the sarfle way an unavoidable to-and-fro
swing will occur over a straight line. By
the way, it is this unconscious muscular
movement as the result of thought (not will)
that is the basis of Coue-ism.
«• * * *
“Wilfrido” is explicit:—
“ ’Coota’s” recent references to the protection afforded
doctors in respect of professional communications are
inaccurate in spots. In M.L., for instance, the shield
is derived from the Evidence Act, 1908, not from
5 Ed. VII., No. 16, which has been consolidated. The
privilege does not apply to surgeons and physicians
only. Husbands and wives are exempt as to com-
munications made between them during their married
life, on the same principle that a husband
cannot sue his wife, or vice versa, for a tort while
this relationship exists. Also, in a divorce proceed-
ing no one need answer any question tending to
show adulterous guilt unless such witness has already
denied adultery. A minister cannot be made to
divulge a confession; but there is no privilege in
the case of communications made for a criminal pur-
pose or of representations made to a doctor for the
purpose of effecting an insurance policy. Nor is
“ ’Coota” altogether correct in asserting that the
section in the M.L. Act is similar to the Victorian
one. In the latter the prohibition is far wider.
Here the words occur “any information he may have
acquired in attending the patient,” while in the
M.L. Act the drafting is “any communication made
to him in his professional capacity.” The Victorian
provision was earlier, and prevented the doctor from
disclosing information he might have acquired while
attending the patient whether he received it from
the patient or whether he informed himself by
investigation. In M.L., before the communication
can be privileged, it must be shown that it came
from the patient. Thus, in a case heard by the
Court of Appeal in 1912 the surgeon operated for
a stone that was lodged in the prostate gland, and
he found as a result of the operation that his patient
was suffering from stricture, the outcome of Y.D.
He was called upon to give evidence, and the ques-
tion of its admissibility turned on the meaning cf
the word “communication.” It was held that “any
communication made” must be interpreted in its
narrowest sense, and so what a physician told a
patient or what he discovered from examination of
the patient was not protected. The statutory pro-
vision passed in Indiana in 1881 conforms to the
M.L. section and to those passed in many American
States, but with the exception of Tasmania, which
“ ’Coota” quotes, I do not know of any other Eng-
lish State that contains a corresponding provision.
“Exul” in a burst of candor: —
One of the pitfalls of medicine for a young doctor
is his liability to forget that absolutely different
troubles may display precisely similar symptoms.
I once dealt professionally with a procession of
hysterical females, mostly more or less alcoholic.
Their chief symptoms were a refusal to look up or
to answer questions. However, the judicious appli-
cation of ammonia fumes invariably lifted them from
a state of wordlessness to one of extreme abusive
verbosity. Then the police brought in a lady who had
been found wandering abroad and who was indubit-
ably strange in her manner. In spite of my warning
regarding the unpleasantness of the consequences if
she persisted in her attitude of cold hauteur and
blank taciturnity, she paid no attention to my queries.
Nor did ammonia have the usual dramatic effect.
Although she showed no symptoms of organic disease,
in my bewilderment I admitted her to the hospital
for observation as a precautionary measure. Not till
next day did we find out that she was deaf and dumb
and had lost herself. I would like to take this
opportunity of again apologising to her.
* * # » »
“Malob”: The advent of “Pussyfoot”
Johnson is not the only indication of Ameri-
can backing for a big prohibition drive in
this country. I saw a Yankee film in Bris-
bane the other day which was obvious propa-
ganda. There must be large quantities of
money somewhere, for film-houses to take
on this kind of business. As far as I am
concerned the establishment has lost my
patronage as it permanency. There are few
who, after paying money to be amused, care
about being treated to a series of screened
leeturettes, in the Yankee language, on the
evils of Booze.
“L’Fou” : If Billy Hughes has any of his
War Precautions powers left he might exer-
cise them salutarily to prevent the publi-
cation of boy-bushranging reports. Victoria
has had an epidemic of them lately. Gener-
ally, when a lad pinches a gun and embarks
on a career of dare-devilry, the pictures are
blamed. But there is an unreality about
the film that is much less inspiring than the
accounts of actual nearby happenings which
appear in allegedly sober newspapers. Owirg
to this pandering to sensationalism, Vic-
torian boys are now enabled to feast their
eyes on illustrations showing where Star-
light, junior, began his career of crime.
They can read of the ease with which he
held up a town and got away with large
sums of money, and they can deplore his
unlucky choice of a hiding-place as though
it were an overlooked weak link in a bril-
liant chain of ability and enterprise. These
AN EVERYDAY AFFAIR.
“And he made desperate love to you, did he?"
“Oh, no; merely ashed me to he his wife."
things automatically suggest better and
bolder schemes and more ingenious hiding-
places. The sooner the press limelight is
withdrawn from these deluded lads, the
better for country folk with stealable pro-
perty.
PANTS WITH IMPUNITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The haw protested feebly against Marion’s false
pretences in the clothing way, but she brushed
the objection aside, and now she wears pants with
impunity.”— “O.K.” in B. 7 /9/’22.
When Marion first assumed manly attire
There was quite a mild stir in Society.
Our friend Mrs. Grundy was shaken with ire
At such a Sad breach of propriety!
And even the Law made a feeble attempt
To prevent what so shocked the community—
But, 10, a great change has come over the scene,
And now she wears pants with impunity!
It’s all very well for the girls to complain
That the laws made by men are unfair to them —
It has been demonstrated again and again
That the Law gives much more than their share
to them.
If Billy and Jimmie dressed up in short skirts
They’d be fined on the first opportunity,
But Millie and Winnie walk out in georgette,
And also wear pants with impunity !
It’s time that the downtrodden masculine sex
But the kybosh on such inequality!
What right have the females our feelings to vex
And deny us a share in frivolity?
Heaven knows there will always be troubles enough
As long as we live in sublunity:
Let the sexes agree to the right of both sides
To wear petties or pants with impunity.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
C. H. SOUTER.


m
m
K
1
\vas
j
LEVIATHAN
GOOD CLOTHES.
Your Best Investment
Never consider Good Clothes as a Luxury
consider them as an investment. For the longer
you wear Leviathan Clothes the greater will be
your satisfaction.
Come in and see ourNewSpring
and Summer Men’s Wear.
SPORTS SUITS
Shipment Arrived
THESE MEN’S SUITS ARE PARTICULARLY WELL
FINISHED—Tailored in superior quality All-Wool English
Suitings, in shades of Fawn and Grey. Coats have half-belt,
pleated back and deep vent, cut roomy at shoulders so as to
ensure perfect freedom. Trousers full at thigh, finished with
cuff bottoms. Ready-for-Service,
63
Summer
Catalog
Now
Ready.
Write
for
YOUR
Copy.
ENGLISH SPORTS COATS
NEW SHIPMENT OF UNUSUALLY SMART TAILORED
MEN’S SPORTS COATS, in superior woollen material in
Donegal Tweed effects. Shades featured are light and medium
Greys, light Fawns and Browns. Shaped to waist, fashioned
with 3 patch pockets and half-belted back; finished with leather
buttons. All sizes. SPECIAL,
gdf
Men’s Trousers
These trousers are absolutely wonderful value. Tailored
in All-Wool Tweed, of hard-wearing quality, in light,
medium and dark Grey. The linings and pockets are
dependable, finished with side
and hip pockets and cuff
bottoms. See our Bourke
Street window display.
Per Pair
9
No extra charge for quarter-size fittings.
Riding Breeches
Riding Breeches, smartly cut in Suede Drill, in a service-
able Olive shade, splendid hard-wearing material. These
breeches are self strapped and laced
at knee. Expertly cut to ensure long
service. Sizes 3 to 7. SPECIAL
19/6
ALL-WOOL RIDING BREECHES, military cord, in
Khaki shade. Absolutely reliable
and serviceable, self strapped and
laced at knees. SPECIAL
30 1-
ENGLISH MODEL SUITS (Ready for Service)
We fit men of all proportions wfih Tuperim
” ffity S'SS whicf in is e„ual to 1 Tailored-to-Order. THE SUIT
6
PERM AT WILL (Reg.) SHIRT
Jtrrpes hl whTcra?e P lbLlutely fist bitter’, fit better, and have soft collar to match
106
MEN’S SOX
Here’s the biggest Sock Bargain ever
offered! Black All-Wool Cashmere
Socks, seamless
feet. A limited
supply avail-
able.
2
- Per Pair
Pure Wool Underwear.
Here’s something Special! Men]s Pure
Wool Singlets or Underpants, available in
all sizes; medium weight; nice soft finish.
Exceptional value.
Sizes 34in. to 36in.
chest or waist.
Chest or waist
Special Price
38in. ’ 40in. 44in.
11/6 12/6 13/6
10/6 each.
Men’s Confidence Pyjamas
Better Value Better "Wear.
This Pyjama is well known for its superior
wearing qualities, well made in particularly
serviceable doubie-warp Pyjama Twill.
Stripes featured are Blue, Black, Helio and
Pink. Absolutely fast colors. Suits are fin-
ished with turn-down
collars, pearl buttons
and girdle. All sizes.
Special 12/6
Our Guarantee.
The Leviathan Pty., Ltd., guarantee absolute satisfaction to the purchaser, who has
returning any goods that are not considered in strict accordance with the description,
are immediately returned in good condition, the money will be refunded in full.
the option of
Provided they
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARR/AGE.
Cor. SWANSTON and BOURKE STREETS, MELBOURNE.


ROTHERHAMS
English Watches
g
Are now
Procurable
from all
Jewellers
Foremost throughout the Empire for
over 60 years.
If your Jeweller should not have them
apply to Box 420, G.P.0., Sydney
A Signal Success
<SS
The TOP-WOTCHScotch.
Smart!
Serviceable!
We should
sau so!
Why don’t
you wear a
•jtiisJk.
SHIRT?
SVE
a
Mara
MAKERS
ALEXANDER ST£WMT-
AND SONS LTD.
BRISBANE
AMD
SYDNEY
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Akaroa” : Re the first rabbit released in
Australia (B. 14/9/’22). On Dee. 25, 1859, the
Black Ball clipper Lightning arrived in Hobson’s
Bay, having on board tour hares, 24 wild rabbits
and 05 partridges. These rabbits, it is claimed,
were the first to be acclimatised on the mainland,
survive their natural enemies, and spread to the
surrounding country. But the earliest mention of
the rabbit is given in the Historical Records of
N. S. Wales. In a report issued by Governor Phillip
on May 1, 1788, rabbits are included in the live-
stock return. Whether white or grey is not stated,
but it is believed to be the latter. The records of
early Melbourne show that rabbits were in existence
there in 1836. A dispute arose between Henry Bat-
man—brother of John —and John Pascoe Fawkner,
over the shooting by an aborigine of rabbits, and
other matters. The abo. was employed by Bat*
TEA TIME.
“Gripes, this'll save me strikin' a match!"
man and the verdict went against the latter. This,
by the way, was the first legal decision given in the
colony. Here, again, it is not stated whether the
rabbits were grey or white. It is believed that
rabbits were released on various islands along the
coast by navigators of the time, and it is reported
that bunny was numerous on Rabbit island, close
to Queenscliff, in the early ’forties. Incidentally,
“T. 0.1.” is wrong in his reference to “James (or
John) Austin, of Barwon Park (Vic.).” He should
have said Thomas Austin.
* * * *
“V.O’C.”: Tlie hatching record was put
up here on a Bananaland farm a little while back,
and by a turkey gobble]’ at that. Old Bubbly, in
scratching about, apparently came upon a couple of
Queensland nuts, about the size of pullet’s eggs, and
he promptly went broody or something, for he made
a nest and sat on them for several days. Then the
farmer, to put an end to his foolishness, tipped him
off the nest —and was staggered to see that two
young Queensland nut-trees were beginning to sprout
from Bubbly’s “eggs.”
“Delecat” : Some time back a man in a
Vic. country district, noticing that his mare seemed to
be in great pain, invited the opinion of the local
“horsey” men. None of them could say what was
wrong, so the owner sent for a vet., one Blankson,
who arrived in due course and diagnosed the trouble
as bot-fly. He gave the mare about three pints of
oil and other dope and departed. In the morning
the owner visited the mare and nearly threw a fit
when he saw her with a fine hefty foal. He christ-
ened the new comer “Blankson’s Bot-fly”; and now
the vet. sees red whenever he’s asked how the Bot-
fly is getting on. The question I want to submit
to the Abo. Council is: Do vets, often diagnose foals
as bot-flies?
“Bad Australian”: Tell “Park” (B.
14/9/’22) that there is nothing extraordinary in a
nanny-goat mothering a piccaninny. Among the
Indians and half-breeds in the outback parts of Chile,
Bolivia and Argentina Nanny is frequently used as
a foster-mother, and the arrangement appears to be
pleasing, amusing and beneficial to all concerned —
so much so, that some of the nippers don’t run with
the weaners until they are 9 or 10 years old. The
practice is not confined to the Indian and half-breed,
as I have seen white youngsters sampling the goods
with as much gusto as any Indian. Incidentally,
outback South Americans make a very appetising
cheese from goats’ milk, and they use large quanti-
ties of asses’ milk, special donk. dairies being run
to supply the demand.
* * * *
“Pick”: Nimmitabe! (N.S.W.) harbors a
dog and his Chinaman thaf, to the thirsty of the
town, are a constant joy. The Chow is a con-
sistent beer-chewer, but is never permitted to become
wholly inked. After every brief sojourn at the
bar the vigilant mong. unceremoniously seizes Ah
Booze by the slack of his dungarees, and hauls
him, plaintively protesting, homeward. The per-
formance is a recognised means of beer-sparring with
the hums. No sport is allowed to pass through
Nimmitabel without an invitation to oil the Chow
and watch the dog.
* • « •
“Colub” : lie “Rhino’s” query as to the
death-dealing powers of land-snakes in the Solomons
(B. 31/8/’22 ). Anywhere in the Pacific land-snakes are
seldom venom-secreting. New Guinea has a black
snake which very closely resembles the Pseudechis
pot'phyriacus of Australia, but there are considerable
doubts as to whether this is poisonous. I have seen
a number of cases of bites from it in which no ill-
eftects followed. Of the two or three varieties in
New Britain and New Ireland none is dangerous,
and I have never heard of anybody dying from a nip
by a Solomons wriggler. All the really venomous
snakes are the species which live in the sea and come
out to bask on the beaches and rocks; and in the
case of two or three of these it is doubtful if we
have anything in Australia to come up to their
deadliness. Incidentally, the average nigger is no
guide as to whether a snake is dangerous or not. He
fears the reptiles, not because of their venom, but
because they are the personification of evil spirits,
and his idea is that if a snake bites him a devil
will enter into him and soon kill him. Many cases
are known of a native dying after having been nipped
by snakes as harmless as earthworms.
‘I es R.”: Tomato enthusiasts would
writhe with envy if they could out
see a pawpaw tree in full bearing.
In a garden at Chelmer, Brisbane,
one of these herbs last year bore
64 pawpaws, averaging five pounds
each in weight. Only portion of the
fruit was gathered. Before the
remainder had time to ripen the
tree broke. Although the average
weight was five pounds some of the
fruit gathered weighed seven. Green
pawpaws, when a knife is driven
into them, exude a thick milky
juice. A chap told me that he
once saw in the Abo. column that
this juice was a certain cure
for warts. He had been using
caustic soda for a particularly
large wart on the back of his
hand, but decided to give pawpaw
juice a trial. Caustic soda used to
make his wart and its environs
smart for about an liour,*but he
discovered, after one application,
that pawpaw juice was much more
virulent. It gave liim sheer —well, at all events,
he went back to caustic soda.
* * * •
“L.S.D.”: This morning an extraordinary
commotion took me to the fowl-yard, where I found
my Leghorn-Orpington crosses giving what appeared
to be barnyard selections on the jew’s-harp.
Closer investigation proved the “harps” to be
matches lodged horizontally between the chocks’
beaks. A pull on one disclosed a thread of
cotton and, eventually, a grain of wheat carefully
threaded thereon. After I had brought a dozen or
more gTains to light, I decided the time was ripe
for punitive action and sought out my young hope-
ful. His plaintive excuse between whacks was that
he “wanted ter pull ’em up agin ter see if they
growed inter eggs ! ”
* * * *
“Jim Carew” : “E.M.” (B. 14/9/’22), re-
ferring to my par. about red and white bower
decorations says “I presume he means a bower-bird.”
I did; and a satin bower-bird at that. The male’s
plumage was of a deep shining blue-black, and his
wing and tail feathers seemed a shade darker than
the body feathers. The female was of a greyish-green
hue, and a couple of her feathers 1 picked up had
crescent-shaped dark-brown marks near their tips.
“E.M.” also says that his bower-birds promptly
threw out experimentally-introduced red objects.
That is only natural, providing the other decorations
of the bower were of another color; but if all the
decorations were removed, and red objects of similar
size and shape, placed in the same formation, were
substituted, I’ll wager the bower-bird would take
no notice of the change.
THE GO-SLOW' GRAZE SPREADS.
COOCKY: "Strewth ! Yer flamin' ' ot. 'ain’t yer? Bin away (tamin' all night and get ’ome
'alf an' 'our late ter the milkin’.”
“Belsam” ; Funny how life can be epito-
mised in a few minutes. I was cleaving the air
and some tough grey box with a sharp hatchet and
blunt language on Colendina station (N.S.W.), and
an old magpie, who had her family in a near-by
tree, was cocking an eye for any grubs I brought
to light. Suddenly she noticed that a tomtit had
landed near me on forbidden ground. She volplaned
down, clicked, and got him first try. A laughing-
jack here pu,t in a claim, struck mag., well and
often fore and aft, snatched the tomtit, soared
aloft, belted it on a limb and swallowed it whole,
then laughed long and loudly. llis little snack
made me feel grubby too, and I looked round for
my crib. Gone—the dog had scoffed it.
* * * .
“Malua”: “Korikori” (B. 20/7/’22), who
says that cocoanut-palms are not killed by the
rhinoceros-beetle, but that the red palm-weevil does
tiie damage, may be interested to learn that there
aie no red palm-weevils in Samoa, and the only
known pest is the rhinoceros-beetle. Wherever the
beetle is found extensively there are found dead
palms, so dead that the trunks rot and decay to the
ground. So the natural conclusion is, that the beetle
causes the trees to die. They may, of course, die
from some other curse unknown to residents in
Samoa; but it is a certainty they don’t die from
drinking to excess.
Soaedi”: "Yairs,” said Bill, “there’s
somethin’ in this ere ’ipnertism. I knew a bloke
once, an ’ard-workin’, simple sorter cove, but ’e goes
and buys a book on ’ipnertism off an Indian ’awker.
Jim was never the same after. ’E bought more
books, and let is ’air grow long', and got wild lookin’
about the eyes. And between the blokes as thought
’e was barmy shoutin’ for ’im ’cause ’e frightened
’em, an’ the blokes as thought ’e w r as clever shoutin’
for im ’cause they admired ’im, Jim comes a big
gee—yer see, ’is missus goes and takes a prohibishun
order out agin ’im. Any’ow, one flamin’ thirsty
sorter day, just like to-day’’ (here Bill looked at
me hopefully), “I ’appened ter drop inter ’Ungry
Smith’s bar, an’ there I sees Jim leaning over ther
counter, starin’ ’ard inter ’Ungry’s face, with ’Ungry
lookin’ back at ’im, sorter ’arf frightened, ’arf
fascinated. No one else was in ther bar. ‘You’ll
gimme a drink,’ sez Jim. ‘But there’s a prohibishun
order out against yer, Jim,’ sez ’Ungry, sorter apolo-
getic. ‘You’ll gimme a drink,’ sez Jim, lookin’
’aider than ever. ‘But yer won’t pay me,’ wails
’Ungry. ’E knew somethin’ did ’Ungiy. ‘You’ll
gimme a drink,’ sez Jim, lookin somethin’ orful. And
may 1 drop dead on this spot,” continued Bill im-
pressively, “if ’Ungry didn’t ’and ’im out five beers
on end! ’Ungry, rnind yer, ’oo wouldn’t let yer
blow the froth off’er beer till ’e saw ther color of
yer coin! All ther while Jim scoffs ther beer ’e
keeps is eyes fixed on ’Ungry, oo keeps pourin’ it out
sorter ortermatie; an’ ’e might uv bin at it yet only
a blasted John pokes ’is nose in an nabs the both
of ’em.” There was a long pause, broken at last bjy
a regretful sigh from Bill. “Yairs,” he said, “it’s
a great gift, is ipnertism. Sometimes I think I
’ave it meself.” He raised his bleary, bloodshot
eyes and stared fixedly at me. “You’ve got the price
of a drink on yer, mister,” he said in a hard assured
voice. And I hurriedly obliged.
“Kilang”: Are chameleons native to the
N. Territory? Some school children in Darwin
recently caught a lizard which turned brown when
on a brown dress, green on a green dress, and white
on a piece of paper. They found it in the bush,
which leads to the supposition that there are more.
“The Rumpus” : I’m sick of the sagacious
dog yarns. A watchman who had half-a-dozen ware-
houses to look after owned a big collie with more
than its share of intelligence. The animal used to
go down the street for the newspaper, carry keys,
and, on the rounds, a hurricane-lamp. If you touched
his boss, even in the friendliest manner, he would
fly at your throat. One night a portion of a brick
wall fell on the watchman, pinning him down. The
dog ran around, sniffed, barked a couple of times,
listened to the agonised voice among the debris tell-
ing him to run and fetch a policeman, and then ran
off in a determined manner. At 0 a.m. some work-
men found the watchman in an unconscious condi-
tion. Two days later the clever dog was discovered
sporting with a festive lady 50 degrees below his
own breed.
* * # *
“L’Fou”: Tell "Yarrum” (B. 3/S/’22)
I’m not curtaili where the
gibbers from Monaro’s miles
of stone fences have gone;
but the rabbits have eaten
all the scenery in a lot of
other places. Perhaps they
got away with the fences.
AT WALLAL.
“By cripes, loss, you Inn make-it plurry fuss
over nothing. 'Possum him 'clipse moon
every night, mine tinkit.”
“Ragar” : Are all puffballs edible? There
are at least four distinct varieties in Australia that
can be eaten; but others, I hear, are poisonous. I
was introduced to the puffball some years ago be-
yond Gympie (Q.) by an old sleeper-cutter. He
gathered them from dead timber before the sun got
at them in the morning, and while they were quite
fresh. I camped with him for one night, and break-
fast consisted of fried bacon and puffballs, cooked in
the pan with the bacon. They were as good as the
best mushrooms I’ve ever eatenj He told me that
when the things get old they are bitter, but make
a good relish or pickle if boiled with peppercorns and
cloves in vinegar.
(Continued on page 22.)
“THE PATH OF THE WIND.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The vagabond wind came at dawn of the day;
The night had hung heavily, sullen and still.
But the wind kissed the ripples awake on the bay,
As it came to the town that slept under the hill.
They had barred all their doors and their windows
with care,
Save one which the wind found wide-open and
free,
And it laughed as it whispered to him who slept
there,
And touched his warm lips with the salt of the
sea.
And he stirred in his dreaming, and smiled as he lay,
And the wind wandered out to a tall ship it knew,
And whispered of islands that lie far away
\\ here beaches are golden and skies always blue.
There’s a house in the town that sleeps under the hill.
There’s a casement with never a curtain nor blind,
But the dust and the cobwebs are thick on the sill,
For a rover has followed the path of the wind.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
LEX.


Latest Australian Novels.
1/- each —1/2 posted.
ROGUES AND RUSES By Con Drew
THE BLACK OPAL By Jack North
THE PEARLS OF CHEONG TAH By S. W. Powell
THE BOSS OF KILLARA By Vance Palmer
A COLT FROM THE COUNTRY By Arthur Wright
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER—
Adapted from the famous play by Hilda Bridges
EQUALITY ROAD By Vera Baker
THE FEATHERS OF HEAVEN By Jack McLaren
HERMIT ISLAND By S. W. Powell
THE GREAT JADE SEAL By S. W. Powell
150 Other Novels by Best Australian Authors
in the
Bookstall Series of Australian Novels.
Nearly 5,000,000 Already Sold.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.
Full descriptive Catalogue sent (free) on application to Publishers.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.
470 George Street, Sydney,
Thousands of men
1 are using our famous
NJIHNUI
If
HAIR
TRIMMER
Order
now
3.
W///9
Lk±*
PRICE
m
dfg
A handy device for
every home. It trims
the Hair, Beard or Neck
The “U’ROWN” is a Safety Hair Trimmer —a simple device for trimming Tour
own hair. Used exactly as a comb, which operation also trims the hair, bimple,
clean and complete. As a beard trimmer “U’ROWN” has no equal—as you comb
your beard you also trim it neatly. The action is child’s play—but positively
satisfactory. As a trimmer for children's hair it stands second to none.
“U’ROWN” has no terrors for the little ones. It acts smoothly and quickly.
Very light, durable, nicely plated and finished, with natural curved handle to lit
fingers." Ready packed in box, with three blades and all directions. W’e have
sold thousands. PRICK s '”
Value in Razors, Strops & Knives
EYE WITNESS RAZORS, the noted
“1000,” 4-inch blade, round points,
black handle.
Price 9/6
fin. Blade 10/6
OAK CASE, fitted with TWO XYLO-
NITE HANDLE RAZORS, Wilkin-
son’s, Sheffield make 47 /6
RAZOR STROP, No(k & Kirby’s
special make, two pieces leather,
ready prepared for use. Price, O/O
SPORTSMEN'S KNIVES, best Shef-
field make, containing two blades,
corkscrew, marl inspike and hoof-
pick and shackle; nickel handle.
Price 5/11
Tiock&Kirbifs
Sydney’s Modern Store,
George Street, Sydney.
S3OHSIIVM3NOIS
Dependable Boots,
liV« wvi guaranteed to outlast
others because they are made from
selected Box Hide, Wax Stitched, and
reinforced with a Military back. Have
Three-decker Soles, clumped with
genuine *Stonehide Leather, made in
Broad and Medium Last. The
“STONEHIDE” Sole, with which they
are clumped, is of picked heavy leather
tanned through and through, with a
resistance the quality of which is not
excelled by any known process. Plain
Toe or Toe-capped, 23/6. N.S.W.
Post, 1/-; Interstate, 2/-
Same Boot in Tan, 24/6, plus Postage.
Same Boot for the Boy: 10 to 13,
15/11; 1 to 4, 18/6; 5, 21/6. Postage
1 /- extra.
State Your Size and Wire or Write for a
Pair by V.P. Post to
JACKSON’S LTI)., SYDNEY.
Ask for our New Free Catalogue.
dachboiP&
415-5 PITT ST,; 99 LIVERPOOL ST
(oPp'%Jbii!c ! s Sm-Ince) (opp central co r^ R lL_
580-2 PITT ST.; 198-200 GEORGE
iOPR ANTHONY HORDERNS') (NEAR NOCK 8. KIRBYS)
SYDNEY.
'M ''M
■: u
- r
CLUMP SOLE
The Stonewall Clump Sole Boot


ROOFING
FLOORING
DAMPCOURSE
The Paraffine Companies, Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
•I'-ViC-
i| ;i|(|(|ll |i(f|
"w
C
L
i
iiiiil
3!
i iiiiii
Km
iMiiiiii
lii
111 l lilllil
'Oi
ABBOTS
LAGER
3he Beer
Without a Rival"
BREWED r'ROM PURE MALT &HOPS ONLY
“Galtee More”: Tell “Centurion” (B.
31/8/’22) that in Dec., ’B7, I shot a snipe on the
Piccaninny Creek, north of Bendigo (Vic.), that had
a bandage of feathers and mud or cement around
one leg. I carefully removed this, and found that
the leg-bone had been fractured and neatly
spliced. I shot a snipe in May, ’99, on the Warr-
non (Vic.), and found that his right wing had been
repaired, lie could fly 40 or 50 yards. He was a
lonely little chap, as the snipe migrate in Febru-
ary until August.
“Toma Hauk”: Oban Tommy, a nigger
who lived at Oban (N.S.W.), had a reputation as a
sprinter that echoed from end to end of New Eng-
land. One day a sports meeting was being held at
Armidale, ar.d just before a sprint event one of the
promoters walked up to a Binghi among the on-
lookers and said, “How about going in for this race,
Jacky ? You look as though you could run a bit.”
The nig’s chest shot out. “By cripes, mister,” he
said proudly, “I ought ter be able to go a bit —-
I’re outer Oban Tommy’s sister!”
* * * *
“Tungamah”: Re snakes sloughing their
skins. They do this at least once a year, and
some kinds do it every month, in the summer. A
new skin grows underneath the old one, and my
observations prove that, as soon as he is prepared,
the snake forces himself through some narrow [dace,
so that his old skin is rubbed off and turned outside
in, as described by Le Soeuf (B. 10/8/’22). The
skin of the snake covers his eyes, and, during a few
days, while the new skin is growing under the
old, the wriggler is almost blind. It is supposed
that, if the whole of the skin comes off in one
piece, it show's that the snake is in good health,
but if it comes off in shreds there is something
wrong with him.
“F.H.R.”: “Frank Dee’s” Maori and his
two daughters (B. 14/9/’22) are doing well, but
they can’t beat my missus and her two daughters.
Having been laid up with sciatica for six months, I
got the farm of six acres ploughed and put in with
corn and pumpkins, and the women (the girls are
14 and 16) undertook to scarify and clean the crop
if I would go to Moree (N.S.W.) baths. They had
AN ECLIPSE ECHO
WOOP WOOP : “The sun’ll be ’urtin' you kids’ eyes from ’ere. Cut
across the paddocks until yer gets a side-on view.”
a bumper crop. Also, the girls took it in turn
to come out and help me hold my job of suckering
in the hills when I returned, and, besides this, the
younger has wound all the water and dirt from a
40ft. shaft for me.
“Centre”: I can endorse “Jim Carevv’s”
wattle-gum cure for dysentery (B. 21/9/'22). There
is at least one of the wattle family, however, that
acts in a very different way, though I can’t give
the name of it. Once, north of Rockhampton (Q.),
NOT DISAPPOINTED.
“ Well, Pat. how arc the crops this year?”
“Share, they’re not so good as Oi expected—but then Oi didn’t
think they would be.”
I went clown to 3, sharp attack of dysentery
1 sought the usual gum cure, and found a supply of
the sGeky stuff dose at , hand ’ But one b l k,b was
e "° Ugh I n proved the most poweffu emetic
Tf t nT^ rt ion »' ?n a ™ P a
name to this particular fraud, and so save some
.n, u . » _ . ~ , . . T j- i n
other poor blighter from going through what I did?
# e & & s vv^cib
Borig” : “Ey Emma Ey” re helio-
graphing (B. 7/9/*22) stirs my memory, and I recall
helioing during one
long winter to the
observer on Kosciusko
from the Public
School at Nimitybelle
(N.S.W.), an estimated
distance of 70 miles.
Is this a record for
Australia ? It should
not be. My apparatus
consisted of a mirror
lOin. x Bin. fixed on
pivots to move horizon-
tally and perpendicu-
larly, and a frame and
shutter in front of it.
With that contraption
two operators are really
required—one to keep
the spot of light on
the centre of the shut-
ter, and the other to
manipulate the shutter,
Morse method. The
same sort of apparatus
was used by the obser-
ver on Kosciusko, and
his light was as plain
to me as, say, the even-
ing star, Venus, is at
present; so I am sure
that another 50 miles
or so would have made
very little difference.
“A quil a” : I
can’t explain it, but
can corroborate “Ack
F. C.” re the effects
of a ear’s headlights
on wild animals (B.
7/8/’22. We had a simi-
lar experience on the
Moulamein (N.S.W.)
road one night with
kangaroos. We were
crossing an open plain,
but the animals kept
on right in front of the
car and appeared to think that the darkness on either
side was walling them in. Finally they became
bewildered and sat down just as “Ack F. C.’s” bunny
did, and we had to turn to avoid them —all but the
tail of one, which we ran over.
“Moralist”: Will some Abo.-matkemati-
cian enlighten me as to this? I have a young pig
which can drink a whole bucket of milk; and yet,
when he has finished, I can put pig and all into the
bucket. It’s no use suggesting “hollow legs” because
that won’t hold water —or rather milk.
* * * » .
“W essel”: How the young queen of the
green tree-ant uses her own infants as a kind of ani-
mated needle to sew the leaves together to form
a home for the family is described by F. P. Dodd,
of Ivuranda (Q.). She
takes a grub up in her
mandibles and moves it
backward and forward
from one leaf edge to
another, the grub doing
its part by spinning a
web which gradually spans
the gap. When one grub
is exhausted the mother
takes up another, and so
on until the job is finished
or the supply of grubs runs
out. Much the same
method is adopted by the
working ants when the
colony has grown bigger,
but in their case the result
is a nest as big as a man’s
head. These ants make
pets of the caterpillars of
a species of butterfly which
lays its eggs on the tip of
a loaf near their house.
The ants build a web en-
closure as big as a small
sodawater bottle, in which
the larva: live till they
are ready to turn into
butterflies, when they
crawl out through the
doorway used by the ants.
Unlike the “cow” aphides,
which these and other
species of ants keep, the
butterflies don’t seem to
be any earthly use to the
ants. Perhaps they feel
the same way about them
as some people do about
parrots and Persian cats.
* *
“W.D.G.”: It isn’t
always the domesticated
animal that makes for
man in time of trouble.
I was carrying a couple of
buckets from the dam
up to my camp, when flop went a wild duck into
one of the buckets. When I recovered and looked
round, a darkish-colored hawk, or falcon, was mak-
ing off, with a “Well-Pm-damned” look ’about him.
“E.D.”: Sydney Evening News has taken
up nature study. The other day it discovered deadly
bandi-bandi snakes unknown to science, and “sting-
ing lizards ’ which are more deadly than tiger-
snakes. To illustrate these latter odious creatures
which “sting with their tails” (one might have
suspected they stung with their feet or their eye-
brows if this had not been made clear), it used the
picture of a poor old harmless blue-tongued lizard.
Then came an article on the koala, or native-bear—
illustrated with the picture of a ’possum!
* * * *
“Exul”; Here’s an ex cathedra statement
that should settle the argument about the relative
toxicity of the venoms of .Australian and other
snakes. Lieut.-Col. 11. Watkins-Pitchford, R.A.V.C.,
told the Royal Society of Medicine (London) on
June 28 that “with the exception of the Australian
tiger-snake, the snake with the most toxic venom was
an African variety, the black mamba, whose venom
had twice the toxicity of that of the puff-adder.”
One-fifth of a grain of it would kill a man. He had
dissected from a mamba’s poison gland 2\ grains of
venom. (This is probably much more than the tiger
carries.) The toxicity of the venom, he thinks,
varies with the time of the year. When he wants a
specimen of venom to investigate he doesn’t chloro-
form the reptile. He catches it round the neck with
a ratchet forceps, opens its mouth with a watch-
glass, and squeezes the poison into this through the
fangs by pressing the poison-gland with his fore-
finger. Would anybody like his job while he takes
a holiday ?
“Cleveland”: I saw a weird mix-up one
day when some bullock-teams in the Northern Wairoa
(M.L.) were hauling out long kauri saplings for
ships’ spars. The twigs were in the bark, and most
of them had been felled for some time. Just as one
team came over a small sharp knoll and the 50-foot
sapling lifted its rear end skyward it slipped out of
its bark, shot down the hill and through the team
like an oiled eel. When they had chopped out the
bullocks from among the tangle of yokes and bows
and chains and profanity two beasts out of the 16
were able to stand up—and they had only six legs
between ’em.
* * * *
“.Jim Carew”: Several times I have thor-
oughly domesticated wild birds and have allowed
them the freedom of the yard. And all of them
seemed to lose caste with their kind. Wild strangers,
sometimes singly, but more often in pairs or in
flocks, would often visit them, but after they had
been together for a few minutes a fight would
invariably ensue, and the “civilised” one would
flee squeaking to the house and safety. I have
seen this happen to magpies, jackasses, cockatoos,
butcher-birds, minahs and thrushes of whom I had
made pets. Also, when a youngster on the South
Coast (N.S.W.), I kept a native-bear for over two
years in semi-captivity in a big gum-tree which
grew right at our back door, and, although wild
bears frequently visited him, it was only to give
him a hiding and then depart. Neither he nor the
birds were ever able to persuade a wild mate to
share their domestic home with them. Do the wild
uns look on the others as renegades?
“The Rumpus”: Some years ago I missed
Dead Horse Creek (Ashburton district, nor-west
Westralia) by about 12 hours’ tramp, and I was on
my last legs for want of a drink of water when a
lubra hove in sight. Seeing my condition she led
me to a soak. I offered her half my tucker and
tobacco, which she took without any enthusiasm. But
then she made a strange request—she asked for as
much of my finger-nails as I could pare off. Some
superstitious hanky-panky, of course; but does the
Abo. Council know anything about it?
“Ack F. C.”: “R.R.” (B. 14/9/’22) claims
that T. W. Gcoch, of Mildura (Vic.), started the
rabbit plague in Australia. The ex-police-inspector
is one of our most interesting identities, but he
doesn’t claim to be the sponsor of Bunny and family.
That honor goes to his father, who, while residing
near Geelong, in the middle of last century, freed
a pair of tame rabbits which had emigrated to
Australia with the family.
“Mac Moey”: My entry for the Coinci-
dence Stakes: Jack Petersen, of Simpson’s Punt,
near Echuca (Vic.), some years ago was riding
home when his horse shied and threw him. Result:
an arm fractured short up to the elbow and a
trip to Bendigo to get the bones wired together,
as they could not be set in the usual way. Return-
ing from his first trip into Echuca after this, on a
different horse, he was thrown and broke the other
arm in an exactly similar way, and had to go
through an exactly similar operative performance
again.
“Bob Mack”: This ought to be a record.
A couple of Mondays ago 62 lambs were tailed from
28 ewes, and next morning another ewe was keeping
a worried eye on a family of four healthy youngsters.
The average up to this point was 287 per cent., with
two more ewes to lamb. Of the new arrivals 33
lambs were ewes and 33 were rams. A pure-bred
Suffolk flock and the Canterbury (M.L.) climate
were responsible. A few subsidised Hocks of this
prolific member of the jumbuck tribe would soon
restore that balance of export trade so badly wanted
in the land of the Freezer.
* » * *
“Trochus” (N.T.) : Re recent references
to stingarees. I think it quite possible to get a
17-inch sting. The thin-tail rays, of several varieties,
have their stings well up to the butt of tail, and if
you insert your fingers in the hole under the eye,
HOME AND DRY.
WAYBACK (not sure of his lodging-house
number) : “Does Tim Murphy stop ’ere,
missus?”
LANDLADY: “Yairs.”
WAYBACK: “ ’S’right. I’m ’im .”
they cannot touch you with the sting. But beware
of the thick-tailed black ray. His sting is near the
extremity, and he can stick it in the sand over his
head. By-the-way the oil from the ray's liver,
immediately relieves the intense pain caused by the
sting. In an emergency the bruised raw liver bound
on the wound lessens the suffering. I ojice tied
half a liver round a black’s ankle when he had been
badly stung. A week later he came to me and said,
“By cripes, boss, that one medicine good fella belongs
stingaree bingey. No more sore fella now,’’ and
behold he still had the junk of liver round his ankle
- —as I surely found out when I got to leeward.
GOOD-BYE, SEPTEMBER!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring’s fires have burned within our deep heart's
core!
Now sinks the flame —now fades each glowing
ember.
Till next year’s Spring shall wake new fires once
more,
Good-bye, good-bye, September !
She goes elsew’here her lyrics to repeat;
But we shall feel, through many a fierce December,
Upon our brows, throbbing with fever heat,
The cool hand of September.
Oh, blind to earth’s unlovely sights we go.
Deaf to its clamor, while our hearts remember
Beauty, that writes in flowery text aglow,
One lovely name —September !
QUEENSLAND.
EMILY BULCOCK.


fluM&i
for Wear, Comfort
, k Economy i
w-
a>,
4
w.
■JS ■ •
Si ■
1
-• A’
Sl
.
Ife ;■
•J
1
c
,
DUNLOP
rubber matting
is particularly suited for Corridor S , v Cßtibule, Ba t Kroom S ,
Kitchens, &c. Impervious to water and the ti^color
mW &
ih
m
F .l 1
111
DONT THROW
AWAY -
YOUR WORN OUT
WRINGER
ROLLERS-
OLD ROLLERS MADE NEW
We make a speciality of re-rub-
bering Wringer Rollers, ana
guarantee them to give better
wear than the original Rubber
Prices from 6/3 each
and upwards
according to size.
Dismantling and Removing
Covers, 1/- each,
D(/f)bpJ?i//>Aer£o
#// 3Safes SSZ
SdfObsmg
Pouch
The handiest and most effective made
aiitight, and lasts for years. Tobacconist*
can supply. Ask for “Dunlop” Brand.
ALL STATES
; j*s3S
mm
«*?
as? ' ‘
* *
'mm
- r '!> «e
.
•■ 3E
D/u> 1
.:■
DUNLOP
rs*
£ 3WK
as
*
m
sr
/ • u-pi?* - Y?tz
0
IF
7/.
IT
Jr
r
Dunlop
UtM.
■
%
dfg
un>
Cf
s
df
Fou can be
sure of Air°
tight Jars.
when you use “Dunlop”
rings. '"They do hot
soften or spread—boxed
in dozens—fo fit stand-
ard Jars. Look for the
“Dunlop” brand on label
—it’s your guarantee of
good service—leading
stores can supply.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES AND N.Z.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.,
v M
■
idfe
•.* ; ;i ’i
■
*
«• ;
Pi
~, r IVn '
L •". - Hr*
DUNLOP
garden
HOSE
Lasts for years-
>es not kink
lor burst
o) r/f q
MWif fp
«b»n
Q
V
gdf
Tn
DUNLOP
RUBBER
BELTING
Ensures
Efficiency
& Economy
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
All Statea and N.Z.
I
:iW
src mn mssso
m
AND NEW ZEALAND.


5546 miles in 67 days
Australia Crossed and Re-crossed.
Three Dort cars establish unprecedented record through sandy
deserts, rough rocky country, forest, jungle and Hooded areas.
ME. MURRAY AUXGER’S TRIBUTE TO “SHELL.”
I Murray Aungek Motor Co. Ltd.
Motor Engineers and Importers,
63 Franklin Street, Adelaide
19th July, 1!)
The British Imperial Oil Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
• Dear Sirs,
I thought probably you would be interested to,, know that we used ‘"'Golden Shell'' Motor Oil
in the three Oort Cars that crossed and recrossed Australia on our recent transcontinental tour.
THE OIL WAS EXCELLENT, and T can strongly recommend anybody traversing heavy,
sandy country as we did to use
Golden SHELL Lubricating Oil
particularly where the day temperatures are high, and heavy going through sand; also where
night temperatures are below freezing point, as often occurred on our recent trip.
I might state that, while returning via Queensland, in one or two towns where I had
not sent on supplies of lubricating oil, 1 had the misfortune not to be able to procure “Golden
Shell, and was forced to take a substitute, another make. It would be of interest to you to
know that my oil-gauge on the very cold mornings with “Shell’- Oil registered 61b., falling back to
• Mb. during the afternoon, when the temperature was high and the going hard. But coming down
through Queensland on another brand of oil, my oil-gauge in the morning went right past the
last figure (10) on starting up, and before noon dropped back often below lib. pressure. This was
due entirely to oil obtained in Queensland being very thick and heavy whilst cold, but becoming
very thin after being heated.
Another point I would like to mention is that the “Golden Shell” Oil proved most
economical. | Yours very truly,
(Signed) H. M. Auxger, Manager,
MURRAY AIJXGER MOTOR CO,. LTD.
Note the words “excellent” and economical.”
The British Imperial Oil Company Limited
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND.
gdf
It does not look as if the market for this car could ever
be entirely satisfied.
Dodge Brothers are among the largest producers in the
world, but they will never imperil their production by
sacrificing quality to mere quantity.
They look upon every sale as a binding business agreement
to deliver certain definite results to the buyer.
i tli the interests of buyer and seller so closely knit together
the result, everywhere, is a Motor Car that is a good, lasting
and profitable investment.
The petrol consumption is unusually low
The tyre mileage is unusually high
M
vVj/'ClWkj
r -
IK
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, Inc * is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
That Elusive Something.
By “PHLOX.”
YOL t R husband is flirting with a pretty
dark woman.”
“The wretch !”
“He’s asking her to take afternoon tea
with him,” went on the fortune-teller,
nothing abashed by her client's interjection.
“Where are they going for tea?”
“I can’t tell you that, but at present
they’re dancing.”
“Is my husband dancing?”
“He is.”
“Oh, dear, what would you advise me to
do?”
"I did not undertake to advise you,
madam, but to tell your fortune. Half-a-
crown, please!”
Mrs. Marsden left the fortune-teller with
rage in her heart and revenge in her soul.
Who was this woman, she asked herself, who
was usurping her husband’s affections? That
explained his attitude towards her lately.
He had begun to criticise her, and pass un-
complimentary remarks about her figure and
her complexion.
Indeed, he had hinted that she was passe.
Why, there was her husband and the
woman walking towards her. John has
recognised me, she thought; now I wonder
what he’ll have to say for himself. That
fortune-teller is certainly a clever woman.
“How fortunate we met you, Mary. This
is Miss Heath—our supervisor of agencies,
who has done such good business for our
publications. We were just going to have
a cup of tea while we talk over business
matters, and it will be nice for you to come,
too.”
Mrs. Marsden gave Miss Heath a formal
bow, and a cold, “How do you do?” When
her husband said they Avould go to the Went-
worth for tea, she was more than ever con-
vinced that the fortune-teller was a witch.
The trio sat down at a table, and before long
Mrs. Marsden, succumbing to the charm of
Miss Heath, almost forgot her annoyance
and jealousy. Her husband merely talked
business with Miss Heath, who from time
to time politely referred to Mrs. Marsden
for approval of plans she promulgated. And
when Mr. Marsden said that he would be
working back at the officd'that night, and
suggested that Miss Heath spend the even-
ing with Mrs. Marsden and regale her with
the latest Paris fashions, she was quite
agreeable.
Miss Heath, the daughter of an Anglican
clergyman, was born and bred in Paris, and
having just come from the gay city, was able
to give Mrs. Marsden interesting fashion
notes.
Before long, however, the eternal feminine
asserted itself, and Mrs. Marsden wondered
why Miss Heath, with her charm and beauty,
baa never married. She told Mrs. Marsden
that the only man she ever loved was killed
on active service.
From this they talked of rejuvenescence,
the subject ever uppermost in the mind of
the woman who has passed her first youth.
“If only I could reduce myself,” sighed
Mrs. Marsden.
“You can, easily.”
“Oh, of course, the French know the secret
of remaining beautiful, practically for ever.”
“What I take to keep my figure slim is no
secret, Mrs. Marsden.”
“My dear, I shouldn’t have thought you
needed to take anything ”
“Indeed, I do ; or I Avould soon fall into
flesh. Directly I find myself putting on
weight, I just get a package of clynol berries,
and take one after each meal.”
“Do they affect the heart?”
“Oh, dear, no; the most delicate person
can take them with safety.”
“I shall certainly take them, and I won-
der, Miss Heath, if you know of a good face
cream that doesn’t grow hairs.”
“Indeed, I do; and I’m most grateful to
the manufacturers for what it has done for
me. I never use anything but mercolized
wax. It is similar to the preparation used
by the famous French beauty Ninon
D Enclos, who at sixty had the complexion
of a child.”
“How very fortunate I met you, Miss
Heath; I shall certainly add mercolized wax
to the list of things I want from the chemist.
Do you know I’m rather distressed about
my hair; it’s greying fasj:, and my husband
suggests that I dye it, but I hate the very
thought of dye.”
“I can assure you, Mrs. Marsden, there’s
no necessity to use dye. When I lost mv
fianc6 my hair began greying fast, but I used
Tammalite, and now you won’t find a grey
hair in my head—it simply worked wonders.
It’s quite simple to use. You just get two
ounces of concentrate of tammalite. and mix
it with three ounces of may rum. Apply to
the scalp at night with a small sponge until
the hair has gone back to its original color.”
“Thank you very much for the informa-
tion. May I ask what soap you use, Miss
Heath?”
“Certainly, I never use anything but
Pilenta.”
“It’s awfully good of you, to be at such
pains to tell me about these delightful pre-
parations.”
“Not at all; I think it’s a woman’s duty
to contribute to the beauty of the world,
and if you will notice, a woman who takes
Pains with herself has that elusive some
thing that is so fascinating. But it’s time
I was going.”
‘ I will send you home in the car. You
have given me fresh courage in life. I’m
.now bent on cultivating that elusive some-
thing.”
Barri Agar—ldeal Face Powder—all
Chemists.— Advt.


Another Reason why the
E
Kerosene, Farm & General Purpose Tractor
Is Best for Australia
YOU can’t help dust and grit being about a
farm, specially at harvest time, but it must
be kept out of the working parts of machinery at
all hazards if smooth running is to be maintained.
The manufacturers of CASE Tractors recognise
this fact, and have so perfected their machine as
to absolutely guard against the encroachment of
dust.
The CASE Tractor
HAS ALL VITAL WORKING PARTS
ENCASED IN DC ST PROOF HOUSINGS.
This is just another point in the perfection of the
CASE Tractor. There are many other superior
features.
Sign and send the form at the foot of this adver-
tisement to-day. You will find the Catalogue
interesting, and learn a lot more about the famous
CASE,
“The Tractor
That Knows
No Rival.”
✓ '%%■
ft At P
\
X*>v
X '■*•• 'V
% • sSI4. -
K-\
na»&
Case Tractor
Service in Aus-
tralia is backed
by a well-
equipped engi-
neering works,
and spare parts
are quickly ob-
tainable.
mm
Commonwealth Agricultural Service Engineers
LTD.,
Head Office: Adelaide, South Australia.
New South Wales Branchs
17 MARTIN PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Ilaig, but the anonymous historian finds
him distinguished by a disturbing stub-
bornness and pride which constantly irri-
tated the French Government. He could not
co-operate faithfully with Nivelle, or con-
er 11 hitter’s “suggestions,” because
Nivelle was only a General of Division
(though in supreme control of France’s
armies), whilst Haig held the superior rank
of Commander-in-Chief. Haig, we are
further told, on the quoted authority of the
late General Wilson, was no good for an
offensive, whilst General Robertson, blunt,
British and unimaginative, and devoted to
the task of wearing down the enemy by
superior man-power, shrivels under the asser-
tion that, “he did not get on with the French ;
that, despite any strength of character he
might have, it was a fact that he was a
Waterloo Englishman—one who thought that
any Englishman was worth three French-
men, and one who was quite unable to pre-
vent the French from seeing that he thought
so.” Robertson, it may be mentioned, was
strongly opposed to unity of command, and
it was due to the appointment of Wilson as
Chief of the Imperial Staff that the co-ordi-
nation was secured that eventually won the
war. Lloyd George has his entrances and
his exits in these illuminating pages. “A
man of no intellectual accomplishments and
of little knowledge, who felt at home only
in the company of those whose attainments
in that respect were at least not superior to
his own,” he dances in and out, the auda-
cious opportunist and rail-sitter who vacil-
lates. without shame or apology, according
to the prevailing tone of the House of Com-
mons. Then there is Asquith, now grace-
fully sheltering in the shadows of the past,
the dim and tedious memorial to his “Wait
and See” policy. Northcliffo also emerges,
the ponderous embodiment of a Daily Mail
leader, and human, all too human, in his
calm acceptance of the obsequious publicity
and flattery lavished upon him by his press.
Walter Long. Bonar Law, Lord Beaverbrook
and other political and social figures appear,
and are sketched in with an intimacy not
inferior to that of a previous anonymous
chronicler, “The Gentleman with a Duster.”
C. R. BRADISH.
The Real Tsaritsa
In the first months of the revolution, when
it seemed that Russia was still going to
sustain its part in the Entente against Ger-
mans’’, our press hardly knew whether to
denounce f he nation as a pack of ruffians
or to acclaim its performance as another
great episode in the fight for British free-
dom. Finally, the revolution was accepted,
Kerensky declared a patriot and all scandal
about the royal family given free circula-
tion. Wild tales of debauchery and German
plots were accepted with hardly any contra-
diction, and as far as the British people
were concerned William Le Queux riveted
Rasputin in the popular imagination as re-
presenting all the fascinating obscenity that
Suburbia could desire. With the advent of
the Bolshevists, the point of the persecution
lapsed somewhat; but. a rolling scandal does
not stop gathering weight because its origi-
nal motive power has disappeared. It is
only necessary to consider for a moment the
political reasons that both the aristocracy
and the earlier revolutionaries had for black-
ening the character of the Imperial family
to realise that, whether the stories were true
or not, they, or something very like them,
were certain to be told. Now that a little
of the chaos and propaganda has died, an-
other side is coming to light.
To read the memoirs of Madame Dehn
(The Real Tsaritsa, by Dili Dehn, Thorn-
ton Butterworth) is like passing into a
suburban drawing-room of mid-Victorian fic-
tion from the frenzied atmosphere of an
American detective story. The writer, born
in Southern Russia, married Captain Charles
Dehn, a member of the picked guards in
constant attendance on the Tsar and an
intimate friend of the royal family. This
brought her into close relationship with the
Empress and her daughters—closer, indeed,
than any one save the notorious Anna. Kara-
bouff. There can be no questioning the authen-,
ticity of her knowledge; and her sincerity
certain!v carries conviction with it. She is,
of course, an out-and-out champion of the
Tsaritsa, and laughs at the idea that her
mistress was either involved in German plots
or guilty of a liaison with Rasputin. She
presents fairlv definite pictures of the prin-
cipal actors in the great drama—Kerensky,
bustling, Napoleonic, almost pathetically
self-important and vain; the Tsar, the shy
“English gentleman,” futile and kind. The
Tsaritsa, mid-Victorian, prim, worried and
over-religious; Anna Karabouff, a fat fool
of a woman, a child to be petted by the
Tsaritsa, who fancied she owed her some
reparation for an unhappy marriage; Ras-
putin, the fanatic, effecting cures by “faith,’
and, naturally, most at home with hysterical
women. . .
The Tsaritsa is, in this book, most vividly
transformed : from a Messalina she becomes
the ideal rector’s wife, with a taste for knit-
ting and a devotion that only a woman who
had prayed for so many years for a son.
and then, by what seemed the miraculous
kindness of' God, been granted ope, could
possess. It was to the lucky chance of a
cure by “prayer” of that sickly child, the
Tsarevitch, by Rasputin, that the monk
gained his footing at the Court; but it is
quite clear from Madame Dehn’s account
that his influence touched only the religiously
morbid side of the Empress’s mind. To
understand the possibility of a Rasputin, one
must remember that the scene is laid in
Russia and not in a civilised country. For
Russia belongs to the East, however eagerly
it has looked westward, and saints and fana-
tics are not there interesting specimens for
the alienist, but a natural product of their
environment. From the fine polytheism of
the Caucasian peasants, who still hear at
nights the hooves of centaurs thundering
down the ravines, to the obscenity of those
religious sects who mutilate thejnselves to
the glory of God, a mediaeval superstition
permeates the whole character of the people.
As for the sophisticated aristocracy, the
dislike which most of them felt for the
seems g-> have lartrelv a matter
of distaste for the bourgeois, to which class
this Empress, who insisted on blackleading
the grates herself to show the servants how
it should be done, and gave presents to her
friends of dress-lengths and hand-knitted
shawls, so obviously belonged.
Madame Dehn closes her book with a
complete account of the first days of the
revolution, when she was practically in
charge of the palace. Time may disprove
some of her narrative; for the present, it
seems far more credible than the weird
legends about the Imperial Court, which, of
late years, have been accepted here as gospel
truths.
A Born Rebel
Wilfred Scawen Blunt, just dead at the
age of 82, was a man who, in Bernard
Shaw’s phrase, “had been up to the neck
in the life of his time.” He was a Sussex
landowner, “the lord of the manor and the
cock of the walk,” as he says in describing
his homecoming from an Irish prison during
the Irish Home Rule and Land League agi-
tation of the late ’eighties; he was a poet
with a voluminous output- he was a travel-
ler; he was an expert in horseflesh (especi-
aUy Arabian) ; he was a keen student of
Turkish, Arabian and Egyptian history and
politics; he was an accredited British dip-
lomat for 12 years ; he was something of a wit,
despite his Victorian seriousness; he was
a remarkably clear-sighted patriot; and he
married the grand-daughter of Byron.
Ilis acquaintance was enormous, ranging
through the highest (and lowest) social,
literary and artistic personages that rose
into the limelight throughout his long life.
His were as varied as his life —
Arabi Pasha, Herbert Spencer, the Meynclls
and Francis Thompson will serve as samples.
He tells the story that on one occasion,
when he was visited by the Meynells and
Francis Thompson, he invited them to re-
main for the night, but. Wilfred Meynell re-
fused, “the poet (T.) having an incon-
venient habit of setting his bed on fire, lie
first met Spencer as a result of a letter he
wrote to The Times, after Omdurman.
Spencer wrote to him, on seeing the letter,
to say that, he “had long looked for a poet
who should write a dialogue after the
manner of Goethe’s ‘Faust,’ between God and
Satan, complaining that mankind has
surpassed him in wickedness, sacrificing to
Thor and Odin, while nominally sacrificing
to Jehovah.” As a result of this sugges-
tion Blunt afterwards wrote his famous
“Satan Absolved.”
Spencer certainly proved a gloomy com-
rade, for, in a later letter to Blunt he ex-
pressed this optimistic sentiment: ‘Did I
think that men would remain in the far
future anything like what they are now, I
should contemplate with equanimity the
sweeping away of the whole human race.
Blunt asked Watts, the painter, while the
latter was painting his portrait, why he
had not painted that of Herbert Spencer.
“How could you expect rne,” said Watts, to
paint a man'with such an upper lip?
Blunt had written poetry from his early
years, publishing collections of sonnets,
verse dramas, and so on, from time to time.
In 1808 W. E. Henley and George Wynd-
hani edited “The Poetry of Wilfred Blunt,”
but they carefully bow-dlerised his political
and religious sentiments in a bid for popu-
larity, so that it was only in 1914 that a
really complete edition appeared from his
own hands, in two vast volumes. Ilis most
characteristic and effective poetic efforts lie
in the sonnets (“Sonnets of Proteus’ ), and
in his translations and adaptations from the
Arabic (notably “The Golden Odes of Pre-
Islamic Arabia”). .
Outside purely literary circles, however,
the name of Wilfred Scawen Blunt is best
known for his “Secret History Series’ of
diaries, two dealing with the British occu-
pation and administration of Egypt (nomi-
nally, though a great deal of other political
and'social matter is introduced), one on the
Land War in Ireland, and the two volumes
of his recently-published “My Diaries.”
Politically he was a Tory who had quar-
relled with his class. “I felt my mission in
life to be,” he said, “that of pleading the
cause of the backward nations of the
and especially those of Asia and Africa,
from their slavery to Europe.”
His diaries have obviously been the model
for the many post-bellum “Revelations”
(such as Repington’s), which have been
pouring out and giving the show away to
eager outsiders. But none of these has
the sincerity (and, perhaps, consequently
the easy cultured style) of Blunt’s. He
wrote even the most casual jottings of a
busy life with rare dignity.
JOHN SMITH.
George R. Sims in Australia
The recent death of George R. Sims, at a
ripe age, is not without an indirect interest
for Australians. Sims made a success of
some large and noisy melodramas, wrote a
novel or two of the most undistinguished sort,
and perpetrated some distressing verse that
had a wide popularity. His verse infected
Australia; and although no one in this coun-
try earned a reputation by writing any-
thing quite as bad, his method and his metres
were largely followed. The course of the
infection is not difficult to trace. The days
of the famous “penny readings” in England,
and the period which immediately followed,
were the heroic ages of the reciter. All over
Britain young men stood up and declaimed
“The Charge of the Light Brigade,” “The
Battle of the Baltic” and “Casabianca” with
tremendous noise and fervor, while milder
brothers of the craft simulated tears in “The
Graves of a Household,” or budding trage-
dians panted forth “The Dream of Eugene
Aram.” No church social evening or sub-
urban concert was complete without some
noise of the kind; and Tennyson pandered to
public taste in the ballads of his 1880 and
later volumes. But it was George R. Sims
who, above all others, adapted the popular
craze to the music-halls. He wrote pathetic
screeds about “little Billy” who had “gone
to glory,” and wildly sentimental attacks
upon society wantons who enjoyed the favor
of a prince. The verse was easily written,
thin and without literary quality, but big-
chested professional elocutionists used, to
bleat it forth with tremendous emphasis and
gesticulation while the smoke filled the hall
and the beer was left untasted in the tense
interest of the tale. The finest legs on the
stage won less applause than that which
accompanied the final roar of the reciter.
Australia got a large second-hand helping of
the stuff, and Sims had so many imitators
that even now the echoes have hardly died
away. It was largely upon this foundation
that the Australian bush built its first efforts
at expression in rhyme. Look through Eng-
lish and American literature for examples of
the long ballad metres so greatly improved
by Paterson and Lawson, and you will find
an almost total absence of anything that re-
sembles them prior to about 1880. Up to
that time everything is in far stricter accord
with the niceties of the ear; but the bush
ballad was made for reciting, and it was
George R. Sims who, more than anybody
else, showed Australia how it could be done.
He would be a very bold man who would
want to erect a statue to him on that
account. The old ballads, or the sort of
variations upon them used by writers like
Gordon, would have been much more
worthy as models; and it is rather notable
that these have won through in the end.
There is a kind of verse that goes;—
Bill Tompkins rode a chestnut colt from Albury in
Spring,
And did not care a dump how far he went.
Because of blue Matilda he had still a song to sing ;
And he §ang it making damper by his tent.
Twenty years ago the bush was full of that
kind of metre: and the loud bump at the end
of eacli alternate line was regarded as the
delicate flower of poetry. Not much of the
verse that comes from the Outback is in that
shape to-day. Lawson has tutored the ear
that Sims left raw. There is a justei*
appreciation of word values and musical
movements; and if the reciter still bawls, lie
at least bawls a hint less discordantly.
C. O. M.
A Satchel of Books
A Spring Walk, by Edgar C. Harris, is a capital
description of a tramp from Windsor to Bulli
(N.S.W.). There are only 32 pages of it, but
the author manages to show within (hat com purs
that he has a sense of humor and a feeling for
Nature. The brochure is privately printed, and
there is an engraving of Albert Collins's painting,
“Morning on the Ilawkrshurv at Windsor.”
The seventh edition of the N.S. W. Parliamentary
Record (N.S.W. Government Printer, Sydney)
brings this handy little reference book up to date,
up to the 1922 elections. A new feature is that
previously it contained information from 1856 on-
wards; it now goes bark to 1824. A list of members
appointed by the Governor to the Council from that
date to 1813 is contained, and also those who con-
stituted the partly elective and partly non-elective
Councils from 1843 to 1856. There is also an
alphabetical list of electorates showing members
returned for each.
England Under Edward VIE, by J. A. Farrer
(George Allen and Unwin), is 266 pages, more or
less supported by references, about the part played
by Britain’s last' sovereign in shaping or influencing
the foreign policies of his country and his Ministers.
Heavy duff, with few plums. And one puts down
the book with a mild conviction (which seems to
be what the author seeks to convey) that Edward the
Peacemaker, bv drawing Britain closer to France
and Russia, and further from Germany, did more
to make the Great War inevitable, despite the excel-
lence of his intentions, than the Kaiser himself.
Our Neighbors, by Hilda Bridges (Hodder and
Stoughton)! Hilda Bridges, who lately turned Bert
Bailey’s old play, “The Squatter s Daughter, into
a convincing yarn for the N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
breaks fresh ground in “Our Neighbors” as a satiri-
cal observer of the inhabitants of a Melbourne side
street. The style is simple and unassuming, and
the incidents dealt with are everyday and obvious,
but the deft humor and characterisation make them
eminently amusing. Moreover, the lady writes her
dialogue with a naturalness which shows a fine ear
for the futilities of suburban small-talk.
A Cricketer’s Book, by Neville Cardus (Grant
Richards, London). The author is “Cricketer,” of
the Manchester Guardian, a well-known commen-
tator.on the game, with keen observation, a pleasant
style and boundless enthusiasm. A. C. MacLaren
contributes an appreciative foreword. In addition
to a lot of cricket lore, the test matches of last
year in England are dealt with seriatim, in the form
of reproduced press articles. The scores and letter-
press might have been served up in a more orderly
sequence, but the comment will be found sound
and impartial, and the phrasing is much more piquant
than that which comes from niost cricket critics.
Memories o>f Men and Horses, by William Allison
(Grant Richards). This is a second instalment of
the turf recollections, extending over pretty we '|
half a century, of the veteran “Special Commissioner”
of the London Sportsman. The author is a little
more than a sporting journalist—he once edited a
Tory weekly—and it is claimed for him that he
might have won high scholastic distinction at Oxford
if Horse hadn’t obsessed him, even at that stage.
His literary style hardly lends color to the claim,
but he gossips pleasant.lv about a lifetime’s experi-
ences among and behind turf scenes, even if some
of the things he deems worth recording seem a
trifle childish. The book is brightened by some
of Phil May's resurrected illustrations, and there is
a chapter of special interest for Australians, for
Allison was the medium through whom some first-
class blood-stock left England for this country, and
vice versa.
First Impressions of America, by Dr. Walter R.
Hadwen (Hutchinson). If the reader wants to know
the size of the hat on the statue of William Penn in
Philadelphia, or how many men could stand on the
cranium of the Liberty figure in New York Harbor,
lie will rush to buy this book. There is a good deal
of that kind of information, likewise tourist patter
about Niagara, President Harding’s handshake,j the
reckless mixture of the sexes in Pullman sleeping-cars,
the popularity of powder-puffs among Mormon flappers,
and the manner of cleaning hoots in American hotels.
The author, an English auti-vivisectionist, writes
pleasantly and cheerfully, hut lie gives one the impres-
sion that, he was too stunned by the skyscrapers in
the first: chapter to compose a hook of any literary
value. Perhaps also his English politeness, refined to
a critical anaemia by a vegetarian diet, somewhat
accounts for the colorlessness of the volume.
The Judge, by Rebecca West (Hutchinson). This
is a more ambitious and striking production than
the authoress’s sparkling first effort, “The Return
of the Soldier.” The theme is the tragedy of an
uncommon woman trying to divide her affections
between her two sons—one the doltish of
her marriage to a butler, and the other the illicit
result of a romance with a squire. The mother
leans inevitably to the latter, who is brilliant and
adventurous, and the authoress draws on all the
resources of a peculiarly rich vocabulary to increase
the prejudice in the reader’s mind. There is no
doubt that, beneath Miss West’s often conspicuous
air of impartiality, there is a subtle and womanish
championship of the dear young man who chanced
into the lives of his parents after a twopenny-ha’-
penny seduction in Essex. On the other hand, there
is no relenting to the other fellow, who, after
proving his base origin by drifting aimlessly but
steadilv from degradation to degradation, and get-
ting imbecilely “saved” by the Salvation Army, is
most unwarrantably stabbed by bis half-brother dur-
ing a short altercation. The book is not a com-
plete success. The final scene has a vague Ibsen-
ish note, and the emotions of the characters seem
femininely overstated ; but still the achievement is
incomparably higher than the best of Best Sellers.
Whatever Rebecca West’s drawbacks as a psvchologue
and sex-analyst may be, she is a remarkably gifted
writer. Take almost any page of this rather long
yarn, and you will find some phrase that has a
piercing force and beauty.


A QUESTION OF SELECTION.
STOCKMEN! Seasons vary.
You have taken that risk. Take no more.
Make certain of top market values.
Consign Cattle, Sheep, Lambs
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Expert Salesmen, Sydney or Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
as
MADE JIY R. & J. DICK, LTD.
THE RUST-PROOF BRIGHT METAL
PI.ATING of the inside and outside
surfaces considerably increases the life
of the BARRY Steel Split Pulley, ren-
dering; it absolutely immune from rust
and corrosion.
There are no rivets in a BARRY Pulley to
work lopse or shear under strain. The tubular
reinforcement inside the riin preserves the
exact shape of the pulley under heavy loads.
This also ensures true running under all
conditions.
Write for Free Catalogue “R.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
VITAMITE! VITAMITE!!
You Ask, What is Vitamite?
We Answer the Question.
IT is a Nitrogen Fixing Bacteria, which, when
placed in the soil, increases by millions, supply-
ing the much-needed Nitrogen to plant life.
When the great American national increased-food-
production stunt was in full force, one of the Direc-
tors, A. S. Gould, F.R.H.S., publicly staked his
reputation on VITAMITE, and won all along the line.
For the increased production of all plant life it
stands absolutely alone for Flowers, Vegetables,
Fruit and Wheat. Give it a trial; if it doesn’t do
what we say, money returned.
A trial packet, with full directions, capable of
inoculating 10,000 seedlings, post free, 2/6.
THE AUSTRALIAN VITAMITE CO.,
192-94 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
nn
a
S ft w «
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or f ood or cold
refreshment wi hout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
makingtea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected ; with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
.'59 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, D.S.A.
nurara
gdf
a
m
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Well-
ington (N.Z.), Auckland,
Christchurch, New Ply-
mouth.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEIM POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
mmasGSt’si
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Longhurst
60 York Street, Sydney.
Skandia
; i.i'M
MARINE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
MOTOR CRUDE OIL WINCHES
STATIONARY CRUDE OIL ENGINES
PORTABLE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
(HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL)
Most economical, durable, simple
and safest engines of the world.
Nelson & Robertson
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Taiko”: Re "lotas” par. (B. 17/S/’22),
few engineers who have visited the small-
arms factory at Lithgow, accept the statement
made in the House of lieps. about the un-
suitability of the machinery to manufacture
telephone parts, etc. The factory is as up
to date as money and tradesmen can make
it, and the lathes will finish any article that
can be forged. Among the samples to be
seen in the forging department are table-
knives, cold chisels, pliers (made of Hoskins
bayonet steel, one of the best carbon steels
produced), hammers, spanners, parts for arti-
ficial limbs, fittings for sulky seats, splitting
wedges, valves, clutch plates (as used in
the Australian Six motor-car), etc. If Aus-
tralian workmen will only try these tools, I
believe they will admit they have never used
better.
* * * *
“Randolph Rentless”: German paper
money is on sale in Sydney, and quite a
number of people are speculating. They are
really giving Germany a loan on the chance
that the value of the mark will appreciate
sooner or later. This writer was offered
what, in normal times, would be £3OOO worth
of marks for £5 —a risk that he might have
taken had he had the fiver. And he has an
acquaintance who is buying for all he is
worth, inspired and encouraged by family
precedent. At the close of the Crimean War,
when Russian roubles were selling- at a
ha’penny each, this particular speculator’s
mother bought heavily, and ultimately real-
ised a fortune of £9OOO out of her financial
adventure. But with Germany pouring out
fresh marks ns fast as the printing-press can
make them, this sort of speculative history is
unlikely to be repeated.
“W.W.A.” produces his medicine-chest: —
I am now verging on 84. I have swallowed suffi-
cient whisky to drown 10 Scotchmen and smoked
more cigars than the late Thomas Playfair, but I
claim that I am to-day the one real juvenile in
Sydney’s ancient brigade, without a pain, ailment,
crutch or complaint. And the panacea is just
ordinary kerosene. I started on it 30 yeai'3 ago, with
a teaspoonful nightly, increasing the dose as my sys-
tem became inured. To date, I have consumed 31 cases,
or 248 gallons. It has rid me of all forms of
rheumatism, sciatica, colds, and a skin disease of 40
years’ standing. The virtues of simple remedies are
naturally suppressed jy leg amputators, body carvers,
drug purveyors and nostrum merchants. The only
thing that annoys me is that I spent over £7OO on
doctors and chemists before a simple Pennsylvania
shale-miner opened my eyes to Nature’s panacea.
“Dido”: Said my undertaker friend: “It
was in the course of my metropolitan career
that I met Boag. I came into contact with
him in the way of business. He
was a short, puffy man in too much
overcoat, and a large-rimmed black hat
that gave him the appearance of a dark con-
spirator in the Wesleyan interests. He
sniffed, gurgled in his throat, and remarked
‘Gimme a coffin for the missus.’ He spoke
as though he intended carrying it off on his
back. ‘What kind do you wish?’ I asked.
‘Show me some samples,’ said he. I led him
to a few coffins in stock. He selected the
cheapest, and when I entered a half-hearted
protest in business interests he burst out:
‘See here, I gave 38s. for a fur-trimmed coat
for that woman just two weeks ago. I’m
dashed if I’m going to encourage her in any
further extravagance.’ ”
“Bullwhanger”: The Ventura and Sonoma,
which carry the mails between San Francisco
and Sydney, are almost as punctual as the
Manly ferryboats. They are seldom as much
as half an hour late, and, when berthing at
Circular Quay never use a tug, but are run
straight alongside and the lines heaved on to
the wharf. The steamer is tied up and the
gangways let down about five minutes after
they enter the Quay ; and the derricks are up,
hatches open, and all luggage dumped on
before Sydney Cove is reached. And yet
the people in charge have their critics. One
of the hands might have been seen hauling on
a line the other morning whose hair was
glistening with oil, and who wore gloves to
protect his hands. This spectacle brought a
curse from an old wind-jammer shellback
who had previously been admiring the neat
handling of the vessel. “He’s no sailor,”
he snarled. Some people are never satisfied.
“J.H.” (London) : The recently-published
report of the Controller and Auditor-Genera)
of South Africa, which appealed in the
Rand Daily Mail, ought to cool the ardor
of those Australians who can never see
virtue in anything but foreign-made goods.
Here is an extract:—
In 1918-20 American firms supplied 98 locomo-
tives for S’African railways. Of these 58 were
almost immediately found to be defective. The
American manufacturers agreed to pay the trifle of
£25,000 in settlement of all claims, present or
future, for these defective locomotives, except as
regards steel castings. Subsequently the remaining
40 locomotives were found to be defective, and a
further trifle of £28,000 was refunded. These
amounts do not, of course, cover the whole loss
incurred by the purchasers. There was, for instance,
a little item of £27,827 for restaying the fire-boxes
of the first 58. Moreover, the indirect losses caused
by the locomotives being continually out of action
were enormous, some of them having a figure of some-
thing less than 100 running days per annum.
» » » »
“Park” : Many expert drinkers and stern
teetotallers met together recently at the
Adelaide Department of Chemistry to try
out 29 samples of grapejuiee prepared by the
Government. The tasters included the
Director of Chemistry, the Director
of Agriculture, the Horticultural Ex-
pert and the Minister of Agriculture, and
several vignerons, managers of cafes and
cold-tea enthusiasts. The vote was practi-
cally unanimous that the unfermented stuff
was not likely to tempt the average Austra-
lian. The cool-drink vendors thought that
possibly by the addition of artificial flavor-
ings, using the grapejuiee as a base, it
might appeal to soda-fountain devotees.
The vignerons condemned it as “too sweet,
insipid and characterless.” Professor Lowrie
suggested the blending of ripe and partly-ripe
grapes to put a bit of acidy sting into it.
It is estimated that with grapes at £lO per
ton the juice could be run out at 4s. per
gallon, and the soda-fountain proprietors
thought at that price they might be able
to do something with it amongst customers
who take their refreshers minus the kick.
CONNOISSEURS.
THE LADY : “These girls arc very keen on the theatre; they wait for hours to make
sure of getting the best seats.”
HER FRIEND: “They are also keen on chocolates, and make just as sure of getting
the host. You will notice they all have HILLIER'S.lIILLIER'S.”


Messrs Beale and Company Ltd.,
George Street,
Sydney.
To find a piano of so sympathetic
and delightful a tone-quality as the New
Beale is a pleasure to any musician.
In the hands of a skillful accom-
panist it supports a violinist’s efforts on
a melody of perfect texture—inspiring
one to a degree of energy, fre and mag-
netism that can never be kindled by the
mediocre instrument.
I hope I shall always have the in-
spiration of a piano as good as the New
Beale.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY STAELL
m
a
%
<r
a
-
K
a
[ 7/
iff
P
r
n
m
§&/*
y ///t
f
\dienry Staell delighted wit hie
the
MR. STAELL, solo-violinist to the late State Conservatorium
Orchestra, finds in the New Beale a sympathetic friend.
Only recently he played "Hejre Kate”- that dazzlingly brilliant piece
of technique -to an accompaniment on the New Beale Piano and
his admiration fcr the tone-quality of the instrument took the form
of a letter which we print above.
To produce a conceit instrument over which such a musician as
Mr. Staell will enthuse is a very great source of gratification to this
organisation. It encourages us to believe that a painstaking effort to
produce in Australia a piano of quality will be certain of ultimate
recognition.
The New Beale is sold on one, two, three or even four years terms.
Used instruments taken in part exchange. Furnished in walnut,
rosewood and mahogany.
BEALE
HAND m
COMPANY
gdf
TTD
JL j o •
Showrooms :
340 George Street
Sydney
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
Annandale
BRANCHES —N. S. W.: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all
Melbourne Suburbs. Tas.: Williams Bros., Hobart: Maples, Launceston. S.'A.: John Evans
Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: Thomson’s Ltd., Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE 6? COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen St. (opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane, Toowoomba,
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay.


gd
he largest selling
quality pencil in
the world.
ENUS
PENCILS
f
BEST roll
ARCHITECTS,
AIITISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
ami are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
"A Few Stitches
and They’re on”
'Ss.
MARKING
INK
m
form.
ngH^
i 3 \9oJvn, JMayu™ : j
__ Here’s
The Right Way to
Mark Your Linen
No mess or trouble as with Marking
Ink. You save time and money by
using
CASH'S <®> NAMES
which are always on hand for immed->
iate attachment to any article or
rpiijiimniiiumniiiiJUiM
garment
mumiiiiiminii
xnxnmuxi/imiiiiniuijniii
I | !
Uni'iiiliiiiHiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniriiiiiiii'iinimiii.nimiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiirtnnT
Actual Size Style No. 6.
Prices: 12dz, 7/6. 6dz, 5/6. 3dz,3/6
Sold by All Best Drapers.
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melbourne.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK.
I
I i :<•
Hli>-'I!
oe-j
ft--
til fife
§
Vrfr *ic>
■\
V\
NATURE’S
SECRETS
are unlocked in the lovely
Zenobia Perfumes. The subtle
charm of the flowers at their
sweetest moment is found in
perfection in these exquisite
favorites. There are no per-
fumes truer to nature than
%E£ IOBI^I
gd
Zenobia Lily of the Valley —ls
ins' as the tender appeal of
flowers.
Aenohio Sweet Pea lJlos-
«om — a triumph of deli-
cacy and fidelity to nature.
The original perfume of
the name.
Zenobia Night-scented
Stock —as sweet as the
perfume of an old-world
garden—a great favorite.
Manufactured only by
Zenobia Limited,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England.
Sole Agents for New Zea-
land (Wholesale only) :
Newson & Co., Ltd.,
P.O. Box lJti2, Wellington.
Sole Agent for Australia
(Wholesale only) :
Kenneth Buckmaster,
, 15 O’Connell
Street,
Sydney.
as charm -
the living
I
&
o :
@>
1 1
o‘
lIJIUII
20
for
TWO
SHILLINGS
05^
GV$
it^y
Glti
GIC
G/N
GIR
cm
fiS
TURF
BIG
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
The irresistible Cigarette
for discriminating Smokers
Turf Cigarettes make an epoch in cigarettes.
Beautifully made with golden leaf from the
famed Old Belt and Eastern Carolina
Districts of Virginia they are irresistible
to the man of taste.
Turf Virginia burn slowly and smoke sweetly
and have a softness at once distinctive.
Be sure to buy Turf—the Big Handsome
Cigarettes—2o for two shillings.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL TOBACCONISTS
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Made, by
Alex. Boguslavsky, Ltd.
55, Piccadilly,
LONDON,
England
l if
'"ss
N/K
Uss""/"
T
WM
/
Well Satisfied!
&he
neu)
PLUME spirit
Easy starting, sweef running more miles.
Motorists who have tried
the new Plume Motor Spirit
speak in the highest terms of
praise of its easy starting quali-
ties, splendid pulling povyer,
mileage, and sweet running
under all road conditions.
They are well satisfied.
Because of its correctgroup-
ing of boiling points the new
Plume Motor Spirit is highly
volatile, every drop being in-
plosive mixture. This elimin-
ates any possibility of liquid
petrol working past the Piston
Rings and so breaking down
and ruining the lubricating
qualities of the oil used.
Test Plume in your car
to-day. Whenordering do not
say—“ Give me a fill up of
Petrol” but ask for Plume
Motor Spirit.
For highestpossible Engine
efficiency use the correct
grade of Gargoyle Mobiloils
for your Car, as specified by
Vacuum Oil Company’s
Chart of Recommendations.
nuMf
'tyoß
stantly and
completely
vaporised
ensuring a
perfect ex-
, VACUUM'OIL COMPANY pg Q 57
Q. 14. a.
ALDERDICE
Brassfounder
Warrnambool.
Specialties—
Plumbers’ BrassworK
Country and all Water Board Standards.
Windmill Pumps.
Write for Lists.
QUICK DELIVERY.
“Remlech”: The cartoon “A Family
Group” (B. 14/9/’22) suggests that Methyl
Alcohol is rapidly overhauling her sister Ethyl
as an undertaker’s agent in IT.S.A. In New
York City in 1914 the dinkum stuff accounted
for 660, while methyl (or wood) alcohol slew
only live. In 1921 only 119 went out to
Whisky and co., while the less tasty stuff
scored 14. If the cables tell the truth the
handicap of prohibition will bring the two
much nearer together in the current year.
“Siri”: A lot of unnecessary trouble is
occasioned in Victoria by the 15 p.e. of water
which the law allows in butter. Butter-
workers have to exercise quite extraordinary
precautions. Firstly, to see that the pro-
portion is not exceeded, as dire results would
then ensue from departmental quarters ; and,
secondly, that there is not too little, as a
shortage causes the very devil of a rumpus
in proprietorial circles. When it is under-
stood that water in any proportion serves
no useful purpose in butter, one wonders
why the fool regulation was ever introduced.
The spectacle of many tons of superfluous
liquid being constantly hauled over the land-
scape and across the ocean at high freight-
age is a distinct reflection on the national
intelligence.
One suggestion (among dozens) for the
memorial to Ross Smith in his native city
is a tower on the summit of Mount Lofty,
the highest point of the hills just behind
Adelaide. It would serve as a guide to air-
men and also to mariners, and would com-
mand such a view that a small charge to
those climbing it would probably pay for a
caretaker. The main objection is that a con-
spicuous point just by the summit is already
occupied by the Flinders memorial, visible
from all over the city, the plains, and the
gulf. It is an obelisk erected long ago for
survey purposes, but latterly dedicated to the
explorer who from Kangaroo Island first saw
and named Mount Lofty.
“Const”: Ask “Yardley” (B. 31/8/’22) if
he ever heard of Queen Anne. About 80
years ago, one Henry Wilshire Webb (who
was my father) used to come a-sailing in
his father’s ships, with “Yardley’s” newly-
found portable houses, all ready to be put
together and erected, as children built puzzle-
block houses. He married and lived in an
old-fashioned cottage, over which wept two
enormous willow-trees, covering almost the
whole roof, and doubtless remembered by
your “Oldest Inhabitant,” as it stood on the
site of the present Sydney Tivoli Theatre.
In those days Hyde Park was always spoken
of as “The Racecourse,” though it was mostly
used as a playground for children and for
the drying of clothes on washing-days. As
a little child I was frequently given birth-
day presents of “blocks” to build houses “like
grandfather used to bring out on his ships.”
Ages of some Australian literary men:—
Charles Barrett, author and naturalist, 43 ; Charles
E. W. Bean, M.A., 8.C.L., 43 ; poet Edwin J. Brady,
53; D. D. Braham (Forum), 47; Chris. Brennan
(Syd. Uni.), 52; J. Be Gay Brereton (Syd. Uni.),
51; Dr. E. S. Cunningham (Argus), 62; C. J.
Dennis, 46; Ed. Dyson, 57; C. Brunsdon Fletcher
(S. M. Herald), 62; Leon Gellert, 30; Montv
Grover (Melb. Sun). 52; Harry S. Gullett, 44; J.
T. Hackett, B.A. (“My Commonplace Book’’), 64;
M. P. Hansen, M.A., LL.B., 48; Ton Heney (Bris-
bane Telegraph), 59; Prof. E. R. Holme, M.A.
(Syd. Uni.), 51; biographer Fred Johns, 53; Arthur
W. Jose, 59; Adam C. McCay, 48; Del. W. McCay,
45; Major-Gen. J. A. Kenneth Mackay, 63; g'
Gordon McCrae, 89; Hugh R. McOrae, 46; Prof.
Elton Mayo (Q’land Uni.), 41; Keith Murdoch
(Melb. Herald), 37; Prof. Walter Murdoch, M.A.
(W.A. Uni.), 48; Gilbert Murray, 56; Bernard
O’Dowd, 56; J. Bernard O’Hara, 58; A. B. Pater-
son, 58; Rod. Quinn, 53; Steele Rudd, 53; E. S.
Sorenson, 53; William Sowden (Adelaide Register),
64; Louis Stone, 51; A. T, Strong (Adel. Uni.), 46;
T. Griffith Taylor (Syd. Uni.), 41 ; Paul Wenz
(“Paul Warrego’’), 53; Bishop Gilbert White (Wil-
lochra), 63; Thos. A. White (“Diggers Abroad”),
36; W. Farmer Whyte (Sydney D.T.), 42.
“Yarra Ben”: Many of the schoolboy
howlers which find their way into print
look less like the innocent Malapropisms of
childhood than the result of laborious effort
by professional humorists. Such a one, for
instance, as the following, which we are asked
to believe, is an extract from one of the
essays on “The Prince of Wales,” set to a
class of gi.rls (!) in a Melbourne suburban
seminary—“ When the Prince was a boy lie
learnt to be a sailor, so that when he is King
he can still keep the mistress of the seas!”
, A jar with an enamelled representation of
the Battle of Alma was discovered between
two foundation-stones of the old Girls’ High
School in Sydney, when it was being demol-
ished. One of the dailies remarked that the
jar appeared to have been deliberately placed
there by someone who set the stones. The
only difficulty in the way of this thesis is a
chronological one. The foundation-stone was
laid by Macquarie, and the building com-
pleted a few years later, in the early
twenties, some 30 years before Alma was
fought.
“The Deacon”: Tighe Ryan might never
have left N. S. W ales backblocks journal-
ism but for the fortuitous arrival and sur-
vival of the Catholic Press. It was
frowned upon originally by the Hier-
archy at St. Mary’s; the conservative
r reeman’s Journal could always be relied
upon to fill the bill, so far as ecclesiasticism
was concerned. However, the more radical
priests decided, in face of determined oppo-
sition,. for a more up-to-the-minute Catholic
periodical, and tramping and biking the
Backblocks in the cause, they won
out. The ultimate result was decided
by the advent of the Boer War, when
Father Timoney left for the front as
chaplain. His fiery letters, week after
week, put the moribund weekly on its feet,
and before the end its success was well
assured. (Timoney’s book on the war was
to have startled the universe, but he died
on a surgeon’s table in London, and his
book died with him.) Since 1900 the Press
has steadily gone ahead, and it now has a
circulation that is considerably wider than
N. S. Wales. The death of Ryan and the
continued ill-health of Monsignor O’Haran
will indefinitely hang up the proposed “Life
of Cardinal Moran,” for which O’Haran was
to have supplied the details, and Ryan the
writing. The work will now almost cer-
armJy devolve on Father Eris O’Brien, whose
Life and Letters of Archpriest Therry” has
already secured him a prominent place among
Australian authors.


Save your Flocks from blowfly losses
■“■•'COMET'
SHEEPJETIER
. <
\v
Lsk /
I
“There is no doubt now that
Jetting is the Solution of the
Difficulty ”
Extensive experiments conducted by enthusiastic Australian sheepmen have
proved arsenical jetting to be a reliable cure, a good preventive, and an exception-
ally cheap method of dealing with the blowfly pest.
If you do not thoroughly understand the system, or if there is anything that
you wish to know about it, we want you to write us on the subject. This blowfly
pest is becoming a more serious national question every season, and we are out to
help you, with all the information and data we have on hand, to keep your flocks
clean and free from infestation.
It is important to note that the “Comet” .Tetter is designed and built especially for
arsenical jetting. It embodies, among others, four very necessary features, viz:—
Perfect mechanical agitation of solution, non-corrosive working parts, self-cleaning
trouble-free ball valves, and instantaneous acting patented jetting handpiece.
Write for our special folder now before the season opens, and ask us anything at
all bearing on the blowfly problem.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO. LTD.
WORKS: Constitution Road, Dulwich Hill, Sydney.
CITY OFFICE: 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Also at Rockhampton, Brisbane and Townsville.
“Sheep practically immune for
three months after jetting.”
Mr. James i'olson, of Clenmore Downs, Cler-
mont, in his letter dated 23/7/’2l, says:—
“....I do not crutch, but use your jetter
on all my sheep. For the last two years I
have had practically no losses from lly. ...
with two jets working can get through from
.3000 to 1000 ewes a day with four men, and do
them thoroughly, and the sheep are then prac-
tically Immune for three months....”
~ta- '
mm
(•f:- -
AliliiiU
<y ,
i Iwlff 1SS?%!«
** *■**■***.**“
:•)
HI i
Ml
g£
m
' I 1
1
I
ft
§
i
I
V-
m
ONE day about years ago, a farmer who lives far
out-back in the never-never bought a
WIZARD LIGHTING PLANT
from a Wizard Salesman. It comprised an installation of four artistic pen-
dent gas lamps—-one for each room and one for the verandah. At night
when these lamps were lighted the whole family was entranced with the
effect. It was a superb light,
A SOFT WHITE PENETRATING LIGHT
that reached to the furthest corners of the rooms—-a light like the sun
itself, that made reading a delight and enabled the children to study without
knowing the meaning of eyestrain. Wizard Gas lights with a match, and
is extinguished by the turning of a valve, just like ordinary coal gas. Now
most of the neighbours have Wizard Plants too and also a
WIZARD
MANTLES
Do you use Wizard
Mantles ? They are
made of a specially
compounded vegetable
fibre, which gives a
maximum intensity of
light, and not of ordin-
ary silk,cotton or ramie
materials. They also
last much longer and
do not cause burner
trouble. It is quite im-
portant to use them.
They bear the Wizard
trade mark and are
only obtainable from
the Wizard Lighting
Company.
Wizard Gas Ring for Light Cooking
an absolutely priceless convenience in the country home. A
Wizard Gas Ring will boil a kettle in a few moments and
is clean and safe as well as speedy.
When writing for literature > state as nearly as possible actual
requirements so that we can give definite information.
WIZARD LIGHTING COMPANY
HEAD OFFICE: 55 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
187 a FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
CORINDA, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE
JAMES STREET, TOOWOOMBA
[Exclusive Territories available to Live Salesmen]
WIZARD GAS RING


Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
lIARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from No.
4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Ratlis. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
4Yz Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
* Tels. : Y3OOl, 3002, 3599.
NEWS-WRITING PAYS
The DE BOURDE COURSE IN JOURNAL-
ISM quickly and thoroughly equips you for
a reporter’s billet or an editor’s (hair. It
also shows you how to construct stories, and
how to sell them when finished. We ask all
who possess undeveloped literary talent, or
those to whom rejected MSS. tell their own
tale, to write for our prospectus now. To
introduce our courses to Australian “new”
writers, we are enrolling FORTY ONLY for
our 10-guinea Standard Course (which in-
cludes Free-lance work and Newspaper Office
Routine) AT AN INCLUSIVE FEE OF FIVE
GUINEAS. Address applications to: The
Secretary, De Bourde College of Journalism,
P.O. Box 1378, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
YOU WERE BORN
TO THE KNACK
OF SHAVING
WITH
THE
New
Improved
fg
riueire
RAZOR
The Lowest-Priced
High-Grade Machine
B*SA
MOTOR
BICYCLES
A
For hard, reliable ser-
vice through all seasons
a B.S.A. Motor Bicycle
is the ideal mount. Not
too heavy to prevent
that economy for which
B. S. A. machines are
famous, and yet scientifically and
sturdily built enabling them to
withstand the rough usage occa-
sioned by continual riding over
bad roads.
Comfort is built
into a B. S. A.
Motor Bicycle
llluatrated Catalogue post free.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
Agents: BENNtTT & WOOD LTD., Pitt St., Sydney
The Field of COMMERCIAL ART is World-wide.
WHY NOT BE AN ARTIST? TREMENDOUS DEMAND. Our graduates
are filliug high-salaried positions. GOOD ARTISTS
EARN £3OO TO £lOOO A YEAR
and upwards, in easy, fascinating work. Our courses of Personal Home Instruc-
tion by correspondence are complete and practical. Years of experience in
successful teaching. Expert Instructors.
You may INCREASE your INCOME by taking a course of STOTT’S
HOME STUDY. Pick out the Course you are most interested in and write or
call for particulars.
Complete Course Commercial Art, including Illustrating, Drawing, Show-card,
Ticket-writing and Designing.
General Drawing. Caricaturing and Cartooning.
Fashion Illustrating. Fettering, Designing and Ornament
Book and Magazine Illustrating. Course.
Advertisement Ulus, and Designing. Architectural Perspective & Buildings.
Ticket-writing. Mechanical Photo Retouching.
In six months’ time from date of enrolment you will be well on the path that leads to
SUC< ESS. The world pays well for trained skill. Don’t hesitate. Write or call for our FREE
Booklet, “Commercial Art.”
Stott’s Technical Correspondence College
(Backed by 37 years’ practical experience),
70 Pitt Street, Sydney. 100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
a>^o#*
d*
□
'jyjW
□
Nervous disorders are unfortunately too real, and can-
not be put down as mere fad or affectation
Despondency, Lassitude, Sleeplessness, Loss of Appetite and
Consequent Weakness, Inability to Think Coherently, are a
few of the symptoms of Nerve Troubles, and before more
serious developments arise sufferers would be well advised to
try a short course of
The natural tonic elements contained in HYPOL are, in themselves,
sufficient to benefit the worst case of upset nerves; but, in addition, this
famous preparation contains 50 % of the finest Norwegian Cod Liver Oil,
which is so strongly recommended by Doctors for its flesh-forming,
strength-promoting, and remarkable healing influence
HYPOL is good for sick people of all ages, and
is just as pleasant to take as it is healthful
A bottle costs but 2s. 6d. Get one to-day
Sold Everywhere
Made by FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO. Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE
THE
AL
K
HZ
~ x£S=
~?i_ *-
OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1858.
With which is amalgamated the
COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
and in which is merged the
BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
HEAD OFFlCE—Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £5,000,000
Capital paid up .. £2,713,330
Reserve I'und Account 1,603,605
Reserve liability of
Shareholders .. 1,255,998
Total Assets, 31st March, 1922 .. £33,195,076
Directors ; —Silt JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
lion. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACIIAN, Esq.
Total Assets, 31st March, 1922—£33,195,076. t
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY.
VICTORIA —Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 135 branches.
N. S. WALES —Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 25 branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 33 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt., Chairman; William Davies, Esq.;
E. H. Macartney, Esq.; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
State Manager: E. H. Matthews.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Principal Office, King William Street, Adelaide,
and 45 branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA —Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
and 30 branches.
TASMANIA —Principal Office, Liverpool Street, Hobart (temporary
premises), and Launceston.
LONDON OFFICE—7 Lothbury E.C.2.
Agents throughout the World.
“Perdix”: At Sisters Creek, nor’-west Tas-
mania, a father and mother reared 23 chil-
dren ; at Seabrook, 14 out of a family of
IS are living, and at Bridport, on the nor’-
east coast, a father and mother and their 19
children are all going strong. It speaks
well for the Speck’s climate when, following
on the above, a veteran of 102 passed away
at Westbury the other day; and at Forest-
road, Hobart, Mrs. Howard is still going
strong at 100 and doesn’t need glasses to
assist her when reading.
“Exul” r Re Australian timbers as orna-
mental wood. My friend the dentist, an
amateur carpenter in his non-torturing
hours, showed me a walking-stick he had
made recently. The curved handle was
from a piece of she-oak firewood from the
cellar, and the shaft from a discarded scrap
of 4in. by 2in. stringy-bark. It is one of
the handsomest I have ever seen ; the mark-
ings of the grain are exquisite, and its
polish is perfect—-in fact, in all these de-
partments it knocks spots off walnut or
mahogany. The same enthusiast has just
made and polished a lid for a tobacco-box,
with the design of a pipe inlaid, out of an
old piece of weatherboard (stringy-bark). I
don’t want to see a prettier job. It is sad
to think that wood with these possibilities is
by many considered only suitable for sleep-
ers and palings.
“T.W.”: “Pinky,” as furnished in the
Italian wine areas to British troops passing
through in wartime, was the chief anxiety
for train O.C’s., and at all halts officers and
n.c.o’s were fully employed in dispersing ven-
dors of this devastating refreshment. Some
of the stuff went into consumption, but
hundreds of bottles used to be seized and
smashed on the rails, to the great discontent
of the Tommies, who will never understand
how much they had to be thankful for. A
Carrie Nation with a life mission to demolish
Australia’s “pinky” saloons would be a god-
send to the.real wine industry, as well as to
consumers of the poison.
“Rio”: As officers don’t get regimental
numbers, “Digger’s Batman” is probably
correct in saying that Major David Thom-
son was the first man officially enlisted in
the A.I.F. But, if officers are included, the
first member of the First Battalion was
Lieut, (now Major) George Wootten, an
original Duntrooner, whose A.I.F. commis-
sion is dated 15th August, 1914. He was
immediately made acting-adjutant, and his
first work was to organise the battalion and
get the regimental roll going pending the
appointment of a C.O. and adjutant. Woot-
ten’s war career was remarkable. He landed
at Gallipoli as Battalion M.-G. officer; a
month later he was captain and adjutant.
His 22nd birthday was at Anzac, and October
saw him major. By the evacuation he was
second in command of the 3rd Battalion.
Thence he served on various brigade, divi-
sion and corps staffs until the Armistice
found him the Australian representative on
Douglas Haig’s operations staff. He went
through the whole war without a wound or
serious illness, earning a D.S.O. and being
five times mentioned in dispatches.
“Blackfrairs”: Rev. Harry Howard, the
Demosthenic Wesleyan, has been pinched
from Australia by the London suburb of
Hampstead, on whose noted ’Hath ’Arry
and ’Arriet spend bank holidays. After
years on the verge, his dreamful son Arthur,
once runner-up for a Rhodes scholarship at
Oxford, has resolved to become a parson too.
But lie had to waste four years in Fritz’s
big internment camp at Ruhleben, having
been caught while holidaying and studying
Lutheranism at the Outbreak. During his
involuntary inactivity his brother was doing
big work dropping bombs from his ’plane on
to German troop trains.
“Akaroa”: Cr. A. D. Freeman, who is
after the Nationalist selection for the Bendigo
Federal seat, is a dentist and a native of
Launceston (Tas.), though he has lived 30
years in Castlemaine. He was Premier
Lawson’s first secretary, and afterwards his
chairman, and has long been a prominent
A.N.A. man and Freemason. He got an
0.8. E. for war services in Castlemaine, and
cricketers still talk of the fourth-wicket re-
cord which he and George Mackay put up.
In one Country Cricket Week in Melbourne
years ago they made 364 runs, Freeman con-
tributing 225.
“Wang”: At the time I first met Henry
Lawson I was escorting Matilda through
a section of the north-east of Victoria. While
camping under a bridge a long-whiskered,
corpulent nomad pushed in, and entertained
me with stories of his travels and experi-
ences and various moving accidents by flood
and field. I was “young and very green,”
like Sweeney, in those days. So that, when
he fixed a rheumy eye on me and remarked,
“S’pose yer’ve heard of Henry Lawson, son?
—l’m him,” I fell to it. For three days
I reverently bought beer for him and
fed him better than the ravens did Elijah.
Then one morning a person in uniform
butted in, and submissively my hero rose
and accompanied our visitor to the clink.
He’d been, between drinks, rooking some of
the boarders’ rooms at the hotel. But
youth’s disillusionments are bitter, and it
was a long time before I got over that one.
“Const” : “Morehead” on the idiosyncrasies
of rubbish-removers (B. 31/8/’22) recalls the
warm indignation expressed by one of them
to me, re the various names he receives on his
“round.” At one house it is always “Good
morning, Dust-man”; at the next, “Hullo,
Dusty” ; then it sinks to “What-oh, Dirty,”
rises again to “Aren’t you early, Garbage,”
but attains the summit at Pott’s Point
with “Close the gate, please, Council.” He
reckons “Council” the last straw and the
dead limit.
“Milang”: If Barwell had been visiting
the N.T. during July and August he might
have revised some of his views about the
enervating climate. Borroboola found the
thermometer down to 39 deg, on at least
eight mornings, at Pine Creek it dropped
to 36 deg., and travellers coming in from
Nutwood Downs saw young saplings
that had been killed by the heavy
frost. Even Darwin enjoyed a tempera-
ture down to 50 deg. more than once, and
further inland there was ice on billabongs
in the early mornings. No colder winter
lias been experienced in the N.T. since
records were taken.


wm
m
»»*
m
1
»V\!
I
i
\W
Y /
'?!?>.-MM
R
\
li<
V V
r\
o'
C? 5
miuiU£
«
-T>
Studio*
\V
/ &
Piife
%
mm
m
m
'■4*£r
m
m
1
/a
i
COMOX-the Builder
and Protector
4jg In the annihilation of distance which motor cars
make possible, Oxy Acetylene Welding has played
no small part. The modern tractor also owes a
debt to the most remarkable metal fusing process of
the age. Likewise the plough, harvester, harrow--even
the common hand tools which litter the farm shed.
•I Oxy Acetylene Welding has brought extraordi-
nary speed and homogeneity to the making or joining
of metal parts. Without this aid cars and agricul-
tural implements would cost more-would lack much
of their durability.
The healing action of COMOX (Oxy Acetylene)
Whirling is perhaps more widely understood. Who
but the spendthrift motorist would buy new parts
to-day in the face of a broken or cracked gear case,
differential housing, axle or frame ?
C, Farmers get double, even treble, the life from
various implements by enlisting the aid of the local
COMOX Welder when machinery parts are broken
or worn. And the most amazing part of COMOX
is that these repairs, while saving priceless time, yet
cost a trifling sum.
If you manufacture metal articles, send for partic-
ulars of COMOX plants. If you don’t, then ask for
the name of the nearest COMOX Welder.
COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN & ACCESSORIES LTD.
FOY ST., BALMAIN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
AGENTS-MELBOURNE : Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins St. ■ ADELAIDE t
Geo. Wills dC Co., Ltd., Grenfell St. BRISBANE : Evans, Deakin & Co., 121
Eagle St. LAUNCESTON : Harrison Bros. Si Co., Ltd., 20 Patterson St.
PERTH: Geo. Wills 8i Co., Ltd., Murray St. SUVA. FIJI: Brown Si Joske.
CX 133
COMOX


/•v%
b/\
Til'll
A. Saunders’ Lady's 9ct. (fold Patent Expanding'
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement,
£B/10/-
Others, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Albert, £4/10/-; lighter,
£4, £B/10/-; heavier, £5, £5/10/-, £6,
£O/10/-. loot. Gold, £7/10/-; heavier,
£B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Set. Gold
Necklet, set Ruby or
Aquamarine, 35/•
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18et. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders'
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set
Aquamarine, 20/-
A Saunders’ Uet. Gold Brooch, set
Aquamarine and Pearls, 35/-
lillilliil I
' tl
i
2m
10
I"---'?
-'ilial
*>:
o-
K- 8
M
Kfe 7
OsM'A
, 0 ,^g
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Lever Watch, Gold
Expanding Sides and Leather Strap, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
ill
a-
-1
/
uouiuinin
X
Saunders’ Gent.’s Nickel Keyless
Watch, 30/-
With f extra quality non-magnetic lever,
£2, £2/10/-
I
■
H-' ■ A
i wim
11
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Nickel Silver Hunt-
ing Keyless Lever, compensation balance,
£2/10/-. Extra jewelled, £3. Solid
Silver Hunting Lever, £4/10/-, £5,
£5/10/-. Gent.’s 10-year Gold-filled
Waltham, £4/10/-. 20-year Guaran-
tee Case, £6/10/-. 2 5-year,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Diamond
Ring, 18(t. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Lady's solid Gold Wristlet Watch, full
jewelled Lever Watch, Silk Ribbon Bracelet, Solid
Gold Catch and Mounts, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. solid Gold Curb Albert, £5/1 ()/-
heavier, £6, £6/10/- to £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Brooch, set
Aquamarine or Red Stone, 20/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set
Aquamarine and Pearls, 12/0.
A. Saunders’ Act. Gold
Necklet, set Pearls and
Aquamarine or Peridot,
£3.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s solid Silver Lever Watch,
Leather Wristlet, £B, £3/10/-, £4, £5.
Gold-filled Waltham or Elgin, £5. £5/10/-
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castkmaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
% . ■ mm
Steam-driven Pumping Set, comprising Triple Expansion Q.K. Forced
lubricating Engine, speed 450 r.p.m. Direct connected to Two-stage
Turbine Centrifugal Pump, delivering 7500 gallons per minute at a
pressure of 651 b. per square inch.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co- Etd.
ADELAIDE:
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Etd
PEKTII:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd. Newton, McLaren Ltd. Brown & Bureau Ltd
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekea, Fenchurch Street.
v
3 4
1
irn
m
Sjji
CVve^ e
A food rich
in solid
nutriment 1
Get away from the idea that
Rex Luncheon Cheese is merely
a luxury.
It is a food rich in vitamines—
a food that provides real nour-
ishment and fits you for the
heavy tasks in the day’s work.
Specialists in dietectics tell us
cheese is a valuable addition
to meals at all seasons.
Therefore, Rex Luncheon
Cheese must be good for you,
because it is the cheese par
excellence.
It is perfectly matured, full
cream cheese in most easily
digested form. It comes in an
easy to spread consistency—an
ideal sandwich spread, or a
table delicacy.
At all Grocers.
Foggitt Jones Ltd.
r.j. tci


Legal Notice.
tN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND,
-t NELSON DISTRICT. IN DIVORCE.
TO LAURENCE JANE STADE the wife of Frank
Edward Stade of Motueka in New Zealand carrier.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Nelson
citing you to appear and answer the Petition of
Frank Edward Stade of Motueka carrier wherein
he prays for a dissolution of his marriage with you
on the ground of desertion and such Citation inti-
mates that in default of your so doing the Court
will proceed to hear the said Petition and to pro-
nounce sentence therein notwithstanding your
absence NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within thirty
(30) days after the date of this publication to
attend in person or by your solicitor at tne Supreme
Court Office at Nelson and there to enter an appear-
ance without which you will not be allowed to
address the Court at any stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same at
the Supreme Court Office at Nelson.
Dated this eighteenth day of September 1922.
F. MITCHELL, Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to her the foregoing advertise-
ment.
Charles John Harley is the Solicitor for the
Petitioner whose address for service is at the offices
of Messieurs Adams and Harley in Hardy Street in
the City of Nelson in the Dominion of New Zealand.
Missing Friends.
mO save Lovegrove loss will HARRY
X LETT communicate with WESTON’S
regarding transfer of Takapuna section?
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
df
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & Q ud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Self.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Monarch
A ROYAL
smokeH
gd
fg
d
fgdf
gd
fg
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d
each.
Special
sampling
cabinet
containing
10 Cigars, 6/•
25, 12/6
50, 23 9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
Craigs Aitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
R eil Cigar Factory.
Amusements.
SY I> N K Y’S CIII E F TIIEA TItE 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present ..
HER MAJESTY’S:
CAIRO.
CRITERION:
AMBROSE APPLEJOHN’S ADVEN-
TURE.
ROYAL: THE PEEP SHOW.
pABKWELL CONCERTS,
TOWN HALL,
OCTOBER 5, 7.
SYDNEY.
PAUL ALTHOUSE
and
ARTHUR MIDDLETON.
DAME NELLIE MELBA says:—
“Don’t miss Althouse and Middleton, two great
artists. I heard them in Melbourne, and am confident
NO GREATER SINGERS EXIST IN THE WORLD.”
(Adelaide Register, Sept. 5, 1922.)
C. IVILLIAAISON, LTD., MELDOCKNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
THE MERRY WIDOW.
THEATRE ROYAL.
MARY,
A WHIRLWIND OB’ DANCE AND MELODY.
|( I NO’S Til EAT ItE. VI 10 L ISO *T It N|T
■“Sole Lessees: Bert Bailey and Julius Grant.
NEXT SATURDAY EVENING AT 8,
E. J. & DAN CARROLL present
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
an Australian Comedy in three acts,
by C. J. DENNIS.
Play produced by Bert Bailey.
Prices—D.C. and Rsvd. Stalls, 6/-; Stalls, 4/-;
Gallery, 2/- (Late door to Gallery, 7.45, 1/-)
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & J. PULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
TWENTY-SIXTH WEEK ON SATURDAY.
THE GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best.”
ADA REEVE.
“The Favorite of all the World.”
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGHTON.
i Matinees Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o’clock.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S Til KA'l'ltliS, M ICLBOU KNIC
Also SYDNICY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
OWEN MOORE in
REPORTED MISSING.
Also,
FRANK MAYO in
TRACKED TO EARTH.
Prices as usual.
|y| A.IES'I IC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
GREAT SHOW-WEEK ATTRACTION.
MILDRED HARRIS CHAPLIN
in
HABIT.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Business Announcements.
WESTMEADE FARM, MEDLOW.
PREMISES renovated and extended. Will re-open
for guests under m.y personal management on
Saturday, 28th October. For particulars apply
Government Tourist Bureau.
Tel. Katoomba 165. MRS. F. JEFFRAY.
For Sale.
ENGINE. One Vertical Triple Expansion Drop
L-« Valve Rotary Pumping Engine, in good working
order. Makers, Austral Otis Co. Steam Cylinders,
j 21 inches by 37$ inches by 57 inches diameter by
3-feet stroke. Pump Plungers, 27$ inches diameter.
Capable of pumping 9,000,000 (nine million) gallons
Of water or sewage per day against 150 feet head with
lOOjb. steam pressure. Will be dismantled by
Board’s workmen. On appointment being made can
be seen working at the Melbourne and Metropolitan
Heard of Works Pumping Station, Spotswood. Ten-
ders, addressed to the Secretary, 110 Spencer Street,
Melbourne, must be accompanied by a deposit of 5 per
I cent, on amount offered, and be forwarded not later
than Tuesday, 24th October, 1922.
all who value
Good Health
—“ a ‘ dash ’ of ENO’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ in 'a glass
of water first thing every morning” is a rule
made golden by the experience of millions of
happy folk during the past half-century. ENO
keeps you fit and able to ward off illness. It
makes those fit who suffer from ailments which
arise from faulty digestion and other internal
disorders. Ask your chemist for
*g
FRUIT SALT
—■the “all’the-year-round” Health Drink
S*!ti Reprtientatrurt t
THE BRITISH
H. F. RITCHIE (s’ Co LU
CHINA HOUSE, SYDNEY
\\.w-
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET
of the
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
at 30th June, 1922.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Deposits, Accrued Interest and Re-
bate 42,091,309 16 0
Bills Payable and other Liabilities 2,458,853 15 11
Savings Bank Department—
Depositors’ Balances . . . . 38,056,979 16 11
(With Interest Accrued.)
Capital—Debentures Issued —
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 2,000,829 8 5
Redemption Fund .. .. .. 2,000,829 8 5
£86,608,802 5 8
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits per contra. . 386,978 3 4
Total General Bank and Savings
Bank Departments .. . . 86,995,780 9 0
Note Issue Department .. . . 53,556,698 0 0
£ 1411,552,478 9 0
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances . .
Australian Notes
Money at Short Call in London ..
Investments —
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities (face value
£25,363,957 6s. 3d.)..
Commonwealth Government
Securities (face value,
£9,766,466 7s. 5d.)
Fixed Deposits of other Banks . .
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit
Bills Discounted, Loans and Ad-
vances to Customers and other
sums due to the Bank
Bank Premises
£ s. d.
6,145,318 12 8
8,047,213 0 0
19,325,000 0 0
25,179,156 18 1
9,696,564 16 2
929,000 0 0
2,212,175 12 2
14,459,387 14 5
614,985 12 2
£86,608,802 5 8
386,978 3 4
Liabilities of Customers and Others
on Letters of Credit per Contra..
Total General Bank and Savings
Bank Departments .. • • 86,995,780 .
Note Issue Department .. ->3,5j6,6; 3
£140,552,478 9 0
Dr.
PROFIT AND DOSS.
Cr.
£ s. d.
To Reserve Fund .. .. .. 104,466 6 4
„ Redemption Fund .. • • 104,466 6 4
£208,062 12 8
By Profits for Half-year ended 80th
June, 1922
£ s. d.
208,932 12 8
£208,932 12 8
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
£ 8. d.
To Balance .. •• •• 2,000,829 8 5
£2,000,829 8 5
By Balance ..
„ Transfer from
Account, of
Net Profits
Profit and .Boss
one-half of the
£ s. d.
1,896,863 2 1
104,406 6 4
£2.000.829 8 6
Dr.
REDEMPTION FUND.
Cr.
£2,000,829 8 6
By Balance .. . • • • • •
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one-half of the
Net Profits
1,890,363 2 1
104,466 0 4
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled
from Statements furnished by the several offices
of the Bank, is true and correct.
O. A. SMITH, Acting Secretary.
D. B. MURDOCH, Branch Accountant.
DENISON MILLER,
Governor.
Sydney, 31st August, 1922.
AUDITOR-GENERAL’S REPORT. .
In accordance with the provisions of Section 20 of the Oom.nonwealth Bank Act * f ™lr
to report that the Aggregate Balance Sheet of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia tor the nan y
endedthe2oUiJune g 81922, has been examined by officers under my -hrecDon as “ d by TO S«
The several items of the account, as above set forth, have been verified with the books d
with the Securities held by the Bank, and with Statements certified by the respective Managers
Accountants Ban infornia ti o n and explanations required by me. The said Balance Slieet has
been prepared in the form prescribed by the Regulations under the Act, and, in my opinion, it exhibits
* “YS SSUSJJYmS!" °‘ B ‘“ k ' J. W. ISRAEL, Auditor-Gene,.! to, the Commonwertth.
Balance Sheet of Note Issue Department
at 30th June, 1922.
DIRECTORS:
Chairman: Sir Denison Miller, K.C.M.G.
J. J. Garvan, Esq. Hon. George Swinburne. J. R. Collins, Esq., UM.u.
Notes
Notes
LIABILITIES. & s. d.
held by the Public .. 22,603,448 0 0
held by Banks .. .. 30,953,250 0 0
‘ " ASSETS.
Gold Coin and Bullion ..
Debentures and other Securities
Other Assets ..
£ s. d.
23,534,181 0 0
25,715,356 0 0
4,307,161 0 0
Certified correct.
0. A. SMITH, Acting Secretary.
D B. MURDOCH. Branch Accountant.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA,
SYDNEY.
For and on behalf of the Board,
DENISON MILLER,
Chairman of Directors.
Sydney, 31st August, 1922.
AUDITOR-GENERAL’S REPORT.
The above Statement of the Liabilities and Assets of the Note Issue Department of the Commonwealth
Bank of Australia as at the 30th June, 1922, has been verified by officers acting t under my direction.
The Statement agrees with the Books kept, and vouchers held, by the Board. The Gold Coin and Bullion,
and the securities have been inspected, and the other assets, as well as the Liabilities, have been
verified with the necessary vouchers and documents. ,
The statement has been prepared in the form prescribed by regulations under the Act, and 1 am or
the opinion that the particulars of the Statement, as above set forth, are correct,
18th September 1922 J. W. I SRAEL, Auditor-General for the Commonwealth.
Missing Friends.
ZJE JANE SMITH, late of Joel Joel,
/v .Victoria, spinster, deceased. Will
any person knowing the whereabouts of
GEORGE SMITH, known sometimes as
GEORGE BARR or GEORGE SMYTH, a
brother of Jane Smith, last heard of at
White Cliffs, New South Wales, or if dead
the date of death, and where, please com-
municate with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
CO., LTD., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
Harding. —george whittall
HARDING, formerly of Ararat, Vic-
toria, Australia', or his personal representa-
tive, is requested to communicate with
Messrs. Gedge, Fiske & Gedge, of 10 Nor-
folk Street, Strand, London, England, from
whom he will hear of something to his
advantage.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY station),
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6. . ' „ ,
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/-. Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /-.
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations. ,
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS,
WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &e.
CATALOGUES FREE.
«•*
• •
Cj
FOUR MORE FARCES,
in one book, 2/-
Contents —Our First
Performance, My Turn
Next, Area Belle,
Mock Trial for Breath
of Promise. PLAY
Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/-
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage 1/6
,000 SATISFYING SHAVES
IN ONE
RAZOR
:5%r
Ar
.BUY THIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the]
that shave after shave of satin smooth-
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
Guaranteed
jin order for two yearsfree^
CTlalp
d
CRAIG & AITKEN,6S4 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY,
fgdf


SAFETY FIRST!
LIFEBUOY SOAP
m
KILLS GERMS IN THE WASHTUB.
NOTHING BETTER
IN WATCHES
No watch can be better for hard bush use than
our celebrated “Super Fx and It” Watch.
After 81 years’ experience in every make of
watch throughout the world, we unhesitatingly
publish our opinion that there is no better, stronger,
more durable watch than the “Super Fx and R”
Watch.
Profoundly accurate, too. A “Super Fx and R”
Watch goes to within 10 seconds a month.
Then, too, they last a lifetime, and stand horse-
back rough wear better than any watch that we
know of.
i-plate Levers, with 15 jewels, they are fine
value when one considers that the Customs collect
48 per cent, of the cost price.
RoU»*« Ul
irt**
5,-
Gent.’s O.F. Oxidised Steel
“Super Fx & R,” fully-jewelled
Lever, 84/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS Ltd.
Plain Figures.
Cash onlv.
The Oldest Jewellery
House In Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Cairo’’
Criterion “Ambrose Applejohn’s Adventure
Royal “The Peep Show'
Hoyt’s Moving I’l.tures
Town Hall Althouse & Middleton
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Merry Widow’"
Royal “Mary”
Palace “Spangles
Kino’s “The Sentimental Bloke’’
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s * Moving Pictures
“Mary,” the latest Williamsonian musical
comedy, has had a.n immensely successful
first-in-Australia run at Adelaide Royal. It is
a simple, clean and unusually coherent mix-
ture of the two great American themes, love
and the making of a pile of money without
working for it. It should fairly have been
called “The Love Nest,” from its haunting
song about an ideal home, whose model has a
prominent place on the stage all through both
acts. Mary sees it as a home for herself
and Jack, but he looks on it as a money-
making proposition and a solution of the
current housing problem. Also, he has eyes
only for Madeline, the fascinating widow. In
six months’ absence neither of them is idle;
he makes a big fortune, and Mary, urged by
his mother, gets half-engaged to the two
richest men in sight—his friend Tommy and an
absurd Frenchman. But the fortune changes
everything. Mary gets Jack, his mother gets
the Frenchman, and Madeline gets Tommy.
The unabashed pursuit of the male by the
female is one of the features of the story.
* * * *
Maude Fane nevertheless makes Mary a
marvel of simple girlhood. She and the
little house are always in the picture,
and, when by a simple conjuring trick
it shows lighted windows and smoke
coming from the chimney, the joy of the audi-
ence is intense. Roland Hogue is an ad-
equate hero, without any very definite per-
sonality. He has a fine song-scene about
oil-mining, which is liable to get a heavy
boost if Australia should happen to strike
the fluid. Cyril Ilitchard and Madge Elliott,
both of whom are steadily advancing in
their acting, are the other lovers. Kellaway
has some of the wittiest lines as a singu-
larly casual family lawyer, and W. S. Percy
is the life of the story as an excitable
Frenchman. The audience is specially de-
lighted when Ethel Morrison carries her
small lover bodily off the stage. But “Mary”
will live as a triumph of dancing. The chorus
earns its salary all the time. It enters at
the gallop, and continues at top speed
throughout the show. When any given
dance is over, and before there is time for
an encore, fresh clever people dash on and
do it all over again, only differently—and
then another batch. The sheer joy of exist-
ence has seldom been so rammed home to
the eye or the ear.
'i* «!» »Jc
The annual concert of the Adelaide schools
now literally earns its pet name of the
Thousand Voices; the training is astonish-
ing (this year oratorio extracts were given),
and the action-songs rouse crowded houses
to enthusiasm; the Exhibition has been filled
for three evenings. Another popular insti-
tution is the recurring Ballad Concert given
by Allan’s firm at the Town Hall. A strik-
ing picture is “Sonny” at Wondergraph, with
Richard Barthelmess representing a dead
“CAIRO,” AT
SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Cecil Humphries ordering a bacchanalia.
friend for the benefit of that friend’s mother
and sister. At the York is “The Three
Musketeers,” which is a striking picture, but
would be better art if Douglas Fairbanks did
not think it necessary to improve on Dumas.
In the spoken drama, the old “When London
Sleeps” reopens the Prince of Wales’s, with
the young Australian who calls herself Mary
Anderson in the lead. The King’s strikes
back with a romantic “Beggar Girl’s Wed-
ding.” In the variety bill at the Majestic,
Odiva’s seals put a lot of human players in
the shade.
** * *
On Friday the unsuccessful “Great Lover”
will finish his innings at Melbourne Royal,
and on the following evening the box-office
expects to be the better for the arrival from
Adelaide of “Mary.” The King’s loses “The
Lie” to-night, and on Saturday comes Den-
nis’s “Sentimental Bloke,” or as much of
him as the producer, Bert Bailey, has passed
for publication. Meanwhile “Spangles,” at
the Palace, continues to beat various long-
distance records and distribute souvenirs.
One of Ada Reeve’s latest, in this line, by
the way, was a matinee which yielded £lOOO
for the Diggers. Ladies got D.B.E.’s for
a good deal less in the days when the Dig-
gers weren’t nearly so much in need of help.
He He H:
Kitty Reidy’s blonde prettiness continues
to afford a break in the sequence of brunette
Widows who have been Merry at Melbourne
Her Majesty’s, and every evening the pains-
taking damsel makes the absence of Gladys
Moncrieff less severely felt. As the latter
has left for Westralia, presumably the un-
kittenish Kitty will dangle herself under the
nose of Danilo until the end of the season.
On Saturday Jack Cannot fell out of the
programme with a heavy cold. However,
the quins of a less effusive I'opoff (John
Dunn), wearing a well-brushed red thatch
and burdened with no more than a two-
bottle nose, were received with tremendous
merriment.
* •-!-• * *
At Melbourne Tivoli Gene Gerrard is now
bursting into notice as a zoo-keeper, for
which he is duly flattered with uproarious
applause. _ Also Ethel Hook remains large
on the bill, and a house, which is really
more susceptible to the dialect warbling of
Sana Stern, pretends to revel in her vir-
tuosity. Others who earn their unprece-
dented salaries are Leo Stirling, the stroll-
ing serenader ; the Winskill aerial experts ;
the dancers, Carne and Ivellaway; and
Dulcie Hall, whose comedy sketch, “Think
About It,” is in its last week.
$$ * $
“Reported Missing” is Hoyt’s first favor-
ite in Melbourne this week. The yarn
represents one of the blud-splashed pages
from the sensational film career of Owen
Moore. Some of the features are a bad
man, a brig, a desert isle, a Chinese Lothario
and a U.S. warship, which last, introduced
as a super, ultimately plays the principal
part. _ The audience is so generous in its
astonishment over this production that it
hasn’t a gasp left for the startling work of
I rank Mayo in “Tracked to Earth.” At
the Majestic Mildred Harris, in “Habit,” is
spurning the idea of being a rich man’s
darling with a facial emphasis that almost
cracks the screen. Mildred’s partner for
the week is Jack Pickford, who is in a
devil of an American hurry in the comedy-
drama “Just Out of College.” Agnes Ayres’s
“Ordeal” is being watched with bated breath
at the Melba ; and Corinne Griffith is at the
Britannia in “Island Wives.”
** * *
The spectacular magnificence and gorgeous
variety of “Cairo” continue to elicit the
long-drawn “Ah!” of admiration at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney. Perhaps some of the
scenes that have been the least rhapsodised
over show the highest form of art. Oscar Asche
must have taken a lot of trouble to enable
him to devour his victuals Orientally; his
eating is even more realistic than his wrest-
ling. Meanwhile the sort of crowd that
Haroun Alraschid loved will continue to dis-
perse itself in picturesque attitudes by city
gates, and the pilgrims to hit the breeze for
Mecca, and the dancers to whirl, and the
jackal to slink around the ruined temple till
further notice.
This (Thursday) afternoon is Sydney’s
last chance of hearing Rosina Buckman’s
world-famed voice in a “request” pro-
gramme, that ranges over 10 operas from the
pens of the greatest composers. She keeps
a whole choir of blackbirds and larks within
that plump throat of hers, and this after-
noon the whole aviary is to be set soaring at
the Town Hall.
Althouse and Middleton began a re-
turn season at the Town Hall on Monday
night. Their programme was mostly
operatic, and the encores the songs and arias
that their public has learned to love. The
tenor’s voice is, if possible, more silvery than
ever • and the baritone’s mellow artistry is
a thing that captures the heart as well as
the fancy. To-night there will be a Wagner
recital; and on Saturday they finish with a
programme made up of request numbers.
* * sjs #
Wee Georgie Wood, at Sydney Tivoli,
is doubling his tracks over the three sketches
with which he has made vaudeville history
in Australia. On Saturday next he will
open up in a new spasm—“ The Nursery.”
Other headliners are William Burr and
Daphne Hope, who flirt agreeably in an
artistic setting. Fred Bluett —a’ stouter
Frederick than of old —is none the less popu-
lar for that; and Maggie Foster has got a
most effective half-Nelson on the populace
- —a matter partly of her winsome face, partly
of her violin-playing.
** * x
At Sydney Criterion, Lawrence Grossmith
still converts himself from a model of de-
corous respectability into a ramping, roaring,
cutlass-wielding, rum-tippling Sharkey or
Captain Flint. A pleasant picture, artisti-
cally framed.
** * *
“The Peep Show” is in its tenth week, or
close up, at Sydney Theatre Royal. But the
performers are always appearing in new
songs and turns, so that the show retains all
its original appeal in new guise.
* $ $
Knowledgeable flicker patrons in Sydney
are rushing the Lyceum just now, the chief
lure being Wallace Reid. Alice Brady, the
champion vamp of other years, is keeping
her end up in “Out of the Chorus.” At
the Strand is “A Yankee at the Court of
King Arthur.” The Rialto is relying on
Betty Compson in “Prisoners of Love,” and
a lurid affair entitled “Trapped by the Mor-
mons.” “A Self-made Man,” at Hoyt’s, is
the old story of the young fellow who was
cut off without a bob and made good. Mahlan
Hamilton and Elaine Ilammerstein are in
“Under Oath” at the same house. The Cry-
stal Palace’s doors are still open to those
who have not seen Rudolph Valentino in
“The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.”
The Great Australian Play is yet to be
produced, but, by way of compensation, the
“All Australian Exhibition” will open at
Sydney R. A. Show Ground on Saturday next.
Diggers will have an opportunity of meeting
old pals at the war-trophies exhibit; and the
free open-air cinema shows should also
prove a draw.
“S.T.S.”: Quiller-Couch has been apply-
ing Sherlock Holmes methods to “The Merry
Wives of Windsor,” which Asche may revive
in Australia, and gives an elaborate judg-
ment. He concludes that Shakspeare was
called on by Queen Elizabeth to produce a
Falstaff play in a hurry; that he seized on
some existing farce of London life, which
had an affected “high-falutin” lover for
the victim; that his “hand tired” before the
alteration was complete, and that the Quarto
“gives a version of this feat of Shakspeare’s
conveyed to the printer by a rascal actor,
who possessed some kind of text of the
earlier comedy to fall back on when his
memory gave out.” However, the critic
admits the resulting mixture to be one of
the “briskest, heartiest and most playable
of comedies,” even though as a Professor of
Literature he cannot overlook the “many
loose ends in the dialogue and [still worse]
in the intrigue.”
“T.W.”: Less than a generation back, the
great moan was that Australia had produced
no dramatic soprano worth encouragement,
although the land abounded with the lyric
sort, and had already sent forth Melba, Amy
Sherwin, Florence Schmidt and Lalla
Miranda. It was with a triumphal whoop
of “At last we have found a dramatic voice”
that Melbourne critics Guenett and Nesbitt
took up the cause of Amy Castles in ’99,
but in the intervening years these parts have
brought forth a list of unquestionable dra-
matic sopranos, including Elsa Stralia,
Rosina Buckman, Florence Fawaz and Mary
Conly, albeit Mary stuck resolutely to con-
certs. The real surprise has been provided
by the Buckman girl. Her early rbles of
Martha and Suzuki were neither dramatic
nor soprano, and I imagine that hers is the
only instance in which Butterfly’s faithful
servitor has been the chrysalis of a Pinker-
tonian bride.
Xox : According to the Firm’s publicity
department, the late Caruso regarded himself
as the model of Jean Paurel in “The Great
Lover, now at Melbourne Royal. This
suggestion was originally made in America
but, after one sight of the piece, Garuso
scorned the idea with truly Italian vehem-
ence. Talking to an interviewer he said •
‘There is nothing of me in ‘The Great Lover ’
or, indeed, anything of any operatic artist at
all. It is all Ditrichstein (the author) and
delicatessen Ditrichstein at that!” When the
The giddy waiter in “The Merry Widow,"
at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne.
Italian went on further to criticise the Ger-
man-American’s creative ability, the mischiev-
ous interviewer asked: “What, then makes
Ditrichstein think he is a dramatist?” “Dit-
riehstein,” shouted the tenor, and in that
retort sumed up the vanity of many Ameri-
can actor-managers. Ditrichstein, of course,
wrote the play for himself.
“M.D.”: The Paris musical season just
ended recalled in interest and diversity the
glories of pre-war days. Two new operas
by Stravinsky (“Le Renard” and “Mavra”)
were produced. The latter had its libretto
based on a humorous tale of Pouchkine, and
was sung in Russian. Neither pleased the
critics. Gabriele d’Annunzio’s “Martyre de
Saint Sdbastien” (a drama written in 1011)
was associated with Debussy’s music. A com
pany warbled Wagnerian operas in Italian,
and that fine poem of blighted love, “Noces
Corinthiennes, written ages ago by Anatole
France, when he was wooing the Muses and
never dreamed of winning the Nobel prize
as a prose writer, was presented as a lyrical
drama by Henri Busser, the composer of
“Colomba.” The orchestration is said to be
very fine.
S.A. Premier Barwell says the State Arbi-
tration Court must go, and wigs are being
scratched as to what is to be done with the
President, Dr. Jethro Brown. The Vaughan
Government appointed the inoffensive little
man in January, 1916, when he was Profes-
sor of Law at the Adelaide University, and
the job looked like being a life one. Barwell
and co. are not too fond of Brown, and
would like to save the £l7OO a year be
draws, but they can’t give him the sack. He
may receive an appointment to the Supreme
Court Bench, or, perhaps, a substantial
cheque to compensate for his “resignation.”
“Cordon Noir” : In correcting “Billy T.’s”
statement that the women of Clunes alone
repulsed the Chinese strike-breakers, “ftus”
goes to the other extreme of error (B.
7/9/’22) with the assertion that the miners
were accompanied by only a “few” women.
Here are the facts. When the crowd at the
Creswick-road toll-gate got wise to the direc-
tors’ attempt to gain an entrance by the
Ballarat-road, they rushed to the new point
of attack. A barricade was erected, and it
was here that the Amazonian spirit men-
tioned by “Billy T.” showed itself. Crowds
of women helped the men by gathering
apronfuls of stones, and when the attack
came they ably assisted in moving the hard-
ware in the direction of the Celestial
coaches. I have this from my father, who at
the time was a miner at the Lothair, where
the trouble originated.
The most prominent feature of the cur-
rent issue of The Home, which is the money-
spinner of Art in Australia, Ltd., is a
series of photographs of the Sydney people
who appeared in “The Persian Garden.” An
appreciation of their efforts is attached by
the_ indefatigable George Lambert. On the
serious sidb there is an interview by A. G.
Stephens with W. A. Holman on “Parliamen-
tary Government in N. S. Wales.” In it the
opinion is advanced that no one should be
allowed to stand for Parliament before
reaching the age of 30 —an odd panacea in
these days, when the world is reeling under
the blows dealt it by the selfishness and
shortsightedness of a handful of old men.
The gem of the handsome publication is
Among Those Present,” by Frank Middle-
miss—a revealing piece of humor lifted
straight from life.


The Mills
of Fox Bros.
Just on 200 years ago, at
Wellington, England (the
little Somersetshire town
from which the Iron Duke
took his title), the Mills of
Fox Bros, were established,
and to-day, with four other
subsidiary Mills operating,
the business has grown to
the largest of its kind in the
West of England.
The trade-mark, Fox, is
practically a household word
throughout the world, and
no other suiting has attained
such universal popularity.
The wool for Fox’s Serge is
supplied by the principal
sheep flocks of the world,
and ranges from English
Long Wool through every
variety to the finest Colonial
Merino.
Perhaps the best-known
feature in connection with
Fox’s Serge is the fastness
of its rich Indigo dye, which
is absolutely impervious to
the effects of sunlight, per-
spiration, washing or ad-
verse climatic conditions.
Always ask for Fox’s special
weave—No. 99.
X'"'
Suits to Order from
Fox’s Famous 99 Serge,
£5 at Lowe’s.
Fox’s renowned No. 99 Serge is a speci-
ally woven, all-wool Cheviot, for which
Lowe’s have the Sole Australian rights
of distribution. It is strengthened in the
making by an extra strand of yarn, and
can be relied on to retain its appearance,
even after repeated brushings and clean-
ings. Its dye is that rich and lasting
Indigo for which Fox’s are justly famous.
Fashionably and correctly tailored to
measure by Lowe’s, a suit of Fox’s No.
99 Serge will be posted anywhere in
Australia for £5
For Those Who Prefer Tweeds
Lowe’s are offering a wide range of Vicars’ “Marrick-
ville” and Bliss’s English weaves in all the newest Spring
and Summer patterns. Send for a selection. Choose
that which most appeals to you—and Lowe’s will be
pleased to tailor it to your measure, in a style best
expressive of your personality Price, £5
PATTERN COUPON.
LOWE'S LIMITED,
Box 1622 G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me patterns of Fox’s “99” Serge, Vicars’
Marrickvillc and English Tweeds for suits to order at £6;
also, self-measurement form, tape, etc.
Name
Address
F.C.5/10/’22
lowers.
gdf
Merchant Tailors, Sydney.
Stores all over Town; one at Newcastle.
A Special Offer in
WOODWORKING
MACHINERY
REDUCED PRICES
show a mark-down to lowest
figure for many a day.
g
THE machines we offer are right up to the
minute in design, and representative of
the best-known makers of wood-working
plant. Our revised prices show a mark-down
to the lowest figure for many a day. It will
pay you to get in touch with us now.
Bandsaws - -26 in., 32in. and 36in. sizes. Ball Bearings,
Rubber Tyres and Antifriction Saw
Guides.
Circular - Saw Ripping, Crosscutting and Squaring. Ball
Benches - - - Bearings. Rising and Falling Tables.
Jointers - - -
Shapers - - -
Swing Saws -
Chain
Mortiser - - -
Panel Planers
Sanding
Machines - -
12in., 16in. and 20in. sizes. Ball Bear-
ings, Circular or Square Heads. Easily
Adjustable Tables. Safety Guard.
Single Spindles. Substantial Bearings.
Ball Thrusts. Easy Adjustment. Various
Style Heads.
Hollow Castings or Light Wood Frames.
Ball Bearings. Substantial Saw Guards.
With Chisel Attachment. English Chains
and Cutter Bars. Built for speed and
accuracy.
20in. x 6in. and 24in. x Bin. Square •or
Circular Heads. Ball Bearings. Heavy-
type Rolls. Machine-feed Gears.
Belt type. Tension maintained with speci-
ally designed Jockey Pulleys. Moving
Table adjustable for all thicknesses. A
great labor-saver.
Single Machines or complete equipments for CABINET-
MAKERS, FURNITURE MANUFACTURERS, PATTERN-
MAKERS, JOINERS, etc.
Literature and all particulars gladly forwarded. Our advice
on woodworking problems freely offered without obligation.
Write us now.
Parke & Lacy Go. Ltd.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney
N.S.W.
m


M
ii
m
it
1
m
&
m
w
WE ADtANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY. TERMS
N SW MONT de PI ETC
D.&I. COY. LTD.,
7*4 St. Sydney. 7*4
Phone City Q 325.
Capi&l & 300.000.
Joseph. W. Hill\
Genera! Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. 31 out de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King St., [Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
POVERTY
POINT
Thiel & Thandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Nella” : The publicity man seems to have
overlooked it, so I should like to mention
that 17-year-old Thelma Burness stepped
confidently into the shoes of Kathlyn Hil-
liard in “The Peep Show” at Sydney Royal
the other night. She did remarkably well,
and kept the ball rolling as temporary lead-
ing lady for about a week. There are always
smart youngsters coming on, and only wait-
ing for a chance.
“Digger Strorat”: Madeline Rossitter is
going to do sketch work with a partner,
Eric Masters. She has written the sketches
and some of the songs, and Masters will help
on the vocal side. He was one of Beecham’s
baritones, taking part in “Tales of Hoff-
mann,” and afterwards sang with Gaby
Deslys. Masters served in the war until
1916, when he was invalided out.
“T.P.”: Sat in a Melbourne theatre re-
cently in the identical spot I haunted 40
years since. It was the pit, and a bob
then; it’s some hi-falutin’ name and 7s. Gd.
now, plus tax and thrippence for the pro-
Baritone
Arthur Middleton.
gramme. They
pressed a button,
and the theatre
flashed from dark-
ness to brilliant
light, and the other
way about. I n
other days they
had to keep a pilot
gas-jet flickering in
the ceiling to start
the lighting. “How
dismal it must
have been!” said
the flapper along-
side. But we old
fogies had Wil-
liamson and
Maggie Moore,
Horace Bent, Gre-
ville, Nellie Stew-
art (what a kid
she was!), Fred
Marshall, Tither-
adge, Holt, the
Broughs, Bouci-
c a 11, Beaumont,
Billy Hoskin, G.
R. Ireland and
Coppin. Borne on
the night wind of
the past I wished
somebody would
press some button
and bring them all
back. I thirst for real acting and singing.
I’m sick of nasal bellowing, knock-about stuff,
glare, legs and smut.
“Nord”: Interesting is the assertion of
“T.W.” (B. 21/9/’22) that Clara Butt had
her relationship with Ethel and Pauline Hook
“kept a dark secret,” but it wasn’t a secret
in 1908. In that year I was present at a
concert at which Clara introduced three of
her sisters, and the four sang a quartette
called “The Birth of the Flowers,” written for
the occasion.
“Second Murderer”: Another splendid ex-
ample of the pluck and enterprise of Aus-
tralian showmen. Also a striking ad. for
the Commonwealth. The Sydney movie-
making firm that perpetrated “The Man
They Could Not Hang,” and scarified the
country with it from Sydney to Cowshed
Creek,' has sent the thing to Durban, in-
tending to harrow the feelings of S’Afr ca.
After that the picture goes to England where
The Man Didn t Hang. Remembering some
of the calamities we have imported, I ter-
ventlv hope it will be taken on to Los
Angeles, Cal. Revenge is sweet.
; “Snell”: Passed a Melbourne picture-
theatre the other afternoon, and was re-
[ minded that continuous pictures were in
progress by a monotonous noise the spruiker
was making. I had not the remotest idea
what the orator was talking about, but his
fruity voice was serving its purpose. Pass-
ing again later, I noticed that the man in
front was opening his head to the same
effect. This time curiosity was too much
for me, and I lingered. The appealing
intonations a,nd the inviting gestures were
all right, but the words seemed inappropriate
and irrelevant. No wonder —the spruiker
was simply reciting “Mary Had a Little
Lamb,” followed by “The Boy Stood on the
Burning Deck.”
“Orb”: “Tal Ordell, a tall ordeal in sun-
dry Williamson shows,” is how “8.R.C.”
puts it (B. 28/9/2.:) in a gallant
struggle to be bright. It’s a long time since
Tal was with a Williamson show, and he is
anything but an ordeal. As the regular
comedy-merchant, he comeded for years in
King’s once-a-week bellow co. in Brisbane.
He was a polished young man with Marie
Tempest: he played a round of parts with
Allan Wilkie and other managers; and he
had a 12-months’ run with the Tivoli Frolics.
Tal is about our best picture-actor, and he
explodes the “type” theory effectually, for
he plays anything and everything, and does
it well, too. Also, he has turned out some
slick verse.
“Norbell”: The theatrical manager loves
a deadhead, but to George Musgrove, who
never went to a show on the nod himself,
they were what Harcourt Beatty used to
call “Anathema Mantana.” Muzzy had a way
with him, and on
the long trek
through the Back-
blocks with “Sweet
Nell” we of the
co. used to linger
at the “front,”
when we had a
chance, to enjoy
the fireworks. The
local J. Hop would
arrive in mufti
with a party of
friends and rela-
tions, and expect
free seats as a
matter of course
and custom. On
these occasions
Muzzy had a beau-
tiful flow of elo-
quence, and the
Law, accustomed'
to deference if not
servility from tour-
ing battlers, was so
flabbergasted that
it generally paid.
I remember a par-
son tried it on
once because he
said his cousin was
a member of some-
body’s company.
Muzzy was urban-
ity itself. “My
dear sir, I’m sorry,
but that doesn’t
“The Merry Widow,”
at Her Majesty's
Melbourne.
William Valentine as
a young man.
entitle you to free seats. Holy orders are
acknowledged in the church, but not in the
theatre.”
“Blackfriars”: I have already expressed
opinions identical with “O.K.’s” as to the
appalling mess Elise Wiedermann made of
many voices, but is he correct in fastening
the blame for Nora Dane’s vocal blemishes
on the Pinschoff dame? Many years ago
Nora espoused Valenti, a portly Dago, now
dead, and she attributes to him everything
that she does in the singing line. I heard
the two of them in recital at a fusty little
London hall, and the huge Valenti’s apoplec-
tic bellowings, with every one of his stops
out all the _ time, were the vilest noises I
ever heard issuing from the throat of man.
“Nero”: The boy who sold the pro-
grammes for us at Mt. Morgan (Q.) was
grumbling about his remuneration. “I got
more than this when the pantomime was
here,” he complained. “What pantomime?”
we asked. “Merchant of Venus,” was the
testy reply.
“R.C.Fi” (Calcutta) : As I write, Aus-
tralia’s old friend Andrew Higginson is
starring at the local Empire in “Tons of
Money,” supported by Jane Comfort and
other clever mummers from the Smoke.
Higgie has lost some of his slimness and his
hair doesn’t wave in the old fatal way, but
he is making a hit as the care-free Aubrey
Maitland Allington. albeit a few bars of
“Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay” is his only burst
into song. During his Indian tour he is to
appear in “Other People’s Worries,” “The
Young' Person in Pink,” “Fair and Warmer,”
etc. Warwick Major is directing the co.
“Nirnshi” : I agree with “Pitt-streeter” (B.
14/9/’22) as to the vast superiority of the
old-time British comic song over the recent
ragtime and coon-moon atrocities. Katie
Lawrence (a pretty good artiste) and Vesta
Victoria (a bobby-dazzier) were almost in-
variably lucky iu the brand of ditty they
put over the footlights. It generally
possessed a quality of sly humor, as in the
case of Vesta’s chorus: —
He was a good, kind husband—one of the best of
men.
Fond of his home, sweet home, he never wanted to
roam.
There he would sit by the fireside —such a chilly
man was John.
Oh, I hope and trust there’s a good warm fire where
me old man’s gone!
Nothing brilliant, perhaps, but enough to
elicit the rare tribute of a grin of reminis-
cent appreciation when Vesta’s name crops
up.
“T. 0.1.”: Santley’s declining years were
made easy by the Earl of Kilmorey. In
1907 the Earl (now gone to his account)
raised a jubilee testimonial of £lO,OOO for
the old baritone. Kilmorey was in the Duke
of Edinburgh’s suite when the Jook visited
Australia. It was said that Edinburgh had
picked him up at the Cape in a Stranded
condition.
“J. 11.” (London) : Sybil Arundale, who
used to be principal boy in J.C.W. panto,
shows in Sydney and Melbourne, has just
been discovered, as an actress, by the Lon-
don critics. (She was known on the halls,
of course, with her sister, 20-odd years ago.)
Most of her appearances since the war have
been in tbe provinces, but descending on the
Kmgsway in a comedy called “The Limpet,”
she woke next morning to find herself hailed
as a star.
Y.Z.”: The trouble with the several
attempts at a . better-class Australian play
made in Melbourne is that the authors do
not produce a drama at all, but merely a
series of dialogues. Vance Palmer’s “A
Happy Family,’’.for instance, the latest pro-
duct of the kind, is without action. It is
a drama leaning on a post. While this
may be . true of the Australian wayback
type, it is fatal to interest in a play. It
may be claimed that Bernard Shaw makes
very excellent plays that are mainly talk,
but Shaw’s talk is so dramatic and dynamic
that you do not notice the absence of action
where action is least ip evidence. “A
riappy h amily” is a discussion in various
attitudes. A discussion may be made of
sufficient interest to hold a large and fairly
intelligent audience, but it calls for a theme
ot absorbing interest, admirably handled,
with a trace at least of genius. Palmer’s
talk is not bad at all; it has a deal of bush
ginger in it, but the trials and tribulations
ot his people are comparatively trifling, and
seeking to clearly segregate his types, he has
scattered his play, so. that each character
gives a fatal suggestion of operating indi-
vidually, without regard for the others.
T.W. : Charles Santley, whose last
uote lias been sung, first tried to be a
J;™’ but found that his outfit was not the
light soit. After he had got to his seven-
ties I was associated with him in concerts
and in R.C. choirs, and marvelled at his
vocal fluidity. Listening to the easy-voiced
ancient, Australian aspirants learned how
unnecessary were the tricks and manner-
isms they had brought with them from Mar-
nekville and Fitzroy. But Santley could be
an irascible old autocrat when he chose. Syd-
ney baritone Arthur Deane clashed with him
somehow, and the veteran sent alon->' some
pretty strong remonstrances to Australian
press-critics. Once he interrupted a choral
outbreak to tell me to do something that I
thought vocally impossible, but he was frank
enough about it afterwards. “My lad ” he
said, you were quite right thing.
Only Mario could have done it—and you’re
not Mario.” Santley’s unprofitable Austra-
b,f.“ hour gave him a big prejudice against
this continent,. but it did not prevent him
from being kind to Ada Crosslev, Kate
Rooney, Peter Dawson and others. P'eter
tramped half across London to him for free
lessons in days when ’buses were too dear
at a penny a mile.
“Record Room”: I have been recalling the
Japanese heroines I have seen in varied tvnes
of shows given in this countrv. Besides
our frequent visitor, Yum Yum; there was
h iora Graupner’s Princess Iris in the 1895-
% panto “Djin Djin.” There was also
°FInY Perry ’ S ,‘ Gei f ha '” Played in revivals
by 1 lo Young, and a shoal of amateurs. Then
we saw Maud Jeffries in “The Darling of
the Gods, which gave us. for the first time
some suggestion of the atmosphere of tradi-
tional Japan. Of a similar order, in a minia-
ture way, was “The Willow Tree,” which
had more merit than the Sydney gallery-girls
who giggled at Kathlene Macdonell were
capable of perceiving. More or less Jan
• C( ? mefi .y were those of
The Mayor of Tokio,” at Sydney Adelphi,
before it was a more or less Grand Opera
House, and “The White Chrysanthemum,” at
Melbourne King’s. In other veins were
“Madame Butterfly” and the Bland Holt
melodrama, “Besieged in Port Arthur.” In
that terrific effort Frances Ross played an
almond-eyed flapper, of whom Bland re-
marked :
An Oriental pearl is she,
A dear and dainty Japanee.
In Australian-made musical comedy there has
been D. H. Souter’s “Grey Kimono.”
“Santander” : An amusing feature of the
howl about the re-appearance of “Fatty”
Arbuckle in Melbourne wms the duly adver-
tised objection to the stout comedian by
various film interests, who are starring sun-
dry ladies and gentlemen almost equally
reprehensible from a Methodist point of
view. I hold no brief for Arbuckle, and I
“Cairo,” at Sydney
Majesty's.
Eardley Turner eaves-
dropping on the
Sultan.
have never seen
him on the screen,
but the fact re-
mains that he was
found not guilty of
the crime imputed
to him. If an ethi-
cal censorship is
to be instituted
by narrow-minded
minorities, several
film favorites and
not a few of our
own stage identi-
ties will have to
be barred. Their
faults may not be
as gross as
Arbuckle’s are
alleged to be, but'
the rigid moralist
cannot logically
overlook them on
that account. This
shows the danger
of hysterical out-
cries from sections
of people who are
notoriously incap-
able of looking at
a question in a
wide, worldly way.
If we are to adopt
th e conventional
bigot’s attitude on
the matter, w e
can’t logically
listen to Wagner or Liszt, or read Francois
Villon or Casanova, or the work of various
other men whose private lives were in-
famous.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos Australian playwrights
and plays, written in Australia. In the
mid-’sixties, John Finnamore, a young man
from Dublin, wrote a five-act tragedy,
“Francesca Vasari,” which was produced at
Melbourne Royal by amateurs with “T. 0.1.”
as heavy father. Miss Cleveland (Mrs.
Vincent) was the heroine. The critics
(James Smith, of the Abgus, and J. E. Neild,
of the Austhalasian ) praised the thing,
and it was afterwards produced by profes-
sionals. In 1875 Finnamore turned out
“Carpio,” which was also acted, and both
plays were published by George Robertson.
Finnamore died young. About the same
period “The Gladiator of Ravenna” was
played at the Theatre Royal. On the first
night the house was crowded, and there was
a unanimous call for the author, one Jaffray.
An elderly man, he wore a skull-cap with
evening dress, and spoke with unusual
modesty. Bob Whitworth, who wrote some
one-act pieces, produced “Maximilian, the
Empress and the Traitor,” at the time that
Max was shot in Mexico. It ran for a
week. R. 11. Horne’s one-act drama, “The
Death of Marlowe,” was put on at the Royal
shortly before “Orion” left for England.
Haying written a di’ama for Avonia Jones,
which she refused to accept, Horne had the
lady arrested on board the ship that was
taking her to England and G. V. Brooke,
whom she married subsequently in Liver-
pool. Friends guaranteed the amount, and
Avonia and her mother, Melinda Jones, were
permitted to depart.
“J.F.H.”: George Dance, who subscribed
£30,000 to save the “Old Vic.,” is the most
industrious and successful of British touring
managers, tie started as a song-writer for
vaudeville, and it was in one of his ditties —
‘His Lordship. Winked at the Counsel” —
that Harry Rickards, attired in barrister’s
wig and gown, appeared for the last time on
the .London halls before emigrating to Aus-
tralia. From songs Dance turned to writing
musical comedies, some of which made big
hits, notably 7 “A Chinese Honeymoon,” “The
Lady Slavey,” “The Nauteh Girl” and “The
Ga.y Parisienne.”
“Frinigga”: Either British play-writers
are going off or American taste is changing,
lfiree separate managers of repute have
lately come back from Europe to tell N’York
that they could find hardly anything in Lon-
don worth bringing over. Two of them added
that Paris was not much more satisfactory.
But all three had bought a whole bagful of
things from Vienna and Berlin —“years
ahead of France and England,” they say.
THE FACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 work upon your face all day,
A face that men have called distracting.
1 find it so, dear, I must say.
You aotresses are so exacting.
1 heighten lights upon your hair,
But take none out (you cannot spare it).
Now dig the moles away—a pair.
How wonderfully well you bear it 1
I stipple out the deeper lines
.Just where a trace of scowling twinkles.
The lighter, defter work refines
Those deeper, more suggestive wrinkles.
1 lift the shadow from your brow,
And line your nose—it’s slightly tilted' —■
Some color ’Death the eyes all'ow,
Or they may look a trifle stilted.
A brush just where the ringlets fall,
Same on the other side repeated.
No longer like your face at all,
Behold the portrait is completed.
There are you now', a Smiling queen.
They’ll say again you are a beauty,
Forgetting that the thing they’ve seen
Is proof but of my sense of duty.
VICTORIA.
THE RE-TOUCHER.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
ANTOX LIMITED
To be incorporated under the Companies Acts 1899-1900 of New South Wale*.
CAPITAL £-175,000
DIVIDED INTO 175,000 SHARES of £1 EACH.
95,000 “A” Shares.
80,000 “B” Shares.
For
respect of the
have received
remaining are
a period of three years from the date of registration of the Company the following arrangement is to remain m force m
respective profits of each of such years:-Out of the profits for the year B Shares do not rank for dividend un .1 A Share
a dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum. “B” Shares then participate in a like dividend Any surplus profits then
divisible ratably between “A” and “B” Shares. After the said three years all shares rank equally.
65,000 “B”
25,000 “A”
Shares, and
Shares
DISTRIBUTION OF SHARES.
15,000 “B” Shares
50,000 “A” Shares
fully paid up will be allotted to the Vendors of the Costerfield Mining Company and/or their nominees as part
of the purchase price for the mining leases, plant, machinery, ore at grass, and gold-recovery process, etc.
fully paid up will be allotted to Antox Syndicate, Limited, and/or its nominees for the whole business and under-
taking of that Company, including plant, machinery and process for the production of antimony oxide and allied
nictdls etc.
. offered for public subscription upon the following terms
Payable 5/- per share on Application.
Payable 5/- per share on Allotment;
of not less than one month.
are
and the balance in calls of not more than 2/6 per share at intervals
20,000 “A” Shares
held in reserve.
175,000 Shares.
From the capital subscribed there will be paid in cash £lO,OOO, being the balance ot the purchase
price of the Costerflcld Mining Company. (Independent valuation attached to full t the
This will leave £40,000 available for erecting smelting works, estimated to cost £1.6, ,
Costerfleld Mines, Victoria, to provide working capital, and to cover formation expenses. ghareg {or
The expenses of formation (including brokerage or commission of 6 ■, sharebroker or agent),
subscription and allotted as a result of application made thiough any £
will be borne by th*Company. , nnr) „ h „ rps have been applied for.
The Directors reserve the right to proceed to .allotment when 40,000 shares na PP
Applications may be forwarded to any of the undermentioned.
The Directors, Scot Chambers, 94 Pitt Street, Sydney. Brisbane and Perth.
The Company’s Bankers, Bank of Australasia, Sydney, Meibourne, Adela e,
srasstfs sK-SE&ft w srass s&wrs?!** «* - - ~*
&d »ES O, THE COMPLETE PROSPECTUS ABE OKPAIMABLE ATTW
(Scot Chambers, 94 Pitt Street, Sydney), from the Directors or Sharebrokers wno
Stock Exchange. DIRECTORS: Ttd Lan cashire, and
ARTHUR BROOKE LUNHAM, Managing Director of St. Helens Smelting
Street, Sydney.
ESSEX ROGER PICOT, of 20 Young Street, Sydney, n f td > j rCCt ° r ° f Robat In -’ ham
(A/asia), Ltd. (with which is incorporated Wm. Docker, Ltd.).
JOHN JOSEPH DOYLE, Mining Engineer, of Costerfleld, victoria. of Pevpri Directors.
The Articles of Association of the proposed company prove e NSU ™ TTNG ENGINEER:
AUDITORS: Mav 8.E., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Starkey & Starkey, 93 York Street, uydney. • * (pro tern.) *.
BANKERS: w T w irn eford, 94 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Bank of Australasia, Sydney and Melbourne. • • REGISTERED OFFICE:
SOLICITOR: Chambers, 94 Pitt Street, Sydney.
William Arnott, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney. ® tot
OBJECTS.
me company uciug ”, ~ .
the auriferous Antimony Mines of the Costerfleld Minini
a,,d The Oxide ha^for
or ammonia fumes does not
Antox” runs more freel)
Lancashire, England. „ . . businesses at Costerfleld, Victoria. „ ,i
It is proposed to centralise the operations of the t o i combination) the Company, will own proved.
A feature of Antox Limited will be that, by aun q e o w iH manufacture on the spot
mines, providing full requirements of raw materials at very low cose,
a commercially-proved pigment. MANAGEMENT.
, OTV , PTIt wi ii be General Superintendent for the Company at Costerfleld.
Mr. t"hf C«TS mine. ter the pre.en. own,,, in 1003, and ha. been » <»H M
of all operations ever since. T/^T'C
DEMAND FOR THE COMPANY’S PRODUCTS.
The demand for a clearly indicated bytte International Geneva
painting °of interim o? Sdings (80 per “cent, of the total amount of painting in the world) after
the 19th November, 1927. . white-lead or zinc oxide, inasmuch as, apart from its covering
“Antox” is more than a substitute for white lean or on t {, p mrdil , m (linseed or other drying
and resistant properties, it has practicall linseed oil as a paint, the exposure to severest weather
oils) ; in cases where “Antox” pigment isnafnt Owing to the inertness of this pigment, the
conditions does not cause any disintegration °* tne Paig. Another advantage in the. use
-%SS%ST4<SS >-«• p rE“ utS'id 1 ' *“ “
bimdb CS. C S£,"S™™.aot»,e other .rtimomal product,, wh.ch are beans
oF AOTOX PIGMENT.
Oxide ol antimony lor paint
S Sorption then white-lead; (5) Ha. «—*•*"
owing to its inertness. Gearv Works Superintendent of Messrs. Robt.
Extract from report by «• O. o _earj, w I Messrs. Wm. Docker, Ltd.):
Ingham Clark & Co. (A/asia), , » proved to be equal to either white-lead
“In regard to durability under trying cend Uons• M pig menta”
OV zinc oxide, and, under some ™ nfbt . th pq g F.G.S., Public Analyst: —
Extractsfrom reportby F. H. q{ any n ; ineral body used as a pigment, most decidedly
The dry powder grinds easily with oil, and makes an excellent smooth
Power,— The covering power of ‘Antox’ is greater than that of white-lead, and it
runs more smoothly from the bru fk n 0 poi c ono us effect on the persons using it as a paint,
ei,be“ wht°mS .-Sr.nd in .hi, regard it i, perfectly inert. It h,, none «. the poit.non.
WttnS'onS to the detailed reports In the complete Prospoctns,
a, CertS,f.nr,t,teme»t, by ««. Starkey * Starkey, Public Aee.uute.tt, relating t. «
of production, estimated profits, etc.
(2) Report on the Costerfield mine by Dr. F. L. Stillwell, D.Sc. (Pamphlet).
(3) Report on and valuation of Costerfield mines to the Secretary of Mines, Melbourne, by Mr. H. S.
Whitelaw, Government Field Geologist, dated 14th August, 192.
(4) Balance-sheet of Antox Syndicate Ltd., as at September 11, 1922.
(5) Reports on Antox pigments by:—
(a) R. Phipps, B.Sc., F.C.S. A , ,
(b) F. H. Molesworth, F.C.S., F.G.S., Public Analyst.
(d) R. (X Geary^ I 'Superintendent of Robt. Ingham Clark & Co. (A/asia)* Ltd. (with which is
incorporated Wm. Docker, Ltd.) ; and
(e) Various trade reports.
ESTIMATE OF PROFITS.
Appended to the Prospectus are reports by Messrs. Starkey & Starkey, Public Accountants, of Sydney,
on the cost of mining: and treating - Costerfield ore and producing Antox pigment.
The gold Costerfield antimony ore is an important factor in giving the Company, at very
low cost, an ore for manufacturing “Antox” pigment. The Australian industry will in this way have a
big {rom Costerfield ore is estimated (and supported by Messrs. Starkey
& Stai key’s invesSon) a? £l5 per ton of concentrate. The gold, however, averaging per on
of the antimony content to £•**£**£ treatme “ t ’ thC
estimated cost of producing one ton of antimony oxide (83.3 per cent, bb.) is a-zz os. /a.
The estimated cost of producing and marketing each ton of “Antox pigment (ground 111 0 £5B 0
Selling price per ton ~‘'
Estimated profit per ton n rtvV aw* innual' prof^t^of^over
2So* h U , rf V,VM r iT<.r^ 3 XSo.rSI”S <«« »<! *“» <*>"« «—«• *" *•
Pr “ p ' c “ 1 " B "“ l by M 'TOE antox “Iyndicate, limited, t
Suppliers to N.S.W., Queensland and South Australian Governments, A.U. . .
Co., Union S.S. Co., and North Coast Co., etc., etc.
Arrangements for the formation of the Syndicate Company were in May, 1921.
registered on the 28th November of the same year, and Wm. Brazenall.
in producing antimony onide in ever, Mptt
purposes. COSTERFIELD MINES.
The Costerfield mines are situated near Bendigo, Victoria, about six miles N.-E. of Heathcote, on
««-» *» «■»-w «•*
*"« ,«««<• »*»* - ■w-*-'* 203
'stnitveli Ve repo l rle(i i mthoustively ir lni r the Inine. 0 "’!!!. Report cover. M PMM «* <•
0£ s
maC^There f are^abouiP undergrmind °witlf tramways for hauling the ore to the
shaft also a?r and water pipes for working machine drills underground.
CONCENTRATING MILL.
This nlant was rebuilt in 1920 at an additional cost of over £12,000, new boiler and power plant
This Plant reomu i hing d concentrating machinery capable of treating four tons of
ore Jr hour ?na ™covering ninety-five per cent, of the ore values in a high-grade
From the report and V valuation of the mine by H. S. Whitelaw:— . .
From the r p ana v indicates that from the present bottom level, ore remains m
ouantitv and quality more than sufficient for the Company’s requirements during the next 10
vears The requirements, I understand, having regard to the present demand for its
(ten) years- l e q t t wee kly, of 50 tons of concentrates. Without drawing upon
product, will be met by the and Boin bav, in the same belt, and Bradley’s in
f'pJraM ».tern mii-opeiatlon. from the main .bait should be able to supply the company.
n ' e *C't r h. , e e ..STS' l an” , SS2d ‘dlinT.’rkng-a probability In the light of the anticipated
' f manufacturing and marketing pigments from oxide —the several faces now in payable
success of manufactu g ana a gp g attacked in, probably, less than three months
?TOm in date of demand The mPI having a capacity of 4 tons per hour, a substantial increase
in mine output would entail little additional cost in treatment.’
VALUATION OF COSTERFIELD MINES.
In his valuation, dated August 14, 1922, and included in the complete Prospectus, Mr. IL. 8.
Whitelaw, Victorian Government Field Geologist, values plant, machinery, reservoir, development.
In a further Report’ Mr." Whitelaw estimates ore reserves and tailings at a net value of £298,320
tlip fnllowino- contracts have been entered into, i.e. : — _ .
1 An Agreement dated the 22nd day of September, 1922, between John Joseph Doyle, Arthur
Brooke Lunham and Thomas Nevill Carlton Nevill (Costerfield Mining Company) of the one
part and William Arnott on behalf of the Company of the other part.
2. An Ag eement dated the 27th day of September 1922, between Antox Syndicate Limited pf
the one part and William Arnott on behalf of the Company of the other part.
3. An Agreement dated the 27th day of September 1922, between John Joseph Doyle of the
one part and William Arnott on behalf of the Company of the other part. ,
Conies of which, and of the reports above referred to, and of the Memorandum and Articles of
Assertion, mnv he the respective offices of the Solicitor and Secretary abovenamed.
Sydney, September 27, 1922.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
TO THE DIRECTORS,
ANTOX LIMITED,
Gentlemen
rate of o/- per »i«uc «■**>- ~ . ... t tiprp'iv a°Tee to accept me same, u* *«»v. *
Memorandum and Articles of Association, and l me as the holder o{ such shares,
as provided by the said Prospectus, ai d I authorise jou to D
the provisions of the Companies Acts of the State of New South Males.)
hereby
Dated this
day of
1922.
Name in full
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
Address
Signature ’<
o “" P,t,On ''" tn "the 'bANK Of" AUSTRALASIA. ,nd to Messrs. STARKEY &■ STARKEY, pt YORK STREET. SYDNEY.)
(All cheques to be made_payab*e to TH . - - interstate- Cheoues.
NOTE.— Exchange must be added to Country ana internet.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: ISLKNB, PHILP & CO„ LTD., Perth and Geraidton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED* Redfern, Sydney
T«t Y£AB BOUND PLAYGROUND
in September
and October
has a delightful climate for outdoor
sports and sightseeing. It is a land of
endless variety; sea and beach, mountain
and forest, marvellous volcanic regions.
You find here tropic fruits, trees and
flowers at their best.
Golf, swimming,
surfing, motoring, ten-
nis and tramping may
be enjoyed every day
in tiie year.
Booklet from nearest
travel or ticket agency,
or write direct to
Department B,
HAWAII TOURIST
BUREAU.
Bos 241 G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
df
Automatic Rifles,
Shotguns (Si Pistols
We are the leading 1 people for AUTOMATICS.
ng 1 people fo
RTFTjF^
BROWNING .22 Cal., fire 11 ordinary Short
Cartridges. Neat and effective, 80/-
BROWNING .22 Cal., fire 8 Long-rifle Cart-
ridges. 95/-
WINCHESTER .22 Cal., fire 8 Automatic .22
Cartridges. A splendid hard hitter, £9/15/-
BROWNING 12 and 16 g. Five shots. Com-
pact, £l5.
WINCHESTER .12g., slightly used, £l2/10/-
PISTOLS.
BROIA NING.—The world-famed pocket firearm.
25 Cal., 80/-; 32 Cal., 857-
COLT and WEBLEY & SCOTT.
The BROWNING AUTOMATICS are unrivalled
for qualitv. We are Sole Agents.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
C/o»
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
The A.J.C. is having a wonderful Spring
meeting. Thus far the weather has been delightful
and never have there been greater crowds or grander
racing. The struggle between Beauford (evens) and
Gloaming (2 to 1) in the 12-furlong Spring Stakes
was the kind of thing racing men remember all
then- days. For a furlong and a half the brown and
the bay were locked
together, lengths ahead
of the others, and
there was only a neck
between them at the
finish, with Speciality
an astonishing third,
and David a close
fourth. Beauford won,
not because he is the
faster horse, but ne-
cause Wood is a better
jockey than the Maori-
lander, Young. He
rode a more vigorous
fi ni s h and showed
superior judgment of
pace. With the riders
reversed Gloam-
ing would have been
first instead of second.
Still, there is very
little between the
pair, and let it suffice
to say that a good
horse won a glorious
race. The time was
2min. 331 see.
FRED NORMAN,
owner of Sinter
Olive.
The Derby provided an inspiriting finish also, but
Caserta’s part in it was disappointing, considering
that he was favorite at 10 to 9 on. He failed to
repeat the fine form he showed in the Rosehill
Guineas opposed to Tressayr, Rivoli, Cliffdale and
others. On that day he galloped like a champion in
the making, but on Saturday he never gave his back-
ers cause for confidence. The best he could do was
to run a moderate third. Either he lias been greatly
over-rated or he has gone off. Soorak, second favorite
at 5 to 2, headed the Comedy King colt and Cliff-
dale, who had made the running, in the straight, and
looked like winning easily until the 33-to-t ■ chance
Rivoli drove at him. Thirty yards from home the
Woorak colt still had his neck and shoulders in front,
but he died on his run, and Rivoli passed him in the
last stride. The winner is a serviceable-looking bay
by Repartee—Eadv Babbie, and was bred on the
North Coast (N.S.W.). I. H. Andrews owns him,
and Brown rode him a judicious race. The time
was 2see. worse than Beauford's.
Form is generally a good index to the
Epsom result, and this year it was a better guide
than ever. Three of the four horses who stood out
on recent performances—Rostrum, Fleuriste, Gilvay
and Loyal Irish—finished in the first four places.
The Maoriland chestnut was a disappointment. He
was noticed to be sweating copiously when he did
his preliminary, and although conspicuous in the early
running he failed to come on. “My pair will run first
•and second.” said Eric Connolly the day before the
race, and the prophecy was borne out to the letter.
What is more, after half the distance had been tra-
versed. it was always clear that one or other of
the Victorians would win. Rostrum, who went out
favorite at 9 to 2, and was ridden by Kelly, finished
better than the English-bred Fleuriste (6's), and
beat him home by half-a-length. with the fast-
finishing Newcastle horse. Sir Maitland (25 to 1)
third. Gilray and Alfort next and Dunvvil (badly
away) well up, the mile being run in lmin. 38jsec.
It was a great triumph for Connolly and his friend
Godby, and between them they took £20,000 out
of the ring. Had Purser won the Metrop. their win-
sings would have been multiplied by at least two.
Hut it was not to be. Purser (5 to 2) gave the
two big Victorian punters a gallant run for their
money, but he hadn’t the necessary brilliance over
the last bit. He was beaten to the post not only
by the 100-to-l chance Basella, whose apprentice
jockey tried to win all the way over the last five fur-
longs and who was leading a hundred yards from
home, but by Speciality, who got in the last run
on the rails, thanks to Wood. It was Speciality’s
first success in 21 starts. A few backed him at 25’s
and 20’s on the strength of his third in the Spring
Stakes, but he was a good horse for McShortodds.
Molyneux was fourth, Honey Bee (who looked danger-
ous at the turn and can be improved in condition)
fifth, Even Song and Cupidon next; and the time
was 2min. 47$sec. Jt was a rough race as far as
the riding went, and several horses suffered, notably
Bitalli and Punch. On Rosehill running Punch should
have been upside with Basella and Molyneux, but
he was bumped on to the rails when making a for-
ward move, and that was the end of his chance.
* * * *
“J.H.” (London) : Archie Maclaren is
such a rare judge of a cricketer, particularly one
likely to be a success in Australia, that one hesitates
to question the soundness of his judgment in select-
ing W. W. Hill-Wood, the Eton, Cambridge and
Derbyshire batsman, as a member of his touring
team. Nevertheless, Master Wood may get on the nerves
of Australasian barrackers. He is a stonewaller of the
most virulent type, and has a very ugly stance. I saw
him open the Cambridge innings with C. A. Fiddian-
Green —another imperturbable—in the ’Varsity match
in July. Fiddian-Green was slow, but Scottoti and
Alec Bannerman rolled into one would have had
nothing on his partner, who took over five hours
to make 83, and at one stage was over an hour scoring
8. For utter dreariness Lords has rarely seen such a
performance. It was so bad that some of the
creme-de-la-creme in the pavilion actually barracked
the stolid youngster when he woke up and hit a
ball to the ropes..
* * * *
Noticeable features of the opening round
of Sydney premiership cricket was the abundance of
centuries and the good form shown by colts.
Against Uni., N. Phillips, the Randwiek batsman,
knocked up 153, which included 14 fourers and a
six and Johnny Taylor retaliated for the Students
with a sparkling 141, in which there were 10 boun-
dary strokes. E. It. Brown (Central Cumberland) got
out v - Paddington; A. Kippax (111) and D.
Watford (109) both of Waverley, made light of North
Sydneys bowling, and W. Wells (Paddington) fcot
113 v % Central Cumberland. All this should remind the
somnolent selection committee that youth can no
longer be ignored. The two outshining bowling
efforts were those of S. Everett, 7 for 15 for Peter-
sham v. Manly, and J. Anderson, 0 for 21 for MOsmaii
v. Glebe. Petersham (227 and 1 for 29) got the only
outright win (4 points) over Manly (5b and 198) ;
while Randwiek, Central Cumberland, Marrickville,
Mosman, Sydney and Balmain won three points by a
first-innings victory. Waverley drew with North
Sydney, but should have won by a street. The field-
ing in many cases left much to be desired.
* * * •
Although they won their first match bril-
liantly, the Queensland Rugby League XIII thudded in
opposition to a much strengthened Sydney Metropoli-
tain side at the Sports Ground. Helped by the
breeze, the Bananalanders had the better of things
in the first spasm, but on changing ends the Ma
Staters gave them a doing, eventually running out
winners by 20 points to 6 points. ‘ The Northern
ruck men again proved too clever for the home six,
and gave their rearguard plenty of ball, but the
Bananaland backs sadly missed the nippy Connell,
who played so magnificently until injured in the
first match. Herman Peters was the Blues’ star,
notching three great tries. Frauerifelder, the Northern
custodian (he is a «~npert from Australian Rules),
again gave the crowd an object-lesson in catching
and kicking, albeit his tackling was weak.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby Leaguers’ tour of
Maoriland ended abruptly. A visit to the South
Island was proposed, but the prospects were so un-
promising that it was abandoned, and the Auckland
crowd being unsympathetic, to put it mildly, the
tourists refused to return there for further engage-
ments. The fact is that the League game is bn
its last legs in M.L., and in future it will be hard
put. to hold its own in N. S. Wales-.
“Machete”: The late Justice Wade was
probably the first Australian to represent England
in international games. As a wing threequartet he
was considered one of the finest scoring hacks who
ever played Rugby for England. He won an Eng-
lish cap on five occasions, and. on his return to
Australia played a couple of games with N.S.W.
against Queensland in 1888 at Sydney. A queer
feature of these games Was that Queensland lost the
first game by 1.3-15, though they scored five tries
to three. They kicked only one goal to three by
N.S.W., and in those days tries counted twb and
goals three. Now it is t’other way about.
“Ex-Oxonian”: When C. 0, Wade played Rugger
for Oxford there was no finer team in the U.K.
Even in my time, a few years afterwards, the story
still lingered of a memorable match against Black-
heath in ’B4, when Oxford seemed to be up against
their first reverse for a whole season. Wade—with
whom, in after years, Stoddart was often compared
as a threequarter back—kicked a goal almost from
mid-field, so that the situation was retrieved, and
husky undergraduates, after cheering till they were
hoarse, fell upon each other’s necks and almost wept
for the sheer joy of it. Senior men in my day used-
to talk of that match—and there were other heroes
whose deeds were recalled, among them Rotherham
and Grant-Asher, but C. G. Wade loomed largest. [
doubt whether, before or sinre, so much frenzied
acclamation ever came his way in a lump as on
that autumn day by Isis’ banks' when the world was
38 years younger.
* * » •
Continuous moisture in September always
delights the cockies, but the 50,000 Melbournians
who watched the League semi-final between Colling-
wood and Fitzroy voted it a nuisance. Play was
interesting up to half-time, when the Magpies’
superior system gained them a 12-point lead. Return-
ing to the ground, Fitzroy bogged in regardless
drew level aiid rushed two more goals. Then the
heavens opened and let out a month’s supplv of wet
in 10 minutes, and thereafter there was no hope of
system or skill or even plain football—just slip and
slide and kick or miss, mostly miss. The handicap
was too much for the ’Woodsmen, but they got within
4 points of ’Roy—s goals 12 behinds to 6 goals 10
bellinds. Then the bell rang, and everybody rushed
for home and a change of duds.
* 4 * *
“Winkle”: For the last four years Foots-
scray have been minor premiers of the Vic. Associ-
ation, and in 1919 and 1920 they won the pennant.
This year their already strong team was strengthened
by Con McCarthy, ex-captain of Collingwood; Alec
Eason, of Geelong; Forbes, the best player in Ben-
digo; A. Ford, a champion W.A. half-back, and W.
Outen, a brilliant young centre from Williamstown.
But despite them the despised North Melbourne
won the semi-final, only to be beaten, in turn, by
Port Melbourne, who thus won the light to meet
rootseray in the grand final. Certain schemers, who
had thought Scray invincible, how became dubious,
and decided that something must be done to make
victory certain. Though it was too late to buy mote
champions there was still another way to victory.
During the week three Port Melbourne stars, Gus
Dobrigh (captain), Billy Walton and W. Rudd, were
offered big money to play dead. The betting, that had
been 2 to 1 on Footscray until their defeat bv
North, and then 6 to 4 on Ports, with a few points
in, veered suddenly round, ahd on the morning of
the match a Port Melbourne hlan was asked to cover,
at even money, bets aggregating £240. But the judg-
ment of the plotters was at fault, for ail thii
players tempted proved honest fellows, who com-
municated at once with their secretary. The only
result of the attempted bribery was to make the
Port men play so desperately that they managed to
win by two points,
* * * *
F» W. B&yldon is the hope of Sydney
Grammar in the coining G.P.S. contests. Competing
against the best youths in his own school he won
* h e 100yds. in llsec., the 220yds. in 2345ee., the
440yds. in 5445ee., was second in the 880yds., and
third m, the broad jump, Bayltlon has played ill
Giammars XV since 1919, won the Cebil Healv
Memorial swimming trophy for East Sydney, and is
a fine boxer. Another notable effort at the Hramnlar
sports was D, M. Cuprtingham’s high juiiip of sft.
Bin., which is One inch better than the G.P.S.
in C °lDo8 PUt UP hofe and A. T. Woodriff
* * * *
Curious that Harold Sheaves,
r( g e nL ' Vontlle N.S.W. 10-mile championship;
7 lcit ,^' ian aild ■ Australasian 5- and
ehaihpiOn; W. Stainfiel'd, who finished third
and fourth m the \ic. 10-mile event; Fred Pan-e
and G A. Higgs should all be milkmen. Kohlman
must be as hard as steel, for he works at his round
fiom 2 until 7 on the morning of any race no
matter how important, and always wins at his ease.
He is in such fine form at present that many offi-
ninnsUio °l 0I ?!, nl , 0n tha f t! i e Vic - 10-miles track cham-
pionship should be revived to enable him to attack
E A. Gores record, made in 1912, of 55min 19sec
The record of Jack Gillespie, of the Coburg Harriers'
is S in’ u' 6 " frM ? Kohlman. Jack has started in
18 10-milers, and finished last on 17 consecutive
occasions This year, however, he improved, and
managed to defeat one man—W. Evans, of Malvern.
* * * * *
Brancourt, the Bankstown (N.S.W.)giant,
who scales about 17st. and is two inches short of 7ft
i Ca - 1 hn ?T Sdf amateur heavyweight champion
of Austialasia. He earned this distinction at Hobart
by outpointing the Queenslander, Muller, much to
tlmt stoushers disgust, and the Melbourne police-
mdKif , h , e S° es into the professional
ranks he should be able to sew up anv pug now
before the public. There is a fortune ahead of
Brancourt, provided he is shrewdly handled and
judiciously matched. The lightweight Thomson
brought another championship to the Ma State, but
his advantage over McDonald, a husky Maorilander,
was mighty close. Anyhow, M.L. topped the N. 8.
Males score by one, Meale winning the middleweight
divismn for Massey’s State, Hansen the welterweight
and Purdy the fedder. Peet was Victoria’s sole
winner—he shaded Nolan, a good Queensland bov,
m the bamtnmweight final.
* * * #
Collins, the Newcastle
iff-i £ W *l I] ghtweight, Jack Josephs, another alleged
Welsh champion, proved a better boxer than Jack
DanMs, but fal- below the standard of Jim Driscoll,
Freddy Welsh and Jimmy Wilde.. It is alleged that
he arrived in. Sydney only in days before the bout
And Was not ih good shape, but if that is the case
the promoters had no business to put him on. After
ta f tht l ee rtbnds Josephs did little more than
smother arid stall. At the outset he went after
t ollins as if he wanted to end the contest as soon
as possible, but the Novocastrian sßou summed him
up, and after that was the only one in it. Josephs
V the sixth, and was being punished
so bacjly in the 14th that he turned it up. Punters
from Newcastle were at the Stadium in large num-
bers, _ and they tried hard to risk their Beauford
--mgs 0 n Collins, but Israel wasn’t taking the
-A-t Melbourne on Saturday night, Harry
tried to regain the lightweight title from
bid Godfrey, but failed egregiously. The grim
Sydney publican was his master from the first round
to the 20th, although he couldn't knock the U.S.
Jew out.
“Fax”: M. P. Adahis writes frohl Lohcloh
of his old friend George Haekenschmidt, the one-time
wrestling wonder: “In a light-grey Norfolk suit, Shorts
al, d brogues, he looked as big as a house and fit as
a fiddle. He told me he jumped a small table 100
times every morning before breakfast. He is writing
a book about life, and all there is in it, according to
Haekenschmidt. He is a materialist, is fairly well-
to-do, and has sufficient money to go and live just
where he wishes. That is mostly Paris.”
* * # *
The style in which Jim Paddon won the
Coraki (N.S.W.) Hundred handicap showed that he
has lost none of his form. The world’s champion
sculler conceded his opponents up to 36sec. start in
two miles, among- those behind him being F. Scrooke
(Coraki), M. Goodsell and Geo. Matterson. The
winner's time was lomin. 9sec., and he wasn’t all
PMt.at that. Roy Dalby, one of Paddon’s pacers, and
Major Goodsell sculled a two-mile event for a side-
wager. Goodsell, who used to race with the ama-
teurs, had a three-lengths lead at the finish.
* * * *
Sydney Flying Squadron’s opening 18ft.
handicap (two heats and final) attracted 20 starters
and an outsize crowd. The winner turned up in
the ex-Bananaland boat Thelma, now named Keriki,
and she was excellently handled bv the veteran
Ban Taylor. Twelve were left in the final. Pastime
on the limit, went away at a great bat, and keot
her snout in front until she knocked the roundin-
mark at Shark Beach, and was warned off. Tavlor - -
big vessel then went away and lobbed home’with
51sec. to spare from Arline, which preceded Goldin"
by only ssec. Moyana was 61sec. further awa\'
fourth.
* M *
Another golf championship has gone to
V ictoria, through the
agency of Miss Gladys
Hay. Miss Wray, a Sid-
ney girl, led on the first
day, but a bad closing
round settled het chance,
and Miss Hay, who had
gone round in 87 against
a stiff westerly, won with
a score of 268 from Mbs
Betheras (Vic.) and Mi>-
W ray—each with 27a.
But that was only one oi
a sequence of successes
gained by Gladys, single-
handed or as one of a
team, among them being
a putting competition, a
nine-hole _ scratch event,
the ladies' foursome (with
Miss Macleod), the mixed
foursomes, and the inter-
ne match against the
S. Wales girls. There
is a rumor that her tro-
phies were sent td Vic. by
Special train.
H. M. McLELLAND,
runner-up for the
amateur golf
championship.
Wilfrido”: Arthur Duncan, Maoriland’s
amateur golf champion, has the physique ami tem-
perament of the crack golfer. Standing well above
six feet, he hits like fury, can do anything with a
mashie an<l never loses his head. He took lessons
from the leading pros, in England during a recent
visit, although he has played the game for 30 years.
* * * #
Frank Beaurepaire, who has resided in
Sydney for the past 12 months, during which time he
wrested from his home State, Victoria, the Kieran
Memorial Shield, has returned to Melbourne to live,
and will represent the southern State in this seasoh’s
Australian championships. Having been disqualified
for nine years for accepting a position as supervisor
of swimming in the Vic. Education Department,
“Bogey” was whitewashed in 1920, got into condi-
tion again and walloped Norman Ross. At 31 he
is still the world’s best long-distance swimmer. Yet
it is 14 years since he won his first Australian cham-
pionship at Perth.
* * * *
“Linesman” : In the annual East v. West
tennis match in the U.S. Bill Johnston, of Cali-
fornia, knocked out Tilden by three sets to one,
capturing the fourth session to love, which must be
about the most serious defeat inflicted on Tilden to
date. This Is the third time that Johnston has
walloped the. champion this year, and though the
two previous victories were on hard courts in Cali-
fornia, where Tilden might not play his top game,
Johnston s record, backed by his easier triumphs
in the Davis Cup final, suggests that Tilden’s superi-
ority is largely imaginary, even though he has won
the national championship from the Westerner three
years in succession. Certainly on the results of
their always close battles there is little to pick
and choose between them, whilst; if one compares
them on their defeats by other, big players during
the last two or three yenfs, Johnston is the better
man. It is worth noting that Tilden has gone flown
to his youthful fellow-countryman, Richards, and
our own .Tim Anderson, but these two have never
troubled Johnston.
* 4 i i
Geelong won the Melbourne pennant tennis
(hampionship without sustaining a defeat. With
Patterson and Wertheim absent from M.C.C., and
O'Hara Wood likewise unable to line-up with South
Yarra, the Geelong team, including the international
Jack Hawkes, was only seriously challenged by Grace
Park “A,” and that club’s pretensions were settled
by the Geelong four in the final. The match was
played on South Yana’s new courts in Toorak, and
some of the asphalt, proving unexpectedly soft,
caused dismal and unexpected results. Geelong’s
best pair, the Hawkes brothers, smashed their way
through all opposition, but the ancient partners,
Keays and Baird, had a sharper struggle, though
their defeat by Finlayson and Strachan didn’t affect
the destination of the pennant. Keays and Baird,
whose imminent retirement froni first-class tennis
has now become as frequent as a Melba “farewell,”
are both comparative patriarchs, and have been
appearing for the Pivot for many years.
*** " #
“Narf”: Have seen it stated sofiiewjjere
that Harry Barclay, who has madfe a name for him-
self in the European tennis world, was a Launceston
(Tas.) product. In point of fact, he was born at
Beaconsfield and lived afterwards on the north-west
coast of the Speck. At school he was a fine cricketer
and footballer. E. C. Rotten, a Launceston telegraph-
ist, taught him tennis, and the youth became such an
enthusiast that he used to study text-books on the
game in odd moments at his work. Barclay left
Tasmania with the 40th Battalion and afterwards
transferred to the Indian Army.
* * * *
The annual Burra-to-Adelaide road-race
on ordinary bicycles was won last year by O’Farrell,
of Melbourne, from scratch. He did not start this
time, the other backmarkers were not given a
chance. Young Hoffman, of Renmark, who had done
no previous racing except on a track, was given 30
minutes, and, doing the 108 miles .in 5 hours
lOmin. 40,see., he got home with about a mile to
spare. The fastest time was 4hr. 52min. 18 sea, by
Reynolds'; but it only put him 11th. However, it
takes him to Victoria to represent S.A. in the
Warrnambool-to-Melbourne race. A strange feature
of the event was that some anti-sporting Pussyfoot
had strewed dozens of tacks on the road a little way
from the start, and thus a lot of riders were crippled
early.
THE MAYNE CONSIDERATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Edgar Mayne, the Australian cricketer, inter-
viewed at Fremantle on his return from Europe,
spoke feelingly of the comfort and prosperity visible
in Germany. Two big glasses of beer could be
obtained for l jd. and cigars which would cost 18d.
m Australia wore sold for For twopence one
could obtain a haircut and a shampoo.”— Sydney Sun.
M ho said the Hun was down and done
From Mecklenburg to Munich?
How can a land be done and down
Where may be quaffed an amber draught
For little more than half-a-brown
To rest beneath the tunic?
On Austral shores there must be stacks
Of indigents, compared with Max.
The mark’s a dud; it’s up to mud,
Or down, as ’twere, to zero.
But as I puffed a fragrant weed
Acquired by me for ha’pence three—
A bonzer smoke it was indeed —
I felt the sort of hero
I cannot in my native clime,
Where such are one-and-six a time.
For tuppence down Hans trimm’d my wool—
A job for which they’d jewed me
A florin in the realms of Bull—
“ Try a shampoo,” he murmured, “too;
No extra charge.” My heart was full
As deftly he shampooed me.
Is Deutschland desolated? Lies!
In view of all that money buys,
’Twere fltlier called a paradise.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


fp&
I can’t strop a razor
2
I
I^^
I wonder
AN INVITATION
let US DEMONSTRATE
TO YOU HOW THE
VALET
AUTO STROP RA7OR
SHARPENS ITS OWN
BLADES
AN INVITATION
LET US
STR ATE
TO YOU
THE
VA V
AUTO ST
SHARP
Z3D
If-
TION
STRATE
rri' I
here
'VALET”
Safety Razor
Because it strops itself it saves expense for new
blades. Because its blades are always super-sharp
they give always a velvety shave. And because
it is both stropped and cleaned without removing
the blade or unscrewing a single part, it represents
the simplest and quickest method of shaving ever
invented. Quite different from every other kind
of safety razor.
Of all High Class Dealers .
THE STANDARD SET (No. 1) consist; of heavily silver-plated, self-stroppinf
“Valet” Auto Strop razor, 12 finest "Valet” blades and genuine Q 7 /Q
“Valet” strop* complete in durable case lin<?d velvet and satin /
Managing Agents for Australasia:
PIIIPSON & COMPANY. LTD.,
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
1 \.'»/ v
I know— f
6
o
I wonder
a m
b)
r-i
The Vale- _
Strops itself!
50 shaves lbladel!
Sounds too good to be true
British Made.
DON’T BE MISERABLE!
k
mm
m
Don’t be weak and puny!
Don’t be always ill!
Don’t shorten your days!
Don’t let ill-health conquer you!
Enjoy Every Minute of Life
by keeping your whole system in proper working order. With
health and strength, life will open out new vistas for you,
and business will be a pleasure.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker can help you to a full realisation of
the joy of life if you take up his
Postal Course of Health and
Strength Culture.
It is emphatically not a “strong-man” course, but a
series of simple, enjoyable, graduated exercises that will
bring into play the neglected muscles, steady the nerves,
help you to breathe and develop properly, and make all
the organs of the body perform their functions correctly.
No apparatus is required, and each lesson is graded to
suit particular individual requirements.
“Snowy” Baker has written a most interesting booklet,
“Health and Strength from Self-culture,” which tells
all about the course, and contains many valuable hints.
If you send this advertisement, with your name and
address across it, together with three stamps for postage,
i the book will be forwarded.
REG. L. ("Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
• • The All-round Champio i Athlete of Australia,’’
187 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
RYNOCH
AMMUNITION
•22 RIM FIRE. (^ggggyp
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
to
ALL BRITISH
New Shipment of
New Season
“BURBERRYS”
Just Arrived.
The Finest
Range of
Burberry
Weather-
proofa ob-
tainable for
seasons, com-
prising styles
for both men
and women,
in an un-
limited vari-
ety of new
designs.
Each model is abso-
lutely exclusive as to cut
and style, and is pro-
duced in the famous
AIRY LIGHT - WATER-
TIGHT, POROUS and
SELF - VENTILATING
Burberry textures.
Apart from the style-
distinction of these New
Spring Models, the value
is the best we have been
able to offer for years.
MEN’S AND WOMEN S
BURBERRYS FROM
£7/19/6 |
We are the appointed
and properly authorised
BURBERRY AGENTS
for Melbourne, and can
supply all wanted designs.
CALL OR WRITE.
"TSH
7
7'
llUmijn
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
244-54 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.


A New Service for Men —
EVERYTHING PERTAINING
TO THE SAFETY RAZOR
At the Men’s Hat Counter, Ground Floor, Market
Street, a full range of well known makes of safety
razors, blades, strops and accessories is exhibited.
A special feature is the “one-day service” with regard
to re-grinding razor blades, which, if left before the
luncheon hour, will be ready at mid-day the following day.
Regrinding: Durham Duplex blades ...dozen, l/9
All other makes dozen, 1/3
FARMER’S :: SYDNEY
“The Store for Men.”
ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?]ces
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Cent 1533, 11609
Vice-royalty has been much in evidence
this week, and the country cousins down for
the Show have had abundant opportunity to
get a glimpse of it. The G.-G. stood back
for a day so as not to dim the Earl’s lisrht
at the Flemington exhibition grounds, and
then had his innings. The same order was
observed in giving a feast to each at the
Malvern and St. Kilda road shacks. The
guests included a good sprinkling of those
who do the talking, if not all the toiling, for
the soilocracy.
Melbourne had a record Show this year.
Even judging day was popular. The trains
were packed to sta.nding-room-only the first
morning, and from that time on the word was
Crowd. G.-G. Forster took time by the
forelock and mooched out informally the first
morning. He wandered into the exclusive
“judging” sections, and his eye had a know-
ledgeable glint as lie looked over the horses.
The Women’s Industries section, which had
a great innings, was under the eyes of'a band
of stewardesses, headed by Mrs. Schweiger,
the wife of the secretary. The one-woman-
show was a great success. Small cubicles
along the wall were devoted to the work of
any one woman during the past 12 months,
and these sections made one stare —dresses,
hats, jams, jellies, pickles, cookies, bread,
butter, floor-polish, wine tonics, house slip-
pers, re-soled boots, things made from kero-
sene-tins, all battled for place among paint-
ings, drawings, fine needlework, pottery, em-
broidered curtains, growing window-boxes,
handy household contrivances, and innumer-
able other things. Samples of one woman’s
work in one year!—no wonder women can
do big things when they concentrate, if they
spread so much energy over so large a field.
And at each section imagination had to add
the housework that, lay in the background,
the babies to be tended and fed, and all that
other everyday work of a woman which is
taken for granted.
Several new reserves and picnic grounds
were thrown open this year at the
Show Grounds. Each reserve had its
adjacent kitchen and a fine supply of
boiling water. Little Jimmy and Molly were
kept busy running with the family billy for
hot water for tea. Mum sat in the shade
and spread out the tucker, shooed off the flies
and ants, and slapped Baby for putting her
fingers in the jam. Dad strolled up when
lie got hungry and tired from tramping round
the forest of machinery and the acres of stock
pens. The wattles in the grounds have grown
to quite respectable size, and make a good
shade, and flowering shrubs breathed a
healthy fragrance over everything.
“Kitchen teas” are going out of fashion
in Melbourne, and last week the female em-
ployees of a Flinders-lane establishment
gave a “wardrobe” one to an intending
ilymenee. Instead of the customary dozen
mousetraps, etc., the result included eight
pairs of silk stockings and four But
that’s enough!
Mrs. Jimmy Burns, has been staying
at the Alexandra Club and showing its in-
mates that she has not lost the gentle art
of looking charming since she changed her
permanent address to Sydney. She was at
school in Melbourne as a distractingly
pretty flapper. Lots of parties have been
given in her honor since she arrived. At
the time of writing she is staying .with the
George Armstrongs at Coombe -Cottage.
Melbourne Grammar’s Dramatic Club
gave their annual show in a triple bill on
Friday and Saturday night, and thereby
added its mite to the War Memorial Hall
Fund. The school padre, the Rev. L. Arnold,
ran the show, With some assistance from his
clever elocutionary wife. professorially
known as Lonie Dunn. The cleric also
stepped into the limelight as the master in
Pinero’s “Playgoers” vice K. Walker, de-
posed by the niumps. R. Grounds, Gram-
mar’s star assisted him,.... attrac-
tively as the pii. stress, but two hours’ fjeijee
barracking at. a football match had forced
a manly note info his voice. The other play-
lets were W. W. Jacobs’s “The Bo’sun,” and
Houghton’s “Dear Departed!?’ After the
show Lofty Franklin spread an orgy of
cream-puffs and soft drinks in his parlors
for the happy but weary mummers and his
little group of guests, including our two new
’Varsity professors, Scutt and Chisholm.
The latter, whose foreign looks belie his all-.
British nationality, sits in the French Chair,
and the former professes in the Classics and
is also an authority on archaeology.
The wives of the members of the Council
of the Australian Art Association (known
as the Three A’s) gave a great party at
the Fine Arts Galleries the other afternoon.
Lady Stradbroke came out of her recent
seclusion (her health has been shockingly
bad) and looked pale but lovely in a simple
gown of biscuit charmeuse edged with nar-
row bands of fur. She wore a big picture-
hat of bronze velvet, carrying a drooping
bronzy feather. Mrs. Pitt Rivers was with
her, smartly tailored in a dark-brown outfit
with a duck of an Oriental turban on her
shapely head. Mrs. Mac George, wife of the
president, wore lime-colored jersey silk and
a hat swathed in cloth of gold. She and
the council ladies stood at the head of
the picturesque stairway and received the
guests. Mrs. Bernard Hall was in sapphire
blue with a girdle of cornelians and a hat
of petunia purple velvet. Mrs. H. B. Har-
rison was one of the hostesses, and was in
amber-colored heavy silk crepe with a smart
black hat and black sufede sandals. Mrs.
Mclnnes looked charming in soft leaf-brown
charmeuse with some vivid green jade in
her hat. The Allen dame was among the
guests, also Mrs. Theyre Weigall, Mrs. Syl-
vester Brown, the Basil Halls, Mrs. Charles
Bage, tow’ering Robert Garran and Clewfin
Harcourt.
Inspired or something by the Herald’s
beauty competition, Melbourne has been hav-
ing another show of the sort —a quest, con-
ducted by a suburban vaudeville co., for “the
best pair of lady’s legs.” Results were deter-
mined by a plebiscite vote of the audience,
who viewed an indiscreet length of exhibit
beneath the raised curtain. All competitors
remained incognito. A similar proviso, by
the way, led to some manipulation in an
optical feast on like lines that was held a few
days previously in a north-eastern township.
Entries were lacking, but the management
rose resourcefully to the occasion, and the
laurels went to the begartered calves of the
local butcher-boy.
Hayes, the Speck’s Premier, was over here
during Show Week. Calling at State Par-
liament House, he was given a chair beside
the Speaker, till he woke up to the fact that
a ’busman’s holiday had no charms for him.
Mrs. Norman Bayles is on the sick list, so
her lovely new frocks for Sydney’s race
meeting have to stay in their tissue paper.
The little lady intended to join her husband
in Sydney. The debonair Norman has been
mooching round Bananaland, and takes in
the Randwick Spring frivol on his way
home.
“Old Desires” is the title on the orna-
mental cover of the very latest novel by Mrs.
Nor m a n Brookes,
pictured herewith by
Broothorn. She tells
her story well, and
has laid its scenes
in Bush Australia
and in Egypt. She
knows both. In
war-days she went
with her hus-
band to Cairo, and
she goes often to
the Brookes’ station
property in N.
Queensland. Mr s.
Norman is not the
first member of her
family to break into
writing. II e r
mother —Mrs. Harry
Emmerton —has the
Balcombe family as
ancestors. One of them was in charge of
Bonaparte while that gentleman was on St.
Helena, and a Balcombe daughter set down
in ink all her impressions and recollections
of the great Napoleon; and it makes excel-
lent reading.
Mrs. Roystone Davey, of Sydney, who,
with her husband, is spending a fortnight at
Menzies’, gathered her Melbourne pals round
her at a cheerful afternoon-tea frivol in the
Alexandra Club’s best parlor the other
afternoon. There were tea and talk and
songs by two of Maggie Stirling’s star
pupils. The popular singer was to have
been there herself, but was suddenly plunged
into mourning by the loss of her son-in-law.
Mrs. Davey was in smart black crepe de
Chine, with fringed hangings over satin
sheathings, and was topped by a fuchsia-
colored headpiece. The Best lady brought
her daughter Margot, who dimpled attrac-
tively under a rose-colored hat. Mrs.
Talbot, from the Speck, sported all-black fix-
ings, with a double row of valuable family
pearls round her neck. The Allen lady
blew in from a committee meeting, and Mrs.
Jack Gurner and Mrs. Littleton Groom were
there; also Hohart’s ex-Mayoress, Mrs.
Eccles Snowden, in checked frocking of
mixed architecture, with a short strip of
black between the shoulder-blades, and every-
thing topped off with steeple-crowned hat
that flaunted a huge red rose in one corner.
Mrs. Nancy Mauger, who died at Hind-
marsh (S. Aus.) recently, was 101 years of
age. She had her certificate of baptism to
prove it. The document was signed by a
Middlesex rector, Rev. Bryan King, and was
dated 1822.
Ursula Catterr.l Duncan created something
of a sensation at Menzies’ when she lobbed
there this week, all fresh from her Indian
trip. The general verdict was: “She is better
looking than ever.”
This is a Monteath picture of W. T.
Devine, one of the oldest amateur actors in
the Commonwealth. He started at the old
Polytechnic, Bourke-
street, in the early
’eighties, and has
played over 300
parts. One of the
foundation members
of the Melbourne
Railways Institute
Dramatic Co., he also
gave his blessing and
support to the Mer-
maids, while lending
a hand to the Vic.
Operatic Society.
For the last-named
he did recently Gas-
pard in “Les Cloches
de Corneville,” and
Bambini in “Tam-
bour Major,” while
among his previous ' "
successes was Don Bolero in “Girofld Girofla.”
His impersonations in plain drama range
from Feeney in “Arrah-na-Pogue” to Dick
Phenyl in “Sweet Lavender,” and include
Blore in “Dandy Dick” and Eccles in “Caste.”
He appeared as Merrythought in Beaumont,
and Fletcher’s “Knight of the Burning Pestle,”
presented by the Mermaid crowd before they
mislaid their ambition to stick exclusively to
classic plays. The works of Shakspeare,
Sheridan and Shaw have since provided him
with many congenial rOles, and he has now
renewed acquaintance with Ibsen as a mem-
ber of Beresford Fowler’s co., at the Play-
house in “Ghosts.”
The Ainslie Mills widow has just sent
out a budget of gold-lettered invitations for
the marriage of the eldest of her trio of
good-looking daughters to Malcolm Maslin,
son of the N. S. Wales woolgrower. Oct.
24 is the time, and Collins-street Scotchby-
terian Kirk the place; and there is to be a
cake-cutting afterwards at Uardry, the
Toorak home of the bride’s paternal grand-
mother, Mrs. Charles Mills.
Major Manser’s little widow cele-
brated the 21st birthday of her elder
daughter (Peggy), on Friday, with a
bright little one-stepping party at her
St. Kilda home, which had been all
dressed up in flowers for the happening.
Miss Peggy, who had to side-track her medi-
cal career through a serious illness, was
like a newly-opened damask rose in red
petal-shaped frockings, while her flapper
sister Brenda fluttered in white, which made
a nice foil to the maternal fuchsia-colored
chiffonery. The last foxtrot was to be
sounded at midnight, but somehow the frivol
kept whirling until the milkeans rattled in
a side street. A whole carful of Bowes
Kellys attended the frivol, also the flower-
faced Langlands-Jack girl. Lindsay Mildred
brought his mother, Mrs. Austin Enabling,
who wanted "to see the young' Urings" enjoy
themseives. Maimie Ham, who has just
passed her third-year medicine, but does not
look even the tiniest bit of a highbrow, blew
in with a couple of brothers, and Captain
Long, an Anzac birdman, brought himself.
Mrs. Fred Thiel has returned to Mel-
bourne from the Sydney golf tournament.
She carried off the prize for the Ladies’ Han-
dicap, and feels in high fettle.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson is among the crowd
of Sydneyites who are already trekking to
Melbourne for tbe Races. She is motoring
via the Coast-road, and intends to make a
leisurely fortnight’s run on the beautiful
highway.
Ernest Officer, who grows wool on the
Riverina family sheep acreage, Zara, will
shortly wed a medical lady, Dr. Doris Yeal,
who is tearing off to collect her trousseau
and have a chat with her relatives in her
native England before facing the Aussie
knot-tying.
Robert Best was rather sorry that none
of his offspring by his first wife was able
to be present at the coming-out of his
daughter Margot the other night. Beatrice
(Mrs. L. C. Elliott) and George were away
in N. S. Wales, and Arthur happened also
to be out of town. As for Blanche and
Sydney, they were both in the doctor’s hands.
Sydney, by the way, has been in the Caul-
field Military Hospital, with a recurrence of
i. shell-shock.
A mild sensation was caused in the outer
fringe of the business world at the week-end
by the announcement of the acquisition of
Moffat’s by Myer’s. though the inner circle
of the rag trade affected to know all about
it. The deal runs into something between
£400,000 and £500,000, including share capi-
tal and debentures. Throwing tradition to
the wind, the Argus sold its front page to
M.ver’s for the “hit-you-in-the-eye” ad., and
there was a heap of speculation as to what
the amount of the inducement was. Some
said £5OO.
The Melbourne art students had a frivol
in the St. Kilda Town Hall last week.
Keyed up by the luscious reports of tbe
Sydney Artists’ Ball, the Yarra-side lads
tried to reach a Bacchanalian pitch, and, to
an extent, succeeded. About four-in-(hie<-
morning the' hustle was appalling. Girls
had their cloaks torn from them in the
battle of the dressing-rooms, and some of
the make-shift fancy dresses ended in rags.
One hysterical maiden, who had donned a
dress of paper, was hurriedly wrapped in a
greatcoat by a worried male partner and
bundled into a car just as her costume
reached the vanishing-point
Mrs. Leslie Stuart and her two girls blew
back to Melbourne last week, after a couple
of months in Sydney. Leslie escorted them
home, then turned round and bolted straight
back to Sydney and his precious horses. Mrs.
Stuart is convalescing after a severe illness,
and the doctor declared emphatically against
the excitement of a Sydney Spring race meet-
ing for the invalid.
The pupils of Toorak’s ultra-smart ladies’
seminary, St. Catherine’s, which lately trans-
ferred to the L. K. S. MacKinnons’ Vasty ‘
residence, Kilbryde, repeated their last year’s
picturesque flower pageant with additions at
the Playhouse on Friday night. The school
principals, Miss Flora Templeton and Miss
Langley, sat in the front gallery pen with
a crowd of Templetons and Mitchells, and,
of course, the Best People flocked in their
hundreds to see the pretty show for which
Nellie Veitch and Jennie Brenan were jointly
responsible. Jocelyn Purves Smith spoke
the prologue, and Cynthia Taylor vamped
round as the bad fairy, while the medical
Herman Lawrences’ youngest waved the
wand of the fairy queen. The fairy stunt
followed a rather smart little playlet, in
which Cy.nthia Taylor showed a nice sense
of comedy as a maid.
The remarkable Schools’ Exhibition is
in full swing at the Exhibition Build-
ings. Governor Stradbroke, accompanied
by his Countess, opened the show on
Wednesday of last week, and two or
three thousand invited guests came along
to see him do it. The packed youngsters
sang an Australian anthem composed bv Dr.
Summers, and there was a shrill wealth of
sound in “Maker of Earth and Sea” and
“Australia’s Sons, Your Flag Unfurl.” The
Peacock lady sat with the Countess on thb
platform, while his Ex. and Alexander
speeehed. Director of Education Tate was
in the full limelight. Premier Lawson, Pre-
sident Walter Manifold, Speaker John Mac-
key and Archbishop Lees were among the,
also presents.
Popular clamor insisted on some more
Althouse and Middleton in Melbourne. The
trouble was to bag a hall in this music-
ridden town; but the singers were eventu-
ally “skied” to the Athenaeum Hall. “House
Full” placards turned crowds of enthusiasts
away. Only the Town Hall could have
dealt with the heavy booking—but the civic
barn had no date to spare. Mrs. Shipman
trundled over to Adelaide to fix up a con-
cert or two there, and then returned via
Melbourne to Sydney. The Harbor village
itself is also a mere “via” for America—
the popular little lady departs to her home
country this week.
Arthur Streeton drops a line from the
heart of the Canadian Rockies, where he is
painting a series of pictures. He plans to
put typical bits of British Columbia and
Honolulu on canvas later on. He mentions
that the picture business is very quiet in
Great Britain —a circumstance we are able
to deduce for ourselves by the way artists
who have inhabited London for years are
pouring out here.
A coo-ee from Adelaide: —
Saturday week saw the last run of the Hunt Club
for this season, from Tappley’s Hill, and on through
the hills that run southwards beside the Gulf to
Vale Royal and Happy Valley, with a final spurt
to O’Halloran Hill, where a Horses-in-Action Show,
with Mostyn Owen as president, was afoot. Most of
motoring Adelaide was on the road, but the field
was thinned a bit by entries for the Club’s races
only a week ahead.
The Max Andersons ai’e due back from their Eng-
lish jaunt in January and have taken the Guy
Makins’ house in North Adelaide while the}-, in
their turn, go tripping.
The Lieut.-Governor held an investiture at Gov-
ernment House, the other day, handing the. letters-
patent of his knighthood to ex-Mayor Moulden and
the Order of St. John of Jerusalem to Herbert
Phillipps. The latter’s work as Belgian Consul has
just won him, also, the Medaille Civique from the
King of the Belgians. Half-a-dozen Humane Society
Awards were conferred at the same time, most of
them for rescues from drowning.
The dance of the week was given by a couple of
dozen old scholars from Queen’s School —among them
T. E. Barr Smith (fils, hot pere) and Alan Macgar-
lane (ditto), S. H. Ayers, Hew O’Halloran Giles, one
of the Josiah Symon sons, C. L. Jessop, M. A.
Fotheringham and Guy Fisher. Mrs. Arthur Rymill
and Miss Amy Jessop royally decorated Osborne Hall
for the event. Everyone who is anyone was there
—a big proportion of the feminine section of them
in black, lace or net or tulle or charmeuse or
georgette, with jet and metal lace well to the fore
as trimming. A couple of white frocks stood out —
Mrs. Roy Burston’s filmy tulle bepanelled with silver
and Mrs. A. G. Rymill’s satin. Jade green was well
in the running, too —in taffeta or satin or georgette.


Neglect destroys—
Sapolin protects
C' RRIAGES, motor cars, farm implements, lawn
chairs, settees, etc., will last twice as long if you will
give them a little care.
Neglect destroys more than hard use ever did.
When surfaces become scratched and scarred or show
signs of wear—just touch them up with Sapolin Carriage
Gloss Colour. It varnishes and colours in one application.
Sapolin is easy to apply: see directions on the tin. It is
made in a number of finishes and colours for every use.
It has given satisfaction for over 40 years. Sapolin works
well in every climate.
Sold wherever paint is sold. Look for the SAPOLIN label.
SAPOLIN
CARRIAGE GLOSS COLOURS
also
SAPOLIN Floor & Furniture Stains
SAPOLIN Imitation Gold Glaze
SAPOLIN Decorative Enamels
SAPOLIN Hot Pipe Aluminum
SAPOLIN Aluminum Enamel
SA' OLIN Aluminum Glaze
SAPOLIN Bathtub Enamel
SAPOLIN Varnish Stains
etc.
IAOf-
CARR
coloJ
OLOSS
IlK**!
Cs3*33
Made by Gerstendorfer Bros., New York, U. S. A.
Also manufacturers of “OUR FAVORITE" Imitation Gold
Enamel, washable. Best imitation of genuine gold leaf. Eco-
nomical and easily applied.
TEXACO
VOLATILE
TEXACO MOTOR SPIRIT
More Power More Pleasure
Less Expense.
THE TEXAS COMPANY (Australasia) LTD.
Branches throughout Australasia.
gd
fg
dfg
1853—1922.
PALING’S
PIANOS.
When Pianos have stood pre-eminent for nearly 70 years
there are definite reasons for this prestige.
It is a strong reason why you should buy your Piano
or Player Piano from an old-established house that has
stood the test for this long period.
Palings’ Victor Pianos are instruments of true Musical Quality. They are sold on Easy
Terms, which makes the purchase of one an easy matter.
CATALOGUES FREE.
Since 1853. Our Keynote— Quality.
Branches at
Brisbane
Toowoomba
’S
tn
a
338 George St.
SYDNEY?
Lismore
Newcastle
Rockhampton


Under
Royal
Warrant
s
George V
CHAMPAGNE
champaghc
tosHcidsicdc
Heims
“II
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT t COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
H-B.—The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9931.
Chateau Napier,
Leading
Mountain Resort,
Leura, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Central Heating System
Throughout.
BALLROOM, BILLIARD-
ROOM, TENNIS COURT,
GARAGES.
All products from Napier Farm.
Tel. 121 Ivatoomba.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
soaps
powders
Spring in all her finery smiled on the
opening of the season’s meeting at Randwick,
but even the colorful cunning of her milli-
nery ran a bad second to the variegations'
donned by Sister Eve. The evolution of the
fig-leaf was never more clearly exemplified. It
ran the whole gamut—covering, clothing and
dressing—and the colorings of each grade
in the sartorial rise left the Turkish carpet,
the Paisley shawl and the rainbow as washed-
out and drab as a last summer’s tub-frock.
On every dress, home-made, shop-made or
imported., beads sprawled as cabalistic de-
signs, as breast-plates, as kidney-protectors
and as outlines to the shoulder-rib. Their
colors ranged from berry-red to steel, and
their size from pin’s head to pigeon-egg.
Lace was everywhere. That of the old-
l'ashiqned macrame thread was heavily
toted and found vice-regal patronage on the
upper section of Dame Margaret’s mastic
outfit, which, incidentally, was finished off
by a flat hat of mauvey-blue tones kept cool
by the waving of a powder-blue plume cross-
ways on it. A plump feather boa in fawny
tones supplied the last bit of icing to the
top tier of her Ex.’s frocking.
Filet came back to its own, '“set in” by
one or two slim Eves at the natural waist-
line. Petal toques with lace veils had a
vogue among the young-faced, but for the
most part the eyes of vouth looked out be-
neath a wide or drooping brim, mostly of
geranium reds or primrose colorings. Black-
and-white was everywhere, and one of its
wearers brought a ray of light to the half-
crown plungers even after the defeat of
Loyal Irish. One dress which trailed its
black satin length in front of the Members’
Stand, was flowing and voluminous.
Its sleeves were white georgette, which fell
iu a sweeping effect to the foot of the skirt,
carrying on them what looked like the
Vision of the Apocalypse in black embroi-
deries. With this went an outsize black hat
that overflowed into a stream of ospreys
cascading over one shoulder ; the whole fin-
ished off with a high-handled sunshade
carried in the Directoire manner. There was
dressing that looked like the wrath of
Heaven, and here and there a simplicity
that looked like Romance reborn; but of
the whole the prize must go to the lady who
ran a joint ostrich-feather farm and a hor-
ticultural show on the brim of her hat —
one side being a riot of prize plumes, while
the other proudly supported two navel
oranges on end, either of which would have
made a Northern Rivers exhibit shrink
with envy.
The chief visitor in the vice-regal fold
was the Jellicoe Viscountess, but Maori-
land’s queen didn’t flaunt her glad raiment
—her frocking was of the frugal tones of
navy and grey. Mrs. Willie Collins, in a
black-and-white outfit, occasionally warmed
by an ermine cape, was the last word in
smartness, while the good-looking Chauvel
lady stuck to the simple charm of white
crepe de Chine, elongated as to bodice, and
with it wore a wide-brimmed crinoline hat.
Her further adornment was her good-looking
husband. Dorothea Collins wore a white
morocain frock swathed to the waist and
moored by steel buckles. Miss Bonsor ex-
pressed herself in the rich heaviness of gui-
pure lace, and wore a hat of the same tone.
Others who hobnobbed with the Government
House-dwellers were the Melbourne Lachlan
Maclcinnons, Owen Cox, Premier Fuller and
Ins lady, John Longstaff and the Fred Mc-
Masters. The MacCormicks were a striking-
looking pair (she was in morocain that car-
ried the glow of old pewter), and Mrs.
Tom Rolin looked well in sapphire-toned
jersey silk and a feathery toque. Her
daughter Joan’s selection was one of those
Shetland-wool frocks that Sydney went crazy
on last summer. The Hughes lady, for once,
forsook the members’ stand, and pegged a
claim amid the official exclusiveness.
Una Clift’s pretty crochet frock was no
luck-bringer—her good horse, Gilray, didn’t
even get a place in the Epsom. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly’s white lace coat with black points was
an eye-filler. Chief Justice Knox’s wife em-
bellished a white frock with autumnal tints.
Sydney Hospital’s good-looking matron wore
a Paris-built model in white voile, built up
of innumerable pin-tucks and narrow strips of
fine lace. Mayoress McElhone clung to her
favorite blue tones. Only Mrs. Willie Ander-
son’s good looks could have emerged in
triumph from her morocain frock, made with
a cape effect and of the shade of the old-
fashioned pink flannelette. Surgeon Dan
Kelly’s wife combined jersey silk and ermine
wraps. Mrs. Greenwood, from Maoriland,
was black and white in exeelsis even to her
stockings; and another good dresser from
the variable isles was Dr. Ethel Sands,
arresting in a beautifully-embroidered Filip-
pino net frock and Filippino straw hat. Still
another Maorilander, Mrs. Stead, in ivory
cloth tailorings finished with a smart cream
and black hat. Mrs. Harry Whiting and
Rupert Clarke’s young wife were two other
good-lookers.
The latest travel story is about a Sydney
Israelite who was visiting the Eternal City
for the first time. Influence and absorbing-
curiosity had obtained for him an entrance
into the Vatican. There lie had viewed its
wonderful art treasures, its frescoes and
time-mellowed magnificence; and for once
his hands had fallen into silence. Ills
friends thought: “At last we have been able
to find a chink in his sophistication.” On
the return journey to their hotel, the Israel-
ite stopped, turned around towards St.
Peter’s and breathed: “Vot a blaze it would
make! Now, my friend, vot you tink it is
insured for?”
Beatrice Morrisby, of Lindfiekl, who has
just become engaged to Lieut. D. A. Davis,
R.N., is one of Sydney’s smartest girls. The
young man possesses two passports to popu-
larity—a good profile and a satin-smooth
manner.
Lady Jellicoe, wife of Maoriland’s little
G.-G. (and a daughter of Sir Charles Cayzer,
Bart.), together with Dame Margaret David-
son, paid a flying visit the other day to
y oodford, on the Blue Mountains, where
there is a camp of Girl Guides, the guests
of the Daintrees. The visitors afterwards
motored to Bull’s Camp before returning by
train to Sydney. Bull’s Camp is a notable
spot on the Western-road, between Linden
arid Woodford. There in 1842-44 Captain
Bull, of the 99th, was in charge of 50 sol-
diers and a gang of road-makers of the
olden type. In the mid-’forties the camp
was shifted to Blackheath, where it re-
mained until 1847, when it was abolished.
Bull retired from the army on promise of
civil employment, and became the first Gold
Commissioner and warden in Victoria, Ben-
digo being his headquarters, the name •of
which, by the way, he and other officials
changed to Sandhurst in memory of the
place where they learned their soldier-
ing. The captain took a leading
position in the volunteer force in Vic-
toria, retired at 95, and died at Goulburn
(N.S.W.) in 1900. He left a widow aged
J 2 and a family of six, the eldest of whom
died recently at 90. The others are still
living, the eldest being 89, the youngest
To. Bull enjoyed Imperial and Colonial pen-
sions for over .30 years. His greatest grief
was that on his 90tli birthnight his Bendigo
home was burned to the ground, nothing
being saved but what his family stood up
111 papers of great A'alue, militarv medals
and decorations, all went. It was after that
the aged couple came to Goulburn and re-
sided with their eldest daughter, who was
the widow of Samuel Raymond, prothon-
otary of the N. S. Wales Supreme Court.
Henry Kendall’s daughter greets you from
this picture. In private life she is known
as “Evelyn,” but to
the hundreds of call-
ers at the Sydney
Book Club she is
“Miss Kendall,” and
a pole-star to those
who know not their
own taste in the
reading line. At
the end of a month’s
membership the little
lady with the big
smile has you classi-
fied from an Ethel
Dell devotee to a
Rose Macaulay
reader. “Miss Ken-
dall” is an Austra-
lian of the fourth
generation - her
great- grandfather
was the Reverend Thomas Kendall, whose
diary from 1823 onwards is a very impor-
tant bit of the Mitchell Library. She was
born at Kendall (called after her father, the
poet), in the Camdenliaven district, was in-
timately connected with the Lone Hand in
its young days, and was guilty of some
clever journalistic lapses in Perth before
Sydney and the Book Club claimed her.
May Moore made the picture.
Margot Govder and her sister, Mrs. Joske,
from Melbourne, who are just now camping
in a Woollahra flat, had the thrill last week
of seeing their first .novel, “Marietta Is
Stolen,” shining at them from Sydney book-
stalls. Marietta is a pleasing, feather-
vveight young person whom the two author
sisters have invested with considerable charm.
The title page, by the way, shows the
author’s name as Margot Neville, but this
is merely a wedding of the Christian names
of the two writers, who in real life are
amusing and attractive young women—one
blonde, the other brunette.
——
The Alliance Francaise sheltered its third
frivol of the season at St. James’s Hall.
The prologue to the dancing, which some of
the younger generation are absurd enough to
consider the main theme of the evening,
was Moliere’s “Les Precieuses RidL
cules,” staged by Professor Andraud
and a group of his ’Varsity students. Dora
Hollinshead, as Climene, was an easy winner
in the Accent Stakes, but the best that can
be said of the cast as a whole is that it
made a charming picture in its Pompadour
Period Costumes. Mrs. Arthur Jewett, as
usual, was the guiding spirit of the enter-
tainment, which, o.n this occasion, had a dis-
tinctly academic flavor, Uni. lecturers being
scattered promiscuously all over the horizon.
Of these Gladys Mar kg, in pale mauve, was
the most colorful; the others, being males,
sported the conventional black and white.
The Consular Segaerts were there; Tom
Courtney, of the Telegraph, brought his
clever daughters, and the Herald lent
weight to the entente by the presence of
general-manager Coni ey.
This is a Freeman, Ltd., presentment
of Father Pigot, of Riverview, the
only cleric who attended the recent eclipse
celebrations in an
official capacity. He
is a tall, lanky Irish-
man who is incap-
able of becoming an-
noyed on any sub-
ject but the misspell-
ing of his name.
His particular job on
the great day was to
observe the radia-
tions from the sun
during the partial
phases of the
eclipse, and from the
earth into space, dur-
ing totality. For the
purpose he used an
instrument called a
pyranometer, which
is the first of its
kind to be seen in
Australia. He got it from its inventor, Dr.
Abbott, of Mt. Wilson Observatory, in Cali-
fornia. Father Pigot’s specialty is seis-
mology, a science he pursues in his elaborate
quarters at St. Ignatius College; and he is
about to start a solar physics observatory
there.
The Bachelors’ Ball, engineered by Jack
Brunton and a group of other lads, occurred
last week at the Paddington Town Hall.
That good old rendezvous basked in the
golden glow of daffodil decorations and yel-
low-shaded lights, while the orchestra coyly
hid within a latticed arbor on the stage.
Kathleen Osborne, very slim and fair in jade-
green, was an eye-arrester, the pretty young-
ster finishing off her outfit by a pink rosebud
or two tucked into her blonde hair. Ger-
trude Dix, from Melbourne, emerging from
billows of black tulle, was mostly jet ear-
rings, large eyes and a bobbed head. Every-
body wore petalled frocks and wore them
long—if not all the way, then in part. Ali-
son MacCormick illustrated the floor-length
frock in jade-green embossed with pink roses,
and Evelyn Brunton trailed swathed drapings
of sky-after-rain blue. The two Sam Hor-
dern chicks spread their wings at the flutter;
Doreen, in an old-world frock of lavender and
gold, the skirt shirred on to the straight
bodice, and Audrey in jade-green. Nearly
every Macquarie-street brass-plate had a son
representing him. Gwen Marks turned cream
brocade into the last word of sophistication.
A newly-grown-up son escorted Mrs. Money
and Penelope Cay (Brisbane) and Pauline
McMorran, in quaker-like browns, were
other good-lookers.
The Victorian League, in its best hat and
gloves, hostessed a party at the Women’s
Club, in honor of Lady Jellicoe, the
other afternoon. The tall coolness of
lilies, and large bowls of tawny-hued
poppies added an atmosphere of fes-
tivity to the assembly room, which usually
echoes to the weighty thoughts of serious
moods. If there had been a competition for
the most arresting spring wear, the prize
would have gone to the Maoriland Governor’s
lady, whose cherry-toned millinery cascaded
into gorgeous bird-of-paradise plumes, above
a frock brown in tone and thickly beaded.
Dame Margaret Davidson, who shared the
honors of the party, wore grey frocking with
a pink ruffle around the neck; and her hat
was embellished by a plume or two plucked
from our feathered friends. The Cullen
lady, attired in blue silkiness, did the Wel-
come Stranger act, and handed over a posy
apiece to the two vice-regals, together with
the blue-and-white enamel badges of the
Victoria League.
Enid D’Arcy unloosed a soprano voice of
more than usual sweetness and clearness
over a well-filled Conservatorium one night
last week. Enid, who is the lucky possessor
of a dimpled chin, has had all her tuition in
Melbourne, and recently won a diploma at
the Melba Conservatorium. Her audience took
to her from the first glance, and rewarded
her for pleasing the eye as well as the ear
by applause that reached fever heat at the
last note of Cyril Scott’s “Blackbirds’ Song.”
Mancell Kirby, a school-friend and fellow
student, played the piano with brilliance and
sympathetic charm. Henri Staell, whose
fiddle was in fine voice, and pianist Vein
Barnett supported the two clever flappers.
The J. O. Meeks (she was a See), who are
leaving for an English visit by the Orsova,
have been suffering a round of farewell par-
ties, including a 14-course dinner staged by
Sam Hordern, a big reception given by the
W. A. Andersons, and an after-races dinner
at the Wentworth, arranged by the three See
brothers, Jack, Jim and Harry, in honor of
their sister.
The Union Club is to he closed this month
for the first time in the memory of any living
member. In London, the big West End
clubs drive forth their members for a few
weeks practically every year for a wash and
brush up; but that has never been the cus-
tom in Australia. The premier club of the
Commonwealth is going to have £lO,OOO spent
on it, and the job is expected to take four
months.
The T.B. Soldiers are not to be done out
of their tobacco allowance if the newly-
formed Not Forgotten League knows any-
thing about it. The League has just held its
first function, a dance, at the Wentworth,
and the funds therefrom are to be devoted
to buying cigarettes for the men at Kand-
wick. There were about 400 jazzers on the
lower deck, and the balcony was inhabited
by bridge-players under the guiding hand of
Mrs. Eustace Ilolroyde. Mrs. R. C. Hagon,
who was president of the committee, wore
handsome trappings of black tulle and jet,
and brought a pretty daughter, Dorothy, in
primrose taffeta. Gaud Mayoress McElhone,
who had shepherded the flutter, was in
yellow brocade and lavender tulle. The
Rosenthal knight brought his lady, Gertrude
Dix (from Melbourne) joined the revels, and
Hector Bolitho brought country-woman and
fellow-scribe Gladys Ivernot. There were
many Hugheses and Lane Mullinses, and
the Eliot Fitch couple (she was Janet Fell
till the other dayl were among those who
entertained parties. It was a successful
affair, and the result should be a mountain
of fags for the tobacco-disallowanced men.
The first effort is to be followed by a mon-
ster concert, organised by the cheerful
Vagabonds, in the Town Hall on Decem-
ber 2.
D. 11. Sou ter took a hand in the old argu-
ment of playwright vermis scene-painter at
the Playhouse on Friday, his remarks be-
ing followed by rowsful of Repertory enthu-
siasts. The little man with the thick Scotch
burr explained that he had no desire to
teach the grandmotherly J.C.W. firm how
best to suck the dramatic egg, nor did he
think that Gregan McMahon couldn’t stage
a Repertory play ; but he pointed out that
while at first the playwright got along with-
out the scene-painter, now the scene-painter
can almost do without the play or the player.
The talk ended in a series of lantern-slides
on properties from Shakspeare’s stage and a
series of original scenic sketches by Urban,
Appia and other great ones of the big brush
from Leslie Board’s collection.
The Rose Bay old girls burst into jazz and
frivolity the other night, and chose the
Wentworth as the trysting-place for re-
newals of school-day friendships. The Con-
vent colors, red and white, were on every
table, and every ex-student added a cluster
of red and white roses to her frock. Mrs.
Bertram Norris was president of the com-
mittee, and Mrs. Langton and Mrs. McDer-
mott vice-presidents. There were Hugheses,
Lane Mullinses, Barlows and Odillo Mahers
on every side. Gero. Seymour-Alien brought
his pretty bride and Rosalie and Melanie
Collins, Beatrice Kelly, .a pretty Hogan girl,
and Gwen Marks, of the slicked-back hair,
were others noticeable even in that honey-
comb of youth and good looks.
A Brisbane postscript:—■
Governor Nathan walked casually into His
Majesty’s on the opening night of “The Building
1 und, and brought a bunch of red roses to Maire
O Neill. With his Ex. were two colonels and their
wives. Amy Castles, looking as though life went
very well, was there with sister Eileen in a real
ould Irish green; and Captain and Mrs. Pierson
smiled upon the world from a box.
The other night Government House grounds sud-
denly became peopled with fairies and gnomes, and
Puck flitted in and out .among the trees. Tall
Barbara Sisley, who knows her Shakspeare backwards,
presided over Pixieland, and “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream” was given for the benefit of St. Martin’s
Hospital. Major-generals and captains galore
applauded.
To the new Theatre Royal co. the same evening went
Dr. Butler Wood with a party, Dr. and Mrs. Malcolm
Cameron, Dr. and Mrs. Gray, Dr. and Mrs. Lacaze
and quite a number of people not belonging to the
medical profession, to be pleasantly stirred when the
leading lady bares her white shoulder in “The Com-
mon Law,” and the curtain goes down with a bang.
A. H. Chisholm, who has been on the Daily Mail
for seven years, and will shortly go on to Sydney
D.T., was sent off with a pair of field-glasses and
many good wishes by the Mail staff the other day.
Chisholm leaves some lasting monuments in this
State, where he has done so much to try to save
National Park for posterity, and the birds* from the
gun and shanghai of marauding youth.


Underwood
Portable
Typewriter
weighs, including case, Bflb.
Non-folding, compact, easy to
operate.
Is the sturdiest of all Portable
Machines, because it embodies the
quality of material, excellence of
design and workmanship, and the
experience in construction that have
made the original Underwood Type-
writer famous.
Is equally suited to business or per-
sonal work.
To get the full satisfaction of using
a portable, personal machine —own
an Underwood.
Send for the Underwood Portable
Booklet.
STOTT & UNDERWOOD LTD.,
70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
426 Collins Street, Melbourne.
305 Queen Street, Brisbane.
nrmr
UK
:
'Every word
visible.
underwood Standard Portabl e Typewriter
I
amous
WE
n
V
ER
i
OP
gluality”
R. A. SHOW—I 922.
AWARDED
CHAMPION COLD MEDAL for HOCK
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL forCHABLIS
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CLARET
14 FIRSTS, 2 SECONDS,
4 THIRDS
Against All Australian Competition.
V
tr
PA
n
I
&
-jr
mIL
MLML
brighten Up the Home
Renew the varnish on your woodwork, floors, furni-
ture, &c., with an application of Johnson’s Prepared
Wax— the polish that imparts a hard, dry and bright
lustre, that protects, and covers mars and surface
scratches. A soft cloth and Johnson’s Prepared Wax-
all that is needed for easier dusting and brighter home.
JOHN SON’S
Liquid and Paste
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste is the most conven-
ient and satisfactory form for use on floors of all
kinds—wood, marble, tile, linoleum, &c. Floors fin-
ished with this are easily dusted and polished with a
soft cloth or Johnson’s Light Floor Brush*
There is also Johnson’s Prepared Wax Liquid that is
especially recommended for furniture, phonographs,
pianos, woodwork and motor-cars. It contains no oil
and cannot catch or gather dust. It is clean to use
and durable in its effect.
Include a supply of these Johnson Products
with your next order from your local dealer.
S. C. JOHNSON
379 Kent St.
& SON
Sydney, N. S. W.


Shave With Cuticura Soap
The healthy up-to-date Cuticura
way. Dip brush in hot water and
rub on Cuticura Soap. Then make
lather on face and rub in for a mo-
ment with fingers. Make a second
lathering and shave. Anoint any ir-
ritation with Cuticura Ointment, then
wash all off with Cuticura Soap.
Nothing better for sensitive skins.
Soapl*.,Ointment ls.and 2b. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress: *'R. Towns & Co.. Sydney. N.S:W.”
Cuticura Soap chaves without mug.
LEARN TO DRAW!
"There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
3
I
*jy**»A
You can
learn to
ma k e
effect i vel
o r i g i nal
drawings in
a. short
period under the
WESTON
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
Each lesson is
given under the
personal supervision
of Australia’s fore-
most commercial
artist, Mr. llarrv
J. Weston, who
criticises and cor-
rects the. exercises.
Big salaries await
successful students
in the field of art!
Why not learn all
about tin's profit-
able hobby?
Send vour name
and address and
three stamps for
Mr. W e s t o n’s
booklet, “There’s
Money in the Pen,”
which tells all
about the
course, fees,
etc., and gives
examples of the lessons.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawinp,
167 Union House, Ceorge Street, SYDNEY.
Stop that
husky cough!
The man with a husky cough is a
nuisance to himself and his neigh-
bours. In nine cases out of ten it can
be cured by a few Evans' Pastilles.
These kill the germs that lurk in the
husky throat, and are the best remedy
known to medical science. Sore
throats and colds quickly yield to
treatment,
EVANS’
Pastittes
Be wise in time and buy a box to-day.
Of all Chemists.
Mad / , b J ?, vans Sons Leschet
& Webb Ltd., London.
dfg
<*>A
If any illustration appearing in I'ii*
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tne
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
o
rv
:j-X
The "Bulletin”
Stock Saddle.
A GOOD SADDLE AT A
MODERATE PRICE.
It is built on a plated bar tree with steel stirrup bars, and
the right shape for comfort to both horse and rider. The
panel is short, with broad leather sweat flaps and extended
facings at back. Fitted with folded girth, leathers and stirrups,
£101716
Freight Paid for Cash with Order to any
Station on N.S.W. Railway System.
WRITE FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
SHOWING ALL THE WELL-KNOWN FAVORITES—
The “Winton” Stock Saddle , £l6 o 0
The “liongreach” Comfort Saddle £l6 0 0
The “Kemp” Poley Saddle £l4 5 0
AND MANY OTHERS.
WALTHER S STEVENSON Ltd.
Saddlers, 395 George St., Sydney
*tTJ
"V
mnrc
W
WW
I
fl
If
DRY SUEDE CLEANER.
For Milady’s Suede Shoes, so dainty—so chic—so easily
soiled, Bostock’s Dry Suede Cleaner is a positive necessity.
Cleans quickly and surely, brings up the nap and helps
it retain its velvety softness.
Obtainable in all Colors.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD, Box 01, Haymarket.
"THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN*
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
1319
OLIVE DRILL
RIDING
TROUSERS
Ready to Wear —not a fault can be found.
It is a material with an obstinate quality to
resist all sorts of wear. Loops for Belt,
Riding cut, firm stitching, cross pockets—
ideal for the Men of the Saddle.
Mail to Desk S.Bwith request for Catalog.
PIKE BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba
HOTEL
CARLTON
IN THE HEART OF
BRISBANE
Business Visitors and Tourists
will find many exclusive advan-
tages at Hotel Carlton.
Essentially Modern in every re-
spect, the establishment offers
a service measuring up to the
best standard of Modern Hotels.
m
R3k
m
The Carlton is cen-
trally situated, and
affords easy access
to Business. Plea-
sure, Rail and Ship-
ping centres.
Correspondence invited
Inclusive
Tariff
per day
14/-
New South Wales ——
Chamber of Manufactures
All-Australian Exhibition
WILL P,E HELD AT
R. A. S. SHOWGROUNDS, SYDNEY,
FROM
OCTOBER 7 TO NOVEMBER 18, 1922.
An event of unique interest, and the finest exhibition
of Australian Industries ever seen in the Commonwealth.
Also
WAR TROPHY MUSEUM
—a rare collection of interesting trophies, now being
shown for the first time in New South Wales.
Another feature will be a series of
OPEN-AIR PICTURES
showing our factories at work.
ADMISSION, 6d; CHILDREN, 3d.
W. J. DONNELLY, Secretary.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of it hostile character) will bt
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undci taken re contributions voluu
tartly submitted; and no MS. will be returned
Unless stamps accompany.
Corkscrew: There is no hope for a poet
who is capable of rhyming “fear” with “premier.”
. ...H.Q.: Put it down to his new environment: he
has practically settled in the U.S.. .. .’G.P.: Abo.
Council discussed that some months -back....
J.R.W.: Reams have been written on that in the
past... .Tom Hah: Your verse is dreadful,
and the attempt to rhyme “century” with
“sedentary” should be made a punishable offence.
....Robin Adair: Not up. Anyhow, the kailyard
Muse should be courted sparingly... .'J.S.H.: Verse
not good enough to carry it... . A.M.M.: The person
with an ear capable of rhyming “express” with
“itself” ought to maintain a deep silence... .Union
Jack: Roth are poorly done, and tagged out with
commonplaces... .Constance M.: The Kaiser’s blood-
dreams have been wallowed in by too many other
writers.... Darby: Yarn hasn’t enough in it....
Harold D.: Commonplace verse about your desire to
hear an Australian song. .. .Iona: Lawson wrote of
those songs; and he was only one of dozens who
tried the same theme. .. .W.J.M.: Not nearly up...
Sadie V.: The cockatoo is too shocking for a respect-
able family paper. .. .Oliver B.: It has the genuine
show-time feeling:—
Once again we meet inside the old show ring,
Meeting the old of oldest friends ;
Hear them talk of the new, the latest, it rings,
The laughter, the joy from all ends.
To wander through among the crowd,
One meets the hone, the sinew, of the way-back ;
Ilullo Bill ! Hullo Jack! By gosh your getting
proud,
What about having a taste of Penfold’s frontinackf
1 say. Jim. you see them two old cronies?
Never missed a show for all their years,
You can talk about your dogs, horses and ponies,
Can’t put them out of place, even if it’s beer.
You down for long, Jim?
Soon as the show is over I'm oft home.
This josling and squeezing my limbs—
Or they’ll bury me under this loam.
Well good-bye, Jim, till next Adelaide Show.
You’ll be down again to have another go.
Good-bye.
....Wharehunga : You haven’t the knack.. .Normal
C.: Cut out the pars and send them to the account
ant....A.D. (Roseville): The thought is poor, and
the metre rugged R.M.C.: Not bad verse, but
only suitable for private consumption. .. .Hector B.:
Just the same old thing. ...Swool: Not attiactively
stated. .. .Neal S.: Get something to write about and
give some attention to the business of writing it...
S. : Not up... .Nugget: None of them our style.
....The Bushman: Too rugged... .T.D.H.: “Night”
fails... .J.T.F.: Dead, heavy verse that falls with
a wallop at the end of each line... .Penman: All
that has been said thousands of times... .J.II. (Gee-
long): We don’t reprint, if we know it. . . .B.B.B.:
Doesn’t get near A.S.J.: Too little in it
Knt: The melancholy incident will wake a sorrowful
echo in many hearts: —
I had my last quid on a gee-gee, and he won,
Bill said I was lucky. The son of a gun!
1 was elevated, when I went up to collect.
Knowing my judgment was perfect correct.
Then Bill put his last quid on a horse,
jj And it, too, was the fastest on the course.
1 told him he was lucky, ns he collected a score.
Then he told me his judgment was never so sound
before.
The next race, our heads together, called a halt.
Then every bean we had was staked upon a prad.
Just to see if my judgment could be at fault
Just to see if Bill’s luck could be bad.
But, alas! The books had that particular nag
Well and truly in the bag.
We came to the conclusion, walking back to town,
1 nat we were stiff to have being takeing down.
....Flicker: The “Name” won’t do L.M. (Mar-
ric-kville) : Not bad verse in spots; but Hero and
Leander have been dead a very long time. . .Hecagus:
It has been done too often A.1’.0.: Very young
and crude Edwin W.: Impossible stuff... .F.E.G.:
lhe idea is old and the finish muddy....
M. (Leichhardt): “The Elopement” fizzles out
into nothing. .. .Mary C.: The yarn is too clumsily
done. The plain facts might make a par.
. ...L.0.J.: The only thing that strikes us
about “Inspiration” is the remarkable statement that
Bacchus is a goddess... .A.8.J.: Too .. .
Mary R.: About 10,000 people put the moon-rise into
rhyme every year, and they nearly all say the same
thing. ... J.F.D.: Dreary bombast... .A.S. (North
Sydney): Lumbersome verse P.P.S.: Nothing in
it 0.N.J.: Your poetry is recommended by
station-owners. Ah, but have you had it examined
by a stock-inspector?....lridos: Very, very ordinary.
. . . .11.C.R.: Don t know what it’s all about, beyond
the fact that it is night and the frogs are fighting.
....Denis Q.: Those “arms” spoil it.... J.J.D.: An
old gag heavily handled E. 8.: The “Call of the
Sea is not a “poetical effort.” It has neither
thought nor music 8.M.5.: Absolutely empty
S.W.P.: Too wooden E.M.A.: No good
A.W.M.: The only thing of interest about it is that
your “heart is breaking” in Victoria to see Aus-
tralia W.E.L.: “Inspiration” is about as inspired
as a lawn-mower... .Henry B.: Not enough interest.
....5.G.8.: Couldn’t he much worse.... David S.:
Yarn gets nowhere 11.L.M.: Not for us
D.A.1.: On the road, but some distance 0ff....
Ralph B.: Too long-drawn-out Tox: Very thin.
R.K. (Dulwich Hill): Pale tinkling stuff....
Norman B.: Looks like what you call it—“an after-
dinner spasm” E.G. (North Coast): Not up
Deeby: The crocodile yarn has no teeth... .C.V.C.:
Hangs on an absurdity.... M.F. (Wamboyne): Verse
doesn’t carry it E.F.W.J.: Try again in a few
years Kathleen D.: A hint of color and feeling,
but not enough.... G.G.M.: Old stuff and only fairly
handled. ...Angela S.: They are not good even of
their kind H.J.T.: Poor attempt to write badly.
1 our best would probably be more mirthful
Cameo: The moral tone is perfect; the verse rotten.
.... Gallahad: You have exceeded the gore-limit....
R.G.P.: Shocking.... Flicker: None of them up....
C.W.W.: Too many words and none of them worth
much Stanley W.: Not enough interest
L.C.L.P.P.; Too rugged Suffenus: Not bright
enough.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T. : Slight variation of a much better picture
in a recent Bulletin. .. .3. A. They are not saleable.
•.. . A. 8.: 0ut.... J.R.L.: Old gag, badly treated....
A.C.K.: Get someone to explain the rudiments of
perspective to y0u.... J.C.: Faulty drawing. ...
L.C.: Both 105 e.... H.G.N.: Been done before....
F.P.: Puerile pun. .. . J.lt.: A - clean miss. .. . J.M.:
Nothing in it, either way....D.H.: All below par.
•.. . R.M.: Good way to go yet Rolyat: A bad
last.


Shipping,
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
Hy way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, OCTOBER 18.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED,
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,009 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Ksq., Chairman; Hon. G. W.
Gray; James Love, Ksq.; W. H. Hart, Ksq. ;
A. C. Luya, Ksq.
General Manager —M. G. lIAYMKN.
Manager at Sydney: K. PUESCOTT WELLS.
IIICA l> OI'MCIC ... II 1C IS IIA NK.
Brunches —London, .Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WOULD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,523,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922.. £13,209,793
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman; George
F. Todman ; Duncan Carson; H. A. Russell;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: <J. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting-Manager: G. H. Westcott.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 147 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (204 Queen Street).
Chiel Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 23 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. ••
Preference Shares.. ..
Ordinary Shares .. .. ..
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits
£529,988
1,125,000
2,250,000
2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund .. .. • •
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£625,000
650,000
£1,275,000
625,000
£1,900,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADKNIIALL SiREEI, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world. ... , T .j
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest anti Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed ior single year
Yielding Reversionary Additions
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds
Annua] Income •• •• ••
1921 £1,551,188
to
.. £2,629,000
.. £47,000,000
.. £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping,
ete.
Canadi&n-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, 26th OCTOBER, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 23rd NOVEMBER,
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing’s to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States run be seen on the Journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 12th OCTOBER, 11 a.m.
MAUNGANUI, 9th NOVEMBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STIC AM SiUP CO., UNION lIOUSIC, 247 GEORGE STREET.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET.
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE.
:■>
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3i TO 4| WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
Burns-Philp Tours.
Passages booked to LONDON, EUROPE, AMERICA,
AFRICA, CHINA, JAPAN, INDIA, etc.
SPECIAL ROUND EASTERN TOURS arranged,
leaving Sydney and calling at JAVA, SINGAPORE, thence to
CHINA, JAPAN, and returning via HONGKONG, MANILA,
BORNEO, etc., or vice versa.
FIRST-CLASS THROUGHOUT, £146/10/-
BURNS-PHILP LINE to Java and Singapore.
Through Bookings to INDIA, BURMA, etc., by this
Route.
Apply for further information to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
m
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
ruWl-up Capital
Heserve Fund
Heserve Liability
Directors:
£5,640,700
3,000,000
5,640,700
£14,881,400
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
M.L.C.
K.C.M.G.,
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Frane. B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Blaclc, M.L.C.
Auditor: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
360 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
g Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up .. £3,000,000
Reserve Fund .. £3,460,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,460,000
sdfgrujmygik
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. J. W. Macarthur Onslow,
M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
11. 11. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Males and Queensland.
.London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
t Bankers—The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr's Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
and agents and correspondents throughout the world
JENOLAN CAVES TOUR PARTIES
Leave Sydney daily, 9.25 a.m. (Sunday excepted).
Inclusive Cost: 3 days, £5 55.; 4 days, £6 35.; 5 days, £7 3s.
Programme and Booking at
government tourist bureau,
OH ALLIS HOUSE (opp. G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
ShlnDin*.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
CO It MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf 1 °rt s •
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWLN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
11 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
11 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
11 Bridge St.
Howard mitli
Ltd. & Reduced,
350 George St.
•Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns,
tßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen and Towns-
ville.
Huddart Parkci L|i|
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
ST ISAM IS US TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar Bailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation. „ _ , . ~ , .
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Ifobait
and vice versa fortnightly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For Tull particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney^
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from Sydney only 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, MacdoiuTd,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
* Navigation Co. Ltd.
Oil BAREST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at 7 p.m. ;
passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. BURRINGBAIt SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at i p.m.
Through Fare, including:
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast. ,
For further particulars apply: —
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX SlltEEl, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VII LE THURSDAY ISLAND,ZAMBOANGA,MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Steamer.
TANGO MARU
VOSHINO MARU
AKI MARU
Monthl.v
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
mnnev freight, etc., apply to
money, b NI ’ ppol j yUSEN KAISIIA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney,
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton,
BRISBANE.
Cable address
“IROQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Eltzroy Estates, Eta.
Black health Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., ■ Ltd. V. k O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of* New Zealand, Ltd. Iluddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cook town-


ol;iu
Here-is just one of many voluntary tributes. It
was sent by a Clergyman.
" I have had in constant use, for the last eighteen years,
one of'your Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pens and it is as
good to-day as when I first had it presented to me.”
Eighteen years is a longtime, but then Waterman's
Ideal is made to last a lifetime. There is no
better pen, and no finer or more appreciated' gift.
Waterman’s
Three Types : Self-Filling, Safety, and Regular.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ltd., (Tenter London, England
Australia: HAROLD D. DIXON, 105, Clarence St., Sydney
deg
FountamPen
;ylm
DENTAL
REA
M
C
Feel your Teeth
with your tongue when using ordinary tooth
paste.
Feel them again
after brushing with Kolynos Dental Cream. Such
a difference! That smooth, polished feeling is
imparted by Kolynos which cleans thoroughly
without scratching.
DENTAL CREAM
By its antiseptic properties, produces a condition
of cleanliness in the mouth hitherto be-
lived impossible. Being absolutely free from
grit, it effectively removes the bacteria-
retaining film without injury to the pre-
cious enamel. Use Kolynos and safeguard the
future of your teeth. Obtainable of all chemists,
druggists, etc.
TEST A FREE SAMPLE
Please send me a free sample
of Kolynos Dental Cream
Name ,
{Mr.. Miss, or Mrs.)
Address
To --
“B.”'
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
ELLIOTT BROS. LTD., O’Connell Street, Sydney; FELTON
GRIMWADE & CO. PTY. LTD., 342-346 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne; ELLIOTT BROS. LTD., Eagle Street, Bris-
bane ;A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., 42-46 Currie
Street, Adelaide; FELTON, GRIMWADE & BICKFORD
LTD., Wellington Street, Perth.
K.lOl
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
Everything* for TENNIS.
£
&
ILJa
jit
£
u//,
5s
-
rackets.
4. M.S. National
5. M.S. Special or Premier
10. Donl)le Strung
11. Hay market
15. Britannic, concave throat
10. Oceanic, concave throat
17. Titanic, concave throat
18. Cyclonic, concave throat
Ift. Bussey’s Standard
20. ~ Conqueror
21. „ Handicap
22. „ A 1
23. .. Invincible
24. Ayre’s Sandown
25. ~ Handicap
20. „ A 1
trip
37.
40.
42.
4:;.
44.
4.7.
48.
52.
53.
54.
Ay re's Matador
„ Central Strung
Special Sample, cork-ribbed
Spalding’s Tournament
~ Continental
„ Gold Medal
Davis Riseley Hexagon
Slazenger’s Renshaw
„ Wkitehouse
Imperial
Classic
B.G.M
Rambert Chambers..
Dee’s Senaca
Spartan
Church
The Winner
H. C
55/-
60/-
42/-
49 / <i
55/-
70/-
87/6
45/-
63/-
77/6
80/-
85/-
90/-
55/-
70/-
90/-
95/-
RACKET REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Doz
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion, 1922 2/ 7 30/-
SLAZENGER’S Championship, 1922
Each. l>oz.
Ayre’s Court .... 2/2 25/-
Ayre’s Champion, 1922 2/ 9 82 '•
(airtight tins) 32/-
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Aeme (square) Posts, pair 105/-
Tennis Court Markers 37/6
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Gut Solution, for renovating tlie strings
of rackets, bottle
1/'
Each.
Racket Covers 2/6, 5/6, 7/'
Tennis Ratchet 7/0
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/0
Racket Handle Grips . . 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books J/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6, 6/0
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-
illustrated tennis price list free
ODI REQUEST.
BOXING
GLOVES
I ' /
:
\ \
M
3
&
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES
Set of 4.
(J. 8.8., real leather, special value 12/6, 13/6
C. 8.8. Fighting, tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 16/6, 18/6, 21/-, 23/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz., 25/-, 30/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms, 6 or S oz 35/-, 40/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively used by
Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by Mr.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
BOYS’ GLOVES. Set of 4
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed •■•••••• "/ " )’ n '~ Q
Leather „ „ laced palms »/-, if/ o, 12/a
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
TOCIv STRAPS, best quality (Postage 3d.) 6/6, 7/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, English Leather, extra light, weight 3ioz. (Postage 6ip].), 15/6, 17/6 pair.
Price List of Boxing Gloves, Punching Balls, etc., post free!
PUNCHING BALLS.
\
i
THE
ARMY
PORTABLE
the expert
ARMY, Swinging Ball, reg., for fast work, 10/6, 13/C, 17/6, 21/-. 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable
and perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, elastic cord for floor and-rope for ceiling.. 12/6, 15/6
expert, double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light.... 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings,
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.) 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and bladder
complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) 105/-
All above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
SUNDRIES.
Ball and Socket Swivels • • 1/6, 5/6 each
Double-action Swivels, 6/- each. Ball-bearing Swivels 10/6 each
Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pair. Punching Platforms, 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
XjK^SimmonsM
Australia’s Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; Edward St., BRISBANE.


Do You Wear
False Teeth?
Do You Keep
them Clean?
Whether they are vulcanite or gold plates they need careful cleaning,
for germs can collect on false teeth as well as real ones, and they
must not become scratched, or germs will find an abiding place in
the crevices.
Plaza Dental Soap is especially designed for cleansing artificial teeth.
It will not scratch or injure the most delicate plate. It is good for
the natural teeth, too, but its chief object is to cleanse your false
ones. In a clear glass container it stands in a class of its own the
latest and most scientific cleanser that any dentist can recom-
mend. Take care of your false teeth!
Plaza Dental Soap, for Cleansing Artificial Teeth, 1/6. Sold
everywhere, or post free upon receipt of the price, from the Manu-
facturers, Sheldon Drug Qo., Ltd., 1 31-35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dental Soap
For Cleansing Artificial Teeth,
United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
a
'
£
0
m
o
n«*
mimim
ftp*
m
*Royal Cord ’ ’Nobby’ ’Chain' ’Llsco
THE. WORLD’S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
On Weddin Slopes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON plains of promise, rolling west
Of Mount Wehogo’s timbered crest,
Afar the planted soil is shot
\\ itli many a red and fallowed plot,
And lovely is the matin song
From Sandy Creek to W yalong.
The blessed aftermath of rain
Has carpeted the Grawlin plain,
While Spring, already wild with mirth,
Has touched the harp-strings of the earth,
And melted are the shadows black
From many a faint, forgotten track.
The kiss of Nature seems to change
With rarer tints the Weddin Range,
Upon whose crest a boulder tall
Was once the watch-tower of Hen Hall,
When far afield his searching eyes
Beheld the signal smoke arise.
Grey Time has smoothed the pounded sod ;
The dry and dreary tracks he trod ;
And many a year the plough has turned
The turf his speedy charger spurned,
When, spurring swiftly to and fro,
He fooled his hunters long ago.
But only greyer Time shall fade
The trees, within whose ample shade
He halted in the breathless noon,
With spirit low and head a-swoon,
Half blinded by the mocking haze—
An outlaw of the golden days.
The slopes he roved are cleared and tilled,
And year by year the wealth is milled
From harvest fields of bronze and gold
That clear and kindly eyes behold.
When fierce November blazes down,
And fires the roofs of Grenfell Town.
Still winds afar the golden road
Whereon the wary escorts strode
When danger marred the wooded miles,
And peace and plenty proudly smiles
On pastures rolling east and west
Of Mount Wehogo s timbered crest.
N.S.W.
GERARDY.
Marriage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HOMEBOYNE JACK sat on the bank of
the creek with a green boomerang in
one hand and a piece of broken bottle
in the other, whittling away without enthu-
siasm. His heart was not in the business:
indeed, it was definitely somewhere else.
Ever since the first Spring days had. come
rhe camp had worn a deserted appearance,
t here were no corroborees at night, no poker
in the afternoons and no feasting on fresh
meat round the fires. The visiting tribe had
ione and Hoineboyne Jack was bored.
Over on the other side he could see the
nation homestead, its pis 6 walls looking
very white against the green of the popper-
ina-trees, and the herbage of the night-pad-
doclc. But there was no movement either
round the woodheap or at the yards.
On Homeboyne Jack’s side of the creek
things were just as bad. The camp dozed
in the afternoon heat, and there was no
one visible except the old king, who was
stalking about in his shirt muttering to
himself, a ghost-like figure with white hair
and skinny legs. He was an unsociable per-
son and a little mad. Most of the young
men were out with the weaners, and the
older ones were ringbarking or taking out
suckers from the night-paddock.
So deep was Homeboyne Jack s unrest,
that he would have gone to the boss and
asked for work, too, had he not been sure
that he would be put on to suckering or herd-
ing weaners —jobs he loathed with all his
sou l- . . „ , . ,
“Catebum cattle, all right, lie had
summed it up. “Brandum calf, all right.
Mindum weaner, no good that one.’
For Homeboyne .Tack was a convivial
person, and did not want to spend his nights
out at the back of the run. He liked sing-
ing, dancing, quarrelling—indeed, any form
of excitement, and was the best mimic in
the camp. One eye had been lost in an
encounter with a young steer in the brand-
ing-yard 20 years before, and the other
squinted atrociously, but these things added
to his equipment as an artist, and so did
the fact that his big, loose mouth could be
twisted to any shape. At his best he could
keep the camp in roars of laughter.
But just now he was not at his best. Since
the day, six months ago, when his gin had
been buried in the mulga with her feet to
the sun, lie had been vaguely conscious of
a vacuum in liis life. That vacuum could
have been easily filled by Lottie, who bad
been given to him by a near relation when
she was five, but Lottie had grown to a
young woman with a will of her own. She,
had steadily refused to go near his gunyali,
and had poked borak at him in the presence
of the overseer’s wife.
“Homeboyne Jack no good, missus, stie
affirmed. “Eye belonga him walk about too
much. Hair belonga him too much like
flour. Him dose up ol’ man. Me no be-
longa that fella. No fear !”
Yet she had been given to him by a near
relation from another tribe! All the old
men in the camp could confirm that. But
they were half-hearted in consenting to re-
member the transaction, and Lottie was sup-
ported in her attitude by the young women
—Hector’s Nellie and the rest. So for six
months things had been at a deadlock.
But to Homeboyne Jack the most galling
part of it was the presence of a rival in
the field, and lie felt be could not afford to
play a waiting game. He knew very
well where Lottie was spending her time.
She and the other young men had trailed up
rhe road to the stock-route gate, where Itam
C'hundra was camped with his cart full of
red twill, billycans and colored gewgaws,
and they would not be back till sundown.
The hawker’s cart had been bis own favo-
rite haunt while he bad a few shillings to
spend, for he could sit for hours looking at
pocket-knives and shining jackshays: but a
conviction had entered his mind that the
Afghan was not there for commerce _ alone.
Why should he stay so long when it was
obvious to everyone that there was no money
left in the camp? The suspicion in Ilome-
boyne Jack’s mind had lent him enough cour-
age to approach the overseer.
“What name you let that fella sit down
longa here?” he asked. “No good, that one.
Him cheeky fella. Altogether too much.”
The overseer had laughed and said lightly:
“Oh, I’ll shift the beggar before long. Don’t
you worry.”
That was over a week ago, though, and
nothing effective had been done. One morn-
ing Ram Chandra had harnessed his horses
ostentatiously in the sight of the overseer
and had driven off down the road, but he
was back again in almost the same place
before nightfall. A born tactician, he knew
just how far he could go without provoking
trouble, and he did not obtrude himself or
let his hobbled horses run in the fenced pad-
docks.
Perhaps he was not aware of the duel
going on between himself and Ilomeboyne
Jack ; he was too preoccupied with the con-
flict in his own mind. In that dark recess
commerce and romance fought for the mas-
tery. lie knew very well that he had cleaned
out the camp, and that down the creek there
were other stations with more money; but
he had learnt that the straight, lithe girl
with the impudent eyes did not owe alle-
giance to anyone in particular. And so he
sat all afternoon at the back of the cov-
ered cart with a piece of red cloth flung
carelessly over his knees, and talked and
joked with the young women.
The soft thud of hoofs coming down the
road roused Ilomeboyne .Tack from his leth-
argy. He sat up suddenly to see a man in
a flannel shirt and corduroy trousers dis-
mounting at the yard, leaving his dusty pack-
horse to graze among the herbage. It. was
Doyle, the mounted constable from Beulah,
going on one of his irregular rounds.
The idea in Ilomeboyne Jack’s mind for-
mulated itself so slowly that he was over
the creek and half-way down to the wood-
heap before he was really conscious of his
purpose, lie had never stood in awe of the
trooper like some of the rest. Doyle took
him for a humorist, and they had laughed
and joked together often. This familiarity
with the law hail given Ilomeboyne Jack
most of his prestige at the camp, but never
was he so fully aware of its value as now.
Sitting on the woodheap anil looking in
through the half-open door of the store made
him think of Ram Chundra, for there toma-
hawks and tinware w 7 ere scattered about in
the same delightful profusion as in the cov-
ered cart. He sat gazing at them with his
one efficient eye. sucking in the smell ol
their newness, till Doyle came down the
track.
“Well, Jack,” he said jovially, how goes
it?”
The blackfellow squinted up at him and
gave a nervous grin.
“No good, boss,” he replied.
“What name no good?” quizzed Doyle.
“Plenty spell. Plenty tucker. You young
fella yet, Jack. What name no good ?
“Me young fella yet, boss,” said Jack,
“but that Lottie —she thinkit me old. fella.
Too much cheeky that one altogether. She
walk about everywhere. She no sit down
longa my gunyah. No sit down at all.”
Doyle chuckled. He w 7 as a big man with
a thick neck and a low 7 forehead half-covered
with dark hair, and he had some little experi-
ence of domestic trouble himself.
“You sing out longa her, Jack,” he said.
“You sing out loud, big mob. You plenty
strong fella.” ~
The great idea in Ilomeboyne Jack s nund
came out in a flash.
“More better you sing out longa her, boss,
he said with a grin. “That one plenty
frightened longa you. My word !”
The trooper moved along to the gate, tap-
ping his whip on his leg, a little flattered in
spite of himself. .
“All right, Jack,” he said, “I’ll see if I
can settle it.”
He was as good as his word. That night
when the tires had been lit and the ring-
barkers had come in there wms a thick smell
of half-cooked food in the camp and a
chatter of men, women and dogs; but llonie-
boyne Jack sat apart from the rest and
waited expectantly. He had a boundless
faith in the magic of the law 7. A word or
two from the trooper, lie_ felt, was _ better
than any amount of jumping over sticks or
tribal incantations.
The sudden barking of (logs made the old
men leap up and the piccaninnies rush to
their mothers’ skirts, and amid the dancing
shadows Doyle appeared. A tremulous flut-
ter ran through the camp. Each man won-
dered how he hail transgressed the mysteri-
ous law 7, and could fix on nothing but the
fact that Hector had given the coachdriver
money to bring a bottle of rum or pain-
killer' from the township. But Doyle looked
at the shrinking faces with tolerant good
humor.
“Where’s Lottie?” he demanded.
A dozen hands were stretched out t<> push
the retreating Lottie forward to the sacri-
fice. A well-built girl of 15, she looked at
Doyle half-shyly, half-defiantly, from under
a mass of tangled hair. A few of the young
women giggled, and through the circle of
spectators Ilomeboyne Jack edged his way
expectantly, Ins hat off and his trousers
rolled up to disclose a pair of skinny shanks.
“Here you, Lottie,” said Doyle. “What
name this longa you? You belonga Ilome-
boyne Jack. You his missus. What name
you no sit dow n longa his gunyah ?”
There was no reply. Rebellion, fear, con-
tempt looked out together from Lottie’s
black eyes. Ilomeboyne Jack was merely
the low comedian of the camp, and besides
he was old. She had no idea of wasting
her youth sitting down in his gunyah.
Doyle fossicked in a limited vocabulary
for words of persuasion and authority.
"No good that one,” he said. “No good
at all. White Mary no w 7 alk about all day.
She belonga one boss, sit down longa one
house. My word! Ilomeboyne Jack, he
good fella.’
The latter squinted bis single eye in
assent, and grinned towards the audience,
then spat with precision into the
tire. But Lottie still looked sulkily at the
ground. Feeling that so much persuasion
was beneath him. Doyle made them take
hands and mumbled an incantation com-
posed of as many legal phrases as he could
remember. Then, with some good-humored
words of advice, he turned round and left
the camp.
His analysis of the situation was very
simple anil quite personal. An unattached
voung woman was always a source of trouble
in a camp, and might provide a lot of worry
for him in the end. There was always the
(Continued on next page.)


"Every Pieture
tellh a Story*
m
K
Is Every Day a
Backache Day?
Are you dragging along day after day, with a dull,
nagging backache? Does morning find you tired, lame
and stiff? And when evening comes are you all worn
out —barely able to finish the day’s duties and drag
yourself to bed? Truly, life can hold few pleasures when
you feel so miserable. But don’t be discouraged! Just
realise that a cold, a chill or a strain has likely weakened
, # your kidneys and brought on that all-day backache;
those sudden stabbing pains; the headaches, dizziness and bladder difficulties. But, fortunately,
kidney disoiders are usually easily corrected, if treated promptly. So don’t worry! Simply take
things easier for awhile get plenty of rest and sleep, and help your weakened kidneys with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. Doan s have helped thousands and should help you. Ask your neighbor!
CONVINCING SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
Mrs. S. T. Burrows, 19 Springside Street, Rozelle, Sydney, says:
In common with many others I have nothing but good to sav for
Doan s Backache Kidney I ills. Some few years ago I was suffering
a lot with my kidneys, and in consequence was troubled with pains
across the small .of my back and dizzy feelings, besides having no
energy for anything One day my attention was called to Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and, in the hope that they might benefit me, I
got a bottle. After taking them for a few days my health began
to improve, and by the time I had used six bottles I was completely
cured. lam very grateful to Doan’s Pills for the good they have
done me, and hope many will profit by my experience and use this
splendid remedy. I never suffer with backache mow; in fact feel
splendid in every way.”
Four years later Mrs. Burrows says: “I have had no reason to
alter my good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured
me some years ago, and I am still well.”
u-i r ’ os '. 6 Windsor Street, Paddington, Sydney, says:
I* or some time my health was far from good, due to the fact that
my kidneys were very disordered. I knew this to be the case, as I had
aching pains in my back, was always tired and languid, and could not
get proper rest at night. When I first began to feel off color I did
not bother about it, thinking I would soon be all right again, but
this is where I made the mistake. I got worse instead of better, and
by the time Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were recommended to me
I was suffering a good deal. A friend advised me to try these pills,
so I got some, and, after taking them for a few days my health began
to improve, and by the time I had used five bottles I was cured. I
feel grand now, thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Six years later Mr. Goddard says: “I am still well, and have had
no return of my old complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me over six years ago.”
tnfgdhs
vdfgb
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
chance of a quarrel arising and a tomahawk
being whipped out recklessly, necessitating
a long ride for him when he had other work
to do. He chuckled with satisfaction as
he crossed the creek and made his way back
to the homestead.
The camp slept. One by one the fires
died down to white ash, and there was no
sound save the uneasy stirring of the dogs
as they moved round like ghosts and tried
to make precautions against the coming cold.
On the other side of the creek the homestead
showed no lights, for the men were away
froth the huts and the others had gone to
bed early. But a mile up the road, where
the stock-route branched off suddenly from
the main track, there was a faint tinkle of
horse-bells, and a fire still winked through
the mulga.
Ram Chundra had not gone to sleep, for
his mind was in a state of indecision, and
he was altogether uneasy. He felt it was
no use staying much longer, for, although
he had given away some of his best cloth
for next to nothing he had not made much
advance toward his main object. The girl
was as elusive as an opium dream. Then
there were the camps waiting down the
river. If he did not hurry the blacks there
would have spent all their money.
There were other pressing considerations,
too. The overseer had warned him off more
than once, and that afternoon, when he was
taking his horses through the gate for a
drink, he had seen the trooper ride down
toward the homestead. For several reasons
he stood in awe of Doyle, and he was rest-
less to be on the road again. There was
only this great absorbing infatuation to keep
him tied.
He stood up and knocked the ashes from
his pipe. Something crackled among the
timber, and his pulses leapt like the spring
of a trap.
“Who there?” he demanded.
There was a moment’s silence, and then
the girl stepped out of the timber, looking
shy and wild in the glare of the yellow light.
She sidled up to the fire and grinned ner-
vously.
“Me come longa you,” she said.
Ram Chundra could hardly believe the
evidence of his senses. He felt excited and
transformed, and thought of the prayer he
had uttered that night as he slit the throat
of a fowl, his face toward the setting sun.
But it was only for a moment that lie was
overcome. His practical nature was quick
to assert itself.
“Good!” lie said, smiling. “We go now—
we go quick.”
And taking the winkers from the back of
the cart he went swiftly for the horses.
VANCE PALMER.
Aliens.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
u AYER!” moaned Roaing, the Malay,
tossing unconscious on his rough
hessian bunk.
This, with the monotonous restlessness of
his movements, was the only sound; for the
Chinaman, Ming, slept silently in a shrivelled
heap near the doorway on the sand floor of
the hut. It was a mere shed of boughs,
little more than a mia-mia, dim now in the
misty greyness of piccaninny daylight. An
irregular haze of dull silver gave to the sur-
rounding gidya scrub the softness of a
dreamy painting. Higher, the barren line
of the valley eastward, relieved by one great
granite knob, still dammed the rising tide
of the dawn. But soon the light poured
over, turning the rubble into a lava of rose
and pearl, and foaming into white cataracts
where the gouged-out quartzite lay scattered
in low heaps alongside discarded workings.
Ming stirred as the rays reached him, sit-
ting up with a weak jerk sideways toward
the door. At that very moment, while he
blinked his shrunken eyes against the light,
a vague shape came over the rise, descending
in the pathway of the sun. It was Hassan,
riding on his camel. He was called Arab
Hassan. This amplification had its origin
in some vain distinction of his own; but,
though it differentiated him from the Afghan
camel-men, it proceeded from the same casual
derision as the abbreviated. term “Ghans,”
which is applied to them, and by which they
are known throughout the North, from Ood-
nadatta even to such remote places as the
Split Creek wolfram field.
He sat the camel with the practised swing
that makes a grace of the animal’s ungainli-
ness. At the customary “Hooshta!” it
knelt before the hut. Arab Hassan got
down with the slow movements of a weary
man. He made no attempt to hopple or
tether the beast, which, finding itself free,
lurched away suddenly, twitching its parched
mouth and nosing the sterile gravel.
The Chinaman waited for Hassan to
speak, but at last uttered a faint, husky
question:—■
“Claypan dry?”
“Dry as your bones be soon,” was the
gruff answer of the Arab, as he squatted
on his long haunches beside the doorway.
He did not give his questioner so much as a
glance, but stared with stony black eyes
across to a little mound, which, a hundred
yards or so away, lie had with his own hands
raised and rounded to a cupola sprinkled with
sand. It was not unlike one of those castles
which children build at the seaside, and, just
as they use crude ornaments of weed and
shell, lie had bedecked it barbarously with
roughly-polished bits of colored quartz, scraps
of jasper and porphyritic purple. Over the
mound leaned a famished corkwood-tree,
which alternately flowered and wilted, accord-
ing to the season.
Ming and Roaing and Arab Hassan were
the only men now left on the Split Creek
field. There was still plenty of ore to be
had, but ail the other miners had gone away
weeks ago. Many left as soon as news of
the slump in the metal market reached the
place. The drop in prices had been rapid,
but it came to the men at Split Creek with
a suddenness that was nothing less than
catastrophic. The camel-team which brought
stores from Oodnadatta—some 700 miles off
—took away wolfram as a back loading.
Coming again one day after the usual inter-
val of about three months, it brought from
the brokers in Adelaide greatly diminished re-
turns, together with their typewritten regrets.
The difference in price would have been seri-
ous enough under any circumstances, but,
when combined with transport charges of
£4O a ton on stores brought up and £3O a
ton on wolfram taken back, it put an end to
further profitable working. Some of the
miners went oft' at once —southward with the
camels, or east across the Elkedra desert,
even northward to Darwin. Others hung
on for the chance of good prices again, but
most of them soon straggled away. To make
matters worse for the few who remained, the
creek began to dry. This had happened in
previous years, but never before had the
Kurali Waterhole failed. So then they all
went —all except Ming the Chinaman, the
Malay Roaing, and Arab Hassan. Ming,
old and feeble, stayed where he was from
mere desuetude, and because nobody troubled
to persuade him out of his racial passivity.
Roaing was then already stricken w r itli fever;
and, when a journey has to be made across
a.n 80-mile dry stage, a sick man who cannot
walk must at least be able to sit without
falling from the back of the animal that is
offered to carry him. As for Hassan, he
had (so they said when he waved them off
with sullen refusals) become quite mad, and
he stayed behind for the folly of a whim
that had already ruined him.
Arab Hassan, a gaunt, black-bearded,
black-eyed braggart, had first come to Split
Creek with a string of camels carrying sup-
plies. There, after several sucli journeys,
a black woman bore him a child, of whom he
took no notice at first. The child was a
girl, and, as she played about with the men
and amongst the blacks of the place, she
grew to have more of the aquiline Semitic
appearance of her father than of the mother’s
spread coarseness of feature. lie, noticing
this one day, stopped midway in his stride
to stare at her.
“Oh, my little dark flower!” he cried,
catching her up in a rough joy. “See how
I pluck thee to wear!” This was spoken,
as all his moods of passion were, in his own
tongue, in which he boasted eloquence, though
he was often incoherent in the language of
his daily traffic.
He perched the child on the foremost of
his camels going south, and led her off with
noisy happiness, sped by the cheers of the
laughing camp. From that time he took
her, half-naked and as merry as himself,
wherever he went, till one day, reaching Split
Creek on the upward journey, he sorrow-
fully brought her limp in his arms, sick with
the heat of the sun. Carelessly and bravely
he had loved her, as a strong man should
love, and of this carelessness she died. Then
Arab Hassan grew morose, moping and
mumbling over the little one’s grave. His
sorrow became a quiet madness of hanging
hands. Sometimes he would sit doing nothing
all day, or reading from a rageed Koran
which he always carried, or merely fingering
it idly. He roused himself only enough to
search along the gullies for colored quartzes
with which to bedizen the mound he had
heaped above her body. His camels roamed
about the creek-bed untended. Several
wandered away altogether, two perished
through eating the poison-bush, and another
slipped into a waterhole and died. At last,
when the field was deserted, he caught one
beast that remained, and, with the late sun
throwing a long shadow before him, set off
in the extremity of thirst toward a claypan
20 miles distant. Jydll
“There was little much to soak un—
muddy too!” He muttered this half to
self, shaking lus head slowly. The sunlight
was growing hotter, so he rose stiffly an<
stood in.side the doorway of the hut leaning
there with his gaze still fixed outward
Behind him lioaing turned in his delirium '
“Ayer !” he moaned.
“He means water,” said Hassan, f rotß
the vanity of being able to translate a word
of Malay that he knew. He glanced at
the saddle which lie had flung on the ground
To one side of it was roped a.n empty drum
upon which it leaned. On the other side
hung a small waterbag, drooping one fuii
corner, and shaded, as it swung, by the humr
of the arch. The sunlight shone hotly on
the thin, tawny tufts of herbage that "still
held root in the unfriendly soil. Here and
there little chasms of shade showed whert
worlcings had been cut into the hill—mere
blots on a harsh general brightness. Higher
the hard gleam of black ridges showed a
streak or two of dazzlingly white quartz out-
crop, startling the eye with its incongruous
brilliancy, as shrieks breaking a deep silence
startle the ears. Arab Hassan stared with-
out flinching at all this pitiless brightness-
challenged it with his mad black eyes, and
spoke out of the violence of his soul in his
own language:—
“What is a drop of water to dead men:
Have I not gained it of my own peril? He
who is sick here is also a true believer, but
the other is a yellow dog at my feet. The
sick man is nearer death than I; and if my
cracking lips forego drink, it is because
neither I any more than he may hope for life
of it. My father was rich, but imagined
himself a Mahdi of the last days. I, too,
rave, but am not deceived, for I have wan-
dered far in the world with nothing but the
echo of my own words, which were dreams
that no man about me understood. These!
men have their goods and their wives—each
man one wife, 1m! ha! I have not defied
Allah. The mother of my child was a filthy
thing, but did not the prophet himself step
aside for a woman of Egypt? Oh, my child
—my little weed-flower that the sun
withered ! But I defy the sun !”
ITe moved suddenly forward, stooped to
tear the waterbag from the string that held
it to the saddle, and strode fiercely across to
the mounded grave. There he poured out
the water to the last drop, and then returned
to the hut. The Chinaman, watching him,
had half-risen, and, supporting himself in a
kneeling position, stared up at the Aral)
with astonishment and dismay in his eyes.
Hassan glared at him scornfully and made
as if to spurn him with his foot, but merely
turned away again, lifting his face to the
sky and reciting certain words of Mahomet:
“ ‘This eases the afflicted heart. Though
it neither profits nor injures the dead, yet
it is a comfort to the living.’ ”
Ming, without understanding what was
said, sank back scowling.
“Blutty fool!” he muttered.
“Ayer!” moaned the sick man inside the
hut.
Arab Hassan sat down and waited.
FREDEBICK T. MACARTNEY.


Tt-
'clyS
i
... •■ ss
:f
IS»
wmta.v
■ s
10
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agente-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-IC7 Fsatlierstori Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—BB Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, NS. WALES
Refrigerating U Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probaL.lv
their ECONOMY IN UUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions thev can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J.
&
LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
Perfect Gifts
The leading pen is always
an acceptable gift. It is
the symbol of friendship,
for with every use it will
inspire a kindly thought of
the donor. It is a beautiful
gift, yet useful and lasting,
and will prove a constant
pocket or desk companion.
SWAN
PeWNTPINS
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Self-filling Patterns, Standard Patterns,
Safety Patterns. Illustrated List post free.
MABIE, TODD S CO., LTD.,
Swan House, 133-135, Oxford Street, London, W.l
Manchester, Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Sydney, Toronto and
Cape Town. Associate House: Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc.
New York, Chicago.
Australian Branch (Wholesale):
J. A. BURKE, 5, Primrose Buildings, 255 a, George
Street. SYDNEY.
'//s*
dtyh
/
‘Wetproof” and Dependability
“WETPROOF” is a coined
word; it is a REMINGTON
word and stands for the special
patented process with which all
Remington UMC shotgun car-
tridges are now treated. Car-
tridge cases have long been made
of so-called waterproofed paper but
this exclusive “WETPROOF” pro-
cess is something different. It is a
forward step in the manufacture of shot-
un cartridges. - ■
he wetproof compound or special oils
is applied, not, only to the body, but
also to the top of the cartridge after
loading, effectively sealing it against
moisture and giving to the contents that
protection which insures uniformity of
ignition, pattern, speed and penetration.
Sportsmen need not fear the effect of rain
or damp weather on their shotgun car-
tridges if they use REMINGTON UMC
brands treated with this special, patented
"WETPROOF” process.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. Brysnl, Aavlvatian
Representative, Box 68$,
G.P.O, Melbourne
D.
IZCA *H*l
arrow
% tr>
0128
*
••mill
ill®
liin
M
will'
V
(IlllllH*
•••Him
iiiiiiin
lillllPjjjnpf 111
"Bmsu
IllMBllrf"" jr*
""''iHlIllllillSftllllJ
IQIIWSiJ"' |||
x
tfmgUjC
- ~|* ®siiSgj
- *SmBB
uitit
.iMrinti.
What is the
cost of every
broken
Hacksaw
Blade?
: &M9m
wmm
wsm
•\kM
wmm
mmm
mm
A
mmm
Ims«
|
W
nil
Vs*? ! -■$VKw& *iAiV
A
MORE than the small
cost of the blade,
surely. There’s the time
taken to get another one
to replace it. There’s the
loss in actual production.
Far greater items than
the trifling expense of a
new blade. The more regu-
lar the breaking then the
greater the ' consequent
expense and loss in pro-
duction. You can calcu-
late that loss in many
pounds over the year. It
is more than economy to
employ only the best
blades that money can
buy.
“BALFOUR’S”
Tungsten Steel Blades
will serve you better and cut a lot of that yearly loss. Note that
they are guaranteed Tungsten Steel —the most serviceable steel put
into a hacksaw blade. They cut better, wear longer, and are less
liable to breakage than the hacksaw blade of ordinary commercial
quality. We supply various lengths, widths and gauges for hand
and power work. Send a trial order for “Balfour’s” Tungsten
Blades and tell us the number of teeth per inch required. Ask for
special booklet, “Balfour’s Hints on Steel.”
THE EAGLE AND GLOBE
STEEL CO. LTD.,
Associated Company ARTHUR BALFOUR & CO., LTD., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanston Street, Melbourne; Cliff Street,
Fremantle; 46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie. Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street,
Newcastle; H. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street, Hobart; John Reid & Nephews.
34-36 Charlotte Street. Brisbane: Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie
Street, Adelaide.
R. G. WATKINS <SL CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
y. MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.


m
(■id a rs
"The Spirit of
YOUTH
Youth is simply the art of living.
Age alone is a matter of years.
A man remains young just as
long as he is able to appreciate
the things in life that never grow
old—the. wonder of Nature, the
pleasure of friendship, or the
infinite delight of
DEWAR'S
