

0
%
•v tf
**»».*%
yr
■f*a+
m
'V#
<r>
**C 4 +>~
m
Wf:U
UK
***
sp
£
»
M
IN E.
Telegrams & Cables:
"THOMPSON’S
CASTLEM AINE.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and I 13.
V I CT
lA,
ALIA.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
Largest Manufacturers of
Quick-Revolution Engines and Turbine
Pumps in Australia.
Highest
Efficiencies
Guaranteed
lS*»*' a s£sPl
11
•mm
%
.
Vertical Triple Expansion Quick Revolution Engine,
650 b.h.p., at 400 r.p.m.
Engines and
Pumps for
Any Purpose
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newtown, McLaren, Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co., Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Dureau, Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman, Son & Deekes, Fenchurch Street.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2219.
Thursday, August 24, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


w 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
_ _
Nei
Ported free to any address
now ready
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George
treet,
HI
1
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super- remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HE ARNE & Co* Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
«sr
COLDS
COUCHS
0
C«PW»
LUNG
TROVBiU
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
93EE3
BflW 0
*h Office:- x
2 Bofid Street, h
SYDNEY-
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
p
LMh
m
m
Manufacturers Reduce Expenses
with Mangrovite Leather Belting.
Every power-plant owner can secure absolute belting
efficiency with properly installed Mangrovite Leather
or Raw-Hide Belting.
It succeeds invariably by its unique virtues of
quality, worth and wear. Write or call to-day.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUOOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wyhyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Lj>d., Adelaide.
WEST. AUSTRALIA : Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henrv Clark k Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philio Frankel k Co.. Ltd.. BrLi.nne,
Made in Australia
THE BEST
CAN BE
’S EUMENTHOL
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic Known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion ; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
B
A. The f.ary mx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
The Bronchi.! i
Tubes of Dissectff
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs,
The Red Page
Britain in the Melting-pot.
“England To-day/’ by George A. Greenwood.
(George Aliev & Unwin, Ltd.)
— .
The late war and the peace which fol-
lowed it precipitated a social crisis in Eng-
land, the gradual approach of which observ-
ers had been noting for a quarter of a cen-
tury. In the past seven years the social
order has been more violently affected than
by a century of peace, and it is to-day in a
state of flux, the final form of which cannot
possibly be foretold. It is likely that the
England that is to be will resemble but
.the England that, was, though no
one cun- yet say with authority to what
extent the two will differ. One may
go so far, indeed, as to say that in
outward essentials tney will remain not dis-
similar, though the spirit moving within
may, and probably will, be vastly different.
'George A. Greenwood, an author aud inves-
tigator of the restrained type, makes no
effort to outline the future, lie is content
to record tile changes winch are in progress,
and to note the directions to which they
tend.
Tne first business of the student of soci-
ology is to obtain/an adequate idea of the
society he is considering. In England, be-
fore the war. it consisted of the masses, the
middle classes and the aristocracy. To-day,
it consists of . a fusion of the masses and tlie
I middle class, whilst the aristocracy, or \y licit
remains of it, has had grafted on to it a
plutocracy. The masses and the middle-
class section of society represent approxi-
mately 85 per cent, of tne population. These
are the average units, the men, women and
.children in the street, who all ought to
(have the same ideas, the same ambitions
;aud the same hopes, joys, sorrows and dis-
appointments. The remaining 15 per cent,
is composed of the landed class, the aris-
jtoeracy, plutocracy and that section of the
middle class which has elected to hang to
the coat-tails of the mighty. The main
fact of the century of development which
(preceded the war was that, in material con-
ititions, the great industrial population was
jtio better off at the end than at the begin-
ning of the period. The war, a century
pf revolution packed into less than a decade,
so far as the multitude was concerned, hac
no greater effect. The standard of lift
amongst the great majority is no better
to-day than it was iff 1914, and it was no
better in 1914 than it was when Queen
Victoria ascended the throne. Indeed, as
regards the war-period, it is incontestable
that though a small minority are better
off, the great majority are definitely living
iff more impoverished conditions aiid with
a more hopeless outlook upon life. Of all
the great truths which have been brought
homo to us, the most important is that
High wages and a high standard of living
ire by no means as closely related as union
leaders would wish us to believe. The solu-
tion of industrial unrest and of social dis-
order has its root in the housing problem,
and the Government which neglects to
solve that problem is, to say the least,
provocative of labor trouble and economic
extravagance. Squalor, disease and degra-
dation are the hallmarks of British indus-
trial areas. Port Sunlight is an example
of what could be, not a sample of what is.
The drabness of life in “Struggledom” and
the terror of unemployment are the curses
of the modern factory system. They have
resulted in definite tendencies—the demand
for an over-adequate or even an unfair
wage; the growth of the go-slow policy;
the quest after cheap amusement; the laxity
of parental control; and, most important
of all, a realisation of the political power
of the masses. Resulting from these ten-
dencies have been an enormous increase of
union membership and a deep realisation
that, if the multitude is to be dragged from
the mire in which it lives, it must itself do
the work. The unions now represent close
on half of the population. The total Labor
vote cast at the Khaki election of 1918
V’as a quarter of all votes polled, so that the
64 Labor members returned are not repre-
sentative by a long way of the strength of
the Labor party. The main influence of the
war upon English society, as represented
by its principal constituent, has been to
intensify thought. This has created a real-
isation of the disabilities under which the poor
bye, and a firm resolve that those disabili-
ties can be, must be and shall he removed.
This resolve has been embedded in a bitter
hatred of the new plutocracy. It has been
wisely and truly said that the Rolls-Rovce
is responsible for more unrest in the
East End of London than anything else.
The rise of the plutocrat, and the posi-
tion he now holds in English society, will
no doubt be an interesting study for some
student in the future. During 1920 280
persons died, leaving over £lOO,OOO each.
Not one of them belonged to the aristocracy,
and most of them had made their fortunes
since. 1913. The view of the multitude is
not incorrect, that a principal consequence
of the war has been to make a verv small
minority very rich, and to impoverish the
great majority. Every year a greater pro-
portion of wealth becomes vested in fewer
hands, and in hands which are less capable
of using it well. At least the aristocrats
realised that wealth and position connoted
responsibilities and duties: Their enjoyment
was solid, domestic and well-ordered. - The
enjoyment of the plutocrat is vulgar dissipa-
tion. He is like the pig—-“ There’s nought
like swill! ’ Ilis possessions give him only
blatant ostentation, which he mistakes for
social superiority. Mr. Briggs, in Edgar
Jepsou’s “The Whiskered Footman,” is not
overdrawn; nor is E. F. Benson’s Mr.
Osborne, of 92 Park-lane, who. whenever
he sat down, reclined on £2OO worth of
brocade and gilding. Ostentation is the
most fertile soil possible for the revolu-
tionist, and an extravagance which has no
foundation in ability, and no relation to
responsibility, is a very real menace to the
stability of society.
The aristocracy is a rapidlv vanishing
quantity in England to-da.v. That portion
of it which is founded on the land has been
forced to quit by the penal taxation, which
has been mounting up since Limehouse days,
••nut now. on large estates, is no less than
19s. 7d. in the £ on rental values. That other
portion which owed its origin to recognition
of distinguished service to the State has
been forced into the plutocracy by tad
power of the cheque-book. A cynic might
remark that the aristocrats have little left
to them but their manners, and he would
not be far wrong. It is even doubtful if
they can afford to retain those, if they have
to conform with the nouvedux riches. The
influence of religion is a doubtful quantity
over either rich or poor. The “Fifth Avenue”
religion that Mayfair and Belgravia favor
is an organised blasphemy. “Church” is no
longer a function even for the despised
middle-class, and the multitude are frankly
derisive of religion and its doctrines.' Even
the vague belief in Heaven and Hell, which
was the secret comfort and terror of the
Victorian age, is dying. Religion, as it is
to-day in England, is without value, yet
there is a wide belief that a virile social
interpretation of the Bible, a generation of
“Woodbine Willies,” would have an enor-
mous influence on the. future - reconstruction
of society.
“Nowhere,” writes Mr. Greenwood, “is
the changed English order more manifest
than in the countryside.” To many the
survival of the feudal system in rural Eng-
land was the most comfortable and most
comforting indication that tradition was not
dead. The landed classes were the basis
of the social order, and in spite of the
abuses of the system it did produce a virile
race, although it could not'produce much
in the way of foodstuffs. In general, the
pre-war system was a benevolent landlord-
ism combined with totally inefficient com-
mercialism. The benevolent landlords have
been taxed out of existence, and a new race
of farmer-owners has arisen. There has
also been a great extension of the co-
operative system of farming, and a fair
quantity of land has passed into the posses-
sion of the plutocrats. These changes are
good inasmuch as they mean better condi-
tions for rural labor, and greater commercial
ability in the exploitation of the land. For
the first time for many years agriculture
is becoming a profitably occupation to those
engaged in it, and the amenities and con-
veniences of life are far greater for the
rural worker than are possible for the in-
dustrial worker. Here, incidentally, is a
reason why Australia must have. difficulty,
and an ever-increasing difficulty, in draw-
ing agricultural workers from England. The
supply is, in any case, limited, and as rural
development prospers must become ex-
hausted. Again, rural workers are now
extremely well organised. No fewer than
3,000,000 are unionists, and emigration of
members to Australia will certainly not be
encouraged when quite as good money can
be earned at home.
“With free speech and a free ballot-box,”
said Holyoake, “the nation that does not
get what it wants does not know what it
wants.” But as a scientific fact only one
person in four is. mentally equipped to use
a vote. As a political fact only one person
in ten cares how he votes. In these two
facts lies the key to the maze of British
politics. Until the mass of voters are
taught to think—and factory life is the
negation of thought—there cannot be that,
new “orientation of power” on which the
author of this book lays much stress. The
four cornerstones on which he would build
a new society are “service, co-operation,
obligation and duty.” That hope may be
fulfilled a dozen generations hence, but
there is absolutely no prospect of its
materialisation in the immediate or proxi-
mate future. The best that can be hoped
for is that material gain may be less and
less worshipped, though such a change is
extremely unlikely.
Herman Melville
Although Herman Melville’s centenary
passed with hardly the flourish of a trumpet,
a little band of critics is beginning to make
a rather belated noise about him now. Not
in America! That extraordinary country
can be trusted to preserve a stony silence
concerning its real men of genius. From
rhetorical poets, like Lowell and Longfel-
low, it turns to the quick-lunch essays of
desperately clever fellows, like Huneker and
Mencken, whose trick lies in putting asun-
der the adjective and noun that custom has
joined together and performing strange new
marriage ceremonies. Their journalism is
akin to that of Hearst’s young men, but it
looks more enlightened, for they know
enough to borrow their ideas from the best
European sources.
Melville did not belong either to the
rhetoricians or the deft manipulators of
other men’s ideas, lie was a creative artist
of the rank of Foe or Hawthorne. How was
it that Europe did not tell America what
a prodigy it had brought forth? It is hard
to say. Melville, though, had none of tin
clear, hard outlines that made Poe’s stories
appeal to France: his work was metaphv-
sical and bathed in a wild poetry. As for
England, it was sleeping in the stuffy garret
of Mid-Victorianism when Melville wrote,
and may have mistrusted this young Ameri-
can who had the smell of whale-oil about
him and was fond of forcing windows open.
Now comes ,T. C. Squire and his circle to
make amends. They have rc-diseovered .Mel-
ville, and want to brush awav the dust that
for more than half-a-century has been settling
on bis memory.
“There have been more profuse great
writers than Melville,” says Squire, “and
as some may think, wiser men; but I do not
believe that there exists a greater work of
prose fiction in English than ‘Moby Dick.’ ”
This is something more than justice. From
Defoe to Joseph Conrad there have been
many great works of prose fiction in Eng-
lish, and the test of any one of them has
been the variety and vitality of the char-
acters it contained. Melville’s genius did
not lie in creating characters, and even Cap-
tain Ahab, the ivory-legged maniac who pur-
sues the White Whale through the pages
of “Moby Dick,” is more of a tremendous
symbolic figure than a man. As for the
mates, they talk in the same tongue—a Bibli-
cal English, full of images, that destroys
the illusion of personality. Put Melville
with Borrow and Sterne, and he will shine
with his true lustre: he was a subjective
writer above everything, more interested in
(Continued on page 25.)


Aor IIiQ Office-Library © Den
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Mb
k
m
&
HI
ppnratxsnr —
N
;7
*—
ATTRACTIVE FURNITURE for the MODERN
OFFICE OR BOARD-ROOM. In Oak or Maple.
4ft. Gin. Flat-top Desk, with shutter.
Price £23/10/-
Bevolvina; Chair, with upholstered seat and back.
Price £7/10/-
4ft. Bookcase, with adjustable shelves.
Price £lB/10/-
6ft. x 4ft. Board Table, w'ith drawer at each end.
Price £l2/10/-
Boardroom Chairs, with upholstered seat.
Price 75/-
637-
Hat Tree and Umbrella Stand.
Price
3ft. Typist’s Table, with four drawers and slide.
Price £6/10/-
The “Tan Sad’’ Chair, awarded Gold Medal at Furni-
ture Exhibition in London, 1920. The most com-
fortable and lasting chair for workers ever made.
Adiustable in every way and made of steel.
Price 45/- each.
The modern business-
man’s office demands
something more than the
old-time table, chair and
copying-press of yester-
day. Office furnishings
with an air of to-day—
something that breathes
the very word “success”
is required—nay, neces-
sary to the business man
if he would impress his
clients and confreres of
his standing in the world
of business.
Anthony Horderns’ many
and varied suggestions
and dislays of Office and
Board-room furnishing
ideas will be found help-
ful to the more progres-
sive professional or busi-
ness man.
A hard gruelling day at the
office—home to dinner
—and then a restful hour
in the comfortable den
or library. What could
be more inviting?
Anthony Horderns’ rest-
ful and homelike furniture
and necessities for the
Library or Den compel
the admiration of the
most discriminating men-
folk.
In these particular furni-
ture offers it will be noted
that our policy of Syd-
ney’s lowest prices—
always, has been remem-
bered.
Consult our expert re-
garding your furnishing
ideas. A postcard will
bring him to your door.
Estimates and helpful
suggestions freely given.
c»
, _
V
10?**
J
MM
-s •
■*■
•«*.
The “Tan Sad”
Typing Chair, ad-
justable to an y
position.
Price 45/-
RESTFUL HOMELIKE FURNITURE FOR THE LIBRARY AND DEN.
In Oak and Maple.
4ft. Oak Bookcase, break front and adjustable shelves,
l’rice £2l
Settee, deep sprung, upholstered in Tapestry.
Price £l6/10/-
Easy Chair, to match.
Price
£ll/10/-
Smoker’s Adjustable Chair, in Oak, upholstered in
Tapestry or Fabrikord.
Price £6/10/-
Writing; Table, in Oak, with Book-stielves under.
Price £5/15/-
Writing or Bridge Chair, very comfortable, uphol-
stered in. Tapestry or Fabrikoid.
Price
£7/15/-
Anthony Hordern & Sons Limited
Telephone: City 9440 Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.


iS"4 sr 'K
I '
_ ct-ax...
/ -- V ' ' 1 .
; , ' 1 '• ■„?,' :■; • •■
Wwwaßte ■..■%
The Australasian Photo-Review, August issue, is now on sale.
Get your copy to-day, as there is bound to be a big demand for
this number; it contains full color reproductions of the first three
prize-winning prints in the recent “Velox Colors” Competition.
There are many interesting articles and pictures, including two on
the photography of the coming eclipse, and the announcement
of a special competition in the same connection.
HOLIDAY
preparations
should include
A KODAK
No doubt you anticipate a good time on your holiday. Sooner or later you will be
making your preparations—that’s the time to make sure you are not going to lose
your holiday by letting it slip from your memory as many past ones have done.
Take a Kodak on this next holiday of yours, and make pictures of every joyous
time. You will find there’s no more delightful hobby than Kodak Photography.
The No. 2 Folding Brownie has all the simplicity and dependa-
bility that made the Box Brownies famous, but is more compact
and has a wider sphere of usefulness. Makes pictures 2J x 3J
inches. Price, 52/6. Box Brownies range in Price from 12/6.
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak is the camera you don’t have
to carry—you just wear it like a watch. It has all the accuracy of
its larger brothers, but avoids the bulk —makes you prepared for the
unexpected picture. For good photographs 2| x If inches. Price 47/6.
The New, Complete Kodak Catalogue is sent post free to any address {except New Zealand) for 6d., to cover postage.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,’’ 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-52 Queen
Street, Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart;
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba, Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and
Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
You hear the world’s best
on “His Master’s Voice.”
When the purchase of an
Instrument is under discussion
none should be considered but
that which will give you the
world’s best music in all its
original clarity and beauty.
It is a significant fact that the
greatest celebrities—among
them Melba, Caruso, McCor-
mack, Galli-Curci, Moisei-
witsch, Heifetz, Paderewski
have recorded with “His
Master’s Voice’’ exclusively.
These most critical judges have given it their unqualified
approval as the only worthy medium for their peerless art.
Be guided by their choice—decide on “His Master’s Voice.”
Prices range from 11 to 91 guineas.
Instrument Gatalogue, record list and name of nearest dealer on request.
J
f-
His Master’s voice
■ j. <•
&
11
~r
m
k
CiliiliMldil
£1
nr.
C,
s■»
t
' - .TT* V
1
o
"Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
103 Pitt Street, Sydney.
a nis Master’s Voire”
Bead. Trade-mark.


PINKETTES
For
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com-
plexion with pimples and blotches.
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
IF YOU UAVU N#l A
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER
BUY ONE NOW, when embroidery is
so much used. It works on ANY
MATERIAL.
Visit our SPECIAL INSTRUCTION
ROOM.
ALL WORKERS ARE WELCOME.
21/- Complete Outfit.
Send a stamped envelope for FREE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Btreet, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & '
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
*
“ THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN."
EVERYBODY DOTES
on
UnclcTobv’s
yOATS^/
A delightful breakfast food
0
WHY LOOK
OLD?
There is r.o
need to. Dr.
Allen’s WAL-
NUT STAIN
trans forms
GREY HAIR
to a youth-
ful WALNUT
SHADE with-
out any harm
to the most
delicate skin.
Absolutely permanent and water-
proof. ALL chemists.
A
a/j\
n
9,
yy
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
First Impressions.
One’s teeth create the first
impression. It depends on
yourself whether that impres-
sion will be a pleasant one or
not. Eude.nta Tooth Paste will
impart a pearliness to your
teeth that will be admired by
aIL
Your Chemist
sells “Eudenta.”
mil i r w
TOOTH
paste
w
"MADE FOR EVERY ROOF UNDER THE SUN.”
MORE LIGHT & BETTER
VENTILATION for your
Barns, Woolsheds, Dairies
—No Leaks
—No Danger
—No Bother
HALLEY’S
Patent
SKYLIGHTS
Mai ley’s Skylights are practical all the year
round, because they provide natural light and
sufficient ventilation in buildings, such as
barns, woolsheds, grainsheds. dairies, factories,
outhouses, garages, homes, etc. Easily fixed
on your roof, no matter what its composition
—no bother in adjusting to suit weather con-
ditions.
Used all over the Commonwealth. Let us send
vou illustrated circular and prices. Mention
"kind of roof you have, and write direct to
Dept. B.
66Li vcrpool S t, Corner Kent St.
a few steps front George bt»
Missing Friends.
tN the Intestate Estate of CATHERINE SIJVI-
-1 MONDS, late of Carlton, died on the 2fath
October, 1921.
Information is sought regarding HENRY IbAAC
SIMMONDS, widower of the abovenamed deceased.
Will any person having 1 information as to his death,
or, if alive, his present whereabouts, kindly com-
municate with the undersigned.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Public Trust Office,
Culwulla Chambers,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
Estate of william duncan
DONALD WILLIAMSON Tasmania.
Whereabouts of JOHN WILLIAMSON and
CHARLES WILLIAMSON, sons of late
James Williamson, Western Australia.
Information required by Public Trustee,
Hobart, Tasmania.
IF R E. F. HOFFMANN advises
“A.T.8.,” Hall Street, Semaphore, his
whereabouts, it will be to his advantage.
The Wege Valveless Motor
INVENTED IN AUSTRALIA.
The WEGE Motor Engine
Tested, Tried and Enthusiastically Adopted by Britain s
Greatest Experts.
SIMPLE, RELIABLE, POWERFUL, ECONOMICAL.
Few working parts ensure durability.
NO VALVES, SPRINGS, TAPPETS, CAMSHAFTS.
NO VALVE TIMING OR PUMP GEAR.
NO CAPS, PUSH RODS, ROCKERS OR COVER PLATES.
NO CRANK-CASE COMPRESSION or OILING TROUBLES.
FORCED INDUCTION, COMPLETE SCAVENGE,
EVEN TORQUE.
THE WEGE ENGINE has only 77 parts, compared with
other equal-powered engines which have over 300.
Cars with Wege Engines are NOW being produced in
the factories of
Messrs. WM. BEARDMORE & CO., LTD., of Glasgow,
Dumfries, Birmingham, etc.
Messrs. CHAMBERS MOTORS, LTD., Belfast.
Other British firms are manufacturing the Wege Engine.
8/12SULKY (Single-seater), 10/20UTILITY
(Four-seater), 15/20 TOURING MODEL,
15/40 SUPER TOURER.
ALL THESE MODELS ARE SPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR
AUSTRALIAN ROADS, AND ARE FITTED WITH WEGE ENGINES.
DISTRICT AND CITY AGENTS ARE NOW BEING
APPOINTED in all States for the sale of these cars.
INFORMATION FROM AND APPLICATIONS TO
THE WEGE MOTOR, LTD., King William Street, Adelaide.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dawn Riding.
Dawn light and star light meet
Under a sky of blue;
The grass at the grey colt’s feet
Glimmers with silver dew.
The big bar-bit is white
With the foam of our galloping ;
The reins in the hands held tight
Are taut as a smitten string.
Hoof-beat, stirrup and spur
Magical music make ;
Birds of the bush astir,
Are singing for singing’s sake.
# * *
God! when I come to die,
Grant it be thus, I pray,
Under a dawn-kissed sky,
Hiding at break of day.
VICTORIA.
W. M. B. LAYCOCK.
After Years.
Since the heart reveres things by love made
sweet,
After all these years, was it well to meet?
Was it well to look in each other’s eyes,
As into a grave where a dead man lies?
Was it well to use cold and formal speech,
Thinking of old words each made dear for
each?
Was it well to clasp hands that one time
dung ~
Fiercely, as though life on their linking
hung?
Was it well to feel that which lovers laud,
Love’s fine constancy—but a lie, a fraud?
Since the heart reveres things by love made
sweet, ■
After all these years, was it well to meet ?
N.S.W.
CASUARINA.
Spring.
The sunlight is blown laughing through the
air
Like wind, and shines in the light-shaken
Clings as a scent to flower on wanton hair,
And moves caressingly o’er breasts and
knees.
The snowy peacoqk spreads his tail in pride.
The statue, standing in abandoned grace,
Feels gradual warmth come stealing up her
side,
Burning her lips and flushing her fair tace.
She turns unseen and steps down from her
stone,
Wondering as the leaves touch unused
thighs, ... ,
And creeps on through the lilied lawn alone
Until beneath a shady pine she lies.
Here lulled, a reveller strayed from all the
rest,
Breaks on her peace ere she can rise to
flee, , ,
And she, so warmly held and so caressed,
Turns from swift terror to new ecstasy.
Shade grows. With plighted tryst lie leaves
her there.
She steals back to her pedestal again,
And once more looks serenely down the stair.
Marbled. And for her face he seeks in
vain.
But when, on summer nouns, the sunlight
blows
Like laughter through the terrace where
she stands, ,
Memory like slow warmth up<on her grows,
Her breasts swell and she softly moves her
hands.
N.fl.W.
JACK LINDSAY.
Me[?]adow Farm.
Like a sleeper, sleeping fearless pf all harm,
lXalf-embraced, engirdled by the riyer s arm
Lucerne land a/ad orchard, slumbets Meadow
Farm.
Visited by shadows, lit by sleepy ?hine,
There the gi'ape grows lucent on the trei-
lised viije; , .
Tiiere the cp.ttle gather under gum and pine.
There the golden noontide breathes a peace
sereny ; , .
Willows by the river droop their tresses
greeii, . ,
Every \V illow seeming like a dreaming queen.
O’er the purple lucerne, o'er the clover
V hite, , , • ,
Now and then like jewels brave and rich
-and bright, . . , t
Red* and-green rosellas pass jn happy night.
In the quiet morning, when all else is mute,
Av d the dewdrops shimmer gemming flower
and fruit, , ,
There the warble, there the mag-
pies flute.
In the dewy twilight, when all else_ is still.
And wide silence covers flat and slope and
hill. ,
There the curlews waken, there the ploieis
shrill.
Then with daylight over, rest and slumber
won, , . ,
Toil of field and orchard well and truly
done. . .
In the farmhouse gather weary sire and son.
Half-embraced, engirdled by the river’s arm.
Lucerne land and orchard, stretches Meadow
Farm. , . .
While the farm-folk slumber fearless ot ail
harm.
x.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


B
MAZDA
N./r'
7&
<9
S 3
J
n.
/*
w
(S
1
!.)(i
■ti u\
,mm
zPc
r\
BP>
L\
L\
W,
-;
ss
%
n rTfl
ul,iMl
«•
n
y-w.
tX
3
P
■+
LP
!-f
! Itu
3P
illXhih
:: <?
«BXS
lui
S tfi
MM
m
I\V^
m
‘■■A’
1 hi
r
■JWIB.i'Jii/i' 1,1
MzSZ'i
B
T:
ORRECT lighting in our everyday lives plays a
part far greater than it usually gets credit for.
Proper lighting in the home does not consist
simply of more light, but the proper diffusion
of illumination. Better lighting means, in addition
to the absence of headaches, ‘ ‘nerves” or strained eyes,
better sight and less fatigue.
Better Lighting is Half Furnished.
Long and exhaustive experiments have proved that
in the factory, the proper quality, direction and intensity of
illumination has a direct bearing on production, and reduces
accidents and gives greater accuracy.
Proper lighting in the factory has resulted in an increase
of 30 to 35 per cent, in output, whereas defects in lighting
installation are accountable for 18 per cent, of the accidents.
B.T.H. Mazda Lamps are con-
structed to give proper distribution of
light at minimum cost. Not only do
B.T.H. Mazda Lamps give better light
at less cost, but they also last longer.
ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET MAILED FREE.
Australian General Electric 0 Jtd.
“Mazda House," Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY. ’Phone: City 3510. Box 2517.
Also Queen and Collins Streets, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: Cent. 2G46. Box 538 G.P.O.
BRISBANE, Q.—The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia. Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), corner
Edward and Charlotte Streets.
TASMANIA —Oliver & Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Charles Atkins & Co , Ltd.. 88-90 Currie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., “Mazda House,” 894 Hay Street.


The Bulletin
Registered at the (ienerai Uost Office, {Sydney, M.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Nevvapajiu.
VOL. 43.—N0. 2219.
THUKSDAY, AUGUST 24, 1922.
Price 6d.
SPOILING- HER CHANCES.
"The Labor parties of Europe are following .the example of the British Labor party and turning more and more definitely from Bolshevism.”— Cable.
MR. BOL.: “So you won’t jazz with me again!”
MISS LAB.: “Certainly not. You’ve done enough damage to my frock already.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
‘Australia for the White Alan.’*
Printed and published by William of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tub
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office cf the
Co., 214 Oporce Street. Sydnev. X.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to anv address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 135.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The editor icill carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no 3/S. trill be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are Observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending 3IS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to 3IS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IK. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, Loudon E.CJ);
E. T. Hole, Ilolerlh Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E. 0.; "The British-Australasian,” 31 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban : and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
IJ.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New- York: Brentano’s. 3th Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, I Vos king tun.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn i& Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Breiver and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon & Gotch, 1.5 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, EC 3.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Fostage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
newspaper) :—Throughout the Commonwealth : 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: yoz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: J/oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
'xlleizai.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 1922.
THE QUEST OF THE UNIFORM
GAUGE.
The synopsis—apparently an absolutely
official one—of the Federal Government’s
railway unification scheme suggests that
some robust borrowing and spending are
in prospect to advertise the Ministry as a
really entei-prising show while the elections
impend. It is not, of course, a real unifi-
cation scheme at all —merely the mottled
fragment of one. Still, even a fragment is
something. The rectification of that enoi'-
mous blunder or crime which began with
the breakage by N. S. Wales of the uniform-
gauge agreement, and which has taken nearly
TO years and over £200,000,000 to bring
to its present state of perfection, is a
different matter. But if all the five
mainland States come in the result
must be to put a second mortgage of nearly
£21,000.000 on certain main lines which are
mortgaged to their full value already, and
that should be gloomy news for the Aus-
tralian baby when he is old enough to under-
stand. Should Victoria and South Australia
stand out, the second mortgage is expected
to run to about £9,000,000, with the usual
millions for oddments, muddle and miscal-
culation. It hardly seems likely that the
lingering pair will both stay out to the end,
but at present they are cold, not to say
frozen. Victoria, which was beguiled or
harried by its big northern neighbor in the
beginning of things into adopting the Irish
measurement of and then left with it
on its hands, finds its gauge smooth and
satisfactory. It ,found it cheaper to build
than N. S. Wales did its 4ft. Siin. contrap-
tion. It has doubts about having two sizes
instead of one; about having its territory
traversed from end to end by a narrower
brand of road; and about letting its tidy
house be pulled to pieces by a freakish autho-
rity which, judged by its record over the
houth-to-North line, has a breakdown habit
and a shifty frame of mind.
If Victoria stands out South Australia
has grave doubts about coming in, and sacri-
ficing the advantage of having a clear run
from Adelaide to Melbourne and Albury,
and getting the usual border break-of-gauge
in exchange. In addition, South Australia
has no great desire to accept anything that
may be afterwards represented as compensa-
tion for being defrauded of the South-to-
North line, which it bought with a land grant
of over 200,000 acres per mile and didn’t
receive. In fact, the South Australians
seem so little likely to receive it that the
Hughes Government’s Commonwealth Bank
lately took on the extraneous job of map-
making, , and published a diagram showing
their South-to-North line as handed over
to Queensland and N. S. Wales, and turned
into a local work to buy Queensland and
N. S. Wales votes with. As the completion
and unification of main lines is allegedly on
the cards, the S.A. folk say that their in-
complete work (the only one which pro-
fesses to go straight across the continent
from sea to sea) is the mainest thing of its
kind in view. Unfortunately, there are no
votes for immediate use at the other end, so
it isn’t on the programme in any shape or
form. The only recognition that it, or the
bargain concerning it, or South Australia,
or the Northern Territory ever received was
that, in 1917, 6| years after the Territory
was surrendered, Hughes’s allegedly 4ft.
Federal Government opened 54J miles
of BJft. railway in the North, the same
pointing towards the Queensland border.
Poor little Tasmania, by reason of its
situation, _is outside all railway unification
and “linking-up” schemes, and it is impos-
sible to buy the political support of Victoria
and South Australia with a scheme if they
won’t come in. Still, the other three States
command half the Senate, and more than
half the House of Representatives, and the
appeal of the second mortgage to them looks
strong and timely. It might seem difficult
to find an excuse for spending money in
converting N. S. Wales main lines to the
“standard” gauge, seeing that they have it
already. But it is estimated that £2,000,000
of the second mortgage can be spent there
if the Commonwealth finishes the North
Coast railroad (including the Clarence
River bridge), and extends it into Queens-
land, filling in some branches on the way.
Queensland is to have nearly £2,000,000
spent on it algo, so that there may be an
unbroken stretch of the “standard*’ gauge
from the Murray River to Brisbane. The
North Coast route will then become the
main Sydney-Brisbane line, and there is no-
thing to be said against that, save, perhaps,
that a line which hugs the sea so closely
that a few surprise naval attacks could cut
it in a dozen places is a weak thing in war-
time; also, that a line with nothing but sea
on one side has only the other side to draw
trade from, though the passengers may have
attractive views and possibly pleasant fish-
ing from the carriage-windows. In addition,
the inspired mapmaker of the Common-
wealth Bank implies that N. S. Wales and
Queensland may share between them the
transcontinental line which belongs to S.A.,
and N. S. Wales is expected to get the job
of supplying the steel rails, so that New-
castle may not be so dead as it has been.
In Westralia the 373 miles of State-owned
narrow gauge, which form the last lap of
the transcontinental, and which Westralia.
undertook to bring to “standard” but didn’t,
are to be attended to.
While the stolen or proposed-to-be-stolen
South-to-North work is to be charged to the
whole _ Commonwealth population right out,
there is debate about how the bill for recon-
structing the old mixed gauges shall
be allocated. The point doesn’t sig-
nify so much as it might. The first prac-
tical certainty is that the whole liability
will be allocated to Posterity. Later, when
some re-adjustment of State boundaries is in
progress, the debts may be consolidated to
save trouble, and the bill may be owed by
Posterity in general instead of by Posterity
in compartments. There are 1530 miles of
existing line between Brisbane and Perth
which it is proposed to convert under the
eomplete scheme, and even if allowance is
made for the scrapfs of new work to be done
the whole affair doesn’t look equal to more
than 1900 miles. If the Federal authority
sees its way to spending £21,000,000 on this
bit of patchwork that means about £ll,OOO
per mile, which is more than the average
cost of the original construction and equip-
ment. Apparently complete unification may
mean leaving Posterity with one complete
railway system and two complete mortgages.
The least this generation can do is to make
a small beginning in the way of payment,
especially as it will get the benefit of the
employment and the wages. The baby
bonus, now £700,000 a. year, seems the
handiest fund to divert. Then the child might
grow up to really own a bit of railway
instead of inheriting a family legend con-
cerning how, at his birth, his old man put
£5 on the wrong horse, and then got wild
and lost another £5 in the effort to make a
recovery.
TOO MUCH KIRKPATRICK.
In the saddening remarks of the Public
Accounts Committee concerning the War
Service homes, which have cost 151 millions
and are doubtfully worth 81 millions, there
are some interesting references to the Com-
monwealth Bank. Interesting, 'but inex-
plicit. At the outset it wasn’t intended that
the Bank should have anything to do with
the housing business. The idea was to get
most of the work done through the State
building organisations (the Savings Banks
in N. S. Wales, Victoria and S. Aus. and the
Workers’ Homes Boards in Queensland and
Westralia) ; the Bank had none. Negoti-
ations to this end were opened with the Vic.
and N.S.W. Savings Banks, and with the
Westralian Government. They had reached
a point where satisfactory agreements were
in sight, when they were “abruptly con-
cluded,” the Commonwealth Government
“reluctantly” deciding to make other
arrangements. In other words:
The Commonwealth Bank claimed, and was con-
ceded, the right to be substituted for the State
activities. The committee has not been able to see
any right to preference in this regard. The Bank
has since retired from participation in the scheme,
and the Government is now asking the State organi-
sations to undertake the work, as originally pro-
posed.
To discard the existing housing bodies in
favor of the Bank, which, as Millen, Minis-
ter of Repatriation, said in December, 1918,
“was f not at all equipped for this class of
work,” was a madly unbusinesslike proceed-
ing. The committee sees this in a hazy sort
of way, but it doesn’t see—at least, it
doesn’t say—that the amazing folly of which
a weak Minister was guilty, at the Bank’s
instance, was the source of other follies,
with chaos as a natural result.
* * * *
Had the original intention of utilising the
Mate building departments been followed
the scheme, instead of a gorgeous failure,
might have been a success. At all events,
the administration would have been in the
hands of men familiar with all the details of
an essentially local job. There would have
been no besotted centralisation, no setting-
up of overlapping authorities, no acrimoni-
ous competition between amateur or make-
shift organisations. Neither would there
have been any excuse for blind purchases of
sand, rock, cement, morasses, bricks, saw-
mills and. timber to the value of millions
sterling, since contracts for the construc-
tion ot houses would have been let to
approved men, who would have had to find
their own materials and engage their own
labor. By using its influence to thwart this
obvious and commonsense arrangement, and
by butting into the building trade on its own
account, though lacking in organisation,
experience and local knowledge, the Bank
• Australia a great disservice. It dashed
m and dashed out with equal precipitancy ;
and, to add to his other troubles, the hap-
-7< eSS j, r Service Homes Commissioner was
saddled with some rather awkward fespon-
Sib.uities” when he took over the properties
built, or in course of erection, under the Bank’s
supervision. For “in the agreement between
the Bank and # the Commission,” as the
Accounts Committee notes, with its habitual
phlegm, “no responsibility in connection
with the work was carried by the Bank or its
architects.’ Differing as they did on most
other points, all the home-building gentry
seem to have enthusiastically agreed that
the responsibility for their magnificently
expensive operations should be divided
between the horms-seeker the taxpayer.
The architects in question are that
supremely fortunate Sydney firm. J. and
H. G. Kirkpatrick!. Periodically, some
member of the House of Rqps. rises to in-
quire whether it is true that one of th<'
Kirkpatricks is a brother-in-law of
Denison Miller, Governor of the Common-
wealth Bank, and that Miller fils is em-
ployed by them. This thirst for information
is never satisfied. There were fierce objec-
tions, two years ago, to the quality of some
of the Kirkpatrick work—the Minister
himself animadverted on it —but “on the
whole,” the committee says, it was “carried
out satisfactorily.” Whether the criticism
was unwarranted or fruitful, and what the
committee had in mind when it qualified its
endorsement of the architects’ performance
with the vague expression “on the whole.”
are left to the taste and fancy of the reader
I here were also protests in 1920 against
the size of the Kirkpatricks’ bill This
amounts to £48,950, and the’ com-
mittee thinks it reasonable, or, any-
how, “not, as alleged, excessive.” But
on the committee’s own figures it works
out at £27 10s. per completed house. The
cost of the Bank-built dwellings is not given,
but presumably it averaged a trifle under
£BOO, in which case the Kirkpatricks col-
lected 3£ p.c. on each dwelling. This was
the percentage mentioned in Parliament as
having been allowed by the Governor of the
Bank to his architects and objected to by
the vacillating Minister. Seemingly, the ob-
jection was dismissed with costs against the
Government. The scale of charges fixed by
the British Institute of Architects for sol-
diers’ houses was 5 per cent, on the first 12,
2J per cent, on the next 60, and after that
li per cent. Had the State organisations
constructed the 1777 Bank houses, it is diffi-
cult to believe that plans, specifications and
supervision would have eaten up £48,950,
especially as the Australian Institutes of
Architects were anxious to help. But J.
and H. G. Kirkpatrick had all the luck.
* * * #
In matters concerning the Commonwealth
Bank the Governor is a law unto himself.
This has been shown on numerous occasions,
and another instance leaped to light in the
House of Reps, last month. In 1919 the
Public Works Committee recommended the
erection of a note-printing office in Fitzroy
(Vic.), at a cost of £43,200. Control of
the note-issue having been transferred to
the Bank, that institution coldly ignored
the committee’s scheme, decided in favor of
a much more expensive building, and called
in the Kirkpatrick's, as usual. “Were the
plans and particulars furnished to the com-
mittee made use of in designing the building
now proposed?” asked Mathews, a member
of the committee, in the House of Reps. The
answer was “No.” “Then, why,” asked
Mathews, “is the public called upon to
pay a firm of private architects thousands
of pounds for the preparation of plans and
the taking-out of quantities that are
already available in the Works Depart-
ment?” Beyond an ineffectual statement
that “the question pertained only to the
management of the Bank,” the Treasurer had
no reply. This recalls the fact that two
years ago the Kirkpatricks were appointed
by the then Labor-ridden Sydney Council to
“supervise” the extension of Moore-street to
Macquarie-street, and the incidental resump-
tions, for a mere £40,000, £lOO,OOO having
been talked of in the first place. It was
stated by one of the aldermen, Richard
Meagher, in fact, that “Denison Miller
was strongly in favor of the scheme,” which
involved about a million, and would “help
to finance it.” In another contribution to
the controversy the Town Clerk drily ob-
served that there was nothing new in the
Kirkpatricks’ proposals, inasmuch as they
had been recommended by a Royal Commis-
sion and considered, off and on. for 15 years.
Others pointed out that the City Architect
and Building Surveyor knew the whole busi-
ness from A to Z, and could do all the super-
vising necessary. Somehow the scheme fell
through. But it hasn’t been forgotten. It
comes back to memory at a time when. mem.
bers on both sides of the House are thinking
that there is too much Kirkpatrick. in the
allairs ot the national Bank. Also, that the
management should be forcibly reminded
that banking is its business, not building.
L urther, that the development of Australia
ought to be part of the Bank's mission, and
not merely the development or aggrandise-
ment of Big Cities.
CINDERELLA—AND A SPRAWLING
DUCHESS.
Because, in N. S. Wales, the politicians of
the ’fifties and ’sixties decided that a single
sprawling duchess was quite enough for one
State, Cinderella Newcastle now lacks pos-
session of (1) unified municipalities: (2)
a Harbor Trust; (8) a modern tram ser-
vice, and (4) an equal distribution oi export
trade. Tnese are only tour of the robes
massing from the unfortunate’s boudoir;
there of course, many others.
The Greater Newcastle Commission was
appointed by the Nationalist Government of
1918. In a voluminous report (April 4,
1919) this body strongly recommended aii
enabling Act for the establishment of a
Greater Newcastle. But Holman and the
Premiers that toliowed him have been too
busily engaged over basic wages, 44-hour
weeks, Necessary Commodities Commissions,
Profiteering Courts, the grabbing of addi-
tional salaries, and, above all, the boosting
of Sydney to cater politically tor tne neeas of
tne bedraggled Cinderella by Port Hunter.
Seemingly, the Greater Newcastle Commis-
sion report lies dust-begrimed and tape-
entangled in some departmental pigeon-
hole. To-day the position is worse tfian it
was in 1918, a year when (according to
Trivett, then Government statistician) the
area proposed to be embodied in the Greater
Newcastle scheme was ruled (or misrhled)
by the bumbles of one city council, 10
suburban councils and two shire councils; a
time when there were more civic dignitaries
to look after the needs of Newcastle’s 8(1,000
inhabitants than were required By the million
or so in Glasgow. The unimproved capital
valuq of the land was then over four-and-a-
half, and the improved capital value within
a biscuit toss of 11 millions sterling. The
latter has increased fairly substantially dur-
ing the intervening four or five years, while
the population has jumped to over 100,000.
Control of the only N.S.W. port that has
threatened the supremacy of Sydney as a
shipping centre is at present split up among
three authorities —the Department of Public
Works (State), the Department of Naviga-
tion (Commonwealth) and the Railways
(State). And the result is a very sticly'
mess. But for the necessity of transporting
John Brown’s black diamonds to a few
inter-State ports, little use would be made
by shippers of the port where divided con-
trol has resulted in a delay of bar-deepening,
wharf-extension and berth-deepening. The
three constituted authorities only combine
in dredging as large an amount from the
pockets of those who use harbors, and in
spending as small all, amount on improve-
ments, as is legally possible. Fremantle
(made into a harbor-town because its par-
ticular duchess could not have a harbor of
her own) possesses a Trust. It has twice
the revenue of Newcastle, despite the fact
that the N. S. Wales coal port boasts 30 per
cent, more shipping. At present, the people
who pay the money for the use of the har-
bor have no voice in its management, no
control over expenditure, and no guarantee
of how future management will be carried
out. Why? The duchess might find it in-
convenient if the revenue which buys her
frocks were suddenly diverted to the same
purpose for the dowdy Cinderella 100 miles
norm, and might lose her the patronage of
the handsome Prince Charmings who pay
her homage from the red-tiled bungalows of
Neutral Bay.
Sydneyites of half-a-century ago were
wont to boast of a tramway system which
was the last word in modernity. A system
of the sort still exists at Newcastle. Exud-
ing vile clouds of evil-smelling and air-
befouling smoke, the Coal City’s juggernauts
of antiquity still seek the patronage of the
citizen; but the lumbering anachronisms are
finding that the people of 1922 have learned
that the only way of dealing with a dunder-
headed set of Railway Commissioners is to
bestow their custom on a rival transport
system. Hence a growing fleet of privately-
owned motor-omnibuses, now numbering half-
a-hundred, is rapidly filching the revenue
that should, by all worldly logic, go back
into the State Treasury. And the trams
run almost empty, eating up expenses, and
at the same time growing dirtier and rowdier
every day. An up-to-date system of electric
trams might be installed at a cost of a
million sterling, some of which could be re-
gained, no doubt, by the sale of much rail-
way property, now useless and never likely
to be used. Instead of losing a minimum
amount of £50,000 a year, the electrified
trams could be made to pay handsomely.
Countless deputations have pressed the need
of electrification on various Premiers and
Ministers, and on at least two railway
chiefs. Yet, according to the answer given
by the present tramway chief to the latest
deputation, Newcastle is going to whistle
for electrification until the cows have come
home, and after they have been milked. This
same tramway chief made a few enlightened
remarks to a deputation of Chamber of
Commerce men recently about the shipment
of wheat from Newcastle. After wriggling
out of providing railway facilities to ship
the grain he fell back on the argument that
the northern wheat was not export wheat,
being too soft for milling purposes. The
remark raised a smile among those who
knew that the northern wheat had been
praised for its export qualities for years
past, its most recent meed of applause com-
ing from no less an authority than H. W.
Potts, ex-Principal of Hawkesbury Agricul-
tural College, who said that the statement
that northern wheat was “soft” origi-
nated either with those who wished to keep
the trade of the North in Sydney, or else
with the people who were making a good
thing out of the farmer by talking about
“soft” wheat Last wheat season, over
2.000,000 bags of wheat were hauled past
Newcastle to Sydney, involving an unneces-
sary transport expenditure over 100 miles,
and costing the wheatgrower £42,000 extra


in railway carriage. Not only,
carried past its proper port, but, in addition,
wools hides, skins and almost e^. er sothea5 othe a
thing of value that the fertile North and
North-West produces. Is it any wonder that
commercial men, sick of the eternal favorit-
ism of the duchess, turn with eager hope to
th? banner if the New Staters? Newcastle
does not desire to be a sprawling duchess,
bloating on a set of northern
but its inhabitants are beginning to feel
homicidal, or nearly so, at the reiterated cry
that all goods must go to Sydney for all
time Thev know the idiocy of the slogan,
and the unfairness, and the extravagance or
it, and it is for that reason that Earle Page
numbers many supporters in the Newcastle
district for his proposed major operation on
N. S. Wales—a sentiment that is going to
have a powerful influence on the fortunes
of pro-Sydney, anti-New State candidates at
future elections, Federal and State.
WILL VERNON.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Hughes Government’s “High”
Finance.
Thebe is a present for every elector, crim-
inals and lunatics excepted, in the Hughes
Government’s pre-election Budget. Crim-
inals and lunatics are excluded; they haven’t
votes. For the sex that nourishes the
Yankee film industry, which draws huge
revenues from Australia and laughs at its
fiscal authorities, the tax on entertainments
is to be removed where the price of admis-
sion is under Is. This concession is esti-
mated to cost £IOO,OOO p.a. The baby
bonus is also to be preserved in all its
monstrosity, talk of restriction to necessitous
cases notwithstanding, because “no satis-
factory solution of this very difficult matter
can be arrived at” —without risking votes.
And the Government would swallow a ton
of promises rather than risk a vote. The
single man who takes his basic wage to
the pony races is to be encouraged by being
exempted from income-tax. Unless he earns
more than £2OO p.a. (the present limit is
£104) he won’t have to pay a penny towards
the cost of the war. For profiteers and
others the graduated rates of income-tax
are to be reduced by 10 per cent. The flat
rate on companies, which stands at 2s.
Bd. in the £, will be lowered to 2s. sd. The
war surcharge of 20 per cent, on the land-
tax will disappear altogether. This sop to
the big landholder is reckoned to be worth
£400,000; and the sacrifice of revenue in-
volved in the income-tax reductions is cal-
culated at £2,100,000. Another £600,000,
making £3,200,000 altogether, is to be set
apart for buying support in country elec-
torates. The farmer and grazier, whose
votes are important, demand cheap wire-
netting and fencing-wire. These it is pro-
posed to give them by letting British wire
come in free and paying bounties to the
Australian manufacturer —10 per cent, on
netting and 15 p.c. on fencing-wire. The
local production of traction-engines (duty
free) and galvanised-iron (dutiable at 5
p.c.) is also to be bounty-fed, if manufac-
turers can be found willing to take the risk
of being snuffed out when the bounties give
out. The money for these vote-catching de-
vices is to come out of the 64 million sur-
plus which past Treasurers set aside out
|f the abounding revenue against a time
when the revenue won’t abound, owing to
the inevitable slump in Customs receipts.
They haven’t slumped yet, for Australia is
still borrowing (which means importing)
furiously, but so many renewal loans are
falling due that it will be impossible to keep
the boom going much longer. When it bursts
the Treasurer, whoever he may be, may find
himself with a tragically-diminished revenue
and no surplus to sweeten it with. _ On
Bruce’s own calculations the surplus will be
exhausted in two years. But, of course, the
election will be over by then. For the rest,
although ruthless hands have been laid on
the Army and Navy, so that it is a ques-
tion whether there is any national defence
system left, no economies are suggested in
the bloated civil establishment, it being a
matter of urgency to securb the Public Ser-
vice vote. But to please the people who
railed against the 1920 salary-grab, Sena-
tors and M’s.H.R. are to shed £2OO a year.
To placate the other and more numerous
section which believes in burdening the in-
fant from the cradle to the grave, Cook’s
fine conception of a 1 per cent, sinking fund,
designed to wipe out the war debt in 37
years is cynically sacrificed. In place of
it the Government proposes a i per cent,
arrangement, alleging that this will extin-
guish the debt in 50 years. Although the
loan expenditure is expected to amount to
174 millions this year, the sinking-fund con-
tribution will drop from £3,000.000 in 1921-
22 to £2,159,673 in 1922-23. The brand of
Hughes is on the Budget, although the osten-
sible author is Bruce. In the lack of an
effective Opposition it wall probably enable
the crowd in office to struggle back, much as
their prestige has been damaged by the dis-
closures about sugar, wheat and coal. That
is palpably the only purpose it is intended
to serve. Nothing else matters in the view
of Hughes.
The Manufacture of Coolies.
“J.E.”: “Feng-shui” prognosticates (B.
10/8/’22) a revolution in China by reason
of the poverty of the masses. After quot-
ing a fragment of Chow dirge, he says:—
It is a simple song, showing where lies the coolie’s
main pre-occupation—in the frightful struggle for
a bare subsistence ©f a single meal a day, which is
the normal condition of his life.
It seems to me that this sorrowful, but
songful, one-mealer conveys a salutary
lesson to Australians. Despite the common-
place remark about the “teeming millions,”
both of China and India, the former land
does not hold the record for overcrowding
or anything like it. One Rockhill, for
long United States Minister at Peking, and
frequently described as “a recognised autho-
rity,” has set down the population at
320,600,000, which is big enough, yet is
only a shade over 80 humans per square
mile. Rugged and inhospitable Scotland
has more than twice that pressure on its
space. The province of Shantung—often
cited as China’s really dreadful example—is
credited with 461 inhabitants to the square
mile. England and Wales have 649 per
mile, and Wales brings down the average,
for Snowdon and its arid brethren are
mostly useful as scenery. China, in fact,
is a fertile place, very rich in minerals,
with a wonderful furnishment of rivers and
a good deal of spare space. Its principal
characteristics are that its people have per-
sistently “gone on the land,” and practised
being “primary producers.” and devoted
themselves to “developing the great natural
resources of the country.” They were
on JosEm Carruthers’s Million Farms’
stunt some millenniums before Joseph was
needlessly invented. The great aggregate
Chinaman accepted, without even suspect-
ing that he had done so, the Labor orator’s
creed that labor is the sole source of wealth.
So he has labored mightily, with an industry
that is proverbial, and got together very
little wealth. His oppressors, despite all the
jade and lacquer riches that were accumu-
lated for them by their ancestors before
Australia started from scratch with a
drought and a kangaroo for capital, are
not wealthy either by the white man’s
standards. This suggests the possible truth
of the rival theory that machinery, and the
capacity to invent and use it, supply 60
per cent, of the average affluent country’s
riches; organisation (including good gov-
ernment) and the art of knowing how, an-
other 20 per cent.; and bare erude labor the
balance, or less. Certainly, Lane’s New
Australians, having left good government
and most of the organising and inventive
faculty behind them, but having taken labor
and Labor principles to Paraguay with
them, only required two or three years to
dissipate a handsome original capital, and
get down very close to the Chinese level of
one meal per diem. Very probably the
Chinese coolie wouldn’t be where and what
he is if he had been able to borrow, mostly
abroad, within one fairly long lifetime,
nearly £2OO per coolie, as the Australian
coolie or semi-coolie, or coolie-in-course-of-
training (an individual who might be called
a probationer-coolie) has done; but that only
implies that the Australian will also attain
to the one-meal standard in time, unless
he mends his ways and gets better advisers.
It is beyond questioh that the great bulk of
every nation which specialises strongly in
the primary industry and Million Farms
line of business tends to be very poor. Bad
government as in Russia, medium govern-
ment as in China, or pretty rood govern-
ment as in India, only affects the case in a
relative way.
High-Collar Education.
The N. S. Wales Fullers are understood
to be agreeably astonished at the dearth of
hostility to their proposal that fees should
be charged in the Government high schools.
They tried it on the dog several weeks ago
through the medium of the Ministerial press,
and if serious hostility had developed it
would have been abandoned. But beyond a
few mild protests from members of the
teaching body there has been no opposition
worth mentioning. It is announced, there-
fore, that from the first of January every
student whose father earns more than £250
per annum, or £6O p.a. for each dependant,
will have to pay £2 2s. per quarter; which
means that the organised wage-earners are
exempted, as usual, and the unorganised
middle class (also as usual) is to get it in
the neck. Times have changed since a West-
ralian Government which weighed in with a
similar suggestion had to drop it hurriedly
lest it should be dropped itself. In those
days “free education from the primary
school to the University” was a phrase to
conjure with. There is no magic in the
formula now. Doubts have arisen as to
whether a country really profits by its uni-
versal application. There are even sceptics
who question whether Australia is getting
the worth of the immense sums it lavishes
on its State schools. Certainly, an extraor-
dinary number of the youths who emerge from
these' temples of learning become clerks and
unskilled laborers. And it is a general com-
plaint among those who employ the swarming
office-boy and-girl that few of them can write '
a simple letter in their mother-tongue without
grotesque mistakes in grammar and spelling,
particularly spelling, although nearly all can
do useless things with plasticine and are
mines of information regarding the idiosyn-
crasies of tadpoles. A Royal Commission,
reporting on the Westralian system of higher
education, mentioned that there were more
pupils studying shorthand, ah obsolescent
jumble of tedious hieroglyphics, than learn-
ing trades in the technical schools. At Syd-
ney University at the moment 860 under-
graduates are taking _ the _ medical course.
Heaven knows what is going to become of
them unless they practise on each other.
Presumably, most of these hopeful youths,
and of the budding lawyers besides —there
is about a half-battalion of lawyers—came
out of the Government high schools.
A William Morris Dance.
“0.K.”: To get the most amazing side-lights
on Hushes’s autocratic management of the
so-called Sugar Board the confessions of in-
dividual retail grocers would be necessary.
When sugar was hardly procurable by pri-
vate citizens, and the trade of small grocers
depended considerably on the quantity they
could supply their customers with, the last
resource of a pushful retailer was a per-
sonal appeal to Caesar. A wide-awake
grocer who had served with the A.I.F. was
sure of a good supply if he could intimate
that he used to call the potentate “the
Little Digger.” It was a matter of getting
into close touch with the Little Digger,
somewhere and somehow. When successfully
approached as the God of Sugar, the C.ksar
dispensed his favors with a lavish hand.
The best way was to catch him at his rural
retreat in Sassafras, address him as a
political field-marshal and beseech him to
do the best he could for a fellow-soldier.
Then would Caesar ring up his Sugar Board
minions on the ’phone and issue an order —
“Let Snooks, the grocer, of such-and-such
an address, be supplied with half a ton of
sugar at once.” The voice at the other end
of the connection replied. “It shall be done,
O King,” or words to that effect, and the
warrior-grocer, springing smartly to atten-.
tion and saluting, retired from the presence.
No wonder that W. C.-esar Hughes is loath
to relinquish Government control of these
old war-time institutions ! Thev have given
him some of the times of his life. To con-
elude with a revealed instance of what a
Sugar Board meant to the autocrat, take an
item oi, evidence given before the Public
Accounts Committee last week. The acting-
secretary of the S.B. is speaking to Senator
Millen :
The Board has been in very great doubt as to
where it stands with regard to Mr. Oldershaw's visit
to England. The departure of Mr. Oldershaw, the
sugar controller, was not mentioned in the minutes
of the Board. There is nothing to show that he
went with the consent of the Board. 1 think that
permission was given by the Prime Minister.
Ten more years of Caesarian Government,
and nobody would have been allowed to
blow his nose without permission from the
P.M.
The Kermadecs and Intermediate Ports.
A report, just issued, which covers the year
to June 30, 1922, contains the anticipated
news that N. S. Wales’s half-hundred
money-losing railways are money-losing on
a more heroic scale than ever, and there is
no visible hope in them. The lines in
bankruptcy stand for 2954 miles, which is
practically the same as the previous year;
and the loss is £1,005,462, which is a quar-
ter-million of good money more than the
previous year’s loss. Nearly two-tliirds of
the system is thus on the pauper catalogue.
The State’s bad bargains fall naturally into
two categories. There are the railways
which should never have been built (with
loan money, anyhow), but which it pays to
keep running because they cover working
expenses and even contribute a little to-
wards interest. And there is the list of
lines (a steadily-lengthening one) which
should never have been built, and which it
does not pay to keep running because they
pay no interest and also fail to pay a large
part of their running expenses. The two
categories divide the bankrupt list pretty
evenly between them, and there are some
magnificent insolvents among them. One
costs the taxpayer £2700 per mile per arinum
to maintain; another £2000; another £1500;
still another, which has been a sink for
the taxpayer’s funds for 34 years, ate up
pauper-aid, last year, at the rate of £1265 per
mile. This was the Demondrille-Blayney
concern, which loafed on the taxpayer for
£139,708. It has, by now, lost itself bodily
several times over. The mendicant lines
are supposed to justify themselves and re-
turn an indirect profit by being “develop-
mental” —by “promoting settlement,” and
“opening up the great natural resources of
the, country.” In reality, they possess an
uncanny capacity for undoing settlement
and driving away settlers —or, at least, these
unpleasant results go with them persistently,
just as cholera dogged the perambulatory
Hebrew of Sue’s novel. The recent census
revealed that during 10 years, spent in a
frenzy of loans and “development” and
“settlement,” 49 out of 141 N. S. Wales Coun-
try municipalities, and 54 out of 133 country
shires, were losing their inhabitants at a
great rate, and sliding back into the wilder-
ness from which they had temporarily and
ineffectively emerged. The gains were more
or less illusory. Nobody went to the country
towns, but some of the babies born in them
didn’t contrive to escape. There was always
an exodus towards the One Big Bloated
City, but not always a big enough exodus to
wholly counteract the birth-rate. Nobody
goes out to a new place now to “grow up
with the town,” as the Yankee phrase has
it, so that he may share its future and he
and the town become rich together. The
habit has been abandoned, because every-
body knows that there is no future outside
the 'One Big City, and that the outside towns
are intended to grow down —not up. The
secret of the regulation State railway (to
be carefully distinguished in this connec-
tion from the inter-State one, which is
bound for another metropolis across the
border) is that it leads to nothing except
the middle of nowhere. It would find its
parallel in a first-class steamship line which
ran from London to the Kermadecs and
intermediate ports —“intermediate ports”
being of the same commercial calibre as the
Kermadecs. The London end might be all
right, but the Kermadec end would be disas-
trous. Another analogous situation would
be created if England got into the habit
of commencing its railways at Liverpool or
London, and finishing them abruptly m a
deserted part of Salisbury Plain. This
desperate objection to there being any place
at the other end, lest it should detract from
the flow of humans to the monstrous metro-
politan wen, has made more than half any
average Australian railway system a mere
relief work One reason why it might be
excellent policy for a reform Ministry to
shut up 500 miles of the State’s most profit-
less and hopeless lines is that it would
thereby drive home to the sluggish public
intelligence that there must be a limit some-
where to the manufacture of ravenous and
eternal pensioners upon Posterity, so that
there may be coarse, crude, brute-strength
employment, of a temporary nature, for Pos-
terity's unskilled and indolent old man.
Another Dream Shattered.
“P.0.W.” gives the show away:—
I always smile, reminiscently, when anti-
prohibitionists, in The Bulletin and elsewhere, but-
tress their arguments in support of alcoholism
with the claim that the Unspeakable One is a total
abstainer. I had the misfortune to spend three
years in Turkey, and speedily found—and went
on finding thereafter —that about the rarest phenome-
non there was a Turk who did not drink “hard
stuff,” always provided he had the money to buy,
or the nerve to steal it. For the benefit of those
who have maintained that the Mahommedan Turk is
a teetotaller I am willing to admit that as a
Mahommedan the Turk should be a teetotaller. But
even here there is disputation. While one section —
composed mostly of the lower and more fanatical
Mahommedans —declares that the Prophet forbade
the consumption of all alcohol, another crowd
argues with equal vehemence he did nothing of
the sort. The controversy, which is a permanent
affair, seems to have arisen in this fashion. Mahomet
undoubtedly set out with the idea of keeping the
Faithful off all liquor. Knowing the incorrigible
twisters he had to deal with, however, he did not
generalise on the matter, but drew up a, catalogue
of every beverage in the world that contained the
faintest vestige of a bite. The Turkish wowser
argues that Mahomet's intention was perfectly clear,
and that the Koran contains an implied ban on every
sort of alcohol. The crowd that favors an occasional
spot declares with true Mahommedan—fervor that
Mahomet, being the Prophet of God, knew what he
was doing, and that as he did not expressly forbid
the drinking of (say) arrack, his neglect to do so
is an implied license to the Faithful to drink
as much of the stuff as they please. Some go a
step further and argue that if Mahomet thus per-
mitted the consumption of arrack —which is
simply thrice-distilled alcohol flavored with ani-
seed—he could not have been serious when he for-
bade certain wines which do not contain one real
jag to the skinful. This piece of Koranic exegesis
may be as far-fetched as was the explanation given
me of why the lower-class Turk wears baggy trousers.
If it is true, it explains what I saw in Turkey; if
not, it does no more than demonstrate the Levan-
tine’s sprightly humor. I have seen Turks drink
arrack, and everything else of an inebriating charac-
ter that they could secure, and I have seen Turks
spit at the mention of beer. Anyhow, even assum-
ing that Mahomet did, in unequivocal terms,
forbid the consumption of alcohol by the
Faithful, is that any reason to assume he
is being obeyed ? A similar line of reasoning
would bring us to the conclusion that Christian
clerics of opposing sects are usually actuated by
feelings of charity and brotherly love in respect of
one another, and that they regulate their lives in
strict accordance with the socialistic teachings of
the Saviour. An utterly absurd assumption! No;
that rarity, the teetotal Turk, is not an argument
for the debasing effects of prohibition. On the
other hand, the boozing Turk, who is a much com-
moner feature of the Ottoman landscape, affords a
most convincing proof of the impossibility of making
prohibition effective. If dread of the hereafter is
of no avail in a superstitious Asiatic country, how
can officialdom hope for success in a freedom-loving,
beer-bibbing Caucasian land?
The Embarrassment by the Cotter.
Dear Bulletin,—-I note that Austin
Chapman (who may be termed the member
for Canberra) is reiterating his old demand
that the Federal Parliament shall meet by
the banks of Cotter Creek not later than
1924. Which, somehow, recalls that a pro-
mising young schoolboy, in these parts, re-
cently began an essay :
Little did the Almighty dream when he created
Canberra that it would one day live to be the Federal
capital of a great Commonwealth.
Probably the Almighty’s view hasn’t
changed. The chief objections to Canberra,
are numerous and interesting. (1) It isn’t
oentral, as Washington, in the United
States, was when it was selected and
created. Sq far is it from being central that
it is further from the middle of Australia
than either Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Perth or Brisbane. (2) It hasn’t, like
Washington, an outlet to two States and
close communication with the sea. The
main territory is surrounded by the pro-
perty of one big State, which also controls
the adjacent railways and roads. In the
United States the legal control of railways
rests with the Federal authority, so that
no predatory State can cut off Washington’s
communications with the outer world till
it is bought off. (3) It is a Capital in Two
Pieces, 140 miles apart. The coastal or
minor fragment is too small for a seaport,
though big enough for a joke. £4) Can-
berra is situated on a Federal branch line
which loses a lot of money, and this branch
branches off a State branch line which has
been losing an awful lot of money for 35
years. Connection with a N. S. Wales
main line (which would put Canberra on
a branch instead of on a sub-branch) was re-
fused by Sydney. The place is not only
in a corner but is on the road to nowhere.
(5) Not even its most infuriated advocates
suggest that Canberra is blessed with min-
eral wealth, navigable water or cheap water-
power. Its recommendations are grass, a
sparse rainfall (from lOf inches per annum
upwards, the Federal statistics allege), a
cool climate (nine degrees below Sydney in
the coldest month), some hill scenery, and
the fact that it is within a short walk of
the hamlet of Queanbeyan. (6) Any curse
that goes with broken faith and smirched
honor (and some phople believe still in the
old-fashioned curse like the one alleged in
the case of Jericho) lies on Canberra. The
clause fixing the Australian metropolis in
N. S. Wales, from which it had its origin
(it isn’t mentioned in the Constitution
itself), was only made possible by the con-
duct of the State Legislature at Sydney in
repudiating N. S. Wales’s agreement with
the other States, and annulling the people’s
acceptance of the original (or Federal Con-
vention) Constitution. (7) As a final com-
plication remains the question whether the
proposed Federal metropolis may not be
legally disqualified after a pile more of fool-
ish money has been spent on it, and along
with it every alternative metropolis which
can possibly be attempted under the won-
derfully botched clause which was George
Reid’s afterthought. It lays down that: —
The Seat of Government of the Commonwealth....
Shall be within territory which shall have been
granted to or acquired by the Commonwealth, and
shall be vested in and belong to the Commonwealth,
and if N. S. Wales be an Original State shall be
in that State....
On the literal reading, anyhow, Canberra
is disqualified for not being in N. S. Wales
but in a separate and independent Federal
territory. And if it was in N. S. Wales
it would be disqualified for not being out
of it. There should be a trifle of Costs
for the Devil’s Brigade in arguing that
point when the time is ripe.—Yours, etc.,
James Edmond.
Barwellism Gone Mad.
Senator Fairbairn, as becomes a good
Barwellite, suggests opening up the Northern
Territory, and “making it fit for white men
to live in,” by means of “black” labor from
New Guinea. A more fatuous solution of a
simple problem has rarely been propounded.
The population of Papua does not exceed
250.000, and even this .number is now re-
garded as a liberal estimate. Not more than 25
per cent, of the total are adult males of effec-
tive working age, of whom a large number live
in mountain districts which are inaccessible
to the white recruiter. Assuming, then,
that there are 62,000 able-bodied men in
Papua, and that two out of five could be
recruited as laborers —a greater proportion
withdrawn from village, life would seriously
menace the continuity of the race, and
would, accordingly, be prohibited by the
authorities —it is clear that the limit
of labor available for industrial pur-
poses is already in sight. In times of
normal prosperity the labor supply barely
kept pace with the demand. Competition
amongst recruiters was keen, and unpopular
employers found it extremely difficult to keep


H e Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL --- £100,000.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soun
established and progressive Company.
W. R. D1MOND, Managing Director.
their labor forces at full strength. Brown
Brother is unique amongst the peoples of
the earth, white or colored, in that he only
works for wages when it suits him to do so.
Nature has abundantly endowed him with all
the simple .necessaries of life; the Erskine
Proclamation secures him for all time in
the peaceful possession of his lands; and an
efficient constabulary—officered by whites —
keeps his unruly neighbors in the path of
virtue. That he could ever be induced to
leave his home to earn dividends for the
embryro cotton kings of the N.T. may well
be doubted. As to whether it would be right
to allow him to do so, there can be no doubt
whatever. The thing would be a crime.
The Passing of Politics.
“Naphtali” : The political game is
nearly up. It has been found out. No
thinking human being sees any future in
political democracy, which is a mockery
and a delusion. Russia has thrown it on
the scrapbeap. This may be ascribed to
Bolshevik madness; but the fact is that
Germany, which is not Bolshevik, is fast
realising the absurdity of the political game.
Business is to supersede politics. The
methods of business are not immaculate,
but they are swift and sure. The man of
commerce knows ivhat he wants and how
to get it, and he generally does get it. But
not by the political method. In Germany
the business man is getting in first with
his idea of a Business Parliament. In
Britain, where there are a few construc-
tive socialists, the idea of an Industrial
Parliament was conceived by the Guilds-
men. But while Britain is discussing this,
Germany has got her Parliament of Busi-
ness on its feet. -The Reichswirtscbaftsrat
is now a part of the German Constitution.
It practically dictates economic legislation.
It has taken the place of the abolished Prus-
sian House of Lords. Germany suffered
more from politics and politicians than any
other nation; she now pins her faith to
the Captain of Industry, Hugo Stinnes,
and others of that ilk. The Parliament of
Business had to .struggle intio existence.
It was vehemently condemned on the ground
that it contained the seeds of State Social-
ism. But the men of business did not take
such objections seriously. The feudal
method of representation they ridiculed. It
takes a bold man to ridicule the British
House of Commons. But the Germans
move quickly when they do start to move,
and when they scrapped the Kaiser they
practically scrapped the feudal system of
territorial representation that does not re-
present. Hugo Stinnes said to the Fed-
eral Coal Council in 1926: “Fifty years
hence politicians will no more draft tariffs
than manufacturers will dictate the curri-
cula of universities.” These ideas are new
to Australia, but it looks as if this con-
tinent could do with fewer politicians, and
something in the way of an Industrial Par-
liament. Existing Parliaments are a joke;
and if the press did not treat them as one
of those traditional British institutions that
must be alluded to with intense respect,
like the King or Magna Charta, they might
have been laughed out of existence long
ago. Strangely enough, the rise of the
Labor-in-vain party has given them a longer
lease of existence. Labor politicians like
Parliaments; they are firm upholders of the
present system. All they ask is a compact
majority. But even when they get that they
fail to produce the goods, and Labor is be-
ginning to think the Ballot Box o’ Tricks
is not all it is cracked up to be. The
worker believes in a Parliament of Work.
The fight of the future will be between the
Captains of Industry and the “Wage Slaves,”
who will take the place of the parties of
Tweedledum and Tweedledee of to-day.
One advantage is that politics of the future
will become real, and not a queer combina-
tion of speech-making, sham-fighting and
hocus-pocus. And the voter of the future
will know something about the politics that
affect his bread and butter, and will be able
to take a more active share in government
than that of making his mark once in every
three years. The change ought to be for the
better.
— : •
Cotton in Australia.
"K.W.-C.”: is pessimistic:—
Some few days back the Prime Minister was loud
in his advocacy of the “new” cotton industry as a
means of absorbing the existing unemployed and
the impending rush of immigrants. This is no new
scheme. From 1862 to 1871 the industry flourished
considerably in Northern Australia. Over eight
million pounds were exported over this period, and
the quality was rated higher than that of the Indian
or Egyptian article. However, the U.S. gradually
forced the Australian product out of the world’s
market, and by 1907 the industry was dead. This
was in the face of monetary assistance given to it
by the Deakin Protectionist Government and the
long fight put up in Queensland by Dr. Thomates,
a Swiss scientist, and the late G. Wallace-Crabbe.
Dr. Thomates eventually removed to South America,
where he settled with about a thousand Swiss
and Norwegians, and established paying cotton-fields.
Wallace-Crabbe came to Melbourne and presented
a series of petitions to the Government in the inter-
ests of tlie failing industry. But the only result
■was that in the Bounties Bill (1907) the Govern-
ment provided a bounty of 10 per cent, on the market
value of all ginned cotton grown in Australia—a
concession which was unavailing, though in 1908
the ruling price for cotton was only a little below
present figures, while wages were considerably lower.
The world’s cotton belt lies between long. 40deg.
north, or a line from New York, through Baku, in
Russian Caucasia, to Pekin, and long. 25deg. south,
or from Rio de Janiero, through Mauritius to just
below Rockhampton, Queensland. That is to say,
only the coastal portions of the Northern Territory
from Wyndham, in W.A., to the Roper River,
and, again, the Queensland coast from Rock-
hampton to Cairns, are available. It was the
lack of suitable labor that forced the industry to
the wall in 1908, and the same factor will appa-
rently be a stumbling-block in the path of a revival.
It is argued that other areas are suitable. This is
so, but it must be remembered that, though both
drought- and flood-acclimatised seed is available, the
further one goes from the cotton belt the less
becomes the return per acre. Experiments under
irrigation in the Murray districts have shown that
a maximum return would only reach about £23
per acre per year. Against this would be placed
horse labor at £1 a day, hand labor at 15s. a day,
and the high rates for water, etc.
On present figures 30 acres in full bearing, and
ignoring the first costs for land and implements,
would not return over £3 weekly—and this is
without taking into consideration the problems of
bad seasons and pests. Even with the help of black
labor and good weather conditions the industry has
proved a failure in South Africa, yet the Rhodesian
and East African fields are superior to any portion
of our cotton districts, with the exception of a
small area near Cairns. But, of course, if Hughes
decides to take the cotton industry under his control
THE SITUATION SAVED.
"The super-tax would be abolished. Gross taxation would remain the same.” — Fuller.
PLUMBER FULLER: “ There you are, sir; I'm finished. Everything is fixed.”
TAXPAYER: “But there's just as much water.”
FULLER: “Yes. But it’s only coming out of the one tap.”
that will be the end of the matter: he will go for-
ward with the venture regardless of the evidence
against it, even though the miserable taxpayer’s
banking account may perish.
- »
Is Repatriation a Failure?
Dear Bulletin, —Some brilliant theorists
have advocated recently that Repat. should
be abolished, and as there are always people
who are ready to abolish anything on the
ground that someone else has said it isn’t
quite as good as it might be, the proposal
has gained a measure of support. Repat.
has its faults, and your paper has stressed
them with an insistence that may have done
some of the Diggers a bit of good, but has
probably done Australia some harm abroad.
After all, the Department is one of repatria-
tion—not repudiation. Here is what it is
doing at the present time: (1) Paying war
pensions in respect of over 100,000 deceased
or damaged fighters to 225,000 people. (2)
Treating 4400 men in its hospitals and sana-
toria^ —it treated 23.500 during the last 12
months. (3) Carrying on the vocational or
industrial training of 12,000 men. (4) Edu-
cating 2000 war orphans. (5) Many other
things which would take up too much space
even to mention. All Repat. benefits to
which the Digger is now entitled are based
on the personal, physical or financial pre-
judice sustained by him owing to his war
service. Our reformists would split up all
these activities and parcel them out among
the permanent departments. At the present
time there is one set of records, and a Digger
can be fixed up under one roof and by refer-
ence to one set of papers for: (a) pension,
(b) medical treatment, (c) artificial limb,
(d) travelling concessions, (e) vocational
training, (f-z) a host of other benefits. Any
one Digger may need to be catered for in
respect of all the five items I have men-
tioned. Perhaps these figures may be en-
lightening : 229,822 separate applications
for employment have been handled. Of
those which were sustained, work was found
in 98.83 per cent, of cases. The average
amount of sustenance paid, whilst awaiting
work, in each case, was £7 15s. Nearly 17,060
men have completed vocational training,
which was primarily designed for the man
who, as a result of war damage, could not
carry on his pre-enlistment job, but which
was subsequently extended to youths who
had enlisted before embarking on, or com-
pleting apprenticeship in, some skilled call-
ing. As has been mentioned, an additional
12,000 are still in training. The records
show that nearly 408,000 applications for
other forms of assistance have been approved.
A total sum of J/J/ millions sterling has been
spent, 29 millions of which have gone in
war pensions. Had the war continued for
another eight months this 44 millions would
have been irrevocably wasted in slaughter
and chaos, and the after-care of our dis-
abled men and the dependants of those who
went west would still have had to be under-
taken. It would then have been an infinitely
more difficult and costly task, as many thou-
sands more good fellows would have been
killed or maimed. But, Australia would
have done it. In advocating that the De-
partment should continue to function, as at
present, it may be contended that I am
out to keep my job going. I am! And —
iny fellow-toilers and myself are more com-
petent by reason of our training and experi-
ence to do our jobs than the members of
any of the permanent departments among
which our theorists would parcel up Repat.
activities. Every member of Repat. staff is
himself a Digger; he may not be a genius,
but he does his damnedest. The staff has
been whittled down, from 1700 to 1123, in
personnel. These 1123 represent those who
have been retained out of over 6000 who
have been engaged at one time or another.
If there are any duds among them they are
pastmasters in the art of camouflage.—
Yours, etc., L.S.C.G.
“Anglo-Indian”: The Japan Chronicle,
commenting on a recent White Australia speech
by Queensland’s Theodore, remarked that the
real difficulty of North Australia is that,
while it may be a white man’s country, it
is neither a black nor a yellow man’s coun-
try. That is to say, if North Australia
allowed a colored population in the pig-
mented peoples would be always seeking an
outlet in the cooler latitudes of the South.
I was told by Baron Goto, for many years
Governor-General of Formosa, that a great
difficulty in the pacification of that island
was the impossibility of settling Japanese
there. They are a distinctly climatic race,
with an aversion both to the tropics and
to extremely cold climates. So, apparently,
if the whites will not and cannot populate
North Australia, nobody is going to do so
in a permanent way. But that will not pre-
vent land-hungry Asiatics seizing on its
emptiness as a jumping-off ground for the
desirable regions.
“W.P.D.” SPEAKS for Italy:—
“Cleveland” (B. 3/8/’22), who can see no benefit
to North Queensland in the settlement along its
coastal strip by North Italians, demonstrates that
his knowledge of these excellent agriculturists is
superficial when he speaks of them as “a backward
race” persons wko have no real right to be con-
sidered Europeans at all. Has he forgotten that
Piedmont, Lombardy and Venetia, the provinces from
which these folk mostly hail, were highlv civilised
when the inhabitants of the British isles were
savages ? Does he not know that Padua is the seat
of one of the oldest and most famous of the world’s
universities? That Mantua, Verona, Milan, Venice and
Turin are splendid cities, in which art, literature and
science have had their homes for centuries? The Italian
engineers, who have pierced the Alps with tunnels
and built railways through the mountain passes, are
chiefly Northerners. The fertile plains watered by
the Po, the Adige and the Ticino are among the
beat cultivated in Europe. The Italian who emi-
grates to Queensland is superior in intelligence and
physique to the majority of English or Irish agri-
cultural workers, and he is vastly more temperate
and thrifty. I am a good Yorkshireman, and would
like to see the N.Q. sugar industry entirely in the
hands of the race to which I belong! but the English,
the Irish and their Australian descendants have had
their chance and lost it. “Cleveland” unconsciously
sounds the praises of the Lombard “Dagoes” when he
says that 10 per cent, of them between Townsville
and Cairns own farms. They landed in Australia
with little or no money to buy land, and they found
the necessary funds to do so by toiling hard and
exercising economy. To say that such people are
not fit to assimilate with white Australians is,
therefore, as idiotic on moral as it is on ethnological
grounds. A land which has produced a Garibaldi,
a Mazzini, a Marooni in modern times, and a
Julius C-Esak , a Dante and a Galileo in past ages,
has no cause to be ashamed of a comparison between
its blood and that of any nation. What “Cleve-
land” says about Italian immigration being frowned
on by the United States carries no weight so far as
this controversy is concerned. Many of the Italians
who go to the U.S.A. are from Naples, Calabria and
the South—a type inferior to the Lombards and Pied-
montese, and they are largely city-dwellers. Anv-
how, we should be the last to accept the U.S.A. a*
a model in this regard. The U.S. Customs authorities
have been barring Australians of late, as freely as
any Southern European national.
“Going on the land,” after a large, spectacu-
lar fashion, has a way of failing in Austra-
lia. Perhaps the goers are wrong, or. maybe
the wrong land is gone on. Possibly there
is a worm at the root of the idea that white
man’s wages can be earned by doing coolie
work on a rather ungrateful soil, and drag-
ging out sparse crops for a lamentably remote
market. Mildura holds its ow.n, but it is a
modest plodder, covering 14,000 acres or so
of intense culture, with a bigger area in
reserve. Yanco (N.S.VV.) has improved to
the extent that some people think it might
pay its way if all the loan capital were writ-
ten off as lost. Joseph Carruthers’s Mil-
lion Farms idea, much patronised by the
Million Clubbers of Sydney, blows fitfully to
and fro, urged by the wayward breath of
Blither and the uncertain zephyr of Boom.
Theodore, of Queensland, has a scheme for
chasing a lot of the ruined cattle-men out of
the Central Division and sowing the land
with mortgaged cotton-growers. And gloomy
things are being said of Ivendenup (W.A.),
where De Garis, of Mildura, set out to create
a bigger Mildura all of a sudden. An official
report speaks of the wonderful Ivendenup
Development having a capital of £150,000, of
which £6 is, or was, actual cash, and 75 per
cent, inflation or goodwill; of capital that
seems to be running short; of a pile of debts,
a certain amount of hope, and a quantity of
good intentions —and, above all, of the urgent
need to raise more money. The taxpayers
can’t be levied on as at Yanco, so the position
is described as “anxious.” Perhaps the best
way to do a little real settlement might bo
to dot the land with little manufacturing
towns, which could be done if the railway
policies of all the States wen; turned upside-
down to handicap the big old cities and favor
the little new places. Then, while the little
new towns were making the importer super-
fluous, they would want food for their factory
’ands, and plain, hob-nailed folk without any
company prospectus would ooze along into
the surrounding country and grow food —
not to advertise any noisy politicians, nor to
“develop the great natural resources of the
country” and the banking accounts of the
exploiters of these assets, but just in an
individual way to make a bit of money. A
lot of settlement has been brought about by
creating a local demand for green-stuff and
allowing the supply to come along.
•
The Railways Standing Committee of
S.A. Parliament has turned down a sugges-
tion for a branch line to the forest of
Ivuitpo, a wild district, 30 miles from Adel-
aide. Before long, it may wrestle with a
big suggestion of Douglas Mawson’s —a new
inter-State loop line. Long ago, when the
rail from Adelaide to Melbourne was being
started, Vested Interests dragged it over
the highest part of the Mount Lofty range,
but in the process of climbing it goes a good
way south to Blackwood. Mawson’s idea
is to cut across from there to the Murray,
crossing by a bridge lower down than at
present, and joining the main line again at
Tailem Bend in the Mallee. This would save
thrusting all the inter-State traffic through
the bottle-neck at Mount Lofty. If the
loop comes off, it will serve the Kuitpo
district as well.


English Riding Breeches.
Peapes have just received new stocks in Wool Garbieord,
Dark Fawn and Medium Shades of Drab.
These Hiding Breeches fit loosely and comfortably about
the thighs, and closely about the knees and calves.
They have cross pockets buttoning at corners, hip
pocket to button, belt loops and laced leg. The knees
are strapped with soft, strong leather.
These Breeches will outlast most others; that is
their value is so excellent at • ••• 70/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state waist, knee and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
\r ■■
*•>
Sr;
THE ALL-ROUND EFFICIENCY AND
VALUE of the famous F.I.A.T. cars is due
to the HIGH STANDARD of the F.1.A.T.,
which represents QUALITY IN WORK-
MANSHIP AND MATERIAL, ECONOMY
OF UPKEEP and RELIABILITY ALL
ALONG THE LINE.
STANDARD TORPEDO TOURING CARS.
PRICES
Model 501, 10/15h.p., £595; Model 505, 15/20h.p., £825.
Model 510, 20/30h.p., £995.
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY.
GARRATTS LTD.,
173-175 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
TERMS
ARRANGED.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Premier Lawson (Vic.) sometimes does
the apt thing. Asked to send a representa-
tive of the Ministry to the Baptist Congress,
he went along himself as Minister of Water
Supply, and took Angus, the Assistant-Min-
ister, ‘with him. In his speech he referred
copiously to the good the rain was doing,
and the brimming condition of the tanks and
other scenes of immersion rites. As it hap-
pened, the brethren betrayed a sense of humor
and didn’t resent the banter of the Scotchby-
terian.
Blyth, leader of the Tas. Cocky group, is
a magnanimous person. Speaking on the
censure motion, which, though defeated, re-
moved the Lee Government, he said that
Lee’s acceptance of the Treasurership was a
crime against the State, Lee being so o rith ‘
metically impossible that all he could be
trusted to do in the Treasury was to tie
himself in a knot. Blyth is now Minister
of Lands and Mines in a Cabinet m which
Lee is Treasurer. The portfolio has recon-
ciled him to Lee’s arithmetic,, and blotted
out the memory of the “crime.”
There have been some fierce exchanges in
S.A. Assembly about war service. lhe
thing began simply enough with a disqussion
between Diggers Hudd (Liberal) and Denny
(Labor), as to which political party had
done most towards winning the war. lhen
it switched, through an interjection, to
Denny’s having had a “cushy job’ in £ ranee.
He took the opportunity of stating tnat
he started with one, but asked to be
sent to the Front, and then was down-
nnd-out with a wound the first night he got
there Towards the end he was replying
furiously to alleged “cold-footers,” and dar-
ing them to repeat any insinuations outside
the shelter of the House.
The small but noisy band of Perth(W.A.)
secessionists tried the other day to un-
press their hopeless views on the I rmjary
Producers’ Association. They were listened
to indulgently, but the assembled cockles
decided that they wanted more federalism
and less Perth rule, and swung m behind the
New States movement. Their adhesion is
important, for they send 15 members to the
State Assembly, and three of them are in
the Ministry. In fact, their association is
the most considerable convert the Aew
Staters have made.
During the excitement caused by the
allegation that an attempt had been
made to bribe Brennan, Labor M.L.A.
for Toowoomba (Q.). Premier Theo-
dore worked up a little sensation on
his own account. He said that two
bucolic persons had invited him to lead
a new party, composed of Labor moderates
and “the best” of the Cocky members, and
went on to read a long typewritten report
of the interview. There is no evidence that
the rustics acted with authority, and the
Premier’s show of indignation is unconvinc-
ing. At the Brisbane Conference last year
he announced that if Labor became Com-
munist (and what else has it become?) he
would be the first to part company with it.
There is nothing distinctively Labor in the
policy he has since followed. In fact, his
retrenchment scheme and plan of agricul-
tural co-operation have suggested to more
than the individuals who called ou him that
he was going the way of the massive Scad-
dan, who, after a hectic five years as Labor
Premier of Westralia, is now a Cocky Minis-
ter. But the negotiations which resulted in
Scaddau joining the Country party weren’t
recorded by a stenographer lurking behind
a screen or under a trap-door.
“Gallery”: Hughes, who has treated Watt
with icy politeness since the latter resigned
from the Ministry, turned on his old col-
league for the first time last week, declaring
that, when Watt was acting Priminister, his
hesitanev had resulted in the Government
paying more than it need have done for Java
sugar. In his endeavor to prove the charge
William Morris read a sheaf of cablegrams
between himself and Watt, but the latter
maintained that the whole trouble was due to
the Prime Minister’s languor and vacillation
in London. He insisted that the file, if
examined, would substautiall.v alter the story.
The incident is interesting as a sidelight
on the current political situation. When
Watt sat silent and seemingly negligent in
the Corner, Hughes and his satellites con-
temptuously ignored him. Now that he is
showing signs of life by occasionally joining
the Opposition in divisions, their dormant
hostility is coming to the surface.
THE CHAPERON.—THREE'S A CROWD.
Governor Nathan said the usual things at
the annual meeting of the Royal Life Sav-
ing Society (Brisbane) :
The Australians are good at games. They are the
world’s best cricketers and among the world s best
tennis players. As tegards sport, they probably ride
better and certainly swim better than anybody else.
He might have added that the Australians
are the finest borrowers and the best
spenders on God’s earth, and that as haunters
of racecourses and as believers in long odds,
short hours, limited production and unlimited
wages many of them are unequalled. But
Governors never unleash salutary truths like
that.
The Federal Public Accounts Committee,
in going through the sugar-control maze,
elicited the news that “neither the Sugar
Board nor the Controller kept any books
The Private Enterprise refineries to which
this public enterprise was sub-let or farmed
out, supplied their own returns, apparently
at their own discretion, and the biggest of
them even did the purchasing for the Gov-
ernment --while the latter rested. And the
business dates back to 1915, so it is . older
than the Government shipping line, which is
likewise bare in the matter of detailed
balance-sheets, any memoranda which
Hughes made on the backs of envelopes hav-
ing presumably been lost. Now that the
Commonwealth has got rid of its five .wooden
ships at £2OOO per leviathan, the time for
a financial overhaul should be close at hand.
Thirty years ago, S. Aus. imported J. H.
Smith from England to look after its rail-
ways. Now it has gone to the U.S.A. for a
new Chief Commissioner. There were
nearly a hundred applicants, and the heads
of big companies/both in England and the
U.S.A., gave advice. Finally, the Washing-
ton Government got a body of railroad presi-
dents to name six likely men, but only one
of them was willing to come to Australia,
and he gets the job—W. A. Webb, of Colo-
rado. Employed on all sorts of lines from
1890, Webb has, for the past three years,
belonged to the staff of the U.S. railroad
administration in Washington. He is to
receive £5OOO a year for seven years, with
fares to Australia for himself and family.
The Labor Opposition hotly criticised the
appointment in the Assembly, but Harwell
maintained that the Government had acted
on the principle of getting the best man,
without regard to nationality. Presumably
no colored gentleman was available.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Hughes shouldn’t have much difficulty in getting
Parliament to agree to a reduction of salaries.
The £2OO proposal was not unanimously cheered
when it was submitted to the Nationalist caucus,
but the two or three who want to cling to the old
screw won’t carry their opposition into the House.
The strongest disapproval will come from the Labor
crowd, who, in most cases, have no other source
of income and have greater demands on their petty
cash. Strike timrs always find them contributing
cheques to the fighting funds, and the calls on them
in other, respects are considerable. There is no
parallel between their position and that of men
like, say, Best, Maxwell and Jowett, who, apart
from being handy to home comforts, derive revenue
from lucrative outside professions. Parliament, of
course, can do nothing to remove these inequalities,
though there will be much talk on the point when
the question comes up. Another matter that will
be ventilated is the necessity of making some allow-
ance for members from States other than Victoria,
who are compelled to maintain two households. Any
reasonable scheme to compensate the distant men
for this heavy expense would be carried by an
uproarious majority.
The sentiments of “Henry Horsecollar”:
It is stated, almost daily, that someone has
fallen over “an intrigue” to get Joseph Carruthers
out of the N.S.W. Ministry. Why should there be
any doubt about such an obvious matter? Of
course there is an intrigue. To the best of my
abilities I am in it, and have been from the start.
I was also, so far as I could be of any use, in the
recent intrigue to get the Germans out of France.
I was mixed up this morning in a conspiracy to
get a dog out of my garden. N. S. Wales is loaded
up with repatriation loan-settlements which cost
from £2O to £lOO per acre to clear, arid
which don’t seem worth half the amount, and it
has nearly 3000 miles of repatriation or patriation
or land-settlement railway, which is losing over
£1,000,000 a year of the taxpayer’s money, and is
simultaneously ' driving away settlement. Joseph
Carruthers came back to active politics for the sole
purpose of advocating more such clearings (a million
of them), and more such railways. He left the long
and undistinguished obscurity which had followed on
a long and undistinguished career to pose as the
original discoverer of the idea of taking a hair of
the dog that bit one —or rather of swallowing the
whole pack of hounds raw. Of course there is an
intrigue against Joseph. If there were 20 intrigues
I would gladly be in them all. Then I would start
an extra one for luck and good government.
It was an utterly intolerant crowd of
drys that bailed up Honorary Minister Mer-
ritt in Melbourne last week. Merritt is a
local-optionist and a supporter of 0 o clock
closing, hut when he expressed himself in
favor of permitting bodies holding yearly
banquets to keep liquor on the table alter
8 p.m. there was a fusillade of interruptions.
Courteously he reasoned with the deputa-
tion. Angrily lie was told that he would
lose his seat if he didn’t “conform. Heed-
less of this threat. Merritt said that liquor
in moderation had always done him good,
and that he nearly died through denying
himself his whisky-and-soda during the war
period. “And to think he is a lay canon!
mused the deputation bitterly as it charged
out of the room.
The musings of “Henry Horsecollar” :
Premier Fuller mentioned recently that JN.b.VV.
wouldn’t object in the least if the baby bonus, which
has only resulted in a lamentable decline of bii th-
rate, was reduced, and apparently his Government
wouldn’t mind much if the scheme passed out entirely.
This should strengthen the hands of the Federal
authorities when they next look round for a means of
economising. It wouldn't matter so much if the
wretched baby got the bonus which is called after
him, or as much as a look at it. In point of feet,
he doesn’t enjoy so much as a whiff of his dad’s
breath, enriched by £5 worth of alcohol, all traces
of the rich and grateful aroma having evaporated
long before he reaches the age of discrimination. He
is bequeathed bad roads, broken tramcars, traces of
vanished public estate, go-slow habits, pony-racing
habits, deficits and debts —but no money. If the
bonus was put into some cast-iron, fool-proof and
unpriggable variety of sinking fund (supposing such
an affair could be devised) the defrauded infant would
really have his bonus when he was old enough to
understand it. But no one seems anxious to do the
child this meagre measure of justice. Perhaps the
best idea of all would be to build round the fund
the rampart of a statute by which any person who
proposed diverting the fiver from its honest purpose
should instantly, automatically and ipso fasto become
an outlaw, half his estate to go to the person who
killed him first, or to his widow if he was slain
anonymously, as it were, in the rush to exterminate
him.
Melbourne Age has been turning its artil-
lery on Dicky Foster, the depressing Minis-
ter for Works. As a private member Foster
was painfully dull, but his habit of bellow-
ing regularly about the folly of Canberra won
him a place in the Age’s gallery of favorites.
Now that be has been absorbed into the
Cabinet and publicly yearns to have the
Capital in full working order, the Syrne
organ rakes him fore and aft. In its milder
moments it calls him a “Cabinet comedian,”
whose antics “fall flat on a nauseated
House.” No doubt Foster’s volte-face is
pretty shameless, but there are hopes of him
yet. A man so versatile may twist on Can-
berra and hail Melbourne as the political hub
of the' continent.
On government by medical certificate: —
Labor’s precarious majority in the Queensland
Assembly has led to the bludgeoning through this
now lone House of a measure to obviate the necessity
of sick men having to be carried in, swathed in
blankets, to postpone Theodore’s hour of reckoning.
The bill provides that in certain cases members absent
through illness may vote by proxy. No condition
so patently lending itself to abuse and intrigue exists
in any part of the English-speaking world. The
House of Lords once sanctioned something of the
sort, but it was abandoned even by that hardshell
body a matter of 60 years ago. An Administration
depending for bare life on a single vote might crawl
into recess for six months by grace of a member
who could neither walk nor speak—perhaps not even
think consecutively. The most momentous legisla-
tion might depend on the issue of a medical certifi-
cate by two doctors at a particular moment. What
a hullaballoo would arise if it were seriously pro-
posed that a juryman who fell sick during a case,
or didn’t feel well enough to attend, should be
allowed to send along a proxy! If a thing is un-
thinkable in law, there ought to be no room for it
among the rules which govern the making of laws.
“Lucius” on a genuine Digger:—
That Captain Ted Morley par. (B. 10/8/’22) was
lamentably incomplete. Morley was originally a
Vic, auctioneer. The job of sec. of the Great
Ocean Road Trust was worth anything from £760
to £100-0 a year, and returned men made such a
noise about a civvie catching it that the holder
offered to stand-down for a Digger. Captain Dyett
got the selection, but immediately found something
better, and handed over to Morley, who was next
on the list. He soon realised that if he, as sec.,
received anything like £760 annually the Diggers
on the road would suffer, so he offered to do the
work without pay, and he has continued on that
basis for three years. Further, he is one of three
who put their names to a “joint-and-several” at the
bank so that none of the pick-and-shovel men would
call in vain for their fortnightly pay. Morley’s
Tote Bill may be a dud; his practical methods on
the Ocean-road certainly are not.
NECK OIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the N.S.W. Assembly Mr. Jackson asked whether,
in view of the number of assaults and murders since
the Six O’clock Closing Act came into operation,
the Government Would introduce legislation provid-
ing that beer should be sold in stumpy-necked
bottles.
\ stocking with a rock in it can hurt a head a heap ;
A knuckleduster does its bit in putting coves to
sleep ;
But murder moves from hackneyed grooves; we le
weapons worse to fear j(
Xow pubs disgorge their customers well "heeled
with bottled beer.
Be warned, then, lone pedestrian, what time you
•homeward trek
Where hoodlums lurk with pints of perk corked up
by Tooth or Beck;
The hand that holds the joker is the fist that grasps
the neck.
Oh, six-to-six may lessen shicks where arc-lights
gleam and glare,
May give the barmaid time for flicks and Bung for
evening prayer,
But ’ware the hooligan a-roarn, himself a pocket pub,
With hatred brewing in his dome, and in his kick
a club 1
When to and fro men “bottled” go and cops are few
to check,
At Surry Hills or Ultimo or by the coaster’s deck.
The hand to deal the shrewdest blow is that which
grips the neck.
A pint, its vitreous coat within, becomes a weapon
fell—
A homicidal medicine that functions all too well.
In alleys drear is brandished beer and splint’ring
glass that rips—
Would flasks were banned with hilts to hand for
grim garrotters’ grips!
Get busy, merry gentlemen, it’s time you passed a
lex .
Enacting never brewery should send out double-X,
Save only in receptacles as bare as casks of necks.
x.s.w.
T. THE R.


"Wl-xa-n Savafe. aod Esill v*Jownt i~o »sc3}Ool, Bill vja-Avat
v<z.vy rri oclr» iry* fey V>a,r y = <z- rr >»ol Ta<Z- divms .
Bot" <3OO. lay fa.'+J j/cc.ay-& 1 ai"<x.r,l»«- was .
AvoJ opad distinctly imoroos t«4td«.r>ca<z.3
Tiri duo. c.ou*-s«. & lit iprojaoSiz-cA.,
gf&t lousy on ViO-r Jlra.ss.
Tb«_ wa-s. truly rural .
Tfeo- t>real“i/ast <z_v<z.o rr>or«. So
Bml\ and SavaV* Ja-f art«-d fov fUo- »«.w T'lOmo.'Stzad , +e» lives. Kappily till at l<zasl A J/u-ar .
THE CHANGING YEARS.


JH
MOS
CO
m
GIVE A
CLEAR
SOFT
WHITE
LIGHT
ARE
ECONOMICAL
STRONG
AND
LASTING
21 S-
J
WVy
Vl_'.
\ \ \ T\^
/
ic«ers\
W/
CO. LTDt s
Lj.
i i >
ELECTRICAL
\
213 Clarence
St, Sydney
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety suse
Detonators
Cartridges
Australian Manufacturers of “MAGPIE" Specialties
Flour Sifters.
Gravy Strainers.
Wall Vents.
Spouting Brackets.
D Gate Latches.
Watering Cans.
Fry Pans.
SSSSSS 4sssme&&S^ s * 3SS *i
?IQ &
TINWARE.
Wire Nails.
Barbed Wire.
Shovels —Special Steel.
Spouting and Ridging.
Sewerage Pipes, etc.
“Dreadnought”
Wire Strainer.
Sheet Metal Work
of all descriptions.
TITAN Manufacturing Co.
Normanby Road, South Melbourne.
Telephones—C2l9l, C 2192.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Syd-
ney) :
Dividends.—^
“A” 4; “B” “C”
Shares Shares To Re- Re-
Profits. 10 p.c. 7 p.e. serves, selves.
Dec., 1913. £74,514 £63,750 £8,778 £1,980 £9,558
9 p.c.
June, 1914.. 68,288 57,375 8,925 1,988 11,546
7 p.c.
Dec., 1914.. 52,696 44,625 8,925 10,092
6 p.c.
June, 1915.. 53,463 44,625 7,650 1.188 11,880
Dec., 1915.. 55,472 44,625 7,050 3,197 15,077
June, 1916.. 53,377 44,025 7,650 1,102 16,179
Dec., 1916.. 51,525 44,625 7,650 15,429
Shares.—^
June, 1917.. 39,495 5 p.c. = 38,250 1,245 16,674
Dec., 1917.. 26,341 5 „ „ 38,250 4,705
June, 1918.. 60,286 7 „ ~ 53,550 6,736 11,501
Dec., 1918.. 90,579 9 „ „ 08,850 21,729 33,230.
June, 1919.. 48,366 8 ~ 68,360 13,236
Dec., 1919.. 74,093 S „ ~ 73,200 893 14.129
June, 1920.. 81,750 8 „ „ 80,692 1,058 15,187
Dec., 1920. .103,486 8 ~ ~ 85.200 18,286 33,473
June. 1921.. 80,492 8 „ „ 85,374 28,591
Dec., 1921.. 86,405 8 „ „ 86,097 308 28,899
June. 1922.. 96,568 8 „ „ 87,524 9,044 37,943
The disclosed net profit of £96,568, which
was £9044 in excess of the amount required
to pay the standard 8 p.c. div., does not
wholly explain why the directors “were
pleased to be able to reduce the price of gas
by Id. per 1000 cub. ft. as from May 1“
two months prior to the balancing-date—
and by 2d. more at the beginning of this
month. Employees’ wages are based on a
sliding scale dependent on the cost of living,
and rates automatically fell Is. per day in
February and a further 10d. at the begin-
ning of this month. The cost of labor em-
ployed in gas-production was less for the
past six months than in any term since
.rune, 1920, but: labor costs are also a big
item in repairs, maintenance and renewals,
and the outlay in those directions is heavier
now than at any other time, though the
directors do not trouble to explain. The
principal revenue and expenditure figures
for half-years ended June have been as
follows
1917. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Revenue —
Gas .. . .£362,491 £578,230 £694,080 £732,664
Meter rents . . 8,568 9,643 10,050 10,911
Residuals . . 61,088 81,109 69,269 66,535
Expenditure—
Coal, oil, etc. . . 137,271 225,493 297,217 307,266
Wages, salaries 69,079 100,920 114,695 99,168
Management . . 11,518 16,248 15,666 18,446
Renewals, etc. 71,116 124,713 155,950 174,815
Almost £50,000 more was spent on renewals,
etc., during the past six months than in the
Jan.-June, 1920, term.
Another factor influencing net profits, as
disclosed by the directors and set out in
the introductory table, is the amount charged
against revenue each half-year for the special
purposes and depreciation fund. The
amounts voted have varied widely:—
Charged Total at Credit
Against Revenue. of Fund. ,
June, 1918.. £36,308 £36,308
Dec., 1918.. 60,602 94,936
June, 1919.. 40,000 132,070
Dee., 1919.. 20,000 127,358
June, 1920.. 40,000 138,788
Dec., 1920.. 66,371 141.894
June, 1921.. 25,000 130,338
Dec., 1921 . . 80,000 158,021
June, 1922.. ■ 40,000 172,050
The Act restricts the annual vote to this
fund to 3-1 p.c. of the total outlay on build-
ings, manufacturing and distributing plant
provided by borrowed and share capital and
premiums thereon, and the fund
shall be applicable only to meet: (a) expenses in-
curred by reason of accidents or circumstances which
due care and management could not have pre-
vented or by reason of strikes; and (b) expenses
incurred in the replacement, renewal or removal of
plant or works, other than expenses requisite for
maintenance and repairs of plant and works and
for contributions towards a superannuation fund for
employees. The maximum amount standing to the
credit of the special purposes and depreciation fund
shall not at any time exceed an amount equal to
one-tenth part of the borrowed and share capital
inclusive of premiums.
The Government Gas Examiner regularly
inspects cos.’ books to see that these condi-
tions are complied with. In 41 vears the
A. G. L. Co. has voted £408,281 to this
fund, and there is now a balance of £172.050
on hand. For the past year it was entitled
to appropriate approximately £135.000, and
voted £120,000. No doubt the expenses in-
curred in removing from the old Darling
Harbor site to Mortlake have made a big
cut into the fund in recent years. In the
published accounts replacement and removal
expenditure is given in one entry, though
in the accounts filed with the Minister, and
which are available to the public, the man-
agement is obliged to give details. Now
that the removal of plapt is completed, pro-
bably demands on the fund will not be so
large, and the centralising of production
should also reduce costs. Possibly these
considerations partly explain the voluntary
reduction of prices to the public.
The N. S. Wales gas cos. are very effec-
tively curbed by the Act which Campbell
Carmichael introduced in 1912, and which
was subsequently got into better working
condition in 1918. There can be no further
capitalisation of reserves. The size and
uses of the special purposes fund are re-
stricted —the A. G. Li. Co. can lay-by up
to £397,000 in this reserve on the basis of
the present amount in works, etc., and at
present has accumulated £172,050. In good
years cos. may also build up a reserve
for equalisation of divs. —but "for no other
purpose.” Under certain circumstances they
are permitted to pay more than the stand-
ard 8 p.c. div.: under the sliding
scale provided by the Act cos. are
allowed to distribute an extra j p.c.
for every penny reduction in the standard
price of gas which has operated for 12
months. The standard price is the latest
declaration by the Court. This provision
was made in the original Act, when gas was
fixed at 3s. 6d. per 1000 ft.; but whether
any Government would risk the troubles
wliich it would bring on itself if it
allowed a co. to pay more than 8 p.c.
with the standard price at ss. 9d. is
another matter. Were an attempt made
to pay a bit more than 8 p.c., the Minister,
in consideration for his political skin, would
probably hasten to the Court to seek a
reduction of the standard price. On the
other hand, as Tiie Bulletin has pointed
out on several occasions, if a co. can prove
beyond any doubt in open court that it is
making extra profit by improved methods,
it would be fair to give shareholders that
extra. Otherwise managements are given
no incentive whatever to employ modern re-
torting and distilling methods. The A. G. L.
Co. has not been noted in the past for mak-
ing the most of residuals ; but the chairman
the other day announced that during the
past six years the co. had greatly developed
its interests in by-products, and whs
turning out “very large quantities of ben-
zols, motor spirits, solvent naphthas and dis-
infectant and tar oils.” The public may
hear more of the A. G. L. Co.’s activities
with residuals in future.
• * .* • •
Walkers, Limited, engine-builders, etc.
(Maryborough, Q.) :
Dividends and Written
.Tune, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
1908 ..£3,288 3 p.c. = £2,026 £2060 £2,766
1909 . . 7,248 5 „ „ 3,376 2500 4,138
1910 .. 11,144 7 „ „ 4,726 3000 7,556
£12,854 of internal reserves disclosed
and transferred to capital.
1911 .. 22,125 9 p.c. = 7,291 3000 19,390
1912 .. 25,454 10 „ „ 8,340 3000 33,504
1913 . . 21,014 10 „ „ 8,620 3000 42,898
1914 .. 17,193 10 „ „ 8,694 3000 48,397
1915 . . 16,874 10 „ „ 8,694 3000 53,677
Reserves capitalised, £41,403 .. 12,174
1916 .. 11,669 7 p.c. = 9,133 2500 12,210
1917 .. 11,859 7 „ „ 9,133 2500 12,436
1918 .. 11,570 7 „ „ 9,133 2500 12,373
1919 .. 47 Nil 12,420
1920 .. 12,005 7 p.c. = 9,291 2750 12,384
1921 .. 12,198 7 „ „ 9,291 2750 12,541
1922 . . 22,652 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 20,024
While many engineering shops have been
working part-time, arguing with Labor and
showing diminished profits or no profit at
all, this enterprising old co. in North Queens-
land has been having the time of its life.
Profits disclosed for the 12 months ended
June 30 were the best for 10 years, and the
div. goes up three points. During the year
the two 6000-ton steamships for the Com-
monwealth Government were completed,
three of the 30 locomotives on order from
Queensland Railways were delivered and
the balance are in course of construction.
This activity and the profits it gave recalls
the busy days when Walkers’ was kept going
on sugar-mill and mining machinery and on
bridgework, etc. What is ahead of present
contracts is not disclosed by the directors’
report, but the bit extra in divs. hints that
they are fairly confident about the future.
It is to be hoped that, in the interests of
Australia generally, the shipbuilding organ-
isation which was created at Maryborough
to cope with the Commonwealth Govern-
ment contract will find further employment.
The co.’s greatest success has-been in loco-
motive-construction, more than 300 having
been turned out to date.
There is some doubt whether the £10,902
net profit shown after setting aside £2750
for depreciation represented the full mea-
sure of earnings for the past year. A fea-
ture of the latest accounts is the shrinkage
of the amount tied up in fixed assets; that
shrinkage may have been due to one of
several causes or a combination of them:
(1) sales of plant, etc.; (2) utilising por-
tion of the contract surpluses to write off
plant specially installed for steamship con-
struction ; (3) taking advantage of a pros-
perous year to make more than the cus-
tomary allowance for depreciation. Fixed
assets and plant in 1921 were in-
cluded at £115.728, with a protect-
ing reserve for depreciation on the other
side of the balance-sheet amounting to
£33,250; in the latest accounts these assets
had declined to £92,922, and the deprecia-
tion reserve had expanded to £34,000. After
making the usual allowance for depreciation
the book value of fixed assets was £25,550
less. A comparison of other balance-sheet
figures throws a little further light on the
matter, and, incidentally, shows that since
the ships were handed over all balance-sheet
groups except investments have shrunk: —
1912. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities . . £17,478 £98,572 £135,354 £36,032
Fixed assets ~ 36,139 86,608 84,478 58,922
Stock-in-trade . . 18,227 30,315 33,258 30,546
Investments . . 37,842 61,958 63,918 66,721
Completed work
cash, deposits, etc. 52,989 69,808 103,976 49,155
After the 1921 div. had been paid there
was a surplus of liquid assets over liabili-
ties of £57,105; at June 30 last the surplus
was £109,390. The £52,085 addition to the
surplus represents the year’s profits, plus
easli from any sales of plant, etc., the lay-
by required for the year’s ordinary depre-
ciation, and possibly an exceptional allow-
ance for plant, etc., specially installed for
shipbuilding. The Bulletin would not be
surprised if Walkers’ did somewhat better
than the net profits disclosed suggest,
though, since no information is tendered to
explain the big decline in book value of fixed
assets, no definite evidence is available.
The old co. is now very snug financially.
After paymeut of the 10 p.c. div. —3 p.c. is
declared as a bonus- —£93,371 of the paid
capital of £124,193 was covered by liquid
assets, leaving plant written down to
£58,922 to back £2(5,822 of capital not
supported by liquid assets. In pre-
vious years there has been some doubt as
to one big item aniong assets—investments,
which have included “shares in other cos,”
and shown in the latest accounts at £06,721.
They prove to be . the best of securities —
shares in the A’sia, Union, Commercial of
Sydney and Wales banks and War Loan,
written down some thousands below their
present market value.
» * * *
The Ballarat Ranking Co., Ltd. (Bal-
larat, Vic.)
To
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1912. .£8,751 7$ p.c. = £6,374 £2377 £82,112
1913.. 8,930 8 „ ~ 6,800 2130 84,242
1914.. 8,994 8 „ „ 6,800 2194 86,436
1916.:. 9,100 8 „ 6,800 2300 88,736
1916.. 9,192 9 „ „ 7,650 1542 90,278
1917.. 9,311 9 „ „ 7,650 1661 91,939
1918.. 10,505 10 „ „ 8,500 2005 93,944
1919.. 10,564 10 „ 8,500 2064 96,008
1920.. 10,716 10 „ 8,500 2216 98,224
Reserves capitalised, £42,500 55,724
1921.. 11,999 7-3 p.c. = 9,881 2118 57,842
1922.. 13,276 8 „ ~10,200 3075 60,917
The 8 p.c. div. gives shareholders £l7OO more
than 10 p.c. did a couple of years ago,
the amount now distributed representing 12
p.c. on capital prior to the transfer of re-
seves. Nevertheless, shareholders are still
getting only a mild return on their money in
the business. Though £42,500 of reserves
were capitalised in 1920, accumulations after
payment of the latest div. were almost half as
large as paid capital (£127,500). On total
funds the latest div. gave a return of less than
5| p.c. In another three years the bank will
celebrate its diamond jubilee, but as it has
restricted operations to its home town it is a
very small affair. Though figures have ex-
panded in recent years—abnormal conditions
have no doubt been chiefly responsible—the
bank’s business is very little larger than it
was 30 years ago. Balance-sheet movements
since 1915 are shown in this comparison ;
1915. 1920. 1922.
Capital and reserves £177 136 £187,974 £195,017
Liabilities .. .. 234,259 291,480 307,973
Liquid assets .. 97,265 106,161 125,156
Advances . . . . 311,533 370,793 372,835
Premises .. . . 2,597 6,508 5,000
At June 30 less than 325. of the public’s
money was held for every £1 of funds. Other
banks have the use of up to £8 of the pub-
lic’s money for every £1 of their own ; and
the small proportion in the Ballarat Bank
accounts for the slenderness of profits. But
such large funds should mean good security
for depositors and other creditors. At
June 30 there were assets with a book value
of almost £503,000 to cover £307,973 of lia-
bilities, whieh means that Bs. iu the £ of the
values shown in the balance-sheet could be
lost before a penny of the public’s money
would be in doubt. The Ballarat Bank finds
full employment for all the money entrusted
to it; at June 30 advances were £65,000
larger than the total money left with it by
the public. The relation of funds to lia-
bilities explains that unusual position.
Slightly more than 40 p.c. of total liabilities
to the' public was held in liquid form.
* *
Marciiant’s Ltd., soft-drink manufac-
turers (Sydney)• •
May, Net Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1912.. £5975 10 p.c. = £3851 £2,124 £3lO
1913.. 6232 10 „ „ 3851 2,381 2,691
1914.. 7815 10 „ „ 3851 3,964 6,655
Assets revalued and written up, £11,444 18,099
1915.. 7237 10 p.c. = 3851 3,386 21,485
Transferred to capital, £21,393 .. 92
1916.. 5869 7 p.c. = 4193 1,676 1,768
1917.. .5979 7 ~ „ 4193 1,786 3,554
1918.. 4254 7 „ „ 4193 61 3,615
1919.. 5999 7 4193 1,806 5,421
1920.. 5220 7 ~ „ 4193 1,027 6,448
1921.. 4378 7 „ „ 4193 185 6,633
1922.. 8096 7 „ „ 5077 3,019 9,652
The 7 p.c. paid for the past year is not quite
so sweet as the same rate in previous years,
when, owing to capitalisation of reserves in
1915, it gave a return of 11 p.c. on original
capital. During the past year £12,b04 ol
new capital was called in, so on cash actu-
ally subscribed by old hands the return is
now just under 10 p.c. The year’s profits
represented a little more than 11 p.c. on the
enlarged capital, and though the co. did not
hold much cash at the balance at May 31
the directors might have been able to squeeze
a little more than '< p.c. for shareholders
when dividend-time came round at the end
of July. Instead, they decided to strengthen
the co. and devote £2500 of the year's
profit to reduce goodwill to £-800. This
comparison shows balance-sheet movements
since the revaluation of assets in 1915, and
for the past three years:—
1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Paid capital . . £38,507 £59,900 £59,900 £72,534
Liabilities .. 272 399 21,621 2,125
Freeholds,buildings,
etc 26,530 25.924 57.847 48,680
Plant, etc. .. 13,644 14,701 21,498 19.369
Stocks .. . . 11,950 12,232 14,219 7,184
Cash, etc... .. 11.992 15,977 136 15,658
In the 1921 financial year the co. extended
its factory, a.nd the amount tied up in pro-
perty was doubled. To finance the purchases
liabilities increased £21,222, but the new
capital and sale of property not required have
again reduced amounts owing to current
trading accounts. Included with the £l5,
cash, etc., held at the balance was a £12.411!I
mortgage, evidently on property sold. That
deal may also have assisted the profits shown
for the period.
* * * * . .. :'X
llackett Bros.. Ltd., of the Burnley Leather
Works, Richmond ( Vic.). —-Shareholders '
met in Melbourne yesterday to receive the.
report and accounts for the year ended
June, and to approve the payment of. 8
p.c. (£4800) to prefs. and 7 p.c. (£8000).
to ordinaries. It is to be hoped that share-
holders also put on record their appreeia
tion of the old proprietors’ magnanimous
action of 12 months ago, which was wholly.
responsible for the divs. Haekett’s was a
boom-time float: it took over in 1919, when
hides and leather goods were at peak prices;
and though in its first year it paid 10 p.c.
with ease, in the second, owing to. the.
market crash, a loss of £27,180 showed up..
After paying pref. divs. the co. would have
opened the past year with a P. and L.
debit of almost £32,000, which would have
been only partially made good by last year’s
profit of £20,978. But so that the: co. could
be got on to a sound basis again, the
Hacketts, Alfred and John, offered to sur .
render scrip to cover both trading losses
and pref. divs. Shareholders naturally
readily agreed, and a reconstruction was
pushed through which deprived the Hacketts
of 25,640 of their fully-paid ordinaries. Re
construction costs totalled £6Bll, and £3411
of that has been written off from the past
year’s net profit. After payment of the
divs. a credit of £4761 remained for the
current P. and L account. The past year’s
profit of £20,978, giving a return of 14
p.c. on ordinary capital after covering the
prefs.’ divs., was surprisingly good con-
sidering the state of the markets. Hides
dropped 60 to 70 p.c. from boom values, but
during the past 12 months they have again
gradually improved from between 4d. and
sd. per lb. to from 6d. to 9d. But mean-
while leather has continued to decline; it
is now about 60 p.c. below peak values,
and bedrock may not yet have been reached.
The export trade—about 30 p.c. of the Com
monwealth’s total output was shipped to
Europe—has been very dull.
Hackett Bros.’ paid capital is now
£174,000, £60,000 of which is 8 p.c. cumu-
lative pref. scrip. The security for the
prefs. is undoubted; at the balance there
was a surplus of cash and public securities
over all liabilities of £21.556, reduced to
£11,151 after payment of divs. Stocks had
a book value of £59,165, books debts £18,788.
and property and plant were valued at
£49,149. After payment of divs. £38,639
of the £.114,365 of ordinary capital was
represented by goodwill items.
* *■ * *
Gbetamain Collieries, Ltd. —This co. is
being floated to dig the section of the Greta
seam lying between the Pelton colliery and
the new mine being opened up by the East
Greta Co. The 800 acres it is proposed to
acquire have already been prospected by a
shaft and bores, which have proved a seam
of excellent quality, from 10ft. 2in. to lift.
Oin. thick, free of any band or fault. D. A. W.
Robertson estimates 7,425,000 tons of market-
able coal, giving the co. a 37 years’ life with a
daily output of 800 tons. The vendors are
to receive 25,000 £1 fully-paids, and £800(4
cash for the proposition as developed; but
£21,500 more is to be paid in cash within
two years to secure the freehold of 683 acres
now leasehold. The promoters are offering
80,000 £1 ordinaries, which, if fully sub-
scribed, will make £50,500 available for
equipment and working capital when ven-
dors have been paid. The experts estimate
that an outlay of £37,000 will equip the
property to produce 500 tons per day. A


Scientific Glassware, Crucibles, Scales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-mills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request.—Advt.
* * * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. . There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.—Advt. [1
* * * *
The responsibility for the water supply in a com-
munity is usually assumed by a municipal board, and
the ordinary household on turning a tap expects a
now pure and sufficient for health, comfort, clean-
liness, for garden cultivation and protection against
fare. io get these daily blessings more cheaply,
purely and . surely, progressive engineers are urging
municipalities everywhere to install Pioneer Wood
Pipe in place of metal. Write for their interesting
description booklet. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.—Advt.
A. E. Broue, Merges- Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries.— Advt.
* * * *
Horse Power.—Use Australia’s best—Pender’s
Australian-made Horse Shoes, Nails and Rasps—and
get full power from your horses. Prices and all
particulars, John Pender, Brunswick, Vic.—Advt.
* * * *
Inventors.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Masse], Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
I am a cash purchaser, Government Stocks, Deben-
tures, War Loan Bonds, Inscribed Stock, Shares,
Mining Trading Companies, Bawras, Wheat Scrip
and other marketable or negotiable securities Corre-
spondence invited. Telegraphic address, “Scriptum.”
Bank References. William J. Lees, 106 Pitt Street
Sydney.—Advt. ’
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
ns for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen Equit-
able Buildings, 360 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.—Advt.
* * * *
SiiiON-C.utVKS, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors lor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants; coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants -
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd
Circular Quay, Sydney.—Advt.
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quav
(East). —Advt. '
ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
Tt'CKKtt X- CO., LIMITED. SYDNEY
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death-Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments’
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAR VAN,
Managing Director.
&
BOORD^SOjf
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
*4.
DT
Snift & Company I,til„ AnstrulaMiin Agents. 2<5 30 Clarence St., Sydney
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers 1 Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
profit of ss. per ton is “reasonably antici-
pated, giving approximately £25,000 (25
P* e -capital) from an annual output
ot 100,000 tons.
* * * *
S. Aus. Public Actuary Stuckey, re-
porting on Friendly Societies’ work over a
rive years’ period, criticises the pur-
chase by the Oddfellows of the Gresham
Hotel, in Adelaide, on a commanding site
at the King William-street corner, opposite
Parliament House. The hotel lease runs till
1.920, and meanwhile the 1.0.0. F. is getting
only £GOO a year out of its £lB,OOO invest-
ment. When the lease runs out there is to
be a central hall there, with offices; but
Stuckey says, “I hold very strongly that
the consolidated funds were never intended
to be used in the purchase of large city iiro-
perties.”
Dalgety’s has apparently decided that
there’s not much to be Won from the metal
business, and has shut down on ore-buying
operations. During the war, under arrange-
ment with the Commonwealth Government,
the old co. handled practically all tungsten
and molybdenite produced in Australia.
Kobert Davidson, who managed Dalgety’s
metals department for 20 years, has started
in the ore-buying business in Sydney on his
own account.
The most bitterly-disappointed man in
Australian mining circles to-day must be
"Teddy” Dyason. His scheme for the amal-
gamation of almost the whole of the pro-
ducing section of the Bendigo goldfield, both
in conception and materialisation, displayed
the workmanship of a master mind. That
it was founded on a fallacy has been proved
beyond doubt. The basic principle was that
mining conducted in a comprehensive, sys-
tematic way, under one well-ofganised con-
trolling power, could be made a steady pro-
fitable industry, as distinct from a specula-
tive enterprise. That the idea had substan-
tial justification on absolute facts and reason-
able deductions therefrom is shown by a
perusal of the original prospectus, which set
forth that during the three years ended
December 31, 1914, the group of mines in-
cluded in the scheme produced £1,237,750
worth of gold; wages and tributors absorbed
£641,833; divs. totalled £322,253, against
which calls amounted to £194,544, leaving
£127,709; the variation in the cos.’ bank
accounts improved £16,897; the profit, there-
fore, was £144,606, or £48,202 ner annum—
"an amount equal to the average profit of
the whole field for the past 35 years, and
some £lO,OOO greater than the profit made
by the whole of the Bendigo mining cos. in
the same period.” That it was assumed
that these figures would be improved upon
is shown in the statement that “it is now
necessary to estimate what additional profits
can be .made as the result of the amalgama-
tion,” and following this is a summary of
economies, showing an annual saving of
£70,000, which “will be available as profit.”
That was the alluring anticipation; but
what has been the actual realisation? Five
balance-sheets dating from May, 1917, to
June, 1922, have been issued ; two show pro-
fits amounting to £163.881, and three show
losses totalling £84,186, leaving £79,625 as
the profit for five years. There was a big
increase in wages and costs generally dur-
ing the second period, but against this there
was the bonus on gold, which in the aggre-
gate represented more than the declared pro-
fits. It was asserted as having “been abun-
dantly proved that the Bendigo goldfield in-
variably responded to prospecting and
development.” Unfortunately for the
B.A.G. the reverse has been the result. The
last report states: “The most attractive of
the co.’s prospects have failed to respond
to developments, and the immediate supplies
of payable stone are becoming exhausted.”
The only bonanza which the co. discovered
was in tile Constellation mine at a shallow
depth, without which the aggregate balance-
sheet would have shown a heavy loss. Pros-
pecting has been mostly negative in its
results, and it is hardly a reassuring fact
that no work is now being done at or near
2000 ft.
Mr. Dyason, as a scientist, may not sub-
scribe wholly to the trite truism of the
Cousin Jack, “where it be. there it be,” but
he is a believer in the West-countryman’s
dictum that “difficulties be made 'to be
‘rastled’ with,” so he has evolved an elabo-
rate scheme for the creation of six cos. to
operate the six areas into which the leases
are now divided. He plans that each co.
will consist of 60,000 shares, of which the
B.A.G. will receive 10,000 paids and
some few contribs. This will pro-
vide eight shares in each. co.—or 48
in all—for each 100 shares in the
B.A.G. In order that the cos. may devote all
their available capital to mine work which
may lead to some definite result, they are to
have the right to the use of a l] nlant on an
easy time-purchase system. The scheme
means a revival of the old svcfem It
many attractive features, and there ought
not to be difficulty in forming at least four
of the proposed cos.
Ballarat lives up to profits. After having
had a ripping time, Ajax finishes its half-
year with £214 in hand. So cocksure is it
of the future that another div. is forecasted
within a couple of weeks. In six months
3082 tons gave 17250 z., but most of the gold
came in the last quarter. The stuff was got out
of a bit of a flat-make at No. 5, but that
has since petered out. However, a crosscut
off the north drive on McMillan’s lode cut
the eastern formation and saved the situation.
There is 3ft. of good payable stuff in the face
of the new lode. Daylesford estimates gen-
erally bubble with optimism, but the truth
about the new stone is that it is patchy,
and a lot of work has to be done to show
that divs. are to come out of it. Rises are
going up from the crosscut, 50ft. away. In
them the lode ranges from 2ft. to 4ft. wide,
but the mine has to be judged, not on what
the rises tell, but on the stopes off them.
Prospecting reveals the lode ahead, so
whether the present workings disclose good
stone or not there is sufficient in sight to
Keep Phil Lewis and his followers bucking
into work underground.
*•* * *
Eaglehawk, a suburb of Bendigo, dolled
itself up the other day and celebrated the
diamond jubilee of the Borough Council.
Those present formed themselves into a de-
putation of 1500, and got Arthur Moline,
manager of the Bendigo Amalgamated Co.,
in his capacity as chairman of the Chamber
of Mines of Vic., to beseech Premier Lawson
to lend the town £5OOO to re-open the Light-
ning Hill mine, which had a shaft 800 ft.
deep. The Mine Managers’ Association pro-
poses to float a co. to raise £lO,OOO working
capital. Moline w r ent on to urge the Govern-
ment to set aside a sum of £25,000 a year
to subsidise shaft-sinking, sites to be
subject to the approval of the Geological
Survey. In support Moline said that in
1915 8755 men were employed gold-mining
in Victoria for a yield of 329,0000 z. Last
year there were 3056 miners working, and
the year’s output was 114,5790 z., while divs
had dropped from £193,421 in 1915 to
£21,430 in 1921. During the past five years
about £200,000 has been found in new money
to support Bendigo mining, the total expen-
diture being approximately £1,500,000, or
£300,000 per annum. Premier Lawson pro-
mised to refer the matter to the Minister
of Mines.
* * * *
Blue Consolidated, Bendigo, return last
week was 3480 z. from 617 tons, an average
of ll}dwt. No improvement on this is ex-
pected from the current week’s run, but as
the heap of fallen material in the main level
will have then been disposed of, better returns
may be looked for. Chairman Lansell stated
at the general meeting the other day that
prospects generally were most promising. The
weekly output is shortly to be increased to
700 tons, which should mean a reduction on
the present low cost of 235. 9d. per ton.
Sim* its reconstruction in 1918 the co. has
wiped off £4OOO of old debt, spent £6BOO
on plant, and. a large sum on development
and paid 14s. per share in divs., or
x 01,500.
* * * *
Cock’s Pioneer. Eldorado (Vic.), for the
half-year ended May 31, won 30510 z. gold
and 54} tons tin-oxide from 297,700 cub.
yards of material, the average values being
gold 9.8 d., tin 3.3 d. per yd. The loss for the
term was £3640. The report states that
“future prospects are more encouraging;
sluicing conditions give promise of maximum
yardage being handled, and the indications
of better values ahead are regarded as satis-
The plant is now operating on a
90ft. face. It is manifest that unless the
expected improvement in values takes place
the co. must go to the wall. Under present
costs conditions in Australia it would be
attempting the impossible to try to make a
13d. per yard show pay with a pump-sluie-
ing plant. To date the co. has paid £60,000
m divs. on its capital of £lOO,OOO.
* * * *
-,Ji ampton Celebration (W.A.) put through
1000 tons in July for £lB5O, with 4s. lOd.
per ton in residues. Working expenses
took £lBOO, developmental £2OO and capital
expenditure £l6O. The Celebration per-
formances have been poor, and ore values
disclosed by extensions of underground work-
ings indicate there is little hope for im-
provement.
* * * *
Ivanhoe (W.A.) has just located some-
thing out of the ordinary at 3000 ft. After
winzing on the east lode from 2870 ft. level
to 3000 ft., crosscuts from the bottom of the
winze were extended east and west, expos-
ing a lode 30ft. wide, averaging 48s. per
to “- A feature of the development is that
gold values in the winze improved with sink-
mg, p Boulder mines may have a longer
life than looked possible 12 months ago.
Edna May Deeps, Westonia (W.A.), did
very well from its block of ore on the Edna
May boundary at 480 ft. level. Crushings
have built up Deeps’ cash reserve to between
2s. and oS. per share. Directors are con-
sidering whether they will distribute the
Cf vv tr \r to S0I ? e arrangement
with Edna May Central with a view to re-
covering further ore from the Westonia
flood.
The new lode recently struck west of
Fraser’s main workings, though it looked all
right at first, has given disappointing results.
Nevertheless, old hands at Southern Cross
are still confident that the find will develop
into something worth while.
Gnow’s Nest, Yalgoo (W.A.), treated 1050
tons for £2850 in July. The show began
well, but recently the figures have shown a
falling off; returns for August, however, are
officially anticipated to give "better results.”
1 he main-shaft is to go down to 280 ft.
Tributors in Boulder Perseverance again
head the list as profit-makers in Westralia.
During July they treated 3800 tons for
£15,900.
A clash between Perth and Adelaide sec-
tions of Lass o’ Gowrie shareholders appears
likely. That show was noted during the
Mount Monger boom for its high assays,
optimistic official reports and thin pay-ore
deposit. Later, £OOOO of its cash disap-
peared, but the promised restitution has appa-
rently not been wholly effected. Directors in
Adelaide have paid £lOO cash, and at the
same time made a call to finance an
option taken over Ives’ Reward North.
Perth shareholders object, and want the co.
to take an option over another property.
* * * *
Peak Hill (W.A.) sent 18 tons manganese
ore to Perth Mint during July. Mint
requirements are 72 p.c. manganese dioxide,
and the Peak Hill product goes 76 p.c.
The co. hopes develop an export trade.
Dr. Jensen, of the Queensland geological
staff, attributes the decline of metal mining
in his State to Stock Exchange operations,
and “price-fixing by money-grinding monopo-
lists in New York and London”—it is the
“toy” of the first and the “victim” of the
second. “Until the industry is freed from
the stranglehold of the Stock Exchange octo-
pus there can be no stability to make the
mining industry what it should be.” Coming
from a soap-box agitator this might be
treated as inconsequential twaddle, but em-
bodied as it is in an official report, it
demands serious criticism. There is hardly
a tentacle of truth in the “octopus strangle-
hold” assertion. There have been share
booms in N.Q. mines, it is true; these may
have made a few rich at the expense of the
many, but to suggest that there is any re-
mote association between them and the
decline of the industry is absurd. In no
part of the world has there been more capi-
tal applied legitimately to mining than in
N.Q., and non-realisation of anticipations
is largely attributable to official over-
sanguineness. Where private enterprise has
failed the Government, with the unlimited
backing of State funds, has tried its hand
only to make worse failures, which certainly
have not been caused' by the “stranglehold
of the Stock Exchange octopus.” As to the
“money-grinding monopolists” of London
and New York, Queensland has been in no
worse position than any other mining coun-
try. As an abstract generalisation it may be
conceded that it is a monstrous thing that
half a dozen “fat and greasy citizens” sitting
at tables in London and New York should
have the power to regulate the price of in-
dustrial metals from day to day: but Dr.
Jensen’s supposition that this anomaly may
be altered by the establishment of a “Com-
monwealth metal-buying department with
offices in various parts and a London agency
for the disposal of Australian production, or,
at least a part of it,” is vain imagining. It
might be excusable if it came from poli-
ticians having fat sinecures in contempla-
tion.
* * * *
Tyrconnell, at Kingsboroueh (N.Q.), has
had very satisfactory crushings; the last
three have been: 513 tons for 7770 z. : 410
tons for 3970 z.: and 355 tons for 3770 z.
The first is the best crushing ever taken out
of the present mine, and the three average
well over an oz., which is good for the size
of the reef. All this has come from the
vicinity of the No. 5 level, and the stopes
above and the level itself show up to Bft.
or Oft. of crushing stuff. In the intermediate
level between* No. 4 and No. 5 Bft. of ore is
averaging 18dwt. Returns may be quiet
for a time owing to water supply having
vanished, the battery now being supplied by
water pumped from the mine. The show
promises to do well, as there are other reefs
which give indications of opening up well.
* * •* *
Mt. Quamby, Cloneurry (Q.), has not yet
reached the producing stage, although "de-
velopment work has been proceeding for con-
siderably over a year. The co. is faced with
a drought, and is looking for water under-
ground with which to run the battery,
although provision has been made for a
surface supply. Everything is in order now
for making a start, and the mill has had
its trial rufi. Returns will come to hand
as soon as an adequate supply of water is
obtained.
# * * *
According to London talk “the Mount
Elliott position is still far from clear.”
In May the English crowd officially denied
that there was any hitch over the long-drawn-
f-ri iS tia vr°!w > fur new ca Pital. Still, the
iobU 000 which Queensland has been looking
for to help carry out Corbould’s big ctt
curry scheme, to bring Mount Elliott a pro-
fit of a million or two from the treatment
ot its low-grade ores, has not materialised.
at Yr\ b £Lk re A?n°i SSeSS *, 0n of the Vulcan,
be sun“ b S“ d lts requiem can
resuscitate US ast attempt to
ltsusotate a giand old tin-producer. Cash
didn t flow m too plentifully though the
Gov'ermnent gave a liberal subsidy A lot
o pi o. pec ting was done within the last 12
months between GOOft. and 1400 ft but the
continuation of the big VulcaTshcSt wat
hack “TV • It , ha ? be £ n a grievous knock
back to Irvinebank. Tributors have been
doing well in and around the GOOft. level
for over six months, and now they have the
whole carcase.
Elan Athol coalfield (Q.), during Julv
maintained the increased output Reached in
.June with 14,120 tons for the month. This
is a welcome revival, as a few months back
p'h . 18 '\ h' S i b *d fa Jl e n to below 6000 tons.
Man Athol C. and T. Co., which, with its
three mines, produces half the output, in-
tends to go right ahead with the open-cut
lmrnng scheme. This is bound to force
Coal, Ltd., to do likewise or lose
its trade. Having gone into the question,
tne latter co. considers that as regards thick-
ness ot coal and depth of overburden to be
removed, it is as favorably situated as others
on tne field.
* * *
„ Mulligan (N.Q.) is forging ahead,
and has increased production to 100 tons
coal a day from the two seams. The plant
has been entirely replaced or rejuvenated,
and the coke-ovens are ready to start.
* * * #
The new Tivoli seam opened up at Bal-
gowan, Darling Downs (Q.), has turned out
well, and the quality of the coal is good
enough to secure the co. contracts with the
railways, lhe fuel is probably better than
anything else on the Downs, barring the
best Tannymorel, near Warwick, and
Tannymorel has not been able to supply
enough for requirements between Toowoomba
and Wailangarra.


THE HANDWRITING ON THE WALL.


Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, has now
taken over the management of the Hotel
Carlton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. I.e\ y is a well-
known French chef, vebose cuisine is
famous among visitors vo Sydney.
Registered address, Cable, Radio or
Telegraph: “liOCAR,” Sydney.
Won its favor through its flavor.
K.B.
LAGER
On Sale in all the Capital Cities
of the Commonwealth.
Brewed and boiled by TOOTH & CO. LTD., Kent Brewery, Sydney.
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1021 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Mears” Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 Georgfe Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
It looks as though J. L. Campbell, K.C.,
will get the seat on the Supreme Court
Bench, vacant through the death of Bring.
He is from Argyleshire, a N. S. Wales bar-
rister of 36 years’ standing, 64 years of age,
and sound in common law. He led for
the Bishop of Wagga in the Liguori case
and won.
“Gad” casts an eye over two sorts of
fighting-men:—•
The most prominent feature of our professional
coat-trailers (almost invariably Churchmen of one
sect or another, by the way) is a total lack of a
sense of proportion. Thus Sydney was offered the
spectacle, last week, of Father O’Reilly exploiting
the death of Arthur Griffith to speculate publicly
as to what would be said when he (O’Reilly) died,
'the idea was that the speaker and Griffith were both
rebels together. The difference is that, while
Arthur Griffith risked his life for his prin-
ciples, Father O’Reilly has never done any-
thing of the sort. Priests fought and died in
hundreds for France in the late war, some of them
journeying from the ends of the earth to make the
sacrifice. All Father O’Reilly appears to have done
for Erin is talk provocatively about it from a
great distance. Although he would doubtless reject
the suggestion with vigor, he is logically of that
school which attracts some of his sharpest darts
—the school which has amongst its members the
skiting, flag-waving Imperialist who either never
went to a war for the cause which he so harms by
his advocacy, or, if he had to, took care to secure
a safe job and keep it. Griffith, on the other hand,
was the front-line type of patriot, who was comrgon
amongst the Hibernians in the A.l.P.—the sort who
talked little and (though he admittedly hated fight-
ing) fought hard when the occasion demanded it.
The ink was hardly dry on the Order-in-
CoUneil accepting bis resignation as a P.M.
wllen Notley Moore (Vic.) passed out. Be-
sides .has magisterial work, he presided over
a number of Wages Boards in the late after-
noons and at night. Latterly, lie was a
martyr to neuralgia, and he was often wracked
with pain while on the Bench. The death
of two sons at the war, followed by that
of his wife, were severe blows against which
he stood up manfully.
“Tally-ho”: The Slioobridge family, well
known for years in Derwent Valley (Tas.)
orcharding circles, is represented by Louis
Manton Shoobridge, a militant Nationalist,
DOUGLAS
RICHARDSON,
President Vic.
Artists' Society.
in the Upper
House, and by his
brother William
Ebenezer S h o o-
bridge, an equally
militant Laborite,
in the Assembly
The latter has just
been admitted in
place of W. W.
Pearce, who died
before he could
take his seat after
being elected for
F rankli n. The
brothers are two
of a trio of Shoo-
bridge brethren re-
nowned for re-
markably similar
agricultural ziffs.
P. G. Stewart, Cocky party M.H.R. for
Nuaniera (Aic.), told a Ditnboola audience,
he other day that in the days of his youth
he had sold Heralds on a beat in front of
the present Federal Parliament House, and
probabh had ainony his customers some of the
Vic. legislators who then occupied that build-
ing. Incidentally, he remarked that in those
days his family rented a place out Yarraville
way at 3s. a week, but the toll now taken for
it was JJs. 6d. He knew the present rent,
because he had inquired when passing re-
cently.
Passed out in Hobart, the Rev. Edwin
Bean, one-time classical master at Geelong
(Vic.) and Sydney Grammar Schools, prin-
y,?\ A 1 Saints’ College, Bathurst
(JN.S.W.), and headmaster of the Brent-
wood Grammar School, Essex. He married
Lucy Butler, one of a well-known Tas.
family, and was the father of Charles, the
official A.I.F. correspondent; Dr. Jack, sec-
retary of the Theosophical Society; and
Montague, manager of Crompton and Co.
Sydney.
Lewis Cohen, Adelaide’s popular little
Jewish Lord Mayor, easily holds the local
civic record. It is 37 years since he first
entered the council, and he admits having
been seven times plain Mayor prior to becom-
ing one of tile “Lord” variety. Cohen says
the present job entails much strenuous work,
mihl he thinks he’ll cry enough when this
term ends. He spends his own money more
iieely than anyone who has held the position,
and Ins mayoral shivoos, balls and the like,
are always most lavish affairs.
John Buckle, shipowner of Pyrmont, Syd-
ney, left £ 22,139—a1l of it to his brothers
and sister, nieces and nephews. On the
day that probate was granted Jiis mother
died. She was 8G years of age and widow
of Francis Buckle, a one-time Svdney aider-
man.
“The Deacon”: The late Neal Collins,
in partnership with Mulholland for many
years, gathered in most of the R C
gent.-one business in N. S. Wales. Marry-
REG LLOYD , manager
of the much-talked-
of SUN newspapers
in Melbourne.
mg into the extensive Loneragan clan, of
Mudgee, he had the solid backing of bid
lVlonsignor Donovan in the Lambing Flat
boom-days, when that choleric cleric con-
trolled a punch disguised in a blackthorn.
Ihe dead man’s venerable brother has been
at Mt. Carmel so lone that he seems to be
an integral part of that smelliferous suburb.
Spiked his last slip of “copy,” Janies
Thomas Donovan, whose face, with' its globu-
lar cheerfulness and Old Bill moustache, has
been a familiar mark on Sydney’s Inky
Way tor many years. He had worked for
most of the big papers of the city, and fin-
ished up with the 5.M.11. Donovan special-
ised in musical criticism and ecclesiastical
matters from the R.C. end, and had a fine
baritone, which Santley, when in Sydney,
urged him to have trained. He was 61 at
the end, and left a widow but no family.
( Tell “Gnarek”(B. 22./6/’22)and
Invalid (B. 17/8/’22) that the rumor about
Horatio Bottomley being the son of Charles
Bradlaugh was started by a. man named
Horatio Bottomley in a oaper called .John
Bull. The “charge” of being an illegiti-
mate son of a celebrity and the cheap mys-
tery attached to it went down well with the
beery electors of North-East Hackney,
where every working-man’s club was financed
by. Horatio —-with other people’s money.
The late Frank Palmer Spry did much
tor comparative and economic entomology in
Australia. Born in St. Kilda (Vic.) 1 he
served, his time as a stonemason, and be-
came inspector of contracting work for the
Metropolitan Board of Works before he
seriously turned towards science. Some
years later, he got the job of assistant to
the curator of Melb. Museum, and, shortly
afterwards, was appointed entomologist. At
times the Governments of N. S. Wales and
S. Aus. called on him to solve problems re-
lating to insect pests, but he still found time
to take an interest in the Vic. Field Natu-
ralists’ Club, which owed to him much of
its prestige. As a side-line, he built up an
unrivalled collection of old coins and papers
dealing with the early days of Victoria. His
book on Australian butterflies is used by
Australian entomologists to settle arguments
with.
“U.P.”: Mrs. Carleton’s “Song of Aus-
tralia” (B. 17/8/’22) was set to music by
Carl Linger. The latter was born in Berlin
in 1810, and studied under Keissiger and
Klein. His first compositions were sacred
songs dedicated to the Princess Royal of
Prussia. He composed two operas, “Fight
with the Dragon” and “Alfred the Great,”
and many symphonies, cantatas and other
works. At 39 he came to S. Aus. and
started farming. But music was no good to
the animals, and he failed. He then settled in
Adelaide as a teacher, and for several years
conducted the Adelaide Choral Society. He
died in the sainted city in ’62.
W. N. Simpson, who passed out at Waver-
ley the other day, at 88, came to
Sydney in 1838. from County Down, Ire-
land, aboard the Parland. Having served an
apprenticeship as a saddle- and harness-
maker he joined Thomas Davis, who was in
that line in Pitt-street, Sydney. In the
first ’sixties he established himself in George-
street, four doors south of the A. J. S. Bank,
where he shared the high-class trade with
John Brush, equally successful a few doors
away. Simpson retired in 1910. He was
Mayor of Waverley five times, a prominent
Mason and a good churchman, and at his
death was president of the Deaf and Dumb
and Blind Institution.
“D.F.”: About the time the Burrinjuck
(N.S.W.) dam was started, John Simons
was an engineer in the Govt, service at £4OO
a year. Ho asked for a rise of £lOO and
was offered £2O, so he got out. Lane and
Peters, who took the contract for the big
dam, wanted his skill and experience and
offered him a partnership. To-day he is
well in cement and a fairly rich man. If
he had stuck to the service he might have
been getting £7OO a year.
“J.H.” (London) : The Freetrade Star
(3/7/’22) devoted a column or so to the
annual London Fair and Market at Isling-
ton, and in the course of a psean of ecstasy
at the superiority of Hun imports, it re-
marked : “German-made clocks are shown
by B. Keysor, Glasshouse Yard, who was
with the Australian Forces and won the
V.C. at Gallipoli.” Another proof of the
fact that there’s no sentiment in bithness.
Colonel Oldershaw, hurled into prominence
by a prying Sugar Commission, came to
Australia from India. He joined the old Vic-
torian volunteers, clambered up to the rank
he now holds, and figured on the retired list
in 1913. He is a jaunty, well set-up person-
age,; who was one of the shore Admirals of
the Commonwealth fleet before he was
hoisted into the job of Sugar Controller.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos the widow of F. Stan-
ley Dobson, LL.D. (B. 17/8/’22). The
learned doctor held one brief and only one
in a criminal case in Melbourne. In the
’sixties he was junior, with George Higin-
botham leading, in. defence of the barrister
Gerald Henry Supple, tried for the murder
of publican J. S. Walshe (a retired detec-
tive), who interfered to save G. P. Smith
when Supple . was pursuing him. Supple
was convicted and sentenced to- death, but
„the sentence was commuted after an ela-
borate legal letter in the Argus to the Gov-
ernor (Manners Sutton) by R. D. Ireland,
Q.C.
When appendicitis got him the other day,
“Billy” Gill, lawyer, of Tasmania, was only
40. He was much better known as organiser
and chief business head of Tasmania’s cricket
and football associations, and foster-father
of many other branches of athletics, than as
a member of the Hobart legal firm of Crisp,
Gill and Harvey. His mother, Sarah Inez
Gill, was for many years managing proprie-
tress of the Tas. News, Hobart’s only even-
ing paper, which was bought up and shut
down by the Dairy Post (now the World)
a decade ago.
T. S. Crawford, of N. S. Wales, has writ-
ten a legal textbook, “Proofs in Criminal
Cases.” He was a Presbyterian parson
at Campsie when his open advocacy of Labor
scandalised the Church elders.' Eventu-
ally Crawford exchanged the pulpit for a
Parliamentary seat, and, what was more,
the seat was Marrickville. The conscrip-
tion issue put him on the political ash-heap
with many another good patriot and sound
Labor man. But in the meantime he had
read law and been admitted to the Bar,
where he is now firmly entrenched.
Jimmy Mitchell, who Droposes to add
75,000 people to his State’s population in
the next three years from the U.K.’s boxed-
up millions, is Groperland’s 13th Premier,
his predecessors (deceased) being Forrest,
Throssell, Leake, Daglish, Wilson and
(alive-oh) Morgans, James, Rason. Moore,
Scaddan, Lefroy and Colebatch. But there
is no superstition about Jimmy, who pro-
bably wouldn’t eat any less dinner if he
upset the salt-cellar while uncrossing his
knife and fork, or sleep any less soundly if
he had seen a cross-eyed white horse and
broken a mirror before going to sleep
under a ladder. The most luckless
Premier W.A. ever had was No. 12.
Colebatch, who narrowly escaped being
mobbed before he had been in office three
v ee t k h s ’ nn?™ e is n ? se rubbed the dust
bv the unions before be could hurriedly sur-
Rbnd 1 F«tPQ°E‘ 14 almost looked as if the
n « o i B w ad , coun ted wrong when they
gay Colebatch all the brickbats and kept
all the roses for his successor.
-M on Ker died at Warragul
r b ? other day he was probably the
oldest Jiving native of Melbourne, having
been bom there m 1889. His father owned
the Firefly, the
first steamer on
the Yarra, and
with his partner,
Peter Hurlstone,
established a
timber-yard in the
heart of Collins-
street, and also
built some of the
earliest buildings
of importance in
the town. I n
1864 Monger, sen.,
and two sons
started business as
contractors
at Sale, Oippsland.
One of the daugh-
te r s married a
Hordern in Mel-
bourne, and from
them descended
the Sydney family.
J. M. BADDELEY,
ALL.A., the New-
castle (N.S.W.)
miners' chief
spokesman.
Blackfriars”: Whoever wrote that J
Greeley Jenkins, the Yankee bookdrummer,
who once Premiered S.A., has “replaced the
old nasal twang with the genuine John
Bull accent’ (B. 10/8/’22) is wide of the
mark. J. Greeley J. has never made any
attempt to drop either his twang, his Arizona
droop moustache or the rounded periods of
the average elderly Amurrican orator—and
the twang is the indelible sort that he will
carry with him though the pearly gates.
Admittedly, Jenkins has not kept pace with
the slang of his country, but no Yank could
ever expect to catch up with that after
being out of the linguistic kaleidoscope more
than six months.
Inspector-General Belgrave Ninnis, C.V.0.,
R.N., M.D., M.R.C.S., who died the other
day in London at 84, served in the medical
branch of the Navy from 1861 till 1807, and
was an explorer and naturalist who wrote
several works on scientific subjects. Me was
medical officer and naturalist on the schooner
Beatrice, which, surveyed the Northern Ter-
ntory coast, 1863-66, and in 1875 he joined
the Discovery as staff-surgeon in Sir George
Naress Arctic expedition. His last charge
was the Royal Naval Hospital, Chatham.
“Jack Horner”: Add A. L. Kennedy to
the. lisL of A.I.F. Polar Medallists' (B.
J9/6/ 22) . He is a brother of Daisy, a min-
mg engineer and one of the best eight-oar
strokes S. Aus. has known. After beiiw
south with Mawson, he was on the magnetic
survey of Australia for the Carnegie Insti-
tute until he went to France with the Tun-
nellers. Present address, Adelaide Observa
tory. Another S. Australian who was with
Mawson is C. T. Madigan (also a mining-
engineer and crack oarsman), but he served
with the 8.E.F., being Rhodes-scliolarising
when the guns began to boom. He is now
Lecturer in Petrology at Adelaide ’Varsity
under his old Antarctic chief.
From a candid friend:—
Re Arthur Griffith (B. 17/8/’22). He supported
the Boers with voice and pen, but did not fight with
• hem, like Lynch and many other insurgent Irish-
men,” Apparently, his repeated declaration in the
course of the Dail debate on the Treaty, that he
wished his name to go down to history associated
with the name of Michael Collins has deluded manv
people on this side into the belief that Griffith was
a rapparee of the type of most of the pro-Treaty mem-
bers. The truth is—he made no secret of it—his
aversion to physical force was as strong as Dan
O Connell s. He never concealed his contempt for
the “young fire-eyed disputants” who put their faith
in dynamite. “Ireland cannot hope to fight Eng-
land,” he wrote to John Devoy in 1904, “and the
proper place for the man who says she can is a
padded cell.” It is now well known that neither he
nor any of the other leaders of Sinn Fein—with the
possible exception of Seoghn McDiarmid—took part
in the Dublin affair of 1916. Nor was Griffith always
a Republican ; rather, he seems to have been always
something of .a Free Stater, for, from Sinn Fein’s
debut in 1905 to its coming-of-age after Easter
week, he led the “right wing” which looked back
no further than 1782. The tribute to Griffith as a
barraeker for the under-dog makes queer reading to
those who remember his hostility to the strikers at
Wexford (1912) and Dublin (1913). Griffith thought
in terms of States and nations, and never in terms
of human flesh and blood. The Irish workers never
forgave him, and Griffith, had he lived, would have
found the Irish General AVorkers’ and Transport Union
about as docile and sweetly reasonable as Hughes
finds the A.W.U.
ANZAC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The word is cut, indelible and deep.
By grey ravines where careless heroes sleep.
Beside an alien sea, and far afield,
The bond of brotherhood in blood was sealed.
Egean riot Pacific breakers roll
Where, forth through flame, there burst a nation’s
soul.
A chart baptised afresh —a re-named main—
Will these add lustre to our deathless slain?
A name in ink on face of land or flood —
\nd theirs, for all the ages, writ in blood!
Enshrined, inviolate, let Anzac be.
There needs but one—as with Thermopylae.
N'.S.W.
T. THE R.


t! M
rW
a
KS
sy
(SO
D
A
Friends
«s
9
iff
R
ill
S. 1 ‘
■
|N
HH
s’*
t
I
-r~-
l!»* ..C ' *M
: 1 •:
«n
mwmmm
■■
111
tv
*<>/■
M m
liilli—
riff
Tnnrt
me
■4 . - A
Australia) Ltd- S>^
' ''X'y's/4>/' :
111
!i !


Sl
wm
***•*•' r~-m r <>•*»• «ru* 3u4»* <*•%*>>.
Schweppes’Essence
Competition—
Closing date 30th September.
Every bottle of Essence of
Vanilla, Ratafia, Lemon, etc.,
purchased has the chance of >
winning a Prize.
Prizes
£65
Each competitor must send in five labels.
The numbers on the five labels will be
totalled, and the aggregate highest numbers
of the five labels will be the winners.
Address to SCHWEPPES, LTD., 67
Foveaux Street, Sydney, and mark the
envelope “Essence Competition.”
Closing date No. 1 Competition, 30th
September.
Ask your grocer for further particulars.
C A N A
V
--
S?\
U-vJ
0
,1?
NEW /1?
ZEAIvAWC
See CANADA en route
BREAK YOUR. JOURNEY
to the OLD LAND
Magnificent Mountain Scenery
The Prairies—the "Granary of the Empire
Great Lakes—Bustling Cities
Land. Forest and Mine Development
Canadian National Railiuags
Operate through all-steel, solid vestibule trains from Coast to ■
Coast. Unexcelled Sleeping and Dining Car Service
Passengers booked by all Steamship Pines
linking with “the National Way.”
For descriptive literature, fares and full information, apply to
CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS’ representatives:—
D. O. RAMSAY, 251 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W. C. S. BINNS, 59 Market Street,
GORDON F. JOHNSTON, General Agent, Passenger Department, 251 George Street,
GEORGE E. BUNTING, General Traffic Agent, 5 & 6 Ferry Building, Auckland, l
Melbourne, Vic.
Sydnev, N.S.W.
S.Z.
SOCIETY
GAELIC
[?]RVE
[?]
STUDIES IN THE NUDE.
"Dauber can't be so hard up. He conies to all these
dances .”
“Fes. He says it's cheaper to hire a dress-suit than a
model."
Monty Grover’s new Melbourne morning
illustrated approaches birth, and the huge
building in Flinders-street, between the
_ (r, ~ a- ... , .. ,
Heralds old office and its new palatial
home, has been licked into shape and looks
very like business. The Melbourne Sun
has been relentlessly pinching the staffs of
its contemporaries. The Herald provides
Kennedy, the news-editor ; Sharp, the Argus’s
best turf-specialist, takes hold or the horsey
end of things; George Tonkin looks after
cables at the London centre, and Edward
Dyson, Australia’s king of free-lances, will
be the new paper’s chief leader-writer and
official poet. The Sun is to be a 24-page
paper about llin. by 15in., and will devote
itself largely to the presentation of news
in pictorial form, after the manner of London
Mirror.
From an Anglo-Indian :
Yinson Lee, of Sydney, would seem from the Sun
(16/8/’22) to have pulled the legs of the Ad-Men
at their luncheon to him on that date rather badly.
He said that the striking seamen at Shanghai set out
with their female belongings on an 80-mile walk to
Canton, were pursued by a British Indian regiment
sent after them by the British authorities, and shot
down in hundreds! Now, Shanghai is about 800
miles from Canton; it is an International Settlement;
and there are no British or British Indian troops
there. Nor has there been a strike of seamen at
that port! Why Yinson should have weighed in with
this story is something of a mystery. Even if he
had fixed the locale at Hongkong (and he has not
yet blamed the reporter) he would have been wrong,
though there has been a long strike of seamen there.
In any event, there are no Indian troops at this
station, which is under the Colonial Office and not
under the India office; nor has there been any shoot-
ing of either hundreds or tens. Yinson Lee is possibly
annoyed because the British authorities refused to
aid or comfort Sun Yat Sen and his party, the
Kuomintang (who are mostly scoundrels), beyond
lending Sun a gunboat to carry him away from the
scene of his latest fiasco. But that hardly seems
to justify his deplorable geogTaphy, or the placing
of a shooting incident which actually occurred in
Macao (the property of Portugal) in British terri-
tory.
» * * *
“Prof”: A consignment of so-called “sex-
detectors” recently arrived in Sydney from
the U.S.A., but were held up by the Cus-
toms authorities pending verification —or
otherwise —of their powers of discernment.
To this end one of them was forwarded to
the Hawkesbury Agricultural College. The
“detectors” consist of plumbobs suspended by
pieces of string, to be held between thumb
and forefinger over the article whose sex is
in question. A swinging movement in one
direction indicates, “male,” in the other
“female.” In the case of “neuter” articles
there is supposed to be no motion at all.
The Hawkesbury College tests, as was to
be expected, showed the utter worthlessness
of the importation. The appliance gave dif-
ferent results in different hands over the
same egg, and also proved, the office table
to be a variable quantity which was liable
to undergo a change of sex at any moment.
The verdict' of “male” recorded when the
“detector” was held over a can of milk gave
the test its finishing touch.
“Lip” : The ear-biting D ; g
get- who, as “Kip” says (B.
27/8/’22), was “one of the
minor inconveniences o f
Blighty leave” must h'pve
found the game a paying
one in London, as he didn’t
lose much time in restart-
ing it when he returned to
Australia. When I came
baeji, halfway through T 9,
it seemed as though all the
“hots,” “nips,” “hums” and
“hoboes” in the A.I.F. had
belonged to Sydney. To
waijt for five minutes at a
city street corner was to
receive that number of depu-
tations, all with the old
tale of “Horseferry-road has
got me paybook” or “robbed
in Leicester-square” told
with a local setting. Sev-
eral spots became notorious
for the prevalence of tale-
bearers, and were avoided by
the wary. Approaching one
of them with a pal I men-
tioned the danger. “I’ve
been back too long,” he said.
As we were crossing King-
street he left me and darted
across to two of the gentry
who had at that moment
sighted us. I followed and
came up in time to hear
him say: “Got a few bob,
Joe? We’re dead on the
rocks.” Joe’s mouth, which
had been slowly opening,
shut with a snap. He looked
at us aggrievedly. “Gor-
struth,” he said, “we wu?
just goin’ ter nip nouse."
“Well, a smoke then?” Joe
looked as if he’d have
liked to refuse, but having been sur-
prised with a packet of cigarettes in
his hand, he anted up. “That’s the
secret of it,” said my pal as we walked
away; “get in first.” And I have since
found that it is; though ever afterwards I
had the freedom of Belfield’s corner—be-
cause I had “nipped” a “nip,” I presume.
* * * *
“Bare”: At Aramac (Q.), the other day,
a prisoner was being tried in the police
court on a false-pretences charge. The main
evidence against him, a cheque, lay on the
solicitors’ table. During a court adjourn-
ment the man in the dock begged the con-
stable, who was guarding him, for a drink
of water. The custodian moved off to get
it, and in a twinkling the telltale exhibit
had been grabbed and swallowed. At this
Btage a doctor was requisitioned to such
purpose that, as the local journal put it,
the cheque was recovered almost intact.
Lttle the worse for its internal immersion.”
Yet the patient, apparently, was so much
the worse for the drastic operation that
THE SOFT ANSWER.
“You be careful. One of these dags I might leave you."
"Leave me what, dearest?"
some hours elapsed before he could be
docked again. A nice legal point may arise
some day as to how much force majeure is
warranted to prevent a scrap of paper from
being digested.
* * * *
“J.P.” on record war bags:—
“Digger’s Batman” (B. 27/7/’22) is wrong in
assigning to a Yankee sergeant the record bag' cf
prisoners during the war. This is proved by an
extract from the official history of the 43rd Battalion
A.I.F.: —
On Sept. 2, 1918, near Haut Allaines, Lance-
Corporal L. C. Weathers was one of an advanced
bombing party operating well forward of our
attacking troops. Just before the attack reached
its final objective it was held up by the enemy, who
occupied a trench in large numbers. After an
hour’s continuous fighting Weathers went forward
alone and located a large body of the enemy. He
immediately attacked the Huns and killed the senior
officer (a major). He made his way back to his
platoon, secured a fresh supply of bombs, and with
three comnanions returned and again attacked the
enemy under very heavy fire. Finally he jumped on
the parapet, threw bombs amongst the enemy and sig-
nalled to his mates to come on. The enemy seeing
this at once surrendered. When counted they
numbered 180 and also three machine-guns.”
Poor Weathers received his full issue in the next
stunt, on the Ilir.denburg line, but his widow has
the V.C. which he earned so amply. Anyway his
bagj was 48 men and 3 guns ahead of our Yankee
friend’s.
* * * *
Father Clarke from another angle:—
“Clifford Snook” (B. 17/8/’22) means well, no
doubt, but his efforts to save the Catholic Church
from itself are superfluous. It has got along uncom-
fnonlv well for 1900 years under a form of govern-
ment which has not essentially changed since the
days of St. Peter —a system which was fixed for
all time by Christ’s words to that Apostle (St. Matt,
xvi, 18-19). “Clifford” considers that “Parlia-
imentary government” (after the N. S. Wales pattern,
let us say) would be an improvement; but the Lord,
in His wisdom, thought otherwise. ' However, 1 am
writing, chiefly, in order to correct the two historical
“howlei-s” contained in this fragment of a sentence:
“the Roman Church separated from the parent
church at Constantinople” ! It is like saying “Great
Britain separated from the parent State of America.”
The Roman Church did not separate from the
Church at Constantinople in the eleventh century
any more than she did from the Church in England
in the sixteenth. In the former case Michael Cera-
tarius separated from the communion of the Pope
(and consequently from all Catholic Christendom),
and succeeded in also withdrawing the Oriental
bishops from communion with Rome, although the
necessity of such communion had been maintained
by the Greek Fathers from the beginning of the
Christian era. So far from Constantinople being
“the parent” of the Roman Church, it was a simple
bishopric, called Byzantium, and subject to the metro-
politan See of Heraclea, until the transference of the
seat of government from Rome to it by Constantine
(who gave it his name) and clothed it with imperial
glamor. Ere this happened 33 Popes had occupied
St. Peter’s Chair at Rome.
• * * *
“Private X” discourses on batmen: —
When an A.I.F. officer wished to give a Digger a
humiliating job he invariably selected the sanitary
squad. To my mind he
could have chosen a
worse penalty. He
could have made the
offender a batman. In
Egypt on one occasion
a number of batmen,
fed-up with their work
and under the impres-
sion that it was a
voluntary service,
downed boot-brushes
and Kiwi-tins. There
being no response from
the hundred or so men
who were asked to fill
their places, the dis
gruntled ones were
given the alternative
of sanitary work
if they didn’t “carry
on.” The alacrity with
which they asked to
led to the disinfect-
ants quite non-plussed
their officers. No doubi
the batman’s job was
a necessary one in the
days when gilded
youths like “Ouida’s”
guardsmen were un-
able to move without
a valet; but to sug-
gest that a Digger
officer would prejudice
“good order and mili-
tary discipline” if lie
cleaned his own boots
and carted his own
shaving water is ab-
surd. I won’t say that
all the Diggers who
were batmen disliked
the job—some revelled
in it—but I’d suggest
that if ever Australia
has to raise another
Imperial Force the
batmen be conscripted
from the ranks of the
conscientious objectors.
A month at that
would do more good
than all the white
feathers in the world. I knew one Digger who
took the job on in preference to being discharged
unfit from Liverpool camp. A few months later,
after getting rid of it, he said to me: “That bat-
man’s job spoilt the whole damn war for me.”
“Yardley”: In my time I have become
familiar with most of the blarney which is
employed and circulated to induce immigra-
tion. So far as I have noted, every engi-
neered influx has been followed by a slu ; mp.
and the size of the slump has always cor-
responded with that of the boom. Exag-
gerated colorings by boomers have never
attracted the right sort of immigrants. It
is the man who comes of his own initia-
tive that benefits himself and the country.
The psychology (is pretty obvious. The
born argonaut will toil like blazes rather
than own himself the dupe of his own enter-
prise, while the person who is coaxed here
is likely to sulk in his tent unless the path
to his job is strewn with beer and roses.
“Blackfriars”: The passing of Northcliffe
may put an end to some of the manoeuvring
which has lately been gone on in Australia.
When the Napoleon of Ink descended on
these parts 12 months ago, he came as the
fairy godfather of a movement, first to dis-
rupt the existing control of some of the
dailies in thp capitals, and afterwards to
seize the properties. Although the persistent
juggling with shares has been done through-
out by other hands, it was fairly assumed
that a boatload of Northcliffe’s money was
somewhere in the offing, and, it is no secret
that he was in constant cable communica-
tion with the heads of one Melbourne dailv
right up till his final illness. Northcliffe’s
protegees have failed, so far, to secure the
kind of grip they want, whether on his be-
half or their own. They found it difficult to
reckon without their shareholders North-
cliffe was strong enough to do so with his
big English group, but now he has gone
there is sure to be a sundering of interests.
The Times was his unprofitable hobby, and
that is not by any means the only one of
his dailies which will now have to square
its ledger or go west. Lord Burnham, who
is head of the Empire Press Union, stated
recently that not one daily paper in the
Smoke was paying its way. Until then. most.
Fleet-streeters had imagined that the Daily
Mail, at least, was doing so. Not long
after Burnham made his admission North-
cliffe called together the heads of the con-
cern and told them they would have to econo-
mise to the extent of at least £lO.OOO a year,
that being the extent to which the sheet
was on the wrong side of the ledger.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE BOTTLE-OH DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Judging by the rumor of ‘dead marines’ being
unearthed by the men excavating the site of the
powerhouse at the foot of the cliff, some members
of the old A. C. Force must have been hard drink-
ers. Liquor bottles of every kind are being dug
up, all in a good state of preservation—but empty ! ”
— M.L. country paper.
I lean against a handy post
And watch the ghostly forms go by.
I raise a bumper, shout a toast,
I wet my trembling lips and sigh.
A thousand stately forms I see,
From out the age of chivalry.
Then, ;lo! A rousing chorus comes
Across the silhouetted hills;
I hear the throb of tiny drums
The air with Pagan music fills,
And in my dream there come to me
The shickered ghosts of Arcady.
They do not Swing along; they sway
Like pine-trees in the winter’s blast.
No more the haughty popinjay
Or lordly phantoms of the past
Obscure my vision. Friendly souls
Are these who wave their weil-filled bowls.
The sky is champagne-tinted, and
The chorus echoes louder still.
Oh, joyous is the toper band,
And wine-red is the whisp’ring rill!
“Drink, drink!” they cry. I do not scoff,
But take a cup and drain it off-
The laughing hand troops on; the drums
, Grow fainter, fainter to the ear;
The crimson fades and darkness comes,
The merrymakers disappear.
And a® I wheel my cart along
The empties clink a dreary song.
MAORILAND.
LESLIE R. FREEMAN.


:
if M
if i m
:
Hi
w
i \
■-« 'i
jK?
■
•>*
Mb
>■:/ •>
I
at
■
I
P n
;
18
■lf
mill
WMmwMwA
■
iMi
sp-"*"*
r
m
m <
:
Exclusive Features.
1. The Matthews Full
Automatic can be left
to look after itself for
weeks.
2. Th e automatic re-
charging prevents sul-
phation and buckling
of the plates, increas-
ing threefold the life
and efficiency of the
battery.
3. The Matthews auto-
matically starts itself
when current used is
greater than the nor-
mal discharge rate of
the batteries, and sup-
plies current direct —
not through the bat-
teries.
FULL AUTOMATIC—starts
and stops itself —not merely self-
stopping.
ATTH
ELECTRIC LICHT and POWER PLANTS
Certain, Safe and Dependable.
Too much depends upon a lighting and power-plant
to leave anything to chance —or memory. 1 his is
especially true of a plant which must furnish current to a big farm,
Station or a Town. Even though someone may be made •• Automatic
for the plant’s operations, he may “forget. The Matthews Automatic
Caretaker” never forgets. The “Automatic Caretaker —an exclusive
Matthews feature—controls the starting and stopping of the gener
and renders personal attention unnecessary.
When 1 5% of the battery capacity has been used the plant automatically
starts itself, recharges the batteries, and then stops.
II you require a plant that can be depended on nil times to farnuh
light and power, install a MATTHEWS FULL AUTOMATIC, and have
the same convenience which the City Electric Supply gives to town
dwellers.
Made in 6 sizes, from 15 to 500 lights.
Working demonstrations may be seen at our showrooms.
Write for Catalogue “E.”
m
■ ■
IN
m
N *
OUTfi
GS
l N
,
111
Y D
ELL ST
N E Y
Queensland Distributors: J.
B. Chandler 8 Co., 169 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-JLuxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
A Signal Success
King (jeorge IV
wwiMKjr
TheTOP-NOTCHScotgh.
"For Ever Best/’
STAg
LAgER
TOOHEY'S.
“Stellsby”: The Belle Isle Strait, between
Labrador and Newfoundland, where 11.M.5.
Baleigh was wrecked, is as inviting as
Hughes’s sugar agreement. I have made
the passage several times during the summer
months; it is unnavigable in winter. The
mileage saved by this route to the St. Law-
rence, in preference to the safer southern
track round Cape Race, is mostly lost in
time —a wholesome respect for ice and
fog necessitating a greatly reduced speed.
I have seen the collision nets out all .night,
with just enough way to keep the ship to
her course. Laymen often ask why the
C.F.R., Canadian Northern and Allan' lines
persist in sending their fast boats through
the lethal passage. And the answer is—
Competition.
LOOKING FORWARD.
THE BRIDE-TO-BE : “I’m so worried. There are so many
things I don’t know about married life.”
THE BRIDE-THAT-WAS : “ What’s puzzling you now, dear?”
THE BRIDE-TO-BE: “Well, is it usual to return the ring
when you’re divorced?”
u Harold Hardupp” : Those citizens who add
‘then there’s the retiring pension” when
talking of the cushy lot of the civil servant,
might inspect a feAV of the superannuation
awards recently made in the N. S.
Wales Railway Department. A woman
in the sixties, Avho has been a rail-
way gatekeeper for 25 years, annexes
±l6 9s. per annum; a messenger who has
done the Railway Commissioners’ Avork for
32 years goes out on £5B 25.; and a station-
master, with a similar length of service,
retires to an affluent leisure upon £9O. In
THE IDEAL HUSBAND.
SHE: “I don’t know how Maisie gets on with him—he never seems to say much.”
HE: “But he always seems to say as much as Maisie can spend!”
a total list of 24 officials, on the latest list,
whose average age is 62* years, the highest
pension award is £l3O p.a.—that being
granted to a travelling sub-inspector with
41 years’ service!
* * * *
“Farm” : Although two Pentridge warders
have recently been sacked owing to the escape
of prisoners, it is an open
secret that the problem of
preventing communication
between inmates of the
gloomy “nick” and their
friends outside is utterly
baffling the best minds of
the Force. The underworld
hasn’t much to learn in
organisation if (as is
claimed) letters “posted” at
certain “depots” in the city
and suburbs are delivered to
the addressees quicker than
the P.M.G. could do it.
There is even believed to be
a sort of parcel post to deal
with the more fortunate pri-
soners’ requirements in the
matter of tobacco and
spirits, and there is a story
that recently a caged bird
celebrated his birthday with
a cake ornamented in icing
sugar with his name, his
prison number and his un-
expired period of sentence.
Whisky and cigarettes were
the other items that bright-
ened up the exclusive cell
party. _ The majority of the
professional criminals in
Victoria find their wav to
“C” division in Pentridge
sooner or later, and in this
quiet retreat a constant
battle of wits rages between
them and the authorities.
Gnarek”; This perfectly true yarn seems
to me to have a sort of spiritual affinity to
the S.I.W. controversy. At the Lord Derby
Hospital (Warrington) there was a section
allotted to “leg cases,” a proportion of Avhom
were skrimshankers of a virulent type. On
the morning of the Armistice a wag deposited
a large basket ip the entrance-hall and placed
over it this notice: “Armistice signed this
morning. Surplus crutches may be placed
here.”
Canon Wise, of Adelaide, has just landed
a smashing controversial blow full on the
midrift of lus bishop, who some time back
prosecuted him for unconstitutional prac-
tices. The Cathedral has lately had a series
ot Sunday evening addresses by laymen on
social topics of importance, and' local clergy-
men were urged by the bishop to send their
own flocks to hear. But. said the high-
church Canon to Ms disciples:—
I. do not urge this upon you; indeed, I warn you
against it, for the delivery of these lectures by lay-
men in the cathedral involves a breach of ritual, ‘and
I would not have you prosecuted for this There
is a rubric in the book of Common Prayer which
states, “Nothing shall be proclaimed or published in
the church during the time of divine service but
by the minister.” This is a clear, absolute rule,
and it may be remembered that I have been prose-
cuted for doing far less than this, and it has cost
me £5OO and four years of most intense worry....
If laymen are to be permitted to minister the Word,
what is to prevent them from demanding to minister
the sacraments ? If laymen may preach, what is to
prevent women from exercising the same miir'stry?
The opinion of the spectators of S.A.’s
Marathon ecclesiastical contest, alike in the
ringside and the bleacher seats, is that the
canonical champion has taken this round
trom his heavyweight adversary by a gen-
erous margin.
* + # *
“Wang”; There are many instances of
peisons reading their own obituary notices,
but one seldom hears of a man driving his
own corpse to its final resting-place. Yet.
something very like this happened quite’
recently m a Melbourne seaside suburb. A
body was found floating in the sea, and
was identified by several citizens as “old
txeorge, who had been employed by a local
arm ot undertakers as a hearse-driver prior
to his disappearance. The firm got the job
ot burying the deceased, but on the morn-
ing fixed tor the funeral the boss undertaker
got the shock of his life when “old George ”
looking a bit dilapidated from the elfects
ot several days on the jag in a northern
suburb, shuffled up to inquire if there was
anything doing m his line. At this point it
became apparent to the meanest • intel-
lect that the defunct was not George-
but merely someone marvellously like
him. still the corpse had to be' buried
as somebody s, and nobody knew whose else
it was, so it didn’t seem worth while dis-
turbing the decision by holding a fresh in-
quest. The living old George, after a bit of
adean-up, piloted the cadaver that had been
identified, as his own, to the local cemetery.
e f rt H? Sel - f u 0 o bserved - who had a better
right to the job ?
W art : Since city letters have required
twopenny stamps many big business firms
have arranged P.E. systems of delivery. A
boy at Ids per week can deal out a lot of
etters, and be useful about the office when
he isnt on his rounds. An enterprising
,p.fv'v r wL m V Cq w iimmee - debarred from
h i US discovered a number of
institutions where secretaries send out
large numbers of notices and circulars at
stated intervals. lie calls at the offices, col-
lects and delivers them for I’d. each and
Post e Office Pay Welh The ° nly loscr is
* * *
"Topee” speaks out for the tropicals:
“tana’s” (B. 3/S/’22) nomination of the A.N.
and M.E.F. for the Cushy War Stakes suggests a
profound lack of knowledge. I submit the following
points in rebuttal of some of his charges and infer-
ences:—
1. The v> oi k-hours quoted applied only to officers.
They were precisely the same as those of civilians
in Rabaul before the war, in a climate which knows
no greater range of temperature than B°F. dailv
and 20° yearly.
2. Chinatown and Japtown were out of bounds
and policed.
3. Stripes and pips were certainly out of propor-
tion, but “Fana’s” figures on this point need audit-
ing.
4 • on e ounce of rum was issued on parade, but as
a chaser for ten or (later) five grains of quinine. 1
never heard of eleemosynary beer.
5. The advance in beer price from fid. to Is. did
not nearly provoke a mutiny.” Merely a moan
from Matupi: “Good God! Where’s the next blow
coming from?”
(). Although no one was killed in action for four
years, still there are a few graves in Rabaul, and
many, like myself, aided by a fractional pension, are
still looking for such light employment as a malaria-
infested body can perform.
7. A large part of the Rabaul garrison consisted
of men medically unfitted to return to the Western
Front; also of men (I was one) who had been in
former wars and had to take advantage of the ex-
tended age-limit and less stringent medical examina-
tion in order to do their bit anywhere.
* * « »
“ ’Coota”: Tasmania settled ike “Should
Doctors Tell?” problem (B. 3/8/’22) as far
back as 1911 by inserting this section in the
Evidence Act, 90 (2) :
No physician or surgeon shall, without the consent
of his patient, divulge in any civil proceeding (un-
less the sanity of the question be the matter in
dispute) any communication made to him in his
professional character by such patient, and necessary
to enable him to prescribe or act for such patient.
The preceding sectio.n preserves the secrecy
of the confessional. Similar sections are iu
force in Victoria (55 of 54 Vic., No. 10881
and in M.L. (8 of 5 Ed. VII., No. 16).
* * * *
“Digger’s Batman”: The R.S. and S.I.L.
has a genuine grievance in the contempla-
tion of the still unexpended moneys which
were raised during the war in various parts
of Australia for the benefit of the soldiers.
It is a subject that naturally makes the
Digger irascible. N. S. Wales hasn’t
so much in the way of unexpended
balances as some of _ the other States;
but there are certainly thousands of
pounds which trustees seem unable to de-
cide what to do Avith. And, meanwhile, ex-
soldiers starve. The Repatriation Depart-
A PUT-AW AY.
BRRKENSTEIN : “S'help me! If you keep on
showin ’ your legs like dot, people vill
begin to dink I married you for your
money!”
ment, when it was introducing its scheme
f ?r,_ the education of deceased soldiers’
children, thought that it had found an excel-
,ent ? m ' p , ose f°, "Met some of th“el“ -
over funds might be fairlv diverted But
evpJ> when Jt found the trustees it drew a
e . om Plete blank in its quest for information.
Apparently a multitude of people have o-ot
to haring a fund to E“fabS. and
resent the idea of being deprived of it.
AN IRISH HORROR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ivvo' , tO H n °i Be lleek was the scene of a
two h«n fc rc h h ’ thoUfih the fighting lasted close on
o hours > no one Avas even injured.”— News item,
Ihe Aveather was delightful when we battled at
Belleek;
The field of carnage wore a lovely glow;
Ve hurried here and there with guns; resistance was
but weak—
And so was our attack upon the foe.
Me fired a volley now and then, but no one took
alarm,
All hearts with Celtic kindliness were filled
,he soft S reen Msh landscape was all gentleness
and charm,
And not a soul was tvounded or was killed.
M'e sent an urgent message after breakfast. It was
this:
“Look out at half-past ten, or you’ll get hurt.”
M e didn t want the enemy to think we were remiss,
In battle-manners, or believe us curt;
And all the time the zephyrs kept a-climbing up
the slope
The while the little villages we pilled,
And all the air was smiling like an idiotic hope,
And nobody was wounded or was killed.
The scarlet poppies nodded to their shadows in the
grass; *
The buttercups were buttercupping low;
The daisies smiled approval as they saw our legions
pass;
Some cattle stood and watched us in a row;
With bosoms bent on massacre we threw the*grim
grenade
So skilfully that no one s blood was spilled.
"hat better proof is needed that we knew our
grisly trade?
No warrior was wounded or was killed.
The sun shone warmly on us as we battled at Belleek ;
The mountain threw a frisky little stream;
A fleecy cloud was kissing soft a dainty little peak ;
It all recalled some ultra-pleasant dream.
Our foemen did no harm to us—we did no harm t.o
them,
And all the while the little birdies trilled ;
’Twas like a golden legend out of old Jerusalem,
And not a soul was wounded or was killed.
QUEENSPAND.
P. AIREY.


53
53
Vi
vmm
|«
y§
p
s«
Sj
5
s
i
<
i
i»=
?&.
5d
A
M
5
§
5
l
'hi
“i
£
3
■
5s
H
[s :
£
£
k?
A
K
s
N
S
A
I
m
&
x
-i
3
>
8
9
&
s
3
m
t
l
i
*.
%
s
1
s
s
v\
m
s?
I
3
§
m
2
&
• :
si
s
s
A
A
*
&
gIWCTrISSf
sss
™
22
22
©
TT /J»l*W
'77VW.V w. ~ -tv/"/ fcfi'C'W iL0"777 /,JIATV\
The Spirit of
LOYALTY
Loyalty is the castle of faith
wherein dwells the soul of
a friend. Throughout the
years it stands untouched
whether the winds of chance
blow foul or fair. For true
loyalty never, changes and
neither does
Betnar’s


Hotel Carlyon’s,
Esplanade,
St. Kilda.
Special arrangements can be mada for
Room and Breakfast or Inclusive Tariff.
Dine Here and Dance in Our
Famous Ballroom.
Hotel guests are invited to
make free use of Ballroom.
Smart!
Serviceable!
We should
sa*j so!
Wliij don't
•fhjsil
le
SHIRT?
MAKERS
ALEXANDER STEWARh
AND SOWS LTD
3VE 8
2» Ma^
BP IS BA NE
AND
SYDNEY
world-famed
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Derf Commor” : I struck him last Satur-
day at Gumlu, a wayside station between Bowen and
Townsville (N.Q.). His boots showed wear and
tear, and his clothing suggested one down on his
luck; but his eye was bright and his grin cheery.
After borrowing a pipe of tobacco he queried,
“How’s work about here?” “Nothing doing,” I
replied, “I’m on the bread line myself.” He told
me he had walked from Rockhampton, a matter of
about 700 miles, and was now making for Towns-
ville another 75 miles. “If there’s nothin’ doin’ up
that way,” he said, “I’ll jist have to go on to the
’Curry.” “The ’Curry” (Cloncurry) meant another
480 miles from Townsville. After a few minutes
he became restless. “Ah well,” he remarked, “I'd
better be goin’.” And shouldering his swag the
youngster (he is only 65) gave me a cheery grin,
said “So long,” and trudged off up the road.
♦ * * *
“Yarran”: What about this for resource-
fulness? At Comboyne (N.S.W.) a barefooted
youngster was feeding a poddy when a black snake
bit him on the big toe. Running to the cream-cans
he smeared the toe with cream and thrust it in
the calf’s mouth. With further applications of
cream as required he kept poddy sucking for 10
minutes or more. The youngster suffered no ill-
effect whatever from the venomous bite.
* * * *
“Wang”: Danny had to take a load of
goods from the railway station to a homestead a
few miles out. The road was in a deplorable state,
and as the pair of mokes were pretty low the inevit-
able happened at the first bad patch. Danny capered
about madly for 10 minutes, shattering all records
with whip and tongue. But to no purpose; the pair
refused to shift the load, and Daniel having exhausted
all the language he knew or could invent on the
spur of the moment, became wrathfully inarticulate
and sat down for a minute or two to recover. The
unwilling gees eyed him calmly, and they were just
as imperturbable when he arose and repeated his
song-and-dance item. With froth streaming down
his whiskers Danny stepped in front of them, and
with a yell that was somehow close to tears appealed
to them: “Y’ blank asterisk blankers, yer scarlet
unclean cows, why won’t you pull it?—Why?” Then,
frantically fumbling in his pocket, he dragged out
a piece of paper and waved it before them. “Gor’s-
truth, y’ blanks,” he gibbered, “yer’ve on’y got a
ton on. Yes, on’y one ton. Blank, dash an’ blank
yer—if yer don’t believe me, here’s ther blanky way-
bill ter prove it.”
» » * •
“Manager”: In the controversy with
“Silas” (B. 3/8/’2l) re the round mining shaft of
the Chow “Vulture” wins easily. On the old lead
at Malmsbury (Vic.) there are to-day at least 20
round shafts down to 70ft. that were sunk 45 years
ago by John. The square-timbered shafts, sunk by
white diggers, have fallen in years ago—which shows
that Ah Fat savvied this game.
| • * * •
“Dxul”: A sperm whale caught recently
was found to contain in its stomach a shark, almost
intact, 10ft. 2iil. long. This suggests that a tame
whale or two might profitably be employed to keep
the breakers free of sharks and make surfing safe,
if a ring wore put round their necks, in the eastern
method of fishing with cormorants, the sharks could
be recovered and their skins and oil put to commercial
use. The whale could be fed on the inedible fish
brought in by the State trawlers, and perhaps could
be induced to Manufacture, as a side-line, ambergris
from the numerous smells stirred up by Royal
Commissions. I give the suggestion for what it’s
worth.
* * * *
“Ida Dawson” (Argentine): “Te Whare”
has several times men-
tioned the jack snipe in his
pars; and “Fraoch” (B.
16/2/’22) also writes of
it.. Both those ob-
servers agree that the bird
arrives in Australia some
time in September, and
leaves in February, and also
that it migrates to and
from Japan and Siberia.
That is, it is a sum-
mer visitant. A snipe,
identical with the Austra-
lian jack, arrives here for
the winter months —gener-
ally speaking, in April or
May—and leaves just about
September, so that snipe
shooting is a winter sport.
The bird frequents the
swampy, grassy “mellins,”
or flats, but does not appear
in the thousands mentioned
by “Fraoch.” Last year we
found a nest and young on
December 12, but this was
an isolated case—evidently
that of a stray bird who
had failed to keep ner
appointment with the mi-
grating flock. We are much
, v Q . , further south than Riverina
~ ? nd y er - v hi » h - aud very cold. Can it be
and " a " d " est ’ aS well as north
* * * *
“Sinbad”: I’m with “Jim Carew” (B.
3/8/ ’ 22 > when he objects to “Nubling’s” statement
(B. 20/7/’22) that lyre-birds will not stand anything
i - ed or white. In scrubby country surveyors often
use small squares of paper, half red and half white,
to make certain points more conspicuous. Fre-
quently when the coast is clear the lyre-birds collect
these sighting papers, and in one of their jazzing-
grounds the other day I counted a dozen.
“Saaedi”: “Vance Palmer” (B. 27/7/’22)
is wrong when he says very few bush fires are started
by lightning. Last summer no less than 10 were
set going in one afternoon in this district. Three
were actually seen to spring from lightning flashes,
which were very numerous, and as' the weather
threatened rain, it is reasonable to suppose that
most of the others were lit by the same agency, as
only a blithering idiot would go round starting
fires that rain would probably quench almost immedi-
ately.
A MILITARY MATTER.
SHE: “ What's the difference between strategy and tactics ?”
HE: Well , strategy is the way you make up to or, girl; tactics is how you, hug her."
“Atiz”: “C. Coral” (B. 20/7/’22) had
better cut out the idea of frogs as cockroach exter-
minators on his lugger. It’s no good. What he
wants is a good healthy hedgehog, or, better still, a
couple of ’em. I’ve known the prickly chaps to be
used dozens of times to clean up cockroaches and
beetles, and they’ve never refused duty or gone slow
on the job. A saucer of milk occasionally—which
Prickles soon learns to come for at call like a cat —
and he needs no more attention. Don’t stroke him
the wrong way; and don’t forget to put on your
boots if you have to get up in the dark, for he’ll be
all over the ship on his job, and if you happen to
tread on him wdth your bare foot you’re apt to say
things which might offend his woweristic susceptibili-
ties. If “Coral” should get more hedgehogs than he
can accommodate on his lugger I should advise him
to try eating them. (Mud-bake them, as that saves
the trouble of skinning ’em.) I’ve eaten lots, and
their flesh properly cooked is as good as anything 1
know.
* * * *
“Jimmy Possum”: Flies similar to the
buffalo-fly, described by “Hoppy” (B. 22/6/’22),
appeared along the coast of Central Queensland in
millions, following the great drought of 1902 and
the droughty summer of 1915-16. Cattle and horses
were almost driven mad by the little grey devils,
and many people, particularly children, suffered with
sore eyes for weeks after the pests had disappeared.
Horses would tail each other up and walk round
in circles, switching their tails so as to keep the
flies out of each other’s eyes.* The plague, which
lasted for several weeks each time, was thought to
have been introduced by travelling mobs of starving
sheep from the north-west of Queensland.
HIS MASTER'S VOICE.
“Werrimee” : “Sir Spen” adds the wife of
Jimmy Governor to the list of white women who
married abos. (B. 27/7/’22). The same claim has
been made —and contradicted—in regard to Jimmy’s
father, and the two are often mixed up. A squatter
in Coolah district (N.S.W.), who says he was the
first to employ Tommy Governor, father of the
Breelong outlaws, relates that the woman in his
case was brought to the squattage by a white shep-
herd. She was a fine-looking young half-caste, almost
white, named Annie. They had a white child with
them. When the shepherd left the squattage Annie
deserted him and became the partner of Tommy Gov-
ernor. The child was taken by the authorities
at Singleton. What became of it I don’t know:
but the result of Annie’s second alliance was the
brace of murderers. After Tommy's death, and the
bushranging stunts of Joe and Jimmy, Annit was
taken to Brewarrina mission-station. If Jimmy was
married, who was his wife, and where did they
live?
“Friday Island”: For the benefit of those
Abos. who may be flirting with the idea of applying
mud to open wounds (B. 3/8/’22) let me warn them
against the possibility of lockjaw (tetanus) super-
vening. The tetanus bacillus lives in the ground and
in horse’s intestines, therefore more so in ground
soiled with horse excreta. It is also anaerobic, i.e.,
it cannot live in a wound to which the air (with
oxy'gen) has access. Mud seals the wound from the
air. In the South Sea islands the natives often
“dress” the navel cord of newly-born children with
mud, and the disease tetanus neonatorum (lockjaw
in the newly-born) is alarmingly prevalent there,
mostly' with fatal results. As these races have used
mud from time immemorial they should have a
higher immunity to tetanus than the white man, so
you can see what a risk the pale-face takes with the
mud-dressing. It’s gambling with an awful death.
■» * * *
“Booyong”: Re “Bogan Bill’s” 23 ducks
(B. 13/7/’22) that took a fatal dive on to a galvan-
ised-iron roof at night. More than once I’ve heard
wild ducks bump on the iron roof in the moonlight,
but as they always slow' down when alighting 1 have
never known them to sustain any injury. “Bill's”
ducks must have been engaged in a Flying Handicap,
and a waiter at that.
“Coromandel”: Re “Jumbo” (B. 20/7/’22)
on enticing dingoes to suicide with a lady dog
looking for company. The method largely adopted
by outback cookies of the West Coast (S.A.) is to
lay baits in a stubble, or grass pad-
dock, fire the stubble to kill the man
scent on the baits, then hitch Lassie
to a stake somewhere in the middle
of the ring of baits. I saw a bag of
four big dingoes got in this manner,
and there may have been others who
gave up the ghost in their own haunts further back.
“Old Timer”: T can tell “Myall” (B.
22/6/’22) of a full-blooded lubra that was “tame,”
never went bush and was as domesticated as
a white woman and a great deal cleaner than some
of them. She lived in a western N.S.W. wheat-
growing district and was married to a white man,
and he forgot she was black. Her cooking was perfec-
tion and her house spotlessly clean. Her husband
once, in referring to a dangerous bridge they had
passed over, said “It shook so much my wife went
as white as a sheet.” “It’s a pity she didn’t stay
like that,” remarked a heartless bystander.
(Continued on page 22.)
PEEP O’DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis peep o'day and in the east
A pallid light is breaking;
The moon’s a ghost, the stars have ceased
To shine, and birds are waking.
O’er hidden creek and timbered rise
A stealthy mist is creeping;
The land, like one who rubs his eyes
And yawns, is done with sleeping.
On high-set tree and sapling-top
The young leaves slowly redden;
The thick dews, falling drop on drop,
Make rain-sounds dull and leaden.
The vigil that the keen stars kept
Night-long at length has ended;
The freshness of a sleep well slept
Makes all things fair and splendid.
All life awakes and thrills, as though
New-born to joy and duty—
As when it first was given to know
The miracle of Beauty.
As far and near the skies a-blush
Become a dome of splendor;
A thrush, a trilling, grey-winged thrush.
Sends up his greeting tender.
From tree and bush, in glade and glen,
The feathered world rejoices—
Grey kookaburras laugh, a nd then
Blithe magpies lift their voices.
Beneath its mist, here pink, here grey,
The veiled creek murmurs lowly,
And from a chimney far away
Blue wood-smoke rises slowly.
Life stands alert, all things seem stirred,
To fresh and sweet existence;
A dog barks, and a milking herd
Lows faintly in the distance.
In wisps a nd w’reaths before the breeze
The tattered mists go packing;
A boy walks whistling through the trees,
Hie whip at moments cracking.
“TAKING A RISE."
” 'Ow much would yer charge ter take me family fer a fly?"
“Where are they?"
“Right 'ere — meself, Matilda and little Billy."
A door swings wide, a girl comes out,
A leaping dog beside her;
She shades her eyes and looks about,
And coo-ees to a rider.
With wave of hand ’neath trees that arch,
That rider gallops townward.
’Tis day; the sun begins his march, s
His splendors pouring downward.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


ASK YOUR BOOKSELLER
to show you
The Bookstall Series
of Australian Novels
The Best Australian Fiction at
One Shilling per Volume.
150 NOVELS by Australia’s
Foremost Authors.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE IN THE
COMMONWEALTH AND NEW ZEALAND.
Descriptive Catalogue obtainable free from Publishers.
JUST PUBLISHED—
“THE BLACK OPAL,” by “Jack North.”
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney,
r>-
i n
i
\
■-
7 *
I I *' u\'
m Ji\jm
G
IT’S PURE—THEREFORE SAFE
“Light of the Age,” the Texas Company’s high-test kerosene,
gives a clear, steady light, right down to the last spoonful in the
lamp.
It’s safe kerosene—because supreme in its purity: supreme
in quality—so pure it’s almost odorless.
Enjoy your evening hours with no thought of care; no thought
of a morning s disagreeable task cleaning the chimneys when refill-
ing the lamps. The need for that has passed.
Just pour in clean "Light of the Age" kerosene—and the
chimneys are free from the smudge of soot.
"Light of the Age” burns with a restful brilliance, free from
smoke or flicker—clean oil, packed in a clean way. Ask for it
by name.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.,
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
re
co
A
«s
N 3
X
V
r\
Zd.
\
There are no dull moments
in a home that has one of
Paling’s Player Pianos
installed in it.
DANCING AT HOME
WITH ONE OF
PALING’S PLAYER PIANOS
AS YOUR PIANIST.
When you have arranged to invite a few friends to
spend an evening with you, the possession of a Player
Piano gives you, as hostess, a feeling of perfect con-
fidence. These delightful instruments will provide the
most enchanting music—the dreamy waltz, the pulse-
quickening jazz, or a lively fox-trot—the rhythm and
time being absolutely perfect.
Write for our Illustrated Catalogue, Price List and
Full Particulars of our Easy Time-payment System.
Your old Piano taken in exchange if you wish.
m
a
338 George St.
cvr>MCV


ROOFING
FLOORING
DAMPCOURSE
The Paraffine Companies, Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Chaliis House, Sydney.
:«| o'"
a ?
¥
m
m
When You
ask. for
Lager-
"The Beer
without
a Rival”
“Kapunai” (Papua) : An alligator re-
cently caught up the Kemp Welch River was seen
to have a curious protuberance in the region of his
tummy, and when an incision was made a barbed
iron fish spear, about 2ft. long, came out. The
iook “boy," who had bagged the ’gator, informed
his taubada (boss) that
about 10 years ago a num-
ber of these spears, baited
with magani (wallaby) had
been set, and all had been
recovered but one. I handled
the spear; it was in a
splendid state of preserva-
tion excepting at one end,
where it was decidedly
worn.
A GRIM STRUGGLE.
“Did the editor get my joke yet?"
“No. but he’s trying ’ard."
“M. Bcedy”: A while back, someone was
talking of curing dog's of strychnine poison. For
years I and my friends have successfully used ordi-
nary' tincture of iodine—up to half an ounce does in
bad cases. Mix the tincture with an equal quantity
of v'ater when pouring down the dog’s throat.
“Picko”: Rc “Snell” (B. 3/8/’22) on the
pugnacity' and long memories of meek and mild sheep.
It used to be my job to cut a chaff-bag full of green
barley to feed a stallion each evening. Billy, the
ram, an old-time pet, would follow me to the stal-
lion’s enclosure, but, knowing his love of green stuff,
I always kept the fence between us, a proceeding
which made William very mad. Then the days of
green barley duly expired, and Billy’s interest in me
waned. Came another barley season, and one even-
ing I cut the first luscious ration. Forgetful of
stray rams, I started to walk to the stallion’s boudoir
A HOLY MISSION.
“I noticed your husband drinking in the hotel. lam going back that icay. Can I take
him any message?”
"Yes; yer might arsk ’im to bring me back a bottle."
on the wrong side of the fence. There was a rush
of pattering feet, a horrible grunt, and I went vol-
planing through the Spring- air, propelled by a rib-
bending thump. When I regained sufficient senses
to start feeling like a railway tragedy, I saw a
woolly shape with the nose end of it buried in the
barley bag. Billy had waited a year to <atch the
blighter who had refused to tip him a bit of green
stuff when he asked for it. Meek and mild? Like
a 6-inch shell 1
“FY7”: “Ned Kelly” (B. 10/8/’22) denies
my statement that no wild animal in Australia
other than snake or crocodile, can give a stag-hound
trouble, and tells how a dingo defeated a pedigree
stag-hound. We are both talking, of course, of the
deer-hound, erroneously called the stag-hound in
this country, the stag-hound proper being a larger,
heavier fox-hound. Five-and-twenty years ago W.
Hill, then manager of Bullamon, one of the A. P.
Company’s stations in S.-W. Queensland, started a
pack of pedigree deer-hounds, which he used for
running down dingoes. I had two dogs of this
strain on Noondoo station, close by, and can assure
“Ned Kelly” they made no more ado about killing
a dingo single-handed than a foxy does of killing a
rabbit. The biggest half-bred dingo I have ever
seen—much less the pure-breds—was inches lower
and many pounds lighter than these great dogs.
The deer-hound’s courage and silent tenacity are pro-
verbial. The breed is one of the very oldest
known, so its reputation is not a thing of yesterday.
■> * » *
“Vulangi”: Re “Fraoch” (B. 22/6/’22)
and others on mixed marriages. A daughter of white
parents, living in the wilds of Fiji, married, with
full benefit of clergy, a shock-headed buck, and the
pair lived for years on the banks of the Rewa. The
benefit no doubt was enjoyed by the clergy; but I
have never yet passed the place without seeing
grinning “boys” leering among themselves as they
pointed out the humpy where dwelt the woman
who had devoted her life to lowering the prestige of
her race. If ever civilisation is stamped flat by
number 10 naked feet, let the bill be sent first to
the missionaries, and, second, to those parents who
keep their daughters till past the nubile age in a
wilderness where the only males are of the genus
Homo niger. It is hard to say which is the greater
all-round danger in a “black” country—the “poor-
white” or the undiscerning cleric.
“P.1.G.” : Tell “Birre Gurra”(B. 3/8/’22)
that one of the Lynch girls, of whose prowess with
the axe he writes, is mistress of a nicely-appointed
and well-managed home, a husband and two children
in Nanango (Q.).
“FY7”: “Winchester” (B. 13/7/’22) says
red and grey kangaroos never associate and asks why.
It depends on what he means by “association.”
The grey kangaroo is a forest lover, while his
cousin Macropus rufus, prefers fairly open, plain
country. \et in districts where plain and forest
alternate, like the St. George (Q.) country, you
will often see both red and grey feeding together
out in the open at sundown. I doubt if there is
any intei marriage, though the difference between
the two is not more marked than that between a
shorthorn and a Jersey. The female of the red
kangaroo is always of a bright, blue-grey color,
quite distinctive from the tinting of the red or
grey male.
* * * *
Sir Spelt”: The other day I noticed a
jackass fluttering through the undergrowth in an
apparently disabled condition, but closer inspection
showed that he had about 2ft. of green snake hang-
ing out of his mouth. I gauged that at least an-
other foot was in his tucker-box. I
came back along the same track a
couple of hours later and found Jack
still sitting on the ground with his
mouth held open by the snake’s waist-
line. The length of wriggler that had
been consumed in the interim was
almost imperceptible. How long would
it be before the rest of the morsel
reached its destination f
“Kapunai” ( Papua) : Re-
cently a white trader, in trying to
cross the bar of the Kalo River in a
heavily-laden whaleboat while a big
sea was running, was washed over-
board with the whole of his native
crew. The coxswain, Urabada, a
native of Kapa Kapa, on recovering
himself, swam to his taubada (boss),
picked him up, and hung on to him
till assistance arrived, then helped
him ashore. Unfortunately, it was a
dead boss that he landed. The native
himself collapsed from exhaustion on
reaching the shore. Anybody that
knows the Kalo bar in a dirty south-
easter will realise what a risk the
nigger ran in trying to save the life
of his taubada, apart from the fact that the river
teems with alligators. A white man doing the
same gallant deed would probably receive recogni-
tion from the Royal Humane Society'.
“Weiry”: I have followed with interest
the discussion of the wise men on the funny capers
that fracteur cuts at times (B. 29/6/’22), and I’d
like to put my bib in and say, “Never take
chances.” I saw an old quarryman, who ought to
have known better, hold a piece of gelignite with
his fingers in a blacksmith’s fire to prove to us
that it would not explode. He was wrong, and
the blacksmith didn’t sue him for a new forge,
because he took pitj' on a one-armed man. Yet
the same thing has been done, and there was no
explosion. Gelignite is often warmed by holding
it o\er a fire on a shovel, but one dicjger near
Castlemaine (1 ie.) was blown to bits doing it.
No, don t mess about with the stuff—be respect-
ful always.
scientist has shown
that the prints left by the noses of cattle are as
useful for identification as are the finger-prints of
human beings. The practice of registering these
prints is being largely adopted in certain parts of
I .S.A., as they are considered much more reliable
ihan brands, which can be easily altered. In future
when a strange bull bunts you over the fence you
will only have to send in the seat of your pants to
the Stock Department in order to locate the offender.
* * * ■*
“B. Edgar”: Tell “L.R.” (B. 3/8/’22)
that the wind would not account for the rise and
fall in Lake Wakatipu (M.L.) unless the lake is
very shallow'. A steady wind creates a regular
current in the surface of the water, reaching, how-
ever, to a fair depth. But only when the surface
current is deeper than half the depth of the lake
is the undercurrent not strong enough to compensate
the fall on the windward side.
“F.H.R.”; “Pine-needle” (B. 27/7/’22),
on following the flight of a bullet with the eye, le-
minds me that I wrote a par. for the Abo. page on
the same subject about 18 j'ears ago, I was in a
train between Dubbo and Orange (N.S.W.) a feu-
days after it appeared, and a country lad borrowed
my Bulletin. In a few minutes he burst forth:
there s some blanky liars write for this paper.
Listen to this.’’ And he read my par. out to us.
}he whole carriage-full of them voted the writer of
it the biggest liar of all the Abo. liars. However,
the next issue of The Bulletin contained ample
verification of the fact that the course of a bullet
fired from a rifle can be followed by a keen eye if
the conditions —such as light and the observer’s posi-
tion arc right. Anyhow, they can photograph
shells leaving big guns.
* * * *
“Wart”: When I stated a few weeks ago in
answer to “D.F.’’ that the thylacine is more plentiful
in the Speck than most people think, I did not know
that he is to be found in the suburbs of Launceston.
But he is. There is a fine Tasmanian tiger waiting
to be shot down the West Tamar within four miles
of the Launceston post office. During the last School
holidays a couple of the boys at Cormiston came face
to face with a fine specimen. When out with a gun
later they had a shot at him, and the dogs have
several times got on his track. Like all his relatives
he very seldom comes out into the open. If there
is a clear space in the scrub he will always walk
round it. Ten years ago one was shot a little farther
back in the same district.
* > * *
“Avoca”: “Silas” (B. 3/8/’22) has cer-
tainly got out of his depth when he queries “Vul-
ture’s’’ statement that mining Chows in the roaring-
days invariably dug- round holes. In ’6B and ’69
I was delving in the Fiddler’s Creek rush near Avoca
(Vic.), and though hundreds of shafts were put down
by Chinks, every one that I saw was round. All
other diggers stick to the square. Timbering, was
unnecessary in that country down to 30ft.
* * * *
Jackeroo”: “W. Blister’s” wedding-cake
yarn (B. 27/7/ , 22) reminds me of a knot-tying at
Mitchell (Q.). Hardly a soul in the village was
overlooked when the invitations were handed round,
so there was a record roll-up. It took two rooms to
hold the presents—mostly crockery. The kiddies
(and there were thousands of them) were corralled
in the goat-yard, which was securely netted, and tlic
Lord knows how their parents sorted them out after
the Spree. The happy couple didn’t leave on their
THE FORCE OF INSTINCT.
“Phwat teas the last card Oi dealt yer.
Mike?"
“A spade."
"Oi tho't so. Yes shpat on per hands be-
fore ye picked it up."
honeymoon in a bullock-waggon—in fact, they didn't
leave at all. A few clays after the ceremony two
barefooted lads, carrying a huge clothes-basket,
toured the town, and all and sundry got a piece of
wedding cake wrapped in brown paper. I put my
lump under my pillow that night and dreamt of
kids, goats and butter-dishes.
“TO THE AGENT.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How are things? Well, not too bad, Jim;
Mustn’t grumble-—might be worse;
Still get three square meals, so can’t complain.
I've been goin’ at the rabbits
All the mornin’—they’re a curse—
There s not much else to do till we get rain.
That hot spell just after Christinas
And the red rust and the blight
Knocked me rotten, made me many bushels shy;
And I had a touch of take-all,
But that sorta served me right—
-1 was mad to cultivate me fallow dry.
What the Hell’s gone wrong with cattle?
f sent down a truck of steers,
Seven snodgers they was—only one a squid;
I know that beef is cheaper
Than it’s been for many years—
Starve the rats 1 They only netted thirty quid.
That reminds me, I just got me
Monthly statement from your firm;
It shows as how I owe ’em fifty quid.
It’s all my eye; them steers ihey
Sold, or, rather, gave away,
Ain’t taken off—that’s no good to this kid.
So Beauford beat Eu rythmic!
Well, 1 sorta thought he could.
He’s a bonzer, but the other nag’s not bad.
’Spose Dempsey rode Eurythmic?
Who rode Beauford—Albert Wood?
Ves, of course; I’ll bet the Sydney mob went rnad.
Oh, wool’s a trifle better, yes;
But that don’t affect this chick.
A score of ration sheep is all I got.
That just shows how stiff a man is—
-1 gets fined for havin’ tick,
Buys steers, and sells me wethers on the spot.
My oath, you’re right, it’s hot, Jim :
But rain’s not far away—
-1 know, because the -ants are building high ;
And when they mound their nests up
As they’re doin’ every day,
You can bet it won’t for very long be dry.
No thanks, there’s nothing wanted,"
All my super, is on hand.
Skin labels? Yes, you might-just leave a few.
Yes, be cripes, now, rabbit poison 1
Send some up—the same old brand
I’d a’ quite forgotten that, Jim, but for you.
Yes, thanks, the wife is splendid,
And the kids are very fit,
No, we haven’t seen the city now for years.
Well, so long, Jim; and remember
When the beef improves a bit,
Just write —I’ll truck the balance of them steers.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
ELVEE.


y
w :' i,
S? ■ W-
> /. * a
; ?«
.. *
i- 4M
-'
#'~
t *•*
&
n
».*
w.
&
KW
■:
*. /
'V
SrPftei?
*•
*%lk /
ey run th©u§an«
r
Some motorists appear to be always having tyre troubles—whilst others
seem to be immune from them. Ihe former generally puts it down
to bad luck—the latter to good tyres, kept properly inflated. There is no
doubt that some tyres by their fine quality and construction do render
infinitely better service on the road than others—and chief amongst
the “no trouble” covers are the popular Australian ‘Railroad’
D
It’s no uncommon thing to hear motorists state that they have driven on
‘Railroads’ three, four, and even five thousand miles—without changing a
cover or tube. This is the service we build into every ‘Railroad ’ cover
—and the result is that ‘ Dunlops’ are in greater request amongst
Australian motorists than all the other makes put together. This is not
luck either—its appreciation by motorists of Dunlop quality, dependability
and value. Every motorist can ensure thousands of miles of running free
from tyre troubles, if he will fit ‘Railroads’—and keep them inflated to the
correct pressure—embossed Qn each cover. Fit ‘ Railroads’ —it pays !
ALL STATES
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD
AND N.Z.


o
Qt
•D
LLY
3
RE
OD
FO
j'
*
V'
C(b
(h
(a
/a.
“I Can’t Imagine Taking a Pie
From a Tin” —
ventured one woman to her friend, quite recently.
They were discussing the subject of
REX Camp Pie
Of course that is a mistake a woman will only make
once. She’ll find many a pleased user to tell her that
there’s no pastry or crust about “Rex” Camp Pie.
It is composed of the choicest meats—compounded,
seasoned, cooked and packed with a firm jelly sur-
rounding it.
You serve it cold—right from the tin, with any kind
of salad.
It is the ideal “Cold Tea" and may be sliced thin
for sandwich making.
Try it once —that’s all we ask. You’ll always have
it in your pantry. All Grocers sell it.
. ':V'r <1
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F.J. we
'1
, S'A
All B S.A. partm
are guaranteed
interchangeable .
RIDE A
BICYCLE BUILT OF
&S'A
FITTINGS
HTHOUSANDS of cyclists rep-
resenting nearly every country,
testify to the value of bicycles
built of B.S.A. Fittings.
The health and pleasure of trouble-
free cycling, enjoyed when using
a good machine, will very soon
repay you your initial outlay. All
usage after that (including your
numerous business calls and holiday
touring) is a handsome bonus or
dividend derived from your wise
investment.
Thoroughly British
The searching tests and careful
analysis to which every component
of the B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle is
subjected, eliminate the possibility
of poor material, bad workmanship,
or a flaw in the finished article.
ILLUSTRATED HANDBOOK
FREE ON REQUEST TO
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
rag
1
D
u
pj
m
DTi
The reputation of Dodge Brothers as man-
ufacturers has increased and spread because
of Dodge Brothers Motor Car.
But that reputation had been firmly estab-
lished before ever a Dodge Brothers Motor
Car was built.
The freedom from repair for which Dodge
Brothers Motor Car is noted, is the direct
result of the close, careful and conscientious
manufacturing methods of Dodge Brothers.
The petrol consumption is unusually low
The tyre mileage is unusually high
rO
W
«
LA
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney’
Undge Brothers, Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
That Elusive Something
By “PHLOX. 1
YOUR husband is flirting with a pretty
dark woman.”
“The wretch!”
"He’s asking her to take afternoon tea
with him,” went on the fortune-teller,
nothing abashed by her client's interjection.
"Where are they going for tea?”
"1 can't tell you that, but at present
they’re dancing.”
"Is my husband dancing?”
"He is.”
“Oh, dear, what would you advise me to
do?”
“I did not undertake to advise you,
madam, but to tell your fortune. Half-a-
crown, please!”
Mrs. Marsden left the fortune-teller with
rage in her heart and revenge in her soul.
Who was this woman, she asked herself, who
was usurping her husband’s affections? That
explained his attitude towards her lately.
He had begun to criticise her, and pass un-
complimentary remarks about her figure and
her complexion.
Indeed, he had hinted that she was passe.
Why, there was her husband and the
woman walking towards her. John has
recognised me, she thought; now I wonder
what he’ll have to say for himself. That
fortune-teller is certainly a clever woman.
“How fortunate we met you, Mary. This
is Miss Heath—our supervisor of agencies,
who has done such good business for our
publications. We w r ere just going to have
a cup of tea while .we talk over business
matters, and it will be nice for you to come,
too.”
Mrs. Marsden gave Miss Heath a formal
bow, and a cold, “How do you do?” When
her husband said they would go to the Went-
worth for tea, she was more than ever con-
vinced that the fortune-teller was a witch.
The trio sat down at a table, and before long
Mrs. Marsden, succumbing to the charm of
Miss Heath, almost forgot her annoyance,
and jealousy. Her husband merely talked
business with Miss Heath, who from time
to time politely referred to Mrs. Marsden
for approval of plans she promulgated. And
when Mr. Marsden said that he would be
working back at the office that night, and
suggested that Miss Heath spend the even-
ing with Mrs. Marsden and regale her with
the latest Paris fashions, she was quite
agreeable.
Miss Heath, the daughter of an Anglican
clergyman, was born and bred in Paris, and
having just come from the gay city, was able
to give Mrs. Marsden interesting fashion
notes.
Before long, however, the eternal feminine
asserted itself, and Mrs. Marsden wondered
why Miss Heath, with her charm and beauty,
haa never married. She told Mrs. Marsden
that the only man she ever loved was killed
on active service.
Prom this they talked of rejuvenescence,
the subject ever uppermost in the mind of
the woman who has passed her first youth.
“If only I could reduce myself,” sighed
Mrs. Marsden.
“You can, easily.”
“Oh, of course, the French know the secret
of remaining beautiful, practically for ever.”
“What I take to keep my figure slim is no
secret, Mrs. Marsden.”
“My dear, I shouldn’t have thought you
needed to take anything ”
“Indeed, I do; or I would soon fall into
flesh. Directly I find myself putting on
weight, I just get a package of clynol berries,
and take one after each meal.”
“Do they affect the heart?”
“Oh, dear, no; the most delicate person
can taKe them with safety.”
"I shall certainly take them, and I won-
der, Miss Heath, if you know of a good face
cream that doesn’t grow hairs.”
“Indeed, I do; and I’m most grateful to
the manufacturers for what it has done for
me. I never use anything but mercolized
wax. It is similar to the preparation used
by the famous French beauty Ninon
D’Enclos, who at sixty had the complexion
of a child.”
“How very fortunate I met you, Miss
Heath ; I shall certainly add mercolized wax
to the list of things I want from the chemist.
Do you know I’m rather distressed about
my hair; it’s greying fast, and my husband
suggests that I dye it, but I hate the very
thought of dye.”
“I can assure you, Mrs. Marsden, there’s
no necessity to use dye. When I lost my
fiance my hair began greying fast, but I used
Tammalite, and now you won’t find a grey
hair in my head —it simply worked wonders.
It’s quite simple to use. You just get two
ounces of concentrate of tammalite, and mix
it with three ounces of may rum. Apply to
the scalp at night with a small sponge until
the hair has gone back to its original color.”
“Thank you very much for the informa-
tion. May I ask what soap you use, Miss
Heath?”
“Certainly, I never use anything but
Pilenta.”
“It’s awfully good of you, to be at such
pains to tell me about these delightful pre-
parations.”
“Not at all; I think it’s a woman’s duty
to contribute to the beauty of the world,
and if you will notice, a woman who takes
pains with herself has that elusive some-
thing that is so fascinating. But it’s time
I was going.”
“I will send you home in the car. You
have given me fresh courage in life. I’m
now bent on cultivating that elusive some-
thing.”
Barri Agar—ldeal Face Powder—all
Chemists. — Advt.


WPOwfjk
WWXVO'WW.
■
*
m
?• I;/„ ,*/J)riAL
t '' !l
GENUINE BALATA BELTING.
You pay for power according to
the coal you burn, but you GET
what your belts deliver. A frac-
tion of 1% saved in power soon
pays the cost difference between a
poor belt and a Dick’s Genuine
Balata Belt. One breakdown
could easily wipe out the cost of
any belt.
Dick’s Genuine Balata Belting de-
livers maximum power, year in and
year out, with never a halt. There are
no heavy losses through breakdowns
and labor thrown idle. No big power
losses through slipping. No heavy
repair bills. Being absolutely water-
proof, Dick’s Balata Belting efficiently
overcomes extreme conditions of
dampness.
TT rite for Free Copu of the Balata
Belting Hook—a Catalogue for the
practical Engineer.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY.
York and Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE.
581-83 Little Col-
lins Street.
ADELAIDE.
30 Currie Street.
QUEENSLAND.
The Queensland Machinery Co., Albert Street, Brisbane.
expressing his own reactions from life than
in creating an objective world.
It is easy to see, though, why critics of
the Squire circle have grown lyrical about
him. Their theory is that magic, in some
form or other, is necessary to literature, and
if they can get it in no other way they will
murmur the syllables of Popocatepetl in
a London street, and transport themselves
on the waves of sound to some snowy sum-
mit that gleams above dark jungles or purple
savannahs. Among the' rumblings of com-
monplace traffic they want to hear the mys-
terious overtones that hint of a half-known
life in the mind, beyond everyday experi-
ence.
And Melville could express this as few
writers have been able to do in prose. In
his mind there seems to have been some
dark pool of glamor in which he steeped the
materials of his art. His “Moby Dick” is
a breathless tale of adventure and human
passion, and his descriptions of whale-hunt-
ing are as exact as any cetologist could desire ;
but in every turn of the chase after the
Leviathan you are haunted by the whisper
of allegory. A spectral light bathes each
mast and spar of the vessels that cruise
about the whaling-grounds, whether of the
empty ship leaving Nantucket or the trium-
phant one going home—its casks bursting
with oil, signals, ensigns and jacks of all
colors flying from the rigging, mates and
harpooners dancing with olive-hued girls on
the decks, and negroes with glittering fiddle-
bows of ivory playing wild jigs or beating
barbaric drums.
Melville himself knew enough of the life
to render it with that fidelity to fact with-
out which all romance is fustian. Starting
as a eabinboy on a merchantman, he after-
wards went on a whaling-cruise in the South
Seas, deserted in the Marquesas, and was
captured by the charming natives of those
islands, who once ate human flesh and now
live on the lotus. After killing a one-eyed
chief with a boathook he escaped, went on
another long whaling-cruise, was involved
in a mutiny and imprisoned by the French
in Tahiti. He wound up with two long
cruises on a United States frigate (see
“White Jacket”), and then retired to a
little country cottage, near Hawthorne’s, to
devote himself to literature.
It might be thought that Hawthorne would
have extended his sympathy to this Nietzs-
chean young man. who soon proved his
quality in “Typee,” “Omoo” and “Moby
Dick. ’ Or did the robustness of their style
and the relentless way in which they plunged
down into the muddiest depths of life shock
the New Englahd recluse? “Lord, when
shall we be done growing?” lie wrote to
Hawthorne. “As long as we have anything
to do, we have done nothing. So, now, let
us add ‘Moby Dick’ to our blessing, and
step from that. Leviathan is not the biggest
fish—l have heard of Kralcens.”
W T as it megalomania? A trace of the
disease seems apparent in the last pages of
“Moby Dick,” and we have a suspicion that
it was not merely Captain Ahab who was
haunted by the necessity of pursuing the
Leviathan. Hawthorne seems to have been
shy of his devoted neighbor, and to have
choked off his advances. Finally, Melville
decided that fame was a bubble, and litera-
ture was not the right medium in which to
pursue Krakens: he took a job as a Cus-
toms. official, and lived obscurely till the day
of his death, solacing himself with meta-
physics.
“Moby Dick,” though, will remain alive
tor many a_ day. In a hundred years or
even America may be persuaded that Mel-
ville was one of the greatest writers it pro-
duced. But, as the Chinese proverb says:
“The dragon in shallow waters became the
butt of shrimps.”
VANCE PALMER.
The Real Value of Celtic Study
The time is probably not far distant when
most of the things now described as Celtic
will be known as early European. Ethnolo-
gists and archaeologists talk loosely of Gaelic
and Cymric Celts, of Celts of the mountains
and Celts of the valleys; but there is not a
shadow of proof that the peoples thus re-
ferred to differed in custom, culture or
religion from any of the non-German races
north of the Danube and the Italian Penin-
sula. Southern Europe showed many mixed
races. Etruscans, Iberians, Siculi and Pelas-
gians were probably all of Asiatic or African
origin. Very early warlike alliances against
the Pharaohs, which had their focus in
Tunis and Algeria, included tribes from
Sicily, Sardinia and possibly Southern
Italy; and the suggestion of the Egyptian
records is that the allies from Africa and
Europe were one in blood. The German
tribes may have been originally European ;
but the evidence is strong that they differed
in customs and culture from the long chain
of peoples reaching from the Urals to the
Bay of Biscay, with outposts in Persia and
India. Greece appears to have been origi-
nally an Asiatic settlement, which was from
time to time invaded by Europeans, until
the European type prevailed. Nearly all
the Hellenic beliefs can be traced to Asia, as
can the cruelties which debased public life
even in Athens; but the sudden lift of Greece
to artistic and literary greatness was during
the period when the “black-bearded kings”
of Homer had given place to the golden locks,
of Phryne. The Greeks knew of the Dorian
invasion, which had left Sparta in the hands
of a race of rougher speech from beyond the
Danube. But how many such invasions were
forgotten in remembering the last and most
vitalising? Rome was probably European in
origin. The military castra has been shown
to have kept the exact shape of the swamp
villages of the vaDe.v of the Po. which
belong to a time possfibl.v five or ten thousand
years before the building of the Eternal
City; but bordering, as they did, on Etruria,
and seeking the trade of the whole western
Mediterranean, the Homan people were soon
as remote from the original tvpe as the
dwellers in other towns of that middle
world. Though Latin has been shown to
have the closest kinyhip to the Celtic lan-
guages, there is nothing in the spirit or
organisation of the Romans which resembles
that of early Europe. It was probably from
Etruria that their jfnilitary methods were
first derived ; and Etrrnria. being of Asiatic
origin, had probably improved upon the sys-
tems of Nineveh. Curtain it is that of 'all
ancient peoples the Assyrians of the later
empire alone carried out their warlike
arrangements with the precision and iron
discipline which characterised Roman
armies; and they_ alone based the whole civic
structure on a military foundation. Thus in
the victories of Rome we see the dead hand
of Asia, not the apex and crown of early
European achievement; and probably it was
just because the Roman method was foreign
to the thought of all the noblest of the con-
quered peoples that it was doomed at last
to failure. To-day the so-called Celtic world
consists of Brittany, Cornwall, Wales and the
Highlands of Scotland and Ireland; but it is
to Ireland that all the seekers turn as the
repository of the early secrets of the race.
Ireland and Northern Scotland alone of all
Western Europe missed both Roman rule
and Asiatic incursion. All Russia and all
the Danube lands were more or less cor-
rupted by the hordes from the East; Central
Europe remained German and continued to
differ from all the rest; Ireland kept well
into the historic period—and has, in some
measure, kept to the present day—the origi-
nal thoughts, customs and ideals of the
European race. Now that Germany, in her
defeat, has no longer a voice that might shout
down the aspirations of other peoples, the
European idea is worthy of the closest
study; for by that study we may avoid blind
alleys and keep the straight path which leads
to a sure goal. Races of men are not made
in a century. Our political, moral and social
instincts go back far beyond the foundation
of Rome, far beyond history and even
archaeology. For a hundred thousand years,
or some such almost unthinkable stretch of
time, our ancestors went on building up step
h.v step and thought by thought an elaborate
human system of which we are the natural
heirs. That system is instinctive in men of
European race; and to radically alter it
requires not five or six centuries of foreign
training, such as Rome imposed upon con-
quered peoples, but perhaps 50 centuries.
More than this. Where the instinct
was developed on the foundation of a
practice which men found good it takes
on something of the nature of a divine law,
and it is therefore questionable whether men
could ever be made to feel otherwise without
a sense of the violation of their own man-
hood. Thus we know that Europe, in its
earlier years, insisted on large individual
freedom of action —it is the most deeply-
written word in ancient Irish legend—while
the three other continents allowed little
liberty either in politics, religion or social
life. No despotism, either of church, State or
system, has ever been able to eradicate that
idea from the make-up of a European. The
feeling is as definite as the circulation of the
blood, however we may sometimes disguise
it, that freedom in the ruin of all hopes and
aspirations is to be preferred to servitude
in affluence. This is only one of thousands
of early European instincts which are part
and parcel of us. In all the changes of the
future we must take note of these things. By
clear logical deduction we argue that such
and such a national undertaking is wise; but
all the reasoning in the world will not make
it wise if it is opposed to the race instinct
of those upon whoin as law it will operate.
“The proper study of mankind is man,” but
the more practical aspect of that study is
the discovery of the instinctive limits and
ideals of our kind of man. Without knowing
that we shall not get very far. Real Celtic
study, which is real European study, is still
in its infancy. Modern Ireland or Wales
or Argyleshire will not tell us very much;
but there is a vast bulk of ancient literature
and a wide field for archaeological discovery
from which most that we need to know may
yet be learned. Take a few stray gleanings
from the mere surface of the great subject.
Ancient Ireland —and therefore early
Europe—set women and men on an absolute
equality ; they had a God instead of a god-
dess of love; they stood on an equal footing
with their greatest kings, except in those
matters which were the king’s special busi-
ness ; they destroyed no property connected
with the working of the soil when engaged
in war; they acknowledged no private owner-
ship in land; they did not boast of their
achievements (this is notable in the earliest
legends, and there is a change for the worse
in those written after the Danish and Eng-
lish invasions) : they regarded hospitality as
their first duty; they set intellectual accom-
plishments above warlike prowess. Even in
such a fragmentary gathering of obvious
things we begin to see the early European:
in 20 years of study we may learn enough and
more to trace many of our own feelings and
prejudices to their remote source.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Place of “Comic Cuts”
It is the customary thing, when one comes
upon one’s son and heir curled up on the
best sofa, mentally consuming the contents of
one of the vast array of comic and less comic
papers and periodicals for boys that reach
Australia in the thousand by every English
mail, to make exclamations savoring of
displeasure. The stern parent hurriedly
reflects on the superior pasture upon
which he imagines he grazed when of
the same age, with names such as Scott.
Stevenson, Marryat, Kingsley and Reade
threading through his mind. I would be the
last to under-rate the literary value of the
work of the authors mentioned, and of many
more of, only slightly less appeal for boys, nor
can I find the slightest value as literature in
the pabulum served up in the average periodi-
cal for the very young; but Comic Cuts
and its fellows may have an important place
in developing literary appreciation. It is
only because they represent the lowest rung
of the long ladder that these hastily-manu-
factured and frequently grotesque stories for
boys have evoked opprobrium.
Give the average boy between eight and
ten years of age “Ivanhoe ” or “Treasure
Island” or “Hard Cash” or “Westward
Ho!” and he will probably find it heavy
going. The thrills are there, the ex-
citement, the narrow escapes from sud-
den death, but they have to be reached
through pages of pure characterisation
or description. And it is a precocious
child who at niue or ten is able in any degree
to appraise literary worth. The average
boy who meets nothing but the classic authors
will be forced to the conclusion that books
are synonymous with hard study. He may
even come to think that reading is not for
him. Or perhaps, later, he will be attracted
by an enticing paper cover and see the wide
sea of literature only through the doubtful
haze of the American sensational novelists
who monopolise our railway bookstalls.
The boy who devours the contents of
Comic Cuts, and who afterwards becomes
a regular subscriber to some of the many
popular periodicals published for the English-
speaking yotfth, will find there tales of
adventure with the too ample clioth-
ing of the classic adventure story
removed. Most of the stuff may be
extravagant nonsense, but it is pretty inno-
cent, and it appeals strongly to the boyish
imagination and the desire to see and to
read of strenuous action. The classic novel
does not. Rather it aggravates this desire
for strength and energy by obliging the mind
to force its pathway through much that to
the youngster has no appeal whatever.
Let the boy read Comic Cuts and the
rest. He will tire of the sort of trash they
contain; and, when he do'*s, he will look
around for something more substantial, with
a mind gradually educated to read with a full
appreciation. And the abilitv to extract from
the noblest works of poetrv and prose that
have been produced in the English tongue all
they have to give, is to be gained by rising
just a few steps at a time. The fact to
be borne in mind when one's son and heir is
metaphorically buried in the contents of a
luridly illustrated boy’s periodical is that he
is reading, lie is developing the inclination
towards literature, and his taste will improve
with his years. That is why there is a
definite place even for Comic Cuts.
CHESTER F. COBB.
The Inky Way
“Morehead”: Where do the writers of detective
stones get the fancy names for their sleuths? Sher-
lock Holmes, Sexton Blake, Nelson Lee and Harvey
u ] nt i Il - o few among the hundreds of euphonious
and bizarre combinations under which the ’tecs of
a °“°" travel. Turn from them to the Jim Blots
and Bill bliggses that feature among the private-
detective agency advts. in the daily press, and you
realise the gap that yawns between warm romance
and cold reality.
“l'.W ”: J. E. Davidson, who is to control Adel-
aide s impending new evening journal, is the live
Chicagoan who took up Melbourne Herald editorship,
alter some years reporting on the Argus, and wound
up with a directorship and a final upheaval with
Theodore Fink. He is one of the white men in Aus-
tralian journalism, and has the courage to know
exactly who is to edit a paper when he holds the
job. It was Davidson’s hard luck that after sticking
up for the working staffs even at the risk of his own
journalistic neck, he found Broken Hill’s Bolshies up
against him to such an extent that for a time his
Barrier Miner became a ghost of its former self.
“Veronal”: The sunlit South Pacific somehow has
always had an attraction for writers. Beginning with
Jane Porter’s charming “Narrative of Sir Edward
Seaward,” in which the hero and his Eliza are
wrecked and live a la Robinson Crusoe during their
honeymoon, I. L. Craik’s “New Zealanders,” and
Melville’s “Typee,” the list ascends and descends to
books and booklets by Robert Louis Stevenson, Louis
Becke, Burton Dibbs and Clement Wragge—the lat-
ter’s a brutally clever piece of travel literature. Jane
Porter’s book is well worth republication, while Fisher
Lnw r in s dainty little editions of Louis Becke’s vivid
South Sea stories are getting almost as scarce as
Stevenson’s “Father Damien of Molokai.” Dibbs’s
book, “In Summer Isles,” published by Heinemann,
sold well for a time, but is now in its literary grave.
In much earlier days (circa 1829) an ancient mariner,
Captain Goodridge, wrecked on the Crozets, put his
experiences into book form, and showed, incidentally,
how life might be supported on sea-elephant steak
and penguin stew, while the hides of the former
furnished tent coverings and the breast-skins of the
penguins, with the feathers turned inwards, warm
and comfortable foot-wear.
Slipped out of Sydney last week as unobtrusively
as he crept in William Howard Hill, a U.S.A. Inky
Wayfarer of almost half a century, and now mostly
a philanthropist at large. The blind are his special
care —particularly blinded soldiers, and the greater
part of his Sydney visit was spent at the big New-
town institution. His paper is the Morning News,
of Wilmington. Del.
“U.P.”: A book which has recently been winning
approbation from English reviewers is “Reparations,
Trade and Foreign Relations,’’ by Major Lee Angas,’
M.A. The Major served in France, Flanders and
Italy during the war, and received the M.C. and Croix
do Guerre. The London Daily Telegraph says:
“The book contains one' of the best treatises of
domestic and international economics. Politicians,
economists and business men will find much to in-
terest them in this work.” The English Review is
even more enthusiastic, and affirms “it should by
law be read aloud forcibly to every Minister and
M.P.” The author is one of a well-known South Aus-
tralian family, being the only son of Mrs. G. L.
Angas, who has for some years lived in England, and
a grandson of the late John Howard Angas.
“Burton Admirer”: Re “M.D.’s account oi
a fond mother who purchased an unabridged
edition of Burton’s “Arabian Nights” for
her son at. an outlay of £24 (R.P.
29/6/’22). The Burtons published three edi-
tions of the “Arabian Nights.” The first was in
Lady Burton’s name, and was an expurgated trans-
lation. Later, Sir R. Burton published his famous
unexpurgated edition to subscribers at 10Q guineas
a copy, and 100 copies only were issued. After her
husband’s death, however, Lady Burton had the
grosser passages eliminated from this work, and
a semi-expurgated edition issued by Murray’s. By the
price quoted it is probable that the last edition is the
one referred to by “M.D.,” in which case it wouldn’t
be such an impossible birthday present for ingenuous
youth. It is certainly not unabridged. Melbourne
Public Library had the unexpurgated work with
illustrations biy Dioksee. I was unable to see the
same edition in the i|ydney P. L., though I asked for
it several times.
“0.K.”: On further reference to the Acts of (he
Apostles I find reason to believe that St. Paul, before
actually entering the postal radius of Rome, must
have taken a little wine for his stomach’s sake. After
landing at Puteoli, from the good ship Castor and
Pollux, “We found brethren,” wrote the historian,
“and were desired to tarry with them seven days;
and so we went toward Rome. And from thence,
when the brethren heard of us, they came to meet
us as far as .Appii Forum, and The Three Taverns,
whom when Paul saw he thanked God and took
courage.” This looks like the earliest mention in
literature of a house of refreshment with a sign to it.
Right from the dawn of Christianity the word Three
has been much identified with houses where one calls
in to get a drink, for which one is apt to thank God
whilst taking courage. In olden days in London I
have whiskied, at various times, in the Three Nuns
(said to have been corrupted from Three Tuns), in
the Minories, the Three Crows, Three Sailors, Three
Bears, Three anything. The paragraph above quoted
is taken from a modern edition of the New Testament,
but if you go back a long way you are still borne to
the conclusion that Paul'and the brethren celebrated
their meeting in the usual manner. I have an edition
issued from Cambridge University in 1662, and the
only difference between the two versions of Paul’s
adventure is in the use of caps. The old edition
says: “They came to meet us as far as Appii-forum
and the Three taverns.” Which makes the evidence
more conclusive, rather than otherwise. It suggests
the harmless allurement of three taverns and not one
tavern, each with a back parlor and a clientele of its
own.


At the Yards!
If you want top rates for your Fat Cattle, Sheep
and Lambs, consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Market, Sydney; or Enoggera
Market, Brisbane.
C 6
E
»»
wm
High-Speed
Chain Hoists.
Highest Awards
Panama-Pacific
International
Exposition—l9ls.
STRONG POINTS.
Speed.
Absence of Vibration.
Accurately cut and
Strong Gears.
Durability.
Safety.
Strength.
“GYCXONE” and all oilier Cliisliolm-
Moore Hoisting- Blocks stocked by ns
are Tested lo 38601 b. to the ton —50%
overt oad.
The peculiar gyrating movement in the
“Cyclone” Chain Hoist and the perfect bal-
ance of all its parts make possible a very
high speed with practically no vibration.
11 'rite for Free Illustrated descriptive
Catalogue “B. n
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts-, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 lines).
581-83 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
eggs
« /-f> s'S/sf- ,-
'K
o '©•...••
iW
l///
!\V
STC
/'\\«>
M 7
f¥A
Nature has her
mome n t s of
sweetest charm,,
not when a tropi-
cal sun scorches the soil,
but when the dew is on the
flowers in an old English
garden and their fragrant
breath lingers in the air.
Those “moments of sweetest
charm” are irresistibly recalled
by the threei fctvorite
7ENOBIA
*^-*3353533
Zenobia Lilt op the Valley—a per-
fume with ti*e unique grace of the
tendered of blossoms.
Zenobla Swbet Pea Blossom—the
original perfume which, m name, his
been widely imiifated. Be sure to get
the genuine Zer>obia.
Zenobta Night
Scekted .Stock —a
perfume as fascinat-
ing as the loveliest
garden, by night.
Manufactured only
by
Zenobia Limited,
Loi ighborough,
Le jcestershire,
England.
Sole Agents for
Ni»w Zealand
(Wholesale only),
NeiTson & Co.,
Ltd., P.O. Box
1169. Wellington.
Sole Agent for
Australia
(Wholesale only),
Kenneth Buckmaster,
15 O’Ccnnell
Street'* Sydney.
7EN0814
hIW
the
VALLEY
aeffMksi
IB
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER <|has> BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zine
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address —
London Address:
Pinners Hall, Austin Friars,
London, E.C.2.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PULVERIZED FUEL FIRING
Cuts Labor and
Fuel Bills.
Gives High
Efficiencies and
Capacities.
Z7l
rn a m
Send to us for
Bulletin No. 600
and all
Particulars.
Fuller Engineering Co.,
Australian Engineers’ Office, 79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:
Elder, Smith (SL Co. Limited,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, BRISBANE.
i
[2
PHILIPS
'/IWJSTT
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Well-
ington (N.Z.), Auckland,
Christchurch, New Ply-
mouth.
British Made.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers —
from 7/6 to 35/-
(cnway gtacart
LEVER
FILLER
PEN
[1
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Western Works, Sheffield,
ENGLAND.
ALL CLASSES OF FINE
SCISSORS.
Nail, Manicure, Cutting-out,
Haircutting, Tailors’ Shears, etc.
Hollow-
TOinted
ESTABLISHED 1836.
Over 80 years of consistent service
to the public is the record of the
FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY
*0?
REGISTERED
T RADE MARK
SKANDIA
Crude Oil, Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
No
Magnetos
Sparking Plugs
Batteries
Carburetters
or
Electrical
Devices.
g E
H
6,U
Unequalled in
Economy
Simplicity
Durability
and
Reliability.
4 to 800
H.P.
sol® founts for Australia
and SauthSea Islands—
NELSON O. ROBERTSON,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sidney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Yarrum”: Last week had a pound of
knitting-wool sent me. It was spun on
Monaro from local fleece, and is now i,n pro-
cess of conversion into a pair of socks by
Australian fingers, using home-made (bone)
needles. 1 shall have the dinkum goods at
last.
“ J.M.L.” : I note a suggestion by “Sky-
rider” that we • might grow coffee instead of
importing it (B. The writer says
he has never seen it grown in N. S. Wales.
Maybe not, but there is a brand on the mar-
ket, grown on a plantation near Pialba, on
the Queensland coast. I have sampled it, and
can speak well of its quality and flavor.
* * * *
“Haka” : Talking about ’possum skins (B.
20/7/’22). At Dunedin (M.L.) the other day
the finest collection of skins ever bagged in
Maonland was offered for sale. All lines
of blue and grey skins were earmarked on
behalf of American buyers at double the
prices obtained at the corresponding sale last
year. The total sold numbered 15,405. The
loudest yell when set to figures was 17s. 9d.
per skin.
» * * *
“U.P.” : Faulding and Co., the old firm of
wholesale druggists, who established their
firm in Adelaide in 1845, are erecting a large
six-storey building facing James-place, at the
rear of their King William-street premises.
They are also building fine new premises in
Castlereagh-street, Red fern, as a home for
their Sydney branch, a Japanese firm having
bought the freehold in O’Connell-street,
where Paulding’s warehouse has been located
for the last 20 years.
“Bullwhanger”: The Kuttabul, which is
destined to plough the raging main between
Sydney Circular Quay and Milson’s Point,
arrived in the harbor last week, after a
five-and-a-half-hour run from Newcastle, dur-
ing which the escorting tug was hard put to
it to keep up with her. Built at Walsh
Island, she is own sister to the Koompartoo.
Neither carries life-saving appliances for her
2250 passengers, as this class of ark is
claimed to be unsinkable.
The latest report of the Willunga slate
quarries, near Adelaide, shows, as usual,
the other States as the best customers.
When S.A. gets beyond galvanised iron for
roofing, it prefers red tiles. But Willunga
has big contracts for the new Architecture
Buildings at Sydney University, the exten-
sive additions to the University of Mel-
bourne, and the whole Railway Departments
of N.S.W. and Victoria.
* ■* * *
“Lantana” : Californian canned fruits are
on the bill of fare of all the Australian mail-
boats from England. Meanwhile we spend
a million on Australia House. Can anyone
picture a Yankee eating onr tinned goods and
passing by. those of his own country? If
our peaches and pineapples don’t “tin” as
well as Uncle Sam’s products, then it’s up
to us to see that the job is done better, for it
is certainly not the goods themselves that
are at fault. Surely this is a worth-while job.
. “Tuck”: As a small boy in Melbourne
I remember a pianomaker named Carnegie,
who found it hard to make ends meet. His
instruments were acclaimed A-grade by com-
petent musicians, but there was scant demand
for them until an ingenious friend showed
the canny Scot how he could sauer-kraut his
own name by the simple process of spelling
it backwards. After that his musical boxes
were put o.n the market branded “Eigenrae”
and at once became the vogue. The Teu-
tonic glamor did for them what mere merit
couldn’t.
*_# # *
“Sucre”: Antonio has launched out into
another field of exploitation in Sydney. He
has so long associated himself with steak-a-
da-oyst and freesh fruit, that people were
beginning to think he had no soul, but only
a wild desire to fill their stomachs with
camouflaged shark and specked bananas. But
Italy moves, and last week saw its appear-
ance in the new role of a street flower-seller
-—“You smella-da-Parma violet, lady—only
da shillin’ da beeg bunch.” The pioneer
sold out, too.
* ’ * # *
“Copabella”: There is, it appears, a class-
consciousness even about down-and-out jobs.
A group of men were exchanging reminis-
cences of the straits they had undergone and
the pursuits they had tackled before “things
came their way,” in the Yankee phrase. The
experience of one had been very varied :
timber-fa Her, sanitary carter, bullocky’s off-
sider and camp-cook were among its less aris-
tocratic phases, and there was, in fact, little
he had not been. “Ever travel in tea?” at
last ask»d a listener’. The ev-battler was
really offended. “Tea-traveller!” he snorted.
“Damn it all, no! I never cot down to
that!" He meant it too. (Why, I dunno.
I’ve travelled in tea.)
FOLLOWING HIS NOSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once Henry Meadow had a nose
That Grecian was in its proportion,
But now it’s colored like a rose,
And quaint it is in its distortion.
In those days Henry was too kind
And generous and very mellow.
He’d give his shillings to the blind,
And lend a quid to any fellow.
There was no man in all the street
As free as he, as open-handed:
He’d hand out money should he meet
With any hapless creature stranded.
Then Henry from a motor-car
Was pitched one day. His nose was’broken.
It ne’er recovered from the jar,
And now is an Hebraic token.
Lost is its native Grecian pose,
And grievous to his friends the loss is,
For Henry’s disposition goes
In keeping with his wrecked proboscis.
lie keeps his silver slyly hid,
And in his pockets tight will close it.
Should any ask him for a quid,
“A pound!” he grins, ‘‘not if I nose it.”
He’s growing richer every day,
And in his wealth is wallowing.
He hated is, but truth to say,
The man his bent is merely following.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


m
mm
Wk.
>?:
m
srn
vm
v .-c^TT
KaßßHs^'*'
n
REPUBLIC FOR SERVICE/
1
LORRIES employed in handling foodstuffs work
under severe conditions. They usually work
longer hours and under less favorable conditions
than those engaged in many other kinds of
hauling. The loads, whether they be Dairy Products,
Meat or Provisions, are frequently much above the
lorry’s rated hauling capacity, and must be delivered
quickly to avoid loss by shrinkage and general dissatis-
faction.
The number of REPUBLICS hauling foodstuff
throughout Australia is rapidly growing. Their popularity
is ever increasing, owing to the absolute satisfaction that
owners are getting in all classes of hauling.
The reason for popularity is easily
explained and understood. Every part of the solidly
constructed chassis is designed and tested to accommo-
date the overloading to which every lorry is subjected.
The efficient CONTINENTAL RED SEAL ENGINE
develops the required power and speed.
The TORBENSEN INTERNAL GEAR DRIVE
delivers more power to the driving wheels than any other
form of drive, which means a big saving in petrol. A
separate load-carrying axle, of solid forged steel, reduces
the unsprung weight, which means longer life to tyres.
REPUBLIC LORRIES will widen out the territory
you can serve, increase your business opportunities, and
reduce your carrying problems.
NEW SOUTH WALES AGENTS:
Larke, Hoskins Co. Ltd.
237-39 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
CITY 3028-9. Members M.T.A.
PORTION OF FLEET OF 22 REPUBLICS.
5W
f”
/■
k:
%c_ s
ITS
Purchased 23rd October, 1915, and still giving satisfactory service.
ass*
BAY
Wm i DAIRi
wm
'
r V.-:
m
W
mm*'
REPUBLIC
LORRIES
For Harder Work—
For a Longer Period—
VICTORIAN AGENTS:
PRESTON MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Queen’s Parade, Clifton Hill, MELBOURNE.
. QUEENSLAND AGENTS:
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR
AGENCY (Q.), LTD.,
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
GILBERTS LTD.,
47 King Street, PERTH.
NEW ZEALAND AGENTS :
INGLIS BROS. & CO., LTD.,
WELLINGTON.
W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Factory Distributors,
161-163 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.


i cJke largest selling
H quality pencil in
the woxld
yENUS
PENCILS
BEST FOR
A KC'IIITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCIES.
Sold Everywhere.
£von in tho days of I
'^yandmoiheps
our
w
A/A
w
WOLFES
# was 1 a
HNAPPS
'atuous household remedu
HTO Three Generations 0
throughout Australasia
the name ‘Wolfe’s Schnapps’
has been a Household Word.
Its Perennial Popularity is
due to its remarkable
c Attractions as a leverage
and to the fact that by reason
of its Unique Medicinal Attributes
it Stands Supreme as a %emeaial
o4ge..t for Use in the Home Circle.
For Your Health’s Sake
Always Have a Bottle in the House
WOLFE’S
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
r ‘ A Blessing to Humanity "
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
nr
o
JL
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS
Cold 72 Ilrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from H-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door tripe, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY"-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
iastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
,59 West Second Stroet, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
7
Lime.Pol'asfl &Soda
uuifh emulsifying & flavoring
Ingredienfs
50a
W:
7S
-o
Cod
Liver 0
Riches'
est
%M\&i6nojnustefya{hu£
The manufacture of this famous medicine is not
surrounded by closely-guarded secrets.
As the diagram shows, HYPOL contains 50 per cent, of Cod Liver
Oil, a pure natural Oil endowed with nutritive and healing
qualities that no mysterious formula can equal.
With the added Hypophosphites, and pleasant flavouring, a most
enticing and strength-giving Emulsion is produced.
HYPOL is a famous remedy for Chest Complaints, and
a great restorative in all cases of sickness.
Those of delicate constitution should commence
to-day to take HYPOL.
SOLD EVERYWHERE. Made by FEE TOM. GRIM WADE & Co. Prop Ltd Melb.
N
\*.
X
/
3»*
y
/
Well Satisfied!
&he
new
PLUME
motor
SPIRIT
Easy svieef running, more miles.
Motorists who have tried
the new Plume Motor Spirit
speak in the highest terms of
praise of its easy starting quali-
ties, splendid pulling power,
mileage, and sweet running
under all road conditions.
They are well satisfied.
Because of its correctgroup-
ing of boiling points the new
Plume Motor Spirit is highly
volatile, every drop being in-
pLUMf
spip^
stantly and
completely
vaporised
ensuring a
perfect ex-
plosive mixture. This elimin-
ates any possibility of liquid
petrol workingpast the Piston
Rings and so breaking down
and ruining the lubricating
qualities of the oil used.
Test Plume in your car
to-day. When ordering do not
say—“ Give me a fill up of
Petrol” but ask for Plume
Motor Spirit.
For highestpossible Engine
efficiency use the correct
grade of Gargoyle Mobiloils
for your Car, as specified by
Vacuum Oil Company’s
Chart of Recommendations.
V
>
! VACUUM OIL COMPANY PP L T ?
0. 14. A.
ALDBRDICE
Brassfoimdry, WARRNAMBOOL.
Prompt Delivery
Plumbers’
Requisites
Windmill
Pumps
'Medium Bibs, Stops, etc., £in., fin., lin.
Standard Bibs, Stops, etc., Jin., fin., lin.
Hose Cocks, Ferrule Cocks, Straight
- Ferrules, etc.
Tank Cocks, fin., lin.
Well Pumps, Bore Pumps, Artesian
Cylinders, Check Valves, Ball Valves.
[2
Passed out in Ballarat, Lemard Steele,
one of the five oldest medical practitioners
in Australia. A son of the Samuel Steele
who conducted the first warehouse business
in Ballarat, he lived in that city all his life,
except for an absence of a few years when
studying medicine at the ’Varsity.
Charles E. Adams, D.Sc., F.R.A.S., who is
going to Wallal (W.A.) to shoot the coming
eclipse with a 45ft. camera, is Maoriland’s
Government Astronomer and Acting Seismo-
logist. He is a son of C. W. Adams, who at
one time was Chief Surveyor and Commis-
sioner of Crown Lands. He has written
much on mathematical, astronomical and geo-
physical subjects, is a Martin Kellogg Fel-
low in Astronomy of Lick Observatory,
California University, and an Associate in
Astronomy of Yale University Observatory. .
His wife goes with him to lend a hand with
his snapshotter.
“Stellsby”: Melbourne Argus has been
telling how a despised messmate log, which
had been lying on the ground near Gem-
brook for 40 years or more, and had been
given up as hopeless by firewood cutters,
came under the notice of a cabinet-maker,
who has succeeded in producing therefrom a
panelled suite of furniture which is now the
pride and admiration of Prabran. It is
worth noting that messmate, mountain ash
and blackbutt have been used in place of
oak by cabinet-makers since the early days
of the war, when the imported wood became
unobtainable. Opinion is divided as to the
suitability of hardwood of any description
for furniture. Some cabinet-makers con-
sider it only fit for posts and rails. Anyhow,
there was a mill ni Wandin (Vic.) seasoning
hardwood for cabinet-making 30 years ago,
so the Melbourne cabinet-maker mentioned
isn’t exactly the pioneer of the industry.
Dr. Joseph Parker, recently dead at 85,
was born in Bathurst (N.S.W.) and served
an apprenticeship to his father, the pioneer
chemist in the town. He then joined the
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney, and was
appointed teller at the Careoar branch. Bush-
rangers Hall and Gilbert turned up one day
and presented what looked like a cheque to
Parker, who, a moment later, found himself
covered with their revolvers. He ducked
under the counter and fired the office revolver
in the air to create an alarm. Just then the
manager, McDonald, who had been out, re-
turned, and Hall and Gilbert, thinking him
a customer, invited him in. But McDonald
wheeled round and charged up the street,
yelling “bushrangers.” In view of this un-
toward publicity the two gents of the road
decamped. After that, Parker gave up bank-
ing, went overseas, studied medicine and took
his degrees in Edinboro’ and Glasgow 7, in
187(5.
The speculation of “Sol” :
It is an anxious time, and the need for economy is
clamant, in fact, if one may coin a word, howlant;
and the situation being what it is W. M. Hughes
decided, a week or so ago, to do something definite.
Through the vigorous action of his Government the
service of weather telegrams was stopped and then
started again. A hole was brilliantly dug and then
capably refilled. It was discovered that the Weather
Bureau, which collects weather news and issues
storm warnings, was costing £BO,OOO a year—rather
more than our Trade Commissioner’s office at New
York. Of course, this wasn’t a matter of real golden
money leaving the country, as in the case of the
Yankee device for blewing the taxpayer’s money. It
was a mere internal circulation of paper notes and
book entries. But many nasty things had been said
about the need for economy, and perhaps it was
decided to give a critical public some of it where it
would make the latter sit up and take notice. So
the weather prophet received short notice to reduce
his outgoings from £BO,OOO to £52,000, and he did
the only thing he could. For once, and only once,
in a few days of bitter storm when weather news was
in great demand, the fact that Hughes was econo-
mising stood out like a pawnbroker’s nose.
In private life I am an honorary Theosophist—
that is to say, I am not paid for being a Theosophist.
In like manner a man may be an honorary or drink-
ing Rechabite—in fact, I am that also. I believe
in the re-incarnation of souls, though I admit it can
only be proved in the very rare eases where two
bodies, successively inhabited by one soul, gain a
place in history, as in the celebrated instance of
Darius 1., of Persia, who lived again as Henry IV.
of France. 1 go further, and hold that characters
out of books come to life in the flesh, if their creator
had so much soul that he spared some for the children
of his brain. In which connection I sometimes wonder
if W. M. Hughes is Puck, out of Shakspeare, or
Daniel Quilp, out of Dickens—not Daniel in mur-
derous mood, of oourse, but Daniel in his lighter
moments, when he developed a vein of sardonic
humor and made merry with Sampson Brass for lack
of a Weather Bureau to practise on.
“Skyrider”: Touring companies aren’t
what they userl to be. i miss the paper snow
and the sand? d tempests. The crackling tin
thunder whiPh delighted my ears is heard
no more—not in the country, at all events.
1 remembe r a drammer at Goulburn
(N.S.W.) 'in which a wind-storm was to
thrill the natives. Charlie Holloway was
in the cast, but as he was off-stage when the
tempest w/as raging, be undertook the manip-
ulation of the wind-box, a kerosene-case
half-full 'of rusty nails, odd bicycle parts and
similar t ruck, which, when agitated, gave a
most satisfactory imitation of a howling
westerly. The contrivance worked excel-
lently /luring rehearsals, but on the night of
the qfpening performance Charlie found,
almost at the last moment, that the box was
empt» . “Put as many nails as you can in
the V ox, Bill,” he said to the stage carpenter,
a lqfcal recruit, and hurried off to the dress-
ingf l’oom. The storm scene arrived, and the
heuo, lost with the heroine iu a trackless
fovest, gave the cue, "Hark, how the wind
hqwls.” Charlie shook the box, but there
vras no response. “Hark, how the wind
If owls,” yelled the hero, but the dead calm
y.vas unbroken, and the audience had to take
the howling for granted. Meanwhile, Hol-
loway was having it out with Bill. “Why
the blazes didn’t you put some nails in that
box?” he asked. “I did,” responded Wil-
liam indignantly. “I put dam’ near two
pounds in it. It won’t come open unless you
use an axe. How many do you want to keep
the in boards together?”
“tDe Oriel”: The yard of the hotel in Stan-
ley (Vic.) mystifies the drunks. The flag-
stones are all heavily engraved with Chinese
ch. iracters. There is a tradition that they
re’ present headstones of a neighboring Chinese
ee metery commandeered by some enterpris-
er { Bung in the remote past;


I.., I .
i • '•: i’ j' • 1
> i . i *. i • 1 1 •
i• ■ 1 • > • 1
. • I
I'l-'l I 'll
ew
a
o
r?/ ; '. 7
■ ■! i .77
*> ji;: ;!••■■}, :!•:
ILU?!;!’. :;:!i
I * \ ' ' \ ’ N \ l I ' I '< t
\ • ■
in
iT“| ( |'!i i • I
v, .> v »'
»\ \ , ’ 1
! -bn Wi/.'fo
> 1 1r'■ I]•':
I n • (. M i,! i, • i. i 1 ,11! i
U
'la.
S\\>
ww
V\\\\V\\V
"‘i
V'\\
Ww
AVXYAYVW
»\\\Wv
//
\\
«l\
\\Vv:
\\u<'
////.
\'N
//>'
•'•it
W\
m
v\\
: >i
»<>
H
\m
'A'»\ \\
''MHUii/'l
ii'i r,>
The Tractor that knows no Rival”
mm
W\W
h 'I I, hi 11'!
AV\
u'AWV.mU'
Ea'
Pfi/Wd'
lnW::L' !
Less than a year ago a new outlook, brimful of possibilii&s, dawned for the
Australian Farmer—in the form of the CASE Kerosene Farm and General
Purpose Tractor.
From time to time tractors possessing varying merits have been placed
before the primary producer, but the advent of the CASE has supplied
the Australian Farmer with an ideal machine combining, amongst others,
these essential features:
I
The CASE burns Kerosene economically without over-heating.
The CASE has all cut steel spur gears and the simplest style of transmission.
The CASE has all vital working parts enclosed in dust-proof oil-tight housings.
The CASE is equally efficient for belt work.
I
Tractors are a necessity to economic farm production. To the Farmer who :
recognises that his very existence in these days of competition depends upon
the employment of the most modern implements obtainable, we say (before;
experimenting with other makes) get acquainted with the CASE. A knowledge i
of the CASE possibilities usually leads to purchase. Incidentally, here starts i
our greatest advertisement, and a new era of prosperity for the farmer [
purchasers.
After all it is the actual working
results that appeal most strongly
to the discriminating Australian.
For this reason we reprint here
an extract from a letter typical
of many received from satisfied
farmer-users of the CASE.
' ,A\\V\
v, ■
.'•A
in in
Kill
111
k
..." v\
V-\ x ,>\\
wm
»
m
<\
rtf
S/ZSZii
yt:i
hi ....
• A v •V'-'V
w
'. t
k-'k
i mr m
'-•'Os
k
I!' ""“HI
i 11 . 11... 11 '
hi" 'it,""'/
m
m
"//
//
%?z
Vv
>5
%
X
V
V//,
mm
“V
>»r
v*
f*.
%
&
V;
%
VSJ
>X v *
%
v
rv
N»>c
vv
v%
%
S-
:m:
v
V *4
*
A&
/
/
\\\\V ,\\\V.\\A \\\
CASE POWER MACHINERY
Is Obtainable all over Australia
Commonwealth Agricultural
Service Engineers Limited"
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
I Head Office: Adelaide
IBranch : Kadina
NEW SOUTH WALES
- Branch:
17 Martin Place, Sydney
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Branch:
7 and 8 Bank of N.S.W.
Chambers, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth
Selling Agent of W.A.
Westralian Farmers
Ltd.
QUEENSLAND
Branch:
289-291 Queen Street, ,
Brisbane
VICTORIA-TASMANIA
Branches now being
f ormed.
‘armers
interested
in cheaper
production
find the
CASE cata-
logue most
helpful-
there’s a
copy for
you—-sign
and send
the corner
slip to-day!
Commonwealth Agricultural s e^v i ce &^meers
Sole Australian Aj^efits
Head Office 53 -57 Mofjihett St, Adelaide, South Aus.
branches in all STATES


Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL MOTEL.- Right on the
HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from No.
4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Road from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunc-hes and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
4 % Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OOl, 3002, 3599.
The Streptococcus
Brevis which causes
Sore Throat.
The Bacillus Influ-
enza which causes
Influenza.
Actual photo-micrographs taken in the Laboratory.
These are the cause of
SORE THROATS
Disease spreading germs swarm
in the air in countless millions,
always seeking to attack through
the mouth and throat.
EVANS 9
fiastiUes
are the sure protection. They
resist the germs of Influenza,
Pneumonia, Diphtheria, Fever,
etc., the first symptom of which
is a sore throat.
Be wise in time and buy a box to-day
At the first sign of a sore throat
take Evans ’ Pastilles.
Of all Chemists.
itfade by Evans Sons Lescher & Webb Ltd,. London.
CASH’S
WOVEN
NAMES
Are the Best
to Mark Linen
No trcuble as with Marking
Ink. It’s the perfect w; » to
mark any article or Garm- it
Any name woven into ah' “
Cambric Tape in Fast Col
A few Stitches and they 're on
The Prices are Moderate:
12dz 7/6, 6dz 5/-, 3dz3/6
Sold by All Best Drapers
J. & J. CASH
Ptv.
Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street. Richmond,
Melbourne
Write for Style Book.
*'S.
oc
M
e?
Ideal for
School
Outfits
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
THE PERFECT MILK
lIFEGUARD
Condensed MILK
Judge by the Milk in the Tin
Your Grocer Stocks It!
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY
(Opp.
Station)'
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC. %/.. New
Book of Puzzles, 1 /.. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/-. Magic Made Easy, 1/.. Tricks with
Coins, 1/-,
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
HOW TO LEARN A'ENTRILOQUISM, 1/-.
Write for list of our Ventriloquial Heads, from
12/6 to £5. Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE
PAINTS, WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
' o *b
j-2.’
BOOK OP SIMPLE
CARD TRICKS That
Anyone Can Do With
Ordinary Cards, With-
out Sleights 1/6
* FUNNIEST FOUR
FARC ES, in one
book 2 /-
Contents —Ici on Parle
Franeais, April Fools,
Who is Who? Who’s
to Win Him ? PLAY
Catalogue Free.
CATALOGUES FREE.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage 1/6
-S:
&
:
Wy//.
"/A
'"'/////S'""'
<£h©
S ©S£D
ONOTO INK—
Best for all Pens
ie
F
Put O.K. into your Smoke
Why take risks when choosing your pipe? You can
ensure absolute satisfaction if you buy a GBD.
Now, during these Spring days, pack your favorite
tobacco into a GBD and KNOW what real smoke comfort
is.
Made from genuine French Briarwood, thoroughly
matured and shaped by experts.
A GBD will live up to promise and surpass it in
performance.
Many popular shapes—from 8/(5. On Sale everywhere.
Trade enquiries invited to Box 765 0.P.0., SYDNEY.
Lawson (Vic.) is now the senior State
Premier, having held office longer than any
of the other five. Lee (Tas. i was the
doyen till he threw fm the sponge the other
day under pressure from the Cocky party,
and agreed to play second fiddle to Hayes.
Died last week at Medlow (N.S.W.), in
his 80th year, Lieut. Wade Browne, a Crimea
and Mutiny veteran, who came from Wilt-
shire in the first ’sixties in the s.s. London.
(Next voyage she foundered in the Bay of
Biscay with great loss of life.) He was a
pioneer in the improvement of cattle-breeding
in Australia and sugar-planting in Queens-
land. He held Bolingbroke station, 70 miles
from Mackay (Q.), for some time, but sold it
at a good figure and went to England. Re-
turning to Mackay some years later he went
in for sugar-cane growing until his wife’s
health failed; then he settled at Medlow.
“Kirk”: “Skyrid'er” (B. 20/7./’22) is talk-
ing through his hat when he says that, given
10 acres of land in the Moss Vale or Goul
burn districts, he could raise enough walnuts
in_ five years to supply a zoo. He couldn’t
raise enough in that time to keep a solitary-
parrot alive for a week. One of the problems
of Tasmanian repatriation concerns a soldier
settled on 10 acres planted with walnuts.
This year he harvested about a pound. It
takes the discouraging period of 20 years
for walnut trees to come into full bearing.
There is a fair number grown in the Speck,
but word comes from Cadbury’s, at Clare-
mont, that the quality of the nuts is very
inferior, and the firm state they will have to
import. The reason given is that practi-
cally all the trees are seedlings. The Gov-
ernment fruit expert has taken the matter
up, and soon trees from Californian stock,
which give first-class nuts, will be available.
“P.T.0.”: Joe Lyons, leader of the
Speck’s Labor party, who, though nearing
the forties, intends to qualify as a lawyer,
should make a good advocate, although it
looks as though he aims rather at supplant-
ing A. G. Ogilvie, Tasmanian Labor’s only
lawyer at present, as first favorite for an
Attorney-Generalship of the future. There
should now be no recurrence of that incident
of John Earle’s regime, 1914-16, when Labor
had no lawyer in Parliament, and layman
John himself took the position after an argu-
ment with Governor Macartney as to his
eligibility, which the Home authorities
refereed in Earle’s favor. Curiously enough
Elliott Lewis’s recent retirement removed
the last lawyer from the other side of the
Assembly, although the Upper House is
inflicted with four, the only brilliant mem-
ber of the quartette being Hon. Minister Tas.
Shields.
“T. 0.1.” : The death of Dr. Joseph Parker,
the other day, recalls the first big gold find
at Louisa Creek (N.S.W.) on a station be-
longing to Dr. Kerr, on July 16, 1851.
Josiah Parker was a chemist and drug-
gist in King-street, Sydney, west of
Pitt-street, in 1830 (if not before),
and in 1837 he went to Bathurst to estab-
lish that city’s first pharmacy. His eldest
son, the doctor, was born there shortly after
his arrival. One day Dr. Kerr drove into
Bathurst and announced that he had a
hundredweight of pure gold in his gig. The
news soon created a crowd, and the lumps
of metal (three) were handed round for in-
spection ; Josiah P'arker, with one under each
arm, rushed across to his shop to weigh
them. The actual weight was 1061 b. of solid
gold. The house next Parker’s afterwards
became a pubhery under the name, “The
First Nugget Inn.” A member of the firm
of Thacker, Daniel and Co. went up to
Bathurst from Sydney to buy the gold, and
the lot was sold for £3 7s. 6d. an ounce.
Commissioner Hardy, on behalf of the Gov-
ernment, claimed the metal, and held it for
a time; but eventually Thacker’s people got
it back and sent it to the British Mint.
When news of the find reached England,
W. H. Suttor, sen., a brother-in-law of Dr.
Kerr, received an offer of £lO,OOO for his
name and a piece of land, to be used in float-
ing a company in London. Suttor’s reply
was to the effect that the gentleman making-
th offer was a blankety blank scoundrel.
Sydney Arthur Josephson, who recently
went out in England, was a son of the late
Judge Josephson and was born at Enmore
(N.S.W.), in the house of his grandfather,
Jacob Josephson, the founder of a wealthy
family, who was established in George-street,
Sydney, as a goldsmith, etc., in Governor
Macquarie’s time. About 1831 Jacob built
the Governor Bourke Inn, on the Penrith
bank of the Nepean, a house still standing
but delicensed. Sydney Arthur was the
senior member interested in the Josephson
estate, and was for 40 years with the firm
of Waugh and Josephson. He was 63 when
the end came, and a little daughter, a brother
and several sisters survive him.
“T. 0.1.” ransacks a musty nest: —
I can add a few more names to the list of lawyers
who sheltered in the ancient buildings recently
acquired by the Fullers in Sydney. In the mid-’seven-
ties, in the western house of the two, fronting King-
street, there were Teale and Curtiss, Jack Want, George
Knox (brother of the C.J. and sometimes Acting
Judge, who died in the Red Sea), W. P. Faithfull
(who had no need of briefs) and .James Coutts (a
literary man who died early). F. M. Parley
struggled in this haunt in the mid-’sixties.
On the corner were “Cupid” Smith, solicitor, who
served articles with Bill Roberts, the “Old Bailey”
lawyer of Sydney (both were Parliamentarians), Dr.
Donovan and W. C. Windeyer; while at the same
time were distributed in the Elizabeth-street houses,
in addition to those mentioned in my previous par,
Butler, Foster, George Milner Stephen (a brother of
S’Alfred, one time Chief See. and Acting Governor
of S. Aus„ and noted as a “faith-healer” in his latter
days), Tom O’Mara (brilliant, died young), C. B.
Stephen (son of S’Alfred), P. J. Healey (second only
to Dailey at the Criminal Bar), R. D. Pring
(who died this week), Jack Teece (brother of
Dick), Grantley Fitzhardinge, C. J. Manning, J. L.
Watkins (engaged mainly as a Parliamentary
draughtsman), Murray, Docker, Heydon, Salomons
and Clark Irving. Eleven Judges came out of that
lot. In one house, too, was old Bill Hellyer, a*
solicitor, a good rifle-shot, and father of Tom, who
represented West Macquarie in the 11th Parliament.
“T.P.”: When editor Long, of the Vic-
torian school-papers, announced in a recent
issue that Bullarto, near Davlesford. is “the
highest railway station in Victoria” (2452
feet), he struck trouble. The entire popu-
lation of Shelley, which would more than
fill a railway compartment, rose in its wrath
and protested at being robbed of its due.
ResuR —*”1 announcement to each Victorian
school kiddie: “Shelley, on the Tallangatta-
Ctidgewa railway line, is 2562 feet above the
sea level.” Top. that is. by 110 feet.


What Users Say
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
The consistent efficacy of Dr. Morse s Indian Root Pills is the real reason for the continued
and ever-increasing demand for this remedy. Letters from all parts in praise of these pills are
continually reaching the proprietors. Space will not permit reproducing anything like the
number received, but the few from different parts of Australia here printed go to show the
widespread popularity of this remedy. For every letter published there are thousands of people
who will speak in similar terms.
GASSED SOLDIER.
Mr. John Duncan. 132 Vale Hoad,
Lithgow, N.N.W., writes:—
“I consider it my duty to certify to
the advantage I have received by the use
of Or. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, both in
Australia and on active service in Egypt
and France. I always carried them with
me. I was gassed on the other side, and
was suffering when I came out of the
hospital with bad head, chest and
stomach, and after taking a couple of
bottles I can honestly say I found great
benefit by them. I still take them, and
l hardly feel any effect of the gas.
-Nothing the doctors gave me did me any
good. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have
always been a family remedy in our
house for many years. This testimonial
may be used for publication; also I will
give a personal interview if required.”
GOOD HEALTH ENSURED.
Mrs. W. Hawthorne, Fletcher Street,
Byron Bay, N.S.W., writes:—
“In my time I have been a great suf-
ferer from bilious attacks, and I used
to suffer so dreadfully with headache that
at times I could hardly see out of my
eyes, the eye strain eventually becoming
so serious that I was forced to wear
glasses. Four years ago a course of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills completely
cured me of biliousness and the chronic
headaches, and also so wonderfully relieved
the eye strain that in a short time I was
able to do without the glasses, and I have
never had to use them since. I always
keep a bottle of the pills by me, and find
them a sure guarantee of good health.”
CATARRH.
Mr. G. Newell, Wellington, N.S.W.,
writes:—
“I desire to certify that I have found
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills of great
benefit to me when suffering from catarrh,
also they have thoroughly cured me from
kidney complaint, and I have also found
them a great relief from indigestion. I
can honestly state I have been a great suf-
ferer for over 16 years, and have found
nothing I have tried more beneficial than
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.”
SICK AND DEPRESSED.
Mrs. J, Miles, Bunda street, East
Bundaberg, Queensland, writes:—
“For years I suffered with biliousness,
and used to wake up of a morning feel-
ing sick and squeamish and heavy and
depressed. I also suffered much with
headache, and had little relish for food.
On the recommendation erf my mother-
in-law, I gave Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills a trial, and this good advice I re-
ceived will always be gratefully remem-
bered, as this remedy not only gave me
great relief, but also soon effected a
complete cure, and I have now been
quite free from biliousness for over four
years.”
ACUTE INDIGESTION.
Mr. M. Risby, Wentworth Street, Glen
Inries, N.8.W., writes:—
“For over two years I suffered acutely
with indigestion, pain and discomfort be-
ing experienced in the stomach and intes-
tines alike ; but frequently so pronounced
and distressful was the pain felt in the
region of the appendix as to induce the
fear of the approach of appendicitis. A
timely course of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills was, however, soon able to dispel this
fear, as the first few doses produced most
decided relief, and the continuous improve-
ment 1 experienced encouraged the hope of
ultimate recovery, which happily took place
as the result of six months’ steady treat-
ment, and for over six years, there has
been no return of my old complaint.”
BETTER HEALTH.
Mrs. E. Fordham, Hull Street, Bogga-
bri. N.S.W., writes: —
“As my own personal health has under-
gone such a decided change for the better
during the six years that I have been
using Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and
as this remedy has given such distinctly
satisfactory results in the treatment of
all digestive ailments as promptly as
they occur, I confidently believe this
valuable medicine will prove an equally*
efficacious household remedy in other
homes, if given a fair trial.”
PURIFY THE BLOOD.
Mrs. Grace Archbold, 31 Barker Street,
Lewisham, writes: —
“1 have used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills for many years, and have depended
on this remedy entirely for the preserva-
tion of my health. I have found the
pills a most reliable remedy for all diges-
tive ailments, and can especially recom-
mend their use to those who are run
down in health, as they cleanse and
tone up the whole system, and purify
the blood and help to build up the
health.”
WHEN RUN DOWN.
Mrs. Minnie Lowry, Dee Street, Mt.
Morgan, Queensland, writes:—
“All my life I have been liable to
bilious attacks, which frequently have
laid me up for days at a time,” and I
have also suffered much from headache
and constipation; but ever since I first
used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills I
am thankful to be able to say that I
have found this valuable remedy an un-
failing specific for the relief of these
ailments; and whenever I have used the
pills regularly I can positively state that
digestive ailments have been conspicuous
by their absence, I consider Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills an ideal remedy for
the home, well able to regulate and guard
the family health, and equally helpful
to build it up when run down.”
DIGESTIVE AILMENTS.
Mrs. W. Christensen, ioo Albion Street,
Annandale, N.S.W., writes:—
“I have used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root.
Pills for over 12 years, and have found
them a most reliable remedy for all
digestive ailments, and equally effectual
lor their prevention if taken in time. 1
have placed my sole dependence on this
remedy for the safeguarding of my health,
and it has been my constant experience
that the moro regularlv I have used
the pills the more consistent has been
the health I have enjoyed.”
WEEK-END DOSE.
Mrs. C. Tall, 154 Albion Street, Annan-
dale, N.S.W., writes:—
“I have used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills all my life, and was brought up
to use them by my mother. For many
years I have regularly taken a week-
end dose of the pills, and it is mainly to
this regular habit that X attribute'the
consistent _ good health I have enjoyed
during this long experience, and I can
truly state during this time that I have
scarcely ever had a day’s sickness. I also
find the pills equally beneficial for the
children, who also take them regularly
and are all healthy and strong.”
DIZZINESS.
Mrs. M. H. Langdon, 38 Carrington
Street, South Kalgoorlie, W.A., writes:—
“Being a user of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, it Is quite a pleasure to refer
to their efficiency as a genuine medicine
’ for obviating biliousness. About two
years ago I experienced at short inter-
vals severe attacks of biliousness and
dizziness, and tried numerous medicines,
but obtained no good results, and went
about my work with the awful dread of
the next attack. I was in this state
when I received one of your pamphlets,
and decided after'reading' its contents to
give them a trial. Since I bought the
first bottle I have not had any of my
old experiences with biliousness,' and can
safely say these invaluable pills cured
me. I recommend these pills to sufferers
such as I was, and ask others to give
these pills a trial and learn of their un-
surpassed value. I have resided here the
past 10 years, and am a mother of five
children.”
CONSTANTLY ILL.
Mrs. J. T. Wells, Acacia Street, Kil-
larney, Queensland, writes:—
“It is a pleasure to recommend a
remedy that was the means of raising
one out of a state of almost constant
sickness and sufferirg into a state of
consistent good health, and this is just
what Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills did
for me. After about three months’ treat-
ment they completely cured me of chronic
biliousness and sick headache, and their
regular use has kept me in health during
the past 12 years.”
A HAPPY RESULT.
Mrs. L. Ogilvie, Wantley Street, War-
wick, Queensland, writes •—.
“Before I used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills I suffered much from biliousness,
headache, giddiness, and with specks float-
ing in front of the eyes, and from general
weakness and depression. Several bottles
of your pills worked a wonderful cure,
and 1 have had the happy experience ever
since of knowing what it is to be reallv
well, thanks to your a 1 vays-helpful
remedy, which for over two years has
been my only medicine.’’
RHEUMATISM.
Miss Amy Davidson, Mrs. Davidson’s
Boarding House, Hawthorne Street, Roma,
Queensland, writes:—.
“For two years I suffered the agonies
of chronic rheumatism, and was during
the greater part of this time practically
a helpless invalid; frequently bed-ridden,
quite unable to walk, and had to be
carried about. About 12 months ago I
commenced using Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, and this remedy soon made a great
improvement in my health. Within three
months I had the full use of my limbs
and was almost free from pain, ' and by
the end of six months l was fully
restored to health, and as well as I aril
now and quite free from rheumatism.
My father was also cured of chronic rheu-
matism by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, whilst residing at Miles some years
ago,”
THEY STAND ALONE.
Mr. Sam Phillips, Allard Street, Traral-
gon, Vic., writes:—.
“Since I was operated on for gall-
stones, also having the gall bladder taken
away eight years ago, I have taken two
of your pills every night. I would
not be without them if they cost ss.
a bottle. I always say they stand out. on
their own to any of my friends.”
OTHERS OUTCLASSED.
Mrs. Thackrah, Fitzgerald Street, Nor-
thern, W.A., writes:—
“From my own personal experience of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills as a general
medicine I have found them out-class all
other medicines. Prior to taking your
pills I was a martyr to severe attacks of
biliousness and splitting headaches, which
would render me incapable of perform-
ing my household duties. A friend
recommended your splendid pills to me,
and on her advice I purchased a bottle.
After taking a couple of doses I found to
my astonishment that they not only dis-
pelled this trouble, but gave me an appe-
tite of which I had not known for years.
I ask those so affected as I was to give
this matchless medicine a trial, as I feel
sure these genuine pills will rid them
of their trouble. I am a mother of five
children and an old resident of this town,
having lived here 20 years. You mav
use this testimony for publicity pur-
poses.”
R
Morses
m
m
m
I
m
V//////A
'ssysss/s/y.
V.
m
V/OZZ77>
V/'\
FOR THE
liver
i
V
y/yyyyyyyyyyyyyyy
yyyyy
are a purely vegetable preparation. They are not advertised as a cure-all, but as a corrective
for every-day ills. They purify the blood, cleanse the stomach, put life into the liver, stimulate
the kidneys to perform their proper function, and will prevent many of the ailments so common
“.taken occasionally to keep the system in proper working order. In thousands of homes Dr.
Morse s Indian Root Pills are the sole Family Remedy for all general complaints.


A. Saunders’ Safety Razor Combina-
tion, in Leatherette Case, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Juvenile Knife, Fork and Spoon Set*
pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Set, containing i doz. Rust-
less Table Knives, Xylonite Handles, \ doz. Table
Forks, pure Silver-plated, £4/10/-
Dessert size, £4.
Selected Cased Goods.
Mill!!
4
HMMM
iS-
iß'-ifiS"!" :: jfl :
& 1
EBit“iiLS4si<«iaH-Si l ii js#* iStf 1 - jj
A. Saunders’ 3-Piece Carving Set, finest-quality Sheffield Steel, selected Xylonite
Handles, Silver-plated Mounts, 607-
Other designs, 35/-, 45/-, 50/»
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Canteen, containing 1 doz. each Table and
Dessert Knives, o-piece Carving Set, finest Sheffield Steel, Xylonite
Handles, 1 doz. each Tea, Dessert and Table Spoons, 1 doz. each
Dessert and Table Forks, and 1 pair of Knife Rests, in Oak Case,
£35.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller,Bos-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opp. Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Muffineer Set, in
Silk-lined Case, 60/-
.w
A. Saunders Butter Knives, pure Silver-platel,
richly engraved, 20 /-
A. Saunders’ Cake Forks and Server, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, in Silk-lined Case, 35/-
Match-lighting Gas
for Country Homes
IT is a soft, white light—like sunlight—that
penetrates to the farthest corner of the room
or store, a joyous light by which a woman may
sew or match the most subtle colours with entire success ; by
which a man may read his paper with ease and the children do
their home-work without ever knowing what eye-strain means.
Everyone in the country knows the hungry craving for better
light. Everyone is weary of evil smelling oil lamps with dirty
wicks and sooty glasses. A Wizard plant sweeps away all this
gloom and difficulty.
WIZARD LIGHT IS THE IDEAL LIGHT, Soft
yet Powerful, Clean Odourless and Safe.
WIZARD LIGHTING COMPANY
HEAD OFFICE: 55 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
187 a FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
CORINDA, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE
JAMES STREET, TOOWOOMBA
[Exclusive Territories available to Live Salesmen]
mm
mm
P^W/lfW
m
wm
X
1
i
«
2
i
't'X
WIZARD LIGHT
STANDS FOR
IDEAL LIGHTING
DURABILITY
ARTISTIC CONSTRUCTION
CONVENIENCE
SAFETY (passed by the Board of
Underwriters)
CLEANLINESS
SIMPLICITY (anyone can use it)
ECONOMY (a 106 candle power
light burns for %d per hour)


£5
FOR BEST BOY
FOR BEST GIRL
£.5
(Judgment of Management to be final.)
TEN SHILLINGS for every other photo
used.
12th Children’s Portraits’
Competition
For United Commercial Travellers’
Association’s National Annual,
“AUSTRALIA TO-DAY”
PHOTOS wanted from every State. Unused
photos returned, post paid. Babyhood up to 15
vears, taken during last twelve months. BACK OF
PHOTO must show NAME OF CHILD AND NAME
AND ADDRESS OF SENDER. Photos must reaeli
Editor Australia To-day, Box 496 G.P.O., Mel-
bourne, by September 30, 1922.
MONARCH
YOURS-
FOR A BETTER SMOKE!
Better, because every
Monarch cigar is hand-
made. Every leaf of the
filler used. in its manu-
facture is high-grade
Havana, blended to pro-
duce a satisfying mel-
lowness that you will
appreciate.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d.
each.
Jpecial sampling
cabinet containing
10 cigars, 6/-; 25,
12/6; 50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Post free to any address.
Craig&Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil Cigar Factory.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusement*
SV I) N E Y’S CIII E E THEATRE S.
■f. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: A NIGHT OUT.
CRITERION: THE BAT.
ROYAL: THE PEEP SHOW.
PALACE: KING JOHN.
J w o
FAMOUS STARS
IN JOINT CONCERT.
PAUL ALTHOUSE,
Leading Tenor Metropolitan Opera Co.
ARTHUR MIDDLETON,
America’s Greatest Baritone.
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL—AUGUST 25.
ADELAIDE TOWN HALL—SEPTEMBER 9.
Amusements.
THE ALLAN WILKIE BHAKBPKAIIEAN
1 I’HO DIET lONS
PALACE THEATKE, SYDNEY.
SEASON COMMENCING AUGUST 26.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street. Sydney.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MKLIJOLKNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
THE NAUGHTY PRINCESS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PARLOR, BEDROOM AND BATH.
INK'S THEATKE. M K I. D O li It N E.
EMF.LIE POUNI and FRANK HARVEY in
MY LADY’S DRESS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
New South Wales Chamber of Manufactures
All-Australian Manufactures Exhibition
To be held at the Royal Agricultural Society’s Show Ground
from October 7 to November 18, 1922.
POSTER DESIGN COMPETITION
Artists are reminded that
a Prize of £2l
is offered for the most Appropriate and Attractive Design for Posters, etc., for
Advertising the Exhibition.
COMPETITION CLOSES ON 24th AUGUST.
MUSICAL COMPETITIONS.
Prizes amounting to £4OO will be Awarded in the various Competitions.
A Special Prize of £lOO
will be given tctevards the expenses of the future Musical Training at the
Conservatorium of the Most Talented Student in the Vocal Competitions.
A similar Prize {donated by Beale and Co., Ltd.) will be awarded to the
Most Talented Student in the Pianoforte Competitions.
Full Particulars and Entry Forms can be obtained from—
The Secretary.
New South Wales Chamber of Manufactures,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St.,
SYDNEY.
The Plum R aiov
HAS THE REAL SHAVING EDGE.
Made from the finest Sheffield Razor Steel,
tempered and ground to perfection—set and
finished ready for use by our own experienced/
tradesmen.
Price
12/6.
PAIR IN PRESENTATION OC /
CASE, POST FREE, '
Blades |in. and Jin. set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free.
Amusement*.
PALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN k J. FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
TWENTIETH WEEK ON SATURDAY.
THE GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best.”
ADA REEVE.
“The Favorite of all the World.”
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGIITON-
Matinees Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o'clock.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Direction .. E. J. GRAVESTOCK.
D E - APPEARANCE OF
ROSIN A BUCKMAN,
THE WORLD-FAMOUS PRIMA DONNA ;
also
MAURICE D’OISLY,
THE POPULAR ENGLISH TENOR.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE,
AUGUST 24, 20, 29, 31 ; SEPTEMBER 2.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
SEPTEMBER 16, 19, 21, 23, 20.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
AI no SYDNEY.
I)E LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
ELAINE HAMMERSTEIN in
EVIDENCE.
WILLIAM DESMOND in
THE PRINCE AND BETTY.
Prices as usual.
|y|A.IES'IIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
WHERE IS MY WANDERING BOY
TO-NIGHT?
AN EQUITY PRODUCTION.
Matinees dailv at 2.30, Nights at 8.
g KITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| EL It A THEATER. .MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN. VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SKLZNICK.
Missing Friends.
STEPHEN WIXTED. formerly of Mef-
-4' leay River, or anybody knowing his
whereabouts, kindly communicate with
W. ri. SHERIDAN, Solicitor, Kempsey.
INEXHAUSTIEi.II PLASH LAMP
THE HANDILITE is a new Magneto Flash
Lamp, made in England by the GENERAL
ELECTRIC COMPANY, LIMITED.
It is particularly suitable as a source of
illumination in any emergency, as it requires
no refills, is always in working order, and
GENERATES ITS OWN LIGHT by a simple
operation of the lever.
Indispensable to the DOCTOR, MOTORIST,
SQUATTER and BOUNDARY-RIDER.
The First Cost is the Only Expense.
Price 35/-
Sold by all reliable Electricians and Store-
keepers, or direct from
Available
in any
Emergency.
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY LIMITED,
NEW SOUTH WALES, except Newcastle District—MAGNET HOUSE, 154-56 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE—London Bank Chambers, Scott and Bolton Streets.
VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA—MAGNET HOUSE, 590 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MAGNET HOUSE, 203-07 Murray Street, PERTH.
QUEENSLAND—Norman Bell and Co., Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
NEW ZEALAND—MAGNET HOUSE, 8 Willeston Street, WELLINGTON; 238 Cumberland Street, DUNEDIN.
TASMANlA—Medhurst Electrical Works and Telephone Co., Ltd., HOBART; J. A. Semple & Co., LAUNCESTON.
FlJl—Morris Hedstrom Ltd., SUVA and LEVUKA.


■t f?- ft-
SHAVING CREAM
i
'mm
m
’*w
LEVERX-
j tsc
m
THE LAST WORD
IN SHAVING LUXURY
FOR MEN
AN ACCEPTABLE
GIFT
There’s a Surprise
Waiting for You!
You wouldn’t believe that
you could shave, quickly,
safely, without irritation.
Try a
URL
URHAM
Safe Razor
All Good Dealers Sel! the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to vour dealer to-day—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it «o
vour hand —-see how it balances—then take it
home and shave with it. It's a revelation!
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ..“A Night Out”
Criterion ‘The Bat”
Royal “The Peep Show"
Palace “King John”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Nanghty Princess”
Royal' . .i “Parlor, Bedroom and Bath”
Palace “Spangles”
Ivikg’s “My Lady’s Dress”
Majestic .Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s - Moving Pictures
Town Hall Rosina Buckman Concerts
Still .searching for a part of Australia
that isn’t too surfeited Avith Irish politics
to be in the mood to enjoy Irish plays, the
Abbey Theatre Company is due next at
Newcastle (N.S.W.). ’Tis not in actors to
command success, as measured by the box-
office, but the Abbey Players deserve a lot
more than they have had. Their final Syd-
ney programme consists of “Tactics,” an un-
remarkable curtain-raiser, and “Mixed Mar-
riage,” a strong play with a Belfast setting,
by St. John Ervine. In “Tactics” Arthur
Sinclair takes the part of a shirtless vaga-
bond who rants in polysyllables, and rather
oA-erdoes it. In “Mixed Marriage” he im-
personates a bitter old Ulsterman who
“hates Catholics,” and his work is masterly.
Concerned in a strike which, , thanks to
his oratory and the influence of his
stern character, is on the point
of being successful, John Rainey learns
that his son Hugh is to marry Nora
Murray, an R.C. Nora stoutly refuses to
give up either her SAveetheart or her religion.
In a frenzy of bigotry, the old man aban-
dons the cause of the strikers, Avho separate
into factions on familiar Belfast lines; and
catastrophe comes when Nora, rushing into
the street to rescue a friend, is shot by the
soldiery. The sympathies of the audience
are curiously divided between the girl and
Rainey. Fanatic though he is, he has char-
acter, and Sinclair brings it out with fine
fidelity to the author’s design. Not for
many a day has Sydney witnessed better
acting. Maire O’Neill is. uncommonly
effective as the noble old lady who is
Rainey’s wife. But May Fitzgerald, the
Nora of the production, is only compelling
in patches. The other roles are well taken
by Arthur Shields, Harry Hutchinson and
Sydney Morgan.
* * * *
At Sydney Town Hall Arthur Middleton
and Paul Althouse have been excelling their
nwn advance press notices. Australians had
heard them on records, and had heard of
them through the musical pages of overseas
papers; but, at their first concert on Tues-
day night they produced a reserve set of
thrills that electrified even the most expec-
tant. The tenor’s high-water mark Avas
reached in the aria Celeste Aida, in which
his clear, high notes rang out like a clarion;
'while the cheerful-looking Arthur Middle-
ton made fils hit as Figaro in “Largo A 1
Factotum” from “II Barbiere di Seviglia.”
The baritone, whose notes are as round and
full as his waist-line, is a great interpreter
of Handel; and Paul has a particularly
delicate and silvery Avay of delivering French
songs. “Tom of Devon,” “Danny Deever”
and “Ma Lil’ Banjo” have become fixtures
in Middleton’s encore numbers; and Alt-
house Avon’t be allowed, henceforth, to go
home by any Sydney audience unless he offers
a song that deals with kisses and apples
and lilac.- But it is when the two sing duets,
such as they open and close each programme
with, that the audiences get an idea of how
"MY LADY'S DRESS," AT MEL-
BOURNE KING’S.
SIR CHARLES (to the mannequin): "Do you
know you’re a devilish fine creatchah."
magnificent they must be with an operatic
background to lend illusion. The big bari-
tone seems to love every word of old-time
songs, such as “Drink to Me Only with
Thine Eyes” and “My Lovely Celia.” At
any rate, he doesn’t allow his listeners to
miss a vowel or consonant sound of the
charming lines. With the artistic pair tra-
vels a magician of the keyboard, Rudolph
Gruen. This Heaven-born accompanist us£s
no music, and his eye never wanders from
the face of the singer. On Saturday the
tenor sang one of Rudolph’s compositions
called “Phantom Ships,” and, judging by
its reception, the striking song is going to
be in demand in this country. The trio left
yesterday for Melbourne.
No one who saw Wee Georgie Wood, as
the leader of the “Black Hand Gang,” at
Sydney Tivoli last Saturday, regarded him
as a boy-impersonator. To them he Avas
purely and simply a hoy. His swashbuck-
ling bravado at the beginning, and his whim-
pering after ma had belted him, were pure
realism —the realism of genius. The sketch
he appeared in was a simple piece of domes-
ticity, and Dolly Harmer shone, inciden-
tally, as his expansive parent. Ray McLean
and Gladys Hermes were brilliant in a series
of unusual dances; Madeline Rossiter is on
the bill again; and Fred Bluett’s comedy
songs are as popular as ever.
* * * *
“The Bat” has hut eight more nights in
which to provoke horror and hilarity at
Sydney Criterion. “Ambrose Applejohn’s
Adventure” will take its place to-morrow
night week. Lawrence Grossmith, one of
the great English family of comedians, is
the new star, and his play is certified to
be a winner.
* * t- * '
“A Night Out” is drawing to a reluctant
close at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. The faint
streaks of dawn are hardly visible yet, but
in the distance the trained ear can catch
the howls of the
homing reveller and
the rattle of the
early milk-o’s germ-
laden ironmongery.
“T he Peep
Show” maintains
its dazzling hold
on the. patrons of
Sydney * Royal. It
has been compared
to a collection of
gems on velvet,
and again to a
parterre of multi-
colored fi owe t si’
Another hap p y
simile is that of
a n ore h a r d—-a
peach - orchard —in
full hearing.
Sydney Royal
Art Society’s forty-
third annual exhi-
bition, at the Edu-
cation Galleries, is
an improvement on
the last.. It at
least reveals an
attempt o n th e
part of some of
the exhibitors to
free their work of
the dull flatness
which pervaded the
1921 show. Lloyd
Rees, one of the
youn g e r me n,
stands out, inas-
much as he ex-
ploits the full
Mary Curtain, as
Lady Jemima Bollar-
daile in "The Choice,"
at Melbourne Play-
house.
range of his palette in an attempt to paint
light. Plis two small landscapes, “King’s
School” and “The Avenue” for this reason
form the most important exhibits. Inciden-
tally, they constitute an object-lesson
which, if taken seriously by the big per-
centage of realists exhibiting, should make
this Society the active influence for good in
Australian art which at present it is not.
His work is a trifle crude and short of color,
and his painting, especially in the treat-
ment of tree-shadows, is over-conscious, but
better his blunt statement of truth than any
number of honeyed words. Most of the
remaining best work falls short through a
tendency to see and paint each part of a
picture separately, instead of in relation to
the whole. Only by the latter method is a
logical statement of light, which is the secret
of harmony, made possible.
The State Orchestra, under Skalski, was
billeted at Sydney Town Hall last Satur-
day night. The programme was an all-
Bussian one. the event of the evening being
Tschaikowsky’s fourth “Symphony in F
Minor.” Henri Penn, a sincere and versa-
tile musician, made the best of Arensky’s
F Minor Concerto —-that charming master-
piece in plagiarism. Also, there were
Liadow’s “Baba Yaga,” Tschaikowsky’s
“Capriccio Italien” and Bdlakireff’s overture
on Russian themes.
Lounge-lizards, barnstormers, thugs and
suchlike interesting and elevating folk figure
in “Find the Woman,” at Sydney Lyceum.
The extra here is “Where is My Wandering
Boy To-night?”—a film screened, appa-
rently, in the interests of the Back-to-Muin
Movement. Katherine MacDonald is giving
support to “The Woman’s Side,” at the
Rialto. Justine Johnstone, New York’s
most beautiful woman, is “The Plaything of
Broadway,” at the same address. Dickens’s
"Old Curiosity Shop” is at the Crystal
Palace. “Reported Missing” has signed up
with Hoyt’s, with Owen Moore in the lead.
"Saturday Night” is attracting attention at
the Globe, and Fairbanks shows no sign
of weariness as D’Artagnan at the Strand.
:1s
Last week’s venture by the Melbourne
Mermaid Play Society was something like
a triumph for Mrs. Apperly, the producer.
“The Choice,” written by Alfred Sutro after
the war ended, is a play with a bite—the
story of a high-principled politician who
makes money with socialistic ends in view,
recognises his responsibilities to the dis-
banded soldiers of the Empire, and somehow
falls in love with a young female of title,
who is flirtatious, but otherwise irreproach-
able. She also has a mind of her
own though she doesn’t quite know it.
Despising high-born meanness in her family
circle she misjudges the strength of her
admiration for the fine, strong suitor who
has never yet kissed her. Finally, she dis-
covers that undemonstrative affection, is un-
suited to her temperament. A protege of
her admirable John has lost a leg in the
war whilst retaining all the ardent feelings
she had aroused in him whilst she was gay
and frivolous, and this boy talks appeal-
ingly of the difference between a warm
kisser and a cool non-kisser. She de-
cides that henceforth she would prefer to
love John as an uncle merely. Whereupon
John accepts the inevitable, and sighs over
the loss of his sweet illusion. Helton
Daniell, an expert among amateurs, looks
the part of the Right Hon. John, and plays
it very effectively in the first two acts. The
next two call for more emotional acting
than he is equal to, and the want of light
and shade in his diction becomes more
marked. Miss Irene Webb is quite charm-
ing and fairly forcible as Lady Clarissa.
Miss Mary Curtain, as an elderly fowl of
noble lineage, shows talent for character
playing. Robert Geddes does very well, and
half : a-dozen other people give no cause for
protest against their reappearance when
Sutro’s clever comedy is revived at Mel-
bourne Playhouse. The show deserves all
the revival it can get.
* s[: $
There is little slackening of prosperity
at “MelhburHe Palace and the King’s. Ada
Reeve will have turned her 150th, present-
ment of “Spangles” ere this records
the achievement, and at the King’s another
extra matinee of “Mr Lady’s Dress” is to
happen on Saturday., '
Melbourne Town Hall will have notable
vocal music in the air every night this week
and next. On nights when Rosina Buck-
man is not singing the tenor and baritone
of Paul Althouse and Arthur Middleton will
invite the plaudits of the appreciative.
* * * w
“Parlor, Bedroom and Batli” is, presum-
ably, not long for this world at Melbourne
Royal. The local daily press, which occa-
sionally takes a mallet to break an egg, lias
denounced P. 8.8. as a thing too silly for
words, rather than too improper for men-
tion, and when critics rob a Bedroom and
Bath entertainment of its reputation for
naughtiness they leave it poor indeed. As
a matter of fact, the dialogue, apart from
the hugging action and the harmless unneces-
sary bath, makes a determined effort to
exceed the speed-limit. It would often be
of a bad character if it could, but being
merely piffle it fails to scandalise. It has ,no
character to talk about. Also, the action
suffers from weak performance in places
where all self-respecting moralists would
have loved to blush. However, this thin
farcical comedy is free from at least two
defects common to stories of impossible life
in a stage world. It might have been soft
or slow.
$ =:= * *
At Melbourne Majesty’s the expensive fit-
tings of “The Naughty Princess” will be
withdrawn from notice after Friday of next
week. Or some of them, perhaps, will serve
in a revival of “The Merry Widow,” pro-
mised for September 2nd. On the same day
Melba matinees in grand opera in aid of the
Soldiers’ Memorial.
* * * *
Amidst a number of more or less satis-
factory turns (including Malcolm Scott)
the most loudly-billed turn at Melbourne
Tivoli is Lee White, whose accompanist also
figures in the attraction. Lee White is a
large lady with a moderate-sized voice, who
sings songs at the piano, or away from the
instrument, in a manner that fascinates the
multitude. An outstanding feature of her
art is a wide, embracing smile, which heroine-
worshipping flappers find irresistible.
** * *
“L.’s” note
Max Meldrum’s big one-man show, which opens in
Melbourne on the 29th inst., will probably be looked
back on, in days to come, as one of Australia’s out-
standing artistic events. With about a quarter of
the world s artists deliberately adopting primitive
\ision, and the balance either qualifying realism
with individuality; or endeavoring to give the wall-
paper-designing trade the status of “High Art”;
or keeping alive the alliance of art and literature bv
telling stories, or expounding philosophies involving
a blatant sacrifice of visual truths —as a result of such
insanities and vulgarities Art is in a more chaotic-
state to-day than it has ever been. Its future lies
with the now rare painters, like Meldrum, who base
their work on the principles which made the Masters,
“TACTICS ,” AT
SYDNEY PAT.ACE.
J. A. O’Rourke as James Cullinan, Arthur
Sinclair as "A Rolling Stone."
and essay to carry on the task the great ones left
unfinished I—that 1 —that of achieving a perfect illusion of
reality on a flat surface, it is holy work this —a
struggle to bring art back to its true mission of
teaching man how to see.
j;= * *
It is doubtful if Penleigli Boyd’s views of
Sydney Harbor at Melbourne Atheweum
will add greatly to his reputation. They
provide strong effects in light and shade, but
demonstrate a too-obvious facility. In
fact, the artist conscious of bis craftsman-
ship is revealed in all, with the result that
we get plenty of gesture but no striking
achievement. Consider, for instance, “Even-
ing Glow, Middle Harbor.” It is agreeable
enough in its painty style, but it is impos-
sible to concede that it is a convincing pic-
ture of evening light in that part of the
world. The same might be said of “Wat-
son’s Bay, Evening,” even though an early
moon is rising in the background as a sort
of confirmation of the time of day. Boyd’s
Blue Mountain scenery gives you the old
contrasts between high, sun-kissed crags and
deep, boundless valleys, and there is a new
canvas, “Riverside,” which proves that he is
still exploiting the electro-plated effect of
high light on water, with which he stunned
the populace in his Povtsea studies.
** * *
Hilda Rix-Nicholas’s exhibition at the Fine
Art Society, Melbourne, is a welcome blaze
of color these shivery times. Her souvenirs
of Morocco are especially comforting.
Bazaar peddlers, handsome sheiks, beaming
girls and babies are expertly set down in
their exuberant garments, each figure
achieving force and identity from the artist’s
vivacious draughtsmanship. Everywhere,
indeed, Miss Rix-Nicholas’s drawing is a
pleasure to the eye. It, shows up strongly
in her chalk studies of Australian soldiers
and the gay, sparkling women whose beauty
gleams under radiant hats. A striking per-
formance is “The Joy of Youth,” 1 a chal-
lenging profile of a laughing damsel crowned
by a flaring canary toque. Other successes
are “Sylvia in Blue” and “Priscilla Disdain-
ful.” In oils, with but few exceptions, this
artist accentuates the heaviness of the
medium. “The Pensive Maid,” a decorative
picture of a flapper in crinolines, hasn’t the
lightness of touch which is conspicuous in
the pastels.
# if: s}: sf:
Adelaide Royal is busy reviving old musi-
cal memories. “The Chocolate Soldier” goes
back half a generation, and “Dorothy” a
whole one. Workman is having an enjoy-
able fortnight in a curiously varied lot of
comic characters. The main feature of “The
Right to Live,” at the Prince of Wales, is
a war-time air-raid on London. D’Al-
varez is at the Town Hall; and, to drift from
the sublime to the other thing, Eflie Fellows
is a delightful boy-impersonator at the
King’s, where are also Whitman’s fiddle and
Bob White’s whistling—and a lot of humor-
ous turns. In pictures, Wondergraph scores
with “One Glorious Day,” some sound acting
and a lot of trick photography. Jackie
Ooogan is at the York ; and West’s houses an
Old Dog who got Gay before it, was too late.
Madame X and Mary Pickford are taking a
second innings at the Pav., and the “Pimper-
nel” is filling the Grand.


mmm* i
m
Ok
X
mm
\
'*'#* *,-. 1
* ,A,
mm.
m 'toS&mm
* fc:.r"
■
I
4.' :# /c
- /
¥, ! ■ ■
m % i
r
I ggf* < -
; sjeofer ?c '•
IV.
i/
) W *$ HV
i u
-m A
U' 'm
*• m
v \
r /
lb V
%L.y
■ .
mm
3 ?< , i € *
V*i
/ *-\:y
&
>.; :i . jft
M
• v ik^> v %
OSNI
H** < tm m
?s«
V,\
S&.flß
lit;
fsa
-' / 1
’ V
»<*?*
W/'S* %■ t jjli ‘‘i%.‘ ■
m-k
li*
Iff 4 . “u
m
I Ml
vmmnsat* n
■/irmfMtm *■
A§
/' fjFiTf/W ,
V?/ ‘I
warn ■
m
MM
- •
?I
1
m
M
8 I
TSil
» »
? .-,
m
■
’A; #i^4 l •#■
-
i| n _-4|OF.,
-"
■- - ■■ ■■■■ ■■
m
r
Wfi
i
r
«S


Mi
i
m
&
sc
I
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
N SW MONT dePjeTt
74 Ca.stlereci<Jh. St. Sydney. 74
Phono City 9325.
Capital & 300.000.
Joseph . W. Hill
Genera! Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mcnt de
I’iete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
19 King: St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
•10 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“J.F.H.” (London) : Asche talks of pro-
ducing “Chu Chin Chow” and “Cairo” in
Australia precisely as they were presented
here. If so. he will have to charter a P.
and O. or Orient liner to carry the people,
animals, scenery and props. Oscar also
hopes to do a few Shakspearean revivals in
Sydney and Melbourne; which is better.
Oriental pantomimes may captivate the
crowds, but they are very poor stuff from
the dramatic point of view.
“T. 0.1.”: If you ask Bland Holt how he
got that first name of his he will probably
tell you that he was called after a comedian,
Harcourt Bland, who was popular in the
’fifties and contemporary with Clarence
Holt. I saw Harcourt Bland at the old
Queen’s, Dublin, in the early ’fifties, as Sir
Charles Coldstream in “Used Up.” About
the same time the elder Dillon was starring
as Belphegor, with J. L. Toole as Fanfarro-
nade.
G. B. Fowler, as he recently presented
Ibsen's John Gabriel Borkman.
“The Deacon”: “Archivist” (B. 17/8/’22)
is right when he claims John F. Sheridan
as an Irish-American. Also, Sheridan was
his correct name. Johnnie broke into the
show business as a youngster with a part-
ner named Reilly. The pair did a Dutch
patter and clog-dancing turn, calling them-
selves the Schneidemann brothers. But Reilly
married, and the other Schneidemann re-
verted to his own name.
“S.T.S.”: What is this (B. 10/8/’22)
about William Desmond being an object of
derision on the stage in Melbourne when he
“appeared for a few nights” in "The Silver
King”? No cause is suggested, so the infer-
ence must be intended that he was a
thoroughly incapable actor ; which is absurd.
“O. Biin” calls Desmond “the bounding
Yank.” Don’t know if he was a bounder,
never having seen him off the stage; but
the rest is unaccountable concerning a man
who stays firmly in the memory as having
put up, in “Paid in Full,” some of the best
acting (of the manly and natural school)
that we have seen.
“Billy T.”: I once saw a play suspended
and a company dissipated in the shortest
time on record. It was “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,” and the full force of the fine aggre-
gation was on for the death scene of Little
Eva. Suddenly one old actor fetched
a yell, and fell clean through a rotted back-
cloth. Topsy followed through the same
aperture. Little Eva, the dying child,
bounded from her bed and fled. The
others followed suit, taking various direc-
tions, and the stage was cleared in about
10 seconds. The audience sat in bewilder-
ment in the body of the barnyard theatre
till something unpleasant came sliding down
C, and hung three feet of his length into
the orchestra, causing the lady pianist to
throw a back handspring into the stalls. The
intruder was a huge black snake.
“M.r.A.” (London) : I heard Alfred
O’Shea, the Sydney tenor, at his final
Queen’s Hall con-
cert. The grea t
dailies proclaimed
him a marvel, and
one went so far as
to declare his vo ce
the finest Australia
has produced,
Melba’s excepted.
Only Ernest New-
man, of the Sun-
day Times, failed
to join in the
chorus of adula-
tion. To me
O’Shea has neither
the sweetness of
Walter Kirby nor
the robustness of
Hector Goldspink.
His upper register
is visibly strained,
and the night I
heard him his tone
was decidedly
husky. Moreover,
his facial contor-
tio n s are gr o-
tesque. The man-
agement was short-
sighted in select-
ing Daisy Ken-
nedy, the Adelaide
violinist, to appear
Fred Bluett, at Syd-
ney Tivoli, sinai[?]
“Off I went with the
body in the bag—
ta-ra-ra."
on the same *
programme. Her success overshadowed that
of the tenor.
“Floater”: Close-ups of domestic disturb-
ances in movie circles are again being fea-
tured in the cables. Blanche Sweet, who
married Marshall Neilan a few* weeks back,
has left his loving arms for a fresh address.
Gloria Swanson has also drifted *apart from
her husband, and Bill Hart has a vacancy
for a new partner, the old one having re-
signed. A while back Alma Rubens was
hitched up to Frauklyn Farnum. The next
day she ended his dream of bliss by hurry
ing home to mother. But Alma’s romance
was lengthy compared with that of Mae
Murray. This darrisel, whose record to date
is three husbands, bolted from her second at
the wedding breakfast, after vigorously
slapping his face and telling him to mend
his table manners.
“M.P.A.” (Londqin) : Vaudeville business
in Britain is in a deplorable condition.
That is the reason why Australia is getting
a rush of good acts. Variety managements
have given up signing new contracts, and
are proposing all kinds of schemes to dodge
many existing ones. Artists have been in-
vited to accept considerable reductions in
salaries, musicians are expected to drop
their wages a pound a week, and so the
haggling gbes on. As for the “legitimate,”
one of the oldest agents in London told me
that he had never experienced such a slump.
The impending fight in Australia between
the Firm and Ward will be a godsend to
out-of-work pros, on this side.
“Poltava”: Rachmaninoff, who is to
visit Australia next year, is the bored hero
of a story concerning his famous Prelude.
He was feeding with an American million-
aire, and was inveigled after the meal into
the music-room, where he was asked to
enchant the company with the much-fin-
gered composition. Rachmaninoff crept up
dejectedly to the piano, but, noticing a
gramophone and a case of records, turned
aside to inspect them. After a short search
he took out a disc and set the gramophone
churning out the music everyone was wait-
ing to hear. The host took the snub with
good part, but asked the composer how he
knew the record was available. Rachmani-
noff sighed. “Isn’t the damn thing in every
home?” he said.
“T.P.”: But Rignold made at least one
attempt to be a "celebrated comedian” (B.
10/8/’22), and in an Irish role at that. The
play was “The Shamrock and the Rose,” and
the part Dandy Dunraven, a rollicking lad
with a shillelah. J. W. Sweeney had done
well in it for weeks, but near the end of the
run he fell ill or fell out, and George took
the vacant place. He failed magnificently.
“Lights” got Hades that night.
“Micawber”: "Snowy” Baker, writing to
me from Los Angeles, tells of the release
of the_ Australian-made film, “Silks and
Saddle,” under the title of “Queen of the
Turf.” Jack Wells, an American, produced
the thing here. Now Robertson Cole is ex-
ploiting it is a Southern American film.
“Snowy” asked the exhibitor why he did not
use the novelty angle of “Made in Australia.”
The gum-chewing showman “guessed that the
American public didn’t want to see no
foreign films!”
“Azrim”: It happened at Picola (Vic.),
where the Natbaiia Amateur Dramatic Co.
was staging “The Merchant of Venice.” All
went well until the court scene, when the
kerosene cases supporting Portia, K.C., and
her junior, collapsed, precipitating Portia
into the arms of Shylock, who fell with his
burden of beauty and took the count. The
curtain was hastily lowered, and the man-
ager investigated the damage to props and
the co. Presently he dashed to the foot-
lights. “The play will be continued imme-
diately, ladies and gentlemen,” he said.
“Portia is not badly hurt. She has only
strained her quality of mercy.”
"T.W.”: I have no statistics behind me,
but surely “Orb” is wrong (B. 10/8/’22)
when he speaks of Allan Wilkie’s 500th con-
secutive performance of Shakspeare as a
world’s record. For a score of years Frank
Benson’s company has interpreted the Bard
in London and the provinces, and although I
ran up against the concern in many towns
I never found it giving the glad hand to any
other dramatist.
“Second Murderer”: Allan Wilkie was
unable to secure dates for his projected
Newcastle (N.S.W.) Shakspeare season.
The theatre being unavailable, he arranged
for a vast tent to accommodate the antici-
pated rush of miners anxious to sample the
bard.. But that project has been abandoned.
Wilkie’s North Queensland tour was highly
successful. Defying all the prophets who
assured him that the miners wouldn’t appre-
ciate* his shows, he went to Mount Morgan,
and played there to record houses. “King
John” is the latest addition to his already
lengthy repertory, and he opens at Sydney
Palace next Saturday in that play. It is a
long time since Sydney saw “The Life and
Death of King John.”
“0.K.” : If Hugh Ward stages “The Melt-*
ing Pot” in Australia it will count as an
apology for a hundred and one American plays
that have had no sort of message to deliver,
nor any sort of intellectual appeal to make.
Not that it is an American’s play. Israel
Za.ngwili wrote it. But the work which
President Roosevelt boosted from a private
box on the night of its first production (at
Washington) deals with the fusion of races
in America, and has been hailed everywhere
in Britain as splendly prophetic for the
English-speaking world. Just now Court-
neidge is touring it with Henry Baynton at
the head of the co., and his young daughter
Rosaline (not Rosalind) Courtpeidge, in a
leading-girl part. By the w*ay. the damsel
has already done Rosalind in “As You Like
It,” amongst other Shakspearean things,
since she returned to London with “The
Man from Toronto” Co., less than two years
'ago.
“Snell”: It was in that stirring native
drama, “The Butcher’s Wooing,” and Croft’s
company of players, from all the leading
Geelong theatres, was appearing to great ad-
vantage, as the more ingenious critics put it.
They had come to that most stirring scene
where Gullet, the Butcher, is hotting the irons,
at a fire of intensest heat, with the fiendish
intention of forcing the hero to reveal the
secret of the whereabouts of the papers. The
hero is tied superficially to a tree, R., while
the heroine is tied to a stone, L., that she
may appreciate his tortures. The fire is
leaping and glowing, R.C., Gullet has seized
one fatal iron, red as a live coal, and is
besetting the noble youth, who will die first,
by Heaven! and the bucolic audience is
wrought to intense excitement, when a voice
in the orchestra stalls cries in horror: “Hey,
Mister, yer kid’ll be burned to death!” The
villain turned instinctively, and found that
his only child, his little Eileen, who should
have been sleeping, wrapped in a rug in a
basket behind the scenes, had crawled on,
and was sitting with her rag doll, bang in
the middle of the flaming fire.
“Fax” : There are several factors in the
remarkable success of Ada Reeve’s show,
“Spangles,”- at a Melbourne theatre, which
were practically unknown to most people
until they went there to see Ada. In the
first place, there has been a rigid adherence
to the rule of always selling some hundreds
of seats at popular prices, instead of in-
variably squeezing every available “bob”
from the crowd. In the making of the enter-
tainment the energy of the manageress has
never flagged. With no striking novelty to
advertise it, “Spangles” had to be worked
up to the mark, and kept there. The spirit
of Ada Reeve, who is an enthusiastic grafter,
animates the whole concern. Each Spangle
in turn has been getting a little quicker as
time went on, and the smart chorus-girls
continue to polish their work as though
they loved it. And the artistic beauty of
the dressing, mounting a.nd lighting—excep-
tional in a vaudeville show —has been grow-
“MIXED MAR-
RIAGE” AT
SYDNEY
PALACE.
Sydney Morgan as Michael O'Hara.
ing on Melbourne’s sense of color. The
effect, at first seeing, doesn’t shriek for
admiring notice, like a common or gaudy
color-scheme display, but it gives a lasting
impression of “good stuff.” Ada was worth
a lot to the A.I.F. At present she is keen
on raising money for the Limbless Soldiers,
and the benefit she has in view for the cause
will surely be a bonza.
“Thorold Waters”: There was never any
doubt in the minds of other English tenors
of his generation that Sims Reeves (B.
10/8/’22) soared above them all. George
Perrin, who made enough at the sqigirw srame
to retire 25 years before I met him; Edward
Lloyd, who followed iteeves m popular iavor:
and fine old William Parkinson, who settled
in Melbourne after running his own grand
opera co. in Britain, ail told me in terms
of untenorlike adulation what a wonder the
leonine balladist used to be. Parkinson, who
had frequently deputised for Reeves, and even
wore locks in close imitation of the great
one’s in order not to disappoint the public in
that respect, had no use for Lloyd. “Edward
Lloyd is nothing more than a counter-tenor,’!
he declared. “Young Ben Davis is the
man.” Young Ben had already touched the
half-century. But Parkinson always ad-
mitted that Reeves was an uncertain quantity
in the higher tenor altitudes. Lie had not a
good note above A natural. This kept him
from competing with Mario and other big-
guns of Italian opera, but of course he was
all right in the balladistic works like “Bo-
hemian Girl” or the “Beggars’ Opera.” Also
in oratorio, where he was supreme monarch.
“Stellsby”: The U.K. prohibited film,
“How Kitchener Was Betrayed,” has been
given the right of entry into the U.S.A.
Kitchener’s biographer, Sir George Arthur,
remarked, “There is a substratum of truth
in it.” Certainly something more than
coincidence seems to lie in the fact that the
Northern Scottish port from which the
Hampshire went to destruction was, at an
earlier period, the scene of the mysterious
blowing-up of the battleship Natal. Tim
“Silent Service” remained dumb in both
instances.
“Quince”: All my life I have heard com-
plaints about the '“stage Irishman,” the
whirling, Handy-Andyish person with the
shillelagh, and the inexhaustible stock of
smart whimsicalities, being a libel and a
travesty and an offence to genuine Hiber-
nians. Maybe he is. But is the Irishman
of the modern Irish dramatist any less
stagey and artificial? If you took an Aus-
tralian or English boy at tihe most impres-
sionable and receptive age—a boy who knew
nothing of how the Irish peasant lives on
his native moor—to see Synge’s “In the
Shadow of the Glen” or William Boyle’s
“The Building Fund,” as presented by the
Abbey Players, would he take away a less
distorted picture of Ireland than his father
received at the same age from the carica-
ture on Lever lines? I doubt it. The only
difference is that it would sink deeper and
stick longer because of its apparent deadly
seriousness. But is the dejected-looking
tramp who ambles into a Wicklow cabin,
borrows a needle and thread to repair his
tattered pants, accepts a pipe and a tot
by the chimney-corner, makes poetical obser-
vations in a husky voice, and finally escorts
the “lady of the house,” repudiated by her
lawful lord and abandoned by her craven
sweetheart, out upon the wallaby track
any nearer to real life than, say, Micky
Free? Come off me leg!
NORMA'S FATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her name is Nonna. On the stage
She looks extremely tine,
But she has never been the rage.
She never gets a line
From callous critics, but she’s there
Because, as you may know,
She was the beauty of her year
And won a prize (I don’t know where)
In someone's beauty, show.
She being an acknowledged beaut.
’Twas necessary quite
For Norma, in a bathing suit,
To stand round in the light
Upon the stage. She had no gifts,
A mere good-looker she.
Now nightly on the boards she drifts,
A figure the producer shifts
Like bits of scenery.
She’s picked up here, and set down there,
And always she is dumb.
She shakes a banner in the air
Maybe, or to the drum
She marches in, or marches out,
Or perches, if preferred,
With ladies medium, slim or stout;
The good girl von have read about
Who’s seen, but never heard.
Oh, wearisome the dreary stress,
When planked against a wall,
In superfluity of dress,
Or scarcely dressed at all,
And merely used to deck a scene.
“Ah! Heaven, that I were
Back sewing with the old machine,”
She wails, “Alas! my face has been
My dire misfortune, sir.”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Af \\ ft--
, / ‘ 'fc ' 1
f“
1 VS
;<8
HH
.;
‘4x7:7s
Ml
!«
■ (
< -
ra&Mji
V !JteJ.
W /? bl
i
»UNQ**tt
&•:' /
**sl L< H !\
• ’JjK *:s.
■* <; f U
> X Ufc i r
>»VS
Pg r c,..<,^
Slip :
iiis ■
I
WSK.n i S
m
■ v i
fc/ # /mlt> ! -i » WVm
m
;
K \<ws* /Mg !. i y-MotS;
\fn Mi til
iL-k >■ -SM/j
s}h
.M'
hi,
M ! v*vri *
\\l
:y
t.IUM
WM*.
EM
\mi m
,i .r< >
Pf®Plll
'• -Ml tiftw.tttf few U^-
m i
Mk •.
fcfS
Tift i
v'JV
m ■}:
mx «
Btf*.::
s-\ \<
jßmm
i
SI
\ i i«:
iS3¥'i
&
■J !
L
u
|T 1 ir*'
'V W ■ ' yf* \ IWWi"
RC&W#sS»jiMf&i ' M 1 * ■>»■•* • ’ * r
r \
yfrtvM'&i- ' '“isifjl ’
ft
F) v
V.
*•«??
l\
)?IU
itfW
Mm
4'wKk/
tIM-f
MTkc ISealcTPlayer-Piano
ar an Jdeal aeacker:
u
N the early years of musical effort attainment
seems difficult and far away. Youth is ever im-
petuous —easily discouraged "Si jeunesse savait —
si viellesse pouvait” It is only with the latter years
comes the full realisation for the necessary study.
The Beale Player-Piano helps to sustain youthful interest. It may
be used to play the finest compositions in the musical world, with
perfect technique and soulful interpretation. Then, when closed, it
can be used for practising purposes.
You may possess a Beale Player-Piano for a small cash
deposit—the balance spread over one, two, three or even
four years. Silent pianos taken in part payment.
BEALE
AND
COMPANY
UR
Showrooms :
340 George Street
Sydney
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
Annandale
BRANCHES N.S.JV.: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all
Melbourne Suburbs. Tas.: Williams Bros., Hobart: Maples, Launceston. S.A. : John Evans
Ltd., Adelaide. IV.A.: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen St. (opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane, Toowoomba,
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay.
5_
a


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: ItURXS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraidton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
H
AWA
THt YtAR 'ROUND PLAYGROUND
II
in September
and October
has a delightful elimate for outdoor
sports and sightseeing. It is a land of
endless variety ; sea and beach, mountain
and forest, marvellous volcanic regions.
You find here tropic fruits, trees and
flowers at their best.
Golf, swimming,
surfing, motoring, ten-
nis and tramping may
be enjoyed every day
in the year.
Booklet from nearest
travel or ticket agency,
or write direct to
Department B,
HAWAII TOURIST
BUREAU,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.A.
CADET 297/230 Cal. RIFLES
Fitted with NEW B.S.A. BARRELS. We still
have a limited number of these noted Sporting
Rifles. Teeted, Sighted and GUARANTEED
ACCURATE UP TO 500 YARDS. Complete
with ROD AND SIGHT PRO-
TECTOR.
RIFLES, aT*/-. Cartridges 6/6
B.S.A. .22 CAL. BOLT ACTION RIFLE, 24in.
BARREL. ! Take-down. For accuracy and ease,
BROWNING AUTOMATIC RIFLE, .22
calibre. Fires 8 LONG RIFLE CARTRIDGES,
Same as ; 'above, to fire 11 hwn4'
FAMOUS .. BROWNING AUTOMATIC PISTOLS,
32 Cal. and 25 Cal. A home necessity.
ROSS IO io3 MAGAZINE RIFLE. The cheapest
.303 obtainable, £6/10/-
Gun ? rd Rifle Repairs done on the Premises.
Work Guaranteed.
Sports Centre,
31A Uttle Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Several horses with important Spring
engagements shaped encouragingly at Rosehill
(N.S.W.) on Saturday. One of them was the three-
year-old Mont Clair, who, going out at 6’s (a
liberal price considering his forward running a
week before), won a seven-furlong youngsters’ race
in most convincing fashion. True, he only carried
6st. 121 b., and the field was not first-class; but
it _ looked as if another stone or two would have
made no difference, so easily did he run to the
front when his small rider let him go. Mont Clair
is a handsome chestnut by Mountain King—Clnir,
and some of the stout
Instep blood flows in his
veins on the dam’s side.
He is distinctly a Derby
possibility. Another im-
pressive exhibition was
that of the five-vear-old
Teremarau (Charlemagne
ll.—Gaelic Lass) in the
second division of the six-
furlong Highweight Han-
dicap. Unlucky last year
(she would have won the
Villiers by lengths had
she got awav with the
field), and sometimes
badly placed, the mare is
now controlled by a shrewd
crowd who backed her
wholeheartedly from B’s
to 4’s, although it was her
first race for months.
Making most of the pace
with the good-looking
Woodvillo (solidly sup-
ported, though a bit on
the burly side), she shook
him off in the straight
and had enough left in
her to withstand a chal-
lenge from Wit, a four-
year-old Repartee gelding
who will furnish into a
very useful plater. It was
a gallant exhibition, and
the mare immediately
came into prominence for
the Epsom, in which she
ha.i 7si. 41b.
A. J. STAUGHTON.
the well-known Vic-
torian racing owner.
Another interesting race was the Carlingfo.rd
Mile. Larillo, who is not in the Epsom, won at
S’s, hut he just got there from the unfancied Wirra-
way, whose apprentice jockey was of little use to
him at the finish. Wirraway—unwisely, many think
—has been withdrawn from the Metrop., in which he
had Bst. 91b., and is being prepared for one of the
Cups. He has Bst. 111 b. at Caulfield, and Bst. 91b.
in the big two-miler. By the imported October
out of Clonsilla, he has matured into a very fine
horse. Paganini (Larino —Dame Quickly), who is
supposed to have a chance in the Caulfield Cup, was
a moderate third, but he appeared to get into diffi-
culties at the turn. The favorite, Sun Lady, and
Syce Knight (backed at 7’s) took no part in the
finish. There is an excuse for the Queensland-bred
chestnut, who got into a hopeless position early,
but Sun Lady had every opportunity to distinguish
herself. Seemingly, she can’t go a mile in decent
company.
The bulky appearance of Sister Olive and
Demetrius at Flemington on Saturday advertised
the fact that they have been wintering well. Statton,
with an easy weight up, won the 12-furlongs August
Handicap in commanding style, heavy going- suiting
him. My Play, o\yned by V.R.C. chairman Mac-
kinnon, had the chance of her life to bring off a
double. The mare won the second race (6 furlongs)
from a couple of other lightweights, and was heavily
backed to win the mile Welter, which closed the pro-
gramme. At half-a-mile she was ’ome and dry, in
the touts’ way of speaking, but the jockey let her
run wide in making the turn, and the rest of her
journey was a steady bearing off to the outer rails.
My Play finished with a rattling run under the judge’s
box. a head or a neck behind one of the straight-goers
on the opposite side of the course. Never was the loss
of easy money more sadly deplored by punters. Many
of them saved their stake on the “concession”
ticket, but the tote would have been kinder to them.
The Cypher’s defeat by Ileventree in the Three-Year-
Old Handicap may have meant that the “good thing”
from M.L. was handicapped by heavy going and a
slow get-away. Nevertheless, the gelding hardly
gave one the idea of a first-class Derby colt. The
Steeplechase was a pretty good thing for the books.
They offered 15 to 1 against Wooloo because his owner,
amateur Le Roux, was atop, and the public mostly
backed anything rather than the son of Pendil. But
the amateur rode well enough to land the long odds.
Sir Prim failed once more in this steeple, suggesting
that, like old Defence in the August Handicap, he
has lost his pace for ever.
* * * *
Morle.v’s Tote Bill, now before the Vic
Assembly,' is the ISth measure of the kind. £ £
Smith, 'in 1880, and Jack Murray, in 1892, man-
aged to pilot enabling legislation through the
Assembly, but Dr. Dobson, in the one instance, and
Winter Cooke in the otTier, couldn’t induce the Plush
House to say ditto. Most of the 18 bills were dis-
charged, withdrawn, or allowed to lapse, but four
were scotched on the second reading—in 1881, 1894,
1895 and 1904 respectively. Only 14 of the mem-
bers who voted or paired on the 1904 bill are now
in the Assembly. The voting then was 27 against
and 20 for. The betting now is six to four against.
* * * »
At Kalgoorlie a 4 to 1. shot, Sweet Doris,
had no difficulty in annexing the Hannans Handicap,
W.A.’s chief mile race, from the outsiders Attadale
and Mountain Heath. P. A. Connolly's mare, Jolly
Cosy, was favorite, but did not show up- Easing-
wold made a procession of the w.f.a. Spring Stakes,
for which his price was 4 to 1 on. He failed in
Melbourne last year, but there is nothing in the
West that can make him gallop. Having been got
ready for the August meeting on the goldfields he
is unlikely to come over for the Caulfield Cup, in
which he has Bst. 121 b.
After his win at Flemington on August
12, Yanda (Woorak—-Perdita) was sent to Adelaide
to win the Guineas. He gave bis supporters a good
run for their money, but failed by hrilf-a-hcad to
beat the Bright Steel-Pride of Murillo gelding,
Burnished, who paid £2l Bs. on the £1 tote. On
this form Yanda is no V.R.C. Derby horse. In the
G. N. Hurdle Pistolier, carrying 12st. 31b., empha-
sised the merit of Fiscom’s performance at Caul-
field by running a great second to St. Roseland,
whose burden was lOst. 71b., and who returned
his backers £9 12s. for every £1 speculated. The
old ’un came fast at the finish, and would have won
in a few more strides.
* * * *
S. A. Jockey Club, at its annual meeting,
re-elected to the committee, without opposition,
Barr Smith, Sam Jacobs and R. M. Hawker.
Adelaide Racing Club had an election, Loftus Moor-
house, owner of Fi scorn, opposing unsuccessfully
the retiring three, James Hall (chairman), Charles
Irwin and Mostyn Owen, the last-named having been
appointed by the committee to the interim vacancy
caused a few months ago by the death of John
Lewis. Port Adelaide Racing Club re-elected Dr.
Benson (chairman) and R. E. Howie. The meeting
talked with modest pride about its promised £2OOO
Christmas Cup, a new Sires’ Produce Stakes, to be
run for the first time in March, 1924, and a recent
day on which the tote handled a larger sum than
either of the senior clubs has ever seen.
* * * *
When O’Hara Wood lost to Manuel
Alonzo at Philadelphia, after winning the first two
sets handily, it looked as if Spain might meet the
U.S.A. for the Davis Cup, even though Patterson had
comfortably disposed of the other Castilian, de
Gomar. For Wood’s bad arm was troubling him
grievously, and every stroke gave him pain. A
breakdown in the doubles would have meant the loss
of the match and the right to meet America for the
coveted bauble. But there was no breakdown. Ris-
ing to the occasion, as he did against France, Wood
helped Patterson to a decisive victory in the doubles.
On the following day he overcame de Gomar in a
stirring five-sets encounter, and that eliminated
Spain. Patterson improved the shining hour by
vanquishing Alonzo; he took part in nine sets
against the Spaniards and won them all. The Aus-
tralians are now enjoying a rest before meeting
Tilden, Johnston and Richards, and it is hoped that
Anderson will be well enough to take his place in
the team. Win or lose against the Yanks—and the
odds are against them —they have shown fine skill
and grit in adverse circumstances.
“15-30”: Pat O’Hara Wood, often referred
to contemptuously in Australia “as only a doubles
player,” has stepped blithely into the vacancy cre-
ated by the sickness of Anderson in America and
proved a valuable singles emergency in a ticklish
situation. It takes some pluck and resource to face
a man like Gobert on one of Boston’s summer days,
yet the nuggety little Australian downed the giant
by three sets to one, actually wrenching the fourth
set out of Gobert’s hands when he had a lead of
4 —l. The cables let the Gaul down lightly by
stating that he was affected by the temperature, but
as Wood isn’t a salamander and would suffer equally
in a long-drawn-out duel, it is more reasonable to
suppose that the Australian won by superior play.
In the final duel against the Spaniards Wood beat
de Gomar magnificently. On his day there is no
more striking artist with the racquet" than O’Hara
Wood. Actually better equipped with strokes than
Patterson, he gives a delightful exhibition in the
ground work, his weakest feature being the service,
which is usually easily playable by a first-class man.
The Victorian was unlucky in his battle with
Alonzo. This brilliant young Spaniard is among
the world’s first flight, but Wood had the match
practically won in four sessions—in fact, Patterson
states by cable that his partner had finished Alonzo
■with a service ace—when a foot-fault was called
against him. The disconcerting effect of this at a
tense point in the game must have been calamitous,
especially as Wood has never been foot-faulted previ-
ously, as far as one’s knowledge goes. Considering
that the foot-fault is very difficult to detect, Woods’s
offence must have been comparatively glaring for the
line umpire to have spotted it. Anyhow, whatever the
size of the error, Alonzo can call himself lucky to
have won.
Policeman MATT KILLEEN , amateur
heavyweight champion of Victoria.
Fred Kohlman, Melbourne’s remarkable
long-distance ped., smashed the seven-mile record
at Burwood on Saturday. Starting off scratch he
ran into sixth place in 37min. 20 4-ssec., the next
best times being recorded by P. Fitch (handicap
lmin.) and G. A. Higgs (lmin. ssec.), who were
respectively third and second. The winner, H. P.
Graham, had 3min. start, and got home by 15yds.
The event is now called the “Frank Ferguson
Memorial Handicap” in respectful allusion to the
deceased handicapper of the Vic. Amateur A .A.
“Tren”: Kohlman was asked by his club, Haw-
thorn, to journey to Sydney and compete in the
N. S. Wales championships. He declined to do so
for the reason that he has no wish to invade other
athletes’ territory as a pothunter. This unselfishness
is the more commendable because Fred would only
have to reproduce his Victorian form to be the
best of good things.
* * * *
Barring accidents, Parcell, the Queensland
crack, will compete in the N.S.W. 10-mile cross-
country championship at Randwick on Saturday,
and St. Stephen’s will attempt to take the title
back to Victoria. It should be a great race. Some
of the Sydney runners had a pipe-opener on Satur-
• J - Pwinbonrne (Botany) putting up fastest
time (16min. 53see.) in a three-mile handicap, and
M. J. Mackenzie (South" Sydney) finishing second
in five miles on the road in 24min. 42sec
* * «• •
With five teams trying to squeeze into
four places the struggle in Vic. League football
is increasingly desperate, especially as the “hope-
less” teams have a knack of beating the “certain-
ties.” That happened on Saturday, when Mel-
bourne, having displaced Carlton, went to Geelong
anticipating a soft snap, and came a thud. They
had as much say in the argument as Sleepy Hollow,
but whereas the latter’s deadly forwards booted 11
goals 6 behinds the others got but 5 goals 16
behinds, which left them in default by 26 points.
Simultaneously Carlton regained their former posi-
tion —level with Melbourne —by downing South Mel-
bourne after a hard game that was anybody’s up to
the last quarter. Carlton notched 103 points to
South’s 75. Coilingwood, with four men injured and
two suspended through unrighteous behavior, found
St. Kilda a tough proposition and had to hustle to
amass the 57 points they gained while the Saints
were getting 46. Essendon kept their place by
outing Richmond, by 103 to 66. The “Tigers” have
lost their bite this season.
* * * •
There were two exciting inter-State
matches on Saturday. At Perth, Fitzroy, the lead-
ing Melbourne club, went under by 16 points (the
scores were 7 goals 8 behinds—s goals 4 behinds)
to a Westralian team ; and at Sydney Port Adelaide,
S.A. premiers, were narrowly beaten by N. S. Wales.
The Cornstalks scored 13 goals 11 behinds (89) to
12 goals 15 behinds (87). At “lemons” they led
by 11 goals 8 behinds to 7 goals 9 behinds,
but Port Adelaide played magnificently in the last
quarter. Allingham, of Ports, was the star player
on the ground. Not only was his marking excep-
tional. but he landed seven goals. S. Milton was
N. ’s champion.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: By an odd chance, Peters and
Richardson, captain and vice-captain of the South
Aus. XVIII in the recent match against Victoria,
have the same Christian name, and one liable to
get confused with the opposite side. Anyway, at
the game on the Adelaide oval, as I was yelling en-
coui-agement in a desperately (lose finish, two infuri-
ated females, with more enthusiasm than knowledge,
f r q ,-r f or barracking for the enemy. 1
explained hastily that I was sooling on Vie. Peters
and Vic. Richardson, not Victoria. Your female bar-
racker is ever the worst. Dropping into a club-
match, on the same ground, with a friend, I objected
to the lack of interest where you don’t care which
side wins. “I’m going to get plenty of excitement,”
he said; “I shall find out which crowd we’ve got
among, and then barrack for the other side.” He
did. Next thing I knew, one perfect lady was
saying to another: “Don’t argue with the brute; take
your hatpin to him.” I moved on.
* * * *
“Unley”: South Aus. has one inter-State
cricketer who risks his limbs at football every Satur-
day. He is Vic Richardson, who plays centre for
Sturt, and there is no finer centre man on the
continent. He is a smart baseballer, likewise. “Nip”
Pellew is also a great footballer, but he hasn’t played
since he went farming. S.A.’s most famous crieketer-
thafwondorftn 6 was » Geo rge Giffeo. In the ’eighties
tnat wonderiul all-rounder kicked a football 84 yards.
: Coburg (Vic.) has a Junior
hShJ 1S almost a family affair. Eight
and M lf°/- hers > u two Grafs, two Chippendales,
result > McMahons have played for it, and all are
nnSfi 4 P resent except three of the Huntingtons.
“ ve representatives of that sept have kicked 50
goals among them this season, and the Graf brother-
“ff “® r the 40 mark. There are 11 Huntingtons
, Some °f them have stripped for Mel-
to?teeray and Essendon (Assoc.). The whole
play cricket, and their father makes a “book” at
the races.
* * *
s.wdw' e >^ d ? ey , Ru sby League matches on
aturday, Vaisity showed that their recent successe-
1 y e ™ J!° . nukes by downing Western Suburbs, fresh
.r.v.T of the Premiers, by 23 (5 tries 4
r t 0 j tries). Uni. out-rucked the others in
tne forwards, and their rearguard was too speedy for
\\ est. Also Hec Courtenay kicked finely—he
hoisted all the goals. South Sydney gained their
sixth successive victory, scoring 14 (4 tries 1 goali
to Balmains 10 (2 tries 2 goals). ’Main, never-
theless, put up a great go. North Svdnev routed
ft- George by 35 (7 tries 7 goals) to 2 (1 goal),
Horder notching 26 points (4 tries 7 goals). Blink
horn was absent. Eastern Suburbs accounted for
Newtown by 14 (4 tries 1 goal) to 5 (1 try 1 goal)
Easts backs being too slippery. Still, had New-
town played the ball and not the man the result
might have been different. North and Glebe still
head the premiership table with 24 points, followed
by Eastern Suburbs, 22, and South, 21.
* * * *
i7/s^9o d 4 er t grf Jn” : “Pongo’s” reply fli.
in/o'(.no< to t *e unfair comments of “Lexite” (ii.
10/8/22) on the success of Sydney Uni. League
team understates the case. The ’Varsity young men
toured Maoriland in June and won the rubber against
the strong Auckland rep. side. On their return
they nearly defeated a very powerful Metropolitan
aJII, including many Kangaroos. Incidentally, they
overwhelmed Queensland Uni. (where only League
Rugby is played) by 29 to 4. Omitting the matches
played in first grade dipring the absence of the first
tnirteen, and two which occurred alter their return
when they were manifestly stale, the club’s record
is splendid. They have won eight games and lost
six, scoring 182 points against 152. They defeated
Auckland twice, Queensland Uni., North Sydney,
Eastern ahd Western Suburbs, Balmain and New-
town, and were not over-favored with luck. Only a
fool or a bad sport could suggest, that Sydney League
clubs play “dead.” The bitterness and keenness ol
the contests prove that 'they do not. The success
of the ’Varsity Leaguers tis particularly distasteful to
Rugby Unionists, because (the League men are all ama-
teurs, and were recently awarded Australian Blues
the highest honor in Australian ’Varsity sport. They
play the traditional Uni,, game—keen, fast, nippy
football-—and represent a. valuable citadel of ama-
teurism within the Rugby League.
*' * * #
The All Blacks ami Maoris who visited
N.S.W. this football season played a match at Well-
ington (M.L.) on Saturday, and the All Blacks
(who are ail whites) triumphed by 21 points to 14.
As in most of the games in which Maorilanders have
taken part in 1922. the /casualties were frequent and
free.
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman” : With all good wishes
to the venture, I can’t see the proposed English Soccer
tour in Australia as a financial success. The faithful
few can hardly make it play, and the outside public
is not likely to attend out of curiosity more than
once. Brought up on Rugby in a mainly Soccer
district, and having became acquainted with the
Australian game, I don’t blame the followers of the
latter when they find the others dull. Soccer has
been brought to such a line pitch in defence that
what baseballcrs profanely' say about cricket is here
strict fact: most of the tjme nothing happens. The
initiated can see the niceties of the repulsed attack,
and enjoy them, but the /casual spectator cannot; to
him, the lack of a result vis fatal to interest. In the
Australian game something is happening all the
time. There way be a sefore every 24 minutes. The
better the players the higher the scoring in this code,
no defence, however skiilcjd, being able to keep out
straight shooting.
* * * *
The Victorian basic bailers wound up a los-
ing tour by going to pieces in the third test against
N.S.W. Thqjy were routed by 6 runs to 2. The
Gumsuckers’ play was marten by mistakes in the
field, and tbeir pitching was 1 poor. That of Robison
(N.S.W.), <on the other hand, was excellent. He
always had the swatters guessing.
* f * * *
JamitQ’s busy left won him his fight
against Ldrry Jones, of America, at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night. During the first 10 rounds the
left was seldom out. of Jones’s face. The American
then started to block or evade the weapon, but he
only presented it from landing; many opportunities
for a cimnter were not availed of. Jones stood
up gamely against Jamito’s continuous assaults, but
he was - out-genera lied and out-fought. Jammy now
goes bjick to his i native jungle with an Australian
wife and infant; jalso a fair wad of Australian cur-
rency. He made,, a lot more, but the books got most
of it.
* * * *
Have Ring (lOst. 9flb.) wrested the
middleweight championship from Tommy Uren (list,
lib.), the title-fliolder, at Melbourne on Saturday
night.. The affair went 2*o rounds, but it wasn’t
inspirfiting. Neither is the* title, which reverted to
Uren 1 when Bursts, his conqueror, went abroad, any-
thing to get excited about, iseeing that Lewis, who
couldn’t whip Welterweights in the U.S.A., slugged
Burns out of the ring in 10 founds.
* * * *
An animated diiscussioin at Brisbane be-
between Mr. Henry Holmes, of N. S. Wales, and Mr.
William Hunefeld, who is ire. the running (with
about a hundred million others > for the presidency of
the United States, ended abruptly hi the twentieth
minute, owing to the contact of a padded fist with
a chin. Mr. Hunefeld owned tfcte fist and Mr. Holmes
the chin.
* * * *
“Kewpie”: Pat Gleeson X9st. 111 b.) beat
Paul Demsky (9st. 61b.) on points in a 15-round
contest in Wellington, M.L. Demsky had the
Irish lad settled in the fourth round, but indulgently
let him recover. After that Paul ’never looked like a
winner. At the end of things both were as fresh
as if they had been giving an exhibition spar. Pos-
sibly that was what they did.
TENNIS-TRIONICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"When Borotra missed the ball his gestures ex-
pressed chagrin, grief, despair. When Cochet double-
faulted his mobile features registered fury, and his
whirling racket indicated the unavailing madness of
remorse.” —Johnny Sandes in Sydney Telegraph.
No need to do your boodle in -where garish footlights
flare,
To witness grief, remorse, chagrin, blind fury, blank
despair.
To show what range the human face in passion can
portray,
The amphitheatre’s the place, the play’s—the tennis
play.
The woes that rend, the shocks that stun, let mouth-
ing mummers act;
I’d rather be at Wimbledon—when France is being
whacked.
No stageland ever saw a cove torn with such wild
regret
(Too late!) as when Borotra drove a ball into
the net;
And when a footling lob he sought to kill and
mulled it —well
His chiv displayed the look distraught of some lost
soul in Hell.
With poignant torture everyone perceived his frame
was racked,
That fateful day at AVimbledon, when France was
getting whacked.
Aou’ve seen an Irving or, a Tree convulsed upon the
stage,
His teeth hard-clenched in agony, his mouth a-twist
with rage.
You thought their fury awesome then ? They were
but maddened mice
To lions compared with Cochet when he’s double-
faulted twice.
Such blazing wrath was ne’er in one tremendous
gesture packed,
As on that day at Wimbledon—the day that France
was whacked.
N.S.W.
K. H.


Undoubtedly I have a sharp
tongue in my head
§
STANDARD SET (No. I)
contains heavily silver-plated,
self-stropping razor, 12 tested
“Valet'" blades and genuine.
“Valet" strop, complete in
durable case lined
velvet and satin -
27j 6
1 take good care of that.
You see, for safety razors, a sharp tongue is a virtue—
you need it for your morning shave. It is certainly
the only kind of tongue whose sharpness is tolerated
before breakfast.
I am “Valet Auto Strop,” the razor that sharpens
itself. I need no “gadgets” or stropping machines—
all 1 want is my strop, if you will let me slide up
and down that strop for ten seconds every morning
I’ll undertake to give you at least a month of perfect
daily shaves with every “Valet” blade.
That’s the way 1 save men trouble and expense.
You will find me waiting for you at any good
razor shop.
tf
VALET
9*
Managing Agents for Australasia;
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
*, Strop) and Blades indicates the genuine, product of tbe AuloSlrop Safelu Razor Co.. Ltd.. 197-207, dtp Road. London, Engk
The word *'Valet " on Razors
Is Your Power Transmission
Equipment Efficient ?
Check uj> carefully the efficiency of the belting in your plant—particularly
main drives and those where working conditions are exceptionally difficult.
What is the average life of a belt on the more important drives? What
time is lost in repairs and replacements?
Are you wasting power through slippage or belts not running true? Make
certain that the fault is not in the way the belt is being employed, rather
than in the belt itself.
Is the CORRECT belt being used on each drive —width, weight, materials,
quality?
Your belting problems may best be solved by allowing us to specify the correct
PIONEER LEATHER BELT
for each drive. Test it thoroughly and compare results carefully.
For sixty-four years Pioneer Leather Belting has been used in many of
the largest mining, industrial and manufacturing plants in Australia.
The illustration shows a 20in. Pioneer Leather Belt, transmitting 200 brake-
horse-power, in use in the Federal Brick Works, St. Peters, Sydney. Driving
Pulley, 13ft. Driven Pulley, 4ft. Distance between Pulley Centres. 25ft.
Length of Belt, 77ft. Belt Speed. 2500 ft. per minute. This Pioneer Leather
Belt replaced a similar Pioneer Belt which had been in constant use on the
drive for SEVENTEEN YEARS.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
$ s
$ § §
s s
5 $ S
s s
§--
V
±mm
' ■ V.JS
.nJx-^-5-
5^
sm
!if'*r rv
m
Your Suit
or Costume
for the SHOW
The Big Show Carnival is barely four
weeks away, and if you wish to have
your Suit or Costume “Lincoln-
Stuart” Tailored to Order for the
occasion you should take immediate
advantage of
Our Two Special Offers:
Your Suit
“Lmcoin-Stuart”
Tailored-to-Order,
£4/15/-
An offer which means a definite saving of
pounds to you, since the texture provided
is no other than
SHAW’S ALL-WOOL INDIGO-DYED
CHEVIOT SUITING.
Guaranteed absolutely unfadable, and to
give seasons of satisfactory wear. The
garments will be “Lincoln-Stuart”
Tailored to your order with the precision
and attention to detail you’d expect only
in suits at pounds more.
PATTERNS ARE POSTED FREE.
Your Costume
Tailor-made
To-Order,
6 Gfts.
A beautiful Tailor-ruade —classes above
the ordinary—carried out to your order
in the flawless “Lincoln-Stuart” fashion
in a particularly heavy
ALL-WOOL INDIGO-DYED
NAVY TWILL.
Every yard of Twill GUARANTEED
PERMANENTLY UNFAPABLE, and
exceptionally satisfactory in wear. A
range of Smart Styles are at vour dis-
posal-rich SILK COAT LININGS pro-
vided-, and your satisfaction down to the
last stitch of workmanship definitely
assured.
Post Your Order Now. We Guarantee Satisfaction.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.,
244-54 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.


Carriage paid on Hats
Box 497, Sydney
New "Stetsons”
for Spring wear
New and distinguished styles in the
famous "Stetson” Soft Felts, in smart
colours appropriate to the season have
just arrived at "The Store for Men.”
One shape has plain edge, or new-style
binding; contrasting band. Another
has turruover edge and high-contrast-
ing band. Colours include a new fawn,
dark green, and greys. Price, 52/6
Farmer’s
The
Wedding Present
Problem.
It is ever with us. The
problem of WHAT to give
is the trouble to a man.
He will gladly pay. He
may even be got to a wed-
ding, but what to send is
his trouble.
We specialise in presents. Always have done for eighty years past. We
think w r e know how to meet the taste of all buyers. We eater daily for the present
trade. Every novelty is stocked, and a special staff is constantly engaged in pro-
ducing novelty, utility a.nd refinement, in .numerous forms of presents.
Our great output and large capital enable us to manufacture and to buy at
bedrock prices, and so sell at lowest figures.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Very heavily plated on hard white metal Mustard, Salt and
Pepper, with 2 glass linings and spoons, £2/13/6 net.
Similar Pattern in Sterling Silver, £4/4/- net.
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
collins St. Melbourne
From Verors
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Central 1533, 1533.
When Dame Nellie volunteered a Plea-
sant Sunday-afternoon recital at St. Paul’s
Cathedral, she must have felt religiously
persuaded that her voice on the special occa-
sion would be as good as it is beautiful. It
has never been better of late than it was
last Sunday. Assuredly, the audience would
have clapped its hands, like the Floods in
the C. of E. Litany, if Archbishop Lees
had not gone into the pulpit before the
concert began, to beg his dear friends to
express their thanks in silence. By this his
Grace meant silence broken only by chinks
in the collection-plate, no doubt. The offer-
tory happenejl about half-way through the
concert, while everybody sang a hymn, the
bright business eye of the diva following
the course of the nearest coin-receptacle
with speculative intensity. Just previous
to that she had delighted the noiseless assem-
blage with Dr. Floyd’s “Into the Woods”
and “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot,” which is
a “Negro Spiritual” arranged for the con-
cert platform. Melba sang it at one of
her own pops, with her Oonservatorium
Choir behind her and the piano at her side.
Here she was supported by organist Floyd
and eight boys, whose fresh young voices
rose to the occasion. Her warble, with
organ accompaniment, was charming in all
her numbers. Two French songs were her
further contributions. Thg Dame wore a
dark fur coat over a black coat-and-skirty
costume, a big black hat and a quiet cathe-
dralic air as she sat at the back of the choir
in front of the organ, turning to the body
of the church when she sang.
Some of the Headquarters Defence Staff
had a dinner, last week, as a cheerio to re-
tiring brass-hats. Assistant-Minister for
Defence Ryrie presided, and Senator Pearce
came along and made a speech or two.
Major-Generals Legge and Forsyth, Brig.-
General Irving and Col. Wilkinson were the
farewelled guests. Legge made such an
excellent “do” at farming when he was in
charge of Duntroon that he is going on
the land in the Northern Territory. Irving
belongs to the very early defence regime.
He said he has recently been using an office
in the Barracks which was his dining-room
when he and his family were quartered there
in the old days.
Deputy-Governor Irvine’s household is
again in mourning—this time for his Ex.’s
youngest sister Henrietta, who died from
double-pneumonia at a private hospital in
Melb. It is only a few weeks since his
brother (John Mitchel) was laid under the
sod, and a sister passed out a little over a
year ago. The C.J. himself is 64, and was
60. when he was appointed by Lawson four
years ago. He looks good for another 10
years, at least, always provided that he
takes no risks in motoring.
Portland’s centenarian, Marianna Crouch,
widow of George Godwin Crouch, laid down
her burden last week. She was associated
with the Henty family when she came out
to Vic., 82 years ago. After she and her
husband had tried their fortunes in N. S.
Wales and she had lost him, she returned
to Portland. It was fitting that the old
settlement, for which she had such a strong
affection, should yield her a small strip for
a grave. The clasp of the earth will be as
that of a mother to her.
A committee of gold-rosetted men, headed
by chairman Agar Wynne, made themselves
responsible for a brilliant event in the re-
turn ball to the Mayor and Mayoress of St.
Kilda. From the icy cold of a rain-
drenched night, the guests dropped in to
a warm, perfumed Oriental room with the
lights glowing through amber. Rich Per-
sian rugs hung over the balconies and stair-
rails, and flattened gold baskets packed
round the walls were full of roses and
heavily-scented flowers. One corner was
made completely Egyptian by lamps and
decorations lent by Mrs. Councillor Uns-
wprth, her captain husband having brought
tl|e things from their native Egypt. Town-
Cierk Chamberlain, who is adroit at spring-
ing entertainment surprises, made this ball
the success of his young life. Mrs. Mayor-
ess Cummings wore a wonderful black gown
hung from her shoulders by slender jet
straps, and daughter Alison was a pretty
picture in ruffled pink and lilac. Her brand-
neW fiance, Major Kito, came along. Mrs.
Agar Wynne wore a black dress heavily
embroidered and trimmed with jet. Member
Frhd Eggleston and his wife were there, she
in a goAvn of periwinkle-blue covered with
a sapphire-blue georgette cape, and wearing-
gold leaves in her hair. Mrs. Unsworth
chose a frock of rich bougainvillea purple.
David Hennessy, who has just reached his
30th year of councillor life, came with two
daughters, one in vivid paddy-green shoes
and frock, and the other in pale blue fluffy
tulle. Marshall, boss of the St. Kilda
Yacht Club, breezed in with his wife. Coun-
cillor Clarke’s lady wore ivory and black
with the fashionable touch of vivid scarlet.
There was a gorgeous spread of food in the
Council Chamber, and more in the big
supper-rooms downstairs. Incidentally, the
dancers had the distinction of jazzing to
music made (in part) by the husband of
the newly-elected Victorian Beauty.
The octogenarian Gillott lady has passed
over. She spent her days so quietly within
her brick-walled, convent-like home in East
Melbourne that she was unknown to the rising
generation. Living in the past, she derived
some joy by recalling- the years when she, as
wife of the first Gaud Mayor, queened it over
society—for Samuel spent freely from his
heap of wealth, derived from lawyering and
real estate speculation. While he Avas Mayor
in 1900 George Turner made him an honorary
Minister in his second administration, and he
continued in that office under Alec Peacock
till the Ministry was reconstructed in June,
1901, when he became Attorney-General.
From 1904 till 1906 he was Chief Secretary
under Bent. The late Judkins did all he
could to make life miserable for him, because
he owned hotel property, and Samuel threw
up politics. He did not long enjoy his leisure,
and died from injuries sustained in a fall,
following a fainting fit, while visiting Eng-
land.
By the way, nearly £300,000 will be re-
leased for the Melb. ’Varsity and eight of
the principal Vic. metropolitan charities by
the Gillott lady’s death. The Uni. will get
a fifth and the charities a tenth each.
Dying in June, 1913, the knightly Samuel
left his pile to his widow for life, and
directed that the institutions should then
share it. They can all do Avith it, as their
hardupness is chronic.
Mrs. Jack Mills, of Powerscourt, Maffra,
rushed back from the races in Melbourne to
lay one of the foundation-stones of the Sol-
diers’ Memorial at Maffra, which is to take
the form of some very fine club-rooms. The
entrance is to consist of a magnificent gran-
ite arch, and the stone on which one side of
the arch is to rest will be laid by Mrs. Mills
in memory of the fallen Diggers. The oppo-
site stone has an inscription in honor of
Mrs. Mills herself, who mothered every
Digger who departed and welcomed back
every boy who came through the fight. It
must have been she who started the English
legend about the Aussie’s wristlet watches.
She presented each of her “boys” with one.
When they returned they got a gold medal
from the same generous woman. She
is the most popular woman in Gippsland,
and she has the extraordinary distinction of
not being an 0.8. E. Curious how the
0.8.E.’s and such-like missed the country
women.
Eugenie Duggan Anderson has been tour-
ing her own dramatic co. off and on for two
years. She has been unable to secure dates
at the Melbourne theatres for a long time,
but now hopes to lure her old friends out to
the Troeadero Theatre, at Footscray, on
August 26, when she is to open a season
with a “costume” comedy called “Killarney,”
by Chauncey Alcott.
Here is Dr. A. E. Floyd, organist and
choirmaster of St. Paul’s, who has won a
great following for
his Sunday afternoon
recitals. He is an
Englishman, was
first caught bending
over an organ at
King’s College
Chapel, Cambridge,
30 years ago, and
later assisted Dr. G.
B. Arnold at Win-
chester Cathedral,
where he saturated
himself in the teach-
ings of Dr. Wesley,
who had been
Arnold’s adviser and
friend. Floyd, who
is a Mus. Bac.,
Oxon, since 1912,
also owns an honor-
ary degree of
Doctor of Music, conferred on him by the
Archbishop of Canterbury. In his spare
time he is musical critic for the Argus,
and in that capacity has already penned
some virile and disconcerting judgments.
The Swiss Studios took the picture.
Mining-man P. W. Tewksbury is prowling
round abroad in search of health. He writes
from Berlin that “Everything seems quiet
enough, and the country from Gstend looks
most beautiful and prosperous.” Strasbourg
and Paris were his next ports of call.
The bie ball organised by the Steward
lady in June brought the Victorian Ambu-
lance Service a cheque for £252-odd.
The Queen’s Hall seemed to be full for
Beatrice Ternan’s dramatic recital. The
programme was helped out by J. D. Brown-
lee, who warbled several somewhat gloomy
numbers in a fine baritone voice to beauti-
fully-played but dirge-like accompaniments,
Beatrice Tertian is a fine-looking girl with
a pleasing voice and a nice sense of "drama-
tic expression, and her polished diction and
artistic restraint reflect credit on Mrs. Gibson
\ ouug’s training. As yet scarcely out of
the. student stage, she is handicapped by a
seL-consciousness which keeps her tied to
her own personality. But she has charm,
and, if she means business, mav oue dav
see her name in electric lights someAvhere or
other. _
Little Wilma Berkeley, whom Melba and
Clara Butt both acclaim as a coming diva
(Dame Nellie calls her voice “gorgeous”),
cherishes a Bulletin cutting as her mascot,
ihe little picture and accompanying para-
graph were her first public notice. Since
then, she says, fortune has never ceased to
smile on her. By the way, one of our nicest
Toorak matrons, who does not wish her
identity proclaimed, made up her mind that
little Wilma’s stage appearance should do
her yoiee credit. She ordered her own chif-
tonery-bmlder to equip the songstress for
the Liedertafel occasion on Monday—shoes,
theatre coat, undies and all. And not only
this,_ the lady s tonsorial artist was ordered
to tire the Berkeley head, and, finally, in
true fairy god-motherly style, she com-
manded her own limousine to whisk Miss
Cinderella to the Town Hall
.
~1 S a study by Franeie Young of
Mrs. Esmond Downey, who is the live hon.
sec. of the Broad-
meadows Welfare
Committee. Her
husband is organiser
of the £lO,OOO
appeal for the
Broadmeadows
Foundling Home, the
effort of which Lord
Mayor Swanson is
treasurer. The
Little Sisters of St.
Joseph run this
home for foundlings,
and the welfare com-
mittee, which has
been in existence for
three years, does not
interfere in any way
with the manage- 1
ment, but is made up of a number of
sympathetic matrons who boost along the
financial side. Mrs. Benjamin Hoare is
president, and Mrs. James Alston treasurer.
Mrs. Downey has helped the Home in an
individual way for very many years. The
committee raised £1250 toward the building
of an infirmary—before that there was no
adequate method of isolating sick babies—
and they also netted £3OO for blankets.
Their balance-sheet showed the expenses to
be absolutely nothing—not even a penny
stamp was deducted. Now, as previously
mentioned in these columns, the good
women are battling for money to install
electric light and water service at the Home.
Adeline Leon’s tea-party at Menzies’
landed a lot of social lights who tried to
look musical as they were introduced to
Rosina Buekman and husband Maurice, who,
by the way, is ever so popular already.
Rosina is sandwiching in lots of parties even
though her concerts are bi-nightly. Mrs.
Jimmy Dyer—as head of the Victorian Musi-
cal Society—sounded the gong in her honor
the other evening; Mrs. Norman Brookes
is about to pour tea at her feet, and on Sun-
day Dame Nellie is giving half the honors
of her farewell party at Coombe to “her
darling Rosina.”
Frediswyde Hunter-Watts cabled that she
had spent a day ashore at Colombo while the
Ormuz dropped anchor for a few hours. She
expects to arrive in Melbourne at the end
of the month, and they. will set out on the
trail to join Allan Wilkie and his mummers,
who are still teaching Shakspeare to Queens-
land.
The Charles Wallaces have taken their
Saratogas from St. George’s-road to a sta-
tion at Nagambie. They expect to sample
the air there for the next few months.
Lola, the dark-eyed daughter of Ambrose
Pratt, has just announced her engagement
to one William Bunty. It is on the cards
that the wedding will happen quite soon,
and that the pair will then sail for U.S.A.
Maurice D’Oisly takes most of his exercise
leading in community singing. On Tuesday, at
the Auditorium, he provided more entertain-
ment than the most thrilling picture, and
made the most unmusical of the crowd
join in the general warble. On Satur-
day night, with E. .1. Graveatock and
the Wells wot draws pictures, D’Oisly went
to the Stadium, and had much to say, next
day, on “why tenors do not box.”
Peggy Graham, aged 20 or thereabouts,
is iu a continual joy-blush the while she
gathers iu congratulations on her engage-
ment to a young member of the Sargood
family.
Mrs. J. Prowse, mother of J. H. Prowse,
M.H.R., who died at Adelong (N.S.W.) the
other day, was the parent of 14 children and
the grandmamma of 56. Of her direct off-
spring, the politician is the only one to get
into the limelight, though his stodginess is
such as to be often mistaken for a wilful
eccentricity. Among his nephews, however,
there is a Prowse of a different stamp. lit-
is George Matthew Prowse, and is one of
the hardy three who are now sailing in an
open boat from Singapore to Sydney.
A suburban dance at East Malvern
Kiosk made a little stir by having “wire-
less” music. The Amalgamated Wireless.
Ltd., supplied the' foxtrots, etc., and added
a nice little concert as well.
Ex-Gaud Mayor Hennessy, who has just
completed his 30th year in‘Melbourne City
Council, continues to make a desperate
effort to iook young. It is almost forgotten
that he sat in two Parliaments for one of
the Carlton electorates, and took his curtain
in State politics 18?, years ago. He ruled at
the Town Hall for five years, and got the
aldermanship (freedom from contesting elec-
tions) as well as a knighthood for spending
freely while he wore the bunny-skins.
Melba will sing at a matinee at Her
Majesty’s on Sept. 2 to help the Soldiers’
War Memorial Fund. She is very keen that
the memorial should include a peal of bells,
and she raves over the beauty of the bells
at Bruges.
Leo Cussen has been feeling the effects
of his 18 years of judgeship for some time,
so his lady and daughter Alice are taking
him off for a year’s globe-trotting. Alice is
giving an an revoir party to a large crowd
of friends on September 28.
The Leslie Macphersons (she was a
MeOaughey) have sold their picturesque
villa and will settle in Warrawee, the
Toorak mansion with the Sunken and Dutch
gardens, built by the Rutter Clarkes, and
for a time the home of the Everard Brownes.
Alec Peacock, Education and Labor
Minister, who is now 61, ran for a train on
the South Melbourne side of Queen’s bridge
the other day and narrowly escaped having
the House adjourned for him the same after-
noon. He failed to notice a motor-car com-
ing the other way; but fortunately, the
driver (who didn’t know him from Adam)
was more watchful, and pulled up in the
nick of time. To steady himself Peacock
had to cling to the bonnet, and he barked the
knuckle of his little finger. Just before the
incident he had been attending a meeting of
the directors of the Globe Motor and' Taxi
Co., whereat, owing to recent experiences,
the necessity for drivers exercising care
in avoiding accidents was stressed. Evi-
dently drivers’ bosses also need to exercise
care.
A coo-ee from Adelaide: —
Half Adelaide (or as much of it as owns motors)
went to Findon for the Hunt Club’s point-to-point
steeplechase, in which Paul Teesdale Smith’s
nominations got first and second places, the
winner being ridden by W. P. Lapthorne and
the second by himself. Afterwards the young
man mounted his wife’s horse, Simple Simon, fer
a short run with the hounds, avid had not gone far
when his prad fell dead. The rider got off with a
shaking and mild concussion. There was the usual
dinner in the evening, when the president, Arthur
Waterhouse, handed his son-in-law the winner’s cup.
The Moulden dame is giving herself a fortnight’s
longer holiday, and won’t return to us till the Ormuz
comes in at the end of the month. The depressing
job of house-hunting awaits her, as Lordello, part
of the William Milne estate, has been sold to Mrs.
Albion Tolley.
Passed out, Arthur Young Harvey, who came to
S. Aus. from Scotland in ’72, and was one of our
best-known accountants. His widow was a sister of
the late Judge Boucaut.
The Dodwells are back from their jaunt to the
International Geodetic Conference at Rome. He
looked into Greenwich while he was away, and there
finalised the habitation of the boundary that marks
off Westralia from this State and the Northern Terri-
tory.
D’Alvarez can have nothing to complain of in the
warmth of her reception here. She sang to
crowded houses, was given enough flowers to plant a
fair-sized garden, and found a clamorous mob waiting
as she came and went each night, and demanding
that the blinds should be up so that they could see
her. The temperamental songbird found time for a
couple of motor runs to the hills.
A one-day’s fete in the Town Hall, with Mrs.
Ernest Good as its organiser, brought in well over
£350 for the babies’ and boys’ homes at Walkerville,
and the girls’ home at Mitcham. The Barwell
dame declared the show open, with Bishop Thomas a?
her sponsor. The stall-holders (among them Mrs.
Andrew Smith, Mrs. A. M. Cudmore, Mrs. M. A.
Goode, Mrs. H. C. Cave, Mrs. P. Porter and Mrs.
P. W. Vaughan) had been gathered in from most of
the suburbs, and Miss Violet Muecke and Miss B.
K. Barker were joint secretaries.
Charles C. Driscoll, a young Adelaidean, together
with one other student, has just been awarded the
highest honors out of 275 candidates who secured
diplomas at the Milwaukee Normal School. He is
a Prince Alfred College lad and ex-Sehool of Mines
student, and went to U.S.A. seeking further know-
ledge in electrical engineering. He intends finishing
off at the Wisconsin ’Varsity. Erie AVest, son of
the S.A. Chief Inspector of Schools, who in 1921 took
his B.Sc. (Ag.), and also the Lawrie Scholarship in
S. Aus., has now collected his M.Sc. degree at the
Berkeley University, California. Next year he studies
agriculture in England and France, and then returns
to Australia.


:.i
*•
/' ' V ’■'•■V J 1
What will the mask reveal?
A Dresden China complexion? a skin of dewy
** freshness, flushed with delicate rose and
satin-smooth .... or a dull, lifeless skin; neither
breathing freely nor working properly ?
Health is Beauty’s first law, and it is well to
nourish the skin and to free the pores from aIJ
impurities that clog and impede their action.
Natural cleansers are admittedly the safest and the
best. The precious oils of the Palm and the Olive,
tonic yet so soothing, reach the minutest pores and
stimulate their healthy action.
This secret of skin perfection was known to the
people of ancient Egypt, whose elegant women,
under the Empire, were accustomed to regard the
ceremonials of the toilet as of the first importance.
At the more magnificent social functions, it was
the custom for slaves to serve the guests with
Palm and Olive oils for anointment.
These oils, prized so highly in that far-off time,
are rendered even more potent to-day, so precisely
are they handled by scientific methods, so con-
veniently contained in a fragrant cake of Palmolive
Soap.
When you use Palmolive, work it up with warm
water into a smooth, creamy lather; massage it
gently but thoroughly into your skin with a circular
movement of the finger tips, then rinse with clear,
warm water, and finish with a tonic dash of cold.
Your skin is now not only perfectly cleansed, but
soft and smooth and ready for a touch of Palmolive
Cold Cream, and for the application of powder and
rouge if desired, for these cannot harm a skin so
perfectly prepared.
Bk
V
m
m
Fastidious women will delight also in the perfection of Palmolive Cold Cream j
Palmolive Vanishing Cream; “ Violet of the Nile and Egyptian Rose
Talcums; “Palmole” Face Powder: Palmolive Face Powder; Palmolive
Rouge; Palmolive Shampoo.
o
D
AP
ONE SHILLING
per cake everywhere
THE BEAUTY OF CLEOPATRA
With a world of ancient toilet arts
at her command, Cleopatra depen-
ded on the incomparable cleansing
properties of Palm and Olive oils
to protect, improve and pre erve
the fresh smoothness of her skin.
m
as*
mW.
m
m
mm
mm
m
mm


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsieck
use
r»
to
champagne
'iarlesHeidsic*.
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
btihts jarnoM Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
N,B -~\ he management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9931.
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
The Royal Art Society welcomed members
and their best-girls to its annual cheerio on
Thursday night. The gathering held an extra
note of gaiety owing to the blaze .of red seals
that greeted the eye from every wall. Sales,
this year, have been even greater than usual,
and when Judge Cohen announced that the
Wynne prize for 1921 had been won by
Gruner’s “Valley of the Tweed,” there was
a cyclone of applause. President Lister-
Lister and secretary Oxnard Smith threaded
in and out among the groups, all things to
all men. Every now and then the careless
chat of the throng was intersected by wedges
of grand opera, slabs from “Lucia,” “Rigo-
letto” and “Bohfeme” being used to build up
the musical programme. The little Roma
girl, Grace Elliott, and Leonore Gotch were
the female songbirds, while Winslow Knight,
Percy Everett, George Vivers and Arthur
Black were the male supports of the aviary.
Artists Charlie Bryant and F. A. Butler
further cheered up the early-closing evening
with some lightning sketches.
One of the bright spots in an otherwise
dull week was the Sun’s description
of the burning of the Hydro-Majestic
picture-gallery at Medlow Bath as a
blow to Art, or words to that effect.
Rarely in the world’s history, pro-
bably, has a more deplorable collection of
alleged pictures been spread over a like
acreage. There was about half-a-mile of
them all told. They lined both sides of the
long, snaky corridor that wound round the
cliff, overlooking the Kanimbla Valley, from
near the main entrance to the dining-room
at the other end of the building. Various
persons have, at different times, been accused
of buying the pictures, but the consensus of
opinion places the guilt on Mark Foy. The
local tradition has it that he first had the
gallery built, and then bought the pictures,
in cases—“blind,” as the poker-players have
it—to cover the wall-space.
His Ex. and Dame Margaret Davidson go
to Bananaland on September 1. They will
be the guests of Sir Matthew Nathan, at
Government House, and will then tour the
North. The G.-G. and Lady Forster will
return to Sydney with them, and will be
their guests at the harbor-side Government
House for a week, before going on to Mel-
bourne.
The Duncan Brown couple, after being
feted privately and publicly for the past
fortnight, board the Melbourne express to-
morrow. Nina Murdoch, the ;ix>et-better
half, held quite a court at the farewell party
arranged for her by Mrs. Thomas, press sec-
retary of the National Council of Women,
and Margaret Dalrymole Hav, who hurried
in from the ’Varsity to help with the host-
essing. The Jacobean room of the Ren-
dezvous has never housed such a crush of
inky wayfarers, poets, artists and just ordi-
nary admirers. Nina, who looked like a
visitor from Russia in her powder-blue cos-
tume, edged with lamb’s wool, her marmot
furs and little pointed velvet toque, had at
the table of honor cameo-faced Rose Scott
(who has given her one of her precious bits
of old silver as a keepsake), the Soutar
clan, the Hal Eyres and poetess Dorothea
Mackellar.
Margaret Windeyer talked to the mem-
bers of the Lyceum Club for an hour last
week on the treasures of the Mitchell
Library. There was a significant nodding
of heads when the salary of the harbor-
master in 1805 was mentioned as being £5O
a year, and quite a gasp when it was learned
that the Poet Laureate of a decade later
got two cows in two consecutive vears as a
reward for his flights of fancy.' It was
news to most that we ever possessed a Poet
Laureate, and to more that his name was
Michael Robinson. The average poet is
inclined to think that conditions haven’t im-
proved much since Michael earned his last
two cows a centurv ago.
At the end of August Longstaff will pay
a flying visit to Melbourne to complete his
portrait of Melba, which now needs only
the finishing touches. It is a three-quarter
length, and shows the lady in one of her
concert robes. Eve Grey, the prize beauty,
is the subject of another Longstaff portrait
and his fine study of Edward Knox will be
shown at the coming show of the Societv of
Artists.
At present at Pfahlert’s, Mrs. Gilmer,
who was Mary Seddon, daughter of Maori-
land’s late lamented Dick Seddon. The Gil-
mers come of a line of hotel property-
owners. The Royal Oak, Wellington’s most
conservative pub, belonged to the family,
and Pfalilert’s is another of their posses-
sions.
The auction of art treasures to help clear
the expenses of the Masquerade Ball got well
under way _on Thursday morning in David
Jones’ fashion-display rooms; though Gover-
nor Davidson and antique-dealer de Groot
had plunged into the opening sales before
baritone McCormack had a chance to start
up his “Auction Song.” This was intended
as an atmosphere-warmer, and an introduc-
tion to the offer of a wonderful Toby jug
from the hand-wheels of the Wounded Sol-
diers’ Pottery. However, the bidding was
brisk from the vice-regal kick-off, and the
carved elephant’s tusk, the baby elephants in
ivory, and a third edition of iEsop’s fables
found ready purchasers. The etchings given
by the Painter Etchers’ Society were other
quick-sellers. But the greatest enthusiasm
burst forth over the pottery made by the
soldiers themselves. The sale raked in over
£3OO.
The Union Francaise, led .off by the Mar-
seillaise, had a great .night of it last week
at the Oxford-street hall, to pour congratu-
lations on comrade Joseph Playoust, who has
been made a Chevalier of the Legion of
Honor. The Playousts were among the
most generous donors to Australian and
French war funds. They gave not only
money, but fighting men also. On arrival
the party draped itself about the asphalted
courtyard of the little hall, and was cheered
up by a salvo of popping corks. It might
have seemed the beginning of a night in Bo-
hemia only for the sleek dressing of the
womenfolk, and an air about the solid-looking
men that bespoke well-run homes in good
suburbs and a _ motor or two in the garage,
for the Frahqaises are almost entirely of the
wool-broking and shipping class. The guest
was supported by his wife and daughter,
dark-haired, vivid good-lookers. French Con-
sul-General Campana helped to make the
laudatory speeches; Holman looked in to
pay his respects, and Lamerands, Chandezes,
Du Boises and Doucets were there in bat-
talions. The comely Steppe couple were
among the dancers, she very diminutive and
childlike beside her tall husband. Captain
Lubrano was with the Bo’-ian Consul, and
Miss Soubeiran ; and Miss Gurney came from
the ’Varsity, where Prof. Andrand’s pupils
had been staging the term’s French play.
The drawing-room of the Carlton was
packed to capacity one afternoon last week
for an au revoir tea-party to Miss Soubeiran
and Miss Gurney, who are off to their new
Bowral home. Mrs. Arthur Jewett and Mrs.
Joseph Playoust had to work overtime re-
ceiving the guests. The central figures of
the gathering smiled over enormous bouquets,
suggesting more than ever the unofficial links
in the Australian end of the Entente Cor-
diale. There was a heavy roll-up of Con-
suls and a guest-list that sounded like a
wool sale.
The owner of these features is the Mel-
bourne artist, A. M. E. Bale, whose brilliant
little show is draw-
ing the connois-
seurs to Banana-
lander Burdett’s new
salon at 21!J George-
street. Miss Bale
was trained by Mc-
Cubbin and Bernard
Hall. Two of her
works hang in the
Melbourne Gallery,
having been pur-
chased through the
Felton Bequest at
her recent show in
the southern city.
Her work in the pre-
sent exhibition is
marked by much in-
dividuality, though
it is clear that she
has been greatly in-
fluenced by Vermeer, Chardin, Fantin-
-Liatour and the Dutch genre painters The
picture was made by Ruth Hollick.
Mpree was crowded for the polo tourna-
ment last week, the chief attraction being
the Sydney team, which is known amongst
patrons of the game as the “World’s Worst ”
Hundreds of country folks came -into town
trom miles round merely to see Tony Hor-
dern ride. An additional incentive was a
rumor, said to have been started by certain
profit-hungry and unscrupulous publicans,
that the S.P.C.A. had decided to interfere
and ban any member of the Sydney team
trom entering the arena. Of course, nothing
of the sort occurred, and Sydney duly took
the held and had the usual cricket scores
legisteied against it. Young Onslow, only
son of the legislator, filled the place vacated
by Lord Digb.v.
•4 rri y ed in A , s y d ?ey with a suit-case packed
with plays, Mrs. Kearney, of Orange. The
hrst drama she ever wrote was bought by
X' l Vllham son himself, on the strenatli
of the first act, which she had sent down to
him for his advice. His answer was a
wire asking for the other three acts. Mrs.
Kearney’s old friend Lady Jersey wrote at
length to her in praise of one of the later
plays, of which Mrs. Kearney had posted her
a copy. The. present group includes several
charming curtain-raisers, a quick-action farce-
comedy, and a spectacular drama of ancient
times, to -ffihich only an Oscar Asche or a
D. W. Griffiths could do justice. The worker
in ink arabesques is also a maker of poems;
and J. Brash, who composed music to “Port
o’ Sydney,” is turning one of her sea-poems
into a song, at the request of basso A. E. Y.
Benham.
Binns Rabett, the Peter Rabetts’ pretty
daughter, and therefore a sister of the Anzac
artillery colonel, has become engaged. She
met him aboard the Mantua on her way to
England last April, and his name is Turle.
They are to be married almost immediately
and will live in Calcutta.
The Colin Duncans and Mrs. Colin’s sis-
ter, Lorraine Catterall, are coming back to
Australia via the Cape. They are on the
Sonhocles, and will reach these shores about
the middle of next mojith. The Leigh Falkiners
are also returning, and Captain Claudie
Cumberlege talks about doing so whenever
he meets an Australian. He is out of the
Navy for good, and. when last heard of,
was leading a life of good works and con-
templation in Paris.
This is a Leighton Studios’ present-
ment of Deputy-Town Clerk Layton, who
holds a position at Sydney Town Hall of
an almost ambassa-
dorial nature. In
addition to his
purely official work,
he, as it were, medi-
ates, in the social
sense, between the
often uncouth alder-
folk and the guests
at the Town Hall
parties revellers
who range in the
social scale from
bishops sheer down
to bottle-o’s. A deli-
cate task, but one
in which he has
never been known to
fail. There was an
incredulous stir in
the world of fashion
when it became
known that Mayor McElhone had dragged
this notable figure into his remarks on the
paint contract. The general impression was
that Mr. McElhone had gone just a little
too far; and, in addition, performed a feat
something equivalent to chiding Mt. Everest.
The Jim Robinsons, who used to live on
Rose Bay heights, are settled at Southoort,
Lancashire, temporarily. They are both de-
ploring the cold (in mid-summer l'* of their
native land. He unfortunately, has had to take
to an invalid’s chair. He came to Australia,
some years ago, with the idea of starting
woollen mills in Hobart, but, finding it hard
to get things to move in the Speck, aban-
doned the idea for Sydney’s quicker methods.
He was probably the pioneer of hosiery
manufacture here, and the mills he started
at Chapel-street, Marrickville, have grown
to a loud whir of successful industry,
A Sydney woman recalls the first great
party given by Northcliffe. It was an even-
ing reception at his magnificent resi-
dence in Berkeley-square, London, and was
the talk of the Diamond Jubilee season.
Melba sang at it, Paderewski played, and
Josef, the. famous French chef, came over
from Paris to prepare the supper. They
each received 500 guineas for their services.
A feature of the supper was canvas-back
duck brought from America. The host’s
younger brother (now Lord Rothermere)
took the Sydney woman in to supper, and
insisted on ordering this delicacy, but the
sight of the lightly-cooked morsel, with violet
liquid oozing out of it, was too much for her.
. The Millions Club fed the starving Arme-
nians by proxy the other day when it spread
a mid-day repast before Dr. Loyal Wirt, the
American St. John who is crying out in the
cause of the oppressed. Probably as a sort
of apology for our own plenty, the chief
dish was a mess of boiled mutton. The pro-
mise of Billy Hughes to ship all cargo for
Armenia free of charge in Government
steamers has done away with the necessity
for the spectacular appeal for a ship to be
failed with foodstuffs by Sydney merchants
and sent a-sailing to Armenian shores. It
was on the carpet that Owen Cox would
hand over a boat if it came to the point,
and Mayor McElhone seriously thought of
getting leave of absence from the Civic Ship
to skipper Owe»’s craft. But the Federal
Government fixed the thing—and any little
cost attendant on the elucidation can be
passed on to the taxpayer. The doc-
tor has a high, regard for ex-President
Wilsons idealism, a fiery contempt for the
Monroe doctrine; and is as fierce a Crusader
in the cause of the Cross in Armenia as anv
knight of old who attempted to snatch the
Holy Sepulchre from the Saracen.
One of the bright dances of a dull week
was the re-union of the old girls of Nor-
manhurst Loreto convent. Mrs. Dan Kellv,
president, was wrapped about like a bonbon-
de-luxe in a froth of silver tissue and lace.
&ne and Dr. Dan entertained one of the
largest parties, and Mayoress Ivavanagh, of
V\ averley, was another hostess on an exten-
sive scale. Tootles Williamson wore oyster-
T^ ey \y T n with pearl encrustments; and
Jean McDonald’s frocking was in cherry-
npe tints. Another eye-arrester was a
good-looking Clonan girl. May Hollingdale
secretaned m blue panne velvet, and sombre
shades of the same sleekness enfolded
treasurer Miss Riteliards.
The R °yal Society for the Welfare of
Mothers and Rabies hopes to stiffen up a
anffa'-i llr l RrJ? a n k-b alan ce by the sale of
daffodils, 0000 of which will be sold to-
morrow (hriday) morning in the vestibule
i’ ¥ a }?, sty s . for the benefit of Tressillian.
vr e daffodils will come from the garden of
Mr Mark, of Kurrajong Heights; and there
will be clusters of the superb King Alfreds,
as well as all the other aristocratic varieties.
There passed out recently Mrs. Alban J.
ltiley, a former Mayoress of Sydney, and
widow of the late A. J. Riley, once of the
firm of Riley Brothers, of Brickfield Hill).
Uld citizens will remember her as the hand-
some Miss Eleanor Birkenhead. A grown-
up family of 10 survive.
Rosa Alba drops a screed from London
that carries a sting in its tail: —
Florence Austral (Fawaz of the big voice, who had
a big struggle on arrival) had a great night singing
as Brunhilde recently with the B. N. Opera Co.
Eight calls before the curtain. Evidently some Aus-
tralians were in the house, for coo-ees and bravos
were all mixed together. Alfred O’Shea, billed as
“The Australian Tenor,” is the success of the sea-
son. He is a boyish Irishman with a tear in his
voice. Gladys Verona looks well and is singing
well, and her only trouble Is home-sickness. William
Ooad and the charming Marjorie Beeby are here,
but apparently holidaying, for we hear nothing of
them except rumors of a coming big engagement.
William James is in the boom as a composer, and
finds his songs are ready sellers. Myrtle Thorne is
the latest she blew in the other day full
of confidence. The Cook lady and her Joe entertained
nearly 1000 at Australia House the other day. She
is qpite simple and unaffected ; and daughter Winnie
returns soon to Aussie to marry. Margaret Chal-
mers, daughter of Farmer’s late managing director,
is making her own niche as a pianist. Philip Wil-
son, the well-groomed, is somewhat fatter and in
great voice, but is sighing for Aussie. John Bull
and co. recently applauded Freda Hempel’s singing
of songs in German, the Fritzes in the audience
smiling gaily, while Bull hurt his knuckles clamor-
ing for more German. Strange Bull and co. I P.S.
Advise aspirants for vocal honors not to ieave
Aussie just now unless stocked with shekels to the
tune of £l5OO. Concert artists are “doing the
pub door” for a living here.
At Daru, Papua, recently, Jessie, the
youngest of the pretty Clunn girls of
Samarai, was married to Eric Oldham, Resi-
dent Magistrate of Western Papua, who has
many years of service to his credit. The
lamate Memorial Church had been turned
into a glowing garden of tropical flowers
and palms for the knot-tying, and the bride
breathed the vows from the mists of a white
tulle veil, being otherwise heavily embroi-
dered white georgette. Bridesmaid Doris
Smith, of Geelong (Vic.), wore a souffle
of primrose and blue georgette and carried
a sheaf of blue water-lilies in the crook of
her arm. Assistant-R.M. Leo Austen ren-
dered first-aid to the bridegroom, and Lieut.
Lovan stage-managed the Papuan Armed
Constabulary as they flashed their bayonets
to form a shimmering arch for Eric and the
new Mrs. Oldham to pass under. A perfectly
wonderful wedding cake, brought from Syd-
ney by the s.s. John Williams, was cut into
slabs at the home of Padre Riley. All Daru
was at the wedding, and Captain Kettle and
his merry men of the John Williams also
turned up.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Lord Digby’s polo ponies, Dolly and Clever Mary,
scooped in the first and second prizes in the polo
pony class at the Show, whereupon bis spouse and
Mrs. Pitt Rivers were photographed alongside the
pair, in pretty frocks and an air of triumph.
A very swanky ball was given by Commodore and
Mrs. Addison on the Melbourne and Platypus, which
were glued together for the evening. Two hundred
of the elect trod the gangways between the boats,
which were moored in the Brisbane River. All the
Governors were there, the party including Mrs. Pitt
Rivers, in black. Mrs. Addison wore powder-blue in
compliment to the Navy, and Cecil Palmer’s wife was
one of the other best frockers on deck.
There was much competition for tickets for the
R.Q.Y. Club’s Ball. The committee was adamant
in limiting the sale, so there was room for the
dancers. The G.-G., Lady Forster, Governor Nathan
and Captain Pitt Rivers were there. Her Ex. was
in black, and the Commodore’s wife (Mrs. James
Clark) was also in black satin.
Lecturing before the Royal Geographical Society,
Captain Pitt Rivers astonished the natives by the
practical remark that he considered it must be hard
to be a good anthropologist and a good Christian
at the same time. Incidentally, his talk was about
recent exploration in New Guinea, and he tried to
solve the problem of the vanishing races in the
Bismarck Archipelago. Western customs interfered
too much with tribal marriage laws, said Me. A
fashionable audience listened.
Lloyd Rees has been showing some of his oils
and pen-and-ink work in a local art gallery, and
has made some good sales.


Exquisite and Exclusive
Jewellery.
Diamond and
Pearl Drop
Pendant,
£BO.
Fine Diamond and Platinum Bow
Brooch,
£4O.
Diamond and
Platinum Pendant,
£2O.
Extra-quality Gem-set Platinum Watch, on Moire Silk Band,
£5O.
All Platinum and Diamond Brooch,
£B4.
Finest-quality Diamond and Platinum
Bow Brooch,
£lOO.
Drummonds’ selection of Diamond Jewellery, Watches, etc.,
offers the choicest that is to be had in quality, design and
workmanship. Every article is made an their own premises
by highly-skilled jewellers.
Illustrated Ring or Watch Catalogue sent Post Free
to any address.
Wm. Brummonb & Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
w
J/£
L.
m
H
CONSISTENCY OP
aUALITY*
R. A. SHOW—I 922.
AWARDED
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for HOCK
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CHABLIS
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CLARET
14 FIRSTS, 2 SECONDS,
4 THIRDS
Against All Australian Competition.
/
V
/
brighten Up the Home
Renew the varnish on your woodwork, floors, furni-
ture, &c., with an application of Tohnson’s Prepared
Wax— the polish that imparts a hard, dry and bright
lustre, that protects, and covers mars and surface
scratches. A soft cloth and Johnson’s Prepared Wax-
all that is needed for easier dusting and brighter home.
JOHNSON’S
Liquid and Paste
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste is the most conven-
ient and satisfactory form for use on floors of all
kinds—wood, marble, tile, linoleum, &c. Floors fin-
ished with this are easily dusted and polished with a
soft cloth or Johnson’s Light Floor Brush.
There is also Johnson’s Prepared Wax Liquid that is
especially recommended for furniture, phonographs,
pianos, woodwork and motor-cars. It contains no oil
and cannot catch or gather dust. It is clean to use
and durable in its effect.
Include a supply of these Johnson Products
with your next order from your local dealer.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.


&
n
Remove Pimples and
Blackheads With Cuticura
Bathe with Cuticura Soap and hot
water to free the pores of impurities
and follow with a gentle application
of Cuticura Ointment to soothe and
heal. Cuticura Talcum is ideal for
powdering and perfuming.
Soapl s.. Ointment Is.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
MT*Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
BECOME AN ARTIST!
You can
soon mas-
ter the
main prin-
ciples of
drawing if
you take up the
lessons of the
WESTON
POSTAL COURSE.
Simple lessons
from the very rudi-
ments of art right
on to its higher
branches have
been prepared by
Australia’s master
cartoonist and
poster designer, Mr.
Harry J. Weston,
who PERSONALITY
CRITICISES each
student’s work. -
The course is fas-
cinating and cuts
out drudgery, giv-
ing a thorough
grounding in a pro-
fession which leads
to highly-paid posi-
tions.
SEND FOR THE
BOOKLET,
“There’s Money in
the Pen.” in which
Mr. Weston tells
all about the
course and
gives examples
of the lessons.
3
eft,
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
Just forward your name and address, with three
stamps for postage.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
155 Union House. George Street, SYDNEY.
A BANDAGE*
A BOX OF
t make the
s, MPLEST* MOST EFFICIENT
FIRST AID
Equalled For
—.skin disease^
*
’ THAT’S IT
THE WORK SHIRT
OF THOUSANDS—
7/9
EACH
Post Free
THE way the “Santwill” is
made will defy the roughest
effort of strain—the material
underlying the making is the
toughest Twill ever introduced
to Work Shirts. Has two breast
pockets, reinforced, stitching
throughout, roomy, good fitting,
and will wash often, and well.
WRITE TO DESK “N.”
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba
.* i
it©
The Genuine “KEMP”
SADDLE.
Many inferior, low-grade saddles are being offered
to the public as Kemp saddles. The genuine
Kemp is made only by us, and bears a name-
plate with the word “Kemp” and our name
under the staple. It is one of the high-grade
saddles building up our great saddle reputation,
and will give many years of satisfactory service.
It has all the ease and comfort of the best park
saddles, but the shape and position of the pads
give greater security for rough riding. The
fittings are folded Kemp pattern girth, bevelled
leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
The “KEMP”
£l4/5/-
Freight Paid to
any N S W. Rail-
way Station for
Cash with Order.
WRITE FOR OUR FINE
SADDLERY CATALOGUE
HORSEHAIR
COVERED WITH FELT
§6/6
Posted
WE ARE
POLO
SPECIALISTS
Walther & Stevenson Ltd.
Saddlers, 395 George Street, Sydney.
o s, £ c k
8
$
basMifl
PRES^S!
Oi
*sS.
N'ME'N
p«<-
Put Back the Oil as You Polish.
Good footwear demands a polish which pre-
serves as well as shines.
BOSTOCKS
SHOE POLISH
helps to replace the natural oil of the leather.
Makes shoes last longer and look better.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown,
Nigger Brown. Price 6d. per tin.
FEDERAL TAXATION RETURNS NOW DUE
INCOME-TAX RETURNS:
Businesses .
AUGUST 31, 1922
LAND-TAX RETURNS
(Required from residents when unimproved value is
' £3OOO or over, and from absentees when unimproved
value is One Pound or over.)
Land owned at noon on 30th June, 1922 ... . .. AUGUST 31, 1922
Those liable to render returns this year must furish them on Forms A or B.
Forms of return may be obtained at Post Offices or at the Federal Taxation Office, Hamilton
Street, Sydney, where also full detailed information will be supplied.
T. S. HULME,
Deputy Commissioner for Taxation.
Warwick Buildings,
Hamilton Street, SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions ,volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. wilt be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A. McNab: Note that we published a
chestnut attached to a drawing—and, till such
time as we can get the Creator to join the staff in
an advisory capacity, slips of the sort will
be liable to recur.... Old Hand: Assertion
that the Age is “utterly dead” fails to convince —•
even though it is repeated four times in about half a
column. You can’t slay a prosperous newspaper by
the Coue system.... Tom Hah: Your verses ail
crashed owing to their jagged rhyming and scansion.
....J. Caesar (Edinburgh): Happiness, you contend,
depends upon health; “it is certain that you cannot
be happy unless you are well.” But is it so abso-
lutely certain? Hear G. K. Chesterton on the other
side: “Keats died young, but he had more pleasure
in a minute than an Eugenist gets in a month.
If Stevenson had died without writing a line, he
would still have had more red-hot joy than is given
to most men.” A.S.: Good philosophy, doubt-
less, but it won’t make newspaper copy. .. .M.D-.G.:
Rather heavy commonplace.. . .W.R.H.: An idea
there, but verse too rugged. .. .S.S.: Must go back.
IV. : Trite... .Sweet Nell: Nothing there....
Byron O.: All miss W.E.8.: Don’t know what
the “Green Pool” yarn means Rajoi: The metre
is like a jig-saw puzzle, but there’s a gleam of
quaint thought there.... Robert G.: Just pious
commonplace R.8.L.: The comp, appears to have
set “stamps” instead of “stanzas”.... Beauford: An
old man, the worse for liquor, mistook a school-
master for a bookmaker—only that....J.H. (Queens-
land) : There’s a heavy jar in the rhymes of the
last stanza of “Release”... .T.H.W.: Horrible....
Mendax: Says the old things in the old way
Ecce: Both verse and prose too thin... .N.F.S.: Not
force enough H.W. (Dulwich Hill): No g00d...
Michael P.: They miss Wattle: We don’t think
anything of it. Write again when you’ve spent
some years thinking about something... .Bellerive:
“The Rover’s Grave” has the true elegiac note: —
In a hospital poor Ben departed,
To illfate he’s lot was cast.
Cut off in he’s early manhood,
A honest rover of the past.
In the shadow of a graveyard
The green grass waves above he’s bones,
Secluded from the tinted flowers
And the sacred marble stone’s.
Peaceful is he’s dreamless slumber, ...
As the coffined saint Devine,
While the light of day doth gleameth
And the stars of night doth shine.
... .F.V.C.: Both miss... .Kemble: Not strong
enough Talc Head: Reads like a solemn telegram
to God Fortian: Sorry, but most girls of 15
could write that... .A.C.M.: One hath a thin imita-
tive look and the other cometh to naught. .. •
VV.H.P.: In the basket.... Caesar: Horrible W.L.
(Wellington): “Sleepers” not up.... E.G.M.: An
Australian at Harvard can hardly be pardoned for
stuff like that. It isn’t even the dreadful free verse
that disfigures 'so much paper in your new country.
....Henry C.: Doesn’t make a sketch... .C.H.S.:
“War” doesn’t strike us. .. . J.V.S.: Not nearly up... .
J. (Glenreagh) : Those ghostly huts' in poor verse
are becoming as frequent as the men who rode buck-
jumpers... .N.M.H.: Rather wooden verse with no
interest. .. .P.H.C.: It isn’t much of a yarn, and you
haven’t told what there was of it. .. .S.D.S.: The
Spring maiden does a lot of “tripping,” but she
must trio in a new way to get a hearing. .. .Cork-
screw: We’ll take your word for it re Mars:—
Polar and icy and hitter to taste
And mineralised from land,
Filters of hugeness are wanted up there
To grow, as we understand.
Dwellers in working obtaining a thirst,
The thirst of United States.
Drinking incessantly, filling their cups,
Bewailing staggering rates.
Kelp and asparagus only for food
Appals to the human mind ;
Spuds and tomatoes and cabbage and fruit
Refuse to be coaxed when brined.
Einstein pronouncing in relative way
The things, as we think, are not.
Proving appearances holding deceit—
Is Mars an ideal spot?
. ...E.A.W.: Glad somebody found it amusing....
F.L.J.: It only repeats what has been said ten thou-
sand times... .T.T. (Southport): Very crude....
Jean L.: Misses... .John McQ.: Only worth a par.....
Wallaby: “Paddy” doesn’t make any sort of yarn as
you handle him... .1.M.L.: “Aubrey” is lifeless....
K. : Both contain fine color, but it is wasted on
the yarns ... .C.H.E.: The incident isn’t worth all
that beer... .R.D.C.: Dreary mass of commonplace
that could interest nobody... .Frederic N.: No good.
. ...D.8.0.: “Archie” is hut hob-nailed humor....
J.H. (Owanyilla): “The Enchanted Day” must go
back... .C.J.W.: Haven’t seen any... .G.E.M.: Don’t
care for “Nature . Study”.... Swansea :■ Very tame
swans.... Pam: They are too thin. Who is going
to believe that the sight of almond blossom is a
great secret?... .O.R. (Mosman) : The yarn has no
life in it... .Richard M.: Don’t like it... .M.McN.:
You have some idea of turning a verse, but you can’t
go on writing about nothing... .Zadines: No use....
Oliver B.: It may assist to stop the drift to the
cities:—
You often hear how one thrives
In the city of to-day;
It’s all busel, haste, piercing eyes,
; Watching, waiting, going always.
Rushing to plays,' to the pictures,
Everything they wish to see
Mass of human creatures,
The country, the place for me.
The sports, the crooks, the rooks to the trotting go
Like a humming swarm of bees ;
Swaying, betraying, some you know,
Hiding, spying, lieing behind the trees.
One’s not safe to venture out,
Not even day or night;
Light-fingered gents know every rout:
You never know them by sight.
The worst of all, the night-worker’s shift,
Of all the worst are they;
Go through you while you sleep, a gift——
From two to four they have their say.
... Araluen: Some good lines and some bad ones.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.W.C.: Hopeless drawing... .E.M. Both miss....
V. : You don’t seem to have any clear idea of
what you’re driving at... .M.R.: Very amateurish yet.
.. . .J.W.S.: There’s a special corner in Sheol for the
person who sends in a sketch with about 15 alleged
jokes in the hope that one “might fit it”....V.C.:
Both below par. .. .E.F.N.: No market for chicken-
stealing Yankee c00n5...-C.W.F.: The worst Billjim
to date.. . .C. 8.: Australia isn’t interested in monocles
since Georgie Reid passed 0ut....A.M.: You can’t
draw yet Melrose: Awful D.A.M.: Not worth
it D.D.: A few lessons won’t make you any worse.
... .S.C.: Crude... .R.H.: Ruled out... J.P.: Did you
ever see those subjects ? N.McM.: You’re getting
into a field that’s already overcrowded. .. .G.H.M.:
Hopeless.... M.S.: Very unsuitable. ... H.S.K.: Still
too wooden. .. .AV.T.: Misses. ... R.M.: Ditto.
MASTERPIECES.
THE LADY: "When one thinks of the drama one instinctively thinks of Shakespeare.”
THE ESCORT: “Yes, just as when one thinks of chocolates one thinks of HILLIER’S.”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseinite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great. Cities.
NEXT SAILING, SEPTEMBER 13.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking. Public Companies. Ac.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 360,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
DiHKCTOits —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G. TV.
Gray; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PUESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE ... ItKISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WOULD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,523,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922. . £13,269,793
Directors: Sir Mark Siieldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman; George
F. Todman ; Duncan Carson ; H. A. Russell ;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
Ueueral Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting-Manager: G. H. Westcott.
branches and Receiving Offices at 147 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Qpeen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. It. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 23 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager l It. T. Moo’die.
LONDON (37 Threadiieedle■ Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner (iHOUGH and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock. • .. •• £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. •• 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
H r jt;iin and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transact: ill other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£625,000
650,000
£1,275,000
. 625,000
£1,900.000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America ana elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1840.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,551,188
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policfes of about .. .. .. £2,629,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £47,000,000
Annual Income .. •• •• -• £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping:, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND REST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passenger*) booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, 21st SEPTEMBER, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 26th OCTOBER.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MAUNGANUI, 7th SEPTEMBER, 11 a.m.
TAHITI, 12th OCTOBER.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 31 TO 41 WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BURNS-PHILP LINE to
JAVA and SINGAPORE.
Passages booked through to
INDIA, BURMA, CHINA, JAPAN, etc.
TOUR & TRAVEL ADVICE
Our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT will
arrange your passage to ENGLAND, AMERICA,
AFRICA and to all parts of the world.
SPECIAL ROUND EASTERN TOURS AND
ROUND WORLD TOURS.
All information apply to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
. . f-Vv/'f. I:»
L f v
€
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Heserve Fund
lleserve liability
Directors }
ooo'ooa'siar
000‘000‘S -
000‘009‘fi -
000'000‘S? -
\
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.G.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Robert L. Faithiull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Blaclc, M.L.C.
General Manarier: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
3GO Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up .. £3,000,000
Reserve Fund . . £2,160,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,460,000
v.
Dihectors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Hater. M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. J. W. Macarthur Onslow,
M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEOIIGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London' Branch: 18 Bircliin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barelavs Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting lA>ndon
should read tiie British Australasian,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices. 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without char?*
Missing Friends.
ANNIE PEARCE nee NEURON.
Would Annie Pearce, who was born in
New South Wales, and who married Henry
Wortham Pearce at Ballarat in 1859 or
any person who can supply us with infor-
mation as to her next of kin, please com-
municate with Hamilton, Wynne and Riddell
Solicitors, 421 Collins Street, Melbourne’
Victoria.
Shinning.
Iriter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth. Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
! Sydney Agents.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s Line,
61 Pitt Street.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
Huddart, Parker.
Ltd.,
10 Bridge Street
Mell wraith,
McEacharn’s Line,
61 Pitt Street.
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough. Bunda-
bergVand Gladstone, and at Townsville for outport-).
Howard Smith
! Ltd. & Reduced.
350 George St.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd,
7 Bridge St.
Howard Smith
Ltd. & Reduced,
350 George St.
ow • nl Smith
Ltd. & Reduced.
350 George St.
(passengers
•Brisbane, Maekay
and Cairns.
‘Brisbane, Port Alma (passengers
Bowen and Townsville.
only), Townsville
only), Maekay,
Huddart Parker Lyn
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAM BUS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar suilingH
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appu-
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Ilobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from Sydney only 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
1 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
/ BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at 7 p.m. ;
passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. BURRINGBAR SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including: —
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply: —
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE..
Cable address:
“IKOQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton § Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners,
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and l'itzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackliealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltil.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co..
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries .Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide.
Melbourne, Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown-


Write with an Eversharp
XXT'RITE with an Eversharp and
* * you’ll never make thick, blur-
ring lines. Write with an Eversharp
and you won’t waste leads. Write
with an Eversharp and you'll never
be bothered with a short pencil.
In fact, write once with an Ever-
sharp and you’ll never use any other
kind of pencil.
Made in gold, gold-filled, silver
and silver-plated styles, in various
patterns and sizes every pencil
equipped with an eraser concealed
by the cap.
For Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York U. S. A.
Be sure it’s an
EVERSHARP
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HO A RE, Ltd..
Remington House. Liverpool St.. Sydney
If
AUTOMOBILE
ENGINEERING.
MACHINE TOOL
ENGINEERING.
TYPICAL ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES USING
ESSOP'S
STEELS
PINE tool wore.
h
I
Every important Engineering
Industry uses Jessop’s Steel.
Crafts such as Machine Tool-
making anti Automobile
Engineering each find that the
special grade of Jessop’s Steel
evolved for their particular needs
does its work more satisfactorily
than other steels.
Jessop's Steels are tough,
wear-resisting, dependable steels,
specially graded for those indus-
tries which not only appreciate,
but demand, the very best in
steels. If it’s a steel problem let
J essop’s Engineers co-operate
with YOUBS.
MAILLER & QUEREAU, Atlas Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne,
AGENTS FOR
WM. JESSOP & SONS, LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
••MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE
M.S. SPORT EQOIPMENT
Everything for TENNIS.
''
r 1
£
Wrasses
u
rackets.
4. M.S. National
5. M.S. Special or Premier .
10. C. 8.8., Double Strung .
11. Haymarket
15. Britannic, concave throat
16. Oceanic, concave throat .
17. Titanic, concave throat .
18. Cyclonic, concave throat
19. Bussey’s Standard ......
20. Bussey’s Conqueror
21. Bussey’s Handicap
22. Bussey’s A 1
23. Bussey’s Invincible
24. Ayre’s Sandown
25. Ayre’s Handicap
26. Ayre’s A 1
15/6
80/-
27/ 6
30/-
45/-
55/-
65/-
80/-
25/-
30/-
32/6
85/-
50/-
80/-
37/6
40/-
28. Ayre’s Matador
29. Ayre’s Central Strung
31. Speeial Sample, cork-ribbed grip
34. Spalding’s Tournament
35. Spalding’s Continental
37. Davis Riseley Hexagon
38. Slazenger’s La Belle
39. Slazenger’s Player
40. Slazenger’s Renshaw
42. Slazenger’s Wliitehouse
43. Slazenger’s Imperial
44. Slazenger’s Classic ••••
45. Slazenger’s E.G.M
48. Slazenger’s Lambert Chambers.
52. H. C. Lee’s Seneca
53. H. C. Lee’s. Spartan
54. H. C. Lee’s Church
55/-
00/-
42/-
49/0
55/-
87/0
27/0
30/-
45/-
68/-
77/0
80/-
85/-
80/-
55/-
70/-
90/-
RACKET REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
TENNIS BALLS.
Dunlop Regulation Grey
Dunlop’s Champi< in, 1922
Each. Doz.
1/4 15/-
2/7 30/-
Each. Doz.
Ayre’s Court .. 2/2 25/-
Ayre’s Champion, 1922 2/9 32 '-
SLAZENGER’S Championship, 1922 (airtight tins)
SUNDRIES
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carrlace.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size, ,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Acme (square) Posts, pair 100/-
Tennis Court Markers 37/0
Tennis Tapes 22/0
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle 1/-
Each, j
Racket Covers 2/6, 5/6, 7/t j
Tennis Ratchet 7/fi;
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/(5
Racket Handle Grips .. 1/-, 1/3, 1/0
Scoring Books 1/G
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6, 6/6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-
ILLUSTRATED TENNIS PRICE LIST FREE ON REQUEST.'
BOXING
GLOVES
_ • :.s
3
a*
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Set ° f 4
real leather, special value..... • •...... •y ; .13 A
40/-
Personally recommended
Mr.
40/-
C.
PE]
HIGH-
TELE “LIGHTNING,’ ----- ,
Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
BOYS’ GLOVES. Set of 4
superior,i 4Ced " p ,ta^:::::o>-;-bVi, ifv»
” (Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
Tf rn,j- CTRAPS best quality (Postage 3d.) 0/0, 7/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, English Leather, extra light, weight 31oz. (Postage Cid.), 15/0, 17/6 pair.
Price List of Boxing Gloves, Punching Balls, etc., post free.
PUNCHING BALLS.
u
SS3E
THE
ARMY
THB
PORTABLE
THE EXPERT
ARMY, Swinging Ball, reg., for fast work, 10/6, 13/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
ARMY’ extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable
and perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made 45/-
EXPERT double-end Ball, medium size, elastic cord for floor and rope for ceiling. .12/6, 15/6
EXPERT’ double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light.... 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
FXPFRT' double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings,
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.) 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTABIiE BALE, Strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and bladder
complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) ...., 105/-
All above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
SUNDRIES.
Ball and Socket Swivels -.-
Double-action Swivels, 6/-
Hall Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pair.
l/6, 5/6 each
each. Ball-bearing Swivels 10/6 each
Punching Platforms, 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
m
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; Edward St., BRISBANE.


Plaza
Tooth
Paste,
Large
Tubes
1/6
£8
m
m
ii
///
&
r
a#
y
1/6
If You Want Beautiful Teeth
you must use
Plaza Tooth Paste.
PLAZA TOOTH PASTE hygienically
cleanses, polishes and whitens the teeth. It
is an entirely new kind of Tooth Paste that
will delight you. A pure white dentifrice, with just the right taste,
which forms a creamy lather in the mouth and preserves the teeth
from discoloration and decay. Run your tongue over the surface
of your teeth after using PLAZA TOOTH PASTE, and see how
smooth and clean they feel.
Note how it tones up the gums and keeps them in perfect con-
dition! It is an active agent in the prevention of Pyorrhea. Try
this delightful New Tooth Paste. It is a revelation!
PLAZA Tooth Paste.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
■22 RIM FIRE.
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
IWE. ■.
ALL BRITISH
nON’T BE MISERABLE!
m
Don’t be weak and puny!
Don’t be always ill!
Don’t shorten your days!
Don’t let ill-health conquer you
Enjoy Every IVlinute of Life
by keeping your whole system in proper working order. With
health and strength life will open out new vistas for you,
and business will be a pleasure.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker can help you to a full realisation of
the joy of life if you take up his
Postal Course of Health and
Strength Culture.
Tt is emphatically not a “strong-man” course, but a
series of simple, enjoyable, graduated exercises that will
bring into play the neglected muscles, steady the nerves,
help you to breathe and develop properly, and make all
the organs of the body perform their functions correctly.
No apparatus is required, and each lesson is graded to
suit particular individual requirements.
“Snowy” Baker has written a most interesting booklet,
“Health and Strength from Self-culture,” which tells
all about the course, and contains many valuable hints.
If you send this advertisement, with your name and
address across it, together with thsee stamps for postage,
the book will be forwarded.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
“ The AH-round Champion Athlete of .Australia,”
164 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
Lagoon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T] HE world is shrill with wind in flight,
But through the swathing years I
find
A tranquil day, a fragrant night
Down some dim by-way of the mind.
Dear echoes from my morning-time,
They breathe across the heart again,
like tiny, timid bells that chime
Through sonorous-sounding thunder-rain.
Ah! jocund years, when Youth might sit
With love of life his only need,
Ere lieason’s awful beacon lit
The crumbling ramparts of a creed,
Ere Science bared her pallid face,
And sped the questing mind which mocks
Humility, till haunted Space
Turns wisdom into paradox.
Sweet sisterhood of high desires;
All beauteous things with God are fraught.
For every loveliness inspires
The sequences of loftier thought.
I, who have schooled mine eyes to stare
Straight in the face of Dark and Death,
Now gladly turn to-night to where
The white day stood with bated breath.
With bated breath the day stood by,
Hushed by the wonder of her grace,
For, stooping low, the amorous sky
Had laid her cheek against her face.
From stress of ocean tempest-torn
That all the plain of Vision fills,
■Renunciate, she hid, withdrawn
To her blue cloister ’mid the hills.
I marked the beauty of her face
And strained the eager eyes of me,
To trace her evenness of pace,
From sea to hill, from hill to sea.
Here was no mockery of change ;
Untroubled by the tread of Time,
She bided by the sea to range
The lower thought with the sublime.
I watched the twilit shades go by,
The tall day striding fast and far,
The sad star staring through the sky,
The darkness seething past the star.
And, where the cool sea vapors curled,
I turned and left her dreaming there —
A dark girl, couched across the world,
With diamonds within her hair.
To-night, I stay with muted lips
That such soft beauty should uprise,
For I have found God’s finger-tips
And gazed with His eternal eyes.
Out of the deep abysmal gloom,
By swift command of heart and brain,
I wrench this splendor from the tomb —
A dead day leaps to life again.
I count no worth of kith or kind,
The crested urn, the marbled sod,
Such wondrous miracles of mind
Place man upon the throne of God.
VICTORIA.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Denny Goes the Rounds.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN Quart Pot township Denny Deneen
began his day early; when the air is
. still like wine, but wine that has been
cooled, and when the flies are returning to
consciousness after the cold night that has
paralysed them. From his house among the
pines Denny came to the store —separated
by a long, wide garden from the dwelling—
immediately after an early cup of tea taken
with the extra luxury of watching his house-
boy, Micky, cleaning the boots of the house-
hold. That done, he saw Micky take the
milk pail and a measure of corn and dis-
appear through the whitewashed gate to-
wards the cow-house. At that point Denny
started for the store, hearing on the road
the cackling of excited fowls as corrobora-
tion of Micky’s attendance to duty. At 7
o’clock every morning Denny looked into
his butcher’s shop beyond the store and satis-
fied himself that William Puttifoot, his
butcher, was properly and decently engaged
breaking down quarters of beef and carcases
of sheep and cutting therefrom the orders
of the day—-to be delivered by the butclier-
boy, George, riding with the nearside stirrup
short and the offside stirrup longer, and
carrying his basket on the nearside leg.
Denny then returned to the store, opened
the back door and entered the little office.
His three male store attendants and the girl
attendant not being due until 8 o’clock,
Denny opened the front door, so that the
early worm might come in and spend his
money. This done, he returned to the office
and read his only literature —the ledger;
giving to his swift appraisement of debits a
running fire of commentary on the debtors
themselves; in extreme cases extending this
commentary to highly unflattering remarks
on the debtor’s personal habits and charac-
ter.
“Baynes—nine pound fourteen an’ trip-
pence, and whin he come out of the hosh-
pittle, if he don’t pay I would put him in
again; Bolger, eleven pound, an’ a good
man; Burridge, a dacent man, an’ his bill
could be bigger; Carney, hell to him, seven
pound an’ tripipence; Cleghorn, forty-nine
pound fifteen shilluns—the dirty, loafin’
hound cryin’ ‘Pore cow me!’ an’ wrnuld
shtarve in a kitchen full o’ meat an’ p’taties
if y’ didn’t shtuff it in his mouth. H’m—
y’h’m. I’ll put two shcore of them in the
petty-debts court, an’ I’ll be the Jaypee
an’ give ’em flbe rounds o’ the kitchen, I
will that. An’ what’s that? Puttifoot, me
ow r n butcher man that I pay wages to an’
he don’t pay mm. I’ll see then what he have
in the day boiok for eight pound fifteen.
Hahum ! Ya’hu m ! White shirts. Oh, the
king he is, an’ 'a shilk tie, an’ a shilk shirt,
an’ a beas-ar on horseback, too. an’ it is—it
is—Puttifoot hiere on another day—wan
bottle o’ O de 'Cologgin. Shent for him. A
bottle o’ perfuune for him—would he nut it
on his haudkerchv wh<m he’s cartin’ the
bones an’ fat to the boilin’-down? A bottle
o’ shent is it?} I’ll look after you Willyum
Puttifoot. me fad —a l’ttle ovdd vwsn o’ eight
stone six of a bald-headed butcher-man
buying shent an’ wastin’ time perfumin’
handkerchys whin he should a be turnin’ the
sausage-mashin’ makin’ hne pork sausages
out o’ the breashts o’ mutton an' ravellin’s
o’ beef. Wait you, me little ould whisp of
a bald-faced butcher-man, an’ I’ll find a ray-
son for your crimes.”
His daily literary studies complete Denny
Deneen proceeded to the front of the store and
appreciatively looked over his hotel on the
other side of the road; then, equally apprecia-
tively, he looked at his drays, now proceeding
to the daily work of transport; looked over
—not appreciatively—Puttifoot, his cutting
of orders done, packing said orders for dis-
tant customers in Denny Deneen’s butcher’s
cart; and then looked further away to a
pink blur backed by the bush and broken
by the granite, the pink blur being peach-
bloom in Denny Deneen’s orchard—the
pride of Quart Pot, and its finest advertise-
ment.
Thus made at peace with the world by
this complacent study of his own posses-
sions therein, Denny advanced to the edge
of the footpath, where the sun could strike
him without cover of the verandah. There
he sunned himself, standing with slack knees
so that his justice’s belly, with fair capon
lined, overhung the alignment of the side-
walk. His plump face glowed with health;
his eyes twinkled with the humor that is
mostly animal spirits and gladness to be
alive; and, sure sign that he was now about
to think deeply, he caressed his blue-black
beard (with only a few white hairs in it)
and lifted the ends of it, which were becom-
ing reddish as the first stage oj: greyness,
and put the end of his beard into his mouth.
A minute or so of biting at the beard and
he released it to say, “So you’re here, then,”
to the second assistant-shopman, who began
the day’s routine by seizing a broom, and
with it removing the dust from the floor to
the stock.
“Damp yur flure,” said Denny. “Damp
yur flure. Have y’ no sense at all?”
The second assistant acted on the advice
given for tlje 300th time as if it were new
news now first heard; and having
bitten his own beard again, went to the
butcher’s shop, and seeing Puttifoot ready
to drive off on his distant rounds, and the
butcher-boy cleaning up the shop, Denny
returned to the house to review the labors
of Micky.
Micky had done well. The cows were in
the paddock with their calves, and lowing
contentedly; ‘ a few hens cackled to show
that they were about to repay Denny’s
good corn with tribute of eggs; and the pigs
were in their sty, nosing the morning wind
and listening to the noise of the separator
whirled by Micky, as earnest that their
breakfast of skim milk, was toward. With
a good heart and retidy stomach, Denny
went to breakfast.
When he returned to the store trade was
beginning to do its best. There wei-e cus-
tomers in all the departments; in the gro-
cery and the ironmongery two men, with the
brand of their own cattle upon them, were
ordering importantly large lists of stores.
Denny looked upon the charming scene, well
content.
Suddenly he started as if stung. At the
street-end of the grocery counter stood a
very long, thin woman in late middle-
age. Her most salient feature was her nose;
thin and curved it was, a very promontory
of a nose, jutting from that face as flat as
a beach; such a nose as is the father of
all hawks and pawnbrokers. She. was hun-
gry as an orphan, greedy as a rich widow
and insatiable as the sea; she divided her
attention between a case of dried apples, con-
veniently open to her hand, before the
counter, and a tin of biscuits and half a
cheese —now cut into little steps and decli-
vities by the flashing knife which she
wielded. Her name Was Choquindie, but
that was nothing to youths who take
the word “immigrant” and make it “pome-
granate.” and then abbreviate it so that
the kind of immigrant whom nobody likes is
called a “Pommy.” With Mrs. Choquindie
it was easier • certain ’ schoolboy rhymes
proved the variant.
“The time is drawing very near,”
Said Mrs. Chook, one day.
“When little chickens will appear
From eggs that I did lay.”
So Mrs. Choquindie became Mrs. Chook-
one-day, irrevocably so; object she ever so
loudly. Useless for her to say that she
came of a high-class, respectable English
family, and that her husband, the late Mr.
Choquindie, demeaned himself by bringing
her to the beastly colonies. Her departed
spouse became Mr. Chook-one-day before
she had finished the sentence. Denny
Deneen hated her, not only with the measure
of the Celt for the Saxon, nor with the mea-
sure of his dislike for her insulting refer-
ence to Australia as “these colonies,” which
country he loved in the ratio of its great
goodness to himself; but with the measure
of a thrifty storekeeper who sees the tast-
ing of cheese become the eating of half a
pound or so—and that measure of hatred
was pressed full and running over.
Half-amused at the ghastly insolence of
it, once the first shock of discovery was over,
he watched Mrs. Choquindie tire of the
dried apricots and grow weary of the bis-
cuits and cheese; and then the hair on his
neck bristled as if he were an enraged
collie. Mrs. Choquindie had raised the great
knife used for Jutting bacon rashers. Denny
watched her, holding his breath in antici-
pation. The knife hovered above a piece
of bacon; Denny, knowing that she
ate bacon raw, prepared to shout and
stopped, when the knife waved from
the bacon to the German sausage. He saw
the lady’s left hand, the thin and predatory
hand of the ideal shoplifter, close upon the
sausage and bring it in position for the
knife to cut a modest sample—say, a quarter
of a pound. Then Denny Deneen exploded.
“Willyum!’.’ he cried. “Moind the cheese
—an’ the sossige—an’ the dhried apples
from cannibles.”
Mrs. Choquindie turned, dignified as a
profiteer caught in the act of wholesale theft.
“Sir!” she said. “Do you allude to me?”
“Is your name Cheese, ma’am —or is it
Bacon? Or are you Mrs. Sossige? Answer
me that. Willyum, mind yur shtock. Every-
thing goes bad except cheese—an’ sossige
and bacon an’ dhried apples shall have a
chance to go bad if Mrs. Chook-one-day will
shpare them the toime.”
“Mrs. Choquindie, if you please. I was
simnlv tasting before purchasing.”
“An’ you would die of overawin’ yurself
before you wrnuld buy annythir.g. Now.
Mrs. Chook-one-day, live an’ let live. I say.
Would you eat me out of house an’ home
(Continued on next page.)


"Every Picture
Ms ~
g Story
%
“You Have Neglected
Your Kidneys!”
That’s why you are tortured with that dull, all-day
backache! It’s the reason for that lameness, soreness,
and those sharp rheumatic pains! And it’s due to neglect
of these early warnings that we find so many people with
gravel, dropsy and other serious kidney ills.
To be well and stay well you must watch your kidneys.
You cannot afford to ignore even the slightest symptom
of kidney weakness. That nerve-racking backache, those
knife-like pains, those headaches, dizzy spells and distressing urinary irregularities, while easily
corrected if treated promptly, may prove serious if neglected.
Don’t be discouraged! Use commonsense and take things easier for awhile. Cut down your meat.
Drink plenty of water, and help the weakened kidneys with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This old,
reliable remedy has a world-wide reputation, and is recommended by scores of your friends and
acquaintances. Ask your neighbor!
SYDNEY RESIDENT CURED.
Mr. James Higgins. Queen Street, Beaconsfield, Sydney, says:—“Some time ago I was taken very badly
with kidney trouble. I don’t know 7 how to account for it, unless several accidents w 7 ere to blame. I consulted
three doctors and underwent treatment, and each one, failing to do me good, advised me to go into the hospital
for an operation. Thev said my case was almost hopeless, and that an operation w r as my only chance, as one
of my kidneys was in a very diseased state. I took medicine of all sorts, but failed, and I was in
such pain and misery that I did not care if I lived or died. I had severe pains in my back, giddiness, headaches
and scalding urine. I was completely done up and scarcely able to lift anything. The day was appointed for
the operation, when a friend asked me if I had tried Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. He told me he knew of
a man who was as bad as I was and who had been completely cured, and for good, by this remedy. I post-
poned the operation and commenced using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A fortnight later I returned
to work, and the men there could not believe the change they saw in me would ever have been possible. There
is no doubt it is wonderful. I am quite cured and as fit for w 7 ork as a man could be.”
Sixteen years later Mr. Higgins says:—“Since my cure I have had one or two slight attacks of kidney
disorder, but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have always given me quick relief. I am a great believer in this
remedy, and with reason.”
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
-o that w in I wint into me house I would
the shtreet? Answer me, Mrs. ChooK-
Th ail i S 'j er me that.”
, , ,j n lad - v swelled with rage. Finding
h? ot trust herself to speak, she
“7, slaughter through her nostrils,
i lke those of a winded horse, and
«y,j„ q °\ the shop.
VVifirnm " V r > ee , se when y r see her comm ,
she’s eoin’ ” °° k outslde to see where
rpho cii' , ,
the salesman, obeying, reported that she
had entered the shop next door.
‘‘l s’POse she’s safe there,” said Denny
Deneen. “Shore the . faymale cannible
wouldn t ate rar meat”
Satisfied with his act of protection of his
own goods, Denny put in a very satisfactory
tlay • a day of' good business in store,
butchery and hotel—Denny, going the rounds
of bis activities, "hazing Micky because hens.
with no more than the usual perversity of
hens, escaped from their nests in the fowl-
house and laid eggs behind the safe in
Denny’s office, incidentally disturbing the
course of business by their loud advertise-
ment of the fact; riding in the afternoon
to his orchard over the creek and to his tin-
mining leases beyond. The details of all
these activities he carried in a marvellous
memory, that visualised a man’s account in
hi«h ledBCr when U met that man in the
ti , , ,
t 0 the towasbl P “ the short
i •’ t l le summer day, smokiug Ins
nothin * i n ? Ji? osely the saddle, hearing
°i . the > rth mu
sun strodp fi S G !' ea thing. [he
sun strode down the sky to a great bare
and rounded mountain of granite and slipped
s' at*, o£*s£ “ s'!
turquoise sky paled to amethystthe great
rocks dimmed to purple before deepening to
blackness: black became the pines, dark
green the poplars, standing as sentries on
the rocky hill
“God bless Oshtralia!” said Denny Deneen.
“God bless the land that’s good to the poor!”
He put his horse away, Micky having dis-
appeared, and then, finding nobody in his
house, w 7 ent across the road to his hotel for
the evening meal. Ab he entered the hotel
he looked around him again, and again
blessed Australia, Then he entered and ate
with a good heart in the coffee-room.
Leaving the coffee-room, he w 7 as about to
go to the bar for a cigar, when he heard
the waitress of the dining-room (or the shil-
ling table) complaining to the housemaid.
“That long-faced cove will never finish
eating,” said the waitress. “Three plates
of cold meat and nearly a bottle of pickles
and about a dozen eggs, an’ now he’s at the
jam. I’ll never get away to see me boy to-
night.”
“What’s that you say, me gurrl?” asked
Denny Deneen.
The waitress repeated the complaint, sup-
piemen ting it with the opinion that the in-
satiable guest had had ten shillings’ worth
for his shilling already.
“I’ll fix um,” said Denny. “I’ll fix urn.”
He strode to the door of the dining-room,
opened it and saw at the misnamed shilling
table the weary loafer whose different son
he had admired—the long-faced, melancholy
man, who had been burned out because he
was too lazy to plough firebreaks—Cleghorn.
It was in the days before war had changed
Australia; and rural Australia especially was
U ie land of much for little—cheapness with
plenty. The old ways survived at Quart Pot
to t b e extent that Denny Deneen had not
raised prices: and all men were welcome to
their fill. There was a great round of cold
roast beef and a square foot of corned brisket
on the sideboard, backed by a dish of lettuce
and radishes—the dish being big enough for a
mn n „ P ,.
l ,n, ‘ ~ ,
. T be results of Cleghorn s appetite were
t v , lBlbl f e °\ the table; the bread cleared from
the trencher, dead low-tide in the piclde-
kottles, mere smears of jam in the conserve
dl&bes . and a pyramid of eggshells before the
eater—Cleghorn having thoughtfully placed
la . sb, ,] s on the. cloth, where a chaste
and self-made design of yolk relieved the
white monotony of the linen. Mr. Cleghorn,
almost cheerful now, had also become ener-
getic, but for a short season only; he stirred
the tea noisily with the spoon as if he sought
to drill through the bottom of the cup. He
looked up as Denny entered, and his face
extended to its usual length. His long
upper lip—the lip of a fool—sagged tre-
mendously, so that he looked as if he were
about to weep.
“ Good evenin’, Mister Deneen,” he said.
Denny Deneen looked at him, and saw there
not only Cleghorn, but a weeping woman
with a baby in her arms, and small children
at der skirts, half-blinded by the smoke of a
bushfire, and looking lieart-brokeuly at the
ru j ns G f the wretched shack they had called
i mmo r rhev faded and he suw Clee-horn
an <l naee 279 in the store Ddaer Sow
fn E rciShorr«TdS,tor
}?* ° t W h K wbo now
to eat his creditor into the Insolvency Court,
. r onny started impulsively for Cleghorn—
to tending little less than to assault and dis-
member him; but the memory of Jimmy
2?F h n o n 7’ fh th ® B “ iling f 5° y w^ unded
m°L ai “IJAS “fn r sh °T l ? S
,a Deneen, and he
walked up to Cleghorn with a fair imitation
T ut a b f, bad to m . ake . himself
intelligible, to this dull, gross egoism; and lie
tried to pierce the man s selfishness with a
rough sarcasm, that anything less callous
th^^P» le ?S. o f n^ff?s^?iT e ™i te 4 undcl \,
, r . , b * 9, , b ' P l ,* . ® aid Denny. Cis
MisLter Cleghorn, isn't it.
Yairs, Mr. Deneen, replied the loafer,
moving uneasily in his chair.
“An’ have ye had ony bush-foires since last
mont’?”
“No-o-o, Mr. Deneen—not yet.”
“An’ have ye ploughed any fire-breaks?”
“No—Mr. Deneen—no good doin’ that—all
the grass gets long a,n’ dry again.”
“An’ are ye ploughin’ at all—catch-crops
of any kind—while the new threes grow?”
“Jimmy’s ploughin’, Mr. Deneen.”
“Oh, Jimmy’s he? Is he,
I -mean; an’ yeer directin’?”
“Yes—Mr. Deneen.”
“An’ I s’pose the baby’s fellin’ threes and
the little gurrl-child is splittin’ rails f’r
fencin’?”
“No -Mr. Deneen—they ain’t old enough
yet.”
“Not ouM enough! Oh! is that so?
Slitill a shuckin’ child might be doin’ useful
things about a farrm. Ye could have that
baby down well-smkin’, couldn’t ye?”
Oh !—now—you re jokin, Mr. Deneen !
“Oh! am I jokin’? Would I joke about
fv h JL blasphemious thing as work, would
1 •—me man wit the long drawlm speech as
long as the winther night in Lapland. Have
you finished your-r tay?”
“Oh! Yairs, thanks.”
“If you can’t ate any quicker than you
talk—you’d die shtarvin’.”
IS y done all right Mr. Deneen.”
pickles?!’ 111 1 “
“Oh—yes pretty ’well.”
“Let me open another bottle for you.”
“Qk—no—thanks.”
“xt e \ have another plate o corn-beef ?”
“Pnt t vnn^YYYe^ _t Ue Y P ateS '"
But you only had tin or a dozen eggs,
didn’t you?”
“I had nine eggs.”
“ ’Tishn’t enough for any growin’ lad like
ye,” said Deneen, his angry passions rising
at this man who could neither laugh nor feel
insult. “What’s nine eggs? Nothin’. Have
somethin to ate, for God’s sake!”
•°i ~a nbs — d had my fair shillin’s worth,
all right.
It was the mitating cackle as imicli as tk
words that enraged Deneen—the self-satis-
ted recognition of rations for an army, being
a fair shillm s worth” that changed Denny’s
sarcasm to action, although he would have
been mollified had Cleghoru either laughed
or shown fight. ;
‘ A fair shillin’s worth, is it? No fear—it
isn’t that yet—have another plate of corn-
beef, won’t you?” ‘
‘No thanks,” said Cleghorn, beginning to
feel uncomfortable.
“Have some pickles—have some pudden—
have some jam?”
“No thanks.”
Denny Deneen bent over him, putting his
bristling black whiskers against Cleghorn’s
Have some meat—have some eggs—have
six eggs -you damned loafer.”
1 atienee and eloquence exhausted, Denny
Deneen seized Cleghorn by the neck and the
slack of the trousers and ran him out of the
dining-room and to the front door, inviting
him to hospitality in a tone that contradicted
the words.
‘ Fill yur belly, me man,” said Denny, pro-
pelling him from the dining-room.
“Have a hind-quarter of corn-beef an’ a
case o’ pickles.” He emphasised the invita-
tion by partially screwing Cleghorn’s head
oft so that Deneen might see Olcghorn’s
eyes as he ran.
Have some more eggs,” said Denny, run-
rung Cleghorn at great speed through the hall
on to the verandah edge. Have half-a-dozen
eggs,” said Denny, propelling Cleghorn with
a u m ”, kick into the gutter. ‘Have a bloody
clutch. ’
Cleghorn picked himself up and ran down
the road. Denny Deneen, at peace after the
joy of battle, recovered his philosophy.
“There’s more tbrouble over one thing an’
another than over annything else,” said
Denny Deneen.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Brady.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BRADY died whilst working a claim
up a gully off Lindon’s Creek.
Papua, back in the early days of
“the Gira.” The corpse was two days old
when the little party of miners went to bury
it. Goldfields stores don’t stock coffins, so
Brady was comfortably stretched in his own
sluice-box, carried down the rough gully to
where the ground promised to be easiest, and
there the miners’ boys sunk a hole for him.
But they bottomed on such, good-looking
“wash” that Brady was put away to lee-
ward whilst the burying-party prospected
the patch. The ground they tried was vastly
better than most members of the party were
then working; so each man worked a sec-
tion for himself; and it was late afternoon
ere the funeral was proceeded with, and the
cause of it deposited in the side of a hill.
Time went on, and Lindon’s turned out
a Bonanza. It was turned over and over,
time and again. During the next several
years Brady was moved dozens of times by
chasers of the elusive ’weight. His coffin
showed more than signs of this unfair wear
and tear. One morning, years later, Sid
Thorsby, having set his sluice-box and
started his team of “boys” on a “paddock,”
strolled across the hills to have a chat with
Billy Hudson, who was cutting a race to
flume in Lindon’s. He met the man he was
looking for clambering up from the gully
Avith a couple of “boys” carrying a sugar
sack and picks and shovels.
“G’morning, Billy. How’s things?”
"Oh, pretty good, Sid. How’s y’self?"
“I’m shiftin’ Brady. Been doin’ a bit of
loamin’ down ’ere, ’nd lit onta a nice little
lead goin’ inter the hill right under ’im.
Better come along.”
“Righto! When’re you goiu’ to shift ’im?”
“Now. That’s ’im y’ ’ear a-rattlin’ in that
there bag. None of his box left, but I think I’ve*
got ’im all. All in bits y’know. Couldn't
find some of ’is finger-bones for a bit, but
put the ‘boys’ to work with a sieve ’nd found
’em eventually. Used t’ he a good cove.
Brady. Sooner leave the gold where
it is than lose any of ’im.”
“My oath, Billy’E’d have done th' same
f’r us. Where ’re you puttin’ him?”
“There’s a bit of an overhangin’ ledge
along ’ere a bit; that orter do ’im.”
On reaching the ledge the “boys” were put
to scoop a hole for the bag, but they had hardly
started when one of them jumped up excit-
edly shouting: “Look, taubndo [master]”(he
held up a lump of gold as big as his hand),
“plenty moni [gold] he stop!”
And so there was. Brady was hung on
a nearby limb whilst the prospectors tore
30 ounces from under the rock and pegged
another claim.
Brady must have been predestined to be
buried up a tree, for he was in the same
place when I saw him six months later, and
he’d never remained undisturbed as long ns
that during the term of his natural death.
LAGANI NAMO.


- .
m
-
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure mini mum wear—
Maximum iife and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
M.Z. Office—o 3-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office- 98 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Sight Repreuntatlyn t
THE BRIT SH
H. F. RITCHIE & Co Ud
CHINA HOUSE,SYDNEY
Overwork and worry pften accentuate that lack
of interest and total absence of vigor which
make daily life a dull monotonous grind. It is
a condition which regular users of ENO’s “Fruit
Salt” rarely experience. The early morning
glass of water sparkling with a “dash” of ENO
keeps body and mind braced iqr the day’s
work—however much there is to do. Be
sure to ask your chemist or storekeeper for
FRUIT SALT
CAPITAt,
Our revised price list is chokeful of benefits for the
users of boring and cutting tools. There can be no
reason now, if ever one existed, for employing cutters
of ordinary commercial quality. In
“Capital” Brand Milling Cutters,
Involute Cutters and Reamers
• '' '
we are offering the same unvaried high quality “Capital”
brand steel, and the same accuracy of production that Aus-
tralian engineers have always associated with our product.
The only difference is in the price, There lies your advan-
tage. Our High-Speed Twist Drills, too, have touched a
much lower figure. Send us .vour order and ask for
“Balfour’s Hints on Steel,” post free.
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Associated Company, ARTHUR BAUFOUR & CO.,
LTD., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,.
319-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; Cliff Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder Road,
Kaigoorlie; Paul & Gray, Utd.. Scott Street, New-
castle; H. L. Milligan, 32a Argyie Street, Hobart;
John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street, Bris-
bane; Charles Atkins & Co., Utd., 88-90 Currie
Street, Adelaide.
m
mm
-
SSfe
ITI
?JWK
$
9*
Ik
15 Short or
11 Long or 10 Long-
Rifle Cartridges
May be loaded in the magazine of the .22 Remington
Repeater.
After the first shot, just slide the fore-end backward and
forward which operation ejects the empty cartridge case
and passes the next cartridge instantly from the maga-
zine into the chamber —ready for another shot.
The Remington .22 is light, splendidly balanced and
easily taken apart for cleaning and carrying.
A Splendid Rabbit Rifle /
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
6. P. O; Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
—•••••illicit!
Him
u
iiiim
s.
mSS
'"'iiiiiUlllllUlllll
» m
m .
<
illllim
-
llH’iiii] ll ijj
-■Muiiiil ■iUi||l(nw|
I ■ iiiiiii
y
warn
M jiHlil
H
0f
• 1 1 1 • * ® •
111
"•tniiiiii/lfli
inf icKiriiiiiif i
Refrigerating 8 Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—-their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions thev can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and .the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day,, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
LTD.,
Alliance
97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
*
'* r **rS
v. 4^
l^,t '* J U>. T#B
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Prink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water on if.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd.. 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
dO XNIHJL
BELL&Cud
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Selll
Persondl Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Watermaij’s
Ideal!
mPen
will see you
through
Life’s Writing
Worries
A grand pen this —you write
with it without conscious
effort. The nib runssmoothly
along the paper, the flow of
ink is regular, the pen is so
evenly balanced that writing
really and truly is a positive
delight. You get an iridium-
tipped gold nib exactly suited
to your hand and a pen that
will last you a lifetime. Why
forego the pleasure—and the
economy —any longer ?
Three Types: Self-Fill : ng,
Safety (as illustrated) and
-■Regular. Of Stationers
and Jewellers everywhere. 1
L. G. SLOAN, LTD., f
The Pen Corner S!ij
Australia: HAROLD D. DIXONJ
105, Clarence Street, Sydney,£
R. G. WATKINS ®.CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,-
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE..
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Riant available,;
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY, IT WILL PAY YOU.


THE
Broken Hill Proprietary
Company Limited,
MINE OWNERS.
IRON AND STEEL MASTERS,
'-:S
v -*; ; .. i
4 ' -r
c
■i k ,
m
% * IjglpN , v
■
Electric Magnet at work in the Stock Yard at the Steel Works, Newcastle.
Manufacturers of
PIG IRON (various grades), 3
STEEL INGOTS, RAILS, FISHPLATES,
BILLETS, BLOOMS, ROUNDS, FLATS, SQUARES,
BEAMS, TEES, ANGLES, CHANNELS, JOISTS,
REINFORCING MATERIAL (from J to 11 inches),
etc., and .
SULPHATE of AMMONIA.
HEAD OFFICE:
Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Cables and Teleerams: “Ganabroon, Melbourne**’
