

-,-o i**;
■ .
is only one of the advantages of Electric Fires —safe, con-
venient, easily portable, healthful, clean, attractive in design
and AUSTRALIAN MADE.
They are always ready to serve efficiently and economically. The Electric Radiator provides
a cheerful glow, with heat instantly available—free from smoky and unhealthy odors. You
can have a cheerful warmth and glow wherever and wherever you desire, and effect substantial
savings of coal bills and economy of effort. Electric Fires require no further attention beyond
the touch of an electric .switch.
Our stocks are many and v varied. Full particulars will be gladly mailed.
m iiiinim
i
m/m
m
m
•'V
■
m
i-l
T
:
!
=?t
Sss
Ki NO HEAVY FUEL BILLS
_Js
NO D
ST
CLEAN
fwn
m
m
t
H
V
fonr
\
m
¥=?f
II
v-:
ti
4 >, v/j
XJ
t
iIT
* //«»
i
•• 11—it- if'fir,
gfrii -Jhw^
m
r
H?
SIMPLE £ SAFE
SMART APPEARANCE
2/
f -
* r^i
Australian General fl,ectric (5. fid.
35-45 WENTWORTH tWENUE
SYDNEY
a
116. QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE^
Phone: City 3510 Box 2517 G.P.O
BRISBANE. Q. —The Engineering Supply Co- -Vustraha,
r.tfl. (E.S.C.A.), corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
TASMANIA —Oliver & Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Phone : Cen. 2646 Box. 538 G. P.Q»
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Charles Atkins & Co., Lid., 88-00 Currie Street.
PERTH*, W.A. —Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., “Mazda
House,” 894 Hay Street.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2212.
Thursday, July 6, 1922.
Price 6d.
‘Registfered- at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.'W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


New 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Posted free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, City.
sas
HI
aoO--
l? 7 8«0
X
m
l*A
\>\u
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Cos.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
I Bond Street. SYDNEY. '
A Plain
til
MANGROYITE
CONSERVE YOUR POWER
with Mang’rovite Leather BeltingV
Australian 'Ox-Hides oi the highest grade, specially •
selected for strength and' elasticity, . are converted
under expert supervision, ‘ by the special Mangrovite
process, into the power-saving, cost-cutting Mangroi
vite Leather or Raw-Hide Belting.
- Our staff of , belting engineers has. the advantage of-
years of experience in elucidating belting problems;
They are at your .service ,for the asking.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing-Director,:
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY,
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery, Supplies Co., Ltd..
VICTOBIA: Corbett; Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397! Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright k Co,, Perth.
TASMANIA : Henry Clark k Co. Ptv., Ltd., Hobart .
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane. ,
New Streamline Model
is an
'-.iv
SfS
sdf
sdf
It is often so difficult to find a present that is both
useful and ornamental —The Onoto Streamline is both.
Of extremely handsome appearance, it combines with
its elegant design all the practical utility of Onoto—
the Pen —safety, self-filling, the simplest pen to use.
There is an Onoto nib to suit every handwriting.
THOMAS BE LA RUE & CO.,LTD., Bunhill Row. London. E-C l.
THE
ONOTO INK—BEST FOR ALL PENS.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson's Eurnen-
thol Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the foftd, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act,
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1 /«.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.
The Lancet, The Practitioner, etc
• [7
NO
ntt
v-'.'
The Red Page
A Great Priest.
Tlic Life and Letters of Archpriest John
Joseph Therry, by the Rev. Eris JVI. O’Brien.
(Angus <fc Robertson.)
Australia was not an easy place for any-
one in its earliest days. The civil govern-
ment, the military arm by which it enforced
its power, and the free and felon population
alike had to face and live through strenu-
ous times, of which the greatest hardship
was by no means the tightened waistbelt.
It was not until 30 years of its British his-
tory had passed by that the country ceased
to be in periodic danger of famine, but it
was even longer before it began to enjoy
anything really like civil and religious lib-
erty. Of the latter, in those first hard years,
there had been none. At the last moment
before its departure, a Church of England
chaplain was appointed to the First Fleet.
The records tell us how small was the help
he had here from the authorities —-he built
his church by the. labor of his own hands
nnd to the depletion of his private purse.
And his was the only spiritual help that was
available to the sorely-tried souls of men—
for the most part in bondage of the severest
sort —-without hope, and without consola-
tion in their hopelessness. Whatever sect
men or women might belong to they had to
turn to the Rev. Richard Johnson for the
help that most human beings need at one
time or another. Whether they liked it or
not, they were compelled to attend the chap-
lain’s services. They must go to church on
■Sundays, or be flogged.
There was no provision at all for Catho-
lics, whether freemen or pioneers, until, in
1803, Father Dixon, who had been trans-
ported for participation in the Irish rebel-
lion of ’9B, was permitted for a short time
to exercise the functions of his priestly oflice.
But the outbreak amongst the Irish pioneers
at Castle Hill in the following year served
as an excuse on the part of the authorities
for withdrawing this permission, and it was
not until towards the end of the reign of
■Governor Macquarie that Catholic clergymen
were officially countenanced in the colony.
Tlie pioneer of these, as he was the pioneer
of jthe Catholic Church in Australia, was the
Rev. John Joseph Therry, who, with the
Rev. Phillip Conolly, arrived in Sydney on
May 3,182 Q. It is justifiable enough to
■call Father Therry the pioneer, since his
labors and achievements, as matters of his-
torical fact, altogether overshadow those of
his less-remarkable colleague. Father Con-
olly was a good man and a good priest, but
Father besides being both of these,
was a fighter and a statesman.
In his book on Father Therry the Rev.
Eris M. O’Brien has done more than write
an interesting and scholarly biography of
a very notable priest of his own church.
He has contributed a valuable chapter in
the history of Australia, and although a
certain amount of natural bias might have
been looked for, he is so scrupulously fair
and impartial in his story and his judgments
as to make, this work take equal rank with
that other fine production of the same firm
of publishers. Professor Scott’s “Life of
Matthew Flinders.” Father Therry is
always his hero—-the Father could not fail
to be such to any intelligent man—but he is
never blind to such shortcomings as were in
his hero’s temperament, to mistakes that he
made, or to an impetuous hastiness that
often led him into error. And towards those
who opposed the hero, and often vexatiously
thwarted designs that should have received ‘
no other treatment than encouragement, opr
author is equally fair. As an instance of
this,' Macquarie had deported the Rev.
Jeremiah O’Flynn in 1817. on tin ground
that his coming to New South Wales had
not been authorised in proper form by
Downing-street. Could there be any better
example of Father O’Brien’s, sense of justice
than the last sentence in the following; com-
ment on the incident from the “Life and
Letters” ?
His harsh imprisonment, when Catholics were in
such dire need ot priestly assistance, has brought
much severe criticism upon the head of Governor
Macquarie, at whose command Father O’Flynn was
deported. That the act was severe we do not ques-
tion ; that the deportation was entirely illegal was
asserted by Roger Therry; but that Macquarie was
prompted merely by petty bigotry we do not believe.
It would be well in these days if many priests
and parsons throughout Australia had the
breadth of outlook and clearness of vision
that always characterise the man who wrote
those words.
There is hardly space available here to
do more than indicate the nature of this
bulky volume —it must run to close upon
150,000 words —but it may be said of it
that it is riot only the story of the life’s
work of a zealous missionary priest, whose
value was recognised by contemporaries of
every shade of religious opinion, but that it
is also a fine essay upon a period, or series
of - periods, whose consideration is vital to
a true knowledge of Australian history. No
student of the latter can fail in gratitude to
Father O’Brien for this result of four years
of hard work. He has lately been Professor
of Australian History in St. Patrick’s
Ecclesiastical College at Manly (N.S.W.),
and the thought inevitably _ must obtrude
itself upon the reader of his book that if
he can lecture upon history as fairly and
as ably as he has written it here, any insti-
tution may well be envied the possession of
his services.
The book is extremely well got-up and
arranged. The reproduction in facsimile of
many letters and documents of historic in-
terest gives it much value, apart from its sub-
ject matter and the able way in which the
latter has been handled. Holograph letters
from Governor Macquarie, Mr. Commissioner
Bigge, Archbishop Polding, Mr. Justice
Therry (who, by the way, was not a rela-
tion), Bishop Ullathorne, from the subject
of the memoir, and from unhappy prisoners
lying under sentence of- death, have been
reproduced—and there is the quaint scrawl
of Mr. John Ready, dated July 12, 1822, in
which he promises to “give a cow in calf as
a subscription towards the Catholic Chapel
at Sydney.” Numerous illustrations still
further add to its value, and a comprehen-
sive.appendix does likewise. Altogether, the
hook is a most admirable piece of work, and
a very notable addition to Australian litera-
ture.
“Hills and the Sea”
Alfred Buchanan, writing on Hilaire
Belloc (R.P. 18/5/’22), omits any reference
to what is to. me his most charming work —
“Hills and the Sea.” The essay should
reveal and express the personality of the
writer, and in these travel-pictures, even
more than in “The Path to Rome,” we find
the real Belloc. And he is worth knowing.
There is a rousing confidence about him, ris-
ing at times almost to insolence, but it is
the humorous insolence of the jolly comrade.
We laugh with him in his escapades on the
way to Rome, especially when he sends the
horse he tired of holding outside a Swiss
inn, “careering and galloping like a whirlwind
down the road from which he had just come,
with the bit in his teeth, and all the storms
of Heaven in his four feet.” You forgive the
grandiloquence, because you know that he
writes it with a twinkle in his eye.
His sea pictures are excellent. In a few
paragraphs he makes us feel the terror, and
the cruel material indifference of the sea. His
love of adventure, and his desire to feel
something of what our ancestors felt when
they put forth into the unknown, took him
often into the Channel and the North Sea,
in small and'sometimes crazy boats, and his
accounts of these experiences bring the salt
wind into our nostrils. We realise the immen-
sity anti jjgvagery of the sea, and thrill as
we conquer wave after wave, and fight with
the writer his elemental .battle. “Every
man that goes to sea in a little boat,” he
tells us in his essay on “The Channel,” “learns
terror and salvation, happy living, danger,
exultation, glory and repose at the end ; and
they are not vyords to him, but, on the con-
trary, realities which will afterwards
throughout his life give the words a full
meaning.”
The essayist who makes us feel the truth
of this has surely written something worth
knowing. Perhaps a full appreciation of his
power comes only to those who have gone
down to the sea in little ships; who know
something of the loneliness of one who has
seen the sunlit shore a mile away, with
children playing on the sand, and all the
complex work of man going quietly on, while
he himself fights a battle for very life against
wind and wave, dependent on his skill and
courage alone.
One. likes to think that it is the English
blood in Belloc’s veins that makes him a lover
of the sea, and able to get from it “fear
steeped in exhilaration”—though that is, of
course, a Breton as much as a Sussex
quality. But, anyhow, the Celt is strong
within him.. “In mystery our soul abides,”
and it is this sense of mystery, the realisa-
tion of unknown powers about us, that often
provides the emotional element in his work.
We remember his terror when crossing the
railway bridge outside St. Ursanne, and his
emotion at the first sight of the Alps from
the high hills of Brienz. “Surprise and won-
der,” he says, “had not time to form in my
spirit before both were swallowed up by
fear. They, the vast Alps, all wrapped round
in ice, frozen, and their immobility enhanced
by the. delicate, roaming veils which hovered
in their valleys, seemed to halt the process
of living. And the living soul whom they
thus perturbed was supported.by no com-
panionship. There were no trees or blades
of grass around me, only the uneven and
primal stones of that height. There were no
birds in the gulf; there was no sound. And
the whiteness of the glaciers was glistening
arid unsoftened. There had come something
evil into their sublimity. I was afraid.”
You get the same suggestion in essays like
“The Wing of Dalua,” and in what is to me
the most delightful of all, “The Harbor in
the North.”. There, at dawn, he finds a sea-
inan putting out for a port “in which every-
thing we have knoWn is forgotten, except
those things which, as we knew them, re-
minded us of an original joy. In that place,”
he says, “I shall discover again such full
moments of content as I have known. It is
in some country beyond this sea. There is
a range of hills, broken by a valley through
which one sees a further and higher range,
arid steering for this hollow in the hills one
sees ii tower out to sea upon a rock, and
high up inland a white quarry on a hilltop,
and these two in line are the leading iriarks
by which one gets clear into the mouth of
the river, "and so to the wharves of the
town. And there,” he ended, “I shall come
off the sea forever, and everyone will call me
by my name.”
Is not this the port we are all seeking?
Put “whether in honest truth he was a fish-
erman who chose to fence with me," or
whether in that cruise of his he landed up
in a Norwegian bay, or thought better of it
in Orkney, or went through the sea, and
through death to the place he desired, I have
never known.”
For their humanity, their
arid charm, I believe such essays worthy of
a place alongside the work of Stevenson and
Lamb.
F. THOMAS.
Of the Wickedness of Reviewers
It may be asked whether the morality of
book-reviewers is a subject worthy of
discussion. To such an implied criticism I
would reply that there exist certain ordinary
folk, of whom I am one, who wish to read
reviews of books. To all such, who are at
present defrauded of their rights by the
immorality of our reviewers, the question
is of great moment. Therefore, failing a
worthier champion, I will endeavor (not
without a certain zest) to convict our re-
viewers of sin, and, mayhap, to point out the
way of salvation.
But first, let me set down certain prolego-
mena. Before a man dares to review a book
he should know, having searched his heart,
that he is a lover of books. And the touch-
stone whereby the lover of books may be
proved is just this—can he tell the true
book from the counterfeit? For the beauty
of the form of a book has induced certain
debased practitioners to produce things in
the guise of books which are not books at
all. Things, these, which openly boast of the
exactitude of the information they purvey •
which contain figures, signs, diagram's;
(Continued on page 25.)


w aae
Economy in WARM WINTER UNDERWEAR
- " -at Anthony Horderns’ =====
0
0> <3
a -
=- ■
rr:«a*'V v/
I
iMfMWrti
->v
w/w
: §£o%£
XIO
XII
if?
lUjujj
*^U4
15
Comfort, inexpensiveness and dura-
bility are characteristics of Men’s
Warm Winter Wear at Anthony
Horderns . We illustrate pleasing
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
We pay Carriage on Men’s Wear in
N.S.W., and to the nearest Port
on Interstate and
Island Orders.
Men’s Combinations.
Xll.—The Kookaburra Brand. Natural
wool and cotton. Hair sleeves. Full
length. Winter weight.
Size Chest:
34 36 38 40 42 44
17/9 18/3 19/3 19/9 20/3 20/9
Long sleeves in above, 6d. extra.
Men’s Pyjama Suits.
Xl2.—Made from reliable BRITISH
FABRICS. Full cut and shapely in fit
and finish.
Striped Flannelette Pyjamas, 12/6, 13/6
Striped Ceylon Pyjamas . . . 22/6, 26/6
Striped Crimean Pyjamas 32/6
Striped Crimean Pyjamas, all wool, 42/6
Striped Oxford Pyjamas 13/6
Men’s Dressing Gowns.
Xl3.— These Gowns are all ENGLISH
TAILORED, and finished with Girdle to
match.
Men’s Tweed Dressing Gowns. Winter
weight. Colors: Greys or Browns.
PRICE £3/18/6, £3/19/6
Men’s Brushed Woollen Dressing Gowns.
Winter weight. Colors: In Self Shades of
Purple or Blue, with contrast facings.
PRICE £4/12/6
Men’s Cameline Dressing Gowns. Medium
weight. In Self Grey.
PRICE £6/9/-
Superior quality, in Brown—
PRICE £7/7/-
Heavy weight, in over-check designs—
PRICE £9/5/-
XI7
XI6
Value in Hen’s Half Hose.
Xl6. Men’s Cashmere Half Hose. All wool, with smart fancy cl ox.
Jason Make 4/6 pair
I. & R. Morley’s ... 6/6, 6/9, 7/6, 8/-, 8/6 pair
Men’s Plain Black Cashmere Half Hose, English makes. In all wool.
Prices: 2/6, 2/9, 3/3, 4/6, 5/6, 6/3, 7/6 pr.
Original Indiana .... 4/9 pr.
KNITTED HALF HOSE.
Xl7.—Men’s Knitted Half
Hose. All wool, in Heather
Shades. All reliable makes.
PRICES: 3/3, 3/11, 4/3 pr.
“Pesco” Scotch Make: 6/9 pr.
In Lovat Shades, soft finish—
3/3, 4/3 pr.
In Steel Grey. Winter weight:
4/6 pr.
In Steel Grey. Wolsey” make:
. 4/6 pr.
examples of the wonderful value pre-
dominating throughout the Mercery
Department that, at the price quoted,
cannot be equalled for lasting and
efficient service.
ORDER BY MAIL.
There’s the fullest satis-
faction in ordering by
Mail from Anthony
Horderns’, because a
splendidly efficient
Mail-Order Service
deals with every
communication
promptly
and
careful!^.
j
jjf
m
XIS
K
Men’s “Woollation” Underwear.
Long sleeves Undershirts in above, 6d. extra.
Men’s “Optimus’An-Wooi Underwear
XIS.—MADE IN SCOTLAND. Soft and
superior, in light weight.
Undershirts — 34 36 38 40 42 in.
Half sleeves: 21/6 22/6 23/6 24/6
Underpants: 23/6 24/- 25/- 26/- 27/-
Heavy winter weight—
Undershirts—
Half sleeves: 22/6 23/6 24/6 25/6 26/6
Underpants: 25/6 26/- 27/- 28/- 29/-
Long sleeves Undershirts in above, I/- extra.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


The Standard
of Standards.
MEGGITT Umited
Guaranteed Pure Brands
LINSEED OIL.
Thoroughly Matured
AS MADE BY
e
PNSKOOIIf^
/A EGG ITT L TQ
F*RRAMATTA
itt jCtmitecL
»
DNSEfooilNtm
ttEGGITT L t *
WRAMATTA
HEAD OFFICE 2C KING ST SYDNEY
sd
Sfaeboy on the bay
guarantees quality *
AGENTS.-
?o'’ f° M /p urn T % R - & Extern A
t£ n , Mcssts. Johnston <f Co., Featherstmi Vtro^xx' l^ 6 f Lo., Ltd., Hobart and Launccs-
RunMe stmt - **«<*>.; Mei m . J?'
'Aejboy on the bag
guarantees qualify


PIN RETIES
FOR BILIOUSNESS
When your tongue is coated
all over with a whitish-yellow
color and your breath is bad,
if you have constipation and
headaches, the chances are
you are bilious. Your liver
needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate
the trouble. Gentle assistance
is what nature needs. Pink-
ettes, the little pink laxative
pills, meet the requirements
admirably.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IF YOU HAVE NOT A
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER
BUY ONE NOW, when en»l>roidery is
so much used. It works on ANY
MATERIAL,
Visit our SPECIAL INSTRUCTION
ROOM.
ALL WORKERS ARE WELCOME.
21/- Complete Outfit.
Send a stamped envelope for FREE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarenoe Street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
PEPS
Stop That '
Cough /
Dissolve a Peps in your
mouth when the cough is
troublesome, and the med-
icinal fumes that are
breathed into the inner-
most recesses of the lungs
will soothe and heai the inflamed
membranes, end all irritation and
stop the cough
l/6 or 3/ ■ per box.
*>■'
I
Wanted to Buy.
Sawmilling Machinery
WANTED TO PURCHASE.
One Simonson Bog: Turner.
One Double Iron frame for 6ft. Circular Saw.
One Carriage, with Head Blocks and set works
complete. Dive Bolls and pick-up skids.
One Gang Frame (open gate), to take in 86-
inch (depth of cut).
One Gang Frame (open gate), to take in 24-
inch (depth of cut).
One Gang Frame (open gate), to take in 15-
inch (depth of cut).
Apply to SAWMILL, e/o The Mercantile Exchange,
380 Collins Street, Melbourne, giving fullest particu-
lars and prices wanted.
JR&V. * ■*
■*»
Beautiful
Walnut Hair,
An Added Charm indeed is
Hair of that exquisite Walnut
Shade so youthful and en-
trancing. Yet it may easily,
harmlessly and permanently
be obtained by means of
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Assuredly waterproof.
Obtainable all chemists.
Denyer*s
Triple-Crusti
Emasculator
The Latest
and Best.
60/-
PostHge N.S.W., 1/2
Interstate, 1/2.
DENVER’S
Veterinary Appliances
are long and favorably known in all parts of Australia.
Men in the live-stock line' should carry a good Kit of
our Life-savers to be ready for any emergency.
TRIPLE-CRUSH EMASCULATORS, SYRINGES
(BOTH GLASS AND BUCKET), LAMB CLAMS,
EAR MARKS, ETC.
Write for Complete Catalogue and Prices.
DENYER BROS.,
Veterinary Specialists,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
(v
(*J
&
%e
X
‘^c*.
<£.
209
/ivrenrrcn
'shwi/irre
MH
\ou fill it
Justso?'
fs
gg
(onwau Jsteitfarf
V* LEVER fa' C/ FILLER
PEN
British Made.
Sold by all Stationers and
Jewellers —
from 10/6 to 35/-
[2
•\v
Electricity
and a Rhodes Motor
Will drive your machines most efficiently
—and also most economically. The “Rhodes” Motor
runs smoothly and silently; no heavy fuel bills ; a lower
total to your wages-sheet; minimum of fire risk and an
absence of the smell, grease and dirt usually synonymous
with gas, petrol and other engines.
The “Rhodes” Motor is of British manufacture, amply
rated, and complies with the most stringent regula-
tions of the British Board of Trade.
Their double-ring oiling device assures perfect lubrica-
tion. The single-phase motor is of the repulsion induc-
tion type, and starts up on full load; this feature makes
the “Rhodes” Motor particularly valuable for driving,
hoisting machinery and the like.
Write us to-day for illustrated catalogue and full
particulars.
Manufactured by Rhodes Motors, Ltd., Doncaster,
England.
Full Stocks Carried by Sole Agents.
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL
PTY
LTD
Head Office and Warehouse: 172-176 William
Street, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Perrars Street, South Melbourne.
Sydney Office: 250 Kent Street.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Days.
Upon the thread of time, listless, I string
Day after empty day. Oh, lustreless
And poor, like starved and dying pearls they
seem.
Each falls between my fingers to its place,
Worthless, because I have not seen your face.
Some wondrous lovely morning soon will
bring
You to me, whose bright hours will glow
and gleam
Joyously fair. My lips may not confess
How greatly those sweet moments 1 shall
prize,
Act. if you doubt, beloved, look in my eyes.
Victoria.
G. E. MARTYR.
Sparkles in the Corner.
Sitting in the chimney-corner, smiling soft
and slow,
Calls she still with snowy finger, dearest girl
I know.
Wise is she, and sweet. She met Love many
years ago,
Met and kissed and trapped and bound
him,
Weaved her subtle spells around him,
Made him glad and kept him captive, years
and years ago.
Smiling soft and slow beside me in the
chimney-corner grey,
Tells she tales of ladies lazy, ladies winsome,
ladies gay,
Tales of fools and what befel them when
Boy Love must have his way.
“There’s a boy,” says she, “that dared me
(Impudence!), and thought he’d snared
me;
But I clipped his wings soon, look you—
that’s the only way!”
Sitting in the chimney-corner, smiling, sly
and sweet,
Very wise and very tender, chilled not by
time’s bitter sleet....
Oh, the roguish little lady! All my heart
is at her feet.
Ah, my heart has prayed and pleaded,
But my prayers pass all unheeded
By this royal little lady who has brought
Love to her feet.
Sitting in the chimney-corner, making
naughty eyes (oho!) —
Eyes that smile with smile seductive, very
soft and slow—
Here is where she first kissed someone, long
long years ago,
Here she kissed someone who found her
Dear, and put strong arms around her.
Stormed her fine high pride and took it. sixty
years ago!
3V.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Red Broom-handles.
I saw some red brooms carried on a cart.
1 think, somehow, the brooms were prison-
made.
Bound their bright handles fitful fancy
played
And all day long sent searching through the
heart
Signals of color, that seemed flashed to mine
From stone-grey corridors where no suns
shine.
Surely it must have cheered that prisoner
To stain the smooth pine handles goblin red ;
Surely he must have seen —grey stone in-
stead —-
The caps of pixies where the green ferns stir,
Or ruddy soil of some free, open down,
Far from the cramping of the sordid town.
Red wooden beads upon an idol's neck :
Red berries in some sleek, black head of hair ;
Red-painted cheeks of dolls, in windows
where
The children come a Christmas-tree to deck ;
Red-ochre fishing-boats on twilight seas —
The prisoner may have visioned all of these.
It seemed to me a ripe defiance lurked
In those gay handles on the rattling cart,
As though a freedom sang within his heart
That never high brick walls nor warders
burked.
I. think he kept unshackled in his soul
The whirling scarlets of the Carmagnole.
And who will buy these wild, red-handled
brooms?
I see the housewife look at them askance,
Fearing them partners in some eldritch dance
About the decent privacy of rooms;
I see a little child wuth longing eyes
Wishing that mothers were not always wise!
One pictures Red Shoes in the German tale,
Of how she pirouetted into Hell,
Leaving two ghostly shoes the tale to tell,
And make the vanity of miidchen quail!
Dancing forever ’neath the varying moon,
A skeleton —upheld by prancing shoon!
T know not where the carter took his load,
Did it go crawling up the wattled hills?
Leaving a carmine quiver in the rills,
A curl of dust along the sunny road,
Or in the suburbs, halt at every door,
Proffering a magic for the common floor?
Perhaps, before it scaled the gum-topped
range,
The witches saw it from a distant peak
And promptly swooped, new riding-liacks to
seek!
The placid driver may have thought it
strange
That from a pipe-soothed day-dream he should
start.
To find the greedy hags had bared his cart!
Jogging across the bridge the traffic through,
Weaving against its dun a scarlet thread
Arresting as some beacon message, sped
Along far vistas infinitely blue.
Where cobwebs of archaic systems sway
Red Revolution —sweeping creeds away !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


BLACK and WHITE
&
m
* w
I
/
iC,*i
m,
mm
W
i
■
*K
1
«r !
n
kfeioßs
; ■■■:-..
H
■
# mm **< m
»miS 111 i iMHHi
■
■■
-
■
■
*!r.;::...
—I
jfi
*• . ■* . .
*«i'' ; rSL*■!
WHISKY
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Messrs, Janies Buchanan & Co., Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, GUARANTEE that all “Black and White”
supplied in Australia is PRE-WAR WHISKY, and that they and their associated companies hold the
largest stock of Old Matured MALT Scotch Whisky.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2212.
THURSDAY, JULY 6, 1922.
Price 6n,
SOUND STRATEGY.
ADORING FLAPPER: “Ah! the nosebag is a good idea. It takes people’s minds off his riding—as it were.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
• “Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleou, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office cf the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney. N.S.W.. Australia.
Juelrournk Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6"
months, 135.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
M anager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black anil White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn- —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.CJt;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 1,6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian.,” 31 High
Holborn, London, I V.C.t.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Joha'nnesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Vo., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.- — Chicago: J. Poland liay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentuno’s. 3th Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt.- — Jacques, Horn Co., The Colonial •Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong .—Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Lillie and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —lT. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street.
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon dt- Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
newspaper) :■ —-Throughout the Commonwealth: 1605.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: )oz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: )oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere': 2oz. or part thereof, id.
THURSDAY, JULY 6, 1922.
BACK TO BOLSHEVISM.
The sinister gang of Communists, foreign-
born or foreign-minded, who captured the
Australian trade-union movement last year,
and against whose dominion there have been
two revolts —one at the Brisbane Confer-
ence of the A.L.P., the other at the recent
pow-wow of the N. S. Wales branches —are
in the ascendant again. In Melbourne the
other day, at the All Australia Congress
of Trades Unions, they imposed the sub-
joined resolution on the more or less reluc-
tant partisans of moderatism, largely poli-
ticians or would-be politicians' hungry fox-
votes :
This Congress reaffirms the industrial and political
policy adopted by the June Congress of 1921, and
endorses, as far as it is consistent with this motion,
the work of the Brisbane Conference of October, 1921.
It urges the State branches of the A.L.P., and .other
working-class parties and groups, tb .forthwith-, fall
into line so that a uniform political policy, might
be presented throughout Australia, and calls upon
the A.L.P. to make provision along the lines of the
British and M.L. Labor parties for the incorporation
of all schools of genuine Labor thought and activity,
with freedom of propaganda and organisation, while
at the same time requiring a loyal acceptance of
the decisions of representative conferences.
The meaning of this jumble of words is that
a movement once the hope of Australia has
gone Bolsh, which means mad. Whether he
realises it or not, the Australian unionist,
who is neither revolutionary nor socialist,
stands committed to the very programme
of revolutionary socialism that has reduced
Russia, recently an outlaw and now a men-
dicant among the nations, to a condition
of massed and festering misery unequalled
in Europe since the fall of Rome. That
is what he gets for allowing a l’abble of
Tammany wire-pullers and imported Com-
munists to seize control of his unions and
run them for their own malignant purposes.
The “industrial and political policy adopted
by the June Congress of 1921” was Bol-
shevist from first to last. It declared for
the abolition of capitalism and the socialisa-
tion of industry, production, distribution
and exchange, and affirmed that the new
order could only be brought about “by the
workers uniting in one class-conscious organ-
isation to take and hold the means of pro-
duction by revolutionary industrial and poli-
tical action.” The doctrine of the class-war,
and the I.WAV. jargon in which it is ex-
pounded, were adopted with enthusiasm.
But foreign war and the Australian Army
and Navy were rejected on pacifist grounds,
it being permissible to destroy a fellow-citizen
who objects to being robbed, on take-and-
hold rules, but barbarous to resist a foreign
invader who is trying to steal the whole
country and take possession of its women.
The White Australia policy was also
scrapped as contrary to the Marxian gospel.
It had already been repudiated by Walsh,
of the Seamen’s Union, who said in a mem-
orable utterance that his “definitely revolu-
tionary” organisation raised no national or
racial barriers against a man “working in
this or any other country,” and “would not
stand for race exclusion.”
* * * *
“If this programme is approved of you
might as well drop the term ‘Labor’ and
call it a Communist party.” So said Theo-
dore, the Queensland Premier, when the
Melbourne resolutions were transmitted to
the Brisbane Congress with the recommen-
dation that they should be adopted as the
new Labor policy. He made it clear to his
fellow-delegates that he was no Communist,
and that if Labor surrendered to the Bob
shies he and it would part company. These
remarks roused the drooping spirits of the
anti-LENiNiTES—previously they had been
beaten all ulong the line —and important
amendments were made. The old Labor
objective, which had been abandoned by the
Melbourne fanatics and their dupes because
there was nothing in Karl Marx about
“the cultivation of an Australian sentiment,
based on the maintenance of racial purity
and the development of an enlightened and
self-reliant community,” was rescued from
the scrapheap and made the first plank of
the fighting platform. The take-and-hold
doctrine was ruled out, and with it the
Red Army. Socialisation was accepted;
also, the control of nationalised industries
by boards of workers and the establish-
ment of a general economic council not re-
sponsible to Parliament. But industries, it
was postulated, must be socialised “by
the constitutional utilisation of industrial
and Parliamentary machinery.” With
humorous inconsistency it was likewise re-
solved that "the party does not seek to abol-
ish private ownership, even of any of the
instruments of production, where such in-
strument is utilised by its owner in a soci-
ally useful manner.” Thus diluted or neu-
tralised "the socialisation of industry, pro-
duction, distribution and exchange” became
the Labor objective. But even in its watered-
down form it was more than the N. S. Wales
section of the party could swallow. “If this
visionary objective is retained,” groaned
deputy-leader Dunn at the Sydney Confer-
ence, "it will keep us out of office for 50
years.” "It will wipe out Parliament alto-
gether,” interposed Burke, the party Whip.
“Why was the old objective turned
down?” asked Senator Gardiner. “Because
it was too Australian? I am an Australian,
and I don’t see where we are going to gain
anything from an objective made in another
country.” Similar observations came from
Buckley, ex-M.L.A., Parker Moloney and
Lavelle, M’s.P., and Buckland, one of the
few A.W.U. leaders who haven’t somer-
saulted to • the Reds; and a motion hostile
to the new objective was carried by 97 votes
to 77. Most of the delegates who supported
the motion —a few were mere pointers and
expediency-mongers—were actuated by an
earnest Australianism. Their vote has placed
them in a position in which their courage
and sincerity will be severely tried. As
members of the A.L.P. they are bound by a
policy to a cardinal feature of which they
have declared themselves opposed. As trade-
unionists they are now commanded to obey
the whole body of Bolshevist doctrine, which
they must absolutely hate. Their reward for
thus suppressing themselves, and for pro-
pagating opinions abhorrent to them and
ruinous to the country, is to be graciously
permitted to remain in the movement —a
movement of which the Bolshies represent
at most three per cent., and probably not
that.
* * * *■
They order these matters better in Britain.
The Bolshevist faction has not beefi per-
mitted to capture the Labor party of that
country. Even while the authors of the
Melbourne resolution were alleging that pro-
vision was made by the British Laborites for
“the incorporation of all schools of genuine
Labor thought and activity” an attempt to
admit the Communists as an affiliated group
was ignominiously rejected at the Glasgow
Labor Conference. On a card vote for affili-
ation the Communists had 261.000 sup-
porters and 3,087,000 opponents. Their pro-
portionate strength in Australia is far below
this, but by bluff and bounce and intimida-
tion, combined with the inertia and timidity
of the moderates, they have imposed their
policy on a party which, in its palmy days,
had no more use for such doctrines than it
had for the Lamaism of Tibet. Within the
last month the U.S. Federation of Labor has
repeated its annual repudiation of the
Bolshevists and all their works. Nearly all
the European Labor movements, and those
of Britain and America, have denounced
their savage persecution of the Russian
Socialists of the Right. Only the Aus-
tralian party is tied to the Bolshie’s tail.
Only in Australia is there an unceasing and
unscrupulous Bolshevist propaganda in the
so-called Labor press. Only in Australia
are the wildest excesses of Soviet policy, from
the suppression of Radical newspapers to the
stirring-up of the colored man against the
white, sure of fawning championship in the
same press. Ho demoralising is Bolshevism
to its dupes, so destructive of principles thev
once gloried in, that Power, the A.L.P. presi-
dent, who opposed the war because he was a
man of peace, and conscription because he
believed in personal liberty, could say this at
a gathering of Labor delegates without being
rebuked: —•
I want to see Labor get into power and be able
to say to the daily press: “If you don’t represent
Labor’s position fairly and squarely fof course, men
like Power are to be the judges of what is fair and
square] we’ll close you up in 24 hours.”
During the war the members of the A.L.P.
were called upon to choose between their
party and their country. Now, after six
years, those who remain are called upon to
choose between the Laborism that they love
and the Communism that they loathe —
between regaining public confidence by an
assertion of the old honest and forthright
Australianism and dancing to the Devil with
the agents of Lenin and Trotsky. On
their decision the very existence of their
party depends.
SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS OF
TAMMANYISM.
From all the big cities of the Commonwealth
—and more particularly from Melbourne and
Sydney—come periodical complaints of the
use of the “third degree” by the police. As
the complainants are, in the nature of things,
accused persons, their testimony is regarded
as tainted; and in any case the weight of the
evidence is usually against them. Some-
times a jury, by its verdict, indicates dissat-
isfaction with the Force, a haunting sus-
picion that the harassed individual in the
dock could hardly have invented it all; and
then a Judge says something, and an Inspec-
tor-General starts as though an Archbishop
had been accused of arson, and an inquiry
("of the lullest possible nature”) is pro-
mised in an indignant manner. Nothing ever
results, as is inevitable, seeing that any
witness who appears for the prosecution
must pit liis word against the words or an
indefinite number of policemen. Two cir-
cumstances tend to make citizens who have
neither connection nor sympathy with the
criminal classes suspect that there may be
some foundation for the complaints or many
accused persons in regard to the conduct of
the police when a lonely cell lias been reached
and an elusive clue remains to be unravelled:
(1) the remarkable unanimity with which cri-
minals complain of ill-treatment, and (2) the
modern non-criminal's knowledge of what went
on in military prisons during the war. There
are plenty of law-abiding young Australians
who, as the outcome of a sojourn in (say)
Wandsworth Gaol, imposed for some purely
military offence, will never again accept the
popular magisterial dogma of tlic infallibil-
ity of the police.
* # * *
To those who do not follow the doings of
the criminal courts, and who did not take
part in the world-war, other considerations
suggest themselves. Why, in both Sydney
and Melbourne, is the Restaurant Splendide
raided, from time to time, but the Hotel
Splendide never? Both break the liquor
laws, in their different lines, with equal
fiagrancy and regularity, for the gratifica-
tion of otherwise impeccable citizens; and
the policeman or detective who does not
know it is ignorant of that which is a com-
monplace in most affluent homes. Betting-
shops swarm in the leading streets of the
great cities: Pitt-street, Sydney, for example,
is a hive of industry in this line. The State
Governments which benefit, by the taxation
payments of the proprietors, are aware, pre-
sumably, of how the incomes of the latter
are earned. The Federal Government col-
lects a large revenue from the innumerable
telephones which are essential to such con-
cerns. Fully 75 per cent, of the inhabitants
of every big city know the address of at least
one betting-shop proprietor, and when and
how he does his business. What is the expla-
nation of the obtuseness of the authorities
an I the police? Two-up schools hide in
obscure patches of scrub far removed from
human habitation, but are busily unearthed
and charged in the mass, the idiotic fiction
being that their diversion constitutes an an-
noyance to the public. But Gun Club mem-
bers profane the peace of wealthy residential
centres, country and suburban, bespatter the
surrounding country with mutilated pigeons,
and bet over every pair of cartridges that
they blaze away, and none of them is ever
arrested.
That easy-going cynic, the Man in the
Street, with his love of a formula and his
dislike of a problem, has a ree.dy explanation
of all these anomalies. When the Restaurant
Splendide is raided it is because someone has
omitted to square the police: when betting-
shop proprietors retire with large fortunes,
and uevote their closing years to church-
work or the elevation of the masses, their
unspotted reputations are due to consistently
generous treatment of the police; when Gun
Clubs are permitted to rent or own indis-
putable “places” in the terms of the Betting-
Act for the purpose of gambling, the portent
is ascribed to the enviable affluence of the
gun men. In the opinion of the poor the
rich man has—to slightly amend Moliere
—-“immunity in his purse.” But is the
humble policeman entirely to blame for a
state of affairs which is bringing the same
derision on many of our enactments as
the Volstead Act has attracted in the
TT.S.A.? At Bowral (N.S.W.) the other
day one Herbert Moen, who, with a com-
panion named Goodworth, had virtually tor-
tured a horse to death, appeared before the
local Court. He might have been charged
under the Crimes Act (in which, case he
would have been liable to as much as nine
months’ hard labor) : he was charged under
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act,
which provides a maximum of three months.
The instructions issued to the police by the
Inspector-General in reference to cruelty to
animals are explicit:—
Every member of the police force should take a
keen and intelligent interest in the prevention of
any form of cruelty to any animal, and prosecute in
any case coming within his knowledge, whether due
to wilfulness or negligence.
Police are specially called upon to prevent cruelty
to horses in any part of the State, and no effort
should be spared to bring offenders to account.
Among the most common offences are active cruelty
by flogging and ill-treatment. In the latter cases
the police should rigidly enforce the law and press
jor heavy penalties.
At Bowral the police not only omitted to
urge that Moen should be given three
months; they said they would be satisfied
to see him fined. And the magistrate gave
him a month ! It is understood that Goou-
woßTir and Moen have a political “pull.”
The former was employed by the Bowral
Council at the time of his arrest, and the
councillors of this highly respectable district
actually kept his job for him, as a token of
esteem or something, while he was in prison.
Of course, it is possible that the police had
sound reasons for disregarding the- instruc-
tions of their chief, and that the magistrate
found mitigating features in a case which,
on the surface, suggests unmitigated bar-
barity. But the fact that no hint of dis-
pleasure or even surprise has come from
the higher reaches of officialdom implies that
these developments were what someone of
importance, somewhere, desired. Or, anyhow,
that is how a censorious public is liable to
argue.
* * * *
It will be a black day for Australia when
anything resembling the Tammanyism which
prevails in some of the big Yankee cities
becomes grafted in a large way on our
system ot government. The beginnings are
undoubtedly here already; and they are the
fruit, chiefly, of those “useless laws” which,
according to one of the greatest of writers
on the subject, “diminish the authority of
necessary laws.” Could anything, for" ex-
ample, be more provocative of illegality than
6 o’clock closing—an arrangement which
forbids the purchase of the smallest quan-
tity of alcohol at about the time the average
hotel- or restaurant-patron of the city takes
his evening meal? It is as hopeless to
attempt to eradicate the gambling instinct
as it is to abolish the taste for fermented
liquids. Our rulers admit this, inasmuch
as they deify gambling on racecourses where
many of the fielders win and lose yearly,
sums that would have made 18th-century fre-
quenters of the Cocoa Tree or White’s biencli.
Yet the Federal Government accepts its
revenues from Tattersall’s sweep (one of
the most harmless of all gambles) in the
spirit of a chinch elder pocketing the rents
of a house of ill-fame; and the Fuller
Ministry has decided to exclude the Golden
Casket from N. S. Wales —a flutter which,
like Tattersall’s, has never yet led to a
suicide or even an embezzlement, but which,
unlike Tattersall’s, or any other form of
Australian gamble, has put the whole of
one State’s hospitals on a solvent basis.
When good policemen are given bad —in the
sense of impractical—laws to administer
they tend to let them fall into abeyance.
Presently, if many laws are being so treated,
bad policemen push into the force for what
is to be got out of letting good laws fall
into abeyance. And in a short time corrup-
tion. spreading upwards, reaches very high
official altitudes indeed; and Tammany is
born. The movement is clearly discernible
in Australia now, and its arrest depends
almost entirely on an appreciation of some
of the main realities of modern life by the
State Parliaments.
COAL, COW, AND THE HUGHES
GOVERNMENT.
Coal and cattle are outstanding and growing
troubles in Australia, and it is character-
istic of the Prime Minister’s busy disposi-
tion that he should have mixed up the Com-
monwealth with both of them. Because of
it, in addition to the actual interests in-
volved, consideration has to be given to the
bearing of coal and cow on the Govern-
ment’s chances at next election. More than
three-fourths of the coal produced in the
Commonwealth belongs to N. S. Wales, and
all the troubles are also in that State, while
half the aggregate bullock pertains to
Queensland. Only a complicated dragging
in of the War Precautions Act made coal
a Federal trouble in the first place. The
mystery is why, while sedulously neglecting
so many matters that the Constitution
instructs it to look after (chief among
them being the building of the trans-
continental railway along a specified
route), the Government should rush into
premature or superfluous responsibilities.
The calamity is that it should do so little
good with them after it has rushed. It has
been said, with perhaps unjustifiable bitter-
ness, that the Hughes Government is the
sort of concern which is capable of taking
the management of the tides out of the
hands of the old reliable firm, and putting
it under a court, which would carry the
ebb and flow about in a bucket for a while,
and then fall down on its job and leave the
world with no tides at all. Anyhow, that
is about what the Federal Coal Tribunal
has done with the commodity on which tne
nation’s industries depend.
In 1920, where the output figures for the
whole country stop, N. S. Wales produced
£7,723,355 worth ot coal. Four other States
produced £1,784,821 worth. South Aus-
tralia turned out none. The principal ele-
ments of the present shindy are these: —
The price of coal went up (especially on the
Newcastle-Maitland field, which supplies five-eighths
of the Commonwealth) during the war, in common
with other things. But the rise from 7s. Bd. per ton
(large coal) in 1914 to 11s. Bd. in 1918 was
nothing to the rise from 11s. Bd. in 1918 to 21s.
9d. in 1922. It wasn’t war, but peace, which brought
the trouble.
The number of petty strikes and stoppages in-
creased greatly. This is alleged to indicate unusual
affluence on the part of the miners, and a consequent
holiday spirit. In 1921 the N.S.W. coal strikes
covered 21,066 days without any official strike at
all to account for it. Wages of 635. per day are
said to be common. Also they are said to be un-
common.
Railway freights and fares have gone up because
of the increased price of coal, and because of other
things. At some outlying places like Inverell,
where the needless railway distances, created by the
policy of dragging everything to Sydney, are a
crime, the bullock-dray is coming back into favor.
Yet coal, like wheat, is dragged about on the ser-
pentine N.S.W. lines at a heavy loss, in order to
put a good face on affairs.
The last upward jerk in coal prices closed the
great Newcastle steelworks, and many others. New-
castle is something like a desert. It gets so much for
the coal it produces that for a fair amount of the said
coal the place now gets nothing at all. This is
paradoxical but true.
Since the last uprising in wages and prices, and
the great stoppage of business, the owners allege
that 35 out of the 40 mines in the Newcastle dis-
trict have ceas.ed to pay expenses. This is violent]v
disputed, of course. Everything is violently dis-
puted.
The employers propose a 33 per cent, reduction of
wages.
The demand of the union, which has been in the
air for some time, is for a 30-hours week, more
wages, many more holidays, also a number of mis-
cellaneous concessions, including control of the
industry.
Apparently it was only during the war that
the Newcastle leaders realised how close,
they are to a monopoly of the local fuel
supply, and decided to do big things or
burst. Presumably the Tribunal, which has
been rather torpid so far, has the


matter now in hand, and if it receives
its inspiration from the temporary capital,
t>oo miles away, and fevered instructions
from a Prime Minister who is now at Perth
and now at Cairns and now falling off his
steed at Grafton, and if it does nothing to
antagonise either party (an election being
near) it should accomplish something or
otherwise. But Hughes is more compromis-
ing- than uncompromising, and more promis-
ing than either, and the outlook is stormy.
The enthusiastic little man pushed an
even more superfluous paw iuto the Queens-
land cattle difficulty. The- Theodore Govern-
ment from the first regarded every big
cattle-raising State tenant as a political
enemy, which perhaps he was; and as a
sort of billionaire, which he assuredly wasn’t.
In fact, it thought, in its guilelessness, that
it had found a gold-mine in him. He was
taxed in a quantity of new ways, and in
this process the llligiies Government, which
also had the billionaire idea, helped. He was
made to contribute cheap meat to the State
meatshops. He had to compete against
State cattle-stations, with tax exemptions
which amounted to a handsome subsidy in
themselves. The Theodore Government had
the same idea as McGirk, of N. S. Wales,
that the people “could stand a lot of taxa-
tion yet,” but it got the idea a trifle too
often. When the Government started to
alter the cattleman’s leases, and put on huge
and unexpected rent increases that weren’t
in the bargain, relations became strained.
When the increases were dated back, so that
he owed large lump-sums that weren’t in
the bond-relations become more strained
Also, it became almost as difficult for a
squatter to get an overdraft as for a sus-
pected heretic to get an advance in Inquisi-
tion days. An obvious child of misfortune
is hardly the inftn to be backed. At this
crisis the Prime Minister brought the credit
and influence of the Commonwealth to the
rescue. In consideration of some small con-
cessions in wages and in freezing and ship-
ping charges a handsome Federal subsidy
was promised ou the net crop of exported
meat. But no one was so rude as to nail
down the Queensland State Premier to any
agreement that his taxing department
wouldn’t absorb the value of the aids in
new exactions. So his Court took a long
breath, the.other day, and doubled a num-
ber of rents, though a 50 per cent, increase
on re-appraisement day was the limit speci-
fied in the lease, and dated the increases so
far back that one harried bullock-owner re-
ceived a bill for £12,000 of newly-made
arrears-, while others got bills for £9OOO or
less apiece. A deputation which waited on
Premier Theodore was informed that it re-
presented the class which had opposed Theo-
dore in 1920, the apparent implication
being that it accordingly deserved the worst.
Theodore has admitted that the State’s own
cattle-stations are a failure. But this appa-
rently didn’t alter the Premier’s view that
private pastoralists, carrying all sorts of
burdens from which his own pampered en-
terprises are exempt, are rich men. fit to be
robbed of large and variable sums at any
moment. A question now arises whether
W. M. Hughes, handing out grants of
the people’s money on his own respon-
sibility, will double or treble the meat
export bonus, so that the Queensland pas-
toralists will be able to pay Theodore’s
latest demands, and also have some money
on hand should he take a fancy to call round
with another one. As bonuses must be of
all-round application this, of course, implies
subsidising many people who haven’t to
pay Theodore because some people have to
pay Theodore. An alternative is to tell all
parties concerned that the payment of
indirect blackmail to any State Gov-
ernment is too dangerous a precedent,
and that whatever may be done for the
Queensland pastoralists when Theodore is
politically dead nothing can be done while
he is alive. For a Prime Minister with a
tendency to promise almost anything and
undertake almost everything as an election
approaches, the situation bristles with diffi-
culties.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Nominated “Dad.”
Hilaire Belloc, a sound authority on the
Parliamentary system, laid it down some
time before the war that the British Upper
House would be destroyed eventually by its
party-inspired appointments. The recent
uproar in England over the “honoring” of
a couple of millionaires, of doubtful patriot-
ism, according to some reports, and of no
pretensiohs to statecraft whatever, by gen-
eral consent, goes to show that the British
people are learning to-day what many stu-
dents realised a dozen years ago. And the
same phenomenon is observable in this part
of the world. Of late years almost always
when the Prime Minister or a State Premier
has recommended a title or exercised a right
of appointment, the choice has been so out-
rageous as to cast odium on the blameless
sovereign who, in the minds of most people,
is still held responsible for these affairs.
Premier Fuller has not departed from this
rotten rule in the three appointments he
made to the N. S. Wales Council last week.
Owen Con, a shipping man, got a knight-
hood from his friend and fellow-country-
man, W. M. Hughes, ostensibly for doub-
ling the meat-carrying capacity of the cargo
vessels running between Australia and Eng-
land during the war. He is said to have
invented the economical practice of cutting
each exported sheep in two and shoving one-
half inside the other. He is also alleged
to have conceived the equally bright
notion of presenting Hughes with a Citi-
zens’ Testimonial. But if he has-any quali-
fications to sit in a political chamber of
review he has kept them hidden, so far, in
the recesses of his Sydney office. Still, he is
a capable business man, and will presum-
ably give as good results, in time, in the
Council as one of those citizens who, on
their records, have infinitely more right to
be there than he has. The mystery of
James Onslow’s selection is even deeper.
As regards his war services, they began as
A.D.C. on a divisional staff 25 years ago,
and ended half-way through the war as
C.O. troops on a transport. He has held
an officer’s commission since boyhood with-
out collecting a wound or a decoration. This
may be ho reflection on him personally, and
it certainly should not disqualify him for
the Council were his past political perform-
anees of a meritorious nature —though we
are living now in a world of fighting soldiers
who have a right to preferment in recogni-
tion of their achievements. As a matter
of fact, however, he was never taken
seriously in the Assembly on any question ;
and his uprising was generally a signal for
hilarity by no means confined to the ranks
of his political opponents. The Fuller
Government’s third choice is an elderly man
named Robinson, who appears to have been
an alderman somewhere at some period. Or
he may be one now. He is also alleged to
be an Orangeman. Or, again, he is possibly
an orange-seller or -grower or -euter. Every-
thing in regal'd to him is vague and inde-
finite ; the only certainty being that the vast
majority of those citizens whose laws he is
now in a position to influence were in igno-
rance of his existence till last week. The
object of a second Chamber is, of coui’se,
to act as a brake on intempei'ate legislation,
and to provide improvements on legislation
that comes on from the popular House. This
can only be achieved in a manner productive
of a desirable moral effect in the constituen-
cies whei’e the critics—who may also be
the slayers of the measure —are of demon-
strably superior intellectual calibre on the
whole' to the people’s representatives. On
this principle, until about the last decade
the House of Lords absorbed the flower of
the United Kingdom’s brains, and so main-
tained an authority which few Radicals even
dai-ed to question. That authority has been
ruined to a great extent by the modern
party practice of flooding the place with
wealthy “duds.” And so, nowadays, in
England, the very Tories —men like Lor<"
Birkenhead and. the Cecils —are found
calling for reform of the Lords as an alter-
native to abolition. Nonentities, such as
Robinson, the mining-man, are imperilling
the existence of England’s great House of
Review, and it is nonentities like Robinson,
the Orangeman, or alderman, or whatever
lie is, wjio will yet cause the death of the
second-Chamber system in the Australian
States.
»
Australia’s Useless Commissioners.
Prime Minister Hughes collects job-hold-
ers to eat up the revenue with the same fatal
habitualness that Abdul Hamid, of Turkey,
showed in amassing odalisques and eunuchs,
and with about as much discretion. He
makes a Commissioner or two in an after-
noon, just as the duplicate kings in “The
Gondoliers” whiled away an idle hour mak-
ing dukes. And no one can tell what the
inscrutable little man means by it, or sees
in it, any more than one could tell what
Abdul was thinking about when he retired
darkly into the recesses of himself, and shut
the door, and ate the key, and then threw
out death-sentences through the window.
The latest is that that blatant sinecure, the
Australian Trade Commissionership to the
United States, is to be filled again, and
names of hackneyed politicians are being
mentioned. The place has been twice filled
by a business man of the sort who might
do some trade if the Yankees were not
so solidly resolved that "trade” must only
mean that they shall sell their goods to us
and take gold’ or bonds in exchange. As
things are a business man is a superfluity.
So the billet will naturally become, like the
High Commissionership, a provision for bat-
tered old party fi’iends, and a haven for
Prime Ministers who iiave outlived their
welcome. An official statement is to the
effect that “Experience has proved the need
for continuous representation,” but when it
was proved and by whose experience are
unexplained. To whom it was proved is
an easy matter; it was demonstrated to
evei'y hanger-on with a ghost of a chance
for the office. The U.S. Trade Cornmis-
sionership’s position has been empty for
quite a while. By the peculiar cussedness
of inanimate objects it cost more when it
was empty than when it was full. Now it
will cost moi - e when it is full than when
it was empty, for the Hughes Govei-nment
is blessed with an arithmetical progres-
sion like that. The U.S. Commissioner-
ship is worse than the other commer-
cial freaks because it has a reverse action.
The Yank learns through it how to sell to
us, whereas we intended it originally to help
us to sell to him. And since the silly job
was established he has taken to arresting
Australian visitors on sight, telling them
that only 23-H Australians are allowed in
annually under the Smithson Act or the
Jobkins Law (Yankee laws are named after
the inventor), and that the 235th who hap-
pens along should consider himself lucky
not to get a life sentence. One thing this
country does get in return for its expendi-
ture and one only. That is periodical news
as to how our ambassador has been dined
and wined and flattered by the Chainber of
Commerce at Columbusville or Wasliington-
burg. Now we have plenty of food, wine,
flattery and Chambers of Commerce in this
country; and if it is essential, for the pur-
poses of the party game, that W. M. Hughes
should shower victuals and adulation on old
friends, it would obviously be better, in view
of the state of the country’s finances, to
carry out the business in Australia. If all
the useless officials who are now operating-
in foreign parts were brought back and
housed, fed and amused in the Canberra dis-
tinct it would at least help to populate that
lonely region, and it would represent an enor-
mous saving otherwise.
■ • .
Progress.
\
From Harley Matthews:—
What is progress? Whenever I hear people say
that the district in which I was born and have
lived nearly all my life is progressing, it makes me
wonder what meaning they attach to the word. The
place is about three-quarters of an hour’s run from
Sydney by train. Thirty years ago it supplied the
city with most of its grapes and peaches. Prices
were low compared with current rates, and no doubt
the A.W.U. would not have been pleased at the
wages paid—for that matter, it is not pleased now.
Anyhow, the population that got its living from the
vines and fruit-trees was larger than that of to-day.
It is true that the children worked at harvest time,
but that didn’t seem to do them any harm.
About 12 years ago the district began, in _ ,tlie
modern jargon, to go ahead. It progressed fast.
“Old Tom Muscatel has sold out,” one would hear.
He got £5O an acre. They’re cutting up his land
into allotments. This district is going ahead all
right.” Passing Muscatel’s home one would note
that grass had sprung up in the vine rows, that
the orchard trees were sickening and that the land
was growing a crop of white pegs. Presently there
would be a board with the legend: “This land for
sale in 30ft. blocks on easy terras.’’
Vineyard after vineyard disappeared. The people
talked of nothing but land prices. A new railway
was suggested. Surveyors arrived, and the land-
jobbing fever increased. What was the use, folk
said, of growing fruit for a living when in a few
months the new railway would make the fortunes
of them all.
The district is still progressing. Last week one
of the few remaining orchards was sold. The
owner was offered a big price by a syndicate of
land speculators and accepted it. He explained
that the rates on his property, through the general
increase in land values, were so high that it didn't
pay him to work it. The railway is not finished yet.
It is only a seven- or eight-mile stretch bringing two
stations on an older line closer together—really a
deviation—and it was started nearly three years ago.
But even procrastination has its uses—to the specu-
lator.
Every now and then, when the Government has
a little loose money in its pocket, a few day laborers
make their way out to the site of the new line.
They shovel earth, and wheel barrows about, and play
two-up for a week or so, and then disappear again.
But that has been enough for the land boomers.
“Buy now',” they shout anew. “The new railway
will be finished next month. Land in this locality
will soon be unprocurable.” These narratives have
their effect. Every Saturday afternoon and Sunday
motor-cars appear on the hillsides, and the landscape
is dotted with people holding maps, and pointing at
w’hite pegs to show where imaginary roads lie.
And the tangible result ? Here and there a few
houses have been built within the 12 years. In
other places the bush has taken the old clearings
to its breast again. Subdivision pegs are grown
over with grass. But the land will never pass again
into cultivation —not in_ our time, anyway. It is
criss-crossed with imaginary “roads,” and no orehard-
ist would think of growing fruit on a road, even if
it is only a paper one.
So the fruitgrowers and market-gardeners go
farther and farther back. And Sydney people won-
der why they have to pay more for their fruit and
vegetables. The subdivision pegs haven’t yielded
them anything, the jobbing gentry excepted. People
can’t have their land gamble and grapes and peaches
too.
— % ■
The “Ne Temere” Decree.
J. Wilson, M.L.A., of N. S. Wales,
came back from Maoriland the other
day with the news that the legislation
passed in that region of queer experiments
against the “Ne Temere” decree had “proved
entirely effective.” Premier Massey claims,
it appears, that the Romanists have climbed
right down on this issue: and that no one
in the Dominion is now to be found with the
boldness to put the laws of God (as under-
stood by the citizen affected) before the laws
of Massey. The Bulletin will believe that
this miracle of conformity has occurred when
it hears of Catholic priests marrying R.C.’s
to Protestants, and Anglican priests marry-
ing divorced persons in M.L. So long as the
R.C. and Anglican Churches refuse to
do these things they arc preaching, in
the most effective of all ways, in the
one case that mixed marriages are in-
valid in the sight of Heaven, and in
the other that, according to God’s teaching,
marriage is indissoluble. And in so acting
they argue, in language clearer than any
words, that, in their opinion, all those Catho-
lics who have wedded Protestants in State
registry offices are living in sin, and that all
those folks whom the State has put asunder
are still married; so that, where they have
wedded again—whether in or out of a church
—they are adulterers or adulteresses, as the
case may be. Needless to say, neither Angli-
cans nor R.C.’s have been in the habit of
proclaiming these awkward convictions from
the housetops, any more than they have been
accustomed to tell their Jewish friends that
they regard them as infidels, or than the
Jews have been wont to interrupt a pawn-
broking or bookmaking deal with a member
of the dominant race by mentioning that
they consider the latter to be Christian dogs
and foredoomed to Hell. It would be an
even more Donnybrookish world than it is if
all spoke their inmost thoughts in this crude
manner. But even the downtrodden Jew
gets there just the same by insisting that a
Christian who marries a Hebrew man shall do
it in a synagogue, under penalty of being
regarded as unmarried —by Judaism. And
so amongst countless other races, castes and
creeds throughout the Empire. In order to
reduce the Massey law to abject absurdity
it is only necessary to imagine it making an
attempt to function in India —and history
does not show that either Catholics or Angli-
cans have been any less obdurate in stand-
ing out for their religious beliefs than
Mahometans or Buddhists. No ; this idiotic
Maoriland device cannot have any effect but
the extremely undesirable one of providing
the country with another offence for respected
citizens to commit in the name of freedom —
and that means another moral justification for
real criminals to break necessary laws on the
grounds that their betters do likewise where
it suits them. It is significant that Mr.
Wilson, though a Prohibitionist, had no
tidings of the way M.L.’s liquor laws are
being enforced. If, as is freely alleged, they
have degenerated into a subject for derision
throughout the two islands, it should be hard
for him to convince the N. S. Wales
Assemblv that the other attempt at repres-
sion is doing any better, or, for that matter,
half as well.
•
Party Divisions.
“The present political division between Labor and
Anti-Labor is vicious and false; Capital is only
accumulated Labor, and should not be opposed to
it; Capital and Labor must be co-ordinated to pull
together.”— Earle Page, M.P.
But if organised division between employer
and employed is vicious and false and un-
economic and disastrous to the country gen-
erally—as, of course., it is—how is it pos-
sible to argue that antagonism between the
countryman and the townsman is any more
justifiable or likely to be any less calamitous
in the long run? Why should Dr. Earle
Page shake his head over one political divi-
sion as unnecessary, and regard the other as
not only natural but commendable—-from the
point of those who have instituted the cleav-
age and who apparently desire nothing more
'• u to deepen and widen it? Just as Labor
and Capital are interdependent, so country
and city are interdependent. Each lives on
the other, and must continue to do so till
the crack of doom —or civilisation. This is
not to say that Australia wouldn’t be a great
deal better off if it had more cities and better
distributed ones. But, assuming that all
the capitals could be cut into quarters and
distributed scientifically about the face of the
land, they would still be cities, and persons
like Dr. Earle Page would still be indus-
triously explaining that, however foolish it
may be for Capital and Labor always to be
arrayed against one another, the interests
of men who grow wheat in rure must neces-
sarily be opposed to those of men who mill
the wheat or make, the bread in urbe. The
Country party, it is obvious, cannot remain
a force in politics once that notion is dissi-
pated. What Page might have consistently
said is that all parties are more or less
rotten in principle and disastrous in prac-
tice. The Country party has come into being
as a protest against the City party, which
has been chronic in every great capital for
generations, and which operates, where city
interests are concerned, without regard to
the ordinary political divisions. The Coun-
try party obviously intends to bludgeon its
aims out of Parliament on the same question-
able lines, the defect of the system being
that the party, so constituted, doesn’t get
enough while it is weak and gets too much
when it becomes strong. Non-partyism and
elective Ministries pledged to give each
National or State problem that comes up
consideration on its strict merits —these are
the ideals. But precious few politicians arc
aiming at them.
The History of a Political Ramp.
During the N. S. Wales election campaign
much capital was made of the claim that
under the Dooley regime the State trawlers
were run at a handsome profit. The Hol-
man Government, it was said, ran the
vessels at a loss, but once Dooley got con-
trol, and Labor methods were introduced,
the chronic deficit was metamorphosed into
a steady and reliable surplus. This interest-
ing narrative was repeated so often that
some of the narrators came to believe it
themselves. The trawlers were cited on
scores of platforms as a shining example of
the blessings of Labor administration; and
the management seems to have regarded the
undertaking as, in some sort, a branch of
the A.L.P. A capitalist-socialist who was
indiscreet enough to complain that » the
smell from one of the State fishsliops Avas
bringing down the vmlue of his city pro-
perty found himself reported to the A.L.P.
executive as an enemy of the movement.
When the election came in sight leading
officials of the trawling department hurled
themselves into the fray either as Labor
candidates or stump speakers for Labor
candidates, and badgering these enthusiastic
exponents of Labor politics and national-
ised flathead became a popular street-corner
diversion. Flaring advertisements, in wffiich
the Minister’s name was unnecessarily men-
tioned, made their appearance in the daily
press. One such, published 48 hours before
the day of wrath, went this way:—
New South Wales State Trawling Industry.
Fish ! Fish ! Fish !
Colossal Catches Arriving Daily.
The Hon. C. C. Lazzarini, Minister for State
Enterprises, instructs that the fish must be sold
immediately whilst fresh.
The Minister has agreed to the following unpre-
cedented low' prices until further notice: —
Flathead, 4d. per lb.; skate, 2d. per lb.; gurnard,
Id. per lb. ; barracouta, Id. per lb.
Don’t forget your own State meat-shop, which
was the means of reducing prices, and is even now
in many instances selling below the fixed meat prices.
A. P. SuMMERGEEENE, General Manager.
The Dooley Government ran the enterprise
for a month after the above appeared. And
last week the announcement was made that
the year’s operations had resulted in a loss
of £83,000, which is probably more than the
whole outfit is worth. The tragedy has the
customary useful lessons. One is that Gov-
ernment concerns which are run in the
interests of the Ministry’s political pals are
likely to show a loss, and another is that
Government concerns ivhich are exploited to
snare votes must score still bigger losses. The
glaring feature of the swindle under con-
sideration is that while Dooley and his fol-
lowers got whatever political advantage there
was in the sale of fish at about half the cost
of marketing it, Fuller and his crowd will
have to pay their share of the damages-bill.
And no man likes to find the money for the
sandbag that Avas used to bash him over the
head.
•
Nationalised Mendicancy.
Sydney’s revolutionary ex-parson Garden
rushed to the capitalistic press a few days
ago Avith this :
Have personally investigated famine situation in
Tsaritzin, Komma, Saratof, and other centres. Belief
work is ‘ inadequate to cope with the volume of
hunger. Sixty thousand died in Crimea during
April. Australian Labor must arouse itself and more
energetically organise relief work. Other sections
should unite to fight hunger.
The province of Taurida, which includes the
Crimea, is much smaller than Tasmania,
and the Crimea itself is the smaller half of
it. If people are dying at the rate of
720,000 a year in that minute and fertile
corner of Russia, then nothing that Australia
can send Avill make any palpable difference,
though the loss of it might make a difference
to Australia. A further consideration is
that there is not a copper to send, except
money which has been borrowed on the
security of our children, and generosity with
other people’s money looks a dubious virtue
in the sight of Heaven. Russia is certainly
making heavy Aveather for a country Avith
no debt (thanks to repudiation it has had
none for nearly five years) ; no church or
royal family or peerage to keep up; no war,
and no blockade, barring the automatic one
which arises through the Government having
“taken over the means of production, distri-
bution and exchange.” That is to say, no
one can send anything to Russia save as a
gift, unless he sells to the Government as
sole exchanger, and that heap of debris has
nothing to pay vvitli except paper Avhich isn t
worth the cost of removal. The unholy
slioav having broken down far Avorse than
Australia’s comic Communistic colony in
Paraguay, presumably famine will stay till
a different Government is found, or till suf-
ficient people die out to make demand and
supply meet. If there were 60.000 fewer
hungry folk in the Crimea at the end of
April than at the beginning that alone was
something. Australia has had wheat short-
ages not a feAV, and Britain, before the war,
used as a regular thing to grow only enough
to feed one-sixth of its That
was worse than Russia at its worst; but
Australia and Britain never thought of call-
ing the position a “famine,” and demanding


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES EXCEED £700,000.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - - - £5OO 000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS £3oo*ooo
ASSETS EXCEED £1,100,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, South Africa.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
SELBY P. WOOD. J.P.. Governing Director.
# AUBREY E. WENDEN, Managing Director.
Full Time, Part Time and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
the assistance, as a right, of total
strangers, much less of peoples whose
governmental systems they were pledged to
destroy. They fell to and made or produced
goods which they exchanged for the
materials whereby the national bellies were
more_ or less filled- —and that is just what
Russia, under Sovietism, seems determined
to die rather than do.
*
A Plea for Truth.
Dear Bulletin, — I think it will be gener-
ally conceded that one of the severest day-
by-day trials of our modern civilisation is
the impostor—thu complacent swindle in
human guise who strides blatantly through
the world, a living lie, maddening strangers
and acquaintances alike. His. existence is
due largely to the Press, and it rests with
the Press to abolish him. I have a scheme
which ought to serve the desired purpose,
and which would certainly increase the cir-
culation of any paper that adopted it. “Open
Letters” to adults, “Aunt Martha’s Let-
ters” to children, comic supplements, trade
supplements—all such methods of securing
the fleeting attention of the bored reader
have been overdone. My notion is a column
headed “The Truth.” On the one hand
would appear a cutting from a rival con-
temporary, on the other the facts of the case.
Some samples :—-
Fiction:
That gallant cx-Digger Major Clarence Nonsuch,
D. 5.0., is thinking of resigning from his present
lucrative employment in order to accept an important
Government position, which is being pressed on him.
The State will indeed be fortunate if it secures the
services of this brainy Anzac. Enlisting soon after
the call came he was quickly in the midst of it, and
did meritorious military service on several fronts
till the termination of the war. His D.S.O. was
earned in Flanders. Idolised by the men who fought
under him, and trusted by his superiors, he has
several times been asked to stand for Parliament,
but, with characteristic modesty, has declined.
Fact:
In 1914 Clarence Nonsuch was a First Lieutenant
in the C.M.F. He hung on without enlisting till
late in 1915, and then became a Press Censor. By
September, ’lO, the city was too hot for him, and he
accepted a captaincy at a concentration camp. In
’l7 he was told that if he didn’t get out of Aus-
tralia he would have to get out of his uniform, so
he took a job as adjutant on a troopship. The retire-
ment from the A.I.F. of the C.O.—who had come to
the conclusion that there was more in the submarine
menace than met the eye—brought Clarence face
to face with a fresh crisis, which he safely bridged
by going into action as second in command of the
Anzac Meat Depot at Froid-Pied sur Lievre. He
remained there, with occasional visits to the neigh-
boring town of Rouen, till the Armistice, his D.S.O.
being awarded in July, 1918, for devoted handling
of meat. He is being sacked by Bingle, Bingle and
Dubbs for general uselessness, and is employing a
political pull which his family possesses to push
into the Public Service. With a certain amount of
Press help he will bring it oif and be financially
safe for life.
Fiction;
The British Empire has no truer patriot, no more
earnest Christian, than Mr. Ebenezee Cloop, M.L.A.,
0.8. E., J.P., who will be the chief speaker to-night at
the great Loyalty Demonstration, organised as a protest
against the conduct of Shamus O’Hourigan, of Balli-
nasloe (Ireland), who recently threw a bomb which
blew a Methodist policeman to pieces in Trafalgar-
square (London). The meeting is being’ held under
the auspieces of the Christian Unity Society, of
which Mr. Cloop is president. Mr. Cloop has
sacrificed large business interests to do the country’s
work in Parliament. He has two chief aims in life
to advance the cause of Empire and promote har-
mony between all classes and sects.
Fact:
Cloop was one of Australia’s leading war-profiteers.
He is now doing even better as a peace-profiteer. He
is in Parliament for what he can get out of it in
the way of concessions, contracts, etc., connected
with the primary product in which he chiefly deals.
His 0.8. E. cost him £5OOO. His Christian Unity
Society is a branch of the L.0.L., and he runs this
ticket because there is a strong Protestant vote in
Cooly-Gooly, which he represents. He began invest-
ing in the U.S. in 1914, when war seemed likely (anti-
cipating the defeat of Britain) ; ,-;nd he intends to
continue the practice as and when opportunity offers.
He is the originator of the phrase, “Boodle first,
Britain afterwards.” and has not been inside a
church for 34 years.
Fiction :
One of the most popular juniors at the State Bar
to-day is Harold Pag let. Modest to a degree, his
hatred of any form of self-advertisement, has been a
handicap which only his eminent forensic gifts, his
Voltairean wit, and his profound knowledge of the
law have enabled him to overcome. “Don’t mention
my name” is his constant cry to the Inky Brigade;
so much so that at the Press Club he is often referred
to as “ ‘Don’t Mention It’ P aglet.” The Inner Bar
thinks the world of Harold Paglet ; and Mr. Justice
Punk, so it is whispered, after hearing the conclu-
sion of his argument in Rex v. Sikes, turned to his
associate with the remark, “There stands my suc-
cessor.”
Fact:
Paglet is as dull a dog as ever donned horse-hair.
By means of persistent self-advertisement and an
uproarious joviality in the presence of solicitors, he
gets an occasional brief. Every newspaper which
deals in personalities knows the paragraphs which
he types and gets friends to copy out and post for
him.
“We learn that Hal Pagley's cheery laugh is
soon to be heard in the Baleegula Bowling Club. Yes ;
Hal is taking up bowls, and if his social form is as
good on the green as it is on his evening train
(where the guard has had several complaints about
the noise), the ancient game should be the brighter
for his patronage. But, jesting aside, this brilliant
counsel/’ etc., etc.
The Bar Council is furious with Harold, and the
Bench regards him as a blot on the legal landscape;
but they are impotent to check his discreditable
activities.
As I have remarked above, a feature like this
would certainly sell any paper. Granted
that it would also produce, one of the most
prolific crops of libel actions —criminal and
civil—in the history of journalism. Yet for
a brief space the editor would be a public
idol, and each member of his staff a sharer
in the aura of his fame. Is not this worth
living and suffering for? —Yours, etc., In
Vino.
♦
A Matter of Eighteen Millions.
“W.P.D.”: Australians would take more
kindly to the suggestion that farmers in
suitable districts should go in for growing
cotton as a side-line to wheat or fruit
if proposals for spinning and weaving
the cotton were put forward as well. Aus-
tralia produces a better article than U.S.
THE END OF THE COURTSHIP.
“The recent Labor Conference in London, on a card vote, by 3,087,000 to 261,000, rejected a reso-
lution to admit the Communist party to affiliation.”
middling, and much better than the Chinese
or Indian product. I have seen a sample
in the Murray Valley which, for fineness,
length and strength, could challenge the best
American Sea Island variety, and which
would bring 2s. per lh. in Manchester. A
minimum of Is. (id. per lb. for lint is guar-
anteed by the Queensland Government, and,
as consumption exceeds production by
7.10,000 bales a year, it doesn’t look as if
prices will slump. One may expect them to
go higher. If they do, no guarantee will
be needed. Still, whether prices keep up or
not, if we can make our own shirtings and
sheetings and towellings within the Com-
monwealth, it would be poor business to
send our cotton 12,000 miles to the
Lancashire or Saxony mills and have it
shipped back in the shape of textile fabrics.
We have at least o.ne spot ideal for the
cotton-manufacturing trade, and that is
Cairns ( N.Q.). Within a radius of a dozen
miles Cairns has enough water-power to
supply all the electric energy needed —more
than is used for driving the machinery in
South-west Lancashire. There are quite 50
waterfalls in the area, from mighty Barren
to the small cataracts which continually pour
off the edge of the tableland down to the
coastal strip between Cairns and Babinda.
The climate has the moisture which seems
necessary for spinning the finest yarns. As
for heat, well, men work in the sugar-mills
on the Herbert, the Johnstone and close to
Cairns right up to Christmas time, and I
never heard that they found the heat an
insuperable objection to earning £5 or £ti
a week in them. On the Atherton tableland
or on Oswald’s Track there is room enough
to grow all the cotton needed for Australians
and leave a few bales for export. Years ago
Archdeacon Campbell showed me cotton he
had grown three miles from Cairns, and I
have seen fine samples produced on the
plateau. Why the water-power in the Cairns
district has not been harnessed before this
and made to earn barrels of money for North
Queenslanders passes understanding. If the
possibilities of Cairns as a North Queens-
land Oldham or Bolton are sufficiently adver-
tised, there should be loose cash enough in
the Commonwealth to find capital for build-
ings, plant and machinery. Woollens are
manufactured at Marrickville, Parramatta,
Geelong and other places, and that branch
of the textile industry requires just as much
capital and skill as cotton-spinning and
-weaving. Last year the Commonwealth im-
ported £282,757 worth of cotton yarn. A
great deal of it went to Clunes (Vic.), where
a cotton-knitting mill, established at rela-
tively trifling cost, now employs 140 per-
sons (the management expects to double the
number before long), and has given Clunes,
a township that was nearly dead, a new lease
of life. But the imports of cotton piece
goods, socks and stockings, sewing thread,
cotton-seed oil and the like exceeded 18 mil-
lions. It is a magnificent market, and Aus-
tralians ought to set to work, earnestly on
the job of supplying it themselves.
Lords of Verbiage.
From a man who is weary of wordspinning:
AH the Federal Labor leaders that Australia has
known— Watson, Fisher, Hughes, Tudor, Ryan,
Charlton failed in platform effectiveness in direct
proportion to the importance they attached to cue
responsibility of leadership. Watson, battling in a
Labor Conference for a point of principle or policy,
was a daring and attractive speaker, but Watson
as responsible leader of the Labor party became a
dreary master of non-committal phrases and a
tedious spinner of current Labor platitudes. His
most important platform pronouncements lost in force
and directness because of the long, cautious tag,
as far as so-and-so is concerned,” which he care-
fully tied to their tails before parting with them.
Fisher, who followed Watson, assumed the same
cautious phrase directly he became leader, and, being
more definitely Scotch than Watson, employed vhe
tag more frequently to increase his platform indefi-
niteness. Even Hughes, though possessing a vocabu-
lary that enabled him to vary the traditional Wat-
son phrase more frequently than ids predecessors
could hope to do, found his oratory hobbled with
the same old string when he succeeded Fisher.
Tudor and Ryan, with their native-born disregard
of imported obsequiousness and contempt for political
pretence, valiantly strove to keep their responsibility
out of their platform speeches, and both might have
succeeded had they lived. Tudor certainly used the
Watson phrase pretty often, but in his case, “so far
as that matter is concerned was not so patently a
string to his pronouncement as a convenient method
of bridging the gaps in his oratory. Ryan's scholas-
tic advantages, allied to his Irish extraction, made
him an adept at constructing qualifying sentences of
his own, consequently the Watson formula seldom
appeared publicly on the Tom-Jo platform.
Now comes Matt Charlton, and with him a com-
plete return to the oratorical traditions of his oldest
political ancestors. Faithful to the Watson and
Fisiier teachings in -spirit and letter, Charlton is
less inspiring and infinitely more dreary to listen to
than either of them at liis worst. On the platform
he appears to lack the faintest gleam of imagination.
Honest and sincere so far as his machine-made con-
victions can be regarded as consonant with honesty
and sincerity; fair and precise and thorough in his
presentation of so much of his case as he sees and
understands; hard-headed, persistent and (probably)
courageous; but apparently as innocent of political
vision as a week-old kitten, and with no more desire
or power to illuminate a situation with a well-turned
phrase or evoke enthusiasm with a flashing word.
Matt’s soul is so chock-full of his tremendous re-
sponsibility as Labor leader that every recognisaole
quality of leadership is crowded out. The writer list-
ened to him attentively the other night and in deep-
est sorrow records the fact that the only resemblance
observable between this Labor leader and former
incumbents is in the use of the devastating and soul-
searing and applause-killing phrase, “so far, that is,
as that particular aspect of the question is con-
cerned!” And Matt employs it at least twice as
many times in the course of an hour’s talk as ever
did Chris or Andrew. If machine-made politics is
responsible for this dreadful state of affairs it is
about time somebody started a machine-smashing
campaign.
"Wymac”: I will support “Gregor” (B,
22/G/’22) all the way in his onslaught
against tuberculosis “cures,” so-called V.L>.
remedies, abortifacients and similar “quack”
medicines. But I do emphatically deny that
any reputable wholesale druggist is manu-
facturing those lines or carrying them in
stock. They are the product of back-yard
“chemists,” whose products only stand the
light of day through the apathy of the
Advertising Clubs and the eagerness of the
newspapers to accept all and sundry kinds
of advertising without investigating the
qualifications of the persons manufacturing
the “cures.” True, there are pills on the
market which contain soap and ginger, but
has not white soap a medicinal value —and
ginger, too ? There are also tonics which
contain alcohol, but the consumer is not de-
ceived, for, in accordance with the Pure
Foods and Drugs Act, all remedies contain-
ing alcohol must have a statement to that
effect on the label. There are also many
reputable proprietary medicines, non-alco-
holic and non-narcotic. “Gregor” knows
them. And if he is acquainted with the
B.M.A. he will know that many of its mem-
bers recommend some of the proprietary
medicines which, they know from analysis,
will fulfil their truthfully-advertised claims.
«,
“Copabella” : Consider the spectacle of
Departmentalism in action. A Vic. State
school lost some of its slates in a storm. In
response to wires from the school committee
wires were sent from the Education Depart-
ment telling that body to have the roof re-
slated. Now, school committees are limited
in their spending powers for maintenance *,
in this instance the figure was about £B. *
The slating job could not be done under £l4.
That, of course, started the compilation of a
file. Pasunent was refused on the ground
that the committee had exceeded its spend-
ing powers. It was further shown that the
Department could not possibly have ordered
£l4 worth of spending when £8 was the com-
mittee’s limit. The file is a volume now;
and the committee, being broke, has had to
raise a mortgage on its next year’s grant
m order to keep the ravening slater at bay.
« _£
A Digger has a plan:—
I marvel why the amateur town-imp rovers who are
spilling rivers of ink in the Sydney dailies don’t agitate
for the removal of the Public Hospital to a. more
suitable site. To have a large general hospital in
the city’s best street is quite unnecessary.. All that
is required is a casualty-station, which need not have
a large frontage, and which would be more conveniently
situated nearer the industrial quarter. The present
buildings are hopelessly out of date. Remove the
hospital and there would be space for the erection
of a decent Parliament House, public library and law
courts. Part of the I ictoria Barracks site mi gilt
be set apart for the hospital. 11 ere it built on the
barracks ridge convalescents would have glorious
views over the harbor to the north, and from Cen-
tennial and Moore parks away to beyond Botany Bay
to the south. The area now occupied by the mili-
tary is enormous, and much of it isn’t required by
them. A couple of the drill-halls might be retained
for local needs, and the base-depot office moved to
Randwick rifle-range, now under sentence, or to
Liverpool. This would leave a large area of high
land available for various purposes—a hospital, the
widening of Oxford-street, and shops to face that
thoroughfare. Why the Commonwealth holds on to
such an extent of land, with its sprawling and hetero-
geneous collection of buildings, when it could be
made such a mouey-yielder, is a mystery.


FOR PLEASURE AND BUSINESS
HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLES ARE FAST BECOMING EXTINCT.
Bad Roads have hitherto, checked heavy
mechanical traction, but
Motor Lorries are now so substantially
constructed that they make light of
almost any obstacle,
THE WICHITA MOTOR-LORRY
has achieved a world-wide reputation
for making good under extraordinary
conditions.
r *»K
&
r
0%
pr or s
No roadway, however rough or steep, will stop them.
Horses are slow and soon tire.
The WICHITA LORRY is fast and never gets weary
or hungry.
It costs you only a postage-stamp to get information
which cannot fail to interest anyone who has carting
to do.
WICHITA MOTOR-LORRIES AND
TRACTORS, 1 to 12 tons.
NEW SHIPMENT NOW SHOWING.
SOLE
CONCESSIONAIRES
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street (Oamperdown), City, Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
For a week or thereabouts a sort-of-a-
kind-of-a civil war between Rory O’Con-
nor’s Republicans and Mick Collins’s Free
Staters has been raging in Ireland. Dublin
has been the scene of encounters so furious
that several pubs are reported wounded.
Also, by an unhappy mischance or misun-
derstanding, the famous Four Courts, in
which Rory was besieged by the minions of
Mick, have been blown up and the whole of
the national records with them. It is re-
corded that as the Rories emerged from the
ruins the Michaels warmly “shook hands
with them, the general atmosphere being
one of smiles, laughter and goodwill,” which
conveys some idea, however imperfect, of
the desperate character of the struggle. In
essentials, the “war” is powerfully remi-
niscent of the recent N. S. Wales shindy be-
tween the Dooleys and the McGirrs. An-
other parallel is the more or less permanent
uproar that goes on all over Australia be-
tween the O’Reillys (R.C.) and the Flag-
flaps (L.0.L.). Out of the half-dozen
casualties reported from the Irish front
on Tuesday last four consisted of English
soldiers who were watching the martial
revels of the playboys, either as a means of
passing the time or because, being in Dublin,
they couldn’t do otherwise. These unfor-
tunates stand for the lookers-on at our own
Anglo-Irish shindy—the inoffensive and re-
luctant non-combatants who always get the
worst of the sectarian game.
Seamen of the “definitely revolutionary
order” can find as many reasons for hang-
ing up a boat as yEsop’s wolf could produce
for dining on the lamb. Rut it is strange
that the boatswain should be more of a
bone of contention than the captain and the
mates and the engineers and the cook and
the crew of the captain’s gig. Iluddart
Parker and Co.’s Zealand’a is laid up just
now because the Seamen’s Union won’t
have the hos’n whom the owners and the
captain want. And the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s Largs Bay is laid up because the
owners (as represented by Billy Hughes)
and the captain are equally determined not
to sign on the one bos’n upon whom the
Seamen’s Union has set its yearning heart.
Yet one would think that there would be
more bos’ns than there are boats to put ’em
on these days, and that few would be in-
dispensable to one side or the other. Even
a steamer that put to sea without a bos’n
at all wouldn’t necessarily sink in mid-ocean
with all hands.
“Oxide”: The vogue of Communist Sun-
day-schools is largelv due to per fervid loval-
ists like Ivey, N.S.W. Minister of Justice.
Broken Hill had some once. They were
started during the first Conscription cam-
paign. and caused quite as much indignation
among stay-at-home Barrier loyalists as Ley
felt later when he discovered one in Sydney
—or thought he did. For a time these ser-
pents in the bosom of the nation flourished
and waxed fat. It is alleged that quite 50
pupils were in attendance, but this may be
an exaggeration. Anyhow, when the flood-
light of publicity was directed elsewhere the
teachers lost their pleasant feeling of mar-
tyrdom, the kids got tired of giving up their
Sunday afternoons when there was no sense
of wickedness in it, and the noxious insti-
tutions languished and pined away. They
had no Ley to give them the advertisement
that had been as the breath of their being.
Having arranged in London for a fresh
supply of his country’s most extensive im-
port item, loans, State Premier Mitchell is
returning to Groperland and trouble. And
it isn’t only that the Country party has
fallen out with Scaddan. Minister of Rail-
ways and Tramways, and threatens to with-
draw its support. The British immigrant
is beginning to howl. Recent hatches have
mostly failed to find land or work, and 20
per cent, of older consignments, for whom
jobs were found in the country, have wan-
dered back to Perth and joined the unem-
ployed. The Acting-Premier confesses that the
situation is worrying him, although liis Gov-
ernment is only dealing, as yet, with 700
or 800 new arrivals per annum. In h's
desire to stimulate the loan trade. Mitchell
lieht-heartedly agreed to accommodate
25.000.
“Sol. M.”: A feature of the Largs Bay
hold-up has been the extensive press approval
of the Prime Minister’s unflinching attitude
in declaring that if Tom Walsh con-
tinues his conspiracy against the national
property, or even gets worse than he has
ever been before, he won’t do or attempt a
thing to the disturber, but will lay up the
nation’s property, and let the taxpayers
WHY HOT?
“They’ve made me lower my skirt. I hope they’re going to make her do the same.”
stand the loss. As a threat the thing is
demonstrably futile. Any Prime Minister
who wasn’t a mere irritable sheep in wolf’s
warpaint would say the Walshian insult had
been delivered once too often, and would de-
mand the complete removal of Thomas, as the
only terms on which discussion is or ever will
be possible. And if necessary he would put a
Thomas Removal Bill through at one sitting.
There is nothing supernatural about Thomas.
When he was in the act of taking over the
management of Australia once before n three-
months’ sentence busted his brass drum in
one bright act.
“Sol. M.”: The N.S.W. Ministry has pro-
hibited the sale of tickets in the Golden
Casket, that Queensland Government gamble
which draws so much Cornstalk legal tender
to the land of busted copper-mines. One
fascination about the Casket is that there
is no horse in it, with the resultant cer-
tainty that the investor will get a fair ru,n
for bis money every time. So the Queensland
Government is doubtless about right in its
view that, as the Fuller Government has no
control over the mails, the Casket business
will flourish as usual. It would probably
flourish even if the Fuller Government had
control. There will be a spasmodic search
for agents, of course, just as there is for the
betting-shop man—of whom there are seldom
fewer than 60 in one short Sydney street,
glaring enough to the public, but officially
quite invisible —and the result will be very
small. However, even if the seller can’t be
got at, the buyer might be —say in the form
of a special income-tax on prizes of 20s.
in the £, with a liberal allowance to inform-
ers. Few big prize-winners can keep a
secret, and informers are usually plentiful.
Compared with certain defunct nonentities
who have received State funerals in Queens-
land, the late Philp was an outstanding
figure. He was twice Premier, Minister in
half-a-dozen Cabinets, and a commercial man
of international note. Yet there was .no
State funeral for Philp. True, the family
would have refused the “honor” had it been
offered, but, anyhow, it wasn’t offered. Under
the present dispensation the “honor” is re-
served for Labor or ex-Labor politicians.
But perhaps it was only fitting that so
modest a man as Philp should have been
buried as he lived —in a modest way.
Though the Speck elections left Pre-
mier Lee with a Nationalist party of
only 12 i,n h House of 30, that persistent
office-holder has decided to carry on. Hobart
Mayor Snowden and Launceston member J.
C. Newton join the Ministry in place of ex-
Treasiirer Elliott Lewis (retired), and bon.
Minister Herbert Hayes (defeated). But
whether these arrangements will meet with
Cocky’s approval will not be known until after
the Nat.-C.P. conference —a gathering which
Premier Lee has been instructed to arrange
before Parliament meets, towards the end of
July.
“Skyrider”: We have formed a New State
league in a town only 60 miles from the
coast but 137 from Sydney. Our ultimate
aim is to run a line across that 60-mile gap
(there is a port waiting for us) ( and cut
out 77 miles of haulage. Most of our citi-
zens are decentralisators, but they hesitate to
go bald-headed for the New State idea because
they are afraid of being saddled with another
Macquarie-street shop, with another imported
Governor, two more Parliaments, and all the
rest of it. And we of the reform crowd
can’t satisfy them, for we don’t really know
what sort of government will be evolved
from the many proposals for subdivision —
whether the U.S. plan will be selected, or
the Canadian scheme, or the county council
arrangement, or a glorification of the shire
council. Even Earle Page, who is respon-
sible for the shaking up of many dry bones,
is not definite on the point. It is a vital
pomt. and it is time he, or somebody, became
definite.
When the first crew of the s.s. Largs Bay
reached Sydney, they were ordered off the
boat and told to be thankful, since they
were martyrs in a great cause. It was ex-
plained to them that Australia was heading
straight for Bolshevism, and that job con-
trol. by virtue of which they were being
hoofed out to make room for mariners
selected by Bragg, the union organiser, had
been devised to. accelerate things. Being
morosely dissatisfied with the crown of
martyrdom, which they reckoned a poor
substitute for 35 crown's a week and found
on a comfortable Government steamer, the
victimised salts opened their hearts to the
reporters when they reached Fremantle as
distressed British seamen. They may have
been lying like redshanks, but it doesn’t
seem likely. In view of what has happened
since their narrative has all the appearance
of truth. Job control having broken out
again on the Largs Bay, Hughes talks
of dishing it by laying up the whole Com-
monwealth fleet. It is the method of a
great mouth-fighter, but a poor man with
his hands. What is needed is an Act mak-
ing it an offence, on the part of a union
president and secretary, to hold up any
ship without lawful cause. The minimum
penalty should be 12 months, with deporta-
tion for such offenders as are foreign-born.
Evidently expecting that Hughes may
reduce the wholesale price of cane sugar to
£35 a ton, the Vic. Government has fixed a
sliding scale of from 355. to 40s. a ton for
beet to be supplied next season to the State
sugar factory at Maffra. The Maffra out-
put is under 2000 tons, and it is distributed
among Gippsland retail houses and a few
Government institutions. The competition
with the cane product is, therefore, infini-
tesimal, but, naturally, Purse-minder
McPherson doesn’t want to lose the £SOOO
or £9OOO a year this trading concern is now
making. There were losses enough when
it was a white elephant, as it was for years.
Ex-Senator Pratten, now M.11.R. for Par-
ramatta (N.S.W.), has taken a seat among
the Cookies in, the Ministerial corner. Sit-
ting in, front of him are Bell and Atkinson,
the two uneasy Tasmanians who, whilst
secretly resenting Hughes’s domination, come
placidly to heel when the party whip is
cracked. Near to them, and next but one
to the gangway, is Willie Watt, affectedly
cheerful in a new grey suit, but not thor-
oughly enjoying his splendid isolation.
Watt was the onlv intentional absentee from
the Ministerial caucus before the opening
of Parliament. Maybe he stayed away
because he didn’t want to have his feelings
scarified by hearing two or three of the
men who are loud in their criticism of
Hughes outside pronounce the little despot
“a jolly good fellow.”
“Gallery”: The Federal Parliament re-
opened with a tremendous uproar anent the
alleged dumping of iron and steel in Aus-
tralia. It was diverting to hear Labor
members weeping for the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary as a victim of foreign competition.
Time was when the Laborites were very
sparing in their praises of the 8.H.P., and
their present concern sounds like a lot of
stage thunder for the benefit of their con-
stituents. Anyhow, if their intentions were
honest, they wouldn’t have pointed to a
“callous” Government as the sole author of
the B.H.P.’s industrial woes. They might
have mentioned the profiteering in coal, but
men like Charlton and Watkins have to
remain silent on that phase of the subject,
because miners and owners are equally in-
volved in keeping up the scandalous price of
the fuel. Just now the cost of coal wipes
out any benefit a steel concern may derive
from the tariff, but when Laborites are re-
minded of that glaring fact, they dismiss it
as an invention of the capitalistic press.
“Gallery”: Catts, M.H.R., enlivened the
proceedings in the Reps. lasi; week by his
forcible references to his expulsion from the
Labor party. He classed his old colleagues as
the puppets of a junta which only he had had
the courage to defy, and when he went on to
describe Charlton’s attempt to delay Supply
in terms that couldn’t have been bettered by
Hughes, old pals’ temperature went up
to summer level. Catts dramatically showed
his divorce from Official Labor by voting
with the Country party and the Govern-
ment. Having now no admittance to the
caucus, he has to share a cubby-hole with
another “Independent,” Michael Considine.
The two should get on very well together, for,
despite their divergent views, both are very
bearable on the social side.
Lang, the Labor Treasurer, alleged in
his last Budget that N. S. Wales would be
two millions to the bad on June 30 unless
he was authorised to bleed the taxpayers,
already bled white, to that extent. He
wasn’t so authorised, and the deficit was
£1,329,000 instead of two millions, which
shows that, apart from his financial record,
Lang is a rotten prophet. And his financial
record is truly desperate. In two years he
achieved deficits totalling £1,774,000.
although he put from 4d. to Is. 3d. in the
pound on to the income-tax, raised railway
fre’ghts and faros 16§ per cent., and imposed
a forest of other imposts which brought in
a mint of money. Queensland, the one re-
maining Labor-ruled State, also wound up
the year with a debit balance —£187,000 in
this case. Both States have gone in for
gorgeous loan-drunks, and swingeing taxation
and chronic deficits are the fruits thereof.
UNFAIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“At the Glasgow Labor Conference last week, a
bitter attack was made by Mr. Jowett, the president,
On the vulgar orgies of the rich.
“On the same day in the House of Commons Labor
members moved for the reduction of the excise duty
on beer from £5 to £3 10s. a barrel. The motion
was rejected, after it had been shown that it would
involve the loss of £22,000,000 to the revenue.’’
— Gables.
The vulgar orgies of the rich
Raise Jowett’s proletarian gorge;
Get, as the Yankees say, his goat.
The honest toiler cannot “orge.”
The reason readily you’ll note.
The price of beer has queered his pitch.
Caique swum t His own to each 1
In dry champagne the profiteer
Or crusted port his beak may dip.
But when your stimulant is beer
You get, excusably, the pip
To find a skinful out of reach.
England was Merrie England once.
Merrie to-day it cannot be.
Cheap ale eludes the working bloke
While Midas tipples vulgarly,
Viz., as the common herd might soak
Assuming that it held the bunce.
The vulgar orgies of the rich
Go on apace —will nought restrain ’em? —
W’hile Labor delegates and “sich,”
Vvlgus (as Horace says) projanum
Use vulgar words and eke profane
Because, where sturdier Britons drain
Beakers of —well, not dry champagne,
The excise stamp no brewery forges
Of Bradburys five (once golden Georges)
Effectually vetoes orgies.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


JIGGERED.
Or the view taken of a Governmental Machine in action by one who has just sold most of his raiment to pay his income tax.


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Dunedin 8 Lyttelton.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Mertobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
announce their association with the famous Sheffield Firm,
HADFIELDS LIMITED
and Alloy Steels to any specification, Machinery Spares, Stone-Bieakmg
and Ore-Crushing Plants, Mining Requisites, etc., etc.
Note the new name and address:
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED,
Mitchell Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrougii, Mort and Co., Limited, the
wool people:—
Debenture
Interest.
{“A” Stock I
4 p.c. !
“B” Stock |
5 p.c. J Dividend. Reserves.
1916 £241,916 £76,840 15 p.c. = £83,849 £297,839
Transferred to Capital, £79,856 .. 217,983
1911 345,929 73,274 20 p.c. = 127,770 362,868
Transferred to Capital, £63,885 .. 298,983
1912 382,101 73,826 20 p.c. = 140,548 466,711
1913 202,499 73,147 15 „ „ 105,411 490,652
1914 224,359 73,014 20 „ „ 140,548 501,449
1915 178,127 71,422 10 „ „ 70,274 637,880
1916 188,449 70,418 12J „ „ 87,842 668,069
1917 222,067 69,686 15 „ „ 105,411 615,039
1918 249,987 68,985 15 „ „ 105,411 690,630
Transferred to Capital, £70,273 •• 620,357
1919 222,950 68,338 15 p.c. = 115,951 659,018
1920 161,039 66,960 15 „ „ 115,951 j 612 U 6
Drought exes, written off, £25,000 )
Premiums on new shares, £35,960 648,106
1921 119,427 65,614 10 p.c. = 84,493 617,426
1922 237,039 65,641 15 ~ ~ 137,527 601,297
This big co. has grown much larger during
the past few days: the old Harrison, Jones
find Devlin business was taken over on
July 3- That concern’s stores had a book
value of £168,950, and have been acquired
by the issue of 50,000 Goldsbrough-Mort
£l-paids (for purposes of the deal they
are reckoned as worth 355. each), the pay-
ment. of £24.700 cash and the taking over
of £56,750 of mortgages which had been
raised on the properties. So some Golds-
brough-Mort figures have altered a lot since
the balance at March 31. No doubt the
management will discharge the mortgages as
early as possible, as the big, concern has
close upon half-a-mlilion cash in hand. IL,
J. ;l nd D., by the way, handled about 50,000
bales wool per annum, and had a consider-
able skin and hides and livestock connection.
Earnings in the introductory table are
shown prior to payment of debenture in-
terest. Following is a more satisfactory
tabulation of results from shareholders’
point of view :
Provi-
Gross Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
1918. . £366,644 £116,657 £68,985 £181,002
1919.. 359,317 134,367 68,338 £2OOO 1»4,612
1920.. 299,901 161,862* 66,960 2000 69,079
1921.. 256,789 135,362 65,614 2000 53,813
1922.. 377,655 138,616 65,641 2000 171,398
including £25,000 drought exes.
The co. has made another of its remark-
able recoveries—from post-war difficulties as
well as from drought troubles on this occa-
sion. The wool market improved so well
that the co. during the 12 months to March
31 sold 118,998 bales compared with 43,614
in the previous year, and meanw 7 hile all
other branches of the business have been
more active. Being a big pastoral-property
owner itself, the co. has also benefited m
other ways by a favorable season. In the
previous twm’ years considerable amounts
were charged against revenue to cover exes,
incurred during the last drought. The past
year’s recovery was so good that payment
of divs. of .15 p.c. has been resumed, and
after making that distribution £34,870 re-
mained to strengthen reserves.
Considerable changes have meanwhile
taken place in balance-sheet figures
Liabilities.
1920. 1921. 1922.
Camtal .. £773,010 £916,849 £916,849
Reserves.. •• 716,447- 665,269 744,982
Debentures .. 1,504,648 1,492 218 1,492,218
Other liabilities 118,411 134,467 133,7a0
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 647,455 443,257 710,017
Advances.. .. 1,967,430 2,284,606 2,120,126
Properties & stock 220,723 230,722 220,350
Premises, etc. .. 212,803 210,293 192,778
Other assets .. 64,105 39,925 44,528
Advances at the latest balance were £164,500
less than in March, 1921. Consequently the
strong cash position has been still further
strengthened: there was £549,905 of cash
on deposit and current account, one parcel
of public securities, “at or below cost,”
£59,989, and another lot set down at
£100.038 as the investments of the primary
reserve and having a face value of £129,200.
Reserves, visible and more or less concealed,
are a feature of the co. It had a precari-
ous existence in the ’nineties, and several
reconstructions were undertaken to strengthen
the foundations. The writing-down of values
proved in later years to have , been too
severe, and some of the profits which showed
up after a time —and, incidentally, made
possible bonus additions to capital—were
due to the great recovery made by the Com-
monwealth generally. But not nearly all
the enhancement of values has been taken
credit for; 21 years ago premises were writ-
ten down from £529,601 to £858,494,
they are now given a book value of £192,778.
It "will be interesting to see how the man-
agement takes in the £168,950 of property
acquired from Harrison, Jones and Devlin.
The Goldsbrough-Mort station properties
are also, no doubt, included at conservative
values, and the published accounts admit
that the book value of advances makes allow-
ances for “provision for all debts considered
bad or doubtful.” After paying latest divs.
there were visible reserves of £651,296.
equal to 14s. 2d. per £1 share. In view of
the extent of the visible and internal re-
serves there is nothing fat about the 15
p.c. dividends. Also, there is a lot of cheap
money at work in the business; the
£1,492,218 of debenture stock is intermin-
able, and three-fifths of it carries 4 p.c. and
the balance 5 p.c. Altogether there is
£3,154,000 more or less permanently tied to
the business,. so the £133,750 of outside lia-
bilities are insignificant. The co. is, there-
fore, most comfortably financed, and so long
as its affairs are maintained on such a
basis the management will not experience
any difficulty with creditors in any hard
times which may be experienced.
* * * *
The Life Insurance Co. of Australia:
Total Deficit,
Out- including
Nov., Income. Expenses. Claims, goings. Goodwill.
1912 . . £10,989 £18,918 £3,715 £22,633 £19,614
Dec.,
1913 . . 23,851 19,809 6,350 26,159 21,952
1914 .. 33,412 23,951 7,655 31,606 20,146
1915 .. 36,892 22,986 10,277 33,263 16,517
1916 . . 40,172 21,651 8,661 30,312 6,657
Reserves.
1917 .. 49,298 27,225 11,430 38,655 3,986
Goodwill, £5OOO, disappears.. .. 8,986
1918 .. 61,414 40,127 8,209 48,336 22,064
1919 . . 84,335 55,927 9,857 66,784 40,615
1920 .. 142,939 70,583 14,008 84,591 98,963
1921 .. 154,415 70,699 15,624 86,323 167,056
Latest figures have more than usual interest:
at December 31 last the L.C.A. completed
its tenth year, and as policy investigations
are made quinquennially, the co.’s actuary
on this occasion tells how accumulated funds
compare with his estimate of liabilities under
policies in each department. Twelve months
ago some shareholders made demands on
the directors for dividends: one Adelaide
shareholder, armed with proxies, insisted
that a div. was a “necessity.” The
directors very properly refused to yield to
the pressure. The “Wild Cat” remarked at
the time that in the absence of an actuary s
report there was not the slightest justifi-
cation for a distribution to shareholders.
And though the 12 months since December,
1920, have been the most successful in the
L.C.A.’s career, the actuary’s report now
makes it clear why shareholders still cannot
be given a bite. In the Ordinary depart-
ment funds at December 31 last exceeded
estimated policy-liabilities by £17,233, but
as the basis of co-operation is that policy-
holders shall get £4 for every £1 made avail-
able for shareholders, £13,787 of that sur-
plus is earmarked for bonuses, and £10,996
is to be distributed, providing reversionary
bonus additions of £1 per £lOO of assurance.
So only £3446 belongs to the proprietors as
the result of the past five years’ operations.
That represents slightly more than 4| p.c.
on paid capital. Besides Ordinary business
the L.C.A. is handling Industrial and Acci-
dent insurance, and operations in the former
department are not yet on a profitable basis:
funds at December 31 last amounted to
£15,263, but the estimated liability under
policies was £2260 larger. This deficiency
lias been made good by the transfer to the
department of £4410 of balance-sheet re-
serves. The Accident branch is only a small
affair, and even there the £429 of funds are
a few pounds short of the 40 p.c. of pre-
mium customarily held as a reserve for un-
expired risks. So there is to be no distri-
bution to shareholders; “the directors be-
lieve it wiser to postpone the consideration
of a dividend, and recommend that this
amount of £3446 be carried to a special re-
serve.”
The dividend position is no worse and no
better than is to be expected. Highly-colored
prospectuses issued in recent years have mis-
led the public into believing that life assur-
ance is a highly profitable enterprise which
gives fat returns to the investor. All have
failed to add that the early years of a life
co. are both difficult and expensive, and that
a long period must elapse, under ordinary
circumstances, before operations can justify
either bonuses to policy-holders or divs. to
shareholders. The L.C.A. is an example of
a life-office which has been steadily de-
veloped ; its business-writing costs have never
been of the dimensions of those of most of
its younger competitors. But after 10 years
no div. is possible, and £37,037 of its paid
capital is still represented by an intangible
asset —“establishment and organisation
account.” But the L.C.A. is now coming
along very nicely; the recent policy-bonus
should assist it, and provided it has no mis-
fortunes and is well managed prospects are
encouraging. The introductory table com-
bines operations in all departments; follow-
ing are details of six years of Ordinary acti-
vities :
Ordinary Department.
Claims Expense
Income. Claims. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1016. . £22,685 £1,673 £12,087 7.4 p.c. 53.3 p.c.
1917.. 31,708 4,268 17,306 13.4 „ 54.7 „
1918.. 48,372 5,796 30,627 12.0 „ 63.3 „
1919.. 77,044 8,537 51,257 11.1 „ 66.5 „
1920.. 113,597 12,652 65,677 11.1 „ 57.8 ~
1921.. 135,268 13,112 04,935 9.7 „ 48.0 ~
The £135,268 of income does not include
£10,115 of premiums paid in advance. Pro-
gress lias been very rapid: income is six
times that of only half-a-dozen years ago.
Of course, that means that much new busi-
ness has been written: until 1920 first pre-
miums each year exceeded renewal premium
income. Last year renewals contributed
£67,505 and first premiums £44,299, which
explains the substantial improvement of the
expense rate. Assuming that old business
costs as much as 10 p.c. of renewal pre-
miums, every £lOO of last year’s first pre-
miums cost the L.C.A. £l3O. The business
is, therefore, very expensive, and explains
the absence of a surplus which will satisfy
the hunger of some shareholders. The up-
keep of branches in all mainland States is
no doubt responsible, but that complete or-
ganisation is rapidly building up the busi-
ness, and as renewals become larger in rela-
tion to first premiums further improvements
in the expense rate can be expected.
Last year’s Industrial premiums totalled
£7459, but exes, took £5151, or 65.4 p.c. of
total income. Industrial operations at the
beginning were to be the L.C.A.’s principal
line, but the comprehensive business-writing
scheme the promoters had devised broke
down and the branch is now only a side-line.
Accident business gave £1137 of premiums,
£613 of which went in exes, and £489 in
settlement of claims.
From a policy-holder’s point of view the
L.C.A. position is satisfactory. Assurance
funds are certified by the actuary to be ample
to cover his estimate of liabilities under poli-
cies; and, in addition, there are supporting
shareholders’ funds exceeding £26,500 in
tangible assets. The balance-sheet has under-
gone a considerable change during the 1-
months; the co. purchased I’rell’s Buildings,
in Melbourne, for £102,500, but raised
£79,000 of the purchase price by mortgage.
Other assets are: Government securities,
£236,644; mortgages, £39,810; loans on poli-
cies, etc., £4836; cash, book debts, etc.,
£20,766 ; office equipment, motor-cars and
other odds and ends, £7930.
* * * *
The Castle Salt Co-operative Co.
(Adelaide) .
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1912 .. £11,960 10 p.c.= £6585 £3OOO £2375 £8,785
1913.. 10,262 10 „ „ 6585 3000 677 9,462
1914 . 7.677 74 „ „ 4939 3000 9,200
1915.. 2,956 3| „ „ 2469 1500 8,187
1916. . 6,118 5 „ „ 3292 2500 326 8,513
1917.. 8,561 10 „ „ 6585 1976 8,513
1918.. 8,924 10 „ „ 6585 2000 339 8,852
1919.. 13,345 124 „ „ 8231 4000 1114 9,966
1920.. 11,014 10 „ „ 6585 2650 1779 11, <45
Transferred to capital, £9150 .. 2,595
Loss. Deficit.
1921.. 1,656 3| p.c.= 2813 1,874
Profit. Reserves.
1922.. 2092 Nil 2092 218
Only in two other years in this century have
profits been smaller —losses were shown both
in 1908 and 1921— nevertheless, the
tors in their latest report talk of a satis;
factory recuperation of the co. s aftairs.
Certainly the return of the P. and L.
account ‘to its proper place in the balance-
sheet may be regarded thankfully, but the
poor little profit of £2092 does not provide
even a pinch of salt for shareholders, so the
“satisfactory recuperation” has not gone far.
During the last of the war years this and
other salt cos. did very well, though prices
were controlled in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land. Castle Salt directors evidently thought
the prosperity of the erratic industry had
come to stay, so in June, 1920, they capital-
ised most of the reserves, giving approxi-
mately one fully-paid bonus share for every
seven'held previously. Within a few months
the market for the commodity collapsed,
owing chiefly to the post-war troubles of
the hides and meat-canning industries, both
big consumers of salt. The co. held big
stocks harvested at heavy labor cost, and the
year closed with a loss of £1656. An interim
div. had been paid, so during the 12 months
the co. slipped £4469, and a debit at P. and
L. of £1874 showed up where 12 months
previously reserves of £11,745 hadbeen.
Last year’s operations have put the P. and
L. in credit to the extent of the £2lB shown
in the final entry of the introductory table.
Any year’s profits depend on the volume
of stocks and the values at which they are
included in the accounts. Salt producers
are somewhat in the same position as other
primary producers: they have their harvest-
ing months, and financial results depend on
the subsequent markets for that harvest and
any unsold stocks from previous harvestings.
The Castle Salt’s accounts are silent on the
important matter of the basis on which
latest stocks have been taken, and the past
year’s profits and success of current years
trading depend a good deal on that valua-
tion. The volume of turnover is also an
important matter, since salt is a low-priced
commodity. More “satisfactory recupera-
tion” than shown by the introductory table
is disclosed by this comparison of the liquid
position at the last three balancing dates -
1920. 1921. 1922.
Stocks.. .. .. £35,753 £45,201 £34,816
Book debts . . . . 8,109 4,845 3,335
Cash and War Loan . . 2,227 399 339
Liquid assets .. £46,089 £50,445 £38,490
Liabilities .. .. 18,108 30,990 16,927
Liquid surplus . . £27,981 £19,455 £21,563
Stocks are smaller than two years ago, and
they probably include a substantial carry-
forward from the previous season. Last
summer’s harvest was delayed by adverse
conditions, but the directors report that
“the quantity gathered should be sufficient
to meet the year’s demands.” The reduc-
tion of stocks has eased the strain on
finances, so liabilities at £16,927 (mostly
bank overdraft) towards the middle of May
were £14,000 or so less than 12 months pre-
viously. Of course, the capitalisation of re-
serves" had no effect whatever on the liquid
position, but it did have a serious effect on
the backing to scrip. In 1920 each £1 fully-
paid was supported by Bs. 6d. of net liquid
assets and 17s. more by fixed assets and
goodwill, the extent of which is not dis-
closed. Nowadays each £1 share offered in
the market has the backing of only ss. 9d.
of surplus liquid assets and 14s. sd. of other
assets, nothing having meantime been writ-
ten off goodwill or machinery accounts, though
the latter has, no doubt, been maintained
in good condition out of revenue. Now that
industries which are customers are gradually
recovering the salt trade should, improve;
but the prospects of local enterprise depend
a good deal on whether its costs can stand
up against foreign competition. Imports in
pre-war days exceeded half-a-million cwt.,
but five years later only slightly more than
one-tenth of that volume came from over-
seas. Local manufacturing would have been
severelv restricted except for Australian sup-
plies: ‘hence the Tariff Board should keep
a watchful eye so that cheap foreign labor
shall not injure the Commonwealth’s salt
industry.
* * * *
John Hicks and Co., Ltd., which in
1915 took over the business of John Hicks,
Ltd., house and general furnishers (Bris-
bane) :
r Di vi deads
Net Pref. Ordinaries To Re- Re-
Apl., Profits. (7 p.c.). (inc. tax), serves, serves.
1916.. £3024 7 p.c. = £2BOO £224 £224
1917.. 377 £2lO Nil 167 391
1918.. 3021 453 5 p.c. = 2000 568 959
1919.. 5477 500 7 „ ~ 2800 2177 3136
(8 p.c.)
1920.. 6294 574 8 „ „ 3452 2268 5404
Transferred to capital, £4718.. .. 686
1921.. 8621 574 8 p.c. = ,3900 4047 4733
1922.. 5571 574 8 „ „ 4984 13 4746
Disclosed profits just sufficed to pay 8 p.c.
all round. A little of the ordinary capital
is transferred profit—£47lB of reserves were
taken to make a new issue of £1 shares paid
to 5s. —so the 8 p.c. div. is worth a trifle
more to shareholders who subscribed to that
issue. Latest disclosed profits were affected
by the general depression of trade during
the period, but stock values also came under
the knife and were carved to a “safe mini-
mum.” That cut should assist the current
year’s results. Paid capital is now £69,799,
compared with £40,000 six years ago, but
£26,660 more is now in properties, etc. Con-
sequently, though latest stocks called for less
financing than 12 months ago, liabilities are
still slightly larger than in 1916: —
1916. 1919. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities. . . . £26,517 £19,624 £34,686 £27,935
Property, plant, etc. 11,676 11,833 38,949 38,336
Stocks . . . . 39,255 39,147 43,602 35,138
Book debts . . 18,122 20,981 20,856 23,243
Cash, etc. .. 73 1,030 7,688 8,555
The co.’s position is comfortable enough,
though. Of the liabilities of £27,935 at
April 30 a mortgage on freeholds represented
£17,000 and there was also a debenture debt
of £6494. That left £4440 owing on current
accounts. Assets included £8475 of Govern-
ment securities and cash.
* * * *
Amico, Ltd.—This co., a recent recon-
struction of the 24-year-old Australian
Manufacturing and Importing Co., is seek-
ing additional capital for its growing busi-
ness. The directors are offering 50,000 £1
S p.c. cumulative prefs., which are to rank
point for point with the ordinaries to 10 p.c.
and to have the right to a proportionate
allotment in any future share-issues. The
co. has developed a big indent business, par-
ticularly with Japan and other Far Northern
markets, and deals in hardware, glass-
ware, porcelain, electrical and gas acces-
sories, softgoods, hosiery, lace, chemicals,
etc., from Europe. The Nippon connection
has also developed an export trade for Aus-
tralian goods, particularly foodstuffs, and the
co. proposes to employ some of the new
capital in erecting cool-stores to handle Aus-
tralian perishables. Turnover for the past
three years has been as follows: 1920.
£120,687: 1921. £303.254; 1922 (slumped
prices). £176,753. At February 1 the recon-
structed Amico, Ltd., had a paid ordinary
capital of £90,500, of which £30,000 was
represented by goodwill. The surplus of tan-


Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Go., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe has been chosen by experts
for many important projects because of its remark-
able durability, longevity and economy. Manu-
facturers install it in their plants for the conveyance
of acids, alkalies, steam, gas and brine because of
its extreme adaptability to all classes of work. If
you have an irrigation or waterworks problem
that needs efficient and economical handling, send for
our free GB-page illustrated book on wood, pipe and
wood tanks. All inquiries to The Australian Wood
Pipe Co. Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove. Sydney.
—Advt. '
m * * *
Patents.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagii
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* » * «
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. CoU.ison & Co., 483 Collins Screet, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
• * • .
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors lor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East).—Advt. *
* * * *
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated bv Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Sydney.— Advt.
R. G. WATKINS CO.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS. Auctioneers and Valuators.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
ALL CLASSES MINING MACHINERY AND CONTRACTORS’ PLANT AVAILABLE.
Write us for information on Machinery; It will pay you.
GOVERNMENT
df
SAVINGS BANK
of N.S.W. and RURAL BANK.
Head Office: 19-23 Martin Place, Sydney.
4 70 INTEREST allowed on Savings Accounts up
to £5OO, and on any excess to £lOOO.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS opened for any person, firm, company
or institution.
• AIHSLIE WHI
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure witH the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office t Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual I ire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine; Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Five Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD Genera] Manager.
gible assets —buildings as valued by Hardie
and Gorman, and stock certified by auditor
Chas. Knight as having been “well written
down” —was almost £76,500, so to protect
the £50,000 of pref. capital invited there will
be assets exceeding £2 10s. per £1 pref.
share. The old co. made £21,149 in the
favorable 1921 run, but for the 12 months
ended January 31 last, owing to the fall
of values, the net profit declined to £12,051.
Still, that was three times the amount re-
quired for the profs.’ div., not taking into
account the earnings of the capital now in-
vited. So both security for capital and the
dividend prospects seem good, while the con-
cessions attaching to the issue add to its
attractiveness.
* # * *
Tin-mining men are being cheered by news
items which, inspire them with the hope that
they may soon emerge from the lane of
adversity which they have been in for nearly
two years past. Last week’s cables’ inti-
timated that there was a marked improvement
consequent on Americans buying freely,
which may indicate that the large stocks
which they were known to have held are
becoming exhausted. Americans are also
reported to he particularly active in acquir-
ing options over tin-bearing areas, and their
quest has extended even to Australia, with
its limited possibilities. Another factor
which may have an important effect on
future values is the open secret that negoti-
ations are proceeding for an all-round East-
ern combine to control output and regulate
value. If the latter could be standardised
and stabilised at, say, £2OO per ton, pro-
ducers would have nothing to complain
about. It certainly doesn’t say much for the
financial acumen of the world’s producers
that they should allow a few manipulators
in London and New York to determine
values from day to day.
* * # *
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) has fallen
from its high estate as a dividend-payer to
a call-maker. In 1920 the co. paid £16,875
in divs., making the total £117,000. Last
call brought the total to £111,375, leaving
£5625 in favor of diys. If the co. makes
two further calls of 3d. each, as was agreed
at last meeting, calls will be ahead by £1125.
Had the most extraordinary demands made
by Federal Taxation Department for alleged
war-time profits and other claims been per-
sisted in, the total of divs. would have been
reduced by five is, on paper, as,
the money having been paid to shareholders
and realisable assets being very limited, the
amount would have been irrecoverable.
Among the claims made by the taxation
people was that large expenditure incurred
by the co. in boring and other exploratory
vork should have been charged to capital
and not defrayed from revenue. So unrea-
sonable an idea could be conceived onlv by
the curious mentality of unpractical official-
dom. Were such a principle to be allowed
where would it begin and end in the practi-
cal working of an alluvial mine, say, in reef-
drives and cutting-up drives along the
bottom? The only charges which could be
made against revenue would be cost of actual
panelling and raising and treatment of wash.
The co. has resumed prospecting bv boring.
There is a distance of some miles on the
sinuous course of the ancient river-channel
between the last payable pothole cleaned
out by the co. and a point wffere the lead
has been worked. There are several known
side-feeders, and the chance of the co.
making a good discovery some day is more
than as sporting one. Vegetable Creek’s
financial record as to capital called up and
dividends paid presents a strong case for. or
against, a proposition submitted to the Mines
Minister by a recent deputation •
Income-tax shall not be payable by any mine
until the whole of the capital subscribed by the
shareholders, plus interest at 6 per cent, for the
years it has been locked up, has been returned to
the shareholders in so-called dividends.
The committee which made this recommenda-
tion summarised the arguments in its favor
in this brief sentence: “Until the capital
invested is returned, income-tax is only a
confiscation of capital.” As abstract rea-
soning on the basis of justice that may seem
an unassailable dictum—to the mining specu-
lator ; but a penurious Treasurer and his
taxing officers could not be expected to think
so. Tt would be safe to wager a guinea to a
Gooseberry that this recommendation will not
he adopted by either the Federal or the State
Treasurers.
* » * *
Carter’s Hill prospectus is a wonderful
production. It relates to a show at Sewell’s
Creek. 20 miles south of Bathurst (N.S.W.),
the locale of the Main Ridge alluvial mine,
which a. few years ago stung a lot of Sydney
speculators very badly. Carter’s Hill must
be distant from Lucknow, as the crow flies,
at least 50 miles, yet everything about it is
said to be identical with the features of the
old field: “The gold-bearing material is of
the same description as that of the Lucknow
properties.” There are even “kernels of
siliceous arsenical pyrites showing typical
rich ore found in the old mines at Luck-
now.” “Siliceous arsenical pyrites” would
be a phenomenon in the eyes of a mineralo-
gist. “It is estimated that the main reef
will average loz. per ton, but by all indica-
tions this will so improve that anything up
to ooz. per tou may be expected.” Why limit
the expectations to soz. ? The “magic of the
name” of Lucknow lies in not less tnan 50oz.
to the ton! There is gold galore—“good
prospects can be washed from material from
any part of the hill,” yet by strange perver-
sity, or oversight, which is not characteristic
of thorough prospectors, not a load of it is
reported to have been puddled, sluiced or
crushed.
* * # *
A Melbourne co., headed by Senator J. D.
Millen, late of Bischoff, H. H. B. Deane
and Harold Bickford, is out with a pros-
pectus offering 68,000 10s. shares to pros-
pect the White Range goldfield (Centralia).
The promising leases in the inaccessible
Macdonnell ranges have been scratched by
prospectors for many years, but though no
comprehensive prospecting or development
has been undertaken, official and other re-
ports have testified to good values in large
formations. After many attempts the
numerous leases have been consolidated, the
vendors receiving 32,000 fully-paids in the
float. W. H. Cundy, of Bendigo fame, has
undertaken to control operations for six
months, and it is proposed to make a com-
plete survey of the field and systematically
group the numerous ore channels known to
exist. The promoters propose to overcome
transport difficulties by linking up the 360
miles to Oodnadatta by motor traction, the
Associated Equipment Co. giving a helping
hand to the enterprise by placing two five-
ton lorries at the disposal of the White
Range directors free of charge for the first
six months. Macdonnell Range rainfall is
about llin. per annum—better than Broken
Hill, and as bore water is regarded by ex-
perts as also assured, the promoters antici-
pate no water-supply difficulties. If pros-
pecting works out satisfactorily it is proposed
that White Range shall float pup cos. to
undertake mining and treatment. The pro-
moters have taken an option over the Govern-
ment 10-head battery and cyaniding plant at
Arltunga, five miles from the field, and while
development proceeds good returns are ex-
pected from stone already available.
* * * *
The Commonwealth is being invited to
take an interest in a Canadian-promoted oil
venture in Mexico. A Vancouver crowd,
according to the prospectus, secured the con-
cessions in the face of “very determined
efforts at considerable expense” by the Royal
Dutch and Sinclair oil cos., on undertaking
that shares would be issued only to British
subjects. Vancouver offers Mexieanada
Petroleum, Ltd., in a million-dollar shares,
a quarter of a million of which are appa-
rently issued as promoters’ consideration,
etc. Canada is offered 300,000, England
250,000 and the Commonwealth 200,000.
The Bank of N. S. Wales holds the Austra-
lian scrip for allotment as soon as the shares
are taken up. The nearest producing field,
it would appear from the prospectus, is 200
miles distant from the Mexieanada conces-
sions, but the Geological Society of America
is declared to have found oil traces on the
leases, and two oil-men, E. M. Skeats and
E. J. Prehoda, speak well of prospects. The
prospectus issued in the Commonwealth is,
however, a very abbreviated affair in essen-
tial details: investors attracted by the glit-
tering prospects set out therein should satisfy
themselves as to the constitution of the far-
off Vancouver co., its titles and the geologi-
cal reports before exchanging Australian
notes for dollar shares.
# * * m
No thrilling developments have so far
occurred in Westralia’s oil-hunt, but there
are a few trifles to record. Last year Gov-
ernment Geologist Blatehford condemned the
oil possibilities of the south-western areas,
and oil licenses held there are now being
abandoned and cancelled in great haste. In
the north the Okes-Durack co. holds less area
than Freney’s, but it has been reported on
favorably by both Blatehford and Mahony,
whereas Freney’s at present carries only
Blatchford’s blessing. Freney’s, by cash pro-
ceeds from pun flotations, appears to be
keeping its paid capital almost intact. Okes-
Durack has not yet embarked in this direc-
tion, but the season is young. Last week
Martin Freney returned to Perth from the
north with numerous geological plans pre-
pared by field-geologists Blatehford and
Talbot. The documents show anticlinal
axes, dome structures, key horizons, strata
and other data dear to the heart of oil opti-
mists. Everything now appears to have
been done except boring, but Freney’s may
he expected to commence drilling at once,
with a second plant to be installed at an
early date. Boring equipment for Okes-
Durack will soon be in course of deliverv.
Meanwhile Australian Petroleum Develop-
ment is watching for the first favorable bor-
ing development with a view to floating a
£400.000 co. It controls about 100,000 sq.
miles.
* _ * » #
George Doolette, having been in Gt.
Boulder (W.A.) since he joined up with
George Brookman in forming the famous
Brookman’s Kalgoorlie Golden Mile Syndi-
cate, is bitter because he cannot distribute a
final sixpenny for the year to shareholders.
As £6,000,000 has been distributed to them
since Gt. Boulder made multi-millionaires of
a lot qf men who knew nothing about practi-
cal mining, the old hands have no reason to
complain. Every mine has to come to an
end. Still, it is crass nonsense to go on
working a show that won’t pay. If Austra-
lian Courts and Australian labor are not
in the mood to work Kalgoorlie mines at a
wage which will pay, the machinery man
must *soon take possession. Supposing the
average of Gt. Boulder ore to he that of the
Ivanhoe next door (between 30s. and 355. per
ton), under present conditions the only thing
to do is to get out the richer portions of
the shoots and shut down. That cannot be
for the best interests of anyone, but capital
certainly won’t hang on if it cannot get a
return. Doolette’s venturing with the
Boulder and the Bullfinch in S. America,
where a block carrying scores of outcrops
was to put all the lustre back upon the
smudged Boulder shield, turns out to be a
duffer move. So Dick Hamilton once again
may get on the hunt in Aussie for another
mine.
* * * *
Edna May Consolidated (W.A.) is pay-
ing a final div. of lOd. per share. There
is a large quantity of fair-grade ore sub-
merged in the Consolidated and Central, but
the muddled pumping policy at Westonia
precludes its extraction. Sydney should be
careful that something similar does not befall
the Gladsome and Sand Queen mines, at
Comet Vale. They also are subject to
deluge, with the disadvantage, as compared
with Westonia, that the water is heavily
charged with solids. Men with pumping, ex-
perience and machinery of suitable type are
required to handle these shows, otherwise
the enterprise will end in disaster.
* * * *
According to Ives Reward latest report
the north drive at the 120 ft. level looks
well and all faces are in good ore. Like
the Gnow’s Nest, at Yalgoo, Ives Reward
reports were models of exactitude when re-
ferring to pleasing widths and values at
No. 1 level, but since the Reward No. 2
level (120 ft.) showed signs of indisposi-
tion widths and assay values are missing
from reports. Vague terms will not suffice;
what is wanted is the width and assay value
of the two faces at the 120 ft. level. Failing
that information yields from No. 1 level
count for very little.
* * * *
Last week’s yield from Blue Consolidated
(Bendigo) was 5240 z. from 612 tons. From
the returns for three weeks a div. of 2s. was
declared, making 3s. (£7650) from five weeks’
crushing. The eo. has paid 6s. in the past
six months, and has spent a large sum on
development and plant out of proceeds. This
div. makes the 150th paid, totalling £199,125.
In 1892 the co. headed Bendigo list with
£36,000. That amount may not be reached
this year, but prospects indicate that there
will not be much difference unless the co.,
as. is now proposed, erects a large battery.
Mine developments continue satisfactory,
the formation in the intermediate level at
1540 ft. maintaining its size and showing “a
nice sample of gold.” Prospecting being
done at 700 ft. from No. 3 shaft is showing
a big improvement, which may lead to the
co. having another valuable block of ground
to work.
* * * *
Nothing is doing at. Mt. Cuthbert except
a. financial drift. In the last six months
the co. slipped back £6940 more, and an
interest debit of £3515 has piled up. These
two items nut the P. and L. in debit
£169,522, which must be a record for Aus-
tralian base-metal mining. Protected credi-
tors are the bank and a few others, who
would not lend anything unless given prior
lien bonds. So about £26,000 of debt takes
precedence of the old deb. debt of £55,500.
The array of liabilities is as follows:
Debentures .. .. .. .. ~ £55,500
Sundry creditors (secured by prior lien bonds) 6,340
Bank overdraft (mostly secured by ditto) 19,880
Sundry creditors .. .. .. 24,838
•
Total * .. .. £106,558
Cuthbert has only about £16,000 of liquid
assets. So with interest in default things
are shockingly bad for a concern that has
output 7879 tons blister copper from 136.192
tons ore, and still has 193,500 tons contain-
ing 13,245 tons copper in sight. While
copper continues low Cuthbert has not a
hope of getting going, nor is it any use for
debenture-holders to foreclose. The job of
keeping the mines in order would cost about
£lO,OOO a year. Most of the mine workings
stand well when idle, except in the Kalka-
doon, which has rotten walls. These must
be kept safe, for the reserves there of
30,000 tons 10 p.c. ore and 80,000 tons 5
p.c. stuff are the sweetest possessions of
Cuthbert.
* * * *
Queensland Mines Department has been
handing subsidies to prospectors of tin
shows around Herberton and Irvinebank.
Although clean tin concentrates are worth
only £BO, many men manage to delve out small
parcels of good grade, which enable them
to repay the subsidies from crushings. Tribu-
tors are still in the Vulcan, and McGill and
Carroll are getting rich dirt from the Gor-
don, which is still worked on a small scale
It tin prices improve this show should do
well, and. looks worth spending cash on in
search of the ore shoots. Under present
conditions there is .not much encouragement
to do development work.
* * * *
Gympie (Q.) struck one of its rare golden
patches when No. 4 North Phoenix recently
put through 120 tons (a few bags of which
were rich specimen stuff to leaven the whole)
which returned finally 33580 z. retorted metoi
worth more than £12,000. The directors
distributed ss. per share, altogether £8571.
This crushing, averaging 271 oz. per ton,
was the best in the eo.’s 41 years, and is
all the more notable because the stuff came
fi'orn an abandoned tribute held from the
No. 3 North Phoenix. The Davies reef has
thus at last done honor to the co.’s old chair-
man of directors, W. Davies, for previously
it had been a comparative dud. Certain
Gympie tradesmen who backed the Victory
tribute are being condoled with on account
of the nice little wad they missed by a nar-
row margin. Although this is the most
notable crushing for years, there have been
some very rich small crushings even during
the last year or two; for instance, North
Columbia got 3470 z. from 49 tons some
months back.
* * * *
Clark’s, at Charters Towers (Q.), has
not been inspiring to its shareholders lately,
as a good deal of driving in the lower levels
has not revealed anything of note. The best
face is. in the winze sunk from the No. 9
level, which shows up to Ift. of well mineral-
ised ore. The last crushing of 235 tons
returned 3570 z. gold after the plates were
cleaned up—a shade over £5 a ton, with
values to come from the cyanide plant. So
they can still win some decent ore, although
it seems to be becoming harder to get. out.
* * * *
Prospects at Mt. Coolon goldfield (QA
are looking up a bit, and a fair amount of
prospecting work is proceeding in the newer
claims. The Native' Bear has put in a
winching engine and air compressor, and
the crushing plant is ready to start. The
Mt. Coolon is open-cutting, and values from
the plates look promising. The Svdnev
tributors recently had 100 tons crushed for
1360 z., and when the sands are cyanided
total values should run to something like
£9 or £lO a ton. The Sunbeam is under
option, and present indications are that it
will be exercised. Two other shows, the
Ileetorina, in the hands of a Charters Tow-
ers syndicate, and the Golden Horseshoe.
Ltd., are doing prospecting work.


THE UNWANTED.
“The Nationalists are doubtful of the political effect of the new Civil Service superannuation scheme.”
THE KID: “What are you going to call it?”
THE NURSE: “Jonah.”


I
1
2
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson Co., D g^ y H ~“-
OlJerfleet. Collins Street. Melbourne.
N.Z.—John Proctor, 200 High St., Christchurch
W.A.--H. Little fr C«., 851 Hay St.. Perth
“BULL” STOUT
(Extra Quality)
T.B. LIGHT ALE
K.B. LAGER
All renowned for quality
and flavor!
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
Before you buy a Portable Typewriter con-
sider the NOISELESS PORTABLE. We can’t
promise that you will hear anything, but you
will SEE a beautiful, convenient typewriter
that combines quiet with the speed, beauty of
work, durability and economy that only THE
NOISELESS can give.
, Can be used anywhere at any time without
annoying anybody.
Full particulars on request.
NOISELESS AGENCY
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone B. 2666.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
“J.F.H.” (London) : The Marquis of Lin-
colnshire, who has been celebrating his 79th
birthday, is the “Baron Bob” who was gov-
erning 'N. S. Wales when The Bulletin
was a baby. In his Australian period he
was on the lowest rung of the peerage—one
of .the no-account barons —but since then
he has become successively a viscount, earl
and marquis. He got his promotion for ser-
vices as president of the National Liberal
Club and general factotum for the party in
the House of Lords. It is an ironical cir-
cumstance that all his honors—bar the afore-
said contemptible barony—die with him. His
only son was killed at the war, and his
present heir is Rupert Carington (who spells
the family name with one “r” while the
others insist on two), a Sydneyite of many
years standing. Rupert married a daughter
of that Horsfall who owned Widgiewa, and
their son should in all human probability
be the fourth Baron Carrington; and which
is much more important, heir to an immense
estate chiefly in Buckinghamshire.
No man ever looked Death more squarely
in the eye than John D. Fitzgerald, who,
at 60. went out to cancer in Sydney on
Monday. Six months ago he came back
from the Old World under sentence, and
met each successive stage of his dreadful
disease.with the same gentle, uncomplaining
patience. When it became impossible for
him to go to his friends’ houses he received
them at his, retaining his interest in the
The late J. D.
FITZGERALD.
world around him,
and more particu-
larly Ireland, to
the end. He
started as a
printer; and while
his brothers ran
the famous family
circus he devoted
himself to study.
There was no
better-read man in
Sydney. He spolce
and read French
and German, and
was a passionate
lover of good
music. He was one
of the early pillars
of the Labor move-
ment ; was among
the first Laborites
elected to the
N.S.W. Assembly
in 1891, and held
portfolios in vari-
ous Administrations. In 1900 he was called to
the N. S. Wales Bar, and for some time
shared chambers with his friend W. A. Hol-
man. Town-planning was a pet subject of
his, and he published “Municipal States-
manship in Europe” and “Greater Sydney
nnd Newcastle” ; but latterly he did a good
deal of journalistic work, and there is a
book for boys from his pen now being
issued in London.
The sudden death of N.S.W. Crown Prose-
cutor J. N. Mason l-ecalls an incident in the
Banco Court, Sydney, on June 9, 1879.
Edward Butler, Q.C., was engaged in an
appeal for a new trial, and, it being his first
appearance after an accident at his farm
near Goulburn, Justice Faucett congratu-
lated him upon his re-appearance, apparently
in good health. Butler had just uttered the
words, “May it please your Honors,” when
he fell back into the arms of his junior,
O’Ryan, and was dead in a few minutes.
“Norbell”: Apropos the shifting of Prince
Albert’s statue from Hyde Park, Sydney,
Phil Walsh (now in charge of the Irish
Players) tells this yarn. ’Way back in ’BB
he and a barrister pal were present at the
unveiling of the Queen Victoria statue at
the top of King-street. “Ah !” said the bar-
rister caustically, “she’s got one eye on
Albert and the other on the Mint.” After
the ceremony Phil Walsh thought of a neat
finish to the barrister’s jeu d’gsprit, but had
no chance to mention it at the time, and
shortly afterwards left for foreign parts. A
couple of weeks ago, however, he met the
man of law, now a Judge, up near the
Queen’s statue, and continued the conver-
sation. “This is what I want to tell ye,”
he said. “The ould lady may have one eye
on her husband, an’ the other on the cash-
registher, but did ye notice wan thing? She’s
turned her back on the Church of England.
Hurroo for Oireland!” His Honor con-
curred.
“T.P.”: Dick Gray, the last of the old
Omeo (Vic.) alluvial miners, is going strong
at 84. He struck Omeo in ’6O, when Liv-
ingstone Creek parties were making £5O a
week per man for three days’ work. The
other four were generally spent in getting
rid of the coin in the shanties.
Noel Webb, who gets a deputy-president-
ship in the Federal Industrial Court, is one
of Adelaide’s numerous literary lawyers and
the son of a parson. He went on from
Prince Alfred College to the ’Varsity 40
years ago, took a good law degree, put in
10 years at Port Pirie, then joined Paris
“IN THE NAME OF ADVERTISEMENT—TREAD ON IT!”
Nesbit’s firm in 1897. Since 1916 he has
been Deputy Registrar, under Jethro Brown,
in the S.A. Industrial Arbitration Court.
“J.IL” (London) : I happened to be at the
opening of a bowling-green at Epsom the
other afternoon. The deed was done by an
invalid, who reclined in a bath-chair, and
wore heavily-smoked glasses; and that invalid
was Fortune’s spoiled child of other years—
Lord Rosebery. Lord Rosebery, who married
a millionairess, won the Derby, gained the
Prime Ministership, and established a unique
reputation as orator and literary man, while
still a young man! His luck began to change
some 25 years ago (he is now 75), and it
has been progressively more and more rotten
ever since. The crowning blows wmre his
heir’s unhappy marriage (Lord and Lady
Dalmeny separated in a blaze of public re-
crimination during the war) ; and the death
in Palestine of the brilliant Neil Primrose,
his second son. Then, his health went com-
pletely (he had had a severe nervous break-
down" in the ’nineties), and now nought re-
mains but his money. Of that he possesses
unlimited quantities, some of it, incidentally,
being in Sydney. Old William Manning,
afterwards knighted, managed his properties,
which included the now deceased Athenaeum
Club.
Cuthbert Dale Collins, after pottering
about the southern seas since February
aboard the Speejacks. as diarist and
colorer-up of the log-book to McGowen,
the Yankee cement-making millionaire, has
left that vessel at Singapore. He intends
going on to England and Fleet-street by
mailboat.
C. W. T. Rogers, who goes to the indus-
trial parish of St. Luke’s in Whitmore-
square, Adelaide, has no use or time for
fashionable congregations. He has been
toiling of late in Victorian working-class
vineyards—at Richmond, Yarragon with
Trafalgar, Jumbunna with Outrim, and
North Carlton. He saw war service, and
once lived half-a-year under canvas to get
into touch with the workers at the Powlett
coal-mine.
W. T. Lingwood-Smith. retiring from the
detective force in Adelaide, was strong on
the photographic side, and claims to have
done finger-print pioneering in Australia in
1894. He is off on a world tour with his
wife, the Rev. Lily Lingwood-Smith, who
was ordained in the U.S.A. as. a minister
of the “Christian Theomonastic Church,
and became, two years ago, the first woman
in S.A. licensed to celebrate marriages.
Brig.-General W. Ramsay McNicoll, who
recently took charge of the new Goulburn
(N.S.W.) Presbyterian Ladies’ College, was
headmaster of Geelong High School prior to
the big row in Europe. He went away as a
Major with the 7th Batt., and eventually com-
manded the 10th Brigade. After the Armis-
tice he was for a time Director of Educa-
tion for the A.I.F.
William Pearce, who got one of the two
Labor seats for Franklin division at the
Speck elections on June 10, died a fortnight
after the polling. He was 63, and the
strenuous election campaign over the big-
gest division in Tas. (and the Common-
wealth’s furthest south) invited pneumonia.
Pearce tried for the same division three
years ago, but finished last of the Labor
ticket. This time he outran old Parliamen-
tary hands like Labor Whip Ben Watkins,
“Bushy Park” Shoobridge and Dave Dicker
(Independent Labor). The last-named, by
the way, was a sick man all through the
Franklin campaign, and a serious operation
is said to be his only visible hope.
Campcrdown (Vic.), the home of the
Manifolds, has just erected in its avenue of
elm-trees a monument to the late Chester
Manifold, M.H.R. It is a life-size bronze
on a 12-foot granite pile, and faces the mas-
sive clock tower bequeathed to the town by
the deceased’s brother Tom. Illingworth
was the sculptor of this work, which, with
a certain appropriateness, one way and
another, was made in Japan.
Earl Midleton, who has been display-
i n g resentment
against the Bath-
ursts of London
Morning Post,
was the man (he
was then “Sinjin”
Brodrick) who was
mainly responsible
for blowing up the
Rosebery Ministry
27 years ago. He
moved the adverse
motion finding
fault with the Gov-
ernment over the
supply of cordite
for the army.
What was thought
to be a cracker
turned out to be a
dynamite bomb,
and out went the
Liberals and in
came the Tories.
1-Ie has a beautiful
place in Cork, and
was a Unionist till quite recently.
“Pump Court”: Gerald Riviere, late of
Sydney, had the privilege, for what it was
worth, of being sentenced last week by
one of the most interesting- men in London.
Henry Fielding Dickens is a perfect edi-
tion, in miniature, of his father, the novel-
ist. Only, instead of sporting a flowing
beard, the lawyer is clean-shaved. His
father's riotous humor has been transmuted
in the Judge into a dry and piercing wit;
but, despite many years in a most conser-
vative atmosphere he is a Radical and a
friend of Radicals. He deals out sentences
as Common Serjeant, and the appointment
is from the City of London, his office being
one of the survivals of the historical inde-
pendence of that portion of England.
Some July birthdays:—
Major-General Granville Ryrie, 57, on Ist. ; Prof.
W. H. Bragg, D.Sc., P.R.S. (formerly of Adelaide),
60, on 2nd; Theo Fink (Melb.), 67, on 3rd; A. W.
Piper, K.C. (Adelaide), 57. and artist M. J. Mae-
Nally, 50, on sth ; Colonel R. ,T. A. Massie, D. 5.0.,
32, and W. J. Isbister, K.C. (Adel.), 56, on 7th;
pianist Percy Grainger (born North Brighton, near
Melb.), 40, and Canon Portus, E. Maitland, 48, on
Bth; H. E. Barff (Syd. Uni.), 65, on 9th; Brig.-
Oeneral L. C. Wilson, C.B. (Q.), 51, on 11th; Percy
Allan (civil-engineer, N.S.W.), 61, on 12th ; Jas.
McGuire (S.A. Railways Commissioner), 66, on
13th; Crawford Vaughan, 48, on 14th; Prof. E.
Harold Davies, Mus. Doc. (Adel. Uni.), 55, on 18th;
Tetley Gant (Speck’s Leg. Council Pres.), 66, on
19th; E. F. Mitchell, K.C. (Melbourne’s eminent
barrister), 67, and Dr. E. S. Cunningham (Melb.
Anous), 63, on 21st; Justice MeCawley (Q.), 41,
on 24th; Justice Gordon (S.A.), 72, on 26th; Jus-
tice Crisp (Tas.), 48, on 27th; artist Mrs. Ellis
Rowan, on 30th ; Dr. Alexander MacCormick, 66, on
31st.
John White, a Q. ex-Minister, who died
a few days ago, landed in Bundaberg in
18S5, went into business, and after he had
made a success of it drifted into politics.
Though nothing in the least like a Disraeli—
in fact, he was one of the dullest politicians
the State ever owned —he was an extremely
useful citizen. He was in his element as chair-
man of directors of the Bundaberg Foundry,
which he helped to establish, and as the
moving spirit of Carrick’s, Ltd. (Brisbane).
“North”: Philip J. Holdsworth (B.
8/6/’22) was always known as "P.J.” by his
pals in the now-defunct Sydney Athenaeum
Club. And what a brilliant lot of clubmen
they were! “Toby” Barton, Jack Want,
George (Damchieago) Dibbs, Audley Coote,
Geo. Rignold, “Hop,” J. F. Archibald, Joe
Abbott, Sam Cook (Herald), L. J. Brient
( Telegraph ), Deklter (News), J. C. Wil-
liamson, Bill Lyne,
Teddy Noyes, Tom
Slatt e r y, Charlie
West m a c o 11, Reg
Bloomfield, Bernhard
Wise and many others
—t hey made the
gloomy little Castle-
reagh-street institution
bright with their wit.
“T. 0.1.” notes that P.
J. Holdsworth always
carried a bottle of
ether in his frockcoat
pocket. He was sub-
ject to severe heart
attacks, and this
might explain it. He
was eventually found
dead in bed.
WM. BROOKS ,
M.L.C., Sydney's
Canberra site special-
ist, who thinks M's.P.
are underpaid at
£1000 p.a.
“Chancery Lane” : Re the cross-examining
methods of J. L. Purves (B. 15/6/’22). A
cocky from Woop Woop, appearing as a wit-
ness for the defence (his first connection
with any Court matters) was being cross-
examined by the K.C., and, becoming con-
fused, hesitated in his answers. Thinking
the witness was growing recalcitrant, or
something, Purves thundered at him : “Now,
sir, you’re on oath. Do you know what will
happen if you don’t tell the truth?” “Yes,”
innocently replied the cocky, “our side will
win.” The witness had to be asked to stand
down before order could be restored.
A. S. (“Bob”) Armstrong, who dropped
into Sydney the other day, has for six years
been chief metallurgist at the Broken Hill
zinc-lead mine in Rhodesia. When the kaffir
boys a little while ago turned up a skull
60ft. below the surface in a big drift _of
animal bones, Armstrong saved it from going
into the smelters along with thousands of
tons of other bones which were melted dow T n
for the lead phosphates with which they had
become impregnated. He sent the skull to
London, where Professor Keith and others
welcomed it as perhaps the most venerable
relic of primitive humanity that has yet
delighted the eyes of this generation.
South Aus. gets a lot of fresh informa-
tion about Colonel Light, the founder of
Adelaide, from a diary of his, just presented
to the Public Library, covering the years
from 1809 till 1812. Light was then a
youngster in the Peninsular War, where his
knowledge of Spanish induced the Duke of
Wellington to make him his A.D.C. for a
time. He just missed Waterloo, but built up
a reputation which probably helped to. get
him the appointment in the infant province
later on.
“Ormond”: Clutha Mackenzie, Maori-
land’s blind M.P., is stumping the country
in the interests of the Pearson Memorial
Fund. At Oamaru he dug up an ex-police-
man who lost his sight through ’flu last
year, and found him in the depths of despair,
never budging out of doors. Clutha, whose
cheerfulness transcends his affliction, bucked
up the ex-John Hop and so energised him
with self-reliance that on returning 10 days
later he found he had gone about the town
and collected £lBO for the fund.
Mick P'aul protests: I felt it somewhat
when my mother, the late Mrs. E. L. Paul,
artist, stood as a Socialist candidate for
Cook in 1914, and now some irresponsible
paragraphist (B. 29/6/’22) gives me a
father in search of the Nationalist selection
for Macquarie (N.S.W.). The real aspirant
is Lieut.-Col. Harold (“Jacko”) Paul—-a
cousin of mine, and son of W. H. Paul, one-
time M.L.A. —who gained his rank with the
20th Batt. in the recent mix-up. My dad got
his colonelcy with the Soudan Contingent,
and afterwards commanded the Public
Schools cadets before “compulso” came in.
He is the last of the original Bathurst Co.
of the Ist Volunteer Inf., and though near-
ing 80 has so far developed no political
aspirations.
“M.C.T.”: A particularly efficient Per-
manent W.O. was threatened during the
w T ar that lie would be treated as “insub-
ordinate” if he went on trying to get aw r ay.
However he persevered, and actually em-
barked as an A.I.F. sergeant. At the last
Australian port of call he was hauled off
the ship and back to his old R.A.A. job—
by order of the Defence Department. And
last week one of the excuses given by the
same Department for booting him out of the
only calling he has had a chance to master
was that he “had no war service!”
THE SHEPHERD’S FAREWELL TO HIS SHEEP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“A well-known Anglican rector in N.S.W. has turned
burlier, owing to the size of his family and the
paucity of his stipend.”
Oh, stiff and proper members of my flock,
No more I’ll face you in your serried pews,
Forgive me if your seemly pride I shock,
Boar with me while I break the fateful news,
Hold not your breath, nor faint, nor be afraid ;
Your Rector, friends, is going in for trade.
He who hissed consolations in the ear
Of ladies who had nothing to confess,
Who warned the Bad of what they had to fear,
Tied those sweet knots which lead to happiness,
And spoke to the afflicted words of sorrow,
Is setting up in business on the morrow.
He who preached thoughtful sermons every week,
And told you little scandals over tea,
Who praised your toasted buns in accents meek,
And took your grubby children on his knee
With grave solicitude: Are you aware
He’s now prepared to rid you of your hair?
No more for Matins shall he ring the bell,
Or lead the melody at F,vensong;
Unguarded lies the path which leads to Hell!
His gaily-painted pole cries “Come along!
Hair-cut, or shave?” Henceforward your confessor
Sure tips will whisper as a suave hairdresser.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


HI
%
■■H
.
i
■
% \l
m
■
I
.
■
I
11
6
■h
mm
mM
Ili
IISI
i I
m
...
BAR-
TREAJD
TYRES
BARNET GLASS
MILES '
Cheaper.
f AMD
AUSTRALIAN
-Vi
-. r h -
' v fy' Wsk% "s.
...
- •'''
■
Sft» y y
■ I s
K ..-'
:
HI
■llilfN
MM
■HIISI
«§S 1
m
«ii
H H
M ■
BBP
MB
111
X \ :»-
mmmmm
s :
ifi
§m
HHH
Mi
m
il
•:■■:■•■
M
BARHET GLASS RUBBER C 9
ALL STATES £r MEW ZEALAND.
«■»
MM
mmmm
: \ ;■■■■; : . ..
|#§B§j 1
sip ...'.'.'. s :i H#...
iiimii—


Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Trices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
reQuired, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to 30in. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
H
There is no finer, warmer wool
than Australia's best —
and it is the pick of Australia’s fleeces that is utilised for
Peapes’ Warrigal Underwear
Even weaving, strong finish and correct proportion combine with
this quality to make “Warrigal” Underwear most reliable, durable,
warm and comfortable.
AAI6O. 82 84 86 38 40 42 44 in.
W inter - weight
pure natural wool
Undershirts, half-
sleeves 15/6 15/6 16/0 17/0 18/6 19/6
AAI6O
Underpants
to match 16/6 16/6 17/6 18/6 19/620/621/6
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTEKS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Bhths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
*
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
ZCZ[?]LIC
SKCAI [?]ERVE
Ninghtand Whi[?]
TWO OF A KIND.
HUBBY: "When I married you I was a fool."
SHE: "And now we twain arc one flesh."
“T. 0.1.” : Apropos Melbourne Gaol hang-
ings (B. 29/6/22), In the ’sixties the
“audiences” were composed mainly of pro-
fessional men. Dr. Barker was the chief
medical officer at each execution, and person-
ally directed the operator where to place the
knot. On one occasion Frank Stephen, the
city solicitor (a relative of the then N. S.
Wales Chief Justice) fainted and had to be
carried out. R. D. Ireland, Q.C., was also
a. frequent witness, but “Quick Dick” was
never overcome. A shake of the head and a
muttered “poor fellow” was Ireland’s almost
invariable contribution to the conversation.
"0.K.” : It is a misleading practice of the
Government Weather Bureau to take its
monthly averages of the temperature, etc.,
from the first of each month, wfiereas the
four seasons of the year—as far as seasons
can be defined in Victoria, anyhow—have
their commencement and finish at about the
20th of a month. Spring begins on, say,
the 20th of August; summer is likely to
wane into autumn after the 20th of Febru-
ary, and after a comparatively consistent
three months of “seasonable” autumnal
weather, the last week in May is likely to
include one of the coldest days of the year.
Therefore monthly averages of all tbe tem-
peratures in May, August, November and
February respectively are very misleading as
compared with averages for the four pairs
of intervening months. The odds against
any particular week in January being the
hottest of the year are not long. No wise
bookmaker would offer more than six to one.
Nor would he lay a longer price about the
first week in August being the coldest of the
year; but he’d risk 40 to 1 against the last
week in August being the coldest. See?
The weather doesn’t cut its Seasons exactly
to suit the calendar, but the bureaucrat who
records the weather always cuts his averages
to suit the calendar, without regard to the
fact that in four months of the year the
first two weeks are almost invariably warmer,
or colder, by some degrees, than the next
two weeks.
* * * «
“Rio” has one or two complaints to make:
The dull routine of life’ in my mountain retreat is
brightened somewhat by the errors of the Sydney
dailies in matters of general knowledge. Outside
the smaller U.S. centres our papers are probably the
most provincial in the English-speaking world.
Despite the war military affairs are a great stumbling-
block. Thus Sydney Sun mentioned the other day
that a soldier “was gassed and wounded at Mows
with the Coldstream Guards.” No gas was used at
Mons. The same man was “a survivor of the famous
L Battery action on August 8, 1914.” The British
Army was not in action before August 23. L Battery
was in action at Nery on September 1, but how a
man who was gassed and wounded with the Cold-
streams at Moils on August 23 could be in action
with L Battery on September 1 wasn’t explained.
Another paper referred on the same day to the Light
Horsemen who were killed in “the Landing.” There
were no Light Horsemen at the Landing. But the hurdle
which brings them all down is the British courtesy title.
Different papers will refer to the same woman as
“Lady Blinks,” “Jane, Lady Blinks,” and “Lady
Jane Blinks,” although each implies a distinct social
condition. And Lord Hugh Cecil is sometimes men-
tioned but oftener “Lord Cecil”—as who should say
of a 1i.8.E. “Sir Brown.” The only younger son of
a duke or marquis that they ever got more or less
unanimously right was, for some reason, Lord Charles
Beresford. Then he became a baron—Lord Beres-
ford —and the papers here continued to refer to him
by his old style till the day of his death. It was
equivalent to calling the K.B.E. Sir Bill Brown after
he had bought into the peerage.
* * * *
“Footslogger”: One of tbe best unit sou-
venirs I have seen
is “The Service
Record of the 18th
Battery, A.F.A.”
It consists of three
tabulated sheets
showing the cas-
ualties, awards,
etc., of the Bat-
tery during the
three years o f
active service it
s a w. Eighteen-
pounder shell-cases
are used as pillars,
on which the
names are printed,
and the Battery’s
colors are worked
in on a scroll. The
designer, Lieut, P.
R. Wiglitman, is a
great hand at work
of this kind, and
is drawing most, of
the maps for
Bean’s O ffi ci a 1
History. Wight-
man was a gunner
in the 18th Bat-
tery and had an
accident to his
speech when serv-
ing the guns. Re-
cently I asked him
how lie had gained
his M.S.M. "Oh,” he replied, “the C.O.
came out with a box of decorations and
asked us what we would like. Most of the
chaps said V.C. or D. 5.0., but I was stiff-
all I could say was ‘M.S.M.’ ”
“Friday Island” on throw-backs :
It isn’t always an inoffensive horse or other animal
that gets killed or mutilated. In Maoriland recently
a man leveUed a rifle to shoot a bird, whereupon a
child who was fond of birds exclaimed: “Don’t shoot
the bird. Shoot me!” The man promptly blew
her brains out. A few months ago a drunk handed
his mate an axe with the remark that he desired to
be beheaded. He then laid his head on a block, and
the mate obliged. Both killers were convicted. With
many civilisation is only a thin veneer over a pre-
historic impulse to sadism. This tendency may be
noted in the Christianised Melanesian native, in
HIS TROUBLES.
"Oh, John, they say skirts are to be worn two inches longer next season .”
“ That’s nothing. Tell me when they are to be worn two years longer."
whom an almost uncontrollable desire to kill
sometimes arises without any provocation whatever.
Fortunately for the would-be victim the native often
has a premonition of the impending nerve-storm. It
is not uncommon for a white man to be addressed
thus by his model houseboy walking behind him on
a bush-track. “More better, taubada [master], you
walk behind me. Me want make you kill 1” In five
minutes (if the master has been wise enough to get
out of the way) a smiling boy will indicate that his
little trouble has been weathered. In these cases
Brown Brother is certainly a gentleman eonipared to
the atavistic white.
“Wealsman” : Mode r a tq r
Murphy, of the Speck’s Presby-
terian Assembly, reviewing the
history of the kirk in Tas., fixes
the date of the first authorised
sairv.ee in the island some time
in 1822 —though there are many
who claim 1642 as the more cor-
rect date, Abel Janszoon Tas-
man and most of his fellow-
voyagers on board the Zeehaen
and Heemskirk having been of
the Presbyterian persuasion.
But, after readjusting his spec-
tacles and peering long and ear-
nestly into the available
archives, the venerable Scot
observes : “While it is undisputed
that Tasman’s men landed in
this country on the earlier date,
the actual meeting of the con-
gregation for the purpose of
divine worship is, unfortu-
nately, not set forth in"the re-
cords of the time.” Quite so. The
only recorded landing of 1642
was that of Tasman’s ship’s
carpenter, who "swam ashore
through the surf, and planting
his Prince’s flag on shore, took
formal possession of the newly-
discovered country.” Under
these circumstances, with Cap-
tain Tasman battling to keep
the Heemskirk’s long-boat off-
shore, and doubtless yelling to
the carpenter in double Dutch
for the Lo-ard’s sake to hurry
aboard before the blinkin’ sou’-
cast gale lifted the dashed boat
on to the blarsted rocks —under
such conditions how could the
carpenter be expected to stay
for church?
‘'Cleveland”: “Bean Stalk” (B. 22/6/’22)
says that Great Sandy Island is commonly
but incorrectly called “Fraser Island.” The
best authorities on this are to be found at
the Hydrographic Office of the Admiralty,
and I have not seen many charts where the
“Fraser” is omitted. Mrs. Fraser was the
wife of the master of the brig Stirling
Castle, which was wrecked in that locality
on May 21, 1836. She and six of the crew
were the only survivors. They were captured
by blacks and held on the island for three
months, when they wore rescued by a party
fi’om Moreton Bay in charge of Lieut. Atto,
finally being taken on to Sydney in the
revenue cutter Prince George. If the Fraser
family hasn’t the right to have its name
attached to this lump of Queensland, then
the etiquette of geographical nomenclature
has changed since my young days.
“D.F.”: Amongst those who built the old
Queen Victoria Barracks, Sydney, which the
Defence Department is giving up and which
will probably be dismantled, were the Canadian
insurgents transported to Australia after the
failure of the Papineau rebellion of 1837.
There were nearly 100 of them, and barring
a few professional men they were employed
in quarrying the stone for the barracks, and
setting it in place. A great-grandson of
Papineau, by the way, lost his life with the
Canadian forces in France during the world-
war.
IMPREGNABLE.
“Papa’s gone out to untie the dog."
“ Don’t worry, dear. I used to be a lion-tamer."
“But his boots ”
"Pah! A. mere nothing! I’ve shod army mules."
“D.F.” : Governor Darling went one better
than any modern politician when he started
to endow marriage. Between Jan. 1, 1830,
and September 30, 1831, he gave away
29,600 acres of N. S. Wales to brides whose
parents were held to have deserved well of the
colony. Miss Gowpor, daughter of the Rev.
W. Cowper, received the first subsidy, and
the practice went on merrily till Secretary
of State Goderich put the kybosli on it —and
on all other land grants. Darling seems to
have been as proud of his scheme as Gregory
M'cGirr was of his endowment notion, for on
the very day that he left Sydney for good he
granted the usual square mile of earth to
Mary Craig (Panton was her maiden name),
though the system had by then come under
the axe.
THE HIGH COST OF WALKING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
N.S.W.
The crowded feet
Beat and beat
On the pavements to and fro;
And I think with pain
In the drizzling rain
Of the leather of long ago.
Leather and brass
On the Attic grass
In the days of Themistocles,
And cow-hide brogues
Of the northern rogues
That walked by the misty seas—
Broken and thrown
With the rag and bone,
They have finished their work and gone;
But on bullock skin
The feet of sin
And virtue wander on.
The age of gold
Is a story told
To men in the age of brass ;
But the days’ grey weather
Is tuned to leather
As the mud-stained boot-soles pass.
That man may stand
In a posture grand
The child of a cow must die;
For a broken boot
Makes the sad lips mute
And shadows the furtive eye.
I stand and muse
At hundreds of shoes
Long passed with a faint regret,
While the slaves of leather
Through cold grey weather
Go on and on in the wet.
And this song is made
Because I have paid
Such a price for soleing and heeling
That I hate to stand
On the dripping land
And long to hang from the ceiling.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


tttnx will (jet tk&
tc&t 'iWW
y vn£
m
Wn“


Butterfly Hatpins and Brooches,
ranging in price, 16/6, 21/-,
22/6, 25/-
Butterflv Ear Rings, ranging in pricey
25/-, 30/-, 32/6, 37/6, 40/-
Rutterfly Rings,
prices, 16/6,
17/6, 21/-,
25/-, 30/.,
35/-
sdf
The New Butterfly Jewellery
VERY FASHIONABLE FOR PRESENTATION.
COMPRISING BROOCHES, RINGS, PENDANTS,
WRISTBANDS, EAR-RINGS, HATPINS, etc.
Made from African Butterflies caught in the wilds of
South Africa. The gaily-colored wings are mounted
under magnifying crystal glass, set in Sterling Silver.
A Very Handsome Selection now on view at our
Two Sydney Establishments. Call and Inspect.
' Stewart Dawsok & (o ()Lm
Syc/neif Ssfablismenfis :
185 -187 PITT ST NEAR. KING ST.,
CORNER 4-12 GEORGE ST., a,
Butterfly Hat
Pins, 16/0,
21 /etc.
sd
fs
Butterfly Wrist-
bands, Black Moire
Silk Bands, choice
designs, from 30/-
Butterfly Pendant.
Price, 45/-
“O- Blin”: Of course the wife had strong
suspicions of the lady who flopped about
the flat above ours in a florid wrapper, but we
never learnt the real state of affairs until
the gentleman, who visited her nightly and
went away in the morning, had an overdose
of whisky and called on us by mistake. I
was away at the time, posting a letter, but
when I returned the somewhat sozzled in-
truder was trying to explain himself to the
female from aloft, who \vas alternating
scorching reproofs of his conduct with reflec-
tions on my missus that made me—a peacc-
lover. normally—fairly vibrate with passion.
So inspired I told her in my most terrible
voice to collect her property and get out.
THE HUMAN TOUCH.
HOUSEHOLDER : “I say, old chop, you might hand me my cough
remedy. And do put the cat and the milk-jug out as you
go."
Thereat she shrieked: “Oh, yes; I’ll get out.
I wouldn’t stay here another minute. Pro-
bably you’re some other poor Avoman’s hus-
band Avhom this creature has lured away
like she tried to get mine. Anybody chn see
Avhat sort of a Avoman she is. Look at her
Avrapper !” As the door slammed I turned
™d noticed for the first time that Mrs. Blin
had been caught in a kimono not unlike the
garment worn by the oleograph upstairs. It
was a striking demonstration of the moral
effect of clothes on public opinion.
Kip’ : When t first joined my old bat-
talion we used to
clink our glasses to
the ancient tune of
■'Good luck!” or
“Good health!”
These boned.ctions
were later super-
seded by the sense-
less toast. “Here’s
the skin off your
teeth !” For a long-
time the Tommy
salutation
“Cheerio !” h a d a
great vogue. To-
wards the latter
part of the war we
were billeted in an
old chateau on the
Somme. Here the
Colonel would not
allow the bar to
be opened till <1
o’clock. The “bar-
room” was pretty
small, and mess
was at half-past ti.
so it meant that if
a man wanted a
decent appetiser he
had to get a hustle
mi. Still we never
sank one without
th e preliminary
"Cheerio!” which
had' become the
established form-
ula, until one even-
ing the Maj o r.
whose turn it was
to shout, held us
unresponsive, with
our glasses sus-
pended in mid air,
with his loudly-
bellowed “Go fer !”
Noting our bewild-
erme n t, he ex-
panded : “Go for
y e r ——1 i fe !”
“Go fer” stood.
“Lip” recalls a cure by suggestion:—
Into our ward in the C.O.S. there was brought,
late one night, a stretcher containing a hat, a
tumble of blankets, and a varied assortment of
groans. So piteous
was the outcry that
we expected to see the
occupant of the
stretcher put to bed
in pieces. However,
the six-foot of man-
hood that was helped
between the sheets was
quite whole. He told us
his trouble was “rheu-
matism ; very bad;
could hardly move.”
Presently an orderly
appeared with an out.
size in hypodermic
syringes, which lie laid
carefully on the locker
beside the bed. The
patient at once sat up
and took notice; also
he sought information.
The orderly explained
that a new cure for
rheumatism had been
discovered, and the
doctors were anxious
for someone on whom
to try it. AVhere was
it applied ? In the
spine, of course. It
might be necessary to
give him an an,"Esthetic,
as the instrument
caused great pain, but
that was for the doctor
to say. The final
admonition was that
the patient should get
what sleep he could,
as the doctor might
be along any time. At
daylight the bed Avas
empty. The acute
rheumatic and his kit
were gone. The
orderly expressed no
surprise. “The malin-
gering blankard!” he
said. “He’s been here
twice before. I Avasted
a week on him last
time.” And he took
away the hypodermic
to the pleurisy case for whom it was intended.
“Slinga” on certain military damfooleries.:
Re cutting off the stripes of a n.c.o. who is
“broke” by court-martial (B. 22/6/’22 and l/6/’22).
I was right through the war, from the Landing to
the Armistice. I suppose I saw 50 court-martial
sentences promulgated, and in the other 22 years of
my sei'A’ice in the Permanent Australian forces I must
have struck a dozen, but in no case Avere the rank-
marks removed from a n.c.o. There is nothing in the
Australian military regulations, the King’s Regulations
or the “Customs of the Service” to warrant such
a piece of imbecility. Of course, there are several
imaginary “regulations’' of long standing which might
THE HINT.
THE MEENISTER: “The roof of our little church is leaking very
badly, Mrs. MoNevin."
THE WEALTHY PARISHIONER: “Ah, thank ye for tollin' me, Mr.
McPhairson. I'll aye bring my umbrella wi' me."
lead a grossly ignorant civilian-soldier astray. For
example, some people persist in arguing that a son
may wear his dead father’s medals on the left
breast; while othei's cherish the notion that there
is such a rank as “King’s Corporal” or “King's
Sergeant,” who being- specially promoted cannot be
“broke.” It is an amazing thing that such falla-
cies should have survived the fust month of real
warfare even in hospital ships.
* * * *
“Thredbo” : While Kosciusko is the highest
mountain in Australia, geologists no longer
hold that it is the worn-down relic of much
higher mountains. It is a young mountain
Avhich has been uplifted, as part of the crest
of the great earthwave which has given us
the chain of ranges and tablelands extending
from Torres Strait to Tasmania, within a
very recent geological period. It may be
about a million years old, but that is callow
juvenility compared Avith some of the seniors
in the mountain class, such as the Andes and
the French and Italian Alps.
* * * *
The Defence authorities have announced
in tones of absolute finality that, no further
claims for separation allowances will be
considered after July 31, even from full de-
pendants. It may seem strange that these
claims should still be coming in, years
after the termination of the Avar; but it is
a fact that quite a number of dependants,
clearly entitled to receive allowances, have
only become aware of it vvithin the last six
months. There Avere soldiers Avho enlisted
and were killed as single men, but deserted
wives have subsequently traced them to the
recruiting-officer. Also, knoAvledge about
the right of dependants to allowances Avas
always vague and uncertain, and the regula-
tions were likeAvise, and are always being
altered, usually for the worse as regards
clarity. Similar separation allowances to
those given to dependants in Australia Avere
not granted to English dependants of A.I.F.
soldiers until August, 1918. And other
benefits were not made available till long
after that.
* * * *
“Winkle” on a novel collecting fad: A
petty larcenist got the shock of his life the
other day, when he Avas fined £5 for "being
in unlaxyful possession of a glass (Avorth
6d.), Avhich had been taken from a drinking-
saloon at a League football ground. It
was the Law’s first effort to cope Avith a
situation which, from Bung’s point of vieAv,
is becoming impossible. Cliques of young
men who week-end all the year round at the
seaside, make a habit of collecting drinking
glasses as other people collect stamps. Para-
doxically enough, this strange hobby has
gained in popularity through the very pre-
cautions taken against sneak thie\ms. Publi-
cans have their names, or such phrases as
“Stolen from the Ham and Chicken,” mi-
grated on drinking vessels; and this
identifying mark on the glass becomes, like
the watermark of the stamp, a proof of its
genuineness. Indeed, only engraved or
autographed glasses are permitted in the
best collections. Should a hotel use several
different styles or sizes of glass, a specimen
of each variety is pinched. Great rivalry
exists between different camps over their
collections, and though the “YZ’s” of Black
Rock may have the largest, and boast a
glass in each size from every hotel in Mel-
bourne, that of the “Silent Workers” of
Chelsea is perhaps more valuable, as it con-
tains some exhibits almost equivalent to
“Mauritius blues.” Specially prized is a
pewter pintpot so old-fashioned that it will
really hold a pint. But the greatest value
is placed on a wineglass from the saloon of
the late Colin Ross. It is taken out on
Sundays and viewed by owners and visitors
alike with the reverence that biliophiles
accord^ to an Elzevir Bible.
“U.P.”: South Australian vignerons are
being jolted with the.obvious fact that “S.A.”
stands for South Africa” as well as “South
Australia.” The Country which pinched our
wattle plants, bought our best stud sheep and
refused to allow us to have its ostrich eggs,
is now cutting into our wine business in
Maoriland and elsewhere. S. Aus. travellers
contend that, helped by the similarity of the
initials, the South Africans deliberately re-
present their wines as South Australian, and
have copied as closely as possible the nomen-
clature and labels of the central State’s
vignerons. As the S. Aus. product is on tin 1
whole about the best that Australia (and
hence the Empire) produces, while S’Africa’s
wines are, so far, the very crudest, the annoy-
ance of the trade in Barwell’s State is in-
tense.
♦ # * *
“P.T.0.” : Out of 250 unsatisfied judgments
brought before Hewitson, S.M., at the Adel-
aide (S.A.) local court, the other day, .no
less than S 6 defendants preferred not to put
in an appearance. This ought to be a record.
Another record, for S.A. at any rate, if not
for Australia, Avas put up by the S.M. him-
self in disposing of the whole bunch in an
hour and a half, or a little under three cases
per minute, lie is the sort of man the
N. S. Wales Government should bear in mind
when it is casting round for a neAV Divorce
Judge.
* * * *
“Dido”: Lying in the Caulfield hospital
among scores of Anzacs, Avho, although four
years and more have passed since the Avar,
are still bed-bound, is “Baby” Haynes, the
star-boarder of the institution. Haynes is
a \ r eteran of about 28, Avho went to the Gal-
lipoli landing at the age of 14, and there
picked up the troubles that still clamp him
in his cot. lie lost one leg, and had the other
so severely mangled that it will not heal. As
a result of further injuries he had to have a,
kidney removed. The remaining organ Avas
severely bruised and is still a lame member.
“Baby” Haynes looks a mere kid to-day, and
is treated a good deal as an irresponsible
youngster by the kindly nurses and his
fellow-patients at the hospital. The institu-
tion now forms a Avorld of its oavu.
so little regarded by the patriots of
1916 that the otticiai, intention of in-
corporating it with one of the ben-
evolent hospitals raises no objections
from anyone but the sufferers and a few
good souls who still stand by the men, and
THE RETORT COURTEOUS.
“I'll cut you off with a shilling."
“You don't, happen to have the shilling about
you?"
endeavor to soften their hard lot. The sol-
dier patients loathe the idea of being re-
moved from their present quarters and sub-
jected to the regime of an ordinary hospital,
and that should be sufficient to raise an
irresistible barrier against the change. It is
said the land is wanted, a curious argument,
bearing in mind that the soldiers saved the
nation and were promised the earth.
GENIUS IN ONE LESSON—SEND NO STAMPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Secret of Genius. Its Radiant Honesty.”
Headlines, Sydney Evening News, 23/6/’22,
Some people think that Shakspeare’s glory,
Which Mr. Bernard Shaw so sickens.
Proceeds from his dramatic power:
That knowing how to write a story
It was, and how the interest thickens,
That in the button-hole of Dickens
Pinned fame’s best-scented flower;
that vbile Da Vinci made his name
By being than his fellows wiser,
The modern artist .wins to fame
Through gifts as a self-advertiser.
But that’s all wrong and out of date.
The secret now’s no longer hidden.
The cat’s escaped from out the bag;
it’s easy, and it’s ne’er too late
To try, to none is it forbidden.
Young, shy and bold, hale or bed-ridden,
None, diffident, should lag.
Be honest, open as the day.
Or as a rifled sardine-tin.
Soon genius will come your way ;
All you need do is keep off sin’.
When, talking o'er her back-yard fence,
My landlady assures the neighbors:
He s turned so good ; don’t swear no more.
An’ pays me on the tick me rents.
lie don t get shickered now, be jabers!
But, like a model lodger, labors;
And if he finds upon the floor
A pin, he brings it back to me”—
Then you will know I’m soon to give
Shakspeare a run for honesty,
And make my hidden genius live.
x.s.w.
JEAN ANDRADE.


BATTERIES
\
nsu
o
ILLCC
.i
c
c
m
m
«
c
iWiii
0
That Extra Measure
and What It Means
More power than you are likely to need; longer
service than you are likely to expect; freedom
from repairs that you are sure to appreciate—these
things make Exide the superior battery for your
car. They mean true economy and the maximum
of satisfaction.
We have an Exide the right size for you; but
perhaps you don’t need a new battery. Let us
have a look and give you an impartial judgment.
Our repair service extends to all makes of
batteries. You can rely on unprejudiced advice,
skilful work, and reasonable prices. Call and see.
A
QUEENSLAND
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WEST AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Howard Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Sutherland & Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra St.), Melbourne.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
Hone. Gibbons. Ltd.. Inglewood Place. Wellington,


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident g Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-66 COFFINS ST., MEFBOURNE.
QUEENSFAND BRANCH
E. S. <& A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGFE STREET, BRISBANE '
SOUTH AUSTRAFIAN BRANCH
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIFDING GREN
feff street, adefaide. EN
CARLTON
HOTEL
■ " LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlercagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
Tariff
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents s
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
Trony : There is another case of a white
girl marrying a Binghi. The event occurred at Urangan,
near Pialba (Q.). She was a teacher of the abo. children
at Bogimbah Creek (Fraser Island) Mission settlement,
and she married one of her pupils, Fred Wunduna,
a full-blooded black. She lives with him in a humpy
made of ti-tree bark, and has four children, the
eldest about 13 years of age and the youngest a
baby. She was a well-educated girl and has taught
Fred to play the violin and to sketch, which he
does fairly well. Fred’s brother, Willie Wunduna,
is a well-known tracker.
w * * «
“Torquil”: An Abo. recently stressed the
susceptibility of fulminate of mercury. A mate of
mine having a mis-fire in soft (auger) ground, bored
another hole far enough away, as he thought, to
dodge the unexploded charge—five plugs of gelig-
nite- () He misjudged direction, bored right into the
miss,’ and brought out portion of the primer with
the detonator embedded in it. The cap looked like
a corkscrew. I know of another instance in which
a machine drill travelled through the devil’s number
of gelatine plugs, including primer, and no disturb-
ance followed. I chronicle these as exceptions
merely, not as a challenge to provoke experiment—
or Providence.
.** * *
Billy Yard”: Lately I’ve noticed some
Abos. skiting of how many acres they can plough
in a day. But they have only been using disc
cultivators—and they don’t plough. A disc culti-
vator can’t tear the ground up to a depth of foui
and-a-half to five inches. If it did, eight or ten
horses couldn’t pull one. I can beat what Abo.
records I’ve seen with 17 acres per day. That was
done with a Gaston 14-disc with 6ft. cut. One con-
tributor spoke of a Sundercut machine. We only
reckon that a disc cultivator here —not a plough.
If records are wanted: I have drilled 40 acres of
crop in one day with a 17-hoe drill using two teams
of four horses; and I have drilled 38 acres with
a 15-disc drill, using two teams of four horses.
* * * *
“Bogan Bill”: Once in Broome (W.A.),
when the pearling fleet had put in there, I saw two
drunken sailors standing back to back in the middle
of the street while a terrific thunderstorm was
raging. The landlord of the pub where I took
shelter told me that they had a £1 bet a s to who
would be struck by lightning first. I joined the
crowd of interested spectators; but we were done
out of our fun. The match ended in a draw.
* * ’ * *
Hecagus”: Re “Murob’s” dogs crossing
streams infested with 'gators (B. l/6/’22). I have
never known tame dogs to do it, but once when I
was camped with a mate near a creek in N. Queens-
land, a pack of dingoes burst into mournful wailing
on the bank, about 200yds. above us, and after a
quarter-of-an-hour of it they made a detour around
the camp and crossed the stream about 100yd3,
below us. Niggers have assured me that dingoes
always adopt similar tactics before crossing ’gator-
haunted waters.
* » * »
“Pickles, XT.”: I can assure “D.F.”
(B. 18/5/’22) that the Tasmanian forester-kangaroo
is still on the hop. There are a few on our own
property, as well as some in spots in the Evandale,
Ross, East Tamar and (I am informed) Circular Head
districts. They are lovers of open hill country, and
live in families. When not interfered with, and the
supply of food being sufficient, they will live upon
the same few square miles of chosen country for ages.
They are easily tamed. My old mater once reared
one on cow’s milk, and, till he grew too heavy and
had to be sooled off, whenever he saw the mater sit-
ting with her knitting in an armchair out in the
sun, he used to hop up, catch hold of her dress with
his paws, place his head between them, give the
seat of his pants a heave and somersault on to her lap
* * * #
“Eddyson”: Dilly Williams provided me
with a quaint sample of bush courtship. I was
staying with Rogers for a week on the dairy farm
at Lakeend, and on the first morning noticed Dilly
splitting some wood up very fine. He also filled
the tub at the kitchen door from the underground
tank. Then he raked the yard, after which he
perched on the gate a while. Dilly then sauntered
down towards the lake. After four days, during
which I had seen Dilly performing many of the
functions of a rouseabout preliminary to taking his
place on the top panel, where he chewed a blade of
grass, looking towards the kitchen with a fatuous
grin on his face, I spoke to Rogers. “That lad
working here?” said I. “Oh, no,” Rogers replied,
“not to say workin’ exac’ly. He’s courtin’ Milly.”
“Milly ?” “Yes, she’s a servant and Williams is
soft on her.” “Does he call chopping your wood and
carting your water courtship?” “Well, yes. So
’tis in a manner of speakin’. This Williams' ain’t
what you’d call forward. Bein’ a bit shy he cuts
wood for Milly and does little odd jobs that’ll help
her.” “And which is the adored Milly?” I inquired.
Rogers lost not a jot of his gravity. “She’s been
left here a matter iv three weeks,” said he.
* » * *
“5690”: Re the discussion as to how hens
get their chickens down from high nesting-places
(B. 25/5/’22). I. can settle it, because I watched
one. She made her nest in a hole in the top of
a post, about 4ft. from the ground. She timed
the thing, and when the chicks were ready to come
out she dropped the eggs one by one. The fall
cracked and the chicks walked out safely.
“Prof.”: Is “H. Bek” (B. 8/6/’22*) sure
it was the rhinoceros beetle that imbibed the sap of
the flamboyant tree and took a drunken header to
earth? I support his contention that they rush the
tree ( Poinciana regia), but beg to differ regarding
the particular nourishment they’re after. It’s the
bark they consume, not the sap. I’ve seen trees so
barked by the insects that they quickly died; but
the beetles remained fat and prosperous until picked
off the trees. Then the poultry gave them the
finishing touch.
“Ragar”: Like “Morob” (B. 11/5/’22), I
have scratched tny head over the Islanders’ wireless.
Oar lugger was nearing Thursday Island when the
native skipper, a Darnley Islander, suddenly brought
her up into the wind. He said the captain of another
lugger, which we could see four miles to our north,
had letters for me. In due course the other lugger
THE SPREAD OF INTEMPERANCE.
SHE : “Kisses are intoxicating .”
HE : “Let's get shickered."
came up, and I was handed a bundle of mail from
Thursday Island that the captain of the boat had
been asked to take out to my island. What I want
to know is how the captain of the lugger carrying
my mail knew that I was on board a boat he
sighted when about five miles off; and, secondly,
how my captain knew what the other fellow wanted
him to stop for. My “boy” couldn’t explain the
matter to me, and seemed rather puzzled to know
what I was driving at when 1 questioned‘him as to
“how it was done.”
* * * #
“Exul”: I don’t know anythihg about
horses seeking their owner when badly injured, but
not many years ago a little dog with a broken leg
limped into the children’s ward at Sydney hospital.
A kind-hearted R.M.O. put the limb in plaster and
the convalescent kids looked after the canine patient
like a brother until he could be discharged com-
pletely cured. How did Fido know that was the
proper place to go to for repairs?
THE OPTIMIST.
“FY7”: Re the argument as to whether
the bustard or plain turkey flies off with its young
or not (B. 15/6/’22). What really happens when
mother has to leave hurriedly is that the youngster
squats flat to earth, dead still, long neck stretched
out and legs drawn up under the body. Lying thus
its coloring makes it amazingly inconspicuous. I
first noticed the trick as a boy when, after putting
up a turkey, a fox terrier “chopped” a chick which
was lying within a yard of me. The youngsters of
many other ground-laying birds, notably the plovers,
practise this method of concealment. Old bustards
too, in hot weather and when filled to the bill with
grasshoppers, will try the same dodge rather than
rise. At Noondoo station (Q.) in ’95 I was one
of a party in a four-in-hand waggonette which ran
over the outstretched neck of a turkey squatting
in this fashion. It was in long blue grass and birds
were so numerous that shooting had been stopped
This particular fl&wl had let the horses pass within
an inch or two, but the extra wheel-spread got him,
and the flutter under the waggonette was our first
notice of his presence.
* * * *
Wessel” : It is awkward for a policeman
to have a totem, tip in Pap'ua a district bfflcer
ordered a native John Übp to shoot some black
cockatoos to make sotip for another bobby who was
sicki Ah Order is an order, and the policeman shot
the birds, though under normal conditions he would
no more have dreamt of taking the life of one than
of flying. But be spent the night weeping in agony
over his sin.
* * * #.
“H.C.N.”: “Gouger” (B. 20/4/’22) asks
if any of our tropical orchids would fetch fancy
prices in England. Most of the showier N.
Queensland ones are well known in English hot-houses
and the prices realised for them are comparatively
low, ranging from about ss. to 255. The Torres
St) ait islands yield some of the best, notably the
various forms of the Dendrobium su'perbiens. Veitch’s,
the big nursery firm in England and specialists in
orchids and tropical plants, have sent collectors
out to N. Queensland and New Guinea from time to
time; but one must have some horticultural know-
ledge as to exactly what is required before embark-
ing on this fairly specialised business,
* * * •
“Wob” : My entry for the Exciting Finish
Stakes. Three milk-os from the Myall (Vic.) were
returning from a day out, when dusk made them
decide on a short cut. A nice level stretch prompted
a race. They were going full-tilt when a barbed-
wire fence suddenly constituted itself the finishing
tape. A’s horse propped and he did a graceful aerial
stunt over the barrier. As he flew a barb
caught the knee of each leg of his pants, ripped
it clean down and then pulled a sock off without
removing the boot. B followed him in his flight
but only did in his elastic-sided romeos, which each
struck a barb. C’s horse swerved, and the rider’s
tie caught a barb and was dragged so tight that he
was black in the face when a knife released him.
* * * *
“Algum” : Re sharks not touching colored
people. At Lucinda Point (N.Q.), one Murray a
Cingalese, used, for the modest fee of a bottle’ of
beer, to fall off the end of the jetty into the water;
and anyone acquainted with the liquid thereabouts
knows it houses as many sharks as a blaekfellow’s
dog does fleas. It wasn’t once that Murray did this,
but hundreds of times. He used to say the sharks
wouldn’t touch him because they were all his
brothers.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE LURE OF THE BUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I can hear the gum-trees sighing,
And the mournful mopoke crying,
With anon, the gentle whisper
Of the night-wind in the bough ;
I can hear the sliprails rattle
With the coming of the cattle—
Hear the lowing of the milkers—
Lord! I’d almost kiss a cow.
Hallo ! Hallo ! What’s the matter ?
Thought it was the milk-cans’ clatter:
Wonder if the horse got better
That was gored by Murphy’s bull?
And the sheep ! I’m fond of drafting;
Work! We never called that grafting!
What I’d give to get my fingers
In a jumbuck’s greasy wool!
Dingoes in the gullies wailing—
Devils sure, their father hailing,
While the plover, down the meadow,
Her uneasy vigil keeps ;
I can see the water curling
In the creek, and hear it swirling,
Babbling over broken shallows
To the silence of the deeps.
I can hear the curlews calling,
Where the Foster boys were “falling,”
Down across the creek that summer,
Where we nippers used to swim ;
And old Davy Brown," our neighbor,
When he’d done his daily labor,
How we loved to get him yarning—
Telling tales of “Lanky Jim.”
ALL FRAUDS.
IRATE COCKY: “You’re one of them blanky
insurance coves that rooked me—put up
this crimson ham when th ’ old one was
burnt down instead of payin’ me the
200 quid what you promised.”
INSURANCE AGENT: “No, my dear sir; I
am for life assurance. Now, what
about insuring your wife for £1000?”
I.C.: That’s worse. I’d get no blanky
1000 quid. You’d send up another one
like ’er.”
“Lanky Jim, the lucky digger,”
And of Dean, who fought - the nigger—
Davy always ready for us
With a new and better yarn ;
And the ploughing and the sowing,
And the day I started mowing,
And the time I rode the “outlaw”
Back of old MacDougall’s barn.
In my heart the Bush is pleading,
And I follow where ’tis leading;
Leave behind the city’s clamor
And its restlessness and push;
All its tentacles uncoiling,
All the blood within me boiling,
And my heart, in madness, throbbing
With a longing for the Bush.
N.s.w.
H. M. JOHNSTON.


STONEWALL SHOES
M/k QA Dependable Boots,
liva m Va g Uaran teed to outlast
others because they are made from
selected Box Hide, Wax Stitched, and
reinforced with a Military back. Have
Three-decker Soles, clumped with
genuine “Stonehide” Leather, made in
Broad and Medium Last. The
“STONEHIDE” Sole, with which they
are clumped, is of picked heavy leather
tanned through and through, with a
resistance the quality of which is not
excelled by any known process. Plain
Toe or Toe-capped, 23/6. N.S.W.
Post, 1/-; Interstate, 27-
Same Boot in Tan, 24/6, plus Postage.
Same Boot for the Boy: 10 to 13,
15/11; 1 to 4, 18/6; 5, 21/6. Postage
1/- extra.
Ask for Catalogue.
clackAonA
JU* MITESD
413-5 PITT ST,; 99 ,LIVERPOOL ST.
PEOPLES PALACt) (OPP CENTRAL COURT)
380-2 PITT ST.; 198-200 GEORGE ST.
(OPR AMTHOMV.HOROCHNS') (near nock a KIRSYSj
SYDNEY.
&
u
■
m ?
1
‘CTthe'STONEHIDE"
CLUMP SOLE
The Stonewall Clump Sole Boot
m
<r
WHEN YOUTH
AND PLEASURE MEET.
There is no more delightful pastime, when
youth and pleasure meet, than an impromptu
dance with “His Master’s Voice’’ to provide
the music.
To the brisk lilt of a vivacious fox-trot, the graceful rhythm of a dreamy waltz, or the
quaint effects of a novelty dance, you and your friends can spend many happy houis
during the long winter evenings.
Music is the soul of the dance, but it must be faultlessly played, and the standard of
recording necessary for perfect reproduction is a unique feature of His Master s Voice
Records.
With “His Master’s Voice” Records you may rest assured that you are providing your
guests with the most perfect facilities for enjoyment that art and science can devise.
Catalogues Free,
a
338 George St.
SYDNEY.
astersWce


□
s %>
X'-
If/
iss
m
PURE COCONUT
OIL BLEND
Good to the
Last Drop
„.rt
it
•e<p®s2
ABBOTS
LAGER
77eBeer wfAoafdßm/.
fireWod from PurePlu/t ifrope Only
4-8 Ot
‘ F.S.A. : The old, bred-in-the-bone
Cornishman of Moonta is often funniest when lie
is in deadly earnest. It is hard to reproduce his
dialect in cold type, but the only word that may
need an explanation to an outsider in this yarn
is “bogey”—Moontaese for a member of the
Miners and Smelters’ Association, the opposition
union formed by John Verran and Co. after the
Conscription split. Not long since one of the bosses
at Taylor’s Shaft went up a rise where two of his
old reliable miners were drilling, greeting them
with, “Ow she coming up, boys?” “Some slow,
Cap’n, some slow.” “Well ne’er mind, patience
and perce-verance will put un through.” And the
captain walked on. Said one of the men thus
exhorted: “Enery, wo be this Payshins and this
A QUESTION OF HARMONY.
"'Adn't we better get the peeany tooned for to-morrow night's
concert?"
“No , matey; ye see if the peeany is tooned the singers ull be out
of toon; but if the peeany is left as she be, well, all will
be in toon."
Percy Verans?” “Damned if I da knaw, ’less be
they taw bluddy bogeys in tuther stowp.” Half-an-
Ump later found Henry and his mate demanding their
time 311 st as the Captain stepped into the office.
“Well, me sons, wha’s matter?’* “W’ur leavun,
Cap'n; if yaw dha want they twa bluddy bogeys
to put un through, theese cun ’ave Tun. Payshins
and Percy Varans, ay? Theese cun ’ave Tim, theese
cun ’ave ’um!” "
“Morob”: "Bill Bowyang’s” statement
that aboriginals can’t throw a boomerang that was
the property of a deceased rig. (B. 4/5/’22) should
have been rather that they won’t throw it. Most
Binghis believe that to touch the weapons of a de-
parted brother is to court bad luck, inasmuch as
the spirit of the former owner may be offended
The prohibition doesn’t extend to women. Curi-
ously enough there is a similar belief among the
natives of the Fly lliver district of New Guinea,
and the women of the community there, too, are
permitted to touch weapons that men are barred
from handling—which seems to indicate that at
some time or another there has been an interchange
of customs between the two peoples, if, indeed, they
are not more closely related.
* <* * #
“Wait”: I’ve an idea that ought to be
worth a million in Yankeeland. The Speck’s early
settlers learned from the blacks how pink-eye can be
got from the cider-tree, a fine white gum plentiful
towards the lake country. All you have to do is
to chop a hole in the side of a tree, sloping it down-
wards so that it will hold about a pint of sap.
Leave it 24 hours to fill up and ferment, and you
will have a drink that will make a Rechabite talk
back to a policeman. AVhat about sending a ship-
load of saplings to the dry parts of the earth?
Along with the idea 1 chuck in a couple of advertis-
ing slogans for good measure: “Prohibition no Prob-
lem.” “A Brewery in your back garden.” “Say
nothing but chop wood.” In the meantime I’m
planting a couple myself for fear the drought
reaches Australia.
* < * *
“Aglum”: Reading lately about the cur-
ing qualities of certain mud springs I wondered if
the mud on our beaches (not river mud, mind) has
any value in that direction. The blacks in N.
Queensland used it for cuts. Thej’ simply got a
handful and plastered it on the cut, allowed it to
harden and in a couple of days there would be no
sign of a cut. I don’t know if this would work
with a white man, because I never knew one to
chance it.
* * v *’ * •
“Globe”: “Morob” (B. 1/0/’22) can have
his little joke about dogs attracting crocodiles’
attention to one spot and then rushing further down
stream to cross, but his mention of the eroe. as
being slow-moving is, to me who shot with “Croco-
dile South,” rather amusing. He is always accepted
as being a fast and powerful swimmer when on the
job; otherwise he seems merely to float, although
usually' going up stream, with about two inches
of nose showing. Anything that thinks it would have
a chance with him would be wise to scratch before
the starting-bell.
* .. - '* *
“Bel”: Years ago a pal and I had been
looking for lost horses in the Mulga country
between Bourke and
Cobar (N.S.W.), and
were heading . back to
the Darling town. On
the last day, as we
expected to reach
Bourke that night, and
having only two tins
of sardines left after
finishing lunch, I rolled
these in a leaf of The
Bulletin and buried
the parcel at the foot
of a tree on a bit of
rising ground, remark-
ing to my mate: “Some
day we may come this
way feeling hungry.”
The place was well
marked; it was an old
team camp, and the
tree had two big let-
ters, “PN,” cut deeply
into the wood. (It is
known to-day as the
“PN tree.”) This hap-
pened in the late
’eighties, and in 1908
—about 20 years after,
I had occasion to pass
that way again, and,
feeling a bit peckish,
thought of the plant.
When I dug up the
sardines they were as
good as new. Tin;
leaf from the old
Bulletin hadn’t fared
quite so well. Much
of the print was un-
readable, but there
was the heading to
distinguish the paper,
part of the date
“188 —,” and there was
part of the leading
article, which as far
as I could make out
was headed “Fools,
Mostly Fools” and in-
cluded a reference to
the Soudan Contingent.
“Zantbus” : Farming ’possums is done
only in theory in eastern Australia, but in the West
jt ig bei actuall tried Walter Ki „g Srai ll, Presi-
■ . ,
c * Council of W .A. and chairman of
le C*° r th Zoo, has a possum-farm down near
-Augusta, in the South-West, and it promises well,
is plenty of land in the east that is fine for
’oossums and dashed little use for anything else.
“Bouragi”: If “Ombak’s” natives (B.
l/6/’22) are not used to swimming to and turning
turtles he might try the remora, or sucker fish, which
are always to be found in tropical waters, usually
adhering to sharks or turtles by the sucker on top
of their heads. The remora should have a strong,
SIMPLE ENOUGH.
“Why, she’s gone fairly dotty over me, old man. How can I pat
a bally end to the jolly thing? Don’t want to hurt her
feelings, you know."
“Do you call on her frequently?"
“No, indeed."
“Well, call frequently."
light line tied round his tail and then be popped
over the side of the boat, to which he will fasten at
once. When a turtle comes up to breathe, the remora
should be pushed off the boat with a flat stick, and,
after a few .attempts to tag on again, he will make
for the turtle. Once on there he’ll adhere like grim
death, and it is then only a matter of playing the
turtle. This weird method is universally used by the
Torres Strait natives, and a good detailed description
may be found in Bamfield’s “Beachcomber.” As to
“Ombak’s” query about scaring turtle from a favorite
laying beach: even permanent human residence on
such a place will only shift them a bit further up
or down.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: Duncan Lawes, of Port
Noarlunga (S.A.), ha’s a stingaree with two perfectly
formed spines, one above the other, 10 inches long
and joined at the base. I have often seen below’ the
usual spine a small one which replaces the larger
should it be broken or otherwise lost, but I have
never before seen two the same size.
“Exul” : “Agricola’s” vague criticism (B.
8/6/’22) of my description of Theiler’s work on
“lamziekte” (dry bible) is somewhat beside the
point. I am not concerned with Theiler’s short-
comings as a bio-ehemist, though I am aware of
them, but rather with his practical results. I did
not state that the toxin in any putrid bones would
cause the death of the cow that ate them, but only
in bones that, had been infected (post mortem) with
certain classes of germs. The stinking bones brought
to the infected herd at Hamilton (Vic.) were doubt-
less free from these germs. Theiler would have
sterilised them to make sure, but otherwise his treat-
ment would have been very similar. He says, in
effect, “Prevent the depraved appetite that causes .
the animal to eat decaying flesh, and you will prevent
lamziekte; and you can prevent the former by feed-
ing with bones.” “Agricola” does not seem to be
familiar with Theiler’s recent publications. In them
it is stated that if certain germs are grown in '
the laboratory and sown upon meat that is allowed :
to decompose, also in the lab., a toxin will develop
in the meat, and on extraction and injection into
cattle will cause the disease. Extracts of portions
of the same meat not thus sown will not cause it.
Thus either Theiler is in error about his experiments
or my original remarks still stand. “Agricola” says
that animals don’t develop the depraved appetite
if the land be treated with lime phosphate. Theiler
admits this, but dismisses the process as too expen-
sive. I readily admit that shortage of phosphorus
in the pasture inay not be the only cause of depraved
appetite; in fact, 1 implied before that the matter
was under dispute. I was also desirous of establish
ing the fact that strychnine-poisoned animals are
not dangerous food for other animals because of 'he
drug contained in them. “Agrieola” does not deny
this. His assumption that I am a medico does not
prevent me from keeping myself familiar with
modern work on the role of salts in metabolism.
“Sucre”: A butcher at Ayr (N.Q.) owns
the best-educated dog in Australia. He under-
stands seven different languages—French, Italian.
German, Japanese, Chinese, English and pure Aus-
tralian. I saw him put through a test in the main
street. A man of each nationality gave him an
order in his respective tongue, and though no two
commands were alike the dog obeyed unhesitatingly.
Has any Abo. an explanation handy ?
“Big Bend" : I have discovered a hunting
mouse that likes killing his own ration-sheep. He
lias his dugout under the fireplace in my room, and
I have seen him catch half-a-dozen blowflies in the
course of an hour or two. There is a wire gauze
screen across the front of the hearth, and as the
blowflies come down the chimney they butt, into this
and do a jazz up and down the screen. The first
bump on the wire is the signal for the little chap
to hop out, and the pace at which he gets across
that gauze is amazing. It is only a matter of
seconds before he has made his kill and is taking it
home to the missus and kids.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Agricola” (B. 8/6/’22) say*
that “black disease” was banished from Burnima
station, on the Monaco (N.S.W.), by the use of a
natural lick. The
present owners of Bur-
mina wish that were
so. In the wet seasons,
during which “Agri-
cola” beautified that
part of the State with
his presence, there cer-
tainly was a marked
diminution of the
scourge; but it ie-
turned with its old
virulence when drought
times came back, and
the Monaro men still
cling to their theory
that access to swamp
watercress gives the
disease to sheep and
cattle. Some years ago.
a South Coast (N.S.W.)
dairyman took up a
farnj jn the North,
where black disease
was notoriously pre-
valent. He had with
his herd a number of
goats, and declared
that the disease never
appeared where Stinker
and his missus were
allowed to roam. Dur-
ing his five years on
the farm not a single
beast was infected.
“11.V.E.”: Just recently (mid-June) I
Saw two benighted birds—a yellow-belly (yellow-
tailed tit-warbler) and diamond sparrow (spotted-
sided finch)—picking up nesting material. This
seems somewhat unseasonable, but I have found
eggs in the nest of tire devil-bird (yellow-throated
scrub-wren) in the middle of May. The chicks
must have a chilly time, the locality (far South
Coast, N.S.W.) being subject to fairly severe frosts
in winter. But this is the proper nesting season,
for swans and wild ducks. I have found the black
swan’s nest on June 10 with seven eggs, even then
fairly well incubated. Lathan, I think, christened
the diamond-sparrow New Holland grosbeak. it
W’as found in the very early days about Port Jackson,
and considered a remarkably handsome little fowl—
as it is in fact. The erratic finch in the present
instance is choosing a tall bunya pine as its nest-
ing site.
AN OUT-AND-OUTER.
"Wot, doing the drawback wot the doctor
said ’ud kill yer in a month!"
“That's nothing! ’E’s goin' to refuse to
salute the Union Jack at school ter-
morrow!"
“Bung”: A bantam hen, the employee of
a cocky in the district where I cadge for beers, the
other day walked in from a stubble field with a
family of 21 chicks. Will someone tell me this isn’t
a record in the hatching business? If not, will he
tell me how the diminutive cliook, in this frosty
weather, succeeded in keeping warm the abnormal
spread of her fruit ?
WYNNUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Like a grey-eyed autumn lady, scarlet-lipped and
tressed with brown,
" itb a . Tynan scarf of blossoms, laughs, coquetting,
Brisbane town—
But the tinted ways of Wynnum twine beneath he
vivid dome
Lil<e a summer song sun-written in the glad world’s
living tome!
Down the sober streets of Brisbane Dusk comes
()acin°' silver-fair
* «
When across Day’s blazing lute-strings sweep the
stilling hands of Night!
.
"O' e ’ twice 111 lile it may be, shall our glamored
.... ' ISIOI J t * uest .. . , ,
Bith such paiadisial wonder down the iridescent
west ,
Where the sunset city carven out of color, fold on
10 < ’
Like a great rose-lighted opal, burns in seas of misted
gold!
l'ake this tranquil hour and wear it, dear, a dim
intaglio graved
From the fading, lilac distance of the sea-im
shadow-laved—
Lucent symbol that shall shape us wonder-lands of
far desire -
Past the glimmering hills of Brisbane and the twi-
light’s silver fire 1
„ , x , ~ ,
-.seimme ai.t evennoie 1 shall be oms to glimpse
. a Jl , , , . , , ,
This one hour by love enchanted, grown and bright-
c,nleL ,°,i l sal ... . .
1 ?,. be s 0 be ‘ lut - 'eating far past times
,-11 )'i< ln g streams
Hood the belfry of remembrance with a carillon of
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


For Discriminating Smokers.
CIGARETTES
Number
Virginia
The Famous Red Pacßet.
High-Class
Cigarettes
at a
Moderate
Price.
“THE CONNOISSEUR ”
for lid.
for
Sole Proprietors: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.. LONDON.
Britain’s Greatest fiigh-Class Cigarette Manufacturers.


M£
DB
Perfection Marine Engines
.S9JB
8-h.p. UNIT PLANT.
Special for the Speed Boat.
The “Caille” 8-h.p. Unit Plant is fitted with
reverse gear on the same bed. Perfect align-
ment is guaranteed. Ideal for private launches
and small speed boats. Its speed record up to
date is 2 I m.p.h. driving a 20ft. by 4ft. 6in.
hand V-bottom boat, turning a 1 6in. by 20in.
propeller. We have stocks. Call or write
now for Catalogues and Prices of Caille
“PERFECTION” Engines, 1-, 2- and 4-
cylinder, for light or heavy duty; also Out-
board and “Bantam” (Inboard) Motors.
Sole Agents for Australasia'and Pacific Islands:
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED,
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
0
YT
h* tr m
0
irn* rn*
hrn am
*Jtoyal Cord' 'Nobby*
Chain * s'Vsco'/
THE WORLD’S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Im k
m
i> iu
*"s
nuanmnyi
uinniaman
Electric Light
and Power Set
This Home
Lighting Plant
only occupies a Floor Space of
32\ in. x 12\ in. but it will
supply
Electric Light for
Every room in the House, Dairies, Barns, Stables,
Gateways and Drives , as well as furnish
Electric Power for
Recharging Automobile Accumulators, Operating
Electric Fans, Vacuum Cleaners, Washing Machines,
Sewing Machines, Electric Irons, Pumps, Churns,
Separators, Feed Cutters, as well as many other
kinds of small machinery and modern Household
Conveniences •
The " PLIX ” Electric Lighting 'Plant is so simple that a child can
operate it with perfect ease. It provides a perfectly safe, clean and
convenient source of Light and Power that places the comforts of city
life at your service—ready for use at the pressing of a button. It is an
asset that permanently enhances the value of your farm or homestead.
Space does not permit our telling you everything we would iike you to know
about this wonderful machine, but if you’ll send us your name and
address, we’ll gladly mail you our illustrated folder "W 157,” post free
by return mail.
John DANKS & Son Ply. Ltd.
391-403 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
324-330 Pitt Street - SYDNEY


Tke
Purest
Spirit
in. the
"IT STANDS ALOtf®"
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
which are full of refinings and hair-splittings,
and wordy argumentation—these are false
lights. The reviewer, from his love of true
books, must immediately discern these impos-
tures, and pass them by. But the true books
he must love. There must be that within
him which warms to all that is human, which
beats to the rhythm of nature. Now it is
very likely true that if a reviewer is thus
gifted, his writings about books will be
acceptable.
But, perhaps, in his pride, he refuses to
accept the truth of my prolegomena! Then,
for his soul’s good, I will point out
to him the enormity of his many
offences. First, I would denounce his
inane mouthings. He speaks a technical jar-,
gon. His talk is all of “values,” of “con-
struction,” of "the deliberate economy of
the close” in this novel, of “faulty craftsman-
ship” in that. These are well-respected
words and phrases, but my quarrel lies in
the peculiar jarring resonance they acquire
through the perpetual ringing of the changes
upon them and their like. I will grant that
the words have meaning, but I refuse to
accept them as inevitable to the proper
reviewing of a book. The fact is that such
pompous language is rarely necessary. Its
use destroys the very bond of friendship
which should exist between a reviewer and
his readers. I will underscore this point. I
have been led to most of my. best-loved books
by the pleasant talk of my friends. There,
then, is a method for the reviewer. Let
him talk, to us his readers, as simply and
unaffectedly as he would to his friends. Let
him refuse to treat his words as bricks laid
one on one until a wall is erected between
us; let him rather use them in the fashion-
ing of pictures the which we may look upon
and easily understand.
Equally full of sin is the posturing of the
reviewer. In his first sentences he can be
glimpsed enduring the panoply of justice.
'Soon his mind is a little battleground, where
pro and con rage ffiriously together. Ano,n
we mark an agony of indecision before he
pronounces his hesitant judgment. What
blind folly is this? We who,read reviews in
the hope of finding some new friend—we do
not wish for reasonings, but for reactions,
not for judicial summings-up, but for im-
pressions. “I enjoyed this book” is a state-
ment both human and concrete. It has a
lively interest to me. “This book is not with-
out a certain facility in language and ingenu-
ity in construction,” is lifeless, meaningless
by reason of its detachment from the per-
sonal. But all can be said in a word. Let
the reviewer realise that his task is to tell
his friends whether he has found a true
book. or a counterfeit, let him do this simply,
graciously, preserving the human touch, and
lie will find his task well done.
ROGER BOLLITON.
Life is Short
Art is long; then why expect a movement
m art to justify itself in a day? That
never seems to have struck Australian
critics when they come to discuss modern
artistic tendencies. Without thinking to
look behind them, or ahead, they scoff, only
to show that their vision is journalistic; is
like life in the rest of the Latin adage—short.
Reared in rooms full of reproductions por-
traying the sentimental incidents of litera-
ture their newspaper minds, always
interested in the cartoons of the day, demand
that every picture to be a work of art shall,
like the. pill advertisement, “tell a story.”
Even with a landscape, what our critic looks
for is to see if he can tell the time by the
shadows of the fence, whether the cows are
going up or down hill; and, if the painting
should happen to awaken in him some recol-
lection of “A Thunderstorm in June,” “A
Foggy Morn o,n the Harbor,” or something
of the same sort, then he is standing before
a great picture. He knows it because his
instincts tell him so. This is the sensa-
tion _ his more or less literary mind was
seeking; and he has never realised that the
giving of such a sensation is not the real
business of painting, but of literature.
I am not saying that a picture should
never conjure up an association, or should
avoid it; but that all our critic demands is
that it should call up some incident from
either his experience or his reading. If it
doesn’t do that, but is merely beautiful in
its form and color, he passes by; or if it
is striking, stops to denounce it as a piece
of decadence.
Perhaps it is generally admitted that what
we know as the “Willow Pattern” plate is
a work of art, that its design, in the direction
its creator took, is perfect. At any rate, I
say that is how the world for a long while
'saw it, content to accept it for its beauty
alone. But that would not suit our critics.
They must give the design a story “according-
to them it represented two lovers escaping
from an enraged father—or some such
twaddle. Having decreed - that, they felt
they could reconcile themselves to what is,
after all, only a beautiful design. There
you have the attitude of the pass-
ing school of art criticism. Impressed by it,
painters painted pictures that told a story,
or depicted a situation, many of them con-
tent to use little more than the symbols of
the cartoonist to get their effects. Even the
best of them Avere more concerned with
adequately depicting the emotion of the
incident, or the spirit of the scene—things
that literature had already done time after
time and ever so much better —than with
creating beauty. And generally, whatever
beauty they did achieve was not really theirs,
but borrowed from the poem or story.
Of course, all this pleased the man of
literary tastes. He saw on canvas some-
thing like his conception of his heroes or
favorite scenes in literature. “The spirit of
Shakspeare exactly realised,” he would cry.
“Wonderful!” And, as generally it is the
literary man who writes art criticisms,
people came to hear of the great artist and
his wonderful canvas. So they went to see
for themselves. And all the theatre-goers,
actors and Shakspearean students came away
pleased. They had witnessed the repre-
sentation of a scene from their favorite
author; the attitudes, expressions and cos-
tumes were correct. That was all they
demanded of a painter—that he should
interpret a story for them. But all
this time there were other men who
kept working on ideals of their own, heed-
less of the prejudices of the literary critic, or
the jeers of the public—men like Renoir,
Cezanne, Manet, iMonet, Gauguin, and in sculp-
ture, Rodin. In Europe they are all accepted
now; in Australia, Rodin only, perhaps.
For years they worked on the problem that
nature, not literature, presented to them. They
only wanted to paint what they saw. People
said they had defective eyesight, but it was
their own, anyway, and not someone else’s
that they went by. Even in Australia, I
don’t , suppose you would hear Rodin’s short-
sightedness being urged against his art.
But that is because Rodin has been
accepted by the literary critic. He once
did a figure of Balzac, the writer.
And then after these men had shown that
art would have to return to nature, and
people being still obtuse, the revolution came.
The post-impressionists, the cubists, the
futurists arose, with all their eccentricities.
People saw pictures that horrified them,
made them wonder if their world had gone
mad.
It is always the way, it seems. People
will accept a change only when it grows out
of what they think is a complete revolution,
and yet is a revolution only in form. The
Russians, after the overthrow of the old
autocrat, the Czar, would not rest satisfied
with the change in government that Keren-
sky promised them. They must set up
another autocrat, Lenin ; and rush from the
unprogressiveness of a lethargy to the
futility of a terror. It was the same with
the French Revolution. And now with Art.
People, instead of getting pale effigies that
represented nothing in nature, were shown
violent-colored forms that meant also nothing.
But gradually something worth while is
evolving out of what is known as modern art.
In Europe and America seriofis-minded men
are working on the problem that nature has
set them. Perhaps because they refuse to
avail themselves of the symbols and tricks of
the illustrator, their work at first seems
strange and heavy. But all the same there
is strength in the best of it, and simplicity
of form; and the modern artist has
re-discovered the joy of color. It is
true that there are charlatans who
have attached themselves to the movement;
and that wealthy people buy their pictures.
But the old art had its charlatans, just as
apparent to the discerning; and purchasers
were also found for the inanities that they
produced.
It is no good Austx-alian artists and
critics jeering at the movement. It has
come, and is pointing out the way that art
shall travel. The best thing our artists can
do is to forget what the critics have written,
throw away the gauges and standards that
the illustrators and photographers have
handed them, and look to see if their own
work is true and honest. And even then it
may be too late to catch up with the men
in Europe and America. There they have
already made their discoveries, and are work-
ing on them. The movement in Spain has
produced Zuloaga; in England, Augustus
John. It. has been the same with music. All the
violent tendencies of modern music are only
the revolts against the Wagnerian cults
attempting to make their art express things
that literature and painting alone are con-
concerned with. Already music shows
signs of going back to the old simple
forms, and giving up the attempt to
express ideas, or visualise scenes. And
with poetry, too. After many more
books of free verse have been written and
published, people will come to realise that
jingling Swinburnian rhymes are not really
necessary to make true word-melody. By
the same means they will also learn that
images can be created without using archaic
and worn-out similes. And after that
poetry will swing out on to Nature’s broad
road again. It is true that Walt Whitman
proved it all long ago, but apparently people
must have a sickening of things like free verse
before they can profit by them. We must have
patience. In the meantime, though we are
young let us not deride things we do not under-
stand. In the last number of Akt in Aus-
tralia a writer expresses contempt for
Chinese poetry because of its small range of
subject. He calls it “the expression of a
mind dead and done with, a poetry produced
by several hours’ —or several thousand cen-
turies’—contemplation of a bamboo-leaf;
the expression of an articulate cow.”
Perhaps if he, too, had contemplated life
for a couple of thousand years, like the
Chinese, the writer of that might come to
feel that, after wall, there were very few
things worth making a poem about.
It reminds me of some Americans who
think that theirs is the first and only civilisa-
tion because other people did not build sky-
scrapers.
For there was this about the Chinese
painters and poets: if they did have little
to say, they said it in little.
HARLEY MATTHEWS.
A. C. Rowlandson
When Alfred Cecil RoAvlandson went west
at Wellington (M.L.) recently, Australian
writers lost a good friend who did much to
improve the somewhat pi’ecarious position
in which he found them at the outset of
his career as a publisher, a little less than
a quarter of a century ago. The remarkable
success of his business shows him to ha\ T e
been above all else a business man, but, be-
side that, he was a good Australian Avith
an enthusiastic belief in Australians’ Avork
for Australian readers. With the large dis-
tributing power that his many stalls on
wharves and raihvay stations gave him, as
well as his numerous bookshops in and about
Sydney, he might just as easily, and per-
haps more profitably, have specialised in
cheap reprints of syndicated English and
American stuff as in novels and short stories
by men and women of his own country.
He might have followed the lead that most
Australian dailies and weeklies had given
him in the selection of their serials. It
would have been cheaper to have bought the
Australian rights of Charles Garvice. Elinor
Glyn or some of the American cowboy and
sob experts, than to have paid fairly decent
prices for work by local authors. But none
of the latter who had dealings with “A.C3.”
ever failed to recognise that, though he
wanted to make money for his firm, he was
nevertheless largely actuated in his publish-
ing ventures by a generous consideration of
their interests as well as his own. He was
Australian to the backbone, and his per-
sonal pride in having done something for
Australian literature was unmistakable. He
pinned his faith to the paper-covered shil-
ling edition printed on “newsprint,” and it
was almost a grief to him when the scarcity
and high cost of the latter compelled him
temporarily to raise the price of his little
volumes by threepence.
Personally, Rowlandson was a manly, gen-
erous, lovable kind of human being, of a
cheery and healthy temperament that made
him popular with everyone he met. Of
nearly 100 writers whom he published in
his Bookstall Library, it is quite safe to
say that there was not one of whom he made
an enemy—a strange thing, indeed, to say
of a publisher.
J. H. A.
Clemence Dane
Miss Clemence Dane is, in a literary
sense, the Sylvia Pankhurst of modern Eng-
land. She is a smasher of traditions, a
female iconoclast. As far as men are con-
cerned, she agrees with Jules Laforgue that
there are no types, there is only humanity ;
man, according to her view, generalises
Avhile woman defines. She forsakes the
relationship existing between men and
Avomen, that happy hunting-ground of the
novelist, for the less explored region Avlierein
dwell Avomen with Avomen, tortured by pas-
sionate longings and desires, waiting for
the look, the Avord or the smile that will lift
them from earth to Heaven. This theme,
opening up a Avider field to the psycho-
analyst than to the writer of novels, appears
in “Regiment of Women” and in “Legend.”
For Clare Hartill and Anita Serle joy is
consummated by the adoration of younger
members of their own sex, and both of them
discover in marriage an instrument success-
ful in croAvding this worship out of their
lives. The former is a strange creature and
has no parallel in fiction. As masculine as
Joanna Godden, her nature is thwarted to
the extent of driving her to treat what she
loves as prey for her emotions. The friend-
ship betAveen Aylwin, the Avinsome young
mistress, and Louise, the pupil, is gall to
her, and her active egotism only results in
the suicide of the child. But the feelings
of a woman such as this are doomed to
starvation from the outset; it seems inevit-
able that when Roger comes along for
Aylwin the jealous Clare will exert all her
Aviles to prevent the union.
In “Legend” the technical achievement is
paramount; but the experiment of keeping
the central character out of sight is more
interesting than satisfactory to the reader.
Nevertheless, the spirit of Madala Grey
throughout the book is like the sun behind
a mist, its presence being felt; and the
problem she presents is a vital one. The
ingenuity of the conception is astonishing.
There is real tragedy, that of a Avoman, Avho,
being herself emotionally as well as artis-
tically robbed, foresees her friend’s genius
absorbed in maternity and the rearing of
children.
In drama this writer has had unqualified
success with her “Bill of Divorcement.”
Here the audience is asked to understand
that certain amendments in the English
divorce laws have taken place, and the action
of the piece is supposed to pass on Christ-
mas Day, 1932. Hereditary .insanity plus
shell-shock causes Hilary Fairfield, a young
soldier, to be sent to an asylum. Years
pass. His wife obtains a divorce on the
ground that he is incurably insane; and
she is to be married within a week to Gray
Meredith, with whom she is deeply in love,
when Hilary escapes and returns home .re-
covered. The plot is a powerful one; and
the draAving of Sydney, the daughter, who
fears that her children may inherit her
father’s madness, is masterly, the scene in
Avhich she breaks off her engagement giving
the author full scope for her irony.
But to transfer, and to transfer well, one’s
attentions from the problems of the future
to the visions of the past is an art that
requires more ability. It may be true that
in “Will Shakspeare” Clemence Dane chose
a romantic figure Avhom she could picture
as she willed but her task, as a dramatist,
lay not alone in flie Creation of an imag-
inary portrait. She had to paint a bygone
England about which people have as many
illusions as they have about the stage itself.
That was her' handicap; and so, although
the interminable length of the production,
the drawing of Shakspeare as a -Taques
father than as a Falstaff, and the sharp con-
trast of the dashing Kit Marlowe with his
more saturnine rival are faults upon which
it is easy to lay one’s finger, it is not alto-
gether due to lack of skill on her part that
the play was, from a box-office point of view,
an admitted failure; for poetic drama can
only hhve a limited appeal.
Her weakness lies in her men. They are
stodgy, bourgeois and machine-made. Justin
is a prig and a clod, Roger a bore and
Meredith a colorless lover. In this respect,
Sheila Kaye-Smith is vastly her superior.
On the other hand, Clemence Dane shows
nerve and resource far beyond those of any
of her female contemporaries. She assidu-
ously blazes new trails, and the complexities
and obstacles that confront her seem to add
intensity to her quest.
WILFRID LEICESTER.
A Satchel of Books
The. Studio Year Book of Decorative Art, 1922,
maintains the high standard long ago set by this
artistic house, and interestingly reviews the develop-
ments in domestic architecture and applied art in
Europe and hoipe-building in America. As usual
there is a prodigal display of illustrations, many of
them admirably produced in color.
Men, Women- and [Beauts, by 11. de Vere Stacpoole
(Hutchinson). A series of good magazine-stories
of tropical Africa, Asia and elsewhere. Some of
the yarns are told in an uneasy attempt at the
American vernacular, and a forced anti-climax is
occasionally a weariness, but the characters are
well drawn and, the local color convincing. Two
of the tales, “Was She?” and “Did Kressler Kill
His Wife?” are recommended for their understand-
ing of the feminine soul.
The lied House Mystery, by A. Milne (Methuen),
is a pleasantly-told detective story. On second
thoughts, it is less a story than a piquant puzzle
for which a clever, solution is provided; the char-
acters themselves are hardly serious enough to make
anyone take the plot seriously. A long lost and
entirely unregretted brother from Australia is sup-
posed to turn up at an English country house. He
is shot through the head almost as soon as he is
shown in, and the reader is tempted to believe that
the host did the shooting, regarding the intruder
as a cadging loafer and a dissolute nuisance; an
impression that is Strengthened by the host vanishing
utterly with the commission of the crime. It takes
an amateur detective to disentangle the incredible
truth.
Paulina, by Max Pemberton (Cassell). A novel
dealing—most unhistorically—with the extinction of
the Venetian Republic. The heroine is the daughter
of the last Doge, the hero a young Englishman of the
Rudolph Rassendyll type, and both are highly theatri-
cal persons. Paulina’s adventures among Italian brig-
ands, Levantine sailors, Barbary pirates, French sol-
diers, British aristocrats and the ladies of Josephine’s
Court are so numerous and irrelevant as to suggest
that the book was written for the moving pictures.
Now and then there are indications that the hand
of the veteran yarnspinner has not altogether lost
its cunning, but Pemberton has done much better
work.
“ I'm going away next week-end, and it's costing me nothing .”
“Oh, how's that?”
“Well, I bought this suit-case and coat at David Jones' Sale and saved 35/6, which
amount covers my expenses.”
“ That's a novel calculation.”
“Yes: modern finance. Regular price of the coat was 95/-, but it cost me only 63/-,
and this 21/- case I got for 17/6. There are innumerable other similar bar-
gains to be had.”


-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
FTEroim
V"
The oust of a home or any other class
of building constructed with “J'ibro-
lite” Asbestos Cement Sheets is con-
siderably less than a similar building
built of weatherboard and roofed with
iron or tiles.
“Fibrolite” improves with age, is fire-
resistant, white-ant proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rot. rust
or corrode. The sheets have a great tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in 36 handy sizes. Before building send for
full information.
Write for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B'd’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
fg
TOP VALUES
AT
Winchcombe,
Carson’s
AUCTIONS.
A Peep Into His Future.
Send your Rabbit, Fox, Whiptail and all
other skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
3ALEBMEN, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
BOOK
YOUR
ROOM
AT
4
HOTEL CARLTON
In the Heart
of Queen Street
BRISBANE
Inclusive Tariff 14/- a day
£l4 000 has recently been spent in remodel-
ling the Carlton. To-day it ranks as one of
the for most high-class Hotels in Australia.
"Excellent cuisine and all the accompaniments
that you expedt to get at a high class hotel.
Mo J ern American Bar Wire or write
for rooms.
Proprietor*, D. & T. WINTERBOTTOM
!
"M.L.
All British Magneto
Storked in all models and degrees.
Sole Distributors in Australia:
SMITH, SONS 8 REES LIMITED,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sy'iiey.
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
99 Flinders Street. Adelaide.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
agents—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Urisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed*
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
'£•? ft
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
FLAG BRAND
Cutlery,
Never requires cleaning, and holds a good cutting' edge.
Also, Pocket and Pen Knives, with Rustless and Stainless Blades.
If unable to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Stret, Sydney.
vVV
If you havel^^ga**
a delicate child[
give it
“The following convincing letter should be read by
all parents:
65 Station Street, Carlton.
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Gentlemen—About eighteen months ago my little
daughter, 4 years old, had an attack of bronchitis, which
she was subject to, being delicate ever since she was a few
weeksold. I gave her your Hypol, and itcured her of the
bronchitis, and so strengthened her that she has not had
anything the matter with her since. In fact, thanks to
Hypol, she is now the picture of good health.
Yours'truly ( Signed) P. C. TURNER.
What HYPOL has done for others, it can do for you.
HYPOL is a celebrated strength-promoter, and a
proved remedy for unhealthy lungs or other chest
troubles.
This delightful Emulsion has the appearance of a rich
cream, and tastes like it too. Therefore it is most
alluring to children, but
IT BENEFITS YOUNG AND OLD ALIKE.
GET A BOTTLE TO-DAY. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. PROP. _ LTD.,
Melbourne
SKANDIA
Crude Oil, Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
No
Magnetos
Sparking Plugs
Batteries
Carburetters
or
Electrical
Devices.
31WMM1
m
mm
wz.
Unequalled in
Economy
Simplicity
Durability
and
Reliability.
4 to 800
H.P.
Sole Agents for Australia
and South iSea Islands—
NELSON O. ROBERTSON
15-17 Loft vis Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
"Vani-Koro”: You get limited liability
companies with odd names in the Solomons
and New Hebrides as a result of the neces-
sity for registering the mission plantations.
There are, for instance, the "Sacred Heart
of Jesus, Limited,” and the "Church of the
Redemption, Ltd.”
* * * *
Does anyone know of a Chow boot-repairer
in Australia. The only one I ever saAV or
heard of was in Queensland about 25 years
ago. By cutting his prices he had practi-
cally monopolised all the work of the town.
In San Francisco Chows do nearly all the
boot-repairing, but so far in Australia Ah
Sin seems to have left the calling of the
"snob” severely alone.
"Yarriuu”: The owner of a herd of 50
cows in a western (Sydney) suburb said to
me the other day: "With milk at 3s. a
gallon the icorst of these cov t s is bringing
me in £2 ss. a week, after deducting, say.
10s. for feed.” And yet the bevt of the coos
wouldn't fetch more than a tenner in a sale-
yard. Surely the gents who raised the
price of milk recently overlooked certain
material facts!
The requiem of the 56-year-old wool sales
firm, Harrison, Jones and Devlin, was pro-
nounced by Mr. A. H. Moore at the Sydney
Exchange the other day, when the final sale
of the firm, which has amalgamated with
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., was held. A
representative of the firm, who was present
as a lad at the first sale, assisted at the obse-
quies with a copy of the first catalogue,
■which Avas one of 89 bales, split up into 16
lots.
* * * *
The opossum is on the high road to be a
rare bird in Queensland. ’Possum-hunters
are ranging every available hunting-ground
in the country now the close season has been
abolished for this year, and guns, flashlights
and cyanide are busy wiping out the little
broAvn Australians Avho flourish in gum-tree
land. Hunters boast of having amassed from
£5 up to £9 in a single night. Making all
allowance for foolish brag, this means an enor-
mous destruction of a beautiful little animal
that deserves all the protection Ave can give
him.
# ■#• * *
"Gat”: The Victorian Wheat-growers’
Corporation has been successful in loading
a ship every Aveek at Portland since
February last, and the fourteenth (and last)
for the season cleared out in June. The
total quantity shipped this year was
1,100,G00 bags, weighing 94,000 tons, w T hich
is double the quantity shipped last year. A) 1
the necessary labor Avas engaged locally, the
only "importation” being one official from
the head office. OAving to the shorter mileage
from the groAving districts, the saving in
rail freight was 2s. 6d. or more per ton. In
addition, the Corporation conducted its own
loading operations.
io * * *
“W.E.N.” : With all respect for "The
Wanderer, "Beal” and others, and entire
sympathy with their motives, I am, never-
theless, impelled to say that I have tried
all the axe-handles on the market, and have
found none to compare Avith the Yankee
article. Now, I am not an importer or a
Yank —I am just a plain, commonsense Aus-
tralian Avho Avants to see his country turn
out axe-handles and other articles to equal
anything Ave can import, but I can’t be gulled
into buying an inferior article merely be-
cause it is Australian. If we Avant to make
better axe-handles than the Yanks Ave will
have to look round until we find a better
timber than any avc have on the market at
the present time. We have at least one
timber that will, I believe, equal, if not beat
the hickory : it is currawong. I don’t know
the botanical name, but it groAvs plentifully
In a good many parts of N.S.W.
* * * *
"Dido”: I am not amazed to hear that
there are in Sydney poor fools willing to pay
up to tivo guineas for a haircut, knowing there
is a set that cannot bear to pay the wretched
prices paid by the vulgar herd for anything,
simple or serious. Here in Melbourne a
friend of mine invented an emollient for the
visage of the fair. He did this because he
had nothing else to do, and Avas in immedi-
ate need of money. Putting the goods up
in a neat sample jar, the man called upon the
head of a fashionable city emporium, and
invited the house to try the stuff on the dog
at half-a-croAvn a jar. "No good to us at.
the price,” was the reply. “Our patrons
won't pay such a price for a face cream.
They Avould rather go without. Put it in a
handsome jar, and charge a guinea, and wo
mav be able to do business Avith you.” The
manufacturer and inventor obeyed ivitliout
even a show of reluctance, and now his
gorgeous little jar of face paste, infallible for
freckles, chaps and sunburn, and fatal to
wrinkles, is bringing him in a generous in-
come at a guinea a gill.
“R.T.N.”: Why don’t some of *the big
trustee, companies decentralise a little?
There is a fine field awaiting the one which
Avill open a number of small country
branches and cater for the business at pre-
sent discharged by country solicitors,
accountants, bank managers and all sorts
and conditions of professional and public
men. These branch offices Avould be inex-
pensive to run. In many country towns
the trustee companies already have other
interests Avhieb could be served economically
by a man on the spot. A man Avho knoAA-’s
the country and its requirements Avould soon
get plenty of business, although quite'pos-
sibly it might not be draAvn from the same
strata of society as in the cities. Nearlv everv
country town has had unfortunate ' experi-
ences in the administration of local semi-
public trusts, and on that count alone such
a move on the part of the companies Avould
be popular.
"P.T.0." : A smart bit of Avork took place
the other day in connection Avith the big
lire at Crisp and Gunn’s timbery, Hobart.
Tavo hours after the insurance claim Avas
lodged a cheque for £21,625 changed hands.
This is reputed to be the largest sum ever
passed over in the Speck for insurance.


K’Hi'?
w
Save your Hocks
from blowfly losses
wi*k a, COMET
SHEEP .TETTER
We’re on the road to blowfly extinction—but we’re
not there yet. In the meantime we must jet—or
lose heavily.
EXPERIMENTS made with poison and Chalcid Wasp have proved inadequate,
although the latter shows great promise of giving us a means of controlling the
fly in the far distant future. In the meantime sheepmen must guard their flocks amt
prevent heavy losses by other means. Reports promise a very serious tune tenth the
blowfly pest this coming season.
Jetting is recognised and recommended by many leading pastoralists as the surest
and most economical method of combating the sheep fly. Jetting eliminates crutchmg
costs.
Let us give you facts about the Comet Jetter, the only specially-designed All-Australian
Jetter on the market. Investigate its never-failing agitator, its simple trouble-tree
pump, and the patented Jetting handpiece that sheepmen are so enthusiastic about.
Write for booklet now.
Ask about the “COMET” Mill
—Australia’s Leading Windmill.
Quick to turn to lightest winds yet protected against heavy weather—delicately
balanced Wheel —Large Super-sensitive Ball-bearing Turntable —Roller Guides—as
precisely built as a high-grade engine—the “Rolls Royce” of the mill world. Ask
for facts and catalogue.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO. LTD.,
Works: Constitution Road, Dulwich Hill, Sydney.
City Office: 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Also at ROCKHAMPTON,
BRISBANE & TOWNSVILLE.
Read this extract from “Sydney Morning
Herald,” 12/0/’22: —
“It has been found at Dalmally that a mob
of sheep jetted with arsenic will kill more flies
than all the traps and poison-bags set about
the yards. After jetting flies are always to be
seen dead in great numbers about the yards
and shed.”
From write-up of report by Commonwealth Bureau of
Science and Industry.
conir
s HEEp ift!-,
Fq «biow T s r
fly
•s
m
. .
To
Sunny Queensland.
A wonderful sea trip for Health, Pleasure and
Comfort, occupying 23 days on the round trip
from Melbourne and 16 days from Sydney.
Smooth Seas and Sunny Skies.
By steamers up to 8000 tons fitted
with wireless and every comfort: —
CANBERRA WYANDRA
LEVUKA BOMBALA
COOMA WYREEMA
WODONGA.
Prom MELBOURNE every
Tuesday, calling Syd-
ney, Brisbane, Mackay,
Townsville and Cairns.
From SYDNEY every
Tuesday and Saturday.
Tuesday’s steamers call
at Brisbane, Port Alma,
Mackay, Bowen and
Townsville, then tran-
ship for Cairns.
Full particulars from :
Howard Smith Ltd.
and Reduced,
35 Market Street,
Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 8314.
350 George Street,
Sydney. S
Tel.: City 6221.
A.U.S.N. Co., Limited,^
476 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 9708.
7 Bridge Street, Sydney
Tel.: City 10680.
i
' omm aa: 1 11 I IgsiS §# §| ii . ini ' ' ' ™ ''' ~~'
i ' i® 'a..,.:- i&i lilts
... >.
Ik
ssSilliilfc
■ Mmmx
m
HHH
.
Hi
ii«i»
wm
:
r/ f> r\ \
B
' ' JR»
’ frs*x~\ r '\ •. .'.
( ?/f ' a\\Y
r? /
! ..a
■ ~. -: •#
r i l!
•rf^s
ST
ll
B
$Si
P :■
7
. *
>s
■
»«^V^3aaj»a« ? “-fIaST ,
i 1
Z'.ZZ*t*TZs M
£w*e
Hil')(Hlfl&&00!'\
PA3sa<iC~


To Avoid Sickness.
To avoid and to overcome sickness of all
kinds, watch your bowels. Don’t allow old
fermenting food to stay in them for days,
but get it out.
If your stomach is disordered, or your
bowels constipated, if you feel sluggish,
dizzy or bilious, get a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets at once.
They act directly upon the liver, regulate
the bowels, invigorate the stomach, cleanse
the system. The result is a relish for food,
increased strength and a clear head.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are good for con-
stipation, sour stomach and gases on the
stomach. A single dose often relieves these
troubles.
The use of these Tablets is not followed by
constipation as is the case with many laxatives.
Instead of weakening the bowels they strength-
en them to act naturally without assistance.
Chronic constipation may be permanently
relieved by Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
have none of the sickening qualities of pills,
and do not produce an unpleasant effect.
Keep Your Bowels Clean.
That listless, tired, drowsy feeling may be
due to poisonous matter lodged in the bowels.
Many folks who always feel tired and only
“half alive” will be surprised how much
better they will feel when they get rid of this
matter which has been poisoning their system
for days.
Nervousness, sleeplessness and some kinds
of headaches are frequently signs of poison-
}ng 5T the system rnrungii pmovuo •»
bowels.
Irritation of the bladder, breathlessness,
so-called weak and fluttering heart, are often
caused by pressure of gas in the intestines —
this gas may originate from decaying food in
the system.
A man is seldom sick when his bowels are
regular, and never well when they are
irregular. Bear this in mind and take
Chamberlain’s Tablets as occasion may
require. There is nothing better. They
are mild and gentle in their action and
pleasant to take.
Old Age.
Old age as it comes in the orderly process
of nature is a beautiful and majestic thing.
It stands for experience, knowledge, wisdom,
counsel. That is old age as it should be,
but old age as it often is means poor digestion,
torpid bowels, a sluggish liver and a general
feeling of ill health, despondency and misery.
This in almost every instance is wholly
unnecessary. One of Chamberlain’s Tablets
taken immediately after supper will improve
the digestion, tone up the liver and regulate
the bowels. That feeling of despondency
will give way to one of hope and good cheer.
vVj
X
sr>
<3
ss'
S 3
$
Si
«V
*i;
ss'
<o
A Dose or Two
Saves You from ’Flu.
GIJANNY CHAMBtIiLAIN
(COPY f4tCHT&C4
fjpHERE is no need to have ’Flu. You
can always ward it off. Take this
Wonderful medicine. It will prevent
the attack. Never fails. Perfectly safe.
(A dose in time saves nine).
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY
Children’s Ailments.
Children, like adults, are subject to
disorders of the stomach, liver and bowels,
and many of the apparently alarming ailments
of childhood are due to these causes.
Constipation is a common trouble among
children and is often the cause of seeming
stupidity at lessons and also of many an
exhibition of temper.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are invaluable for
children. They are pleasant and safe to take
and absolutely without harsh effect.
Half a Tablet is sufficient for children from
six to twelve; for children under six, one-third
of a Tablet will have the desired effect.
If your child is bilious, if its appetite is
poor and variable, if it is fretful and
nattering, restless in its sleep, you may be
sure that its stomach is out of order and a
few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets will
quickly set it right.
Double Reduction Gears. Just one arrange-
ment of the accurate power-saving gearing
we can supply.
Helical Gearing
will Solve Your
Transmission Problem.
THE demand for a more efficient form of gear-
ing, owing to the modern development of the
electric motor and high-speed turbine, has been
definitely met by the development of Helical Gear-
ing. Helical Gearing, with properly designed and
cut teeth creates surprisingly high plant efficiencies,
and eliminates noise and vibration where high
velocities and high rates are required. We invite
inquiries for helical gears, special couplings and
all transmission accessories. Send us your trans-
mission problem. Ask particulars of the Sykes
Gear Generating machine for cutting Single and
Double Helical Spur and Internal Gears.
■
m
m
« _ :
Steam-driven Main and Tail Haulage Gears.
One of the many Mine Haulage Engines for
which we can quote.
Mine Haulage
Engines and
Equipment.
■% ' -
WE invite inquiries for all mining equipment,
individual accessories or complete winding
installations. Electrically-driven Single and Double
Drum Winding Gears, Main and Tail Haulage Gears,
Single and Double Drum Endless Rope Haulage
Gears. Steam-driven Special Self-contained Haul-
ing and Winding Engines. “Exhall” Overwind
Preventer, to fit to existing engines. Air Compres-
sors. Tipplers. Pumping Plant. Pit Cages, etc.
Let us quote you.
Illustrated matter, detailing any of the above lines, or our new 128-page
general engineering catalogue, forwarded post free. Write nearest address.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; Victoria Chambers, Eagle Street, Brisbane;
and 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd., 499-501 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; Darling Building, Franklin Street, Adelaide; and corner Collins and Elizabeth
Streets, Hobart. Also from J. R. W. Gardam, Perth.
Mrs. S. Nettleton, of Warrnambool
(Vic.), holds the world’s Marathon title in
the Sunday school-superintendent event. A
Congregationalism she has presided over her
local Bible-class since its inception 60 years
ago; and she is still superintending effi-
ciently at 90.
“Tim”: “Herodot” (B. 8/6/’22) may be
right about Sennacherib’s host being smitten
with cerebral malaria, but he is a
long way out when he says that the
rudiments of sanitary science were unknown
in those days. Let him look up -Deuteron-
omy xxiii, 9-14, and note the sanitary
orders issued to the army of Israel. Also
in Leviticus he will find strict laws regard-
ing contagious diseases.
“E. Gippy”: Happy Pascoe, paragraphed
some weeks ago, was not only “a very reli-
gious man,” but an exceptionally demonstra-
tive worshipper. “ ’Ave ’e the fire within,
son?” was a question the old chap often
asked, accompanying the query with a back-
hander across that part of a fellow-worship-
per’s anatomy where the conflagration was
supposed to be. One harassed parson pro-
mised “Happy” a new pair of pants if he
would refrain from responding for four Sun-
days. The old chap kept quiet for a couple
of Sabbaths, but spiritual fervor got him
down on the third, and he bellowed,: “Bret-
chers or no bretchers- —Praise the Loot'd!”
“Billy T.”: Titheradge used to claim that
one of the most earnest and heartfelt com-
pliments he ever received was paid him by
a dumb animal in the course of a short
provincial tour. Titheradge was playing
a bold, bad man in a strenuous drama, and
in Act II was - called upon to behave as no
gentleman would towards the excellent vil-
lage maiden. }n tjm of the struggle
a large cattle-dog bounded on the stage and
attacked him in the rear, biting out a
large and very necessary portion of his
nether garments. Incontinently, the actor-
man dropped the business in hand, and took
refuge behind a table, the dog still barking
at the top of his register and displaying. the
greatest animosity. As the wretched animal
was clearly bent on improving his acquaint-
ance Tith. took to the wings, the audience
yelling with delight; while a fresh roar went
up every time the creature’s honest howl
was heard “off,” it being assumed that the
bad man was being hunted all over the shop.
As a matter of fact, George was up a ladder,
„nd the full strength of the company was
engaged trying to capture the too-
gallant hound. Only the village maiden
could pacify the dog, and not till she led
him from the premises could the drama pro-
ceed. The audience greeted the re-appear-
ance of the villain in an odd pair of pants
with a rapturous salvo of cheers, that, if
the strict equities had been observed, he
would have accepted side by side with his
canine colleague.
G. F. H. Schuler and Dr. Cunningham,
editors of Melbourne- Age and Argus, are
celebrating their jubilees in journalism. Both
began in Bendigo, and it is a further coinci-
dence that the Age found posts for them
when they first came to Melbourne —Schuler
from Bendigo, and Cunningham from
Hobart, where he had been on the Mercury.
Neither, however, holds the record for long
distance presswork in the Vic. capital.
Henry Short, editor of the Leader, has been
pushing a pen for 56 years. He was born in
Somerset, about 70 years ago, and his father,
the Rev. Robert Short, was one time pro-
prietor of The Colonist, published in
Demerara, British Guiana.
“0.K.”: An election being on the way, the
P.M.G. has promised to consider the possi-
bility of a free Saturday afternoon for letter-
sorters, provided early posting can be im-
posed upon the public. If there is to be no
more sorting after 1 o’clock, the public, pre-
sumably, will have to post all country and
inter-State letters before mid-day on Satur-
day to get them delivered on Monday morn-
ing anywhere outside the suburban radius.
A universal Saturday for punting or
football barracking is what the sorters
are after. Of recent years the convenience
of those who pay these public servants’
salaries has repeatedly been encroached upon,
each fresh holiday concession being an in-
citement to a new demand. Unfortunately
the social and commercial interests of the
people have no union to plead for them.
“T.R.H.”: Graft was probably invented in
the Garden of Eden, but it was recently-dead
Boss Croker who raised it to the level of
a fine art in “N’Yark.” I was there at the
end of 1898 when the Mazet committee (the
equivalent of an Australian Royal Commis-
sion) was holding a public inquiry into the
methods of Tammany Hall. Croker went on
the witness-stand and unbl-ushingly boasted
that he was not only boss of Tammany Hall
but of New York. He showed that every
official —the police included —bought their
jobs and made what they could out of them.
Croker’s disclosures shocked even the Yan-
kees, and soon after the inquiry Richard
left the States and settled in Ireland.
“Chum” : The late George Charles Sim (B.
l/6/’22), one-time member for Carpentaria
(Q.), made a world tour as companion to a
Bradford wool magnate, and contributed
articles to that Yorkshire city’s press. These
were afterwards published in book form
under the titles of “An Englishman in Ice-
land,” “The Highways and Byways of
Japan,” “Through Yellowstone Park” and
“Scenes in Canton.” He caught the gold
fever from Cecil Rhodes in S’Africa, and
this brought him to Australia a second time.
He tramped from Normanton to Croydon
accompanied by a C. of E. cleric, and soon
became the guide and philosopher for every
miner in trouble. Sim’s two sisters have
(or had) a ladies’ college in Bradford.
“Q.”: “Black” Barwell was well known
in Adelaide (B. 15/6/’22) prior to his elec-
tion to Parliament in 1917. He was retained
by the brewers and the L.V.A. as counsel
and, putting up a number of good fights on
their behalf, was constantly in the public
eye. The joke of it was that on his becoming
Attorney-General he promptly announced his
intention of tightening up the licensing laws
and, knowing- all the ins and outs of the
business, made it pretty hot for his erst-
while clients. He was, and is, also well
known in church affairs, holding with, I
think, only two others the Anglican Bishop’s
license of lay preacher in the Adelaide
diocese.


i
SI
111//
m
m
FOX
WARK
TRADE.
V,
a
0
V
&
'jD
AiW‘>
* V ii
fa
SSjMh '4
Q
i * .«
£
If,
K
t>
iM
W
RGES
Pure Wool
Indi^oDcje
LOOK FOR THE
TRADE MARK
ON THE SERGE
FOX BROTHERS
Westclox
en
ica
eter
“•'clax
u
ee.
n
n
The Four Headliners
Here they are; the four
top notches in the West-
clox line. Big Ben heads
the family. He’s a good
sturdy timekeeper, a
staunch loyal call-clock.
At his right America,
comely, alert, competent.
Then Sleep-Meter a close
second to Big Ben, refined,
friendly, watchful. Last
but least only in size
comes little Baby Ben, who
tucks cosily into corners
where Big Ben might feel
out of place. They’re all
faithful timekeepers and
punctual alarms. They all
have that same good
Westclox construction.
They all wear our quality
pledge, Westclox.
Wtstclox Big Ben, 25/-; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 13/6; America, 10/-;
Blue Bird, 12/6: Boyproof, 9/6; Pocket Ben,9/6; Jack o : Lantern Luminous, 20/-;
Big Ben Luminous, 32/ 6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6; Glo-Ben, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A.
£2
m
Y
V
PURE
FOOD 2
o*s*
Rex Ham Pate
The Ideal Spread for
School Sandwiches!
Good for them—economical for you! There you have the
reasons for the popularity of “Rex” Ham Pate.
Try it! “Rex” Ham Pate as a Sandwich filling gives their
healthy little appetites plenty of encouragement.
Besides it is wholesome food—the country famed “Rex”
Ham with its inviting mildness and delightful flavor pre-
pared so invitingly that no appetite could possibly resist it.
Its real Economy will quickly make “Rex” Ham Pate a
favorite in youx home.
“REX” HAM PATE IS “REX”
HAM IN MOST ECONOMICAL
FORM—TRY IT!
Sold by all leading Grocers.
FOGGITT JONES LTD,
F.J, 14V


Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from No.
4 Jetty, Circular Qua)'.
Fine New Motor itoatl from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per clay, or from
4% Guineas per week,
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OOl, 3002, 3599.
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per (lay inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
The “COMFORT” (Self-heating) IRON
■'V'lkSi
Lights in half a min-
ute. Costs 3d. for i
hours. Simple, safe,
clean, beautifully nick-
elled, double-pointed.
Finest iron made.
Burns Benzine.
Price. 427-
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
ride: a bicycle:
BUILT OF
FITTINGS
A BOON TO THE
COUNTRY LADY.
Such is the B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle.
A pleasant, reliable and economical
means of travel, which is of
practical value in the country. The
various little journeysin the course
of a day are transformed from a
tedious duty to an enjoyable
excerise, on a convenient and ever-
ready B.S.A.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH
All B.S.A. parts are guaranteed
interchangeable. This means the
elimination of all unnecessary
waste of time should you lose or
damage any part of your bicycle.
ILLUSTRATED HANDBOOK
POST FREE ON REQUEST.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
8.3. A.
URODONAL
The Great French Remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Calculi,
Obesity, Acidity, Arterio-Sclerosis,
m
m
i
\\\x
Xhe a°e of a man is the age of his arteries. Keep your arteries young by
taking URODONAL, and you will thereby avoid Arterio-Sclerosis, which
hardens the walls of the blood-vessels and renders them stiff and brittle.
THE SION OF THE TEMPORAL, ARTERY.—(Dieulafey's Temporal
Sijrn.) “If you should see between the eye and the root of the hair
under the wrinkled and withered skin of the temples, a kind of hard,
bluish and knotted cord protruding, be on your guard, for you are
threatened with senility. It does not matter if you have not a white hair;
your arteries are growing old. It is necessary to act immediately. Purify
your blood of the poisonous substances which taint it, and especially of
the most dangerous of all, vir., trie Acid,” . T
Dr. Ju. 8. UUIAL.
DISSOLVES URIC ACID as easily as warm
water dissolves sugar!
PREPARED BY ETABEISSEMENTS CHATEEAIN, TARIS.
Price per Bottle, 9/3.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and druggists throughout Austoalasia,
or from CHATELATN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET,
. SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
“Always Reliable.”
The very name
EL E Y
is synonymous with
Cartridges
Obtainable from
all Dealers.
ALBERT ADAMS,
Broughton House,
Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
sd
THE SUPREME
SUNBEAM
** The most Improved Cars of 1922 m
SUNBEAM
COATALEN
AIRCRAFT
ENGINES
100-lOOOh.p.
This is the considered judgment of those who have
tried the present 16/40 h.p. and 24/60 h.p. models.
This improvement is largely due to the entirely new
OVERHEAD VALVE ENGINES with which these
cars are now fitted.
The engine of the new 14 h.p, Sunbeam is very similar,
and the range of three 1922 'models evinces excep-
tional progress upon individual lines.
D M
MiiiiiilXmUmil
24/60 h.p, 6-cyl, Light Touring Model.
Mail for Particulars :
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR COMPANY, LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
Expert Dept I 12, PRINCES STREET, HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON W.l.
Cablß Addrata—" Subeamoco,” London.
AND AT NEW YORK.
Authorised Dealers : —
Williams Bros., 822 George Street, Sydney.
The Autocar Industries Pty. Ltd., 104-112 Russell Street,
Melbourne.
Howard Motor Co., Ltd., 376-78 Queen Street, Brisbane.
The Mrs. Dodery who passed out in Tassy
the other day at 102 was the widow of that
William Dodery who gave the Speck’s Upper
House its nickname.
“Dido”: It happened in liussell-street,
Melbourne, where the hand-me-down depart-
ment flourishes like a green bay-tree. Izzy
was talking to .Moss on the kerb with ,a tre-
mendous show of Hebraic gesticulation.
Said Off bloom, on his doorstep, to Iffstein,
next door: “Vere iss der sense of Izzy talkin’
to Moss so ven Moss he iss deaf as a post-
pillar?” “Dot is kvite all ride,” Iffstein re-
plied. “Moss aindt blind, iss he?”
A procession came down the road rattling
tins and running in its midst a white-faced
individual with the terror of death upon
him. He had been bitten by a snake in
the bush a mile out, and a couple of wood-
cutters had applied first aid in the shape of
a deep incision and .the burning of gunpowder
in the wound, a kind of cure that might
have been invented for the persuasion of re-
luctant Christians by Torquemada himself.
They brought their man to the pub veran-
dah and called for copious supplies of
whisky, but here the patient kicked. “I’m
a stric’ teetotaller,” he said, “and I won’t
drink whisky.” “Won’t drink whisky!”
asked Snow, one of the rescue party. “Won’t
drink whisky ! Why dammitall, man, what
did you get bit for?”
Alec Peacock has been visiting Back-
block schools in nor’-east Vic,, and leaving a
trail of yarns behind him. One was that
when he, as Vic. Premier, and Toby Barton
as Prime Minister, had to board the ship
bearing the Duke and Duchess of York,
they bought two Windsor uniforms at 50
sovs. apiece. "The things had no pockets,”
said Peacock, “and when we were giving
them their first airing I thoughtlessly
invited Barton to have a drink. When the
lady behind the bar had filled ’em up I
found I hadn’t a coin. ‘Lend me a bob,’ I
said to Barton, who instinctively searched
for the pocket that wasn’t there. We broke
the news to the bar-lady, and she immedi-
ately snapped up our glasses and bumped
’em on a shelf, saying: ‘No. I’ve been ’ad
too often by you milingtary gents.’ ”
“First Old Man”: Mummers long ago lost
their reputation for thriftlessness. Some of
them nowadays go to the other extreme. We
were packing up in Wellington after a
Maoriland tour, and Battersby, our dossy
juvenile, inquired if anyone wanted to buy a
pair of tan boots. He had worn them only
once and had taken a dislike to them. Tommy
Parish, the comedian, agreed to take the
brogans for a pound, but having no change
asked Battersby to keep them in his trunk
till we got to • Sydney. On the trip over
some of our boxes were broken open in the
hold —a not uncommon occurrence —and pil-
laged, Battersby’s included. His losses were
serious. Among them were several suits of
clothes—he always had the best —and the
tan boots. Tommy Parish was all sympathy.
"Dashed hard luck, dear boy,” he said.
“Why, it’ll cost at least 50 of the best to
replace the things. Cruel hard luck, I call
it.” “Yes,” agreed Battersby, “and your
boots gone, too. I’m sorry about that.”
Tommy hurriedly corrected him. “No, your
boots, dear old chap ; not mine.” “But you
bought them, Tommy,” said Battersby, “you
know you did.” “But, how could they be
mine?” rejoined Tommy. “I didn’t pay you
for them!”
“Wart” : Tassy’s new Parliament will have
three Digger members. Snowden, Mayor of
ITobart, re-elected for Dennison; Hurst, re-
elected as one of the Labor candidates for
Darwin ; and Marriot, who displaced Pollard
as a Nationalist in the same electorate.
Marriot is blind, and his wife is deaf, but
her eyes keep him in touch with events.
There was nearly a fourth—Harry Thomson,
who did his electioneering on crutches, and
was excluded only on the 27th count in Bass.
A quarter of a century back Thomson was
a prominent oarsman, footballer, runner and
bike-rider. He retired from the Ringarooma
Council and sold up a dairy farm to enlist.
His father, the late John Thomson, pf Cor-
miston, sat in the House of Doddery a decade
ago.
Senator Bakhap, just returned from a
trip to China, is the most picturesque
speaker in the Federal Parliament. Nowa-
days, he is condemned mostly to the routine
patter of Chairman of Committees, but as a
private member his flowing and ornate dic-
tion used to make the most experienced
reporter gasp. His first discourse in the
Senate was so rich in verbal flourishes that
The Bulletin’s old editor, James Edmond,
declared that, after Bakhap had sat down,
the House carpenter was hurriedly sent for
to make repairs to the dictionary. Bakhap
is the unofficial political representative of
the Chinese in Australia. He shares their
homage with Sun Yat Sen.
The W.A. Labor party is turning its
attention, lightly or otherwise, to liquor re-
form. Among the newest planks to be added
to its platform is a “State poll with com-
pulsory voting, on prohibition, with bare
majority.” Probably it doesn’t mean much,
except a mild bid for the temperance vote:
and, anyhow, it is likely to be some years
before a W.A. Labor Premier has a chance
of putting it into a policy. But a vote on
prohibition, or bone-drouth, where a bare
majority of one would automatically shut
up every pub in the State, has never yet
been suggested anywhere else, except by the
most fanatical of wowsers. Possibly the
W.A. Labor Congress reasoned that as the
plank was merely for show it would be a
mistake not to make it as showy as possible.
“Orb”: Marie Tempest has fractured the
honored custom of heaving saccharine com-
pliments at “the discriminating Australian
audiences.” Melba set the “I love you,
dear people!” example, and all the visiting
uctorines and sob-stuff sisters conscientiously
follow her lead. “Tell ’em I love ’em still,”
said the departing Marie, but “the sort of
thing that appeals to the intellectual classes
elsewhere does not appeal in Sydney.” Still
Marie had a long innings here, and possibly
outstayed her welcome. She is not so
young as she was. It’s a long, long way to
the London Prince of Wales Theatre and
the first production of “Dorothy.” Also, one
recalls that Miss Tempest’s first appeal to
the intellectual classes in Australia was in
a moving-picture called “Mrs. Plum’s Pud-
ding.” Marie was Mrs. Plum, and the
effect was —pudding. Youth will be pre-
served.


REXONA BABIES EVERY ONE.
Only Rexona Soap is “Good Enough”
BABY
DOROTHY
HARMAN.
“I have always used Rexona
Soap for my baby Dorothy, and
she has a most beautiful, clear
and soft complexion.”
Mrs. R. Harman,
St. Arnaud, Vic.
W
*‘l cannot praise Rexona Soap
too highly. lam delighted with
it, and recommend it to all
mothers for their babies.”
Mrs. Gow,
Penrith. N.S.W.
Wi mm , W"
‘‘l have found Rexona Soap
superior to any other soap for the
nursery.
Airs. E. M. Brookshaw,
North Melbourne, Vic.
Rexona —
The Rapid Healer
1/6 and 3/-
BABY
FRANCIS
COW.
BABY
BROOK SHAW.
for Baby.
A healthy baby always enjoys a bath,
and Rexona Soap makes your child a healthy
baby. It keeps his skin fresh and sweet, his
scalp so clean and wholesome. Any irritation
of the skin which keeps baby awake, or
makes him cross and peevish, Rexona Soap
will quickly soothe. A refreshing bath with
Rexona Soap and gentle anointing with
Rexona will cool his skin and take away all
discomforts, so that baby and mother will
sleep quietly. The pure, sweet emollients
used in Rexona Soap are suited to baby’s
delicate skin, and keep it in the best condition.
Rexona babies are contented babies, because
they feel well cared for and comfortable.
Rexona Soap—
Best for Baby and
for Mother, too.
The skin of a new-born baby is so fresh
and delicate that only the best soap is suitable
for baby’s bath. Mothers recognise the value
of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap when they
find that its regular use keeps that dainty
skin from becoming rough and coarse, and
the baby’s bloom remains into childhood.
The best time for baby’s bath is early morning. Have
everything ready, the tub of warm water, Rexona Soap, a
soft flannelette wash cloth (which must be boiled daily), and
a big soft towel. All the little clothes must be laid at hand,
so there is no delay in dressing baby after the bath. Wash
first his face and hair, then his whole body; lift him out, and
dry him gently, but thoroughly. Powder is not a necessity
when baby has been washed with Rexona Soap, for the skin
is left in such good condition that chafing is unlikely. Baby
will have such a sweet, comfortable feeling after his bath
that when fed he will enjoy a long, refreshing sleep. Again
at night it is well to sponge baby’s face and hands and part
of his body with Rexona Soap and warm water. A baby
so cared for will cause his mother no anxiety with eruptions
or skin trouble, and will be protected from disease germs
as well.
-mm.
W/;W6.
Wm
WM
V/.
m,
I
i
ax
(•/
%
Vs
(S'.
'O,.
V//
1
m
%
%
%
Vi
I
fon
Cleanses
Toilet. Bath
& NUBSERV
HEALS A'
Purifies
AND
FA
lAL
SKI
<-x
m
s'.
%
m
w,
%
%
Va
%
Vs
“Our baby has been washed
with Rexona Soap from birth, and
her skin in beautifully clean and
clear.”
Mrs. E. L. Boyd,
Bendigo, Vie.
“I have used only Rexona Soap
for my baby’s bath since birth,
and have much pleasure in recom-
mending its use for very young
children.”
Mrs. L. P. Williams,
Enfield, N.S.W.
i
w
“I have always used Rexona
Soap for my baby Nancy, and I
think it a splendid soap for
babies.”
Mrs. J. H. Robinson,
Waratah, Tas.
Rexona Soap,
1/- per Tablet.
•(lAOU
AH VH
BAEV
WILLIAMS.
BABY
NANCE
ROBINSON.


A. Saunders’ Juvenile Knife, Fork and Spoon, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, in Silk-lined Case, 257-
Others, 30/-, 35/-, 42/-
: m
A. Saunders’ Jam Spoon and Butter Knife, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, complete in Silk- and
Velvet-lined Case, 25/-
A w'-
LONDON Zt SYDNEY
Sfefe.-.
A. Saunders’ Dessert Knives and Forks, pure Silver-plated,
Xylonite Handles, £5/10/-
CASED COODS
t tr >
!.■ i h 1:1
• s s
;i>
A. Saunders’ Combination Case 4 o’clock Tea Spoons,
Sugar Tongs, Jam Spoon and Butter Knife, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, 80/-
A. Saunders’ Cake Forks, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, in Silk-lined Case,
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station).
fk
-
A. Saunders’ Combination Case 4 o’clock Tea Spoons, Sugar
Tongs and Cake Knife, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, reed
and ribbon border, in Case, 40/-
' liHfo
5
m
A. Saunders’ Fish Servers, hand-engraved Blade, Xylonite Handles,
60/-. With Pearl Handles, 80/-
A. Saunders’ Soup Spoom, pure Silver-plated, hand burnished
round bowl, in Velvet-lined Case, 55/"
*Ni
V/^
©
It is the policy of the makers of the Hupmobile
always to build a produd worthy, in every
way, of the confidence they invite buyers to
place in it.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Body Types.—Five-seater touring car, two-seater
roadster
Wheelbase. —112 inches (2.84 m.).
Cylinders.—Four, cast en bloc, removable head,
3% in. bore x 5% in. stroke, 83 x 140 mm.
Starting and Lighting.—Electric—two-unit system.
Ignition.—High-tension magneto.
Carburetter. —Adjustable.
Fuel System.—Vacuum feed.
Lubrication. —Pressure system with pump.
Clutch.—Dry disc type—7 plates.
Tyres.—Bls x 105 mm. clinchers or 32in. x 4in.
straight side. Demountable rims.
Wheels. —Wooden (Artillery type) or wire.
Color. —Any color.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 112-120 Pirie
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tas.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurch.
N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, N.Z.
Hupmobile


Amusement;
C VI)NE Y’S CIII E I TIIISAT IS E S.
w J. C. WILLIAMSON', LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
A NIGHT OUT.
(TSI I HR lON :
THE GREAT LOVER.
ROYAL:
THE BAT.
„ PALACE:
PARLOUR, BEDROOM AND BATH.
T HE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEA REAN
PRODUCTIONS
QUEENSLAND TOUR.
Gympie, July 10.
Maryborough, July 11 anti 12.
Bundaberg, July 13 and 14.
QV TOUR. DIRECTION LIONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
NOW' TOURING NORTHERN RIVERS. '
J. C - WII.LIA.il SON, LTD., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
NEW COMIC OPERA CO. IN
A LITTLE DUTCH GIRL.
THEATRE ROYAL.
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA CO.
K
P
INK’S THEATRE, MISI.ItO U K N N.
EMELIE POLINI and FRANK HARVEY in
MY LADY’S DRESS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
AI.A C E THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & J. FULLER, LTD
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
A GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best.”
ADA REEVE.
“She has no equal.”
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGHTON.
Matine6s Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o'clock.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
QUY MAIER ANI) LEE PATTISON
in
CONCERTS OF MUSIC FOR TWO PIANOS,
following their sensational success in Sydney.
MELBOURNE . . TOWN HALL, JULY 7
ADELAIDE .... TOWN HALL, JULY 2J
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAURAPH, PATHE
WOULD and SRI.ZNICK.
Amusements.
HOYT'S THEATRES, M151.1(0 li RNK.
Also SYDXKY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
GEORGE ARLISS in
THE DEVIL.
ZANE GREY’S POPULAR STORY,
THE MAN OF THE FOREST.
Prices as usual.
gy|A.!ICS'ilC THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY
KISMET,
A ROBERTSON COLE PRODUCTION.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Oi;iTAi\.\U THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Public Notice.
Carlton Hotel Limited.
'TMIE Directors of the Carlton Hotel Ltd. desire
to inform the many patrons of the Hotel, and
also the public generally, that Mr. Joseph Levy, iate
Manager of the Grand Hotel, Auckland, and previ-
ously for many years as Manager of Usher’s Metro-
politan Hotel, Sydney, has taken over, from the
27th June, the management of the Carlton Hotel,
Sydney.
r
i
7
>\7,
(^ALTEDHuk
As*
§^JW*O|»AV
N«m
?.Wl
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
\ Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
In 3 sizes of all Chemists /
KV'v and Stores. /£
HORUCKS
MALTED MILKC*
SLOUGH. BUCKS
ENG.
MONARCH
Hand-made from Highest-grade Havana Filler.
THE CIGAR FOR QUALITY-
Special sampling cabinet containing:
10 Cigars,-6/-; 25, 12/6;
50, 23/9; 100, 46/=
TOST PAID
TO ANY
ADDRESS
Si
All Hotels
and
Tobacconists.
6d. each.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
Cheap Fencing Wires
Pastoralists —Have You Yet Thought of Fencing?
We Offer ex Stock and for Early Delivery SUBJECT Sales.
BLACK 8-Gauge Plain, lcwt. Coils, £26/10/- per ton.
10-Gauge Plain, lcwt. Coils, £27/10/- per ton.
GALVANISED.... 8-Gauge Plain, lcwt. Coils, £2B/10/- per ton.
10-Gauge Plain, lcwt. Coils, £29/10/- per ton.
12-Gauge Plain, lcwt. Coils, £3l/10/- per ton.
GALVANISED.... BARBED, 12-Gauge lowa pattern, 4 points, 3in. space;
lcwt. C°ils, £34/15/- per ton.
BARBED, 14-Gauge lowa pattern, 4 points, Sin. space;
lcwt. Coils, £37/10/- per ton.
RABBIT-TRAPS: Lane’s Patent, 28/6 dozen; Griffiths’s 3 Star Specials, 28/6
dozen; Griffiths’s IXL’s, 26/6 dozen.
WIRE-NETTING, GALVANISED IRON, STRYCHNINE,
WOOLPACKS and CORNSACKS.
Prices: Net Delivered to Rails or f.ob. Sydney. TERMS : NET PROMPT CASH.
CHARLES E. CAMERON, Sydney.
Agents: VICTORIA: FRANK HOOPER & CO., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: AGENCIES, LTD., Brisbane.
BRITISH AUSTRALIAN WOOL REALISATION
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
CLOSING OF BOOKS.
, NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Transfer Books and the Register of Shareholders of this
Association will be closed from Friday, the 7th day of July, to Friday, the-21st day -of July, 1922,
both days inclusive, in connection with the Ordinary General Meeting of the Association, to be held on
Thursday, the 20th day of July, 1922.
40-542 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
29th June, 1922.
By Order of the Board,
G. F. PARIvES,
Secretary.
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the First Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders in the above
Association will be held at the Registered Office, 540-542 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, on Thursday,
the 20th day of July, 1922, at 2.30 p.m.
BUSINESS:
1. To receive and consider the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports and the Balance-sheet and Accounts
for the year ended 31st December, 1921.
2. To elect and fix the remuneration of Auditors. Edwin H. Flack, F.C.P.A., and John E. Aoung,
F.C.P.A., Melbourne, and J. A. Heselton, Son & Butterfield, Bradford, England, were
appointed by the Directors in accordance with Article No. 114, and now retire. They are
eligible for election by the Shareholders, and offer themselves accordingly.
3. To transact any other ordinary business which may be brought forward.
By Order of the Board,
540-542 Little Collins Street, ' O. F. PAKKES,
Melbourne. Secretary.
29tli June, 1922.
EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETINGS.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Association will be
held at the Registered Office, 540-542 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, on Thursday, the 20th day of July,
1922 (immediately following the Ordinary General Meeting to be held on the same day), for the purpose
of considering, and, if thought fit, passing with or without modification the following resolution, which
will be proposed as an extraordinary resolution: —
That the capital of the Association be reduced from £25,000,000 to
£19,000,000, and that such reduction be effected by the Directors
as and when they consider it advisable and expedient by paying
off paid-up share capital (approximately £12,000,000) to the
extent of £6,000,000, and by reducing the nominal amount of each
paid-up share according!'.
Should the resolution be passed by the requisite majority, it will be submitted for confirmation as a
special resolution to a Further Extraordinary General Meeting, and such meeting will be held at the
Registered Office, 640-542 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, on Thursday, the 10th day of August, 1922,
at 2.30 p.m., for the purpose of considering, and if thought fit confirming, such resolution as a special
resolution.
NOTICE IS ALSO GIVEN that at the first of the above-mentioned Extraordinary General
Meetings (on the 20th day of July, 1922) the following matters will be submitted for consideration: —
(1) A contribution to the owners of Australian Wool requisitioned and appraised in London.
(2) The payment of Woolbrokers’ Commission.
540-542 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
29th June, 1922.
By Order of the Board,
G. F. PARKE,S,.
Secretary.
"‘Better than Tatts.”
(and ail others)
LAST WEEKS
of the
KATOOMBA
THOUSAND
ART UNION (No. 2)
Prizes valued
£4OOO for 1/-
In aid of
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial
Hospital, Kaioomba Soldiers’ Memorial
and Showground Improvement Fund
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General of N. '.W.
" The truest way to mourn the dead is to
care for those they leave behind."
FIRST PRIZE OPE*' ORDER £lOOO
SECOND PHIZS OPEN ORDER £5OO
THIRD PRIZE OPEN ORDER £250
238 other Open Orders, total
value £4OOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 1922
Winning Numbers published all States?
September 16th, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS l/-Only
By Post, 1 /2. Three or more, Post Free.
In this Art Union. 5 Tickets for your sf m
Each with a chance of winning the whole
of the Open Orders valued at ,£4OOO.
NOT Gambling, bur a Co-operative ef.ort
Ticke‘B can be obtained from any Hairdresser
and Tobacconist in ew outh Wales, and ell
branches of the N .W. Bookstall Co. Ltd., or
direct from —
EDGAR BOOTH. Hon. Sec ,
Cedzow, Warrega-street. Katoomba.
COLEMAN
o.OicK-LifE
L'ANIiERN
SHINES
LIKE
AN ARC
LAMP.
LIGHTS
WITH
The Perfect Lantern
for Out-door Use
Gives a brilliant, penetrating light of
300 candle-power. Twenty times
stronger than the light of an old-style
lantern.
Ideal for use on the farm, in stable or
milking-shed, the light from the twin
mantles casts no shadow.
IT MAKES THE GAS IT BURNS.
The Quiek-Lite Lantern generates its own
petrol gas. Cheaply, simply and effectively.
One gallon of petrol gives about 48 hours’ con-
tinuous lighting.
THE SUNSHINE OF THE NIGHT.
Made of heavy brass, beautifully nickelled.
Cannot spill or burst if tipped over. No
greasy wick, sooty chimney or dripping oil.
PRICE, 75/- COMPLETE.
With two Spare Mantles and Tools. From
Ironmongers and Stores. Spare parts are
always obtainable.
Wriie Coleman Representative. Bov 1083,
Melbourne, If your Dealer is out of stock.
Supreme in dance music
Not only is the "New Edison” markedly superior in the
craftsmanship of its period-cabinets and in tbe lifelike quality
of its Re-Creations-—it is supreme in its dance-music, too. The
orchestras recorded are those of the gayest of American
resorts and the playing time is longer than with
MS
lift;
needle-type recjords; the volume and
tonal quality remarkable.
Write for free booklet, “What the Critics
Say.” Thomas -A. Edison. Ltd., 304-872
Kent Street, Sydney.
The NEW
EDISON.
“The Phonograph with a Soul,”


King George IV
11
4fr
Th e TOP NOTCH' scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
You’ll Always Be
Clean Shaven
if you have a
fgsd
UPLE
URHAM
Safe Razor
in your kit. It’s so easy, and
so pleasant, you’ll never put
it off. You ought to get
acquainted with it.
All Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to your dealer to-day—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feci it in
your hand—see how it balances—then take it
home and shave with it. It’s a reTtlationl
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Night Out”
Criterion “The Great Lover”
Royal “The Bat’’
Palace “Parlour, Bedroom and Bath”
Hoit's Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Little Dutch Girl”
Royal Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Palace “Spangles”
King’s “My Lady’s Dress”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melua Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Town Hall Guy Maier and Lee I’attison
Au almost full house heard Marguerite
d’Alvarez in her fourth concert at Melbourne
Town Hall on Saturday, and a programme
ranging from "O, Rest in the Lord ’ (Elijah)
to a bracket of vivacious Spanish airs was
received with tumultuous thanks. The
“Elijah” item was the least worthy of the
artist's efforts, and suggested that oratorio
isn’t her favorite pastime. Nor was she
highly successful in the nigger melody, “No-
body Knows de Trouble I’ve Seen,” wherein
the facial mannerisms were unduly flattering
to its devotional triviality. The ample con-
tralto was more at home in the Debussy
numbers, “Beau Soil - ,” “I.a. Chevelure” a.nd
“Du Soil-,” the second affording opportuni-
ties for another pantomimic lecture on the
Latin school of emotionalism. But the
general interpretation was very pleasing,
and the resources of a voice that rose from
cavernous contralto tones to soaring soprano
flourishes of great volume and ecstasy were
demonstrated to the uproarious satisfaction
of the multitude. A rare touch of undemon-
strative coquetry was given to the dainty
Spanish ditty, “En Calesa,” and the song-
stress made the audience feel that the lady
pictured in the carriage was worth her
weight in diamonds. Opinion of Madame
d’Alvarez as an operatic performer is im-
proved by her warbling of the “Seguidilla”
from “Carmen” and “Mon Cceur” from
“Samson and Delilah.” Both were effec-
tive encores on Saturday, the “Seguidilla”
being rendered with astonishing brilliancy.
’Cellist Livio Mannucci wasn’t very glowing
in the moth-eaten “La Cygne,” and the only
conclusion that could be drawn from the
“Allegro Militaire” (Boccherini) was that
the composer had tried to set a fret-saw to
music. Oscar Wagner, at the piano, con-
tinues to tinkle like a little star. If he
goes on producing his seductive nttie times,
some enraptured wench in the organ gallery
will yet be driven to throw a ball of paper at
him.
Jjc sfc “I* $
“My Lady’s Dress,” now making its run
at Melbourne King’s, has several popular
attractions and a steady incline in effec-
tiveness. A dream of Emelie Polini concern-
ing the manufacture of dress materials and
the make-up thereof gains melodramatic
force as it rolls along, inasmuch as the suc-
cessive characterisations of the two princi-
pals display their capacity to better and
better advantage as the revue proceeds. The
style of Knoblock’s play has been made fami-
liar by modern vaudeville custom. It is a
serious literary variety of “Spangles,” for
“My Lady’s Dress.” at
Melbourne King's.
John Fernside as
Louka, a Russian
lover.
instance, with a
consecutive story.
But “My Lady’s
Dress” has a new
air of reality in
human interest
and a number of
forcible stage ap-
pearances in its
settings. The open-
ing dream scene,
w here browsing-
silkworms in an
Italian peasant’s
house are left to
die of cold on the
lungs, is the weak-
est of the series,
and it threatens a
monotony of Miss
Polini and Frank
Harvey in conven-
tional situations.
They are very
much their same
old selves mas-
querading in that
scene. As weavers
in Lyons, what
time A. E. Green-
away makes his
one appearance as
a depressed con-
sumptive in an
armchair, they
are less samely, and. anon, as a Dutch
damsel and a dandified fortune-hunter of
the 17 th century (with Kay Souper as the pic-
turesque father of the girl) they change to
light comedy, and Harvey, in particular, is
quite freshly amusing. As a cheery White-
chapel bloke and a crippled girl, respec-
tively, Harvey and the Polini are good theat-
rical studies of stereotyped characters, whilst
Marie Ney is a breezy presentment of the
ever-popular Liza.
* * * •
In a Siberian trapper’s domicile Emelie
Polini scores heavily as the low-minded
spouse of an accustomed Harvey, the Ideal-
ist. and John Fernside, who has been the
lady’s lover in earlier sections of the dream,
loves her illicitly in the capacity of the
most evil-looking young man on earth. The
concluding act reveals the lady to advantage
—except in her gait and inornate style as
a mannequin—and provides Harvey with
opportunity to lose himself altogether in
the part of a man-mil liner. At his most
insulting moments he does lose himself. His
acting is as impressive as the incidental
dress-parade ; also the parts played by Souper
and Miss Ney help make this act the best
card in the pack.
* * «:< *
Melbourne having mostly refused to
accept “The White-headed Boy” as au in-
teresting entertainment (which it certainly
is), the Irish co. at the Royal will seek a
more congenial atmosphere after to-night
(Thursday). “The Chocolate Soldier” is to
start a week’s revival on Saturday, and a
reversion to “Dorothy” will follow.
“John Gabriel Borkman” takes the stage
at Melbourne Playhouse on Saturday this
"THE LAST WIFE OF HENRY VIIL,"
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Malcolm Scott as the Queen. “The den-
tist ashed me if I’d have gas. I said
I’d have electric light as well. I didn’t
leant to he fooled with in the dark!”
week, and Monday of next. G. B. Fowler
is running this Ibsenic domestic tragedy
under the banner of the Institute of Arts
and Literature, himself reappearing in the
part of Foldal, which brought him much ap-
probation in Repertory Co. days of yore.
#* * *
Wee Georgie Wood, at Melbourne Tivoli,
continues to be a great comfort and a bit
of a terror to his mother. “Thicker Than
Water” fits the little comedian as neatly as
“Black-hand George” did, and whilst his
art keeps the grown-ups wondering about his
age, kiddies are quite persuaded that he
is one of themselves. This week Wee Wood
is adding a miniature likeness of Burling-
ton Bertie to his song numbers, but the
programme otherwise is as before. Ed. Ford
repeats his rubber face, his anecdotes and
his speech in front of the curtain. The
address is not peremptorily called for, and
Ford-only-knows why it is delivered.
* * # sS
Among Hoyt's headliners in Melbourne
this week is a Zane Grey yarn, “The Man of
the Forest,” which keeps an ammunition fac-
tory going full time. In fact, in some parts
of this peaceful production the action is con-
fined to hurrying bullets. George Arliss, as
“The Devil,” isn’t superlatively Luciferian,
and the film strikes one as a misused fantasy
long before the end of its seven reels. All
the fleshly features of a Mohammedan
Heaven may be inspected in Hoyt’s other
attraction, “The Prophet’s Paradise.” At
the Majestic “Flower of the North” is the
vivid feminine bloom that stirs a youth’s
mind to thoughts of home and children. In
the following effusion, “The Guile of
Women,” Will Rogers has disillusioning ral-
lies with two or three sirens before he meets
the perfect angel. The Britannia is adver-
tising “Wet Gold,” whereof the principal
props are a box of plunder and a couple of
diving suits. “Back Pay” is on at the
Melba, and its argument is held to develop
the moral sensibilities.
%* * *
Dear Bulletin, — Re your Melbourne
critic’s strictures on my acting-tmetbods
(15/6/’22). They have never met with his
approval. If he represented the general
body of Australian theatre-goers I should
not have lasted eight minutes in this coun-
try, much less eight years. I refuse to admit
what he implies, namely, that I depend
entirely upon grimaces for my effects. Not
that I despise broad comedy. Years ago I
clowned in a circus (an occupation which he
seems to deride), and in that capacity I have
provoked unrestrained shrieks of delight, from
children. I love the infectious laughter of
kiddies, and I am thankful to Heaven for
the ability to make them laugh. But I
have always contrived to amuse a fairly
capable type of adult brain as well. The
present King (when Prince of Wales) and
the late Lord Kitchener are a couple of those
who have personally told me that they found
me amusing, and the playgoers of both Syd-
ney and Melbourne have proved conclusively
in the last few weeks that I carry away from
Australia their goodwill and approval. Let
it go at that.—Yours, Ai.fred Frith.
V
A little Adelaide show:—
H. P. Gill, who was once a well-known figure in
Adelaide society, and whose expert criticism was
much used by the Art Gallery, left a host of paint-
ings, mostly small, and these are now being- shown
at the Society of Arts. He was a master of form,
less certainly so of crlor, and his vivid greens are
less satisfying to the eye than his sombre browns.
A few r academic nudes are good, one of them almost
anticipating the much later work of Cumbrae Stewart.
But nearly always he depicted the landscape of the
seashore and the hills about Adelaide, or the cliffs
of the southern coast. He was a better teacher than
executant—but, then, as a teacher he was quite in
the first rank. His pictures, mostly unframed and
cheaply priced, are immensely popular, and look like
being sold right down to the smallest study.
At the King’s, Adelaide. Walter George’s
“Sunshine” players give a fresh musical mix-
ture, generally of American origin, every
week; George Storey is particularly funny
in this kind of work. In the other’ part or
the programme Donald Stewart’s incidental
chat is as good as his magic-stuff. From
the Prince of Wales, Ronald Riley and Mil-
dred Carlton have passed out, but Frank
Gorman carries on. The supply of clerical
heroes threatening to give out, he is just
now a doctor in a Yankee birth-control ser-
mon-drama. “Her Unborn Child.” A de-
lightful thing in pictures is “Penrod” at
the York. It cannot pass over the foot-
lights all the wit of the book, but the scenes
are there. Specially popular are the fight
with tar, and the putting to flight of a
“hard case” by the gentle little niggers who,
When they do fight, fight to kill. The Royal
started the week with farewell performances
of “The Bat,” and ended it with pictures.
Wondergraph is very American, and hardly
as interesting as usual. Frank Wignall con-
tributes incidental songs. At West’s are
Clara Kimball Y'oung and Clyde Cook, an
odd but effective mixture.
“The Bat,” which has winged its gloomy
flight to Sydney Royal, exhibits a baneful
aspect of the U.S. theatre. It is a cheap
mystery-story done into lurid melodrama.
For those in the mood to sup on horrors
after a bad day at the races it provides
horrors enough. It is calculated to thrill a
sex which enjoys being thrilled without the
burden of thinking or analysing its emotions.
And because that sex is the mainstay of the
Stage, as well as the Church, “The Bat”
may not improbably earn more money for
the management than plays with 10 times
its intrinsic merits. On the interpretative
side, Emma Temple divides the bays with
the unseen artist who is responsible for the
effects. A sedate and well-poised figure is
the accomplished veteran, and she makes
every inflexion and syllable tell. Elizabeth
Dunn weighs in with some clever low-comedy
work, which encourages the hope that Aus-
tralia may see her in a better play. Mayne
Linton impersonates the great detective, and
struggles heroically, but mostly in vain, to
make him terrifying. Elsie Parkes, Roland
Hogue, Robert Lumley, Sidney Sterling,
Frank Hawthorne, Carleton Stuart and Ken-
neth Brampton are the other members of a
creditable if undistinguished cast.
** * *
Geoi'ge Carney’s latest at Sydney Tivoli
is “The Ambulance Man.” It reveals what
happens to a skinflint when he borrows an
ambulance uniform to gain free entrance to
a theatre. Malcolm Scott is going strong in
“the woman who knows,” his greatest asset
being a glib manner which gives an unex-
pected twist to the tail-end of a yam just
spicy enough to make virtuous male escorts
pretend they didn’t hear. “A Daughter of
Pleasure” is presented attractively by Doris
Gilham and Bert Millard, and Holden and
Graham’s excursion into Shadowgraph and
Smoke-pictures Land is novel.
“Hail the Woman” is the Crystal Palace
draw. A climax is reached, and the house
fairly flooded with brine, when the young
Romeo swears off missionary work so that he
may become a father to the angel chee-ild.
“Law and the Woman,” at the Lyceum, has
nothing to do with Ley and the “Ne Temere”
decree. It is mostly concerned with love
and corpses. “Schooldays,” at the Rialto
and Majestic, features certain flagrant acts
of juvenile disobedience. Bully Hayes, the
South Sea Isles, an actress and a missionary
are the chief items of “The Infidel,” at the
Haymarket. Hoyt’s De Luxe has Tom Mix-
dabbling in gore and diplomacy in “Up and
Going.”
“Private Boxer”: Once a servant always a
servant—on the boards. I have known com-
edians who. after making good as butlers
have done nothing but buttle all their theatri-
cal lives. There is one comic mime in Aus-
tralia who would be astonished if he didn’t
“The Great Lover,”
at Sydney Criterion.
Lou Vernon as Carlo
Sonino.
get the part of
the waiter when
the newest musi-
cal-comedy was
being cast, and
theatre - goers
would be aston-
ished too—aston-
ished and dis-
gusted. Much the
same thing is hap-
pening to little
Lorna II elm s.
Lorna had the mis-
fortune to start
her career on the
professional stage
as a slavey in “The
Luck of the Navy.”
and followed that
up with an even
more palpable hit
as an outrageously
impossible domestic
in “The Laughter
of Fools.” Now
she has the part
of “Hattie.” an-
other of the tribe,
in “The First
Year,” for which,
originally, an act-
ress was imported
from the U.S.A.
‘There is, however, a slight difference in
Lorna’s latest slavey. Whereas the others
were decidedly plain this one is colored.
“Rienzi” : Sydney has probably forgotten
Leon Errol, for he only figured there in a
small theatrical way, but he is collecting
one of the biggest salaries in New York.
Starting in San Francisco his eccentric legs
gradually carried him across the continent
to Broadway, where he is comfortably settled
in “Sally,” which the Firm has acquired for
Australia. Errol is principal comedian and
dancer, and his drawing power is established
by the appearance of his name in electrics
over the theatre where “Sally” is at horn-'.
“Fax”: J. W. McKenzie, now working in
the Melbourne office of the R.S.A., was in
vaudeville business before he went to the
war. But it was from ibis former connection
with the railways that he got his idea for
the “strike” sketch that appears to have been
cribbed for the French original of “The
Recoil.” McKenzie vaudevilled with his
wife and daughter as dramatic and comedy-
sketch artists, with two or three companies
of “Entertainers,” but the strike playlet was
never exploited by them. McKenzie is now
touching up another effusion which he wrote
some years ago, with a. view to producing it
shortly; but seeing that the originality of his
“strike” playlet is unquestionable there can
be no reason why he should not produce that
on the strength of the success of “The
Recoil” at its one matinee show.
The June issue of the Home, which ap-
peared last week, is easily the most interest-
ing, the most definitely alive, of the series.
There is an interview with Mrs. Besant, by
A. G. Stephens, which is a masterpiece in
its line: it makes the weird old woman live
on the printed page, bringing conviction of
her charm even to those critics who have not
met her. Melba and Thea Proctor hold forth
about subjects on w’hich they are past-mis-
tresses ; the “Society” touch is less obtrusive ;
and there are fewer fashion-plates. Above
all, this number has humor. “The Incident
of Mrs. Blennerhasset’s Rusks,” by Frank
Middlemiss, introduces a writer of remark-
quality and observation; and H. C.
McKay, Dorothea Mackellar and Elizabeth
Garner contribute charming work of a less
individual character. In addition there is
some rare fun to be got out of a score of
photographs—with biographies—of Leading
Sydney Pressmen. (James Edmond, whose
genius is almost as well known to readers
of the leading British reviews as it is to Aus-
tralians, A. B. Paterson and Thomas Court-
ney, one of the greatest leader-writers any
Sydney daily ever had, are, oddly enough,
omitted from this symposium.) As in
“Who’s Who” and similar works the editor
has. had to rely on his subjects for- light upon
their struggle up Fame’s Everest. To drop
periphrasis, most of the appreciations are
really autobiographies; and the artless inten-
sity of enthusiasm with which some of the
younger Leaders approach their careers
should give pause to the popular fiction that
only actresses understand the uses of self-
advertisement. The make-up, decorations
and picture-reproductions are, as usual, ex-
quisite : the very advertisements are works
of art. At half-a-crown this quarterly is one
of the bargains of the hour.


r 1
m:
IVi
i t
■
5 Jgp * ws
- ! v ■. ■
y ,*.♦ >* > r .• .i - , ,
f # ?* *<.v v*»'**,V”
r l.vvl | f>Ki\il
7» #■ vf i?iV f<> lahhssb
W- w f
jl “|1; \> *!' '-'fJiT&’ZM *Wv~“ Hjli
* *7 * ,*" • ;fV!
:^-x:,
■nfl
Made in
Australia
of Australian
Materials.
Spit Road, Mosman, N.S.W.
Complete Concrete Road
Reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric
Engineer: J. H. Tonkin, Esq., C.E.
m
5
Road
(Made in Australia)
Economy of first cost and economy of upkeep over long years to
come are of paramount importance in road construction.
The simplicity in the laying of B.R.C. Fabric is such that it calls
for little outlay on labor, and provides its own foundation, even on
weak ground.
The durability of B.R.C. Fabric is such that wear and tear on the
road is so minimised as to practically cut out “upkeep” costs.
B.R.C. Fabric means an always even distribution of traffic-weight,
and because of its resiliency spreads the wheel loads that would
otherwise mean direct road shocks.
Write for Full Particulars,
AUSTRALIAN REINFORCED ENGINEERING COMPANY,
PROPRIETARY, LIMITED,
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: 8861.
Works:
Sunshine, Victoria.
Sole Distributing Agents:—
Victoria . GOLLIN & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
N. S. Wales . . J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, LTD., Sydney.
Queensland . . J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, LTD., Brisbane*
S. Australia . . ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
W. Australia. . ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Perth.
Tasmania .. . T. TABART, JUNIOR, Hobart.
N. Zealand,.™ JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland.
ass
&


CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic— 32 per cent. N a 2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID—
Guaranteed chemically pure
Commercial, 33 r/ °.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
POWDERED CAUSTIC, Pure.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE
SULPHUR MONOCHLORTDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
BLEACHING POWDER.
98/99 per cent. MANUFACTURED BY
the mount lyell chemical works,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILUE, VICTORIA.
an
“VALLO”
WEED,SCRUB «TREE KILLER
110
(For the Eradication of Noxious Vegetation).
“VALLO” Brand Weed Killer is the Cheapest and Most Concentrated
Killer on the Market. 31b. makes 50 gallons of Solution costing less
than one penny per gallon.
In Powder Form—Mixes Readily in Cold Water.
PRICES: 561 b., 70/-; 151 b., 21/3; 71b., 10/6; lib., 2/-; £lb., 1/3.
Postage within the State :11b., 9d.; lib. 6d. extra. Interstate: lib., 1/2; lib., Sd. extra.
Obtainable All Stores and Florists, or direct from the Manufacturers.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals, Sheep and Cattle Dips
and Orchard Sprays.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Branches—SYDNEY: 7 Hamilton Street. BRISBANE: 239 Elizabeth Street.
Correspondence invited.
POVERTY
POINT
Thiel & Thandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Fax”: In writing to Melbourne ’Ekald
to protest against unworshipful criticism,
which she “never read herself” but was in-
formed of by friends, the D’Alvarez lady
courted a disrespectful summing-up. No-
thing very uncomplimentary had been said
about her as an entertainer. The per-
sistent applause of a section of the audience
had been duly chronicled. But because a
doubt was cast on her claim to be “the Flam-
ing Star of the Concert World” the business-
like singer rushed into print with a real
Amurkan boost of her soul and her foreign
press notices. The success, or otherwise, of
this new departure in voice-exploitation will
he worth watching. Press controversy
is a recognised aid to financial tri-
umph in art. Madame d’Alvarez on
her first night, sang an unlovely Irish
curse song. It provoked a needless
Argus comment that gave the watchful man-
agement a chance to get inches of free advt.
into the morning organ. Then the lady
herself got in her fine work concerning her
Soul, and its wondrous compassion for all
unable to appreciate the difference between
herself and other vocalists. Also, she dragged
in a reference to her father, the “distin-
guished diplomatist.” It is all very interest-
ing as a study in star-flaming.
“V.V.” : Guy Maier and Lee Pattison are
not the first exploiters of two-piano music
in Sydney. In Albert Goldie’s ill-fated pro-
duction of the revue “Are We Down-
hearted?” at the Little Theatre (now the
“THE GREAT LOVER,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Geo. Blunt as Dr. Mueller.
Playhouse), Howard Vernon, remembering
the success of the grand piano with its
double keyboard and two performers at
Pelissier’s Follies in London, suggested a
similar experiment as a substitute for an
orchestra. Accordingly, two grand pianos
were placed back to back, with the perform-
ers facing one another; and I recall that a
Liszt Rhapsody, played by Esther Kahn and
Rende Lees as an overture, produced a fine
effect.
“Stargazer”: Oscar Asche’s performance
of Petrucliio in “The Taming of the Shrew”
provoked bitter hostility in the camps of the
woman’s emancipation brigades in Mel-
bourne during the last visit of the Asches,
and Oscar told a few press friends of an
experience at a Sunday evening social gather-
ing he attended in South Yarra at the
home of a nabob in the drygoods trade. He
there met a tall, bony lady of great truculence,
who treated him with the contempt meted
out to the profession at that period when
it was customary to inter a dead actor by
the roadside with a tent stake driven
through him to skewer him to mother earth.
At length she exploded, “I think you ought
to be ashamed to play that Petrucliio fellow
as you do,” she said. “The whole play is
a disgrace to a civilised community that has
the smallest respect for women. The author
is no gentleman, I’ll say that. He is a
tyrant and a coward and a fool. 1 wish I
was his wife for an hour, I’d teach him, and
if you meet him in London you can tell him
I said so.” “Madame,” Oscar replied, “I
will deliver your proposal of marriage to
Mr. Shakspeare.”
“Royce Rolls”: Old Drury -Lane, reno-
vated at fabulous expense, has started a
fresh existence with “Decameron Nights.”
There isn’t much of the original Boccaccio
in the plot, nor is the dressing sufficient for
a cold climate; but the lighting, the scenery,
and the ladies have dazzled the Fog. Aus-
tralia’s old friend Hugh Buckler has a front
part. Also Gladys Ancrum, who was a mem-
ber of the Quinlan Opera Co. when it toured
the Commonwealth, appears as the bewitch-
ing Teodora.
“GnarSk”: “J.F.11.” (B. 22/6/’22) is a
long way off the mark regarding the luck of
the London Shaftesbury. “The Arcadians”
was a Shaftesbury production, and it had
quite as good a run
as “The Belle of
New York.” “My
La d y F ray 1 e,”
II ar r y Lauder’s
revue, “Three
Cheer s,” and
“Baby Bunting,”
with Dot Brunton
in the cast, also
ran for consider-
able periods at the
Shaftesbury. The
one West End
theatre that has
never registered a
success is the
Scala, in Totten-
ham Court-road.
Urban leased it to
house his kinema-
eolor pictures, but
when the novelty
wore off he found
his receipts at zero
and closed down.
During the war
years, when most
of the theatres
were booming, the
Scala was frost-
bound, as usual. A
few Aussies jour-
neyed there to see
Julius Knight in a
wretched detective
play that cost its
amateur owner and
producer, one
Nettlefold, a fortune.
“My Lady’s Dress,” at
Melbourne King’s.
Gerald Kay Souper
as Sir Charles.
“G.W.” : I was in the first Melbourne pro-
duction of “lolanthe” (B. 22/6/’22), and
can testify that it took place at the Royal.
The veteran Murphy, who has charge of
the Theatre Royal at Hobart, was one of
the bandsmen. Strange to say, we old-
timers were speaking about that very show
while waiting for our last Bulletin to
arrive. Bob Brough, Florence Trevelyan
and Emma Temple did not appear at the
Opera House until Brough joined Dion
Boueicault in management. They opened m
“Turned Up,” afterwards taking a long
lease of the old Bijou.
“Wrinkles”: Had “Buz Fuz” read the
script of Chapin’s “Marriage of Columbine”
(B. 29/6./’22) he might not have penned
those comments on the make-up and dress-
ing of the Melbourne Mermaid Players.
“The careless dabs of vermilion” complained
of were obviously in keeping with the char-
acter of an old ex-circus woman, -who piti-
fully tries to retain an appearance of beauty
by making the rouge-stick work overtime.
The lady looked artificial, and that is exactly
how Chapin intended her to look. Also, the
distinctly odd habiliments worn by the
“potential Lothario” were typical of a
wowser in the old English town in which
the action of the comedy is supposed to take
place. This “Buz Fuz’* might have realised
had he read what was inside the “beautiful
gold-painted programme” instead of confin-
ing his attention to the embellishments.
“Orb” : Not only did J. B. Atholwood play
Napoleon in “A Royal Divorce” for “a night
or two in Maoriland when Julius Knight
was sick” (B. 29/6/’22), but he played it so
well that J. C. Williamson sent him out as
the star of a No. 2 company. I saw Jimmy
do the Man of Destiny in Bendigo, with
a good cast including Harry Plimmer and
Jimmy Ilaziitt, and he certainly got away
witn it. Ilis first go at the part was at a
matinde (it the Sydney Lyceum as Knight’s
understudy. Julius sent down word that he
was too. ill to appear, but didn’t send the
key of his dressing-room where Nap.’s clothes
were housed. An S.O.S. was sent to Harry
Pickards at the Tivoli, somebody remember-
ing that he had done a Bonaparte song-
andance or something in other days. Harry
came to the rescue with a full kit of Napo-
leonic togs, and the situation was saved.
Second Murderer’’: During their four
days sojourn in Brisbane, Sastri and his
party saw Allan Wilkie in five Shakspearean
our at and one at a matinee.
i aas • toured India extensively,
“Othello” being his long suit with the
natives, doubtless because in that tragedy
Shakspeare has so completely blacked-out
the color line. At a native theatre in Cal-
cutta Wilkie, did the Moor one Sunday
night at the invitation of an Indian entre-
preneur, and the audience, interrupted the
murders in the last act to present him with
a gold medal.
From the memoirs of a veteran actress:—
That “Stargazer”-“Norbell” controversy (B. 22/6/’22
and 29/6/’22) anent Emma Temple’s appearance
in “lolanthe” awakes old recollections. Owing to
Nellie Stewart’s “Cinderella” panto, having run for
16 weeks instead of the expected six, Bob Brough
and his sisters-in-law Emma and Bessie were unem-
ployed. Their salaries were paid to them, being
imported, people. Work was found for Mrs. Brough
in Sydney, as one of the girls in Thornton’s “Private
Secretary.” Emma played Celia, and the late Aggie
Kelton Leila, in the fairy opera at Melbourne Royal.
Emma next played Claudine to Fannie Lyddiard's
Griolet, and Nellie Stewart’s Stella, in “Tambour
Major.” The co. then proceeded to Sydney, opening
with “lolanthe.” “Patience,” “Pirates” and “Pina-
fore” followed. Then on to Brisbane with four of
G. and S.’s works and, for the first time in that
city, “Estrella.” Brough played the Doge of Venice
—rather poorly after the original, Phil Day. The
Brisbane ' season finished with Brough’s Miser in
“Les Cloches de Corneville.” The “Mikado,” which
had been studied and rehearsed in Brisbane, was
then produced for the first time in Australia at the
Theatre Royal, Sydney. None of the Brough people
were in the opera, and I presume their contracts
had closed, to 1 ’ they joined Rignold and Allison, and
opened with “Falka,” at the Opera House, Melbourne.
Rignold and Allison had been holders of the Opera
House for "years, which blows out “Stargazer’s”
statement that AV., G. and M. could have put on
“lolanthe” there. The cast for “Falka” was hard
to beat. Brough, Mrs. 8., Emma and Bess; Annette
Ivanova (succeeded by Emelie Melville, after a few
weeks), Minna Fischer and Ethel Harcourt; George
Verdi, Alan Bindley (dad of Pauline), F. C. Appleby,
Edwin Kelly, Fred England, and the ever-young
George Dean as producer and s.m. Brough next
formed his own company, and successfully produced
burlesque, with Fannie Rdbina and Em. as principal
boy and girl. I can speak with some authority, as
I tripped as a fairy or strutted as a page with
Emma Temple throughout her Australian operatic
career.
“Dido” : One day the late Dr. Nield, long
dramatic critic for Melbourne Argus, was
waited on by a slim young actor. The pro.
mentioned that he had called in connection
with a criticism that had appeared in that
morning’s paper. Why had the critic em-
ployed such language? Even assuming the
performance of Horatio had been indifferent,
that did not justify terms which might have
been directed at a malefactor. Did the
writer know that men had been shot for
less? Dr. Nield was urbane and ingratiat-
ing. He made no apology for the opinions
expressed or the manner of expressing them,
but was so genial and so appreciative of
other things the slim young actor had done
that the latter was quite won over, and pre-
sently the pair were chatting and laughing
like dear friends. When the mime rose to
go he said he was glad he had called, glad
to have made the doctor’s acquaintance. Of
course, he had not been really hurt by the
criticism and had felt no vindictiveness
whatever. At that moment, as the visitor
stepped towards the door, something fell
from under his coat and lay exposed upon
the floor. It was a riding-whip!
“T.W.”: “Save” (B. 29/6/’22) agitates
my polemical faculties. Does he imagine
that the pianist who specialises in the
music of Chopin or Schumann is going to
study up other composers on totally different
lines, just to give a handful of. curious Aus-
tralians a chance of hearing something off
the usual track? Or has he an idea that
the musical modernists who handle Stra-
vinsky or Yon Holst are foolish enough to
journey all the way to these parts in the
hope that they will make enough to keep
themselves in caviare? Everyone who has
attempted to ring the changes and give Aus-
tralia even a little Debussy has had to tie
himself down to a small hall for fear of feel-
ing like an Antarctic, explorer facing the
icy blank. Special inducements have occa-
sionally been offered to musical students to
listen to modern programmes, but they are
so busy worshipping at the shrines of their
egoistic professors that they haven’t got
the time to listen to real music. When our
Ilussian-Polish visitors stick to Chopin they
are not only giving us unmatched musical
poetry that none should ever tire of, but
they are also on the sure ground of catering
for middle-aged folk who like to think that
they themselves can dabble a little in that
sort of thing. When the middle-aged folk
are ail old there won’t be sufficient intelli-
gent concert-goers to induce even the cheap-
est Eastern European fledgling to come along
and show us his digital points.
“Philm Up” : What Amurka really thinks
of prohibition is, I think, reflected on its
movie screens. These days they fairly reek
of derrink. I saw two picture-plays on the
same programme: in one the funny man
tottered through the piece half-sozzled, and
AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
George Carney as the careless military cook
who found his shirt in the stew.
the high-toned mob he associated with never
seemed to disapprove of his behavior. He
carried a walking-cane with a swivel top,
and, with the cap as a cup, helped himself
to swigs of the “hootch” with which the hol-
low stick was loaded. In the other item the
leading lady’s husband arrived from a visit
to Cuba more than half-full of whisky and
with a quite full bottle, in his bag. It was
evidently intended as a prime j6ke when he
retired to his room how aM again and took
a surreptitious snifter. But it is a dreary
form of jocularity.
“0.K.”: “Women’s Vigilant Committees,
all over America, are forcing the withdrawal
of Arbuckle films.” Bert Levy announced
it in a cable to London Stage. But why,
oh why, did mothers of young children wait
for Virginia Rappe to get done to death ere
they agitated against further display of
Fatty Arbuckle’s deplorable “funniness”'?
Arbuckle pictures were the most brain-
softening productions I ever witnessed. The
monster’s idea of a merry proceeding was
to sit in a horse-trough or balance himself
on the apex of his inflated stummiek. Had
poetic justice been meted out to Fatty in
the long ago he would have been severely
punished for his foolish attempts to be divert-
ing, not left to carry on until his humorless
viciousness had called down the vengeance
of Women’s Vigilant Committees.
“S.T.S.” : The late Roy Redgrave did at
.least one superb bit of stage work. It was
in a small part in a wartime melodrama—
“lnside the Lines,” or some such name. The
scene was Gilbraltar and the central figure
had just arrived on secret-service; but Red-
grave’s character, an English remittance-
man living there, had discovered (or thought
he had.) that the newcomer was an enemy
spy. He hurried to the Governor with the
news. The tragedy was that he didn’t expect
to be believed. He was well known as a
drinker and a loafer, and the Governor
assumed him to be a liar. At last his stam-
mering earnestness did carry conviction.
Then he was offered payment, but wouldn’t
touch it; what he had done was for his
country, not for himself. And yet. on the
offer being pressed, the down-and-outer’s
nature made it impossible to keep on refusing
money. “If you could let me have just
enough to get to Paris?” And so lie faded
out of the story. Redgrave absolutely
lived the part. I saw him in many bigger
roles, but not one of them so sticks in the
memory.
“C. Ockney”: I note that when Oscar
Asclie revisits his native land this year he
intends to stage Pinero’s “Iris,” which, if
not perhaps the dramatist’s best work, is
very near it. Oscar must have a warm
corner in his heart for this 21-year-old
piece, for it provided him with the part
which elevated him to star rank in Lon-
don, “Freddy” Moldonado, the rich and
doggedly-persistent Jew lover of the heroine.
Asche’s performance w r as one of the very
best things he has done. Curious to note
how many names known on Australian
boards figured in the original cast. In addi-
tion to Asehe there were “Dot” Boilcicault,
Jerrold Robertshaw, Beryl Faber and Mrs.
Maesmore Morris.
THE BRIBE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Every paper told the story,
How Miss Mabel Fortesque
By some villain predatory
Had been robbed of all her new
Diamonds and other jewels.
With the lot the wretch had fled ;
It would cost her for renewals
Seven thou, the Herald said.
Through this grave misfortune she
Gained a world of sympathy.
Bob, the thief, a daring scamp,
Broke into the house by night,
And she saw him where a lamp
On his visage cast its light.
He was spouting language grim;
Threw her bracelets on the floor,
Said they were no q?e to him.
Brutally the burglar swore.
“Ought ter pinch yer,” said the tough,
“Cartin’ round that kind of stuff!”
In her bed the actress wept
While he searched the room again.
When towards the door he stepped,
Mabel, with a cry of pain,
Made her pitiful appeal;
“Mr. Burglar, do be kind,
And, whatever else you steal,
Leave no diamonds behind.
Don’t, I beg of you, forsake them!
Here’s a quid if you’ll but take them.”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


f.
9
44
DOUBLE, 12-HOUR RUN.
The “Wolseley Ten,” which set up fifteen new records in the Light-car Class on
November 24 last, at Brooklands, put up a still more marvellous performance on
May 2 and 3. On May 2 the car was driven for 1 2 hours continuously, during
which period it set up 1 3 new records as under: —
The Brooklands regulations do not now permit any attempt at 24-hours’ record in
one stretch, so the car was locked up for the night, and on the following day the
car was started on a further 12 hours’ run, at the conclusion of which it had
covered 1 463.6 miles at an average for the 24 hours of 61.06 miles per hour. This
constitutes the Double Twelve-hour Record for the British Light-car Class, and
also for British cars irrespective of class.
The car was driven in spells of 2 hours by Captain Miller, Mr. C. A. Vandervell,
and Mr. C. F. Temple. As is well known, it is not a specially designed racing car,
but a
“WOLSELEY” STANDARD TEN
modified to suit racing conditions, and fitted with streamline body. This is much
the most strenuous and exacting trial yet accomplished by a vehicle of the light-car
class, and is a striking proof of the efficiency of Wolseley standard design, and of
the strength and soundness with which “Wolseleys” are built.
REPRESENTATIVES:
VICTORIA: DALGETY & CO., LTD., 664 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: H. C. RICHARDS, LTD.,
Richards’ Buildings, Currie Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: TASMANIA MOTOR
SERVICE, LTD., 105 Macquarie
Street, Hobart.
N. ZEALAND: G. W. SPRAGG,
Auckland; INGLIS BROS.,
Wellington; TODD BROS.,
Dunedin.
WOLSELEY MOTORS
PTY., LIMITED,
Head Office for
Australia:
125 WILLIAM ST.,
MELBOURNE.
(Proprietors: V icker s
Ltd.)
Works: Adderley
Park, Birmingham,
NEW SOUTH WALES: DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: ADAMS MOTORS, LTD.,
547 Hay Street, Perth.
rs
m
■
430
wm
SSSI


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: ItIISNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD.j Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney .
HAWAII
THE YEAR'ROUND PLAYGROUND
SSE
I »
i *
t*-?
sMIJWfFjg!
■■
Enjoy an outdoor vacation
in the land of your dreams.
See Kilauea, world’s larg-
est living volcano. Swim
and surf in summer seas,
where there are
No Sharks,
and fish, walk, or motor to your
heart’s content. Good hotels of all
classes. Ask nearest travel, ticket,
steamship or Tourist agency for book-
let and information, or write direct to
DEPARTMENT B,
Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.A.
Gives a full rich lather.
hi
7/
59
ERASMIC
SHAVING STICK
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
for
SPORTING
NEEDS
The best that the favorite Roisel could do
in the G. N. Hurdle race was to finish a respectable
second to Fiscom. Then everybody knew that Fiscom
had been a certainty. The S’Australian champion
won last year when he was a green four-year-old,
and still had youth in his favor. Also, he was far
and away the classiest animal in the field, good-
looking Bright Plume being unlike his best self, and
Rumor credited him with having been backed by
his nearest and dearest friends for Melbourne Cup
during the week. After
the race all these
things were said. Be-
fore the event a lot of
the people who said
them remembered that
the topweight had run
a moderate race in a
jumpers’ flat a fort-
night before, suggest-
ing that he might be
going off; also that
G. N. Hurdles were
seldom won by horses
weighted at over list.
The heavier weight
seemed likely to tell
on Fiscom in a ding-
dong go with Roisel,
who had won over 31
miles. The writer, tor
one, expected the
higher-toned animal to
feel his burden in the
last half-mile.
N. FALKINER,
the well-known
racing owner.
In the race only Flying Fox was ahead of Fiscom
at the first hurdle. When the pacemaker presently
blundered the topweight took the lead and kept it to
the finish. Roisel and Beltane were the most
dangerous-looking among the pursuers a mile from
home. Beltane lost ground instead of gaining it
and finished only sixth, but Roisel stuck to the job
until he was sure to win if Fiscom tired. The son
of Comedy King and Lady Fisher tired not at all.
He made poor Roisel appear a game little commoner
by comparison. The nearest —Rahda —of the others
was eight lengths away, and didn’t really get any
attention in the run home. A good race to watch,
and a great performance by the winner. But a per-
formance rather inconsistent with his utter failure
in a flat race not long before. Roisel’s consistency
shone by comparison.
Formerly a winner of the Maiden Steeple was
likely to be talked of for the National. This year
the winner, Erutpac, has only 9st. in the big race,
but his chance looks poor, whereas Budgaree, at 9st.
71b., would have been worth considering had he got
round the course in the Maiden. Budgaree was the
grey horse who fell when leading the field. Two
others of the five starters fell, and both were re-
mounted. One was twice remounted, but persisted in
coming to grief. The other fell only once, but was
so far back when the winning number was hoisted
that it seemed he never could get round in time to
capture third place-money. Consequently the crowd
in general, including the judge, stood waiting to see
Gambler’s Shift crawl home, hundreds of yards
behind the second horse. The judge awarded him
the £5O for getting placed, and his capless rider
got a great reception. He was the success of the
show.
If a lightweight is to win the big Steeple on
Saturday it will presumably be King High or Agar.
But the “heads” are not looking for lightweights
at time of writing. The victory of classy Fiscom has
strengthened expert belief in the ability of classy
Mountain God to bring grief and woe to early layers
of the “double.” Fiscom and Roisel were backed all
over the place with Mountain God, and to a lesser
extent with many others. It has never happened that
the two National winners of one year repeated their
joint success 12 months later, but the unprecedented
has got to happen some time or other. The God is
entitled to start at a short price, apart from the
question of covering-money. And as others than the
topweight will be better favorites than old Wooloo,
the plodder in question may be recommended as an
investment. Wooloo is not brilliant, but he is pro-
bably as good as he was last year, when he ran
second. Perhaps he is better.
* * * *
Nearly two-thirds of the entrants for the
Melbourne Cup are weighted at under 7st., whilst
exactly half of the Caulfield Cup lot come within
the 6st. 71b. to 6st. 131 b. division. Seeing that the
proportion of 7st.-and-upwards candidates is much
higher in the Epsom and Metrop., decent public
performers must be more numerous in N.S.W. than
in Victoria, or, anyway, the proportion of rubbish
in the Spring handicaps is not so large. Heaven
knows why a lot of stuff placed on the minimum
mark by the handicappers is ever entered for valu-
able stakes. Old stagers of proved unimportance in
up-the-line events can have no possible chance in
much better company. Many of the young horses,
too, are the forlornest of hopes. At a first glance
over the appalling list of knowns and unknowns in
the £lO,OOO Melbourne Cup the picking of the
winner suggests spotting the proverbial needle in a
bundle of hay. But a close follower of the game
would take short odds about naming the right pea
in 20 guesses,
* * * *
Brought to the scratch in fit-as-a-fiddle con-
dition Violoncello would be a tempting investment
for the Metropolitan or either Cup. The Englishman
was not fully strung up when he luckily won the
Caulfield Cup last year with Bst. 131 b. up, and another
seven or eight pounds would not stop him this time—
if he had done a strong preparation. Violoncello is
such a powerful cut of a horse. But probably there
is more the matter with him than an unsound limb
or two. Even last year he looked as though he
would rather go mating than racing, and if his
frame of mind has seasoned during his indolence
Violoncello is no subject for hard training, apart
from the question of soundness. Among the newer
imported ones Peithas and Shillinglee (both of them
weighted under Bst.) are suspected of serious Mel-
bourne Cup intentions, and Easingwold, at Bst. 31b.,
has a favorable opportunity to raise the handicapper’s
opinion of Westralian form. But Perth critics doubt
his staying power.
* * * *
The new Trotting Association in Adelaide
finds it impossible to keep up the electric-light even-
ings on the Jubilee Oval—-which lies very low— in
winter, and says it will have to wait for summer.
It is putting out a strong plea to be allowed the
use of the totalisator. All bookmaking is unlawful
in South Aus., and without the tote the sport won’t
last for any length of time. But the opposition to
any such wide extension of State-protected racing is
likely to be strong. An event for women riders was
held recently, and provided good fun. It is a
complete innovation for Adelaide, but Perth and
Kalgoorlie, where night trotting is highly popular,
have had these more or less interesting exhibitions
periodically for years past.
* * * *
With one exception the Australians have
done well at Wimbledon. The exception was “Sos”
Wertheim, of Melbourne, who was beaten by Gobert,
the Frenchman, in three straight sets, in which,
apparently, a couple of bad decisions on the part
of the umpire or linesman contributed to the Aus-
tralian’s defeat. Brugnon. another Gaul, won
immense favor by outing Alonzo, cleverly working
the Spaniard out of position. Nevertheless, the
Frenchman’s figures (6 —3, 6 —4, 4 —6—3) war-
rant the assumption that Alonzo wasn’t up to con-
cert pitch. The same might be said of Norton, the
Afrikander, who went down to Anderson in a sensa-
tional fashion, capturing only seven games in the
three sets. Norton beat all comer’s, bar the holder of
the championship, Tilden, at Wimbledon last year,
and the difference between him and Anderson isn’t
surely as great as the scores represent. Norton is, at
any rate, a much better performer than the English-
man, Turnbull, who played in the doubles for
Britain versus Australia in the Davis Gup a few
months back, yet Anderson found Turnbull a much
tougher proposition in the first, round of the tourna-
ment. Fyzee, the Indian, also gave the Cornstalk a
harder go than Norton did. O’Hara Wood had a
runaway victory over De Gomar, Spain’s second-best
man. Patterson had a walk-over and a match against
a second-rater before he met Kingseote. It took him
all his time to beat the Englishman, who won the
second and third sets. The Australian’s endurance
finally prevailed, after what is described as one of
the most exciting struggles ever seen at Wimbledon.
* ♦ * .
Legli Winser has again won the golf cham-
pionship of the Seaton Club, at Adelaide, which is
practically that of South Australia; but he had a
great struggle in the final with a younger man, Dr.
Brian Swift, who was 3 up with 6 to play. They
were all square at the 34th, the last two were halved
and on playing a 37th hole Winser won it by one
stroke.
* * * *
“Flicker”: It is a tradition at St. Peter’s
and the Adelaide ’Varsity that a Pellew is “Nip,”
not “Pip” (B. 8/6/’22). The present holder of the
title,' who distinguished himself in the inter-Uni.
sports, is “Little Nip”—or, rather, he was so known
at Saints’. He is the only “Nip” at the ’Varsity
at present, though we could do with half-a-hundred
like him.
* * * *
“J.H.”: Australians are holding their
country’s end up in English ’Varsity cricket. B.
J. Bettington, a brother of R.H., the Rugger and
cricket Blue, has been showing good all-round
form and is likely to find a place in the Oxford XI.
R. P. Barbour, a younger brother of Dr. Eric, scored
64 not out in the Oxford Seniors’ match —he played
tennis all last summer—and A. H. White, a Bendigo
boy, after bowling brilliantly in the Cambridge
Freshmen’s game, made a promising first appearance
in English county cricket against Lancashire. lie
bowls at a great pace, and has attracted the
favorable notice of Sydney H. Pardon, editor of
Wisden. Another Australian, G. O. Allen, just up
from Eton, made his debut for the Light Blues in
the same match, and did as well in Lancashire’s second
innings as AVhite did in the first. He is a medium
right-hander, with a beautiful length.
1 here were 13 starters in the 10-mile heel-
and-toe championship of Victoria, which occurred on
a waterlogged track at Glenferrie on Saturday, and
11 completed the distance. The winner was Billy
Pitt, of Sydney, who defeated Murray and R. C.
Merrick in lhr. 27min. 35sec. —solid going in the
circumstances. Pitt was all-out at the finish and
fell like a sack of spuds into the arms of a nearby
scribe. It was his 20th anniversary as a track
walker, and he announced before the race that, win
or lose, he intended to retire.
LARRY
JONES, the
U.S. bower,
who defeated
Vince Black-
burn in 17
rounds at
Sydney
Stadium on
Saturday
night.
The only surprise in the Sydney Rugby
League matches on Saturday was the defeat of Glebe.
Eastern Suburbs, helped largely by Cubitt (his first
game since his operation in England) and Gaples
(recovered from an injury to his ankle), did the trick
by 21 points (5 tries 3 goals) to 6 points (1 try
1 goal). Kaufman, East’s half, was the best man on
the grass, registering two splendid lone-hand tries.
Murphy, Glebe’s attenuated custodian, played a
wonderful game, completely overshadowing his vis-a-
vis, Rigney. Balmain headed Newtown in the last
few minutes of a willing match, scoring 11 points
(3 tries 1 goal) to 10 (5 goals). All Newtown’s
goals were hoisted by Main, one coming from nearly
half-way. Western Suburbs licked St. George, the
wooden-spooners, by 13 points (3 tries 2 goals) to 3
(1 try). North Sydney lead in the first round with
16 points, followed by Balmain with 15, Glebe 14,
East Sydney 12, and Newtown 8.
* * *■ *
“Old Player”: “Morehead” (B. 22/G/’22)
is bitterly unjust to the N.S.W. Rugby League.' That
body was formed by a number of representative
players, as a protest against the Rugby Union’s
rapacity. In those days the Union was a wealthy
body, yet injured ’bailers (I was one) who had helped
to make it wealthy were refused medical expenses. The
Union was then in possession of Sydney Cricket
Ground. Did it ever, during its tenure of the
ground, give it over to a rival organisation? Not
on your life. Twice it was asked to do so, when
English and M.L. League teams visited Sydney, but
it refused. Nowadays, the League is simply repaying
the Union in its own coin. The Union game is dead
in Sydney—dead as Caesar. League football, a great
game, has risen from its ashes.
* * * *
“Old Rep’’: I can’t see the alleged superi-
ority of the Union Maoris now visiting N. S. Wales
to the Leaguers. Having played both Union and
Leagues codes (first-grade at that) for 15 winters, I
ought to know something of the game, and were
the League and Union Maoris to meet, the Leaguers
would carry my money. The N.S.W. Union XV are
at least equal to their brand of islanders—they won
one of the games and should have won both. Now,
what man competent to judge, would, or could,
compare the best N.S.W. Union side with the best
League XIII? The League's sixth team would eat
them without salt. There is as much difference
between the standards of play in League and Union
football as there is between Dempsey’s form and
that of the greatest living amateur, whoever he
may be. And everyone knows what that signifies.
* * » *
“Ivewpie” : George Aitken is the first AlI-
Blaelc to secure the Rhodes Scholarship. Selected
last year for his work in economics, he is only 23,
but has the Rugby record of a veteran. For years
he captained the Wellington B team, and latterly
has represented Wellington in the A team continu-
ously, besides being selected for the North Island.
He captained the All-Blacks against the Springboks
in the first two Tests, and also skippered the M.L.
University team on its Australian tour. A West-
Coaster, Aitken has represented Victoria Uni. Col-
lege in football, cricket, tennis and athletics, and
has held the Wellington provincial championship
for performances over hurdles and on the flat.
* * * *
The Northern Union (Eng.) Football
League has thrown out a proposal to annul the two
years’, residential qualification for Australian players.
Wigan and Oldham were behind the proposition, and
the idea was to import Some of the Kangaroos who
were in England last year. From time to time
both clubs have been reinforced by ex-Australasian
Players, but the residential qualification heavily in-
creases the expense.
* * * *
“Rustum”: According to Teddy Forde,
the vaudevillian, the English football " barracker
expresses approbation in such courteous terms as
“Hurrah” and “Bravo.” But anyone imagining that
his censorious phrases are equally polite is apt to
get a shock. Recently I was a spectator of a game
between teams picked from immigrants just arrived
in Australia. “Lick ’ees eves out,” suggested a
hefty young fellow at a critical stage of the struggle.
“Kick ’is dom’ goots in,” was the gentle advice
of a lady.
* * * *
Essendon’s new home, a pretty and com-
modious ground out on the Keilor-road, collected a
30,000 crowd on Saturday to see how the ’Dons would
fare against Oollingwood. It was a fast and excit-
ing game, and ’Wood were a trifle surer in handling.
But when a ’Don got within distance he fired, and
the result was 7 goals 14 behinds. When a Magpie
got a chance he methodically passed it on to a man
nearer the goal—result 10 goals 5 behinds to ’Wood.
Donaldson, the Essendon back, was as brilliant and
sure as any ’bailer on the ground, but he was no
match for three forwards acting in concert, so ’Don
got their first defeat this season. Geelong have had
a heart-to-heart talk with their committee, and have
apparently come to a working understanding. Any-
how, they played on Saturday as one man. South
Melbourne were the victims; they went home with
a paltry 30 points to their credit against Sleepy
Hollow’s 114. Richmond downed St. Kilda by 79
to 54, and Fitzroy kept their position by scoring 49
points to Melbourne’s 33.
The Richmond barrackers’ outbreak against the
umpire on June 24 resulted in two valiant youths
being ordered to contribute £3 apiece, with costs,
to the revenue; and for throwing stones at another
umpire the S'aturday before, three little Carlton
Lizzies were desired to put half-a-dollar each in the
poorbox. This wasn’t much of a punishment, but
there was an additional, though unintentional, castiga-
tion —their names weren’t published, and there is
little glory in stoning an umpire when it has to
be anonymous. Meanwhile, the Umpires’ Associa-
tion has notified the League that it expects its offi-
cials to be protected adequately, and if there are
any more attacks the ground where the riot
occurs will be blacklisted. That happened to the
Port ground some years ago, and since then Port’s
barrackers have evinced a more chastened spirit when
their side gets licked.
• » • *
“Tren” : The paragraphists who divided the
long-service record of Vic. League football between Lee
and McHale, because of their 17 years with Colling-
wood, show the shortness of memory customary with
football enthusiasts. Billy Windley, after a season
With St. Kilda, played centre for South Melbourne
for 19 years. But the belt must go to Henry Young,
who was a regular Geelong player for 20 years.
Young ranks with Cumberland and the late “Tracker”
Forbes as one of the greatest footballers of all time.
He captained .Geelong for nine seasons, and also
many inter-State teams, including the invincible
Victorian 18 of the 1908 Jubilee carnival. Ballarat
sports claim that their champion, “Dolly” Christy,
played senior football for 22 years, but as he served
with many teams and in two States, he is barred,
as are such wanderers as Peter Burns, Marino, Decoit
and Cumberland.
- * # #
“Winkle”: Capable forwards have always
been scarce under Australian rules. Many smart
footballers can find the goal four times out of five at
practice, but most of them fail badly under match
conditions. South Melbourne attribute their position
at the foot of the list to their faulty kicking. In a
desperate endeavor to scramble into the first four
they have resurrected cricket-secretary Harry Brere-
ton, and applied for a permit for inter-State cricketer
Dr. Roy Park, who now has a practice in their
district. Brereton was at his top away back in
1912. He last played in 1919, and is not likely
to regain his old form. Roy Parks’s goal-kicking
record with the now defunct University League team
is the most meritorious in Australian football. In
1913 this team did not win a match, yet he was
second, with 53 goals, to Jimmy Freake, who played
for the premiers—Fitzroy. Though not as nippy as
of yore he will be a very useful man.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : There is a notable tendency now
among reporters of football, polo, lacrosse and hockey
to use the word “goal” in its strictly correct but
unusual sense. That is, where an old timer would
have spoken of the Reds as falling back on their
goal, the modern describes the same bit of play as
a rush by the Blues towards their goal. It used
always to be the end you defended ; now it is often
the one you attack. Logically, of course, the old
way hasn’t a hope; a goal is the point you press
forward to or aim at; a racer’s goal is the winning-
post, not the starting-post. Regarded in this strict
way, “They fell back towards their goal” is an
Irish bull of the finest breed. And yet I would still
say it. In games, the word has got a specialised
sense so universally adopted that to change it now
makes for confusion. I did a good deal of goal-
keeping in my time, and should have taken a lot
of convincing that I was defending, not our goal
but the other fellows’.
* * ■* *
Larry Jones (9st. 21b.), an unknown from
America, won his first fight in Sydney at Vince
Blackburn’s expense. Blackburn, who was 111 b.
lighter and several years older, had all the better of
the early rounds, but he has lost much of his former
stamina, and body punishment is a misery to him.
On discovering this, Jones set out to wear his man
down, a job which he finished in tradesmanlike
style in the 17th round. But he won’t be able to
buy a skyscraper with his share of the gate. It
might run to a peanut stall, but little more.
Dempsey, it is reported from the U.S.A.,
has decided to accept black Wills’s challenge to a
fight for the championship, but the date of the
match is uncertain. It will probably take place on
the day Montenegro repays the American loan.
According to all the traditions of U.S. pugilism,
Dempsey would be a fool to risk his title in a brawl
with a colored man, and a dangerous customer at
that, when there are plenty of white duds in the
business. Wills is a 15st. man and has been fighting
for 10 years. Langford knocked him out in 14
rounds on November 26, 1914, and repeated the
performance on Feb. 11, 1916, taking 19 rounds on
that occasion. But during the last two or three
years Wills has carried all before him.
* * * *
Paul McQuarrie, pride of the Bluff
(M.L.), collected the M.L. championship and a pile
of Bradburys by kayoing Brian McCleary at Dune-
din. McCleary was 121 b. lighter and 10 years younger
than McQuarrie, and for 12 rounds he gave the
other Mac beans, hitting him when and where he
liked. But there was no powder in his punches.
There was in McQuarrie’s, who, when the unlucky
thirteenth came along, waded in for all he was
worth. McCleary jabbed him with a straight left.
McQuarrie countered with a purposeful right. It
took three minutes to wake McCleary up.
* * * *
Unless present arrangements are altered
Paddon and Arnst will meet for the sculling cham-
pionship on the Richmond River (N.S.W.) on August
s—-an excellent time of the year for a race on the
Woodburn course. Bill Beach will be the third
man in the argument.
THE PRICE OF SHAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Lord Glanely, the wealthy shipowner, has sold
the famous racing mare Sceptre, now past breeding
age, to a Brazilian buyer for £5OO. Intense indig-
nation is expressed in sporting circles.” — Cable.
Sceptre, the fleetest filly of ’er day,
__ Whose winnings Sutton Sievier’s pockets filled,
Sold for a measly monkey! Exiled, eh ?
Now that she’d got too old to pay ’er way,
Among the parrots and the nuts, Brazilled !
A baron wot could be so graspin’ ’ard
Would send dead Ormondes to a kriacker’s yard.
Was ’e as stiff as that? Ring off! Not ’im!
’ls steamers streak about the Seven Seas,
Along Atlantic lanes ’is liners skim.
Alt' Cardiff docks ’e owns. Five ’undred jim
Is but a bagertelle to such as these.
Esau, who sold ’is birthright for burgoo,
’Ad ten times more excuse, me lord, than you.
Yer honor’s gone. Yer name is Mud with sports.
Tight-trousered trainers shake their fists and spit
Disgust. Where’er the penciller resorts
And punters flock are heard indignant snorts.
The very jockeys sense the shame of it.
To sell, like worn-out clobber, such an ’orse!—
They’d mob you if you showed upon a course.
Sceptre! —the filly once without a peer,
Pride of the paddock, idol of the flat,
Sold, when she’s in the yaller and the sere,
To coffee-colored Dagos (mine’s a beer),
And by a titled millionaire at that!
Me lord, accept an angry nation’s curse.
You oughter feel like Judas—only worse.
K.S.W.
PIPARDS.


-i./
The Beauty/
of an Eversharp
\X7RITING with an Eversharp
* ’ gives you a sense of satis-
faction —for it is a beautiful pen-
cil- —comparable to fine jewellery.
Eversharp is made of the finest
materials with normal use, it
will last a life time. And it’s al-
ways sharp without ever being
sharpened. Each Eversharp has
an eraser under its cap.
Eversharps are made in gold,
gold-filled, silver and silver-plated
styles, in a variety of patterns and
sizes. The name Wahl Eversharp
is engraved on every pencil as
your guarantee and protection.
For Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE .WAHL COMPANY
New York U. S. A.
Be sure it’s an
J2VERSHARP
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HOARE, Ltd.,
Remington House, Liverpool St.. Sydney
Y
Mi
«6»
\jrvu,
If your memory is bad it is holding you back. How
can you hope to get on, or to even avoid dismissal,
if you have to continually confess to~the boss that
you forgot ? There is no excuse; that most valuable
possession-—a good memory—can be yours easily,
for within your reach is
The Roth Memory Course.
For three days you can examine
and use it absolutely
FREE.
If after three days you wish to return it you do so without obliga-
tion; or, if ytu desire to purchase, you can do so outright for £2/2/-
We don’t ask you to take our word for it when we tell you that the Roth Memory Course
is the quickest aiul most effective way to a good memory; we don’t ask you to go through the
time-wasting preliminaries of booklets, leaflets, etc. All we ask you to do is to decide .or
yourself—use and examine the course in its entirety thoroughly and critically, without a penny
cost to you, to give the matter of a good memory your earnest consideration with the Roth
Course complete before you. And if you think the Roth Method is not the best method, to
return the course to us within three days, thereby ending the matter.
Could we make a fairer offer? Could we express more emphatically our confidence in our
course ? Could you more clearly be guaranteed entire satisfaction ? Just consider it again.
We will send you the complete course absolutely free for three days’ use and examination.
Return it to us if you will —or purchase it outright in seven bound lessons for £2/2/-. It is
significant that we stand alone in making this free use and examination oner.
Over 150,000 have already adopted the New,
Easy, Commonsense Way-THE ROTH METHOD.
The course will tell you why. Writ*
for it to-day and see for yourself
S. A. BOOK CO., LTD.,
Edwards’ Buildings,
178 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
SEND NO MONE'
Jh/5 Couponßstec/f/o\
tv///bring you the
COURSE FREE 1
FREE OFFER COUPON.
S. A. BOOK CO., LTD.,
Edward s' Buildings,
178 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Please send me free for 3 days’ use and
examination your “Iloth Memory Course” ( com-
plete in 7 lessons). After S days I agree to
return the set to you or forward you £2/2/-
as complete purchase price.
Same
Address
B. 2—6/7/’22.
LEWIS’ Bargain STORES
THE KEENEST IN THE COMMONWEALTH
My Illustrated Bargain Cata-
logue sent Post Free. All
Goods Post Free except Boots,
add 1/- postage.
I6WS
** PLUJI
001
* j
,f lo*
So
!Sft
Military Officers’ Tan Solid
Hide Blocked Leggings, 18 6
With bound tops, 21/-
Heavy Army Khaki Drill
Shirts, extra well cut and
roomy make. All sizes.
Collar and pocket. Worth
12/6.
J. S. Lewis’ Price, 8/11.
Naval Officer’s Plain Toe
Dress Boot, made by con-
tract; same as worn in ser-
vice, 23/6.
Lewis’ Plum Boot, 21/-
Heavy Naval Birkmyre Can-
vas Soiled-lined Bags, extra
large capacity, with eyelets.
Worth 25/-; for 7/6.
Heavy All-Wool Imperial Army
Khaki Cloth Overcoats, made by
us in civilian cut with high collar
and half belt. Worth £6/6/-; for 63/-
Postage 1/6; Interstate 2/6.
Above Cloth by the yard, 58in. wide, 12/6.
All-Wool Military Bedford Cord, for trousers or breeches, 5 Bin.
wide, 12/6 yard.
Genuine Army Officers
Khaki Bedford Cord Riding
Breeches, with double-
strapped knees and long lace
bottoms. Same as worn by
Light Horse. All sizes.
Worth 70/-; 32/6.
Genuine Heavy All-Wool
Army Khaki Bedford Cord
Trousers (slacks). All sizes.
22/6.
These lines are made' especially by us from
genuine Army Cloth purchased from Government.
Heavy First-quality Duck
Horse Rugs, lined with
double soft felt.
5 ft. 6in. 5 ft. 9in. 6ft.
31/6 35 - 37/6
Add 1/9 postage.
Military Officer’s Tan Wil-
low Calf leather-lined Boot,
24/11
Genuine Heavy Dark Grey
All-Wool Naval Blankets,
size 63 x 90. 17/6 each.
offi^
umFofl*?,
i f t V*V
Boot^
r<iu
\tt*
ft y
2 X
h inch
SEW« oouo
Any goods not to your satisfaction, money will be refunded.
J. 5. LEWIS’ BIG bargain stores,
All «t 752 aeon-e street, Haymarket. Mail Order Department 1668 George Sr„ near Circular Quay


Farmer’s Cash Bonus Sale.
Overcoats, value £7/7/-, now 90/
Lees’ of Galashiels famous Tweed.
v
Saves 2/- in every 4,
Sale goods will not be sent on approval
nor exchanged during the Bo us Sale.
Carriage paid. Box A 97, G.P.O.
THE mark of Lees’of Galashiels is
inseparable from definite quality and
service. Now is added the further induce-
ment of surprising pricing and a Bonus.
Three popular styles are offered in plain
dark grey material; shot-silk lined; set-in
or Raglan sleeves, with or without belt.
£7/7/- value, but Sale Price is 100/-
Dcduct 2/- in the £ Cash Bonus—9oh
FARMER’S :: SYDNEY
"The Store for Men”
m
is
mmm
wmßm
■ ', "* s ?> m' >
fgwf&£
mmmQ ft"
i
111
$&?&&»*<
m
WATER
SUPPLIES
This illustration shows an Bft. En-
closed Double-geared (self-oiling)
“Alston” Windmill, which is used for
pumping Avater for the Po Wai Hos-
pital, Kong Chuen, China.
We manufacture Windmills in all
sizes, from sft. to 25ft. diameter, and
have the largest works in Australia,
devoting its whole attention to Avind-
mill construction.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills noAV in use
through Australasia.
Expert advice and Illustrated Cata-
logue free on application.
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS
PTY. LTD..
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia,
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Cottins St. Melbourne
P[?]ces
M[?]SES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Cent 1533, 11609
Hugh V. McKay and his wife gave a great
housewarming at Rupertswood, which, since
it was taken over from the Clarkes, has been
altered indoors almost beyond recognition.
Mr. and Mrs. Russell Clarke, who came
along, must have felt like ghosts haunting a
familiar place grown unfamiliar. The house-
warming took the form of a dance for Mrs.
Cleve Ividd, who, with her husband, has been
visiting the new parental shack. She is just
off to exchange Melbourne’s sleet and snow
for the sunshine of Bananaland. (It actually
snowed at Sunbury the night of the party.)
Hugh V. ordered a special train for his town
guests—following the old Rupertswood custom
—and a couple of hundred jolly youngsters
boarded it, and chattered and flirted and
booked dances while the chaperons tucked
themselves into rugs at the far ends of the
corridor cars and passed the time with bridge
and poker. At Rupertswood siding a fleet
of motor-cars met the crowd, and another
hundred guests turned up in cars of their
own. Snow was thick upon the ground, but
Rupertswood, on its rise, blazed welcoming
lights from every window. Big fires were
crackling in the dressing-rooms, and there was
a cheery hubbub before the guests broke out
of their cocoons of wraps. The reception
was in the ballroom—a newly-decorated
gorgeosity. Mrs. McKay was handsomely-
gowned in black, and little Mrs. Kidd wore
a duck of a frock made of cloud-grey chiffon
velvet that left the arms classically bare.
The frost (out of doors) drove even the most
ardent jazzers to the fires in the drawing-
rooms, billiard-room and library between
dances; a comfortable buffet drove a brisk
business in the Den, and at midnight there
was a sit-down supper in the long rooms that
were the bachelors’ smoke-o quarters in the
days of the Clarkes. The train ran back at
1.30 in the morning, but some of the
motored jazzed on till about breakfast-time.
It was a great affair entirely, yet, in the
words of the cub reporter, a tragedy was
narrowly averted by the power of Hugh Y.
and his satellites. The Sunbury electric
lights suddenly blacked out, and it looked as
if Rupertswood would be in darkness for
the party, or have to depend on gloomy
candles like The Bat country house. But
the big captain of industry had a whqje plant
transferred hurriedly and hitched on to the
house. The workmen were at it, hainnler
and tongs, until the last gasp before the in-
vasion of the dancers.
Mrs. Dan Taylor and her daughter Jean
went off for a run to Colombo by Saturday’s
boat. Jean had a great farewell fling
among her youngster friends at the Ruperts-
wood party.
The gigantic pasteboards of the Gaud
Mayor and his Mayoress are out for a ball
on Thursday, July 27.
Miss Effie Ball, Mrs. Robins and Mrs.
Ainslie gave a caf6 chantant a few days ago
to gather in a pound or two for the
Women’s Hospital. Ball and Welch lent
their new tea-rooms for the affair, and there
was a big programme of music served with
the coffee, while in an adjacent apartment
some mystic rites were gone through that
apparently had something to do with .no
trumps and four-of-a-kind —whatever that is.
The Jim Purves pair hired the No. 9
Darling-street rooms on Friday night for
their daughter’s coming-out ball, and made
it into one of the smartest whirls of the
season. Miss. Valerie looked like a newly-
opened rosebud in cloudy pink tulle girdled
with silk roses that had crystal beads spark-
ling like dewdrops on their top petals. Mrs.
Jim (aided by Himself) welcomed 250-
odd guests in shimmering draperies of palest
grey satin and silver-embroidered lace. At
one time the frivol was threatened with dis-
aster. The electric-lights in the ballroom
faded gently out —and stayed out. However,
the dancers kept on whirling, and in about
10 minutes the illuminations came on again.
No damage was done, and several irrespon-
sible young things were heard to murmur
that they wouldn’t, greatly object if this kind
of mishap occurred several times more. The
most ornamental person in the room was
Lady Grey-Egerton, who struck a fine Gib-
son-girl effect in trained geranium-red
velvet. Her head was banded with diamonds
backed with red, and she had a long chain
of diamonds as big as the round lustres on a
crystal chandelier. She came along with her
husband and the Reggie Power pair. Mrs.
Charlie Buckley, just back from England,
trailed grey hangings edged with grey fur.
The Richard Casey widow watched the
dancers in black chiffonery smothered by a
fur cape. The John Grice knight and his
dame and the Alfred Levey pair were there
to watch their niece’s debut—in fact, every-
one who is anyone was there; and the grind-
ing of teeth on the part of the disembodied or
non-existent social outcasts who had not been
asked was distinctly audible in the supper-
room and made a most gratifying accompani-
ment to the meal.
Guido Carlo Luigi Barracchi has popped
out of oblivion again, and two bricks fell on
him simultaneously as he stood .in a defiant
attitude in the glare of the spotlight. His
pretty little wife (aged 2G) hauled him to
court for divorce at the same time as
wool-classer Harry Zander made a co-
re. of him. Mrs. Guido gets her
liberty, £2OO a year for life and the cus-
tody of the chee-ild. Guido is the exotic
son of our old astronomer, and has had
plenty of money to play with since his baby-
hood. For one thing, he inherited £lB.OOO
from his mother, a daughter of one Petty,
who made much money in the butchering
line. Barracchi first hit the public eye a
definite. bang at the ’Varsity, where he
studied first Law, then Medicine and then
the best way to worry the dons. Later his
opinions on conscription during the war got
him three months’ gaol, and, anon, he was
a favorite Yarrabanker and talked about
the unfair distribution of wealth. He has
done a little journalism, but has lived mostly
at leisure on the income from his inheritance
—a good deal of the time in a high-powered
red motor-car.
Smart society begins to regret its weak-
ness for collecting “souvenirs.” The prac-
tice of what vulgarians call “shaking” things
from the hospitable boards of unsuspecting
hosts has been carried to a point, of late,
where nobody knows when to stop. News
from Geelong last week has scared even the
least responsible purloiner of her dearest
friends’ portable property, for the daily paper
story went this way:—
In view of the disbanding of the submarine crews
and other navy men at the close of the month, there
have been some farewell socials at Osborne House,
where the men are billeted. After such socials the
disappearance of souvenirs of comparatively small
value has been noted; but on Monday night a piano
vanished.
•Society is haunted by a dread that the very
nicest houses may be joyously dismantled at
the conclusion of a jazz-party. Picture s,
presentation bronzes, antique couches and
grand pianos—everything may be carried
away <as remembrances of the guests’ time-
of-their-lives. The fact that a marine stoker
and his wife have been arrested for trucking
away the Osborne House memento is dis-
tressingly inconsistent with modern social
customs. Why arrest the liigh-spmted stoker
and his good lady? The recent returning of
a silver salt-cellar souvenired from Federal
Government House during a refined revel
was conditional on “mum” being the word.
Nobody was arrested, nor were any names
mentioned. The crime (absurd word ! ( was,
as legists say, condoned. The conveyancing
of property at jazz parties and functions in
ordinary has thus been a recognised sport,
and if the sportive stoker is to be victimised
his union should certainly protest vigorously.
Choumoff (Paris) pictures here Madame
Kelynack, the wife of a member of a well-
known legal and journalistic family. Using
the patronymic
Kucembianca, a nom-
de-peintre derived
from her Polish an-
cestry, this clever
little lady, through
the medium of her
water-colors, gives
glimpses of many
European countries;
nor have the artificial
lights of Montmartre
prejudiced her ap-
preciation of real
Australian sunlight.
She has had her pic-
tures hung at the
Paris Salon, L’Arc
on Ciel, and at the
Luxembourg Winter
Shows, and this week
she has been giving Melbourne an oppor-
tunity to judge her work at the Automobile
Club Rooms, Anzac House.
The Grand National Hurdle on Saturday
was a gay social event. Lady Stradbroke
came out in a tricky coat and skirt of white-
striped navy serge and a tiny brick-red tur-
ban with a lovely decoration of carved tor-
toiseshell. She, the Earl and aide Keppel
Palmer made very little use of the vice-
regal pen.
It was like old times to see Lady
Grey-Egerton (Lady Rupert that was) on
the Flemington lawn again. Her black
velvet coat was of a blissful cut. It had
a collar of flat silk astrakhan —the latest
Parisian rage—and her small hat had a large
bow in front. The Parisians love “a simple
ribbon” effect in millinery. Mrs. Charlie
Armytage displayed a closely-pleated skirt
of many colors surmounted by a short black
coat. The old-new fashioned coque feathers
were placed flat on a big hat, and she car-
ried a tricky shooting-stick. Mrs. Purves,
in autumn-brown cloth, brought her debu-
tante daughter in a navy suit with grey
astrakhan on it. The little Umphelly girl
had a coquettish pink-tasselled hat above
tweed tailorings, and Mrs. Cooper’s dark
frock was set off with vivid scarlet em-
broidery. But Mrs. Leslie Macdonald
turned all heads in her direction with dark
cloth braided in wide gold military bands
and a small turban carrying fine colors in
flattened feathers and a little veil hanging
just to her nose. Mrs. Clive Baillieu got
two vivid fuchsia shades into her hat by
mingling dangling cherries and chiffon
velvet. Doctor Toby Joyce’s bride wore
chocolate-brown of irreproachable cut, and
dangled a tricky plume of brown feathers.
There were some interesting speeches at
the Countess's Girl Guide meeting in the
Town nail the other night. Melba put in
a good word for the movement, and so did
Mrs. Archbish. Lees, Miss Morres, of the
Geelong Church of England Girls’ School,
and Miss Hamilton, of Toorak College.
General White made a few heartening re-
marks, and the Earl gave the show the
strongest possible moral support. All the
speakers were careful to stress that the Girl
Guide’s activities are altogether feminine.
The movement does not hold with camping-
out or foraging or dashing about in un-
chaperoned irresponsibility. This meeting
was the beginning of a violent push designed
to rouse the Aussie girl’s interest in an
organisation which has caught on wonder-
fully in the U.K.
Mrs. Fred Kcrouse —she was Essie
Perrin —is organising a supper dance for
the St. Martin’s Home for Boys at Car-
lyon’s on July 10, and the best people are
already rushing to book tables for the charit-
able carouse.
The Ernest Scott dame blossoms out in
a lecture, “Eric Satie,” with musical illus-
trations, at the Vic. Artists’ Galleries, Ea«t
Melbourne, on the evening of July 7.
The Governor and Lady Stradbroke have
promised to go to the Ball of All Nations
in the Town Hall on July 21. Sets in
national costumes of a dozen countries are
to be featured, and there are to be other
sets under the direction of Dame Nellie
Melba, the Chauvel and Best ladies. Mrs.
Geoffrey Syme, Mrs. Leslie Stuart and some
members of the Prince’s Club, which has
cancelled its usual dance for that night.
There will be plenty of fun at the rehear-
sals, and crowds of house-parties are being
informally fixed up to which the rehearsers
will be invited. The preparations will con-
clude with a big general rehearsal, as the
orchestra will have to play the appropriate
National Anthem to usher in each set in
the parade. The ball is nominally to give
the Women’s Hospital a financial lift. The
fact that it will also give a number of other
folk who can pay their own hospital exes,
another sort of lift is neither here nor there.
Lady Stradbroke, furred and feathered to
the chin and nose, was the guest of the
Army Nurses at Anzac House the other day,
when their new club was formally opened.
Society turned up in force and wandered
about admiring the new fixings and furnish-
ings. The big lounge room is a dream of
comfort in sapphire blue and bluff, and a
radiator set in a big red-brick fireplace gives
a comfortable suggestion of the real thing
in fires. The dressing-rooms and bath-
rooms were looked over, also the inset
rooms for secretary and president; then
everybody flocked downstairs to tea in the
Anzac dining-room, where Diggers’ daugh-
ters or wives served food from the big
kitchen in the basement. There was a great
re-union of war nurses at the party.
Mrs. Russell Gabb was hostess at a tea-
party at the Women’s Automobile Club, in
Anzac House, the other day. There was a
rush of expensively-befurred motoring dames,
and music ran a bad second to talk. Club
members did the kitchen work —served tea and
washed up and had a really busy, friendly
time. The Club is anxious to get a move on
and earn its new heavy rents, and various
frivols were discussed with an eye in that
direction.
Out of the £88,500 left by Westmore
Stephens, draper, pillar of Baptistry, and
champion bowler, the State Treasury lifted
£5234 to help ward off a deficit.
Kirk folk at Horsham didna send awa’
their meenister, Thomas Gray, with soft-
spoken words o’ commendation only after his
35 years amang them. They gathered in
sufficient siller to enable them to add £lOO a
year for 10 years to the official superannua-
tion allowance.
“The Magic of Science of Jewels and
Stones,” a fascinating book by Dr. Isidore
Kogminsky, has just reached Australia. It
was published by the Putnams in New York,
and most of the illustrations —colored re-
productions of special gems and stones —
were done in America, but Kogminsky is
convinced that the Australian Oldboklstone
picture, of a bit of Aussie turquoise in the
matrix, beats the American work. One
famous opal, the Flame Queen, was painted
here by Mrs. Colquhoun. An opal is a divil
of a thine; to paint—it won’t keep still. Thp
late Judge Casey presented the author with
a wonderful gazing crystal on a weird jade
stand, and this is welj pictured in the
volume. Horoscopes of famous kings are
shown, and their destiny stones listed.
Neither Elizabeth nor the Queen of Scots
should have had anything to do with
pearls; but the capricious women ivould
wear the (to them) fatal gems. Solid scien-
tific facts about jewels are stated that read
like tales of Araby, and Kogminskv delves
deep into a most absorbing study of Egypt-
ology. Incidentally, it seems to be no won-
der King Solomon had a reputation for
knowing a thing or two. He had a certain
ring, and, according to Rabbinical tradi-
tion, he had only to gaze upon the stone
in it to know everything concerning worldly
affairs.
The death of Bruce Lonie Jenkins (known
to Bulletin readers as “Bruce Lonie”), at
the age of 26, was several sorts of tragedy.
He went through
Melbourne ’Varsity
with distinction in
the engineering
school, and during
the war, despite the
fewness of his years,
was given a respon-
sible expert’s job as
a n engineer and
mathematician at a
British ammunition
factory. Six months
after his return to
Australia a motor
accident crippled
him completely.
For 15 months he
lay helpless on his
back and his injuries
resulted in his death.
Bruce Jenkins mar-
ried a daughter of 0. .T. Cerutty, an officer
of the Treasury, whose signature flies broad-
cast on Commonwealth Bank notes. Mr.
Cerutty had the boy at his home in Malvern
throughout his long and tragic illness. It
was during that time of pain and helpless-
ness that he wrote much verse, some of
which was published in The Bulletin.
The South Melbourne Council’s effort to
lighten the gloom of the local Sabbath, and
at the same time do a bit for the Homoeo-
pathic Hospital, is getting the blessing of
musical people. The Victorian Blind Orches-
tra put up a great performance at the South
Melbourne Town Hall last after-
noon, and the yield from the collection-box
was very encouraging. Next Sunday week
there will be an outbreak for the same good
cause by the Welsh Choir of 60 voices.
An Adelaide postscript: —
Original letters from Adam Lindsay Gordon and his
father were brought to a meeting of the May Club’s
Literary Circle the other day, their lucky owner
being Miss Ashwin. Those from Gordon pere were
mostly concerned with the end of the Crimean War,
and those from the poet with his money-making
failures and his colt-breaking successes. The item
down for discussion was “Australian Poets,” and
conversation centred mostly round C. J. Dennis, Will
Ogilvie, Dorothea Mackellar and Archibald Strong.
.The Adelaide Rowing Club’s annual ball at the
Town Hall, had S. S. Ringwood as chairman of the
committee, K. H. Boykett as secretary, and Miss
Yvonne Tolley and a feminine committee as
decorators-in-chief. It was an early show, and most
of the 300 or so jazzers were well on their way
home by midnight.
R. Y. Thomas, who, after 15 months’ trial of the
Sydney climate, has turned it down as impossible
arid come back to Adelaide, was given the glad hand
by local tennis players at dinner at the South Aus-
tralian Hotel the other day. A. J. Roberts did the
honors, and 40 tennis enthusiasts turned up to talk
over old times.
The Y.M.C.A. recently broke out into an “Oriental
night and dinner,” staged, so its promoters swore,
as a “typical scene of Indian life.” An Oriental
feast—or some Oriental feasts—does not sound very
Y.M.C.Aish, -but grace-before-meat and a couple of
lectures on foreign missions afterwards probably
saved the situation* even if they didn’t add to the
reality of the “transformation.”
Depledge-Sykes, the Cohgr'egationalist star preacher
who has decided to ’vert to Anglicanism, brings a
S. Aus. wife back to Adelaide with him. She is the elder
daughter of E. H. Bakewell, president of the
Employers’ Federation, who pulls a good many politi-
cal wires behind the-scenes, and she claims as an
aunt the redoubtable Mrs. Nicholls, a pillar of the
W.C.T.U., and staunch champion of all “reforms.”
The fSte and exhibition for the Girls’ Friendly
Society in the Town Hall was opened by Mrs. Angas
on the coldest and most boisterous day for 18 years;
but Society turned out well, considering. Mrs.
J. R. Baker, Mrs. J. H. Gosse, Mrs. Angas, Miss
Waite, Mrs. Roy Milne, Mrs. John Gordon and Mrs.
Charles Jessop were among the stallholders.
Time was when fewer men were better known
here than H. P. Gill, founder and director of the
School of Design, who died on his way to England
after a long illness; so an exhibition and sale of
his pictures took many old-timers to the Society
of Arts’ rooms on North Terrace. Mrs. Gill and
Miss Maud Prosser (long associated with the dead
artist at the School of Design) arranged the show,
and Miss Prosser has some exhibits herself—em-
broideries and tapestries and leather-work.


<*s
OjK3l . , . . , itlfß ffrV
ora
STORAGE
BATTERY
We assume you are as
anxious to save time as
to save money. We put
Willard Threaded Rub-
ber Insulation between
the plates of the Still
Better Willard Battery
because it saves both.
The cost and annoyance
of replacing separators
is avoided by its use.
mm


Charles
fIErDSIECKS
Vintage 1911
feH
HE PLUS ULTRA
f
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Awtralaelan Agranta—
SW’.fT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
WILLIAM FARMER & CO. LTD
Jewellers, Gem Merchants, Goldsmiths & Silversmiths,
An incomparable stock of
WRISTLET WATCHES
in the newest ideas, including special designs in
Platinum, Gold and Silver; also in Enamel.
X.
m
6<fcA,
18ct. Gold Highest-grade Wristlet Watch. £lB/10/-
Also in Silver, £l2.
Designs and prices will be forwarded on
application.
A large and
varied selec-
tion of Gold
and Silver
Presentation
Watches—
Fully
Jewelled and
guaranteed.
The latest
designs in
Diamond and
Gem-set
Watch. Brace-
lets mounted
in Platinum,
with Black
31oire Silk
Bands.
Special discounts allowed to Presentation Committees.
SHOWROOMS—
Jewellery valued for Probate.
34 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
£■ jry ..
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONSTTDi
BRISBANE & SYDNEY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
soaps
powders
Kensington racecourse has never seen so
many motors and fur-coats as it did last
Saturday, when Sydney polo week opened.
In the teeth of an ice-laden atmosphere
women, young and old, turned out either
to see the opening or to be seen at it; and
each one of them was fur-clad, and, if she
sat in the stand, rug-enwrapped. Many
of the motorettes sat in their cars and
smoked cigarettes and dived to make wild
honks with motor-horns whenever the teams
they barracked for seemed about to do any-
thing worth while. The only ones who
honked in a permanent manner, so to speak,
were the Goulburn and Cooma partisans—
a dismal silence hung over the cars sporting
the mauve and straw of Sydney. Sydney—
alas, for the glories of other days!—was
more or less the “dud” of the proceedings.
The occupant of one Rolls-Royce knitted
steadily through the chilly afternoon —appa-
rently as a quiet protest against things in
general. Lady Digby, much befurred, turned
an encofiraging orb on her husband, who
was the best of Sydney’s bad lot. With
her was Mrs. Pitt Rivers, hatted and coated
in brown fur; and the volatile aide. De la
Cour.. The newly-returned Airs. T. 11. Ivellv
’wore a dashing topcoat in fawn cloth with
fur accessories, and brought her two daugh-
ters. Patricia, by the way, the second one,
is already as tall as her mother, and remark-
ably like her clever aunt, Maisie Kelly.
Ken Austin’s wife looked on in navy
tailorings, and Airs. Tony Hordern wore a
welter of wealthy-loobing furs. Airs. Philip
Morton looked well in a sealskin-coat. The
Denis Garvans and that indefatigable social
figure, George Lambert, were others in a
giddy throng that included everybody who
has scribbled her name in the Government
House book.
Winifred Jenner, in a wonderful gold-
tissue frock—the one that came over
from Paris for her AVigmore Hall recital in
London last year—sang herself back on to
her perch at the Conservatorium one night
last week. This contralto, who always had
a knack of finding songs with beautiful
words, introduced a charming English group,
backed up by Tsehaikowsky, Rachmaninoff
and Moussorgsky. Lind ley Evans and
Doris Easson supplied soothing accompani-
ments.
The Rev. Alan L. AVhitehorn (C. of E.),
of the Darlington diocese, shook something
like 400 hands the other day before leaving
for the U.S.A., hung about with wallets of
notes, solid silver Communion services,
stoles, travelling rugs and deck chairs. He
carries in a special corner of his bag a “Key
of Heaven,” handed to him by a hard-
working R.C. woman of the district. The
flyleaf reads: “In appreciation of great love
to the children of the district, up and down
lanes, without class or creed.” The padre
is a AA f estralian, and was for some time
Principal of Aloore Theological College. He
leaves his parish free of debt, and during
his three years’ absence will try for his
D.D. degree, and between whiles study the
methods of Judge Lindsay, the famous presi-
dent of the famous U.S. juvenile court.
Alatrimony has lured away two pretty
members of the Polini-Harvey company:
Audrey AA r ortli and Alira Ivenham. Alira,
now Mrs. Cross, goes to Afaoriland; and
Audrey, as Airs. Fred Eager, has to face
a wedding trip through Java and the Far
East.
The Bertie Kellys have settled temporarily
in the old Frederick Barley home, Quambi,
which the Kelso Kings took over from the
Sep Levys. They had a party there on
Sunday, at which the accomplished head of
the house played his violin in company with
the string orchestra which performs at most
of the Kelly functions. The guest of honor,
or one of them, was Sastri, who positively
purred with delight at the intensely classical
Chamber music which is the orchestra’s
strong point. Airs. Kelly, who looks about
the same age as she did when she starred
in “Butterfly,” puts her healthful appear-
ance down to Coue-ism. She met the won-
derful French doctor in Paris, and is a
believer in his treatment. The whole family
is off to England presently—there to re-
main. perhaps, till young Tom Kelly, now
at Eton, has taken a degree at Oxford.
Pending the hegira Airs. Bertie, whom a
well-known captain of industry has termed
“the finest organiser in Australia,” will help
to push along various good works with her
wonted vigor; and notably the Four Arts
Ball, which occurs next month.
May Dunstane, a graciously familiar figure
at Paling’s box-plan counter during thj past
few years, solemnly said “I will” the other
day to Arthur J. Ileyman. A pair of silver
entree dishes and a wonderful salad-bowl
help to furnish their brand new up-the-river
home as a result of the pooled contributions
of Palings’ staff; but the impulsive Melba,
when she heard that the wedding-day had
been fixed, handed over the first present—a
true-lovers’ knot in diamonds.
An appeal has gone forth from the Angli-
can ladies of St. Saviour’s, Redfern, to their
sisters in more affluent parishes for help in
the matter of an approaching sale of work.
The needy Redfern shrine must raise at least
£2OO if disaster is to be averted, and intend-
ing helpers can hurl their gifts at any one
of nine stalls.
Not to be enthusiastic over eurhythmies
is to class yourself among the old-fashioned
who still imbibe “Russian culture” and ex-
press ignorance of anthropology, new
thought, and auto-suggestion. Eurhythmies
m the method originated by Emile
Dalcroze to build up in the ordinary
person the faculties which are natural
to a born musician. It’s a rather ex-
pensive study, so when teacher Mary
H hidborne unleashed her Frensham classes
at Her Majesty’s last week, in aid of the
Citizens’. Returned Soldiers’ Benefit Fund,
her audience was large and opulent. The
kiddies of the up-to-date school we Me charm-
ing in their leaf-brown tunics, and ruffled
about the stage in response to every change
in time and rhythm like leaves caught in
sudden eddies of wind. Of the plastic
studies “Hobgoblins,” the popular “Coach-
man and .Horses” and a quaint nursery
rhyme, “Little Jumping Joan.” caught the
hearts of all the mothers. Yeats’s “Land
of Heart’s Desire” was exquisitely produced.
The matinee at the Theatre Royal to-
morrow, which is expected to be the social
event of the season—if not the century—
will be shorn of “Phipps,” in which the bril-
liant Mrs. Pitt Rivers was to have ap-
peared with Captain Feakes and Ernest
Watt. There was some sordid difficulty in
regard to the acquisition of the acting right
However, the tableaux should make up for
much to those who are in what might be
called the joke. Jimmy Burns is confi-
dently expected to shine, for example, in the
role of a full-blooded Nubian savage; Peter
Wills-Alien also takes a colored part—
of a sultan—and there are others. Melba’s
latest proteges are to sing, and likewise Ern-
est Archer, the possessor of a glorious tenor.
This is the latest photo of Lilian Gibson,
who sang her farewell to Sydney at the Town
Hall on Tuesday. She
has sung with every
musical society in
Sydney ; and during
the war she helped
along a long string
o f entertainments
for the soldiers. One
of the big parties of
last week was held
iu her honor when
the committee of her
testimonial concert
and her admirers
crowded out the
drawing-room of the
Australia. She
takes a big cheque
and a heap of good
wishes to cheer her
up in Europe.
The Undergrads., having decided on the
Arctic regions of the Palais Royal for their
dance, the night chosen necessarily had to
be the coldest of the year. It wrapped itself
in a wind that was like a cloak of ice, and
even the highly electrified frontage of the
Moore Park dancing palace failed to convey
a sense of warmth to the lads and lasses
buffeting across the bleak no man’s land
between it and the tram. The enormous
floorage carried miles of carpet shaded by
tall palms, and overhead there was a dejected
wilderness of paper streamers and artificial
flowers. On the carpet squares, the heads—
Professor Holme, the Dean of the Faculty
of Medicine, Dr. Mills (bravely supported
bv Mrs. Mills in black brocade), and the
Reverend Garnsey—tried hard not to look
frozen : and inside the jazz arena the jaunti-
est misses in shoulder-straps came' down to
earth after the second round, ancl finished
the dance wrapped in fur neckletd or even
drab woollen scarves. One girl went the
whole hog and danced in her fur coat, and
Mrs. Culhane (who was Mrs. John Norton)
revived the circulation in her cascade of
sequins bv donning a marvellous cloth-of-
gold coat- Among the hundreds of young
things who courted pneumonia with a stiff
unper lip were a pretty Ronald girl wearing
a wonderful crop of Titian hair, and pianist
Trixie Tange, whose headpiece looks like a
good understudy to “Bubbles.” In every
second head that was not bustered a Span-
ish comb stood out a la Carmen. The supper
was the great event of the evening. The
sybaritic lads who ran the dance even had
hot vegetables served with the chicken and
ham. But, as the temperature of the supper-
room w r as even lower than that of the danc-
ing space, the second relay had better luck
than the first, for by that time, though the
vegetables had grown cold, the chairs were
warm.
Bea McDonald has one of her married
sisters, Mrs. (Peggy) Robey, at home with
her just now. The Robeys lived in Burma
till the other day; but now “George” (of
course* everybody calls him that) has gone
further north, or more inland, and the Syd-
ney girl is lying low until he has shooed the
tigers and pythons off the new selection. She
just got home in time for the christening
party of her almost-brand-new niece, Roslyn
Dangar.
“The Mysterious Affair at Styles’ ” is a
blood-thriller of a new kind, in which the
reader is set amateur-detecting from the
minute the “ ’orrible murder” happens, and
its young author, Mrs. Agatha Christie,
passed through Sydney last week. She was
with her husband, who is a Colonel, and
Major Belcher. The Major, it might be
mentioned, is a lover of antiques, and all the
time he can take off from his British Empire
Exhibition mission is devoted to hunting up
old pieces. He has been disappointed to
find so little of our native woods used in
interior decoration, and bemoans the fact
that with the exception of the northern State
Australian homes are almost entirely fur-
nished with imported timber.
George Lambert brought his A’elasquez-
Titian-Troubadour self, immaculate clothes,
and a perfectly-geared crush hat out to the
’Varsity one night last week, and, swaying
like a graceful reed in the breeze, descanted
on the Failure of Modern Art to an audience
three-fourths student and one-fourth Society.
Lambert was really the most picturesque
thing the girl graduates have feasted their
eyes on for a long time, and there wasn’t a
hair of the Don John of Austria beard that
went uncounted. A group of artist brothers
sat in the back rows, and spurred the
speaker on to higher things when he seemed
to weaken. Thea Proctor, the Ernest Watts,
and poet Le Gay Brereton murmured ap-
plause from the front benches. The lecture
was very short, and by 9 o’clock the girl
graduates’ idol was climbing into his home-
bound taxi.
It’s just as well for the City Fathers
that they have not thundered the usual mid-
winter ban against radiators, otherwise last
week’s icy blast would have turned the meek-
est flat dweller into a raging homicide. The
flapper with the most moth-eaten remnant of
a war-time fur-coat crawled into it; but
even the most biting day failed to bring out
any wear thicker than silk for the Sydney
girl’s leg. “Gawd, how I wish I’d been
reared hardy!” wailed one blistered damsel
to another on the midnight Darlingliurst
tram. “I s’pose if I’d been brought up to
bare knees like them Boy Scouts me 12s.
lid. ladderless would ’ave felt as cosy as a
crop of feathers.”
Talking of bare knees. There’s one lass
who loves a sailor and isn’t ashamed of it.
He’s a man-o’-warsman, and one of his
tokens of fealty has been some of his old
cap-ribbons. The girl is of a utilitarian as
well as a romantic nature, and the prin-
cipal of the girls’ hostel in which she lives
was struck dumb the other day when she
saw the maiden hopping aboard a tram
exposing black ribbon jazz garters worked
with a neat gold design that read : “11.M.A.5.
Figtree!”
Ernest Finlay is showing 50 pieces of
pottery at Gayfield Shaw’s room, Callaghan
House. They include some rich underglaze
paintings—suitable for interior decoration —
very brilliant in their color schemes. He has
conventionalised the waratah, the lyre-bird
and the frilled lizard, and the designs have
grown into something that might have
slipped out of Greek mythology. There’s
one green vase with flannel-flowers spilling
over it that is simple beaut.v v A special
point of this ex-Digger’s exhibition is that
Australian designs are used throughout. The
National Gallery has already a charming
pastoral vase in low tones evolved from
Finlay’s footwlieel.
The St. Luke’s Ball, at the Moore Park
Palais de Danse, netted just on £6OO (the
cheque was handed over to Dame Margaret
at Government House one morning last
week), and the recent St. Vincent’s hop
raked in about £l2OO.
Herbert Gallop, a Julian Ashton student,
has taken up his brush where he laid it down
to go soldiering, an experience which seems
to have added strength and breadth to his
work. A roomful of his attractive can-
vases are on exhibit in Gayfield Shaw’s
attic. Callaghan House.
Brigadier-General Antill, who saved the
Government the trouble of retiring him last
week by doing the job himself, has been a
soldier for quarter of a century—a fighting
soldier, _ as distinguished from the other sort.
The original Australian Antill came to Syd-
ney as A.D.C. to Macquarie, and got a grant
of 5000 acres near Picton, which—barring
1000 acres—the General and his brother still
hold. He does not trouble the country much,
but lives, with a soldier-servant to look after
him, at Park-lane Mansions.
Another victim of the economy truncheon
is Colonel Stanley Ryrie—brother of Gran-
ville, M.P. His wife has spent most of her life
in, or near, a barracks. She’s a daughter of
the late Colonel Mackenzie, an ex-imperial
officer who served for many years in the Aus-
tralian Permanent Force.
Colonel Harold Cohen and his wife, who
arrived from Melbourne the other day, are
known to many Sydneyites —or anyhow, he
is. He went away in 1915 in commknd of
the 6th F.A. Brigade, which, though origi-
nally Victorian, soon attracted Diggers from
every State. He remained in charge of it
to the bitter end, reaping a C.M.G. and
D.S.O. He is a cousin of Mrs. Sep Levy,
whose father was a Melbourne man.
No one would imagine to look at the juv-
enile face and figure of James Campbell,
K.C., as he strides
towards Caradon,
his beautiful Edge-
cli ff home, of an
afternoon that he
lias been at the N.
S. Wales Bar for
30 years. Yet
so it is. He keeps
young by declining
to worry. He mar-
ried one of the
handsome Gadsden
girls, which means
that he is a brother-
in-law of Justice
Rich, of the High
Court, and Ellison
Rich, the Sydney
solicitor and chief-
tain of the Law In-
stitute.
Gerald Riviere, Barney Allen’s debonair
son-in-law, who has just been handed 18
months by an English Judge, will find it
hard to indulge his undoubted sartorial
genius in his new environment. While in
Sydney he acted, as far as possible, on the
lines of that Roman Emperor of whom Sue-
tonius wrote, “He never wore the same gar-
ment twice.” And yet, if any man is capable
of turning the livery of servitude to artistic
good, Riviere is the person indicated; and
it may be that even as these lines are being
written he is “wording” the gaol tailor as to
the cut of his new tunic or the disposal of
the arrows. lie was in the A.I.F. for only
a very brief period—his service began and
ended at Liverpool—but in that time he man-
aged to get a private’s uniform made that
would have been a credit to any musical
comedy. The costume was palpably useless
for work in the trenches, but then he never
seems to have thought of going there; and
it made a remarkable hit in Castlereagli-
street. When the tailor murmured some-
thing about 15 guineas Riviere told him to
send the bill in to the Australian Government.
The Chemists’ Ball, last week, was quite
up to the standard of the cheeriest of the
pre-war picnic-racemeeting revels. After
some of the younger drug-mixers had “had
a few,” as the saying goes, they developed
an unprofessional recklessness of outlook,
which impelled them to jazz with palm-trees
and finally cast the vegetables at one an-
other. A stand-up fight between a couple of
male merry-makers inspired an influx of
policemen, who more or less ruined a pro-
mising evening. In the brave old days before
the world went mad few really smart up-
country events in the dancing line were con-
sidered complete without a scrap or two;
and many a time has Bowral re-echoed to
the cries of Bong Bong R.C. combatants.
Judging by the attitude of the authorities
towards the chemists, the manly old sport is
to be virtually relegated in future to the
larger nrivate houses.
The man in charge of the Old Girls’ High
School shelter for temporarily workless
(and cashless) Diggers is Major A. C.
Moyes, M.C. For a while after the war
broke out lie was A.D.C. to Major-General
Lee, then District Commandant of Banana-
land, but in ’l6 he. joined the 42nd Batt.
At Messines Fritz presented him with
a lump of shell, and somebody else gave
him an M.C. His return to the Front
after he had recovered from both these inci-
dents resulted in him leaving a leg at Pass-
chendaele. Then they made him a staff-
captain of the 11th Brigade, and he came
home in TB. Moyes, by the way, is a son-
in-law of James Edmond.
Guv Maier’s wife uttered three cheers
when she came upon Mary Cochran in the
Conservatorium training her baby classes,
for Mrs. Maier’s pet con. in New York
teaches its young on similar lines. The blue-
eyed girl, who is a brilliant musician, has
two passions—psychology and repertory
plays. The wife of her husband’s fellow
conspirator, Lee Pattison, is a “natural”
blonde, as the Yankees call it, with a pretty
taste for clothes.
Mabel Forrest, the Queensland poetess, has
had a letter from Henri Corbiere, the French
author, in which he asks her to send him a
“Maxim of Life” for his book of “Maxims
of the Leading People of the World,” which
is to be published shortly in Paris. He has
included such celebrities as John Galsworthy,
Anatole France, the Duchess de Rohan and
Flora Annie Steel, so the Australian singer
will be in exalted intellectual company. Inci-
dentally, she has just joined the contributing
staff of the M.L. forestry magazine, : The
Forest.


¥
Heavy 9d gold Cig-
arette* Gase.concave,
to hold single r0w....
II
phe illustrat ion depicts one of fine
mCompamp numy distinctive designs
in SoldCtdaref/c Cases suitable lor S)
f'. r
presentation purposes.
fTfie Com pant/ will gladly forward se-
lections on approval at ineir own
risk, and a copy of’their illustrated cat
■-alopue upon reouest.
5% discount x allowed
on all cash purchases,
c
mm':
-
D HUNTER ST
S Y D N E Y.
298 COLLINS ST
MELBOURNE..
Jecueffe/\s
1101
BR
116118 QU
BRISBANE.;.
A 1.
A.ND
O N D O N..
• 99
“Our Marriage Souvenir
i
Here’s o book for all to readj
Young and old of every creed;
Such a book as this, I ween,
Xone of you has ever seen.
Wisdom culled from all the ages
You. will find upon its pages,
While a skein of real romance is
Woven through its many fancies.
A
BEAUTIFUL ALBUM, in which to record by photo-
graphs and autographs the important events of your
married life. The ceremony itself, with photographs
and autographs of those who took part in it; the breakfast;
the guests and the presents; the honeymoon; the new home
and the callers, and a section for particulars of the greatest
blessing that makes wedded bliss complete—the baby.
A “<le luxe” copy of this Album was accepted by Princess
Mary as a wedding gift.
HUM I I lIIHIIII IMIIIIMIII lIIIMIIIMIIL
The pages are artistically set with appropriate quotations
from the great poets, ancient and modern, and the whole
duction is a splendid specimen of the bookbinders’ and printers’
art. A book which would make a handsome and acceptable
wedding present.
May be had in Blue and Brown Grained Leather,
or Blue and Brown Suede Leather ....
Price
30/-
Stocked by all Studios, Booksellers, Jewellers and Good Stores,
or from
UP
The House for
Good Cameras,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
366 Collins Street, Melbourne. 41a Ilundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane. 144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
B. S. J. 1. Lady’s
Demi-Hunting Lever
Watch, with enamelled
numerals. Sterling Silver
Case, beautifully hand-en-
graved. Usual Price, 42/.
Sale Price
POST FREE
30/-
Lad y’s Ope n-f ace
Watch, of modern de-
sign, in Rolled Gold hand-
engraved Case (10 years’
guarantee), fitted with
crystal. Usual Price,
55/-
Sale Price
POST FREE
35/-
B.S.J. 3. —Lassetter’s Demi-Hunt-
ing “Baron/’ A higli-class, fully-
jewelled movement, in a well-made and
handsome Sterling Silver demi-hunting
case; guaranteed two years. Usual
Price, 75/-
Sale Price
POST FREE
58-
LASSETTER’S SALE
Saves you as much as 17/- on a
Reliable Watch for Yourself-or a Lady.
And We Pay the Postage
B.S.J. 4.—Gent.’s 10-year guar-
anteed Watch, gold-filled, engine-
turned keyless hunting case; a 15-
jewelled brequet hair-spring model, ad-
justed to climatic conditions; suitable
for presentation. Usual Price,
£5/17/0.
Sale Price
POST-FREE
£5/5/6
Similar movement in Gold-filled Demi-
Hunting lO years’ guarantee.
Usual Price, £G.
Sale Price
POST FREE
/8/S3F
IJ.S.J. 5.—A Reliable Timekeeper,
being a 15-jewelled lever movement of
high-grade quality, set in a Demi-
huntinv Oxidised Steel Case. Usual
Price, 55/-
Sale Price
POST FREE
45/-
F. Lassetter 8 Co. Ltd.,
Georg'e Street, Sydney.
B.S.J. 2. —Lady’s Full
Hunting Lever Watch,
in Sterling Silver Case,
same being beautifully
hand-engraved. Usual
Price, 40/-
Sale Price
POST FREE
251 -
\
/
N
Bgaa
'S
B.S.J. 6.—JLassetier’s Fam o u s
“Wanderer” Watch, a strong, reli-
able timekeeper, with a reputation all
over Australia that’s Second to T\otie.
Silver-plated or Oxidised Metal Case.
Guaranteed two years. Usual Price,
37/0.
Sale Price
POST FREE
33/9


Are Usually Healthy
The daily use of the Soap prevents
clogging and irritation of the pores,
the usual cause of pimples and
blackheads, while the Ointment
soothes and heals. Cuticura Talcum
is delicate, delightful, distingue'.
Soapl*.,Ointmentls.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W."
gSjatT"Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Learn to Draw
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
The
above is
the title
of our book-
-1 et, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing—
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARRY J. WES-
T 0 N, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
succesr.'ul.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet —
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
S?\
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
M 3 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
MUCILINE
S/Tie £fier/ec£
1 ffi&SOT
CLEANEST,
STRONGEST,” BEST.
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS
%^ le AiEx Cowan 0 Sons, Ltj?
Sydney, Melbourne. Adelaide.
EVERYBODY DOTES
Uncleloby’s
Voatsx
A delightful breakfast food
i
The
“Stockman”
The best Riding Boot on the
market. Tweed Seamless Em-
peror. Light in weight. Standard
screwed soles. Note the patent
stup on side—a special feature
that ensures a double life for the
elastic. POST FREE FOR
FINNEY, ISLES (El CO. LTD
BRISBANE.
18111
DON’T BE MISERABLE;
m
DON'T BE WEAK AND PUNY!
DON'T BE ALWAYS ILL!
DON’T SHORTEN YOUR DAYS !
DON’T LET ILL-HEALTH CONQUER YOU!
Enjoy Every Minute of Life
bv keeping your whole system in proper working order. With
health--And. strength life will open out new vistas for you, and
business will be a pleasure.
Keg. L. (“Snowy*’) Baker can help you to a full realisation of
the joy of life if you take up his
Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture.
It is emphatically not a “strong-man” course, but a
series of simple, enjoyable, graduated exercises that
will bring into play the neglected muscles, steady the
nerves, help you to breathe and develop properly, and
make all the organs of the body perform their functions
correctly.
No apparatus is required, and each lesson is graded to
suit particular individual requirements.
“Snowy” Baker has written a most interesting booklet,
“Health and Strength from Self-culture,” which tells
all about the course, and contains many valuable
hints. If you send this advertisement, with your name
and address across it, together with three stamps for
postage, the book will be fonvarded.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
“The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,' 1
135 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
GOOD JARS for JAM
Yes, they are Good Jars for Honey or Jam.
The iids and thfe spoons are Electro Silver-
tdated on white hard nickel silver.
They bear the extra-weight silver deposit that
is invariably put on our electro goods.
They bear our name. They will wear a life-
time.
They are English-made goods.
The glasses are fairly thick, and hence strong.
They vary in design, but are all clear crystal.
They are superlative present-day value.
Crystal Glass,
with Electro-
plate lid and
Crystal Glass,
with Electro-
plate lid and
spoon,
12/6 net.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery
House irt Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
That “just-out-of-the-box”
freshness lasts—
Provided you use
Bostock’s
Dry Suede Cleaner
COLORS: White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne, Brown and Nigger Brown.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., Sydney.
fg
KEEP BABY WELL
AND CONTENTED
Ust
! ■
IFEGUARD
Condensed MILK
ITS QUALITY HAS
MADE IT POPULAR
Your Grocer Has It!
Andrade’s Entertainment House
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY <g& on) .
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
SOME MAGIC.
Playing Card to Matchbox 1/3
Haunted Ace Trick 2/-
Billiard Ball Trick 3/6
Linking Rings (pocket size) 7/6
Diminishing Pack of Cards . 5/-
Chung Loo’s Fire Eater 2/6
SOME THINGS—
Grease Paints, Wigs, Beards, Masks,
Yentriloquial Heads.
CATALOGS FREE.
S&J
How To Make Ur, Guide to
SOME BOOKS.
Simple Card
Tricks That
Anyone Can Do
With Ordinary
Cards, Without
Sleights.. 1/6
Up His Sleeve,
the latest book
for the profes-
sional .... 8/6
Funniest Four
Farces, in one
book .... 2/-
the Stage. . 1/6
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except o) a hostile character) will b»
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
frame and address must appear on the MSS. fr'o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Kenneth Impett: No use for “stories for
children” in any issue, much less the Christmas one.
....Santoi (etc., etc.): The splash was caused by
a dropped “or.” Of course it should have been “at
the Ascot Cup or at Goodvv'ood”.... Gnarek; Cant
quite see you, a Digger, dropping into Field-Marshal
Wilson’s pew .at Eaton-square unrebuked ; nor
. can w£ see the IP.-M. in full regimentals sharing his
hymn-book with you. He was an old-style disci-
plinarian and had little time for Diggers off
the battlefield. Still, it is a picturesque ya‘rn....
F.C.: Much writing; little point Cold Steel:
Thanks; please send along the American paper....
F. 8.: That nom-de-plume belongs to a very well-
known NvS.W. pressman.. .A. S. (Balmain): “Ballad”
too obscure. . . .E.A. (Deloraine) : Manufactured stu-
pidity M.M.K.: Nothing in it... Buzz: Not nearly
up N.T.G.: A flat and feeble ta1e....W.8. (Nor.
word) : You can’t rhyme “boughs” with “flowers”
in this paper.... Splinter: None of them up....
N.C.W.: It fluttered sadly into the basket... .J.W.
(Adelaide): Not enough in “Cocky’s Joy”....Bark
Canoe: Doesn’t get near.... J.J.F.: Too clumsy....
H.J.G.: Don’t like it any better.... Deirdre: “In
the Orchard” is poorly drawn and over-colored....
Catherine C. C.: Doesn’t even resemble verse....
A.II. (Scottsdale): Neither up.... Agnes II.: No
use sending gentle moral homilies in the form of
tedious yarns L.T.W.:' Miserable waste of words.
... .G.R.M.: Terribly lame stuff Adelaide II.:
Not bad in its way; but below par Glob: Has
movement, but it’s a bit too mechanical C.C.C.:
Your ungrammatical “Love” is a feeble affair
Dick M.: No use. .. .R.H.M.: That melodramatic
murdering horse is very young G.B.L. (or some
scratches and blots that look like that) : Too dull
even for printing as shocking examples. . .J.A.H.: Very
p00r... .Jock M.: A thin story badly t01d... .J.E.
(Goulburn) : Anything the yarn might have in it
is lost in the telling.. . .W.E.P.: No use.... Ben S. -:
The verse goes ruggedly over old ground.... Dunird
(or something) : “The Successful Miner” is a dreary
and verbose person.... Jay M.: Doesn’t strike us...
S. : Very rugged and bumpy.... J.W. (Adelaide):
There is no thrill about “Cupid” A.D.M.: Not
up, and it is presented in deadly handwriting....
Jack A. W.: Let it go:—
Multiferous are the misdeeds
In the streets that are committed
’Neath the optics of the Johns,
Whose wits are ever pitted
Against these hardened sinners—
Can they catch the raw beginners ?
... .C.C.D.: Correct sentimental stuff with no lift
Chatterton: A good sonnet; but the subject has
been done to death. . . .L.A.R.: Too mildly sugary. . .
T. : Not enough point Wafin: Fluffy and
frothy H.A.H.: Cheapest of vaudeville rubbish.
.. . . Gualterus: Your howl to the modern woman to
“bring forth fresh life” wouldn’t add a citizen to
the Commonwealth Rebus: Nothing in it....
F. 0.8.: Feeble, .correct verse that gets to nothing.
... .Wilfridd ; Poor chap... .Will V.: Not up. ...
Frank D.: No use to us Sydna: They don’t strike
us P.8.P.: Padded commonplaces..G.C.H.:
Yes, all the verses are superfluous. You must learn
a game before you can play it G.C.L. (Sale):
“The Watch” goes heavily Ecce: Don’t like them.
....Jack W.: What’s the use of chopping Up” bit
of thin prose in that way Cleopatra: Rhyme 1
commonplaces G.E.M,: “Cobwebs” must go back.
Delia H.: Not up Emily B.: “Philosophy”
doesn’t move Us, . . .R.F.S.: The “Key” doesn’t turn
this lock. ... James N.: The “morality” of writing
is decent grammar and plain statement; in other
words your morals are abominable. ... L. A. II.: You
were “inspired” by some maiden aunt of a Muse...
V.A.V.: Doesn't get anywhere... .A. N. (Bathurst):
Dull and wordy If at: Shed them here, then: —
I get knocked from pillar to post.
Why ; I never get the chance of a ghost.
I’m willing, honest and I’m sober.
Ever time I try to rise I’m bold over
Is it because the selfish rule the track,
To cow me and to break my back.
What’s there little game.
Are they going to bash me till I’m halt and lame?
It’s not my fault that I’m in this world.
God gave me life, not to be bashed and hurled
From pillar to post, like a ship in a storm ;
Not to be kicked till a mangled form.
Nothing comes my way but hard knocks,
Abuse, insults and heart-shocks;
Though I strive to win it’s seem in vain
I suffer harder knocks while the old remain.
J.II. (Ouanyilla) : Don’t like “Dreams.” The
very same thing has happened too often in verse....
T.O'G.: A patchwork of worn phrases... .G.A.L.:
It’s a. variation of an idea used long ago. . . .E.J.J.:
Misses Everybody: Don’t send covering letters
with your copy John B.: The verse is fairly w rit-
ten, but every phrase has been used before....
A. 8.8.: A bit ragged; and that old “Southerly” has
been worked overtime by the verse-sweaters....
Bluecoat: Doesn’t make a yarn.... George W.: It
waddles, and the requirement is something that
strides.... Margaret t\ .: Ruggedly handled common-
places. .. .C.E. (Melb.) : Moral maundering of a
most virulent sort G.W.W.: “Gentle Hope ; can’t
smile here C.H.B. (or perhaps something else):
Three ungrammatical stanzas to say that the sea
has waves. .. .G.8.L.: Terrible verse. .. . 8.8. (East
Melb.): Rotten yarn woodenlv told S.V.J.: Not
a glimmer in it H.O. (Mundaring) : No D.H.
(St. Ivilda) : Falls down at the end Mien Quarter-
naiu: The original par. referred to rudimentary
eyes under the crocodile’s neck P.H.8.: Impos-
sible to handle such closely-typed stuff... .W.E.P.:
May use one or two... . J.P.R. : Try something else.
. ...Fisho: He could give you a shock if you even
stood on your head S.W.M.: Old.
TO ARTISTIC (AND IN AUTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R. 11.: Nothing in it L.W.: A bad miss
C.McA.: Woefully w eak drawing.... Smoke-box: Go-
ing back.. .W.P.M.: No humor there... G.H.: Home,
John... .H.G.L.M.: The worst of the week....
P.P.A.: Misses Iv.F.: Bolshies outski E.R.B. :
Has an old ring about it.
“Chili Beau”: I, too, have been bewildered
over the authorship of “The Recoil” (B.
25/5/’22). More than a dozen years ago I
read exactly the same story in "the Smart
Set, and the particulars have ever since been
imprinted on my memory. Some years later
I read a playlet with a precisely similar plot.
I can’t recollect the title or even the author’s
name, but it was doubtless the work of the
Australian writer J. N. McKenzie, especially
as the finale of the attempt made by the
doctor to perform tracheotomy when the
light failed was as described by “0.1 v.” Still
this does not solve the mystery of the Taris
version.


Slilpolns.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Hcnolulu—San Francisco,
I oseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JULY 12.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H f. North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via RYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S V PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
i p.m.; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. BURRINGBAR SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
1 iie speed and modern conveniences for tile comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY'.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PIIILP '
& CO.. LTD.
Hanking. Public Companies. Xc.
THE QUEENSLAND BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Art 1863.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up ~ .. .. 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; lion. G. W.
Gray; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq. •
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. lIAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capitai £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . .. £i 430 qqq
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1921 .. £12,’813’129
Directors ; Sir Mark Siieldon, Chairman : Herbert R
Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D. • Frank
N. Yaravood, F.C.P.A. ; George F. Todman ■
Duncan Carson. ’
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodik.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Donns Fairbairn
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world :
Every description of Banking Business Transacted, i
. - •
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125^000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,’000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
»•
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,502,572
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about £2,575,000
Accumulated Funds £47,000,000
A mual Income £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, etfl.
Canad ian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST NEWEST FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BEIVVEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, 20th JULY, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 24th AUGUST.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
1 hrougli hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Hie Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 10th AUGUST, 11 a.m.
MAUNGANUI, 7th SEPTEMBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
C - UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION SIEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
■f
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3| TO 4\ WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £O4 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OP THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 13,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 13,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route
Fitted with WiiVess Telegraphy and Submarine
ojyuciinng year.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
•SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
•DIOGENES 12,500 tons
*New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight. Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
l’aitl-tip Capital
Reserve T'lind
Reserve Liability
Directors
£5,000,000
3,600,000
5,000,000
£13,600,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black. M.L.C.
n dit ,i rS Am E - LaidJey Esq. •A. G. Milson, Esq. " General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —39 Threadneedle Street F C
3CO Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
sdfg
BattHtaralia
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 8049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300,
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor.
Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Governor.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
\ LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
-pL should read the British Australasian,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
Rritisti Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High ITolborn, London, W C
where they can see the home papers - nme't
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
•(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough/ Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
*Brisbane, Mackay (passengers only), Townsville
and Cairns.
fßris.bane, Port Alma (passengers only), Mackay,
Bowen and Townsville.
Huddart ParkeiL
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART .PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, TIIURSDA Y ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdnev.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IllOQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton U Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Utd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Etd.,
and Eitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackhealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktowu,
r
Model “B-4” Four-cylinder Marine Engine.
4-cycle, medium speed, 3|in. x 4in. Suitable for
boats up to 40ft. Uses Kerosene or Benzine; all
major parts interchangeable with the Ford Motor.
Price, £llO and up, according- to equipment.
Write for Catalogues.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
35 Pitt Street, Sydney (Australia).
Missing Friends.
WILL HARRY STACEY, formerly of
Port Elizabeth, South Africa, kindly
write home. Aged father and mother very
anxious to hear from him. For further in-
formation write Miss J. Wiseman, Hippo-
drome, Sydney.


IESSOP'S
U + STEELS
Forgings can be
supplied in the
Rough, Rough
Turned, or finish
machined to fine
limits ready for
assembly, for
Railway, Mining,
or any other
purposes.
For Forgings that Must
Stand Exceptional Wear
Steels of proved wear-resisting qualities
are the best in the long run —and that’s
just the kind of steels that Jessop’s have
been making for the past 15 0 years.
Jessop’s Steels are full of body, are
consistently good throughout, and are
perfectly graded for a specific purpose.
For Forgings that must be really sound
and reliable—for any purpose—there are
no finer steels obtainable than Jessop s.
Let Jessop’s supply YOU.
MAULER gQUEREAU,
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
406 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
Agents for
WM. JESSOP & SONS, LTD..
Sheffield.
England.
is
: ..a®
r>
Hi
czzr
MOTOR CARS
Every Studebaker car receives
9500 inspections before it is finally
passed for delivery—your guaran-
tee of uniformly hi&h quality and
mechanical accuracy.
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
This is a Studebaker Year
TT
mm
LIGHT-SIX 5-Seater
Cord Tyres
£525.
Af
to
' Guaranteed x
in order for two years free
CRAIG ( AITKfN.6S4 GEORGE SI.SYDNEI
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES
iUJyTHIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
comfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
mm
IN ONE
RAZOR
SHOOTERS
u
YOD CAN NOW
PURCHASE
Sporting Rifles and
Guns without first
obtaining a license.
On receipt of
weapon license may
be obtained at
Police Station in
your own town.
Send us your
Order To-day.
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST SPORTS HOUSE,
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney
Branches: City, Suburbs, Newcastle 8 Brisbane.


Care for Your Skin!
Keep Away Winter’s Ills
by Using Rexona,
the Skin Remedy of the Age.
Winter winds play havoc with the skin. Chapped lips, rough
faces, chilblains, cracked and bleeding hands all result from
exposure to the wind and weather, and cause an unnecessary amount
of suffering— unnecessary because Rexona, the Rapid Healer, pre-
vents just these discomforts by healing the injured skin and
protecting it from the evil influence of disease germs. A small
abrasion may become the germ-infected area that threatens health
itself.
A timely use of Rexona prevents small injuries from becom-
ing painful, and its action is so prompt that Rexona has made its
name known all over Australia as the Rapid Healer. The
triangular pot, with its healing soft green ointment, should be kept
handy on the dressing-table, so that every member of the family
can have access to its wonderful healing power.
Winter Time
is
Rexona Time
1/6
aoolKiaa. -
£ - fleaimg
nrilisepnc OiromeM
WTo.
nbsolafely
Reliable
& Weals
&
laaxnnxmna
A Rci/aDle Remedy for all eruption* and irntanons of the
Eczema. Pimples. Sore*. Chilblains. Chapped hands
? Sciatica. Hefting or Bleeding Piles. Cuts. Bums. Bruises. Scalds
Bad tegs. 3ung» of insects and all Kinds of Inflammation
3/-
Siren Songs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
UTTTEAR you ever, father, o’er these
waters
Voices singing as the daylight dies?
So might ring the songs of Neptune’s daugh-
ters
’Neath dim skies!”
•'Nay, son; ’tis some fancied sound you’re
hearing,
Cease jesting, and lean to your oar, and
row !.. . .
(Alas! did they not tempt me beyond bearing
Years ago!)
“Came one with sea-blue eyes, as tides were
falling.
Fast to my oar with flower-like arms she
clung.
•Come with me, fisherman,’ for ever calling;
And I was young !
As old as history she was, and told me,
The long night hours beguiling, of old
times,
With strange Phoenician stories she would
hold me,
And wild rhymes!
“She spoke of giant Norsemen boldly sailing;
Of Cleopatra meeting Anthony;
Of Maoris the ‘Long White Cloud’ isle hail-
ing
From out the sea !
Ever she sang : ‘l’ll show you treasures olden
Pearls whiter than my arms, and sapphires
blue,
The hoards of barbarous empires, massive,
golden,
And all for you !
“ ‘Yea, I and these are yours for the for-
swearing
Of earthly kith and kin without regret;
But come with me, and these will be past
caring,
You will forget!’
Oh, shapely arms of her, my boatside grop-
ing!
As her bright hair streamed coldly o’er my
breast!
And the wide eyes of her, shining and hoping
Like one possessed !
“Was I wise man or fool to check her
pleading?
Spurn her smooth body, prise her arms
apart,
And o’er the waters’ waste go shoreward
speeding
With breaking heart?
No mouth so meet for kisses, no eyes clearer!
Ah, still I see her when the dark tide falls!
Home, wife and son of mine, bind me yet
nearer,
Whenas she calls!”
“Father, hear again !”. . . .“Nay, my son, only
Dream voices o’er the main at close of
day ;
Fishers beset with fears as these when lonely.
Laugh them away!”
N.S.W.
EDITH M. ENGLAND.
The Sermon on the Rocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A NEWLY-GILDED youth had floated
into the Caravanserai—not the
winter-garden section of it, which
he apparently despised, but the halls that
admit women only behind the bar-counter.
At intervals he floated out of the Caravan-
serai and set a more or less safe course to
its rivals in the Street of Magic. Some-
times he navigated direct, but oftenest via
ports—represented by acquaintances made
immediately his prosperity had blown him
into the Street of Magic.
Desmond Byrne’s gale of prosperity was no
trade-wind; it blew once and was still. But
while it lasted Byrne combed it for about
£12,000, and then came to Sydney and the
Street of Magic to prove that that which
comes by wind goes by water —bubbling
water in gold-topped bottles. A fine stamp
of the Australian prospector he was, and at 26
he struck a reef worth three ounces, crushed
200 tons from it, and sold just before it cut
out. Then he had made for the arc-lights
with the plunder. His family were old
Sjdney-siders; and Desmond the youngest of
13. His father had lived in Upper Fort-
street ever since Windmill Hill became un-
fashionable and lost its old Colonial aris-
tocracy by removal —to Darling Point or
Necropolis, and, at the last, to Necropolis in
all cases. Some one of the big family of
the Byrnes, temporarily scattered by mar-
riage, returned to the old home almost every
day for an hour —sons-in-law and daughters-
in-law and sons and daughters and a new
generation of the Byrnes’blood. These worthily
succeeded to the social work father and
mother had made their own. It was almost all
church work —church decoration for Saints’
Days and beating up subscriptions for school-
picnics, using in the.se cadging excursions all
the sagacity of an elephant and the perse-
verance of a bull-ant, after the Byrne family
had themselves headed the list with the fat-
test donation of all. They also played the im-
presario in such parish functions as the
welcome of the new priest and the speeding
of the Father who departed. And now the
family had met for a conference, without a
priest, a raffle or a picnic on the agenda-
paper—the immediate salving of Desmond
Byrne, now threatening to become a total
wreck on the shifting sands of the Street of
Magic.
The father, a one-time big man, but. now
thinned and bent by age, was there; and
the mother, old and thin, too; and the
plump and handsome daughters and
daughters-in-law, good doers and happy
women, as their numerous olive-branches
attested; and a stray son or son-in-law.
They sat on the wide old colonial verandah,
stone-flaeared and shaded by trees that were
planted before the men of the Cabbage-Tree-
Mob were put into long trousers. West
of them lay the blue snakes that are the
Parramatta River and Lane Cove; easterly
Th<> Ror-ks. which wore the cradle of Aus-
tralia and its tragic swaddling. And old
Dan Byrne wet his lips to say his say as
patriarch, his little mouth puckered to an
O for the precise manner of his speech.
“ ’Tis terrible, thin, mind you/’ said old
Dan Byrne. " 'Tis not the twelve t’ousan’
pound, tho’ he'll have the our.se of God on
him for shpendin’ that money in Cashtle-
reagh-street—that was the wicked place back
in the ould days, and built up in a new way
without changin’ its nature, mind you.
There he is wit’ the money God gave him
out of the little sliaf’ in the ground”
“But, Dad, Des spent a lot of money on
presents for us girls, and mother and you,”
said the prettiest sister of the sinner.
“A t’ousan’ here and a t’ousan’ there,”
replied Dan. “An’ what is it to the wicked-
ness of him? Dice an’ cards an’ horse-
racin’: moty ears an’ t’eatres an’ drinkin’
in proliib’ted hours; an’ the end of it t'
come, mind you.”
“Dos ought to get married, Dad. He’s
good—-we know that —and it would steady
him.”
“Didn’t I offer him Tim Sullivan’s
daughter, didn’t I?”
The prettiest sister laughed. “You did,
but .she didn’t; and Des wouldn’t have her,
anyhow.”
_ “An’ now there’s the goship round on
Cash tier eagh-sti’eet that a woman have got
hold of him. An’ what is she but a flower-
girrl—a flower-girrl sellin’ nosegays on the
pavemint.”
“Oh, no, Dad. She has a florist’s shop
near the l’ost Office.”
“A flower-girrl’s a flower-girrl—mind you
that.”
“Tailin’ me Desmond wit’ her roses, an’
her shweet peas, an’ her shnap-dragons, an’
her lilies of* the vale, bad luck to her,” said
Desmond’s mother bitterly.
“He’s leadin’ the bad life; an’ word or
whimper o’ mine wouldn't shtop him in his
mad career. Not if I cried the bitter tears
to wet me handkerchy would it shtop him
one iota, mind you!”
"Ah, Dad, Des i.s good ; but he won’t be
driven. And you know you bully without
knowing it. Yes, you do. You bully us.
But we love you just the same, and so' does
Des.”
“Des, is it? Devil a bit have he of affec-
tion for his poor ould mother an’ father!”
“Shtop, Father!”
“ ’Tis thrue I’m tellin’ you, mother. Divil
a wan of him cares—wit’ his dicin’, his
playin’ the kyards an’ his flower-girrl.”
“He’d take advice if it came from any-
body else, Father. Not from you, because
you bully.”
"Oh, I do, do I? And who would the mad
lad take advice from? Answer me that.”
“Father Qnilty.”
They all spoke at once, and all in praise
of Father Qnilty—the women enthusiastic,
the men acquiescent; and the head of the
family admitted the value of Father Qnilty
with many sagacious nods and much pucker-
ing up of his little mouth. Old Dan thought
so much of the suggestion indeed that he
dressed in his best and went down the hill
to Ilarrington-Street, on the eastern side of
the Books. There he found Father Qnilty,
and in the presence of the necessity to be-
little a member of his family by telling the
truth of him, old Dan fenced and traversed,
and advanced and sidetracked and retreated;
so amusing Father Qnilty, who from a know-
ledge of Desmond knew what Dan was try-
ing to say.
“I was up to me ould place at Windshor
the other week,” said Dan. "Y’remember
that baldy-faced horse I had there your
time, Father—when I was ploughin’ up that
40 acre near Oxhberry River, then? D’v
mind that baldy-faced horse? Well, he do
be dead. But I think I told y’ that before,
mind you.”
"Ye did, Mishter Byrne, ye did; an’ ye
come to talk to me about Desmond.”
“That’s thrue, then. Father Quilty. That's
thrue. He’s the throuble of me life. ’Tis
a dacent family he belongs to, and him a
dacint lad, till God give him the cursed
money in the little gold-minin’ hole. And
now ’tis the bad lad he is. Hazardin’ all
night an’ dhrinkini his cocktails in pro-
hib’ted hours, an’ up an’ down C’ashflereagli-
street mornin’, noon ah’ night. And no
woman do be safe from him.”
“Oh, tut. tut. Mr. Byrne. Tut, tut!
Never believe that. He’s a good lad an’
likes his little drink with the village lads,
and his bettin’ on the pony races; but a
good lad.”
“ ’Tis a shtrange woman have got him,
Father-—sellin’ flowers in a florisht’s shop
■near the Posht Office, mind you. Bitter
flowers they be to him; the Devil’s weeds
they’ll be.”
“But what advice can I give you?”
“Go an’ see him —come an’ see him wit’
me. Tell him iv the powers o’ Hell an’ the
curse o’ God an’ the wickedness of sin;
don’t spare him, and maybe back he’ll come
to his duty.”
“And his duty he has neglected this manv
a month, then. I’ll do it with you. And
when ?”
“Now, Father! Now ! It’s this woman
that frightened me, the far-away he have
gone from us. Come on. Father—l’ll find
him before he goes any further.”
So old Dan Byrne, with his bent frame
walking bravely to keep step with the hearty
Father Quilty of the merry eye and the
rich complexion won from Australian sun
and the wines of Oporto, walked down to
George-.street and took a car to the Post
Office, and then walked up tho hill to the
Street of Magic, and searched for Desmond
Byrne, 28 years old, 14 stone in weight and
popularly alleged to be booked to the Devil
direct without stop-over rights.
They visited the Caravanserai and its
rivals, and had a drink at each, so that old
Dan approached the last resort of the flor-
ist’s shop with a strengthened determination
to play the stern parent, and Father Quilty
went with him feeling so kindly disposed to
all the world that Desmond’s penance pro-
mised to be light.
And at the little florist’s shop they found
the Original Gold Brick Man —a young man
telling a young girl how he loved her, and
the girl acting back at him; for although
the lovers be all honest, yet they are but
the buttoners for that confidence-trickster.
Life, who strings them on to get children,
so that one day Desmond, for instance, may
play the part of Dan to Dan’s grandson.
They made a fine picture: Desmond, big
(Continued on next page.)
MURIEL : “We have a bridge party to-night. You hare plenty of cigarettes for the men;
the ladies would like sweets."
HARRY: “I will bring home some of Hillier's Chocolates, then."
MURIEL: “ Excellent .”


FOOTBALLERS
EVERYWHERE USE
am
Buk
COR years footballers everywhere have used Zam-Buk for
* their bruises, barked shins, strained muscles, gravel-rash
and other skin troubles. Zam-Buk was the official first-aid
of such famous teams as the All Blacks, the Springboks, the Northern Union Foot-
Ball Tourists, and other famous athletic combinations.
Trainers and first-aid men always carry a box of Zam-Buk in their kit. Indeed,
the regular use of Zam-Buk in the dressing-room has undoubtedly helped many
a team to win the highest honors of our national winter game.
1 he majority of accidents to footballers are perhaps not serious in themselves;
but if they are not properly treated in the first place, even minor injuries may
prove very troublesome.
By making Zam-Buk your official first-aid you have always for
instant use a perfectly safe, sure and swift healer, and a preparation
which will safeguard you from blood-
poison and festering. In addition, when
Zam-Buk is rubbed well into the skin,
it imparts new vigor to the tissues and
keeps the muscles pliable. Used when
signs of over-training or strain appear,
Zam-Buk is likewise invaluable in re-
storing vitality to tired limbs. No foot-
baller should be without his box
of Zam-Buk. j
ix y
°WfIT
MinerAlOrug
s*
H“ia
£sS«SBS
?ocatiom
/JB/
/
i4s*
Js?*
WSB
z
safes
>"/
. - -- -
.
, /
erf*
Dow
<^A»J
3J
PRAISE FROM THE
ENGLISH NORTHERN
UNION TEAM.
Mr. John Wilson , the Secretary-
Manager of the last English team
to visit Australia , the North rn
Union Football Tourists , says:
“Players tell us how necessary it is
to have such a safe and swift healer
as Zam-Buk always ready to ward
off blood-poison and festering
As on the athletic field, so in
the factory, workship and home,
Zam-Buk is the ideal antiseptic
healer for the cuts, burns, bruises
and other everyday accidents
that WILL happen. Zam-Buk,
in fact, is recognised as the
world’s greatest healer and skin
remedy—the ideal “first-aid” for
which the mother in the home,
the husband at work, and the
children at play stand in daily
need. 1/6 and 3/6 everywhere.
and blonde and blue-eyed, his clean skin con-
tradicting tales of recent big drinkings; and 1
the flower-girl, slight and dark and graceful. :
And never was a stage set better for the
aggrandisement of lovers and the defeat of
wisdom. The shop was filled with roses and
wistaria and Sydney-side’s own blooms of
Spring and September—native rose, flannel-
flower and waratah. The flower-girl moved
among them, a flower herself, exotic and
waxen as the frangipani.
Desmond looked annoyed at their intru-
sion, although no more than if he had had
to resent the interruption caused by mere
purchasers; but he introduced them'to the
flower-girl, forgetting, by the way, to go
beyond her first name, which was Beatrice;
and when his father confusedly told him
he was required on business, he said: “Ilalf-
aii-hour, that’s all, Bee,” and the old men
fitted their hats to her and left the shop
in convoy of their prize. Now they had
captured it they didn’t know what to do
with it. It was so quiet and well-poised
that the stages of homily, repentance, par-
don and peace didn’t seem easy of accom-
plishment. I cry carefully, as a nervous drover
with scrub-bulls, who may at any moment
stampede, they convoyed Desmond Byrne
down to the priest’s house and paraded him
for punishment, but as judges who feared
tbe prisoner breaking out of the dock and
clearing the court. And the reason was
that of their own knowledge they had found
no wrong in him because he looked as fresh
as a boy.
, “Ye see, Desmond,” said Father Quilty,
'ye haven’t attended your duty for a long-
time.
“I’ve been so. long in the bush, Father, that
I lost the habit. I’m ‘sorry I’ve given you
any hard thoughts of me.” ’
“Devil the hard thought we’ve had of ye,
Desmond. But ye’ve been back in Sydney
two months an’ more, and nothing but
Uastlereagh-street and the races has anybody
.seen of ye‘.”
. “Cashtlereagli-street it is,” piped old Dan.
Ivyards all day an’ all night, an’ cock-
tailin’ in prohib’ted hours.”
“A minnit, Mr. Byrne, a minnit, Desmond.
’Tis not only the health y’re squanderin’,
an’ the shplendid man-strength God gave
you ; ’tis your immortal future an’. the fear
of Hell-fire for you.”
“The cursed money God gave him from
the little gold-minin’ hole,” interrupted old
Dan, newly courageous because of his son’s
silence, and not seeing the stubborn jaw
setting for a fight. “An’ for Hell-fire—an’
he won’t like that ayther. I remember him
would put his finger in the fire when his
mother wasn’t lookin’ an’ roared like a bull-
calf,_ an’ she tearin’ a bit o’ linen from her
petticut, an’ sweet oil on it, an’ a kiss to
make it well.”
“There’s your character, Desmond —your
strong, perverse, stiff-necked character.
Hear your father tell how your mother would
try to keep your finger out of the fire, and
you would put it in, an’ roared like a bull-
calf for your mammy.”
“Oh, for the love of her, don’t talk about
it,” said Desmond, greatly ashamed for hav-
ing roared like a bull-calf, although it was
24 years past.
e have to talk about it,” said Father
Quilty. “Keep your pleasant vices; go on
as you are doing—cocktails and races and
gambling and drink, and you’ll be in a fire
where there’ll be no bit of lint off a poor
ould petticoat with sweet oil on it, because
in the temperature of Hell lint and sweet-oil
wouldn’t last half of _ a split-second by a
fast clock, and there’ll be no poor ould
mother there to _ kiss the part to make it
well, because she'll be up among the blessed
saints, and you down there agonising for
eternity.”
“Oh, Hell!” said the so r el y - tried you n g
man, suffering, but too polite to run away
from one whom he loved, and the other whom
he respected.
Father Quilty seized on the word. “Hell
it is! You’ve said the word. It won’t be
your little finger that will burn; it will be
your body and your heart; your blood and
your brain; from your toenails to your knee-
cap; in your calves and your thighs; your
bowels and your heart; your lungs and your
mouth ; your ears and your throat. And it
won t be for a minute, like your finger;
twill be for a hundred thousand million
years, and the end of it will only be the be-
ginning of it, an’ then you’ll start out to
burn again ; and no end and no beginning ; but
circle on circle through all the endless eterni-
ties of torment. That’s for you for your
pleasant vices. And look at ‘the life here
and thereafter for you, as a decent lad, with
your money in bank, not shpent in Sinful-
street over there; and you with a shweet
wife going to your duty; and sometimes the
good fellowship of the presbytery and a drop
there of the good stuff to keep you reason-
able; for all work and no play make Jack
a dull boy, as I know to me cost.”
“There’s you, Desmond,” said his father,
puckering his mouth and contracting his face
—“there’s you, if you like; an’ there’s you
as you are, hazardin’ an’ cocktailin’ an’
fasht wimmen”
"That’ll do,” said Desmond Byrne.
"That black flower-girrl there in the flor-
ist s shop”
“That’ll do, father,” repeated Desmond,
but more sternly. “Don’t go too far; I’m
going to marry her.”
“A black currse on the day of it, with
your poor mother cryin’ her eyes blind when
she hears of you marryin’ a girrl like that.”
“A girl like what?” demanded the son
furiously. “She’s the best girl that ever
was. It was meeting her that made me give
the go-by to drinking and gambling.”
“Oho! Yoii give up the hazardin’ an’ tin'
drinkin’, did you, me son ?”
“I did—-from the first time I met her,
when I went to the shop to buy a wreath
for Tom O’Connor’s funeral.”
“Poor ould Tom ! An’ y’ remembered him,
an’ give up the drinkin’ an’ the rest! Well,
then, she’d be a good girl, then, maybe”
“Maybe! Maybe! Who’s the man that
dare say a word to me against Trixie
Maguire ?”
Old Dan and Father Quilty looked at one
another.
“Trixie Maguire, is it? A good Catholic
name it is, Desmond, me lad! Was her
father Gavin Maguire, used to be a big
carrier and died shtrainin’ himself trying to
lift galvanised-iron his men couldn’t move?”
“He was her father.”
“Well, then, Mr. Byrne, ye knew Gavin
Maguire. Why, ’tis fine stock!”
“ ’Tis a good name Thrixie Maguire,” said
old Dan. "A fine name an’ a good name to
her. Why, Desmond, wud I say a wurd ag’in
me daughter-in-law Thrixie? I’d twist the
shnput of the man who would ayther. Good
luck to you ! • And good-bye to Sinful-street
an’ the cocktailin’ in prohib’ted hours.”
“All hours are prohibited for me for that,
and I did the prohibiting myself,” said Des-
mond Byrne, and took a hand of each. “Tell
me, Father Guilty,” he said, “all your threats
about burning in unconsuming fire, from
my toenails to my topknot, and burning for-
ever, and then starting out to burn again.
Was that a true bill?”
“Thrue enough, me lad,” said Father
Quilty, looking down at the foreground of
his waistcoat.
“Was it, father?” asked Desmond of Dan.
“To burn a thousand million years and then
start out to burn again with the same capa-
city for pain? Do you say it's true, father;
all true?”
“Ah, well, mind you,” said Dan, now hedg-
ing for safety, “Father Quilty might be misli-
taken about the time o’ the burnin’ of a
sinner hunderds o’ t’ousan’s o’ millions o’
years. No ! ’Tis too much !No man’s con-
shtitution would slitand it!”
“Danny Byrne,” said the delighted Father
Quilty, "I give ye a penance for that. Ye
shall dance next week at the wedding of
Trixie Maguire.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Tragedy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
FOR three days and nights it had rained.
For three days the big brown taran-
tula had stuck on the kitchen wall,
upside-down, staring into the abysmal depths
of a large saucepan on the shelf below.
On the fourth day the rain blew out to
sea, and the sun lit up the interior of the
saucepan. The spider at once observed that
there was nothing in it, so he ran down
the wall, stealthily manoeuvred in and out
among the pots and pans on the shelf,
dropped on the linoleum. and sprinted for
the door.
From the chink between two bricks in a
gutter he looked out on a bright green world.
When a spider looks at you lie brings to
focus on you not one pair of eyes, not
one dozen,’but scores of them; for around
the margin of his two largest are clustered
dozens of twinkling tiny ones. So, when the
hairy-legged tarantula took stock of the
situation from his niche in the red brick
you may be sure he noticed the fowl-run not
many feet from him.
But one thing he could not see until too
late.
Over the back fence, flying slowly, gleam-
ing steel-blue in the morning sun, droned a
beautiful mason-bee, the hum of her flight
sounding like a distant aeroplane. Sud-
denly the pitch of the note rose as she leapt
into speed—the spider had been sighted.
Hairy legs moved at their top; he flicked
along the gravel path like a brown leaf in
a gust of wind. But the mason-bee screamed
by like a blue bullet.
On a dead canna-leaf, fallen across the
path, the tarantula stopped, blending with
the leaf’s light brown ; no human eye would
have detected, him. His pursuer, however,
was a specialist; spotting spiders was her
game. Hardly pausing in her headlong
rush, and before he could whip round and
confront her with his terrible mandibles,
she swooped and stung.
Once again a brown blob flashed over the
ground, across a narrow strip of green grass
and under the dense duranta hedge, live feet
high. Once again the long, blue form of the
great bee shot low over the gravel path to
the attack. In and out between the spikes
of the hedge she swung, buzzing in frenzied
rage as she explored every angle and dark
nook of the foliage, hunting down her hiding
prey.
Under a dead branch she found him,
crouching, motionless, petrified with fear.
Then began a fierce guerilla war. The
spider started to climb. He wound around
branch and stick and leaf in a frantic spiral
ascent. From whatever angle his opponent
attacked she encountered the hooked man-
dibles of the tarantula; she could not out-
flank him nor surprise him, and in the dim
light the network of thorny growth impeded
the lightning swoops which were her most
effectual means of out-manoeuvring him.
So the battle went on. As they passed
into the highest parts of the hedge, the
foliage thickened and the spider’s advantages
multiplied. Indeed, but for a tactical error
of judgment on his part he might have
eluded the mason-bee altogether.
lie foolishly appeared on top of the hedge.
The bee immediately delivered a dagger-
thrust, and he tumbled out on to the couch-
grass below. For a few moments a whirl
of blue and brown marred the green sweep
of the lawn, as legs and wings mingled in a
wild embrace.
Then the tarantula’s great body relaxed
and the mason-bee, who had been whirring
like a high-power drill, alighted on her
paralysed foe.
The bee’s first action after her foe’s down-
fall was to sting him again, five or six
times. She was nothing if not thorough.
After that, the eight bristling legs, once the
pride of a mighty hunter and each over
two inches long, were lopped off: bitten
clean in two, close up to the huge, fat
body.
All the time the victor buzzed contentedly,
her long, bright yellow antennae flickering
gaily.
No sooner had she finished this surgical
operation than she lifted the whole remain-
ing mass, grasping it by the middle with
jaws almost the size of the spider’s, and
made once more for the hedge.
Up this she climbed with her burden. On
the top she turned around once or twice
to get her bearings. Then the strong beauti-
ful wings were raised up as she poised her-
self for flight, and all being in order launched
out into mid-air.
A. W. D'OMBRAIN.


m
WESTIN CHO USE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency-
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINQHOUSE
BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
WEST, N. S.
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane,
N.Z, Office—93-107 Feathereton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Molbo>inie.___
f
7
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches; Stroke of Piston 2% inches;
Weight 621 b.
A Jight, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per 'hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
sd
PERFORATED SHEET METAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For Mining,- Harvesting, Flour Milling, Fruit and freed
Grading, Road Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
MOTOR BONNET VENTS.
D. RICHARDSON 8 SONS PTY.LTD..Footscray.Vic.
fgsdfg
SPRING
sdf
You’ll Get Better
“An Eagle or a
Vo«K &V
n 4 N EAGLE ON A GLOBE” brand Hard Drawn
Spring Steel is guaranteed to coil to
retain its set under severe stress. It’s use is a safety-
first” precaution that also spells savings in better service
and reduced renewal and repair costs. An Eagle on a
Globe” Spring Steel will never fail _to function. W e
have large stocks in all gauges Price is right. Send
your order and ask for “Balfour s Hints on Steel. Post
Free.
Me Eagles- Mobe Steel O>JhL
Associated Company ARTHUR BALFOUR & CO., LTD.,
Sheffield,
MAKERS OF ULTRA-CAPITAL HIGH-SPEED STEEL,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanston Street, Mel-
bourne; Cliff Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder Road, Kal-
iroorlie• Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street, Newcastle; H. L.
Milligan, 32a Argyle Street, Ilobart; John Reid & Nephews,
34-36 Charlotte Street, Brisbane; Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd.,
88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Wortfj
a
guinea
a
J}ox.
For Your Stomach
The stomach is the largest organ in the
body and has important work to do.
It does it well, most of the time, so long
as you give it proper food and do not
over-load it. But sometimes it gets tired,
and a sick headache, biliousness, indigest-
ion, acidity and other symptoms warn
you that it is out of order and needs
help. Then it is time to take
BEKHANS
PIUS
The
Safe
Family
Remedy
S^f*
m,
They give welcome aid to the stomach, fof
they help the flow of gastric juice, increase the
activity of the digestive organs, carry off the
fermenting food, regulate the bile and cleanse
the system of the disturbing elements.
Beecham’s Pills are the safe family remedy
for the stomach, liver and bowels. They act
promptly and are a great help to the digestion.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Eng.
Sold in boxes, labelled ls-ljd and 2s-9d.
I nrieu.)
Mi
ft
/
//
A
v/r
U
C-14
gsd
[Remington “Wetproof* 5
Shotgun Cartridges
Are supplied under four trademarked brands
known the world over. j - .
“NEW CLUB” —with black powder loads.
“REMINGTON”— a moderate priced
smokeless cartridge of excellent quality.
“NITRO CLUB” —known to sportsmen
everywhere as a smokeless powder cartridge
of superior quality and dependability.
"ARROW” —the cartridge de luxe with a one-
inch brass base and other features making
it the highest type. .... .
There are four types or kinds but only one grade—
the HIGHEST.
All cartridges loaded at our lactory are now
being treated with the Remington special ex-|
elusive, patented “Wetproof” process which
prevents damage from rain, dampness* or simr
ilar conditions frequently met in the field and
deterioration which often results in warm damp
climates from storage of ordinary cartridges.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/C per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars pogted on application
to Tiie Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
fg
1 SCHUTE,
BELL&C?td.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, wlio will quote you price for it.
. v
m
m
m
-
KiWt
1
ffisi
.
4
"4
u
■V?
» .:
'
■~3?S
sstil
-•
Do you know of any better Motor Vehicles than those turned
out by these firms?
Rolls Royce, Napier & Son, Rudge Whitworth,
Crossley Motor Co., Clement Talbot, B.S.A. Limited,
Wolseley Motor Co., Douglas Bros., Sunbeam Motor Co.
Daimler Limited,
Don’t you think their choice in the matter of Piston Rings
ought to be guidance enough for you? Well then,
WHEN BUYING PISTON RINGS
just consider that all these Manufacturers of Highest-Grade
Motor-Cars, and all the other First-class English Motor Manu-
facturers as well, use
BRICO PISTON RINGS.
Brico Piston Rings are BRITISH MADE, in a magnificently-
equipped factory which turns out a larger number of Piston
Rings than does any other factory in the United Kingdom.
PRICES OF BRICO PISTON RINGS.
Up to and including 2fin. dia. (70 M/M)
Up to and including 4in. dia. (101.5 M/M)
Up to and including sJin. dia. (149 M/M)
2/6 each
3/- each
4/6 each
,304 Pitt St.,
DISTRIBUTORS OF BRICO PISTON RINGS,


"Ifiu
-Je-e
tKem
/
BpK&aCMI
v:l
1
•O'.
O
THUS
if®
■t.
S'*
Features that Make the Citroen the Worlds Economy Car.
Low cost of upkeep has made the Citroen famous the world over. Thirty-eight miles to the
gallon of petrol in the hands of the owner; up to 30,000 miles to the set of tyres; long
life and freedom from repairs that come from superior construction—such is the performance
of the Citroen. The smooth, flexible power, silent running and deep-seated luxury of the
Citroen are appreciated only on trial. If you cannot call, write for Citroen Booklet, contain-
ing full particulars.
Petty s Hotel, Sydney,
PRESTON MOTORS PTY., LTD., June 19, 1922.
Clifton Hill, Melbourne.
Dear Sirs, —
With reference to your recent inquiry about my trip to the
'Glen Wills district in Gippsland, I am pleased to say that my
Citroen four-seater behaved splendidly throughout the long and
strenuous journey from Melbourne (via Omeo), and gave the
greatest satisfaction, with tivo companions on board and a heavy
load of luggage. The “Little French Demon” climbed every hill
with the greatest ease, and surprised and delighted us all with its
wonderful economy in petrol.
A careful check on the petrol used was Jcept throughout the
trip, and lam pleased to say that the actual consumption R-c
700-odd miles we travelled worked out at I+o miles to the gallon.
You are at liberty to use these facts in support of the merits
of this wonderful little car. Yours faithfully,
( Owner’s name on request.)
AGENTS—
NEW SOUTH WALES—Bradley Brothers, Ltd., Wentworth
Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND —Websters Motor Co., Ltd,, 86-90 George
Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA—Preston Motors Pty., Ltd., Clifton Hill, Victoria.
TASMANIA—Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—The Maughan Thiem Motor Co.,
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Messrs. Gilberts, Ltd., 47 King
Street Perth#
NEW" ZEALAND—N.Z. Farmers’ Co-op. Association, Christ-
church; Ley land Motors, Ltd., Wellington.
Factory Representatives:
W r . A. Crowle, Ltd., Crowle House,
161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
*>
S 1&
V&.
m*
m
m
Bn
Sfifo'i
m
tv
£§3
3K
■ v-»;
33
. ■. . '«
1
m
if
mi
m
tsm
vsiM\
mk
®r«
CITROEN
ll
m
m
m
s®
m
W*!£
wrsr;
981
£&t§2
SacST* • •T«CV’/
m
T rA
m
'@S!
) //
