

V T
“PASS
#
n
y V 45 >,
0
i
,
h
ĥ
ħ
A Set of Stewart Accessories is a Passport
to Pleasant, Comfortable, Safe Motoring.
Stewart Speedometers, Vacuum Tanks, Autoguards, Searchlights,
Warning Signals, Rear Vision Mirrors, Stop Signals, Warnometers,
etc., are being used to-day by Over Seven Million Motorists.
For sale by Wholesale and Retail Accessory Dealers throughout Australia, including the following Interstate Service Stations:—
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., SYDNEY; BERRY & ROCHE PTY., LTD., MELBOURNE;
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., BRISBANE; CORNELL, LTD., ADELAIDE;
ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, PERTH.
The Bulletin
Vot. 44.—N0. 2265.
Thursday, July 12, 1923*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The new Library Catalogue for 1923 is
now ready, and it will be sent post free, with
full particulars, on application.
DYMOCIv’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
LYSAGHT
o
D
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Irom
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
fIRRRAStt
wm
iksshsksh
■ i
m
Leather for Long Life.
Mangrovite Leather or Raw Hide Belting is impervious to
heat or cold, moistness or dryness of atmosphere, odds,
fumes, steam or dust. It maintains its power saviag, unre-
laxing', elastic grip, under all conditions of service a»«l <>»
all classes of drives.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
4.9 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd. .
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 575-8 S
Lonsdale Street,- Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA”: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 5 Bedford Row, Chnstefciwc*.
Perfect Gifts
The leading pen is always
an acceptable gift. It is
the symbol of friendship,
for with every use it will
inspire a kindly thought of
the donor. It is a beautiful
gift, yet useful and lasting,
and will prove a constant
pocket or desk companion.
'&WAN
FoWNTWNS
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Self-filling Patterns, Standard Patterns,
Safety Patterns. Illustrated List post free.
MABIE, TODD 8 CO., LTD.,
Swan House, 133-135, Oxford Street, London, W.l
Manchester, Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Sydney, Toronto and
Cape Town. Associate House: Mabie, Todd & Co,, Inc.
New York, Chicago.
Australian Branch (Wholesale):
J. A. BURKE. 5. Primrose Buildings. 255 a. George
Street. SYDNEY.
m
iiiliiiiiiiiilllillHll
liiiuuiiiimmuiiuimj;
KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
Made in England: Loaded in Australia. For
all gauges of shot-guns, and loaded with the
best Powders.
In case of difficulty refer your dealer to; —
KYNOCH LIMITED,
90 WILLIAM
STREET,
MELBOURNE.
h
277 CLARENCE
STREET,
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
m
■p
A. The Larynx
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchia!
I Tubes of a Dissec-
ted Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
•f the Lungs.
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eume&thol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name ol
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute aud high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Red Page
The Apt and False
Review copies of two volumes of short
stories started this : The Best Short Stories
of 1922— 1. English and 11. American (Jon-
athan Cape). Before it is fairly moving I
catch myself thinking up phrases, little jolts
in my sentences, sudden punches carrying as
much pepper of impertinence as I think the
Bed Page will stand.. That, as I see it m
the chastened mood induced by these two
hooks, is to be apt and false, which is what
I want to dodge if I can. To-morrow I ex-
pect I shall be at it again—writing for
acceptance rather than for expression, I
mean; I have my living to earn Put to-
night I want to write straight. Not to bal-
ance any sentence (or not consciously) ; not
to button them up, twist them up, make
them eloquent, put pepper on them, put
penny-whistle music in them. Just to say it
stories are all good as examples of
work About 4(1 clever people writing im-
primis for acceptance have done very well.
But only one of them has reached the level
of short-story expression : Sherwood Anderson,
with a yarn called “I’m a Fool. tlait-a-
dozen of the stories are a bit mad; but I
think it is a conscious madness and that the
occasional vision in it would be more pro-
ductive in the older, saner formula of the
acceptable story. The other yarns all follow
that formula brilliantly—intrigumgly, dra-
matically, interestingly. The type being well
in my mind in its essentials of the acceptable
story —aptness, skill, discreet flashiness 1
enjoyed reading and admiring them. Thirty-
five years of reading have told me that this
is the short story, and six years of writing
have proved it to me. These are good collec-
tions of last year’s best samples. _
Formulas are the curse of writing. They
dog your footsteps from the beginning. The
wide formula of tradition narrows to that of
the paper you are writing for. You carry
on, saying “Next year, or the year after, 1
will write myself.” But the years go, and
you don't do it; and presently, where your
soul was, a half-dozen formulas sit mocking.
Writing is thought on paper: that is the
birthright of every writing man; and we
are all strumpets for the butcher’s bill or a
new suit —!>S> per cent, of us, anyhow. I
think in formulas, empty, thoughtless form-
ulas labelled with the names of newspapers.
I get excited while I’m doing my job of
work, and I do it as well as I can because
I’m conceited; but there’s no thought in it.
There’s nothing in it but a few tricks I’ve
absorbed. I don’t think; all the time Ive
been writing editors ami alleged readers
have been doing that for me. My job is to
make my copy apt to their thoughts, which
makes my copy false to its birthright.
That is the trouble with these 40 clever
people. You don’t notice it when you read
one clever story in a magazine; but when
you get two books of them you can’t help
noticing it. In a way, I suppose I’m Only
repeating that the magazine-story is artifi-
cial; but I think there’s more in it than
that. Take two examples from these books;
that good yam of Anderson’s, and, as I
judge yarns to-night, a superlatively bad one
called “Broadsheet Ballad,” by A. E. Cop-
pard. I knew Anderson’s work first a couple
of years ago in a collection Called “The Tri-
umph of the Egg”; and I thought it was
rotten- —formless, sexy, pretentious bosh.
That some occasional lights in the dark,
drunken mass showed that the man could
express only made the mass worse-. He evi-
dently knew what a short story was, but he
wouldn’t write one. Good; that settled
that. Anderson was hopeless.
Coppard was another matter. I knew
his work from “Hurly-Burly” in the London
Mekgtjky, “Pomona’s Babe” in some collec-
tion, and one or two other scattered stories.
He was the man. A finished, polished econ-
omy; here and there (but never too often) a
really singing phrase; a deft liabit of shoot-
ing a character out of the page in three hard
sentences; a sometimes magic co-ordination
of all the best tricks of the formula. He
was unquestionably the man with the future
of the short story in liis pocket. He became
rapidly and justly famous for his feat of lift-
ing the formulated short story out of its
fibrous death.
“Broadsheet Ballad” is the giddy pinnacle
of artistry in words. The story of village
love and vengeance comes out subtly and
delicately from the curiously formal conver-
sation of a mason and a tiler who are repair-
ing the roof of a red church in the village.
A fleecy, billowy cloud in the blue sky lets
fall a sudden shower, and the men - “step
down” from the roof and adjourn to the vil-
lage inn, where, over tankards of ale, the
story of bucolic love and broken faith is
told. The two village-beauty protagonists of
the yarn are “as like as two peas” ; the
woolly cloud in the blue sky; two rustics at
work, one on either side of a red-roofed
church —drinking ale in tankards, one on
either side of the table in the inn; the subtly
flat formality of the diction.... A vague
half-memory stirs as you read: rough, rigidly
balanced pictures in flat primary colors, two
of each of everything, the hopelessly stilted
doggerel of a village melodrama.. .You catch
sight of the title at the top of the page. Of
course a broadsheet ballad! Yon gasp
with admiration of the technique which can
tell you a poignant yarn and at the same
time build up a picture whose only hint is in
the title. Thereafter you read on delighted
with Ooppard and delighted with yourself
who can point outoso sensitively where the
little magic touches of the “ballad”-note
came in. You see the cunning man at his
desk picking out the cunning words, reject-
ing, considering, approving, finally using. At
the end you see the ballad complete, its raw
edges, bad type, stiff conventional duplicated
figures, its blood and rough bucolic lust, its
strange bucolic callousness. The story is
done; the rain is over; and the tiler and the
mason are back at work, one on either side
of the red roof of the church under the blue
sky. The utterly perfect exercise in tech-
nique is fiuished.
Now, the other fellow, Sherwood Anderson.
You don’t see him at all. You see only, his
thought. This is expressed in the clumsy,
repetitive, formless monologue of a youth
un ployed in a racing-stable. The thing hap-
pens before prohibition, and, cutting a dash,
he has a couple of drinks too many. These
induce him (or help him) to make the
acquaintance of a higher-class youth and two
higher-class girls who are with him. He gives
them a tip which comes.off. But before the
drinks have faded away he has carried his
dash to the extent of pretending that he is
the son of the owner of the stable, the eyes
of one of the girls glowing softly at him.
Soon he would give his hope of salvation tor
the pluck to tell her the truth. In the
evening they go picnicking till it’s time for
the girls’ and the other youth’s train. She
kisses him. And still he’s a fool —he can t
tell her the truth. Presently it is time to go
to the station ; his hungry heart absorbs all
the new strange beauty between the kiss and
the departure of the train. When it has
gone the fool “busts out and cries” on tua
platform. , \
That’s all. But I know the boy, and his
broken heart; I know the girl, wondering,
why he doesn’t write; I know the vision of
a spacious delicate vivid life which she be-
stowed upon the boy. I know all Anderson’s
simple human thought in this drifting, badly
“written,” throbbing story. Not a phrase,
not a fine point, not a “magic touch,” hardly
a decent sentence per formula 1328-1923.
Yet I can put my finger out and touch the
boy, see the tears on his haggard, angry face,
hear his tragic voice.
Anderson has kept his thought and his
birthright clean; hence they come out clean
to me. Floundering through the mass of
“The Triumph of the Egg” and the rest of
it, stubbornly refusing the formula, hanging
grimly on to the track of his own expression,
he makes port in triumph, so far as I am
concerned.
And he shows me clearly that the apt is
only the false, that the phrase is raging and
technique a mocker. Which is a jolt. I must
begin again.
HILABY LOFTING
A Book of Verse
This is my labor till the years are dead,
And yet the hire men give is almost naught.
So sang someone recently in The Bulle-
tin ; and he was unpleasantly in the right.
There is no being on earth so unfortunately
situated as the poet—unless it were the
trained nurse in English hospitals a short
while back. She had dinned into her ears
from dawn to dusk the glory and dignity
of her profession; she was taught to regard
herself as specially called for the noblest
of all callings. And while she was expected
to devote herself soul and body to the whole-
hearted service of humanity, humanity was
inexpressibly shocked when she demanded the
wherewithal to keep that soul and body to-
gether. So it is with the poet. He is
acclaimed as the Seer, the High Priest of
the Mysteries, the Voice crying in the Wil-
derness ; and he is lucky if, like John of old,
he find locusts and wild honey lor his sus-
tenance. .He is the Bird of _ Song; the
Fields of Heaven are open to him, so why
should he demand his daily bread like the
common barndoor fowl? liis fellow-artists
the painter and the musician are better off
than he, for if the pictures or the divinely-
inspired symphonies do not sell, or the con-
cert-room be empty, there is at least the
dreary but marketable drudgery of teaching
to fall back upon. The poet is no doubt of
the company of the immortals, but who ever
wants to study the technicalities which go
towards the making of his garment of immor-
tality? And, regardless of the fact that
both' require a long and arduous training,
the poet, like the nurse, is supposed to be
born, not made.
And when, his eye in a fine frenzy rolling,
the poet has at last succeeded in registering
an image, though imperfect, of that fleeting
Spirit of Beauty which haunts and pursues
him—when after infinite pain and travail
he has succeeded in delivering himself of
his message to mankind—what then? The
Bulletin will pay him for his verses, but
elsewhere he will be regarded with pained
surprise if he dare to hint at any recom-
pense for his days and nights of labor. And
what publisher will even help him in Ins
endeavors to lead and inspire the mass of
men—which is, he is always told, his mis-
sion upon the earth? Only when he is dead
are his manuscripts—his manuscripts which
cost him such intensity of anguish, such de-
light, such burning fever, such freezing de-
spair—of anv value. And it is hard to have
to wait until one is turned to qlay!
“In literature proper many an-aspirant is
shut out- by the expense of publication.” So
says Israel Zangwill in his preface to a book
of short poems written and published by a
Sydney woman, Edith M. Fry, whose work
in the sister-art of painting is already
widely known (Short Poems, by Edith M.
Fry, published by the Author, and printed
at the Asphodel Press, Hampstead, Eng.).
“By the device of the hand-press, which
Miss Edith M. Fry and Miss Pli.yllis Gard-
ner have illustrated so beautifully in this
little book, the cost of printing,” Zangwill
says, “may be reduced to a minimum. Nay,
like the princess of old who turned her own
spinning-wheel, the poet could print his own
poetry.” This little hand-made book is in-
deed a more pleasant thing to possess than
are most of the volumes turned out by the
commercial press. Its very simplicity has a
charm. Its brown-paper cover has for orna-
ment a woodcut of the familiar waratah de-
signed and executed by the clever daughter
of an English archaeologist, and the tail-
piece is also an example of her very original
work. The 20-odd poems, some of which
were originally printed in the Sydney Uni-
versity magazine, Hermes, or in The Lone
Hand, are not Australian in setting, but
the ideas and sentiments which they embody
are common to all humanity. Through ail
lands blows the wind that knocks at the door
of the lonely spirit, and bids it walk abroad
between the stars and the sea.
Edith Fry has shown a way through the
difficulties which so hamper the maker of
poetry. And, incidentally, it may be re-
marked that such volumes as this, though
(Continued on page S .)


itoe
Furnish for a Lifetime’s
at ANTHONY
Gomfort and Satisfaction
HORDERNS’
Two Bedroom Suites—attractive
in design, quality and value—are
illustrated. Description cannot
convey the real intrinsic worth of
these Suites—examination is neces-
sary to appreciation. Beyond
examination, again, comes the test
of service, and, for several gener-
ations, Anthony Horderns’ Furni-
ture —made in their own cabinet-
works—has been proving itself
under that exacting test.
ill
wmi
'M/'J,
:
The “Beatrice”
Bedroom Suite
Price
£39/10/-
THE BEATRICE BEDROOM SUITE, made of picked figured
Queensland Maple, fumed a rich brown and lined with Pacific
Maple, includes a sft. 6in. Wardrobe, 21 inches deep, which
enables coat hangers to hang easily when door is shut—two-
thirds hanging and one-third fitted with shelves, four sliding
trays for hats and shoes, with 3ft. 6in. Dressing Table, 22
inches deep with wide mirror; two small drawers and two long
drawers; 2ft. 6in. Pedestal Cupboard.
PRICE
£39/10,
THE BERNIE BEDROOM SUITE, made of picked figured
Queensland Maple, fumed a dark brown, and lined with Pacific
Maple, comprising: ft. 6in. Wardrobe, 21 inches deep, which
enables coat hangers to hang easily when door is shut—two-
thirds hanging and one-third fitted with shelves and four sliding
trays for hats and shoes; sft. 6in. Dressing Table, 22 inches
deep, with wide mirror, two small drawers and three long
drawers; 2ft. 6in. Pedestal Cupboard.
PRICE
£42/10/-
The “Bernie”
Bedroom Suite
Price
£42/10/-
i
nit n
; I 'l
W* 1 //l/MS
v
-
~l
m
V
\
O
ijs
\JC\
m
a
U|U»
pitt
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440,


ft. 'W
A
V
//
a£>\
>A
S 3
e>
XT
O
G>
<•.?'•
VWv-
*• V W.
l
v ; -V
c
41
K
%
LA
fit
U
r*
>
&£
'/
MACKIE & C°, DISTILLERS L TD Glasgow London.
Proprietors of White Horse Whisky
Estab d 1742
Agents for New South WaIes. DALCETY is C? LT? SYDNEY.
Agents for Victoria, GROVES, MrVITTY fc C° PTY L™ M ELBOURNE.


Use FIRESTONE
as a standard of comparison with other
Tyres and you will begin to realise their
matchless quality. Firestone Tyres mean
to the car owner the utmost known limit of
safe, comfortable mileage. Long before
automotive transportation had assumed its
present importance they were being designed
and built by men of vision and skill to hold
a pre-eminent place in the industry. They
are made of the toughest and most resilient
rubber and offer maximum resistance, and
from season to season in every climate with-
stand the difficult tests of wear and tear on
Australian roads.
N.S.W. Agents:
FIRESTONE TYRE DISTRIBUTORS LTD.
143 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone City 10338
Queensland Agents:
E.'G. EAGER & SON LTD., Newstead, Brisbane
Jirtztom
cheaply produced and unpretentious, have a
permanent value to the sinful and soulle
collector of the future, that expensive and
elaborate productions of the steam-press can
never have. Take courage, then, O lean and
hungry poet! If the offspring of thy brain
shall never be so highly esteemed .
children of Mammon as the fattingot tne
herd, yet shalt thou be permitted t
to lay it upon the altars of the 1 üblic, toi
at least a nominal fee.
DORA WILCOX.
Sex and Language
Few people will challenge L. Ross s
statement that the modern flapper s speecn
is “a series of ugly exclamations ; few wi
deny that most women speak carelessly,
using a monotonously small vocabulary. ±>ut
is this fault confined to women? The male
type which corresponds to the flapper is
equally lazy in his speech, and if possible less
interesting. “Awf’ly jolly,” or some sue
inanity, describes everything he sees or teeis;
the sporting press satisfies his intellectual
needs. The writers who decry woman s in-
tellect always ignore the intellectual woman
while assuming that all men are intellectual,
yet to judge the entire female sex by the
sundae-consuming flapper is as foolish as to
judge men by the weedy youth who attends
the Stadium. When Mr. Ross (I in^
he is a man) says “woman” he means
educated girl”; when he says man he
means “cultivated gentleman. ’ lliese two
types are not comparable when making gem
eral statements concerning the intellectual
powers of the sexes. As well compare
George Eliot with Beau Brummell; we might
then draw the unjustifiable inference that
women are scholars and men dandies.
Comparisons between the sexes are futile
as well as odious. But since certain writers
insist on making them, why not compare
corresponding types? If we must compare
the speech of men and women, let us com-
pare the educated with the educated. There
seems to me only one general statement that
can be confidently asserted about the speech
of women —namely, that they talk far more
than men. This applies to the educated as
to the ignorant; wherever two or three
women are gathered together, there is the
incessant babble of tongues. But as regards
the form and substance of the conversation
of educated women, this varies infinitely, as
with men. Some talk carelessly, some are
ultra-precise ; some are extraordinarily fluent,
some are deliberate and even sententious.
Many have extensive and well-chosen vocabu-
laries. The educated woman does not talk
in blanks and exclamation-marks, nor does
she habitually describe everything as sweet ;
though she, in common with most men, finds
it difficult to avoid the catchwords of her
generation. Adjectives have their day, and
even the educated classes are constrained
on occasion to use entirely senseless expres-
sions because they are on everyone s lips, lo
quote Chesterfield’s remark about the line
woman” and her eternal adjective “vastly
does not prove that women are constitution-
ally unable to express themselves with accu-
racy * it merely shows that the society woman
in all ages is generally an empty person with
a defective education. The same may be saw
of the society beau, who, m Chesterfield s
tiny-, had an affection for the adjective devil-
ish ” which fully equalled his lady s obses-
sion for “vastly.” Such words as awfully,
“blooming” and “lovely” have been debased
by men as by women; it was a man whom
Tennyson reproved for being awfully glad
to see him.” ,
“Men work; women talk. Men think,
women gush,” says Mr. Ross firmly and dis-
misses the subject. But such superficial gen-
eralities do not settle a question since they
are so manifestly inaccurate. Why make
such statements, in a world where thousands
of women are crushed by work, where thou-
sands of men think of nothing deeper than
football 9 Perhaps Mr. Ross wished to draw
n nrotest: if so, he has been successful.
1 n x> i\/r
C. B. M.
Bullock Punching and the Fine Arts
They have got more to do with one an-
other than you city pundits think.
To most cockies and station hands, and
to practically all drovers, fossickers, etc.,
and to every real bushman, the fact that the
new moon sets just after the sun goes to
rest, and from that on a little later every
night until it sets in its first quarter at mid-
night (taking night as sunset to sunrise), is
as evident as the fact that m this latitude
the sun rises in the morning and sets at
nidit Also that the moon rises about sunset
when it is full, and a little later every night
until in its last quarter it shows itself about
midnight; so that bush people by a glance at
the moon can give a near guess at the time
of night. And a true bushman can do the
same by the stars, when there is no moon.
But your average townie, if you told him to
look for a new moon or a full moon, or a
moon in any other stage, would not know
whether to turn east, west, north or south;
and this although the moon has not altered
its habits —-well, not since I was an infant,
o nvhow.
Well-known writers of fiction, w T ho pose
and are accepted as travellers, educated
people and students of nature, both human
and otherwise, frequently make their moons
act most irregularly. I have just been read-
ing a chapter of “The Garden of God by
H de Vere Stacpoole. As dusk falls, and the
first stars come out, Stacpoole’s moon, in its
“first quarter” is just “rising” over the
trees’ In “The Harvester, by Gene Strat-
ton Porter, who is enthusiastically acclaimed
as a great ’nature-student, the young man sits
on his doorstep and carves wood till it gets
too dark; but shortly afterwards an oblig-
ing “crescent” moon rises, to give him light,
and he continues his carving. Shortly after
he sees a vision of his future wife by the
same crescent moon. And at the end of
the book, the said wife materialises in the
ravs of another crescent moon in the early
nivht As a crescent moon never rises till
the third quarter of the night, I can only say
that this man and his wife kept bad
hours for farming people. Another book
written a few years ago by one who was
hailed by publishers, public and critics as a
ireat traveller, with a thorough knowledge
darkest Africa, dealt with African canm-
bals who are, among other things, moon wor-
shippers. They perform their great cannibalis-
tic rites at the time of the New Moon, which
with them, doubtless in grateful recognition 1
of their worship, rises soon after dark, and
lasts most of the night!
Nor is it only as to the moon that the
town-bred writer proves himself a poor
nature-student. Of this one instance must
suffice. I forgive and pass by the artist who
painted a well received picture of a sow and
her family feeding at a trough with not even
one pig’s foot in the trough, and arrive at
“The Dop Doctor.” Near the beginning ot
the book a bullock driver is flogging “the
sweating foam-flecked hides of his bullocks-
I have forgotten the exact words; but that
is approximate. Having often had to chase
bullocks at top speed on hot days, and hav-
ing had something to do with many heavily-
loaded teams, with the glass anything up to
12Gdeg I am prepared to maintain that no
bullock’ever yet visibly sweated by his; hide.
The only visible sweat is from a bullock s
tongue.
Can you wonder if the bushman is in-
dined to doubt whether a person who has
had opportunity to observe the moon all his
life and knows so little of its habits is much
of an authority on anything else that cads
for observation?
WILLIAM COLOWES.
Ireland in Travail
During the eighties of last century William
O’Brien, author of The Irish Revolution
(Allen and Unwin), was prosecuted every
year or so on political charges, and spent
some time in gaol. He remains at 70 what
he was at 35, a redoubtable fighter and yet
a moderate; a malicious enemy (his joy is
articulate at the thought of the renegade
editor of the Cork Examiner being obliged
“to kneel daily at the feet of Miss Mary
MacSwiney to receive her orders as Mili-
tary Censor”) and yet a generous one.
(Carson once said of him: “He is the niost
forgiving Irishman I ever knew. )
who have read Ronald McNeill s Ulster s
Stand for the Union” will find a startling
similarity between the viewpoints of the old
Catholic Nationalist and the young Protes-
tant Tory. But the truth is. O’Brien s heart
is with the Protestant patriots of the cen-
tury to which he rightly belongs—Grattan,
Plunkett, Parnell —rather than with the men
of to-day • wliile the sectarianism of Devlin s
Molly Maguires disgusts him rather more
than that of Carson’s Orangemen. Phis is
partly due. no doubt, to a natural sentiment
of gratitude (he always polled a big Protes-
tant vote in Cork, while the Presbyterians
literally returned him for South Tyronne),
but it is also due in part to his hatred of
hypocrisy and tyranny. His former position
as an Ulster representative is one explana-
tion of the theory, which he continually
advances throughout his enormous book, that
the whole tragedy which began with Easter
Week of 1916 and has not yet ended.is based
on partition. His view of the origins ot
events may be summarised this way:—
(1) Carson and his Covenanters demonstrated to
the South, up to within two months of the World
War, that the King’s Government was to be defied
with impunity. “I do not care twopence whethei it
is treason or not,” said the Ulster leader at Coleraine.
“It is what we are going to do.”
(2) The shelving of the Home Rule Bill, followed
by the attempt to enforce conscription, produced
Easter Week. Either might have been borne, but in
conjunction they made the rising inevitable.
(3) The failure of the Convention gave Sinn Fein
its chance. The Convention failed, in O’Brien’s
opinion, because the Cabinet was not attempting
seriously to win over Ireland, but rather to impress
the United States with a view to inducing Washing-
ton to come into the war.
(4) A hideous mistake was made when De Va.era
and his 4000 gunmen, who had been safely interned in
England, were allowed to return to Ireland.
(5) The campaign of the Black and Tans (beaten
in the Carlton Club, so to speak, rather than in the
field) not only created the Free State: it also gave
rise to the irreconcilable republican element.
He was personally friendly with Ministers,
and had many conferences with them. Most
of them create a dismal feeling in the read-
er’s mind in regard to the calibre of the men
who were at the wheel in the Empire s
hour of danger. The following colloquy
occurred in May, 1916: —
Carson: “You cannot expect Ulster to come in
now.” O’Brien: “No. That is why I urge there
should be nothing precipitate. Spend the next six
months in mollifying the present bitterness—taKe
your military precautions by all means, but donit be
afraid to own there were faults on both sides. Trust
to leniency rather than to force, and we will then
be all in a better humor to come together in a
United Ireland.” Lloyd George (with sudden energy) :
“In six months the war will be lost.” Carson (throw-
in<r up his arms) : “If the war is lost we are all
lost.” Lloyd George: “The Irish American vote will
go over to the German side. They will break our
blockade and force an ignominious peace on us, un-
less something is done, even provisionally, to satisfy
America.”
This was written after an hour-and-a-half s
discussion with Bonar Law in March, 1919 :
To the end he seemed obstinately of opinion it
must be partition or nothing; but spoke with great
hopelessness of that and of the war, and as he
accompanied me to the hall-door, said it would per-
haps be better to do nothing, if they would be satis-
fying nobody.
The book is fully documented, but it has
two irritating defects: there is no index;
and the author, who has lived much in
foreign countries, constantly uses French
and Italian phrases where English ones
would express his meaning better.
JOHN POLDING.
Files, Ancient and Modern
No issue of our morning and evening jour-
nals is successfully born about whose_ con-
tents it is not possible for a display-bill or
a newsboy to emit some special howl. The
thing to be striven for is not a presentation
of the news as it is, but of the news as it
is different. Nothing matters so much as
that one rag may print something—true or
false or scandalous—that the compilers of
its rivals have overlooked. Great is the
Scoop, and each good news-editor seeks to
be its prophet, as all his underlings bow
down to It, worship It, and make sacrifice
before Its altar.
But somehow, not only to those who con-
template it from outside, but also to many
of its priests and acolytes, the Scoop has
become a weariness and an affliction. Every
meagre cablegram from Fleet-street (sup-
posed to come direct from Yokohama, Spitz-
bergen or Los Angeles), commonplace police
news, the chronicles of the casualty ward, the
tragedies and comedies of divorce, the petty
tattle of the town —all endeavor to get them-
selves regarded as big or little Scoops. The
headline, as a director of public opinion,
seeks to usurp the place of the leading article.
The leader becomes a news paragraph. Even
the arrangement of type in the modern daily
—sudden italics, queer little fenced-in items
stuck into columns whose subject matter is
no concern of theirs, extra “leading” that
reads like loud talking, startling splashes of
black ink in unexpected places, and so forth
—indicates how thoroughly the spirit of
Scoop permeates the whole. The merest
triviality is not spoken—it is shouted. It
is as if the whole paper were madly seeking
to, emulate its advertising columns. And
very often the only Scoop that is accom-
plished is that of leaving the reader with an
impression of loud noise and deep dulness.
Wherefore, being weary of it all, let us con-
template the sane newspapers that existed
90-odd years ago. There are many dusty
volumes of them in the Mitchell Library
at Sydney, in the Melbourne Public Library
and elsewhere.
In 1826 there were three newspapers in
N.S.W. —the Sydney Gazette, the Austra-
lian and the Monitor. The first named re-
mains a most valuable historical source,
though it was hardly ever anything else
than an organ for the dissemination of gen-
eral orders and proclamations, the appro-
bation of all Acts of Government and the
cultivation of that spirit in the community
which is embodied in the old English
couplet—
God bless the squire and his relations
And keep us in our proper stations —
his Excellency the Governor representing the
squire, and the official class his relations.
It was never quite free from direct, or in-
direct censorship, and, from its birth in 1803
to its demise in the early ’forties, never had
the slightest influence in directing the des-
tinies of Australia. But the Australian
and the Monitor were birds of another
feather. They were militant, brilliant and
ably conducted, and it is no rash thing to
say that many an editor of the present gen-
eration might make profitable study of their
columns.
The Australian, founded by W. C. Went-
worth and the ill-fated Dr. Wardell in 1824,
started its career with the announcement:
“It is the errors of a system, the vices of
office we condemn. It is measures, not men,
we assail. We do not limit ourselves to any
precise line of politics.... We shall pursue
our labors without either a sycophantic ap-
proval of, or systematic opposition to, acts
of authority, merely because they emanate
from Government” —and, in the years that
the paper was under the control of its ori-
ginators, this was pretty consistently its
line. During the governorship of Bris-
bane, which lasted a year after the
first number’s appearance, the paper met
with fair play, and even approval, from the
authorities, despite the fact that it was as
great an innovation in the Australian jour-
nalism of 1824 as The Bulletin was 56
years later. But it had “the time of its
life” during the reign of Darling, fromthe
beginning of 1826 to the last mo
1831. Both papers fought valiantly against
an intolerable tyranny that is less i e _ .
from official records than from Private
sources, and although the cause of •
which they had espoused finally tnumpnea,
they were both to suffer severely dunn o tne
five years it took to win the battle. .
Edward Smith Hall, the moving spirit
in the conduct of the Monitor, which
into being on May 19, 1826, was P e P
the most pugnacious and dauntless ed
that Australia has known. There have, o
course, been others with similar charac
teristics, but none who had to face sue
heavy odds. They took his c °mP|. aw y
from him under a perverted use or tne ref -
lations governing the administration o
assignment system of convict labor; tnej
sought to tax his paper out of existence ,
they assailed him with libel actions, wm -
they libelled his personal character to tne
Home Government. He suffered a long term
of imprisonment for being, as Darling put it,
a “revolutionary scribbler, whose object is
to write down the Government by represent-
ing the public as laboring under grievances
which exist only in his own diseased mind.
The records of the period show amply enougn
that there has never been a time in its his-
tory when the colony had juster grievances
against its rulers.
In those days European news took tour
months to reach Australia, but through these
old volumes yon may follow European his-
tory pretty accurately and fully. Local news
is served up without sensation.. Reports or
particular events were well w r ritten in good
English. There were very few printers
errors. The papers were more, coherent than
their grandchildren are —that is to say, they
did not sob in one column, frivol in another,
yell “bloody murder” in a third, and con-
gratulate themselves upon the peacefulness
of all things in a fourth. They never
screamed. To read them now after contem-
plating the feverish and often foolish acti-
vities of their successors is almost enough
to enforce a regret that the modern files
are not a little more like the ancient ones.
J. H. M. A.
A Satchel of Books
The Illusion of Possession, by Patricia Wainley
(Cecil Palmer). The story of a man who got him-
self in a tangle and of a very foolish wife who
didn’t help him out, but rather made him satisfied
to be in it. The heroine takes some swallowing, and
the muddy pools she goes through before the sur-
prise arrives isn’t going to make the book a popular
prize for Sunday-school girls. But the plot is
ingenious even if it isn’t very skilfully handled.
The Glory of the Pharaohs, by Arthur Weigall
(Thornton Butterworth). Another book that will go
skyward on the tail of the Tutankhamen kite ; but a
book whose merit would have been ample to send it
soaring on its own account. The author is the late
Inspector-General of Antiquities in Egypt, a man still
in his early forties, with a fine, virile pen. The
volume is a series of vivid impressions of the labor,
romance, humor and value of archaeology, and of the
people of Egypt old and new —an admirable example
of how a bone-dry subject can be vivified in the
hands of a master.


MyQiKEI SUREj
stonewall;’
SHOES
| Mens Wear & Shoe Catalog Free
Jacksons
(=3BO 2 PITT ST
o SYDNEY
“BETTER THAN TATT’S”
£4OOO for 1/-
KATOOMBA THOUSAND
No. 3.
GIGANTIC ART UNION
in aid of
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ANZAC MEMORIAL HOSPITAL.
Blue Mountains A., H. & I. Society s ..liow
Ground Improvement Fund, and Katoomba
School of Arts Building: Fund.
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General.)
Ist Prize, 20 h.p. Rolls-Royce £1,850
2nd Prize, 6-Cylinder Buick ... £525
3rd Prize, Beale Player Piano .. £275
Total Prizes value £4,000.
(Values guaranteed.)
Drawn immediately subscribed
or not later than December 7th 1923.
Results published “Daily Telegraph Dec.
stli 1923; other States, Dec. 15th or before.
1/-'Only TICKETS 1/- Only
Bv Post 1/2. Three or more Post Free.
STX TICKETS FOR 6/-.
Each Ticket has 145 Chances and can
win Prizes value £4,000.
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope
for result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
(all branches), Hairdressers and Tobaccon-
ists in Citv, Suburbs and Country, also
Messrs. Prouds Ltd. and Lassetter’s, Sydney.
EDGAR BOOTH, Hon. Secretary,
Tweedie’s Chambers, Katoomba, N.S.W.
DANGERS OF
RUPTURE
RUPTURE is a condition that should
not be neglected. If you are troubled
with that complaint, you should wear a
Proper Fitting Support—one that will
hold the Rupture firmly and comfortably
in place under all conditions.
OUR PATENT AIR CUSHION RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Will do this, and to prove what we state
WE OFFER TWO DAYS’ TRIAL
with every Appliance we send out.
It is suitable for Men, Women and
Children, and the price is within the
reach of all.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATA-
LOGUE. POSTED FREE ANYWHERE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
97 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
The Food to give
an Influenza patient.
Among Foods which are regarded as essential in the safe
treatment of Influenza, Beneer’s takes a first place. Its con-
stituents are Nature’s two greatest foods-wheat and rm
and by reason of the unique process of self-digestion w
distinguishes Benger’s from all other foods, these can be pre-
sented to the patient in a partially digested form-
h
Food
While you prepare it, does for the patient what his or her
digestive system, weakened by the Influenza attacK, cannot do.
Banner's booklet is full of useful hints for nursing invalids. Post free from
T “o. c unnn LTD - 117, pitt Street, SYDNEY.
a nd M a L uLcturer.: BERGER'S FOOD, LTD., MANCHESTER. England
TRY THIS BLADE \
On Your Next Job. \
You’ll find that it is a much better cutter and far less liable to
break because it is cut with the grain from rolled sheets of_
Highest-grade 'Tungsten Cast bteel. Its Balfovn s Tungstt
world-famed for strength and lasting service.
BALFOUR’S
Hacksaw
Blades
ĥ
made in our own
Sheffield Works and
supplied for every class of
hand and power work. Test a
Balfour on your next job, and see
the better cutting service it renders.
Send just a trial order, stating number of teeth
required per inch, and ask especially for our
booklet, “Balfour’s Hints on Steel” ; it is post free.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
svnXFV 379-381 Kent Street
~ 1,-* oomNE 313-348 Swanston Street
\FWCASTLE Caul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street
BRISBANE .... John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
ADELAIDE .. Charles Atkins & Co.. Ltd., 88-90 Curiae Street
A HOBART R. Milligan, 33a Argyle Street
ALSO AT FREMANTLE AND KALGOORLIE.
Profits
are the difference between net marketing cost and net sale
return.
Net production cost is governed considerably by the
efficiency and economy combined in the running ot the
plant.
Jlffl I! Jf W n Tt
sgT
o
iVI
%
BALL BEARINGS
assure efficiency and economy as well as safety at high-
speed running.
Continuous Trouble-free Service.
Absence of Crease and Oil Leakage.
The following features are always
associated with SKF Ball Bearings:
Considerable Saving in Power.
Considerable Saving in Lubricants.
No Heating of Bearings.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS.
Gardner, Waern & Co. Pty. Ltd.
481 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
Distributing Centres also at:
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: Win. Adams & Co., Ltd., lo*
Way mouth Street.
PERTH: Unbeliaun & Johnstone (W.A.) Ltd., 37
King Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis, Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: J. R. Sides, 77 lork Street.
Just Like a Man.
(BY PHLOX.)
ii TORN, I want to speak to you.”
0 I “Yes, dear.”
“Don’t dear me I You ought to be
ashamed of yourself! The idea of a middle-
aged man like you giving a dinner-party fot
a young actress. But, old fools are always
the worst.”
“Surely you wouldn’t call me old, dear.'”
“You’re older than I am. But you re get-
ting away from the point in question. M hat
have you to say for yourself t
“Nothing.”
“Then I’ve got something to say to you.
I’m simply not going to stand for you giving
dinners to actresses while I sit at home and
gaze at four walls.”
“But. Blanche, you don’t like Bohemian
nights, and a s a pressman I simply can’t get
out of attending them sometimes.”
“Yes, but there’s no „negd for you to carry
on with a woman young enough to be your
daughter. I heard all about you and Miss
Fortesque in the conservatory.
“Ha, ha, ha! He, lie he!”
“What are you laughing at, you idiot?”
“I’m laughing at you saying that Miss
Fortesque is young enough to be my daugh-
ter. You’ll be surprised to know that she's
two years older than you are, my dear.’
“Nonsense; she only looks a girl.
“She may look one, but she isn’t. I ancy
accusing me of carrying on with poor old
Bertha !”
“Well, all I can say is that the way she
makes up is shameless.” „
“As far as I know she doesn’t make-up.”
"John, you’re a bigger idiot than I thought
you were.”
“Thank you very much, Mabel. But I
must be going. I’ve got an appointment.
“Why, John, you promised to take me to
the pictures to-night.”
“Then I’m very sorry, for I simply can t.
“I suppose you’re going to meet Miss I or-
tesque.”
“How absurd you are, Mabel! Anyway,
Bertha always looks nice, and she’s rattling
good company. Ta, ta !”
About half-an-liour later the maid an-
nounced Miss Oliver.
“How are you, Mrs. Forbes?” she began.
"Just dropped in to see if you’d come on
the committee of the new Free Kinder-
garten. Just met Mr. Forbes in the hotei
lounge with Miss Fortesque, who was look-
ing lovely in a royal blue panne velvet
evening-gown, which showed up her glorious
complexion.”
And before Mrs. Forbes could get in a
word edgewise the voluble Miss Oliver w r as
gone. Later, however, Mrs. W arden, the
clergyman’s wife, called. Mrs. Forbes wel-
comed the pretty, tactful little woman as a
friend in whom she could confide. She told
her of her husband’s neglect, and of how he
was paying attention to Miss Loitesque.
“My dear Mrs. Forbes,” began Mrs. War-
den, “you are quite mistaken about your
husband’s attentions towards Miss For-
tesque. As a pressman he must meet and
make himself agreeable to star actresses. I
know Miss Fortesque to be a good church-
n UIIuUL • • j
“That’s what my husband says, but it s
bard for me to be left alone evenings. Be-
sides, he accused me of being dowdy and
withered-looking. I notice, Mrs. Warden,
that you always manage to look bonnie.
“Well, yes, dear; even a clergyman’s wife
needs to take pains to keep her looks. Boot
looks help one in any walk of life. But it
vou’ll pardon me, dear, you’ve not quite kept
yourself up to the mark. If. however, you I
use the same face-cream as I do —Mercolized
Wax —you’ll socu have a new, fresh skin.
“Oh, I’d use anything that would make my
skin decent. But look at my hair, it has
become brittle and faded, and is fast grey-
ing. You must be my age, and you haven t
a grey hair.”
“No, because I keep off old age as far as
my hair is concerned by using Stallax as
a shampoo. To restore grey hair I make a
preparation of my own at home. I get two
ounces of Tammalite concentrate from the
chemist, and mix it with three ounces ol
Bay Rum, and after a few applications the
grey hair is retored to its natural co 01.
Miss Fortesque told me about these prepara-
ms in London years ago.
“How comforting to know of them, in
t the Mercolized Wax, the Stallax and the
ammalite straight away. I’m delighted
,u called, Mrs. Warden. When John
,mes home I’ll tell him what a pleasant
■ening we had.” ,
“And don’t worry when he tells you tha
,u are dowdy. That is just like a man
Next morning an excellent interview wi
;iss Fortesque appeared in the l> a P er ; (
“How good this interview is, John, ie-
arked Mrs. Forbes.
“So glad you like it, dear; I wrote it.
“So that’s why you were with Miss Foi-
isque; but why ever didn’t you tell m •
“Because professional etiquette lorbaae
10.
“As Mrs. Warden says, ‘just like a man.
—A DVT.


■
V/J,
i
HOME FOR
AGED MEN
ejear
a
‘jour
* #
imm ye*
urs
Red blooded youth, healthy in
mind and body, sound in wind and
limb, lives for to-day; to-morrow
can take care of itself. The
responsibilities of manhood are
not yet urgent.
«•
YOUR youth has passed; you
have reached the age of discretion.
Maybe you have accepted the
responsibilities of marriage and
parentage.
In your thoughtful moments you
wonder where your declining years
will be spent. In a home for the
aged—living on the charity of
others—one of life’s derelids—a
monument to cause and effect?
And your partner, she who has shared
your joys and sorrows, she whom you
vowed to cherish and proted, what of her ?
Put this question to yourself,
" cAm I a Real Man ? ”
Give this query a straight-from-the-shoulder
answer. Push regrets behind you. Con-
centrate on bigger things.
Kill the Ghoft!
Destroy the haunting fear that is robbing
you of initiative, the fear that is sapping
your boundless energy, and besmirching the
clear grey of your brain cells.
Become a master of men, not a man
whom others master. The way is open—
join forces with the 200,000 executives who
have won their positions through the
knowledge gained from the
oAlexander Hamilton Institute.
This organisation of master-men—business
executives—stands ready to give you a
strong helping hand. By their experience
you shall benefit and become a solver of
problems—a money-maker for yourself and
those whom you employ, a purchaser of
those luxuries so dear to the heart of your
wife and children. The chance is yours
—don t side-step this opportunity.
That initiative which gained Australians
such a reputation overseas and which
was the dired cause of Australia’s being
recognised as a Nation, is now being
developed along business lines by 1000
Australians. This is the number who are
daily finding better work and better pay
through the training of the Alexander
Hamilton Institute. Join the vanguard!
" Forging Ahead in Business ” one
hundred and sixteen pages—each pulsating
with reasons why you should quit that
fear, and kill that ghost.
Here in this book you will find related the
experiences of men like yourself. By a
process of logical reasoning "Forging Ahead
in Business ” compels you to listen to the
voice of common sense. It is yours for
the asking. It will show you how to
place yourself in possession of your natural
advantages, in a position to command.
No one can kill that ghost but you. Write
now for the book that will help you to
become a real executive. Don’t strangle
that impulse, control it. Take the first
executive adion of your life. Write now!
Alexander Hamilton Institute.
42 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Send me "Forging oAhead in
Business” which I may keep
without obligation.
Name
‘Business
oAddress
r
Modern
Business
‘Business
‘Position.


II
m
S>
I
z
JSr
as
ST
/>
A
to
S* -JU
a
77X
T
<f>)h-^
<«y
3
'i
i
<v
&
£
VsTa
'i?
a
*fe>
m
m
7/.
2*k
gg
fit
- (*
m
i y
m
*B—
Martin Place, Sydney, 1923, showing
the new banking premises for the
Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney in the course of construction.
T/te City—cabinned, cribbed, confined,
soars upwards into light.
IN the development of physical property, throughout the course
of man’s activities, there has been manifest the trained mind
of the builder. Methods have been put into management, facts
where guess work has been, knowledge where ignorance has taken
toll. Vast steel structures rear their massive frame-works into
the sky, interpretating the creative spirit of man. In the city’s
streets a thousand eyes turn upwards and wonder what forms the
fabric of such enterprise.
As each iron girder or crosspiece goes swinging aloft into its marked
place moving by invisible power, we realise that all is part of a
definite plan. Comox forms part of this industrial equipment.
Riveted construction fast gives way to demonstrably stronger Oxy-
Acetyline Welding, and the painful and laborious cutting of huge
girders gives place to the bewildering speed of Comox cutting.
The builder progresses only as he co-operates with science, and in
the scientific improvement of constructive industry the Comox
Blowpipe, by its speed and thoroughness, becomes the great aid and
ally of progressive effort.
From humble repair work, to spectacular constructive performances,
from the cutting of a massive steel to the repairing of a homely
kitchen pot, Comox is almost human in its flexibility.
Nowhere is Comox as firmly established as in Australia to-day.
Trained Comox Welders in every district are ready to give facts,
figures and practical assistance to the builder, metal worker, manu-
facturer, and engineer. Where Comox has rendered a service, there
stands an everlasting tribute to the greatest of all scientific effort
and thousands of successful jobs demonstrate only too clearly the
wonderful service of Comox in constructive and productive industry.
COMOX
COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN & ACCESSORIES LIMITED
FOY STREET, BALMAIN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Melbourne : Fyvie Sc Stewart, 362 Collins Street. Adelaide : Geo. Wills SC Co. Ltd., Grenfell Street. Perth : Geo. Wills BC Co. Ltd., Murray Street.
Brisbane : Queensland Oxygen Ltd., Newstead Ter., Newstead. Launceston : Harrison Bros. Cl Co. Ltd., 10 Pattersen Street. Suva, Fiji: Browne Sc Jeske.


Art.
0
M,} ■
m
Teach Children To Use
Cuticura Soap
Because it is best for their tender
shins. Help it now and then with
touches of Cuticura Ointment applied
to first signs of redness or rough-
ness. Cuticura Talcum is also excel-
lent for children.
Soapls.,Ointment Is.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, W.S.W.”
IMP Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
h
Jhe largest selling
quality pencil in
the world
ENUS
PENCILS
ĥ
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
* r *»TS ,MW^
ħ
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLiCK’S
kMALTED MILK A
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C?
Slough, Bucks. Eng.^
A Beautiful Woman has a
PRICELESS POSSESSION in
HAIR of a
LUSTROUS WALNOT SHADE
and it’s so easily attained!
Make the most of your
charms by using
OR. ALLEN’S
Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
Simple to apply—Harmless—
Waterproof—Permanent! All
Chemists.
SUNDAY TOURIST TRIP to SOUTH SHORE,
VAUCLUSE and MIDDLE HARBOR.
Leaves Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6; Children 6d.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE to BALMORAL
No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.
Fare 9d. Return. Arriving on return about 9.45 p.m.
INSTRUMENTAL QUARTET BY MEMBERS OF STATE ORCHESTRA
ON BOTH TRIPS.
Sydney Ferries. Ltd.
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
Worthy of
Critical
Consideration
Cruet of good English China on heavily-
plated stand. Pink, Green or Canary
£1
is this ideal
little cruet
in delicate
tinted china
and gleam-
ing silver.
It will add
distinction
to any table
and can be
supplied in
delicate shades of pink, green or canary to tone with
other services. The vessels are of fine English china
and the stand heavily plated over hard white
metal. It would form a present to evoke delight in
the heart of any home lover.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY,
Our Optical Department in charge of Mr. Oardiner. M.T.0.,
offers exceptionally skilled service, combined ivith comfort and
privacy.
FAIREAMOBERTS l t . d
Z'b&Zb Hunter StreeE Sydney
The i
easy
way ,
to Jf
shave
YOU can shave with an
axe, if you first soften
your beard with Mennen
Shaving Cream. The stiffest
beard is quickly reduced to
subjection. You shave easily,
rapidly, smoothly. And your
comfort afterward is supreme.
Your face will be smooth as velvet.
Scores of men have discovered
that this is the most satisfactory
way to shave.
Your face feels so fine and you
look your best always. Ask in
any shop.
THE BRITISH H. F. RITCHIE CO., Ltd.
333 George Street
Sydney, Australia
James Smith Bldg.
Wellington, New Zealand
f
.'ze
c o.
1
s»
K
St-MI/INC CR^/IM
• E6ISTERI*
TRADE HARK
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
h
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst
5O York Street. Sydney.
VAIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Wish.
I know not what your dreams may be
The long night through,
\\ hen sleep has set the spirit free
t I rom bonds anew,
Nor what your splendid visions are
in mghts of shadow, mist or star
Before the opal dawn gives way
To golden flame of risen day ;
But this I pray unceasingly,
They all come true.
N.S.W.
N. A. EVANS.
The Candles.
rni OUe * the candles burned !
1 hey are firmest wax, and the honey bees
Gave of their best to deck the sconces.
Why have the wicks been quenched in
these ?
For somebody lit them that I know
Barely a full-sped hour ago!
The saffron silks of the broidered curtain
Have found its fringe in the polished floor,
I or the moon peers in at the leaded window,
But no one knocks at the unlatched door—
►silence, shadows, with doom opprest.
And these wax accusers upon the chest!
A rosewood coffer with brass clamps gleaming
Over the fox-skins on the boards;
The carven chairs in a solemn circle,
The satin prie dieu with ravelled cords
That close to a suit of mail is set,
Gorget, morion, soileret.
Does something lurk in the darkest corner?
Did something move in that blackest patch?
I should shriek if I heard across the chamber
The stealthy scrape of an unseen match.
Even the moon withdraws her light,
Climbing the poplars out of sight.
There’s a whiff of jonquils, thick and yellow,
That comes from a bracket near the sill,
And a clock ticks somewhere behind the
arras
Like a death-watch heard in a room too
still.
And I dare not enter until I know
Who lit those candles an hour ago.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Tittle Sounds.
The little sounds of the night
Are coming and going
As if a river of no-light
Were flowing and flowing,
Bearing the dream ghosts
By the long sleep strand
That sometimes on pillow coasts
Come softly to land.
I live all the good day
In a world of words and trees;
But who shall say
I dwell only with these?
Moments full as years
In green places I have met—
Have I heard with other ears
Voices that I forget?
Are there adventures of sleep
That are stiller and deeper
Than the blood and breath that keep
Time to the peace of the sleeper?
River of night spilling
Tinkles of small sound,
Life of the dreaming and willing
Ploughs golden ground.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Pale Hour.
I hate that colorless, vague hour that falls
Across the dusk before the lamps are lit,
When huddled by the lonely fire I sit,
And silvered dreaming, brushed with dark-
ness, palls;
Without, like sluggish tides the greyness
crawls.
Blown branches, spectre-pale, long-fin-
gered, hit
Against the window-glass; and shadows
flit,
Heavy, like wounded moths, along the walls.
I think at such a time there walks a train
Of ghostly shapes abroad! Pale things
that roam
The sheltered garden-ways, and press their
white,
Wild faces close to each uncovered pane—
Boor souls of them that only knew the night.
Shut fast outside the yellow lamps of
home !
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
The Dead.
The velvet silences so brood
Within the shrouded room, a breath
Seems sacrilegious hardihood
In the puissant face of Death.
Yet here is Peace. The soft, grey hair
That peeps below the bandage white
Crowns, an old face grown almost fair,
And in its calmness strangely bright.
This was a child whose merry play
Woke with the dawn-song of the lark
To chase the rich, full hours of day
Into the dreamland of the dark.
But in the longer day she knew,
When Sorrow tracked on Pleasure’s feet,
She bore her troubles as they grew,
And held to life, and found it sweet.
Bove brought its toil, and life its care;
She held to life and paid its price.
It lined her brow, and greyed her hair,
But showed new joys in sacrifice.
'^ ri^ T . now th e toilsome day is sped
With all its passions, all its pain,
A thousand memories are dead";
Her spirit’s peace has come again.
As one who longs for rest she slips
In seas of silence, vast and deep;
For Death has kissed her weary lip’s
And closed her tired eyes in sleep.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


h


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 44.—N0. 2265.
THURSDAY, JULY 12, 1923.
Pbice 6d.
THE REPARATIONS TANGLE.
FRANCE: “Oh, I’ve got it in a dreadful tangle, I know; but I’m going on with it! I’m going on with it!”
BRITANNIA: “I wish to goodness you’d let us help you; we’re ready whenever you are.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man."
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly.
“ months, £l 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; S months, is.
Jo ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS I 12 months, £l KJS. ; 6
months. Ids. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drajts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
■jhe contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
'lhe Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Betters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will he regarded as strictly confidential.
Thu Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending. MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
'esponsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but .unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—-will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which, such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from the
stralasian” seller at tile entrance
Australia House, London. ,1 Iso from Messrs.
(Jordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and W. Dawson and
Sons, Gannon House, Breams Buildings, Lonaou
E.C.i; E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High Ilolborn, London, W.C.I; />’. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie
Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde. New York: Bren-
tano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New York City;
Ilotaling’s News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New
York City. Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle.
California: California News Agency (Rothstein and
Freedberg), Metropolitdn Buildings, 315 West, sth
Street, Los Angeles; Wheatley News Co., Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
ITong Ivong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, E.C.4.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: 40z.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: 4oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
SuTifexillelvTi.
THURSDAY, JULY 12, 1923.
FIG JAM AND A PLUM LABEL.
When Julius Caesar proposed to put sharp
cobble-stones in the streets of Rome to pre-
vent loitering he touched the vital spot in
the weakening life of the city. Of all States
Rome had been the most attentive to de-
tail. It was that which had made her armies
supreme in the field and enabled her
to hold conquered territory with such a
sure grip. It was that also which soon made
the conquered so willing to remain under
her yoke. Up to the time of Caesar she did
aII the little things well; and doing them
implied an activity which left no time for
street loafing. It was not the grandeurs
of the Roman system that made Rome
supreme; it was the way in which the sys-
tem was operated. It was not the Roman
law that was so wonderful; indeed, it was
full of absurdities. It was the fact that
the law really worked and reached to the
remotest corners. The attention to detail
in early Roman days is shown in the per-
fection of that great national work, the
Cloaca Maxima, now probably 27 centuries
old. It still drains the city, and not a stone
has shifted enough to allow the passage of
a knife-blade, though the later buildings of
the Empire, expensively and roughly thrown
together, are now mere heaps of rubbish
overtopped by the conjectures of archaeolo-
gists. No one can say with certainty where
the great gilded palace of Nero once soared;
a little arch of victory erected in Southern
France by Julius Caesar himself has suf-
fered from nothing but wind and rain in the
course of 2000 years. The later work was pro-
bably just as well conceived, but it failed in de-
tail. The clerk of works let little tilings
pass; and the big tilings built on the little
mistakes fell down. Similarly, the early
Roman soldier was wonderfully trained. The
Rome of that day had no faith in big armies.
Every soldier was an athlete; and when a
huge patriotic army, which had all the cour-
age and enthusiasm but none of the train-
ing, came up against a few veterans it soon
knew the difference. Attention to detail
marked the rise of the greatest Power the
world has known; the tendency to talk
largely and say that the small things did
not matter was the preface to its fall.
* * * *
Australia, with all the history of the past
as a guide, stands a little confused by the
tremendous width of her own horizons. Every
schoolboy knows that we have enormous
tasks to do, vast areas to populate, huge
difficulties and problems before us and grave
dangers to face. In all that we say of the
Australian future we use superlatives, and
occasionally our boasting is in superlatives
also. All this is natural enough. It is well
that we should know the wealth and re-
sources of our land, feel at each step we
take the extent of the territory that is our
children’s heritage, and even have a sense
of rising to great occasions and being as
big as the land we own. But the moral
size of a thing has very little to do with its
physical extent. A carat of emerald may
be worth a mountain of mudstone, a line of
Siiakspeake more than the shouting from a
million throats. A large thing may be a
great thing or a poor thing; though, quality
for quality, the larger the thing the better.
Australia in contemplation of its own big-
ness is apt to lose sight of quality; and
quality is lost sight of wherever detail is
ignored. In a new country like Australia
detail is of infinitely more moment than in
some of the older countries of the world;
for the shape and structure of the founda-
tions is all important to the building that is
to rise upon them. The house built on sand
does not necessarily fall down except in
Scripture; but the brick house which has
no damp-course is pretty sure to kill the
people who live long enough in it. There
is no more hopeless view of Australian effort
than that which sees muddle and inefficiency
in the present turning into grand success in
the future because the area over which the
muddle and inefficiency operate has been
enormously extended. It is far wiser to be-
lieve that as we make Australia to-day so
will it be in the centuries that lie ahead of
us. The thing well done becomes a tradi-
tion which those who follow must live up to.
The thing ill-done is a handicap and a dan-
ger. The national traditions of doing things
more or less hang about the necks of some
countries of the world, and drag them to the
dust.
* * * *
The Australian ability to do things is
discounted by the way in which they are
done. The difference between putting
the right and the wrong label on a tin of jam
is so slight that the grossest handling of the
wares could only mean the saving of a few
moments in the working day of a few of the
cheapest workers. Yet consider the differ-
ence when the goods wrongly labelled reach
the market. What are the feelings of the
trader on the China coast when the jam he
sold as peach is brought back to him by his
customer and shown to be melon and leinon !
That trader feels that his own reputation
is hurt beyond cure, and in his condemna-
tion of the source of supply he decides to
have no further dealings with Australia.
Against such an attitude on the part of
those who have been wronged, not by deli-
berate intent, but solely through a lack of
attention to detail, what use is it to declare
that we grow the best fruit in the world
and have the finest appliances in our fac-
tories? The evil is already done, and all
the finest peaches in our orchards treated
by all. the finest machinery cannot remove
the stigma in a whole generation. Yet a
few moments would have made all the dif-
ference—a difference amounting in the years
to tens of thousands of pounds. In every
department of industry and life the little
things count —count so much that in the
long run they are not little things. We build
our cities at great cost, and forget to make
decent roads to our own doors. We dis-
count the value of enormous areas of valu-
able land by failing to provide for the short-
est means of transport to the sea. We make
huge efforts to have our system of educa-
tion up-to-date, and then fail to provide
enough room in our schools to enable the
children to be taught. We form grandiose
views about the future glories of our North-
ern Territory, and do not add a yard from
year to year to the railway which alone can
make those glories possible. All these are
minor matters—corresponding to the neglect
to put the right label on the jam-tin—but
they make all the difference. Many voices
have called upon Australia to think in terms
of a continent. But what is it to think in
terms of a continent? That continent is
made up of an infinite mass of details, every
one of which must be attended to before it
is subdued to our will. To get down to
business, we want to realise that the big
Lhings are the details in mass, and that
unless these are efficiently and correctly
dealt with there can be no' big things at all.
A sort of pride in Australian contemnt for
ordinary matters has been fostered "by a
wrong reading of the character of the men
of our big spaces. So casual do these men
seem about the sort of things townsfolk know
best that they have created a kind of tradi-
tion. Australia in this view is not expected
to be like other lands, but to muddle through
in a fashion of her own. No doctrine could
rest on worse premises. Our bushmen, in the
details of their own tasks, are so far from
being slovenly that theirs is almost a meti-
culous care. The work of strapping on a
saddle or of putting an edge on an axe is
conducted with an exactness that the most
methodical business-man might envy. When
Australia handles legislation, industry and
commerce with the detailed skill a good
bullock-driver shows in working his team we
shall have reached an age of greater things.
THE RIGHTS OF THE SELF-INVITED
GUEST.
None of the parties concerned in the affair
of the Irish Republican agents can derive
any satisfaction from it. The State Govern-
ment, which had the accused arrested in a
spectacular fashion on April 80, and kept a
charge of sedition hanging over their heads
till June 26, when a police-magistrate inti-
mated that he was fed up, has nothing to
feel joyful about. Neither lias the Common-
wealth Government, which announced, first,
that it had no power to interfere, then found
ample power in an Act of 1920, and finally-
sent word that it would be much obliged if
the gentlemen left voluntarily, instead of
having to be pushed out. Nor can me gen-
eral public be proud to reflect that on the
Board appointed to ascertain the facts about
the “envoys” and their propaganda was an
individual known to be violently hostile to
their cause, or that the national authorities,
though willing enough to wound, were afraid
to strike. And it is unlikely that the “en-
voys” will carry away any joyful memory
of a country in which their reception was
alternately too bleak and too torrid. There
was a certain incongruity between their
vociferous antagonism to the Old Man in
London and their plea, when cornered, that
they were his dutiful subjects, but they
failed to see the humor of it, although their
boisterous friends in Ireland may.
The argument of British citizenship was
raised in the High Court, where the validity
of the deportation proceedings was chal-
lenged by Watt, K.C., and Evatt, his junior.
It led to a remarkably interesting discussion
of constitutional law. Counsel’s attack was
concentrated on Section 8a of the Immigra-
tion Act, 1920. That measure empowers
the Minister to deport any person, not an
Australian native nor a resident for more
than three years, who advocates assassination,
the unlawful destruction of property, or the
overthrow by force or violence of the estab-
lished Government in Australia or “any-
civilised country.” Mr. Evatt argued that
the section was bad, inasmuch as it attempted
to make portion of the executive power of
the Commonwealth exercisable by persons
other than the Governor-General, who, “being
himself a delegate, cannot delegate” power.
“Do you think we have come down from the
planet Mars?” was the comment of one
Judge on this contention. “The thing is
ridiculous,” said Knox, C.J. “If you wanted
to find out whether a man was a prohibited
immigrant the Governor-General would have
to go round and do it himself. Your argu-
ment would make an end of section 51 of
the Constitution-—the whole legislative power
of the Commonwealth would be gone.” And
that ended the first lesson. The K.C., for his
part, contended that, by entering Australia
without any of the disqualifications imposed
by the Immigration Restriction Act the
“envoys” had become residents. Therefore,
he argued, they were entitled to remain in
the country, the Commonwealth Parliament
having no power to banish residents. Warm-
ing to his work, he maintained that Aus-
tralia was the only country that claimed the
right to expel British subjects. Whereupon
Higgins, J., recalled that he had seen Bri-
tish Hindus dumped on a Japanese steamer
and deported from Canada. Isaacs, J.,
answering, a remark that “the deportation
of a British subject would tend to disrupt
the Empire,” asked whether counsel “placed
the desires of any visitor above the advantages’
and safety of the Australian people.” And he
quoted from the Canadian Immigration Act,
which is 13 years old:
Wherever any person other than a Canadian citizen
advocates the overthrow by force or violence of
the Government of Britain, or Canada, or other
British dominion, colony, possession or dependency,'
or the overthrow by force or violence of any
constituted authority or association in the countries
mentioned, or who shall attempt to create a riot
or public disorder in Canada, or is reputed or sus-
pected of belonging- to any secret society or organi-
sation which extorts money from, or in any way
attempts to control, any resident of Canada by force
or fear of bodily harm or by blackmail, such person,
for the purposes of this Act, shall be considered an
undesirable immigrant, and it shall be the duty of
any officer cognisant thereof,, and the duty of' the
clerk, secretary or other official of any municipality
in which such person is, to forthwith send a writ-
ten complaint -to the Minister or to the Superin-
tendent of Immigration.
“That,” said Justice Isaacs, “is more drastic
than the Australian law.” “Much more
drastic,” added the Chief Justice. And much
more expeditious.
* * * *
The Canadian Government, as the extract
shows, dispenses with the formality of nomi-
nating a Board, as Hughes provided, or
empanelling a jury, as Citaklton suggests.
It has a walking-ticket always ready for the
fluent newcomer who repays its hospitality
and protection by advocating anarchy or
robbery, or collecting funds for the brisk
revolution they are having in, say, Cork.
Having considered the case of Canada, the
High Court upheld the validity of the 1920
Immigration Act. It ruled that the Com-
monwealth Parliament has power to make
laws in respect of residents as well as of
immigrants: in effect, that Australia pos-
sesses, equally with Canada, the right to
expel any imported propagandist who is dis-
orderly himself, and may be the cause of dis-
order in others. The muddled business of
the “envoys” has been productive of that
much good.
THE LOST PORTS.
Bowen, in North Queensland, now being re-
discovered, but lost for 40 years because the
vested interests of Ross Creek caused the
waste of millions in making a port of Towns-
ville which was but a muddy little river de-
livering to the open sea; Jervis Bay still lost
so that the bloated capital may drag com-
modities hundreds of miles out of their natu-
ral course to choke the bottle-neck of Syd-
ney ; Newcastle, which will never be a port
for great ships, causing the expenditure of
two million pounds, so that vested interests
and their meanness and envy shall keep
closed the great harbor of Port Stephens, but
20 miles to the north, as near to the coal
of Maitland as Newcastle is, yet avoided by
all the political railway-builders as if it had
the plague—-these are a few of the lost ports
of Australia. Bowen, by the opening of its
coalfields, is recovering, and trunk-railroad
connection will recover it absolutely. Jervis
Bay is still but a paper naval base, and even
as that is doomed to nothingness until Aus-
tralia shall decide that Singapore does not
fill the Australian bill. Port Stephens, im-
measurably a finer port, and with an im-
mense trafficable area waiting to feed it,
still has the plague in the mind of the poli-
tical railway-builder. The Northern railway
left it to the eastward for 50 years, and
even the recently-laid North Coast railway
side-stepped it.
I found it the other day in a 45-mile
motor-run from Newcastle; only 21 miles of
sea separates the Hunter and ’ the entrance
to Port Stephens Heads. Through good
country from Raymond Terrace to the Karuah
at Sawyers Point, then over hilly country
that would be under pasture for dairy herds
if there were transport for cream, and is
now mostly under fat cattle that can walk
to market, you travel to the Tea Gardens on
the Myall River, then north to Bulladelah
Hills and the Myall Lakes —64 miles of
water and no ‘finer sportsman’s domain in
the continent. Within the high land to the
south, and from Myall River to the mouth
of the Karuah, Port Stephens covers a larger
area of six-fathom water than Sydney Har-
bor. Its long slopes look eastward, and by
its northern shores there are depths of 66
to 90 feet of water practically to the toe of
the hills. Given less than 30 miles of rail-
way, costing about £lO,OOO a mile, this safe
harbor could be the port for the Northern,
North-Western and much of the Western
areas of N. S. Wales —an aggregate of
310,000 square miles, or one-third of the State.
There is good land on the southern side
of the harbor included with Salamander Bay
Naval Base, and behind it and east to Nelson
Bay there is much marshland. But from the
deep water by North Arm Cove to the heads
—Yacaabah to the north and the South
head of Toomeree—there is a continuous
channel whose minimum depth is 5i fathoms
and below it 50 feet of land.
This great harbor is flanked on the north
by excellent agricultural land, pasture land
and great hardwood forests, and with an
average rainfall of 55 inches is to-day de-
serted but for a timber-mill or two, with
large, slow-moving timber-boats actuated by
stern-wheel so that the craft should be named
Niagara Falls, small forests of sticks on
the oyster-banks and an occasional lighter
bearing loads of oyster-sticks from the waters
of incubation to the fattening grounds nearer
fresh water, and consequently nearer to more
abundant food.
Oversea ships half load at Newcastle to
cross the bar, and top off with timber in the
deeper waters of Port Stephens, a fact that
should disadvantageously advertise centralisa-
tion and obstructive vested interest more than
it does. From Middle Island due east this
arm of the Sea lies calm as the Myall Lakes;
protected from the south and east, its
only blows are from the north and the
land breezes from the west. Its entrance is
4200 yards wide. The North Channel carries
more than 30 feet of water over a width of
300 feet that could be pump-dredged to 900
feet. The channel now used is from 1800 to
2700 feet wide, with a minimum depth of
36 feet water and a maximum of 72 feet. At
the naval base of Salamander Bay there is
a water area of four square miles with depths
varying from 36 to 54 feet. West of Soldier’s
Point, the westerly mark of the naval base,
there is another good anchorage running to
the northern shore of the port, and thence
west to Fame Cove and North Arm Bay. It
has an area of 954 acres covered by from 30
feet to 90 feet water. There is no other
harbor of deep, still water in any civilised
country in the condition of Port Stephens:
it is as Sydney Harbor was any time between
1795 and the first year of the 19th century.
Newcastle, with about 25 feet water on the
bar, and its port represented by a muddy
river, continuously silting, has probably had
three millions spent on the impossible at-
tempt at making it a port worthy of the
name. Port Stephens, with coal, lime and
iron within its immediate drainage area, re-
mains as it was when Hunter was Gover-
nor of N. S. Wales.
Yet to that there is a modification. In
the early 19th century the land-agents and
the subdivision sharks did not obstruct the
settlement of Port Jackson as the Sydney
subdivisioners are obstructing settlement at
Port Stephens. Beyond North Arm Bay
the signboards of Pitt-street agents shriek at
the wilderness; all over the State the land-
agents’ spell-binders are selling “desirable
villa sites” and pocket-handkerchief allot-
ments to buyers who are counselled to .sit
down and wait until real men do something
and present much unearned increment to the
non-occupiers. Some of the representations
on which these lots are sold are worth much
gaol.
There was a great chance lost here, though
it may be blasphemy to mention it to people
stupidly and unalterably opposed to great
experiment. There has never been such a
location for an ideal city, to be held as the
property of the nation, as this Port Stephens.
When the Commonwealth resumed the naval-
base area the State should have resumed all
the rest of the good land back of the good
anchorages. That done, no finer investment
was ever known than the development of the
region by railroads and the building of a
model city. As it is, while the subdivision-
ers’ activities are all the energy expressed,
Port Stephens is as stagnant as the Northern
Territory, and largely for similar reasons—the
reasons being mean little people who grab and
do not use. Failing development by the State
(and, in spite of the subdivisioners, the time
for that is not passed), Port Stephens must
find men of courage, initiative and resource
—or stay as it is until a new sort of poli-
tical thought decides to put into action the
decentralising policy which is surely the
essence of the Commonwealth Constitution.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Possible Case for Deportation on a
Large Scale.
Deak Bulletin, —The present position, un-
less there is some incredible misconception
about the meaning of words, is that Austr.i-
lian Labor has officially turned Commun w.
The Red Objective was supplied by the
Communists of Moscow, and about them
attitude there is no doubt whatever. It has
been adopted, and even such prominent
leaders as Theodore and Dooley have
accepted it as the price of office. When the
Communist programme has been taken in, the
formal taking in of the Communist party, still
supposed to be a separate entity, can only
be a matter of time, a slight delay being
caused by certain formalities. Anticipating
the event with happy confidence, the Com-
munist headquarters have issued a state-
ment of what they mean to make of Aus-
tralia. when they get power—including con-


trol of the army and navy—possibly at the
general election of 1926: —
The workers must first of all expropriate the big
-'apitalists, the big financiers, landowners and indus-
trialists. The small property-owners they can leave
alone until their forces are stronger. But all large
property must be confiscated at once without com-
pensation, since to buy out the capitalists, whose
power is money, is only to leave them in power.
The Workers’ Government must nationalise the
banks. It must take over all large industrial under-
takings, mines and shipping. It must declare all
lands and houses public property. It must establish
a State monopoly of foreign trade. It must annul
all debts, public and private.... It.must impose the
duty of work on all able to work and organise the
most urgent tasks ....
There was more to the same effect, and in
the same confident strain. A companion
statement published on the same day
(22/6/’23) set forth :
Steps have been taken in Stydney to form a
Central Bureau for Australia, which will be in con-
stant communication with Soviet Russia. The deci-
sion was arrived at by a conference of all societies
acting on behalf of technical aid. to Soviet Russia.
....Mr. Garden stated that it ivas the instruction
of Soviet Russia that only one central bureau should
be formed in each country. He stated that he would
report the formation of the bureau to headquarters.
Australia, little as its self-satisfied Podsnaps
realise it, is in some respects an ideal coun-
try for just that kind of revolution. Unless
there is enough voluble and raging treason of
this sorf to alarm even the Australian (and
nothing seems to do that), Labor will drift
into power just as it did six times already,
few realising till too late that it is a new
Labor with “the instruction of Soviet
Russia” for its guidance. It will control
the only armed forces in the country, for
the States have none. It will take charge
of a people so much accustomed to depend on
the Government as to be less fitted than
most white races to improvise resistance.
Many think they couldn’t rebel without a
loan. They are being- trained already in
obedience to strangers who come here with
strange doctrines and take charge of their
organisations, and so far they haven’t kicked
once —at least, not perceptibly. The revolu-
tionary forces are probably stronger than
is commonly supposed. By reason of pedants
and highbrows who make a fetich of “free
speech” (especially if it embodies schemes
for taking from good Australians their liber-
ties, their property and their votes, and
“organising” them in chain-gang fashion at
urgent tasks), and who would hate to de-
port a venomous serpent unless after trial
by a jury of its kind, this country must
hold quite au army of the sort of men whom
places like Maoriland reject at sight—also a
good many women. It is almost the only
place where they can foregather when it is
desirable to go abroad, and the only one
which gladly adopts them. After a little
delay to get the right material into the army
in sufficient force, the whole programme of
confiscation and (necessarily) the disfran-
chisement of the losers, might be efiacted in
one day. The Lenin party did the job on
four separate days spread over two months,
but it was feeling its way, and had no out-
side aid and advice such as the Australian
Red Communists get from, Moscow. The
question which all this leads up to is
whether it is advisable to nip this ferocious
and blatantly confident conspiracy in the
bud by deporting every identifiable conspira-
tor who hails from anywhere outside the
Commonwealth, and breaking up, by every
possible means, the propaganda of those who
are not eligible for deportation. Or if it is
best to first make quite sure that the danger
is real—in the only way that we can be quite
sure, which is by waiting till the house falls
on us beyond reconstruction. There was an
editor in London who declared constantly for
10 years or more before the -war that the
gigantic military and naval preparations of
Germany aimed at world conquest and world
enslavement, about which, in fact, leading
Huns made no more secret than leading Aus-
tralian Bolshetdks do. He urged a combina-
tion of big nations for the reduction of ruin-
ous armaments, and an ultimatum to the
great disturber that he must join the move-
ment or else fight the combine, while war
was still cheap and the combine was still
able to choose time and place. He was
generally called a mere scaremonger and a
prophet of the impossible—-till the World War
came. After that someone christened him
“The Man Who Saw To-morrow.” lie may
be a case in point.—-Yours, etc., Henry
Horsecollar.
«,
Joseph and His Coat.
Reporting on his first twelvemonth at that
home for decayed politicians known as Aus-
tralia House, London, J. Cook remarks, with
tond self-approval, that “it has been a very
full year’s Work.” “Full” is precisely the
word. • Space didn’t admit of Joseph par-
ticularising “the numerous luncheons at Aus-
tralia House, all connecting themselves with
the Work of the Office,” or “the large num-
ber of functions, attendance at which is an
essential part of a High Commissioner’s
Duty,” but he proudly mentions a few.
Once the tables were set for a savage tribe
of bowlers from Australia. On another
occasion wild men from a chess tournament
were tamed with meat and drink. A cer-
tain cotton delegation was fed twice—before
it left for Australia and when it returned.
Joe believes in catching ’em going and com-
ing. Then
Two receptions were held at Australia House, which
lends itself in a marked degree to such entertain-
ments. They were attended by not less than 3000
people, and have been described by the press as two
large and brilliant gatherings.
Nor did the large and brilliant gatherings
exhaust Joe’s devotion to Work. Came a
proud day when We were “invited to take
part in the Lord Mayor’s procession.” Natu-
rally, “We gladly availed ourselves of the
opportunity”:—
Australia was represented in the procession by a
car drawn by six white horses [white elephants were
unprocurable]. Each horse bore the coat-of-arms of one
of the six States. On the car was mounted a large gilt
outline map of Australia, at the base of which were
displayed the resources of the Commonwealth in the -
form of wool, grain, fruit, minerals and so on. Men
dressed in characteristic bush dress marched at the
heads of the horses. Our exhibit was a very striking
one, and was much admired and appreciated by the
great crowds which lined the streets. It was a fine
advertisement for" Australia ; and 1 hope it may be-
come a permanent feature in future Lord Mayors’
shows.
In which case the Australian taxpayer will
be annually garrotted for the gratification of
Arry and Liza —plundered to swell the
capering tomfoolery of a Cockney circus.
Joseph’s qualifications for representing Aus-
tralia in Britain may be tested by the quoted
extract. If a further test is needed it will
be found on page 25 of his report, where the
t num Phs of Australia House, under
is legime, and, more particularly, its suc-
“mistering to the appetite of the
tounst tor race-tickets, presentations at
a;?!!! . lnvit; ‘ tlo ii s to garden parties and club
dinners, and the privilege of gaping at
loyalty (or, if royalty is unavailable, at the
loyal horses) are complacently recorded. l The
number of persons presented at Court, the
number invited to the royal garden-party and
tne royal enclosure at Ascot, the number
put up at clubs, the country-houses privately
viewed— Joe enumerates them all. lie
doesnt even forget the pop-eyed trippers who
had to slake their thirst for social distinc-
ti°n~oeing denied the ecstasy of rubbing
shoulders with George and Mary at Ascot
or Windsor—by inspecting the Royal Mews.
Ihe taxpayers are also gratified with the in-
formation that “prominent racing-men were
put in touch with the Jockey Club, who
extended special free facilities for attending
most race meetings,” and that “a brochure,
‘London Sights Worth Seeing,’ was prepared
and distributed to hundreds of visitors,” as
if the sort of Australians who go holidaying
in Britain weren’t well able to buy their
own guide-books and cadge their own race-
tickets. Excluding rents of branch offices, it
cost £148,544 to keep Cook and his retinue
going last year. About as much again was
extracted from the people to support the
trumpery dignity of the six Agents-General,
two of whom—the Queenslander and the
Westralian —are too proud to take uji their
quarters in Australia House (annual interest
bill, £48,228), although there is plenty of un-
rented space. Two-thirds of the expenditure
is sheer waste. Australia might be efficiently
represented in Britain for £lOO,OOO p.a. But
that would involve abandoning the seedy
swindle by virtue of which superfluous poli-
ticians are sent to London to eat more din-
ners than are good for them and hang round
the fringe of ‘‘Society,” where they serve
the ignoble purposes of ravenous deadheads.
•
Industry in Queensland.
It was remarked in a recent Bulletin that
tlie Queensland worker is deluded when he
listens to the bland assurance of his Red
Objective rulers that “Fat pays.” Of every
£lO,OOO of the wages of employees in 1917,
the Queensland Government took £164; by
1920 it took £622. The further point that
wants to be hammered into the head of
Queensland Labor is that not only does its
Reddish Government take a lot of its earn-
ings, but that the Queensland worker’s share
of the value of work done is small—the poor-
est in the Commonwealth, in fact. That is
as regards the factory employee, his being
the only case where statistics have been
brought down to the requisite fine point. A
little table of figures in the “Quarterly Sum-
mary qf Australian Statistics” for March,
1928, should be shouted by some Stentor
in the ear of every Queenslander: —
The Employee's Share of Factory Output.
Per £lOO of Value
Per £lOO of added in Process
Total Value. of Manufacture.
Queensland .. £l7 17 10 £46 9 10
N. S. Wales . . 20 2 5 52 15 0
S. i Australia . . 22 5 5 54 8 2
Victoria .. 22 9 0 51 19 2
Tasmania .. 25 18 7 • 53 8 5
Westralia .. 291910 65 17
Average .. 21 4 7 52 7 2
Then a phenomenon creeps in, as phenome-
na often do. Westralia showed a wretchedly
poor increase in the number of factory
employees from 1915 to 1922, and that is
largely ascribed to the fact that the em-
ployee gets away with far more than the
average share of the takings. There being
so little left to the employer for profit and
for a thousand different expenses, Westralia
is regarded as a place which a manufacturer
in search of a site would avoid. On the
other hand, Queensland is the State where
the employee conies last and gets the small-
est share, though being filled up with lies,
and unaware that there exists such a docu-
ment as the “Quarterly Summary of Statis-
tics,” he imagines himself a favored child
of fortune, and is grateful to Theodore
accordingly. And Queensland is the State
where the margin left to the proprietor for
expenses other than wages and for profit
is unusually high. Factory owners should,
then, have rushed Queensland in search of
large profits. Yet the big rich State
acquired only 169 new factory-workers in
seven years—less than one-twentieth of
Westralia \s figure, and Westralia’s was bad
enough. The most feasible explanation of the
apparent anomaly is that the Queensland
factory-owner has to take what looks like a
very large slice, and leave the worker a
record small one, because he has to pay the
biggest taxes in Australia to the most
wasteful Government in Australia. When
he has paid them, the net slice which re-
mains to him is so small that when he wants
another factory he builds it outside Theo-
dore’s jurisdiction. Further, a strong
opinion is growing up in Queensland that
the way to improve wages is to take the fac-
tories away from the expert proprietors, and
hand them over to “commissioners.” Natu-
rally that doesn’t encourage manufacturers
to go ahead—it only encourages them to go
away. Yet a very good case can be made
out for higher wages, for skilled men and
women especially. But that desirable result
isn’t to be reached by putting inexperienced
failures in charge and running a business on
a system of loafing made easy. Day-labor
devices make it hardly worth while for the
best man to do more work than the worst,
and if he did much more he would become a
sort of enemy, as one who tended to make
the worst man superfluous. So the best
kind of skill is forgotten or never acquired,
there being no very special reward attached
to being the best carpenter, as there is to
being the best surgeon or solicitor. And as
there is so . little visible promise in the game,
the craving of Young Australia to begin his
thrilling career as a “block-boy,” sweeping
offensive but fertilising substances off the
streets, has become an overdone emotion.
• ,
Mr. Pecksniff Makes a Few Remarks.
Mr. Ley, in an address at the Millions Club lun-
cheon, dealt with the housing question. Many people,
he said, became Bolsheviks owing to the wretched
conditions under which they lived.
A great picture might be painted of Peck-
sniff, rising with his mouth full of the rich
man’s victuals, to deliver a fine moral ora-
tion against hypocrisy. The tendency to
city life is in all civilised people, partly be-
cause machinery has made fewer hands neces-
sary to a given area of cultivation, and
partly because civilisation now demands a
thousand factory-made (which is town-made)
things that its grandfather never heard of.
Most countries minimise the unavoidable evil
by letting a big town grow up at every port
or other suitable place, and provide itself
with means of communication, and go ahead.
But N. S. Wales Governments, including
the team that Ley belongs to, and which
snuffles along like its predecessors, have de-
veloped an absolutely hellish ingenuity in
cramming and jambing and ramming adults
and little children into one dense mass.
Their morbid metropolis is created by pre-
venting free access to ports north and south,
where other towns should arise to relieve
the pressure. And as a consequence the
N. S. Wales metropolitan area can show
municipalities which beat even Glasgow for
the huddle of inhabitants. Still, it wouldn’t
be so bad if so many of the people in power
wouldn’t disgust their fellow-men, especially
at lunch, by weeping over the evil as if it
was some other person’s evil.
Turning Australia into Desert.
“Ogkatii” on the Kidman Blight:—
I can speak for Western Queensland. Originally
selected by family groups from Victoria and N. S.
Wales, it was soon on the high road to pros-
perity. Owners were able t 6 erect fine homes, to
pay managers a salary enabling them to maintain
their families in comfort and keep a tutor or gov-
erness for the younger children, to undertake im-
provements giving employment to contractors and
laborers, to keep rabbits and dingoes well in check.
Each station was a community, and the meeting
ground of the communities was Thargomindah.
That town then boasted two banks, four hotels,
five stores, bakeries, tailors’ and watchmakers’ shops,
a chemist and a doctor. The hospital was a well
managed and flourishing institution, the local School
of Arts well supplied with good reading matter.
The local council saw a future in the town, and
established a water supply and electric light. No
one visiting the district could be in doubt that it
was a prosperous section of Queensland and not
a part of the wilds of Africa, which in a few years
it came to resemble.
The change came with the 1902-03 drought, followed
by Kidman. He gradually gained control of most of
the stations, put a general manager on one and
Overseers on the rest, stopped improvements, and
let the rabbits and dingoes fight it out with the
cattle. The exodus of managers and their families
and of contractors and station-hands caused Thar-
gomindah to commence reducing itself to its lowest
terms. To-day little remains except the electric
light and artesian-water plant and the yarns of a
few “old hands’’ of how champagne flowed in the
good old days.
Some of' the facts that obtrude themselves are
these: The stations under separate management and
ownership paid good dividends; they provided 10
times more employment than they do now ; and the
preventive methods employed to keep down rabbits
and dingoes made it possible for small selectors to
rear sheep, a thing impossible now. The land, as
land, is as good to-day as it was then; there are
hundreds who could make small areas pay if they
had the chance of selecting them; the district is
capable of carrying millions of sheep if it were
free of rabbits and dingoes. But the Kidman inter-
ests stand in the way of all this. As Mr. Wrigley
justly points out (B. 28/6/’23), the fault is not so
much with Kidman as with the Government. One
would expect better from a Labor Ministry, especially
as two of its members share portions of the Bulloo
in their electorates. But both seem to have nursed
the small selectors around Cunnamulla and Charle-
ville (which have not experienced the Kidman blight)
till their seats are safe without the Bulloo votes. So
a country capable of making a substantial contribu-
tion to Australia’s wealth is far less attractive than
it was before ever it was settled. For then at aiiv
rate it had neither the dingoes nor the rabbits.
The Case for Kidman.
Norman Ford for the defence: —
Leslie Wrigley’s remarks (B. 28/6/ 23) are
either so wilfully distorted or made out of the
depths of such a profound ignorance as to call for
some comment, even if only out of iairness to the
man attacked.
Momba, according to Mr. Wrigley, was “some few
years back the largest sheep station in Australia ;
something like a half-million sheep were shorn
there.’’ I know that in 1889 (34 years ago, mark
you!) 441,000 sheep passed under the shears; but
in 1898 the numbers had dwindled to 185,440. For
this reduction the resumption of a very considerable
portion of the Momba Pastoral Co.’s holding was
alone responsible, and it would be interesting to
know if those to whom the resumed areas were
granted are to-day keeping sheep equivalent in num-
ber to the difference disclosed above. Also whether
the number of persons actually in occupation of the
country is very much in excess of the number for-
merly employed on the station. I suggest that Mr.
Wrigley be asked to look into this matter. Since
1898 it is doubtful if more than 150,000 sheep were
ever on the property, and when in October, 1919,
Kidman (to adopt your correspondent’s polite style)
became interested, there was none. The owner at
that time, Joseph Timms, had been compelled to
sell owing to the ravages of the dogs and, in smaller
measure, owing to the country having deteriorated
through previous over-stocking. The presence of
dogs would suggest that the 500 miles of dog-proof
fencing over which “the cattle trip merrily” were
even then in a state of disrepair. The then state
of the country decided its fate: cattle (dogs don’t
attack grown cattle to any great extent) were
deemed to be more suitable for restocking, and
cattle were accordingly put on. Now, as regards the
“staff,” which Mr. Wrigley says “consists of two
black boys, two gins and an ex-policeman,” there
are no blacks, neither “boys” nor gins, employed on
the place. Amongst the whites employed there may
be an ex-policeman. I cannot say whether this is
true or typical of the rest of Mr. Wrigley’s state-
ments ; but it is pertinent to ask should a man be
disqualified from employment because of a former
association with a very necessary and quite honorable
branch of the civil service? But perhaps Mr. Wrigley
looks upon all policemen as natural enemies. The
writer remembers having heard the “great” Ben
Tillet say, in reply to a question, that he considered
the four greatest blots on civilisation to be the
policeman, the publican, the pawnbroker and the
prostitute. You’ll observe that the great “uplifter
of humanity” put the unfortunate policeman first.
“As one travels up the Paroo,” according to Mr.
Wrigley, the Kidman properties are identifiable from
the fact that one black boy and a caretaker are
monarchs of all they survey over some hundreds of
square miles. Mr. Wrigley, however, is careful not
to mention these stations by name. The truth is
that they exist only in the fertile imagination of
one Wrigley. If the stations lying between the
Kidman holdings employ “three or four station
hands,” manager, “overseer and even an occasional
jackeroo” they would “form a striking contrast” in
regard to numbers employed, for every Kidman
holding pays wages to more men than the number
set out by Mr. Whig lev.
But just here Mr. Wrigley gives the show away.
His chief concern, apparently, is the reviling of the
hated capitalist (the habit grows in Queensland in
proportion as they lean on the capitalist for funds
to “blew” on State enterprises, including cattle
stations). You will notice that he invariably places
the station-hands before the manager; and the
“occasional jackeroo,” who may be training to be-
come a pastoralist and, ergo, a bloated capitalist,
runs a bad last.
As to the removal of the bank from Thargomindah
to Cunnamulla, a glance at the Pastoral Map of
Queensland will show any observer that the latter
town is a railway terminus ; also that the country is of
a far better class and capable of being worked
in smaller holdings. But cheer up, Thargo-
mindah ! Some day, perhaps, it will be expedi.
ent to transfer a large group of free and
independent voters to west of Cunnamulla so that
a “seat” may be won, and then Thargomindah will
come into its own again and be the proud possessor
of a bank and a railway. As to the “cookies” in
the neighborhood of Thargomindah making a living
on holdings of 50 square miles, all I can say is
that with cattle at recent prices the said cookies
must have some other means of making both ends
meet. The fact that the fences, are down may pro-
vide the explanation as to how they do it. Or,
perhaps, they emulate the inhabitants of a certain
mythical island, who, it is alleged, eked out a pre-
carious existence by taking in one another’s washing.
But surely Mr. Wrigley was merely striving for an
effective comparison when he mentioned blocks of
50 square miles in comparison with Bulloo Downs’s
5000 miles; whilst on the job, why didn’t he make
Bulloo Downs 50,000 or even 500,000 square miles?
A few noughts count for very little when a man is
really trying. If Mr. Wrigley will refer to Queens-
land Government Gazette, July 31, 1922, he will
see the area of Bulloo Downs given as 640 square
miles, leased to Sidney Kidman at an annual rent
of 10s. per mile. To show the class of country it
is, I mention that the rainfall last year was 2.58 in.
This was exceptionally low, but the average for the
past five years was under lOin. The safe carrying
capacity is estimated to be five cattle per mile. So
Mr. Wrigley’s friends are making a living off 250
cattle and there is a surplus to spend on improve-
ments. Truly those fences do want looking to!
But, “square an’ all,” as the Sentimental Bloke
Would say, this suffering country of ours wants
more Sidney Kidmans and fewer “experts” who
can always show how the other fellow’s business
should be run. Take Mr. Wrigley as an example,
llis name does not appeal’ amongst those who pay
Government rent in the Warrego district, and jet
he knows exactly what a pastoralist should do in
the Warrego district. I’m wondering why he doesn’t
apply for one of those delectable 50-square-mile
blocks, with the ineffectual fencing. But perhaps
he has better fish and easier to fry; maybe he is
an aspirant for political honors, .and is at present
too busy tickling the ears of the groundlings to
take a hand at producing something more useful
than mere noise.
The Railwaymen and the* Constitution.
Fbom Will Smith, General Secretary, Aus-
tralian Railway Union :
The Bulletin (28/6/’23) says: “The Railwaymen
ought to rejoice that neither the- Privy Council nor
the High Court is the supreme authority in Aus-
tralia.” Supreme authority on what? Politics, or
Law and Constitution ? It is generally agreed that
neither is the “supreme authority” in polities, but
both enjoy authority regarding the interpretation of
the Australian Constitution and law. The railway-
men have had good cause to know, for the High
Court excluded them from the Arbitration Court
by its ruling in 1906, and kept them excluded until
1920. The men were shut out from the Arbitration
Court during that period irrespective of any desire
of Parliaments (and Labor had a fair innings m
that period) to “amend the law with which they
disagreed.”
The Bulletin says: “These Courts decide that
an Act means so-and-so.” In this instance the Courts
did not decide that an Act meant so-and-so. They
decided that the Australian Constitution means that
the Federal Parliament has power to legislate on
the matter of Federal arbitration for railwaymen.
And it is claimed by the Australian Railways Union
that that power should be exercised. The Bulletin
is possibly correct in saying that “probably neither
the High Court nor the Privy Council approves of the
law” (or Constitution), but it is not they who are
the adjudicators on the matter. There is no objec-
tion to the right of Parliament to “amend a law
with which it disagrees,” though one may disagree
with the amendment, but there should be great
objection to Cabinets and Parliamentary majorities
dickering with the Constitution, which is supposed
to govern and control their actions.
The Bulletin is at variance with the views of the
Cabinets whose action it apparently supports, for
Ministers hold that, should the right of railwaymen
and other State servants to appear before the Federal
Arbitration Court become a perpetual election issue,
it w'ould be inimical to the best interests of the
State. As they view it, the matter should be settled
once and for all; consequently Professor Harrison
Moore and Latham, K.C., were commissioned to
investigate how the Constitution could be altered so
as to leave railwaymen in the same position as they
were prior to the High Court ruling of 1920. It has
been decided to attempt to exclude railwaymen from
the Court by an amendment of the Federal Arbitra-
tion Act if it cannot be accomplished more safely by
an alteration of the Australian Constitution wdthout
consulting the Australian people.
The Bulletin says it is “absurd to talk of a con-
spiracy [the word is The Bulletin's, and a good
one] to upset the rulings of the High Court ahd the
Privy Council.” Now the Federal Parliament was
granted certain powers in a Constitution approved
of by the Australian people. In 1904 Prime Minister
Deakin (one of the founders of the Constitution)
induced Parliament to include railwaymen within
the scope of the Federal Arbitration Act. In 1906
(Dempster and Pedder and the Webb cases) the
High Court declared, in effect, that because it in-
cluded railwaymen the Federal Arbitration Act was
ultra vires. The Privy Council said the High Court
was wrong. Both agreed that the Federal Parlia-
ment was not deprived of the powers by the word-
ing of the Constitution, but the High Court took
cognisance of the American doctrine of immunity of
State instrumentalities. The Privy Council declared
that to be a foreign doctrine which could have no
weight in a British Court of law. In 1920
(Engineers’ case) the Australian High Court (dif-
ferent personnel) reversed the High Court decision
of 1906. Railwaymen thereupon registered under the
Federal Arbitration Act, in face of strenuous opposi-
tion from Railway Commissioners. Another High
Court appeal; again the railwaymen won. Having
lost in legal attempts to prevent the railwaymen from
entering the Arbitration Court, new tactics were
necessary. In November, 1920, Prime Minister


Ttl e Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustraHa
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £250,000
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
Limited
Premium Income-
-First year (191G\
Seventh year (1922)
. . £8,849
„ „ x , .. v. .. . . £87,728
During the seven years since the Company was established £58,424 has been paid for Claims under
Policies CASH DIVIDENDS of £17,019 have been paid to Shareholders, besides which the whole of
Expenses (£9395) have been paid off, and a Reserve Fund created.
Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly-established
and progressive Company.
h
Managing Director.
Hughes met the State Premier in conference and
agreed to amend section 4 of the Arbitration Act to
exclude railwaymen —vide Parliamentary Paper lots.
In December, 1921, Hughes told a railwaymen’s depu-
tation not to worry. He said: “The Premiers want
me to do it, but I will only do so on condition that
the States hand over to the Commonwealth certain
powers, and they are unlikely to agree to do so;
get in while the going’s good”-—or words to that
effect. The rights of railwaymen were on the auction
block. In April, 1922, another conference was held
at which Hughes was forced to agree uncondition-
ally to frame legislation excluding the railwaymen
from the Arbitration Court. Even W. M. Hughes
jibbed at the job, and suggested that another appeal
be made to tne Privy Council by the States against
the 1920 High Court decision. Owen Dixon, K.C.,
went to England on a wasted mission. In October,
1922, still another conference with the States. Pro-
fessor Harrison Moore and Latham, lv.C., again
engaged to find out how the railwaymen could be
more securely excluded than by a mere amendment
of an Act of Parliament which might be so easily
repealed. About this time another deputation of
railwaymen was informed by Hughes that he did
not know what to do in the matter—an unusual
admission for Hughes. Now, why all these appeals
and legal fights in High Courts and Privy Council
chambers? Why all these conferences and expert
advice if a mere amendment of an Act of Parlia-
ment is all that is desired? It is obvious that anti-
-I,abor Cabinets are chary of wielding a double-edged
weapon such as the infraction of the Constitution by
Act of Parliament for party ends might ultimately
prove. The States and the Federal Cabinet are
aiming for an amendment of the Constitution with-
out an appeal to the people. Possibly the fact that
Theodore dissented from any such Act at the last
Premiers’ Conference may prove a stumbling block
in the legal progress towards a non-popular alteration
of the Constitution. It is to be hoped so. The
liu llf.tin, however, says “it is absurd to talk about
it.”
To which this may be said
The only point the Privy Council decided is that
the Constitution (which Mr. Smith doesn’t seem to
realise is also an Act) gives the Parliament the
right to legislate on the matter of Federal arbitra-
tion for railwaymen. The Convention which framed
the Constitution certainly never contemplated the use
of Federal arbitration for this purpose —or for most
other purposes for which it has been employed.
That it has been possible to use it for those pur-
poses is due to the federalising of unions—a plan
Which reflects great credit at least on the ingenuity
of the heads of the big unions of Australia. Cer-
tainly nobody knew better than the early High Court
(including Barton and O’Connor, two of the small
committee that drafted the Constitution) what
the, intention was. However, the intention
was lost, and the railwaymen were declared
to have a right, under the Arbitration
Act, which it was never contemplated they should
have. They are, so long as" that law stands, legally
justified in exercising that right. But Parliament is
equally entitled to amend the law as it has been
interpreted—or misinterpreted. And that any amend-
ment is not likely to be favorable to the railwaymen
is admitted by Mr. Smith, who remarks that in all
the years during which they w r ere excluded Parlia-
ments did nothing to admit them, notwithstanding
that “Labor had a fair innings in that period.” If
(here were any movement to get rid of the question
for good—that is to say, if there were any attempt
to so arrange matters that the present should govern
the future—it would be utterly wrong. But the
Constitution guards against anything of the sort.
All that has been attempted has been to see if it is
not possible to realise the intention of the law of
the Constitution; for the railwaymen’s spokesman
to (declare that “the States [which means, appa-
rently, the State Governments J and the Federal
Cabinet are aiming for an amendment of the Con-
stitution without an appeal to the people” is, as
The Bulletin said before, absurd. The Constitu-
tion provides it “shall not be altered except in the
following manner” [“the proposed law for the alter-
ation shall be submitted in each State to the elec-
tors”], and any amendment which violated that
direction would have short shrift.
".T.E.’s” last words re “the Law as to De-
portation” :—•
“J.8.D.,” in his reply (B. 28/6/’23) sticks pretty
closely to minor or irrelevant aspects of the case. I
have known since childhood’s happy hour that the
British Constitution wasn’t a written document;
but when hundreds of noisy persons declare that
every annoying, not to say insulting, visitor like
Paul Freeman and Father Jerger and the Irish
“envoys” is specially protected by the article, it is
well to make quite sure, even by way of a parable,
that someone hasn’t taken the trouble to assemble the
document.
I didn’t say or think that “all the Irish law records
were burnt with the Four Courts.” I alluded to the
Four Courts being “wrecked,” and tried to explain
that the documents relating to the case of Kelly v.
the Grown re the overcharge on a letter were
destroyed in that way. They had to be burned
somewhere, else grave and serious persons would
write to me for copies; but I wish now that I had
destroyed them in the Great Fire of London. The
case wasn’t so much fictitious as symbolical—sym-
bolical of a litigious race which makes fine points of
law a science.
As regards the third point, I presume the omission
of the word “probably” gives “J.8.D.” an advan-
tage. But unless someone can discover that England
has had in recent times a complete new code, which
automatically wiped out all outstanding old bar-
barities, the laws which survive in that cold land
are more uncertain than the Constitution itself. The
story goes that the code pubished by Alfred the
Great supplied a definite new starting point, and is
still the foundation of the common law of England.
I presume it annulled any previous boiling laws
(Mark Twain saw a maker of bad money being
boiled in London when he visited the Court of King
Arthur), but plenty of new barbarities had time to
creep in afterward, and the premises haven’t been
thoroughly searched for a long time.
But, after all, the point isn’t that we were absurdly
misruled during the war by Boards of Censorship
appointed under the management of our own adult-
suffrage Government. Nor is it that the Bulgarian
Stambuliski set himself up as an illegal Board in
his own country. It is that the power to deport
obnoxious strangers exists; and especially, by com-
mon and long-established practice, the envoy of a
hostile Power can be handed his passport without
trial by jury, or by Board either. When he gets
his passport it is the orderly thing to quit. If he
refused to quit I presume he would be carried. No
matter how they secured permission to come here,
our aggressive visitors posed, when they were here,
as the ambassadors of a republic at war with the
Empire, of which Empire we are at least supposed
to form a part, and in their comments upon our
institutions they went beyond the' most truculent
envoys’ privilege. If they can’t be removed in the
orthodox way our liberties seem in bad case.
“Bosun” : Recent shipwrecks should call
fresh attention to the almost criminal dis-
regard for the safety of certain travellers
and seafarers who are compelled to go to sea
THE TAIL-WAGGED DAWG.
“In Victoria the 398,177 voters in the country elect 44 members of Parliament; the 475,232 voters
in the city elect only 21.”
ACTING-PREMIER McPHERSON: “Good old Fido!"
in vessels that are unequipped. The Navi-
gation Act first proposed that all steamers
should be equipped with wireless, but
coastal companies trading within a State
claimed exemption and got it. In anti-
cipation of ships being in contact with
receiving stations or other vessels, the
lighthouse service was reduced, and unat-
tended lights replaced former signal stations;
also, lifeboats were passed at survey without
being compelled to carry sails. From Syd-
ney to Seal Rocks (Sugar Loaf Point) the
distance is 109 miles; from the latter to
Smoky Cape another 100. Inside 'these
points, if a coastal vessel is in distress, she
has no. chance of connecting with the shore
—unless she hits it. At 10 knots (and very
few will steam so well in bad weather) it
means 10 hours after leaving one point be-
fore passing the other. Do the persons who
grant those exemptions realise that the large
coastal vessels carry a complement of 250
souls? The shipping companies argue that
their vessels are always in close reach of
the shore, and if in distress can run for
shelter; it would never do for them to admit
that they grudge the wages of an operator
and the cost of installing the necessary
gear. And shipmasters cannot hug the coast
in the sort of weather when wireless is most
needed. The only gales come from the south
or south-east, and then coastal craft must
be headed out to sea for fear of being blown
ashore or drifting disabled on to the rocks.
In a strong westerly it is safe to navigate
inshore, but an Our Jack or Fitzroy was
never lost when the wind was offshore.
Tiie periodically-advertised “bold scheme of
Major-General W. L’Estrange Eames” to
“develop the Northern Territory and settle
it with 100,000 British men and women” is
to the front again, and it begins to attract
a few friends. The idea is to let a corpora-
tion have a shy at the Territory for 25
years. It proposes to build the South-to-
North railway, and possibly an East-to-West
line as well, for £25,000,000, the money to
be raised at 5 per cent, on a Federal guar-
antee. This being the only security it is to
be simply a Federal loan ; but the corpora-
tion is to have the spending of it, presum-
ably on the ground that the Commonwealth
authority can’t be trusted to do it rightly.
After reading the new Government’s plans
for the Territory, an impression arises that
the corporation may not be a bad judge. As
a precedent the promoters quote the example
of the British Government, which gave a
similar guarantee to help railway-building ip
India. The difference is _ that the British
Government wholly disclaimed the idea of
being a professional builder of nationally-
owned railways, and gave out the job on
principle, while the Australian Government
is a professional builder and owner, but has
failed at its business. The corporation also
proposes to settle lots of small freeholders
if the Government gives it the land, the
reason being that, though the Government
has a few kingdoms of good land to give
away to small freehold settlers, it is too lan-
guid or doesn’t know how. It is an insult-
ing inference, but it would be hard to dis-
prove it.
“T.P.”: The present shuffling over Dig-
gers’ pensions is an exasperation to all who,
like myself, have had to do with repatriation
committees. Three years ago an ex-soldier
waited on me, as a member of committee,
with the news that he regarded himself as
entirely recovered. “My farm,” he said, “is
tiptop, and I shouldn’t be drawing that
pension any more.” Remonstrance was use-
less, so the necessary “finalising” arrange-
ments were made. The man was certainly
in the pink of condition, until a month later
someone dropped a dish in his kitchen. At
that he screamed and bolted under the table.
Week after week his wife had to nurse him as
if he were a sick child. If she was out of his
sight for a moment the poor devil would cry
pitifully for her.' The local doctor, a good
man, could only coin a phrase, “Deferred
shell-shock,” and answer the question “What
causes this?” with "Gon knows.” The com-
mittee arranged for the re-instatement of
the pension. Shortly after this the ex-
soldier said suddenly to his devoted wife:
“You look; real ill. Go to bed. I’ve played
the fool long enough; I am going to nurse
you now.” From that time to this he has
been normal; but who can say what the
future has in store ! The fact is, men who
did time in the war-hell should be in a class
apart, and any Government which skimps
and saves cash from their pensions is too
mean for words. Three years ago that parti-
cular pension was reinstated on the words
of us who knew this particular Digger. I
doubt if officialdom would do that now.
•
“Ex-YYc”: “Country Ped” recently attri-
buted the progress of Werribee (Vic.) to
the lucerne-growers of the district having
secured freehold instead of leasehold. Inci-
dentally, he proffered his sympathy to Queens-
landers afflicted with the perpetual least-
system. Still, we small cockies in the north-
ern State are finding the perpetual lease sys-
tem with the Government for landlord very
different from that experienced in the South
when the private freeholder has to be dealt
with. Take my own and a few neighbors’
experience. We selected land years ago
under the Denham Government, away from
the railway, in two-mile blocks, 1280 acres,
at prices running up to 16s. per acre, pay-
able in 15 years, the first five to be free. At
the end of that time our holding would be-
come freehold. Then along came a Labor
Government and offered us 40 years to pay,
or perpetual lease with a periodical re-
appraisement. One tried reappraisement,
and got his land valued at 45.; others fol-
lowed, and the price was reduced in some
cases to 2s. 6d. Then it was discovered that
land valued at under ss. per acre had not
to be paid for; the tenant thus got it free
for 20 years. My position is that, instead of
paying £ IS 10s. per year, as per Denham’s
scheme, I am liable for exactly nil, which
leaves quite enough for pear-poison and a
trip to the show each year. If the railway
comes handy within the 20 years, and we
then get re-assessed at over ss, per acre, we
will probably be annoyed about it and vote
accordingly ; but as Theodore has only indi-
cated that a revision court will be held at
that date, and hasn’t guaranteed that either
he or we will live to see it, we are not worry-
ing at present.
This great country has some record loan
schemes on hand. The maddest is possibly
the one for the wholesale purchase of popu
lation. England, with 701 persons on each
640 acres, has millions to give away, and to
buy them with borrowed money is quite
unnecessary. Other nations w 7 ith desirable
spare space yet remaining find it diminish-
ing so fast that some of them have become
quite offensively particular about new 7 arri-
vals. Only Australia pays people to come. The
present position apparently is that the Com-
monwealth is to borrow £6,000,000 for N. S.
Wales, £6,000,000 for Westralia and
£7,000,000 for Victoria spread over three years,
the first year’s lot being £7,000,000. As the
new borrowings of all sorts forecasted for
the coming financial year amount to
£45,000,000, it appears that there is another
£35,000,000 of midsummer lunacy in the
shape of public works in view—fqr no new
public works ever pay for their own keep
now. And when the £45,000,000 lias been
borrowed any sporting character w r ould bet a
trifle that the area of effective occupation
will be just what it has been for the last 60
years—the bit south of the same old line
drawn from a little above Brisbane to a
(ittle above Perth. That is, unless the entire
pqlicy of Australia is altered, and the altera-
tion has nothing to do with loans either. It
is njentioned in the wonderful loan pro-
gramme that if Queensland, S. Australia and
Tasmania like they can also have £6,000,000
apiece to purchase people with. If there is
one bright and courageous Premier who is
not yet committed he will reply in words
like "these: “Keep your loans and your in-
terest bill. We will lie back and get your
immigrants when your loan-boom has burst
and your disillusioned people are looking for
some place that isn’t all blighted hopes and
tax-papers.” And then that astute Premier
will have notice-boards set up on his border
with the device: “Good Land for Sale,
Cheap. Come over here and escape the heavy
taxes at home.”


ħ
Substantial Underwear
for Staunch Service.
Peapes Quote Two Winter Lines.
Here is Underwear ideal for the Winter
months—soft, warm, comfortable and
STRONG. It will give undoubtedly long wear.
34 36 38 40 42 44
Heavy-weight
natural wool
a n d cotton
Undershirts,
half-sleeves 11/6 11/6 12/- 12/6 18/- 13/6
Underpants
to match: 12/- 12/6 13/- 13/6 14/- 14/6
Heavy-weight
Pure Natural
Wool Under-
shirts : 15/6 16/6 17/6 18/6 19/6 20/6
( nderpants
to match: 15/6 16/6 17/6 18/6 19/6 20/6
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES (EL CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FJAT
“ Satisfied owners
are the Keystone of
Success.”
This letter speaks for itself: —
Royal Automobile Club of Australia,
Club House,
. 132-134 Phillip Street, Sydney.
„ _ 29th June, 1923.
Messrs. Garratts Limited,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —In working out my petrol consumption for the past
three weeks on my new FIAT 501 car I must say that the result
surprised me. Using the car in the Northern Suburbs on Commer-
cial work, over a distance of 881 miles I used 28 gallons of motor
spirit, which works out at miles per gallon.
The radiator has never been addetl to since leaving your Works.
I thought these facts might interest you.
Yours faithfully,
W. J. W
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Bruce-Page Sinking Fund Bill pro-
vides for the appointment of a National
Debt Commission, consisting of the Treasurer,
the Secretary to the Treasury, the Chief
Justice of the High Court, the Governor of
the Commonwealth Bank and the Solicitor-
General. “What does a Chief Justice know
about finance?” asked a Labor cynic, Not
much, perhaps, but bis presence will be some
guarantee against the shady practice of dip-
ping into the sinking fund for investment
in new flotations. That has happened since
the Commonwealth Treasurer was placed in
absolute control of the sinking fund ; in tact,
£968,000 has been so manipulated. Carle
Page’s idea is to build up an unlootable trust
fund into which will go £1,250,000 p.a. in
respect of the present Commopwealtn debt,
5 p.c. p.a. of all future borrowings, all repay-
ments on account of repatriation, and half
the net profits of the Commonwealth Bank
from July 1, 1923. It is an excellent scheme
—if the politicians don’t weaken.
N. S. _Wales will have a so-called surplus
of £803,507 for the year, as against a deficit
of £1,328,704 for the previous year; and the
difference is all to the credit of the Fuller
Government, which turned out the Dooley
spendthrifts a little over 12 months ago. The
Dooley plungers could see no way out of
the bog except by fleecing the industry of the
country of another two millions in income-
tax ; and that was saved, anyway. Even
now, of course, there is no such thing as a
real surplus, as N. S. Wales would find if
it had to do with its business undertakings
what the Federal Government, has just de-
cided to do with the Billy Hughes fleet. That
concern is to be handed over to a non-poli-
tical Board at a “fair market valuation.”
The present book-value is £12,766,000; the
“fair market valuation” is £4,718,000. The
other, eight millions-odd don’t exist for com-
mercial purposes; and neither do some scores
of the millions that have been spent on hope-
less _N. g. Wales railways and other jobs
carried through to buy votes and corrupt
constituencies.. The eight millions, if Fed-
eral Governments are reasonably honest, will
be paid off out of revenue or provided by
savings in expenditure; and the same thing
ought to be done in connection with the
State’s lame ducks. But no party Govern-
ment will ever have half the necessary pluck
to do it.
When half the financial year had gone,
Hague, the S.A. Treasurer, dolefully antici-
pated a big deficit. But revenue came in
so briskly during the other half —especially
after the drought broke —that he expects to
have _ a small surplus. The revenue from
taxation was far in excess of the estimate,
and the railways also show up well for once.
Hague points out modestly that*the expendi-
ture includes £142,000 for a sinking fund.
Hitherto South Aus. politicians have shame-
fully neglected their opportunities in this
direction, whereas Westralia on June 30,
1922, had a sinking fund of £5,370,000.
the M orker, turning the eye of disfavor
on High Commissioner Joe Cook, ventures
the opinion that he would never have been
appointed to his gilded billet but for the
tact that it was "convenient to get him out of
the way.” Certainly; and for what else
was Andy Fisher, Cook’s predecessor, ap-
pointed by _ Labor when it was the domi-
nant party in 1915? For the matter of that,
would George Reid have ever got the newly-
established billet in 1910 if his departure
hadn’t been essential to the fusion of his
old party with the Deakinites? Australia
lias never chosen a High Commissioner on
his merits yet. _ It has never sought to find
a man in the prime of his powers who would
lit the job and earn the salary ; it has always
been a matter of political “convenience.”
The Government as a shipowner:—
Disaster continues its pursuit of Government ship-
owners. Following on the loss of the Douglas Maw-
son up north and the chapter of accidents to Westra-
lian State steamers, the Sumatra, a 584-tonner be-
longing to the Rabaul Administration, has gone down
off the N. S. Wales coast with seven white men and
38 Papuans. It is officially admitted that the craft
was neither insured nor registered as an Australian
ship ; also that she struck trouble not long ago and
left port without the customary certificate that she
had been well and truly repaired. But it is officially
denied that she was a rotten old tub (the charge has
been made by a former skipper) ; on the contrary,
£34,000 —about six times her value before the end
came- —bad been spent in making her seaworthy. Still,
the plain fact is that, though “seaworthy,” she sank
ONE MORE FOR THE HERD.
"The N.S.W. Treasurer has a surplus,of £803,000. The State has, however, gone over £10,000,000
Durther into debt during the year.”
THE TREASURER: “A little surprise for you, darling! The white elephant? Oh, yes;
that’s for you, too. You must have quite a herd of them by this time.”
with all hands. The shocking feature of the business
is that, being- a Government ark, she didn’t have to
pass the Navigation authorities; and until that wicked
practice is altered the person who trusts himself on
a Government ship may reasonably expect some excite-
ment.
In the alleged interests of the returned
soldier Melbourne Argus publishes an inter-
view with a “leading merchant” who sug-
gests that Canadian implements and machin-
ery should be admitted free in order that the
exporters of dried fruits should get a con-
cession of £l4 a ton at the Canadian Cus-
toms. If Canada took all its dried fruits
from Australia this concession would be worth
only £153,000 a year; and in return it is
advocated that the powerful Canadian im-
plement and machinery concerns should be
given a straight-out go at our infant indus-
try in the same line in Australia, and thereby
cut deeply into and thus imperil our iron
and steel industry. These casual proposi-
tions to knock out Australian industries and
risk our national safety in order to give some
small temporary advantage to a diminutive
section of the producers, even if they are
returned soldiers, require to be stripped naked
and held up to public scorn.
The Vic. electoral rolls are an unanswer-
able indictment of the present distribution
of xkssembly seats. Greenwood’s constituency
(Boroondara) has nearly 10 times as many
electors as A. Hughes’s pocket borough
(Grenville). Acting-Premier McPherson has
six times as many voters in Hawthorn as
his colleague Peacock in Allandale; Labor-
member Jack Cain, seven times as many in
Jika Jika as Labor Whip Rogers in Mel-
bourne. Because it required a coalition like
the Gillies-Deakin team to recast seats in
18SS and a Ivyabramapootra combination
under Irvine to do it in 1903, the Lawson
bunch hesitates. It hasn’t a following as
strong as either. But Greater Melbourne,
with 475,232 electors, has 21 members;
whereas the rest of Yic. has 44 members to
represent its 398,177. The Government can’t
let that go on and remain honest.
N.S.W. Acting-Premier Oakes would have
done better for his reputation if he had left
the coal dispute alone. The miners have
secured preference to unionists, and none
others need apply. But there is nothing in
the bond to even hint that the owners may
not decide which unionists they will employ,
just as other people decide which trades-
union secretary or M.L.A. they will em-
ploy. They desire to get rid of some 90
men, who are accused of being systematic
strike-makers. The removal of the 90 would
leave room for other unionists who can do
with a job. Perhaps it was unwise of the
employers to say why they acted ; they might
have done better to have simply stood on
their claim to choose their unionists. Any-
how, the right of choice being affirmed on
one side and flatly denied on the other, there
is no room for compromise. The Acting-
Premier’s proposal that ballots and muddles
and complications should be taken, and that
some Bolsheviks should stay if others went,
would leave the problem in the old spot.
Voting is compulsory in Queensland, or is
supposed to be. Witli a brave show of en-
forcing the unenforceable, Mullan, the Attor-
ney-General, ordered his returning-officers to
bring backsliding electors to book and demand
their reasons for not voting at the recent elec-
tion. Two R.O.’s had a shot at it, and both
missed. One elector summoned to give an
account of himself was shown to have been
killed in 1917. Another proved that he had
voted. A third person asked to show cause
turned out to be a Labor politician. After
that Mullan called off his hounds.
A great deal of declamation is wasted over
the question whether immigration increases
unemployment, Laborites being pretty solid
in the affirmative, while other people are
mixed. The answer is Yes-No. The bring-
ing of agriculturists from England almost
certainly does create unemployment. When
a State like N.S.W. had 5600 fewer men
employed in rural industries in 1922 than
in 1911 (though, by the way, it had 4200
more women), there seems every reason to
believe that the agriculturist, when cap-
tured, presently drifts to the city, there to
become a jobless laborer. On the other hand
there are bricklayers’ and carpenters’ labor-
ers, and all manner of other people’s laborers,
who are unemployed, but for whom work
could be found if there were real carpenters
and bricklayers for them to be tacked on to.
The bringing out of the wrong immigrants is
the trouble.
The Theodore Government up North
would rather not take a prohibition poll this
year, but can’t very well get out of it. So
the electors have been warned that the costly
and perfectly useless business of expressing
pious aspirations towards no-license or State
control will be repeated on October 6. Mean-
while, there is talk of getting Bung to open
his bar at 9 a.m. and close it at 9 p.m., in-
stead of running it from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m.
as at present. The 9-to-9 system has worked
in Westralia to the satisfaction of all ex-
cept the advocates of abstinence by compul-
sion. Bung, of Bananaland, will, if he is
wise, jump at the proposition.
How easily the law can be broken when
there is a Government sympathetic to the
law-breakers is instanced in the baking
trade in N. S. Wales. A dozen years ago
the employees threatened to raise Hades un-
less night-baking was abolished. There was
a strike, with several threatened strikes and
much fencing before a Wages Board ; finally the
men won. When the Nationalists came into
power dough-punching after 8 p.m. was just
as unlawful as it was when Storey and
Dooley ruled the roost; nevertheless, it was
soon reverted to. Industrial inspectors took
no notice. Neither did the workmen —they
wanted to keep their jobs; possibly recognis-
ing this, even the union officials lay low and
said nothing. Now the illegality has been
abolished, and night-baking comes within the
law again as the result of a conference. But
the blindness that the Law suddenly de-
veloped remains an unpleasant incident.
President Harding says this generation
will not see a reversal of the Eighteenth
Amendment, which fastened prohibition on
the L.S.A. Perhaps he’s right, though he is
a politician. Prohibition was put into the
Constitution when the country was war-
crazy ; and it will take a two-thirds State
majority to get it out again. For a start
there are IS Southern States that will stand
by it, not because the whites there don’t
want a drink, but because they have made up
their minds that the niggers mustn’t have
any. What annoys other States that are
comparatively white is that they should be
deprived of a drink because the nigger at the
other end of the country is better without
one. No single State can legislate itself out
of the law of the Constitution ; but what a
State can do is to refuse to allow its police
to help in enforcing the law. New York
and Wisconsin have already done that; and
in Pennsylvania and elsewhere public
opinion has directed the State authority to
be blind. The country that embraces a nig-
ger has to suffer a good deal more than in
its chicken-roosts.
On a long-distance President:—
Tom Givens, who once inveighed against Senate
Presidents trying to get a second term, has made a
mock of his own words by having himself enthroned
once more. He is now the oldest inhabitant of the
President’s wig, and his 10 years of the billet
( £l9OO p.a. plus sundry privileges) have not dimin-
ished his estimation of the intelligence shown by his
fellow Senators in electing him. An unread and
autocratic character, with a passion for lecturing
menials, Givens has steadily deteriorated in popu-
larity, and the Government could barely scrape up a
majority in the pre-selection caucus. Talk in the
lobbies revealed that J. D. Millen (Tas.) was strongly
favored, but the Government was so bent on having
its. tedious nominee again in control that it taxied
th’e sick E. D. Millen to the party room. Eleven were
for Givens and 10 for the Tasmanian. The 12 Labor
Senators would certainly have supported Millen. So
you have in Givens’s election another example of the
rottenness of our system of parties and caucuses and
pre-selections. Givens now shares the domestic con-
trol of Parliament with Willie Watt, and will find
him a less pliant colleague than he had in Johnson.
Watt is polite but firm, and if there should be any
difference of opinion the conflict may be worth watch-
ing.
BALLADE OF HORNSWOGGLING.
[FOR BULLETIN.]
“The people are sick and tired of being hum-
bugged. They have been ‘hornswoggled’ more on this
law than on any ever placed on the Federal statutes.”
—Mayor of N’YorJc on Prohibition laws.
Our Uncle Sam is full of woes,
And in his realm, where once the art ;
Of cocktails flourished as the rose,
The joy of life is flat and tart.
At table (Vhote, or a la carte,
The topers’ plans are badly boggled ;
So honesty is set apart,
And thus the public is hornswoggled.
For Uncle openly there flows
No wine to gladden any heart:
With him each day a-glooming goes
To join its arid counterpart.
Only in hidden, secret mart —
With specs of tortoiseshell begcggled —
The thirsty slake their burning smart:
Thus is the populace hornswoggled.
Forlorn and furtive as the crows
Each Yankee croons his Rubaiyat;
Blue with wood alcohol his nose,
But still he finds his quenching quart,
• While jagged as a fever chart
llis homeward path shows, wiggle-woggled ;
Azrael hath him in the cart —-
But still the people are hornswoggled.
Envoy.
So, when for cooling streams the heart
Panteth, with nerves all badly joggled,
Remorse strikes through him with her dart;
Yet still the blighter goes hornswoggled.
N.S.W.
J. B. HIGGINSON.


BRITISH-
MADE
®2SuEO
ELECTRIC
IRONS.
£Sr.
: 7.
ffin
1 |li"
jypTROPOHT^
ELECTRICAL?
Vickers
CO.. LTD
21 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
213 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
c_s
mb
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
The WILDCAT
COUMN
Current rates of internal exchange are at
present much discussed in commercial houses.
Before the war, when gold was in free circula-
tion, the banks did not earn their money so
easily. If you sent £5OOO to, say, Broome
(W.A.) from Brisbane, the bank sending it
might have had to ship 5000 sovereigns from
Perth to Broome in order to pay out at that
point. Gold is expensive to move; insur-
ance, freight, handling and guarding expenses
are high. Some movements were on a big
scale. In the wool season, for instance, most
of the banks had to ship gold from one capi-
tal to another, backwards and forwards ever
so many times. Each shipment entailed
heavy expense ; £lOO,OOO sent from Brisbane
or Melbourne to Sydney cost in time and
charges nearly £lOO. If gold was not actu-
ally shipped by the banks they often had to
pay brokers to “buy” exchange.
Since gold ceased to circulate, the whole
position has changed. Should you now wish
to send £lOOO from Brisbane to Broome,
your banker will charge you 2 p.e. (£2O).
The transaction may be merely a book entry
between the two branches of the bank ; but
supposing that funds have to be sent to
Broome to enable the payment of £lOOO to
be made. A clerk collects £lOOO in notes
from the Commonwealth Note Issue De-
partment, and posts them in a sealed regis-
tered packet to Broome. The amount is
covered by insurance at 9d. p.c.—that is,
7s. Gd. for the £lOOO. The bank is not even
called upon to pay postage ; a grateful coun-
try does that: at intervals the banks render
an account to the Note Issue Department of
all such postages paid by them. Here, then,
is the extraordinary situation: the banks
charge £2O for a transaction which may cost
them nothing or 7s. Gd., plus the trifling
value of time occupied in handling the deal,
plus interest on the remittance while it is
in transit, though the amount is rarely actu-
ally costing the bank anything. And a fort-
night’s interest on £lOOO at ordinary o.d.
rates is under 50s. Obviously the thousands
upon thousands of internal exchange opera-
tions regularly being transacted are the
source of some of the easiest and sweetest
earnings of the banks, so it is not surprising
that traders should protest that present
charges are an “unfair burden on industry”
—a phrase beloved of banking chairmen
when preaching on the subject of how the
other fellow should run his business.
* * * *
Swallow and Abiell, Ltd. (Melbourne),
millers, preservers, manufacturers of biscuits
and other foodstuffs :
Added Reserves
to Re- (Nomi-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. nal).
1913. . £15,769 74p.c.= £11,214 £4,555 £94,402
1914.. 27,727 9 „ „ 14,749 12,978 107,380
1915 33,105 9 ~ ~ 16,523 16,582 123,962
1916.. 11,545 74 „ ~14,594 120,913
1917 16,072 8 ~ „ 15.832 240 121,153
1918.. 29,663 10 „ ~21,426 8,237 129,390
1919.. 28,637 10 „ „ 22,580 6,112 135,502
1920 27.938 10 „ ~ 22,812 5,126 140,628
1921.. 8,009 74 „ „ 19,018 129,619
1922.. 11,844 6 ~ „ 17,050 124,413
1923.. 29,606 7 „ „ 20,326 9,280 133,693
Profits have swung back to normal again,
but the recovery is not nearly so good as
the figures in the table indicate, because
£‘290.393 'of capital is now employed com-
pared with £221.599 in 1918 and £189,398
m 1915. Eight years ago disclosed net pro-
fits represented a return of 10.6 p.c. on capi-
tal and reserves ; in 1918, 8.4 p.c. ; and last
year not quite 7 p.c. Those calculations take
profits when they were at their peak ; it has
been an erratic business, and on numerous
occasions net earnings have been very slen-
der. A dozen years ago the co. was recover-
ing from a severe setback, and for a period 24
p.c. p.a. was the best shareholders could get,
though meanwhile substantial sums were going
into reserve. The war gave the business
new opportunities, and for three years the
div. rate rose to 10 p.c. p.a.; but stupid price-
fixing legislation, the after-war slump in
trade and erratic prices brought about an-
other collapse, and for the two years 1921-22
reserves were cut into for £16,000-odd to pay
divs. averaging 6f p.c. Better results than
those set out in the introductory table could
reasonably be expected of a co. which has
run the old Swallow and Ariell business for
35 years, but evidently the management has
never completely mastered the erratic mar-
kets in which it buys its raw materials and
sells the manufactured article. In recent
years, of course, cos. handling foodstuffs have
had higher manufacturing costs to contend
with, and the trade generally is more diffi-
cult than it was in pre-war days. Taking
everything into consideration the co. made
a good recovery last year, and though share-
holders received only 7 p ; c. the lay-by was
larger than for any year since 1915.
The feature of the following comparison
of balance-sheet figures is that the book value
of raw materials and stocks on hand in April
was only £7500 less than the abnormally
large figures two years ago, while book debts
were £l9OO more :
Liabilities.
1918. 1921. 1922. 1923.
Capital . . £221,599 £271,655 £290,150 £290,393
Overdraft . . 41,980 96,361 56,645 50,256
Mortgages, etc. 18,44.0 17,500 17,000 17,000
Other debts . . 58,995 105,771 56,575 74,494
Assets. *
°chase al PU .\ 148,500 148,500 148,500 148,500
ties, plant, etc. 143,651 240,461 20/,780 198,303
Stocks •• 121,370 156,651 121,397 149,152
Book debts .. 70,448 80,440 76,332 82,349
Cash, etc. .. 1,189 3,862 1,353 1,139
Though £78,794 additional capital has been
got in since 1918, factory additions and
larger stocks and book debts have necessi-
tated an increase of outside liabilities by
£22,835. However, the £124,750 owing on
overdraft and current trading accounts at the
latest balance were covered by cash, stocks
of foodstuffs and book debts, with a book
value of £232,640. Except in revealing the
liquid position the published accounts are not
lucid. Fixed assets are displayed in a curi-
ous way. Thirty-five years ago the books
opened with an entry, ‘ 2 Original purchase at
cost from the firm of Swallow and Ariell of
freehold lands, buildings, machinery, plant,
etc., including goodwill, £148,500,” and it has
remained the same ever since, though most of
the assets transferred must have long
since depreciated out of existence. Net
additions since the co. took over are
shown independently—£l34,667 in the latest
balance-sheet.' But even that total is not
subjected to curtailment for depreciation:
allowances for wear and tear and the gen-
eral wastage of assets are written off against
the additions to fixed assets each year. The
shareholder would be no wiser if the man-
agement lumped all the fixed assets; and that
would be preferable to the present illogical
method of charging depreciation for the whole
against the newest additions. Whether the
allowances have been adequate or more than
ample is not disclosed either in the accounts
or by the directors’ reports. But whatever
is the true value of factories and equipment,
the security for capital is made more secure
by the large reserves. At April 28 £107,890
of capital was represented by the surplus of
liquid assets over and above all liabilities,
leaving £182,503 to be covered by other assets
with a book value of £347,803. Whether
goodwill stiil stands in the books for any-
thing is not disclosed; hence reserves in the
table are treated as nominal only. Gener-
ally, Swallow and Ariell’s has been a busi-
ness of comparatively mild returns to its
shareholders, but it has been steadily
strengthened over many years, it has main-
tained a good reputation for its products, and
it appears to be equipped to do better in
future. Everything depends on efficient man-
agement, of course, and a co. manufacturing
foodstuffs is always liable to experience
periodic ups-and-downs unless it can stabi-
lise earnings by supporting stock valuations
with a substantial reserve for contingencies.
* * * *
Mark Foy’s, Ltd., drapers, etc., of Syd-
ney
, Dividends—
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1913.. 91,446 16,374 8 p.c. = 24,000 51,072 16,072
1914.. 78,240 16,374 10 „ „ 30,000 31,866 47,938
1915.. 74,032 16,374 10 ~ „ 30.000 27,658 75,596
1916.. 68,200 16,374 10 „ „ 30,000 21,826 97,422
£lOO,OOO of Reserves capitalised.
1917. 71,076 16,374 10 p.c. = 40,000 14,702 12,124
1918.. 87,804 16,374 13 „ „ 52,000 19,430 31,554
Taxation reserve taken in . . 41,000 72,554
1919.. 359.16,374 13 p.e. = 52,000 48,985 121,539
£50,000 of- Reserves capitalised .. 71,539
1920.. 117.912.16,374 13 p.c. = 58,500 43,038 114*577
1921.. 311.16,374 13 „ „ 58,500 51,437 166,014
1922.. 90,818 16,374 13 „ „ 58,500 15,944 181,958
Profit from sale of assets . . 29,338 211,296
1923.. 119.497.16,374 15 p.c. =. 67,600 35,623 246,919
Mark Foy’s is one of the outstanding suc-
cesses in the Sydney retail rag-trade. For
many years the business was developed by
its old proprietors in ancient, rambling pre-
mises on the fringe of inner Sydney, though
on the main artery to the Eastern suburbs.
Later, when the City Council decided to re-
model that area, the business was transferred
closer in to a quaint, joss-house structure,
which, though perhaps possessing an adver-
tising value, was not designed to provide for
economical expansion. Nevertheless, good
management made the business a great
money-spinner. When Mark Foy’s began as
a public co. 14 years ago it raised £272,902
in 6 p.c. prefs.; ordinary capital was
£298,500, and £lOO,OOO of that was repre-
sented by goodwill. There has been no
alteration in the pref. holding, those large
funds having proved cheap in recent
dear-money years. Ordinary capital now
amounts to £450,000, but £lOO,OOO of it was
transferred from reserves in 1916 and £50,000
more in 1919; so only £l5OO of new capital
has been raised in cash since the beginning.
Trading results have been so magnificent
that, in addition to paying handsome divs.
(the 15 p.c. now paid on ordinaries returns
224 p.c. on original cash-paid and goodwill
capital), in the 14 years surplus profits have
extinguished the £lOO,OOO goodwill account
and given other reserves amounting to almost
£397,000. or £97,000 more than the ordinary
capital with which the co. began. Conse-
quently, after having given lOs. in the £
scrip bonuses, every £1 of ordinary capital
is now backed by tangible assets with a book
value of nearly 31s. Last year the gross
profit on manufacturing and trading was
£379,077, against £167,526 14 years ago.
Exes, have increased in greater ratio, but
net results are so good that last year, apart
from £29,338 profit from the sale of sur-
plus city property, the amount available for
ordinaries was close on 23 p.c. of present
capital.
The feature of recent years has been the
disclosure of good profits during the period
of slump; evidently the management was
wiser than most and had carefully nursed
stock values when market prices were abnor-
mal. When the collapse came, the directors
took £25,000 from reserves to provide for
price-adjustments, but not one penny of that
was required ; current trading gave a large
margin over and above a 13 p.c. div„ and the
£25,000 was dropped into the stocking again.
Lately stock figures have become larger
again with improved trading conditions,
though the extension of manufacturing has
probably also helped: the co. has added
blankets, flannels and hosiery to its manu-
facturing activities. Grouped balance-sheet
figures for tne past four years follow: —
1920. 1921. 1922. 1923.
Liabilities .. 1127,181 £85,998 £43,488 £109,281
Property . . 306,000 328,220 372,752 351,604
Plant, etc. . . 20,805 42,330 78,550 79,660
Stocks . . 494,611 647,999 538,880 646,819
Book debts . . 17,114 19,706 20,494 71,973
Cash, etc. . . 92,818 3,347 4,360 4,733
Liabilities in March were larger than at any
previous balance: £87,924 was bank over-
draft and £21,357 was owing on current
trading accounts; but there were liquid
assets with a book value of £6 12s. to cover
every £1 owing. Assets in excess of liabili-
ties equalled almost £4 per £1 pref. share.
Pacific Insurance Co., Ltd., head-
quarters in Fiji, branches in Commonwealth
capitals:—
To Re- Re-
Mar., Surplus. Dividends. serves, serves,
mi . . £9,541 •- l £9248 £9,248
Preliminary exes., £293, written oft j
Premiums on new shares . . . . 1185 10,433
1922 .. 10,835 6 p.c. = £3532 7303 17,736
Premiums on new shares .. .. 741 18,477
1923 . . 4,035 Nil 4035 22,512
The young Pacific struck a bad patch last
yearunderwriters throughout the world
have been affected by another cycle of heavy
losses, and this little co. shared the general
experience. It was stung more than it would
have been had it operated with more con-
servative limits ; in three instances it wrote
cheques for £3300, £3OOO and £2500 as its
share of losses. However, it escaped seri-
ous trouble : the year’s underwriting loss of
£1299 was made good by the net return
from investments (£4039) and profits from
the sale of securities (£1259). So the
accounts closed with a surplus for the period
of £4035. That was not profit, of course;
larger business had been handled, and the
extra amount wanted to cover unexpired
risks required the addition of £3936 to the
reserve of unearned premiums. That left
only a trifle of £99 which could be reason-
ably regarded as profit earned, so sharehold-
ers got no div.
This shows the Pacific’s underwriting per-
formances to date:—
Net Pre- Ex- Claims Expense
miums. Claims, peases. Ratio. Ratio.
1921.. £11,503 £2,606 £2,358 22.7 p.c. 20.5 p.c.
1922.. 27,394 11,731 8,072 42.8 ~ 29.5 „
1923.. 39,636 28,366' 12,569 71.6 ~ 31.7 ~
Last year’s losses were. wholly due to heavy
fire claims; after making provision for un-
expired risks in each branch results were :
Fire, £6310 loss ; Marine, £1033 profit; Acci-
dent, £32 profit. The feature of underwrit-
ing has been the low expense rate ; from the
beginning the management restricted costs,
and the ratios for the three years are the
better, too, because all formation and exten-
sion outlay has been charged against cur-
rent revenue. The co. started under unusu-
ally favorable conditions: founded by the
heads of the "Big Three” of Fiji—Maynard
Hedstrom, Henry Marks and the late A. B.
Joske —and guided by Alan 11. Russell,
Australian manager of the Union Assurance,
it had a good business from the beginning.
Though there have been a few changes since
—Mr. Russell dropped out when the
management revised its re-insurance ar-
rangements—the co.’s business continues
to expand; gross premiums for the
three years have been: 1921, £35,035;
1922, £59,315 ; 1923, £67,163. Branches have
been established in Sydney and Melbourne,
and agencies in other States and in the
Islands, Straits Settlements and India. Paid
capital is now £60,457 in 302,285 £1 shares
paid to 4s. There were no promoters’ shares
or other goodwill consideration, so every
penny of funds is represented by first-class
assets. At March 31 the balance-sheet total
of £97,928 was made up of £47,394 of Com-
monwealth, Dominion and Islands public
securities, mortgages £27,987, shares in other
cos. £2000; branch and agency balances,
£17,764; and cash, etc., £2783.
.* * * *
Home Recreations, Ltd., formerly
Heiron and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney) :
To Deficit
f Dividends—* Reduce (Good-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. Deficit, will.).
Mar., £ £ £ £ £
- 60,000
1915.. 12,289 6 p.c.=3220 8 p.c.= 4,800 4269 55,731
1916.. 8,858 6 „ ~ 3220 6 „ „ 3,600 2038 53,693
1917.. 9,793 6 „ ~ 3220 8 ~ ~ 4,800 1773 51,920
Goodwill items added, £B7 .. 52,007
1918.. 9,988 6 p.c.=3220 8 p.c.= 4,800 1968 50,039
Goodwill item added, £5 . . 50,044
1919.. 13,470 6 p.c.=3370 10 p.c.= 6,000 4100 45,944
Goodwill item added, £65 .. 46,009
1920.. 22.432.6 p.c.=3430 20 p.e.=12,000 7002 39,007
Co. reconstructed. Inner reserves re-
vealed and capitalised with other
reserves £lO,OOO added to goodwill. . 70,157
1921. .16,365 8 p.c.=8872 8 p.c.= 5855 | ... „ q
Reconstruction exes, written off, £1316 i , ’
Added to goodwill items, £1133 70,968
1922. .21,289 8 p.c.=9657 8 p.c.= 5,935 5697 65,271
1923. 8 „ „ 9820 8 „ „ 5,935 7579 57,692
Old shareholders are doing very much better
than the 8 p.c. divs. suggest. Three years
ago paid capital was made up of £58,164 in
6 p.c. prefs. and £60,000 in ordinaries. Very
handsome profits were being made, and as
prospects looked good the directors decided
to reconstruct. Written-down assets were re-
valued, and an 8 p.c. share—with rights to
follow ordinaries to 10 p.c.—was issued for
every £1 of the valuation in excess of the
amount covering the old prefs., which were
placed on the same basis as the new issue.
A fresh lot of ordinaries were then issued
against goodwill, shown in the 1921 accounts
at £70.157. So far very little more profit
has been distributed than in 1920, when old
prefs. received 6 p.c. and ordinaries 20 p.c.
But already, after writing off reconstruc-
tion costs, £12,465 of surplus profit has
accumulated. Last year’s earnings were
about £3500 in excess of the amount which
10 p.c. on all shares would have taken ; so,
if the co. continues to do well, there are pros-
pects of something more than the 8 p.c. p.a.
divs. which have been paid in the three years
since reconstruction.
Nine years ago the co. began as Heiron
and Smith. Ltd., an amalgamation of that
old billiard-table manufacturing concern and
its principal competitor, Alcock’s, and a high-
class furnishing business. Later it became
interested in side-lines, including the Austra-
lian-made Salonola music-machine, and its
name was changed. Last year it acquired
a controlling interest in the Pathe Baby
Cinema (Aus.), Ltd., which holds Common-
wealth and Pacific rights of Pathe’s latest
home-cinema inventions. The co. apparently
has a holding of almost £25,000 in that con-
cern. The management purchased, and is
now equipping, freehold premises in Sydney
—it paid £41,500 for the property—and
branches have been opened in Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Newcastle.
Consequently there have been big balance-
sheet changes since the 1921 accounts:—
1921. 1922. 1923.
Paid capital .. .. £192,637 £196,073 £199,883
Liabilities .. .. 45,570 52,295 144,397
Freeholds and lease-
holds, etc 24,925 27,879 70,587
Plant, etc/ .. .. 13,236 17,000 18,47 S
Stocks 67,880 56,703 69,251
Book debts . . . . 70,992 92,264 115,955
Shares in other cos., etc. 475 614 25,721
Odds and ends .. 923 1,144 9,922
The property and share investments and the
larger turnover under hire-purchase agree-
ments have put a strain on finances, and at
the March balance for every £1 of its own
funds the co. was leaning on outsiders for
almost 13s. However, the book value of
stocks and accounts owing exceeded all out-
side liabilities by £40,909. The co. has so
far had a remarkably successful career, and
the prospects of a bigger business are bright.
As it makes and deals in luxuries, the future
depends largely on conditions favorable for
selling and for collecting t.p. accounts. But
things would have to go very badly if the
prefs. had to go short of a div.; and they
are reasonably well protected by tangible
assets. More than three-fourths of ordinary
scrip is represented by goodwill.
The New Zealand Breweries, Limited, is
one of the largest amalgamations that have
taken place in M.L. Ten of the most suc-
cessful breweries are in it. Of a capital of
a million and a half one-third will be repre-
sented by shares; the remaining two-thirds
will be 10 p.c, first mortgage deben-
ture stock, payment of the interest on which
for the first three years is guaranteed by the
N.Z. Insurance Co. The prospectus explains
that the main reasons for the merger are the
abolition of restricted monopolies and exces-
sive goodwills and the Opportunity it will
give the public to invest in brewery shares
(in the Dominion even the parson often has
a few hidden away). The dismal spectre
of prohibition naturally isn’t mentioned.


THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
THOS. .T. CQNFOY,
Governing Director.
The Pacific Cable Board
best norm: to great Britain,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. "Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
Isew Zealand.. 4*d,
(9d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
Canada .. 2/4 1/2
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
7d. (minimum
11/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies. Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations' mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 George Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346
(3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084
J. MIT.WARD. .Manager in the Pacific
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Paperts, Acids, Crystals, in
fact everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * .
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
* * * *
It is possible to load many more feet of Pioneer
Wood Pipe than of metal or concrete pipe on to
railway trucks or motor lorries owing to its light
weight. The same factor of light weight works out
to further advantage when it comes to installation.
It means less equipment, lower labor costs and
speed in getting a line through. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
Sydney.— Advt.
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
Scientific and Commercial Agencies throughout' the
World. — Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Robert Davidson, metals and ores, 28 years’
service Dalgety and Co., Ltd., now operating same
agencies at 8 Spring Street, Sydney.— Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. ’write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Arthur Lepkstrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Circular
Quay, Sydney, and Collins House, Melbourne, sup-
Ply : “Robey” Steam Engines, “National” Gas and
Oil Engines, Foden” Steam Waggons, “Multimix”
Concrete Mixers and Concrete Machinery, Conveying
and Earth-handling Machinery, Road-miking Plants’,
etc.— Advt. ’
r
&
YG
L
0OORD&.SO1V
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
1
&
DT
Swift & Company Idd- Australasian Agents, 26 80 Clarence St.. Sydney
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Ltd.)
Nos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 36 YEARS.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS NOW UNDER THE COMPANY’S
CONTROL EXCEED £21,153,000.
Specially Constituted by Act of Parliament to Act as
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR, ADMINISTRATOR,
ATTORNEY UNDER POWER, AGENT, ETC.
MODERATE CHARGES, ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT,
UNDOUBTED SECURITY.
Write for Booklet, which explains its Methods and Charges.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
A side-light on the latest regulation affect-
ing mining on private lands in N. S. Wales:
A new condition now included in leases issued by
the N. S. Wales Mines Department reads: —
Should the provisions of the Mining Act 1906 be
amended by the passing of any Statute during the
session of Parliament next ensuing so as to provide
that in addition to the rent payable to the owner of
the land in respect of the surface leased a yearly
rental not exceeding 2s. per acre in respect of the
whole area included in the lease shall be reserved to
the owner of the mineral and shall be payable half-
yearly in advance, then such sum shall be paid by
the lessee under this demise as from the date of the
coming into operation of such amendment of the
Mining Act 1906.
At present where private lands are leased under the
resumption law the lessee has to pay to the owner
£1 per acre rental for the surface area specified as
required for “mining purposes,” but not for the
remainder of the area under which mining operations
may be conducted. Take a coal lease of 2000 acres—
not an unusual area: 60 acres of the surface may be
ample for all “mining purposes,’’ and on that a
rental of £1 per acre p.a. has to be paid, in addition
to which, if the minerals are reserved to the free-
holder, the latter would get a royalty of sd. per ton
on all coal won, Id. per ton being charged by the
Government for collecting the royalty. Under the
new condition he will be entitled to a rental up to 2s.
per acre p.a. on the whole —a preposterous proposi-
tion considering that the surface of most of the coal-
bearing areas is arid. Imagine Bulli mountain sand-
stone fastnesses or Northern barren ridges and swamps
being worth 2s. per acre per annum for surface rights.
The proposal is unreasonable, too, because the mining
lessee has no right to occupy the surface area not
included in “mining purposes.”
The Mines Department has supplied The Bul-
letin with the following official explanation:—
The proposal to impose a rent of 2s. per acre
relates only to lands in which the minerals have
passed from the Crown and are the property of
the owner, and particularly refers to coaJl iands
where large areas are taken up for the purpose of
increasing the colliery holding and may not be
worked for many years. The owner is thus debarred
from dealing- with or working the minerals during
this period. It is therefore, considered just and
right that he should receive some payment from
the persons who have taken from him his mineral
rights. Immediately the royalty is payable to the
owner and exceeds the rental, the provision in the
bill is that only the royalty shall be paid, making
it quite clear that the owner is only to be bene-
fited by this rental during the period he is de-
prived of the moneys which should come from the
working of the minerals which are his. The pro-
vision in no way touches Crown minerals.
This explanation does not improve matters. The
owners have had every opportunity to work the areas
themselves or arrange for leases, and so allow others
to do so; their failure to do the latter suggests
that they have been too exorbitant in their demands.
Anyway, under the 1916 Act, which made all lands
available for lease irrespective of mineral reser-
vations in the deeds, owners were given six months
within which to apply for leases themselves,., or to
give leases to others. But let it be conceded that
it is “just and right” that an owner should receive
some payment from the lessee. Why specify a
rental which, in the majority of cases, would
be grossly excessive ; and why not let the Warden,
who understands all the local conditions and values,
determine the rental ? Technically, according to
the amended Mining on Private Lands Act, under
which these leases are now applied for, the minerals
do not belong to the owner of the land; they have
been resumed by the Crown with the object of
making them available for others. It is not correct
to describe the new-comers as “persons who have
taken from him his mineral rights”; at first the
State gave, and now the State taketh away. It
may be fair to give the land-owner -some rihare
of the mineral which he could not, or would not,
mine for himself; but surely it is over the odds
to provide that he shall receive payment in antici-
pation of the others doing the productive work!
This solicitude for men who acquired freeholds of
coal-areas without any intention of working them
is unwarranted. The fact must not be overlooked
that no freehold title reserving the minerals 'to
the owner has been issued for over 40 years, so that
the men to whom this new condition will apply
have had that length of time to sleep on their
“mineral rights.”
. * * * *
Adelong Gold Estates (N.S.W.), for the
half-year ended April 30, dredged 387,797
c. yd. for gold, the average value
being 4,6 d. per yd. compared with 2.98 d.
for the previous term. Working expenses at
4.32 d. were down 0.56 d. Values are low,
but considering the clayey nature of a lot
of the ground, so also are working costs.
The working profit for the half-year was
£827, compared with a loss of £2517 for
the previous period. After deducting admin-
istrative expenses a credit balance of £240
remained. Repairs and maintenance took
£3156. Recent values have been consider-
ably below the general average, and those
ahead, as disclosed by bores, are approxi-
mately. similar, so “only careful handling
will give the required results.” Surplus
assets are £5913, a decrease of £1448. To
Dec.. 1921, the co. had paid 19s. per share
in divs., or £71,250. Called-up capital was
235, 6d. per share (£88,125) . The prospect
of the 4s. 6d. balance being returned is re-
mote. It would be interesting to know the
amount of “income”-tax paid on the mis-
called dividends, which really represent an
incomplete return of capital. " When the two
Adelong cos. cut out their holdings, gold-
dredging in N. S. Wales will be at hh end.
It transpires that the Victorian syndi-
cate which took up 35,000 reserve shares in
the brown gold-mine, Bombandy (N.S.W.),
paid an average of about Os. per share. A
feydney director retired to make way for a
Melbourne will soon assume full control,
mining-man and the other an experienced
Exchange operator. It is predicted that
Melbourne will soon assume full control.
f. r . ou P in Pitt-street via Bom-
bandy Ridge has struck another rich patch.
In the Crown there are the makings of a
fairish mine, and perhaps more. On the
strength of its possibilities speculators be-
came interested in the Crown South Options,
a prospecting syndicate in 700 £.5 contribs.
paid to £3, and 300 fully-paid -vendors’
shares. The syndicators imagined they
owned, the South lease, and that they would
participate fully in any float. Their dreams
have been rudely dispelled by the discovery
that a clause in the prospectus awards the
five original Crown syndicatists a cool £lOOO
apiece in cash and also 700 shares each, alto-
gether £5OOO cash and 3500 shares, before
holders of the option-shares can get a crumb.
* * * *
. Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) closed its finan-
cial year with only £2212 balance of profit
after writing off £3651 for depreciation;
but C, A. Moreing assured shareholders in
London recently that results would have been
£20.000 poorer had the directors not worked
hard at the re-treatment of residues. Only
this had enabled the management to show
a margin over and above the £l5OO per
month required to keep the mine in trim
until the new mill is completed and ore-
raising resumed. The replacement of the
plant destroyed by fire by a 25-hd. battery
will cost about £20,000. It is proposed to
start it on 7000 tons per month of crudes
and the same quantity of residues.
* * * *
The revival of directors’ faith in the Devon,
Linden (W.A.), after the show had been
discarded by its ex-manager, recalls that only
two years ago shareholders were told that
it “would give larger returns than most
mines could count upon, and then they would
be able to pay for all plant and pay divs.
before long.” But instead of div. warrants
shareholders were presented with a succes-
sion of call notices. It is only eight years
since a Melbourne co. in 45,000 shares of
10s. took over, and there are now 70,000
of 20s. each. The one bright spot in the
show, as seen by the new manager, is the
100 ft. of backs; and on the strength of that
shareholders are invited to pay further calls
in the desperate hope that the Devon will
yet become a “mine” worth the attentions of
a co. At present an examination by an
independent expert is the Devon’s greatest
need; the coroner will probably arrive a
little later.
* * * *
At the request of N. S. Wales shareholders,
who hold about two-thirds of the scrip,
George Bryant has been in Sydney explain-
ing the present position of Cathcart Victory,
Ararat (Vic.). In a dozen years the 36,000
shares have been called to 355., but the
show has belied its name and no divs. have
flowed out. The levels from No. 1 shaft
having become exhausted, about eight years
ago a new shaft was sunk a mile down the
lead. Driving proved pay values, but no-
thing out of the box. Then blind driving for
better values for three years saw £12,000
frittered away, and 1800 ft. of work led only
into wash far removed from the main gutter.
The co. then called in expert Geo. Bryant,
and in 80ft. of driving he led the Victory on
to the proper track. But funds petered out,
and, though 12, months ago shareholders
agreed to an increase of capital, some
have wearied of the hunt. Bryant has
been putting hehrt into them with his im-
pressions of the results of development since
worn recommenced on the lead, and with the
possibilities in a programme of future work
which he has mapped out.
To the south-east Bryant declares that
800 ft. have been proved, giving 30dwt. per
fathom. He recommends putting in an in-
termediate drive north towards the workings
off the old No. 1 shaft, and expects to inter-
cept payable wash within 500 ft. He esti-
mates that 2s. per share, in calls of 4d. per
month, will be sufficient to see the work
through. Meanwhile the wash already
proved can be drained, and, as the Victory is
fully equipped for production, Bryant con-
siders that there are prospects of extracting
wash at both ends in six months. No
doubt shareholders will put up the addi-
tional capital necessary to see Bryant’s pro-
gramme through and learn the real worth
of the show. There are possibilities: the
Victory has about 7000 ft. of lead, and local
opinion holds out hopes of 30,000 fathoms of
wash. Bryant reckons on working costs at
16dwt., which would leave a good margin
if 30dwt. stuff persists in the south end and
20dwt. values anticipated to the north show
up.
* * * *
Ilalf-a-mile north of the old Cornish, at
Daylesford (Vic.), which was re-opened by
Bill Gullick, shaft-sinking has been going on
to test the Ophir run of quartz as the exten-
sion of the Cornish line. Below 150 ft. the
shaft cut rich stone which is claimed to be
some of the best seen in the district. Of
course it isn’t, but as mining at Daylesford
is always bubbly a slick broker is reported
to have got in early and snapped up all for-
feited shares. The shaft is to go deeper, and
a crosscut will be put out to see if the strike
is more than a patch.
* * » *
The management of New Blue, Bendigo,
has been entrusted to G. Kingsley, who ran
the Central Blue in the heyday of its pros-
perity, and latterly was in charge of Mal-
don’s old identity—the Oswald.
* * * *
Values and size still persist north and
south on the Yankee reef, Trentham (Vic.),
and there is a possibility of a co. taking-
oyer to instal a larger plant and handle
bigger tonnages. Much wet weather cur-
tailed the latest crushing, but 82oz. were
won from 140 tons.
* * * sjc
Mineral contents of Bendigo ore are
meagre in quantity and, usually, very low in
quality; mineralisation is not generally re-
garded as a special indication of likely gold
values. Ulster has established a record by
getting £2B 18s. per ton for 12 tons of
mineral saved from recent crushings. Heavy
mineralisation associated with high values
seems to be a feature of that end of the
Garden Gully reef: in the Great Southern
(Retaliation Reward), next south to the
Ulster, gold is showing freely in stone well
charged with galena and zinc-blende.
* * * *
“Bill” Eden, the sole-owner of, and, until
recently, the sole worker in, the Premier
mine at South Kyneton (Vic.), is in luck’s
way. He is working on a vein which, for its
size, has no equal for richness in Australia
successive crushings have averaged
between 30oz. and 40oz. per ton. In exam-
ining an old drive the other day he found a
face that had been boarded up by former
workers, and on removing the timber he had
the satisfaction of seeing a 2in. vein “thickly
studded with gold.”
* * * *
Queensland’s State arsenic-mine, at Jib-
binbqr, yielded 223 tons white arsenic for
the past half-year, compared with 103 tons
for the same period of 1922. Purity to 97
p.c. is now guaranteed, and lapses of the
past as regards quality are not likely to
recur. J. W. Brophy is pushing the sales
in U.S.A., where a keen demand exists, and
several shipments have been dispatched.
Local demand at market prices, apart from
that supplied to farmers at £lO a ton, has
also improved.
* * # *
Mt. Coolon (Q.) is agitating for a State
battery. Although there are at present three
small private batteries, the outside mines
cannot get their ore crushed. The Native
Bear has 400 tons waiting, it has no
cash to erect its own mill, and the value of
the stone in bulk is too uncertain to reckon
on the mine becoming a payable proposition.
It is a costly undertaking to erect a battery
at Mt. Coolon, owing to the heavy freight on
machinery, as well as the cost of a water
supply. A mine needs to be well on its legs
before it can face the expenditure. The field
is anxiously awaiting the Government’s de-
cision. Theodore recently promised to con-
sider the question.
* * * *
On the face of Walter Colley’s report and
sampling, the Madden-Buchanan (N.Q.),
which is to be taken over by the Oaks Con-
solidated, looks as if it will have a hard
struggle unless prospecting work opens up
higher-grade ore than that showing on the
surface. The 90ft. formation averaged only
between 3dwt. and 4dwt., but it is intended
to put a shaft down and drive across it to
prove values at a slight depth—probably at
100 ft. Another 3dwt. on to average values
would make it one of the biggest low-grade
gold-mines in the Commonwealth. In view
of its size and the fact that it does contain
a little gold right through, it appears worthy
of additional tests.
* * * *
Good regular crushings can be anticipated
from the Canary, Kangaroo Hills, now that
the option has been taken over and there is
no immediate hurry to push on prospecting
work. Down to the 125 ft. level there are
probably 400 tons of high-grade stuff proved,
and they should clean up for anything be-
tween 120 tons and 150 tons concentrates.
In addition there is a good shoot going under-
foot from the 125 ft., and the lode fissure it-
self looks good for hundreds of feet. With
ordinary luck present reserves should be at
least doubled in the next couple of years.
The shoots so far have been much smaller
than in the Sardine, but they are excep-
tionally rich. Cartage to the Ewan mill
costs 30s. a ton.
•*■**■s
The attempt to resuscitate the old Wool-
gar goldfield (N.Q.) has not been a marked
success so far, although a couple of local
syndicates have battled on valiantly. At
present the Perseverance and Big Australian
are being tried, but the former lias been
going for over a year with a few small
crushings, the last 95 tons for 540 z. The
shaft is down 115 ft. on a 15in. reef, which
has been averaging 16dwt., but the gold is
considerably below standard.
* # *
“Basalt Boulder”: The “Wild Cat’s” esti-
mate (B. 81/5/’23) that nearly 2000 oz.
were won from the old Roman Crown (now
Big Australian) and Perseverance, Wolgar
field, caused a controversy among North
Queensland prospectors. Finally the War-
den at Georgetown was appealed to, and he
supplied the following figures:—
Tons, Ounces.
Roman Crown .. 199Q1 1390 f
Perseverance . . 2093 12691
4083* 2660 J
At £3 per oz. total production was worth
£7981. Neither reef has been worked deeper
than 100 ft., owing to mineralised stone.
Southern metallurgists are now investigat-
ing the mineral, and should a successful
process be available there are possibilities
in the old field. The Perseverance party is
crushing a 50-ton parcel.
* * * *
Last month’s run at the Tyrconnel, Kings-
borough (N.Q.), maintained the recent aver-
age of 18dwt., and a larger tonnage was
handled: 182 tons gave 1650 z. Prospects
have brightened; work on the new No. 6
level has opened up the reef, which is 3ft.
wide and averages 40s.
* * * *
Speck Government Geologist Loftus Hills
turns down the chance of outside lodes at Bea-
consfield giving another Tasmania mine. That
big show was also post-mortemed by him to
decide whether the main-lode channel was
thrown out by the western cross-course, in
which case the show might have another
lease of life. Hills definitely decided against
that possibility: the cross-courses in the
country were the first faults, and as the Tas-
mania fault was of later date, any trending
of it to the west arose out of structural fea-
tures, and no continuation of the lode west
can be expected. He is equally emphatic
that all attempts to pick up the lode beyond
its eastern known extremity will be as
futile, because the clays in which it peters
out are of older date, and the force that
fractured the adjoining country spent itself
on them. Had these generalisations been
known and believed 25. years ago, when the
Tasmania boom was on, thousands of pounds
would have been saved. Hills’s main job
was to decide whether it would pay to re-
open the mine to see if the grade of the ore,
which improved 2dwt. per ton from 1200 ft.
to 1500 ft., increased with further depth. Of
course, that should have been ascertained by
tlie English co. before it wearied of the
eternal cost of keeping the water out of such
a sponge as the Beaconsfield limestone area.
As the ore shoot at 1500 ft. is only 300 ft. long
instead of 1200 ft. at 800 ft., Hills considers
that the heavy cost of unwatering would not
be warranted, and he won’t advise any other
expense on it whatever unless first of all six
bores of 2000 ft. each are put down to test
the lode.


“ROCKING” THE BABY.
" Mr. Hughes has already become severely critical of the Government. Incidentally, Mr. Bruce has disclosed that the Hughes-inspired Commonwealth shipping venture has lost iu the last two years.”


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE. MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
“For Ever Best/'
STA<a
LA6ER
TOOHEY'S.
SOCIETU
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Buttinski”: The impression regarding
Australian stature left in Europe by the
A.I.F. is not likely to be washed out by the
“statistics” quoted by “Cartot”(B. 28/6/’23).
During the past month I have had the job of
running the tape over the young Billjims
entering the Citizen Forces, and while
several have found difficulty in reaching the
sft. 2in. required, the remainder have
measured from that height up to 6ft. 3in.
Certainly the last was on his own, but quite
a number reached sft. 9in., and the average
of some 350 examined gave a very respect-
able sft. Bin. Taking into consideration
that these youths are only in their 18th
year “Cartot’s” sft. 3in. estimate for the
male Australian is absurdly low. My own
experience of youths of 18, after allowing for
tnose who for various reasons are exempt
from rendering service, and who are just as
likely to be over as under the height re-
quired, suggests that sft. 7in. would not be
overstating the average.
* * • w
“L.P.F.”: “Women talk in blanks and ex-
clamation-marks,” some Bulletin body says.
Listen to two women quarrelling. Their
applied logic, their swift and relentless peis
ception of a flaw
in the opponent’s
argument, their
crushing summing-
up of a situation,
and their ready
and assured deli-
very of such sum-
ming-up make the
onlooker sad at the
thought of the
splendid lawyers
lost in the persons
o f mistress and
hired girl. What
angry man can
talk to the point?
What angry
woman cannot?
And anger most
readily of all emo-
tions betrays the
extent of a per-
son’s vocabulary.
A woman’s mode
of expression is
usually brief; the
art of prosing be-
longs to man alone.
But while the
stupidist woman
generally makes
herself understood,
one often leaves a
man after be has
talked on one sub-
ject for an hour
vaguely wondering
what he really
meant to mean;
the poor dear has
lost himself in his
loquacity ! T li e
fundamental pur-
pose of language
is to make oneself
understood. That
women can do this
with fewer words
than men is not to
their discredit.
Progression is marked by increasing speed
and simplicity in all things.
“Ex-Dig.”: I believe statistics, if they
were available, would show that the two
classes least inclined to resume their old
occupations after the war were school-
teachers and preachers of the gospel. I
know many men who enlisted as
parsons and have turned to any-
thing sooner than go back to labor
in the vineyard. The N..S.W.
Education Department has had
trouble in maintaining its teach-
ing staffs ever since 1915, and it
is not only the male dominie who
is shy of his old job—many women,
still unmarried, have turned to
nursing and other callings. Now
a batch of w T omen ex-teachers, over
the age of 40, are being appointed
to fill some of the gaps. They
rank as “temporaries,” and will have no
rights to retiring allowances.
* * *
“Alex. Val”: The war didn’t alter some
of us much. , I saw a Digger on the home-
ward-bound troopship come up on deck in
mid-Pacific and survey the weather. It had
been raining for several days, and it looked
as though there would be weeks more of it.
“Rain’s a cow,” observed one from whom
three years of war had failed to remove the
appearance of the ’Loo. “Yairs,” said the
other chap, who still looked lonely without
a milk-pail, “but it’ll do a lot of good.” And
he swept his eyes over the deep that the
vessel was ploughing as if satisfied that its
increased productiveness was assured.^
“Hecagus”: Yes, we’re still breeding ’em
in this Far North. A 10-year-old boy gal-
loped past me on a road the other day. Later
I found him lying in a pool of blood in the
dust, and rendered first aid. “Are you much
hurt?” was my first question when he came
to. “No,” drawled the youngster as he
passed a hand over a gory cheek, “I was
lucky—l fell on me face, and,” he added
with a twisted grin, “you couldn’t hurt that.
Have you seen my horse, mister?”
* * * *
“Miro”: A Sydney girl is telling of an
experience she had on a recent journey to
Melbourne. There was only one other per-
son in the compartment, an elderly lady of
almost aggressive respectability. She was
irresponsive to friendliness, however, and a
timid remark from the girl, designed to
open a conversation, drew no reply; the
impression created w T as that she was either
stone-deaf or too immersed in her own affairs
to desire social amenities. While the girl
was out of the compartment for a few
minutes the lady, with great celerity, tucked
herself into her sleeper; and in the morning
she arose in the dim dawn and packed her
belongings. As the train neared Albury she
left the compartment, and was seen no more.
Act 2 opened with the holding up of the
train by four detectives, who, discovering
the absence of the silent passenger, asked for
a minute description of her from the Sydney
girl. “Was there anything wrong with the
lady?” she asked innocently. “Lady!”
TRUE SYMPATHY.
“You seem to have gone out a terrible lot since I’ve been sick.”
“Well, darling, if 1 stay at home it almost breaks my heart to hear
you groaning.”
snorted a disappointed sleuth. “That was a
man, and one of the worst criminals in Aus-
tralia !”
“Herodot”: Periodically doctors are sued
for allegedly leaving such things as forceps
in the human body, but one seldom hears
anything about what they are liable to find
there. Articles that have been carried about,
sometimes for years, in the patient’s interior
range from coins—even pennies—to things
that one would
have thought could
hardly have been
harbored unknow-
ingly or without
acute pain. An
open safety-pin
was a while back
recovered from an
Australian stom-
ach, and some
years ago I was
shown bv an emi-
n e n t Melbourne
surgeon a silver
cigarette -holder
that had been
dredged up from a
patient. The
strange thing
about it is that
rarely does the
possessor complain
of pain caused by
the presence o f
such articles, while
in many cases he
professes total
ignorance as to how
they got there.
They seldom cause
death, but I know
of one exception:
the metal capsule
of a beer bottle was
swallowed by a
person who was
demonstrating his
ability to open the bottle with his teeth.
Ulceration followed and proved fatal.
•* * * *
“Vulture”: “Fez, pl’ss!” said the con-
ductor. “Wassat? Oh, orri, son,” responded
the semi-drunk on the dummy. As he groped
unsteadily in a pocket he observed to the
man on his left: “I’ve more blanky money
than I can spend!” The gripman swayed
dizzily and thoughtlessly threw the rope;
half the passengers craned their necks for a
glimpse of the millionaire, and two low-
browed individuals on the front of the
dummy looked round with furtive interest in
the direction of the voice. “Here’s the fare,
son,” said the man of great possessions, ten-
dering a coin. The conductor handed it back.
“It’s bad,” he objected curtly. “There y’are,”
triumphantly said the half-sprung passenger
to the man he had first addressed ; “didn’t I
tell yer I couldn’t spend all me money ?” He
was still chuckling low down near his cargo
when I dropped off.
* * * *
“T.D.”: Our maid had been “keeping com-
pany” with a young man for a couple of
years; matters didn’t seem to be making any
progress, and she was very dispirited about it.
I didn’t want to lose Mary; still, I’ve got my
patriotic sentiments, and I told her that
maybe the young man needed a little en-
couragement —perhaps, somehow, he had got
the idea that she wasn’t very keen on matri-
mony. Mary told me about it afterwards.
They were out walking when a woman
passed wheeling a pram. “ ‘That ? s my chance,’
I thought,” Mary confided; “so I says, ‘lf
you was all to me I’d like you to be, Bill,’ I
says, ‘I might be that proud woman.’ It’s
made such a difference, ma’am, and I’m sure
I’m very grateful. Bill is beginning to chirk
up wonderfully.”
* * *
“V.C.”: Few Diggers felt any great sym-
pathy for Gen. Sir A. Godley, the distin-
guished warrior who was said to have been
recently compelled by some Belgian officials
to stand for hours in his pyjamas to the great
damage of his dignity. Godley never liked
the Digger, and his unsparing use of the
Army Act made him detested in return. He
had one vulnerable spot which the rank and
file always remembered. On his appearance
amongst Aussies or Enzeds somebody usually
shouted, “Do it again, Alec,” followed by
a furious but futile search by sarn-majors for
the culprit. The yarn that “Alec” caused
a brigade in full equipment to repeat a charge
over hot and heavy sand on a sweltering
day in Egypt for the entertainment of his
wife may have been a libel, but the allusion
never failed to hurt.
* * * *
“Two Pip”: That occasion when the
Diggers paraded to the O.C. at Mex, in
Egypt, and demanded the release of two of
their number who were suffering Field Pun-
ishment No. 1, is, I suppose, historical; so
we had better have the facts correct. “Splin-
ter” (B. 3/5/’23) hasn’t got them right. The
punishment was ordered by the O.C. Artil-
lery Details, who was an O.C. of one of the
units in the camp. The orderly-officer of the
day was a znd lieut. The place and method
of punishment were fixed by the O.C. The
men were let loose, and a crowd of some
hundreds gathered. The men were tied up
again, and the camp-commandant, with a
guard, and the 0.C., with a guard, came to
the place. The camp-commandant addressed
the crowd, asked them to behave themselves,
and then, with the O.C. and the special
guard, left. The unit guard had been sent back
to their guard tent. The orderly-officer, being
left alone with the men, took certain steps
to prevent them being again released. The
men were kept tied up for the full time
fixed for their punishment, and the period
T HE LESSON.
VISITING CUKATE : “Now, what does this fascinating story of
Jonah teach us?”
JOHNNY I.: “It teaches us that you can't keep a good man down.”
during which they were released was not
counted. The statement that when a further
demonstration took place the officer caved in
is not true. If a guard allows a prisoner
to escape he is punished, and I doubt if the
excuse that a crowd threatened to attack him
would be enough. Anyway, this youngster
didn’t have to nlead it, because he stood by
and saw the punishment through—a punish-
ment, by the way, which of course he had
no hand in prescribing.
(Continued on page 19.)
THE CHARITY PIRATE: A CHANTY OF THE
SOCIAL SEAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In days of yore (Yo ho! Yo ho!) men sailed the
Spanish main,
Bad men and bold, in search of gold, and they seldom
searched in vain.
There were no daily papers then
To advertise these fighting-men,
(Or pirates, as some would call ’em) ;
But none of them worried on that score when
The gold-ships loomed: each worked like ten
And struggled to overhaul ’em.
And when they did (Oh, ho! Yo ho!) what a time
they had aboard,
With the skipper’s rum, and his best girl-chum, and
his doubloons snugly stored!
No more (heave ho!) do the pirates go where the
loaded prize-ships are.
It’s dowagers now who fly the flag, and they never
travel far.
(No Jolly Roger, by the way,
But a merry Union Jack or gay
Little Red Cross flag they follow.)
They sometimes eat with their gleaming knives,
But never use ’em to take folks’ lives,
And never a rum do they swallow ;
And not a bob do they ever rob (Yo ho! Heave ho,
my hearties !) ;
The only wares they attempt to steal are other
people’s parties. ,
Mark yonder lady-buccaneer in the furs and ostrich-
feather !
The course her ear will shortly steer, come good or
evil weather,
Is sou’-sou’-west to Summer Hill;
A shop-girls’ club is going ill,
And she must reach it quickly.
If she delays to butt right in,
One of her friends the prize will win.
“In piracy act quickly”—
Such is the motto now, as when Kidd travelled the
seas for plunder,
Nor gave a curse as he filled his purse, for his vic-
tim’s futile thunder.
So all ye craft on the social seas that want to be
left alone,
Turn sterns to the gale, and like blazes sail for to
keep your souls your own.
Not a newsboys’ dance, not a grocers’ hop,
Not a butchers’ social over the shop
Is safe from the buccaneer,
Who’d collar control of your shivoo
As readily as she’d look at you,
And righteously dock the beer.
DEAR, DEAREST DEAR.
“We must be very economical note, darling
boy. Promise me you will do nothing
you can’t afford.”
“What! Do you want me to break off the
engagement?”
It’s a stirring life for a rich man’s wife, no doubt,
but this point passes
The plain man’s mind What fun is it for the
buccaneered-Lower Classes ?
N.S.W.
BILL THE JAZZ.


WHEN THE DROUGHT BROKE: GETTIN’ BACK HOME.


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged.. .. .. £2lB 10 0
G. Robinson, Swan Hill, Vic. . . 2 2 0
Hugh J. Bell, Yalpunga, S.A. .. 10 0
£22l 2 6
Contributions should be addressed to Tiie
Bulletin Office. Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
333 are excellent to the very
last puff. This can be said
of very few cigarettes.
ħ
h
ĥ
t 0,,. VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
20fbrl^
ħ
h
“Murkah” : “Arev” (B. 14/6/’23) is not
entitled to blame the new Melbourne electric
trains for the erratic action of his watch.
Admittedly stray magnetic fields from the
motors beneath would tend to magnetise the
steel portions (spring, etc.) ; but these tem-
pered-steel springs are permanently magnet-
ised, from manufacture onwards, by the mag-
netic currents that ceaselessly surge about
the earth’s surface (the “static” of wireless).
In any case electricity, with its accompany-
ing magnetic fields, is so common a factor in
civilisation to-day that a few additional train
motors simply wouldn’t matter. It would be
a very poor watch that would be affected by
such phenomena. I submitted “Arev’s” par
to a mate in one of our biggest “juice” fac-
tories. For answer he lugged out his own
ticker—an ordinary silver-cased lever. It
showed accurate time.
“Van s*at”: Few A.I.F. heads but would
wink at the most barefaced robbery if it
Avei’e practised pro bono publico. Our coal
ration failed to come along for three
days, causing Jack Simpson, our cook, to
issue an ultimatum that if firewood was
not produced by B Company it would have
to do a perish on cold bully. The only wood
in sight was a dump of wire-pickets about
a kilo away, and six of us hopped over to
bring home a load. We just got loaded up
after an amicable chat with the Tommy sentry
who was supposed to be guarding the dump,
when a Tommy s’major blew along and de-
sired to know what the ’ell we were doing.
He was told. Thereupon he ordered us to
disgorge. Our Lance Jack explained in
pathetic tones that we couldn’t; we were
AFTER MR. SMITH'S FUNERAL.
"Will you have water in your brandy, Airs. Smith?"
“ BOO-hu-hoo, no, thank you. Eve got troubles enough, I think.”
victims of bitter necessity; and off we went.
The s.-m. ordered the sentry to shoot; the
nearest Digger advised him not to miss, as
he would have only one shot. The s.-m.
followed us to the cooker, still fuming ; then
he strode on to Batt, H.Q. with his com-
plaint. By and bye he returned, and passed
us with a look on his face which implied
that our pots were well and truly put on.
Ten minutes later a two-pip artist strolled
languidly down from lI.Q. with the Colonel’s
compliments, and “if B Company wanted
any more firewood, for God’s sake get it
at night.”
* * * *
"Casual Burglar’s Laborer”: A Sydney
daily, referring to the conviction of two men
who had rifled warehouses of softgoods,
remarks that “there is a ready market in the
underworld for this type of stolen property.”
As a matter of fact, it isn’t the underworld
that provides the market. “Hoisting,” as
AT KOSCIUSKO.
“You know how her marriages usually end?”
“My dear—her marriages NEVER end.”
the reCeptidp of stolen goods is called, is
made easy by “respectable” shops which
are quite prepared to buy at cheap rates
with few questions. There are shop-
keepers who will swallow without a struggle
the story that a man who is filing his schedule
is getting rid of his stock quickly—which in
itself, by ttje way, is a fraud. “Hoisters”
get their goods by various methods, either
dealing directly with housebreakers or
suborning warehouse employees to earn
pocket-money by slipping out goods—a trick
that is often helped by bringing carters into
the game. One inter-State house wrote off
£3OOO last year over goods that had mysteri-
ously disappeared,
* * * *
“H.lv.” : The first trial by jury in Aus-
tralia took place at the sleepy George’s
River hamlet of Liverpool, where the big
Sydney military camp
was in war-time. The
trial was held on
October 14, 1824, when
within the walls of the
courthouse Chief Jus-
tive Forbes established
the first Court of
Quarter Sessions. No
longer were six mili-
tary officers called from
other avocations to
attend criminal
trials or a bench
of magistrates per-
mitted to take over
important crimi-
nal cases. The first
jury in a Supreme
Court case was sworn
in for Rex v. Cooper
on February 12, 1825.
Incidentally, in that
action arose the ques-
tion whether emanci-
pists had the right to
be on jury-lists. Not
till eight years later
did the Full Court
(the Chief Justice,
with Judges Dowling
and Burton) hold that
all free persons were
entitled to enrolment.
Grandsons of two
members of that Court —Forbes and Dow-
ling—are now on the roll of N.S.W. solici-
tors and practising in Sydney.
* * * *
“Carbonate”: “Harold Hardupp” (B.
21/6/’23) quotes as evidence of an over-
crowded medical profession the experience of
a Sydney institution which advertised a
medical appointment and had to deal with
370 applications. But the Broken Hill Hos-
pital has just appointed a surgeon-superin-
tendent at a commencing salary of £lOOO,
plus house, light, etc., and had only 30 appli-
cations to consider. With a few exceptions
the applicants fell into tAvo groups—(l)
young fellows under 30 seeking a start, (2)
old chaps who had never been very high in
the medical world and were after a comfort-
able job to finish in. The excess of doctors
is more noticeable in the capitals than any-
where else.
“Arbeep” on the Fleurbaix massacre:—
I don’t know what the Fifth Divvy’s losses were
at Fleurbaix ; but I do know that my company (the
14th M.G.’s) went in with 22 officers and about
180 men (including transport) and came out with
one officer and less than 40 other ranks. The Vickers
guns were sent over the bags with the infantry and
were blotted out before they got into action. Fleur-
baix (the action was really at Fromelles) was the
hottest affair I ever saw, and I went through most
of the Somme fighting. After Fritz drove us back
to our own lines a handful of us stood by, armed
mostly with big sticks, to repel a counter-attack
which fortunately never came; even at that late hour
of the battle Jerry was concentrating his guns on
about an acre at a time, and blowing everything
oft the face of it. I do not know yet if the stunt
really was a pure blunder, or part of a bigger plan.
We “demonstrated,” flashing bayonets over the top,
etc., for three days before, and it was understood
this feinting was to draw the German guns and re-
inforcements away from Pozieres, to give the Aussies
down that way a chance of gaining their objectives.
My clearest recollections of Fromelles are that the
following night the dead were laid out two deep for
over a mile on both sides of the road to head-
quarters ; that the day we came out I tasted liquor
for the first time,, and got drunk on champagne; and
that the following morning the mailbag brought a
letter from a maiden aunt, enclosing a blue ribbon
and a temperance pledge which she requested me to
sign and return to her.
“Dune” on the same tragedy:—
No official announcement of the Fleurbaix losses
has ever been made. C. E. W. Bean, writing from
the Press Camp on July 20, said: “Our troops had to
face shell-fire heavier and more continuous than was
ever known on Gallipoli. Many of them were quite
untried previously, and the manner in which they
carried it through seems to have been worthy of all
the traditions of Anzac. At least 200 prisoners were
captured and several machine-guns brought in. Many
Germans were killed; the losses amongst our troons
were severe.” There is no doubt that many of our
troops were killed or wounded by our own shell-fire.
No decent operation orders were issued; our troops
did not know what their objective was, and conse-
quently over-ran our artillery barrage limits, with the
result that they were boxed in. The statement about
our capture of over 200 prisoners is quite correct —1
was in one of the batteries on the main road and saw
all the prisoners as they were marched back to the
cages. And mention of the batteries brings me to say
that we were all planked down in open fields (mostly
on the sides of roads), with absolutely no cover for
ourselves or our guns, with the result that we were
easily “spotted” by enemy observers and put out of
action in short time.
* * * •
“Ringer”: The Government State smelters
at Chillagoe (Q.) have their scheme, too,
for maintaining the local hospital in such
a way that the men can use it without feel-
iug that they are loafing on anybody. At
the fortnightly pay 2s. 6d. is deducted from
the wages of each toiler, 2s. of it going to
the hospital and tid. to the ambulance —the
latter an institution which Queensland
knows more about than all the other States
put together.-
* * * *
“H. Hardupp” reviews a few crowded hours :
I had my tea at a cafe where the proprietress
told me that her cash-register had been
robbed that same afternoon during her momentary
absence, and a fellow-customer
mentioned that his pocket had
been picked. An hour later I
was hustled into a Surry Hills
laneway by a quartette of toughs,
two of whom held my arms while
a third brandished a bottle over
my head as an inducement to
silence, and a fourth went through
my pockets for £4 and a pawn-
ticket. The detective I reported
the loss to 10 minutes later said
that I was dashed lucky to have
escaped personal injury; I felt
there was some justice in his re-
mark when, after leaving him, I
came across a battered person
who had been garrotted as well
as robbed. The pawnticket was
not mine, but the possession of a
friend who wanted to keep his
dealings with Uncle a secret from
his wife; and at 9 next morning
I was on my way to report its
loss at the sign of the Three
Balls when I saw a man bn the
opposite side of Castlereagh-street
hustled and relieved of a wallet
from his hip pocket. AVith my
own grievance in my mind I
joined the hue-and-cry after the
thief, but he showed us all a
clean pair of heels. I was slip-
ping into a bar for a nerve-steadier
when a friend stuck me up with
a request for a small loan. He
told me he had been doped the
preceding night, and woke up
that morning in Hyde Park with-
out a feather to fly with. For 20
years I have knocked carelessly
about Sydney and prospected for
copy in some of its roughest quarters. I used to
nurse a pride that I had never been robbed, but
my confidence in the city is becoming- a trifle shaken.
“Flicker”: Recently I found a quaint
illustration of the dangers of Pussyfootism
in a collection of law stories called “The
Law’s Lumber Room.” In the bad old days
of public execution it was customary to
give the principal actor a “stirrup-cup” in
the form of a mighty bowl of ale before he
started on his final journey. Raleigh was
one who enjoyed this privilege,, though in
his case the medicine was sack. But the
case in point was that of a saddler at York.
When the cart paused at the “five minutes
for refreshments” point, to every Due’s sur-
prise and indignation he churlishly refused
the proffered viaticum. “So,” says the
chronicle, “wasting no more time on a
wretch so ungracious, he was speedily dis-
posed of.” Now comes the moral. Just as
the. Rechabite criminal swung into the air
a King’s messenger reeled from a jaded
horse and, shouting “Hold ! The King’s grace
—a free pardon,” rushed to the spot. Too
late! The man was gone beyond recall.
“Had he,” says the ancient reporter, “like
a Christian man and a jolly companion
tarried for his ale, be had died in his bed
like manv a better man.”
* # * *
“Vani-koro” : Duels happened every once in
a while in old N. S. Wales. But probably
the latest formal “affair of honor” in Aus-
tralasia came off at Auckland (M.L.) on
September 14, 1850. It is recorded in the
diary of David Burn, but he is tantalisingly
brief about it. All he says is: “There was
an affair of honor this morning with Black-
more and Gisborne as principals, and Mar-
low and Alex. Johnston as friends. It was
some silly matter originating at Grahame’s
ball. Fortunately no damage was done, as
no professional man was in attendance.” The
last sentence is not very clear, but perhaps
it does not mean what it might.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: No doubt the origin of the
name of Rooty Hill is correctly given by
“D.F.” (B. 28/6/’23). But it does not follow
that any. of the soldiers who received their
bread rations there had ever served in India.
The Hindustan “ruti,” for bread, has been
long firmly embedded in the Tommy ver-
nacular ; it may even go back to the days of
John Company.
A SONG OF AGED YOUTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A London doctor says there is no reason why we
should not all live to 140.”
Let the great years hold their breath,
Full of wonder and surmise.
Sorrow sang the world to death
AVith a cloud before its eyes ;
But if death indeed be dead,
Bring me roses, bring me wine
And a loaf of laughing bread
For a feast beneath the vine.
Youngsters less than forty-five,
Take your books, be off to school 1
There is honey in the hive,
There are peaches left to pull;
For we laugh with sweet sixteen,
Merry at her girlish tricks,
And the world is very green
When you’re only ninety-six.
After fifty we’ll be wise,
Skilled to follow all the tracks ;
And by sixty we shall rise
To a lofty income-tax.
When at eighty we retire,
Full of zest for love and play,
We shall take what we require—
Every dog shall have his day.
Living to the seven-score mark,
AV'e shall loiter with the years,
Taste of kisses fair and dark,
Drink eternities of beers.
Only this I want to know,
AVhile death’s sword is in his sheath,
Can they teach us how to grow
A succession of good teeth?
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


A THE
Qftfl
h
ĥ
ħ
BY USING THE NEW INVENTION
MEAR'S EARPHONE
Many deaf people have had their hearing,
absolutely restored. Thousands have received
wondrous help by using the Means Earphone.
WHY NOT YOU?
Write for particulars of our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
Established in Australia 1910.
The Mears Earphone Co.,
Dept. 12, 387 George Street
(opp. Strand Arcade), Sydney.
“Bull
Stout
(Extra Quality)
Equal to the
best imported.
“Bull” Stout is brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Drink stout
during the
Winter months;
you’ll appreciate
its appetising
flavor and
medicinal value.
Carlton Hotel Ltd.
Bed and Breakfast
or
Inclusive Tariff.
Courtesy, Comfort and Home*
like Atmosphere.
Perfection of Service.
Cable* and Radio and Telegraph
Address:
“Hocar.” Sydney.
Telephone: 86141 (10 lines).
Under the Management of
J. LEVY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Admiral Day Hurt Bosanquet, Governor
of S. A us. from 1909 to 1914, who died in
England the other day, was a handsome and
likeable Ex. Before he came the “better
classes” pronounced him “Bosankay,” but
when he arrived he turned out to be
Buzz-’n-kett. A kindly old man with a kindly
wife, both idolised by the youngsters, he wan-
dered a good deal out back, and whenever
he got within hail of a school he signalled
for a holiday. He and Premier Archie
Peake were billed to open Alexandra Cave,
at Naraeoorte, and the official special stopped
at a wayside station at breakfasGtime. His
Ex. piped all hands to a meal with him at
the hotel. The party had scarcely seated it-
self in the dining-room when a very indignant
waitress -bounced in and shrieked that she
had received no notice that breakfast would
be wanted at such an hour. Then she bounced
out, and above the clatter of crockery could
be heard declamation about “those blessed
commercials, who think they can upset any-
thing,” followed by awed whispers. When
a soothed and evidently rather scared Abigail
came in two minutes later and asked meekl.v
“Chops, steaas or sausages, your ’ighnessY”
the vice-regal smile was like a benediction.
,T. Sullivan, rector of Xavier College, Kew
(Vic.) —called “Spot” by the boys when he
is out of range—has been made Provincial of
the Jesuit Order in Australia in succession
to Loc-kington. Born in suburban Preston,
OMAN, Vic. Minister
for Lands, dreams of
satisfied soldier settlers.
the local school, St. Pat.’s in East Melb.
and the ’Varsity had the educating of
him. Then he went to St. Ignatius
College (Sydney), after which came
vigils at Stonehurst (Eng.), Mill Town
Park (Ireland), Innsbruck, Switzerland,
Vienna and Naples. And now the General
of the Order at Rome (Ledochowski, a Pole)
has made him a sort of colonel in Australia.
It’s an additional hint to the Commonwealth
R.C.’s to grow their own shepherds.
The brief electric-tramways strike in Mel-
bourne, which recently brought Tom O’Logh-
len Reynolds into prominence, reminded a
number of his old clients that the Tram-
ways Board has always sound legal advice
on the premises. Reynolds, acting-chairman
during the absence of Cameron, was a lawyer
in practice when, as Mayor of Coburg, he
was mainly instrumental in giving northern
Melbourne’s outlying suburb a tramway-lme,
and in forming the Melbourne, Brunswick
and Coburg Tramway Trust—he was chair-
man of the Trust when the present Board
absorbed it. Reynolds was too good a lawyer
to put the Board in a false position when
it became involved in a dispute with em-
ployees, and too kindly a tactician to be long
at variance with them. As an Irishman,
however, he derived much benefit seemingly
from the temporary disturbance: it was the
tonic he needed to restore his jaded health.
“Ex-Dig.” : The Returned Soldiers’ League
has carried a resolution demanding the rein-
statement of Donald Grant to his job in the
Lithgow (N.S.W.) Small Arms Factory.
This isn’t the Donald Grant who speaks red
words in the Domain, but a man whose Aus-
tralian ancestry goes back for some hundreds
of years. He was
adopted by a Lith-
gow citizen when
he was a picca-
ninny, and after a
good education
qualified as a
draughtsman. He
enlisted with the
A.1.F., and was
taken prisoner. The
Germans. puzzled
to find a man of
color in Australian
uniform, placed
him with black pri-
soners ; but Grant’s
well - s p o k e n,
straight Australian
led to his transfer.
After his return he
was a draughts-
man with the
Mort’s Dock Co.
until lie went to
Lithgow. Some
time later he was
dismissed ; but tin-
returned - soldier
hands threatened
strike, and he was
reinstated. "N o w
the trouble has
.occurred again.
E. A. MANN,
Nationalist M.H.R.
for Perth.
‘•Second Divvy” : I am sorry that long-
distance patriot, Aliss Campbell, of Durban,
has come to Australia —sorry the one war-
worker, so far as I know, in the Empire
who feels just the same for our men as in
the worst days of the war should be offered
proofs of the altered feelings of others. If
she walks the streets she will meet starving
Diggers; if she goes to the parks she will
be able without much trouble to find dying
ones. I would like her to have ended hex-
life with a mental picture of the only Aus-
tralian soldiers she ever knew —healthy,
eager men going north, and the same men
going south again, not quite so fit perhaps,
but still well-fed. well-clothed and confident
of the future. Where she saw a superman
in the streets of Durban five years ago, she
may meet a T.B. subject shuffling in burst
boots through the rain to-day. However,
how she is here, the State Governments will,
I trust, treat her as an honored guest. Dur-
ing the war she was one of the finest moral,
tonics the A.I.F. met. and her influence in
this respect seems as strong as ever.
Capt. T. B. Richardson, who has been
pilot-in-charge at Port Adelaide and Outer
Harbor for 15 years, has retired at 70. In
his ’prentice days he was wrecked near
Aden ; then, settling in Australia at 20, he
commanded ships for John Daiding and the
Adelaide and Howard Smith cos. He was
in command of the Cheviot when she lost
her propeller and drove on to the back beach
at Sorrento (Vic.). Thirty lives were lost;
but he saved many, and Melbourne gave him
a purse of 500 sovereigns.
Gone to where the good Australians mus-
ter, William Hubert Morton, city engineer
of Wellington (M.L.), Morton, a Scots’
College youth, was city surveyor at Mel-
bourne when Wellington, tangled up with
tramway, lighting, water-supply and street-
reconstruction schemes, called for assistance
about 15 years ago. As soon as he stepped
ashore they flung the lot at him. He was
a big, burly, even-tempered chap, a master
of his job, and mainly by cutting out sleep
and taking his meals on the run he got the
dishevelled heap into reasonable order.
Thence onward, “Leave it to Morton”
seemed to be a sort of general order there-
abouts, and he found himself managing every-
thing, from destruction of garbage to settle-
ment of the latest strike. It ended as it
always does. The broad frame began to grow
thin, and he went out at 55 before a rare
affection of the lungs. He had worked him-
self to a standstill. Melbourne’s city engi-
neer is a brother.
Fewtrell, the first mate, who went down
with the Sumatra, had just achieved his
ambition, when cynic Fate closed his story.
A man of over 50, he had for various rea-
sons failed to qualify for his master’s certi-
ficate, and had been devoting his leave in
Sydney to study in Captain Bayldoms
classes. On the Saturday the Sumatra was
to sail his certificate was sent to the boat.
Of the 36 members of the Commonwealth
Senate of 1901 but two remain in the House
—Millen and Pearce.
“Jack” Higgins, M.L.C., the leading spirit
in the new All Australia League, which
seeks to put up a fight in the N.S.W. Labor
movement and elsewhere for the old policy of
“the cultivation of an Australian senti-
ment” on which Labor first secured national
acceptance, used to be associated with W. A.
Woods in a struggling Labor paper in
Hobart. Coming to Sydney he joined the
Wobkek, and broke away ultimately to con-
duct the Labok News. For years he has
been on the A.L.P. executive, but was outed
at the last ballot. Higgins once tried to
establish an Australian comic paper. Vtimes
started brightly, but died early ; and its edi-
torial obituary paid a touching tribute to
the grief that would be experienced by its
creditors.
Admiral Day Hort Bosanquet’s call over the
border in his Blst year leaves only five sur-
viving ex-S. Aus. Governors: Kintore (who
recently received the Thistle), Tennyson
(the laureate’s sou), George Le Hunte, Gal-
way and Weigall. Kintore, Tennyson _and
Le Hunte were born the same year (1852),
and Tennyson is a day older than Kintore.
Galway and Weigall are much younger.
Jack Payne, Labor member for Mitchell
(Q.), who defeated Gilday for the chair-
manship of the Public Works Commission,
was born near Goulburn (N.S.W.) in 1860,
and has been miner, shearer and bush-
worker, as well as village blacksmith, and
for 18 years a member of Parliament. At
three elections no one thought it worth while
running against him.
Warrnambool, which supplied the State
with a Premier (Jack Murray, 1909-12),
has now furnished the first president of the
new Charities Board —M. Saltan, an ex-
Mayor. One member remarked in a whisper
when he was elected the other day; “It
doesn’t matter much who is chairman, as
‘Love will gild the scene and women guide
the plot.’ ” The key to which cryptic utter-
ance is that Love is the sec. and there are
two petticoated commissioners.
A shuffle in the Repat. Commission, which
has had its term extended for 12 months,
has the Returned Soldiers’ League grousing
again. Tilney, the Westralian Deputy-Com-
missioner, who changed jobs with A. G.
Farr in Sydney, was the nominee of the
R.S.L. as representative of. the soldiers, a
position which Teece has hitherto held. The
R.S.L. was dissatisfied with Teece, but the
Government wanted to keep him ; so while
Tilney becomes soldiers’ rep.. Teece takes
the place on the Commission of Barrett, the
“Economy King” of Repatriation, and Bar-
rett becomes O.C. at Sydney.
“Sclinorrer” : Anybody calling at the busi-
ness place of Benzion Cohen in Sydney would
be sure of a welcome if he started his conver-
sation with a quotation from the Talmud, the
Midrash, Or other Hebraic books. The old
chap, who was 7.3 when he died the other
day, was a type of Jew frequently met in
old Ghettoes. but rare in Australia —the sort
-that loves to sit in religious disputation,
even to the neglect of business. In Hebrew
scholarship Benzion was reWowned; and he
joined in “siums” with alacrity. These
siums are affairs in which earnest Jews band
for the study of their scriptures. A book
of the Midrash may be taken ; and the stu-
dents, who usually meet once a week for
the purpose, sit down to steadily read it
through, together with the innumerable dis-
putations of rabbis and commentaries on its
subject matter, and discuss its interpretation.
The reading of a single book may take a
few years; and it finishes with a celebration.
Benzion Cohen, born in Russia, came to Aus-
tralia three decades back, but for some
years he was in S’Africa.
An elder brother of Charles Stewart Par-
nell died the other day, aged 80. He claimed
to have been mainly instrumental in induc-
ing the future Home Rule leader to enter
public life, but he left no mark in the House
of Commons himself, though he sat there
for five years as a Parnellite after his youn-
ger brother’s death. According to John
Parnell, every sixpence of the £40,000 that
his brother received as a testimonial from
the Irish people (after the Parnell Commis-
sion of 1888) was spent in two or three
years, mostly in looking for non-existent
minerals, including gold, at Avondale.
“The Deacon” : “The Patriarch’s” par. (B.
28/6/’23) reminds one that “Johnny Gal-
lagher,” as the Bishop is still affectionately
called by the mob of boys he put through
their classical facings at St. Pat.’s, Goul-
burn (N.S.W.), is one of Australia’s great-
est classical scholars. Handicapped by a
JOHN TEHRAN, former B.A. Premier, now
resting on his laurels.
voice of enduring harshness, pins an abrupt
mariner assumed to conceal shyness, he has
never got the limelight like some less brainy
than he. Yet as an authority on Greek he
stands alone now that Frank Butler and
Murrav Leith Allen are mixing it with
the Originals in the soft green gardens of the
Hesperides. His only serious rival as a
Horatian scholar is the late president of
the Cardinal’s College. Monsignor McDer-
mott ; but with him Horace is a religion.
Harry Bruce, one of Bananaland’s new
Labor members, who was chosen by Theodore
to move the adoption of the Address-in-Repl.y,
is reputed to be a descendant of that old
Robert Bruce who gained some publicity be-
cause he once saw spiders. He is a do-year-
old Victorian, has been for long associated
with the A.W.U. in the north-west ot
Bananaland, and organiser, with headquarters
at Ayr, for the past two years. He tried
for the Senate at the last election and faded.
Unlike the insect of his ancestor lie didn t
wait to try again, but took another route
to the legislative salary-list.
The intrusive skirt is in the auctioneer’s
rostrum now. Mrs. Ellen O’Hallaran, of
Abbotsford (Vic.), wears it. But she isn’t
the first. Miss Ethel Teakle opened in the
same sort of business in Adelaide two years
ago. Sydney hasn’t a female auctioneer, but
it has a woman commercial broker.
“Val.”: Few these days would recognise
in Harry Coyne, ex-Minister for Lands in
Queensland and now on the Land Court
bench, the fire-eater who directed the ill-fated
tramwaymen’s strike in Brisbane that hung 1
up about 40 sympathising unions and heldi
up the community’s food supplies. When
Coyne’s young mind was beginning to sizzle
over the tyranny of Fat he was working in
a pub in far-back Queensland. Now he has
become so moderate that he is almost sus-
pect by extremists of the party. The system
of selecting a politician for a judicial posi-
tion is a rotten one, but there is this to be
said of Coyne—he knows more of the lands
and land acts of Queensland than the next
man: and of the tribunal lie won’t be the
least sympathetic to the struggling grazier.
“Maske”: C. Michael Rogers, Governor
Nathan’s new gent.-help, whs once headed
for the church. His uncle is Archdeacon of
St. Paul’s, Rockhampton; but at the death
of his father, who owned Torilla station, the
eldest son was in the army, so Michael had
to come to Queensland to run the show. And
he ran it well. He fought in the British
army in France, and came out as. a captain.
Rogers carries a highly-cultured Oxford
accent, but as a member of the Shire Council
and Marsupial Board of his district he was
noted for his straight talk and enthusiasm.
I remember meeting him on the Torilla-
Rockhampton road one hot summer day
when he was on his way to a Board meeting.
He was astride a diminutive horse, and wore
highly-polished shoes and startling socks. His
prad was all out, and the pants of the rider
appeared to have had a big row with his
shoes, as the bottoms were nearly up to his
knees. Overtopping the whole apparition
was a huge open umbrella, and though the
horse was going like the deuce Rogers man-
aged both the animal and the brolly with
ease. Incidentally, the new gent.-help, who
is a great barracker for Australia, has not
so far married.
THE LIMIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Norman Lindsay’s nudes are surely the nudest
ever painted or etched.” —The Australasian, more
in admiration than angel'.
The nudes of Norman Lindsay
Occasion storm and stress.
One hears the very winds say
‘•Placetne? No or Yes.”
One thing alone may questing
Reveal beyond contesting,
Their feature most arresting
Is Utter Nakedness.
No Venuses receding
With coy design are there.
They face you all unheeding
Of what they haven’t to wear.
And wowsers count it racking
To gaze on houris lacking
The fronting—and the backing—
Godiva found in hair.
No leaf of fig for screen of
The verities of life.
There's nought that can’t be seen of
The form of maid or wife.
Voluptuous limbs are rippling,
Of damosel and stripling.
Sans rags enough (as Kipling
Phrased it) “to dust a fife.”
The nudes of Norman Lindsay,
However they are viewed,
As risking ’flu or quinsy,
As Paganism rude,
Or Art, undraped, uncloth-y,
One tribute wring. My oath! he
Is game at least to ’go the
Dead limit in The Nude.
x.s.w.
T. THE R.


Special Announcement
CHAMPION
TOBACCO
h
BRIGHT
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
IHDI3M
13N z 02
ħ
WHEN
PACKED
h
The Manufacturers of this favourite high grade tobacco
have pleasure in notifying" smokers that the following"
are now available in Hermetically Sealed (Air-tight - )
Tins, the tobacco thus being guaranteed to open up s>a
fresh .retaining its natural aroma and. smooth eysieozn
smoking qualities
BRIGHT NATURAL FLAVOUR.
DARK FULL FLAVOUR.
-o-
MIXTURES
Mild SmokinMandDeLuxe.
THE BRITISH-AUSTRALASIAN TOBACCO
COMPANY PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
Sjr dney, Aus trah a.
ĥ
i H
UNIQUE RANGE
OF MODELS
OBTAINABLE OF
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
A FINE GRAINED
BRITISH MADE
BRIAR*


Australia’s Largest
Hostelry.
WHITE FOR
TARIFF
CARD.
THE FEDERAL,
Melbourne.
A Signal Success
"'•riii
XheTOP-WOTCH’Scotch.
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident and
Sickness, Burglary, Live Stock
Public Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation, etc., etc.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“McJ.”: The cyclone which recently
caused the loss of the Douglas Mawson brought
heavy rains and some record floods over the N.Q.
I’eninsula. At Moreton Telegraph Station the over-
flow from the Batavia River was 4ft. deep under
the office, and all the country in the paddock, except
a couple of high sand-ridges, was well covered. A
THE AGONY OF BTRTH.
“ I've called in to see about the money for those jokes of mine
you printed.”
“Er — money?”
“Yes; you didn't think I’d make jokes like them for fun,
did you?”
day before the flood all the horses in the paddock
(about 40) went to these sand-ridges and stayed
there until the water subsided. Instinct? Or had
they been taking an intelligent interest in the river
reports ?
* * * *
“C. 3” : I don’t know about a kookaburra
taking a rest on the water, as “Edge o’ Beyond” says
(B. 7/6/’23) ; but I have seen another case of a
bird recovering its wind and getting out safe. On
the Macquarie River, near Burrendong (N.S.W.), I
saw a swallow strike a telephone wire spanning the
stream, and fall in the water. Thinking to help the
little chap, who was apparently drowning, I began to
wade in. As soon as he saw me he took fright and
started out, half swimming, half scrambling, to a
small boulder island about 20yds. away. Landing
there, he waited awhile, and then, apparently having
got over his blow from the wire, flew off quite as
usual.
* » • *
“M.F.” : This is the third consecutive
year that swallows have been found in the north-
west of Tas. in June
and July, packed
away as close as sar-
dines in small cavi-
ties in dry trees felled
for firewood. This
year 16 were found in
one tree. The first
discovery of the kind
was made between
Wynyard and Mount
Bischoff by two pros-
pectors in 1921, and
last year two men
cutting wood in this
district felled a tree
with 37 swallows
packed away in it;
all apparently asleep,
but in a healthy con-
dition. The jar of
the falling tree killed
some of them, but the
others fluttered about
the ground for a while
and eventually took
wing. The thing makes
one’s belief in the
migration of swallows
rather wobbly. Do all
swallows hibernate;
or is it only those who
find themselves incap-
able of taking the long
migratory flight that
so pack themselves
away for the winter?
At any rate, as with
the “migrating” mut-
ton-bird, I have found
them here at all times
of the year.
“A.H.R.” : A very fed-up applicant for a
block under the W.A. Government scheme attended
for the fifth time the Board appointed to investigate
the fitness of the applicants. He was at last in-
formed, after answering numerous questions, that
his application for a block for pig-rearing could not
be favorably considered. He had turned to go, when
a member of the Board inquired: “What breed of
pigs were you proposing to rear?” “Oh—fnus-
covies!” flung back the fed-up one as he stalked out.
* * * *
“Ento”: I know more about the idiosyn-
crasies of blowflies than has ever yet been published,
but to find a solution of their behavior in relation
to the blanket is beyond
my powers. In Westralia
I have slept in a not-too-
new rug; in Tas. I have
camped with two perfectly
new blue blankets and the
same rug; in Queensland
these impedimenta have
accompanied me to the
National Park; they have
also seen service in Vic.
and N. S. Wales. Although
they have never been blown
during 10 years of wander-
ing, usually those of vari-
ous companions on the
same trips have suffered.
For many years I consid-
ered careless habits were
the cause, but I know dif-
ferently now ; nor can the
inducement to blow be
traced to color or damp-
ness. As I paid a high
price for my blankets their
immunity may be due to
the grade of wool and pro-
cess of manufacture. Not
only do blankets and rugs
draw the gravid blowfly, for
at a picnic I once saw a
flannel suit blown, and in
Pitt-street,. Sydney, two or
three years ago I noticed a
blowfly depositing its eggs
on a man’s trousers as lie
walked along. My latest
difficulty is to find the
reason why the species
Neocalliphora or.hr acea,
which Froggatt states does
not blow the wool of living
sheep, is the one found
committing the blankety
offence in the Queensland National Park.
* » * *
“Singwendile” (S. Rhodesia) : Re the
little argument about the expectorating snake (B.
19/4/’23). It is known to the Dutch here in
S’Africa as “Zwart ringhals.” I don’t know its
classical moniker, but there is no mistake in either
the action of the venom or the accuracy of the
reptile’s aim. I have seen and treated quite a
number of cases in the course of 25 years’ residence
in this country, and the symptoms were identical
in each case—a severe burning pain, total loss
of sight (this occurs even if only one eye has been
injured) and great swelling. The blindness may
last three or four days, or even more, being depen-
dent on how- much venom actually enters the eye.
NOT LONELY NOW.
“And are you still a widow?”
“No, sir; I have four lodgers now !”
I have seen cases where the victim has been blind
for a much longer period, but possibly this may
have been due to the crude methods of the Nyanga
or native doctor. “Jim Dandy’s” brother was tak-
ing a big risk in using a strong solution of per-
manganate of potash on his patient. A 5 p.c.
solution of protosil I found quite safe and effective.
The Jap scientist who came to S’Africa to investi-
gate the matter did not delve deeply, otherwise
hi s verdict would have been very different. Curi-
ously enough, the expectoration appears to he
entirely a matter of defence, as I have never seen
or heard of a case where the ringhals bit the
victim after blinding him. I was a sceptic on
the matter, too, until I actually saw one of my
natives blinded temporarily, while grass cutting,
by the ringhals ejecting the venom over a distance
of quite six feet.
# # * «
“Kenbir” : I have on the table at present,
quite tame and friendly and unconscious of the
publicity I am about to give him, a beautiful furred
silver-grey sugar squirrel that has been mascot to
the Kendall expedition for some time. It invariably
rides comfortably on Kendall’s shoul-
der in the day and flits among the
trees at night, returning to the boss’s
bunk before daybreak. As pets these
creatures are more docile and lov-
able than the ’possum or native-bear,
and the fact that their claws are not
long or strong makes them ideal
playmates for youngsters.
* • *
“L’Fou”: How do animals
know Sunday? I have in mind a
collie who delighted to escort the
family to church, but she used to
spoil the parson’s house by promot-
ing counter attractions in the shape
of dog-fights just outside, so we tried
chaining her up as soon as the cows
were got in on Sunday mornings.
But after a couple of experiences
Lass's canine calendar, or whatever
she relied on, never failed her. She’d
start the cows home Sundays, then
disappear into the scrub —and stay
disappeared till the buggy was well
on the road; then she would fall
into line and come to church like a
Christian. Abo. cynics will say she
noticed the horses being brought up
or the bustle of getting ready about
the place; but she would scamp
her cow job to hide down the road
on occasional Sundays when there wasn’t
any service. She’d also do it on Sundays when it was
too wet to go to church.
* * * *
“Parama”: Tell “Harry Stottle” (B.
7/6/’23) that plenty of white men eat shark, too.
I’ve eaten it myself; first unknowingly, and since
then after catching and cooking it. The flesh is
every bit as good as crab, cray, prawn and a host of
others that are considered something special. To
most people the idea of shark is distasteful simply
because others have scorned it, and because the brute
is a scavenger and eater of human flesh. The shark,
at any rate, prefers his human flesh fresh ; the crab,
cray, prawn, shrimp and others are not half so par-
ticular. Get someone to feed you properly cooked
shark’s flesh and you’ll ask for more every time—
even after you’re told you’ve been eating some of
the accursed thing.
’’G.B.F.”: Re big shouts (B. 7/6/’23),
what about “Woolshed” Johnson, the boss-digger of
the famous Woolshed diggings (Vic.), who in a
short time took over £ TOO,OOO in gold from his
claim? His usual Saturday-night shout was £100;
but at the first Vic, Parliamentary election, when
his man, Cameron, was elected, he shouted for the
crowd at the old Temple Bar Hotel, Ford-street,
Beechworth, at a cost of £250. Cameron rode into
Beechwood at the head of his Woolshed supporters
mounted on a horse shod with shoes of solid gold.
“Gaza” : An out-back abo. had been “saved”
at a recent church mission ; and next day was retail-
ing his experiences on the local pub verandah.
“How did you do it, Jimmy ?” asked one of the
audience. “Oh, easy,” smiled the brand snatched
from the burning. “Preacher he say, ‘All those want
saved go up fiont—er, front—er’” “Pew?” sug-
gested the inquirer. “That’s right” chuckled the nig.
“Lady I sat next to say that two, three times.”
“Cooralco”: The blacks around Cooper’s
Creek (Q.) are adepts at catching emus.
Flat country bordering on a waterhole which
the emus are known to frequent is generally
chosen. When the emus are seen coming
in the direction of the water all the buck
niggers in the tribe form a wide semi-circle
behind them, then gradually advance on them so as
to drive them in towards the waterhole. The emus
never seem to realise what is happening until they are
close to the water. Some then try to turn back,
but are usually speared. The others attempt to reach
the opposite bank of the waterhole, but are knocked
down by the gins, who have been waiting for them
with mulga waddies. In the drier parts, nets are
spread between the steep banks of the watercourse
and the emus driven towards them. The nets are
made from the native marsh-mallow, which is usually
found growing on the borders of the claypans and in
the beds of the dry creeks. The bark and the next
layer of the stem are stripped off and then baked for
about an hour in the hot ashes, after which a process
of maceration in water is carried on until the fibres
can be separated. These are then twisted into the
strands from which the nets are made.
# * * *
“R.S.” : Tell “Ferdix” (B. 31/5/’23) that
R. Stevenson introduced a pair of kookaburras to the
Upper , North Esk River (Tas.) about 30 years ago
and they have so flourished that now there is an
area of about 15 miles square very thickly stocked
with them. It is quite common to see 20 in one tree.
* * * *
“Tauwarra”: “Cobba-Cobba’s” nig. who
picked; up sausages between his toes (B. 10/5/’23)
must be first cousin to the lad who used to roll
the breakfast rissoles on his chest. The prize must,
however, be handed to the Port Moresby cook-bov
Who was caught one morning straining the coffee
through a much-worn sock. When his irate taubada
remonstrated, the youth explained tearfully, “This
fella he no new fella sock. He old one, taubada
—long time you bin t’row’m away!”
# * * #
“El Dorado”: The voracious shark has a
challenger in our friend the fresh-water cod. These
big slimy gentlemen of the inland gutters are in no
way epicures. Now that the law makes it compulsory
to gut and gill all fish for market, their little Marys
A MATTER OF PEDIGREE.
WELL-TO-DO CHOOM (being shown over station): “Haw,
and who's that chappie?”
JACKIE ( overhearing ): “Cripe, boss, mine tinkit mine
pure-bred plurry 'arf-carsk Australian ab’ riy’nal.”
reveal the fact that the cod is a glutton of gluttons.
Snakes up to 3ft. and 4ft. go the same way as Jonah
went. As many as five ducks have been taken out of
one fish. During the mice plague the jaws of the cod
proved a veritable mouse-trap. I have watched them
snap mice before they had been three minutes in the
water precisely in the same way as the grey-nurse
shark snaps a dog. I have caught a 40-pounder with
a 61b. relative jambed half-way down his throat. 1
doubt if a shark itself would be guilty of such glut-
ton}-. Last year over three tons of cod were taken out
of the river within 30 miles of Bourke (N.S.W.) by
means of a piece of shining sheet-metal tied to a
string and trailed behind a boat.
MUSTERING IN THE HILLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Their dogs at heel, their horses fresh,
By narrow tracks and wide,
By mountain-slope and timbered crest,
With now a song and now a jest,
The cattle-musterers ride.
Their pack-horse travels on before,
Mane wild, and wild of eye,
While close at hand the magpies fling
Their fluty notes, and wide of wing
A sparrow-hawk sails by.
Grey snow-clouds speed across the sky,
Cold blows the winter wind
O’er billowy slopes that westward heave;
Blithe, blithe are they, although they leave
Warm hearths and homes behind.
O’er hills, unvisited by rain
For weary weeks and weeks,
With all their tale of pain and loss,
They ride; and now and then they cross
The beds of bone-dry creeks.
A river, gleaming as it glides,
Far, far below they see,
And here and there with team and load
A teamster trudging down the road
That keeps it company.
With hope at heart and shining eves
Along the tracks they pass,
With scarce a breathing-space or spell—
Oh, may their stock have thriven well
Upon the Koumong grass!
Their journey done, when down the sun
Sinks over cliff and height,
They’U camp beside red, burning logs,
While round them hunting Koumong dogs
Howl through the winter night.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


AW
CONDOR
*AD
holi-aho
f IKlii
2 40
Little Lamp
with, the big Light.
If you cannot obtain it locally send
dealer’s address to Scott & Holla-
day, Ltd., 31a Pitt St.. Sydney.
4
| TUTANKHAMEN C HIS TOMB I
ĥ
The same indestructible mineral pro-
tects the felt fibres of MALTHOID
from the elements as that which
has so thoroughly preserved the
mummies of Egypt for thousands of
years. MALTHOID is made from
rag felt and pure bituminous
mineral, and lasts indefinitely.
Ag k MS for free booklet and samples.
'I/Re PARAFFINE COMPANIES Tne
(F M PRINCE Australasiai\M<uvaqer)
Oriqinal Manufacturers of
P & B MATERIALS
CHALLIS HOUSE
MARTIN PLACE
SYDNEY
ħ
h
Fox Rifles.
FOX-SKINS ARE DEAR. RIFLES ARE
CHEAP. WINCHESTER REPEATERS, as
illustrated. Under-lever action; full or half
magazine. Rifles, 24in. barrels. Carbines, 20in.
barrels; 25/20, 32, 38 and 44 Cal., £8
MARLIN REPEATERS. Similar to illustration.
Under-lever action; side ejection. Take-down
pattern; 44 Cal. An ideal rifle at a marvel-
lously low price, £5/10/-
WINCHESTER. .303 REPEATERS. Under-
lever action. A neat and reliable rifle for long-
distance shooting; 28in. barrels, £l3/10/-
Also Carbines. 22in. barrels, £l2/10/-
ROSS .303 REPEATERS. Bolt action. Still a
few left. Don’t let the chance slip by.
£6/10/-
BROWNING F.N. 9mm. AUTOMATIC RIFLE.
Neat, compact, quick, and accurate. £l5.
Send for Catalog, Post Free, or for special
information on Browning 9mm. rifle.
TIIE TRADE ‘ SUPPLIED.
318 Little Collins Street. Melbourne.
THE THING HE’D OVERLOOKED.
“Have a saveloy, madam?”
“Sir, you”
“Humbly apologise. Never ’curved to me you might he a vege-
tarian.”
Jus’ think uv me, wot thort I knoo a bit,
A-twitterin’ to ’im like a little bird ;
An' there so niee an’ patient ’e would sit
Makin’ up poertry uv orl ’e ’eard!
I’d be ashamed, an’ so would Ginger Mick,
To do a cobber such a dirty trick.
An’ there I sits feelin’ I’d like ter kick
Me silly self roun’ Melbin, square an’ all!
AVhippin’ ther cat an’ feelin’ pretty sick,
Gay as a wowser at ther Boozers’ Ball,
Chewin’ ther rag ter think I’d bin so green
Mhen a thort knocks me bandy... .Cripes! Doreen!
(Per Slyd. C.).
“Machete”: “Yarra Bank’s” brolga (B.
21/6/’23) which followed a Tambo youth home and
took up its abode on the homestead was, more than
likely, a demobilised pet. I a lady kangaroo
at Warroo station, in the St. George (Q.) country,
which was brought up with the girls of the family’
When she grew up she periodically left home, but
invariably returned with the che-ild—and once with
a bullet-hole through her forearm. After this she
had a red band stitched round her neck, and
shooters were warned to look out for her. When
the joey grew up she would go off again, but
always came hack.
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”: While the Abo. Council is
arguing about the top-storey of the tomtits’ nest,
pel haps they can spare a minute over the use or
reason for the long appendage the fantail (“cranky
fan”) adds to its bungalow. Cranky Fanny builds
a neat, closely-woven little nest in the fork of a
small limb, and to it adds a big, loose tail of the
same material. This tail is not joined on to the
tree, and, as far as my observations go, is neither
use nor ornament. In fact, it is so heavy, compared
with the nest, that in windy weather it is a menace
to the safety of the eggs or the young birds.
* * * *
“Police Patrol”: Re women shearers (B.
31/5/’23), I know a family on the Snowy River
(Vie.)—-father, mother and three hefty girls. They
are in a secluded spot many miles from neighbors,
and the stock Taised on the farm is always removed
on the hoof. The girls are shearers, hunters, buck-
jumpers, splitters and musicians (organ, accordion
and violin). Each can plough, yard, kill and skin
a beast and do generally any farm work. They are
by no means masculine, and the only feminine
neglect I have noticed is the 5 absence of a powdery
nose. On one of my impromptu visits Dad was laid
up, and Norah and Dora were “doctoring” little pigs.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: “Jimmy Possum” is probably
correct when he suggests (B. 7;'6/’23) that the crows
were barracking for
him when he went out
’roo shooting. Birds
of prey display consid-
erable cunning in pur-
suing their provender.
Quails were present in
droves in one paddock
through which I used
to drive sheep once or
twice every week dur-
ing the summer of
1921. As soon as I
approached the quail
paddock all the brown
falcons for about a
mile round would fly
to me and collect in
dozens overhead. The
sheep moving through
the long grass forced
the quail to rise, and
the falcons w r ould
spend a busy time
swooping on their
helpless prey. When
there w'ere no sheep to
force them into the
open the quails were
careful to remain con-
cealed, and the fal-
con’s job was a much
harder one. Incident-
ally, I nominate the
falcon as the most
ruthless of feathered
creatures. I have seen
him crash into a flock
of small birds, de-
stroying right and left,
evidently for the sheer joy of killing, because many
of his victims remained uneaten afterwards.
* * * *
“Xamilc”: H e was a son of one of the
directors, sent from England to learn the sheep
business. It fell to my lot to show him round on
the first day. I pointed out and explained the
different breeds, etc., as we went through each pad-
dock. Coming home we repassed some Lincoln-
merino-eioss ewes. I asked him if he recollected what
they were. “Oh —ah —quaite ; these are the —ah—
bally shortbreds, what?” I left it at that.
“Saaedi”: “Xamilc’s” theory that sheep
camp in the sun nowadays because of the attentions
of blowflies (B. 7/6/’23) should be proceeded against
for being at large without visible means of support.
It is true that the buzzer prefers the shade, and it
is also true that sheep sometimes now display a dis-
regard for the hottest sun; but this apparent varia-
tion from merino custom is just as noticeable here
(Central-West N.S.W.) when blowflies are absent as
when the buzzing horrors abound in billions. Further,
BE SAD IF IT DOES.
“Ah, friend, and do yon think that pot of awful liquid is going to
do you any good?"
“I ’ope it don’t, miss. It’s me fust one."
in view of the fact that it is the maggot, and not the
blowfly, that is the immediate cause of the merino’s
trouble, isn’t it expecting- a lot from jumbuck intelli-
gence to presume that he recognises the buzzer as an
enemy to be escaped from ? Incidentally, sheep in fat
condition almost invariably seek the shade in hot
weather. One theory in this connection is that they
are fat because they go in the shade; the other is
that they go in the shade because they are fat. The
latter is probably the more correct.
* * * *
“Hamer”; English naturalist Edgar
Chance has offered £5OO to anyone who can prove
him wrong in saying no cuckoo ever laid an egg on
the ground and used its bill to place it in another
bird’s nest. Numerous Australians who allege that
they have seen this act performed will have a chance
of making money by seeing it again with a camera.
And Chance can afford to pay. He is a son of a
nearly (if not quite) millionaire father—the recent
head of the firm of Birmingham glass manufacturers
which, among other things, supplied the reflectors
*' or dnej s South Head light. This son, eschewing
business, is one of England’s leading ornithologists.
* * * *
“Trochus” : Here’s an extract from a letter
from a man who, on a two-months’ holiday, circum-
navigated Van Diemen’s Gulf in a 17ft. dinghy with
two black-boys:—
Leaving Kapalgo, a buffalo-hunter’s station 30 miles
up the South Alligator River, we were carried swiftly
,- y tlle ebb tide. Many crocodiles from 3ft. to
jiOtt. long were seen rushing down the bank. The
boys had shot eight geese, and at sunset we pulled
mto the bank, and Larry and Paddy went ashore and
boiled the billv and grilled the geese. While the
bodies were grilling the boys roasted and ate all the
giblets and the 16 wings; then came into the boat
and topped up with a goose apiece, a hunk of bread
and a quart of tea. Soon they lay down and slept. I
was wakeful and listened to all sorts of weird noises,
wondering if one of the big crocs, would get a brain
wave and put a paw on the gunwale and roll the three
of us into his jaws. However, I dozed, only to be
awakened by a horrible cry. I grabbed the tiller as
the handiest weapon—but it was only Paddy with the
nightmare, his cargo of giblets lying too heavy on
his tummy. I had no further sleep, and as at 1 a.m.
the tide changed I stepped over my sleeping blacks,
set sail, and at daylight ran into a small sandy beach
on field Island.... Being tired, I turned in earlv,
but before midnight something touched me on hip
and shoulder, and a weight came on my bingy. Still
thinking of crocs., I did a record out of my net, only
to find a turtle trying to go through. She was drag“-
ged away, and at once set about digging a hole >n
which she started laying. The boys put the billycan
in the hole, and in a few minutes it was full with
57 eggs. Another effort to sleep, then the boys yelled
out. A turtle had crawled on Larry’s shins and
another was trying to get over Paddy’s chest. Turtle
were everywhere, all intent on laying. We counted 76.
Talk about an egg-laying competition—Leghorns were
not in it! In returning to the water one fouled the
post of my net and brought it down on me; then
one got in the fire and with her powerful flappers
scattered burning sticks and embers all over ns.
Paddy found more trouble, for one had laid near his
camp, and in covering up the eggs was in a fair way
to bury Paddy’s head. He swore in several dialects,
and finally got the axe and killed her.
“Xamilc”: We were counting a big lot of
diminutive drought-stricken shorn lambs and. had
stopped for a breather, when I. said “It takes a let
of these to make a hundred, Larry!” “Er —
yairs,” said Larry doubtfully; then, after profound
cogitation and just as we were going to start again,
he queried earnestly, “But it’d on’y take a ’undred,
wouldn’t it ?”
* * * *
“Old Timer”: I bad a pure-bred dingo that
was different to “Key-
string’s” (B. 24/5/’23).
He was one of a litter
of seven that a lad
was keeping till they
grew to guinea scalps,
7s, 6d. being all he
could collect for pups.
He a .-lowed them to run
about with the other
dogs, and they were
just as tame as domes-
tic tykes. This par-
ticular dingo was then
half-grown; he cottoned
on to me at first sight
and was so affectionate
that I bought him. He
never objected to be-
ing caressed, and my
poultry were safe while
I remained at home;
but if I neglected to
tie him up when 1 left,
he would meet me on
my return, crouching
along with his belly
almost touching the
ground and the guilti-
est expression imagin-
able on his face. When
1 told him he had been
killing my fowls he
would whine and roll
over. At other times
he always knew when
I was returning, and
would howl till loos-
ened ; then he would
run to meet me and
scamper around with
delight. I' had him
four years and never
knew him to bark. A
falling tree killed the-
poor old chap in the
end.
Condambo”: One more queer accident.
A bullocky on a station nor’-west of Port Augusta
(S.A.) was unyoking a pair of bullocks, and had
removed the bow from one, when the other bolted
with the yoke, to which the chain was attached.
The hook on the end of the chain caught in the bul-
locky s boot, and he was dragged for some distance.
Then the steer slipped on a claypan, made slithery
by a light shower, and broke its leg—the onlV
casualty.
* * * *
“T.V.T.”: Josh Billings once remarked
that it was a dashed sight easier to .get a pole-cat
into a trap than to get him out. It isn’t particu-
larly easy to get a fox in ; but it is easy enough to
get him out if you know how. Reynard’s principal
nerve-centre is the tip of his nose, and a sharp tap
there, with even a very light stick, will cause him
to take the count as if he had been shot.
* * * .
“5690”: A publican in Pt. Lincoln (S.A.}
has a white crow. He was caught young, soon after
leaving the nest, at Pt. Elliston, . farther along the
coast. He is 14 or 15 years old, and has lived his
life in a cage. The freak bird has helped to increase
the sale of beer in Elliston, Tailem Bend, Brink-
worth, Glenelg, Pinnaroo and Pt. Lincoln. He is.
naturally snow-white, but being somewhat untidy lie
doesn’t keep himself clean in captivity.
BETWEEN WHAT HE KNEW AND
DIDN'T KNOW—
MOTORIST: "It’s preposterous, old man. I'm
an expert driver. What I know about
driving would fill a book."
CONSTABLE: “And what you don't know
would fill a hospital. Give us your name
and address, now."
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE HAS A WORD OR
TWO TO SAY ABOUT IT.
[FOR THE NULLETIN.]
’ls name is Mud. Yes! Just plain M-U-D —
That writin’-bloke ’oo’s been an’ (lone me brown;
’Oo pulled me leg till I wuz yappin’ free
An’ then run orf an’ wrote me blather down.
Pullin’ me leg ’e wuz —oh, spare me days,
I wisht I’d tumbled to ’is little ways!
Pullin’ me leg an’ puttin’ it in books
Per any silly sticky-nose ter read!
Uv all the gory, bleedin’, flamin’ crooks!
Ci'ipes, won’t the mob get busy on’ is lead !
They’ll give me nothin' fer a bloomin’ flat;
Put ’ow wuz I ter know wot ’e wuz at?
I'd orfen meet ’im moochin’ round the town,
Knockin’ around wiv different coots ’e knew.
’EM say: “AVot-o, there! Could yer keep one down?”
An’ then we’d chin-chin wiv a pint or two.
I’d open up an’ tell ’im all me woe ;
’EM shake ’is ’ead an’ sigh: “Ar, ye5....1 know!”
’EM shake ’is ’ead an’ sigh an’ let me rip
Until I’d told ’im all me joy an’ pain—
’Ow I felt gay or ’ow I’d got ther pip.
’EM say: “’Ere, missus, fill ’em up again.”
Take it orl in, an’ never give a ’int
That ’e wuz orf ter shove it inter print.
It was a Pommy bloke wot put me wise.
I was in Snotty Padger’s bar one day
’Avin’ a. quiet couple wiv the flies
When Pom. lobs in. (A dizzy little jay
Wiv a hump on ’im like a travailin’ rat,
An’ alwiz nippin’ someone fer a sprat.)
E breasts the bar an’ starts ter be perlite:
“’Ow wuz Doreen?” By cripes, that made me
sore!
“’Oo’re you Doreenin’? Stow that silly skite,”
I sez, “I’ll pass yer one aerost ther jor!”
•‘Lor’ loomme, Choom,” ’e sez. “ ’Ere, don’t go
crook !
I read about ’er in a bloomin’ book! ”
An’ then it orl came out. . . .1 read it, too—
Bead orl the things ’e sez I said an’ done.
1 ’ad no notion wot ter say or do,
But sat an’ thort, “Gor’struth, this takes the bun!”
An w’ile me brain-box done a dizz.y whirl
Me bleedin’ hair stood up an’ tried ter curl.
Ere’s orl the inmost secrits uv me ’art
Out on the sugar-bags, an’ read be coots—
Be any coot wot likes ter make a start !
It makes me toe-nails shiver in me boots !
Read be ole fowls an’ flappers in ther train.
Arr, turn it up ! Gorstruth, you gimme pain!
Read be ole gents wot corfs an’ sez “Ahem!”
An dolled-up clerks wiv pinch-yer-noses on—
Wot ’ave my feelin’s got ter do wiv them?
They’ll only grin an’ reckon that I’m gone.
They’ll say: “This crimson coot’s a Gord-damn skite
Ripe for the Rat House.” Arr, put out the light!
Wot will she say ? Wot won’t she! Oh, gee whiz,
Doreen s no kitten when ’er monkey’s up—
She ’as a tongue that gets right down ter biz.
I feel as ’appy as a poisoned pup,
A a ’appy as the boy ’oo shot ’is Par,
Becos, first pop, she’ll up an’ tell ’er Mar,
An’ then the band will play Ar, well, per’aps
A mar-in-lor an’ missus uv ’is own
Will teach that nark ter feel fer other chaps—
Tip ’im some things is better left alone.
’E’ll ’ave less time them days fer flamin’ jokes,
Puttin’ the kybosh on confidin’ blokes.
’E’ll ’ave less time fer puttin’ 0 n the pots
Uv simple coots wot wags their silly jors;
Yes, somethin’ else ter do. By crikey, lots!
ft s jest as well ,’e isn’t ’ere, becors
’E’d ’it ther golden gates wiv such a smack
Ole Peter would get narked an’ boot ’im back.
Arr, well, so long! I’ve got ter face Doreen
An’ break it gently wot a blob I’ve bin,
An’ spread the message that I’ve growed up green,
An’ ’ave ther joyous tidin’s well rubbed in.
Dickin 1 wouldn’t like that ratbag’s blood?
Take it from me, ’is flamin’ name is MUD !
VICTORIA.
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE


Oil N LO P
h
ĥ
Over
tWO yCctrS ago W 3 started making “Cord” covers for experimental and
testing purposes with the view of ascertaining if they would stand up to hard driving
conditions on Australasian roads in similar fashion to pur popular “Railroad” tyres, which
have won such a great name amongst motorists for staunchness and long life. They
would not! We still sold “Railroads” and determined to do so until we had evolved a
“Cord” cover that would ensure better results than the recognised beSt canvas tyre
on the market the “Railroad.”
Our Research Dept, continued their efforts and we went on testing out covers on the road,
Gradually a better “Cord” cover was produced but still not up to our standard, although
it compared favorably for wear with imported cord tyres. One testing Car ran three shifts;
day and night, week after week over a
trying course, grinding out Dunlop Cords which
were pitted against the beSt efforts of oversea
makers. Stage by stage the “Dunlop mileage
improved as the result of research work and
driving tyres to destruction, until eventually
we achieved our objective a cord cover that
gave better wearing results and a greater mile-
age than the beSt of imported cords. At last
we had a Dunlop Cord Tyre as supreme amongst
Cords as the “ Railroad ” is amongst Canvas Tyres.
ITS CHIEF CHARACTERISTICS ARE ADDED
COMFORT, INCREASED MILEAGE AND
ECONOMY, AND A NON-SKID PATTERNED
TREAD THAT ENSURES A SAFE GRIP ON
GREASY ROAD SURFACES —whilst the maximum
efficiency of transmission of tractive power is provided for.
Dunlop Cords were then subjected to the most strenuous
tyre tests witnessed in Australia, viz., sustained racing speed
over the rough and rutty Interstate routes. EIGHT
INTER-CAPITAL MOTOR CAR RECORDS
(5 Melbourne-Sydney, 2 Brisbane-Sydney, and 1 Melbourne-
Adelaide) —the most remarkable series of- records
established in the Southern Hemisphere fell to
Dunlop Cords in quick succession, Such driving
calls for brutal brake work and violent acceleration,
which soon finds the weak points in tyres, but they
stood the test, and Australia’s leading speed motorists
marvelled at what the tyres withstood, and the little
effect such driving had on the latent
m
an
they said, and they are right!
41 Remarkable covers,”
"N*
S'*
:: '
:
s
ħ


-
it
TP
is
■
h
s
Motorists and the Trade
will be interested m this announcement, for it means better service to the tens of thousands of
carists who for many years past have been staunch supporters of our “ Railroad ” tyres. The reputation
of the Dunlop Cord has already spread amongst motorists, and our Mills, the largest in the Southern
Hemisphere, are going to have an exceedingly busy time coping with the demand for some time to come.
G
<
m
(i
m
CORD
c
will be available in straight-sided and beaded-edge types in popular sizes from all recognised Dunlop
A gents, who, in addition, will for some time to come carry stocks of our popular “ Raifroads.” which
will be a lower priced tyre than our Dunlop Cord.
Illustration depicts construction of the Dunlop Cord
Ntw Pr ce
List will be
available
from all
G a r ages
at an early
date .
9
# f
3
%*g*3g£^ lk •
;
H
i
SB
« ■
m
H
: :
n
i
HB
'
■
S V
m
n
«H
■
,
:
a
6
vstsmam
1
7
5
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
OF AUST. LTD.
ALL STATES and N.Z.
1. Larger Air Space
2. Dunlop Cord Fabric
3. Pure rubber insulation between each layer
of fabric
4. Shows Cord layers in opposite directions
5. Improved Bead design
6. Breaker Strip
7. Stiffening Strip
8. Rubber Pad
9. Heavy Dunlop Non-Skid Tread
ICE


Under
Royal
Warrant
ĥ
To H.M.
Kinfi
George V
CHAMPAGNE
ħ
L 3
champagne
'^aiifsHeidsiedt
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY UMITED, Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
SYNONYMOUS OF EASE AND COMFORT.
I erfect Service and Marvellous Cuisine.
Famed for its ideal environment and perfect site oh historic Church Hill.
THE RENDEZVOUS OF SMARTER SYDNEY.
THE WENTWORTH BALLROOM
and
PALM COURT,
of which guests may make free use for dancing.
Enquiries to —
WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
EUDENTA
For White
Australian
Teeth.
Eudenta
Tooth Paste,
One Shilling
Everywhere.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfurnes
Soaps
Readers
Everybody who was Anybody muffled and
motored to the Polo carnival last week. It
was a rare time for handshakes (with a
"nip” in them) and renewals of friend-
ships and tall yarns between Sunbrown and
Powderpad. Rain pelted down on the finals
on Saturday, but the thousands were not
discomfited; while some sheltered like
squaws beneath rugs and overcoats—leaving
only beady eyes and red noses visible—
others crowded the stands. The more fortu-
nate watched the players under car-canopy,
and tooted motor-horns and sirens heartily.
Their Majesties the Babies were the very
good excuse for the jolliest party of Polo
Week. The Country Women’s Association
has set out to establish maternity wards in
out-back hospitals, and it cunningly spread
its net to catch the Polo-players and their
enthusiastic followers. Over 850 accepted
an invitation to pay a guinea apiece for
tickets, and then sing for their dinner. For
everybody sang—community wise—between
bites, or while gamely struggling through a
dance. There were songs about swallowing
champagne, and the Goondiwindi team pro-
claimed more or less musically its curious
password “Cumandavadrink.” Mrs. Din
Garvan, Barbara Knox and Mrs. McMorran
had arranged the soulful ditties, and saw
that they hit the roof in proper style. Men
adorned themselves with balloons, as the
drunk decorates himself with sausages. The
Hawaiian baskets, up aloft in the rafters,
remained undisturbed by the din below, until
their appointed time for turning over. Then
they cascaded a rainbow flood of balloons
that cracked and snapped in premature dis-
solution as marauding hands grasped their
bubble radiance.
The State Exes, came to the party, Dame
Margaret in black velvet, and threaded
through her white hair sparkled a jewelled
cherry riband. Mrs. Beaudesert Collins was
in the vice-regal party, clothed in tur-
quoise softness, her hair filleted with blue-
green leaves. The Collins girls sat at Mrs.
McKay's table —this red-frocked lady man-
aged to wear her paper-cap with a jaunty
distinction rivalled only by Sir Walter in
his cap with pendant balloon. Mrs. Otway
Falkiner was another who hobnobbed w T ith
the Government House crowd under the bal-
cony. .At a. near-by table sat Mrs. Sep
Bevy, in a glittering black-and-silver rigout.
Barbara Knox wore velvet the shade of a
buttercup, and Muffle Layton danced in the
pink and hyacinth-blue frock in which she
bridesmaided at Winnie Rouse’s wedding.
Mrs. Pitt Rivers trailed seductive green
draperies. She and Lady Patricia Black-
wood were in Mrs. Tony Hordern’s big
party. Another goodlooker in that group
was Mrs.#Knox (Melbourne), who was en-
veloped in misty black. Mrs. Tony herself
was in a heavily-beaded jade marocain. The
Laidley Dowlings and Nan Garvan, in moon-
light blue, entertained a big tableful. Mrs.
George Fivers’s fair beauty emerged from a
wonderful combination of heavy ivory crepe
and monkey-fur. Mrs. Hugh Munro, the
secretary of the association, couldn’t come,
but a daughter and two big sons were among
the dancers. Miss Eadith Hill’s big party
added an air of propriety and solidity to the
featherweight night.
The Alexander MacCormicks gave the
swish party of the week in honor of the
country visitors. Their beautiful Point
Piper home sheltered over 200 guests from
Friday’s icy blast, and glowing coal fires
were a decorative effect even more admired
than the banked-up masses of flowers. In
spite of winter, the square courtyard carried
a suggestion of sunny Spain, with its gav
awnings, its playing fountain, and its reck-
less display of roses and mimosa. S’Alexan-
der’s lady was in violet-hued draperies;
daughter Alison looked like a pink posy, all
silken softness. The graceful and girlish-
looking Lady Forbes-Robertson threw off her
last-act mood of resigned self-sacrifice and
arrived in a triumphant blaze of orange,
while Mrs. Vivers might have been a Morris
decoration of Nicolette. Her frock was of
some soft blue and silver woven fabric —like
a tapestry, only with a velvet-like surface.
The Hon. Mrs. Pitt Rivers chose black and
white. Tlie fair-tressed Margaret Osborne
made her debut in a stiff white silk with a
rustle in its folds. One of the sweetest
among the younger set was Anne Jamieson,
a touch of faery about the small form in its
flower-girdled white lace frock. Mrs. Steenie
Osborne, Mrs. Knox (Melbourne), Mrs.
Julian McKay, a group of local Knoxes,
crowds of just-come-out young things, and
Charlie Cropper helped to make up the
gathering.
The Tony Horderns turned on the week’s
other big private ball for the polo visitors in
the garden ballroom at Retford Hall.
Stella Power, back in her husband’s native
town, is creating a flutter among the socially
musical. Everything being poloesque, it is
quite an event to have even a dish of tea
brewed in one’s honor; but the pocket-flask
edition of Melba stirred the civic dovecote
sufficiently to have a morning reception given
to her by the Mayor’s lady one day last
week. A crowd of enthusiasts, weather-
barricaded to the chin, and purring as com-
placently as if they had grown their own fur-
coats, offered congratulations to the tiny
singer, who was in a welter of Ganadian-
fox, while sister-in-law Florri'e O’Rourke
topped grey tailorings with smoked-fox pelts.
The Mayoress was black-musquashed over
black-velour cloth; and Mr. Layton, who
starts out on his world travels on the 28th,
added social weight to the gathering.
Concert-manager Gravestock’s tall wife
was another of the party-givers to welcome
Stella. She set large bowls of carnations
and heady stock over an allotment of tea-
tables in the Winter Garden, and summoned
fragments of Elizabeth Bay and Darling
Point and every newspaper woman in Syd-
ney to the board. A few male birds bit a
crust on the wing, as it were, but the plu-
mage was mostly feminine. Stella wore a
ravishing three-piece of golden brown that
reared a high chinchilla collar to comfort
the wearer’s chin and ears. A soft brown
panne hat finished the outfit. The hostess
sported a wonderful black marocain, embroid-
ered in a lacy design of spiders’ webs.
The Wentworth had its own Fourth of
July. The big ballroom flung wide the
starred-and-striped banner and furnished each
table with miniature flags and favors. The
dinner was made of dishes sacred to Yankee
festivities, and there must have been some-
thing close on a turkey famine in the city
for a day or two. On the Hawaiian night
everybody in the big room was ornamented
with a wreath of yellow blooms —waiter and
visitor alike. Gollywogs glistened, coal-
black on every table; Hawaiian baskets
swung aloft heaped with the balloons that
later in the evening delighted the heart of
every child over 50 ; and a Hawaiian ballet
(selected in Sydney) performed Island
dances in a strictly orthodox manner.
The Junior Red Cross cap replaced a crop
of curling-papers on many a little girl’s
head the other afternoon when the young-
sters indulged in their annual exhibition in
the Town Hall. Curled and frizzed and
shiningly pink and white, the dear little
girls demurely listened to the praises of their
works uttered by Dame Margaret. Moun-
tains of knitted goods and clothing for sol-
diers’ children testified to busy hours spent
by the almost-baby hands. In the evening
there was a pageant, watched over, by the
Governor-General’s lady ; and after the stage
demonstration was over, the small girls had
a dance in the clear space at the top of the
hall.
The Polo dinner-dance didn’t monopolise
all the fun and paper-caps on Thursday
night. Julian Ashton’s students had a share.
The festivity
rounded off the
evening’s
sketching-
class, and was
a farewell
Party to
teacher Grace
Crowley, who
goes off to her
country home
for two years
to work hard
and evolve the
wonder can-
vas of the
Great Out-
back which
Julian Ashton
prophesies her
brush and col-
ors will yield.
The long room
was the scene
of a sort of
up-to-date miracle play when the studio casts
—the dog, the cows, the horses and the bull
0 jr e * Barraba homestead which Grace has
made familiar to her fellow-students—materi-
alised on the stage. Wonderful animals
these, made of rugs and cardboard and wire
uttering the most telling lines written for
them by a good-looking gipsy-like student.
Jill l an made a speech, and Grace, her words
tilled with flowers, responded, her speech
punctuated every now and then with a sort
of sighing gasp. Then everybody drifted into
an inner room and attacked flagons of coffee
and there was a babel of talk and laughter!
One of the nicest parties of the week
cheered the Royal Naval House, when Com-
mander Craufurd’s wife hostessed the
h nendly Union of Sailors’ Wives. Instead
of turning on a programme of musical items,
interrupting conversations that had got to
the really interesting point about baby’s last
illness, Mrs. Craufurd instituted a series of
guessing games. A duck, bis stern-post gar-
nished with a green ribbon, was the prize
for the housekeeper who could guess his
weight. Another popular item v#as the
smelling competition—though those who
have hay-fever are warned to keep off this
pastime.
Mrs. Yenour Nathan is coming down from
Bowral to supervise the carrying-out of the
Egyptian Frieze idea suggested by Oscar
Asehe as an appropriate opening for the
Egyptian Ball. Diana and Daphne David-
son will lead proceedings, driving in a golden
chariot drawn by four Boy Scouts dressed
in the uniform in vogue in Tut’s Quick-
delivery Service. There’s to be a special set
of Water-carriers, prominent American citi-
zens, no doubt. A bevy of Cleopatras will
be in the picture, to bring solace to Mark
Antony, and a few Roamin’ citizens. The
Denison lady is again paying for the bam
and Mrs. Albert Littlejohn, of Darling Point,
will answer inquiries as to sets and cos-
tumes.
Herewith Adolph G v Beutler, whose splen-
did Beethoven type of head has so fasci-
nated Norman Lindsay that he has made sev-
eral sketches
of its com-
poser - owner.
Mr. Beutler
was born in
Lausanne in
S wi tzerland,
where his
father was
head of an
orchestra. At
the request of
a few enthusi-
asts he came
to Australia
nearly 20
years ago, and
up till the
war period
gave many re-
citals of his
own and other
modern com-
p o sitions.
Marshall Hall
was among his warmest admirers. With
the help of a group of well-known musicians
he will renew his acquaintance with Sydney
audiences on Thursday, the 19th, at the Coii-
servatorium.
Winnie Rouse was the first society bride
of last week. She kept her appointment
with Frank Crane, of Scone, at St. Mark’s,
and that old Darling Point church is just
a stone s-throw from Ivadinia, the Rouses’
home. Winnie, who is slim and of the
much-envied boyish figure, slipped into a
glittering array of cloth of silver that had
gone to a “Tut” frieze for the motifs of its
brocade design, and for the pearl buckler
that caught its swathings together. A sweep
of silver train began at the right shoulder,
and, frothing over with Flemish lace, trailed
like a streak of phosphorescence along an
aisle banked with white flowers and wedding
favors, and garlanded with the fragrant pit-
tosporum. Muffle Layton and Doreen Hor-
dern bridesmaided in frocks of pink and
silver-shot taffetas, made with tight little
bodices that burgeoned into hooped skirts,
gay as a Watteau maiden’s with loops and
streamers of hyacintli-blue ribbons. With
the sleeveless frocks they wore short, one
button, white kid gloves and floppy pink
gardener’s-daughter hats hooped with hya-
cinth-blue ribbons. Amid the carolling of
white-clad choristers, bridegroom’s ebu,sin
Canon Langley tied the knot, while Jim
Ashton and the bride’s brother Edgar gave
the ’groom the comfort of their support.
After the wedding over 200 guests were
handed out jazz-fizz at the Wentworth by the
bride’s father and mother.
Dagrnar Quist and Dr. George R. Hamil-
ton put themselves into double harness at
Scots’ Church one evening last week. The
pretty girl wore the prevailing bridal splen-
dor of cloth of silver with the usual trim-
mings. P'etty’s Hotel spread the wedding
feast. The bridegroom, an ex-A.I.F-er,
played Rugby Union with the ’Varsity for
years, and is now on the Council of the
N.S.W.R.U. He also played cricket and
rowed, was top-scorer in the inter-’Varsity
shooting once, and now takes his exercise
playing ice-hockey. Dad, the well-known
Judge Hamilton, was a Scottish international
for years, and is a founder of the Royal
Sydney Golf Club.
By the time this Letter reaches you the
little Monte Stephen widow will be Mrs.
Dundas Allen. All Saints’, Wopllahra, was
the hallowed spot chosen for the quiet wed-
ding.
Penleigh Boyd netted the G.-G. for the
Sydney opening of the European Art show
which he is piloting through Australia. The
basement of the Town Hall, which harbors
the collection, presented a weird look of
unpreparedness on Monday afternoon —
rather like an art gallery in the throes of
Spring-cleaning. Modern stuff cluttered the
floor behind, a screen at the lower end. Some
of the exhibits looked like a fruit-salad in the
making. But, of course, there are lots of
good things—at a price—in the collection:
and Johns and simply dozens of
things you’d love to keep forever. Bernard
Had was perhaps, in Penleigh Boyd’s eyes,
the big fish of the afternoon.
The Painter Etchers’ show, opened by the
State Governor, found Sydney ready and
sales were promptly made to the extent of
nearly £9OO. Artists in Australia have for
the moment nothing to reproach Fate with.
Gayfield Shaw, who is running the exhibi-
tion, reports visits from an amazingly wide
range of people—from school nippers with
their books under their arms, to Dame Mar-
garet, who dropped in the other afternoon
and piloted her guest, Mrs. Otway Falkiner
around the walls. To-night (Thursday)’
there will be a lecture and demonstration of
the making of an etching; and next Wednes-
day the society will bloom into a large party.
The death of Mrs. Mary Le Gay Brere-
ton has put a big family into mourning. Her
husband, dead long since, practised medi-
cine at Richmond-terrace, facing Sydney
Domain, in the ’7o’s and ’Bo’s. Seven child-
ren survive the old lady, all of them very
learned, and including a professor or two.
There died at Randwick General Hospital
the other day Lieut. H. L. Dill, one of the
youngest Australians to gain the Military
Cross. He was born at Toogimbie station,
on the Murrumbidgee, enlisted when in his
teens, and was severely wounded in France.
Pie was never wholly discharged from hos-
pital, though he pluckily returned to his,
work on R. PI. Meares’s Quantambone sta-
tion, and was there till a week before death.
Mrs. John Bibb, who died recently at
84, was linked up with some old Australian
clans. Born in Sydney, she was a daughter
of William Pott Wilshire, whose father was
an old Imperial officer in the 1790’5. Her
mother was a sister of John Robertson, and
her father-in-law was one of the earliest of
Sydney’s architects and surveyors.
Lute Drummond was at Stratford for the
Shakspeare Festival, and saw Violet Van-
brugh’s daughter Prudence play Anne of
Warwick. In front of Lute Ellen Terry had
her season seat—“a dear little old lady with
white mob cap and ribbons and round
glasses.” Miles Franklin was over from
America for the Festival, and with her Miss
Hodge, an old-time mistress of Shirley Col-
lege, Edgecliff.
The Governor-General’s lady flung a wide
net and made a great haul of men and women
at Admiralty House last Monday. The
meeting was to complete the arrangements
for the Violet Matinee at Her Majesty’s on
July 27. Mrs. Pitt Rivers, who is to star
in the afternoon’s performance of Shaw’s
•‘Pygmalion,”' is organising it for the benefit
of the Children’s Hospital.
A steamer came to a distant port in the
Solomons for the first time, and the “boys”
were highly interested. One cook boy assured
lus mistress he had absorbed from it so
much culinary art that he would place upon
the dinner table that night a new-found
pudding-—“ Good fella too much,” a veritable
masterpiece. It came—raw carrots chopped
small, and covered with boiled custard.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Brisbane is full of visiting bowlers, and tea—-yes,
tea —is being vigorously poured for them. With
other things, of course. A special libation was
turned on by the A. P. Greenfields—she sporting t
wonderful gown of black satin georgette and Var
and a grey hat —when the victorious, pennanfc, ( ,f
1922 and the three which the Booroodabins, 'scored
were hoisted. A jazz evening in the Trocads? ,-o fol-
lowed at the instigation of the Bananaland f , ow lers.
Among those who breathed the scent of tl» , sweet-
pea blooms and praised the floor were the A 3 chibalds
Hertzbergs, Robbinses and Taylors.
Irma Dearden and a party, Mrs. Alfred Needham
the Wilsons and Taylors were among those who
went to the Theatre Royal the other j light to see
Eddie de Tisne slip into Cyril Macfcr IV \ S i ead in
“Tilly of Bloomsbury” at short mV c ~ e . The ’flu
accounted for Cyril’s lapse.
At the Bellevue stuffed monkey , adorned the
dinner-table of the 8.M.A., together, with some rude
remarks about the Missing Link d<* indent from the
central gum-tree Troughs of -mauve swedt-peas
reclining among blue tulle sought -'to soften the sting.
ink tulle tied up baskets of sweet-peas at the
Hotel Daniell for a here-you-a' ne-again dinner to
Digby Denham the same night.
. The Henl 'y Parker knight, formerly of Westralia,
is here on a visit with daughter- Norah. They have
put up at the Bellevue. Other/ trippers to Banana-
land are Sydney’s knigh, Tummas , ’Enley and ’is
daughter ; but they are sampli tig the North
The AugUStine GuQd ,&nee(l iO the‘Hamilton
Town Hall on the festive fourth, flaks and poinset-
tias locking on. In the afternoon a florin te a for the
Bush Book Club came into being in -the Wattle Cafe
at the suggestion of the . Hunt and Taylor matrons.
Mrs. Stanley Chapman explained the whys and
wherefores.
In the Rite Cafe Mrs, E, de Little poured tea in
honor of Hilda Cowlishaw, who bus promised to
think about obeying M, V. Crowe, of Melbourne,
after this week. Wooffioughs, Cowl ishaws. Lockhart
Gibsons and the E, W. H. PowAeses foregathered
amid sheaves of sweet-pea.
To swell the building fund of St. Paul’s, East
Brisbane, 200 cheerful souls jazzed in the SiWmth
Brisbane Hall among peach blossom, paper umbrellas
and other things that tried to suggest Japan.


WINTER FICTION
Latest Novels by Australian Authors
ONE SHILLING EACH—Posted 1(2.
Obtainable from all Booksellers and Bookstalls
in the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
“Children of the Sunlight”
by the late J. D. Fitzgerald
“The Red Star” by A. R. Falk
“On Emu Creek” by Steele Rudd
“The Plantation Manager” - by Ernest Osborne
“Stolen or Strayed” - - - - by Dale Collins
“The Jumping Doubles” - - by Chas. E. Sayers
Complete descriptive catalogue of 150 AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
( Is. each) forwarded free on application to Publishers.
The 'Bookstall Series
—The Best Value
in Fiction on the
Bookstalls.
Novels by Foremost Australian Authors
INCLUDING—
Edward Dyson
Steele Rudd
Arthur Wright
Jack McLaren
J. H. M. Abbott
Arthur H. Adams
Randolph Bedford
S. W. Powell
Ambrose Pratt
Beatrice Grimshaw
Roy Bridges
Vance Palmer
PUBLISHED BY.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney,
Exclusive & Artistic Jewellery
Diamond Circle
Brooch, set in
platinum, £3O.
finest quality Brilliants, set in platinum,
Louis Design Brooch, £B4.
Replica Antique
Brooch, Pearls
and Enamel, £5.
•aril
f\v •« £
V
.1 .fw;
Diamond-set Bracelet Watch, finest Brilliants, set in platinum, £lOO.
Diamond Ring'
with diamonds on
shoulders. Platinum
set, £3O.
Diamond and Platinum Flexible Bracelet, £175
?SSS2SI
All Diamond Circle
Ring, set in plati-
num, £22/10/-
The articles illustrated represent but a few of hundreds of
designs, both choice and exclusive, included in the Firm’s large
selection. All are of exceptional quality and value, and the
workmanship is unsurpassable.
Fully illustrated Watch or Ring Catalogue sent
post free to any address in the Commonwealth.
m. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
E. F. WILKS
(Managing Director).
AN
OWNER!
OF A
Duo-Concerto
Gets the greatest
possible Musical
Value the markets
of the world afford,
and that MEANS:
A SATISFIED USER.
The Tested Durability of the Gulbransen
Player Piano, combined with the Efficiency
and Simplicity of Mechanical Control, places
GULBRANSEN
ON A PLANE ALONE.
Apart from the extreme simplicity of its manipula-
tion, the Duo-Concerto" has a complete control over
the stroke of the Piano hammer—just as the pianist
has when his fingers are on the keys.
The disadvantages of the wooden slide motor have
been eliminated by the introduction of a Rotary
Non-Friction one, that does not require lubrication
—also a Transposing Device by which you may
play an accompaniment in any of seven keys.
If, through sentiment
or any other reason,
you would not care to
part with your own
piano, we will convert
it into an 88-note Duo-
Concerto Player-Piano.
Vi
U
m
Music Rolls of the Latest Popular Hits
are Now Available:
Kismet.
Sweet Lady.
Suez.
Chicago.
Vamp Me.
Indian Prance.
She Loves Me, She Loves Me Not.
If unable to call, send for Catalogue B. (Posted Free).
CASH OR TERMS—SMALL MONTHLY PAYMENTS.
Open Friday Evenings.
(MACDONELL HOUSE),
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET (Next to Y.M.C.A.),
SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Bathurst Street).
Telephones: City 10751 and 10752.
Newcastle Agency: 10 Hunter Street


h
Farmer’s
Cash Bonus Sale
Presents Double Savings
on exclusive Men’s Wear
Glyn’s English Hats
Farmer’s present these fashionable
felt Hats at doubly reduced price.
In light grey, steel, and fawn shades.
Usually, 30/-. Sale Price, 27/6.
Less ‘Bonus, 2/9. Cash Price, 24/9.
FARMER’S
BOX 497, G.P.O. CARRIAGE PAID.
sav« every Cash 'Buyer
2/- in every £ spent.
Miss Mamie Watson
Expresses her admiration for “Lafaye” Pearls.
“My Lafaye Necklet exceeds my greatest expectations.
The pearls are absolutely identical in toning, creamy
richness and graduation with the real sea gems.”
NECKLETS, equal in appearance to £5OO string of
real Pearls. 16-inch length from £2 2 0
Rings, Pins, Brooches, Earrings from . ...£ 1 1 O
All guaranteed for 10 years.
OUR SPECIAL OFFER.
Send us £2/2/- and we shall despatch a Lafaye
Necklet which you may compare with the natural
pearls. If you are then dissatisfied in any way, return
our necklet withing seven days and your money will
be refunded.
.
u
Lafaye” Scientific Pearl Authority,
2nd Floor, Block Arcade (Collins Street Entrance), MELBOtBNE.
“First Promenade,” City House, 164 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Fate of “Tecla,” 7 Old Bond Street, LONDON.
The only firm of Artificial Pearl Specialists in Australia.
Melbourne
thatter
The Occidental
Collins St.Melboume
P[?]
MISSEL MONK & DOVLE
Phones Cenl 1533.11609
Lieut-Gov. Irvine, who is spending the
law vacation at Healesville, came down to
open the State session. He was able to
study the crowd in the Dreary House with
more serenity than he did 20 years ago
when he had Lawson’s job. His majo-
rity was safer than the one Lawson will
iind when he gets back on the 26th, but the
composition of it didn’t inspire much affec-
tion. Irvine, by the way, does the cere-
monial business with a dignity that almost
reconciles one to the flummery.
Those who know Speaker Watt best can
form a pretty good estimate of how bored he
felt going out to Government House, wigged
and gowned, to present the stereotyped
Address-m-Iteply to the G.-G. Perhaps it
was some comfort to him to reflect that men
like Berry and Gillies had to flummerise simi-
larly when they were Vic. Speakers. Vic.
Parliament cuts out the wigs, gowns, mace
and frills now, and some day it may for-
ward the flapdoodle in an envelope by post
or courier, as his Ex. does when sending
‘messages” to the Houses.
The George Landales took the liolland
coverings from the furnishings of the Alex.
La ? c i al j widow .’ s Toorak place last week,
and had a coming-out whirl for niece Mar-
garet, the Frank Clarkes’ chick. The
Rupert Greenes’ second girl, Sylvia, shared
the debutante laurels. It was a very swish
affair, as swish goes in these days of lesser
exclusiveness. Bud Margaret emerged like
a dancing fairy in a frock which suggested
cobwebs and dewdrops. She, is a nice-look-
ing girl, although she did not inherit all the
maternal beauty. The hostess stood in sev-
eral layers of apricot ninon clamped down
with gold bands and scarfed with brighter
stripes round the hips. There was a great
gathering of the Clarke clan, which still
left room for a twittering covey of jazz-
girls. Mrs. Russell Clarke, who achieved
rather a weird effect with a wired gold
flounce weighting the folds of her gold-shot
pink silk, dined the debs, beforehand. Wilma
Clarke, who had budded earlier in the year,
was there with a matronly frock of 'gold
tissue veiling her willowiness. Sylvia Greene
got away from convention with pink panniers
hooked up over metallic lace. Host George
undertook the arduous job of seeing that
everyone got a full share of sppper, and as
Mrs. George understands the art of hostess-
ing as well as her late mother did everyone
had a good time.
Sister Dorothy, the Gippsland bush nurse,
goes on modestly performing wonders all in
the. day’s work. Following on her recent ex-
ploit, when she and a few stout-hearted
stretcher-bearers got a tortured mortal many
miles through almost impassable bush to hos-
pital, she has just made a 28-mile trip along
narrow mountain tracks and across a river
through the darkness to save a sick baby.
Ethel Campbell, the Digger’s Darling, who
has the extraordinary unfeminine quality of
being much better looking than her photo-
graphs, introduced her petite self to Primin-
ister Bruce and other soldier-politicians at
Federal Parliament House last week. It
was an unceremonious occasion, and the smil-
ing heroine collected enough compliments to
provide her with grateful memories for the
rest of her life. Even Billy Hughes, who
was not strictly eligible to speak, came in to
contribute a trickle to the broad stream of
approval. Bruce was elegantly flattering, and
for the time showed something warmer than
his official affability 7 '. Miss Campbell, who is
bearing up bravely under the load of invita-
tions, couples C. J. Dennis with Sydney harbor
high up on her list of Australian favorites.
She heard much about both when entertain-
ing the lads at Durban.
, The bill of costs attached to the St. Mar-
tin’s Home Ball will be lightened by the nice
fat cheque resulting from Laura Nyulasy’s
musical tea. Five-shilling ticket-holders
crowded her double drawing-room, where
banks of winter flowers provided a fragrant
and colorful background before being con-
verted into hard cash. The cheery little
hostess was a fluttering canary in lemon-
colored silk with winged sleeves. Excitement
rattled the teacups when Bobby Chisholm
was sighted in the offing supported by Dr.
Nyulasy and Toorak parson Law, who had
lurked out of eyeshot until male reinforce-
ments arrived. More male support and a
fresh thrill followed with Walter Kirby.
Thereafter the two tenors poured melody
over the tea-tipplers. Natalie Dawson was
accompanist, but Walter took the piano stool
for his doubles with Chisholm. There was a
couple of also-sangs, a ’cello item, and soulful
Isabel Langlands, with her fiddle. Beryl
Gatehouse, dimplingly engaging under a
flower-wreathed hat-brim, was cnief brigand
in the sweet-selling section.
Alfred Mattingley, ex-pedagogue and cham-
pion of large lamilies, closed his long in-
nings at the week-end. When Vic. was in
jumper' and knickerbockers, he was a “king
of the kids,” and quite an army of his pupils
have made their presence felt in Australia.
Speaker Watt and Acting-Premier McPher-
son were among those who “learned to trace
the day’s disasters in his morning’s face.”
Father of 10 himself, Mattingley preached a
“Go-tliou-and-do-likewise” doctrine. Only
recently he and his wife celebrated their
diamond wedding. He was 86. She is 10
years younger.
Tenor George Brooke and his musical part-
ner Teddy Cahill did not have long to wait
before hitting the hundred-pound-a-week mark
in the Fog. Word arrived the other day that
the pair had signed a six-months’ con-
tract with Sir Alfred Butt at that figure, to
appear in Glasgow and London. Tftis was
after they had had their test with their
friend and ally, Ella Shields, in the pro-
vinces.
The John Grice knight, with a strength
which his frail appearance never even hinted,
has struggled to liis feet' after many months
of illness, and is now preparing to top off his
convalescence with a sea voyage. He is to
sail in the Nestor under convoy of daughter
Elsa, who is well fitted for the job, seeing
that she has a trained nurse’s certificate in
her dispatch-case. The two will take a look
at London before spending three months in
the sunshine of Southern France. Daughter
Hilda, who is coming home from across-seas
to keep mother company, will be just in
time to have a chat before the Nestor sails.
There are moments when idolatry is em-
barrassing to even a professional pianist. At
ihe Town Hall the other Saturday, when
girls were crowding round the platform to
beam upon Moiseiwitsch’s final encore num-
ber, some excited angel in the balcony threw
a posy at the young man. He really didn’t
know how to take it—blushing or scowling.
After all, Moiseiwitsch doesn’t make any
pretence of being an inspired dreamer who
sometimes feels like burying his face in
mignonette or bathing his hands in a broth
of violets. So he doesn’t deserve to have
posies thrown at him.
The Melbourne Tramway Board has been
trying to lighten the 5 to 6 o’clock crowding
of tramcars by imploring passengers who
can leave the city to take a car before 4.30,
and thus leave more space available for
those who can’t. The conductors say that
the “must-travel” passengers are inured to
the inconvenience of overcrowding, and make
the best of things—it is the leisured person
who does the grumbling. And why is the
leisured person in town at a time when all
the business world wants travelling accom-
modation V Because she is looking for a
man, in many cases. The greater the pro-
portion of girls employed in offices the keener
is the leisured lady on meeting a man by
arrangement, or seeming accident, that he
may be delivered from temptation. She
delays her shopping or her afternoon tea to
suit her policy of shepherding the untrust-
worthy sheep. She has, anyhow, some sex
purpose to serve in coming home with the
men and the office Dorises; and no appeal
from the Tramways is likely to induce her
to leave town on the right side of 4.30.
This is how Rembrandt’s camera shot Mrs.
Russell Clarke, who has been helping to
push the hon. secretarial pen for the matinee
engineered by Mrs. Priminister Bruce with
the idea of paying the costs of the new
Renowm Free Kindergarten. Mrs. Russell,
who is a
daughter of
Col. Macken-
zie, one-time
C om mandant
of the Speck,
is a brainy
young matron,
keen on many
things outside
the social
arena. Inci-
dentally, she
has a flair for
acting. At the
last big
Charity affair,
at Her Majes-
ty’s, she ac-
quitted herself
well in Mrs.
Harold Clapp’s
home -made
three-act play.
The lady should
know something about technique, seeing that
she had a short flutter behind the footlights
in kncle Sam’s land in the days of her
spinsterhood. Two or three years hack
Russel] Clarke sold to the Sunshine McKays
the family castle, Rupertswood, which he
had acquired from his half-brother, S’Rupert,
and now he and his wife, after a term of
flat life and a trip overseas, are living in a
less splendid pile in Domain-ro,ad, which they
lately bought from the Fred r airbairns.
General Monash, who is that rare bird a
Doctor of Engineering, has become Vice-
Chancellor of the ’Varsity, instead of Grice
—one S'John substituted for another, in
fact. If the bill which the Ministry has on
the stocks is persisted with, the governing
body of the Grattan-street establishment will
be remodelled and Monash will be “reformed”
with it. If he can manage to induce some
of his influential friends to more richly en-
dow the seat of learning the Government
will bless him.
“A thrill every day” is how Dorothy
Innes summarises London. She is the viva-
cious wife of Guy Innes, now in London
supervising the cable service for the Herald,
and she holds a dental degree of her very
own. “And the policemen!” she gasps.
“So big, so polite! Towers of strength to
a stranger.” In fact, she is in love with
everything—Rome with its churches, Paris
with its frocks, and, above all,' London with
its glamor.
Rose Pinkerton is the present bright star
of the ’Varsity Con. Her artistic warble
called forth three cheers from Moiseiwitscli,
the day Prof.
1 .aver trotted
out his prize
pupils for the
pianist’s spe-
cial edification.
This Mel-
bourne - grown
Rose is doubly
blest with a
full flexible
soprano, a
natural bent
for acting, and
an _ ambition
which will
make her do
her best for
her talents.
She is now in
the second lap
of her third
year at the
C o n., where
she has netted
three scholarships, do less. She started as
a scholarship pupil with Alice Rees Vogrich,
and musical Melbourne first sat up and took
notice when she acquitted herself with more
than amateur skill as prima donna in a
students’ show of “Trovatore” at the King’s.
Last month she put up an even better per-
formance as Elsa, in the Conservatorium
production of “Lohengrin.” The tuneful
young person, who is here pictured by Rem-
brandt, looks forward to transporting the
Voice oversea and specialising in Wagnerian
roles.
Though the weather was bad enough to
dispirit the most ardent student of Irish
drama, there was a good roll-up for the
three nights of “The Dragon” at the Play-
house. Mrs. Apperly had contrived a simple
but picturesque setting, and the appearance
of the plump little lady as a 17-year old
damsel of ancient Irish lineage showed what
wondrous things two long plaits and a roomy
smile can do to the feminine face. She was
first dressed befittingly in green, whereas her
step-mamma, Mary Curtain, was cast for a
queen with a red wig, a silver crown and
a modern-looking, leaf-strewn garment. The
King, whose silver hat sat rakishly on the
side of his head, was Robert Guthrie, in a
puce robe, revealing an abandoned waist
line that made him look like an early Gaelic
edition of Bumble. The weird sprites called
up by the magic tootle of the disguised mon-
arch, Norman Simpson, who professed to be
a cook in a painter’s overalls and with a
property-cleaver hanging to his girdle, in-
cluded two shapely brown nymphs who
wouldn’t disgrace the front line of “Tan-
gerine.”
The Albert Miller widow, with her de-
voted companion Miss Finley, has gone off to
London by way of America. In London she
will pick up daughter Muriel Currie and
grand-daughter Joyce Russell. During the
war years the widow got half-way to the
Cold Land and was headed off by a Hun
bomb; but she packed again later and com-
pleted the trip without mishap. She is one
of Toorak’s really cultured persons, knows
more about music than lots of professionals,
and her collection of antique furnishings
make the expert’s mouth water. It’s not so
bad being a grandmother in this advanced
age—unlike those bad old days when eti-
quette compelled a granny to wither in the
hearth corner, shawled and bonneted, until
her joy of life had faded out. To-day she is
properly particular about the cut of her pic-
ture-hat, and gets every ounce of interest out
of her long grandmotherly years—Jar more,
in fact, than some of her jaded flapper
descendants.
The Palace Theatre was packed on Satur-
day night with .a crowd which was two-
fifths male, all palpitating to see the first
lot of “Rockets” go up. The Hugh Wards
and Fullers, with the Pounds parents and
brother Billy, were boxed behind floral
hedges. The stage chiffonery was one sur-
prise after another, ranging from the merely
grotesque to the supremely beautiful. One
crinolined beauty, perched atop of a may-
pole, greatly interested two-fifths of the audi-
ence. The show culminated in an Egyptian
scene almost blinding in its color. Ruby
Norton appeared in white cloth sheathings
clamped on the port-side for’arcl with a
beaded bauble and surmounted by a dinky
little white lid from which green' streamers
floated gleefully. The Pounds sisters un-
loaded a wealth of dress from silk and feath-
ered opulence to checked gingham. They
made their opening clash in abbreviated silver-
tissue skirts splashed with pink rosebuds
and sashed with pink under green and silver
cloaks, and their cheery faces peeped from
the depths of coalscuttle bonnets of silver
lace. In her second Rocket, Toots sprang
from the in’ards of a mammoth wedding-
cake, a perfectly modelled Cupid, mostiv
pink silk tights with a heart-shaped wisp
of green and gold amidships and. another
heart-shaped contrivance pierced by an barrow
on her golden crop.
The contents of at least two ostrich-farms
must have gone- to furnish the giddy black
skirtings of the dusky Island maids who
clustered round Toots when she danced like
a henna-colored bird under a headpiece of
plumes. In “Colorlai-4” Lorna whirled in
a tangle of colored ribbons amid weird cubist
lightning effects which suggested a plague
of colored snakes about to devour her. In
the “Old London” scene a bevy of crinolined
charmers with their beaus in silks and satins
clustered round Toots, a ravishing figure in
rosy curtainings, looped with flowers. But
little Toots reached the pinnacle of dazzle
in Oriental trouserings of silver tissue win
clouds of blue and white tulle floating from
her shoulders. Lorrta vamped through one
act in a bewitching coat of sulphur and
silver brocade hemmed thickly with white
fur and a whole bird-of-paradise dished up
on her head. And the cutest thing of the
evening was the chorus of boy-girls—boys
in black one side, girls in pink frillies the
other.
Geelong having its hectic week this
month. The proceedings will open with
coursing events on the 16th, and there are to
be several other hare-chases ; but the great
thrills will be the race meeting and the race-
ball, Half the Western District squatto-
cracy and a big contingent from this city
have booked all the hotel space, so if you
happen to strike Geelong casually .after the
16th you’ll have to sleep on tile billiard-
table —or stay up all night.
. The Queen Yic. Hospital for Women and
Children is to-profit by a card-party at tie
Wattle (which Mrs. Ham is lending) on
the evening of July 14. It will be very
smart, and the joint hon. secs., the Tallis
lady and Adelaide Allan, as well as the sec.
of the hospital in Little Lonsdale-street, are
dispensing tickets and booking tables at a
rate that promises big things.
Some gossip from Adelaide: —
Mrs. Thorold Grant, here on a brief visit from
Melbourne to see her doctor son and look up old
friends, was guest of honor at a lunch given by
Mrs. Dudley Hayward at the Queen Adelaide Club.
The bridge that followed took the party well into
the afternoon.
S Langdon Bonython and his lady commandeered
the Brpokinan Hall for their soiree for the S. Aus.
Teachers’ Union Conferencers, arranged a concert
for the early part of the evening, then had the
floors cleared for dancing that went gaily on till
midnight. The Bonython dame was not well enough
to go, so her daughter, Mrs. Angas Parsons, did
duty for her in a gold-embroidered frock of black
crepe de Chine, and had as her lieutenants Mrs.
Lavington Bonython, also in black, and Ada and
Betty Bonython, one in pink and the other in ame-
thyst taffeta. Mrs. Harwell was there with her
daughter, and Mrs. Darnley Naylor, and—and
everyone who is anyone in the teachers’ world.
Tattersall’s struck it fine but cold for the post-
poned meeting at Morphettville, and eveTy woman
who could raise a fur coat tucked herself grate-
fully into it. The less opulent did their best with
mere fur wraps slung over velour coats,-’and such
of the dressing as showed was mostly of the strictly-
tailored variety. Lady Bridges, a keen racegoer,
topped her grey tweed tailor-made with a small
black toque, and Miss Judge brightened a brown
velour wrap, with a snug-fitting- henna hat.
The Arthur Bymills’ daughter Nancy, in old
gold gold-beaded georgette, was hostess at a dance
for the younger set at the Rymills’ house on Brough-
am-place the other evening. Guests included the
Nat Campbells’ just-out daughter, Aylenne Downer
and her two cousins, Margaret and Jean Weston,
Hope Rutherford, the W. A. Vercos’ smart daughter,
Evelyn Scarfe and Mignon Kekwick.
A bridge party, to raise funds for the Kinder-
gartens, was held , in Mrs. Arthur Rymill’s drawing-
room the other day, with Mrs. Stanley Skipper,
Mrs. Craven, Mrs. H. Y. L. Brown, Mrs. MacMillan,
Miss Ashley Thompson and Dr. Marie Brown as
the committee to help her run it. Play and tea-
money, plus a brisk trade in home-made sweets,
brought in a useful cheque.
The Rowing Club Ball has got back to its pre-
war glory, and between 200 and 300 dancers turned
up at the Town Hall for this year’s jollification.
The Bridges were to have been there, but his Ex.’s
return from his Centralian trip that very evening
cancelled the plan, and dancing went straight ahead
with no official preliminaries.


\ictorj) of Science
over the cfpparentlj)
Impossible!
", Sylk-oArto ”
Hose
with seam at
back, Tops and
Feet in Fine
Mercerised
Lisle. In all
Colours. Sells
everywhere at
per pair
g<
w.
art*
i
a
as
I
‘V"* 1
l
i -^m
m
m.
&
%
<0
m’’
et a
m
SYL
lmprovement on Sllls^
HOSE
MpO produce a Silken Thread, combining
the essential character and qualities of
PURE SILK with the LUSTROUS
FINISH of the Finest Artificial Silk, and
possessing in addition a Wear-and-Tear Resist-
ance far exceeding all previous conceptions of
the possibilities of either Silk or Artificial Silk —
such was the self-imposed problem that faced
Bond’s Chemists.
“ SYLK-ARTO” Hose represents the result of their long
and patient research, the triumph of their efforts, and
the solution of all your Silken Hosiery Troubles.
For not only does Bond’s “SYLK-ARTO” Hose flawlessly
realise the ambitious aims of its creators, and in conse-
quence perfectly cater for your every Hosiery requirement
as to Appearance, Comfort and Service, but it also offers
the very practical attraction of a remarkably Moderate
Cost over the counter.
It is no exaggeration to say that you will commence a
new era of Hosiery SATISFACTION and SAVING the first
time you
Ask Tour Draper for Sylk-Arto Hose
Made by GEO. A. BOND & CO. Ltd.. Manufacturers of Bond's Hosiery.
Bond’s Half-Hose for Men, Bond's "Trusize” Underwear.
"Lady Betty”
Hose
in “Sylk-Arto”
thread through-
out, with Lisle
rein forcements
at Tops & Feet
where wear is
greatest. Sells
everywhere at
per pair
ĥ


w
III 1
I
I
*9*
.
3w*
r€i
N
ffee
JBf
M
4£5
3
rffes
££'J!S’S3i i j
m&xsm
c®2is
Jt«hii>o Prison
JOHNSONS
HIS
THandiw*
I^NSOwASON
Kg
cßgnew Tour Linoleum
Is your linoleum dull and deadlocking? Bring it back to life
and it will reflect a bright, clean, well-cared-for home. All you
need is Johnson’s Prepared Wax and a cloth. The Wax gives
a dry, glossy, dustless polish of great beauty and durability.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax brings out the pattern of linoleum
—preserves and protects it from wear. It doesn’t take long—
an ordinary sized floor can be polished in less than an hour
and it may be walked upon immediately. Waxed linoleum
and tile are easy to keep clean—they require but little care.
JOHNSON’S
Paste—Liquid—Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Polish all your furniture, wood-
work and floors with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. It forms a thin,
protecting coat over the varnish,
similar to the service rendered by
a piece of plate glass over a table
or dresser top. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches, and
prevents checking and cracking.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made
in paste, liquid and powdered form.
Use the Liquid Wax for polishing
furniture, woodwork, leather goods
and motor-cars. We advise the
Paste Wax for polishing floors of
all kinds wood, linoleum, tile,
marble, &c. The Powdered Wax
will give a perfect dancing surface.
Tour dealer has Johnson’s Wax there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
Office and Factory:
Rosebery, N.S.W.
SQUARE DEAL
32s
m
LAST OPPORTUNITY
TO SECURE A
SQUARE DEAL SUIT.
£7/17/6
Guaranteed Indigo Twills
and Tweeds Tailored to
Order. Square Deal Price
These Suitings are made from Super-Woi
of fine texture, including All-wool selected
Tweeds in shades of Grey and Browns,
and trimmings are of superior quality.
■sted Yarns
Australian
All linings
9/61/93
£ll/11/-
Best Worsted Suitings.
Deal Price
Square
Fashionable Imported Worsteds, medium weights, suitable for
present wear, in Wedgwood Blues, Lovats, Light and Dark
Greys and pinpoint designs. The Cut ensures perfect Fit.
\ Finest linings and trimmings are used throughout.
£9/19/6
s\§sv
%W\S
vVv
> tS> ❖
c
C
y<
4.+?l
'<u<y <■■
V
%%
A
<&\
vl
? <
V
v>
Our Square Deal Leaflet, Depicting Bargains from
Men’s and Boys’ Departments, Post Free on
Our Ladies’,
Request.
ORDER BY POST-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
ħ
Pty.
Ltd.
Cor. Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
/////.
\\\\
»>.
u
NW\
//
#
\W
W
\\\\\
//
w
/'/y^o
5^4
s;? i!Hi!iiiiiiiii!lM«" !!!!!!
w
§
vfi
A


R.A.C. FLEXIBILITY S SPEED TESTS
Highest points gained on
WAKEFIELD
aiMfsji
h
IN FLEXIBILITY TEST—
(CIass A). Ist, Boyd Edkins, Oldsmobile.
2nd, M. Kerr, Durant.
IN SPEED TEST—
1 st, Boyd Edkins, Vau3?Kall.
2nd, H. M. Walker, Vauxhall.
These successful cars were “Castrol”-
lubricated.
s
0
Self
oil
ĥ
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS* PHULP ft CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney ,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
The Grand National Hurdle, run in the
slowest time registered this century, was little more
than a two-horse race, although 11 steeds started.
Loja, whose fighting action in the preliminary had
proclaimed his inability to stay three miles, made all
the running from the first hurdle up to half-a-mile
from home, Brownland being nearest and Berrinbo
lying third, or thereabouts. Then Berrinbo collared
L.oja and the race was over. Rounding the final
turn the favorite led Bendoc, Mnemar and Jackstafi.
Mnemar tired more than Jackstaff (who looked a
trifle light) and so the order past the post was
Berrinbo, Bendoc, Jackstaff and Mnemar. Berrinbo
at the weights was easily the best stayer of the
party on the day, as well as the most stvlish in
appearance. Much had been said about ' Bendoc
having to make up a lot of ground to run second to
Berrinbo in the Jumpers’ Flat race at Moonee Ponds,
but the National made it clear that the little bay-
horse was better class than the chestnut. If there
was ever a hope for old Pistolier to wear Berrinbo
down it was snuffed out u-hen a faulty jump by
Mnemar brought the son of Pistol to grief. He was
the only horse to fall.
The Trial Steeplechase, which replaced the old
Maiden Steeple on the card, provided an unusual,
but not an unprecedented, disappointment for backers
o the winner and runner-up that should have been.
When Feloos and Oharleta were 100 yards ahead of
two or three weary others, they continued on the
steeplechase course, instead of turning to their right
and entering the straight. A horse called Miraree
was left to find the right track, and finish on his
own. The same error has occurred before, and
there ought to be some means of making it impos-
Fj • Stanley Reid trains the poor animal that
had nothing to beat, and his good fortune in this
matter suggested that his luck was in and he would
have a winning ride on Jackstaff in the next race.
But the. omen was a fraud, as it happened.
The going was so heavy on Saturday that one is
not encouraged to back topweights for the Grand
National Steeple. Bestridden by a good professional
•!® e ;\ e y . Wooloo would be this column’s fancy, but
it the jockeyship is likely to be other than the best
the horse that ran a good second to Mountain God
when Boyd was up is not now a tempting investment.
Mountain God is as likely to fall this year as to
win tor the third time running. Faithful Knight
is not an approved Flemington jumper, nor is Haoma.
otui, they may have the advantage of a slow-run
race. Liberate, Coolport and Wooloo may be fair
propositions on the day, and tile most tempting of
the three on paper, at the time of writing, is Libe-
rate, whose connections are very sweet on his chance.
* * *
0.K.”: There was small inducement for
punters t 0 accept the shortest s.p. on the market
about anything for the G. N. Hurdle Race. Only
22 , years had the actual first favorite got
nome, though on more than one occasion the placed
horses were all of them well fancied. Last year
the second favorite won, whilst the first favorite was
runner-up. They had the finish to themselves.
, ~ Fax”: With the abolition of concession
betting at Flemington, and the introduction of
new win-and-a-place tickets, requiring books to lay
a fourth of the odds for a “shop” if demanded by
straight-out backers, it was understood that laying
em for places only was a prohibited industry. It
may have been officially prohibited, but the old "place-
only bookmakers were there as before, at their old
game of laying less than one-fourth of the odds one
could get for a win. Myself heard a hardened “place”
merchant offer 6 to 4 against a horse that was
backable at 8 and 10 to 1 for a win with any book-
maker yelling within 20 yards of him.
,** * *
‘Jamwood”: The A. J.C. is tuning up the
bookmakers under its jurisdiction. It started by
raising the ridiculously small fees it has hitherto
charged for licenses to bet at Randwiek, and now it
has called upon the Tommies to produce evidence that
they are financially sound. Not long ago, hun-
dreds of Sydney punters were robbed in cold blood
by ruffians operating on a suburban course —in the
grandstand reserve at that. The tote never levants
in this fashion. Before its reforming enthusiasm
evaporates the A.J.C. should install 10s. and ss.
straight-out totes at_ Randwick. Ninety per cent, of
its patrons would, in that case, prefer the betting
machine to the betting man, the more so as the
man is not seldom hoggishly uncivil.
* * * *
“Nemo”: Country Cousins, winner of a
Trotters’ Handicap at Epping (N.S.W.), used to
earn her oats in a bottle-oh’s cart. She was sold
out of the bottle industry for seven pounds.
* * * *
The hard-working Paratoo (Pistol —Xena
Bell) has added to his successes a Tattersall’s Han-
dicap in Adelaide. Though rising eight he is pro-
bably better than ever before in his long career,
and may have an outside chance in the Melbourne
Cup. Paratoo was bred by his owner, H. P. MeLaeh-
lan (formerly chairman of S.A. Tattersall's Club),
on Paratoo station, in South Aus., and has won for
him over £5OOO in stakes, mostly in small amounts,
his Port Adelaide Cup (at 5), V.R.C. Handicap (at
4) and the Coongy Handicap (any price) being the
biggest. He carried Bst. 91b. on his latest successful
outing.
* * * *
Royal Visit, a 500-guinea yearling at one
time in Bryan’s stable at Randwick, has won a stake
at last. It w'as an £8 “novice” race at Renmark
(S.A.). He was sold cheap to a fruit-grow'er on
the Murray after a thorough trial had proved him
useless in good company, either on the flat or over
jumps.
* * * *
“Maidan”: It was right that the Queens-
landers should have won both the Dudley and Car van
Cups in Sydney on Saturday. They were the horse-
men of the competition. Australians of the squatting
class have been accustomed for so long to pride them-
selves on their riding that they are scandalised
when told that their standard, relatively to that of
Britain, America or India, is deplorable. Yet such
is the truth. Needless to say there were
some sound men outside the Goondiwindi and
Cressbrook teams—Bruce White, of Muswell-
brook, is a born horseman; and Austin, of
Sydney “B,” has nice hands, and W’as one of the few
ixx either of the Sydney teams w'ho didn’t mess
his ponies about. And there were a few more to
set against the general level of butcherliness. But
to compare any of the teams for dash, finesse and
(above all) strength of seat to one of the stronger
regimental combinations that may be seen in action
any day during the summer at Hurlingham or Rane-
lagh, or to a civilian team such as the Old Cantabs,
would be absurd. The reason is not far to seek. In
next Saturday’s Grand National but one amateur (Le
Roux, of Victoria) will be seen in the saddle. In
England last year a soldier (Capt. Bennett) rode the
winer at Aintree, as many an amateur has done before
him. In Australia the moneyed man who risks a
ride over fences of any kind is a phenomenon which
is confined to parts of S. Aus. and Victoria. In
Britain, the TJ.S.A. and India thousands are continu-
ally at it, and the same applies to France and Italy.
Hunting, and more particularly steeplechasing, pro-
vide polo qualities V'hich can never be acquired by
cantering through sheep paddocks or knocking a
polo practice ball about, and till Australia’s young
men turn to these sterner sports their polo" will
continue to have a ping-pong touch about it.
* * * *
A kindly P.M. in Adelaide has ruled that
a racegoer is not to be held legally responsible for
excited remarks that he makes while the horses are
running. This one bellowed cheerfully to the whole
stand, as his fancy came along with a late run,
“Marmolata wins! I’ll bet a quid that Marmolata
wins!” and was promptly arrested for the S.A.
offence of “offering to bet other than by means of
the totalisator.” He told the constable that his re-
mark was “only a figure of speech” ; and the Court
believed him.
JOHN WREN giving a good imitation of
being excited at a Sydney Stadium fight.
Jack Dempsey, having his first fight for
two years, travelled 15 rounds with Tom Gibbons at
Shelby, Montana, last week, and was awarded the
decision. Also he got all the net gate-receipts, the
Shelby entrepreneurs having failed to come to light
with the last £20,000 of a guaranteed £60,000;
Gibbons gets only a share of the moving-picture
rights and the glory of having gone to the limit
with the champion in ’his class. Dempsey is a stone
heavier, nearly half-a-foot taller, and eight or nine
years younger than Gibbons, who has never been highly
regarded by the best U.S. critics, and his failure to
knock the smaller man out augurs ill for his chance
against Luis Angel Firpo, should the ethereal Latin-
American (he scales 15st. 101 b.) get away with old-
man Willard.
As much as o to 1 was laid on Archie
Bradley before his argument with Danny Morgan at
the Sydney Stadium. It was a false price, and the
odds-layers should have lost their money, for the
Welshman outboxed the youth from Gympie (Q.)
and deserved the decision that he didn’t get. Per-
tinacious as usual, Archibald was still as strong as
a bull at the end of a rough 20 rounds, and the
referee called it a draw.
“Schnorrer”: Jewry has other distin-
guished pugs besides Leonard and Lewis (B.
2/6/’23). Jack Bloomfield, the best cruiserweight
in Britain, and Harry Mason, who recently skittled
Seaman Hall for the lightweight championship cf
Europe, are both Yids. There is a growing sus-
picion among the critics that Broomfield is the
classiest light-heavyweight seen in a British ring
since Charlie Mitchell's, light was dimmed.
MIGHT HAVE BEEN WORSE.
BOOKIE: “Ha, ha! Beaten by a none, me
poy!”
DISGUSTRD PUNTER: “If he’d a nose half as
big as yours he’d have won be a flamin’
length!”
“Mostyn” : One often hears threats of fisti-
cuffs at council meetings, but as evidence of a praise-
worthy attempt to make the noble art a recognised
side-line to the discussion of drains and culverts, how
about the following from the Burnie (Tas.) Advo-
cate : “Challenge.—l, the undersigned, challenge to
box at Ulverstone (if possible), H. Templar, 11.
Monkhouse, A. V. Cullen, P. Templar, A. L. Cuilen
five two-minute rounds, £5 a side; half proceeds
to go to Ulverstone Hospital. Will take on A. L.
Cullen, A. Y. Cullen and 11. Monkhouse with 15
minutes’ interval. Money up with H. Sulzburger,
Sea View, Ira S. Cullen, Nietta.” The challenger
with the palpably apt Christian name, besides being
a conn( illor of Leven municipality, is a returned sol-
dier. I’m not quite sure what it’s all about, but his
confidence in the justice of his cause and the power
of his punches stands out in every line.
* * * *
“Slip” Carr’s visit to Scandinavia has
been a triumph for that muscular youth. In Norway
the Sydney runner beat all-comers in a series of
sprints, establishing fast times in every case. At the
Gothenburg Games he was the victim of a rotten
decision in the final of the 100 metres. The judges,
fiabbei'gasted by a close finish, debated the matter
for 20 minutes (which proclaimed their own unfit-
ness ), and thereupon awarded first place to Houben,
a German, declaring that Carr had dead-heated for
second with the Hungarian Gero. Running off with Gero,
Carr beat him by four yards in 10 9-10 see., which
was a tenth of a second faster than Ilouben’s winning
time. In the 200 metres “Slip” settled all doubts
regarding his superiority to Houben by romping home
from the German and Drison, a Finn, in 21 9-10 see.,
which equals the Swedish record for the distance
and is only three-tenths of a second outside the
world’s record, held jointly by Applegarth, the Eng-
lishman, and by Cook and Hahn, the Americans. The
brilliant young Digavr will be a worthy representa-
tive of Australia at Paris next year.
* * * * .
“Heel and Toe”: Vic. Dowling, the 18-
year-old secretary of the Vic. Walkers’ Club, has
been making hacks of his senior rivals lately on the
track and road. On Saturday there was a gap of'
100yds. between Vie. and Norman Asker, a Oft. 2in.
youth, at the end of a five-mile race, the winner’s
time being 42min. 4sec. Dowling belongs to the St.
Stephen’s club, and the “Saints” have a halo waiting
for him if he scores a place in the seven-miles Aus-
tralasian championship next Saturday.
“15-30” : It was something of a feat for
the little American, W. M. Johnston, to go right
through the singles at Wimbledon with the loss of
one set. Considering that his countryman, Richards,
and the best of the British, B. I. C. Norton, were
numbered among his victims, the achievement is a
testimony to his brilliance in the fast-driving game.
The man who beat him for a set was Campbell, who
lately played well for Ireland against France in the
Davis Cup tie at Dublin. Risking the possibilit}'
of “kills,” Campbell shortened his drives and had
Johnston netting or hitting outers with his returns.
Johnston, who is Tilden’s equal in his capacity to
adapt his game to embarrass an opponent, pursued
Campbell’s tactics in the subsequent sets, with the
result that the Irishman failed miserably to take
his own medicine. It was Norman Brookes, by the .
way, who licked Johnston in the U.S. four years
ago by the same go-slow process, but Brookes’s tri-
umph was assisted by the uncanny accuracy of his
placements and the then singular bite of his service.
As usual, Suzanne Lenglen towered above the
women. In the final of the singles she defeated
Kitty McKane, 6 —2, 6 —3, and Miss Ryan helped
her to account for the Misses Colver and Austin, two
promising flappers, in the doubles. But the French
girl and Washer, her Belgian partner, suffered defeat
in the mixed doubles. Washer, though a master of
the hard-court game, has never been very formidable
on grass. In all respects he was a less suitable asso-
ciate for Suzanne than Pat O’Hara Wood, whom she
regards as the greatest net-player in the world. Last
year she and Wood knocked out Lycett and Miss Ryan
in the final by 12 games to 7. On this occasion
the latter pair overcame the Franco-Belgian alliance
in straight sets. It was a good tournament for
Lycett, who has had a most strenuous season. Vic-
torious with Miss Ryan in the mixed doubles, he
and Godfree turned the tables on the Spaniards De
Gomar and Flaquer, their Davis Cup conquerors, in
the final of the doubles.
* * * *
“Linesman”: Tennis writers in London
were sorry to notice the early defeat at Wimbledon
of Mishu, the eccentric young Roumanian, who has
given a new pleasure to the game. Mishu has-the
most varied service of any man playing. He pulls off
marvellous shots by a readiness to take seemingly
hopeless risks against any opponent, regardless of his
calibre. At the same time, he will be guilty of the
grossest errors through some temperamental disability
to keep his attention concentrated on the business in
hand. He is, I think, the only man in tennis who,
when failing to take a cannon-ball service on the
baseline, audaciously moves up to try and smother
the assault with half-volleys. This proceeding re-
quires great agility and nerve, and Mishu has often
succeeded at it. In his heyday Norman Brookes broke
the force of the American tornado McLoughlin in the
same courageous fashion. As the McLoughlin service
was then a novelty to Brookes and was practically
unplayable from the usual position, the resource of
the Australian in exploiting his finest stroke, the half-
volley, in this unprecedented manner naturally gave
a great boost to his reputation in America, where he
is still referred to as the greatest tennis strategist in
the world.
* * * *
Barring accidents, the 49th race for the
world’s sculling championship will be decided on the
Richmond River (N.S.W.), on July 21. Darcy Had-
field, the M.L. challenger, asked for a later date,
but Paddon was adamant. Hadfield collected the
title when he defeated Arnst on the Wanganui (M.L.)
in 19min. 45sec., and Paddon deprived him of it on
the same waterway in half a minute faster time.
On that form the race should be a fair thing for
the big N. S. Welshman, but the question is whether
he is as good as he was then.
* * * *
Rugby League football, as played in Syd-
ney, is a funny game. On Saturday South Sydney,
who had been donkey-licked in their two- previous
matches —Western Suburbs beat them by 31 to 10
and ,St. George by 28 to s—conquered the premiers,
North Sydney, by 2 tries 2 goals to 2 tries 1 goal.
South won because their pack displayed some signs
of life, whereas the red-and-black half-dozen mean-
dered about like old-age pensioners. Moreover, Dun-
can Thompson, usually a sure kick, failed to hoist
goals that a blind man might have managed. The
winners’ tries were scored by Ben Wearing, who in
one case ran from his own half to North’s 25,
kicked the ball, followed smartly and got over. On
his day he is a grand little footballer. Eastern
Suburbs outed Balmain by a goal—2 tries 2 goals
to 2 tries 1 goal; and Western Suburbs walloped St.
George, whom all the prophets tipped, by 4 tries 2
goals to 1 try 4 goals. Also, ’Varsity notched their
first win of the season at Glebe’s expense. With the
first x’ound finished North Sydney, South Sydney and
Eastern Suburbs are leading from Western Suburbs.
St. George, Balmain, Newtown, Glebe and ’Varsity
in that order.
* * * *
Saturday’s Vic. League games ended the
first half of home-and-home matches; they also ended
all hopes of Carlton and Richmond reaching the
finals. Richmond were up against Fitzroy, who
got them down in the mud, and jumped on them
enthusiastically, finishing with 70 points to Rich-
mond’s 51. Carlton, on their own ground, with
their best team afield, failed to stop Geelong, who
scored 93 points to 88. Collingwood, playing a
fine concerted game, were never seriously troubled
by Melbourne—76 to 42. St. Kilda and South
Melb. scuffling hard for fourth place, bogged in re-
gardless of mud or manners. Twice the umpire
halted them and urged everybody to keep cool and
play the ball. Big McNamara punted the sodden
sphere through the posts three times from a long
way out, and at the end he and his men boasted
56 points to South’s 45.
* * * #
After the Vic. Leaguers were beaten by
South Oss. at Adelaide, O Brieri, their captain, said
that Victoria would have to take inter-State matches
more seriously, instead of giving “pennant” games
first place. He added a strong plea for some uni-
form method of interpreting the rules. He himself
fully approves the robust Adelaide method of
“coming through with the bail,” but it took his
men by surprise. According to O’Brien, the Vic-
torian umpires’ idea that a man must drop the
ball as soon as a finger is laid on him “turns the
game into tiggy-touchwood,” and Jack Worrall is
of the same opinion. On the other hand, kicking
in the ruck is allowed in Melbourne, but barred in
Adelaide as dangerous. Some joint understanding
is obviously needed, as at present any team is badly
handicapped when playing away from home.
* * * *
Though the M.L. Soccer team beat Aus-
tralia in the Test matches it struck a series of
reverses on the N.S.W. coalfields. On Saturday a
South Coast side walked all over the tourists, scoring
two goals to nil. Earlier in the tour Newcastle
defeated them by 2 goals to nil, and Maitland by 2-1 .
and 4-1. The coalies don’t bother about the “darg”
on the football field.
* * * *
“Tren”: The team of abo. cricketers
trained by T. W. Wills in 1866 (B. 7/6/’23) toured
England in 1868 under the captaincy of C. Lawrence.
It was a good team, but the strenuous life, the high
living, and the rigors of an English summer under-
mined the health of the abos., for within three years
nine players (Peter, Rose, Sundown, Tiger, Jellieo,
Watty, Paddy, Neddy and Sugar) of the original 13
had died of consumption. In 1870 Johnny Mullagh,
their splendid long-stop, was hailed as the greatest •
of all abo. batsmen. After a stylish and fault-free
69 not out for Melbourne v. East Melb., his plav in
the forthcoming Vic.-N.S.W. match was talked of as
likely to be the star attraction. During the ensuing
fortnight however, he, too, developed this disease, and
was taken to his home in the Wimmera. Twopenny,
who “threw” for N. S. Wales in this match (the
13th played and the 9th won by Vic.), was the last of
the abos. in big cricket.
NEWS VALUES.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Janies Beck, the U.S. Solicitor-General, says
that when he arrived in London some weeks ago, the
first newspaper placards that met his eye were
‘Suzanne in Tears’ and ‘Hobbs Not Out.’ ”
He yearned to know the latest from the Ruhr,
Lausanne’s accomplishment in pacts and treaties,
If Spahlinger and insulin could cure
(Respectively) T.B. and diabetes.
Wherefore he bought a “special,” feeling sure
He could depend upon the press to meet his
Requirements—there to read in headlines leaping
Some referee had set Suzanne a-weeping,
And Hobbs his wicket still intact was keeping.
What were the topics to which London thrilled ?
Not Einstein’s theory or Kemal’s skiting.
What drew a million eyes, like lists of killed
And wounded in the deadliest years of lighting V
What tvere the happenings that columns filled
And called for all the art and fire in writing?
Two pictures, rich in sheer ecstatic throbs:
Piqued, petulant Suzanne, in sulks and sobs,
And, making tripe of all the bowling, Hobbs!
Fresh from the country where the ban on booze
Has opened up a profitable calling,
He eagerly inquired for Baldwin’s views
On whether German marks had finished falling,
Only to find that, from the point of . news,
’Twas reckoned infinitely more enthralling
That Suzanne with the temper hot as curry
Had downed her racket in a tearful flurry,
And Hobbs had hit a thumping score for Surrey.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Potted Fish Cremes
Puked in hermetically-sealed
FANCY VASES.
ELEVEN VARIETIES.
The fine, delicate flavor of each
variety is unsurpassed—they make
the most delicious sandwiches and
are invaluable for Luncheons, Pic-
nics, At Homes and Card Parties.
Lobster.
Anchovy & Salmon.
Bloater.
Salmon & Shrimp.
Anchovy.
Salmon & Tomato.
Salmon.
Crab & Lobster.
Shrimp.
Prawn.
ST. IVEL FISH CREMES
are made only at
YEOVIL—SOMERSET—
ENGLAND.
Obtainable from Principal Stores.
Wholesale Agents:—
LYALL, WILLIS & CO., LTD.
ADELAIDE: Arthur Glover.
BRISBANE: E. Darragh.
MELBOURNE: Baldwin & Slattery
Pty., Ltd.
PERTH: L. M. Cullen & Co.
SYDNEY: Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
CASH’S
w o v e: ini
NAMES
ħ
A Great Convenience
For Marking Linen
And they sive annoyance often caused bv
exch irige or loss when the articles are
not marked. Any Name woven into a
Fine Cambric Tape in Fast Color.
C M WALKER
Actual Size of Style No. 9
Prices: 12dz, 7'6. 6dz, s'-. 3dz, 3(6.
Sold by All Best Drapers.
T pty. 85 Cubitt Street
• vaoll ltd. Richmond, Mel
Write for Style Book.
“IT WILL
NOT BREAK.
Unbreakable
Vacuum
Bottles.
Built entirely of steel,
lined with Blue Amelite
—no Glass used —light,
sanitary, convenient, made
for every use—Prices here-
in mentioned are for plain
Black Steel Vacuum
Bottles only.
Pint Size.
47/6
Qt.
57/6
2 Qts.
84/-
Mail to Desk “5.8.”
PIKE
BROTHERS Limited
BRISBANE,
Townsville, Toowoomba.
Missing Friends.
SHOULD HAROLD LESLIE WRIGHT
see this advertisement will he write to
A. G. R. NTJNNEY,
c/o Gordon & Gotch, Adelaide.
Cfcjrin
—(&//Ayour
spare cas
■
PM
m
r
-t2
'rl
/•
Write for plans
and all particu-
lars with illus-
trated booklet —
or call person-
ally to
In answer to many a young man’s in-
quiry, “What is a good, sound investment
for my surplus cash?” we can unhesitat-
ingly recommend the following venture
as a unique and profitable proposition—
a Cotton Farm on the “Calliungal” Estate,
worked for you by experienced Cotton-
growers on the Share-farming System.
Only a small outlay, say £lOO deposit,
is required to secure a holding of approxi-
mately 80 to 1 00 acres, which is capable
of yielding £25 to the acre net from
Cotton alone. (The land has been proved
equally suitable for General Agriculture
and Dairy Farming.)
With experienced local farmers in com-
mand a good annual return is assured,
which can pay the yearly instalment and
all incidental expenses and show a hand-
some profit as well. The liberal terms of
purchase are 10 per cent, deposit and 5
annual payments at 5 per cent.
VJtt
The Cowan Company, 115 Pitt St., Sydney
Agents for Queensland: 1). D. Dawson & Co.
William Street, Rockhampton.
h
THEY' COME AS A BOON 8 A BLESSING TO MEN
THE PICKWICKTHE OWL 8 THE WA/ERLEY PEN.
ĥ
i
m
m
■m
m
m
urn
■m
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-).
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6).
50 „ 23/- (posted 28/9) .
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- ).
Handy pocket tin 10 Cigars 5/-
(posted 5/6).
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY
(Opp.
Station)!
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD, TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With ' Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/-. New
BoQk of Puzzles, /—j Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/j.. Magic Made Easy, 1/.. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /i.
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds —GREASE PAINTS,
WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
r
FUNNIEST FOUR
FARCES, in one book,
2/- Contents —Ann!
Fools; Who Is Who;
lei on Parle Frangais;
Who’s to Win Him?
PLAY Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/-
Write for list of our
Ventri loquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5,
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage...
. 1/6
Ballarat Benevolent Home has an inmate,
Thomas Thompson, who claims to have been
born at Northampton (Eng.) on June 26,
1814 —a year before the little unpleasant-
ness at Waterloo.
Lt.-Col. L. E. Tilney has dropped into
the job that Col. Farr left at the Sydney
Repat. He was C.O. of the 13th Battalion, and
since the war has been in charge of the
Westralian Repat., which has yielded sur-
prisingly few complaints from the Diggers.
“Sierra”: By re-arranging the innards of
the s.s. Leviathan and turning her into an
oil-burner, the Yanks have become possessed
of the largest liner afloat. The recondition-
ing gives her 5674 additional tons, making
her 59,956 gross register, as against the
Majestic’s 56,551. On July 4 she was to
have left New York on her maiden trip as
the Biggest Ship in the World.
“J.F.H.” (Bond.) : Florence Vie, who
should be remembered in Australia, has made
a bit of a hit in “Lilac Time,” at the Lyric,
and has achieved the distinction of a half-
column interview in the Star. It contains
one curious passage
Australia is a gold-mine just now. They have a
Labor Government, and money to burn. How they
get it nobody knows, tor when they’re not racing
they are at the theatre.
From which one gathers that Flo, when in
Australia, didn’t “play” Doodlaltine or
swamp it to Bullocky Flat.
The House of Reps, has got so used to
the Labor proposition that all persons in
receipt of wages are the overtasked victims
of a loathly capitalistic system that it looked
surprised the other day when Cunningham,
the elect of Gwydir, spoke disrespectfully
of boundary-riders. “To be a boundary-
rider,” said Cunningham scornfully, “ a man
requires only to be lazy and civil.” Presumably
there are no boundary-riders in the electorate
from which their critic struggled back last
December with a majority so faint that the
returning-officer had to satisfy himself of its
existence by inspecting it through a micro-
scope.
“Saxby”: At a committee meeting of the
Dry Swamp Hospital, Boggs arose and com-
plained bitterly of the lack of anti-toxin in
the dispensary. “If our children get diph-
theria they will die like flies. Who is respon-
sible?” was the burden of his indictment.
The president, who was leader of the faction
that invariably opposed Boggs, hurriedly
looked up the accounts, and then spoke, with
crushing emphasis, smiling evilly. “I find
that yesterday there were 4000 units of anti-
toxin in the hospital. Four thousand units!
Is that enough, or does our friend want more
—say another 10,000 units?” Boggs col-
lapsed. But he was very mad next day when
he learnt that 4000 units furnished only two
or three doses.
“Coot”: The Henley estate at Collingwood
(Vic.), recently sold at auction, had a
unique history. It consisted of about 48
acres, on which at present are 140 houses
and shops. In 1839 a man named Campbell
secured the block from the Government for
£2OO. In 1848 he sold it to W. C. Henley,
of Croydon, Surrey, for £369 Bs. 3|d. Hen-
ley, who was never in Australia, had the
land divided into small blocks, and let them
on 60-year building leases, at. rentals vary-
ing from £4 to £6 per annum. One block,
which returned the ground landlord £5 per
year, has been bringing in £3OO to the
lessee. Some of the present tenants have
been in possession 50 years, and tenancies
of 30 years are common. It is a grandson
of the original Henley who has just sold
the property.
“Jumbo”: Dr. Abrams’s method of diag-
nosis and treatment of disease, known as
E.R.A., or Electronic Reactions of Abrams,
is awakening the keen interest of the T.B.
community in Bananaland, and the Queens-
land Government is carrying out the recom-
mendation of the last Labor Conference by
investigating the method. Recently a patient
at the Diamantina Hospital (Brisbane) went
to Auckland (M.L.) for treatment by the
Abrams method for tuberculosis. He has
written back stating that after 15 treatments
he hopes to return to Brisbane “as a good
advt. for the method.” A Brisbane doc-
tor is leaving shortly for Auckland to receive
instructions.
“0.K.”: Writing to the Pall Mall
Gazette, an alleged London theatrical man-
ager complains that the majority of English
girls are “incapable of becoming efficient
chorus girls.” Their chief lack, he says, is
personality. It is an oft-told tale that an
English girl’s education tends to confirm her
natural want of vivacity in gesture and facial
expression ; but she probably has as much
“personality” as the home-disciplined daugh-
ters of other highly civilised nations. What
makes excellent chorus material of so many
Australian girls is not so much that they get
freer jazzing opportunities than the Eng-
lish damsel, and under sunnier skies,;
as that, being less disciplined, they wear an
appearance of jauntiness which serves as
“personality” on the stage. A considerable-
proportion of our female population, takes to
stage dancing as ducks- to water. But have,
they really stronger “personalities” than
their grandmothers? Discipline represses
personality ; but it can hardly be said to kill
character, which, after all, is the stuff that
personality is shaped from. That critical
manager used the wrong word.
“Flicker's” impressionist sketch :
It was a proud day for Timothy Doolan, J.P.,
when he took his seat on the bench at Dingo Flat,
and his heart throbbed when he noted that Flanagan
and O’Neill, both old enemies, were in the list of
malefactors upon whom he was to sit in judgment.
Each delinquent was charged with being in a pub
after closing time. “How do ye plead, Flanagan?”
inquired his Worship haughtily. Flanagan pleaded
“Not • guilty.” He’d only gone into the. pub to see
a friend, he’d had no drink, he was innocent as
Robert Emmet. P.-C. McCarthy followed, with con-
flicting testimony, which the Bench chose to accept.
“Tis guilty ye are, Flanagan,” said Doolan J.P.—
“guilty and a liar. If ye had th’ daycency to own
up t’ y’r crime I’d not be harrd on ye. But as it
is, I’ll fine ye tin pounds, me bucko. Tell the truth
in future av ye can, Flanagan. And hOw do ye
plead, O’Neill?” The latter promptly decided to
profit by Flanagan’s fate. “I’m guilty enough,”'ho
said, “an’ I’ll not be lying about it. Guilty, sorr!”
“And ye sthand there brazenly boastin’ about ut!
I’ll show ye that this. Coort is hot tb be trifled wid.
Five pounds I’ll fine y’ for, what ye pleaded guilty
to, an’ five more for eontimpt. Tin pounds in all.
Yer impidence is as bad as Flanagan’s lies.” And
Doolan, J.P., as he watched the expressions of his
two foes, felt that life had not been lived in vain.


A Classic in Appearance.
A Marvel in Value.
The New Superior
rsrr
Jil.
EVROL
m
ECONOMICAL transportation, in which the dignity
of fine appearance figured, was first made possible
by the NEW SUPERIOR CHEVROLET.
NO greater value, no better performance is required
of a motor-car than the CHEVROLET is giving,
year in, year out to gratified owners.
A FEW SPECIAL
FEATURES.
Streamline body design, with
high radiator ; vacuum feed and
rear petrol tank on all models;
drum-type head lamps with non-
glare lenses; full-crowned and
panelled mudguards; high-ten-
sion magneto.
Five-seater Models—
IN PROOF OF
STAMINA.
The Transcontinental trip made
by Mr. J. K. Warner on a stock
Chevrolet set the seal on Chev-
rolet construction. The trip
from Perth to Brisbane and
back was accomplished without
mechanical trouble of any Kind.
CHEVROLET DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
John McGrath, Ltd., 181 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Victoria and Riverina:
S. A. Cheney Motors Pty., Ltd., 22 Flinders St., Melbourne.
South Australia:
Mann’s Motors, Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
Queensland:
Howard Motors, Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Western Australia: Skipper-Bailey Motor Co., Ltd.,
900 Hay Street, Perth.
Tasmania: Beasley’s Garage Pty., Ltd., 8-12 Pat-
terson Street, Launceston; 274 Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
A General Motors Product
tfWWMI Vs *
f' ' ' »
Jt ; H 4^l
:
■L
§1
.
u \
Jfl
m.m
-jm&mrn
...
i mm
warn
*
■
i
itafifflßa
■m
\ M
::W
i
M
. r,r.*i
B
:
■■■
_____
■H
i
.■■■■■
mm iIiWWK
■ -f :-::V .
sWiislilSiiiiStis®?:, ; r v. if* . ■ tsprtWsi ■
silisiiaiiii i««g®; s ■ Jii:*i: i s,‘
BHHB
ii
—HI
J
■
m
H
B
H CMi
■K_'
BBBllfiHH
n
3 SMS
■
■
%. '
-
£
a:
Swf
: ;.W
-.:'• 4tm '
V
m
aw
Ml
Sill
imfvmMMto&lß
... ' ■•


DEPOSIT WITH
The Primary Producers’ Bank of Australia
Limited.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL - - - - Over £BOO,OOO
A Mutual Bank Owned and Controlled by the Man on the Land, Operated by carefully selected Bankers of Experience.
FEATURES:
Branches now operating in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and South Australia.
Available resources and deposits loaned only to men on the land.
No loans granted to city merchants or overseas traders.
Interest paid on Current, Fixed, and Savings Deposits.
No charge for keeping accounts. No exchange charged between our branches.
F. W. STRACK, F.A.1.5., F.C.I.S. (Ent;.), Chief Inspector.
O. L. CARIjILE, 1i.1.C.A., A.8.1.A., Secretary.
13 CASTLEREAGH _ STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mary”
Criterion “Woman to Woman”
R° yAL “The Lilac Domino”
Grand Opera House “Bulldog Drummond”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty’s “Sybil”
Royal “The Cat and the Canary”
Princess’s “Tangerine”
King’s . Harry Lauder
Palace “Rockets”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
»
“Mary” has come to spend part of a rigor-
ous winter at Sydney Majesty’s. She would
have a better chance of keeping warm if her
moderately pretty music hadn’t been made
: familiar by “pitcher” orchestras and tea-
room trios. There is nothing in the dialogue
to atone for the fatuousness of the plot. The
characters are all conventional, and the com-
pany is weak in singing. Anew McMaster,
as an aspiring house-builder who strikes oil
in Kansas, looks manly and wholesome, and
acts vigorously—excessively so at times:
moreover, he sings as well as can be ex-
pected in the circumstances. But there is
no music in his voice. Phyllis Beadon, a
blonde from Britain, uplifts a small, sweet
soprano in the ditties assigned to Mary, and
is fairly satisfactory in other recpects. But
Mary is a dim and mildly preposterous hero-
ine. P'ercy’s comic Frenchman has a ten-
dency to grow tedious, and Cyril Ritcli aid’s
Johnnie suffers from indistinctness. Madge
Elliott is a sprightly widow; and the minor
persons of the comedy are in good hands—
those of Cecil Kelleway, Field Fisher and
Ethel Morrison. But the best thing in
“Mary” is the dancing. Nearly every mem-
ber of the co. can shake an agile limb, and
the work of Miss Elliott and Ritchard, of
Eddie ,and Decima McLean, of Rita Nugent
and Jack Hooker, of Winnie Tate and Gwen
Withers, of Gene Richards and Phil Ken-
nedy is positively exhilarating.
In spite of Polar weather, Sydney Town
Hall was crowded for Stella Power’s first
concert on Saturday night, and when the
singer, now all feminine charm and confi-
dent poise, appeared, a conquest was half
assured. “Ah, Fors e Lui” and “Casta Diva”
were the big numbers that fascinated the
audience ; and the “Se Saran Rose” encore,
with its soaring ending, quite confirmed the
judgment that Stella’s rightful place is
among the stars. William James, the pian-
ist, proved a favorite from his opening num-
ber ; and violinist Lionel Lawson and accom-
panist Yern Barnett added the last drops to
an evening brimful of satisfaction.
sp * * *
“The Lilac Domino,” having a too-brief
10 nights’ revival at S’>lney Royal, is the
same old mad whirl of mirth and song and
dance, with one or two nevt figures in it.
Kitty Reidy presents a most desirable Georg-
ine, the multi-millionaire’s daughter; her
"WOMAN TO WOMAN,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Gertrude Elliott, as Dancer Deloryse, forces
a smile while Pa David (W. Cronin-
Wilson) departs with her war-child.
songs deserve and win genuine apprecia-
tion*. Grade Lavers, of the eloquent eyes,
is a witching Leonie; and Marie Eaton a
baroness of weight and archness. George
Baker gives the Hon. Andre d’Aubigny the
right mixture of intensity and levity, anti
Reg Roberts is an alternately pompous and
rollicking Cornelius Clevedon. George Gee
and Hugh Steyne, as Prosper Woodhouse
and Norman Calmain, are droll; Gaston Mer-
vale is a delightful Dago-gipsy; and every-
body trolls a stave or treads a measure on
the slightest provocation, or none at all.
Most of the dances are admirable, the bur-
lesque Russian ballet and the really meri-
torious tango in the last act (by Daisy
Yates and Fred Mackay) being of special
excellence.
* =:= * *
At Sydney Criterion “Woman to Woman”
continues to hold up the mirror to one sex’s
capacity for duplicity and feebleness and
the other’s for devotion and self-sacrifice.
It’s all rather far-fetched, but Gertrude
Elliott and company squeeze the last ounce
of effect out of the emotional situations.
The Sydney Repertorians staged Elizabeth
Baker’s play, “Alf’s Girl,” at the Conserva-
torium on Friday. This is a comedy that
gets most of its laughs out of the vulgarity
and illiteracy of a working-class English
family—the sort of comedy that presupposes
an educated audience, for without that Olym-
pian sense o f
superiority to the
people in the
drama the looker-
on would find pre-
cious little amuse-
ment. The action
of the play hinges
on the efforts of
Alf ’ s surprising
artist uncle to pre-
vent the marriage
of his hated
nephew with the
beautiful and in-
telligent Stella
Marsh, whom the
old chap renames
Hebe, and finally
induces to break
away from the
drunken and
rather bounding
young man. Vin-
cent Doyle worked
hard and almost
succeeded in
making the unbe-
lievable uncle con-
vincing-; and Albert
Collins, as the woo-
ing Mr. Tatt, car-
ried off the male
honors. The neu-
tral part of Stella
Marsh fell to Doris
"Mary,” at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney.
Huggins (a white
Uncle Tom), Field
Fisher. .
Fitton, and Erna Living’s voluble Mrs. Wal-
ters was an excellent study.
* * * H=
At Sydney Palace on Saturday Allen
Doone brought “Lucky O’Shea” back for a
short season ; and both he and Edna Iveeley,
who is Rose McMichael, belle of Dublin, have
a swate opportunity to air their soft brogue,
their gift for love-making, and their Irish
sallies. As Captain Aubert, a French officer
and O’Shea’s rival for Rose’s hand, Ronald
Riley does admirably, especially in the final
scene; Richard Bellairs as De Vigney is
impressive ; and Maurice Lynch is the over-
done bailiff without whom no stage-picture
of the distressful country is complete. There
is only one feminine part of any size, other-
wise Adele Inman, who is a rather obscure
Nancy O’Dowd, might have been heard of.
“Bulldog Drummond,” the Deadwood Dick
shocker with a University education, has
relaxed its hold on the southern capital to
get a bite at Sydney’s pocket through the
Grand Opera House. Though it exhibits
enough lurid crookery to fill a police museum,
its heart-arresting powers are mostly imagi-
nary. Ordinarily the absconding trio would
be more than a match for the group of self-
appointed propagators of virtue comprising
the casual, well-attired Drummond, his two
foppish companions and a pretty but gener-
ally-useless ingenue. But the author cre-
ated an ample slack in the evildoer’s
trousers, thus giving the, “Bulldog” an easy
gripping zone. Even then the demobbed
army-officer and agony-column advertiser is
too amiable a person to pursue the game
to a finish, and the curtain drops with good
material for a sequel in hand. G. 11. I\l ol-
easter is a sterling actor. The absurdity of
his heroism was pleasantly counterbalanced by
an engaging, likeable personality. George
Road Night was a convincing enough villain,
but in the last act suffered from the hero’s
flair for casualness. George Bellamy never
really conveyed in subsequent appearances the
shuddersome spectacle he presented at first
look. Beautiful Eve Gray drooped naturally
on to a man’s shoulder; and The Bulletin
doesn’t believe Sylvia Shaw is the cold-
hearted vamp she was alleged to be.
This week’s Sydney Tivoli bill is good.
Newcomers Ernest Pitcher and Mona Magnet
(recently seen here in “The Peep Show”)
divide the first-class honors, though the
former, aided by a well-handled concertina
and some original patter that is funny, wins
by a thin whisker. Mona Magnet is excel-
lent, especially in “Blue” and her “Peep
Show” favorite “Dixie,” but her turn wants
licking into form. The Big Four offer some
melodies, free from the nasal blight which
lias afflicted so many recent artists ; and Alan
is one of the Brooks that apparently run on
for ever.
& >;« $ #
Two reasons why “Rockets” will set Mel-
bourne talking of the new revue at the
Palace are the good quality of the comedy
materia] and the excellent order and balance
of the entertainment. No such handsome
apology for advanced vaudeville had ever
previously been offered. While the eye was
charmed, the fancy of Saturday’s first-night
audience was tickled. Half-a-dozen broad
comedy scenes were genuinely humorous, and
the 13th Rocket, wherein Charles Austin
and Lorna Pounds took their small boy,
Georgie Harris, for a day’s outing, and be-
moaned his unlucky fall into the bear-pit at
the Zoo, crowned the success of a notable
show. Coming directly after the one and
only Eastern scena, showing Toots Pounds
and Arthur Lucas with a harem accompany
ment of beauteous chorus girls, “A Day’s
Outing” was a pungent prelude to a gay
finale. Strictly speaking the press ought to
discourage this further orgy of light music,
legs and lighting. But what deserves censure
compels praise.
* * * *
. The Pounds Sisters bring back the attrac-
tion of newness in a familiar form of stage
business. In costumes regardless of expense
they duet in dance and song, the voice of
Toots being rather pretty—her big sister’s
doesn’t matter. Unconventional in face and
form, they have a restraint and grace which
is charming. This air of difference from
md'st girls appears to be the principal asset
of Toots. Lorna is a comedian rather than
a vision, in a scanty skirt of silver tissue. She
acts her little bits with grave sincerity and
strong sense of humor, and is a more varied
sort of person than Charles Austin, who re-
minds one of Wilkie Bard and Rickaby. But
Austin is a central pillar of the show. He
has fine fruity cockney tones. Harris, who
has borrowed the “Wee” from Georgie
Wood, is below that artist in histrionic form,
but valuable in his place. Lloyd and Ray-
mond are an expert step-dancing pair, Arthur
Lucas, assisted by tall boots and elevators,
cuts more ice as a beauty warbler than he
did in “The O’Brien Girl” ; the adipose tissue
of John Kirby is aptly employed ; Ivy Moore
helps with voice and smile, and for the
chorus girls, a male octette, and the frock
designers there is nothing but commendation.
Also the musical conductor is a dream.
“Tangerine,” at Melbourne Princess’s, has
shed its superfluities and is making so good
with the multitude that latecomers are sent
seatless away. This in spite of the fact that
in shedding superfluities it overlooked the
’flu. At one time both May Beatty and June
Roberts were “out,” and it is hoped that
June devoted her enforced retirement to cul-
tivating the art of clear diction with the
assiduity she has shown in the education of
her toes. Sister Dorothy impersonated June
with an exactitude which deceived even the
programme, and was sweetly satisfactory.
. At Melbourne Majesty’s the return of
Cecil Bradley to the indignant character of
Grand Duchess has given the operatic story
of “Sybil” some pep that Ethel Morrison
denied it.
S: * * SR
Melbourne Royal, where “If Winter
Comes” set a lot of the furniture shivering
with neglect, is going to bid for human
shudders with “The Cat and the Canary.”
Harry Lauder, who reappeared at Mel-
bourne King’s on Saturday, is the same
quaint combination of mime and histrion,
with the rich, mellow baritone, the irresist-
ible legs, and the long head. So far as one
can judge on his Saturday programme, his
capacity for character impersonation re-
mains as strikingly suggestive of genius as
his influence in getting a stiff, wintry audi-
ence to co-operate instantly in a chorus-
song. These little ditties, set to Nellie Bl.v
music, and full of the pale sentiment of
hame and parlorside, have a universal, heart-
reaching appeal, even when their soppiest
bursts of feeling are colored by the singer’s
nationality. Lauder’s personality is supreme
on these occasions. With a tap of his tor-
tured walking-stick, followed by a brusque,
far-reaching “Coom on,” he starts what
other choirmasters in like circumstances
could only produce by infinite jest and per-
suasion. But the real power of the man
lies in his sense of artistic showmanship. Of
the support, Ventura, whose plump figure is
bathed in colored lights from a magic-lantern,
reveals the least measure of human skill on
the bill. Queenie Fenton, a nice-looking
damsel with an unaffected, graceful style,
sopranos passably in a couple of songs. Stan
Kavanagh, whose kink of originality is con-
spicuous in some clever ball- and club-jug-
gling, is much brighter than Phyllis and
Giles, who work hard discovering unmusical
instruments in unexpected places. Also,
there are our old friend Tom Payne, and
Vera Hilliard. Payne opens sadly as a de-
cayed swell in a defective verbal tourney
with Vera; but his subsequent dancing is
pleasing, and his accomplice gives a good
imitation of Ella Shields in “Burlington
Bertie,” though her grandmotherly outfit is
incongruous.
& * *
The alleged elfin impishness of Lady
Gregory’s “The Dragon” seemed somewhat
childish in the Mermaid production at Mel-
"SYBIL,” AT HER MAJESTY’S
MELBOURNE.
Gladys Moncrieff as Sybil Renaud, opera
singer, and Claude Flemming as the
Grand Duke Constantine.
bourne Playhouse last week. The notiou of
a maiden condemned by a halting astrologer
to be munched by a dragon on her next
birthday may be a satiric reference to the
superstition of the period, just as the idea
of a disguised king summoning a dinner
from nowhere by blowing a whistle may be
translated by sympathisers into a touch of
arch Irish drollery ; but these fancies convey
the impression of being intruded to give atl
air of imaginativeness to an otherwise com-
monplace story. Theatrically, however, the
effect was not bad, and the acting was fair.
Mrs. Apperly, as the Princess Nuala, pro-
vided a presumably correct impersonation j
Mary Curtain was tartly emphatic as the
Queen ; and the awful appetite of the King
was humorously depicted by Robert Guthrie.
Norman Simpson, as King Scorcha, and
Edith Appleton’s Nurse were passable; the
weakest of the others were Ramsay Moon
as Dali Glic, the “blind wise man,” and
Robert Skurrie as Finton, the astrologer.
The latter’s jerky monotone would never
reach a South-street elocutionary final.
* * * :!=
The turn that keeps business stirring at
Melbourne Tivoli is Ruby Norton, a lady
from America with a lisp like Marjorie Ben-
nett’s, blonde hair, a nasal warble; and a
pianist who is about the sweetest young man
ever. His tuneful method of talking to the
audience is an entertainment in itself.
About Newbury’s annual show:—
A. E. Newbury’s exhibition at the Melbourne
Athenaeum reveals such an advance in performance
that it will soon be safe to call him one of the finest
landscape painters in the Commonwealth. His show
this year includes some old canvases, but there is
much new work, of which the largest and most care-
fully studied is “White Gums and Sunshine.’’ In this
picture everything has been meticulously observed
and set down without emphasis. The high lights on
the gums are Nature’s own ; the atmosphere is excel-
lent ; the long shadows, sprawling down the green
slope into the foreground, are such as one sees on a
moderately bright afternoon in the country. Else-
where one notices the same undemonstrative effects.
There are some good still lifes, but they suffer hv
comparison with the landscapes. Also there is a por-
trait of the artist’s wife which ought to determine
him to stick to the land.
* * * *
“Ambrose Applejohn,” at Adelaide Royal,
is a delighful English play let down badly
by a final 10 or 15 minutes of sheer Ameri-
can “crook” and “spoof” surprises. Laurence
Grossmith is a finished actor, in repose or
in action, and has an odd touch of the late
Robert Brough. But it is a pity he'should
think Australian audiences likely to be
amused at his falling down whenever sur-
prised ; seldom has a hero of romance gone
to. the floor so often. In a strong cast
Diana Wilson and Dorothy Seacombe are
prominent with Ashton Jarry. There are
bright Variety bills at the Majestic —«peci-
allv strong on the musical side —'and at the
Prince of Wales, where Terpsichore has
passed on and David Poole has come in.


He would have
caught his train.
m 3
IF he had shaved with a “Valet” Auto Strop
Safety Razor he would have saved those
wasted minutes which are so precious in
the morning. The “Valet” was invented and
perfected to take all the fuss and bo her out of
the morning shave ar d it has b ought com f orfc
and economy of time to scores of millions.
British Made ,
fMi .lx -S
Ue
Sci
eeJS
iKAXr
/Uwfco
crop
F°' 50 : SET. Contains heavily silvered self-stropping razor,
12 tested Valet blades and genuine “Valet” strop. IT ' ~
complete in domed nickel case, lined velvet and satin - 2Of m
Vi
3*
I he “Valet” Auto Strop is far more than a perfectly
fashioned and accurately adjusted safety razor.
Built right into it is a simp e automatic stropping
device. Ten seconds stropping without removing
the b’ade from the frame produces and maintains
from day to day that super-keen shav ng edge whic h
is the secret of all easy, quick and close shaving.
The Wor d's record for the fastest shave is he'd by
the “VaW AutoStrop—7B seconds from lather to
towel. As regards the quality of that shave, its
comfort and its velvety smoothness • ask any
“Valet” Auto Strop user.
THE “VALET” AUTOSTROP IS A SAFETY
RAZOR AND STROPPING MACHINE COM-
BINED IN ONE.
Of all high class dealers
Managing Agents for Australia: PHIPSON & CO., LTD., 42, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
■
6)
m
* #
:
mt.
v:x-—" iv:-
C#J
IMBBi
.\£:
II
irtifiiij
<<
,: mmm
W
i«mf
jran>
\ t
nsw
WPii
ss« *
,i ,r«
m
For Buffalo
And Kosciusko
Whom you spend your holiday ’mid the snows CORRECT
CLOTHING is half the pleasure of the trip, and every item
lit re offered assures to the wearer a distinction of appearance
and the -fullest measure of warmth and comfort possible.
FOR WOMEN:
The PALMERINE COAT, a light, warm,
shower-proof garment, made to fit over all;
with inverted pleat under each arm for per-
fect freedom; in Gabardines and Covert
Coating', 75/-. BREECHES, Tailor-made,
ready for wear, correct in, every detail. In
Khaki Drill, 35/-; Khaki Cords, 45/- 1
Canton Mole, 42/-; Gabardine,
50/-; Covert Coating. 70/-;
and Blue Twill, 84/-. PUTTEES,
Navy. 3yds. long, 10/- per pair.
HIGH-LEG BOOTS, in Black Box
Calf, 25/-. GUM BOOTS, 21/-.
PUTTEE LEGGINGS, for Girls
and Boys, 12/6; Ladies’, 14/6.
Spring Front Puttee Leggings,
Tan and Black, 18/6. 25/-.
BRUSHED WOOL SCARVES,
from 18/6. CASHMERE SPORTS
HOSE, 6/11.
FOR MEN:
BREECHES, in all Wanted Tex-
tures, from 25/-, Strapped and
Laced. CANVAS BUTTON SPATS,
impervious to Snow or Rain.
LEAT HE R CAPS, 15 /-.
BALACLAVA CAPS, 4/6.
TWEED HATS. 10/6.
TWEED CAPS, from
4/6: with Earlaps, 7/6.
PUTTEE LEGGINGS, 18/6
to 25/-. PUTTEES, 10/-
CO A T SWEATERS, all
shades, 15/-. HEAVY
ALL-WOOL KNITTED
4-HOSE, 3/6. GUM
BOOTS, 30/-.
CALL OR WRITE TO-DAY.
WE PAY FREIGHT.
"=N iff
**Ya
r
LINCOLN, STUART & CO. PTY. LTD.
“ Specialists in Sporting Wear,’*
244-54 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


THE PERFECT COMBINATION.
WARATAH
MOTOR
SPIRIT
A CLEAN, EASY-STARTING, ULTRA-POWERFUL SPIRIT,
and
NEPTUNE
MOTOR
OIL
Prepared in Different Grades to Suit Varying Types of Engines.
NEPTUNE OIL CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Port Adelaide, North Fremantle.
Queensland Agents: J. KITCHEN & SONS PTY„ LTD., Brisbane
MARTELLS
3 STAR
BRANDY
When You Want Brandy
It Will Pay You to Ask
for Martell’s.
Shipped Solely from the Cognac District
Poverty
Point
L.T.PIVER. PARIS.
THE FACE POWDER
de luxe
“Orb”: Who said George Rignold had no
business acumen? Once, after a frostbitten
week or so, he advertised that anyone call-
ing at the theatre between noon and 1 pan.
would be given a free pass. The rush was
like, the grasshopper for multitude. Punctu-
ally at noon the vestibule-door was opened
and one man was allowed in. Name and
address taken and order to admit one written
out. This operation took nearly a minute,
and was repeated till the doors were closed
at 1 p.m., when less than a hundred “stiffs”
had been issued. Everyone who received a
ticket naturally brought a paying guest, and
many of those who had missed went for curi-
osity’s sake. The police intervened. the next
day' and stopped the stunt, but the pub-
licity had done the trick, and a successful
season resulted.
CONSOLATION.
JACK BOBSTAY (to amateur singer at Sea-
men’s Mission concert, whose perform-
ance has met with an unexpected recep-
tion): “ It ain't pour fault, old chap,
you done your best; but that silly cow
who asked you ought to be shot!”
Fax” winds up an argument:—
When “Hamfat” spoke of George Rignold as a
talented actor with “a poor head for business” (B.
21/6/’23) he meant to say, I take it, that Rignold
never was a business man in the modern theatrical
sense of the term. He couldn’t organise an office as
George Tallis taught the old J.C.W. firm to do. He
dated back to days when ac-tors had no orthodox
commercial ways. He and partner Jimmy Allison
were said to have run their theatres for years with-
out keeping a set of books. Each paid away money
out of his pocket, making a note of the transaction
in a pocket-book or on a loose sheet of paper, and
from time to time they squared things up between
themselves. The late L. J. Lohr, who business-
managed for the partners in later times, told me
they had kept accounts in an absurdly loose way.
Blit as regards Rignold’s capacity for running a
theatre economically there was no question. He
carried in his head an ever-ready knowledge of all
the firm’s stage possessions, and had a keen eye for
the possibilities of mounting a show effectively at
small expense. Property-master, mechanician and
scenic artist stood in awe of Rignold. He knew to
half an inch the height and width of the doorway
he wanted, and when the carpenter talked of buying
some new material Rignold could tell him of some-
thing stored away on the premises which might be
made to do. Show-management was the game he
understood and could make payable. Outside that
he had but a poor head for business, as “Hamfat”
says. Personally I know of G.R. indulging in one
little investment under conditions which no careful
business man would have approved. As an artist he
was always open to be imposed upon by a clever
rogue.
“Mancam”: I once had an experience of
Rignold’s after-the-show rehearsals (B.
5/7/’23). “Faust” was to go up on Satur-
day, and we had rehearsed it all day Friday,
right up to the moment the theatre opened
for the last night of the current piece. The
ascent to Heaven of Marguerite, assisted by
four extra-lady angels, was the particular
happening that didn’t please George, and he
commanded the apotheosis to be tried again
after the show. He was to play Mepliisto-
pheles himself, and his comments were appro-
priate. About midnight Marguerite (Agnes
Knights) made another attempt to get off the
earth. This time everything worked beauti-
fully. Lights were all right; the piano
wires of the supporting “cradle” were rea-
sonably indiscernible, and the celestial choir
was in tune. They lowered Marguerite to
the stage again, and Rignold dismissed the
rehearsal. But he had to have one last shot:
.“Urn! I’ve seen worse' attempts—-can’t remember
Where. But, Miss Knights, for God’s sake don’t
attempt to go to Heaven again- in muddy boots!
Good-night, ladies and gentlemen.”
“Plasmon”: Lionel Atwill, the English
actor, who came to Australia with “The
Whip” and afterwards married the W.A.
actress Elsie Mackay, has won the regard
of the eminent Sacha Guitry for his playing
of the name-part in Guitry’s “Deburau” m
New York. Atwill made the greatest suc-
cess of his career in this peculiarly Parisian
piece, which has an unexpected literary in-
terest, inasmuch as one of the characters is
Marie Duplessis, the Norman peasant girl
who became Dumas fils’ pet houri, Mar-
guerite Gautier, otherwise “Camille.” Un-
real name was Alplionsine Plessis, and she
died very early, after bestowing her favors
on various gentlemen, among whom young
Dumas was always near the head of the
queue. Dumas pere got wind of the attach-
ment, and promptly packed off the sinful
youth to Spain, after handing him 25 louis
for a parting gift to the lady. She was very
fair, very triste and not over strong in the
resource and audacity required to make a
success of her profession, but in Guitry’s
play she is a picturesque wraith.
“L.H.P.”: I doubt “Second Murderer’s”
statement (B. 5/7/’23) that Mrs. Brough
(Florence Trevelyan then) apeared in the
Melb. Royal revival of “Tambour Major,” in
1885. Nellie Stewart was Stella, and
Emma Temple the vivandiere, Claudine.
Others in the cast were Docy Stewart, the
Duchess; W. H. Woodfield, Captain Robert;
and Tom Grundy, Clampas. Harwood and
Wallace had their original roles of the Duke
and Bambini. Brough was a nervous Tam-
bour Major, but, then, I saw the show on
the opening night, June 27. Dion Boucicault,
the elder, followed in July with “The Shau-
ghraun,” and young Dion was in the cast.
From a London green-room:—
“Ned Kean of Old Drury” has failed to revive
the fading fortunes of London’s most historic play-
house. The hero of this dud drama was the
father of Charles Kean, who had a highly-success-
ful Australian tour in the ’sixties. Charles was
for months at Melbourne Haymarket, a vanished
theatre in Bourke-street whose site is now occupied
by the Eastern Arcade. Charles figures in “Ned
Kean” as a small boy.
Barrie’s “What Even- Woman Knows,” -has been
revived at the Apollo, with Hilda Trevelyan, well
and pleasantly remembered by Australian theatre-
goers, in her original part of the little Scotch girl.
The place of her former colleague, Gerald du
Maurier, is admirably filled by Godfrey Tearle.
Hilda Trevelyan holds a Barrie record. She has
appeared in his “Little Minister,” “Little Alary,”
“The Twelve Pound Look,” “Alice Sit by the
Fire,” “Peter Pan,” “The Admirable Crichton,”
“The Old Lady Shows Her Medals,” and “A Kiss
for Cinderella.”
The National Opera Co., which has half-a-dozen Aus-
tralians among its principals, is having another
successful season at Covent Garden. Florence Aus-
tral gets plenty of compliments from the critics
for her brilliant singing- in Wagnerian r6les, but the
Daily Mail man, while praising- “her warm, glori-
ous voice and the heartening beauty of her flood
of song,” objects that her acting is not impressive
and that her costumes “date from a tasteless period.”
Ah, well, singing comes by nature, but acting
takes some time to learn. Also, ladies have to obey
stage instructions in the matter of costumes.
A clumsy London writer has annoyed Melba by
telling his readers that she has been singing in
public for 57 years. Another scribe has started
a story that Asche’s tour of Australia may be a
Kathleen Mavourneen—“it is quite on the cards that
he will never come back.” Oscar he describes as
“a good fellow and a good actor —neither too
plentiful on the English stage.”
“Hamfat” : Frank Thornton was a quiet,
melancholy person off the stage. He looked
particularly mournful one day at sea when
the old Wainui was wallowing in an MX.
gale. "We look to you to keep us cheerful,
Mr. Thornton.” said a dame in the almost-
deserted dining-saloon. “Won’t you say
something bright?” Thornton looked at her
biliously. “Well,” lie said, “we may get over
this sea-sickness soon—the darned boat may
go down in half-an-hour.” Then he bolted.
“0.K.”: Why am I dragged into a para-
graph by “Second Murderer (B. 28/G/’23)
concerning “fat small parts” in Shaks-
peare? Somebody said Shakspeare could
not have written his own dramas, or, as
author, he would have acted bigger parts in
them than the Ghost in “Hamlet” and Old
Adam in “As You Like It.” Whereupon I
remarked that those particular characters
were easy to play as well as highly effective,
and would be just the parts an indifferent
actor who attached more importance to his
literary than his histrionic reputation would
be likely to select. That’s all. Don’t drag
me into a stupid controversy as to whether
there is such a thing as a bad part in
Shakspeare.
BETWEEN DANCES.
“Are you fond of fiction?”
“Yes, old thing; hut don't start telling we I am the
only girl you have ever loved.”
“Hamfat”: An old English actor once told
me that he remembered “East Lynne” being
played in Scotland with four people. I saw
it done with five. It was a strenuous time
for the man who was Richard Hare, and
then had to be Justice Hare, and after that
Lord Mount-Severn and Bullock. But the
audience had an equally strenuous time guess-
ing when Barbara Hare was herself, Corney
Carlisle or the French maid. Still, it was
bucolic, mostly feminine and copiously weep-
ful. so presumably it enjoved itself. “It was
a great idea of that Lord Mount-Severn dress-
ing ’imself up as a John to arrest Levison,”
remarked one of the crowd subsequently. “It
shows that these ’ere lords ain’t all as bad
as they’re painted.”
“Plasmon”: Isn’t it time theatrical man-
agements showed a little consideration for
the great majority who come early by rigidly
locking out dawdlers who fail to reach the
door by curtain-rise? I have been trodden
on by late-comers several times recently ; also
my view of the stage has been blocked by
some casual group arguing with the usher or
searching its apparently disappearing pocket
for programme-silver. The annoyance is
almost invariably caused by well-to-do people
whose women have acquired some unparal-
leled creation and want as many as possible
of the other cats to gasp audibly at the phe-
nomenon. But this is not the only trouble.
The other night several expensive lads, full
of food and mixed drinks, were allowed into
the d.c. at a Melbourne theatre and started a
disturbance looking for their seats. Later
on they surged into a box, and one yahoo
noisily excited hopes that he would destroy
himself by falling over the parapet. Unfor-
tunately he was restrained. They handle
these interrupters better at the Tivoli. There
nuisances who won’t behave are immediately
tipped out, regardless of their social position.
“Adelaide”: Many a mummer will miss
John Nagle, who ha»r gone to knock at the
gates of Zion, after having himself kept the
stage door of the Adelaide Theatre Royal
since 1898—under Wybert Reeve, F. H. Pol-
lock and Herbert Myers in turn. Nagle put
in 16 years with the British Army, mostly
in India, before coming to Australia.
“Frinigga”: Back home from America,
Basil Macdonald, the dramatist, has been
telling the English (1) that Laurette Taylor
is “undoubtedly the greatest actress in
America, and possibly in the world”; (2)
that the beauty of the N’York chorus-girls
and their spirited and elegant dancing would
be the despair of the London lass; and
(3) “that the movie-dives are full in spite
of, and not because of, the moving pictures
....a bastard art served up with superior
attractions of music and variety. . .the movies
are down and out.” The parties most con-
cerned have not yet contradicted the first
and second announcements; but the third
seems too good to be true.
“L.H.P.”: “Measure for Measure” (B.
28/6/’23) has never been much of a success
on the stage. Mrs. Brace-
girdle. Mrs. Cibber, Peg
Woffington, Mrs. Bellamy,
Mrs. Yates, Mrs. Siddons
and Laura Addison have im-
personated Isabella. Laura
played it. at Sadler’s Wells
under the Samuel Phelps
regime, when William Hos-
kins (destined to be an Aus-
tralian favorite) was Lucio.
This was iu 1846. Adelaide
Neilson was the Isabella of
a London Haymarket pro-
duction in 1876. with Henry
Howe as the Duke and
Charles Warner (here in
1889-90) as Claudio. The
Asche-Brayton rendering—
Oscar was the Duke and
Lily spoke Isabella’s gol-
den lines —occurred at the
Adelphi in 1906. Ellen
Terry clothed herself in
Francesca’s robes on April
28 to celebrate her jubilee.
“Tay Pay”: Harry Rick-
ards was quite an amiable
person as managers go; but
on one occasion he went
clean off the handle in full
view of a Sydney Tivoli
audience. It was in the
closing days of the Boer
War, and ’Arry had returned
to the boards to recite Kip-
ling’s “Absent-minded Beg-
gar” 'in the sacred cause.
"Pie, pie, pie,” declaimed the
veteran, and soon he was
dodging copper-ware, most
of which came from the gal-
lery. Then a penny con-
nected with ’Arry’s counte-
nance. just above the eye.
He staggered and would have
fallen if Kate, his wife,
hadn’t rushed from the
wings, held him up and
helped him off the stage.
He was “out” for a few
seconds only, and back he
came to shoot violent lan-
guage at the “blausted cow-
ard who frew that brahn.” Then, calming
down, he repeated his suggestions that the
audience should “Pie. pie, pie.”
“Thersites”: Talking of “Our Boys,” Dr.
Young, of Ballarat, used to tell of how he
went to the London Vaudeville to see that
comedy, but couldn’t get a seat, although
he had bought a ticket. He complained
to the manager, but was told loftily to
“Come round some other evening.” “But,”
explained the doctor, “I’m going to Aus-
tralia to-morrow, and won’t be back for a
year or so.” “Well, that’s all right,” was
the reply. “Come and see ‘Our Boys’ then.”
Grumbling, the doctor departed, but he pre-
sented his ticket at the Vaudeville IS
months later, and it was duly honored.
More, the manager stood a bottle of wine.
“.Tacky Boo”: I saw “The Dancers,” by
Gerald du Maurier and Viola Tree, men-
tioned by “Blackfriars” (B. 21/6/’23), and
thought it capital. It deserved the succesfe
which it probably hasn’t achieved in the
sleetiest time the English theatre has known
since the Puritan era, for its intrinsic merits
are considerable; also, the acting of du
Maurier and Audrey Carten was uncommon.
Audrey first came into prominence in “Bull-
dog Drummond” as the maid who screamed
once. So excellently did she scream that
the actor-knight quadrupled her salary and
made her leading lady in his own play. Even
as one egg hatched out the Commonwealth
police, so one scream made Miss Carten a
star of the AVest End.
MYRA’S EYES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The great perfesh about some things
Is quite absurdly superstitious.
To feathers plucked from peacocks’ wings
A shuddersome ' tradition clings ;
Most prejudicial and most vicious
no little actor-men apprize
The power there is in swivel eyes.
When Myra Prescott played the dame
In one of Pinero’s romances,
Her two eyes were hot quite the same.
That pro. was deemed exceeding game
Who met their bold, bewildering glances;
And Jones, who ventured so to do,
Was laid out with pneumonic ’flu.
The leading lady, all aver,
Was looked upon b.V Myra one day:
A heavy stage-hand fell on her,
With injuries beyond repair.
The very next day, which was Sunday,
The manager, Wendover Begg,
Fell down a lift, and broke his leg.
The season was an awful frost.
We played each night to empty benches;
The thing was done at heavy cost,
And all our backer’s (ash was lost.
A plague, sir, on your cross-eyed wenches!..,.
An old man came, belltoppered, gloved,
Who looked in Myra’s eyes and loved.
He owned some eighty thousand quid
And could despise all superstition;
He wished to marry her and did—
And then his racing motor slid
And ended was his earthly mission.
Then Myra dear, with heart elate,
She had her dexter eye put straight !
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


■
i
BH
m
m
H
*
I
H ;
A:
:; ; :v
■ ••
m
s
m
H
V
Hh
ii I
SfY/ 1
r£
m
SMS
m
l/./. ■
m
HU
Kl
m
l Captain McARTHUR
4&S3^
W
■
h s
" V l '
■
m
mm
"C2i'is iocT\-2 He Pionee rs'
HARDY’S WINES OP TINTARA
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILIAAMSTO WN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
r
0
m
9J
m
„ ;
if
, i f/iJs&ciiUZi s 4 - 1
I \ |
wmm
j.
I
, 1 ■ ■
\ ertieal direct connected steam-driven Electric Cieneratiug tact.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE .
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
L, Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Australia House, Strand, London.
h
The
listed
oils itself
ENGINES.
For Petrol, Kerosene or
Town Gas,
2 to 2S b.h.p.
Stationary and Portable.
ĥ
-ftsTcrj is
dust-proof
“We say, like the immortal ‘Ole Bill,*
“Ole Bill''—after Bruce Bairnsfather,
‘ If yer knows a better engine, go to it.’ ”
Read this spontaneous tribute to a veteran
,\
is
Engine
Dear Sirs,
Atherton, Q’land,
20th April, 1923.
We want to tell you about our lovely little “Lister” Engine. Ten years
ago we got her from you—a 1 J-h.p. benzine—and in all that time she has
never had a breakdown, though running continuously for six hours a day and
six days a week throughout the year. A pound note would amply cover the
repair bills over that long period. Her fuel consumption over the 1 0 years
works out at 3 gallons per 36-hour week, or two-thirds of a pint per hour.
She runs our printing machines. With heavier work, the bonzer little engine
would, of course, consume more fuel, but we say, like the immortal “Ole
Bill,” “If yer knows a better engine, go to it.” We don’t. Long live the
Lister. . Yours faithfully,
EXAMINER NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.
P.S.—Honest, it would take her weight in gold to make us part with her.
She looks good for another decade. j ' :
“Lister” Engines give you an exceptional combination of leading
mechanical features such as Automatic Lubrication, Throttling Governor,
High-tension Magneto Ignition and Dust-proof construction. Let us tell you
about them in detail.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD Sydney
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD Brisbane
J. H. HARWOOD & CO., LTD Adelaide
MALLOCH BROS Perth
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS LTD . . . Hobart & Launceston


A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Spoons and Tongs, pure
silverplated A 1 quality, engraved design, 20/-
A. 'Saunders’ Butter Knives, in case, pure silverplated
A 1 quality, hand engraved, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Combination Case, half-dozen
Cake Forks, Tea Spoons and Tongs, pure
silverplated, 21 /-
ASAUNDERS
A 1 Quality Silverplated Cased Goods.
SEND
FOR
CATALOGUE.
A. Saunders’ Pie Servers, pure silverplated, A 1 quality, complete
in velvet-lined ease, 50/-
WE
PAT
POSTAGE.
.VJBJ.*!
mmm
A. Saunders’ 3-pieee Carving Set, Stainless Steel, selected Xylonite Handles,
silverplated mounts and ferrules, 60/*
Similar Designs, Finest Sheffield Steel Blades, Xylonite Handles,
20/*, 30/-, 40/*
ASAUMDERS
JEWELLER,
A. Saunders’ Cutlery
It listless Table Knives,
Table Forks, pure
Set, containing half-dozen
Xylonite handles, half-dozen
silverplated, £4/10/-
. A. if
A. Saunders’ Juvenile Knife, Fork and Spoon, pure
silverplated in silk-lined ease, 25/-
m
■ ii
A. Saunders’ Combination Case, Sugar Spoon and
Tongs, Jam Spoon and Butter Knife, pure silver*
plated, 12/6.
Choose the style of instrument you like,
but make sure it is
“His Master's Voice '
YOU will then know that you possess the world’s most perfect musical
instrument, one that will play the greatest music in the greatest way.
There is a good reason why the celebrities record exclusively for “His Master’s
Voice.” It is because they know it reproduces their art with absolute truth.
As an instance of the peerless tone of "His Master’s Voice” you should hear
the wonderful
Beethoven’s Emperor Concerto
the wonderful rendition of which has cresited such a furore in musical circles.
It is played by Frederic Lamond (pianist) and the Royal Albert Hall
Orchestra, complete on five 12-inch double-sided black label records, 10/6
each. Not a single note of music has been omitted.
805-813 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
D. 625
Concerto No. 5 for Piano and Orches-
tra, Op. 73 —Allegro, Parts 1 and 3
Beethoven
JD.626
(Concerto No. 5 for Piano and Orches-
-f tra, Op. 73 Allegro, Part 3 and 4
Bee(liov<n
D. 627
f Concerto No. 5 for Piano and Orcbes-
-! tra, Op. 73—Allegro, Part 5 and
V Adagio, Part 1 Beethoven
D-628
[ Concerto No. 5 for Piano and Orelics-
-t tra, Op. 73 —Adagio.. Part 2 and Hondo
V (Finale), Part 1 ..Beethoven
D. 629
I Concerto No. 5 for l'iano and Orehcfc-
tr a , Op. 73 Rondo (Finale), Farts
( 3 and 3 Beethoven
These and all other “His Master’s Voice” /Records must be played with “His Master’s Voice”
Needles on an “His Master’s Voice” "Instrument if their full beauty is to be realised.
Instruments range from 11 guineas to £94.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue, Record lasts and name of nearest dealer.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
103 Pitt Street, Sydney.
His Master** Voice”
Regd. Trade Mark.
h
‘'Gramophone”
Regd. Trade Mark,
s
m
m
5 'WSSHfri?
*


TO JAVA by the ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
Return Fare
from Sydney,
£9O.
An ideal 7 Weeks’ Holiday Trip to Singapore,
via picturesque Java.
Splendid 6000-ton mail steamers, “TASMAN” and “HOUTMAN,”
specially constructed to ensure the utmost comfort in Tropical waters.
ĥ
Full particulars from ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY, 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
gYI) N E I’S CHIEF TIIEA T K E 8
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: MARY.
CRITERION:
WOMAN TO WOMAN.
ROYAL: THE LILAC DOMINO.
RAND OPERA HOUSFb SYDNEY.
Proprietor, GEORGE MARLOW.
Matinfies Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2.30.
EVENINGS AT 8.
Sir Benjamin Fuller and Mr. John Fuller present
NEW LONDON DRAMATIC COMPANY.
(By arrangement with Hugh J. Ward Theatres
Pty., Ltd.)
’Sapper’s Thrilling play of Adventure.
BULLDOG DRUMMOND.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
yy ES T MINSTER GEEE SINGERS
SYDNEY SEASON
Starts Matinde, SATURDAY, AUGUST 4.
Missing Friends.
DAVIES— If the children of WILLIAM JOHN
DAVIES (who left Adelaide for South Africa
some thirty years ago) and ELEANOR LEWIS of
Adelaide will communicate with The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Limited, 412
Collins Street, Melbourne, they will learn some-
thing which may prove to their benefit.
WANTED,
ACTIVE REPRESENTATIVE
well introduced with
FLOUR MANUFACTURERS.
Write under “A.S.W.” to NIJGH & VAN
DITMAR’S ADVT. BUREAU, Rotterdam,
Holland.
KINGSLEY PRIVATE HOTEL
Mrs. GREAVES, Proprietoress.
The most exclusive in Brisbane. Accommodation
for 200 Guests. Newly Furnished throughout.
Room and Breakfast, or Inclusive Terms, cap he
arranged. Moderate Tariff. Every Convenience.
Adjoining Queensland Club and Botanical
Gardens, GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Irish Guards in the Great War.
Edited and compiled from their
Diaries and Papers, by RUDYARD
KIPLING. With Maps. 2 Vols.
40s. net.
1923 Issue Now Ready.
The Statesman’s Year Book. Edited
by Sir JOHN SCOTT KELTIE,
LL.D., and M. EPSTEIN, M.A.,
Ph.D., F.R.G.S. With maps, 20s. net.
Possession. A story by MAZO DE
LA ROCHE. (Being No. 680 in
Macmillan’s Empire Library.)
Tlie Times:— “Keen insight, deep feeling,
ample and certain powers of description carry
the story to its tragic and uncertain end. . . .
Not the least of the author’s powers is the de-
scription which lies latent in brief phrases or
passing conversation. The atmosphere, too.
catches us.”
Text-Book of Pomology. By J. H.
GOURLEY, M.S., Horticulturist,
Ohio Agricultural Experiment
Station. Illustrated 12s. net.
(ltrr~--Text-Book Series.)
THE ROUND TABLE
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of the
British Commonwealth.
ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum, post free
to any’ address within the Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR JUNE:
THE NEW IMPERIAL PROBLEM.
FRANCE AND GERMANY.
KENYA.
PROBLEMS AND POLITICS IN THE UNITED
STATES.
IS BRITISH AGRICULTURE WORTH WHILE ?
IRELAND AS IT IS.
THE PROBLEM OF EAST CENTRAL-EUROPE.
Also, Articles from “Australia,” “New Zea-
land,” “United Kingdom,” “Canada” and
“South Africa.”
To he Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN gCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
Amusements.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTI). MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S.
SYBIL.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE CAT AND THE CANARY.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
HUGH J. WARD’S COMPANY OF COMEDIANS IN
TANGERINE.
Plans at Glen’s.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
HARRY LAUDER.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SIIAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
QUEENSLAND TOUR: MACKAY, Star Theatre,
JULY 11 to 14.
Head Office, 178 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
Amusements.
D ALACK THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J: WARD’S SPECTACULAR REVUE,
ROCKETS.
•'THE BRIGHTEST SHOW IN TOWN.”
Plans at Glen’s.
HOI"r8 THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SVDNEY.
MARY MILES MINTER in
DRUMS OF FATE.
WANDA HAWLEY in
HER FACE VALUE.
Prices as usual.
|y|A.IES'JIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
THEODORA.
AMBROSIO PRODUCTION.
Matinfies daily at 2.3 d. Nights at 8.
Legal Notice.
'T O WILLIAM EDWARD SODEN
* formerly of County Leitrim Ire-
land but late of Wellington New
Zealand grandnephew of Eleanor
Jones deceased and to all persons
claiming by through or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on th.e
26th day of June 1923 by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are here-
by called upon to send in to the undersigned
on or before the Ist day of January 1924
your claims to the estate of Eleanor Jones
who died on the 12th day of August 1916
intestate failing which the said estate will
be distributed amongst those entitled thereto
disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 26th day of
June 1923.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
a
=i
m
7
A\A
Paige 6-70—A revelation to Motorists
IN the new Paige 6-70 Paige engineers are again leaving their mark
upon the world by producing a car which is another step forward
in motor car construction.
All the ideals of Paige engineers, who have painstakingly endeavored
to produce a motor car of the highest type, will be found in the new Paige.
Since 1909 these same engineers have been employed by the Paige
Motor Car Company with the thought ever in mind of producing a
motorcar even better than the Paiges which have gone before. Encouraged
by the thousands of enthusiastic Paige owners, the Paige company
believes, and' with good reason, that in the Paige 6-70 they have attained
the Ideal in motor car engineering, appointments and performance.
No detail, however small, has been overlooked. Many defects for-
merly encountered in engineering practice have been overcome by the most
exacting rigid inspection and test and numerous innovations have been
introduced. This new 6-70 has been a revelation to motor car buyers.
Victoria:
WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
58 A’Beckett Street, Melbourne.
N.S.W.:
HOSKINS AUTOMOBILE SALES CO.
172 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Standard equipment of all Paige Models in-
cludes: 6 cord tyres, tubes, rims. Spares
mounted one each side with lock and tyre
cover. Motometer. Double bar spring
bumpers front and rear. Luggage carrier.
Combination back and stop light. Auto-
matic windscreen cleaner. Aluminium kick
plates. Petrol gauge on dash. Eight day
Waltham clock. Electric cigar lighter. Green
glass sunshade. Rear view mirror. Snubbeis
iront and rear. Power tvre pump. .


'I 1 ' /'/>)
0
1. m
V /
“THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
There is an enormous demand from News-
papers, Magazines, Advertisers, etc., for
strong, forceful illustrations, and they pay
high prices for work that suits them.
Why Not Learn Drawing?
You can! Easily, rapidly and thoroughly,
by the
WESTON METHOD
It takes you step by step from the rudiments
of sketching to the very highest branches of
this fascinating and lucrative profession. The
lessons are so simple that you cannot fail to
make rapid progress, and, remember, we
teach to draw, not to copy.
Enclose 3 stamps, with your name and
address, and w T e will post you a copy of our
booklet, “There’s Money in the Pen.’’ it
explains all about the course.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
239 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY,
A REAL
RAZOR
EDGE
\\V
n
lm
tHS
- sn
The
PLUM
RAZOR
Made from the finest Sheffield
Razor Steel, tempered and
ground to perfection—set and
finished feady for use by our
own experienced tradesmen.
126.
Pair in Presentation Case,
Post Free 9^/-
P,lades fin. and fin. set ready
for use, and guaranteed and
kept in order for two years free.
Craig 8 Aitkin
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
ħ
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
BtaM
THE GENUINE “KEMP
SADDLE
REDUCED PRICE—
£I3/15/-
The KEMP is a general utility saddle—Polo
Players are using it and Professional Buekjtiiltpers
have used it for years. It is a most popular
saddle, and the secret lies in the shape of the
pads and the position of tlnpn—almost level
with the head of saddle. It is a _ high-grade
saddle bearing our name. Freight paid for Cash
to any N.S.W. Railway Station.
K’BURR A STOCKWHIPS are Kangaroo right through. Bft. Thongs
—l2 plait, 22/6. 16 P'lait, 25/-. 20 plait, 31 /-.
Handles—l 6 plait, 16/6. u plait, 18/6. post free for
CASH. Write for our General Saddlery Catalog.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
395 George Street, Sydney.
and Now —
an Improved Tyre Chain
OVER all the world,
the name “Weed”
stands for a dependable
tyre chain. Wise motor-
ists in every land equip
their cars with Weeds.
They know Weed Chains
make the wheels grip the
road; increase the trac-
tion and save them motor
spirit mopey; make driv-
ing more a comfort and
pleasure.
We now announce the
Weed De Luxe Tyre
Chain, with two distinct
improvements:
1
This Reinforcing Hook en-
circles each main cross chain
link of every Weed De Luxe
Chain. It makes a /owr-point
contact with the road, instead
of the usual
two. The wheels
"hug”the ground
even more sure-
Iy; the traction is increased—
motor spirit gives greater
distance. And the life of the
chain is more than doubled.
2
Each Weed De Luxe Chain is
fitted with the new Lever-
Locking Connecting Hook.
How easily it draws the side
chains together! A press of
your thumb locks it securely.
It remains locked under all
conditions. The tension of the
chain has nothing to do with
the locking action of the hook.
This is important because the
chains must be attached loose
enough to “creep” around
freely, otherwise they injure
the tyres.
See this new Weed De
Luxe Tyre Chain at your
dealer’s. You will ap-
preciate its advantages at
a glance. You will want
to enjoy the safer, more
comfortable, more eco-
nomical drivingitassures.
h
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
Export Sales Offices:
Grand Central Terminal Bldg., New York, U. S. A.
Representative: EDWARD G. VAUGHAN
352 Kent Street Sydney, N. S. W.
WEED
“DE LUXE”
Tyre Chains
n
o
□
SHOE CREAMS
Good Shoes
Deserve Quality Dressings
Nothing less than the best is good
enough for your shoes. In the manu-
facture of Bostock’s Shoe Creams,
quality, materials, and expert super-
vision combine to produce only the
highest-grade Dressings. In Bottles
and Tubes. In all colours.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES , Ltd.,
Box 91, Haymarket, SYDNEY
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Blackbutt: Thanks, but this paper has to
cover a continent every week, and it hasn’t time or
inclination to notice the yapping of small dogs....
R.G.F.: That “stunting” parson has had enough
attention.... Allan Sills: Wish you would introduce
some of those friends of yours who can remember
hearing the term “Pommy” 50 years ago. . . .1.T.P.:
Interest too local. .. .Osric: Your pars don’t “go”—
they merely hobble along like a man suffering from
acute lumbago... .Harry J.: Not up to the mark....
A.E.C.: Take “Something Original,” and stew over
a slow fire for 10 hours. It will be about the right
dimensions by that time.... Tom P.: Whisper it into
her ear yourself. She won’t know then that you spell it
“devoation”... .Overseer: “A jury is usually com-
posed of members of an accused’s own community,
familiar with his character and likely to understand
his motives.” May have been so originally ; nowa-
days in 19 cases out of 20 the jury never heard of
the prisoner till his name was called in court....
Eat: “A P<ush Vagrant” is your masterpiece:—
Back in thoughts to you I’ve stolen,
Beside a brooklet clear,
Catching again the falling petal golden,
I once held dear.
Listening to the charming peer, clematis, laughter,
Filtering from a bower green,
While dancing with a maidenhair’s sparkling-eyed
daughter,
The prettiest I’ve seen.
Oh, hill and dales, your beauty must not fret,
And your slumbrous melodies keep.
I'll return to you again, in memories yet;
Ofttimes in my sleep, I 11 turn those golden leaves
and peep.
....Hal: The “Darwinian” item doesn’t find its
target... .F.K. (Ascot Vale) : Material only for a
par. Will you write it ?. .. . W.0’8.: “Atalanta”
doesn’t run well enough. . . .G.K.M. (Sydney) : Those
are the initials of a well-known writer and no good
as a pen-name for y0u....8.1. (Geelong): All must
go back. .. .Cross-eye: A subject like that demands
a freer metre.... Malkah: It hasn’t the 5ki11....
J.W. (Toorak) : About the limit of futility....
J.P.D. : That sort of general curse of the scandal-
monger, has been done so often that it must have
remarkable handling to get through. .. .C.C.J.:
Doesn’t strike us P.A.D.: The verse is heavy
.and creaks at the joints... .Pala: Fluttered feebly
towards the basket.... Sims Cobber: The repetition
of a yarn that has been told too often... .Oedyshros:
Doesn’t reach the level of a shocking example....
Alastor: Couldn’t be much worse... .F.D. (iNortb
Fitzroy) : Blank verse must be very good to get a
place ; yours is merely blanky.... Simla: Think more
and write less. .. .Dilly Digs : No good. . . .David S.:
Rhymed prose of an evil kind.. . .D.E.F.: Painful
commonplace. .. .Maida F.: If we put your Muse in
our week’s team we’d have the S.P.C.A. on to us
for working the poor beast with lame feet....
Eustace E.: Is it an incantation ?: —
Rum-pat pulled the gnome-cat
by the stump tail when a-blows;
so the gnome-cat gave scratches Rum-pat
till pappa chiropoed its toes.
Think of Rum-pat, think of gnome-cat,
when a-blows cut short the claws first;
like to Rum-pat may you scratch get,
when a-blows and where you’re little versed. .
.... John D. L. G.: Though the verse is thin, we
gratefully recognise that you are trying to tell us
that morning follows night.... Zelkcub: “Retribu-
tion” is picture-show ■ stuff badly t01d... .Z.V.W.:
Not nearly... .A.W.V.K.: You contrive to make it
very dull. .. . J.S.M.: No value. .. .G.R.P.: It doesn’t
maae a yarn....Tyo Senr.: Wanted better handling.
....Derwent J.: Horrible. .. .C.R.C.: The yarn isn’t
much, and it could scarcely be worse told. . . .P.O’R.:
“The Novel” is not the goods for this barrow....
Beatrice D.: It needs toning up. .. . A.R.0.: Very
crude... .Four: Moral verse made of w00d....
W.M.8.: Do you bury that dog as a regular pastime,
or is it a new dog that dies every week?. . . .D.C.D.:
As slight as Bruce’s chance of selling Billy’s fleet
for what it cost. . . .L.N.C.: Says very obvious things.
.. . .Scratcher: Not well enough done. .. . J.E. (Wool-
lahra) : No use to us.. . .G.V.K.: It just misses....
B.S. (Hobart): Very poor. . . .H.R. (Koolanooka) :
Suitable for an inferior Christmas card... .R.S.K.:
Try to get the difference between making verse and
writing a telegram. .. .Charlie C.: Weak verse that
rambles about till it loses its point. . . .M.F. (Gee-
long): You own the makings of a yarn. Have an-
other try at it....C.8. (Renmark) : “Hours” doesn’t
rhyme with “mouths” in this paper. It doesn’t even
do it with artificial teeth... .E.J.T.: Too slight....
E.W. (Chillagoe) :. Sorry; no good. .. .Corpuscle: It
wants feeding... .J.D.Y.: A mere catalogue of your
loves and hates, and not very thrilling. .. . J.N.
(Helensburgh): No sort of use. ... Emily: Bad —in
fact, worse. .. .Good-o: Rubbish-o. .. .Edward F.: It
toils very heavily... .H.D.8.: Not enough in them
for us... . Bellerive: The monkeys do the trick: —
Monkeys young and monkeys old,
Huge jungle lions and tigers bold —
When feeding-time a din ensue,
The wild beasts roar at the Melb. zoo;
There’s prairie-dogs and native cats,
Foxes, wolves and bush wombats;
Eaglehawks and drowsy owls,
Birds of song, and Chinese fowls;
From a rabbit to a kangaroo,
And reptiles grim at the Melb. zoo.
Among the trees in the shady cool
Swans emerge from a rippling pool;
Bearing children upon his tack
The elephant wends around a track;
Ugly apes and grunting boars,
Creatures from wild distant shores;
An Australian bird, the big emu,
Is a famous tough at the Melb. zoo.
. ...E.R.R.: Dreary commonplaces. .. .Jno. A, S.
Not bad doggerel; but it would eat too much space.
....William C.: Rather off our beat... .L.C.8.:
We 1 wish it was true.... H. J. J.: Someone has imposed
upon your innocence with an old race yarn....
R.L.H.: As a matter of fact, there are two kinds
of crocodile in Australia, but no alligators—though
“.alligator” is often loosely used for “crocodile”....
W.D.P.: Have another shot.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.F.R.: An awful attempt to illustrate an old
Bulletin joke... .E.D.: It would be hardly fair to
judge on a couple of lightly scratched-in faces
G.H.M.: Not worth it... .C.B.McK.: A bad copy...
E.S.N.: The flapper has often been libelled, but
never before as badly as that... .P.M.8.: Drawing
below the mark. ... J.R.J.A.: You’ve a long way
to go yet. .. .C.A.: Amazing anatomical interpreta-
tions. .. .F.E.: Going back. ... R.C.: Stiff drawing.
... G.M.8.: Far too scratchy.. .8.M.: Double-jointed
lady ruled 0ut.... V.R.8.: Pencil sketches useless
except as suggestions—and the joke is old, anyway.
. ...W.D.: Doesn’t get past. .. .H.C.L.: Drawing
not there.... G.McD.: Both miss... .A.L.L.: Hence-
forth look with dark suspicion, Albert, on the friend
who said you can draw P.W.C.: May use one as
suggestion.


■
?.. ■.
HP*
■
■
-
\ «
■ :
DISTRIBUTORS :
WAKBURTON, FRANKS LTD..
307 Kent Street, Sydney* N.S.W.
WAKBURTON, FRANKI, MEL It., LTD.,
Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
SMELLIE & CO.. LTD., Brisbane, Queensland.
GILBERTS, LTD., King Street, Perth, W.A.
VV. F. & E. A. STEWART, Launceston, Tas.
Neighbors Like Visiting the Browns— ■—-
their home is so cheerful —and so up-to-date. Somehow their rooms
look more comfortable, their furnishings newer and better, a fine
home, you would say.
How electric light does set off a home, to be sure! And how much
more pleasurable it makes card-parties, musical evenings and social
gatherings!
If you are a Brown you know this. If not, follow Brown’s lead and install Delco-Light in
your home. Delco-Light is a complete electric light and power plant, strong, simple in
design and self-operating. It takes up little of your space, practically none of your time,
and actually saves you money.
Let us send you particulars of how you can obtain Delco-Light in
your home and how it pays for itself.
h
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
GRAMOPHONES.
Gramola A. 3.
Mahogany or Walnut Finish.
£ 75/12/-
SOLD ON EASY TERMS.
The ivielba
Table Grand.
Mahogany Finish.
£37.
SOLD ON EASY TERMS.
His Master's Voice’
GRAMOPHONES.
The World’s Most Famous
Musical Instruments.
Judged from the standpoint of Beauty,
Qualitv, Finish or power of reproduc-
tion "HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
GRAMOPHONE rises supreme above
any comparison.
It is this superiority that enlists the
services of the world’s foremost
Artists to record exclusively for
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE.”
The achievements of “HIS MAS-
TER’S VOICE” for the past, quarter
of a century are considerations of
much importance to you.
Order one of “His Master’s Voice”
Gramophones NOW and make your
home happier with music that every
member of your family will enjoy.
WE SELL ON
EASY TERMS.
Write or call for complete Catalogue
and prices.
ĥ
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA,
LISMORE and ROCKHAMPTON.
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
GRAMOPHONES.
Library Grand.
Mahogany or Walnut Finish.
W, £57/101-
SOLD ON EASY TERMS.
j ■
The Austral Table Model
Oak Wax Finish.
£l7/17/-
Mahogany Finish, £lB/18/-
SOLD ON EASY TERMS.


Fortune’s Footsteps.
But all roads do not lead to high prices.
If you want to make quite sure of top values
Send Your Rabbit
and all other skins to
WINCKCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
Sydney ox* Brisbane.
DICK’S
LU
O
<
cr
9r~
Cj@2oEaßE£to
X
DC
<
E
Genuine Balata
Belting.
DICK’S Genuine Balata Belting is
everywhere solving the heavy service
problems of huge main drives. It
efficiently stands up to the gruelling
conditions imposed. It transmits the
greatest degree of power at the smallest
possible cost. Equally so in light
transmission where speed is terrific,
accuracy essential and vibration must
be reduced to a minimum; and on
individual motor drives involving small
pulley diameters and severe fluctuation
of loads.
Write for Free Copy of the “Balata Belting
Booh.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
Cor. York& Wynyard Sts., Sydney;
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne;
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Ml
You do
Sick
a
Friend
a
bjj ikcommnding
im
Bronchitis,
Coughs,
Colds
HYPOL Increases Energy.
Nerve Force
and Power
Made by
Felton, Grimwade a G. Cm
Melbourne;
on
h
a
m
s
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Well-
ington (N.Z.), Auckland,
Christchurch, New Ply-
mouth.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Patou & Co.)
Specialists in the Manufacture of
Telephone and Switchboard Apparatus for
Magneto, Common Battery & Automatic Working,
19 York Street, SYDNEY; 509 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
UsetheWind
Water your Stock.!
m S
\
l\
:
ĥ
'T'HERE is great Power in the Wind,
and the “ Comet ” Windmill can
use more of this Power for you. The
perfected sails of the “ Comet ” and
the special balancing of the simple
working parts make pumping possible
in light Breezes, before other mills
have started. This means more water
for your stock. Hundreds of “ Comet ”
users throughout Australia testify to the
wonderful pumping capacity of the * Comet.’
Our ne r w Catalogue is very interesting.
May we send you a copy ? ... .
Works BC Office:
SIDNEY WILLIAMS Be CO. LTD.
Constitution Road, Dulwich Hill, Sydney.
City Office : 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Also at Rockhampton, Brisbane and Townsville.
SW 14
COMET
•WINDMILLS
ħ
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works a Birmingham, England
h
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt,
j They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
ĥ
■22 RIM FIRE.
ħ
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALL BRITISH
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Jackeroo”: Talking about agistment fees.
A struggling selector in the Cunnamulla dis-
trict , (Q.). bagged £3OO a month, for three
months for the agistment of 1450 bullocks.
It just squared the last of the debt on his
little bit of Australia.
* * * *
. “Returned Empty”: Tell “L’Fou” (B.
7/6/’23) that carrying sheep by motors has
been a fairly common practice around Long-
reach (W.Q.) for some years. The lorries
are fitted with double-decked frames for
transporting southern rams to the stations.
“Pat Bushie”: Apropos “Geo. Rich’s”
small cheque (B. 7/6/’23), the Public Trus-
tee, Sydney, sends out some minute ones at
times, and worries when they are not pre-
sented, because he doesn’t get his books
cleared up. In one estate my dividend came
m three cheques—Sd., 3d., then sd.
“The Rumpus” : Speculative eyes are watch-
ing the banana-growing experiment of the
Carnarvon Tropical Plantation Co., which
bolds a river-bank strip of 650 acres on the
Gascoyne (W.A.). The plants are now above
a man’s head and look healthy. To date the
greatest trouble is the grass, which makes
swift growth. Of course, there are other
drawbacks. For instance, in the land where
houses have to be wired down, a willy-willy
could easily make fruit salad of the whole
show.
* * * *
“Ashmead”: P'atons and Baldwins will
soon be starting their new spinning mills
m Launceston (Tas.). Construction is
about finished, and machinery is being fitted
up, as fast as it comes, by craftsmen from
the firm’s English and Scottish mills. A
batch of 31 employees, including 15 artisans,
landed in the town from England the other
day—the Mayor welcomed them at the
wharf. These operatives will train local
workers in the various departments ; minia-
ture machines are already set up at the mill
for the purpose.
* * ■» «
“Curlett”: I should hate to discourage
any returned Digger who has been “repatri-
ated” on a fruit-farm ; but for the discour-
agement of others who may be listening to
the voice of the Million Farmer or other
syren, I give the results of my two apple-
shipments this year:—
50 cases per Sophocles:—Exchange, Bs. 2d. ; freight,
£ll ss. ; insurance, 9s. lid. ; stevedoring, 16s. 6d. ;
agency, 12s. 6d. ; balance, £6 145." lOd.
50 cases per Ballarat:—Freight, £ll 55.; insur-
ance, 9s. lid.; stevedoring, 12s. 7d. ; agency, 12s.
6d..; exchange, 7s. 6d balance, £4 19s. 7d.
Out of that £ll 14s. sd. I have to pay for
100 eases, , and for packing and cartage.
AY hat is left will —well, what do you think it
will do?
* * * *
“YVilfrido”: It’s an accountant in the
M.L. Repatriation Department who has been
doing it now. His scheme, which had turned
in over £lOOO before the Law sat up and
took notice, was worked in connection with
loans to returned soldiers on their furniture.
The first step was to forge an application
for a loan containing some fictitious name
and an equally imaginary number; then, in
his capacity of interviewing officer, the
operator would send in a written report
speaking of the bogus applicant in glowing
terms. The Board, as a matter of course,
would approve the loan, and the accountant,
after obtaining a cheque for the amount,
would forge the name on it and the voucher
for it. Nineteen loans were obtained like
this; the money went in the usual manner
and by the shortest route. Eighteen months,
Justice Chapman said.
* * * *
“Sucre”: Isn’t it time that the possibili-
ties of tea-growing were seriously studied
by Australians? Java, Ceylon and China
flood the Commonwealth with their product;
yet the slopes of the great Atherton Table-
land (N.Q.) would probably be found as
suitable. as any of these countries for tea-
plantations. Java pushes her worst tea into
Australia at 3fd. a lb. Sussex-street passes
it on to the retailer at 7d. Mrs. Surry
Hills gets it at Is. 04d. Tea costs a lot less
than sugar to grow—there are no expensive
mills to maintain, no grubs, and a stand-over
crop will keep for years. There are two other
lines that want hard thinking over also—'
coffee and rice. So far Tolga, about four
miles from Atherton, is the only part of the
Tableland that has gone “ricey.” Six acres
of upland rice recently returned 200 bushels.
At present over 60 acres are under cultiva-
tion ; it should be 6000. Last year 19 acres
of coffee returned 15,0.341 b. Somebody should
plant 1900 acres of the stimulant, and put
the Cairns hinterland on the map as a whole-
sale coffee-producer for Australia.
* * * *
“Husks” : I have lately finished reading the
final report of the Carruthers Select Commit-
tee in N. S. Wales on “The Conditions and
Prospects of the Agricultural Industry.” It is
a weighty report—2lb. exactly. As a record
of a nice jaunt at the public expense it is a
splendid production. To a mere cocky like
myself the personnel of the committee was
a revelation. No less than three lawyers
figure in the' 1/st at one time or another;
filso, a boiler-ipaker, a tailor, a journalist,
a banker-financier, .and a cabinet-maker. ■ I
have given the report to a neighbor’s children
as a picture-book, and they are quite fasci-
nated with it. Had the committee put in a
few days in Susstex-street, around the pro-
duce wharves and stores, at the Alexandria
and other yards or salerooms or markets
where the cookies’ products are “knocked
down.” “knocked out,” “passed in,” “fore-
stalled. . wash-sold,” “glutted,” “perished,”
“passed in to second hands”; where the
stuff is regraded, rebagged, rebranded re-
consigned; sold, resold and sold again’- or
had the committee inquired how vast ’for-
tunes are made out of farm, orchard and
dairy produce by sitting in easy-chairs or
motor-cars, I would have kept the report to
read and re-read. Finally, if the tailors,
tinkers and lawyers had investigated these
things they would have discovered the rea-
son of the drift to the cities, and why in-
stead of “staying put” on the land, 59 p.c.
ot those on the land ar e whooping for a
vigorous ‘inducement of new settlers with
capital m hopes of being able to sell out
to a Pommy mug,” and another 25 p.c. are
only staying on because they can’t help
themselves.


The Individual Pencil \
J
Tj' VERSHARP is a distinctly mdi-
vidual pencil with accomplish-
ments peculiar to itself. It does well,
all that an ordinary pencil does and
besides—
Is always sharp without the
nuisance of your sharpening it.
Its patented rifled tip holds the
lead firmly always so it can’t
loosen or wobble when writing.
It is a thing of beauty and gives
an air of distinction to its user.
Its eraser is concealed and pro-
tected by the top of the pencil.
It holds enough leads for writ-
ing almost indefinitely.
Eversharp is made in several patterns
—-with pocket clip or chain ring, and
in various metals.
h
For Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York U. S. A.
Be sure it’s an
EVERSBARP
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HO A RE, Ltd..
Remington House. Liverpool St.. Sydney
DO NOT BE
MISLED BY
CLUMSY
AND CHEAP
IMITATIONS
LOOK FOR
THE NAME
ON THE
PENCIL
Hi I tier's
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and mailed to
you the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
m
9^
n
BX
fillll
m
1
m
SB 1
■HB
■ !
Is
m
/
■
n
K i
mmm -■ MS
Ernest Hillier,
162-166 Pitt Street;
and Corner George and
King Streets, Sydney.
“How
Lovely /”
Hupmobile
Hupmobile service is proverbial. Hup-
mobile dealers have as much interest in
the owner after the sale of a car as
before.
This kind of service has spread the fame
of Hupmobile throughout the world
All Hupmobile dealers are helping.
V 9
Vs
m
m
oJ
Hupcaobu#
E-7
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth
Street, Hyde Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664
Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
112-120 Pirie Street, Adelaide, S. Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tas.
N.Z. FARMER S’ CO-OPERATIVE
ASSOC., Christchurch, N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Welling-
ton, N.Z.


I-:-;
COUGH
REMEDY
Coughs.C^p
Mil
‘M
lilil.
CROI
CHAINS
ELM EDY
BROI
SORE THI
INFLUE
;rj
THROAT and
ft, <lf
’ll
MADE inAUS
CHAMBERLA
SYDNEY N
fllll*
IW
#•> SMALL
BIAMB£RuS§UMITni
Drives away all kinds
of coughs like magic.
The most certain way to
get rid of a cough is to take
this wonderful medicine as
soon as the trouble appears.
It acts so quickly and so
effectively that before the
day is out you will forget
you ever had a cough.
fHAMBERLAI^
u Cough Remedy o
D.O.M.
Yes
Sir!
ĥ
Made in
various
sizes and
styles
from
Vz-pt. up.
VACUUM FLASKS
JARS and CARAFES
When motoring, travelling,
picknicking and on all out-
door trips, ICY-HOT pro-
vides hot drinks or food or
cold refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT. Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY- H O T
Food Jars keep contents
hot 24 hours and Cold
three days without the use
of fire, heat, ice or chem-
icals.
Built for Lifetime Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care
will last a lifetime. Easily
cleaned; absolutely sani-
tary. Look for name ICY-
HOT on bottom.
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 W. Second St., Cincinnati, 0., U S.A.
ħ
ley-Hoi Food Jar
r
j
c (
}
for the
Schnapps
DROP OF WOLFE’S, with Hot
Water, a Squeeze of Lemon, and
-*■ Sugar to Taste” —veritably this
is the ne plus ultra of cold weather
Nightcaps, as you’ll immediately agree
the first time you try it, for this truly
judicious mixture makes the most
enticing and healthfully-justified winter-
night beverage ever created through the
beneficence of Nature and the art of man
SZO"U9.LNUir t
3 1
111
30VMA38 Jill
Situ
■ss
iorxmau
If you would start on the
way to be “ Right for the
Night ” and Bright on
the morrow —
Take a Bottle of
'Wolfe’s” Home
To-day.
Obtainable in 3 Sizes
LARGE-Size Bottles
HALF-Size Bottles
QUARTER-Size Bottles
WOLFES
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
"oA Blessing to Humanity”
EPoqq
ONOTO
INK
Best
for all
Pens
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
“Jackeroo”: How is this for a record?
To date Skipper Fred Merrett, of the s.s.
Macquarie, has made 970 trips across the
Hastings River bar (N.S.W.). He is still
in the prime of life, and looks like making
many more.
A. T. Markman, the new sec. to the M.L.
Posts and Telegraphs, began, like Joseph
Ward, as a telegraph messenger, and is the
first officer to rise from that to his present
job. He succeeds R. B. Morris, who has
had almost lialf-a-century’s service, and re-
presented the Dominion at the Madrid Con-
ference in 1920.
Some anniversaries: Commonwealth En-
abling Bill received Royal assent July 9,
1900; first Parliamentary elections held in
Australia July 18, 1848; Matthew Flinders
died July 19, 18i4; Sydney became a muni-
cipality July 20, 1842; McDouall Stuart
reached Indian Ocean after crossing the con-
tinent July 24. 1802.
“W.F.C.” : Strange that Gullett’s “Official
History of Australia in Palestine” misses
Major “Billy” Markwell, D. 5.0., of Beau-
desert (Q.), second in command to Bourne
of the 2nd Light Horse Regiment. Mark-
well, who was killed in action at Beersheba,
was one of the gamest and most efficient offi-
cers of the Light Horse, and gained his
D.S.O. during the Romani operations at a
time when precious few decorations were
awarded to Australians on that front.
“Linesman”: The latest Commonwealth
statistics show that the vast majority of
householders are content to have a telephone
without using it, except for emergencies.
The average number of calls in a day is only
84 for the whole of Australia, and that is
made up chiefly by a host of calls on com-
paratively few ’phones in the city. The
country average, taken separately, is only
I}. South Aus. unexpectedly proves to
have the highest, average of calls, 4| a day.
“Sucre”; The old prison governor who
dealt out mercy at the end of a cat-o’-nine-
tails turned in his grave the other day
when 50-odd prisoners of Boggo-road Gaol,
Brisbane, lit up their pipes and sat back to
witness the screening of a movie picture,
“The Old Nest.” Captain Pierson, the pre-
sent Comptroller, has no time for the “Aban-
don hope all ye who enter here” tradition ;
his slogan is “There’s a little green spot at
the top of the hill.” It shouldn’t be long
now before the cry “Saveloys or Peanuts”
resounds through the body of the theatre at
Boggo-road.
“Coot”: Victoria has a Jordan, too;
and in this case the river is further distin-
guished by having a Jericho on its banks.
In the golden days of Matlock and Woods
Point Jericho was a considerable township,
with two thriving pubs patronised by hun-
dreds of miners. The town was subject in
winter 'time to floods, so ultimately the Jor-
dan was deflected from its ancient course,
and still flows through the tunnel made on
the outskirts of Jericho. At present only
about four houses are inhabited; one pub
has become a post-office, and the ruins of the
other are tenanted by casual goats.
“E.F.”: American papers announce the
decease of a minister of the Little Church
Round the Corner, famous in mushy ballad
and theatrical story. Joe Jefferson, the
original Rip Van Winkle, made the fortune
of the tabernacle in question. The presiding
parson at a tony New York place of
worship refused to provide burial solem-
nities for a dissolute friend of Jefferson, but
mentioned that he might get all the inter-
ment accommodation he needed from a cer-
tain “little church round the corner.” The
result was a theatrical boom for the conven-
ticle that buried the sinner; and the prof,
has kept it in the limelight ever since.
“Hamer”: A silver-wedding festivity in a
democratic Sydney suburb had a hungry fin-
ish recently. The celebrating couple had in-
vited a number of friends and neighbors to
a theatre-party; the second and final item
on the programme was to be an elaborate
supper under the home roof. The table was
left groaning with good cheer, in the fine old
phrase, and the house locked. Unfortun-
ately, when the party returned they found
nothing but empty dishes, well-picked bones
and vacant bottle.s. People who lived near
by were hysterically appealed to for enlight-
enment ; they could only say that the house
had been gay with music and laughter, where-
from they had naturally deduced that the
rightful owners were, entertaining their
friends. The whole business was promptly
diagnosed as a cruel joke worked by humor-
ists who were not on the guest-list.
“Yarruin”: No cattle-lifter was ever con-
victed at Walgett (N.S.W.). Indeed, few
criminals of any kind couldn’t rely upon
being triumphantly acquitted at Walgett,
and at last the scandal became so glaring
that, on the recommendation of the late
Judge Murray, the court was closed—lo
years ago. The late lawyer “Dicky” Thomp-
son, once M.L.A. for Maitland, told me a
yarn of a party he defended there. Much
iron had been stolen from the roof of a wool-
shed, and it lay in the yard for identification.
The prisoner, as usual, was acquitted. Pre-
sently came a knock at the door of the
Judge’s room, in which Richard happened to
be. The citizen whose character had been
cleared was",there; he merely wanted to say
that the iron would come in darned handy
at his pi ace, and did the verdict mean that
it wag' hiff'to take?
i \
A tally-clerk’s retort:— Q
Adjudicating at a Melbourne Uni. debate W. M.
Hughes is reported to have said that when he started
organising the Wharf Laborers’ Union the men got
10d. an hour, whereas they now get 2s. 9d. This
he described as “evidence of the progress of the
movement to put the capitalistic system out of
sight.” Rather is it evidence of Hughes’s sloppy
thinking. The average wharfie swears that he is no
better off now than he was in the old tenpenny days,
except in regard to leisure, of which he gets too
much. Every increase in rates used to be followed
by a rush of new men anxious to get the benefit of
it. After a time the union decided that the work
would have to be shared round. This meant, per-
haps, that jobs for 100 men had to be divided
among 120, so there were more demands for increased
rates, which, after a show of reluctance, were invari-
ably acceded to, the companies having discovered
that they could pass on the increase and make a bit
out of it for themselves. Of course, if the wharfies
worked full time, or anything approaching it, they
would do very well on existing rates. As things arc.
the system that is in process of being “put out of
sight” is doing better than ever.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular, giving new
rates, First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JULY 25,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL HANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; jHon. G.
W. Gray ; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
With Offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 83
Branches in Queensland, also representation through
the leading Banking Institutions covering Austral-
asia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest
facilities for the transaction of all general banking
business.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid lip and Heserves .. .. £1,523,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922.. £13,269,793
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman ; George
F. Todman ; Duncan Carson; H. R. Lysaght,
O. ; George J. Sly. LL.D.
General Manager; C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.S.W.: W. G. Hull,.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting Manager: G. H. Westcott.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 24 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Ru'ndle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares . . .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinaiy Shares . . . . . . 2.250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,246,957
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £875,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 650,000
£1,525,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 875,000
£2,400,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 95 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
’Xhe Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1922 £1,826,924
Vielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £3,000,000
Accumulated Funds .. . • • • £50,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. •• £7,500,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLEY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, &c.
Canadiaii-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
MAKURA (8100 tons) AUGUST 2
NIAGARA (13,500 tons) SEPT, 6
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
MAUNGANUI (7500 tons) JULY 19
TAHITI (8000 tons) AUG. 23
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
mm
§HB
sm m '
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3i TO 5 WEEKS
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHIUP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
Burns-Philp Tours.
Passages arranged to ENGLAND, AMERICA, JAPAN, CHINA,
INDIA. CEYLON. HONOLULU, etc., bv our
TOURIST TRAFFJC DEPARTMENT.
SPECIAL ROUND EASTERN TOURS.
1. To JAVA (The Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by
the magnificent steamers MARELLA and MONTORO.
Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney every month.
7 weeks’ trip for £9O.
2. SYDNEY to JAPAN, CHINA, and RETURN to SYDNEY,
via SINGAPORE, JAVA, QUEENSLAND PORTS. Sailings
every two weeks.
9 weeks’ trip, lst-class throughout, £129/10/-
Applv for further information to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
§5R...
ra
m
mm
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Pliability
Directors:
-
- £6,000,000
- 3,800,000
- 6,000,000
£15,800,000
Tliomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq,
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Tiireadneedle Street, E C.
385 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £3,000,000
RESERVE FUND 2,460,000
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,000,000
TOTAL - £8,460,000
Directors;
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. H. E. KATER, M.L.C., Deputy Chairman;
Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, M.L.C.; OWEN E. FRIEND;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C. General Manager; H. H. MA&SIE.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE.—IB Birchin Lane, E.C.3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; The Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the World.
DAILY PARTIES TO JENOLAN CAVES
Leave Sydney 9.25 a.m. (Sunday excepted).
n^M
days ... £4 17 6
days ... £5 15 6
days ... £6 15 6
Covering every incidental
expense, first-class.
Write for Illustrated Programme to
NEW SOUTH WALES
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Challis House, Sydney.
Shinn!"*.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailing's.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports ;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
*Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
tßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
DO THE GRAND WINTER TOUR TO CAIRNS.
Huddart Parkerllm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND-—Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TA'SMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every ten days. Between Melbourne
and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite (steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from Sydney only 144 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdouald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, lMiilp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"I" HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY,
9 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. OItARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY, 7 p.m.;
passenger due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/5/6
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHILIP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, THURS-
DAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA. HONG-
KONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly SaMings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., applv to
( NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp & Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO.. LTD.. MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic addi
“Macdonald Hamilton.’
#5 BRISBANE.
■
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., lad.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.. Ltd. P. &O.S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Roval Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.


Mil |
m
mmmm
HHm
K,
mm
WSB m
m
B ■
tsa
mm
H
m
m
■HHB
mm
Ha
in
mu*
J V v I
ifr
SQn^gSi^ji
i •
M
sifts-;:
1£
S»
1
H
1H
,4' : '"'
■
>•
I
:v
■B
sx
11
m£
e I
No Methods
in this Machine Shop.
)
f
4
SPUR GEAR
BLOCK.
Overhead handling systems give industry
impetus through providing it with equipment
designed to meet the enlarged needs of econo-
mic production. This modern demand has
been successfully met by the Overhead Hand-
ling Equipment, manufactured by Herbert
Morris, Ltd., Loughborough, England.
In Machine-shop, Store, Factory, Engine-room,
Kepair Yard, wherever goods must of a neces-
sity be kept moving, there is a place for a
MORRIS-BUILT product. Thusdanger is
eliminated, congestion is avoided, floor space
is increased, workers are relieved of heavy
trucking and stowing, and great reductions are
shown in wages and production costs.
When methods of this description are put into
management, new profits can be realised and
a thousand outlets of waste time and effort are
permanently stopped.
There is a MORRIS-BUILT Product for every
class of work. The illustration shows the effici-
ent service of a MORRIS Runway System in a
large machine-shop. Let this MORRIS service
show you the way to increased production and
MORRITrTI costs r~. send for tlle special
MUKKIj Catalogue, it is post free.
We will gladly send you our new 128-page
Ceneral Engineering Catalogue on request.
NOYES BROS.,
B<rarkp ß, 3S!£s- e; p ty., Ltd., 495-501
1f- ktieet, Melbourne; Darling Building,
ESS* 1 " Street Adelaide; Corner Elizabeth and
Collins Streets, Hobart; also from J. R. W. Gardani,
Murray Street, Perth. ’
MORRIS
BUILT
for Longer Service.
(Huxiruueu ;
Merchant Bars, also Special Trade Sections.
J(J—■ ' ■»
Merchant Bars, Loco Stay Rods,, Busbar (Electrical),
C (Sizes to Bft. X 4ft.).
MANGANESE BRONZE RODS
(Rolled)
Propeller Shafts, Pump Rods, Valve Spindles
r e _*-** and>
Ingots for Deep-sea PropeSler Castings.
HOT-PRESS stampings
etc. 1
in
“GRAPHYNE” Standard Quality.
support THIS industry-keep your money in Australia!
AUSTRAL-BRONZE I CO., LTD.,
. manufacturers,
OKiordan Street, Alexau tdria, N.S.W.
SELLING AGENTS—
NOYES BROS
SPORTING RIFLES
We have an unrivalled selection of Sporting Firearms, and
can supply suitable weapons for all classes of shooting.
We carry the finest range in Australia
h
“1 marvel at the price.”
Steven’s Little Scout Single-
snot Rifle, 22 calibre. 18in.. round steel
parrel: open rear and knife-edged front sights,
weight, about 2Alb.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/S; other States, 2/2.)
26/
ĥ
_ “Simple and extra strong in construction.”
810. Winchester Single-shot Ride, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all, 374 in.; open front sight; weight about 41b.
Freight Paid.
55/-
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
You can now purchase Sporting Rifles
and Guns without first obtaining a license.
tesSßkss
81. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim lire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
„ . . ... exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
' . rinefl with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
25/-
BBB4SI
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
832. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 High Power calibre. 6
tape / ed barr l el, take flown, weight about 71b., muzzle
,fV T l’ “ ay be used I, P t 0 350 yards without changing
tZJTa adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched
oullets (<0 grains) arc used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds:
TrGigxiL paid
£12,10/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to chance
without notice.
ħ
“Shoots icith guaranteed accuracy
812. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about sJlb. ..
Freight paid,
£6
ySBBBEg 1 — . |"w
“A cheap and reliable weapon .”
84. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.
round barrel. 20in., cliainbered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
45/-
h
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
828. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weiglit sJlb.
Freight paid,
£9
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
ĥ
818. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
817. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine.
20in. round barrel, weight about 5|1b... Freight paid,
£B/10/-
£9
£7/1 5/-
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
Npw Edition Illustrated Shooting Catalogue free on request.
Australia’s Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY. )
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St, BRISBANE, j


ALL THAT STANDS BETWEEN
a World
°f MISERY
SWELOo
4ij333k°
OISCOVERY
Coughs
Colds
7T
%
=_y
a World
sf happiness
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Of all the new discoveries in medical science, the most remark-
able of recent years is one which has proved invaluable to
thousands of people, and which is rapidly taking the place of
all other remedies for the relief of coughs and colds. This
preparation is called Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs
and Colds, and is a scientific compound of great merit. It is
most healing to the lungs and throat, and stops the cough or
cold in a remarkably short time, leaving no bad after-effects.
A few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery taken when a
cold is coming on are generally all that is needed to soothe the
fever and correct the bodily discomfort of a severe cold. It
is well to continue taking New Discovery for a day or two,
even after the attack seems averted, for its soothing influence
on the mucous membrane renders one less liable to a second
attack.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a favorite cough remedy
for men, women and children. Take a bottle home and
keep it on the shelf ready at hand for emergencies.
Price 1/9 and 3/-
h
£
OUGHS
ĥ
ħ
For the Unexpected Guests
REX CAMP PIE
• - 6 J* „» r &,** 4* t - #«j
In it you’ll find a completely satisfying answer to the vexing
question of “<Wb at shall I serve”? It satisfies —it nourishes!
It tempts jaded appetites with its flavor and its tenderness.
REX CAMP PIE is a meat treat that takes, secondplace to none.
Compounded of choicest meats —yet so different! Minced
very fine then blended and seasoned in a way known only to
the incomparable Rex Chefs.
Serve with Salad—with tomato or beetroot and you have a
dish that will be welcomed by all.
Rex. Camp Pie comes to you ready to serve —no cooking
required.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
h
Nightshade.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear Heart, to-night I overheard
The love-talk of that wingless bird,
The Kiwi, wooing its fond mate;
And often I have heard of late
Drumming or whistling loud and shrill,
The Weka underneath the hill,
The blubbering stream run at the call
Of the insistent waterfall,
A little wind around the lake
Rustle the white-plumed reeds awake,
As though God’s anodyne for grief
Were lavished on the earth’s relief.
A black orb and a scimitar,
Above them a five-pointed star,
Banner the High Commander’s tent
And camp-fires of the firmament;
But cold, dead cold, upon the floor
The charcoal lies. Across the door
A silken web is finely spun
To bar the wind and daunt the sun;
And, like an old crouched hag in shape,
With toothless gums and mouth agape,
The little hut, once warm and bright,
Seems as a brothel shamed by night,
Deserted for its very sin
By Lecher and by Harlequin.
Four-square the food-house stands before
The hooded lintel of the door
Un senseless legs, a goblin child
Born to her mother of the Wild,
Wherein we heard the bittern boom,
Couched warmly in our marriage room.
A-near us in the tasselled corn
We saw begotten and new-born
The youngling day, and nursed it through
The amorous hours from dew to dew.
But other maids and other minds
Hounded my folly to the winds,
And music set in scales of sin
For Saturnalia’s violin
Nerved my fain senses with its wine
To leap like Gadarean swine.
With vaporous skirts and musky hair,
And painted faces seeming-fair,
They danced a dance of Arcady,
Those flotsam of Virginity ;
And every waist was pinched and steeled,
While each breast like a waxen shield
Sun-soddened o’er its corsage bent,
Sagging and slack and impotent.
Here Music spared no hectic note
To shape a foul love-antidote
Through all the hours that passed, until
The husking swine had had their fill,
And Dawn, a raped and throttled nun,
Lay dead on earth. The music spun
To a thin whistle, shrilled and died
And hung before us crucified.
Not even the cursing of a thief
To that damned silence brought relief.
But then returned a vision fair
Of purling stream and leafy lair,
Of old night-voices on the wind,
Of intermingled flesh and mind,
Of Eden, with four rivers round
The Tree of Life in holy ground.
You were as kind as Spring’s first breath,
Calling the Lazarus-leaves from death ;
As Mary of Magdala’s touch
On His feet whom she loved much ;
Sweet as the nard that she did pour
Upon them, kneeling on the floor ;
And tressed like her, with braided hair,
The harlot’s badge, and limbed as rare
As Venus with the satin skin
The living pulses revelled in.
You were as sweet as Christ’s lips pressed
Upon the white brows of the Blest;
Sweet as the musk-rose when the bee
Touches it with fertility;
Sweeter than virgins in the dawn
Seemed to old senile Solomon.
And here I seek you in the Wild
As Magi sought the Holy Child—
I, your false lover, who has come
From God-cursed Herculanseum.
MAORILAND.
DARIUS.
The Ark of Straw.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the Australian press of the day there
is a vivid account —quite unmarred by
the captions which distinguish and dis-
figure its descendants of a century and a
quarter later—of the conditions which
existed in the valley of the Hawkesbury when
Peter Turkey and Molly Quinter made their
remarkable voyage seaward during the great
flood of 1806.
The Fourth Estate of this continent was
then entirely represented by the three-year-
old Sydney Gazette, and the issue from
which the subjoined extract is copied—that
of March. 30—consisted of four pages of
foolscap size, curiously and imperfectly
printed from the second-hand fonts of type
which had come out in the First Fleet.
Three columns are devoted to the letter of
the journal’s Hawkesbury correspondent—
who was not half a bad correspondent,
either, as may be judged from that portion
of his communication printed below.
There had been heavy rains at the be-
ginning of the month, when Dr. Thomas
Arndell, Chief Magistrate at the Green Hills
(Windsor), mentioned in a despatch to the
Governor that “the river has risen as high
as at any time since I have been at the
Hawkesbury River.” On the 2nd he wrote:
“I have the pleasure to inform your Excel-
hncy that the waters are abating. Though
not a general deluge, much corn is lost on
all the low lands.” A week later he told
Captain King that he was busy assessing the
amount of injury done but on the 23rd he
had to record the “dreadful damage” sus-
tained by the district under an inundation
worse than any of which the aborigines had
recollection or tradition.
It was on the Thursday when the renewed
downpour began. All Friday it continued in-
cessantly. The dark gorges and gullies of
the uncrossed Blue Mountains carried enor-
mous volumes of water into the Grose, the
Nepean and the Hawkesbury, and on the
eastern side of the main stream every creek
was running bank high by nightfall. On
the Saturday morning the flood was at its
height.
Follows the local and anonymous corres-
pondent of the Gazette :
In the course of this dreadful day upwards of
200 wheat stacks were swept into the stream, and
carried down the river with incredible velocity;
stock of all descriptions were seen floating' about,
and on the tops of the stacks, but could not be
saved for want of boats, those of Messrs. Thompson,
Biggers and others, being constantly employed taking
the settlers’ families from the roofs and ridges of
the houses, where many had for whole hours clung
despairing of assistance, and expecting to be shortly
washed into the watery waste. Towards Richmond
Hill it seemed to abate on Saturday evening; down
the river it still rose—the distress and horror of
that evening can neither be described or imagined.
The day heavy and gloomy, the night fast approach-
ing, torrents of rain pouring with unabated fury;
and not a house except at the Green Hills to be seen,
the roofs of one or two on the opposite side of the
water being then only visible. Muskets were dis-
charged by the settlers from trees and roofs all day,
and great numbers had been taken up and left in
safety on the higher grounds ; but many were Com-
pelled to undergo a night of' horror the most in-
expressible ; in the evening the dismal cries from
distant quarters, the report of firearms dangerously
charged in order to increase the 'noise of the explo-
sion ; the howling of dogs that had by swimming
got into trees, all concurred to shock the feelings
of the few that were out of the reach, but were
sorrowful spectators of the calamity they could not
relieve.
On the Monday that sturdy son of Yorkshire,
the Reverend Samuel Marsden, came riding
doggedly along the ridges and across the
muddy flats from Parramatta, somehow got
himself over South Creek,, and took effective
charge of the relief operations. Those who
would not lend personal aid in the work of
setting things straight he tried, in his capa-
city of a Magistrate of the Territory, on the
spot, and had them tied up and flogged, to
the glory of God and the great encourage-
ment of a spirit of neighborly charitable-
ness. So all eventually worked hard in the
task of repatriating those who had been
washed off their holdings, oftentimes upon
the roofs of their houses —and it may be said
that Heaven blessed the efforts of good Mr.
Marsdefj, and helped many into a proper
and right frame of mind who, but for his
convincing persuasiveness, might have sub-
sequently had cause to reproach themselves
for selfish a,nd unnatural behavior. A great
saver of souls was Sam Marsden —but that
has nothing to do with this particular story.
* & 9 ®
Peter Turkey was a red-headed West
Countryman, who had come to New South
Wales in Governor Hunter’s time, over a
small matter of poaching, for a term of
seven years. Molly Quinter was Irish, and
she had been concerned in the business of
’9B, so that she also was invited to reside
in King George lll.’s new colony during a
similar period. Both had served their sen-
tences with what amounted even to distinc-
tion—that is to say, their conduct had been
good in a time when it was easy to be bad,
they had been industrious and frugal when
many of their contemporaries had been idle
and profligate. On the whole, they were
very worthy ancestors of the virile race they
left behind them, and if their first mating
was a little irregular—the marriage sacra-
ment in those early days was not regarded
as being entirely indispensable—they lie
side by side to-day as man and wife, in a
strictly legal sense, in old St. Matthew’s
churchyard at Windsor. They were a happy
and contented couple, who loved one another
very dearly, and the poetic epitaph upon
their elegant altar tombstone —
Affliction sore long- time they bore;
Physicians were in vain—
Till God thought best to give them rest,
And ease them of their pain—
has no reference at all to any condition of
incompatibility of temperament that might
be supposed, from its selection, to have
cursed their long and prolific attachment.
It happened to be the only verse which the
maker of the tombstone had in mind when
he. .cajwed the neat inscription that distin-
guishes their last resting place. No respect-
able tombstone was complete without poetry
in 1839.
Peter’s grant of 100 acres lay across the
river on the wide flat that stretches nor’-
westward towards the Bull Ridge, that long
outer rampart of the Blue Mountains. His
slab-sided, shingle-roofed, one-storeyed little
house, with its skillion at the back, nestled
in the mist of a young orchard, and culti-
vation paddocks of maize and wheat, roughly
fenced with logs, lay before and behind.
Virginia creeper climbed up the verandah
posts, and roses bloomed. in a small garden
before the front door, fowls pecked and
scratched round about, and thirty or forty
head of cattle grazed amongst the tall trees
that used to grow on the flat. Alto-
gether, Varmer Turkey’s little holding was as
pretty and prosperous as any of its size in
the district. And Molly Quinter was not
the least ornamental or the least useful fea-
ture of the establishment.
The dawn of that disastrous Saturday was
viewed by Peter and Molly from the top of
the table in the living-room of their little
home, through its single glassless window,
with considerable misgiving. Eighteen inches
of muddy water swirled about the floor, hav-
ing invaded the premises some time in the
night, when it put the fire out. They had
no lamp or candle —such luxuries were un-
known amongst the humbler settlers in the,
bush in those days—and so, being flooded out
of their low-set sheet-o’-bark bed, they had
to clamber on to the table and wait until
daylight before they could quite realise the
calamity that was overtaking them.
“Eh, lass,” said Peter, as the first grey
glimmer of morning began to make a twilight
in the hut —“ ’tes tur’ble — tur'ble! Blessin’
o’ God, look out th’ windy! Lord save us—
we’m all to sea !”
“Sure, thin, Pether, ’tis mebbe the end o’
th’ worruld, so ’tis! An’ lookye, me mahn,
th’ wather’s a-risin’.” Molly pointed to the
yellow flood that was already nearly level
with the top of the rough slab table. “We’ll
nade to be a-gettin’ out o’ this. I wonder
what’s come o’ th’ bastes an’ th’ chickens?
Sure now let’s get some clothes on th’ both
of us. ’Tis not dacint for to be drownded,
you in y’r shirt an’ me in me shift.”
She jumped down into the cold flood with
a little “Ouch !” and Peter followed her into
(Continued on next page.)


Are You Worried with a Bad Back?
'Every Pieture
iimii tells &Ston
n
SB;
mm
m,,iL
&
✓V>
Is a dull, constant backache spoiling your life? Do sharp
pains stab you at every sudden move? Are you so tired
and down-hearted it seems you just can’t keep going?
Don’t be discouraged! You wouldn’t feel so badly
without a cause; and more than likely the cause is weak
kidneys. Not any organic kidney trouble, perhaps, but
a slowing-up of the kidneys and the resulting accumula-
tion of poisons that well kidneys would have filtered off.
Is it any wonder then, you feel so run-down, nervous and
depressed? That you are subject to frequent headaches,
dizzy spells and annoying bladder irregularities? Then,
why not give the weakened kidneys the help they need?
Why wait for some serious kidney trouble? Use Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. Doan’s have helped thousands.
They should help you. Ask your neighbor 1
EXPERIENCES OF SYDNEY PEOPLE.
Mrs. ,T. Maxwell, 17 Hansard Street, Waterloo, Sydney, says:— “lt
gives me great pleasure to say a few words in favor of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, this remedy having completely cured me of a bad attack of
kidney disorder some two years ago. I suffered dreadfully for some time,
and was often so bad with backache that I was obliged to lie up. I could
get nothing to give me ease from the constant pain, day or night, and it
was fast taking all the life and energy out of me. The kidney secretions
were affected, being thick and cloudy, with a red sediment, and there was
puffiness under the eyes, this, I knew, being a sign of dropsy. Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills acted splendidly, giving me relief in a few days, and,
as I continued taking the pills"'.my health rapidly improved, three bottles
making a perfect cure.”
Six ( years 'later Mrs. MaxwelP confirms her previous statement, and
says:—“l have had no return of kidney trouble since Doan’s Pills cured
me eight years ago. I have great faith in this medicine, and always keep
a bottle in, the house.”
Mr. Henry Francis, 2 Oxford Street, Burwood, Sydney, says:—
"Eighteen months ago I commenced to feel off color. A slight scalding
of the secretions began and gradually grew worse until they were intensely
painful, and I could not retain them. A pain then crept up my back and I
suffered torture. I went into the hospital and was treated there for nine
weeks, and although I came out a little relieved I was still in pain, and a
week later was as bad as when I went in. By accident I came across a
pamphlet about Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and after reading it I
resolved to give this remedy a trial, so sent for some at once. The first
bottle did not. seem to d'o me much good, but I persevered, and while taking
the second bottle I got a little ease, and four bottles completely cured me.”
Twenty years later. Mrs. Francis says:—“My husband has great
faith in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and always keeps them by him.
This medicine cured him many years ago, and it always acts beneficially
whenever he has occasion to take it.”
h
ĥ
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from
Foster-McClellan Co,,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
the bedroom, where they hastily clad them-
selves. The water was three feet deep, and
rapidly rising, when Peter opened the door
and looked out upon the strange and terri-
fying scene that the broader light of day
made manifest. The woman stood behind,
and peeped over his shoulder. They shivered
as they took in the full extent of the catas-
trophe.
“Glory be!” muttered Peter. “Th’ varm
be a-drownded out for zartain sure. Them
beasts’ll be swep’ away afore an hour’s past.
What’d us better do, Molly lass?”
He was a little bewildered as he turned
his red face to the woman, and she noticed it.
“We must kape our heads, Pether, me
bhoy,” she cried bravely. “An’, he th’ Vargin,
we must hurry up, or we’ll be swep’ away,
too. There’s no place for to get but on th’
roof. Come” —she gripped his arm—“roun’
to th’ back, an’ up to th’ ridge-pole by th’
skillion. ’Tis our only chance. Here, put
this in your pocket!”—she thrust a rolled-
up worsted stocking into his hand.
“What is it?” he asked.
“ ’Tis all we’re like for to have left in th’
worruld. ’Tis th’ bit o’ money was hid
below tli’ bed. We’ll nade it, if iver we get
out o’ this alive. Come now—quick ! On
to tli’ roof. ’Tis our only hope.”
She dragged him through the door into
the muddy water outside, which reached
above their hips, and slowly, hand-in-hand,
they waded round the end of the house to
where the lean-to at the back afforded slip-
pery access to the higher roof of shingles.
He clambered out of the water and dragged
her after him. Presently they sat side by
side on the ridge-pole. The rain beat down
upon them fiercely, and the cold wind cut
through their sodden clothing. The only
sounds were the hissing and gurgling of the
downpour, and the ceaseless bellowing of the
fast submerging cattle. It was not a com-
fortable situation.
They seemed to be alone in all the vast
expanse of water that surrounded them,
although they,knew that half-a-dozen neigh-
bors, from whose homesteads they were hid-
den by belts of tall timber, must be in some
similar plight to theirs. As the daylight
increased from the first glimmer of early
morning into the dark greyness of the storni-
dimmed forenoon they were able to see more
plainly how perilous their situation was.
The cold was bitter, and they huddled close
together on the soaked black shingles for
warmth, whilst the turbid flood steadily rose
towards the eaves of the house. Presently
the cattle ceased to bellow, and were gone.
“We’m surely like to drown, Molly, me
lass!” muttered P'eter hoarsely. “’Tes zar-
tain sure th’ house’ll never last it out. no-
how. Well, but ye’ve been a good woman
along wi’ me. A helpin’, good woman —’tes
but God’s truth for to zay zo. Eh. lass, but
’tes properly married we should ha’ bin afoor
our end coom like thickee here.”
He strained her to him affectionately, so
that tears came into her brave eyes as she
looked up into his anxious red face. Her
teeth chattered, but she responded with the
courage of her race.
“Die is it?” she gasped. “We’ll not be
afther dyin’, Peter bhoy. ’Tes th’ blessed
Vargin’ll be savin’ us yet. Mother o’ God,”
she whispered, “luk down upon us now. Take
pity on us, an’ help us. Me mahn’s but a
heretic—but he’s a good, true mahn as iver
was. Hail, Mary! Jasus, pity us! Th’
blessed Saints be good to us! Pether, lad,
cud ye not be afther sayin’ a prayer, too?
A pathernosthra now—’tis a prayer houlds
good in both of our belafes. Our Father.
Say it, mahn—say it!”
Shakily, Peter Turkey responded:
“Our Father w’ich art in Heaven, allard
be Thy name, Thy will”
He was interrupted by a little scream from
his mate. "Mercy on us !” she cried, detach-
ing her right arm from about his neck and
pointing down to the surface of the flood.
"Luk there, Pether, luk there! Don’t ye see
th’ pretty craytqre? A-swimmin’ over there!
Micky th’ pig—-an’ not drownded yet! Over
there be th’ big yaller-jacket tree—a-makin’
for th’ haystack. Luk at him now’! Oh, th’
diver wan! Me beautiful Micky. The
pretty darlint!”
“I see un!” cried Peter. “He’s got to it!
’Tes sure an’ vitty ! Good laad — good land!
He’s climbed a-top of it —he’s shakin’ hisself.
’Tes a wunnerful thing! An’, by gum, if
Towser ain’t up there, too, a-barkin’ at him.
Glory be—did ever volk zee th’ loike o’
thickee !”
The haystack was 30 yards away from the
western end of the house. Peter, instead of
thatching it after the manner of his country,
had roofed it with sheets of bark, well lashed
flown with plaited ropes of grass that passed
under and around the hay, and secured it to
the flooring of logs upon whidh it had been
built up. Upon the top of this they could
see botli pig and dog, side by side, strange
companions in adversity.
Suddenly the house trembled and shook
beneath them, and then began to heel over.-
Molly uttered a little cry, as, locked together,
she and her man slid downward into the
yellow waters.
Just above the mouth of Cattai Creek the
20-ton schooner Dumfries, owned by Mr.
Andrew Thompson, of the Green Hill’s, and
inward bound to that port from Sydney with
a cargo of stores and agricultural implements,
lay moored against the flood that had de-
layed the last stages of her voyage. A stout
hawser attached t(\ a tree on the bank held
her blunt nose up-stream, and she was an-
chored out into it by the stern, so that she
lay slightly oblique to the course of the
liver. Jimmy Davies, her master, and his
crew of two —Black Sam, a West Indian
negro, and Stepney Bill, a Cockney mariner
who had mutinied at the Nore—stood along
her starboard side with poles in their hands,
fending off the logs and trees that came
swirling down. Dead cattle and sheep and
an occasional horse eddied past through the
muddy whirlpools, and pumpkins, diminished
and dwindling haystacks and thousands of dry
cornstalks spun and bobbed and twisted along
the Dumfries’s low freeboard, on their way
to Broken Bay and the wide sea out beyond
Lion Island. It was 3 o’clock in the after-
noon on that same Saturday - when Peter
Turkey’s house collapsed and cast him and
Molly Quinter into the all-devouring waters
of the Big Flood. And still the rain beat
upon them in undiminished fury.
Whilst he was in the act of shoving off
a dead cow which had fouled the schooner’s
cutwater, Captain Jimmy Davies was
startled by a loud yell from Black Sam.
Giving a final and effective push to the cow,
the master of the Dumfries turned aft to see
what was the cause of the negro’s excite-
ment.
With outstretched arm he was pointing up
the river. “Glory to goodness, Massa Davy,
look um dar! Up dar by de bank. Haystack
wit’ peoples on it. See um dat, massa,
a-driffin’ down on us. Hey, dar, lemme stan’
by to chuck ’em line. Gawd bress us!”
Turning again to look and shading his eyes
against the stinging rain, Jimmy Davies be-
held an astonishing sight. Slowly spinning
and turning, bobbing and curtseying down
the bank, where the current ran less swiftly,
came floating towards them the strangest
craft which that seaman of Old and New
South Wales had ever seen manned by human
beings. Two people occupied its queer deck,
and two other live objects which he could
not quite define.
“Heffens abofe. indeed!” he exclaimed.
“Yes, py Got,” he yelled to Black Sam;
“stant py with a line. Sambo. Pass me th’
poathook. Bill. They’ve fouled th’ caple—
they’ll be on us in a moment. Oh. py Got,
did ever man see such a sight!”
Down along the taut line the haystack
came spinning slowly, until it impaled itself
upon the schooner’s bowsprit, where it shiv-
ered and stuck. Black Sam threw the line,
which Peter Turkey caught. In less than a
minute Molly Quinter was upon her knees by
the Dumfries’s foremast, rendering fervent
and incoherent thanks to the Virgin. In two
minutes Peter Turkey, a little dazed, was
shaking hands wetly with the excited Jimmy
Davies. In three the negro and the Cockney
had effected the rescue of Micky the pig and
Towser the dog. In five the ark of straw
which had delivered this modern Noah from
the Deluge had dissolved and gone to pieces,
and was floating in disintegration towards
the ocean.
“ ’Twas th’ blessed Vargin done it. Cap’n
dear,” sobbed Molly Quinter. “Hersilf, an’
no less. Sure, an’ I promised her me mahn’d
c’ase for to be a heretic and join up wid
Holy Church if she brung us safe out of it
afther we swum to th’ shtack whin th’ house
fell down. An’ ye will—won’t ye, Pether
bhoy?”
"Aye, by God that will I. lass. She’m good
enough for me!” swore Peter Turkey fer-
vently.
“Well, well, indeed, ’tis good Methody I
am, Mister Turkey, my friend. But if ’twas
me I think I’d do th’ same. Indeed, yes!”
Captain Jimmy Davies observed sympatheti-
cally.
That night, in much discomfort and pre-
maturely, but with no ultimate harm to
mother or son. was born Peter Jesus Cattai
Turkey, in the tiny cabin of Andrew’ Thomp-
son’s little schooner Dumfries. I don’t know
why his father and mother are buried in the
Church of England graveyard of St. Mat-
thew’s. at Windsor. Stranger things than
that have happened on the Hawkesbury.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
The Process Server.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was the first job I ever undertook for
pay.
I had finished school in Brisbane
and was staying at Dalby with my unde,
the manager of the Q. N. Bank there. I
had not decided whether I would be a lawyer,
a station manager or an auctioneer. While
1 was waiting to answer the conundrum 1
was approached by Daniel Galhvey, Clerk
of Petty Sessions, and asked if I would like
to earn some pocket-money. “You’re fond
of riding,” said the C.P.S.; “this should
suit you down to the ground.”
The job was to serve a summons on a
selector nine miles from Warra township.
For it I was to get a shilling a mile and
half-a-crown service money. I set off in
great heart at daybreak. It was a long-
day, but I enjoyed every minute of it. think-
ing of the £1 lGs. 6d. which would soon be
mine.
It was nearly nightfall when I made my
final inquiry at a dam-sinker’s camp. “Just
over the rise, lad,” was the reply. “Tim
Reardon’s is the only house this side of 20
mile.” I was given an almost effusive wel-
come at Reardon’s by a stout, breathless,
generous soul who called me “dear” and
“sonny,” and whose wistful face was framed
in a wealth of greying hair. “Turn your
horse out,” she said, “and sit in and have
a bit o’ tea. It isn’t like what you’ve been
used to. perhaps,” she added, “but you’re
very welcome.”
For the first time I realised what my job
was. A summons to serve on Timothy Rear-
don—£9 12s. Sd. for goods sold and delivered.
Gallwey’s last words to me bad been: “If the
defendant is not at home, service on his
wife is quite effective.”
At the fire that night, when all was bleak
without, kid as I was I marvelled at the
fortitude of that woman. Reardon, she told
me, had taken up this land with next to no
capital, but confident that with her help
and “one good season” he would be on his
feet. Not one drought season but two had
come upon them. Their little all had disap-
peared. With five children to feed and the'
flour-bag empty, Reardon two months ago
had shouldered bluey up the Condamine look-
ing for fencing or any other job. She had
not heard of him since. As she told me this
when the children had gone to bed I saw
her eyelashes glisten. “Never mind, dear”—
and she put her apron hastily to her face —
“I sold my side-saddle last week, so we will
have a bite and go to bed.”
I slept little, and caught my horse early.
I knew that the only food in the shack was
a piece of damper and half-a-tin of jam, and
would have left without breakfasting. “No,
no, sonny,” she said, “I won’t let you com-
mence the day on an empty stomach.” And
she didn’t.
I dared not hand the writ back to Gall-
wey; I posted it to him.
D. G. MACDOUGALL.


BM
i
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST. N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
For Long Life 8 Good Protective Qualities
USE
BITUMASTIC SOLUTIONS
Supplied in Red, Grey, Brown, Green and Black.
Suitable for surfaces exposed to weather, sea air or chemical action.
Covering capacity much greater than that of Oil Paints.
I* l h* if 2 gall, tins, and 5 and 10 gall, drums.
Send for color cards to Sole Agents—
J. WILDRIDGE S SINCLAIR, LTD.,
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CAILLE “PERFECTION” MARINE ENGINES.
m
ft*wnwllWß
reTROIT«i<W«AH
U'SA./-,
h
2h.p. £34, 4h.p. £47/10/-, Bh.p. £BO,
2ih.p. £45, 6h.p. £57/10/-, 14h.p. £l5O
WRITE, ’PHONE OR CALL.
Sole Agents for Australasia and Pacific Islands.
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED
76 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 107-109 Queensbridge Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Cable Address : “BROSBENSON.”
Refill igtQß, Pocket Knives
Are just as popular as Remington
Firearms and Ammunition
R3333 —One of 700 Patterns
THE GENERAL
UTILITY KNIFE
Fitted with
Heavy Cutting
Blade
Punch Blade
Tin Opener
Screw Driver
Bottle Opener
-fez
&<e/a
A
K
ĥ
P 3
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
25 Broadway, New York', U.S.A
D. D. BRYANT, Representative. Box 086. G.P.0.. Melbourne.
M
Cl
m
m
kh
•u
BEEGHAMSPBIS
ħ
h
ĥ
If any illustration appearing in Thh
Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the
.
who will quote you price for it.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should lead the Biuxisu Ausxhalasian,
Ud. weekly—ah illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
Biuxisu Ausxhalasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
When the spark
says GO///
Then TEXACO, the volatile* Motor Spirit,
responds—instantly. It puts the GO into your
motor for a quick get-away or the full-power
steady pull.
In less than 100th part of a second every particle of
motor spirit should completely give up its power. Texaco
Motor Spirit does this to the last molecule. It gives up
its power and gives it quickly.
If you buy motor spirit by habit, then try a new method
for better all-round results. Ask specifically for Texaco,
the volatile Motor Spirit, and watch the difference in
your motor. All garages can supply.
* VoI-a-til=ity- the readiness with which
motor spirit gives up its power.
The Texas Company (Australasia) Ltd.
Head Office: SYDNEY.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand.
ħ
, u ,h««hhiw/
*
tntuimummtimw
iiuiimiunutwin
The Vo/atf/e Motor Spirit
The Clean Clear Motor Oil


TASTE
The taste of Dewar’s is the
Golden Key which unlocks
all the pleasant avenues of the
memory. In Dewar’s Whisky
there is something creamy
and yet not cloying; some-
thing velvety and yet not
heating, something rich and
yet not obtrusive; something
crisp and yet not crude.
Strong and yet gentle, Dewar’s
is the Paladin of Whiskies.
