

PINEAPPLE BRAND
HAMSC
BACON
m
mm
1
%-
i
A
W»m>l£
BRAN 0
iu,„
ssw
Mi
f
• \%x ~ -Z*
'-C? 2:-
All Grocery and
Small Goods Stores
J.C.HUTTON PROPTY, LTD..
FACTORIES AND
WAREHOUSES
[Bri SBANe.Melbourne,Canterbu ry, N.S.W.
(acents-PRESCOTTSLTD,sussexst.SYdney)LaUNCESTONCtas)FREMANTLE(w.a)
S.A.(AW.SANPFORD $ CO., ADELAIDE)
sdf
The Bulltin
Vol. 44.—N0. 2269.
Thursday, August 9, 1923.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The new library Catalogue for 1923 is
now ready, and it will be sent post free, with
full particulars, on application.
DYMOCIv’S book arcade, ltd.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
lysaght
o
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
i mmm
SiJf
Ss— s
■Sis
iiimt
Mangrovite Leather or Raw-hide Belting
for Lasting Wear and Power Saving.
Discriminating selection of ox-hides, over 40 years’ experience,
and special process of tanning and manufacture all contribute
to the unique qualities of Mangrovite Belting. Its dogged
elastic grip lasts on" every type of drive and under all con-
ditions of service. Every belt guaranteed.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 573-85
Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Fra ah el & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 5 Bedford Row, Christchurch.
FABIAN.
POEMS BY JAMES DEVANEY.
Paper Cover, 36 Pages .
Price 2/6.
A book no lover of good Australian Poetry
should miss.
This is one of the most delightful collections
of poems we have had the privilege of hand-
ling. The intensity and sincerity impress one
throughout, whilst here and there the music
of a verse stirs the emotions.
Otago Witness (from a Column Review) :
“Enough has been said and quoted to
show that Mr. Devaney’s poems are of a quality
very ..rare in Australian writers of verse, and in
their seriousness, elevation, and consistent fol-
lowing of poetic beauty a welcome contrast to
much of the most acclaimed Georgian verse.. Mr.
Devaney’s little book deserves to be widely
known, and all lovers of poetry who read it
will wish him health, and hope that this is
only the first of many books from his pen.”
At All Good Booksellers, or Sent Direct for
2/8 from
Lothian Book Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Rialto, 497 Collins Street, Melbourne.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with the complaint, write us and
we will send you our catalogue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
This appliance does away with all cumbersome
springs, giving a feeling of ease and comfort from the
first day’s use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a rupture
firmly and comfortably under all conditions.
To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
ff it is not satisfactory we do not expect you to keep
it, and the trial costs you nothing. It is suitable for
men, women and children, and the price is within
the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
97 Queen Street, Melbourn*
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin ■ takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY ffi o n).
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
l/». Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /-.
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS
WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c. '
CATALOGUES FREE.
sdf
FUNNIEST FOUR
FARCES, in one book,
2 / Contents —April
Fools; Who Is Who;
Ici on Parle Frangais;
Who’s to Win Him?
PLAY Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/-
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage 1/6
SUPREME
THE
14 h.p. 4-cyl. Model.
sdf
Fast, economical, reliable,
easy of control, with won
derfully efficient suspen
sion and braking power.
Bodywork of several at-
tractive types, all open
cars fitted with Sunbeam
detachable side curtains,
giving closed car comfort
at open car price.
Models are : 16/40 h.p. 4-cyl. and 24/60 h.p. 6-cyl.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
WOLVERHAMPTON, ENG.
Export Dept.: 12, PRINCES ST.,
HANOVER SQ., LONDON, ENG.
Cable Address : “ Subeamoco,” London.
Authorised Dealers:
Adelaide Motors Ltd., . , ,
173-175 a Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
Williams Brothers, Ltd.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
The Autocar Industries Pty., Ltd.,
104-112 Russell Street, Melbourne
Howard Motor Co., Ltd. 376-378 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Arthur Anderson Ltd., 1066 Hay Street, Perth.
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Beinp destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states: —“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result is
J'.kely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
I/O a Tin.
A. The Larynx Of
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
m
d
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Bung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis and Influenza.
The Red Page
Dampier and Australian Discovery
Australians are strangely loath to pay then
debt to that grand old buccaneer who bore
the name of William Dampier, anci who
united in his unique personality the skill or
a self-taught navigator, the courage and
address of a soldier of fortune, and the in-
satiate curiosity of a zoologist and an ethnol-
ogist with the native gift of a vivid descrip-
tive writer. t , c ,
Dampier was born at East Coker, Somer-
setshire, in 1652, a year after Cromwell s
“crowning mercy” on the field of W orcester.
Like his successor in Australian maritime
discovery, lie was in his youth appren-
ticed to a shopkeeper; and, like Cook, as soon
as he possibly could do so he exchanged
the yardstick for the yardarm. At the age
of 17 he made a voyage to France, sailing
from Weymouth. He went afterwards m
the same ship to Newfoundland; but he
suffered so terribly from the cold that on his
return he-relinquished for a season the pur-
suit of maritime adventures. But the lure
of the sea was too powerful for a maintained
resistance, and he sailed away to Bantam
on a “warm voyage.” In the year of his
majority (1673) he fought against the Dutch
on board the Royal Prince. Invalided home,
he lingered for some months at his brother's
house until strength brought back the old
wanderlust, and lie went to Jamaica to man-
age a plantation. But in 1705 he had
shipped to the Bay of Campeachy to load
logwood. And so lie continued to cruise
about in those adventurous waters, and to
sojourn on those islands of romance until
he drifted among the privateers, and drifted
away again after some fighting with Spanish
ships and some sacking of Spanish-American
towns.
Dampier made a visit to England in 1678,
but returned to Jamaica during the follow-
ing year with the intention of embarking
seriously in the logwood trade. But he was
diverted by the prospects of a trading voyage
to the Mosquitos, and ended by joining the
privateers. Then succeeded a period of wild
adventures, of which very little is known.
The expedition, which was directed
against the Spanish settlements, proved a
failure. Dampier was taken prisoner, but
escaped, rejoined the main body of the buc-
caneers, and by the aid oflndian guides forced
a way to the Pacific, across the isthmus
of Darien—a feat that ranks amongst the
most memorable of the traditions of travel.
For an account of his career during these
stirring years, the reader may consult John
Masefield’s splendid edition of the Voyages
(E. Grant Richards, 1906).
In 1684, whilst Dampier’s ship was lying
off the island of La Plata, the buccaneers
were joined by the Cygnet (Captain Swan)
—names indissolubly associated with the
coast of Westralia, though Swan himself had
been left behind by his mutinous crew at
Mindanao. On January 4. 1688, the Cygnet
fell in with the land of New Holland, and
cast anchor on the day following.
A decade elapsed before he again visited
the shores of New Holland. “D.F.,” in his
article. “Cook and Australia” (R.P.
24/5/’23), thinks the failure of Dampier to
make the eastern coast was due to the un-
seaworthiness of his ship and the discontent
of his crew—“so he went the other way and
missed it.” Dampier himself gives the sea-
son of the year as his reason for taking the
Cape of Good Hope, rather than the Cape
Horn route. After his return to England
from his first great circumnavigatory voyage,
he had plenty of time for reflection, and made
up his mind to canvass whomsoever would
listen to him, and was powerful enough, to
assist him. lie prepared for publication “A New
Voyage Round the World,” and studied Dry-
den in the art of writing dedications. He
was no common privateersman, and somehow
managed to enlist the interest and the pat-
ronage of Charles Montague (afterwards
Earl of Halifax), president of the Royal
Society and one of the Lord Commissioners
of the Treasury, and various others. At the
beginning of 1699 he was appointed to the
command of the ship Roebuck, of 12 guns,
manned by a companv of 50 men and boys,
and victualled for a 20-months’ cruise. On
January 14 he sailed from the Downs; on
August 2 following the coast of New Hol-
land hove into view, and a few days after-
wards he brought up in two fathoms and a
half of water in Shark’s Bay. On September
she put to sea again. Afterwards he wrote:
I had spent about five Weeks in ranging off and on
the Coast of New Holland, a length of about 300
Leagues: and had put in at 3 several Places, to see
what there might be thereabouts worth discovering;
and at the same Time to recruit my Stock of fresh
Water and Provisions for the further Discoveries I
purposed to attempt on the Terra Australis. This
large and hitherto almost unknown Tract of Land is
situated so very advantageously in the richest Climates
of the World, the Torrid and the Temperate Zones,
having in it especially all the Advantages of the
Torrid Zone, as being known to reach from the
Equator it self (within a Degree) to the tropick
of Capricorn, and beyond it; and in coasting round
it, which I designed by this Voyage, if possible; I
could not but hope to meet with some fruitful Lands,
Continent or Islands, or both, productive of any of
the rich Fruits, Drugs or Spices (perhaps Minerals
also, etc.) that are in the other Parts of the Torrid
Zone, under equal Parallels of Latitude, at least a
Soil and Air capable of such, upon transplanting
them hither, and Cultivation....
With such Views as these I set out at first from
England, and would, according to the Method I
proposed formerly, have gone Westward, through the
Magellanick Straight, or round Terra del Fuego,
rather, that I might have begun my Discoveries upon
the Eastern and least known Side of the Terra Aus-
tralis. But that way ’twas not possible for me to
go, by reason of the Time of Year in which I came
out'; for I must have been compassing the South of
America in a very high Latitude, in the Depth of
the Winter there. I was therefore necessitated to
go Eastward by the Cape of Good Hope; and when I
should be past it, ’twas requisite I should keep in
a pretty high Latitude, to avoid the general Trade
Winds that would be against me, and have the
Benefit of the variable Winds. By all of which I
was in a Manner unavoidably determin’d to fall
in first with those Parts of New Holland I have
hitherto been describing. For should it be ask’d why
at my first making that Shore, I did not coast it to
the Southward, and that way try to get round to the
East of New Holland and New Guinea; I confess I
was not for spending my Time more than was neces-
sary in the higher Latitudes; as, knowing that the
Land there Could not be so well worth the discover-
ing as the Parts that lay nearer the Line, and more
directly under the Sun. Besides, as the Time when
I should come first on New Holland, which was early
in the Spring. I must, had I stood Southward, have
had for some Time a great deal of Winter-weather,
increasing in Severity, though not in Time, and in
a Place altogether unknown; which my Men, who
were heartless enough to the Voyage at best, would
never have borne, after so long a Run as from Brazil
hither.
For these Reasons, therefore, I (hose to coast
along to the Northward, and so to the East, and so
thought to come round by the South of Terra Aus-
tralis in my Return back, which should be in the
Summer-season there: And this Passage back also
1 now thought 1 might possibly be able to shorten,
should it appear, at my getting to the East Coast
of New Guinea, that there is a Channel there coming
out into these Seas, as I now suspected, near Rose-
mary Island. Though for Reasons I shall afterwards
shew, I could not return by the way 1 propos’d to
my self.
Cook did not discover Australia ; neither did
Dumpier. But the latter was the first Eng-
lishman to visit this quarter of the globe and
to put English names on its map. He cele-
brated his country in the island of New Bri-
tain, and some day, when Rabaul is _ the
flourishing capital of a new State, Dampier’s
statue may dominate the principal square of
the city. His memory, both at the hands of
Great Britain and Australia, deserves vastly
more than it has received. Dampier was the
finest sailor of his age, the best hydrograplier
and geographer, and his travels are not only
the best-written, but they are the most in-
teresting in our language. Sir Walter Scott
salutes him as a brother-artist, and credits
him with being the instructor of Defoe in the
art of maritime narration.
FRED J. BROOMELELD.
St. John Ervine
“The mere fact that a man has contracted
a profitable habit of putting words together
does not entitle him to more of the world’s
respect than is due to one who has contracted
the habit of putting bits of metal together
and calling the result a motor-car,” says St.
John Ervine in “Some Impressions of My
Elders.” With this statement I find my-
self in agreement; but I do not doubt, never-
theless, that Henry James will have a place
in literature when Henry Ford is only a
memory kept fresh by the comic journals.
Anatole France has more than once confessed
to having more admiration for the grower
of a good cabbage than for the writer of a
mediocre book; yet the discerning French-
man, confronted with a series of books that
show their author to possess a witty penetra-
tion and a passionate sincerity, apart from
the fact that France has always instinctively
taken a fatherly interest in the more refrac-
tory element in the Irish, would be the first
to turn from the worship of vegetable matter
to the cult of the aesthetic; and one thing
in particular would strike him as unusual
—that Ervine writes about his race as if he
understands it, complaining that until the
smugness, complacency- and self-satisfaction
of his countrymen have been removed they
will never learn the truth about themselves
nor will their government be a success.
To this extent he can claim kinship with
J. M. Synge, who has influenced him,
although not so much in his plays as in his
novels. The tang of the Ulster air has
worked its way into both “Changing Winds”
and "The Foolish Lovers,” but out of his
north-eastern types he does not extract the
lovable qualities that Synge portrayed in the
people of the South. The latter of the two
books, which is partly autobiographical, deals
with a youthful Ulsterman who seeks Lon-
don as a stepping-stone to fortune, and who,
after many adventures in love and journal-
ism, returns to his native Ballyards to take
over the shop that has provided the means
whereby he has been enabled to gratify his
ambitions. In all his novels, four in num-
ber, it is easy to detect traces of James
Joyce. But he Is without the gross unsenti-
mentality of the author of “Ulysses”; his
characters, in a male quest for romance, have
a chivalrous reverence for women ; and with
his old folk, dwelling in the wistful vista of
the past, he is tender with that tenderness
the Irish know so well. Different, indeed,
from Arnold Bennett, who sees in old age
only the. spectacle of the decaying structures
of youth and the ruins of the castle of
dreams!
His latest play, “Mary, Mary, Quite Con-
trary,” is his first venture into the realms
of comedy. As one might expect, it is the
finished product of a man whose articles in
the Observer rank him as one of the best of
present-day critics of the drama. For some
time he managed the Abbey Theatre in
Dublin, and to the experiences that he
gained there must be attributed the technical
qualities that mark his writings for the
stage. Certainly Mary Westlake acts more
with the abandon of a revue lady than with
the reserve of the great actress that she is
supposed to be; but she is an entertaining
creation, and the scene where her rumored
absence with the Canon’s brother, Sir Henry
Considine, of Andabar, leads to the mobilisa-
tion by Miss Mimms of her girl guides, is as
effectively amusing as that in Wilde’s “Im-
portance of Being Earnest,” where John
clothes himself in black to mourn the alleged
demise of the profligate Algernon. But a
more serious purpose underlies his other
plays. His “Mixed Marriage” is a powerful
exposition of one of the most difficult of the
problems that confront us to-day ; his “Jane
Clegg” is an essay in realism, an attempt to
delineate his characters through the happen-
ings that befall them as Synge did in his
magnificent “Riders to the Sea”; his “The
Ship” is a finely-constructed piece of work,
planned as perfectly as any new play pub-
lished in the last few years. In theme it is
Houghtonish. There is the struggle of the
son to make his father see the merit in the
younger view. The characters—John Thur-
low, the father, a rich Biggport shipowner;
Janet, the wife, who like most mothers de-
sires anything for peace and who has all the
sanity of a clear-seeing woman; Jack, the
son, whom the war has filled with a Tol-
stoyan idealism ; and old Mrs. Thurlow, who
chooses to spend her life assisting those she
loves to have what they want—are sharply
and sympathetically drawn. Then there is
Jack’s partner, Captain Cornelius, whose
efforts at farming are those of a man un-
settled by the war for everything save a
craving for a good time and a lotus-like
existence, and who does not scruple to
accept £5OO to desert Jack so that their
scheme may meet with failure, thus forcing
(Continued on page S.)


GatjjoM/jUfdefas/fye
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ GENUINE SALE
A Wonderful Occasion for Economy.
Unprecedented reductions, unlimited
in their scope, make it easy for you to
save money on every one of your needs.
Right through the sixty departments
that make up the service of The
House of Economy the drastic policy
of profit sacrificing has been carried
out. It is only the part of wisdom to
take fullest advantage of the fact.
Irresistible Bargains in Men’s and Boys’ Clothing*
The “Hordemia” Sac Suit.
The Coat is smartly fashioned with a two-button
front, outside breast pocket, no vent. The vest has a
medium opening and four pockets. The Trousers are
designed with side and hip pockets and cuff bottoms.
Australian Tweed, medium and Dark Grey and Brown
Sizes: 3 to 9j. Usual Price, 59/6. Gfi/fl
REDUCED TO u
Dark Grey All-Wool Tweed. Sizes: 3 to 9j. Usual
Price, 84/- 7^/»
REDUCED TO *
Men’s Trousers.
Striped Cotton Tweed, with no hip pocket. Sizes: 4
to 9-j. Usual Price, 12/6. 10/Q
REDUCED TO
Dark Grey All-Wool Tweed, with hip pocket. Sizes:
4 to 9j’. Usual Price, 15/- 1
REDUCED TO v
Fawn Gabardine. Sizes: 4to 7. I sual Price, 16/-
REDUCED TO 14/6
Neat Striped Worsted. Sizes: 4 to 9}. Usual Price,
18/6. 15/11
REDUCED TO 5,' ,
All-Wool Dark Fancy Tweed. Sizes: 4 to 9|. Usual
Price, 20/- 18/6
REDUCED TO
Dark Grev and Brown All-Wool Tweed. Sizes: 4 to
91. Usual Price, 23/6. 21/-
REDUCED TO *
The “Raglan” Overcoat.
Made with slip-on shoulders, and showing vertical
or liap pockets, centre seams, vent, and strapped cuffs.
In Dark Grey All-Wool Tweed. Usual Price, 60/-
REDUCED TO 56/6
In Dark Grey and Brown All-Wool Tweed.
Price, 75/-
REDUCED TO
Usual
70/-
In Dark Fancy Tweed, English make.
84/-
REDUCED TO
Usual Price,
766
The “Altcar” Overcoat.
A double-breasted style, with lialf-belted back, centre
seam, vent, and strapped cuffs.
In Dark Fancy Tweed. Sizes: 3to 7. Us
65 /-
REDUCED TO
al Price,
62/6
In Navy Blue Nap. Sizes: 3 to 7. Usual Price. 95/-
REDUCED TO 90/“
In Dark Brown Tweed. Usual Price, 95/- QQ/.
REDUCED TO
In Dark Grey Tweed.
126/-
REDUCED TO
Sizes: 3 to 7. Usual Price,
105/-
Mercery Savings are Worth While.
Men’s Tennis Shirts.
Men’s White Tennis Shirts,
Usual Price, 5/6.
REDUCED TO
with collar and pocket
4/11
Men’s White Mercerised Tennis Shirts, with collar
and pocket. Usual Price, 6/6. £»/Q
REDUCED TO
Men’s White Mercerised Tennis Shirts,
quality. Usual Price, 8/6.
REDUCED TO
superior
7/6
Men’s Working Shirts
Made full to allow for freedom of movement.
Harvard, with collar and pocket. Usual
Price, 5/6.
REDUCED TO
In Strong Harvard, with din. double bad
Price, d/8.
REDUCED TO
In Strong Harvard, with din. double back.
Price, d/9.
REDUCED TO
In strong
4/11
Usual
59
Usual
6/3
Boys’ Clothing Shows Big Reductions.
Boys’ Durham Suits.
The Coats have four patch pocket and belted back.
Knickers are plain, or may be obtained with band or
button bottoms.
In Dark Fancy Tweed (plain Knickers only).
7 to 13. Usual Price, 28/6.
REDUCED TO
In Dark Grey or Brown All-Wool Tweed. Sizes: 4
Sizes:
26/-
to 2.
Usual Prices .
REDUCED TO
34/- 36/6 38/6
31/6 34/- 36/-
In Fox’s Rough Serge, plain knickers only,
to 13. Usual Price, 35/-
REDUCED TO
In Dark Grey or Brown All-Wool Tweed.
t° 2.
Usual Prices 38/- 40/-
REDUCED TO . .., 35/- 37/
Sizes: 6
32/6
Sizes: 4
42/-
■ 397-
Boys ’ Overcoats.
THE “TRENCH.”
This high-grade Overcoat has Raglan shoulders, and
is designed with belt all round, strap on cuffs.
All-Wool Parramatta Tweed. Sizes: 13 to 21.
Price, 57/6.
REDUCED TO
Usual
54/-
Carriage Paid on Men’s and
Boys’ Shirts.
Boys’ Strong; Shirts, in colored Harvard, with collar
Boys’ Navy Drill Shirts, with collar and pocket.
Sizes . 12, 121. 13,131. 14,141.
Usual Prices 6/6 6/9 7/-
REDUCED TO Q/ m g/3 Q/Q
Boys’ Knickers.
Cotton Tweed, neat dark designs. Sizes 1 to
and button). Usual Price, S/6.
REDUCED TO
Dark Grey and Brown Parramatta Tweeds,
to 2. Band and button. Usual Price, 9/-
REDUCED TO
Grey Colonial Tweed. Sizes Ito 2 (band and
Usual Price, 9/-
REDUCED TO ••••••
2 ("band
7/6
Sizes 1
8/3
button).
8/3
Boys’ Wear in N.S.W. and to the nearest
Footwear Bargains.
Men’s Warm Felt Slippers, English make.
Usual Price, 7/6 pair. K/
REDUCED TO
Men’s and Youths’ Sand Boots and Shoes.
Prices: 6/11. 7/6 pair. El/
REDUCED TO
Men’s Box Calf Balmorals, stocked in three
smart shapes; with genuine welted soles and
leather lined. Usual Price, 19/11
pair. 1 8/-
REDUCED TO
Special Bargain Tables of Men’s and Roys’
Footwear, samples and ends of regular
lines, all marked at clearing prices.
MANY BINES HALF-PRICE.
Men’s Tan Balmorals and Blucher-cut Lace
Boots, finest quality. All sizes. Usual
Price. 43/6 pair. 3ft/-
REDUCED TO
Economise on Men’s Hats.
Men’s Soft Felt Hats, with plain or turn-over
edge brims. Colors: Slate, Steel. Fawn,
Black, and Brown. Usual Price, 9/6
REDUCED TO 7/11
Men’s Soft Fur Felt Hats, with bound edge
brims. In shades of Slate, Steel, Drab, and
Fawn. Usual Price, 17/6. 12/11
REDUCED TO L£t/ 1 1
Men’s Soft Fur Felt Hats, with bound or
plain edge brims. In shades of Slate, Steel,
Grey, or Fawn. Usual Price, 28/6. 00/C
REDUCED TO 4,4/0
Men’s English Velour Hats. In shades of
Black, Light Brown, Steel, and Fawn. Usual
Price, 45/- Q7/fi
REDUCED TO °
Men’s English Velour Hats. In shades of
Black, Steel, and Fawn. Usual
Price, 52/6. 42/fi
Men’s Tweed Golf or Motor-shape Caps, in
assorted patterns. Usual Prices :
4/6. 5/n. 3/6 4/6
REDUCED TO O/U, ■*/
Boys’ Hats Reduced.
Boys’ Soft Felt Hats, medium shape, in colors:
Slate, Dark Grey Mixture, and Oxford Mix-
ture. Usual Price, 6/9. C/Q
REDUCED TO
Boys’ Soft Felt Hats, small shape. Colors:
Slate and Grey mottled. Usual
Price, 6/3. 4/11
REDUCED TO /u
Boys’ Tweed Hats, in assorted patterns.
Usual Prices 3/- 5/6
REDUCED TO 2/8 4/6
Bovs’ Navy Hats. Usual Price, 5/11.
REDUCED TO 3/11
Boys’ Toyo Panamas, with bands or straps.
Sizes: 6£ to 7. Usual Price, 7/6. £/3
REDUCED TO 0/ °
Boys’ Tweed Caps, in Motor or Golf shape.
Assorted patterns. Usual Price,
3 T 1 0/0
REDUCED TO 07,5
Port on Interstate Orders.
& Sons Limi+ed.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY
Telephone: City 9440.


PROSPECTUS
WALDORF ASTORIA HOTEL
COMPANY UMITED
(AUSTRALIA)
To be Registered under the Companies Acts of N.S.W. 1899-1918.
(HOTEL, MACQUARIE)
c
Hu
Hsj
an i
NOMINAL CAPITAL, £.500,000
consisting of:-
250,000 10 per cent. Cumulative Preferential Shares of £1 each - - - £250,000
250,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each - - - - - - £250,000
500,000
£500,000
DISTRIBUTION OF SHARE CAPITAL IS AS FOLLOWS:—
150,000 10 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares are now
offered for public subscription at par, payable 2/6 on
application, 2/6 on allotment, and the balance in calls
not exceeding 2/6 per share every two months, but
subscribers shall have the privilege of paying in full
the amount due on the shares on allotment and shall
become entitled to receive the full benefit of the
investment forthwith .. .. ..£150,000
100,000 10 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares are to be
held in reserve . . . . . . . . . . 100,000
215,000 Ordinary Shares are to beheld in reserve for further
contingencies, conversion of debentures, repayment
of advances and further development . . . . 215,000
35,000 Ordinary Shares are to be isued to the Vendors as
part consideration for their options, expenditure, etc. 35,000
500,000 Shares. £500,000
DEBENTURE ISSUE.
£l 50,000 worth of Mortgage Debentures will be issued in Debentures
of the face value of £25, £5O, £lOO and £lOOO, and shall bear interest
at the rate of per cent, per annum, payable half-yearly. All these
Debentures shall mature in 15 years from date of issue, subject to the
right of redemption of the whole or any part thereof by the Company
after five years on giving six months’ notice to any holder to that effect.
Applications for Debentures should be accompanied by a deposit of
1 0 per cent., a further 1 5 per cent, on allotment, the balance within six
months after allotment, but subscribers shall have the privilege of paying
in full the amount due on the Debentures on allotment and shall become
entitled to receive the full benefit of the investment forthwith.
DEBENTURE SECURITY.
A first Mortgage for £125,000 has been arranged over the freehold
of the property, and subject to the terms of this Mortgage the freehold
property and the whole of the remaining assets and general undertaking
of the Company will be available as security for the due repayment of
such debentures at maturity. At the same time, the Debenture-holder
shall have the right at any time within a period of three years of convert-
ing 50 per cent, of their holdings into ordinary shares at par.
RIGHTS OF PREFERENCE SHAREHOLDERS.
The preference shares, besides carrying a fixed cumulative preferen-
tial dividend of 1 0 per cent, per annum on the amount paid upon such
shares, will in the event of winding up rank in priority to ordinary shares.
ADMINISTRATION.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
1. Mr. E. H. BUCHANAN, Ex-President Master Builders’ Association, Director of Beard Watsons Limited
and other Companies.
2. Mr. A. A. MARKS., Merchant and Property Investor.
3. Mr. G. T. CLARKE (Mayor of North Sydney), Ex-Lord Mayor of Sydney, Dalton H ousel, Pitt Street.
4. Mr. HARRY ARNOLD. Consulting Engineer, Company Manager, Stewart Dawson Buildings.
5. Mr. E. W. EXCELL, Merchant and Investor, Coogee.
6. Mr. JAMES RUSSELL, Managing Director “Home Journal,” 407 Kent Street.
7. Mr. SYDNEY’ VERGE, Investor and Grazier, Artarmon
BANKERS:
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED, Martin Place, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
WM. ARNOTT, Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dr. JONES, Barrister and Solicitor, Melbourne.
ARCHITECT:
E. H. BUCHANAN, F.1.A., 26 Hunter Street, Sydney.
„ SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
C. A. 0. SINDEL, A.C.P.A., A.1.C.A., Public Accountant and Auditor, Cathcart House
Street, Sydney. ’
AUDITORS :
JAMES SIMPSON, F.S.A.A. (Eng.), F.C.P.A., 81 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Castlereagh
LONDON AGENTS:
Sir SEYMOUR KING & CO., Morgate Street, London, E.C.
LONDON BANKERS:
THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER BANK.
NEW YORK AGENTS:
THE FOREIGN TRADER SUPPLY INC., 17 Whitehall, New York,
OBJECTS.
This Company is being formed:—
(a) To acquire from the Macquarie Properties Syndicate Limited the property known as “Burdekin
House,” Macquarie Street, Sydney, having a frontage of 115 ft. 6in., also the property known
as No. 142 and 144 Phillip Street, Sydney, with a frontage of 40ft. lOliii., a nd for that
purpose to adopt and carry into effect a certain Agreement made between the Macquarie
Properties Syndicate Limited, of the one part, and the proposed Company, of the other part
(b) To erect on such site an up-to-date palatial hotel to be styled “Hotel Macquarie” worthy of
our great city and equal in convenience and comfort to the most modern British, American
and Continental institutions of a similar nature.
(c) To erect or acquire hotels in other parts of Australia.
LOCATION.
The site acquired is almost opposite Parliament House, midway between Hyde Park and Government
House, and in close proximity to the Botanical Gardens, Circular Quay, the proposed St. James’s City
Railway Station, the Law Courts, Government Institutions, Barristers’ Chambers and leading Medical
Specialists, and whilst being in this restful, select atmosphere is within easy walking distance of all the
main arteries of rail and steamer traffic, leading to and from the City.
DESIGN OF THE HOTEL.
q r Arc hiteets’ Report, copies of which may be obtained upon application to the Company’s
solicitor, there is given a full technical description of the Hotel Macquarie. Many of its main interesting
matures, too, will be found in the booklet accompanying this Prospectus. It may here be stated that
every known and conceivable device and accommodation for human comfort, pleasure, recreation,
commercial and private convenience will be available to guests. When to this is added the most gorgeous
views, it may confidently be stated that this Hotel will prove positively unsurpassable.
_. _ + , . HOTEL SERVICE.
the Hotel is designed on a combination of all the best features to be found in American hotels.
Provision is being made to have wireless connection with all incoming vessels so that passengers may
make their reservations and be met on arrival.
Arrangements are being made to link up this Hotel w T ith the Boomer System in America, which will
ensure that views of the Hotel Macquarie, and such other Hotels as the Company may build, will be
exhibited in all the first-class hotels in the United States and Canada.
Arrangements are also being perfected to have advertisements of such Hotels displayed on all oversea
mail liners.
In the Hotel itself the American System will be adopted and an experienced Manager will be brought
out to take charge.
The office will be conducted on the card system, which ensures that every guest may, at a moment’s
notice, ascertain the state of his account.
Bell boys will be freely employed so that quick service will be given.
. ~ ■ e office and connecting with each floor an indicator will be installed so that at a glance a
visitor may ascertain whether or not the person he desires to see is in his room. This indicator will be
operated by desk clerks, one of whom will be located on each floor. As the guest enters the elevator to
descend to the ground floor the desk clerk presses a button which operates on the indicator in the office.
Telautographs will be installed in every bedroom. The purpose of these is that if a visitor finds the
person he is seeking is out he may leave a written message for him. A desk is provided for this purpose,
and as the visitor writes his message it is automatically reproduced on a desk in the guest’s bedroom, and
a small red glow lamp is electrically lit so as to call the attention of the guest to the message immediately
he opens his door.
A first-class permanent orchestra will be engaged to play at meal-times and in the evening for dances
on the Sun Court.
. . Locality maps will be displayed on the ground floor so that guests may readily understand places of
interest, how to reach them, and the estimated cost of the visit.
, Applications will be made to the authorities for the establishment of a post and telegraph office in
the building, and letter chutes w'ill be provided throughout so that letters may be posted from every
room m the hotel. J
Provision is also made for the sale of theatre tickets, including a box-plan of every theatre,
the buildhig ementS wUI alS ° be made with the Tourist Bureau for the establishment of a branch ’ office in
„ Bathrooms (plunge and shower), with lavatory accommodation, are provided in the greater number
of bedrooms, and hot and cold water will be available. s
... P o ro jj*j“\ will be made for telephones in each bedroom as well as in the public room, all connected
be,"and adopted gr ° Und fl °° r ‘ The Amencan system of cheeking calls is as nearly perfect
Labor-saving devices will be adopted throughout.
will retlrn aU a nd vlryTandsL^ e pr e o S fit bliShment Wi “ d °" e ° n the P remises > h >' elect ™ Process, and this
Provision has been made for stalls for the sale of books, periodicals and newspapers tobacco and
cigars and flowers The sub-letting of these stands will produce a handsome revenue P ’
It is proposed to have special lunches daily, which it is hoped will be attended one day in each week
by business men. Thus on Monday lawyers, on Tuesday medical men, on Wednesday softwoods merchants
H?W°M o "c„Sa ,! * , “* U " 01 *• Al “ dc “ '“ Ms - “ a * » confidently SS»S
Display windows are provided along the Macquarie Stre p t frontage as well ~.. w, t + it.,,
and these will certainly be excellent revenue producers. S 38 Well as ln the entrance lobby,
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
Will be'ViSo ma'dVup billows °L sites and meeting and furnishing this Premier Hotel
Cost of sites, Macquarie and Phillip Streets
Cost of Erection of Building, Equipment and furnishings ‘ ” '' Itoo’oOO
£386,500
<*&&&£ gt%JS3’tt£ and to have ,»«oi,nt wotkl.j
Issue First Mortgage over property
Issue 150,000 10 per cent Cumulative Preference Shares ” ” ” ** •• £125,000
Issue Mortgage Debentures .. ele,l - r ' ce 150,000
150,000
(Details of these figures totalling £425,000 are earlier shown herein 1 £425,000
After a most exhaustive investigation of the published balance sheets ohri ■ y, ■,
or the leading hotels in Sydney, and from all the data in their J d , lo ? S accounts
special circumstances attending this project the Directors have pleasure in ° f
mated Profit and Loss Account of the Hotel Macquarie for ”, ,5® * ollowln ff esti-
calculations which have been duly certified te as being correct by Mr C A T sTnde?
A.C.P.A., A.1.C.A., Public Accountant and Auditor, of Catheart House Svdnev A ‘ Sindel ’
Estimated Gross Profit of Trading .. .. .. ° use ’ Sydney.
I,ess Estimated Expenditure:—
General Working Expenses—Salaries, Rates, Insurance, Taxes (including
Income Taxation) .. .. .. .. _ v s
Interest
Provision for Depreciation .. .. ~
£139,615
£60,000
22,750
10,000
Leaving a net profit of .. .. .. .. •
from which will be created a Sinking Fund for redemption of the Debentures
at the rate of £lO,OOO per annum
from this sum could be paid a dividend of 10 per cent, per annum on
Preference Shares, 150,000..
Estimated surplus to be transferred to Reserve, Reserve Fund, Equalisation
Dividend Account, and/or provide for a Bonus Distribution
92,750
~ £46,865
. 10,000
£36,865
. 15,000
. £21,865
REPORT BY C. A. Le MAISTRE WALKER & CO.
Auditors and Public Accountants, ’’
Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Directors, Sydney, 28th July, 1923.
Waldorf Astoria Hotel Company, Ltd., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —The financial statement incorporated in the Prospectus of your proposed ComDanv has been
submitted to me by Mr. C. A. O. Sindel, A.C.P.A., and 1 have carefully perused the data on whfch his
estimates of the Gross Profits on trading and general working expenses, interest and depreciation have
been calculated.
From the information supplied I am satisfied that, given competent management, the figures should
be realised.
Investors will, of course, understand that it will take about two years to erect, equip and put the
hotel into full operation, but with competent management and careful supervision by the Directors it should
be possible for the proposed company to become a sound dividend-paying concern.' I understand that you
have made arrangements for such management, and, given this, I believe that the prospects of the Company
should be assured.
The estimate of £300,000 for the cost of erection and equipment of the hotel, signed by Mr. S. H.
Buchanan, F.1.A., has also been submitted for my inspection.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) C. A. Le MAISTRE WALKER & CO.
BROKERAGE AND FLOTATION EXPENSES.
The Company will pay all the usual flotation expenses,' also brokerage on all shares applied for
and allotted on applications identified as coming through any member of the Sydney Stock Exchange or
any allied inter-State Stock Exchange, or through the accredited agents of the Macquarie Properties
Syndicate Ltd.
CONTRACT.
A draft contract has been prepared between the Macquarie Properties Syndicate Limited, of the
one part, and the Waldorf Astoria Hotel Company Limited, of the other part Whereby it is provided
that the Hotel Company shall pay to the Syndicate the sum of £lO,OOO and shall issue to the Syndicate
or its Nominee 35,000 fully paid up shares of £1 each in the capital of the Company, and shall also
carry into effect the contracts for purchase ot the said lands in Macquarie Street and Phillip Street
Sydney. Such draft contract may be inspected at the office of William Arnott, the Company’s solicitor.
STOCK EXCHANGE.
Upon the Company being registered, application will be made to the Stock Exchange to have it
officially listed. _
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Full prospectus and all fuither particulars maj r be obtained from the Company’s registered office
o/o c. A. O. Sindel, A.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Catheart House, Castlereagh Street Sydney
Sydney, August 1, 1923. ’


n'
jpa? c
V /.i
£B
rm
mm
smmm,
s
..
11
H
IS
r
Sg*
' •
■H
HB
MS
\:;.v-..
HBh
m
m
; l
H
Hraßl
US
ms
? XB
x
Captain McARTHUR
SlSSllliifi
i h:
'V^7r’ isloe r*<2/zc Aozzw vs
HARDY’S WINES OF TINTARA
Jack to go bacic to the yard, where his father
fervently hopes he will carry on the great
name of the firm. As a theme “The Ship”
may offer little that is new; but as in-
dictment it has depth and feeling. What
Yeats said of Ervine’s “John Ferguson” may
be said of this play: “It is a fragment of
life, fully expounded, and without conven-
tionality or confusion.”*
But the versatility of St. John Ervine does
not end with novels, plays and dramatic criti-
cism ; in “Some Impressions of My Elders”
he has done notable work as a literary critic.
Here are included studies of eight arresting
personalities, several of whom the author
knows intimately. Of the eight (all the sub-
jects are living) those in which he treats
with his own countrymen, “A.E.” (G. W.
Russell), Moore, Yeats and Bernard Shaw,
appeal to me the most, for they are rather
the acute and considered judgments of a
biographer than the thickly-plastered idola-
try that one should expect from a contem-
porary on the right side of 40. While he
recognises in Yeats a greater poet than
Synge was a dramatist, he does not refrain
from commenting on his aloofness and his
unawareness of contemporary affairs, due,
not to affectation, but to lethargy and sheer
lack of interest. Then, again, liis study of
George Moore is a delight. In it he deals
with an occasion—it happened immediately
after the Battle of Jutland —on which Moore
burst, for the first time, into practical poli-
tics and demanded the impeachment of Mr.
Asquith (whose attitude towards the war he
believed to be one of boredom), the restora-
tion of the Coronation Oath (to its abolition
by Asquith he attributed all the evils that
had befallen mankind since 1914) and the
abolition of all dogs on the grounds (a) that
they consumed great quantities of food, (b)
that their incessant yapping brought about
a large amount of nervous irritability, and
(c) that they defiled the streets. Ervine’s
observations are shrewd. In Bernard Shaw he
sees a “Don Quixote without illusions” (how
apt that is!) and a shy and nervous man,
“singularly humble-minded and sincere, very
courageous and full of quick, penetrating wis-
dom.” Still, of all these character-sketches
the one on “A.E.” will find most favor, for
it contains passages of fervent patriotism
and reckless prejudice—a little of which, in
our heart of hearts, weighs more with us
than all the cool, calm and collected pro-
nouncements of the literary world.
W. E. LEICESTER.
Candide and the Rest
Probably as a reaction from that post-war
neurasthenia which has produced Hickson,
Hughes and such miracles, the publishers are
now turning to Voltaire ; and Messrs Rout-
ledge are producing exceedingly good, cheap
and pretty translations of such works as
“Candide,” “Zadig” and “The Princess of
Babj’lon.” We read these when we were
boys, when that which was forbidden was
therefore attractive; we read them now to
laugh for other reasons. Of course, they are
singularly frank, and use words and ideas
that are emphatically not of Queen Victoria;
to that extent the rebel that is in every Aus-
tralian boy forced us to read them. But
they are equally delightful to a grown man,
for" they voice his own experience. Thus,
Candide is a delicious caricature of the pious
faith that all is for the best in the best of
all possible worlds. The hero sees his sweet-
heart ravished before the eyes of her parents,
sees her ripped up ; all done in accordance
with the laws of war and by Divine will,
and, therefore, necessary and not to be a
source of complaint. Just so might the Bel-
gians have said during the recent disturb-
ance ; but even faith was not a sufficiently
powerful stimulus to make them say it, and
it was a veritable Cardinal who led them in
their resistance, though doubtless he still
holds to the faith that all is for the best in
the best of all possible worlds.
It is a strange delusion of some people that
Anatole France is not a follower of Voltaire.
They succeed in proving this nonsense by a
hypercriticism that I could never understand ;
it seems that when a Frenchman arises who
says things more clever than the average
English mind quite likes, the English retali-
ate by calling him nasty names, such as mis-
creant and atheist. A hundred years later
when another Frenchman says precisely the
same things the English say: “Very true;
very true, indeed; but he is quite different
from Frenchman A, that indecent, wicked,
evil-speaking, atheistical monster _ who, we
have already agreed, is so abominably un-
English.” At a time when we are all reel-
ing from the misery of the war, its abomin-
able injustice and wickedness, its heartless
cruelty, it is quite reasonable that mankind
should turn to its greatest rebel against ail
these things, and read Voltaire as a tonic to
over-strained nerves. It is untrue to say
that he was an atheist. Like most thinking
men of the 18th century, he was a Deist;
that is to say, he believed in God —“the pres-
ence of a watch implies a watchmaker’’ were
his own words —but did not believe in re-
vealed religion. And was that so very dif-
ferent from Neo-platonism, which has become
so fashionable since Dean Inge has spoken
so manfully in its favor? The truth is that
all these great men have believed very much
the same thing; what differences there are
have arisen through the very things that Vol-
taire lashed so furiously: intolerance and sec-
tarianism.
And when you are reading “Candide” you
can hardly say that you are not reading
Anatole France. Perhaps M. France is less
bitter; perhaps he has a better art of polemic
because he can banter without wounding,
whereas there was a “tartness” in every-
thing that Voltaire ever wrote that roused
opposition. But has anybody ever written
anything more sympathetic than the tale of
the joyous little prostitute Paquette—already
diseased —to Candide?—
“Ah, sir, if you could only imagine what it is to
be obliged to caress indifferently an old merchant, a
lawyer, a monk, a gondolier, an abbc ; to be exposed
to abuse and insults; to be robbed by one of what
one has earned from another; to be subject to the ex-
tortions of the officers of justice ; and to have in pros-
pect only a frightful old age, a hospital, a dunghill,
you would conclude that I am one of the most unhappy
creatures in the world.”
The man wbo wrote that may have been an
atheist or whatever you like to call him ; but
his heart was in the right place, which is
probably all that matters very much. And,
from the point of view of savage polemical
writing, observe the hidden gall in almost
every word! One could write a book about
that one short sentence. There is not a word
too much nor too little; but every word is
a mot juste. To borrow Candide’s own
words: “Let us still cultivate our garden.”
C. McL.
The Poet and the Publisher
Dora Wilcox (R.P. 12/7/’23) sides with
the poet against the tight-fisted publisher.
The value of her observations is, however,
vitiated by a loose handling of the term
“poet,” and one sentence contains a specially
irritating half-truth: “Regardless of the
fact that both require a long and arduous
training, the poet, like the nurse, is sup-
posed to be born and not made.” To assume
that a man could achieve poetry without
being “a born poet” would, of course, be to
fall into a grievous error. Yet it is equally
clear that the poet, if he is not to remain
mute and inglorious, must, like every other
artist, master the technicalities of his trade.
Let us consider in how far the poet is
“born” and not “made,” and the need and
value of his work —and perhaps we may be
able, in some measure, to exonerate the
publisher.
Shelley has enunciated: “A man cannot
say ‘I will compose poetry.’ The greatest
poet even cannot say it, for poetry... .differs
in this respect from logic, that it is not
subject to the control of the active powers
of the mind, and that its birth and recur-
rence have no necessary connection with the
consciousness or will.” It is, in short,
pre-eminently a thing of feeling, and feel-
ing itself is an element of consciousness,
and, therefore, incapable of analysis. It is
this which makes it impossible to assess
the concrete value of poetry. It is “soul
stuff,” and the bitter enemy of poetry, as
it is the deadliest blight of civilisation, is
materialism —materialism which narrows the
vision, chills the heart, dulls the sensibilities,
lays waste the imagination. The poet is in-
cessantly striving to free the imagination
of man. Himself no man of affairs, he is
thus vitally necessary to the world of affairs,
for to liberate the imagination is to make
all things possible. The inexorable law of
our being is that, as we think, so we be-
come. Sooner or later our images translate
themselves into overt acts. Conversely, the
man of dulled imagination can achieve no
great success, accomplish no great design.
Whether statesman or soldier, banker or
builder, the potentialities of his work are
limited by the bounds of his imagination.
Now, the mental image of the poet always
concerns itself with some aspect of truth.
Intuitively he divines the law at the back
of its physical manifestations in the uni-
verse. And herein must the poet be “born”
and not “made.” This it is to know the
glory and the dream; to see life irradiated
with the light that never was on sea or
land • to understand the inner meaning of
the river-brim primrose, the harmony in
the pipes of Pan, the sense of tears in mor-
tal things, the burden of Destiny, the con-
stant warring of man with the angels. Puri-
fied in this flame of pure feeling, his heart
become as a little child’s, he enters his
kingdom.
Elemental, too, to the poet nature is the
urgent need of communicating his vision to
his fellow-man. Language, humanity’s
medium for conveying mental images, is the
tool with which he essays to arouse respon-
sive images in his hearers. . By instinct
again he uses language that is rhythmical.
His soul is aware that the blood of man
beats in pulses; that day follows night, the
tides ebb and flow, satellites whirl round
their suns, and suns traverse their ordered
path through space in cosmic rhythm, and
thus he senses the mysterious ordination
which gives rhythmical language its compel-
ling power. Here comes in the task of
learning “the technicalities of his art.” He
must master the charms of form, the devices
of rhyme, of figures of speech—of every aid
which will enable him to make of language
a sword and a flame. Herein —-and in so
far only—may a poet be “made.”
And now as to the publisher. Assuming
that he has indeed to deal with one who
bears a torch kindled at Promethean flames,
and not merely a taper lit at a study lamp,
w T hy does lie hesitate to help diffuse the
light? Plainly because he has well-grounded
fears that the public will not buy the poet’s
wares. Does, then, the risking of serious
financial loss devolve as a duty upon the
publisher? Is there anything implicit in
his relations with society which warrants vis
in assuming that he should be thus altruistic
for the public weal? Instead of fulminating
against him and stigmatising his hesitation
as a brutal, aesthetic stupidity, should we
not rather search our own hearts? We our-
selves are to blame. It is the old, old
trouble. “The world is too much with us.
ALICE JACKSON.
A Book of Mountain Flowers
To read an ordinary book of travel, piter
devouring 'The Rainbow Bridge, by Reginald
Farrer, is like eating cold boiled mutton
to-day where yesterday you had feasted
gloriously on oysters and champagne. “The
Rainbow Bridge” is a book of botany and
travel. Of botany, seeking for new species
of garden flowers that cover miles of the
valleys of the Da Tung Alps, Kansu Pro-
vince, China. Of travel, by litter and boat
and donkey, and weary miles of climbing with
hands and feet. To obtain the seeds, the
botanist has to see the wild flowers out in
full blossom, mark the patches thus observed,
and then later in the season collect, dry, label
and pack the precious seeds. It will be
realised at once what immense labor this
entails and what continual retracing of steps,
for the collector, having seen one rare flower
in bloom in June or July, will have to wait
for the supreme moment in September to
gather the seed.
Books of travel are so often a sort ot
statistical record of the country, or they have
a personal, political or religious bias, or, like
a recent work on Mount Everest, have a
limited vocabulary which tries to express the
heights and grandeur of the Himalayas in
words like “charming.” “excellent” and “de-
lightful.” But “The Rainbow Bridge” shows
you “the scented velvet of the Alpine lawn”
stretching away, hidden and lost in unbeliev-
able heights. When the caravan is on its
way to Tien Tang, up to the Halls of
Heaven, past Wolvesdene, he says, “riding
gently along the iris flats, the tine velvet of
the lawn is gemmed.... with the pink little
heads of Tibetan androsace in such abun-
dance that the green is shot and lilmed with
a veil of rose, and on the earthy slopes away
to the right... .cluster beauty abounds as
never yet.... a curtain of blueness in the
shady corrugations of the bank.” And so he
goes on, his words falling like silver cadences.
The author was careful to explain in the
first pages of his book that he wrote for his
own express pleasure -and not for the
reader’s. When reference is to be made at
length to scientific data, he simply says:
“Here skip, Aunt Agnes” ; and a few pages
further on tells Aunt A. that she may now
comfortably resume. He gives his own names
of flowers in English as well as Latin ; for
instance, he pushes aside, the Latin name
for a particular poppy as dull beyond words,
and calls her Proud Margaret. There is a
complete index as well as a botanical index
at the end of the book, and a map.
There are so many charms in this learned
and gracious work that it almost , seems an
impertinence to find fault, yet sometimes the
adjectives are too numerous and a trifle
wearisome. The excuse for so small a thing
as an extra adjective may be the toil of
having climbed hand over hand, yard by
yard, up a slippery mountainside (it rained
nearly every afternoon) and then suddenly
having come upon a white harebell poppy,
“clear and clean as the soul of St. John.”
There is something also that makes for ex-
travagance in seeing rhododendrons and del-
phiniums, primulas, polyanthus and meeon-
opsis in variations without number, growing
wild in their native alps.
But if you want to know Grandmamma
Aoo, and the three servants Gogo, Sawa-
Wawa and the wicked Wawa of bunfaced
scorn, the mountain “donkies” who all be-
haved well except Spotted Fat, the plump
and kindly monks who laughed heartily when
drying seedpods burst and hit their faces
and who blew conches for bells at evensong;
and if you want to have a string of sweet-
scented names to say to yourself when you
are weary, go and get “The Rainbow Bridge”
at once.
Incidentally, the book is a revelation of
the amazing tact of the two members of the
expedition, and gives many interesting pic-
tures of Chinese official ceremonial and how
best to conform to it. Although armed with
certain recommendations from Peking (three
or four months’ journey away), these would
have been useless without the constant en-
deavor to enter into the life of the country
and its different peoples. Mr. Farrer and his
companion were given a long interview with
the Llama of Thibet, and were allowed to
make a famous monastery their headquarters.
J. H.
What is Art?
“0.K.” is troubled about a moon:—
Are the moons I see in Australian landscapes really
Art, and, if so, why ? The question is due to a
moon in a little picture by A. E. Newbury, Entitled
“Moonrise.” Newbury’s work is mostly pleasing,
even rather charming, despite his habit of chopping
off the top section of his gum-trees with the frame
of the picture. He paints rather convincing trees
watered by pool or stream in the foreground, but I
doubt whether he has darned the right to paint
such a moon as stared at one from No. 15 in a
recent Melbourne Show. It has risen at its full
behind a little clump of trees on a little hilltop.
The trees are not gums, nor any other soft of tree
known to nature; they are just painter’s impression-
ist trees. The'y never grew outside of an Australian
landscape picture; therefore to see them again
is to think not of nature, but of picture exhibitions.
But let the trees pass. The moon is what I was
coming to. In the first place, any citizen who has
ever enjoyed sweet dalliance au clair de la lune
knows that what appears above and behind the trees
in Newbury’s picture is preposterous. No real, or
even stage, moon was aver so out of proportion to
the world. Nor has the pictured moon the least
appearance of shining in the heavens. It is a solid
blob of white paint on an expanse of blue-grey sky
which has no visible connection with the fraudulent
pale blob save that both came from the same paint-
box. Finally, I do complain bitterly of its shape.
It is not so much oblong as unround. Why this
fault common to moons in landscape paintings ?
Does Art require them to be painted by artists who
cannot draw a circle as accurately as the poor pave-
ment rival who makes pictures with chalks ? No
artist can ever see a moon with a wobbly edge in
a clear sky unless he has been drinking. Then why
paint these glaringly unnatural moons? A pair
of compasses, or a coin, would give an accurate
outline. Is the careful avoidance of this accuracy
in outline to be accepted as Art ? Why does the
same painter strive his hardelst to paint a bit of
dress material absolutely true to fact, yet make his
moon an insult to nature?
Psychology and Science
“C. McL.” has a word or two in reply: —
“8.C.F.” (R.P., 26/7/’23) is not going to drag me
into the ancient wrangle over Hume’s philosophy,
concerning which I have read all the things that
“8.C.F.” says, and partly agreed with them. What
was good enough for Huxley is good enough for me,
and will probably be found good enough for most
scientific men. Of course my article was really to
contrast the extraordinary clearness of Hume’s style
with the laborious tail-whac-kings of most modern
psychologists, just like whales rushing up for a
breath of fresh air.
I quite agree with “8.C.F.” that every philosophy
that is worth while takes its root in pessimism; but
we must always remember that that saying, taken
ignorantly, may lead into the black pessimism of
Nietzsche and Schopenhauer, which was probably
either conditioned by their state of health or by
unusual environment. I also agree that the best
thing for a man to laugh at is himself ; if a man
can laugh at himself he is not wholly lost.
But 1 certainly do not agree that you can only
find the facts of psychology by introspection. Freud
and Rivers have shown far otherwise. And now that
the idea is being abandoned that Freud by the term
“sex” meant only the sexual act, sensible peiople
are finding it much easier to believe in the gospel
according to Freud and to place psychology
true pedestal as a real science, i.e., “knowledge.”


m
Hillf
\ *r2 I
v W
I-
■ '
k d
■ M .*j
I'\, 2MHE • -" *^fl||l|
’s&afe
gw
. ?
ISffi *:
1 i
Lt i
mw
er ■
HfiffißlSSS
K
1 A * v,
| ' i
I ’ •
/
2Ui i
■r
■
?!
®
■ ' - ' ■
H
■
m %
....u^L
m
: -v
: '-• F'"«
.
r,.-' 4
wi
£\r3&,}*«ifcp< ''F *“ f ;A?,
■ •
'"’i
*8
.' 1:1
*i
Si
_Js22shSw_
MODEL 608.
600 Watt, 80 Ampere Hour
Glass Jar Battery.
Light Attracts Trade.
LIGHT and cheerfulness are instinc-
tive human needs —that is why
buyers prefer to shop at the well-lit
store —the Delco-Light store. They recog-
nise that such a store is progressive in its
methods and that it delivers the values
and kind of service they seek. The pro-
prietor also knows that Delco-Light, in
addition to attracting business, displays
his goods to best advantage, helps to make
sales, and is so economical to operate that
it “pays for itself.” Delco-Light is electric
light, and is strongly and simply built, is
practically self-operating and occupies
but small space. There is a Delco-Light
plant for every need; let us advise you on
the one most suited to your requirements.
DISTRIBUTORS:—
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, MELB., LTD., Bourke Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
SMELLIE & CO., LTD., Brisbane, Queensland.
GILBERTS, LTD., King Street, Perth, W.A.
W. F. & E. A. STEWART, Launceston, Tas.
DELCO-LIGHT


sdf
sdf
made within
THE EMPIRE
Activities in connection
with the manufacture
of Goodyear products
range both hemispheres, from
rubber culture throughout the
East to the building of cord
tyres in Canada; from rubber
purchases in Singapore to the
sale of Goodyear goods in all
countries of the world. A very
large part of these activities
take place entirely “Within
the British Empire.”
In fact, nearly ail of your
Goodyear Tyres are manu-
factured in the Goodyear
plants at Bowmanville and
New Toronto by Empire labor,
under Canadian supervision.
Tine rubber used is the product
of British plantations in the
East, also under British super-
vision, and its purchase is
handled through British
brokers in Singapore, Ceylon
and India.
Then, too, the transportation
of the huge volume of rubber
used in connection with this
world-wide business is con-
fined largely to ships flying
the British flag—both to and
from the Canadian factories,
where it is made into the high
quality finished products
popular with motorists and
industrial plant-owners the
world over.
Goodyear Means
Good Wear.
asdf


. o;. •
His MasfcersVbice
“His Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark.
“His Master's Voice”
brings the world's best orchestras
into your home.
—and brings them in such a way that you can
dance to their wonderful music with as much
joy as if they were actually engaged by you
for the evening.
The most famous orchestras of England and
America make records exclusively for “His
Master’s Voice.’’ They, like the most brilliant
stars of the operatic and concert stage, realise
that thus their art is given realistic expression.
To hear them at their finest
play “His Master’s Voice’’
Records with “His Master’s
Voice” Needles on an “His
Master’s Voice” Instrument.
No other combination gives
quite the same perfect result.
Instruments from 11 guineas
to £94.
Illustrated Catalogue, Record Lists and name
of nearest dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
I
Bungalow Model, Oak
or Mission, £29/10/-
en
Saves £5 on handpieces alone.
Shear cheaper but better with the
IS
NOW AT REDUCED PRICES
Lister Patent Tension Nut, with
self-levelling Taper Crown Plate,
of which Mr. D. G. Graham, a well-known expert, wrote
on 24/4/’22: — “I have had the ‘Lister’ Tension Nut, with
Patent Self-levelling Taper Crown Plate, in use at ‘Goonoo
Goonoo,’ ‘Abbington’ and ‘Lyndhurst’ during 1920, ’2l and ’22
shearings. The work done by the machines in which this Nut
was fitted was as follows: Sheep shorn, 17,600; crutched,
24,000. This Nut has required no attention whatever since I
first put it into use.
“As an expert among shearing machines for close on 20
years I consider the ‘Lister’ Self-levelling Taper Crown
Plate one of the best improvements brought out in
Shearing Machines in recent years. It is a great advantage
that it can be fitted to several makes of popular handpieces.”
Other makes of machines may claim to be lowest in
upkeep, but experienced shed-owners have only to
examine the distinctive “Lister’* features once to
realise how far the “Lister” has eliminated upkeep
expense in the shearing shed. In fact this point is
now so universally recognised that hundreds of
machines of other makes are sent in every year to
be fitted with “Lister” patents where possible.
The improvement illustrated on the left makes “Lister”
Handpieces practically 100% efficient, so that no time is
lost during shearing owing to shear repairs. What is more, the
certainty of perfectly level tension being maintained saves' the
shearer a lot of worry, and makes for more efficient shearing,
with a consequent gain to the shed-owner. And this is only onfe
of many points of “Lister” superiority. The whole thing is
set out in detail in our latest booklet, Bulletin 145 A. It is
worth your while reading, and we should like to send you a copy
while the supply lasts. Ask for it.
Chief Agents: DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., Sydney.
Sole Agents for
Brisbane.
Q.: WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
Sole Agents for Tas.: A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD.,
Hobart, Launceston, Devonport and Burnie.
Sole Agents for W.A.: MALLOCH BROS., Perth.
Keep the Upkeep down with
L


n
j
&
For Lasting Fragrance
Use Cuticura Talcum
There is nothing better than
Cuticura Talcum for powder-
ing and perfuming the skin. It
appeals to the most fastidious
because of its fine, smooth tex-
ture and delicate fragrance.
Soapls.,Ointment Is.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
Towns & Co., Sydney. N.S.W.”
9tr*Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
asdfasdfasd
( *1
i cJhe largest selling
& quality pencil in
the wcxld
VENUS
V PENCILS
fas
BEST FOR
ARCH ITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
Missing Friends.
IF LILT FRANCES TINGLEY, formerly
of King Island and Launceston, com-
municates with the executor of the will of
Alexander Tingley, late of King Island, under
cover of the undersigned, she will hear of
something to her advantage.
WILFRED HUTCHINS,
Solicitor,
62 Cameron Street, Launceston.
m
&
warn
&
m
| No More
1 Grey Hairs!
K This wonder-
% ful Stain acts
M like magic
{E —renews your
« YOUTH by
A transforming
R —p er m a-
nently and
■ harmlessly—your ageing Grey
<5 Hair to that most desirable Glossy
g Walnut Shade. Easily applied—
W waterproof. All Chemists.
MEXICAN
j finHiWl ■# imis
w/m
fW
n
dfa
%
A Silver Tea Service
of Classic Beauty , at an fixlra-Or dinar ily Lou) ‘Price.
ONLY the immense resources and cash buying facilities of an old estab-
lished firm have secured this fine example of the Silver-smith s art
at so moderate a price. Quantity production has also lent a hand.
This service is of good quality, each piece heavily plated on hard
white metal that will wear without tarnishing for any number of years.
TEA SET AND TRAY COMPLETE
(Tea Pot If pints, Tray 20 inches )
'Price £l2/8/- NET
Our Optical Department is celebrated. If your eyes are troubling you call in and see
our Mr. Gardiner , M. 1.0. Me is noted for his skill.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
Fairfax&Roberts L™
Zb &Zb Hunter Streei Sydney
KILL WITH KYNOCH
sdf
C A RT'R IDGES
Made in England and
loaded in Australia
with the highest grade
Powders
In case of difficulty
refer your dealer to:
KYNOCH Ltd.
90 William St.,
MELBOURNE.
277 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
asdf
The
way .
to /
shave
/
4
4
4
4
4
\
4
4
4
4
4
d
YOU can shave with an
axe, if you first soften
your beard with Mennen
Shaving Cream. The stiffest
beard is quickly reduced to
subjection. You shave easily,
rapidly, smoothly. And your
comfort afterward is supreme.
Your face will be smooth as velvet.
Scores of men have discovered
that this is the most satisfactory
way to shave.
Your face feels so fine and you
look your best always. Ask in
any shop.
THE BRITISH H. F. RITCHIE CO., Ltd.
533-337 George Street, Sydney. Australia.
20 Brandon Street. Wellington. New Zealand.
6
rusNrreH
ShMI/ING CFTC/iri
f
Per,
2&fi
$5
Vo
C Q
Sfifr
1
sw
to
MIS
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Waiting.
Morning is yellow and blue,
Winter is resting in light;
The sun walks tenderly through
The fluttering leaves on the height.
His is the faithful slow fire—
Thought that is eager and strong
Held on the leash of desire,
Gathering music for song.
Valleys are quiet and still,
Knowing the song they shall sing,
Clasping the knees of the hill,
Dreaming the rapture of Spring.
N.s.w.
D. M. W.
Iriya Speaks.
At dawn I pray before my window, wide
Towards the east. The glory of the sun
Is hidden ; and the sound of falling rain
Upon the roof is like the beat of drums
Like war-drums beating for a warrior slain.
The crimson petals of chrysanthemums
Stain the brown earth —this earth for which
he died.
Alas, for victory so dearly won!
The leaves of plum and cherry trees are red
From Autumn’s rosy-fingered touch. Too
soon
White Winter comes with snow. My heart is
cold,
As his who sleeps within that western
land
Of Morning Calm, whose alien arms enfold
My warrior lord. I shall not touch his hand
Until I reach the country of the dead
That lies beyond the light of sun or moon.
I pray Amaterasu for release.
In vain, in vain ! She gives no sign. I
hear |
The bells ring silverly among the trees
About the temple. If I climb the stair
And offer flowers and incense, it may please
Kwannon, the merciful, to hear my prayer,
Pity my lonely days, and give me peace.
My days are lonely and the snow is near.
Bid me begone upon the Second Road,
O bright sun goddess, where his feet have
trod.
Bid the fire goddess, terrible and fair,
Who guards the portals of the realms
above,
Point me the way among the shadows, where,
Beep in the underworld, he waits, my love
My lord, to meet me in that blest abodd
Of sweet re-union, the Place 'of God.
VICTORIA.
G. ETHEL MARTYR
Ships.
Her sheer sides weather-battered,
Her bulwarks bent and torn,
Her rigging frayed and tattered,
Bedraggled, tempest-worn,
While small waves round her ripple,
She lamely limps to port,
A bruised and weary cripple
The storms have made their sport.
But outward bound go proudly,
At scarce a cable’s length,
Their engines singing loudly
Their song of eager strength ;
Well-found, and neatly varnished,
The ships that seek the sea.
Their painted sides untarnished,
New-loosed from dock or quay.
As though they spurn resistance,
They brush the waves aside,
Impatient for the distance
Where proudly they will ride
With rolling seas below them,
Adventure as their star,
And courage that will show them
The ports that call afar.
N.s.w.
HAMER.
Dream Voyage.
Marama, O Mamma,
We’re sailing with the moon
In blue space, and silences;
And ive’ll come to Dreamland soon!
Onward the Moon-ship steers her way
Amongst the stars of night
And down through golden depths of day
That dim at last her light.
Beneath us lies the empty sea,
Purple and blue and green ;
Above, the wonder of the sky—
And we sail in between ! >
But look! The clouds are coming up;
And one by one they peep
Over the far edge of the world—
Oh, do I wake, or sleep?
Are they dream-islands in the skies
The billows break below?
Thus from the ocean used to rise
The Three Kings long ago!
Marama, O Marama,
Sail southward note and slip
Through blue space and the silences —
My moon, my silver ship!
And roll, O mist! and curl and twist
Till I behold once more,
Like a white cloud upon the deep,
A windy, storm-swept shore.
It is the shore of Maoriland; '■
And we shall sail until
I see the long curve of tbe beach
And the lighthouse on the hill.
Marama, O Marama,
We’re sailing through the blue
Into the very heart of dreams —
And, oh, the dreams are tree!
MAORILAND.
DORA WILCOX.


m WLej£^-
1 R
» --
W #
B
8
1
K
B 1
X
■
Si
WmA
m
:
HH
HI
■Si
.:::
•< X r
mm
"v \ .
Mi
,SS
■
sSShSH
as
.. ms
■
s
f
weal We^
mi c
v
.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 44-No. 2269.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 1923.
Pbice 6d.
THE TREASURER’S PRIZE EXHIBIT.
“That’s our wonderful Commonwealth Taxation machine. We put the Public’s figures in at one end, and in due course—six or seven years the
process takes sometimes—the assessments issue from the other end—worked out to nine places of decimals; and often they’re correct."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly.
12 months, £ 1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7*.
To am address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice
Insufficiently slumped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this nuniber is hereby
expressly reserved by the publisher ,.
'Jhe Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Tetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
tvill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no .1/S. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
r esponsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from the
“British-Austraiasian” seller at the entrance
to Australia House, London. Also from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and IF. Dawson and
Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London
E.C.h; E. T. Hole, llolerth Satire Service, )6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Austraiasian,” 51
High Ilolborn, London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
cliurch Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie
Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde. New York: Bren-
tano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New York City;
Hotaling’s News Agency, 203 West hist Street, New
York City. Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle.
Californa; Wheatley News Co.. Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.— Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, E.C.h.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: hoz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: hoz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
ffuTfyxiiletvTi.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 1923.
A BURDEN TOO GREAT TO BEAR.
Argentina, our too-successful rival in some
things, has no income-tax. That is one ex-
planation of its superior industrial progress,
especially since the war. With little more
than a third of our acreage, and relatively
poor in gold, silver, coal, iron, tin, copper
and other metals, it owns three times as
many factories. Its exports are always well
ahead of imports (our exports have been 21
millions less than imports since July 1,
1920), and white immigrants are coming in
qt a brisk rate. It is nothing out of the
way for a hundred thousand to arrive in 12
months. And the new 7 settler hasn’t to be
bribed with an assisted passage, nor does the
Government rush gaily into debt to provide
him with a gorgeously over-capitalised farm.
The United States, another alarmingly suc-
cessful competitor, rubbed along without tax-
ing incomes, except during the Civil War
period, till 1913, and the impost w T as nothing
to speak of till the second year of the war
against Germany. Already it has become so
unpopular that there is serious talk of drop-
ping it in favor of a tax on sales. Such a
substitution would be impracticable in Aus-
tralia, but the possibility of its arriving in
America will have to be reckoned with here.
It is bad enough for Queensland frozen beef,
the profits on which are taxed at a minimum
of 4s. 7d. in the £. to be beaten out of the
British market by the Argentine article. But
if our producers and manufacturers are to
be tackled, abroad and even at home, by
Americans freed from the burden of in-
come-tax, the industrial outlook, now suffi-
ciently dismal, will become a great deal
worse. Already it is a question whether the
grow’ing and canning of fruit for export can
live against U.S. competition : the Common-
wealth Treasurer admitted the other day that
£492,000 had been lost in three years on the
Government canned-fruit pools, which
amount was £155,048 more than the total
paid to growers.
The income-tax began in Britain as a war-
tax—it was first imposed by the younger
Pitt during the struggle with the French
Republic—and in that country it has never
lost its original character. As a general
rule, the rates are in proportion to the
interest on the national debt, which is
almost exclusively a war debt. In peace-
time, when revenue is plentiful in other
directions, they occasionally bring in less
than the annual charge on the national debt;
in time of war and after, when (as hap-
pened last year) the exchange value of the
pound sterling may require to be restored,
they usually bring in more; but the theory
and practice of British Governments is to
regard the income-tax as a war tax. The
U.S.A., in this instance, has followed the
British precedent. Australia has departed
from it. The impost has been employed here,
not only as an unpleasant necessity arising
out of the war, but as an instrument of
what really amounts to fraud and oppres-
sion. It has been levied on the taxpayer to
meet the losses on drunken experiments in
Government trading and the cost of granting
huge concessions to Government servants
and others—doles, wage-increases and the
44-hour week—-in return for their votes. A
brassy political swindle was worked in N. S.
Wales when the Holman Government im-
posed a super-tax on incomes as a war mea-
sure, although it had no war expenditure
to pay. The climax of folly was reached
when the Storey-Dooley Government, hav-
ing nearly doubled the income-tax in 1920-21
(the lowest increase was 4d. in the £ and
the highest Is. 3d.), wanted to tack on an-
other p.c. in 1921-22, although at that
time the Newcastle steelworks were closing-
down, the Broken Hill mines had been shut
down for nearly two years, and thousands
of farmers were in receipt of Government
relief, not having had a crop, many of them,
since 1918-19. And the gentleman who_ was
then Treasurer was last week appointed
leader of the Labor party, largely because
he is considered to have a genius for finance!
Australia is far less able than Britain to
stand high rates of income-tax. It has no
landed aristocracy, deriving from the Norman
Conquest, no rich manufacturing interest,
no large class drawing interest on foreign
investments. Not being a creditor country it
can’t shift part of the burden to distant
shoulders. Very few of its industries have
reached the established stage; perhaps only
one has done so. Yet the taxation of incomes
has increased and multiplied as if people had
bottomless pockets. It has been resorted to so
recklessly by State and Federal Govern-
ments as to have become a blight on produc-
tion, a burden on and a menace to industry.
There is a crying need for more factories,
and were things wisely ordered the middle
class would supply most of the capital, but
in the present state of affairs the middle
class can do nothing—the plague of tax-
gatherers has bled it white. The proposal
that companies should be taxed by the Com-
monwealth and individuals by the State, and
that there should be one return instead of
two, will afford only partial and temporary
relief. Nothing less than a redistribution of
taxation is called for—that and the simplify-
ing of the business, so that one authority
(the State for preference) may impose death
duties and taxes on land and amusements,
now c dlected by both. Too much revenue is
got by taxing incomes; too little by taxing
land values. In spite of the enormous for-
tunes made in land speculation, especially
since Governments took to paying fancy
prices for soldiers’ farms and homes, the
Commonwealth and State land-taxes yielded
only £1,096,000 more in 1921 than in 1914,
whereas the income-taxes yielded £22,375,000
more. Certainly profits on land transactions
are subject to income-tax, but in these cases
it can be dodged, wholly or in part. A rea-
sonable way out of the muddle of duplicate
taxation would be for the States to abandon
incomes to the Commonwealth and the Com-
monwealth to abandon land, entertainments
and dead men’s property to the States. The
result in that case would be one income-tax
for the whole of Australia and one land-tax
in each State, the former being applied ex-
clusively to the war debt, the latter so
framed as to fall as lightly as possible on
the farmer, as heavily as possible on the
jobber. There would be no harm in con-
tinuing the 255. p.li. subvention for a term of
years conditionally upon the State land-taxes
being up to specifications.
THE SCAREMONGERS.
An easy and popular way out for the lazy
and the incapable is to assert, with a pity-
ing smile, that there is really no need for
exertion, and that those who talk otherwise
are merely scaremongers and traders in
bogeys. It is easy and popular, because the
man who tries to do tilings often
reveals incapacity, while the man who
strikes a pose and says that the do-
ing of things is quite unnecessary
doesn’t give himself away until the catas-
trophe comes, and by that time he and his
attitude and his air of prevision are likely
to be equally forgotten. Three of the ugliest;
possibilities are invasion, especially when no
precautions have been taken against it; in-
ternal revolution, especially when it is loom-
ing and nothing is done to prevent it; and
national bankruptcy, possibly followed by
the arrival of armed bailiffs, as in the Ruhr
country of Germany. Only very big men
could hold office by a policy of preparing
against chances such as these, but very small
men can hold office, and lots of other good
things, on the comforting assurance that
there is really not a cloud on the horizon,
and that, the dance may proceed as usual.
The other day a Sydney daily of wealth,
pompous traditions and tonnage turned on
one of its writers to assure all whom it
might concern that the dance might, and, in
fact, ought to, proceed as usual. The head-
ings were instructive:—
WHITE AUSTRALIA AND COMMONSENSE.
THE DANGER OF SCAREMONGERING.
THE BOGEY-MAN POLICY.
In this article the writer discusses the White Aus-
tralia policy, and deprecates the identification of it
with racial feelings. He contends that continually
ascribing hostile intentions to Japan may tend to sug-
gest such intentions where otherwise they might never
exist.
lt would not be easy to imagine anything
more loftily impartial than that summary
of the case. It almost suggests what lias
been described as "the high-bred blastedness
of the British aristocrat,” a thing that may
happen whether one is to the manner born
or lias acquired the manner. But the Briton,
despite the frozen calm attributed to him,
has a habit of active preparation. He pre-
pared his navy at a remarkable rate against
invasion, which he admitted to be quite pos-
sible, and lie made very little disguise as
to whose invasion the preparations were
meant for. He may have been somewhat
backward in the matter of the army, for with
sufficient navy it seemed that he could choose
whether an army would be required or not;
but even in that line he had an expeditionary
force ready. He didn’t suffer in the least
from the delusion that studied mildness would
avert danger, or that there was any for-
midable P'ower on earth so unworldly, not
to say so heavenly, that it would never
think of stealing anything unless the owner,
by locking the door, showed an unworthy-
suspicion, and put bad ideas into the angel’s
head. If British persons in high and low
places had not scaremongered sufficiently
to convince the nation that more defence was
needed the chance of getting the money for
more defence would have been small. To-
day the same J. Bull is still quietly scare-
mongering—searemongering to find money
for the repayment of his debt, on the ground
that, if he owes too much and owes it too
long, he may go broke like anybody else.
A highly polite attitude in this country
is that Australia should keep out colored
races without arousing any “racial feeling.”
It is, therefore, not the right tiling to men-
tion that we have a neighbor, that he has
a very large and fast-growing population,
and wants more room to grow in; that he
has a rigid system of compulsory military
service; that his military expenditure last
year was £76,000,000, and is being in-
creased ; that he has the third biggest navy-
in the world, and has built more first-class
ships since the Battle of Jutland than Britain
has done, though not so many as the United
States has done; and that, however grateful
we should be for Japan’s services in the war,
that bustling Power was much more busily
employed in “dealing with” peaceful China
than in fighting Germany. To allude to such
matters, and also to the existence of a veiy
heavily-armed neighbor across the Pacific,
and likewise to the fact that Britain’s dimin-
ished navy may some day be very busy else-
where, while ours is on the scrapheap, might
awaken the Australian people to the need
for a defence policy. But, if it is rude and
scaremongery to allude to them, then pre-
sumably the people ought to remain unawak-
ened, and the country do without a policy.
It is not an easy people to awaken, in any
case. There are so many interests that
awakening does not suit. For instance, the
empty three-fourths of the continent can’t be
defended without local population, for even
if arms were abundant there must be people
to carry them. That draws attention to the
circumstance that the only successes Aus-
tralia has made at getting population to-
gether, apart from the original convict settle-
ment, has been by the uprising of new State
capitals, such as Melbourne, Hobart, Bris-
bane, Adelaide and Perth. Then comes in
the matter of making new States out of
old ones ; and that is reckoned, in the best
city land-dealing circles, as an attempt to
create needless alarm. So it is one of the
things that “aren’t done.”
The attitude of Labor has become more
complicated than the most tangled state of
the great sea-serpent. Its leaders held at
one time that every male citizen should be
trained; afterwards they suggested that he
should take his gun with him back into pri-
vate life, so as to be armed for gory revolu-
tion at the public charge. This lhtter idea,
like the earlier one, is rather out of vogue, as
being too obvious. The present view is that
there should be no army at all, it being
liaole to develop into a weapon of “capital-
ism” for use against “the worker,” especi-
ally when he isn’t working. In fact, trades-
unionism, under strict discipline, ought to be
the one organised power in the country. The
necessity for some force to repel invasion is
explained away on the ground that invasion
is a bogey, a scare and a myth. This coun-
try is not like others, and won’t be invaded.
At the same time there is a notable tendency
for the Voice of Labor to advocate a break-
away from the empire scheme of Defence, so
that there may be nothing save our own non-
existent army and navy between us and in-
vasion. Any plea to the effect that some
force is required to protect White Australia
from the penetration of colored races, with
or without arms, falls flat in view of the
fact that White Australia is off the new
programme. The real Red gospel of the
brotherhood of man over-rides paltry ques-
tions of color. The idea of creating more
States in order to bring about a wide dif-
fusion of population interests official Labor
not in the least. Advanced Labor and
advanced Orthodoxy haven’t exactly met, for
the latter says the obvious enemy won’t come
except in the imagination of scaremongers,
provided we are really polite to him, while
tne former says the same, and adds that, all
men being brothers, only scaremongers
think it matters much whether he comes or
not. In their neglect of the essentials of
Defence, however, the parties are remarkably
alike.
* * »
On other points there is a sort of unani-
mity. The most full-blown Liberal says that
insurrection or revolution or destruction of
tne old social order is impossible here, just
as the best-dressed young French peer said it
about the year 1775, and that scaremongers
who express doubts on the point are to be
avoided. Full-blown Laborites who have
just accepted the Red Objective with Bol-
shevism writ large upon it cordially endorse
that view r , and urge all and sundry to remain
in an unsuspecting and unprepared frame of
mind. They also disavow and reprehend the
hotheads who give the show away. On the
point that Australia will never default or
repudiate, even if it comes to owe £lOOO per
inhabitant, and that any suggestion to the
contrary is searemongering of the blackest
dye, and a treasonable blotting of the national
escutcheon, the agreement amounts to the
monotony of bagpipes heard afar off. Even
when the organs of the Best People uneasily
remark that the borrowing of £45,000,000 a
year for works and odd jobs which show so
little result is rather too much, they hasten
to add that there will never be a failure to
pay principal and interest in full no matter
what we borrow —in which case why not
borrow more 7 The Worst People agree, and
more than agree. Repudiation is a most
essential part of the Red Objective pro-
gramme, and the plain and simple way to
get adherents is to make the interest bill so
large that payment is impossible, and the
debt so large as to be really worth stealing.
So the Worst People agree with the Best
in their stern opposition to scaremongers.
It suits the Worst People down to the
ground. But it ought to make the Best
People wonder whether they are not being
made fools of.
UNENFORCEABLE LAWS.
Than the desire to persecute none is more
securely embedded in the human breast. It
usually travels under high-sounding aliases—
Christian charity, perhaps, or the reforming
spirit—but its basis is always an emotion
ranging between vague resentment and
active hatred. In several of the American
States agitations are under way against smok-
ing and tobacco-chewing. Boxing for money
is prohibited elsewhere. Cranks are continu-
ally appearing who want legislation against
the nude in art, swimming unless in neck-to-
ankle costumes, speech-making in parks and
streets, and many other conventions and
practices which normal citizens find unobjec-
tionable. No class in any community can
claim freedom from this tendency to damn the
sins its members are not inclined to and dis-
cipline those who commit them. A tra-
ditional hostility-—latent for the most part,
but ever ready to manifest itself—exists be-
tween the legal and medical professions.
Many Judges, for example, consider that doc-
tors should be forced to reveal the confidences
of patients; and some argue that recalci-
trants should be gaoled. In practice it is
absurd to expect that any doctor worth his
salt will be induced by fear of punishment to
betray a patient who has trusted him, and
commit an act which his profession has pro-
claimed to be unethical. But the brief mad-
ness of anger precludes the taking of a long
view or a careful consideration of conse-
quences ; and anger is an infirmity to which
Judges are liable equally with saints and
Stigginsss.
* * * 9
In Australia the sharp tongue of the holy
man is to be heard calling for various in-
hibitions that can never be made effective.
One, of course, is in respect to betting, and
tne position in regard to that is peculiar. In
theory betting is indefensible —-all the moral-
ists are agreed about that. With a queer
distortion of logic, however, we compound
with sin to the extent of not criticising a
gamble provided it is fashionable. No one
has a word to say against a prince for back-
ing his fancy at Randwick or against a
Governor for playing poker in the Melbourne
Club. The axiom that the rich must be
allowed their flutter is responsible for a
transparent piece of humbug. The nominal
reason for police-raids on two-up schools is
that they are an annoyance to the non-
gambling public. But two-up players are
tracked to lonely parts of the bush , and
arrested on the very day perhaps that
city traffic is being disorganised by race-
trams, the streets blocked by race-going
motorists, the goods of traders deteriorated by
race dust, and the ears of the community
tortured by the howls of those who sell race-
books. In Sydney, the other night, a dozen
policemen raided a house where fan-tan was
supposed to be in progress and collected half
as many Chinese and a few pounds in cash.
A policeman who organised a raid on one of
the big clubs or private houses where cards
are played for stakes immeasurably greater
than those which Chinese gardeners can
afford, would arouse a storm of public indig-
nation likely to culminate in the loss of his
job. What it means is that the laws against
gambling are aimed at a class. “You shall
not indulge in one of the commonest propen-
sities of the human race,” says the State to
the citizen, “unless you are rich enough to
patronise race-meetings, open an account
with a bookmaker, or belong to an expensive
club.” The drink prohibitionists are more
consistent in intention, however their policy
may work out in practice. They aspire to pre-
vent the rich from procuring alcohol equally
with the poor. But again the power of the
purse enters into the matter. In the , only
country where prohibition has been attempted
on the grand scale anyone with money can
get all the liquor he wants. For the rest the
factor that makes the task of the enforce-
ment officers so hopeless is the same as that
which keeps those who are out to suppress
two-up and fan-tan perennially busy; only a
negligible proportion of any white nation can
be got to accept a drink or a gamble as a
crime. In N. S. Wales —to take a third case
—a section of the Fuller party is demand-
ing legislation against the Ne Temere decree.
It is significant that the loudest advocates of
the policy are no friends of the Premier.
Falk’s “May” Laws raised an analogous
issue in Germany 50 years ago. In order
to make them effective it was found neces-
sary to alter the German Constitution. A
Lutheran millennium was prophesied in
much the same language as a teetotal millen-
nium is being prophesied in the U.S.A. Mass
ceased to be celebrated in over a thousand
parishes. Half-a-dozen cardinals and arch-
bishops and an immense number of bishops
went to gaol. People who had never voted
for the Centre (Catholic) party before be-
gan to do so, with the eventual result that
it rose from insignificance in the Reichstag
to a bloc 100 strong which controlled the
Government. The “May” Laws went, but
the sectarian party that had been made
by them remained, and does to this day. At
the same time Bismarck embarked on his
fatal attempt to legislate socialism out of
existence—a campaign to which many Ger-
man thinkers attribute the Fatherland’s col-
lapse on the home front in 1918. It was
made a crime to preach socialistic doctrines
in books or papers or by speech, in public
or private ; anyone who opposed conscription
was made liable to severe penalties, and the
organisations of the unions were destroyed
Germany immediately began to develop the
strongest socialistic party in Europe. By
1914 it possessed the most famous socialist
newspaper in the world, and for years pre-
viously it had been exporting extreme revo-


lutionary and anti-monarchist ideas for
foreign consumption.
A first essential in every fresh assault on
human liberty is for the bulk of the popula-
tion to be satisfied that the proposed change
is a fair thing. In many cases a long pre-
liminary period of education is necessary.
Murder was not a crime in the Stone Age,
and robbery was Europe’s most fashionable
sport at the time the Saxons landed in
Britain. When education has done its work
people accept restrictions because they know
them to be for the good of the greatest num-
ber, and because they would expect their
neighbors to submit in reversed circum-
stances. Who ever hears of meetings of pro-
test against the compulsory segregation of
plague or small-pox sufferers? A second re-
quirement is that the principle involved
shall be capable of application without re-
spect of persons. All but anarchists are
united as to drink and betting being things
that need drastic regulation. But millions
of law-loving citizens are unable to subscribe
to the view that either should be abolished,
and till these people are converted to the
opposite theory they will give the Govern-
ment which makes the adventure no help of
any value. And there are also millions w r ho
argue that if it is right for the rich to bet
high it cannot be wrong for the poor to bet
low; that a prohibition law which prevents
workers from getting beer but allows a
British ship to make £200,000 in one trip
selling whisky to the workers’ ‘ employers is
too discriminatory to be desirable these
unrestful times. And, lastly, there is the
realm where spirituality treads—a singularly
unprofitable one for politicians to push into.
All history proves that where a secular State
tries to forcibly influence religious teachings
the utmost it can hope to do is to present the
creed concerned with eager martyrs. Many
R.C. bishops would cheerfully go to gaol
for denying the spiritual validity of a State
marriage, in the same way as many Anglican
bishops would for denying the spiritual
validity of a State divorce. The more cheer-
fully since they would know that in thus
vindicating their religious principles they
would gain priceless support for their reli-
gions. A court of law will not make an
order it has no reasonable prospect of en-
forcing, and it is time the same sensible
rule was adopted by our Parliaments.
TIME-WASTING.
The common phrase of a commercial age
which describes a man as “worth” the
amount of money he has to spend is a trifle
ridiculous. Many a man who is said to be
worth £50,000 would on a better human com-
putation be worth nothing; and some future
age with more accurate standards will grow
merry over our strange misuse of speech.
But in a far more practical way a man may
be judged by a commercial rule. The trade-
unions have adjusted working values to the
long hand of tne clock; and whatever his
moral value as a citizen, a man can generally
be described as worth so much an hour —his
price on this basis being exactly what it is
worth somebody’s while to pay him for an
hour of service. One man can earn half-a-
crown, another can sell a similar portion of
his time for five pounds. The ethics of the
thing need not be considered; the man is
worth what he can readily get. The whole
scale is, of course, modified by personality
and by those broad sweeps of sentiment
which, in spite of all statements to the con-
trary, play such a big part in modern life ;
but in a general way a man’s worth in an
earning capacity is a far truer test than
that which would judge his place in the
world by his accumulated capital.
Taking this earning capacity as a basis of
a State’s wealth, time should be of all things
the most respected and conserved. Unfor-
tunately it is not. There is nothing a man
possesses which the public lias less regard
for. In a general way his money, once it
is earned, is sacred. In the recognised modes
of trade-robbery one man will relieve another
of as much of his burden of cash as is rea-
sonably possible; but direct theft is neither
profitable nor popular. Mendicancy, too, is
the exception rather than the rule. Not very
many men will directly ask another man
for gifts of money; but there is no such
restraint exercised in the claims upon his
time. The man whose real value to the State
is not more than fourpence an hour (how-
ever much he may be worth according to
some other theory of values) will cheerfully
waste any number of hours of another man’s
time4~hours which may be worth anything
from five shillings to ten pounds each. This
must not be taken to imply that ordinary
social intercourse is necessarily waste of
time. .On the contrary, the person -whose
value is the greater may actually refresh
himself in a fashion which increases his
hourly worth by the companionship of the
cheaper man. But our world is so consti-
tuted that the cheaper man, for a thousand
and one reasons which are in reality not
reasons at all, can make inroads upon the
more valuable man’s life. Burns, the poet,
was at one time so beset by admirers and
doubtful patrons that he had time neither
to write his poetry nor to go on with his
ploughing. And the very social qualities
which made his poetry possible at all were
those which prevented him from snatching
away his most precious possession from those
who came to w r aste it. It is exactly there
that the shoe pinches in Australia to-day.
The very qualities which soften the rigors
of modern life are opposed to intense appli-
cation to the world’s greatest tasks. Men
out of sheer goodwill cons'ent to be bored and
exploited by the time-wasters; and the wdiole
machine of life is slower and drags more
heavily because of the loss which this entails.
.All the loss of time due to the overlapping
of social and economic ideals is, however,
more or less accidental. The stranger with-
in the gates must be spoken to softly even
though the clock runs down and the machine
stops! but there is in addition a systematic
and official waste of time wdiich is direct
loss to everybody concerned. In every
department of public life persons in the four-
penny authority of some small State or muni-
cipal job are licensed to waste the time of
those who are in every way more valuable
than themselves. Thus a two-shillings-an-
hour clerk behind a post-office counter will
finish the whole of her conversation with the
eighteen-pence-an-liour boy on the other side
before condescending to register a letter or
sell a stamp to the 10-shillings-an-hour man
who is impatiently waiting to be served.
Everywhere the rule holds that the Govern-
ment official regards the time of the public
as of no value; and if a statistical statement
of the lessening of efficiency from this cause
could be compiled it would probably be found
that the community loses an amount equal to
the salaries of all the officials concerned. But
on the general theory that the time of the
private citizens —who in the aggregate make
the public—is of no value, matters drift from
bad to worse; and where half-an-hour was
lost 10 years ago the loss is an hour to-day.
Yet there never was a time in the history
of human industry when time was so clearly
shown to be the direct equivalent of money.
In the days of universal slavery time counted
for nothing more than the sparse food of the
worker; the battles for industrial supremacy
were fought out in the slave-market. A good
judge of a worker was in the same position
as a good judge of a farm-horse; if the
quality was in the person purchased the whip
did all the rest. But free labor meant great
waste of time, waste not so much through
idling as through making up the links be-
tween job and job, finding the tools, looking-
for the materials, and generally carrying on
with a minimum of system. The difference
between a good and bad artisan was said to
lie in his keeping of the tools of trade ; but
it never occurred to those who paid for the
work that tool-hunting and tool-sharpening
ate great holes in the working day. Now
the big captains of industry have awakened
to the fact that time is the key of their
whole situation. It is not the wage they
pay the worker that seriously matters; what
matters is that every moment of the wage-
earner’s time should return full value in out-
put. This does not necessarily mean that
the worker is asked to toil harder. On the
contrary, his work is usually made much
lighter; but the lighter exertion must be
more constant. The record of the Ford
works —which in their own line stand
supreme for cheapness of output and high
wages—reads like the romance of time-
saving. The subdivision of tasks enormously
increased the speed of execution. More and
more the work was brought to the worker’s
hand; and the thing that 20 years ago would
have taken 200,000 workers to do is now
more efficiently performed by 50,000. And
this has been achieved not so much by im-
proved machinery as by the saving- of time.
The man behind these astonishing- results puts
the whole matter in the most compact way
when he says:—
The first step forward in assembly came when we
began taking the work to the men instead of the
men to the work. We now have two general prin-
ciples in all operations—that a man shall never have
to take more than one step, if possibly it can be
avoided, and that no man need ever stoop over.
So the saving of time means the saving of
the man whose time is saved. He works
without walking and without stooping—in
the time-wasting industries of Australia that
would be considered a soft job indeed. But
the results are there to show the value of
the method; and success lies witn the Aus-
tralian manufacturer who can learn the
lesson. That lesson is, that the very highest
wages can be paid by an industry that gets
all the time of all its workers. It means
speeding-up—tremendous speeding-up—but
not at the cost of extreme body-racking toil
for the person speeded. To say that" Aus-
tralia should learn the lesson is not enough.
Australia must learn the lesson, or her whole
industrial future is a mere slouch at the
rear of the world’s manufacturing proces-
sion. It is, in a sense, the very key of our
White Australianism that we should waken
up to a sense of time values. By doing that
our white thousands may more than compete
with the brown millions of Asia.
C. O. M.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Dead President.
Nominally President Harding died last
week of apoplexy following on pneumonia
due to an attack of ptomaine poisoning.
But the truth is his job killed him. The
President of the U.S.A. wields greater powers
than many of the mediaeval kings did, and,
unlike the latter, lie is expected to make a
show of exercising his powers. Where his
mentality and physique are vigorous, as in
the case of Roosevelt, he battles through
easily enough; where either is weak he is
incapacitated like Wilson, or goes under to
the first serious illness, as Harding has
done. Under our party system a propor-
tion of the members of every Ministry are
required to decide between attempting work
which is beyond their mental capacity and
drawing their salaries and enjoying their
honors under false pretences. Rarely indeed
do they adopt the heroic course of admitting
themselves beaten. The case of Thomas
Henley, of N. S. Wales, who threw up his
portfolio in the Fuller Ministry because it
was too much for him, is almost unique in
the history of popular government. Hard-
ing, like Wilson, did not dream of resign-
ing the glittering position to which he had
risen from the office of an insignificant Ohio
newspaper; but he scorned to shirk. He
came into office on a wave of tight National-
ism and Comstockery—sentiments with which
as a life-long Republican and practising Bap-
tist he was in entire accord. America was
going to stand completely aloof from the
sordid quarrels of effete Europe, and in the
social sphere, show the naughty Old World
how completely sober and moral God’s Own
Country could be. The rest of his term
was a matter of one disillusionment after
another. An ardent prohibitionist in theory,
he lived to see the. most populous State in
the Union declare against the national
policy; the societies for the suppression of
vice did little more than give free adver-
tisements to certain books and plays; and
those who had been loudest in their demands
that Europe should be left to its fate began
presently to murmur that isolation, while
inspiring to orate about, was not Big Busi-
ness. And latterly he had had to face
widespread industrial unrest which, as it
was largely due to the gold glut and its result-
ing high prices, did not admit of any imme-
diate solution. Posterity’s verdict will be
that he was a brave and sincere, as well as
a modest and very likeable man, but many
sizes too small for his tremendous job.
A Prospective Loss of £BO,OOO.
Speaking like a man burdened with great
issues, Federal Works Minister Stewart
announced the Bruce-Page “policy” for the
Northern Territory, a fertile public free-
hold 2| times the size of Germany, which
is waiting to be developed and made safe —
or else to be forfeited on the ground of
insufficient occupation, through the neglect
of little people who don’t aspire to big
things. The policy isn’t a thundering affair.
It is proposed to extend the 34ft. line an-
other 100 miles, which will furnish the great
Federal property with 358 miles of rail-
way, or one mile of line to 1462 sq. miles
of territory. On the same basis N. 8.
Wales would own 212 miles of railway. It
is stated that “if the line was further ex-
tended beyond Daly Waters excellent coun-
try would be opened up, and there was every
hope that the revenue would exceed work-
ing expenses,” but, apparently, there is no
desire to open up “excellent country.” To
move beyond Daly Waters would involve
deciding whether the country’s interests and
its honor counted for more than the extra
votes which might be bought in Queensland
and N. S. Wales. In fact, the place is a
parting of the ways. Speaking in a serious
mood the Minister said that the railway,
broken off short at Daly Waters and not
carried into the “excellent country” beyond,
was expected to involve a loss of £2OOO a
year, or nearly £5 12s. per mile per annum,
on working expenses alone. It is appa-
rently, in his opinion, something calculated
to daunt even the stout-hearted. Still, N. S.
Wales claims to have the best-paying (some
one, by a very expressive “bull,” called it
the least worst-paying) railway system in
the Commonwealth, and it, is blessed with
15 railways which lose more than £2OOO a
year on working expenses alone. The
Demondrille-Blayney line, less than one-
third the size of the N.T. railway, lately
proved its ability to lose £77,552 on working
expenses in 12 months. Of lines which have
apparently attained all the prosperity that
can be expected of them, and which yet lose
over £5 10s. per mile inside 12 months, the
State boasts 29. The Clyde-Carlingford line,
almost in the suburbs of Sydney, lost, in
1922, not £5 10s. but £1645 per mile on work-
ing costs alone, and the Lidcombe-Regent’s
Park line dropped over £l5OO per mile. Inci-
dentally, the loss on the East-to-West job,
which is a finished business with no more
good country ahead, was close on £9 per
mile (working expenses only) in 1921. The
Federal Works man further foreboded, as
a matter for deep cogitation, that the
loss on the expanded N.T. railway, when in-
terest is considered as well as working ex-
penses, is likely to be £BO,OOO a year, or
£224 per mile, until the country develops a
bit; and Sydney and Melbourne papers gave
the lamentable fact big headings. N. S.
Wales possessed, when last year’s accounts
were published, 3110 miles of railway which
lost on an average £323 per mile in the 12
months, and the oldest loser (Blacktown-
Richmond) had been feeling bad for 59
years. Victoria has a worse aggregate record
than that of N. S. Wales, and S. Australia
is a little behind Victoria, and Westralia is
behind S. Australia, and Queensland, where
everything has ceased to pay, is the limit.
On the evidence, or the estimates, the Ter-
ritory is a place that would pay for exploita-
tion, provided it was done by capable, in-
dustrious and patriotic men. But the
900,000 sq. miles which form Middle Aus-
tralia, with 13 Federal votes to sell at one
end and none at the other, had no in-
terest for Hughes, a political engineer above
all things. It was in his day that the habit
grew up of regarding twopence risked on
works in the new North as a most serious
loss, though two millions spent on wooden
ships in the old South was all in the day’s
happenings. His successor has more cour-
age and less of the subterranean habit. But
though born in Australia he is the product of
an English university and a member of the
English Bar, and profoundly learned or
stodged in English precedent. The need of
this country is a great shifting of the centre
of population, but such things are not done
in settled old England, so they are liable
to be looked on askance as violent and pos-
sibly heroic or revolutionary measures.
Wherefore Australia remains a very large
emptiness, ruled from a large city in a small
corner; and the leaders of the corner peopie
don’t seem to have sufficient outlook to
know there is an emptiness, let alone an
emptiness that is chock-full of danger.
•
How Sidney Kidman Sees It Himself.
Dear Bulletin, —Several letters have ap-
peared in recent issues having reference to
pastoral properties in which I am interested,
and alleging misuse of the country held.
This form of argument comes up with every
good season, just as surely as the grass does.
But, significantly enough, when a drought
is on no one appears to have anything to say
on the subject. I quite willingly admit that
much of the country was extensively im-
proved by former lessees, just as one of
your correspondents says—but it couldn’t be
made to pay. The money spent in such a
lavish fashion was borrowed from banks and
stock-agents, and the properties eventually
fell into their hands. They in turn tried
to work them, but were only too glad in the
long run to sell out almost at any price.
Others could have bought, hut didn’t. I
did, and am accused of profiting by my pre-
decessors’ misfortunes. Cattle are my forte,
but now that sheep are booming, everyone
contends that sheep should be the main
issue. Why should I be compelled to put
sheep on country which, in my judgment,
is better fitted for cattle-raising? Take, for
example, Urisino, Elsinora and Thurlo—
these were originally sheepruns and failed.
When the company at present holding the
properties bought them from the agents to
whom they had reverted, there were no
sheep on the places. Same with Momba
and a number of others. Anyhow, there is
plenty of out-back country still available.
Under the terms of the Western Lands
leases, large areas have been resumed quite
recently; but I don’t remember any wild
rush of intending occupiers. I have had
such an experience of the pastoral industry
of late years, what with droughts, standard
values for natural increase, low prices, etc.,
that I would be glad to- get rid of almost
the whole of my interests in Queensland
and N. S. Wales. Now, what about these
people who are quite certain that I don’t
know how to conduct my business trying
their hand at stock-raising? As I said be-
fore, I’m willing to sell. But I’m afraid
they would be most unwilling to buy.—Yours
faithfully, Sidney Kidman.
«
A Woman’s Job.
a. eew weeks ago Dr. James W. Barrett,
of Melbourne, a high authority on the inci-
dence of V.D., mentioned that at least 10
per cent, of the population were afflicted by
the scourge. Now from the British Ministry
of Health comes the report (1923) of the
Committee of Inquiry on Venereal Disease.
Let some of our women with time and
energy to spare for nosing after naughtiness
in bars and picture-exhibitions—resorts
which are already adequately policed—con-
sider the following conclusions arrived at by
a body of men and women representing all
that is best in modern British scientific and
sociological thought:—
That a large number of the sufferers from venereal
disease are innocent persons, especially women and
children.
That syphilis is transmissible by a mother to her
children, and is a frequent cause of miscarriages,
still-births and deaths in early infancy, and, in
children who survive, of mutilating deformities,
deafness, blindness, mental disease and other defects.
That the presence of these diseases in the com-
munity is a menace to the maintenance and advance-
ment of the the physical and intellectual standard
of the race.
At present practically nothing is being done
in any of the Australian States to cope
with the V.D. problem. The reason is two
fold: no Parliament has dared hitherto to
pass an effective Venereal Diseases Act, and
no Government dares to make drastic use
of the measures that have been allowed to
get on to our Statute Books. A compre-
hensive Act was recently passed by the
Newfoundland Parliament. The following
is a summary :
V.D. is defined. Any person infected must place
himself or herself in the care of a medical practi-
tioner, or of the Medical Health Officer, under penalty
of fine or imprisonment, and when so "affected shall
abstain from marriage, sexual intercourse or any
conduct likely to affect another person. If the
M.O. becomes aware of any person .affected with
venereal disease, he shall give notice to such person
requiring him to consult a medical practitioner.
If a certificate that he is not suffering is not pro-
duced he may authorise a medical practitioner to
examine the suspect, and if the person is a, sufferer
may cause his or her detention and isolation. Power
is given to the Health Officer, or to a qualified medi-
cal practitioner appointed by him in writing, to enter
any house or premises for the purpose of making
inquiries as to the health of the persons therein, and
he may have any person infected removed to hospital.
Persons affected may. not engage in any trade or
calling that involves handling food. The Governor
in Council is empowered to make regulations for
the better carrying out of the provisions of the Act,
which shall have the force of law when published in
the Gazette.
Serious interferences with the liberty of the
subject are involved here. But they are safe
interferences, inasmuch as they are the sort
that would be gladly acquiesced in by all
reasonable citizens. The active opposition
to such legislation is afforded in Australia
by the V.D. vote, which is mostly well-to-do
and male. But it would have ho real force
were it not buttressed by a largely silent
but formidable woman’s vote, based on the
extraordinary theory that the possibility of
V.D. is a preventive, and its materialisa-
tion a just punishment, of sin. The truth is,
as the London report notes, “the fear of in-
curring disease is not a serious deterrent” ;
while the knowledgeable, which is usually
the vicious, male is less likely to become in-
fected than others. What women need to
realise is that the worst sufferers from these
coin plaints are members of their own sex
and their offspring. Once they do so and
begin to move in the matter the response
of the politicians will be prompt; and from
that moment venereal disease will enter on
the path that has already been traversed by
small-pox.
•
The Unfit.
From a doctor who worked among them:—
Members of the British Medical Association, and
of other bodies concerned with eugenics and social
welfare in Britain, are discussing again the curtail-
ment of propagation amongst the unfit. The problem
lias restricted itself so far to the mentally unfit, for
the reason that persons suffering from tuberculosis,
diabetes, cancer and other physical ailments in which
heredity is suspected of playing a part, are not, even
in the present state of medical knowledge, beyond
hope of permanent cure. Furthermore, these people
are usually acutely conscious of their condition, and
are willing to assist either by personal abstinence or
by the intelligent use of contraceptives. No one,
probably, wiß deny that it is highly undesirable for
persons suffering from certain well-defined types of
mental disorder to reproduce their kind, and perpetu-
ate their misfortunes,; but that they do so, and with
appalling frequency, is patent to anyone who has had
access to asylum records.
There are only two methods of achieving sterility
amongst mental defectives —by segregation and by
surgical interference. Segregation to be effective
entails the establishment and maintenance of large
and relatively costly colonies wherein thousands of
people capable of leading moderately profitable lives
would be incarcerated till their period of rep reduc-
tive ness was past—for life in the case of the male.
And the segregation must be thorough. Under our
present system, mental defectives who are neither
violent nor particularly troublesome to their relatives
are frequently freed, and beget or bear as opportunity
offers. It is a fact also, well known toi alienists,
that such persons are often peculiarly lustful and
peculiarly fertile. Even if committed to an asylum
all are liable to, and many do, have their liberty
restored during the periods of remission common
to most of the better-known maladies, and the
opportunity is often promptly seized by women to
become pregnant, as the readmission sheets of the
asylums testify. The writer, in a relatively short
experience of asylum work, knows of half a dozen
cases of this kind which came under his personal
notice. What the male patients are responsible for
when discharged or out on leave Heaven alone
knows; but the annual crop of committed persons
tells its own tale. One instance will serve to illus-
trate what can and does happen with our present
methods. A female patient, young and in the early
stages of general paralysis of the insane, was allowed
out during a period of remission to join her husband,
also out on leave from another mental hospital. They
had already had one child; and the husband had the
same disease as his wife.
Sterilization —a. drastic measure, no doubt, to the
minds of many (but so was vaccination, in its vari-
ous forms, to our grandparents)—seems to be the
only practicable remedy. The dearest friends of


Tt e Farmers & Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £250,000
; »
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand!
FIRE, WORKMEN’S COMPENSATION, WOOL CLIPS, MOTOR-CAR, PERSONAL ACCIDENT, CROPS AND STACKS.
ustralia
Limited
Established 1914.
First year’s premiums . . . . . . . . . . .. ~ ~ £8849
Seventh year’s premiums. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , £87,728
Cash Dividends paid to Shareholders amount to £17,019.
The Company is soundly established, and all Landowners with desirable Insurance
accounts are invited to become Shareholders. JOIN NOW!
Managing Director.
mental patients would not seriously wish them to
have children, yet baulk at what they imagine is a
horrible mutilating operation. Nothing is further
from the truth. The occlusion of an essential duct
through a one-inch incision in the case of the male,
and a slightly more elaborate procedure in the case
of the woman, does all that is necessary. The male
retains the glands, which through their internal
secretion are responsible for his masculine attributes.
He becomes sterile but not impotent. Tlie woman
loses nothing at all except the actual power to con-
ceive.
Society, to protect itself, has from time to time
assumed the right to restrain the liberty of its
member’s. The malefactor is cast into gaol, the
sriiall-pox patient and the plague-stricken are iso-
lated, the leper has his lazaret. Why not prevent
the imbecile, the general paralytic and the epileptic
from polluting posterity ?
Havelock Ellis, who needs no introduction in
Australia, recently expressed himself in favor of
“a measure so excellent as eugenical sterilization,
and one so certain to be recognised eventually in
general medical and surgical practice” (Bbitish
Medical Journal,' May 19) ; but he proposed to
act on the written consent of relatives rather than
on powers conferred by statute. It would be undesir-
able, however, to make so drastic a procedure as
sterilization a matter of private arrangement between
relatives and practitioner. The function of the
former should cease on their compulsorily notifying a
properly constituted authority that a person of
impaired mentality was in their care, and future
aetiori should be determined in the light of con-
temporary knowledge by a Board of Alienists;
-<■
— •—
Military Cliqueism.
“Rio”: If ability, experience and distin-
guished service are taken into consideration
when the vacant military appointment of
Chief of the General Staff is filled, the billet
will go to Brig.-General Blamey, who was
John Mon ash’s Chief-of-Staff (how highly-
valued may be seen in Monash’s book) and
also Deputy to General White after the war
until, on the plea of economy, he was sent to
London. But Blamey has some decided dis-
qualifications—in the eyes of the present A.G.’s
department: (1) He is not a Queenslander;
(2) he is a particularly able soldier, and a
p.s.c. of Quetta; (3) he refused to stand by
and see injustice done to junior officers; (4)
being the son of a Wagga blacksmith he has
no social pull. As The Bulletin has
several times noticed, all H.Q. appointments
since the war have been reserved for a cer-
tain clique, every one of which began his
military life in Queensland. When it has
been impossible to keep men from other
States away from Melbourne altogether, they .
have been transferred again at the first
opportunity. The 10 senior officers of toe
Permanent Forces are Chauvel, White,
Sellheim, Bruche, Coxen, Foott, Brand,
Heritage, Dodds and Blamey. Seven of
these are Queenslanders and six of them have
been at H.Q. ever since the war; most of
them were there before the war. Of the
three non-Queenslanders two have not been in
Melbourne for at least 12 years; the third
is Blamey. Much the same applies if you
look further down the seniority list. It is
not contended that all the H.Q. men are
parties to the injustices that have been done,
but there is a certain section of the A.G.’s
branch (controlling transfers, appointments
and promotions) which, ever since officers
like Blamey and some of the Duntrooners
began to distinguish themselves at the Front,
has laid itself out to keep them from rising
in the home service, and to prevent them
coming under the eye of the Minister. It
was this section that, as soon as a Dun-
trooner became a major, was so concerned
for its own seniority that it had the notori-
ous order issued that no Duntrooner was to
be promoted above that rank. This order
did much harm to the College, and, issued as
it was at the end of 1915, inflicted grave
injustice on the leading Duntroon graduates, i
In Australia it was alleged that the instruc- c
tion came from France; abroad it was said (
that it emanated from the Commonwealth ; 1
anyhow, in spite of promised inquiry the 1
matter has never been cleared up. Not satis- i
fied with depriving young officers of merited i
rank, pay and decorations in this way, the <
same clique, when distinguished Duntrooners f
were nominated by Generals Monasii and i
Hobbs for entrance to the Staff College, did i
its best to prevent them getting there. i
Although many other officers were allowed s
to retain A.I.F. rank and pay, for years in i
some cases, while doing duty in Blighty, the i
nominees for the College were reduced to i
their Australian rank of lieutenant and pay <
of £275 a year. It was impossible to live at i
Camberley on this. In the case of one officer -
the enmity of the clique went so far that on <
his return to Australia his pay of £275 was i
docked £lO monthly to pay for the feeding s
of the horse he had used on duty at the -
Staff College. Appeals under the regulations i
failed, and it was not until a relation pro- c
tested to Senator Pearce that justice was :
done. The officer concerned did so well at ;
Camberley that Sir Henry Wilson cabled <
asking that he be allowed to take up an
appointment at the War Office at his A.I.F.
rank and pay of about £9OO. The reply was t
that the officer’s services were urgently
needed in Australia. How urgently he found
on his arrival, when he was appointed to the
junior staff position in a small State, with a
grading junior to many young colleagues of
less rank, service and distinction. Again an
appeal, was lodged, only to bring the reply
that the appointment had been made by a
committee of senior officers. General
Blamey happened to be one of this commit-
tee, and when a relation of the officer asked
him why such a junior position had been
allotted he was dumbfounded, and replied that
the senior appointment had been recom-
mended and that he would see justice done.
Not only was justice done, but the officer in
question was brought to H.Q., where he was
given important work and a high staff-
grading. This he held until the plea of
economy gave an excuse to transfer Blamey
to England, and the younger man to a small
State again. The junior had by this time
had enough, and severed his connection with
the service. Meanwhile, Blamey’s action
had earned him the renewed enmity of the
clique, which will doubtless do all it can to
prevent his getting the billet that is his due.
As he is in England he cannot he accused of
inspiring this article.
•
Outposts and Slavery.
“Albatross’s” picture of the Solomons: —
It is a black man’s country where the white man
does not get a fair deal. A British Protectorate —
the phrase explains itself: protection for the cheap
nigger and highbrow officialdom for the white man;
the latter sometimes left languishing when justice
is being meted out. There have been several eases
where natives, especially police “boys,” have mplested
HOW LOAN “SETTLEMENT ” WORKS OUT.
THE BOY (just returned from the town with letters and papers ): “An' Georoe Fuller's
back, dad. He’s brought millions and millions to put people on the land. I'm
off down to the city , mum, to help those blokes spend the money.”
white women, and the penalties have missed fitting the
crime by miles. “Boys” cannot always be depended
on to carry on work. They get fits of sulkiness and
laziness, and refuse to do anything; and their white
boss has to put up with it, having little or no
remedy. It is a marvel that any of the natives
work at all. Their country produces an abundance
of natural food, and work is anathema to them.
So the “black slave” here is really not a slave:
there is no compulsion, and he is a gainer by his
association with whites. The real slave is the white
man who works for the copra bosses. Engaging him
as a clerk, supercargo or skipper of a trading vessel
at from £2O to £25 per month, with quarters but
not sustenance, the big firms get his wages back
from him in what he buys from their stores. The
cheapest a white man can live here is about £8
per month, and at that he has to go easy. But a
white man separated from his womenfolk and the
comforts of civilisation must have some pastime or
recreation. There are no picture-shows or theatres,
So he has but one alternative, and the fascination
of alcohol provides it. Most of the young men drink
themselves into sickness, and, incidentally, deep into
debt to their bosses who sell them the liquor. They
are encouraged in this by employers who give them
a somewhat camouflaged 16# per cent, reduction
on all goods supplied ; and as the firms, as a rule,
have only a gallon license, the young employee has
to buy his “pastime” by the dozen or by the ease;
and the result can he easily imagined. A young
man who comes here to work for a boss, if he doesn’t
wake up and leave quickly generally finds himself
bound body and soul to his employer, with no hope
of ever getting- out of the Islands without financial
assistance. Many have said to me: “1 wish to Gon
I could get out of this, bur 1 owe too much to the
firm.” One man—in a managerial
he had been trying to get away for over 15 years,
but only got faster into the clutches of bis bosses.
Of course it may be argued that these young men
need not resort to drink; but what else is there?
How many full-blooded young men ,are there who,
placed in similar circumstances, would not '-succumb
to temptation, solitude being a goad that will pro-
duce any kind of bad result? There is something
wrong in the system ; and it is tihie a movement Was
made for the emancipation -of the white slaves in
these lone outposts of Empire.
•
It takes considerably less time to drop a
soldier’s pension than to raise it. Till the
day the actual cut occurs there is nothing to
show that it is coming. A wise suggestion
has been made that the Repat. should give
four months’ warning of any reduction which
brings a pension below £2 2s. per week. Two
guineas may be a starvation rate, but it is
an existence: less is not. Even those who
are a little above the two-guinea rate are
frequently a week or two behind in their
payments for rent and Sundries; many
others have bought small necessaries on time-
payment, or entered into other commitments.
The sudden reduction of the Repat. dole
throws these men—many of them T.B.
patients—into an almost hopeless tangle. A
warning of an impending reduction would give
a man a chance to put his affairs in order.
It is the next best thing to a permanent
pension, and until such time as the pension
is made permanent for T.B. cases the warn-
ing should be given to them, at any rate.
Thus N.S.W. Labor member Stuart-
Hyphen-Robertson in a tragic mood :
What a nice thing- it would be if Australian legis-
lators should go to England, Scotland or Ireland to
express views held here, and the authorities there
were to decide it would be very much better that
your representatives should be transferred back to
this side of the world! Your freedom, as well as
that of the men who have been deported, the freedom
of your wives and children, is at stake.
It is possible that the matter might go even
further than that, and involve the liberty
of our brother-in-law and the habeas corpus
of our maiden aunt. The case certainly calls
for serious consideration, and certain points
arise:—
Something would depend on the production by the
visitors of a certificate showing that the “views”
are really “held here” by any appreciable party.
Its appreciableness would greatly depend on the
number of seats which it had secured in Parliament.
Something would also depend on whether the
majority over there liked the “viewsi.” If these
tended to raise civil war in England, Scotland or
Ireland, or to incite people there to help a civil
war in India or Canada or South Africa, they might
not be liked.
Supposing the legislators were born here (and not
wanted there) it certainly would be a “nice thing”
1 to return them here. On the other hand, to maroon
them in a strange and possibly savage country would
be a nasty thing—beastly, in fact. But they would
'■ not be “transferred back to this side of the world”
except in strict accordance with law; and the
English and Scotch really must be allowed a cer-
tain amount of right to make laws for England and
Scotland, even though we don’t approve of them.
If the Australian legislators weren’t born in Aus-
tralia they might be returnable just the same.
Still it might be well to secure counsel’s opinion
on that point.
But it may be asserted without hesitation that
the freedom of the wives and children of the legis-
lators should not be interfered with, unless, of
course, the wives have taken too much drink and
made a disturbance, or the children are in the
habit of breaking- windows.
The case can only be tested by sending to the
United Kingdom two sets of members, one
guaranteed to express views which are likely
to bring on a crisis in England, Scotland and
N.-E. Ireland, and the other similarly loaded
to make a test case in the rest of Ireland.
Nothing save bloodshed and disappearance
would be likely to result if such an experi-
ment was tried on Russia, whence some alleged
Australian Labor people get their instruc-
tions. The mailed fist in Russia lately
put “Cinderella” on the list of prohibited
books and plays—deported her, in fact —be-
cause there is a prince in the story. And
one of its objections to the Bible is that old
Jewry was a kingdom instead of a republic.
So Russia’s ways are short enough.
•
“Bildad” : I know few things more weari-
some than the frequent statement that the
anticipated bill for doing this or that isn’t
likely to be brought in this coming session,
after all, the Government having “counted
heads,” and found the position unsafe. These
Ministries which are always counting heads
in the advance and tails and rumps in the
retreat, and which aim at never fighting un-
less victory is certain and the opponent is
“stiff,” may live long, but they are no more
exciting than the admiral who always bolts
unless he has first seen the other admiral
and made sure that all is right. If a leader
stated briefly that the Government was going
straight on—that heads would be counted at
the second reading division, and that, sup-
posing heads went wrong, it hoped to have
a count of the electors to follow —many mem-
bers would discover for the first time that
they were furnished with minds. There is
no better way to bring a long-drawn-out matter
well to the front of practical politics than
for two or three Cabinets to commit suicide
over it. I believe that one Federal Parlia-
ment slightly anticipated the hour of its
inevitable doom, but no more. And I think
two salaried Ministers have voluntarily
thrown in their resignations inside 23
years— Kingston on a matter of poli-
tical principle, and Watt on a matter
of bashed dignity. All others have
been dragged or pushed. Incidentally, poli-
tical chiefs like Hughes and Holman re-
quire an almighty lot of dragging ; and when,
after dodging every possible dangerous issue
for years, they go out on no issue at all ex-
cept that most people are tired or disgusted,
they leave with a sense of grievance. A
concrete and semi-immortal question like the
transcontinental railway would be a good
one on which to take the opinion of the
House, but it could hardly be done with
dignity unless the Ministry announced that
it had an opinion of its own and would stand
by it. The example of Gladstone, who
wrecked two Cabinets over Irish Home Rule,
and rather enjoyed the process, only appeals
to the long-distance and non-committal Par-
liamentarian as acute foolishness.
—— * —
From the report of a Town Planning
Association meeting at Sydney Town Hall:
The population of Sydney in another 15 years
\yjll be well over 2,000,000. In 1950 (27 years from
now) there will be well over 3,000,000.
That is assuming, of course, that the causes
which have made Sydney the 1,000,000 city
it is continue to operate m full force. And
if they do :
By 1950 the following towns will have disappeared
oil' the map: Aberdeen, Bega, Bingara, Blayney.
Bourke, Braidwood, Brewarrina, Broken Hill, Car-
coar, Cooma, Cobar, Cudgegong, Forbes, Gerringong,
Grafton, Gulgong, Gundagai, Gunnedah, Hillgrove,
Ilillston, Inverell, Jamberoo, Maclean, Manilla,
Moama, Morpeth, Murrurundi, Narrabri. Peak Hill,
Penrith, Quirindi, Raymond Terrace, Shellharbor.
Tenterfield, Ulladulla, Uralla, Walcha, Wallendbeen,
Wellington, Wilcannia, Wrightville and Wyalong.
Ilalf-a-dozen towns have already disappeared
from the list —it was no longer worth while
keeping them on as municipalities, and they
sank into parts of shires. The same census
showed 54 shires as becoming depopulated.
(Victoria had 60 shires that were losing
population, so there is plenty of company on
the road to Sheol.) Also (and this is like-
wise a simple matter of arithmetical pro-
gression) the debt of N.S.W., including the
deserted towns and shires, will be not less
than £490,000,000. It will pass the
£200,000,000 mark this year, and with any-
thing between 30 and 14 millions added per
annum cactus doesn’t grow faster. On the
whole, The Bulletin has doubts whether
any of these things are quite worth a halle-
lujah.


asdf
Peapes’ Special Shirt
for Outdoor Workers.
Designed to incorporate every detail that
could possibly increase the comfort and con-
venience of the wearer.
The “ Warr ego ”
at 10/0
has ample room across back and chest,
two handy pockets and a button-down
collar, as illustrated, and cuffs that
fasten with a single button.
The material is a strong shirting in pinhead
design of blue, grey or fawn —colors that
save a lot of laundering.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state usual collar size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-11 George Street, Sydney.
1\
WA
x
»
!L
*
Back to Pre-War Prices
with Better Value.”
F.I.A.T. 501 ... 10-15 H.P £525
F.I.A.T. 505 . . . 15-20 H.P £750
F.I.A.T. 510 . . . 20-30 H.P £875
FIVE-SEATERS COMPLETE.
GARRATTS LIMITED
173-175 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: City 582-3-4,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Memories of an Old Political Hand: —
Seemingly Hughes will wait for Bruce, just is
Shiels waited for George Turner in the Vic. Parlia-
ment —with a waddy. S'hiels had to nurse his wrath
for five years, and then he importuned McLean to
lead the attack while he came close behind. Not
content with shifting Turner, Shiels was at Irvine's
elbow when the Iceberg dislodged Peacock, upon
whom Turner's mantle fell. So let Bruce look out —
not now, but after his return from receiving the
adoration of the dear duchesses that used to worship
at another shrine.
From tlie Federal Gallery:—
Bruce goes to London on September 1. He will
ruthlessly use the gag if necessary to get the im-
portant business done before he leaves, but it may
not be necessary. Listening to him the other night,
I was struck by his, supreme self-confidence in a
billet wherein, by all common standards, he ought
to be an uncomfortable novice. He handles his
party dexterously, as I have previously mentioned,
but he also handles the English language with
facility, though, in his grave and decorous flow of
cliches, there is never a phrase that tickles the ear
and keeps the mind smiling for days after. He will
never be a Deakin; he will never achieve Watt’s
distinction as an orator ; but he will always manage
to convey his meaning without the wounding rude-
ness of his predecessor. Some of his followers are
inclined to resent his urbane masterfulness after the
bravura mode of coercion practised by Hughes ; but
I think the P.M. is steadily winning his way with
the most recalcitrant. If he succeeds in London, his
reputation will be doubled, and Hughes will coinci-
dently shrink to the status of an outsider.
One of Hughes’s grievances against the
Government which ended his dictatorship is
that it isn’t borrowing enough to absorb
the unemployed. “What is the use of ask-
ing Britain for a tinpot three millions,” he
said, “when we want a hundred millions?”
Developing the congenial theme, with aston-
ishment at his own moderation, he added
that “Britain could not spend two hundred
millions in any better way than on public
works here —on the development of such a
vast continent as this.” Since Hughes be-
came a public man a lot more than two
hundred millions have been sunk in loan
jobs. In the result Australia has been
saddled with an appalling lot of unpayable
undertakings, it has accumulated more Gov-
ernment servants than it knows what to do
with, and its unemployed class is more num-
erous and less capable than ever. But
Hughes has learned nothing and forgotten
nothing, in this department of his business,
since he was a union official. His economics
are still those of the secretary of the Mul-
lock-shifters’ Union, who calls upon the Gov-
ernment to establish loan works for unem-
ployed mullock-shifters and gets their votes
on the strength of having got them jobs.
The only difference is that he has become
more reckless with the multiplication-table.
Where politics is one thrill after another:
Life is nearly as exciting for the N. S. Wales
Labor politician as it was for the French Republican
in 1793. Then a general flushed with victory was
liable to have his head dropped into a basket, flush
and all, because he had taken prisoners or hadn’t taken
enough (any excuse served when his job was wanted
for some protege of the reigning Garden or Lam-
bert) i and a McTiernan might be ruler of France,
outlaw, triumphant rebel and carcase, all in 24
hours.. Willis, president of the A.L.P., was expelled
in 1919 and remained expelled till quite recently.
He is doing the expelling now. Dooley and his fol-
lowers, who were declared in March to have “auto-
matically placed themselves outside the movement,”
have been automatically reinstated, and are lifting
scalps at a great rate. Power, who issued the
“automatic” declaration as A.L.P. president, was
enthusiastically ejected from the executive, along
with all his supporters except a lady member.
McGirr, whom they appointed leader of the Labor
party in Dooley’s place, has ceased to be a Labor
M.L.A.- —he resigned to avoid being chucked out.
Minahan, who went to the A.L.P. conference hoping
to be made' leader himself, has been recommended
for expulsion. Dunn, deputy-leader under (1)
Dooley and (2) McGirr, . and a sort-of-a-kind of
leader himself during the interregnum arranged by
the Federal executive, has been reduced to the ranks.
And Bailey, for years Labor’s Boss Oroker, has fallen
from his high estate, none being so poor as to heave
a brick at him. Lang, an Auburn house-agent, has
now succeeded Dooley, that fed-up patriot having
declined another nomination, and Cootamundra
Loughlin has stepped into Dunn’s shoes. But per-
haps another Labor party will arrive presently and
declare them bogus, or something of the sort.
The loan-mongering State politician has a
rotten idea of sport. While the Common-
wealth Treasurer is struggling to get his
5 p.c. issue off, the Queensland Government
has started selling stock over the counter at
54 p.c. Certainly it is offering its paper at
“OH, DRY THOSE TEARS!”
“Mr. Stewart, Federal Minister for Works and Railways, goes to Canberra this week to turn the
first sod in connection with the construction of the new Commonwealth Parliament House.”
STEWART : “Why those tears, brother? We’re not burying anything. This, if I may
say so, is an occasion for national rejoicing.”
THE FAT PARTY: “Boo-hoo — yes, you are — you’re burying my — er —future prospects!”
par, whereas the Commonwealth’s price is
£9B, but Earle Page undertakes to repay in
1928, Theodore not till 1934. In both cases
the interest is free of State income-tax. The
worst of it is that Theodore has £13,175,934
falling due on July 1 next —£4,784,834 of it
at p.c. and £8,189.000 at 4 p.c.—and at
latest there was only £B7ll 9s. 4d. in the
sinking fund. To offer 54 p.c., free of income-
tax, at present, is simply to invite the
owners of the £13,175,634 to drive a hard
bargain. It will be marvellous if the invita-
tion is rejected.
Undisturbed by the fact that the Customs
revenue was £5,241,000 greater in 1922-23
than in 1921-22, and £4.872.000 above his
predecessor’s estimate, Treasurer Page pre-
dicts a drop of £3,222,000 this year. “Already
there are indications of shrinkage,” he said
on July 26. A week later his Department
announced that the Customs receipts for the
month—the first of the financial year—wore
£260,495 more than those for July, 1921, and
£321.888 in excess of the estimate. Bad
as the figures look to supporters of Austra-
lian industry, the actual position is a lot
worse, for duties have been remitted in
numerous cases to importers of machinery
and other articles which could and should
have been made in Australia. Which policy
has extorted a despairing protest from the
Castlemaine (Vic.) branch of the Amalga-
mated Society of Engineers. The Tariff
Board, on whose recommeiidation the conces-
sions were made, notes, incidentally, that the
effect of the national fiscal policy is weak-
ened by high freights in the coasting trade,
mentioning that some articles can be
shipped cheaper from Britain to Westralia
than from South Aus. to the Sunset State.
There is no doubt that the tariff is ineffec-
tive ; and there is a gathering suspicion that
the Tariff Board is a factor in making it so.
As tame as a tea-meeting was the caucus
of Lawson’s followers in Melbourne last
week. Of excitement or animation there was
none. A few got on their feet to say things,
but lost heart, and the bored Lawson
adjourned the proceedings for a week. The
Bob Acres who had cried pistols and daggers
at a Liberal meeting (without Ministers) a
week before had let his courage ooze out at
his fingers’ ends.
When things are dull in Vic. Assembly,
Treasurer McPherson steals away to a
private room to tackle administrative work.
Praiseworthy, no doubt, but a more astute
and ambitious politician would employ the
time in "cultivating” fellow-members. Mc-
Pherson is the sort of man who could do a
good deal of consolidation work amng the
Liberals, but he dropped out as soon as Law-
son returned. Swinburne was the same in
the Bent Cabinet. Conspirators would be
boring holes, filling them with blasting-
powder and firing the fuse before he would
bother to move.
South Aus. brought a Railway Commis-
sioner from the U.S.A. last year, and he
Drought plain business methods, unaffected
by any consideration of the fact that here-
abouts railways have always been regarded
as things to buy political votes with. llis
influence has apparently spread to the tram-
ways ; at any rate, the mostly-municipal
Trust which controls them has just negatived
a whole series of suggestions from the Trades
and Labor Council of S.A. for cheaper fares.
An extra Id. imposed on every passenger a
few years back goes to pay the additional
wages under the Federal award ; and if the
award is right, what, the Trust asks, is
wrong about collecting the money to pay it?
Another Id. goes on to every fare on a Sun-
day or holiday; “well,” says the Trust in
effect, “extra wages have to be paid on those
days, and who is to pay the money if the
passengers don’t?” And as for proposed
workmen’s tickets, the Trust pointedly asks
whether in a democratic community the
Trades and Labor Council reckons that class
distinctions should be made.
This is a great country—for leaning on
the pawnbroker. Even the Sydney Hospital
has an overdraft of £160,000, and it pays
more away in interest than the patients pay
in fees.
The first Budget of the Bruce-Page Minis-
try shows that the cost of “settlement” is
going in great style, however the settlement
itself may be progressing. Under the head-
ing of “soldier settlement” the States have
borrowed £32,885,991 from the Common-
wealth, which previously borrowed it from
somebody else. For the year just commenced
another £7,000,000 is to go into the same
chasm, making about £40,000,000 in ail.
Then £5,000,000 more of loan money is to
be spent on the purchase of new settlers
(immigrants), for this country buys its
settlers at a great price, while the U.S. turns
applicants away. This is in addition to
State borrowings. And somehow it all seems
like poking a stick in the water to make a
hole, and then pulling it out that one may
admire the hole, and wondering where in all
creation the beautiful hole lias gone to. For
the eight years before the war the average
increase of the Commonwealth’s population
was close on 108,000 per annum. During
the last three years of fuss and expenditure
the average has been 110,000. The capitals,
which have been filling faster than ever,
have more than absorbed the extra 2000,
and that isn’t “settlement.”
"O.lv.’s” “please-explain”:—
Can anyone explain why trades-unionism, founded
on the best of moral principles and maintained in
position by a vast majority of decent members who
are really more jealous of their character for per-
sonal honesty than most business men, allows itself
to be held up to opprobrium? Apparently workers
in general take no interest in the misgovernment
of their unions. Take, for example, the ease of an
embezzling carter in the employ of an aerated-water
manufacture)-. The man’s peculations admit of no
denial, so his boss bids him take up his hat and go,
instead of waiting to be prosecuted. Thus the
robbed employer hopes to avoid the hue and cry of
“victimisation.” Victimised himself, he is fearful
of appearing vindictive. Or he may be sincerely
anxious to give the man another chance —-in another
situation. But the dismissed unionist, being a brazen-
faced person, flies to his union for assistance, and the
union authorities insist that the systematic peculator
is entitled to a month’s notice. His employer has
no right to discharge a dishonest son of toil in that
“high-handed” manner. Unless the culprit is paid
another four weeks’ wages his defrauded employer
will be declared “b!ack” and his factory forsaken
of good unionists. Why unionism continues to figure
as a champion of rogues is a matter past reasonaWe
understanding. Heaven knows that there are honest
men out of employ, ready to do credit to unionism
if given a chance! Why this solicitude on behalf
of members who bring discredit on it?
“Gallery”: Bamford, Chairman of Com-
mittees in the House of Reps., can’t be con-
gratulated on his understudies. One is
Robert Cook, M.H.R. for Indi, who seems
hardly yet to have emerged from his bewilder-
ment at being in Parliament. It was merely
for the purpose of giving the Farmers’ party
some share in the control of the House that
he was selected as a deputy, and he is plainly
overwhelmed whenever he takes the Chair.
Neville Howse is another deputy whose ama-
teurishness is made noticeable by a want of
discretion. But Howse has gone to Europe,
and the Reps, will know him no more till
next year.
LONG-RANGE SHOOTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘Writing from Sunrise, Parkes, Mr. Gregory Mc-
Girr, M.L.A., has hurled his resignation from the
Labor Party at the A.L.P. executhe in Sydnev, and
informed it that it can go to Hell.”
Think you that I’d be carpeted and chid
By blighters such as you ? The Lord forbid!
Weaklings there be might tremble and submit;
1 merely snap my fingers, aye, and spit
Defiance and contempt at all such narks,
Adding a few explanat’ry remarks
From Sunrise, Parkes.
To beard you in your den I should prefer
As more in keeping with the Greg. McGirr
Tradition. But your juntas and your leagues.
Foul with the reek of poisonous intrigues,
Kevolt me. From aloft and from afar
I needs must put you wise to what you are.
l.ike some fierce eagle, perched beside his nest
In God’s free air upon the mountain crest,
Serene, disdainful, one who hardly harks
When* far below some mongrel yelps and barks,
So I —at Parkes.
Degenerate tyrants, keep your coward blows
For slaves! On sycophants your will impose!
Orders to me to issue would you dare ?
Apieces, see, my Labor pledge I tear
And fling it in your faces, for your pains,
Across three hundred miles of rolling plains.
Henceforth no brand of yours upon, my back
I’ll bear, no caucus whip shall round me crack.
Upon you, as I said before, I spit
And fearlessly consign you to the Pit
Of Hell. You low-down wolves, you ravening sharks,
I know no grinding curse that cuts and carks
Too black on you to lay
(By post) from far away
At Sunrise, Parkes.
x.s.w.
T. THE R.
HEREDITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. R. H. McLeod, Nationalist candidate for
Daylesford by-election, who received a splendid hear-
ing, stated that one of his late father’s dearest wishes
was that he should succeed. That, combined with
his own political aspirations, had induced him to
seek election.”
With confidence I make my claim.
In language reverential
I ask you, in my father’s name,
To honor my credential;
A Tory he of brightest hue,
A stickler for tradition,
And all that father did for you
I’ll do, in his position.
My praises need I sing aloud,
Or flatter you with blather?
In me behold a bold McLeod!
You voted for my father;
And like the father, like the son
In politics and nature;
On Tory lines I’ll help to run
Our local Legislature.
I’m born to rule; it’s in my blood,
And bone, and skin, and muscles •
My rivals’ blood is brown as mud,
Devoid of red corpuscles.
Against my name put Number 1—
Mine then the loaves and fishes;
Vote solid for my father’s son,
And carry out his wishes.
VICTORIA.
FAX.


BRITiSH-
MADE
(§SSuES
ELECTRIC
IRONS.
s
MD
iii
lCKer
ELECTRICAL
CO.. LTD
21 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
213 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monotool
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
m
“VALLO”
SHEEP DIPS
In Powder and Liquid Form Obtainable at all Stores
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Manufacturer! of ‘VALLO’ Brand Chemicals, Dips & Sprays
sdf
And at
Sydney & Brisbane
Head Office:
497-503 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Correspondence
Invited
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Australia :
r —Dividends.
Pref. Written
June, Profits. (4 p.c.) Ordinaries. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1915.. 109.394 84,694 Nil 25,000 9,576
1916.. 526 84,694 Nil 45,000 9,408
1917.. 693 84,694 Nil 50,000 9,407
National Bank of Tasmania purchased.
1918.. 145.773 84,694 Nil 60,000 10,486
1919.. 167.268 84,694 Nil 80,000 13,060
1920.. 197.892 84,694 Nil 110,000 16,258
Premiums on new shares, £106,659 ) 10009
1921.-237,772 84.694 15 p.c.=£11,014 251,659 j
Premiums on new shares, £134,275 | ooq
1922.. 080 84,694 15 p.c.=£37,773 211,001 (
Premiums on new shares, £14,934 ) ..
1923.. 418 84,694 15 p.c.=£52,081 10,000 (
For many years paid capital remained sta-
tionary at £2,213,009, in £2,117,350 of ±lO
prefs., paying a maximum of 4 p.c., and
191,318 ordinaries of 10s. Until recently
there, were no assets to represent any of the
ordinary capital or a lot of the pref. scrip,
the writing down after the smash having
been inadequate to cover losses. Only three
years ago the trust co. which handled the
wreckage showed a deficit of £442,660. Since
then the position has altered entirely:
£255,868 of new ordinary capital has been
got in, 15 p.c. p.a. is being paid on it, and
not only is the whole of capital represented
by assets, but there are also supporting re-
serves of £144,786 visible. In 1920 the direc-
tors found themselves in a dilemma: the
bank’s business was growing too. large for its
own funds. As the clean-up had not been
completed, and theoretically div. distribu-
tions on any new capital raised could not be
justified, there were difficulties in the way
of issuing new shares, especially as the
prefs. had voting control. However,
on the strength of prospects of very
handsome returns on the ordinaries when
profit-dividing could be resumed, the
directors succeeded in issuing anew lot
at a premium of 100 p.c., in which the prefs.
participated, they having magnanimously
agreed to the re-arrangement without press-
ing for concessions which they, might reason-
ably have done. Share premiums have con-
tributed £255,868, and they and surplus pro-
fits filled all holes and have placed the
C.B.A. on sound foundations again.
Operations have been so profitable that for
the past year there was a lay-by of £87,643
after paying the usual pref. div., distributing
£52,081 (15 p.c.) among ordinaries and
writing £IO,OOO off the book value of pre-
mises. The table which follows gives a little
additional information on the expansion of
earnings :
Gross Profits.*' Salaries. Other Charges.
1915 .. £293,972 £133,310 £51,268
1918 . . 352,477 154,399 52,304
1919 .. 405,071 170,558 64,245
1920 . . 481,757 202,479 76,387
1921 .. 607,261 278,831 90,658
1922 . . 648,062 317,581 102,400
1923 . . 676,210 336,076 105,715
*Less taxes and provision for contingencies.
The statement would be more satisfactory
if P. and L. debits showed how much is paid
away in taxes ; at present the directors de-
duct unspecified amounts from gross profits.
But the disclosure of earnings, less taxation
and contingency provisions, 2| times those
of only eight years ago reveals at a glance a
wonderful expansion. Provided everything goes
right in future, the C.B.A. should rapidly grow
into a very strong concern, not only from the
point of view of creditors but also from that
of proprietors. At present it is holding on
to Bs. 4d. in the £ of its"disclosed profits, and
probably there’s a good deal not visible which
is being applied to support weaker securities.
The next comparison shows the very rapid
growth of balance-sheet figures since 1914:
'Liabilities.
1914. 1922. 1923.
Notes .. .. £21,053 £59,089 £57,301
Bills, etc. . . 868,826 1,123,306 1,006,602
Free deposits . . 3,912,537 8,721,369 8,861,189
Fixed deposits . . 3,256,251 7,466,352 8,200,225
Old debts .. 56,601 Nil Nil
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 3,975,199 8,105,570 7,825,695
Advances .. 5,171,696 11,294,941 12,432,386
Old bank assets. . 32,000 Nil Nil
Premises .. 420,635 529,445 549,610
Deposits at June 30 totalled £17,061,414,
against £7,168,788 only nine years back, and
meanwhile the tally of all assets has moved
from £9,695,000 to almost 21£ millions. If
the figures continue to expand it won’t be
long before the directors will be seeking
additional capital, because at June 30 £6 ISs.
of liabilities were held for every £1 of the
bank’s own funds. The size of advances also
suggests that the C.B.A. is in a position to
find profitable employment for more funds.
At June 30 43 p.c. of all outside liabilities
was in liquid form, so there’s a margin of
approximately only half-a-million which the
management can use to expand its lending
connection if the customary liquid proportion
is to be maintained. The accounts show
advances of £l-2,432,386 (protected by con-
tingency reserves) and premises with a book
value of £549,610 to support slightly less
than £10,300,000 of liabilities not covered by
liquid assets.
The C.B.A.’s resuscitation has been re-
flected in a striking manner in share mar-
kets. Only 10 years ago the 10s. ordinaries
were being bought in at about 17s. by hard-
headed investors who realised the possibili-
ties in that scrip. Nowadays 15 p.c. is
being paid on the old holding and a return of
'(i p.c. is got from new issues, while both
lots have been worth up to 40s. in the market
lately. Nevertheless the C.B.A. is in the
curious position of having nearly five-sixths
of its capital quoted at a heavy discount:
divs. on the 211,735 of £lO paid prefs. are
limited to 4 p.c., and are worth only around
£7. The directors had an excellent oppor-
tunity of righting this anomaly when share-
holders were consulted three years ago, and
even at this late date they would be well
advised to take steps to remove the stigma
from their big and prosperous bank. In 1920
The Bulletin suggested a way out; and its
scheme still looks good. If the pref. shares
were written down by £2 each and the div.
rate elevated to 54 p.c., pref. divs. would
take only £8470 more than at present, and
the scrip would be worth nearer par
value, and in a few years, when money
cheapens, they probably would realise that.
There would be no loss of funds, because the
£423,470 written off scrip would merely be
transferred to reserves, thus adding further
strength to the balance-sheet position.
* * * *
The Bank of New Zealand: —
('—Dividend— N
10 p.c. Pref. Written
’ , P r °fit s - 15 p.c. Ord. Oil. Reserves.
1913. . £342,530 £125,000 £40,000 £1,418,118
1914.. 348,490 125,000 40,000 1,601,608
Premiums on new shares, £365,536 1,967,144
“A.” “B” and Ord.
10 p.c. 15 p.c.
1915.. 369,486 229,460 50,000 2,057,170
Premiums on new shares, £12,141 2,069,311
1916.. 335,801 236,507 50,000 2,118,605
1917.. 415,490 237,500 50,000 2,246.595
1918.. 386,607 237,500;* 50,000 2,345,702
1919.. 438,022 237,500 50,000 2,496,224
“A.” “B” and Ord.
p.c. 174 p.c.
1920.. 469,046 268,750 50,000 2,646,520
Transferred to capital, £1,125,000 1,521,520
Govt.’s Ord.
divs. 13Jp.c.
1921.. 827,256 112,500 300,000 50,000 1,886,276
1922.'. 682,043, 112,500 300,000 50,000 2,105,819
1923.. 503,638 112,500 300,000 2,246,957
The continued slump in earnings was not un-
expected. In the previous two years advances
had been abnormally large, and their gradual
curtailment necessarily meant loss of some of
the sweeter interest plums. Exchanges on
lower values ruling were on a less extensive
scale, though, as Maoriland exports have
greatly exceeded imports—and that has re-
sulted in large cash balances in London—
higher rates have operated. On the other
hand, money invested at short call in Lon-
don averaged only 38s. 3d. p.c. last year,
and Treasury bills just a trifle more than
2 j p.c.; and on those earnings the bank paid
4s. 6d. in the £ English income-tax. For three
months of thb 12 the overdraft rate on best-
quality advances was also lowered a half-
point to 62 p.c. - All these and other matters
are fully detailed in one of the most lucid
and comprehensive banking reports ever
issued in Australasia. The B.N.Z is a
semi-Government concern; the Government
holds one-third of the scrip and appoints four
of the six directors. That explains its talka-
tiveness. \\ hen the Australian Parliament
considers the amendment of the Common-
wealth Bank Act, it should tear a leaf or
two from the Dominion bank’s book, and
insist on the Commonwealth Bank manage-
ment following the M.L. precedent of issu-
ing full and instructive reports with the
accounts. Of all Australasian banks the
Commonwealth is the most secretive, and its
accounts are not available until months after
the balancing-date.
Factors other than those already men-
tioned helped to curtail the B.N.Z.’s' profits
last year. In the years of abnormal prices
Maoriland experienced a boom in land values,
and it has lately been suffering from the
post-war slump. Many farmers who paid
high prices for their holdings have been
badly knocked since produce values receded,
and the 8.N.Z., which, at March 31, had
10 millions advanced to pastoral and agri-
cultural clients—incidentally, 56 p.c. of alt
advances were for amounts of less than £3OO
—has been nursing many securities and anti-
cipates numerous losses. This from the
directors’ report:—
A considerable portion of the advances is still cf
a somewhat unliquid nature....We have found it
necessary to make considerable provision for possible
losses, almost all of which are in respect of our rural
business.. . .Advances have been scrutinised with the
greatest care, and the Board is satisfied that, as far as
it is humanly possible to judge, the most ample
provision has been made for aJI probable and pro-
spective losses.
That explanation needs to be read into the
statement of earnings given in the introduc-
tory table and in the more detailed com-
parisons which follow :
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes.
1914 .. £714,076 £264,318 £61,267
1915 .. 755,240 284,525 74,548
1916 .. 801,337 307,148 137,096
1917 .. 964,911 330.228 198,052
1918 .. 1,106,442 352,250 346,385
1919 .. 1,217,153 371,659 386,273
1920 .. 1,376,838 430,109 456,484
1921 .. 1.844.017 510,467 485,095
1922 . . 1,809,256 528,174 577,840
1923 . . 1,546,041 525,532 445,671
*Less provision for contingencies.
Although earnings were cut into from all
directions, the.B.N.Z. was still doing so well
that after paying the usual rates of dividend
—giving 15 p.c. on the Government’s pref.-
holdings as they stood prior to the 1920
transfer of reserves and 20 p.c. on the pub-
lic’s ordinary interests —the year closed with
a lay-by of £141,138. On this occasion, how-
ever, nothing was allowed for the writing-
down of premises account; in each of the
previous two years £50,000 was struck off.
Landed property, premises, etc., now stand
in the books at £308,379, and that figure, the
directors _ confide, is “nearly three-quarters
of a million less than the Land Tax valua-
tion.’’ That inner reserve and the 2£ mil-
lions visible give powerful backing to the
£3,375,000 of paid capital.
The following tables set down balance-
sheet movements since 1914 :
Liabilities.
Notes. Bills. Deposits.
1914.. £989,882 £1,403,457 £18,070,613
1915.. 1,676,051 1,670,103 18,741,657
1916.. 1,862,823 1,767,410 23,556,677
1917.. 2,560,325 2,007,968 29,052,791
1918. 3,312,995 2,329,559 30,437,937
1919.. 3,728,249 2,860,391 31,716,353
1920.. 5,765,337 3,708,305 37,661,611
1921.. 4,741,492 4,116,574 34,475,655
1922.. 4,294,230 3,713,175 28,676,603
1923.. 4,564,695 , 3,739,310 30,003,927
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1914.. £12,590,187 £11,360,486 £449,577
1915.. 14,227,407 11,849,166 451,867
1916.. 19,431,080 11,844,767 441,867
1917.. 22,082,870 15,746,485 450.,813
1918.. 22,626,103 17,786,755 425,824
1919. . 23,948,301 18,865,538 399,867
1920.. 33,120,009 19,431,848 361,108
1921.. 18,922,513 30,506,629 337,469
1922.. 18,250,158 24,783,560 296,473
1923.. 25,423,237 19,341,762 308,379
The feature of the comparisons is that ad-
vances have been reduced to below 1920 level,
and that the bank’s liquid strength of a few
years ago has been restored. At March
31 almost two-thirds of all liabilities to the
public were within easy reach ; £25,423,237
of _ £88,307,932 was in cash, notes, bills re-
ceivable in London, Government securities,
etc. And there are millions in advances
and also the premises. This great strength of its
principal bank has been one of the brightest
spots in the Dominion’s gloom of the past
couple of years. Many of the troubles
resulting from the depression which followed
the war-boom have now been straightened
out, but unless prices unexpectedly recover
a lot of people are going to feel the pinch
for years yet. Still, this can be said for
Maoriland : it has so far got back to sanity
that it has restricted its borrowing, and,
therefore, its importing, and for a long-
period large export surpluses have been help-
ing to restore soundness.
At March 81 the B.N.Z. was holding
nearly £(> ss. of the public’s money for every
£1 of its own visible funds, including the
£529,988 of 4 p.c., guaranteed stock. The
directors have decided that additional capital
should be raised, and £1,125,000 of scrip is
being issued at par. Of this one-third is
being “offered to His Majesty the King” in
the form of “B” prefs. As they carry 10 o.c.
and are one of Maoriland’s sweetest securi-
ties, George Windsor and Cos. are on a good
thing. Incidentally, the half-million of “A”
prefs. carrv 10 ,p.c., but divs. are non-cumu-
lative, and the Government is making certain
of its cut there by amending the Act to make
the rate cumulative.
* * *■ *
Waldorf Astoria Hotel Cos., Ltd. (Aus-
tralia). —This co. is being- floated with a
nominal capital of a half-million to. in the
first _ place, erect an “up-to-date, palatial
hotel” on a choice site in Macquarie-street
(Sydney), and, later, “erect similar hotels in
other parts of Australia.” But for some
years the co. is likely to have its time fully
occupied with its proposed Hotel Macquarie,
and on that proposition alone the float goes
under the microscope. The cost of the build-
ing site is set down at £86,500, and eree
t'on, equipment and furnishing at £300,000.
Presumably the promoters’ figurings are based
on estimates by building experts; but, for
purposes of comparison, the Hotel Australia,
as it stood prior to additions begun some
years ago, had cost about £300,000, and,
taking the older portions at values written
down at under cost and the recent expensive
additions, it now shows £441,249 in fixed
assets. For the past four years the Aus-
tralia has averaged £33,446 p.a. profit
including additions to a renewal reserve-
on “conservative calculations” the Macquarie
people, on a smaller capital outlay, reckon
to net £69,615 p.a. after paying all working
exes., rates and taxes, and providing £30,006
for depreciation; or a net profit of £46,865
after paying £22,750 interest on borrowed
funds. Usher’s Metropolitan, with proper-
ties, etc., at a war-time valuation of around
£185,000, shows about £IB,OOO net after pay-
ing interest on £35,000 or so of debentures.
The Metropole, with fixed assets standing
in the books at £142,000, but having a re-
placement value much larger, is showing net
profits on about the same scale as the Metro-
politan. Even assuming that the proposed
Macquarie is made “positively unsurpassable”
on the capital outlay contemplated, and that
the better-off will scatter their lOU’s as
they never have before, the investor will note
a wide discrepancy between the anticipations
of the promoters and actual performances
of well-established concerns.
Prefs. carrying a cumulative 10 p.c. are
the lure in the float. But they are “prefs.”
which are exposed to all the risk, because
the only other shares are 35,000 fully-paid
£1 ordinaries which, together with. £IO,OOO
cash, are taken by the promoting
syndicate “as consideration for then-
options, expenditure, etc.” The balance
of funds is to be raised by the
issue of two lots of mortgage debentures:
£125,000 as a first mortgage (evidently
carrying 8 p.c.) and £150,000 of second mort-
gage debentures taking 84 p.c. and redeem-
able in 15 years. The co. has thus to make
£22,750 to pay the 8 p.c. and 8| p.c. on the
two lots of mortgage debentures, and it is
committed to reserving about £IO,OOO p.a. in
a sinking fund to redeem the second mortgage
debentures. Next come the prefs,, who can-
not get anything until £32,750 has been
made; they will require £15,000 p.a. Assum-
ing that the estimates of capital require-
ments are adequate, the Macquarie must
earn at least £47,750 net regularly—over
and above depreciation and every other
charge—to satisfy the parties standing in
front of the ordinaries; and the 10 p.c.
pref. dividend is cumulative, as, of course,
the mortgage and debenture interest is also.
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1913. . £5496 15p.c. = £3977 £1519 £13,890
1914.. 5131 10 „ „ 2051 2480 16,370
Written off, £SOO .. .15,870
1915.. 4746 10 p.c. = 2651 2095 17,965
1916.. 8691 10 „ „ 2651 1040 19,005
1917.. 4829 10 „ „ 2651 2178 21,183
Transferred to capital, £20,200 .. 983
1918.. 5044 7 p.c. = 3341 1703 2,686
1919.. 5799 9„ „ 4295 ( Q
Voted to Provident Fund, £IOOO ) 00 ’
1920. . 6363 9 p.c. = 4295 i a vr.Q
Provident Fund, £IOOO j 11,06
1921.. 6321 10 p.c. = 4829 1
Provident it und, £SOO \ ’
1922.. 6775 10 p.c. = 4829 ) 1445 6 696
Provident Fund, £SOO | 1440
Transferred to capital, £5050 .. 1,646
1923.. 7197 10p.c.=: 5365 ( ml 2 937
Provident Fund, £541 )
This trustee co. is bounding ahead in good
style. The book value of new estates put
into its care last year exceeded those dis-
tributed and wound up by 1 £417,000-odd, and
that took the total in hand to more than
six millions —almost four times the figures
only 15 years back. This shows how the
trust business has developed during that
period :
1908 .. £1,528,345 j 1920 .. £4,770,752
1910 . . 2,135,244 | 1921 . . 5,363,333
1915 . . 3,382,095 | 1922 . . 5,679,335
1918 . . 4,049,378 | 1923 . . 6,096,957
The expansion is the more creditable because
the Union Trustee Cos., of Melbourne, has
also been doing- well in the same field, and
for seven years a Public Trustee has been
seeking business. The Government Office,
however, attracts business of a less affluent
nature, and the moneyed-man’s prejudices
almost invariably lead him to the Private
Enterprise offices. The extent of the
Union’s Queensland business cannot be
ascertained, but at December 31 the Public
Trustee had under administration nearly 14
million of wills and trusts, and with intes-
tate and insolvent estates and the property
of mental patients, etc., the total was almost
If million.
The Q.T.’s profits have responded well to
the bigger business, though transactions have
become more costly owing to heavier and
more complicated taxation, with no higher
commission rates to compensate. Last
year’s gross earnings of £31,714 were won
at a cost of £22,519 (71 p.c.) against £8197
158 p.c.) paid away to earn £14,172 10
years ago. Meanwhile, no calls have been
made on shareholders, so the larger
net profits provide a fine feast annually.
They are now receiving 20 p.c. on original
holdings, though the div. rate has been kept
down to 10 p.c. by doubling capital through
transfers of reserves. Recent profits disclosed
by the published accounts have been larger
than those shown by the table, which does
not include votes to a suspense account
1 £IOOO in 1922 and £I3OO for the past year).
These votes have provided for prospective tax-


Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent, in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [3
• . » •
The steady increase in the number of installations
of Pioneer Wood Pipe bears eloquent testimony to
its service and economy. Progressive engineers are
awake to its many solid advantages. It is lighter
to handle, transport and instal. It does not rust,
corrode nor clog. The flow increases rather than
decreases with age. It is unaffected by electrolysis
or frost. Investigate for yourself; a line will bring
an interesting book of detailed information. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W.— Advt.
A E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street Sydnev, Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
Scientific and Commercial Agencies throughout the
World.— Advt. m , ,
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt. * * *
Robert Davidson, metals and ores, 28 years’
service Dalgety and Co., Ltd., now operating same
agencies at 8 Spring Street, Sydney. Advt.
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. Advt.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Circular
Quay, Sydnev, and Collins House, Melbourne, sup-
ply “Robey’’ Steam Engines, “National’’ Gas and
Oil Engines, “Foden’’ Steam Waggons, “Multimix'’
Concrete Mixers and Concrete Machinery, Conveyi ng
and Earth-handling Machinery, Road-making Plants,
etc. — Advt.
* * * •
Mount Boppt Gold Mine, Canbelego, has ceased
operations, and an auction sale of this huge mining
plant is to be held on the 28th, 29th and 30th of
this month by Messrs. Abel, Wilkins and Co., of
Wellington. The plant comprises Babcock and Wil-
cox boilers, Beilis Morcom generating set, air com-
pressors, winding engine, pumps, large tanks, build-
ings, electric motors, electric cranes, rails, pumps,
miles of piping, etc. Fully detailed catalogues may
be had from the auctioneers. — Advt.
* * * *
Dividends Increased by up to 20 per cent. —
Shareholders with incomes under £1000 in receipt
of dividends, tax-free or otherwise, from any local
company, mine or bank with head office in London
(e.g., Union Rank, Dalgety, Murrays, Sulphide, etc.)
can obtain some refund of British tax paid by these
companies since 1920. Claim forms gratis. II. H,
Sykes, Accountant, Dunedin, New Zealand. — Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur is impossible
to say.
but
You Can be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St,, MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
THOS. J. CONFOY,
Governing Director.
ThePadfic Cableßoard
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/
1/6
{9d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4£d,
1/2
Canada
2/4
| 7d. (minimum
i 11/8,20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
I Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 George Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346
(3 lines).
Oueen’sHouse, Queen St., Melbourne.
v Tel. Central 2084
J MIT.WAUD. Manager in the Pacific,
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
r
v
pOORD & A SON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
1
DT
Swift & Company L»«l- Australasian Agents.
26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Ltd.)
Nos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 36 YEARS.
rrRTTST AND AGENCY FUNDS NOW UNDER THE COMPANY’S
TRUST AND a^^ kOL EXCEED £21,153,000.
Specially Constituted by Act of Parliament to Act as
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR, ADMINISTRATOR,
attorney under power, agent, etc.
MODERATE CHARGES, ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT,
MODERATE CHAi^£g OUBTED 0 UBTED SECURITY.
Write for Booklet, which explains its Methods and Charges.
write tor rtooiuec, rrun.AND LETHBRIDGE. Manager.
assessments, and are evidently wholly
absorbed in that way. Altogether, at June
30 the Q.T. showed funds of its own totalling
£59,195, and it owed only £2507. On the
other side were these assets: Premises and
equipment, £37,800; gilt-edged investments,
cash and other securities, £23,902. There
was a contingent liability in a £12,804 over-
draft, but that was raised on the security of
estates to facilitate their winding-up, etc.,
and was a debt with which shareholders were
only remotely concerned. One way and an-
other the co. has been an excellent invest-
ment for the early-birds, and looks all it
should be from the point of view of clients.
Its guarantee of good faith and efficient man-
agement is the £53,000-odd in first-class secu-
rities, and in addition shareholders have
made themselves liable to calls of 30s. per
share, providing £151,500 additional backing.
* * * *
Mutooroo talked big things about its new
show, the Mighty Atom, about 36 miles
north of Laverton (W.A.). The lode was
alleged to be 30ft. to 50ft. wide, and a “con-
servative” estimate of values was 3oz. to
soz. However, that report did not knock
the bottom out of the glit-edged security
market, though some people rushe.d in and
bought scrip at five times the price ruling
prior to the find. Such statements of widths
and values bring ridicule on the mining in-
dustry and scare investors out of other shows
that have reasonable prospects. Even if the
figures published were correct, considering
the small amount of work done those in
authority should have been a little more
"conservative” in their figures. If the show
was only half as good as claimed, Mutooroo
would have had one of the best things ever
found in Australia. But 30ft. to 50ft. lodes
going 3oz. to soz. don’t exist in this world,
and the Mighty Atom illusion was promptly
shattered when Mines Minister Scaddan dis-
patched an inspector to report. He found
that a little work had been done on what
appeared to be a big formation carrying
“fair” values, but values running into ounces
were confined to small quartz and ironstone
leaders.
* * * *
The behavior of the Lloyd George (W.A.)
lode near the south boundary is about as
erratic as the market fluctuations of the co.’s
shares. The underlie of the lode has sud-
denly changed from west to east. Values
have improved: the lode in the winze near
the south boundary went an ounce down to
18ft. and from that point to 22ft., 3oz. These
results are satisfactory. The directors hesi-
tate to push ahead with development at the
south end of the lease, seemingly because
that work might enhance the value of the
next-door lease, which it may be advisable
for Lloyd George to acquire.
* * * *
Five years ago Boulder Perseverance
(W.A.), which has just reconstructed, was
alleged to be finished, and the co. decided to
wind up. The liquidator handed over the
“w-orked-out” mine to tributors, who have
dug out nearly 200,000 tons ore and won
close on £750,000 of gold. From royalties
the liquidator has paid divs. totalling
£139,946, equal to 2s. per share. The mine
is still said to be “looking as well as ever,”
hence the reconstruction; but unless opera-
tions are carried on more efficiently than
they used to be, shareholders are not likely
to benefit.
* * * *
Lalla Rookh, Marble Bar (W.A.), con-
tinues to open up its Bft. lode, averaging
78s. per ton, at 150 ft. It has now been
exposed for a length of 170 ft. Crushing
operations have commenced. Tails run about
48s. per ton, so evidently amalgamation will
give only about 30s. per ton. Much, there-
fore, will depend on recoveries from cyanida-
tion.
* * * *
Preliminary negotiations have been com-
pleted by W. G. Gillett, of Sydney, to resus-
citate Cobar (N.S.W.). The Peak is to
receive first attention, and a co., to take
over the interests of several syndicates which
are operating there, is about to be launched.
The proposals will probably be much the
same as those outlined by the “Wild Cat
(B. 7/6/’23). Thorough development will
be the first consideration; the promoters are
wisely refraining from heavy expenditure on
plant until they learn more about the lodes.
The co. will begin with about 7000 tons,
worth approximately £13,000, proved.
The three cos. interested in Mudgee
(N.S.W.) slate have decided to amalgamate.
The fusion will give the deposits a better
chance, but to produce regular profits sys-
tematic development will need to open up
larger quantities of good-grade slates.
* * * *
Omeo (Vic.) is in a whirl because Mel-
bourne is giving the Ensay field another run.
The Mines Department has been helping
prospectors. Their leader, George Duggan,
tells that he has located eight lodes having
good walls and with dish prospects running
up to 2oz. These are modest values, because
the shoots are mostly short, and when they
carry gold are generally rich. Everything
is in the preliminary stage yet, and much
better prospects will be needed to wipe out
memory of past Omeo losses.
Frank Savage and Jimmy Mackay h&ve
recast tlie Ophir, Daylesford (Vic.). Good
ore was sighted in the shaft when sinking to
150 ft., but the rush of water was too heavy
for the equipment, and the present issue or
24,00 u contribs. is the result. Several
’broking shellbacks are in the issue, and as
the reef is to hand good things are expected.
Geologist Baragwanath is credited with say-
ing that the prospect is the best he has seen
in the district for a long time. The worth
of the statement depends just on how much
he has been up and down the mines in the
last year or two, for the late Ajax find will
take a lot of beating. L. Hansen, of the
North Ajax, also utters a kindly word. So
all’s set.
* * * *
Two old Vic. mines are to be re-
opened. The New Chum, at Maldon, which
has been idle for four years, is to be given
another go, and a scheme is afoot to test one
of Inglewood’s old shows.
* * * *
J. L. Strevens on Williamstown “seeps”:
I have been a close observer for four months past of
repeated occurrences on the Williamstown (Vic.) back
beach of a heavy oil which has recently formed the
subject of an adverse report by the State Mines
Department. The conclusions arrived at in the
official report call for drastic opposition. These are
the facts .
(1) The oil Itself is a true, heavy crude of mixed
paraffin-asphalt base. It Is comparatively rare in the
petroleum world, but is found in the U.S.A. Midj
continental and Illinois fields. Its_ physical ana
chemical constitution places it outside the widest
ranges of fuel oils such as are used by passing ships.
(2) The Williamstown occurrence la always over
a limited localised area between high and low tide
marks, and notwithstanding that some hundreds of
tides have been over the spot since the oil was first
observed and the beach has been thoroughly scoured,
the phenomenon is just as apparent as ever aha the
fresh oil is continually making. On first reaching
the surface the oil is of a rich amber brown color,
but it rapidly darkens on exposure and becomes
thicker until it reaches the stage of a semi-asphaltum.
(3) Although lighter fractions such, as benzine and
light kerosene are absent, it contains 10 p.C. of
heavy kerosene. Seepage oil rarely shows lighter
fractions than that when it reaches a surface.
The geological features are not inconsistent with
the existence of a petroleum deposit in the tertiary
series underlying the basalt, as abundant organic
matter was present in the sediments, and impervious
clays and porous sands with thick brown-coal beds
have been proven. The series as a whole is appa-
rently a monocline, with a very gentle south-west tilt
from” the Williamstown-Newport district, hut is such
that several bores may have to be sunk to locate the
source of the seepage.
Three possibilities suggest themselves as to the
mode of travel of the oil which manifests itself on
the beach. It may (a) come directly from below
through fissures in the comparatively thin basalt
cover-rock; (6) travel with the circulating under-
ground waters for some distance from the present
site of the “show” ; or (c) come from a near-shore
oil-sand outcrop in the bay, underlying the basalt,
being then sea-borne to its present position on the
beach.
Boring only can decide the source of the oil itself,
and no prognostication can be made of the quality
or quantity of the original raw material of which
the present “show’’ is a product. A remarkable
feature, and one that can hardly be considered a
coincidence, is the high sulphur content, which is
also manifested in the brown-coals of the locality
and the oils that can be artificially distilled from
them.
The attitude of the department, whose officials
should certainly know that the oil is a true heavy-
crude of local or near-by origin, is incomprehensible,
especially as there is a definite starting-oif point
and a sedimentary series is available for the drill.
Anyway, satisfied that the Williamstown “show”
is one of the very few true oil “seeps” in Australia,
Kororoit Oil Cos. proposes to put down a bore.
* * * *
J. W. Brophy has gone back to Canada,
and no doubt Mines Minister Alf Jones is
not displeased, because the Department lias
had to pay him more than £IOOO a year for
the three years since the Bowen iron and
steel scheme proved a fiasco. The. Depart-
ment made him a rajah, or something akin,
with the high-sounding title of Superinten-
dent of State Mining Enterprises, and he had
a clerk or two to keep his records, while he
bustled round the State arsenic and coal
mines periodically. His duties will now
devolve on the State Mining-Engineer, as
previously.
* * * *
Shareholders in the Australian Oil Cor-
poration will not be sent dithery by Geologist
Morton’s report on Beaudesert (Q.), which
was to be the immediate objective of the Corp.
Morton’s view is that the great erosion of the
Walloon beds has offered opportunities for
the escape of any oil contents, that there are
no seepages except the doubtful one at Dunn s
bore, and that the district is also intruded by
volcanic rocks. Beaudesert itself is situated
in a synclinal trough, and should be ideal for
heavy water supplies. Morton considers that
other areas of the Walloon formation offer
much better chances.
Arsenic, Ltd., Sundown (Q-), which is
working the Duke of York and Comet lodes
during June treated 300 tons ore for 40
tons arsenic worth £2240. The Comet is an
unknown quantity, opened up about 10 years
ago, but subsequently turned down. It
had promising patches of tin, copper and
arsenic showing in its one level and open-
cut, and a few hundreds spent on opening it
up while tin and arsenic prices are favorable
may be money well spent. At present the
Duke of York is fully supplying the co. with
arsenic ore. * #
Latest from Tyrconnell, Kingsborougli
(N.Q.), records a return for July of 1340 z.
from 155 tons, including gold from a battery
clean-up. The report is silent on the matter
of developments in the new level which,
after a long and costly chase, recently hit
the downward continuation of payable
bodies.
* * * *
Arthur Clarke’s scheme to get the Oaks
Consolidated interested in the Buchanan
proposition, Palmer field (N.Q.)» is develop-
ing. The preliminary issue of shares
by the original syndicate has been well sup-
ported, and a shaft will soon learn more
about values in the huge, low-grade lode.
Later on, the Government Geologist will
have a look to decide whether the appli-
cation for a £IOOO subsidy should be granted.
Herberton (N.Q.) has bucked up to some
purpose owing to better tin prices. The first
six months of this year have given approxi-
mately £31,000, compared with a shade over
£IO,OOO for the same period last year. Most
of the shows are doing well, although Dereks
has been out of action recently. Moule and
Lowe are having a flutter in the St. Patrick,
Black King and Good Friday, and Geologist
L. C. Ball has recently been making an
examination of them.
* * * *
The low-grade Arbouin tin-mine, Stannary
Hills (N.Q.)* has lately been the biggest indi-
vidual producer of tin in the Herberton dis-
trict. Since May 1200 tons ore have been
treated for 35 tons concentrates worth £olso.
The average of almost 3 p.c. is slightly better
than the owners anticipated, but the future
working of the mine depends entirely on a
firm market, * * *
Bowen Consolidated Coal (N.Q.) is ex-
periencing a precarious market, and bow that
some of the northern meatworks have closed
the manager has had to put off about -
hands, leaving only a dozen or so below
ground. The co. was put to the expense ot
constructing four miles of railway to connect
with the mine, and divs. are apparently st 11
a long way off. Its swanky neighbor, the
State colliery, is buzzing; it is producing
more than 300 tons a day.
* * *
Sydney’s newest interest in Malaya tin is
Malim Nawar Tin, Ltd., introduced by Mal-
colm Newman. Nominal capital is £IUU,UW,
and the £73,584 sought to acquire and equip
was subscribed within a few days. The pro-
perty is in Southern Perak (i.JVI.S.), and
324 acres 50ft. deep are estimated by Mal-
colm Newman to contain 21 million c. yd.
averaging fib. A bucket-dredge wit
120,000-yd.-per-month capacity is contem-
plated, and with that plant Malim Naw T ar is
expected to have a life of 14 years.
* * * *
Hawaiig (F.M.S.), another of Malcolm
Newman’s string, began with a subscribed
capital of £03,333 and an ambitious scheme
to equip with electric gear. In the period
of high prices the directors delayed the in-
stallation of the big power plant, and were
well rewarded for their wait. Meanwh
they put a 12in. pump at work, and, though
costs have run into lid. or so per yd., a
profit of about £12,330 lias piled up. The
turbo scheme and a 14in. plant are now in
full swing, and costs have come down witn a
run. Originally it ivas proposed to put in a
second 14in. plant, but the directors have
since purchased, “at an extremely low price,
a large area of land suitable for bucket-
dredging.” So United Engineers, Ltd., ot
Singapore, has been given a contract to con-
struct a dredge—the first locally-built one
to operate in Malaya—at a cost of £42,000.
It will be operated by electric-power
and is expected to hawe at least -0
years’ work ahead of it. From sluicing and
bucketing Rawang should account for
nearly a quarter-million yd. per month at
small working-cost. Dredge-construction will
require £15,000 or so more funds than are
available, but the directors offer to advance
it. mis change of policy necessanly means
delaying div.-paying, but if all goes well
shareholders should be compensated for then
wait when the bucket-dredge is helping the
sluicing plants.
From the tropics trickle the accounts of
Philippine Dredges, Ltd., which has lost big
John McWhae and has two of its dredges
idle. It also has the usual troubles that re
ward Britishers who go from under the Union
Jack in search of fortune. No. - plant,
after weathering in a paddock for raonlfis,
started again in some of the rich ground
previously worked. It did so well that it
enabled No. 4 plant to be got in trim, though
it has had to, be handled as carefully as a
second-hand car over the bumps. Gold won
by No. 2 amounted to £11,470 and gave a
working profit of £2042. Some of the dirt
was bonanza stuff; one weeks clea ” n o 1 f ’_ s I®
2170 z., and a few went from 103 oz. to
139oz. But others dropped to 16oz. or 2ooz.
Ahead is a good block to operate upon, so
Philippines may be able to do something to-
wards paying up arrears of interest as well
as getting the debenture debt down. No. 4
ran from August to I ebruarj, but then
dipped into deep wash and had to stop until
the Extended leases next door could be
picked up for £2500. Returns from Novem-
ber 1922, to June last, even with No. 4
plant idle for some time, make’the mouth ot
the Australian dredge-master water, iney
were as follows: —
1922. Ounees. 1923.
November . . 606 March • • 24
December . . 508 April • • 243
1923. May • • 460
January .. 329 June . • 297
February .. 260
No. 4 plant added its bit by showing a
working profit of £2892. An old sore has
been the claim of the Paracale River Dredg-
ing Co. for £8185 for royalty, against which
the Philippine had counter-claims It got a
writ eventually for the £8000-odd, and sent
A. Id. Showers to straighten matters out.
He agreed to settle everything for £4021 ot
which £1000 had to be paid at once and the
rest in quarterly instalments. .This. settle-
ment meant some cross-entries m the
accounts, but with working profits from the
two dredges £5966 went into Profit and Loss.
After meeting office and depreciation charges
and interest a credit of £435 was left. At
the balancing date (October 31 last) there
were these debts: Debentures, £41,400;
accrued interest, £7728; sundry creditors,
£2522; overdrafts, £4861; royalty in sus-
pense, £4021. Gruesome in the
balance-sheet are the book values of some ot
the belongings. Leases, rights, etc , stand at
£56,568; interest in the Paracale Bucket
Dredges, £97,075 ; No. 2 dredge, £22,927 ; No..
4 plant, £9458. The Paracale Bucket Co. is;
set out as owing £10,962, but it is a
terious item, and may mean nothing. Proht
and Loss is £34,198 to the bad as a result ot
past misfortunes. But now that the royalty
trouble is settled and the plants are on
better ground, things may improve pretty
quickly for a bit.


THE IMPERTURBABLE.
"The session so far has been a personal triumph for Mr. Bruce. He has pursued the even tenor of his way, undisturbed by the efforts of Labor, assisted by Mr. Hughes,
and has invariably gained his ends without once losing his perfect samg-groid."
In vain see his foemen conspire
To agitate Bruce off the wire.
Why, even a bomb
Wouldn’t mar his aplomb,
Or arouse his immaculate ire.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Uuxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Yk
m
JITMTUI
M
Srancly for Travel
means
MARTELLS
Never go without if
“For Ever Best/'
STM
LASER
TOOHEY'S.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Xox”: The Federal Parliament has
brightened up considerably of late. Someone
started a bridge-school the other day, and
the students are forgetting time and bed in
an endeavor to become proficient at the
game. One or two midnights recently the
policeman on duty has been paralysed to
notice half-a-dozen creeping wraiths emerge
from the gloom of a side entrance and dis-
appear into the murk outside. The Labor
party, which is strong in evangelists and
churchgoers, takes its pleasures more rau-
cously, if more innocently, by community-
warbling in a high key. “Onward, Christian
Soldiers,” is one of the favorites, and sundry
Salv’army hymns have issued from the caucus
A MOST ANNOYING INSTRUMENT.
“Harold didn’t turn up last night, hut I spent half-an-
hour this morning getting him on the ’phone.”
“Aren’t the telephones unsatisfactory?”
"Yes, exasperating—after I had been talking half-an-hour
he hung up the receiver .”
windows in the dinner intervals. The loud
and cheerful Gabb is understood to be the
chorus-master; and Cunningham, Makin and
Mahony, who all have bearable voices, give
spirited assistance in the recitals.
“Oxmead”: “Jeames,” running his eye
back over some recent N. S. Wales Gover-
nors (B. 2/8/’23), refers to the “quarter-
deck breeziness” of Sir Harry Rawson.
It is a pity retired Admirals are not more
frequent in Australian Government Houses;
they generally prove to be kindly souls,
brought up in the traditions of the “silent
service” to speak briefly and to the point,
and to eschew circuitousness and platitudes.
One of such was Admiral Bedford, who figure-
headed W.A. from 1903 to 1909 or there-
abouts. Bedford’s briefest official utterance
is still remembered on the goldfields. Along
with the Governor-General of the period,
Lord Northcote, the Admiral—he was
better known as “The Bos’n” —was being
banqueted at Cue, after an inspection of tne
iocal mines. Speech-making was followed by
songs, and in due course the gathering be-
came distinctly hilarious. Finally, the
Mayor rose, and, hammering for order with
the butt of a bottle, sociably suggested that
the Governor-General might like to contri-
bute a song. Deafening applause followed
the suggestion, but Northcote somewhat
stiffly excused himself. “Well, then,” pur-
sued his Worship, steadying himself by
clutching the back of the town clerk’s chair,
“how about our own Bloke? Perhaps
Admiral Bedford will oblige.” “No,” said
the Bos’n, who evidently thought vice-royalty
was being asked to unbend unduly, “I’ll be
damned if I do.” It was a somewhat chas-
tened gathering that grabbed its hat, or the
other fellow’s, and dispersed.
* * * *
“The Rumpus” : My entry for the Juven-
ile Grit Stakes. A motor-car went career-
ing along a Perth suburban street, and a
fair-sized buudle suddenly came spinning
out of the dust in its wake. Two men,
thinking the car had dropped a parcel, ran
to pick it up ; they were horror-stricken to
find a rolled-up boy, clothes torn, dust-
smeared and gravel-rashed fearfully, especi-
ally about the face. They carried him into
the nearest house, where a woman asked
them to put him on the couch while she got
some warm water. “I think we had better
ring up the ambulance and get him straight
in the hospital,” said one man. Not until
that moment were they aware that the, suf-
ferer was really conscious. “Don’ sen’ me
to the ’ospittle,” said a voice without a
whimper in it—“it’ll scare muvver.” The
amazed woman darted forward. “God bless
my soul!” she exclaimed. “It’s my Bill 1"
Bill was five.
“Kado” : While tramping with a mate out
West we struck a small township somewhere
in a shower of rain, and decided to put up at
the solitary pub. And a crook-looking pub
it was, too. There were rats and other
livestock everywhere, and the beds were filthy.
In the middle of the night I woke up and
found the room full of acetylene-gas. Half-
suffocated, I jumped up and aroused my mate.
"Hey, Bill,” I said, "get out; the gas is
escaping.” William rolled over, scratched
himself, and drowsily remarked, “Well, can
you blame it?” # #
“Robert Hap” : Re the family
vault of the Annandale John-
stons in Waverley Cemetery, (B.
19/7/’23). The original vault
was built where Northumber-
land-avenue now intersects
Corunna-road, Annandale ; the
contents were removed to
Waverley in 1883. The old
tomb stood under what was pro-
bably the largest fig-tree in the
Sydney district, and on the
highest ground between the city
and Parramatta. Near by, and
nearer the main road, was a
railed-in, stunted tree, said to
have been the “gallows” where
most of the Castle Hill rioters
met their end. The last John-
ston to be buried at Annandale
was “the first Australian in the
British Navy.” I helped in
1882 a detachment of marines
from 11. M. Nelson, then in
harbor, to fire a volley oyer the
grave. The Johnstons are men-
tioned in one of Scott’s novels,
“The Monastery,” I think.
“2328”: My experience sup-
ports that of “Baro” (B.
19/7/’23)re the rarity of bayon-
eted men among the wounded.
I had four casualty trips
through various clearing sta-
tions, base-hospitals, hospital-
ships, etc., and in all my wan-
derings I saw only one bayonet
wound. The bearer was a
Tommy who, after a night raid
on Fritz, fell on a bayonet
standing in the trench and got
it in the thigh. The skill de-
veloped during training periods
in directing thrusts at either
the abdomen or throat of an
adversary was probably responsible for the
deadliness of the weapon.
“E. L. Dorado”: There has been no
temperance reformer comparable with the
motor-car in that portion of N. S. Wales that
lies “out at the back o’ Bourke.” Since the
advent of Lizzie, pub after pub has put up
the shutters. On the Bourke-Barringun
route alone four taverns of the roaring days,
Laura Vale, the Young Erina, Mulga Valley
and Lake Eliza, have ceased to exist and
supply joy-juice to the thirsty shearer. The
latter is now rattled from the railway to his
shed in a few hours —the process took days
in the good old times —and, after the shed has
cut out, he is whirled away again before he has
had time to do more than wash his socks
and remove the burrs from his nap. There
are no “Stiffeners” and “Poisonous Jimmies”
to waylay him any longer; empty benzine
tins gieam out on the distant claypans and
THE UNSTABLE SEX.
“Two months ago he was the loveliest thina on earth; and now I hate the very sight
of him.”
“Yes; aren’t men changeable!”
adorn the spots where Whisky bottles
gleamed of yore. The very name of Whisky
Creek, on the Culgoa-road, 10 miles from
Bourke, • will probably be a puzzle to the
next generation.
“F.C.’s” bit of drama from real life: —
The plaintiff in a Sydney divorce case a few years
ago only took action when his wife frankly admitted
that she was tired of him and preferred the third
party. He was badly cut up, but in due course filed
the petition. The respondent made admissions and a
decree followed. Although the husband had not been
stung for alimony, he regularly remitted cash to
the detached dame until, as he put it, ‘‘he marries
her.” Lately he called on the co-re. and asked him
when he intended doing the fair thing, and, on
being assured that such intention, if it ever existed,
had long been abandoned, he gave the neglectful
gentleman a thrashing. The following day he hunted
up his ex-spouse and found that she was completely
disillusioned. A quiet talk followed; a few hours
later the pair were remarried.
“Jeames”: The most audacious touch
about the cabled announcement last week
that Hugh D. Mclntosh, of Sydney, had
bought Broome Park was the intimation at
the end that he “intended it for use on his
future visits to England.” When Lord
Kitchener acquired the famous Kentish man.
sion, London society was at a loss to know
lvow he had been able to afford to buy it
and, still more, how he would get the money
to keep it up. It is not a Welbeck or a
Syon House, of course, but it comes suffi-
ciently near thereto for most millionaires’
tastes. Carl Meyer had it at one time. He
is a De Beers magnate, and for- years has
been the brain behind the London branch of
the Rothschild firm. He gave it up and took
a place in Essex as being more economical.
And Mclntosh proposes to use it as a pied-
d-terre! There is no hunting or fishing
worth talking about, but the shooting is
fine, and the lodge gates are within five miles
of Canterbury station. A love of the beauti-
ful is found enshrined in unexpected places.
Kitchener was a judge of china, and con-
sidered Broome the most exquisite setting
in England for his collection. Mclntosh
at his American palace on Bellevue Hill
collects pictures and books. He has some
valuable things, as he is not shy of paying
big prices for what he fancies, but nothing
that would look quite in place at Broome.
* * * *
“Cartot” : One of the most weird and hor-
rible deaths on record occurred in a little
town outside Bathurst (N.S.W.) some years
ago. A chronic dipsomaniac was just re-
covering from a wild and protracted jag
when - somebody .offered him a cigar. As he
was trying unsteadily to light it at the flame
of a kerosene lamp, his breath caught fire :
next the alcohol vapors in his lungs and
thorax ignited and were partially exploded.
The subsequent autopsy, carried out at the
Bathurst hospital, showed that the internal
tissues of the upper portion of his trunk
were badly ruptured and damaged, death
being due partly to these injuries and partly
to shock. Only two similar cases are to be
found in the whole of the annals of medicine.
One occurred in the United States and the
other in France.
“C. Coral” : While the half-caste wife of a
Torres Strait islander was collecting her
first maternity bonus the other day, her hus-
band,' after watching her sign the receipt,
turned to the official who was paying out
and asked: “What day next year we get
this five pound again—he come same time
every year?” The clerk was a little em-
barrassed until the dusky gentleman made
it clear that he thought the bonus was really
an annual subsidy.
* * * *
“,T. Shay”: It was raining heavily as I
clambered into the late train. A little,
anxious-faced girl-woman bundled into the
carriage as I was taking my seat.
She had taken off her own cloak and
wrapped it round the baby, which she
snuggled to her bosom. There was a fright-
ened look in her eyes, and she seemed to
me to hug the child closer when the col-
lector came for the tickets. At the ter-
minus, as she stepped out in the downpour,
I chivalrously offered her the choice of my
macintosh or umbrella. She declined the
mac, but allowed me to shelter her with
the umbrella when she was satisfied that
my way lay past her home, smiling rather
gratefully, ' I thought, at my expressed
anxiety that the „child should not get wet.
I escorted her to her door, holding the um-
THEIR INSTANTANEOUS EFFECT.
H USRAND: “I can’t for the life of me under-
stand this extraordinary outcry against
Norman Lindsay.”
WIFE: “ Neither can I. His pictures always
appeal to me at the first blush!”
brella over her till it opened. Stepping
inside, she threw the cloak open, and a
Pomeranian dog sprang out and frisked
barking along the hall. Her thanks and
naive explanation that “If they think it’s a
baby the railway-men won’t stop you carry-
ing a dog in the train,” completed my dis-
illusionment.
(Continued on page 19.)
SHADOW-SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How much is real of all we say and do ?
How much is pose? Is aught—unless of rue—
E’er permeated with sweet honesty ?
In stately robe and broad phylactery
We preen and strut, while list’ning—you and I
For sounds that prove men turn as we pass by
And look again. We speak our little piece
So loftily; then stand demure till cease
The plaudits we desire while seeming so
To scorn. Self first and last—while to and fro
We walk, who yet are but as ants with each
Its morsel sweet—the all within our reach!
As greedily we, all unseeing, grope
Amid the dust for gems with fervent hope,
None realise our blindness. Fev’rishly
We toil to dress self-love as industry ;
In view of all we stand to wring our hands
O’er sorrows of the poor—in other lands !
Thought cloaks our vanity for one brief span....
But are there any love their fellow-man?
VICTORIA.
M. B. BATON.


DRY LAKE GETS A MOTOR-HEARSE.
And the undertaker forgets the funeral the first time he “gives her a spin.”


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged..
H. Macdonaldj Tolga, Q.
.. £234 11 0
10 0
£235 1 0
Contributions should be addressed to Tiif.
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
The number 333 is a guaran-
tee of high quality and com-
plete satisfaction.
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
20fwl r 6
“Flicker” : I boarded a tram in King Wil-
liam-street, Adelaide, and, establishing my-
self in one of the rear seats (all our trams
carry a notice stating “Smoking allowed in
the five rear seats only), lit a cigarette.
Presently there entered a lady, the kind
that only Adelaide can produce. She sat
opposite me and glared at my. “gasper.” She
sniffed. Then the conductor came through,
and she gave tongue. “Ah, eonduetah, is
this a smoking compartment?” The puncher
of tickets was a Pommy, frbsh-complexioned,
rotund and cheerful. “Quoite alroight, mum,”
he said beaming ; “you can smoke in ’ere if
ye want to.” The look which the lady be-
stowed on “Fares !” and myself as she wended
her way to the front of the car would have
turned beer to raspberry balm.
* * * *
“Skyrider”: On March 12, 1913, I stood
near a beflagged dais at Canberra, heard
the guns roar out a welcome to vice-royalty,
listened to King O’Malley’s bombast, and pic-
tured the glorious city which was to_ rise
within a year or so. Last w T eek I revisited
the Place of Stones. At Molonglo siding the
big gun which the Diggers captured in France
stands rusting on a length of equally rusty
rails. When it was being talcpn to “The
Capital” it was hurried through as if a mil-
lion people were awaiting its arrival, and
though Goulburn wanted it for a day to help
a memorial fund, the authorities would allow
a halt of only an hour or so. The line
from the “Canberra Railway Station” into
the wilderness which surrounds the founda-
tion-stones was originally intended to run
by devious ways across a bridge spanning the
Molonglo and thence through the old church-
yard. The earthworks still mark the sur-
veyed route, and the bridge is there, all at
a cost of about £20,000, but bunny has
taken charge. There is a railway, but _tlie
thing has got clear away from the original
route, and winds around the hills as if
seeking the city which O’Malley pictured.
OH, WHAT A DIFFERENCE A WEDDING MAKES!
“Late again! — I've been waiting an hour for you.”
“Well, and what of that—before we were married you said you
would wait years for me!”
"I wish to heavens I had.”
There is also a train, which runs some-
where once a week. I put in a feverish after-
noon at the site, searching for the buried
millions, but came away sad and sorrowful.
The rabbits seem to be the only energetic
denizens of the area.
“Skyrider” : Men-
tion of juries hav-
ing originally been
selected as persons
“likely to under-
stand a prisoner’s
motives” recalls a
case I heard at
Goulburn. Judge
Rogers wa s o n
the Bench, and the
accused was
charged with
sheep-stealing. The
usual challenge
farce had con-
cluded, and the re-
sulting panel was
composed of two
drapers, a tailor,
a fruiterer, three
house agents, four
c 1 e r'k s and a
grocer. After evi-
dence concerning
crossbreds and a
merino, said to
have been ear
marked by the pri-
soner for his own
use, Rogers turned
to the 12 good
men an d true.
“Gentlemen,” he
said, “you are all
men conversant
with country con-
ditions, and you
know more about
sheep than I do. I
can safely leave
the case to you.”
Then the jury,
which had only
seen sheep on a
plate, filed out, and
a little later
brought in a ver-
dict of n.g. Not
that the personnel
of the citizens in
the •box mattered a
continental in a
case of that kind;
convictions f o r
sheep-stealing in
the district were
got only by acci-
dent.
“Tarago”: The yarn that German dead
were taken from the Front to the 1 atherland
to hide the losses (B. 2t>/7/’23) was one ot
those war inanities which found ready cre-
dence when it was fastened on the enemy.
My own observations convinced me that tne
German censorship
was much less,
strict and its sup-
pression of facts
less glaring than
our own. In the-
early days of the
Somme, a lot of
us, burning with
the desire to let our
people know our
whereabouts, head-
ed ou r letters
"Sommewliere in
Prance.” Next
parade we were
told that if it
occurred again the
writers would be
“crimed.” I can
remember once,
searching for in-
formation for H.Q.,
I took a field post-
card from a dead
Fritz. It told his
wife where he was,
whom he was fight-:
ing _ against, sum-
marised the awful
conditions, and.
wound up with the
plea for as many
food parcels as she :
could send, as
rations were short.
I also learnt, from
an English-speak-
ing prisoner, that
the Germam troops
had no illusions as
to what part of
the line they were
being sent to, and
that a draft de-
parting for the
Somme front was
always given an
extra demonstra-
tio n. , Compare
this with the igno-
rance of the true
facts that was
deemed wholesome for the relatives of Aus-
tralian soldiers!
* * * *
“X2X” : I can endorse the statement that
wounds or injuries due to the bayonet were
very rarely met with in the A.I.F. Some
PER AD VENTURE.
MRS. JHONES : “Yes, John, as I was saying, Miss Blank has no
manners. Why, while I was talking to her this morning
she yawned eleven times.
OLD JHONES: “Perhaps, my dear ; she wasn't yawning—she might
have wanted to say something."
years ago at devolved on me to go throngn
the medical-history sheets of thousands of
returned mien. I came across no single. in-
stance in which a bayonet wound was given
as the reason for the soldier’s return. Most
bayonet-w cunds are in the victim’s trunk;
the weapon 'is not merely thrust in and
but is usually turned at least a
few inches in one. direction. Profuse inter-
nal haemorrhage is only too likely, and there
may be prolonged exposure as well. It fol-
lows that the chance of recovery is almost
nil. Even a high-velocity rifle-bullet or a
piece of shrapnel usually inflicts a wound
which is more or less localised in its effects,
but in the case of the bayonet hardly any
part escapes. A mere wound in the linibs
will often occasion a shock in itself sufficient
to bring about death. The majority of text-
books on military surgery are in accord that
of all the varied injuries received m modern
warfare tin- highest death-rate belongs to
those inflicted by the bayonet. Next in the
list come abdominal injuries caused by shrap-
nel. Even the high-powered _ -modern rifle
doesn’t compare in deadliness with cold steel.
**• * *
“ST.S.”: 'He is a good chap, and a fine
bridge-playea-, but a little short in the temper.
Just what happened to him one evening pay
be guessed from the remarks addressed to
him by the local J.P. from the Bench next
morning: “Ye have been found guilty, on
the clearest i evidence, of driving yer motor-
car at midnight with the lamps unlit. No
doubt ye were in such a black rage when
ye stampeded out of my house that ye forgot
to switch them on. There is no excuse ioi
ver action. Oi told ye at the time that when
Oi trumped yer ace Oi was under the im-
pression that it had been played by one ot
the opponents,! and Oi have since paid yei
losses on the rubber, as well as me own.
Ye’re fined - one pound and costs and Ui
hope it’ll be a lesson to both of us.
“Historicus” : If, while enjoying a holiday
at Kurnell (N.S.W.), you should come
across a gang of ehger men digging m tne
o-round thereabouts, 1 you needn t jump to tne
conclusion that they are prospecting a new
field for the body ■of the lady of the latest
mystery. The NJS.W. Historical Society
wants to erect a shirine at the burial-place ot
the first man committed to earth in Aus-
tralia —that is, within known history.
Although it is quite-likely that the bones ot
Dutch, Spanish and Portuguese sailors were
planted somewhere on the Australian coast-
line long before Cook’s coming, h orby
Sutherland, who died whilst Cook was at
Botany Bav, is definitely known to have
been buried there. A systematic search tor
his bones is proposed so that a monument
may be placed above them.
“Diogenes Redivivus” : “Digger’s I ather
(B. 26/7/’23) is quite correct. The phrase
“Getting the wind up” has been shorn ot
the last two words. How it came to signify
nervousness qj* cowardice I am unable to
say. The army certa|hly did not coin
the phrase—it merely borrowed it. In my
’prentice days at sea in the early eighties, n
the ship’s cat or the pig took to careering
aimlessly round the deck in fine weather, it
was looked on as a sign of wind, and in-
variably called forth the remark, The. eat
[or pigJ has the wind up —•
“R.G.N.C.”: The pungency and crispness
of Cockney rhyming - slang (“Iford,” B.
26/7./'23y are matters of opinion;,it seejms
to me that crude rhyme (often rhyme only
to an uncultured ear) was all the argot-
maker sought. With regard to my dating of
this cant phraseology to the 18tli and. early
19th centuries, I recall my grandmother
(born 1810) using as a term of endearment
“chivy chase” (since shortened to. “chiv )
for face. She did not know why, but ex-
plained that “that had always been a way
of saying it”; her mother had used the
term to her babies. Dickens, writing in
1830, makes “sky” for “pocket”—a short-
ened form of "sky-rocket”—a familiar teim
in thieves’ patter. No doubt this argot of
the underworld was originally intended to
serve the initiated as a secret code of
communication. It was probably some en-
terprising London newspaper roundsman of
the ’seventies who gave it to the world and
enabled it to reach the ifinsic-halls and popu-
lar ditties. As for being Snappy or clever, it
is about as “peppy” as the English public
schoolboy’s “brekker,” “fiigger” et al.
**' * *
“Yarrum” : Close shaves? This was mine.
I was stranded in Sydney and wanted badly
to get to Wollongong at once without foot-
ing it. I went down to a wharf, and there
saw a collier-ketch tljat was sailing that
night. It was my first attempt at stowing
away, and I must have made a mess of it.
When discovered, I offered to work my pas-
sage, but the brutal skipper ordered me off,
and mentioned police, I had no choice
now but to hit the track, and I arrived
sorefooted at Bulli just about day-
break after a boisterous night. The
first thing I heard there was that there
had been a wreck. Going to the beach, I
found my ketch driven ashore and all hands
lost. It made my feet feel a lot better.
* * *
"T. 0.1.”: Sydney Telegraph (19/7/’23J
states that the iron building m which Is. S.
Wales Leg. Council meets was brought from
Melbourne, and is understood to have been
originally a Methodist church. In 1854 two
iron churches were constructed
in Glasgow for shipment to Aus-
tralia. One was erected in
Macquarie-street, Sydney,
north of the Houses of Parlia-
ment in 1856-57. The
Rev. Alexander Sal-
mon. Free Church of
Scotland, occupied the
pulpit. Later *he build-
THE NEW FRUIT SALAD.
“The latest fashion in cosmetics is flavored lip-
JANE (to June) : “ Listen! Fee got that
poor Johnson man on the string! Eve
just kissed him with a banana flavor in
the dark, and now I’m going to give him,
a vanilla in the light!”
ing became the lending branch of the Public
Library, and it is now a feature of the Old
Men’s Homes at Lidcombe. The second iron
church is supposed to have gone to Mel-
bourne, but, if so, it is unidentified.
TO MAKE PEACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You say that you have found me in untruth.
I, whose whole soul is scornful of a lie,
Proudly have held my honor from my youth!
Now there is scorn and anger in your eye
Because of something that I said last night....
Well, yes, I lied; so, darling, you are right.
And yet for this you should no anger nurse ;
Of my devotion ’tis an evidence.
The glib lie flowed to save me from much worse—
The fear the truth might give you some offence.
To lie’s a thing, dear girl, I hate to do —
But I would tell a thousand lies for you !
N.S.W.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.


New Automatic Rifle
FIRES 8 ORDINARY .22 LONG
RIFLE CARTRIDGES, made bv
the FAMOUS BROWNING F.N.
FIREARMS CO. An accurate rifle up to 200
yards. Take-down pattern. Ideal for quick
firing. Pistol-grip stock, as illustrated, 95 /«
The same model made to fire 11 ordinary
Shorts, 80/-
TIIE NEW .22 CAL. REPEATER. Made by
the same people. Hand-slide action. Take-
down pattern. Pistol-grip stock. Hammerless.
Fires short, long and long rifle Cartridges. Won-
derfully easy to take to pieces and dean. 95/-
CADET 297/230 RIFLES ONCE AGAIN.
And HUGE SUPPLIES OF CARTRIDGES,
Short, 6/-; Long, 7/6 per 100.
These renowned rifles have been used by our
Cadets. Guaranteed' accurate to 500 yards.
45/-- With Cleaning rod and sight protector.
SOLE BROWNING F.N. AGENTS.
Sports Centre, 318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
BULL” STOUT
(Extra Quality)
T.B. light ALE
K.B. LAGER
All renowned for
quality and flavor!
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
Carlton Hotel Ltd.
Bed and Breakfast
or
Inclusive Tariff.
Courtesy, Comfort and Home-
like Atmosphere.
Perfection of Service.
Cable and Radio and Telegraph
Address:
“llocab,” Sydney.
Telephone: 86141 (10 lines).
Under the Management of
,T. LEVY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Seven U.S.A. Presidents—Roosevelt (43),
Grant (47), Cleveland (48). Pierce (49).
Polk, Fillmore and Garfield (50) —were
younger than the new man, Coolidge (51).
when they shifted into White House. Two
others—-Tyler and Arthur —were the same
age. Five got their jobs through their pre-
decessors dying before the end of their terms
—Tyler, Fillmore, Johnson, Arthur and
Roosevelt, who owed their promotion from
comparative insignificance to the death of
Harrison, Taylor, Lincoln, Garfield and
McKinley respectively. The last three went
out to assassins’ bullets.
In the League of Nations Union in Syd-
ney is a Captain Beveiridge who started with
the British Army when he was under 13, as a
trumpeter, and has fought in every British
war since 1896. He
lost a leg in the
big upheaval, and
was three months
a prisoner in Rus-
sia; Beveridge has
a Striking way of
putting the horrors
of war before his
audiences. If the
dead were called
upon for a march
past, he says, it
would take the
British six days
and 12 hours,
marching in fours,
to pass a given
point. And in a
march past of All
the Dead two
months would be
swallowed.
GEORGE F.
JENKINS, Min-
ister for Agricul-
ture in South Aus.
From a city consulting-room :
The death of President Harding was shockingly
tragic inasmuch as he had rounded the corner of
a grave illness, battling successfully for a week
against an infection most dangerous at his time
of life. The disease which attacked him (it is
doubtful if there is any truth in the story that
members of the party suffered from ptomaine poison-
ing: the gastro-intestinal disturbance in the Presi-
dent’s own case was probably due to renal mischief and
it was known that he had had previous attacks) was
undoubtedly acute lobar pneumonia, and not broncho-
pneumonia, as cabled. The things which told
against him pulling through were a weakened heart
musculature, a history of gastric trouble and renal
inadequacy, all the result of increased blood pressure.
Therefore, he would be regarded as a bad subject
for an acute infective process, no matter how mild
its character might be. However, his heart stood
the strain beyond anticipation, everything was going
on satisfactorily, the temperature had come down
with a crash to below normal (as is usual after
infections), the pulse and respirations were in the
neighborhood of normality, and the patient, in that
languorous mood which is the beginning of convales-
cence, was enjoying immensely being read to. Then
a thunderbolt fell from a clear sky—his breathing
became embarrassed, a convulsive shudder passed
over his frame and he was dead. The inevitable
diagnosis of the physicians would be a large haemorr-
hage into a portion of the brain called the Pons
Varolii. In these cases death is practically instan-
taneous. The patient’s circulatory system had
received a sad shaking and strain from the pneu-
monia, and this contributed no doubt to the rupture
of the minute cerebral vessel when all seemed well.
Hut if he had never suffered from pneumonia, at
a later period the same vessel would to a certainty
have given way. President Wilson escaped with
his life owing to the bleeding taking place in a
different portion of the brain. He recovered with
a crippled left arm and leg, after having been un-
conscious for a full week. Men who have much to
do in the world forget that they have such a thing
as a vascular system. Even doctors. Herbert Mait-
land, for example, was lost to us from the effects
of influenza, contracted in 1919, on his heart muscle.
Ivew (Vic.) has lost J. V. Morgan, its
centenarian. He
was its first settler,
having followed a
calf-track thither
when it was “out
in the bush.” Bout-
in ake r, market-
gardener, dai r y-
man, landowner, he
had played many
parts since he left
Somersetshire, 89
years ago, a lad of
17, and landed in
Melbourne shortly
after La Trobe
was made superin-
tendent of Port
Phillip.
J. T. LANG,
Labor's new
leader for N.S.W.
Curly ’ Hutton, who died last week at
*5, belonged to the military school typified
by his friend the Duke of Cambridge—who,
by the way, originally nominated him for
the 60th Rifles. His language was frightful
on parade or in face of indiscipline or in-
competence off it; yet he had a genuine
affection for the other ranks, and a demo-
cratic way of dealing with them. He arrived
in Australia as commandant of the C.M.F.
in 1901 after proving himself a brave, if
not particularly skilful, soldier in the Zulu,
Egyptian and Boer wars. He soon saw
that the Australians were born mounted in-
fantrymen—lie had. been a mounted-infantry
specialist all his life—and he began organis-
ing the N. S. Wales Mounted Rifles almost
as soon as he arrived in Sydney. His influ-
ence was bad, on the whole. The ground
and lofty cursing in which he indulged left
no sting: it was accepted as the odd man-
nerism of a kindly, genial character. But
it was imitated by a horde of oafish junior
officers and n.c.o.’s, some of whom were still
on deck and raving in the approved Hutton
manner when the World War came.
The English are more lenient with their
elder statesmen, which is why Balfour is
still on deck at 75 and Asquith at 72, and
both apparently good for another dozen
years. Yet nearly all the U.S. Presidents
have been of English extraction. In spite
of the pleasing fiction that any native-born
youth may sit where Lincoln sat, the choice
is jealously restricted to citizens with a
dominant strain of English, Scotch, North
Irish or New York Dutch. No others need
apply.
T. H. Payne, the new Acting-President of
the Vic. Leg. Council (Walter Manifold is
trying to get well), was left a rich man by
his father, an early Melbourne lawyer, who
acquired much property. Twenty-two years
ago, while in his earliest thirties, T.H.
decided that it was up to young men of good
education and means to offer something to
their country, so he stood for the Leg.
Council. He probably wouldn’t go through
that sort of fight again for twenty thousand
pounds. But, like most others who are in
a position to be independent, he soon found
that the party political game was a very
poor one, and he hasn’t since been able to
pump up much enthusiasm, though he did
take an hon. Minister’s position a few years
ago. No doubt he thinks his hobby of rais-
ing pedigreed cattle more important than
his politics; and he takes an interest in the
A.M.P. and the Melbourne Club as side-
lines.
Many Diggers will recognise Lord Cassilis
when he arrives in Australia shortly to join
in some Masonic celebrations. He was Town
Major of Bailleul towards the end of the
war. The warrior arriving in the pleasant
did town from the direction of Ypres often
saw a small, elderly, red-faced officer in kilts
and a Glengarry cap standing, with legs
apart, on the steps of an imposing building
on the left-hand side of the main street, and
a few hundred yards from the square. This
was Major toe Earl of Cassilis. He was a
stern disciplinarian, and disapproved of some
of the peace activities of the A.I.F. “You
are bringing discredit on my town ; you will
leave, sir, at once” —such pronouncements,
uttered in tones of immutable finality, rang
in the ears of many a blithered patron of the
Officers’ Club live years ago. When the shell-
ing began that was to almost wipe Bailleul
off the map, when the town was put “out of
bounds,” and was only traversed by those on
special duty at lightning speed, the Major
and one or two faithful retainers still hung
on. Ajax defying the lightning could not
have presented a more gallant front.
Died recently at 94, Mrs. Mary Isham
Garran, mother of the Commonwealth Soli-
citor-General and widow of Dr. Garran, one-
time editor of S. M. Herald and the “Pic-
turesque Atlas.” She married Dr. Garran in
1854, and is survived by a son and four
daughters. Her husband was the first man
in Australia to be engaged by the State as
an industrial peacemaker—the step that led
on to the first N.S.W. Arbitration Court.
F. J. T. Pflaum, just dead in Adelaide,
was, but didn’t look, 77. He was one of
the old German stock which has done so
much to build up the fortunes—and, to some
extent, the character—of S. Aus. Originally
a shopkeeper at Blumberg, in the Adelaide
hills, he went in for wattle-bark and a flour-
mill, and became a power in the district. He
had a long term in the S.A. Assembly ; but
when the war came his name and his in-
herited accent were fatal. Blumberg be-
came Birdwood, and Pflaum went out.
Amongst the pioneers of Shoalhaven until
last month were four brothers of the Faulkes
family—William, 94; John, 92; and two
youngsters of 86 and 82 respectively. Wil-
liam and John died within a few hours of
one another in the last days of July.
Eric Keith Sautelle Bowden, who was
admitted as a solicitor a few days ago, is
the eldest son of the Minister for Defence, in
whose Parramatta office he served articles.
The Bowdens made the acquaintance of
Australia in 1812, and the new Gent. One
is of the third generation in the Law.
E. J. Holloway, sec. of the Melbourne.
Labor Council, has been given the union
nomination to represent Labor at the League
of Nations’ next conference*4n Geneva, to
which the Commonwealth is entitled to send
tliree . delegates. But the Sydney Labor
Council, which endorsed Holloway’s nomi-
nation, could not forbear remarking that
there is power to send “technical advisers”
to assist the delegates. Just why a techni-
cal adviser is required, and what .he is
wanted to be technical about, is not ex-
plained ; but the Labor Council’s yearn for
overseas jaunts has grown almost as great
as the yearn of the politicians.
• Erected his last mill, Alexander James
(“Sandy”) Webster, old-time Charters
Towers mining-engineer. He it was who
put up the first mill on Woodlark Island —
at the foot of the Kulamadau Hill, on what
was then a large mangrove swamp. He in-
stalled a splendid plant at the Golden Gate
mine, Croydon (Q.), and also sank two of
the deepest shafts on that field. At Hill-
grove he fixed up a mill, the motive power of
which was a Pelton wheel driven by a fin.
jet of water under a pressure of 3401 b. to
the square inch—the first mill of its kind
in Australia. Later Webster patented a
steam engine, constructed on entirely new
lines, and in odd moments he wrote a" book-
let, “My Travels and Experiences in British
New Guinea.”
Another third-generation barrister has
been admitted to the N.S.W. Bar —Francis
Langer Owen. Both his knightly grand-
father and his father, the present Judge,
reached the Supreme Court Bench.
Thomas Thompson, just dead at the Bai-
•larat (Vic.) Benevolent Asylum, had a bap-
tismal certificate to prove that he was 109.
His passing leaves Mrs. Childerhouse, an in-
mate of the Melbourne Benevolent Asylum,
Victoria’s oldest inhabitant. There is pretty
good proof that she is 106.
Wilson Heaps has put up a Maoriland
record by holding a Government job for
60 years. He joined in 1864, when respon-
sible government was only about 11 years
old, and will finish up formally on March
31 next, the interval being spent on retiring
leave. Heaps went to Nelson as Collector
of Customs 42 years, ago, and .now hands
over the job of Sheriff there.
“Jumbo”: When Jack Payne, Labor mem-
ber for Mitchell (Q.), and chairman of the
Public Works Commission, ran a smithy in
the west of Bananaland, he had a row with
his partner, and challenged him to a foot-
race for the business. A big crowd gathered,
and, after numerous false starts, the “field”
was despatched. Payne’s wind was better
than his partner’s, and he won by a street.
“He wouldn’t sell out his share or buy mine,”
Jack explained, “so something had to be
done. Anyhow,” he added, “it was cheaper
than going to a lawyer.”
“Hamer” : The Last Post sounded for an-
other Crimean veteran the other day—Daniel
McCarthy, of Cottesloe (W.A.). He was said
to be the last Crimean fighter in W.A.—but
they keep turning up. McCarthy was 93,
and had been in Australia 49 years.
“Ashmead”: It was the boast of old
Marine Board Warden Jabez Smithies, who
died at Burnie (Tas.) the other day, that he was
responsible for the de-registration of the
Wharf-lumpers’ Union at that port years ago
when he was master warden. He was game;
only last year,
when he was push-
ing 70, he bought
a car, and, driving
for the first time
in his life two
days later, took
his wife for a
jaunt to Launces-
ton, 100 miles
away, where he re-
presented his town
in a bowling tour-
nament. The busi-
ness people of
Burnie were going
to present him with
a testimonial, but
the scythe got in
first. Smithies was
the father of the
port at Emu Bay,
now one of the
best harbor
schemes in the
Speck; that’s why
they all called him
Dad.
“TEXAS”
GREEN, Labor
M.H.R. for
Kalgoorlie.
Francis Garnett, the new Protector of
Aborigines in S.A., came to Australia as a
bookseller from Lancashire about 1888, but
soon became book-keeper and schoolmaster
at the Point Pearce mission station. There
he has been ever since, except while he was
superintendent at a similar home for Binghi
at Point Macleay. The Government took
over Point Pearce in 1915, and Garnett,
as superintendent there, wiped out the old
system of free rent and rations, and encour-
aged the nigs, to work for fair pay.
“F. Clinton” : g. T. D. Symons, Chief In-
spector of Stock in N.S.W., retires after 14
years in the job and 31 in the service. He
qualified in the Cold Country, and when
chilblains drove him out he got an appoint-
ment in India. Later he passed on to Aus-
tralia, joined the N.S.W. Board of Health,
left it after a while to go to S. Aus., but
eventually rejoined. Symons has closely
associated himself with the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and in-
tends to stick to it. Incidentally, T. H. Wil-
liams, the retiring Chief Inspector of Stock
in S. Aus., is not the last layman to hold
the job in Australia (B. 26/7/’23). The
C.I.S. in Tas. is not a vet.
Alf Bailes, who was one of the Assembly
members for Bendigo in Vic. Assembly over
30 years ago, is now librarian at the Geolo-
gical Museum. When he left the House he
returned to the printing trade, and was a
“reader” for some years. If J. B. Patter-
son had been more grateful, Bailes, who had
whipped up the support for him to shift
Shiels in 1893, might have been a Minister
—he declined anything less than a full port-
folio. Still, he has been happier out of Par-
liament than he ever was in it.
Another brilliant Sydneysiderj Dr. N. Ross
Smith, is now also an F.R.G.S. (Eng.)
one of two dozen who succeeded ont of 90.
He got a Council scholarship at North
Shore Grammar School, then in 1914 a leav-
ing-certificate pass, with an exhibition which
gave him a five-years’ medical course; gradu-
ated in ’2O; put in a year at Prince Alfred,
half-a-year as house surgeon at Victoria Hos-
pital for Children, Chelsea (London), and
another half-year as house surgeon at St.
George’s Hospital (London) ; passed his
primary exam, for F.R.C.S. in 1922, and
got his L.R.C.P. and M.R.C.S. this yeai\
And he is only 26 now.
“T. 0.1.”: S. M. Herald (18/7/’23), in
announcing the death of Mrs. Jane Pedrotta,
an old resident of Bathurst, aged 78 years,
said that when Hall’s gang of bushrangers
visited that town they called at Pedrotta’s
gunsmith’s shop and “helped themselves to
arms and ammunition; they also stole a val-
uable racehorse from De Clouett’s hotel.”
Actually Hall and a mate visited the gun-
smith’s shop, examined certain weapons,
priced them and left quietly without stealing
anything. Gilbert, who as a lad had been a
groom with John de Clouett, visited the pub
of the latter to obtain possession of Pacha,
a racehorse, but Mrs. de Clouett refused to
hand over the key of the stable, and gave
Gilbert a sharp lecture on his ways. And
he left without the racehorse.
A TRIBUTE TO THE BRAVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Large numbers of skilled workmen are coming
to Australia from the Old Country. You wi.l get
the best, because tli ey will be the bravest, on account
of the hazardous journey.” —Sir Walter Davidson.
A courage Digh his spirit graced ;
With mai.'Jy, firm-held lip
Australia House he bravely faced,
And passed, and caught his ship.
His friends wept sore upon the shore;
Their thoughts were black as ink
Of all the pei 11s held in store,
But bravely st ill himself he bore,
Though now upon the brink,
The awful, perilous brink.
% He did not mind' whene’er a wave
Slapped at tfcie vessel’s side;
His was the courage of the brave
Who wander waters wide.
His eye aglow (jYo-ho, heave-ho—
And sometimes “heave” alone),
He faced the tui :ker down below,
And often asked for more to stow
In a courageou s tone —
A most courage ;ous tone!
He faced the peri ls of the deep ;
Now, on this salvage land,
He faces meals an d goes to sleep
With courage calmly grand.
Brave heart! With me you must agree
Our flag will ewer wave,
And we will keep Australia free,
• If we can draw from o’er the sea
Men so supreme dy brave—
So gloriously bitave!
x.s.w.
HAMER.


Black Tread
. .
::
m
wmm
i a
■
Hr '
a
a
mm
■fiß ■
1 mm
wr
111!
:
.M
■
■
■
: i ram
Hra
:
Red Band
Grey Wall
§M
1
1 h® 5 5ji'jsS;S'
.a''® 9 '
„ei
r -
* RgSl viL
e'cV" .
ASO
• \*7 & w> v
*°
** W** e ° ,
V'" 1 ' to 1«' oP
K
0
AV t . ef » e
Ae^e* c V rt\^^
*»*>*'• * , b e -^Mi
* ,/j w
L
Spill
iMM§
•■i
p
it
■
m
■m
■
■ a
m
:■; :;i ■■
m
■
4 / < /
m
sis :
i
■
mam '.
lllli
#/ c
s<\v \
i; >;■■■* iff
\ , \
' ! < \ 4
<# \ . J
\
I ■I 1
H
H
■
■ Wm
,: y
Stocked in straight-side and
beaded-edge types in popular
sizes by leading Garages Ob-
tain list and see prices!
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO OP aust LTD.
ALL STATES AND N.Z,


Australia’s Largest Hostelry.
WRITE FOR
TARIFF
CARD.
sdf
THE FEDERAL,
Melbourne.
M
3 ;S
-(pff'ev
iff
<f»tc4 ItHflSKu
j 5
s®ouct of son'i*'?
lIlEi
ilh:,
iif
i! i !i
i!l iiiiiii !ii iiiii !
UiiU
THE WHISKV
THAT ALWAYS LEAVES
A PLEASANT MEMORY
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident and
Sickness, Burglary, Live Stock
Public Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation, etc., etc.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
STARTING FROM SCRATCH.
“Yer ever rode a horse before?”
“No.”
“Well, ther’s just the feller for yer. He ain’t been ridden
before either. Yer can start out together.”
“Picko”; Tell “Warrumbucca” (B.
19/7/’23) that the absence of bunny kittens in
drought seasons is a natural result brought about
by the inability of ma to manufacture the lacteal
fluid on which the young ’uns have to depend for
their start in life. Dead grass will not help the old
woman, and if she has to jump about over big spaces
to get a feed the energy expended absorbs all of the
nutriment which the grass might contain. As io
the question of a law of Nature precluding concep-
lion during dry seasons, the answer, as far as my
experience goes, is decidedly in the negative. It was
my~ lot once to shoot" or trap the rabbits to feed
eight “kangas” and three cattle-dogs, kept on the
chain during lambing season. 1 had ample evidence
that the does were maintaining the birth-rate, what-
ever the.fate of the youngsters after making their
first bow to the world ; and yet at the time we were
hand-feeding the ewes and doing obstetric duties
day and night.
"Hainan” : If I can get hold of a black
mamba (S’African snake) I’m going to enter him
for. the Animal Speed Stakes. The Adelaide Mail
in an article on this wriggler (14/7/’23) remarked:
These snakes travel so rapidly that they are able
to keep pace with a galloping horse.
That’s off the grass. When I’ve had my mamba in
training for a couple of months he ought to be able
to give anything 50 in 100 and win hands down.
# * * *
“Mouaro”: I agree with “Billy Brolga”
(B. 19/7/’23) that the dingo was originally “owned”
and consequently still longs for human companion-
ship.: Years ago a friend of mine working near
Bowral (X.S.W.) noticed a dingo watching him
intently. It took a long time and infinite coaxing,
but eventually the dingo came to heel and slept at
tin door of the tent. He was no use as a watch-
dog, 1 as he slunk away when anyone approached.
Only his owner ever laid a hand on him and that
not often. When called he never came in a straight
line, but always zigzagged, travelling the last 10
yards or so almost on his back. A wrongly-addressed
charge of shot from the gun of a stranger eventu-
ally settled him.
* * * *
“Barcoo”; Reference to big shouts (B.
7/6/’23) reminds me of-the Jubilee banquet at Black-
all, on the banks of the Barcoo (C.Q.), 18 years ago,
to celebrate the opening of the railway to that town-
ship: Arthur Whittingham, M.L.C., who owned Alice
Downs, through which? the railway passed, was chair-
man of the committee) At the inevitable banquet,
by way of a start he personally ordered up 300 large
bottles of champagne tylith which to christen the baby.
When this had failed to quench the local thirst, Harry
Hart, local squatter, whose property was afterwards
pierced by the railway’s extension, called for another
250 of the same. Then and not till then was it felt
that the toast of “Success to the Blackall district”
had been properly honored.
“W.K.” hears an argument:—
The small man with the big hat started it by say-
ing. as he dipped his billy in the river under a branch,
that the willows on the Wollondilly at ivenmore,
Goulburn (N.S.W.), were the original—they had come
from Napoleon’s grave. The big man with the small
hat said the other was wrong—-the original willows had
come from Napoleon’s grave, but the cuttings had
been planted on the Patterson before the Wollondilly
was heard of. The small man with the big hat
swung the billy over the fire. “Balcombe lodged
Napoleon before he went to St. Helena,” he said,
“and when Balcombe came to Australia he brought
the first willow cuttings with him and planted them
at Kenmore.” And victory was to the small man
with the big hat, until the big man with the small
hat appealed to the third swagman, with no hat at all.
“Who planted the original willow-cuttings from
Napoleon’s grave?” he asked. “Peter Stucky,” said
the hatless one, “when he took up his Willie Ploma
station ; and all the squatters going farther out took
cuttings from Peter Stucky’s place.” The small man
with the big hat was just getting sarcastic when a
swagman without a coat put his head round a clump
of bushes. “You’re all wrong,” he said; “the first
cuttings from Napoleon’s grave were planted in
South Australia.” A breeze rustled.the willow, and
my companion on the branch laughed, and dived at
a worm on the bank.
« * * *
“Narracoorte”: “E.8.J.R.” (B. 28/6/’23)
mentions “coast disease” as common among cattle
on King - Island, and surmises that
this malady must be identical
with the wasting disease in M.L.
referred to by “Mamaku” (B.
10/5/’23). I have never observed
“coast” in cattle, but it is com-
mon enough among sheep on the
coastal fringe of this part of the
map (S.-E. S. Aus). Although
feed is plentiful the sheep lose
condition and strength rapidly,
ami it is quite impossible to
drive a mob of “coasty” sheep
owing to the fact that they lie
down ,at every opportunity. (That,
too, is a pretty frequent symp-
tom among the two-legged deni-
zens of the coast.) A point of
similarity between “E.B.J.R.’s”
coast disease and the south-eastern
disease is that a change of pad-
dock is the only effectual remedy.
(This doesn’t apply to the
humans.) Sheepmen here recog-
nise the fact that the animals
cannot be left more than seven
or eight weeks in the one paddock.
“Waupfnelta,” in an article on
“Sheep Husbandry,” published in
the Adelaide Observer in 1885,
advised prospective buyers of store
jumbucks to avoid S.E- sheep
because • “they often have coast
disease” —which goes to show that this malady has
been recognised for nearly 40 years at least.
* * * *
“Boori”: Of all the imported pests none
has kept its cradles so full as the starling. Twenty
years ago their first line of skirmishers entered the
Lower Hunter (N.S.W.) —to-day they easily out-
number the native birds 10 to 1. One day last June
we saw a flock (put together by two sportive fal-
THE LIGHTNING CALCULATOR.
BILLY (an illiterate): “'Ow much would 'e cost for to put up a
bit of a fowlhouse for me, Jimmy?”
JIMMY (a scholar): "Wait a minute while I do make it up. Three
and two es five, seven into fixe won’t go—one pound, nineteen
shillun ’ and sixpence, Billy.”
cons) hurrying to roosting quarters back of Ray-
mond Terrace. It was roughly a mile long, 300yds.
wide, and extended skywards 200 ft. —like a mighty
swarm of bees flying in thick formation. “Millions’’
is the only way of putting it. That was the main
flight; and for a quarter of an hour afterwards large
and small bands went hurrying over the river to the
family doss-house. They have commandeered ail
the nesting-places, and even the common sparrow
is being remorselessly evicted from his old cabooses.
The two kookaburras in the dry tree near my
camp have been so busy lately driving off eager
house-hunting couples that the old laugh is changing
to something that distinctly resembles swear-words.
This winter large numbers of straw-necked ibises,
driven coastwards by the drought, have made their
appearance in this locality. They have provided the
principal item on the menu of the mining camper#
during the last two months. Every day alleged
“sports” pursue the unhappy birds, although the
area is a declared bird-sanctuary. No one seems to
worry. So our finest Australian feathers are being
exterminated while the imported curses are allowed
to flourish.
* * * *
“The Rumpus” : If “Valamac” (R. 5/7/’23)
Would drop a few wooden floats in his open-top
windmill tanks he would save the lives of the kooka-
burras that drown while looking for water. This
was what we had to do at Gosnells (W.A.) when
decomposed bits of minahs and honey eaters began to
percolate through the pipes and block up the sprink-
lers. Up along the nor’-western stock routes 1 have
come across Government wells that have been care-
lessly left open, and to draw a bucket of liquid from
them always meant drawing also a number of dead
birds, principally wagtails.
* * * *
“Gayndah” : I’ve attentively read the ideas
of the best brains of the Council on getting rid of ants ;
but file this for reference before the summer comes
and I’ll be classed as a public benefactor. My home-
stead is on the edge of a sand-ridge which is the
home of bulldog ants, meat ants, red ants and small
black ants, with a few other varieties thrown in. I
lost two good overseers and a shearer’s cook, and
was threatened with the loss of a wife, through ants
—and, if I had been adhering to the advice of the
Council, I probably would have lost her. Well, get
an old pepper-tin with a few fine holes in the top,
fill with sheep-dip powder, then walk round the house,
locate nests near by, and sprinkle lightly with the dip.
Next put some round the legs of the safe, and,
finally, dust some on all tracks by which the ants
enter the house. In one hour only a straggler will
be seen. You may have to dust the powder around
about once a week, especially if the weather is
windy; but it’s only five minutes’ work, anyhow.
I've had to put our bedlegs in kero, tins of water
before to-day, so no wonder I joined the “anti”
brigade.
* * * *
“John”: None of the hard-working women
in recent pars, can beat Sarah Stork, of Waterfall
(N.S.W.), who drives the motor-’buses to the Sana-
torium. A few months ago she undertook the cart-
ing of the big logs from National Park, and just
lately handled a contract for the supply of gravel
for new roads here in a way that any man would be
proud of. She is also an accomplished horsewoman,
and was one of the sights of the Sydney tram
strike as she drove her ’bus and five horses from the
railway station to the Quay.
Tell
“L’Fou” (B. 12/7/’23)
that animals can
count. On an estate
close to Sale
(Vic.) stock was
watered from a whip-
shaft, a full bucket
coming up as an empty
one went down, while
the whip-horse went to
and fro. It took 100
buckets to fill the tank.
One horse, after a few
days at it, took to the
job without having to
be led, and he stopped
when the tank was full,
though he could not
see that it was full.
He never once pulled a
bucket too many. On
another estate near
Maffra (Vic.), before
the motor came along,
two bags of chaff had
to be cut each day to
feed a pair of buggy
horses and two hacks.
The driver used to hook
Dobbin on to the pole
and start him on his
round and then go into
the harp to feed the
chalfcutter. And that
old horse without a
driver used to cut as
near as possible two
bags, and after that
could not be persuaded
to do any more. He’d
have been exactly right
only that it took a few
minutes longer some
mornings than others.
If the old nag didn’t
count the trips round
the circle, how did he
get to know?
“Cocky” : “L’Fou’s” collie who knew Sun-
days (B. 12/7/ ’23) reminds me.of a sulphur-crested
cockatoo owned by a reverend gentleman whose off-
spring attended the same, school as I did. Each
morning they were personally conducted to the
scene of their labors by the cocky, who performed
remarkable aerial feats overhead, en route, the while
audibly commenting on the weather. The party
having arrived safely at the school gates, the
feathered Baedeker flew straight home, where he
remained engaged in meditation for the rest of the
day. Throughout the week he adhered strictly to
this programme, but every Sunday morning he
devoted to a social call on friends in an adjacent
street. Then he disappeared. Rewards were offered,
UP TO THE NECK IN IT.
“Dave sent me a telegram yesterday askin'
me to send ’im twenty-five quid ter pay
fer hailin' 'im out."
“ Gripes—'e must ’are ’ad a skinful.”
the children wept, and loud was the wailing and
gnashing of teeth. But he could not be found.
Years later he returned, an older and wiser bird.
The children were all grown up, so his week-day
job was gone. But when Sunday came round he
hew to the next street to fulfil his social duties as
in days of old. And he is still doing it.
“A.8.C.”: I don’t doubt that the equine
youngster mentioned by “Ringer” (B. 7/6/’23) was
a mother at 20 months. We have a mare here on
Winnininnie station (S.A.) that had a foal before
she was 21 months old.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE LAST DRINK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though Jones had vanished without fuss
And drinks were flowing free and fast,
Gloom fell when Smith reminded us:
"Jones said that drink would be his last.”
It filled us with a sense of dread
That poor old Jones —the thought was pain—
Might be to-morrow with the dead ;
So Smithers filled them up again.
While sundry spoke of wreaths to show
Our friendship for our comrade gone,
One hero sent his drink below —
“We’ll save him yet!” said Robinson.
We leapt on flying cars that sped
Cavorting through the dizzy night,
Resolved to find our Jones who’d fled
To bid the happy' world “good night.”
We asked a tramguard could he guess
AVhere Jones had gone. With air of gloom
He took our fares and answered, “Yes ;
You’ll find him up in Annie’s room.”
As Annie Smith professed to know,
We sought her out, but shortly fled ;
She said that Jones (it was a blow),
For all she knew or cared, was dead I
Again we chased the flying trains
And knocked at doors that slyly oped
And shut again with sudden slams,
And still for information hoped.
Behind some fast-closed doors we drank
(Our grief expressed in solemn tones,
Though to admit his end we shrank)
Libations to the soul of Jones.
We armed ourselves with prawns and beer
Lest hunger in our quest might hap ;
And, strong to bring him final cheer,
We watched for Jones beside the Gap.
The prawn-lieads fluttered down the fcliff;
Each Cray was from its armor torn;
We drank the beer and wondered if
Jones would arrive ere day was born.
And then, when golden morn had come,
We travelled back by boat to town.
With grief for poor Jones stricken dumb,
Each face put on a solemn frown.
We sought a pub to drown the thirst
Of long night-vigil; and in tones
Of gloom we drank a toast. Smith first
Perceived that in our midst was Jones!
We fell on him and knocked him flat —
In fact, I hope the nark is dead.
He’s got himself to blame for that —
“Well, this must be my last,” he said.
N.s.w.
HAMER.


o
o
EQUIPPED.
Over 50% of Motor Cars arriving
Australia are equipped with the
asd
Starting and
Lighting
Battery
including the Most Popular Cars in the World.
Motor Owners!
This is sufficient reason why
you should specify j£xtt>C
QUALITY IS REMEMBERED LONG
AFTER PRICE IS FORGOTTEN.
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WEST AUSTRALIA .
NEW ZEALAND
Howard Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
a.'hsnn Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Sutherland & C Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra Street), Melbourne.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, Wellington.


1151
BOTS LAG I
i
Try It
With Your Dinner
l It’d Good
PS
UMTS
m
w
TUTANKHAMEN L HIS TOMB
The same indestructible mineral pro-
tects the felt fibres of MALTHOID
from the elements as that which
has so thoroughly preserved the
mummies of Egypt for thousands of
years. MALTHOID is made from
rag felt and pure bituminous
mineral, and lasts indefinitely.
Ask us for free booklet and samples.
‘i/ke PARAFFINE COMPANIES Tne
(F H PRINCE AustralajitmMatvaqcr)
Oriqinal Manufacturers of CHAXUSHOUSy
P & B MATERIALS
fds
“Bora”: As the Council’s keen on records,
how’s this? I was admiring my neighbor’s old Tin
Lizzie when he said: “Yes, she’s goodo. This is the
45th Ford I’ve had, and the best blanky one yet!’’
He’s not a garage man—just a dinkum N. S. Wales
cocky like myself.
* » * *
“R.S.”: Re “Ringer” (B. 7/6/’23) on
early maternity. About 25 years ago I castrated
an 11-months-old colt for T. L. Stevenson, of Elver-
ton (Tas.), who had two fillies of about the same
age running with him. The following Spring both
fillies had foals. We turned up their ages and found
one was 201, and the other 21 months old.
* * * *
“Colub”: "Ragar’s” old bushman notwith-
standing (B. 5/7/’23), close and continued observa-
tion has revealed that snakes do drink in a manner
resembling that of a hen—by first filling the mouth
and then throwing back the head to swallow. From
what I’ve seen 1 am convinced that the wriggler's
tongue plays no part in the drinking act, and is kept
inside the mouth all the time.
* * * *
“Picko”: I’ve heard of many weird and
wonderful things being done by the sagacious dog of
the bush, but here is the best yet—and the man who
saw the incident is no liar. While working the
’Bidgee for trout he saw a dog swimming about just
ahead of him. The tyke’s steady to-and-fro action
reminded him of a kelpie working a flock of jum-
bucks. Becoming curious, the fly-artist walked
along the bank to see what was happening, and he got
the shock of his life. That dog was driving a
large school of fish over the shallows into the open-
ing of a large trap-net! Not a sound, not a ripple;
just steady movement did the trick. Has the Council
heard of, or seen, a stunt similar to that ?
THE DINKUM AUSSIE.
“Mind your little brother, sonny — he’ll fall off that seat.”
“Bet yer two bob he don’t!”
“H.Mc” : “Condambo’s” storv(B. 12/7/’2B)
of the bulloeky. being dragged by the boot pales into
insignificance when compared with the accident which
happened some time ago to W. Younger, a farmer, of
■Greta (N.S.W.). He had heard a commotion in his
stable, and, as he entered, a stallion bolted past him,
with the result that the hook at the end of the tie-
up chain flew out and struck him with terrific force
in the face. The hook pierced his right cheek and
fixed itself in the roof of his mouth. Younger fell
senseless, and when a neighbor happened to enter the
stable some time later the hook was still so firmly
fastened that if. took a quarter of an hour to remove it.
HIS GUESS.
“They reckon that when he first hit this city he had only a penny to his name.”
“Yus, and I bet yer it was a double-he aded one.”
“Valamac” : “Xamilc’s” theory that sheet)
camp in the sun nowadays to escape the blowfly's
attention (B. 7/6/’23) is different from the generally-
accepted one. Most sheep-men seem to think that
the merino is gradually becoming accustomed to the
sun-baked, treeless western plains, and, having done
without shade for a few generations, now prefers the
sun when it gets the choice. The fact that sheep
don’t stick to the trees half as
much as they did 20 or 30
years ago bears out the latter
theory. The blowfly certainly
likes the shade, and as he kills
far more sheep than the heat
of the sun does, it might in 20
years make some reduction in
the number of jumbucks that
take their noonday siesta under
the trees. However, I am in-
clined to think that it is an
increasing indifference on the
part of the sheep to the sun’s
heat, more than the presence
of blowflies in the shade, that
is responsible for the change
of camping-grounds.
“Nanti Dhulu”: Re
“D.” (B. 15/3/’23) on the
feeding of live creatures to a
python. When the ship of
which I was mate was at
Sandakan, British North Bor-
neo, my Sevang told me that
some Dyaks had brought a
python into the village and
were about to give it makan
(food), so with the chief en-
gineer I went along to see the
show. The python was about
28ft. overall. One of the
Dyaks opened a small trap-
door of the cage and thrust
in a plandok—a species of
deer known as the aristocrat
of the jungle and about the
size of an Irish-terrier dog,
The prisoner at once realised
its certainty of death, and
the piteous look of appeal in
its eyes could never be for-
gotten. The' python raised its
head, and as it did so the
plandok gave a little scream
and fainted —just dropped in
a heap. After a few moments
it tremblingly struggled to its feet; then the snake
struck, and death was instantaneous. The lightning-
like speed of the python in throwing two life-crush-
ing coils around the plandok and its traplike snap
of jaws on the victim’s throat were far too quick
for my eyes to follow.
* * * *
“Adamascus”: “Blunder Buss” (B.
5/7/’23), speaking of country butchers slaughtering
their cattle with a .22 rifle, reminds me of the old
method which I saw practised in the Bundaberg
(Q.) district as recently as 1912. A plank of 12 x
11 timber was supported by the top rail of the pen
about 10ft. from the ground, and on this the
slaughterer stood armed with a long spear. He
picked his spot on a beast’s head and let drive. Un-
less he was an adept it required sometimes a dozen
or more attempts, with the beast staggering about
half dead and as easy to hit as a cork in rough
water. It was one of the crudest methods imaginable,
and as cruel as it was crude. Lake’s Creek Meat-
works (C.Q.) has the easiest way I’ve seen. Sledge-
hammers are used, which effectively stun the beasts,
and before they can regain consciousness their
throats are cut and their hides are drying.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: The satisfying of honor
takes queer shapes. A Groperland binghi cast covet-
ous eyes on another’s gin, a nd one night crept to
the bark mia-mia where husband and wife slept.
A solitary flame from the camp-fire lit up the figures
of the sleepers, and the home-wrecker pushed his
spear through an opening in the wall, twisted the
end in the lubra’s hair, and gently tugged. She
woke up, took the hint, and the pair fled at once.
The husband didn’t bother much, but the woman’s
brother demanded satisfaction. He caught the de-
spoiler and sheared off half a pound of steak from
his southern end with an axe.
* * * *
“Steve Hart”: I can back up “Warrum-
bucca” re jumping rabbits (B. 26/7/’23). Twice
in one week lately on the Great Northern-road
(N.S.W.) I have seen bunnies jump clean over a sub-
stantial wire-netting fence. There was no scrambling
up in a corner—each time it was a clean jump.
Incidentally, Bunny, through drought experiences,
is learning to climb straight-barrelled trees. It is
now a common thing to see three or four up any of
our edible trees, such as rosewood. As, for leaning-
trees, they prefer to live in them if hollow, particu-
larly in black-soil country. The cat-rabbit cross
won’t be in it with the rabpossum when the abos.
get to it.
“Didoe” : We were finished for the day
and a smoke-barrage was on around the fire, but
conversation was lacking. Suddenly Old Dad stood
up, and, removing his pipe from his mouth, expecto-
rated in the fire with remarkable accuracy and volume.
We listened to the sizzling of the embers in an other-
wise dead silence, and when at long last it ceased Long-
’un turned round and in a casual sort of way re-
marked: “My Gawd, Dad, you’d be handy in a bush-
fire! '
* * » *
“Pick” : Though invariably shy and wary,
wild game birds all have traits which, when under-
stood by the expert hunter, lead readily to their
capture. Emus and brolgas are foolishly inquisitive.
With long craning necks they will zigzag towards
an unusual apparition on the plain. The shooter
therefore brings them within range by lying pati-
ently, and at intervals kicking his coat aloft. The
plain turkey always squats when anything speedy
approaches him; so the gunman goes a-turkeying at
full tilt on a bicycle or horseback, and the bird’s
inability to rise on the wing without a long pre-
liminary run allows an easy shot. Teal afar on
the lakes are enticed to shore by fluttering a bright
colored cloth from the margin reeds, or by steadily
splashing stones on the water. Widgeons will fol-
low a swimming dog, and a well-trained spaniel
readily inveigles them within the bombardment zone.
The black duck displays greater caution; but a
fellow call will always induce him to wheel in his
flight and swoop low over the spot where he hears
the cry, and he cannot distinguish between the
language of his tribe and the artificial “quacker”
which many duck-shooters carry in their kits. Wood-
ducks are the wariest of their kind, but their
extreme cunning is made the means for circumvent-
ing them —the hunter hides on the prominent land-
mark which he knows the birds will choose for an
observation post, and then gets his mate to drive
the mobs. Lyre-birds, the shyest denizens of the
bush, are also the most pugnacious, and they will
angrily charge a lyre-tail danced on the end of a
springy pole. Wild pigeons, the most difficult of all
birds to locate when in the trees, will come in chort-
ling mobs to the hunter who can faithfully mimic
their love-call.
“Ringer”: I want to nominate Ted
Hooper, half-caste shooter, against “Geo Rich's”
champion ’roo-skinner (B. 28/6/’23). I have seen
him undress a full-grown ’roo in 90sec. Early this
year, out on the Mitchell, he knocked an “old man,”
and by the time I had found a branch to tie my
yarraman to he had the business done and the pelt
in a bag. He told me that once for a wager he
stripped three ’roos in under five minutes, and I be-
lieved him.
■* * * *
“Hayband”: It is an odd coincidence that
the night before “The Rumpus’s” par (B. 19/7/’23)
appeared I listened to a number of cattlemen locat-
ing the hidden calf. “The Rumpus’s” method of
imitating the call of the calf came in for honor-
able mention. “Get the mother,” said another, “and
yard her up all night. In the morning you’ll hear
the calf up to two miles away. Should an odd
one remain silent let the mother out. She’ll go
straight to her youngster.” “Take a dawg past
her,” said No. 3. “She’ll turn and face the calf.
Go that way and you and the dawg will soon be
hopping to keep up with her.” Yes, the Bush is
a guileless sort of place.
“Boori”: I don’t like sitting shots, but
tell “Ooragnak” (B. 19/7/’23), who says mullet live
in the sea, that Stead, on page 76 of his “Fishes of
Australia,” remarks: —
lip to the size of maturity this species (Muyil
dobula or “Sea Mullet”) is a constant dweller in
the lakes, harbors and rivers; but after maturity
has been reached each year there is a migration
seawards. .. .solely in connection with spawning
operations. .. .which take, place about May, June or
July.
That statement is correct, except that the migration
commences at or about the March full moon. Spawn-
, ing is finished before May in a normal year. The
estuary beachcombers have their nets and gear in
readiness early in March to make sure. The eggs,
which hatch at sea, drift south in the ordinary N.E.
weather, and the young fry enter the first available
estuary. The parent fish move north, accompanied
by an admiring bodyguard of sharks and porpoises,
till they sce’nt, the brackish water of an estuary.
Then what is left of them (provided they escape
THE WORST THAT COULD HAPPEN.
FIRST COCKY: “Terrible accident! Horse
bolted with your milkcart — capsized —
threw your young Tom out on his head,
and — and”
SECOND COCKY: “Spit it out! Spilt all the
blanky milk, I suppose.”
the net that is surely waiting on all such finny
wa yfarers) make up-stream, never stopping until
they hit the fresh water again. There they stay till
the next migration is due. Of the half-dozen or so
varieties of mullet that inhabit our waters none live
at sea except perhaps on the annual spawning excur-
sion. “Ooragnak” should stick to the smoked
variety, with which he seems best acquainted. If
the moribund Fisheries Board doesn’t soon wake up,
even that delectable delicacy will be denied him.
The struggling river and lake fishermen are the chief
sufferers. The hardgut or immature “sea mullet,”
once their standby, is yearly growing scarcer. The
slaughter of spawning fish isn’t confined to mullet,
for all the river and estuary fish suffer, though to a
less degree. The chronic howl about the scarcity
and prohibitive price of fish (except in the spawu-
ing season) is solely the result of years of wanton
destruction.
THE VETERANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down on the beach by the shining bay,
Watching the ships come in,
Gather the old men every day,
Whiling their twilight hours away,
With little to lose in this world of hours
And little enough to win.
Love goes past with a roguish eye,
Youth with a blithesome joke;
Seabirds clamor and wheel on high,
While, gay flags flaunting, the ships go by,
With always a track of foam behind
And ever a trail of smoke.
Down on the beach by the shining bay,
Gazing with eyes grown dim,
Gather the old men, grave and grey,
Whiling their twilight hours away,
Till one goes off with a farewell n0d....
And that is the end of him.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


aryr.ii
M !
'
. " ' : . - '•
V - >'/***“'
\
—m^L-.
■t
1
"
f BWW
fw
rf
'•
,
SM®
**■-*«
»m ■
•r 9
After Exhaustive
Investigation
by representatives of the following
Companies orders have been placed
for these plants as follows: —
Lampeh (Siam) Tin Mines N.L.,
I’uket, Siam.
CAPACITY: 100,000yds.
longkah Compound No Liability,
Mantin Setul,
CAPACITY : 100,000yds.
Klian Kellas Co., Batu Gajah, F.M.S.,
CAPACITY : 100,0o0yds.
Sungei Besi Mines, Ltd., Kepong,
Selangor.
Electric Motive Power will be used
throughout this Dredge for power
purposes.
CAPACITY: 100,000yds.
Kamuntmg Tin Dredging, Ltd., Tai-
ping, F.M.S.
Conversion of Bucket to Suction
Cutter Dredge.
CAPACITY : 120,000yds.
Tingha Tin, Ltd., Tingha, N.S.VV.
Conversion of Hydraulic Sluicing
Plant to Excavating type Suction
Cutter Dredge.
CAPACITY : 30,000yds.
Petaling Tin, Ltd., Ipoh, F.M.S.
New Pontoon, Sluice Boxes, Super-
structure, Ladder, Suction Pipe,
Cutter Gearing, etc., for Suction
Cutter Dredsre.
CAPACITY: loO.OOOvds.
CUTTER
or
TIN
AND OTHER.
MINERALS
The Latest Type of
Alluvial Tin Dredger.
To those ■ unacquainted with the eco-
nomic features of the “THOMPSON”
Revolving Suction Cutter Dredges, the
following comparisons may be of
interest: —
X. The initial cost is about half that
of a Bucket Dredger of equal
capacity.
2. The cost of maintenance and re-
newal of parts subject to wear is a
minimum owing to the small num-
ber of working parts.
3. The working costs for a given
yardage are from 30 to 10 per cent,
less than for a Bucket Dredger.
4. Owing to freedom from Obstruc-
tion the Sluice Boxes can be car-
ried practically over the full area of
the pontoon, with the result that the
Box area of a Suction Cutter Dredge
is two or three times the Box area
of a Bucket Dredge of the same
dredging capacity.
5. Time required for construction very
much reduced and cost of transit
practically halved compared to
Bucket Dredge of equal capacity.
6. The velocity of flow up the suction
pipe through the cutter causes all
material loosened by cutter to be
drawn up suction pipe and dis-
charged into sluice boxes.
d
(CASTLEMAHK)
PELTS
Works: Castlemaine & Williamstown. Melbourne Office: Chancery House, Little Collins Street
NEW SOUTH WALES:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND:
The Engineering Supply Co. of
Australia, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Newton McLaren, Ltd.,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Brown & Dureau, Ltd., Perth.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman, Son & Deeks,
Australia House, Strand, London.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co., Ltd., Singapore,
Ipoh and Kuala Lumpur.


Under
Royal
Warrant
dsf
ToH.NL
George V .
CHAMPAGNE
EE a
(S\S
£3 : t
tVniS
y
I champachc
Q»arlesHeidsic<K
I Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT ft COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
SYNONYMOUS OF EASE AND COMFORT.
Perfect Service and Marvellous Cuisine.
Famed for its ideal environment and perfect site o» historic Church Hill.
THE RENDEZVOUS OF SMARTER SYDNEY.
THE WENTWORTH BALLROOM
and
PALM COURT,
of which guests may make free use for dancing.
Enquiries to —
WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
wS 6rr
EUdentA
PASTE 1
An Australian-made Dentifrice of
a delightful fragrance, yet possess-
ing antiseptic properties.
At all
Chemists,
*1 /
* /"
a
tube.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfurnes
Soaps
Powders
At noon on Tuesday Governor Davidson,
in scarlet and gold and a cocked hat, opened
his last Parliament of the State of N. S.
Wales. Amid a riot of salaams and bows
he trod the ruby-red drugget to his exalted
seat behind the Speaker’s chair. Supported
by the Army and the Navy, the one embodied
in General Brand and the other in Com-
mander Craufurd, while ordnance thundered
and Macquarie-street paused its traffic for
a moment, his Ex. commenced liis Address.
He did it to music, too; for through the
closed doors came the heartening strains of
a full-bodied band. On the floor of the
House sat Speaker Levy in his wig, flanked
by Harnett in his knee-breeches and an usher
of the black rod who tried to look as
though his waist-line were a matter of
no importance. Looking down from the
galleries you saw a vista of bald heads, that
seemed to twinkle when taxation, the North
Shore bridge or the Ne Temere decree was
hinted at, while plaster busts of dead or gone
statesmen looked on inscrutably.
A visiting group of Japenese peers, or
merchant princes, drank in solemnly the out-
lined policy of the State; the Davidson
children flew blue coats and caps and absorbed
procedure under the eyes of Dame Mar-
garet and Dr. Rosalie Morton. Members’
wives and daughters inhabited the Promised
Land of the galleries. They must have been
there overnight to do it, for at 11.30 the door-
keepers were telling coveys of women clutch-
ing blue cards to call next year. After the
show of benzined white gloves, lace and braid,
and of the draggled gubernatorial plumes
that looked as though they had been out in
the wet, President-of-the-Council Flowers’s
wife entertained everybody at tea in the big
dining-room. Here were the State’s poli-
tician and his lady; and among the country
members’ wives smiled for the first time
Mrs. Hugh Main, who was popular Joan
Tregarthen.
General Rosenthal gave Hilda Rix Nicho-
las’s show in Anthony Horderns’ gallery a
martial blessing mid-way through last week,
and the opening ceremony was quite a little
social success. The artist, in shell-pink
shimmery frocking and black millinery, her
hands filled with violets, was as arresting
to the eye as any of the colorful canvases
on the walls. Mrs. Rix Nicholas lias been
for nine months painting in the Monaro dis-
trict, and nearly all the work in the exhibi-
tion has the tang of the open air and the
stark look of the highlands. “On Southern
Monaro” is a dashing bit of work; and the
young sheep-king therein grins happily as
though he knows exactly where to put his
hand on the gojden fleece. A portrait of
singer Lydia Lipkovska in her Ikon head-
dress drew an enthusing group; the song-
bird in the flesh, looking pensive from a set-
ting of black draperies, brought her husband
ana a group of friends to view the likeness.
But the French visitors (and there sounded
a legion of them) were most voluble over
the French interiors.
Dr. Rosalie Slaughton Morton, who has
been the guest of Government House for 10
days, is a great personal friend of Dame
Margaret’s. Since her arrival she has been
gaily doing the sights in all the operating
theatres. She has talked shop happily with
women medicoes, and is far more interested
in swabs than soirges. Dr. Morton comes
from Virginia, and has won distinction in the
U.S.A. to the extent of being chosen to repre-
sent its 6000-odd women doctors at the New
York Medical Conference. She war-worked
in Prance and helped the women’s hospitals
in Servia. Now and then she puts down the
scalpel to use the fountain-pen, and the
presswomen of Sydney entertained her on
Tuesday afternoon and got in return a greet-
ing from the Penwomen’s League of New
York.
Jean Brooks, of Greenwich, and Arthur
Noel Eedy, of Vaucluse, showed national pre-
judice in their matrimonial celebrations. To
begin with, they made the tryst at St.
Philip’s for Wattle Day; and, as if that
wasn’t enough, Canon Bellingham’s church
was transformed into a wattle-grove for the
murmuring of the vows. Baskets of the
golden glory on tall, gilded pedestals orna-
mented the chancel; and gilded staves tied
up with wattle swaggered at each guest-
pew. Jean’s wedding finery was built of
the rich, white material known as crepe
Luxor, the side-draping held by a pearl orna-
ment and opening over a cascade of blush-
ing lace. The dress proper carried a foam
of georgette and lace as an appendix. Tin?
three bridesmaids were clad in wattle-hued
taffetas, and the feathery bloom glowed
amidst their Georgian posies; while each
of the three groomsmen sported a spray of
wattle in his buttonhole. The newly-weds’
home-address is Blackburn, Yass. Noel’s
father, general secretary and director of
the M.L.C., may be suspected of having
had a voice in putting the national flower
in the forefront of the decorations: cultiva-
tion and glorification of Australia’s wonder-
ful native flora is his admirable hobby.
Sunbrowned sister of the Outback is
going to have a seaside holiday if the Coun-
try Women’s Association knows anything
about it. The C.W.A., its friends and
admirers overflowed the Board-room of Pitt,
Son and Badgery the other afternoon, to
listen to the scheme for establishing seaside
camps put forward by Alice Currie, Vic-
toria’s expert on this subject. Unfortu-
nately, influenza kept the lady herself away,
but her paper was read by Mrs. Bogue
Huffman. The “unconscious heroines of the
Bush,” Miss Currie called these cockies’
wives, whose daily struggle is waged againsi.
“the intangible and unconquerable foe of
atmosphere.” It is for such that the seaside
camp is designed, where tired-out mother can
come, with or without the kiddies, and have
a few weeks away from the everlasting
drudgery. Narrabeen is to be the site of
the first camp. The G.-G.’s lady, who pre-
sided, had a few words of her own to say
in praise of the country women; Dame Alice
Chisholm, Mrs. Stephen Laver, Mrs. Earle
Page and Mrs. Sydney Herring also weighed
into the argument; and Mrs. England (a
country woman she) breezed in with the
hope that there would be sufficient absence
of “rules and rejgulations” about the camps
to make the shy bush sister feel at home.
Those talented voice-trainers, the Fossati
couple—she was Julia Caroli —gave an
afternoon party in their aviary in Beale’s
Buildings one afternoon last week. It was
quite a social flutter, and the studio was
crowded out with furs de luxe and moneyed
millinery. Hostess Julia wore velvet the
shade of a ripe yellow plum that ran to fur
trimmings on the wide sleeves. Sister Mrs.
Hayes was down from Bowral to help the
musical bill, and Faith Quinlan’s pretty con-
tralto was also raised in song. Girlie Toohey
came with mother, who was looking very
handsome under a wide-brimmed black hat;
Mrs. Beaton and Ruby Adams, both heavily
furred; sparkling little Mrs. Morano, under
a smart-fitting cherry hat; Dr. Halloran’s
blonde wife —these were a few in a crowded
room. A young girl with a crop of Floren-
tine gold curls and sapphire blue eyes, the
coloring of a French doll, and a name like a
lyric, Rowena Rowan, played and sang in
masterly style. Rowena is on the high road
to either the movies or grand opeja.
Mrs. David Maughan—Muffle Barton she
used to be, a daughter of the brilliant
Edmund —is the brains and energy behind the
appeal for the
new hostel for
the d e a f,
dumb and
blind of N. S.
Wales. The
appeal is one
that should
find a ready
response all
over the
State, for
Sydney is the
only big city
in Australia
without a pro-
perly equipped
hostel and
club for its twi-
light brothers
and sisters.
Mrs. Maugh-
an’s husband
is the K.C.
Freeman took
the picture of her.
The Marists are close to the end of- their
hundred years’ educational work in Austra-
lia. To commemorate their century they in-
tend to build a novitiate at Mittagong. This
college for young brothers will cost £25,000,
of which close on £lO,OOO has already been
given by old students and friends. At one
meeting alone nearly £4OOO was subscribed.
The Flower Ball last Thursday night netted
a Town Hall full of dancers, and left secre-
tary Mrs. M. J. Slattery beaming over the
results, pictorial and financial. Chrysanthe-
mums, poinsettias, sunflowers, wattle and
native-rose came to the party in paper
frocks, and there was an Early Victorian set
in hoops and ringlets. One clever girl was
Farewell Streamers in a most ingenious
ribbon frock. Mrs. John Hughes, president
of the committee, wore thickly-beaded black
georgette, and Mrs. Slattery contrasted her
pretty blonde head with black panne velvet
and did a thriving trade in jazz anklets.
Girl under-grads, exchanged the academic
calm of the Uni. quadrangle for the heated
rush of ushering at St. James’s last week,
when tlie S.U.D.S. made its assault on Sheri-
dan’s “Rivals.” Agitated girls and impor-
tant young men „ managed the front of the
house, and it was sheer bad luck that Hora-
tius wasn’t keeping the bridge when Sir
Walter and Dame Margaret came in. How-
ever, one lass rose to the occasion and
plunged after the vice-reine with the clutch
of blooms hatched for the evening; but un-
fortunately in her haste she grabbed a
handful meant for a Siddons in the cast,
and afterwards had to do another Marathon
up the aisle, pluck the first bouquet from
Dame Margaret’s hand, and thrust another
upon her. After such an ordeal no viva voce
can hold any terrors for the intrepid girl.
“Dorothy,” by the local musical society,
drew two long lines of Fords and Rolls-
Royces to the Arcadia Theatre at Chals-
wood. It was the society’s first perform-
ance, and the pretty white and Wedgwood-
blue theatre was dressed in silks and furs
from all the best wardrobes of the district.
Lynn Mills and Winslow Knight sang the
principal parts; and Arthur Champion con-
ducted with such vigor and so many tappings
that he’ll need a new baton for the next
performance. Honorable mention goes to
the chorus work and to Mrs. Fred Eng-
land, who was stage-director.
Bernice Agar has caught Vergie Bessitti
for us. This young contralto (in private life
Mrs. Fletcher) will soon be heard at a big
concert; she
has already
sung at vari-
ous minor
musieales. Her
voice is a pure
contralto of
fine quality,
and already
there are pro-
phecies of a
golden future.
She inherits
her voice and
musical tem-
perament from
her Italian
father, who in
his younger
days was a
well - known
singer here.
Essie Ack •
land, the con-
cert - platform
favorite, is this girl’s cousin.
Sacha Guitry’s “Grand Duke” was the
comedy chosen by Belgian Consul Segaert
for Saturday night’s performance in aid of
the Belgian Benevolent Society. Mr.
Segaert produces these French plays at in-
tervals, and they have become a popular
feature of the French colony’s year. On
Saturday, as always, Mr. Segaert put up a
good performance as the Russian refugee,
Grand Duke Feodor, who is keeping the
old title alive by teaching _ languages to
Marie Vermillion (pretty Louise Chautardl,
the only daughter of the newly-rich Vermil-
lion (Jacques Playoust). There are others,
and everybody gets the right girl in the
end; also, the Grand Duke retrieve's most
of his fortune from the Bolshies. The stage
arranges things much better than Provi-
dence.
On the 13th Farmers will open their
Spring flower-show in their exhibition hall.
Iceland poppies and sweet-peas hold sway
the first two days; the 15th will be All
Flowers’ Day ; on the 16th Carnation will be
Queen. Entries are free.
The money drawn from over 300 jazzers
at Warringah Hall last week will fill the
pay-envelope of the kindergarten teacher at
the Havilah Home. The idea of a special
kindergartener was a brain-wave of the
North Side branch of the Havilah com-
mittee ; and whenever the treasury runs low
and pay-day draws near a cheerio is organ-
ised.
Lee White’s matin6e ! for the babies of St.
Margaret’s which was due last Thursday had
to be pushed forward to this (Thursday)
afternoon. The Theatre Royal threatens to
burst asunder with the crowds that have
marked the matinee as something they can’t
miss. To further help towards the £lOOO
objective, the Australia is lending its ball-
room and providing the supper for a dance
on the 24th.
Rene Lang, daughter of new Labor-leader
J. T. Lang, has a fine mezzo-soprano voice,
and knows a good deal about how to use it.
She will make an appearance at the
pital Saturday Fund’s concert in the King’s
Hall on Friday next.
Living mannequins stepping out of a book
and advertising every sort of article de luxe
will be the big attraction of the Butterfly
Ball for the benefit of the Ryde Home for
Incurables. The Floral Cotillions promise
a feast for the eye; and the decorations are
to be a work of love as well as art—Fred
Searl will be responsible for them. Mrs.
Herbert Field is giving several prizes for
fancy costumes; and the 'two ladies in
charge of the living advts. have netted nearly
£250.
There was a monster meeting at Govern-
ment House the other morning to give a final
push to the Allied Nations’ Ball, which will
drop its offering into the empty box of the
Women’s Hospital on the 16th. The Wentworth
will be the scene of the glittering array of
national costumes; and the prizes offered
are so good that the dancing-girl and boy
are getting brain-fag thinking out original
ideas. Secretaries Mrs ; C. W. Pfeiffer and
Mrs. G. Fairfax will answer all inquiries.
On the 14tli the Conservatorium will
echo to the sweetness of Daphne Akhurst’s
piano-playing and Molly Smith’s fiddling.
The two clever youngsters are from the
studio of Myrtle Meggy and Jenny Cullen.
Presswoman Rena Wallace, who has gone
to join Melbourne’s Inky Way, was handed
congratulatory tea and bouquets at the Cava-
lier the other afternoon by sister scribes.
Rena is one of the most “all-round” women-
writers in Australia, She started in school-
days as a poetess, and has at least one pub-
lished volume of verse to her credit. Later
on she helped her brother bring out his
country paper, often taking a turn at setting
up the type. Then she did women’s-page
work for the Telegraph, and general staff-
work for the Freeman’s, and finally was
one of the original crew of the Daily Mail.
She follows her late editor from that paper
to the Truth publications.
The Sydney dailies have been misnaming
Dr. Rosalie Slaughton Morton, of the U.S.A.;
they persist in calling her “Dr. Rosalie
Slaughter Morton.” “They might have
known it was wrong,” grinned a bright girl
the other day—-“doctors are not allowed to
advertise.”
Even when a woman is a determined trades
unionist her love of a wedding must be taken
into account. An Arbitration Court award
was recently made which covered the case
of waitresses. A Sydney women’s club put
in an appeal for its girls to be exempted
from its provisions on certain special occa-
sions. After argument, the suggestion was
made that the club would be satisfied if it
secured an exemption in regard to the hours
when functions directly connected with wed-
dings were taking place. “We all like wed-
dings,” one of the waitresses remarked cor-
dially ; and, there being apparently entire
agreement between employers and employed
on that head, the exemption went through with
an approving thrill. On the other hand,
some male employees recently demanded
extra pay for duties at such functions as
wedding breakfasts. Their troubles about
the sentiment that sets every feminine heart
aglow at the mere mention of orange blos-
soms, rice and old shoes!
Among the Sydney people in the recent
M.L. train smash was Mrs. Llangloh Want,
wife of the well-known polo-player. She saw
a good deal of service on the boards as Miss
Grahame Newton before her marriage, and
recently joined the Cohen Duane Co. “for
one tour only.” The motive force was not
entirely a yearning to get back to the foot-
lights. She has a young niece in the show —
Mary MacGregor, daughter of barrister Peter
MacGregor, of Brisbane. Mrs. Want ana
her relative were with Mr, Cohen in one of
the rear carriages at the time of the crash,
and escaped unhurt.
A Brisbane postscript:—
The other night his Ex. went to a function in aid
of the T.B. soldiers at the Elite, and thence to the
Exhibition to hear Stella Power. Moonlight-blue
with recollections of fuchsias frocked the sonsy
Stella, and a buckle and bandeau of brilliants added
a sparkle that was foiled by a black feather fan.
In the morning T. J. Ryan’s widow tea-ed the
songstress at the Bellevue amid rose-colored sweet-
pea. Stella was in brown with Oriental brightenings
and brown furs. Mrs. Ryan has never relinquished
black.
Rain rather upset the attendance at the star’s con-
certs, and after her final outburst of song on August
2 she fled north through clearing westerlies. A short
circuit of the Northern Rivers is included in her tour.
On a recent very cold night the R.A.C. of Queens-
land jazzed in the club rooms, and the “Hello” girls
had their dance in the Trocadero.
The Country Women’s Assoc, is out to form a
Brisbane branch. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax is one of the
prime movers.
The Prof, and all the Mac kails went south the
other day, leaving a peaceful poetic atmosphere in
their wake.
Margaret Prior inspected the Girl Guides and
Brownies in the Domain, but it was a dismal sort of
function as far as weather went, and the Boy Scouts
who were in the offing had to cheer lustily to keep
their blood circulating.
The croquet tournament at Windsor ended with
Mrs. Dinsdale as champion of Bananaland. The
Wattle Cafe saw the subsequent shivoo whereat prizes
were presented and amiable speeches made.
Sir Matthew set wide the soldiers’ memorial gates
at Lawnton, Pine Rivers, the other day, remarking
that gateways were appropriate symbols of the war
through which Australia entered into nationhood. W.
J. Affleck said the gates were the product of straight-
out giving in the district —there had been no luring
bazaars or other purse-baiting.
Officers of the Staff Corps hung bunting on the
verandahs at the Barracks and invited Mrs. Bruche
to hostess for them, and all the prettiest girls to
dance with them ; and on the same evening the
creche and Kindergarten extension fund scored with
a ball in the South Brisbane Tech. Hall, where red
and green balloons bobbed and peach-blossoms filled
hanging baskets and flags and sweet-pea were not
tapu.
The French boat and H.M.A.S. Geranium have
also been inviting Brisbane girls to tread a measure
and drink a cup of wine on their shiny decks.


m.
- Ay,
-a 1
y.
5r Vy?
Vs
4L
<s>
k‘ \
{
S
(9
5V
R 9
*
1
Z 2
(5)
V
&
..
&i
*<s#
;
ter,
9i
86
•>»
i>V
Av,
..0
(.Sonets
SYLK=ARTO
q/Itl I'm.'prcrJevnerd on stl”k^)
HOSE
Sylk-Arto
Hose is
Something
Really
“New”
—the Result of
Long Research
directed towards
producing at
moderate cost
Hosiery that
would be en-
tirely free from
the defects in
Quality and
Appearance of
ordinary Silken
Hose that Sells
at Low Prices.
CT O all the C Natural advantages of (Pure Silk
X Hosiery , add the Lustrous Finish which is the
1 JlUOtCx/ J' CivXVt I»JL tv. . 'o*l
mast attractive feature of the Highest Grade Artificial
Silk - a Capacity for Wear far surpassing, your most
optimistic estimate of the possibilities of either Silk or
Artificial Silk - a Cost over-the-counter that will delight
you by its moderation, and you have a summary of the
practical reasons why a pair of SylhArto Hose will prove
the most pleasing, Silken Hosiery Investment you ve ever-
made.
But until you’ve seen Sylh-Arto Hose, and put it to the
test of actual wear, you cannot properly appreciate the
decree of the Satisfaction nor the extent of the Saving, which
will infallibly follow, if, next time you are buying Silk
Hosiery, you simply’
CAsk your for-
“Sylk-Arto”
sdf
dśfdf
sdf
sdf
6/11
is the
price of
SYLK
- ABTO
Hose, with Seam
at Back, Tops
and Feet in Mer-
cerised Lisle. In
all colors.
8111
is the
price of
“LADY
BETTY”
Hose. In Sylk-
Ar t o Thread
throughout. Lisle
r e i n f orcements
at Tops and
Feet. Seam at
Back. In all
colors.
C/M ode
C/M a o ij f a c £
»n Australia by
ure r s of bond's
GEO cA «OND & CO. LTD.
Hosiery, Bond's “Half-Hose” for
All States and New Zeal an
Men . Bond's <T ru•S i z e Un d
rw e a


Gutter ick
Publications and ‘Patterns,
with the self-explanatory "‘Deltor.”
Farmer’s are agents for the Butterick fashion
publications, comprising the " Delineator,”
" Butterick Quarterly,” and "Needle-Art.”
A wide selection of the coming season’s patterns
is now available with the "Dehor.”
Butterick Department, Great Fir it Floor.
FAR MER’S
BOX 49 7, G.P.O.
SYDNEY
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Charges for Room only—European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
sdf
Tariff —Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address, Manager,
“Bowes” Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
Brisbane.
IT BURNS BRIGHTEST AT
LEAST COST.
LAMP
240-50
to**
The Little
Lamp with
the Big
Light.
ff you have any difficulty in obtaining
Condor from vour local dealer, write
SCOTT & HOLE AD AY, LTD.,
Sole Agents for Australia.
31A Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne.
P[?] [?]
Misses MONNE DOYLE
[?]nones Control 1532-1533
The Town Hall was thinly disguised as
an ancient Egyptian interior for Thursday's
mayoral ball. The stage had been set as
“The Avenue of Rams,” and a red- and
white-striped awning canopied the hall. The
cabalistic designs patterning the balconies-
were flanked by funeral urns, and below
these garlands of pink roses dangled in frivol-
ous contrast, ivhile through a background
of palms under pale lighting the painted
faces of dead and gone Pharaohs —no,
Mayors—peered out grotesquely as if in
pathetic protest. The Swanson lady was
velveted in black with jetted accompani-
ments. Lieut.-Gov. Irvine, the star guest,
brought daughter Beatrice, who glowed in
black velvet showing under-skirtings of gold,
and carried a pink presentation posy. War-
riors White, Chauvel, Coxen, Hughes and
Johnston and various other brass-caps were
sighted in the dense crowd, in which it was
not easy to pick the known from the un-
known. The medical Cuscaden knight made
his first civic appearance since his trip to
Europe, and brought his dame, in black.
The Mitchell lady trailed greeny-blue dra-
peries of irreproachable cut. Miss Lennox-
Conyngham, who came with her visiting
scientist-father, aired black silk, anchored
each side with flowers. The Littleton Grooms
convoyed daughter Jess, a vision in pink
and gold. Melbourne Anglican Archbish.
Lees smiled approval on the whirling scene,
and all the best knights and dames were
there, although the thing wore a civic rather
than a Toorakian air. Wilfrid Hughes's
American bride, who holds her slimness
proudly, wore graceful white satin swath-
mgs, and her roseleaf complexion stood out
against the faces of girls whose attractions
are masked by overworked powder-puffs.
Whatever the cause, Premier Lawson has
less hair on his head than when he went to
the Cold Land. The bald patches are more
expansive, especially when viewed from the
gallery. The hard boxer-hat and the beau-
fort coat which he has been trying to wear
out since he returned make him a trifle more
difficult to recognise at a glance ; but much
will be forgiven him for coming back plain
Mister.
Actor Dot Boucicault, now hunting out old
landmarks in this city, which he has not
sighted for umpteen years, will miss his
Queensland cousins, the Jack and Phil
Nutting matrons. The sisters were members
of Toorak’s smart set in the days when gem
hats perched giddily aslant, and tightly-
netted fringes were considered the last thing
in elegance; but they squatted at Elstern-
wick, where Dr. Phil flew his brass plate.
The pair were still be-gemmed when they
farewelled Melbourne to settle overseas.
Golden-haired Mrs. Jack, whose late husband
seldom missed a day out with the Melbourne
Hounds, eventually took a second matri-
monial plunge. Her fellow plunger was
Anglo-Australian widower Darcy, the Mount
Morganaire, who later plunged in oil : —Per-
sian mostly. The second Mrs. Darcy’s par-
ties were gilt-edged affairs, attended by the
best titles and frequently snapped for the
English illustrated weeklies.
Consett Carre Riddell was back in his
Anzac major’s trappings, which fly a D. 5.0.,
to meet Thora Menzies at South Yarra
Christ Church a few days ago. Stanley
Barber also donned his captain’s khaki to
support his pal. The bride, a dark-eyed
beauty, was in white brocaded drapings
caught midway with ropes of old Roman
pearls, and more pearls hemmed the back
wash of brocade, which concluded with a
silver bow anchoring orange blossoms. Other
blossoms and pearls combined to chain the
flowing veil of Limerick lace which had
been lent by the William Weatherly widow,
and dated back over a hundred years. A
shower bouquet finished off the bridal outfit.
Yolande Carre Riddell played a lone hand
as bridesmaid, picturesque in an early-
Victorian frock of flowered taffetas on a
primrose background sashed with gold tis-
sue and surmounted by a black picture : hat.
Niece Barbara Dougherty, looking like a
cherub in white taffeta flouncings, held the
bridal train with the help of Ken Singleton,
in a suit of white satin. After the pair
had been joined by padre Potter, the bride-
groom’s brother-in-law, the Jack Menzies
slaved a big health-drinking ceremony at No.
It Darling-street. Mrs. Jack was in black
Oriental satin, dashed at the chest and loose
sleeve-ends with vivid blue, and a feathery
mount sprouted from the satin turban. The
Irvine dame, cosily furred over grey silk.
sat at the bridal board with the bridegroom’s
aunts; and many old Melburnians were of
the party.
Pat O’Hara Wood was married to Mrs.
Lister at All Saints’, St. Kilda, last Ayeek.
The fair bride, who wore a blue taffeta frock
Avitli a queue of artificial roses clambering
up the hemline, completed a perfect picture
with a black velvet hat and a hawser of
pearls presented by her new man. She Avas
handed over to his keeping by her mamma,
Mrs. Waxman, Avhose formidable gown of
grey- and gold-shot brocade left the busy
dress-reporters regretting the inadequacy of
the English adjective. After the ceremony
the joyous couple and a few near relath’es
and friends stole aAvay to a secluded meal
at Menzies’. On Saturday the young hus-
band met Patterson in a pennant match,
and saAV 3 —6, 5 —6 hoisted against him, but
he had no mind for mere arithmetical figures
Still, he is now spending most of his honey-
moon on the championship tennis courts at
Brisbane.
Dr. Fetherston, Pr’an’s member in the
Assembly, is off for a four-months’ trip to
London, Dublin and Cork to fix up some
family business. He will try to pick up the
latest on T.B. and cancer treatment —but
he shied when fellow-members of the House,
at a send-off, asked him not to forget to
ask about the rejuvenating gland.
Mrs. Barry Thompson turned on an after-
noon fox-trot to the Hugh Ward stars at the
Rivoli Tearooms, and did it in black velvet
clamped on the lee side xvith a paste buckle,
and a most becoming black hat. Mrs. Ven-
man, Avhose name is attached to more than
one song success, led the delicately-muted
orchestra. Two breaks in the dance pro-
gramme Avere filled with songs by Kathleen
Hanna, a slim young thing with a well-
poised soprano. Hugh Ward himself turned
up, and the fiercest detractor of the fox-trot
would withdraw all objections after seeing
him and Toots Pounds do it. Toots and Lorna
looked demure in frilly frocks of black taf-
fetas under modern renderings of coal-scuttle
bonnets wreathed with pink, and furred
themselves for their entrances and exits. May
Beatty, in mole-colored tailorings, was un-
mercifully ragged about her hat plume,
though wild horses would not drag the rea-
son into print. Capt. Kilby, who gent.-
helped for a time with the Munro-Fergusons
and has lately come back from New Guinea,
sat with Toots. Mamie Watson topped inky
frockings with a ducky little velvet tarn;
and Hazel Harris’s slim outline was a little
over-accentuated under blue cobwebby drap-
ings. Airs. Pounds, in black with henna
feathers fringing her lid, convoyed her
daughters. Nancy McNaughton, who is a
daughter of the Queensland Judge and under-
studies May Beatty, sported grey tailorings
under a black satin thatch. All the “Tan-
gerine” and “Rockets” stars were there save
Charles Austin, who is suffering from eye
trouble. Claude Flemming and his wife, with
Bobby Chisholm, represented the J.C.W. lot.
The Best dame brought her second girl,
Phyllis, and Speaker Mackey’s daughter
Beth ; and the W. H. Robins, Russell Gabb
and AicCallum Neil matrons, Ida Fenner and
a squad of other non-theatricals had been
beckoned in. And Jack Thompson got an
hour off to join in the fun.
Alice Crowther, pictured here by Lafay-
ette, is one of the most resourceful of the
Pioneer Players. A Avhile back she did the
soft and melting Effie in Vance Palmer’s
“Happy Family,” and the admiring author
has now annexed her for a part in his “Black
Horse,” one of a series of playlets to be
staged at the Playhouse on 10th inst. A few
weeks ago she
showed her
versatility and
an unwomanly
readiness to
add 30 years
to her age as
the shrewd
and toil-worn
mother of
Louis Esson’s
“Mother and
Son.” Miss
Crowther, who
is an Austra-
lian, had her
e 1 o c u t i o n
curled and
c rimped by
Lawr e n c e
Campbell, of
Sydney, an d
she also tried
a term or tAVO
o f voice-pro-
duction in Boston. In Brisbane, where she
lived for some time, she helped to cultivate a
taste for amateur theatricals among the local
populace, and among other things put on
“She Stoops to Conquer,” “The Merchant of
Venice” and “As You Like It,” herself im-
personating Kate Hardcastle, Portia and
Rosalind, while coaching a flock of pupils for
most ot the other roles.
Folks who met the Grahams, so untheatri-
cal in their private life, will be interested in
news about them. Joe Graham, who played
the dear old diplomatic solicitor in “The
Alan from Toronto,” has been to S’Africa
and other places during these three years,
taking more risks than his age approved ot.
A long spell in a London nursing home
threatened to be his last engagement, but the
optimistic veteran is getting well again. In
celebration of dad’s recovery his young
daughter Leslie got married at Madras to
an Indian civil-service officer. She, by the
way, was a clever pianist as well as the least
affected actress on earth.
Ice skating has edged back to its pre-war
social superiority. All the Best People are
doing it. And now the management is guile-
fully safeguarding the Glaciarium’s future
by allowing wearers of public-school badges
to pass through the free gate after 4, and on
the morning of August 18 there is to be a
schools’ competition. A picturesque profes-
sional, Lenna Ukskila, has been imported
from the N’York Hippodrome to help inside
edgers to perfect their style. Theatrical stars
can be sighted on all non-matinee afternoons,
and Time’s curtain momentarily whisks back
at sight of a squad of the old brigade, stunt-
ing in the middle as they did before kicking
off their steel-shod boots to handle a gun cr
a needle for their Empire.
Here is Senator Frank Guthrie —minus
his famous smile, which Lockwood’s camera
seems to have overlooked. He manages the
Geelong sector of Dalgety and Co., adds to
his crust as a breeder of prize sheep and
red polled cattle, and is one of the keenest
sports. He is
President o f
the Victorian
Coursing Club,
a steward of
the Geelong
Racing Club
—and about
the most popu-
lar man in the
Sleepy City.
At a big
gathering the
night before
the recent
Waterloo Cup
he was handed
a 200-guinea
trophy and
acclaimed the
local King of
Sport. For
some years
Frank Guth-
rie, who was a
Geelong College boy, sprinted along the Inky
Way, doing his last lap on the Age. His people
are of Geelong’s pioneer wool-growing tribes
—his grandad landed in that port in the
’forties with a shipload of sheep and shel-
tered at Mack’s Hotel, a caravanserai which
has the additional claim to fame that beneath
its roof Oscar Asche first saw the light.
The Geoff. Symes have broadcasted invi-
tations for the marriage of eldest daughter
Mardi with ex-Naval Commander Geoffrey
Haggard on August 28. The vows are to be
exchanged at Holy Trinity Church, and the
cake will be assaulted at the Symes’ ivew
homestead, Blythswood. Sister Hilaria, w T ho
has been staying with mother’s people, the
Garnetts, in England, hurriedly repacked in
order to be back in time to lead bride Mardi’s
train of maids. The Haggards honeymoon
in England, where they will each introduce
the other to their new in-laws. After that
they will return and settle in this city,
where the one-time sailor is to hoist his
slacks and metaphorically shiver his timbers
as a business man.
Barrackers for the Pioneer Players have
combined with them to form a club with the
laudable object of boosting the Little Theatre
movement. On Friday night Frances Bark-
man and Shiela Sutherland baptised the new
infant with a highbrow at-home in the
Lyceum parlors, when Alfred Buchanan, A.
R. Chisholm and Nettie Palmer read rival
papers dealing severely with Contemporary
Drama. The two male speakers took a
gloomy view of the present stage outlook;
but Mrs. Palmer, with feminine optimism,
declared she could see the withered trunk
of the Little Theatre tree trying to put forth
fresh' sprouts. The after-discussion showed
that the larger part of the gathering agreed
with the lady. And in between talks and
supper Miss Heseley fitted in a bracket of
Russian songs.
A church building-fund will swell visibly
as a result of the ball which flooded Car-
lyon’s dance-floor the other night. The local
committee of the Broadmeadow’s Foundling
Home —the church is at Deepdene—-had
helped to boost the effort. Feminine jazzers, in
every shade of the rainbow, fluttered between
hedges •of their more sombrely-chiffoned
elders, who chatted over the coffee cups.
Handsome Mrs. Ben Hoare, in a glittering
sheath of black and silver, had a top table
with her sister, Mrs. Walsh, whose son is
padre of the Deepdene chapel, and their
brother. Balloons found a ready market,
but trade in flowers was dull and a slump
was threatened in paper caps. A group of
McGillicuddys and their pals made up a
round dozen, and Mrs. Pohlman, Mrs. O’Con-
nor, Miss O’Sullivan, Dorothy Bridges, Mrs.
James Alston and Mrs. McCallum Neil had
all booked tables. The overflow gnaAved
their saixhviches in the balcony.
A Metliody minister registered in Tas.
did not know that he had also to register in
Vic. before he could celebrate marriages here.
He tied up, as lie thought, one couple, and
owing to his non-registration our Parlia-
ment had to pass a special Act to validate
the union. It seems that the Speck and
Vic. constitute one Methodistic district. Our
Parliament is now trying to put through
a bill to provide that if an unregistered
cleric splices a couple the union shall be
valid if either of the parties believes the
pilot was qualified. But isn’t it time the
Commonwealth exercised its powers to pass
uniform marriage and divorce laws?
The Toorak workers for the St. Martin’s
Boys’ Home fund look forward to a twelve-
and-sixpenny jazz, for which Paul Bibron is
lending his dance-hall to-morrow (Friday).
The affair was arranged the other day in the
Stanley Hammonds’ parlor. The committee-
list carries some heavy-weight names, includ-
ing those of the Russell Clarke, Henry Hig
gins, Alan Spowers, Douglas Meiii and
George Tallis dames. Marcia Faulkner,
daughter of the late Sunbury medico and
niece of Mrs. Hammond, shares the hon. sec.
pen with Edna Armytage.
A Melbourne girl from London:—
The after-war crankiness which bolshevised social
London is now being washed out by a tidal wave of
Mid-Victorianism. The Ten Commandments and Mrs.
Grundy have been hurriedly recalled, and so have
chaperones, for it has been discovered that not even
votes for women can put old heads on young shoul-
ders. The young-man-about-town has mournfully
packed away his soft shirts and resurrected his
swallow-tails, crush hat and topper; his dinner-coat
has been marked down for home use only. While
George Hex has revived the expensive gardenia button-
hole, Queen Mary has paved; the way for low heels
and long petticoats. Bobbed hair and tinsel effects
have been ruled out for the best flappers. The poor
old sporty girl is having a simply rotten time now
that the man who offers his “lady friend” a smoke
in a public place, or who puffs his pipe in her
vicinity, thereby brands himself a social outcast,
and Night Clubs have been hurled back. to. the lurid
obscurity from which they were dragged to make
a war-season holiday. With the passing of the free-
thinking war-time girl a terrific boom is expected
in matrimonial bonds.
And yet, and yet—a recent cable told that
Lady Diana Hamilton, described as still in
her twenties, had been run in at midnight
as a drunk with a male pal who steered his
car into a lamp-post, presumably in mistake
for the lady’s front door!
A coo-ee from Adelaide: —
The Light Horse Memorial people ran a fete at
the Cheer-up Hut, with the Governor as chief
sponsor and all the best-tried Light Horse war-
workers as stall-holders —among them Mrs. Teesdale
Smith, Mrs. Duguid (whose medico-husband is chair-
man of the fund and has added £7O to its balance,
by his book describing Light Horse work in Egypt),
and the Hope Murray, Andrew Smith, H. Iv. Wendt
and Seager matrons. Lady Bridges came with his
Ex. and stayed for tea, and as business was brisk
the committee should get within reasonable distance
of the objective.
Moiseiwitsch has given popular Maude Puddy a
pat on the back anent his plan to include a concerto
for two pianos in one of his concerts here. She is
to be his assistant, “if she will so honor me.” They
were fellow-students at Vienna, and Benno has lively
recollections of her bri’liant work there.
It has been a dancing week* A couple of dozen
of our younger matrons decked the Palais with masses
of silver wattle and blue-gum, had tons of comfy
chairs for sitting-out, and roped in so many dancing
men that there was never a chance for the shyest
girl to be neglected. Next evening Henley Beach
went gay when its Recreation Club staged its annual
ball, with the F. J. Fisher, Britten Jones and W.
F. Harrison matrons in charge of the blue-and-gold
decorations, and a supper committee that loaded the
tables with really home-made food among masses of
pink roses and sw T eet-pea. Then there was a ball
hosted by the flag-officers and committee of the
R.S.A. Yacht Squadron, and next night a dozen
girls were hostesses at the Osborne Hall. The yacht
show was staged at the Palais, with the Bridges
among the guests, he playing bridge and she dancing.
For the Osborne Hall festivity the hostesses included
Molly Barr Smith, two Murrays and two Murray
cousins (Hope Rutherford and Heather MacDonald),
the Walter Smiths’ daughter, not long back from
England, Lilian Henderson, Joyce Astley and Nancy
Lewis. There was a sprinkling of Melbourne visitors
among the guests—Mrs. Cecil Tait in white and
silver, Mrs. Harrison in sparkling and bepearled green
georgette, and her sister Wilma in primrose yellow'
and silver.
Dame Adelaide Anderson, staying with her brother
in North Adelaide, is having a. hectic time in her
10 days here —interviews with anyone interested in
her wmrk of factory inspection, meetings and a whole
procession of tea-parties. The Women’s Non-party
Association roped her in early for a. lecture, and she
is to speak tor the Vic. League the day before she
moves on towards Melbourne, Maoriland and “the
East.”
Lady Bridges was in the chair at the annual
meeting of the Army Nurses’ Fund w'hen it was
announced that the balance still tilts heavily to the
credit side. The money goes mostly in providing
holidays for ex-army nurses, pensions for the in-
capacitated and grants for special training. Few
committees born of the Avar have worked with less
fuss, and few have done more solid good—and that
is largely owing to the Fund’s president, Mrs. Glover,
and its treasurer, Mrs. A. W. Hill. ->;>


“ON EMU CREEK,”
A New Novel by STEELE RUDD,
the famous Australian author, whose “Selection” Novels have
been successfully produced on stage and screen throughout the
Commonwealth and elsewhere.
“ON EMU CREEK.”
ANOTHER “SELECTION” STORY
FULL OF SPARKLING HUMOR.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout the
Commonwealth and New Zealand.
ONE SHILLING EACH —Posted 1/2.
The Same Price as all “Bookstall” Novels.
OTHER NOVELS BY STEELE RUDD
On Our Selection.
Back at Our Selection.
The Book of Dan.
The Poor Parson.
For Life.
Our New Selection.
Dad in Politics.
Grandpa’s Selection.
Dim can McClure.
Memoirs of Corporal Keeley.
From Selection to City.
Sandy’s Selection.
The Old Homestead.
The Dashwoods.
On an Australian Farm.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney,
Adjusto-Lite.
(Aust. Pat. No. 16271.)
A FABERWARE PRODUCT.
ADJUST THE LIGHT TO YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
Clamps
Stands
Hang's
d
—on your bed,
—on your chair,
—on your writing-table,
—on your sewing-machine,
—~on your dressing-table,
—on your shaving-mirror,
—-to your every need,
—to every occassion.
ADJUSTO-LITE.
The Lamp with a Clamp—The Clamp is felt-lined—
It does not scratch.
ADJUSTO-LITE, the new electric lamp, is truly an ingeni-
ous invention, because you can attacli it anywhere, or you
aC v l * 0,1 ■' OUl table or desk like an ordinary lamp,
ith a slight move of the hand you can adjust the reflector
to project the light exactly where you need it.
l our eyesight and relieves you of eye-strain. It is indispensable to the student,
pinha i°* Physician. ADJUSTO-LITES are used in homes, offices, schools, hospitals, hotels,
a hundred uses' 1868 ’ faCt ’ anywhere that a l ,ortable lamp can be used. It is truly a lamp of
DESCRIPTION.
1 he ADJUSTO-LITE ELECTRIC LAMP, made of SOLID BRASS, is strong, compact
any durable. It is mechanically perfect—there is nothing to get out of order.
Height, 12 inches. Base, 3x5 inches. Shade, 5J inches in diameter.
Supplied with eight feet of covered wire cord (suitable for any current) in three finishes.
It Clamps
Everywhere’
PAT. U.SA.C'ANADA
MO FQREIGN_COUNTmES
BRASS, 27/6
BRONZE, 30/-
NICKEL, 30/-
OBTAINABLE FROM THE LEADING ELECTRIC SUPPLY HOUSES AND
Noyes Bros. (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd., 499 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Lawrence and Hanson Elec. Co., Ltd., 398 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
Metropolitan-Vickers Elec. Co., Ltd., 21 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
and 213 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Homewood and O’Neill, 172 William Street, Melbourne.
Brighten
Up
n !
1 i
fs
!,
■
■■■ •
llllfl
1
§giss
mm
*C3p
4»
.
■-
- v • **'o J
m*
YOUR Linoleum will last longer and look better
if you polish it occasionally with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. Johnson’s Wax prevents crack-
ing and blistering—brings out the pattern and color —
protects linoleum from wear and makes cleaning easy.
JOHN SON’S
JPasfe - Liqiitd - Powdered
POLISHING
WAX
You can give every room in your home that delightful
air of immaculate cleanliness by using Johnson s
Polishing Wax occasionally on your furniture, wood-
work, floors and linoleum. Johnson s Wax cleans,
polishes, preserves and protects —all in one operation.
A FORM FOR EVERY USE.
Johnson’s Wax is conveniently put up in three forms
—Paste, Liquid and Powdered. Use Paste Wax for
polishing floors of all kinds—wood, tile, marble,
composition, linoleum, etc. Use Johnson s Liquid
Wax for polishing your furniture, piano, woodwork,
linoleum, leather goods and automobile. Johnson s
Powdered Wax makes perfect dancing floors.
l*!*L 11 1 n 11ii 11iilllaj
wmt
Inf
mi
—-«
■whinq and Proton
Svir^acO
S -C. JOHNSONS «
fgHwtOMA&ON
INSIST ON JOHNSON’S POLISHING WAX—THERE IS NO
SUBSTITUTE. FOR SALE AT ALL GOOD STORES
Manufactured by
S. C. JOHNSON & SON,
Office and Factory: Rosebery, N.S.Wt
u


(VV.. a
A. Saunders’ double-cut
Diamond Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ double-
out Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5,
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ci. Gold,
£l3/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18et. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS’
DISTINCTIVE JEWELLERY
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Solid Gold Albert. “Lome Pillar” design,
£4/15/-. Lighter, £3/15/-, £3/10/-
Heovier, £5/5/-, £5/15/-, £6, £6/15/-
15ct. Gold, £7, £7/15/-, £B/10/- £lO, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders' double-
cut Diamond Ring,
IBct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18et. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Emerald and double-
cut Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25,
A. Saunders’ fine
D'ia/mond Ring,
XBct. Gold, £lO.
A. Sau o ' , ''-
cut Diamond Neck-
let, 15ct. Gold,
d
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond bow and
bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ 9ct, Gold
Links, daintily engraved,
20/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Oct.
Gold Sporting Medal, 80/ -
15ct. Gold, £2/10/-
Heavier. £3.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond bow and
bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A, Saunders' 9ct. Gold
Links, concave, convex or
flat, 20/-
Heavier, 25/-, 80/-
15ct. Gold, £2, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond bar Brooch,
16cti Gold, £lO,
.
wsmm
■■
wwrfwViwfil
•'•VVVVV-V',
SIPS
■
itia
fill®
m
ii§B
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Hunting Lever,
£4/10/-
Gold-filled Elgin movement, 10-year Case,
£4/4/-; 20-year case, £6; 25-year
case, £7.
Solid Gold, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
0B3«T«]
»<r v*
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
fine double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver loopside, square cushion-
shape Lever Watch, luminous dial and hands, with
leather W ristlet, £3/10/-, £4/10/-
9(t. Gold, £B/10/-. 18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
9ct. Gold, Signet
Ring, 25/-
Set Bloodstone,
£3.
We Send All Orders per Reg . Post Free»
ASAUMDERS
JEWELLER AND OPTICIAN,
805-813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s open-face Lever,
Watch, 20/-, 25/-
' Higher grades, 30/-, 40/-, 50/-
THE BEHNING.
The most artistic Player Piano
it is possible to obtain.
The superiority of the “Behning”
is evident from every point of
comparison.
Sold on
EASY TERMS.
THE LAFFARGUE.
To all lovers of a mellow Tone
and High-grade Player Action
the “Laffargue” will appeal.
Noted for its permanent excel-
lence throughout.
Sold on
EASY TERMS.
IS
Ov
ScOS
sis
r
4
r j
iff HI t, ' u -': • > "'JttMWir
PLAYER PIANOS
of World-wide Prestige at
PALING’S.
All Player Pianos purchased from Paling’s are
noted for:—
TONE, full in volume, pure and beautifully rich.
TOUCH is spontaneous and responds to every
demand, especially in repetition.
PERFECT PEDALLING mechanism operated
with a minimum of effort.
DESIGN reflects sound construction and artistic
finish.
DURABILITY is unequalled—built to last a
lifetime.
Every Player Piano is
FULLY GUARANTEED BY PALING’S.
Your present Piano will be taken
as part payment if desired.
ď
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
And at
Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba,
Lismore, Rockhampton.
THE AUTOTONE.
This high-grade and imposing
instrument satisfies every re-
quirement of the most critical.
Renowned for its superior Tone
and Durability.
Sold on
EASY TERMS.
THE VICTOR.
The most popular Player Piano
in Australia. Unequalled at its
price for Quality and Value.
Built to last a lifetime and to
withstand the severest climatic
changes.
Sold on
EASY TERMS.


25,000 Miles at 6154 M.P.G.
. WAKEFIELD
on
MOTOR OIL
C.W.
Another world record—distance greater than the World’s circumference—on less
than five gallons of an ordinary grade of the finest of all lubricants. This wonderful
performance was put up by a stock model 19.6 h.p. “Crossley” car over ordinary
roads, in all weathers, under R.A.C. observation.
oil that
ft*
S?CUIATtSEVBIVIt7,
As well as the big economy of “Castrol,” its perfect lubricating qualities
were further demonstrated by the fact that, after completion of this feat
the car attained a speed of 59 m.p.h. on Brooklands without alteration or
adjustment—the “Crossley” engine being clean and in excellent condition
at the finish.
Obtainable from all Garages.
RESCH’S
lager, pilsener,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
. „ . nrtitTHfl pHIIiP ft CO., I/TD., Perth and Geraldton.
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, « ww ,
Harvey’s Special Whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney .
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MIGK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
[?]EDS
The long Australian Hurdle was as in-
teresting as a meagre field of eight could make it.
Travelling at a decent pace, heavy going considered,
the eight kept fairly well together, and it was not
until Mazax took up the running, seven furlongs
from home, that poor old Jaclcstaff, weary of much
racing this season, was plainly out of it. Also, the
displaced Loja and Bendoc, the hope of Bendigo,
began to drop away. Berrinbo at this time was
thought to be “ 'ome and dry,” despite his having
blundered badly at a fence in the straight, the
second time round. But another faulty jump sug-
gested that the weight had got the hot favorite in
difficulties. Les Paddington was going nicely near
the front, whilst Gulyarri advanced or receded a
little as though he had something in reserve. Yet
something was wrong with him, it afterwards
appeared. He had hurt a shoulder, which probably
explains why he struck the last fence heavily, and
though he finished third to the Sydney jumper and
Mazax, he was losing ground. The unlucky son of
Ritualist was in pain after the race, having injured
a knee as well as the shoulder. Judging from the
form at Moonee Valley, a week previously, he would
have outstayed Mazax over the longer course, barring
accidents. But Mazax really supplied the surprise
of the race in staying so well. Poundage must count
over miles. Les Paddington did more than well
in getting to the fore. Ten-nine is the highest
weight for a winner in the last seven years.
Sonora’s capture of the Malakoff Stakes makes
Holt’s stable look dangerous for Caulfield Cup, even
though it produce nothing better than the mare.
Hitherto she had been trained as a sprinter merely,
and her performance over nine furlongs was a re-
minder that breeding should carry her over 12 fur-
longs, anyhow. As a five-year-old, with 7st. 91b. for
her handicap, the daughter of Land of Song and
Polylogy looks to have a distinct Cup chance.
At the moment of writing final acceptances for
the four-miles steeplechase are not out, and Roisel
and Les Paddington, either of whom would be
heavily supported with the proviso of a stand-up,
are still in the race. Looking only at the entrants
with established steeplechase credentials this paper
takes Liberate, Haoma, Bright Maid and Agar as a
likely quartet. Liberate is the most tempting pro-
position. He finished only fourth in the Steeplers’
flat race on Saturday, but there was interference to
complain of, and after the gallop he looked as bright
as he did in the birdcage before the event. The
defeat of Berrinbo will enable Liberate, the other
stable hope in a now-busted double, to start at a
less unreasonable price, and all things considered
the Cooltrim horse is worth backing. He is less
likely to fall than, say, Coolport..
“Fax”: The V.A.T.C. looks likely to have
somewhat better luck with its big Steeplechase than
it had with the Hurdle, but the club must despair
of ever rivalling, in August, the Nationals which have
knocked out or damaged the reputations of so many
jumpers in July. There is a fairly good market for
backers of National candidates, whereas Caulfield
events yield no ante-post harvest to speak of. The
odds-layers get more timid every year of opening
their mouths before final acceptances are declared.
Double-event books, which suffered last year from
the victories of early hot favorites, were all full-up
this year with the Berrinbo-Liberate combination.
The Norman Godby stable took 50 to 1 about the
double, and stood on rich velvet when Berrinbo came
to 2’s for the Hurdle Race, and Liberate was doing
good work for the Steeple. Good hedging for most
backers of doubles, and bad hedging for layers in
general, has been the rule in August for three years.
“0.K.” : A queer thing happened on the
Richmond (Melb.) racecourse last week. One ot the
low-down steeds fell near the judge s box whilst run-
ning in the last event (it was the 14th) ot the
sordid gambling-day. As the animal lay on the
track, seemingly helpless and done for, a gathering
crowd of blokes and toughs assumed that one ot its
leg bones, had snapped, and that the poor wretch
didn’t care how soon the end came. A vet.
examined the patient thought it a fair thing to give
the horse a pick-me-up before sentencing him to the
bullet, so he administered a hypodermic injection ot
stryc. This did the trick. The gee immediately got up
unaided and walked into the “birdcage as though no-
thing had happened. Apparently he had fallen deliber-
ately, having become full up of racing in the sort of
company he meets at Richmond. His feelings resemD ec
those of a rotten pugilist—a cat)man whom a mem-
ber of Melbourne Stock Exchange was induced, some
years ago, to match against another bruiser toi-a
mill at Brighton. They fought in the open. Ihe
cabman’s backer was timekeeper, and when his man
took a fall, on slight provocation, early m the
second round, he gave him lots of time and encoui-
agement to get up and renew the scrap. <Jne—
two —'three —three —three,” said the stockbroker,
bending over his prostrate hope, and touching him
meaningly with his boot. But the cabman con-
tinued to lie at ease with his eyes shut. lour—
five — five,” the timekeeper continued, lingering
longer and longer as he drew nearer to the fatal
“Ten.” Before he got there the cabman opened
one eye and growled: “You can count a blanky
million before I’ll blanky well get up.”
* * * *
“Fax” : Every time I hear of a racehorse-
owner adopting various means—from straight-out lies
to mere avoidance of would-be inquirers—for putting
his friends off the scent of a “dead bird, 1 am re-
minded of an ancient incident in English turf his-
tory. It was told of a wealthy skinflint who
flourished in the days when Derby betting began 1
months before the event, and Bell’s Life was me
only sporting newspaper, and “dark” horses in some
eases were almost black as night. I have forgotten
the name of the disrespected old identity, but he
stood by the rails at Epsom (Eng.), near the judge s
box, to see the Derby finish. Nobody suspected him
of any special interest in the race until, just as the
victory of a favorite was being shouted as a cer-
tainty his own horse came with a rush on the outside
rails, close to him, and the crowd changed its tune.
The steed on the outside had seemingly got up m
time. Then the miserable old worm dropped his
mask, grinned with glee, shook hands violently with
himself and croaked audibly, “Won two hundred
thousand pounds—and not another soul on it . His lace
was a study in malignant satisfaction till the numbe* s
were hoisted. Then his
jaw dropped and a groan
o f rack-and-thumb-
screw qualitj’ came
from his palsied lips.
The judge had given
the race to the favorite.
* *
Major Dudley
Smith, whose affable
phiz appears herewith,
is the A.J.O. judge.
A member of an old
Molong (N.S.W.)
squatting family, _he
served his apprentice-
ship as a vet. in Syd-
ney and later ran one
of the family proper-
ties near Molong.
Always a keen militia-
man, he left Australia
as a captain with the
original Light Horse,
and served through
Gallipoli, Sinai and
Palestine, being
wounded at Bir-el-
Abd. He was awarded
the D.S.O. Educated
at Felsted (Eng.),. he
is a pukka Australian,
and was a favorite with
all ranks of the L.H.
“Monaro” : Re tricks of coursing (B.
26/7/’23). In an effort to “ring-in” a fresh dog,
instead of an already weary animal, a man stained
some spots on a hound from the same litter. It
■worked brilliantly until rain came on while they
were waiting to go into slips. “I sheltered ’im all
I could,” the owner told me afterwards, “but it was
no good. His spots were failin’ off all over the
paddick.” With that he sighed heavily and hinted
that it was a weary time between drinks.
* * * *
France’s defeat of Spain in the European
zone of the Davis Cup would be welcome news to
the Australians, who were rather dreading the possi-
bility of having to face a Spanish team reinforced
by Alonzo. The Frenchmen’s chances in America
cannot be strongly regarded. For one thing, the
experienced Gobert is absent, whilst for some reason
not disclosed the promising youth Coehet, who
played great tennis against the Australians in the
U.S. last year, is not following the Tricolor across
the Atlantic. France’s main suit this time is the
18-year-old Lacoste, who soundly walloped De Gomar
in the match with Spain. He may perform well
agaiiist either the Japanese or the Australians, but
the calibre of Blanchy, the other singles player, is
not very striking, and the Gauls are probably inferior
in doubles. The winner of the Japan-Australia heat
should meet America in the challenge round.
* * * *
“Linesman”: According to Brookes, Pat-
terson and O’Hara Wood the Australians should
lick the Japanese in the second tie for the Davis
Cup commencing at Chicago to-morrow. Patterson
even expects Anderson and Hawkes to collar the five
rubbers, though he apparently knows nothing of
Fukuda’s form, and can throw little light on. the
quality of Kashio, who, with Shimidzu, massacred
the Canadians in the doubles at Montreal. Consider-
ing that the admittedly inferior Hawaiians forced
the Australians to 8-6 and 7-5 in the doubles at
Orange, Anderson’s errors contributing heavily to
this result, what warrant is there for assuming that
the more accurate Japanese can be comfortably dis-
posed of? On the figures the Japs should prove
very difficult to beat in the doubles, and may quite
easily prove all Australian prophecies idiotic by
capturing two or three singles. Brookes is confident
that Hawkes will beat Fukuda, though, since the
Australian champion hasn’t been in America since
1919, he obviously isn’t intimate with the Jap’s
capacity, and can only base his conclusions on news-
paper reports or private information received irom
his countrymen in America. Anderson is very
liable to make errors when tuning himself up lor
the rain of cross-court aces which is his favorite
form of game. One remembers how he missed a
triumph during his first trip to America by wild
walloping in situations which called for accuracy
and a cool head. The extent to which he has
mastered his impulsiveness will be shown at Chicago,
but this commentator is conscious of a streak ol
pessimism.
* * * *
“15-30”: Reading between the lines of
Hawkes’s report on Schlesinger’s match with Ecklund,
of Hawaii, in the Davis Cup tie, one can see that
the Vic. colt was quite outclassed. Points over-
looked by the enthusiasts who barracked for Schles-
inger’s inclusion in the team, on the strength of a
casual defeat of Patterson last autumn, were the
youth’s imperfect equipment for high-class company
and his inability to vary his game when circum-
stances made it practically impossible for him to
score with his forehand drive. Apparently it didn t
take Eckland long to discover that Schlesinger was
a man with one punch, and that a wet, slow court
reducing the bounce of the ball was a great handi-
cap to the tyro who must have a high bounce for
his favorite shot. If Schlesinger had had any prac-
tice in cutting his returns to the enemy, Ecklund
might have been as much embarrassed as he was
under Hawkes’s volleys of cut balls, which, in most
cases, were netted or hit right out. Hawkes s com-
ment is to the effect that Schlesinger must cultivate
new strokes. This is very proper advice, and I infer
from it that such a raw lad should not have been
sent away.
* * * *
“Benicia” : “Slip” Carr is one of the fast-
est natural runners 1 have ever seen, but he was a
mere tyro alongside the American Kirksey as a
skilled athlete. He lost the 100 metres in Sweden, as he
lost here in M.L., by his inability to control his muscu-
lar effort. So long as he strode along freely (as in
the run-off of the hundred and in the 200 metres at
Gothenberg) he outpaced Kirksey. But when in the
last 20 yards he consciously tried to put them in, all
that he succeeded in doing was to tie himself in a knot.
Kirksey, on the other hand, had wonderful control
of his muscles. With conscious effort he appreciably
got the extra speed. Carr’s chances at Paris depend
on his • either acquiring proper muscle-control or,
failing that, overcoming his eagerness sufficiently to
rely on his wonderful easy striding once at the
top of his speed.
* * * *
James Hatton’s form in the East Sydney
handicap on Saturday suggests that the English long-
distance runners are a cut above our own. Hatton
got over the 2f miles in 14min. 2sec., which knocked
lOsee. off Temple Wood’s record for the course, be
beat Harold Hayden, also on scratch, by 13sec., and
F. Bailev by 12sec. Hatton was a member of the
British team in the 1920 Olympic Games. He fin-
ished fifth in the 10,000 metres.
* * * *
The lacrosse “carnival” in Brisbane re-
sulted almost exactly like the last one m 19-0.
Victoria and S.A. each beat Queensland and N.S.W.,
and then S.A. won from Vic. by an odd goal, 4 to 3.
These last two are the States in which the game is
taken most seriously, and S.A. has always rather
more than held its own with Victoria. N.S.W. did
riot win a match in the week. Queensland gave vie.
quite a good go, losing by 3 to 5.
4= * * *
Forced to pay a £5O forfeit for being
overweight, Eagel, the U.S. welter, got really angiy
at the Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. So much
so that he waded into Danny Morgan in the seventh
round and knocked him silly with a beautifully-
timed left uppercut. If Morgan hadn t insisted
on his £5O of dross he might have been allowed to
go 12 rounds at least. The trouble with the aver-
age British pug, as with the average Australian, is
that he can’t punch. The average Yank can, and
that is the secret of his superiority.
* * * *
Eastern Suburbs strengthened their hold
on the Rugby League premiership by vanquishing
Western Suburbs, 22 points to 8. It was their eighth
successive victory, ana after the first 25 minutes, dur-
ing which Matterson, a son of Neil Matterson, the
old-time sculler, got over for West, the result was
never in doubt. The best man on the grass was
Rigney, East’s frail custodian; and for the losers
Courtney, their old forward, again played in a style
reminiscent of his 1907 achievements. Balmain cruelly
exposed the weakness of Newtown, scoring 9 tries
and 9 goals (Mick Russell kicked them all) to one
try. South Sydney were four points behind Vaisity
at the interval, but after that they shifted Quin-
liven to the wing. The Northern Rivers man was
the chief agent in South’s 16-12 win. Glebe unex-
pectedly played all over the in-and-out St. George.
The Reds were 10 points to the good (3 tries 3
goals to 1 try 1 goal) at the finish.
* * *
In the inter-State Soccer match at Bris-
bane N.S.W. defeated Queensland by 3 goals to nil,
Masters getting two and Gilmour the other. lhe
Chinese ’bailers, now in Sydney, were among the
harrnokers They play their first game on the
Showground next Saturday, and their manager has
hopes. #
“Winkle”: Bush champions are often
slow to make good when transferred to the city.
Dave McNamara, just down from Benalla, was re-
jected as no class by South Melbourne in 1906. .But
he succeeded with St. Kilda, and, now then captain,
hopes to lead them to their first premiership this
vear Collingwood had no time or room foi the law
Swan Hillite, Max Hislop, so he went to Richmond
and became their best defender. So brisk was Hie
competition for Sanneman, the Bendigo crack, -ast
year that St. Kilda had to pay him a higher rate
S nriv other player ; yet he did not strike form.
This year he is back in the bush. Clover, on the other
hand, has never played better than m his first match,
and Boromeo also was prominent fr om the jump.
Maurice Beasy, spoken of by Clover and Boromeo «s
the best man in their district, was the most-talkal-
of country champion Melbourne ever knew. When
it was announced in 1921 that he would make h -
first appearance for the Blues m their final against
Richmond, Carlton went crazy. On the great day,
however, he gave only a mediocre exhibition in the
mud Next year bad luck came, for a broken ankle
and other injuries kept the man out of the game
until late in the season. This year all Hie pio-
phecies have come true. Thousands regard Beasy as
the finest footballer now playing in Melbourne.
“Gobble G.” : The reason of the exceptional
roughness and lack of system in League football in
Melbourne this year is that many followers nave
now reduced shepherding to a science. On the in-
numerable occasions when the ball is thrown in from
out of bounds and bounced in the centre, these
burly persons strive to give their companions a
clear field by obstructing the rival ruckmen. Very
often, as was the case when “Ginger” Moffatt played
for Richmond, their bustling and wrestling are
within the rules, and it is their exasperated oppo-
nents who start the real roughness by their efforts
in retaliation. McKenzie, of St. Kilda, is the greatest
exponent since Moffatt of these tactics, and, conse-
quently, matches in which the Saints figure degen-
erate into crowded and desperate battles between
the rucks. To prevent this style of play becoming:
universal has always been one of the greatest of
Melbourne’s football problems. In 1896 the rules
were altered drastically and teams reduced from
20 to 18 in an endeavor to recover the old open
game. And, for a time, the Association further re-
duced its teams to 17, limiting the rucks to one
follower and one rover each. Essendon have this
year proved that the remedy lies with the clubs
themselves. Instead of one going for the ball while
the other protected him, their ruckmen were both
instructed to play the ball. This policy has proved
successful. Essendon, the only team consistently
playing open, spectacular football, are three wins
ahead of their nearest rival.
* * * *
League games in Victoria on Saturday
were remarkable only for; the losers being donkey-
licked in every case. Essendon, with 103 points,
trod on Carlton, with 37, goal-kicker Stockdale add-
ing nine more to his tally. Collingwood went to
Geelong and_ got properly hammered, the seasiders
compiling 72 points to
’Wood’s 26. St. Kilda,
with 60 points, im-
pressed on Richmond,
who got 25, the fact
that they are no longer
the ferocious animals
they were; and South
Melbourne, after keep-
ing level with Mel-
bourne up to lemon-
time, ran away in the
last quarter and fin-
ished with 67 points to
41. The day’s results
leave ’Don well in the
lead with 10 wins,
’Roy and St. Kilda
coming next with • 7
each, while Geelong,
South and ’Wood, with
6 wins, are each try-
ing to push the other
two out of fourth
place.
“TIGER" POTTS,
of Norwood, a
famous S.A.
follower.
“Tren”: As England sorely needs ama-
teurs in the same class as Steel, Jessup, Ranji, Jack-
son, McLaren, Fry and R. E. Foster, it is pleasant
to read of the success of G. T. S. Stevens (122) and
Lyon (120) for the Gentlemen of England v. the
Players. The match was drawn in favor of the
Gents. Stevens plays for Middlesex. The bald, cable
“Lyon, c. Smith, b. Tate” sets a pretty problem, for
there are two of them. B. H. Lyon is an Oxford
man, who last season made 214 runs, averaging 21.40
-—highest score 75. In the inter-’Varsity match he
managed a pair of spectacles; and for Gloucester-
shire he averaged 10 for 21 innings. M. D. Lyon, tor
Cambridge, made 186 runs, averaging 2Q.66—highest
score also 75. He was not required to bat in the
inter-’Varsity match, and for Somerset was fourth on
the averages with 25 for 8 innings.
* * * *
The star batsmen in England this year are
Mead, the Hampshire left-hander, and Hendren. Fp
to last week-end Mead had collected 2007 runs,
averaging 80.28, and Hendren 2030, av. 78.07. Last
year Hendren topped the averages with 2072 runs,
av. 66.83. Mead was third with 2391 runs, av.
62.24 ; but he had 50 innings against Patsy s 38. As
for the bowlers, 45-year-old Wilfred Rhodes heads the
averages with 97 wickets at 10.02. Last year he
was also on top with 119 at 12.19.
* * * *
“Trekle”: Johnny Mullagh (B. 2/8/’23)
was the greatest of all abo. cricketers. With the
team that toured England in 1868 he annexed all
the averages, making 1698 runs, averaging 23.65
(very good in those days), and taking 257 wickets at
an average of 10. He also made the highest score
of the trip, 94. Charlie Lawrence, the all-round
Surrey cricketer who came to Australia with Parr’s
first English XI (1861-62), captained and looked alter
the blacks. Though a first-class man, he ran second
to Mullagh in everything. King Cole died a month
after landing, and Jim Crow and Sundown were sent
home because of bad health and worse habits. In
less than five months the team travelled all over
England, playing at least two games a week —47 in
all. They won 14 and lost 14; 19 were drawn.
Boomerang- and spear-throwing, running and jumping
were attractions additional to cricket, but the
star item of this part of the programme was always
provided by Dick-a-Dick. He would defend himself
against a shower of cricket balls thrown by five
persons.
* * * *
“D.O’R.”: In 1883, when I was sports-
master in a small preparatory school on Parramatta
Heights, our first XI played a match against a
team from Parramatta. One of the visiting' side
was batting, and I was umpire at the bowler’s end.
Bowler sent down a ball which knocked down the
middle stump and left the bails undisturbed. The
two outer stumps were correctly spaced, but had
been driven in with the slightest inclination inwards,
so that when the bails (with their flat ends inwards)
had been placed in position they were nipped to-
gether by the inward pressure of the two stumps.
When the ball hit the middle stump the bails must
have sprung slightly up and fallen back again, re-
tained in position by the inward pressure. But the
ball had to strike the middle stump truly in the
centre, otherwise the glancing blow would have
knocked it back diagonally, and the bails must
have been scattered. In defiance of the laws ot
cricket I gave the home batsman “out.”
TO THE BARRAUKERS
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The promoter of the Chinese team of Soccer foot-
ballers which arrived in Sydney on Sunday appeals
to the sporting public to refrain from making
remarks that may be misunderstood.
Now, lusty barrackers and welkin-renders
Wherever games are played, forbear to sling
The gibes you use on Wilsons and on Fenders
At chaps like Li AVai Tong- and Lam Yuk Ying.
The wit and humor sporting scribes dilate on
And reckon Englishmen should understand
(Beneath the boisterous persiflage) might grate on
• Coves from the Flowery Land.
Fresh from the realm of dignity and quiet
AVhere nodding Mandarins from teacups sip,
The sort of chyaeking in which you riot
Alight give them what you’d call yourselves “the
pip.”
Vocabularies should be pruned to greet them;
Calls to “bog into” some Celestial's “frame”
Or genial advice to “kill and eat them”
Alight put them off their game.
Applaud you may—encourage and advise, too —•
But ’ware of comments that good feeling mar.
Remember that these gents are hardly wise to
The nuances of your vernacular.
Free speech—that priceless boon —none would deny
you
But phrases quite allowable and good
For home consumption, hurled at Kwong or Shiu
Alight be misunderstood.
Curb your exuberances, then. Be placid
And courteous in comment. Recollect
They mightn’t taste the sugar ’neath the acid
That sports like Hobbs and Parkin can detect.
Roll up, to see them winners or defeated,
You whom high Heav’n with leather lungs endows.
But from your argot first I’d like deleted
All ref’rences to “cows.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Make Sure: !
STONEWALL’
đ
THr^t'STONEHIDE'
23fe
No. 320 —Black or Tan Box Hide, Plain or
Toecap “Stonehide” Treble-wear So’es.
Postage 1/3; Interstate 2/2.
Mens Wear & Shoe Catalog Free
Jacksons
d
380 2 PITT ST
SYDNEY
fC
SS:
COLlftfii
Before you Travel
mark all Linen with
> CASH'S <SBj».NAMESI
and save yourself a lot of trouble
and possible loss, 'they btai xviaiKing
Ink. Any Name is woven into a Fine
Cambric Tape in Fast Color.
“ A Few Stitches and they’re on.”
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
Prices: 12 doz. 716, 6 doz. 51-, 3 dcz, 3/6
Write for Style Book to
J. & J. CASH
PTY.
LTD.
IS CubJtt Street. Richmond. Melbourne
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&C°m
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
*1
.Zl
A ROYAL
SMOKE
, actual Size
The cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each.
Special sampl-
ing cabinet
containing
10 cigars, 6/-;
25, 12/6;
50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Post paid to any
address.
CRAIG gAITKEN,
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
TO JAVA by the
Royal Packet Navigation Company.
An Ideal 7
Weeks’
Holiday Trip
to Singapore,
via pictur-
esque Java.
mim
&
m
Return Fare
from Sydney,
£9O.
Splendid 6000-ton mail steamers, “TASMAN” and “HOUTMAN,”
specially constructed to ensure the utmost comfort in Tropical waters.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY, 44 Pitt Street, Sydney.
•• :
■
■
Overload Time Limit Relay for Alternating
Current.
“FERRANTI”
Meters and Transformers
mm
Sin ale-phase House Service
Meter, Type F.C.2
ď
Continuous Current House Ser-
vice Meter Type F.H.2
The name of FERRANTI
LIMITED is associated
with the earliest dis-
coveries and latest develop-
ments in Electricity Meters.
The FERRANTI TYPE F.H.
Continuous Current Meter and
the Type F.C. Single-phase
House Service Meter, as illus-
trated, represent the highest
standard of workmanship and
accuracy.
The New Type FERRANTI
F.D. Meter represents the last
word in compactness and price.
Of British manufacture through-
out, “FERRANTI” Meters
comply with British Engineer-
ing Standards.
Let us quote you for:—
FERRANTI Ammeters and
Voltmeters.
FERRANTI Watt Meters and
Watt Hour Meters.
FERRANTI Transformers.
FERRANTI Special Instru-
ments.
We will gladly furnish particu-
lars of any of these lines on
request. Ask especially for our
128-page General Engineering
Catalogue—post free.
WRITE OUR NEAREST
ADDRESS.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; Victoria Chambers, Eagle
Street, Brisbane; 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd.,
495-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Barling Buildings, Franklin Street,
Adelaide; corner Collins and Elizabeth Streets, Hobart. Also from
J. R. W. Gardam, Perth, W.A.
THE INKY WAY.
A libel a day
Keeps the divvy away.
—Sydney Press aphorism.
Claude Beresford, the fluent versifier who for years
has turned out topical verse on events of the week
for each Sunday’s Mail in Adelaide, has turned on to
the Inky Way as a constant traveller instead of a
mere tourist. He is to represent the new afternoon
News (which now runs the Mail also) at Port
Adelaide. The local staff of the Melbourne Steam-
ship Co. farewelled him with pleasant speeches and
a gold watch.
“Hamer”; Sun Johnson, proprietor of a Chinese
paper which once provided the whole journalistic
heaven for the Celestials in N.S.W., has reckoned
up his assets and liabilities and is asking what the
Official Assignee thinks of them. For which every-
one who knew Sun is sorry. He is an M.A. and
likeable; and more than once when an Australian
writer was in trouble Johnson paid him for a
screed and got it done into Chinese for publication,
thus giving an excuse for the helping hand he
had extended.
John Middleton Murry has launched his new maga-
zine, the Adelphi. In the first number he says that
he “wants only those things that you can’t help
writing, because you will burst if you don’t.” So
there is promise of vigor and honesty in the maga-
zine ; and no talk of style or cults or any of the
usual things which make the cant of literature. The
style will be there if the truth is there ; for the style
is the man himself. The chief contributors to the
first issue are the late Katherine Mansfield, D. H.
Lawrence, H. M. Tomlinson and J. W. N. Sullivan.
A list of books to buy and books to borrow makes a
novel feature. The price is a shilling.
“S.T.S.”: Curious how knowledge can run in
watertight compartments. A new book on “Lives
Enshrined in Language,” by Stenhouse, Ph.D., deals
with proper names which have become part of the
English tongue, as “boycott” and “macadam.” It
is packed with erudition and research. Yet “Pooh-
ba” “is said to have been a Japanese, who for a con-
sideration undertook to fill various offices of men
who for political reasons had thrown up their appoint-
ments. The word was recently used in a newspaper
to denote those who were expected to perform many
dissimilar duties at the same time.” The widely-
read Stenhouse evidently knew nothing of W. S.
Gilbert.
“Wink”: An experience I had recently enhanced
my admiration of the ability of woman to grasp
quickly the mysteries of mechanical contrivances. I
was piloting a mixed party through the office and
my explanation of the workings of the linotypes
caused one lady to become so interested that she
stayed watching them while the rest viewed the other
departments—the printing presses, the process en-
graving, the despatch room, etc. When we returned
we found her still walking around the linos —some-
what to the embarrassment of the operators—examin-
ing them intently from all angles. “A wonderful
invention, madam,” I ventured. “Yes,” she answered.
“I’ve been watching them for half-an-hour and
I can’t see yet where the paper goes in.”
“P.X.”: J. E. Davidson brought off a coup in the
few days prior to the first appearance of his News
in Adelaide. The city had two evening papers, one
published by the Advertiser, the other by the
Register, both poor little things, apparently kept
alive for 50-odd years only to scare crows away from
that field. But when a crow arrived that wasn’t
going to be scared, the Bonythons and Thomases
were quite ready to listen to reason ; and when the
News was published it had the field to itself—except
apparently on Saturdays. Adelaide has grown accus-
tomed to" bulk in its papers; advertisers are encour-
aged to cover a vast area with “display” type. The
News isn’t trying to batter down that stone wall,
and arrived with 16 pages and a show of advts. that
must be the envy of a couple of other newspaper
infants —one in Melbourne, the other in Sydney.
“Lip”: I had come to regard most translations of
the Russian storytellers as very dull —until I dis-
covered in an English rendering of Kuprin’s “Bracelet
of Garnets” the remarkable statement that, when one
of the characters breathed, “her bosom rose and fell
under her waist.” Duckworth (Lond.) was the
publisher, and the translation was by Leo Pavlovsky,
whose name is Russian enough, anyway ; but my
attempts to visualise the lady’s figure only left me
'with a sincere sympathy for the cause of Bolshevism.
Then, in other stories in the book, I happened
several times on “back of” where an English writer
would have used “behind,” and dropped to it that
the translation was for American consumption. Pav-
lovsky, I have since learned, is editor of the New
York Russian Review, and “waist,” of course, is
Americanese for blouse.
Gradually the men who kept the late lamented
Melbourne Evening Standard going for five years
(1889-94) are passing out. The latest to mark his
last half-double is T. E. Holtham. After the
Standard amalgamated with the Herald, Holtham
had a long innings on the Ballarat evening paper,
and 12 years ago he took the chair of the Shepparton
Advertiser. Probably he knew best his own limita-
tions, but had he maintained the form he showed in
’9O-94 he might have got any job a Melbourne
paper could offer. The Cingalese strain in him was
unnoticed because of his general culture and courteous
bearing. Dinley and other young imps on the
Standard used to play tricks on him by imi-
tating the scrawl of Sam Whittaker, Chief of Staff,
and directing him to write specials. The specials
were so good that they were always published, but
in those impecunious times he got only applause for
them —no extra pay.
“Geo. Rich”: Perth is promised a new morning
daily in the near future —the Sun. The prospectus
glows with predictions of the successful career that
awaits the paper. The share capital is to be
£200,000 in £ shares, 120,000 to be issued and
80,000, held in reserve. Of the 21 founders six are
pastoralists and seven merchants. One journalist
(Archie Sanderson, ex-M.L.C. and unsuccessful
Senate candidate) is wedged in amongst the group.
Ernest Lee Steere, Chairman of the Pastoralists’
Association, the W.A. Turf Club, the W.A. Woollen
Mills and various other concerns, is chairman pro
tern., and Sinclair McGibbon sec. Some of the fea-
tures of the new paper are to be: “Expression of
independent views and attachment to no party; to
advocate the abolition of State trading outside public
utilities, and point out the pernicious influence of
State interference with private enterprise.” One
result of the new venture should be an all-round
reduction in the price of Westralian newspapers —
most of them are still charging war-time rates.
“Hermes”: The recent cable announcement that
two airmen who flew over the crater of Mt. Etna
with a view to obtaining photographs Of the volcanic
turmoil found the atmosphere unbearable recalls the
experience of Lieutenants Parer and Mclntosh over
Vesuvius when on their England-to-Australia flight
in 1920. When Parer saw the smoke-cloud hovering
over the volcano curiosity as to what the crater
looked like inside impelled him to fly over it. After
the airmen had observed the white-hot gases and
molten lava, Parer relates (“Flight and Adventures
oi Parer and Mclntosh”) that “the machine just
then seemed as if it had been hit a tremendous blow
from above. She dropped down as suddenly and
helplessly as a feather caught in a sudden downward
gust. It seemed only an instant when we were prac-
tically over the brink. The petrol in the half-empty
tanks hit the top with such a thud that it made
me fear for the structure of the machine. I . grabbed
at the seat to hold myself in, but my hands were
torn away. It seemed that we were being irresistibly
drawn into the inferno.”.... The airmen afterwards
found that the skin had peeled t off their hands dur-
ing this thrilling little flight.


Power and
Endurance
that are generally associated
with Cars of Higher Price.
The New Superior
CHEVROLET
WITH an unusually rigid and staunchly-built chassis, supporting a
powerful engine of valve-in-head design, the New Superior Chevrolet
combines the power and endurance you expect to find in cars of
much higher cost.
THE maximum of motoring service and enjoyment at the minimum of
costs —first and running—are assured you. Only a modest sum is
needed to acquire and operate a New Superior Chevrolet —a sum that
gives a real meaning to the phrase * Economical Transportation.
A FEW SPECIAL FEATURES OF
THE NEW SUPERIOR CHEVROLET.
Streamline body design, with high radiator; vacuum
feed and rear petrol tank on all models; drum-type
head lamps with non-glare lenses; full-crowned and
panelled mudguards; high-tension magneto, etc.
Price of Five-
Seater Models
£325
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE NEW SUPERIOR CHEVROLET
New South Wales:
John McGrath, Ltd., 181 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.
Queensland:
Howard Motor Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Victoria:
S. A. Cheney Motors Pty., Ltd.,
22 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
West Australia:
(Skipper Bailey Motor Co.. Ltd.,
tfUO Hay Street, Perth.
South Australia!
Mann’s Motors, Ltd., Currie Street,
Adelaide.
Tasmania:
Beasley’s Garage Pty., Ltd.,
ST2 Patterson Street, Launceston.
274 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
■
mm
.
■ . ' . '■ .
v'- - ': >.: ‘-
■L
■
II
■H
; Sv
HHHHr
181 ail 18 1111 :
I ;
gte
:: : ; . . . ■ '■' '. ’ ..... .
—Lniiiymi a
SpjfT
’t
H
o
B§|k V V
SSL
A GENERAL MOTORS’ PRODUCT.


I
DEPOSIT 'WITH
The Primary Producers’ Bank of Australia
Limited.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL - . Over £900,000
A Mutual Bank Owned and Controlled by the Man on the Land, Operated by carefully selected Bankers of Experience.
FEATURES:
Branches now operating in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and South Australia.
Available resources and deposits loaned only to men on the land.
No loans granted to city merchants or overseas traders.
Interest paid on Current, Fixed, and Savings Deposits.
No charge for keeping accounts.
F. W. STRACK, F.A.1.5., F.C.I.S. (Eng.), General Manager.
O. L. CARTAGE, L.1.C.A., A.8.1.A., Secretary.
11 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's •,•••••• “Mary”
Criterion ' Jl,rltel )’
Palace ■' “The Heggar’s °P era ”
Grand Opera' House “Bulldog Drummond”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Town Hall Westminster Glee Singers
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s • “Sybil”
ji oyAL “The Cat and the Canary
Princess’s •••••••• “Tangerine
King’s His House in Order
Palace -• •. “Rockets”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
At Melbourne King’s the bill has changed
from Harry Lauder to an elderly orthodox
play by Pinero. "His House in Order” re-
introduces to Australia two accomplished
English artists in notable star characters,
and gives other members of the new company
a chance in scenes theatrically “powerful.”
The play is not Pinero’s best. Though sug-
gesting “Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” in so far
that the heroine suiters from having married
a middle-aged widower, its foundation is not
so strong, nor its framework so neatly fin-
ished. I'timer Jesson, M.P., is a prim, poor-
spirited fellow who took Nina, his little boy’s
governess, for a second wife, and was shocked
to find her not such an admirable mistress
of Overbury Towers as her predecessor had
been. She loves dogs and is unmethodical in
her habits, like her late reverend father, who
made a pet of her. To put His House in
Order the cold-blooded M.P. desires the sister
of No. 1 to take charge (an incredible affront
for a well-bred man to inflict upon bis No.
2), and this hateful Geraldine Ridgeley
spinster has got her horrible wowSer father,
straight-laced mother and priggishly offen-
sive brother to spend Easter at the Towers.
As a foil to which collection of irritations
there comes Filmer Jesson’s elder brother,
Hilary, to smooth his new sister-in-law
down, and play philosopher and guide. The
author, one perceives, has provided himself
with plausible excuses for a lot of entertain-
ing dialogue; nevertheless the situation is felt
to be faise. The opening of a public park,
the remarried widower’s gift to the town
in memory of his late beloved, is the occa-
sion for this gathering. It includes a certain
tall Major Maurewarde, who hangs around
the premises like a tame cat, petting the
motherless child of the house. The insulting
Ridgeleys infuriate Nina into cursing the
memorial park and all the wowsers respon-
sible for it, but next morning she finds grace
unexpectedly. Small-boy Derek (who is as
insulting as his elders) discovers a hand-
bag under the floor of his late sainted
mother’s boudoir. Nina abstracts incrimina-
ting letters from this long-secreted bag, and
from these,it appears that the angel of purity
and method had carried on a seven-years’ in-
trigue with the tall Major, and Derek is
their son. 1 The angel had found Filmer an
insufferable husband, and her blood relations
an insufferable lot of Pharisees, said the
letters. Rut how came the matron, capable
of scorning the contemptible folks around
her, to play the gentle hypocrite all those
years without being once suspected by the
watchful puritans? The critic’s first im-
pulse is to feel sorry for the deceased matron,
but her case doesn’t bear reflection. Her
breed suggests that she was not less cunning
than unchaste. In short, nobody except
Nina and her adviser Hilary can command
the least Sympathy. The husband deserved
all the infidelity he got; the Ridgeleys all
deserve to be boiled.
* * * *
It is perhaps in the showing of the letters
to Hilary, her comments thereon and sub-
sequent discussion, that Irene Vanbrugh is
most convincing. Her silent suffering of the
family tyranny is good; her bursts of hys-
teria andi indignation are great; her re-
strained excitement over the letters is im-
mense. Dion Boucicault’s part as the
adviser is even longer than the lady’s, though
less exacting. In his way of standing up
to talk he is much the same Boucicault as
of old, with the same trick of holding his
head a trifle askew when making a point.
But in ease and variety of gestures with his
hands he is a more finished artist than ever,
and he gets more passionate when he lets
himself go. Of the others C. M. Hallard
gives a dood performance of the spineless
husband, 1 who is surely a very difficult
character |to give even a show of reality to;
Martin Walker is easily effective as the
cad Ridghley ; and Henry Latimer, tall and
big and rfiade comic by a ziff, or whatever
they call a beard these times, is a conven-
tional caricature of a conventional God-
fearer. ’lfhe boy who plays Derek is as in-
telligently mechanical as can be expected.
Ethel Wellesley is bright as a French gov-
erness, Joan Crossley is an unaccountable
with hair bobbed and yellow,
such as no Ridgeley ever went to church
in; and Lena Halliday is a strictly con-
ventional exponent of the stage-type of old
cat. Three interior scenes, by George Up-
ward, are more than satisfactory.
“The Beggar’s Opera” won’t run as long
at the Palace, Sydney, as it did at the
Lyric, Hammersmith; but spiders are not
likely to closer-settle the box-office for some
time to come. Still as fresh as roses de-
spite its 195 years, the “Opera” fairly con-
quered a first-night audience made coldly
critical, and suspiciously expectant of a
mere stopgap show, by curious delays in the
production and unexplained changes in the
east. Gay’s wit has kept the “book” sweet,
and the original music had vitality enough,
even without Frederic Austin’s skilful and
sympathetic adaptations, to preserve it from
putrefaction. Both frequently remind one
of Gilbert and Sullivan. The resemblance
is quite startling when Charles Mettam Filch
and other comic members of the Cutpurses’
Union are singing their Highwaymen’s
Chorus. Gilbert’s Cornish rovers are lineal
descendants of Gay’s gentlemen of the road,
but his Pirate King is a stiff and rheumy
creation beside the bold figure of Macheath.
Gay’s work is a skit on the pompous opera
of his day, the modern counterpart of which
bores most of us stiff, although we wouldn’t
admit it for worlds. It likewise pokes fun
at the tendency of the British (and Aus-
tralian) public' to make a maudlin fuss of
well-advertised members of the criminal
class. In these respects it has quite a con-
temporary flavor, although the gentlemen
refer to the ladies in terms which went out
of fashion with public hangings and pow-
dered wigs.
* * * *
Howett Worster is the outstanding mem-
ber of a capable little company. A tall,
handsome baritone with a talent for swagger-
ing (one recalls that he rather overdid it in
“Merrie England),” he is a first-class
Macheath. Admirably humorous in the
scene where the condemned highway 7 man,
victim of overmuch affection and the fruits
thereof, demands that the executioner shall
do his work, he reaches his summit of artis-
tic achievement in “When the Heart of a
Man is Oppressed with Cares,” a lovely old
song, finely 7 sung. Excellent also is Beryl
Walkley' as 'Lucy Lockit. This pleasing
young woman has come ou greatly in the
iast year or so. Pauline Bindley’s nice voice
falls smoothly on the ear in the ditties
assigned to Polly, and her acting has an
appealing quality. But one or two of her
songs would be more successful if she con-
trived to let the audience know what they
are all about. There is the true spirit of
burlesque in Eily 7 Malyon’s work as Mrs.
Peacham, and Eileen Crotty is a distrac-
ingly prettv Jenny Diver, while Molly Tyrell
(Diana Trapes), Jack Cannot (Peachum),
Victor Prince (Lockit), and Charles Mettam
(Filch), with Reg. Roberts as the Beggar,
furnish good reasons for their presence on
the stage. And the beautiful music is
beautifully rendered by Andrew MacCunn
and his orchestra. They all play instruments
and wear costumes appropriate to the period
of the “Opera,” but some of them sternly
refuse to sacrifice their moustaches in the
cause of Art.
* * * *
The small co. of players who dropped
into Sydney from Athens the other week
electrified a crowded Conservatorium by its
presentation of the “Oedipus Tyrannus” of
“TANGERINE." AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
Hazel Harris and Westley Pierce, the speci-
alty dancers of “Tangerine."
Sophocles. Though the listener knew not
a word of the language in which the char-
acters portnayed the mighty classic, the
players were such masters of voice and ges-
ture that it was impossible not to feel the
emotions becoming submerged beneath the
mounting tide of tragedy. The stage set-
ting was of the most situple—one side repre-
senting the entrance, to the king’s palace;
the opposite indicating by some pillars a
Greek temple. The part of Oedipus Tyran-
nus—the unfortunate young Prince doomed
by the gods to kill his father and wed his
mother —was played by Theodore Pof antis,
who, by virtue of his personality and per-
fect stagecraft, held a modern audience fast
through the longest soliloquy. _ The old
Athenian playwright has given his hero the
“ROCKETS," AT MELBOURNE
PALACE.
“At the Zoo”—Wee Georgie Harris demands
to see the gir-r-raffe; Lorna Pounds and
Chas. Austin as the proud parents.
three great emotions to portray: anger (as
in the scene with Creon) ; terror, where he
feels the web of his fate enmesh him ; and
tenderness, where, ruined and blind, he
takes farewell of the young daughters who
at the same time are his sisters. Jocasta,
at once queen, mother and wife to Oedipus,
was played by Anna Nezer, a young woman
with a voice like sunlight and running water,
and hypnotic hands and arms. The other
big part was in the hands of G. Coyroyclis,
as the whirlwind but noble-hearted Creon.
Lisa Coyroycli, as the Priestess of Artemis,
turned a perfect profile to the audience.
There was an impressive Seer (Th. Nezer),
priests, messengers and goatherds, and a
chorus that voiced moralisings in golden
strophes at the end of each act. And you
wondered, as you crowded out into the wet-
test night of "the year, what the first-night
Parthenon audience said and thought of this
modern fellow Sophocles, with his revolution-
ary ideas of bringing his characters right on
to" the stage and making them live their
drama, instead of having it told for them.
At Sydney Criterion, playgoers who swal-
lowed lumps in their throats and dabbed at
damp eyes when Gertrude Elliott was pre-
senting ‘‘‘Woman to Woman” are being given
a generous antidote of mirth and merriment
in “Enter Madame.” It’s pleasant comedy,
and Madame’s frocks are things to gloat
over.
* * H* *
“Mary” is still tripping it with quite
alluring vivacity at Her Majesty’s, Sydney.
If the goods delivered are not the absolutely
inspired poetry of motion, they are at all
events good swinging verse.
“Bulldog Drummond” continues to hand
out thrill and excitement in large helpings at
the Grand Opera House, Sydney. It’s whole-
some, robust melodrama to which patrons
bring obviously keen appetites and find the
catering all that they could desire.
Edward Branscombe’s Westminster Glee
Singers are occupying the Sydney Town Hall
dais for a short season, and to those who
are not wedded to either coon ditties or
Slavic outbursts it presents a fine oppor-
tunity for a judgment of simple, tuneful
English music. The programme is made up
of solos, glees, duets, quartettes, madrigals,
part songs and song cycles, and the per-
formance is remarkable for the facility and
purity of the voice-production. John
Andrews is a refreshingly masculine bass,
and Ellis Vizard is a pleasant enough senti-
mental tenor. Donald Reid’s mellow alto
must be a good friend to the collection-plate
of his native cathedral, while Alfred Cun-
ningham’s bass is the mustard that goes with
cold mutton. As for the knickerbocker end
of the party, Edmund Walter and Albert
Cooper sing so tunefully and soulfully that
one Avaits in trepidation for the wings to
sprout and the grand piano to turn into a
golden harp. A soothing and melodious show.
The fickle fiflblic’s fancy is now'.tickled
at Sydney Tivoli by Ruby Norton, With her
attractive personality and likeable songs,
varying from grand-opera arias to crazy jazz
stuff: she has a way of gaining first her
audience’s quiet sympathy and then its loud
applause. Ristori’s turn hasn’t changed;
his violin-playing is popular. Morris and
Kuming still rattle on, and their turn would
be better if about half-way through it they
rattled off. Roy Jeannette is a so-so step-
dancer —only that and nothing more—but
his partner, little Hazel Jennings, so enrap-
tured Ada Reeves on Saturday night that she
threw the dainty mite her own bouquet. The
Franchettis earn their salaries; Tilton and
West and Will Hastings get theirs.
Sheridan’s comedy, “The Rivals,” did not
suffer badly at the hands of the S.U.D.S.
in St. James’s Hall (Sydney) last week.
With the exception of the young man with
the improbable Irish accent, the players
said their lines in something that bore a
close resemblance to the vox humdna. John
Gould’s Sir Anthony Absolute was a really
good piece of work. The girls in the cast
looked well, and were audible nearly all the
time. Mary Spall’s Mrs. Malaprop suffered
from Youth, but held hints of better things;
and so did Geoffrey Rex’s Captain Abso-
lute.
;!t * * 8:
Sydney Lyceum is viewing with gasps of
approval Gloria Swanson’s return from a
debauch of jazz and cocktail. Discovering
that beneath all the midnight naughtiness
there lie the husks of dawn, Gloria flies
homewards, where a fatted calf is awaiting
her in tbe shape of a young airman. “Adam
and Eva,” at the Strand, 'are opposites at
the word “Go,” but gradually they take to
discussing details about the furnishing of
a bungalow. Which is satisfactory-to every-
body, especially Eva’s worried Papa. And
there is “Youth to Youth” for a fillup; and
you can take it whatever way you like. The
Rialto heralds “Souls Redeemed” for two
weeks, and any flapper who has mislaid
hers ought to drop in and see about it,
There promises to be a riot at the same
shop if “The Girl in His Room” is not all
its title suggests. Hoyt’s is providing sepa-
rate enclosures for barmen and W.CT.I.
while “The Face on the Bar-room Floor
is on its silver sheet. It can’t be as sobfm
as it is cracked up to be, judging by the
way brewery shares keep up on ’Change.
The Crystal Palace’s long vacation from
revolver duels is still on ; but that doesn,
prevent Robin Fairbanks Hood from experi-
menting with a bow and arrow.
Melbourne’s three musical shows—at Her
Majesty’s, the Palace and the Princess s—
are each and all declared to be the rage of
the town, with due regard to the trutn.
“Rockets” appears to be the most furious
rage of the three, but “Tangerine is within
striking-distance, and “Sybil” is going wed.
At the Royal, however, the sins of The Cat
and the Canary” are finding it out, and next
week will be its last. On August 18. Bailey
and Grant will stage “The Sentimental
Bloke” (the Play, not tbe Picture, says the
advt.) at the Royal, and Dennis’s tender,
slangy poem is sure to prosper. Its opening
season at the King’s last year was not long
enough to meet the wants of an expanding
reputation.
& ‘Jfi SjC *
Melbourne Town Hall will be twice filled
on Saturday. Moiseiwitsch and the Sym-
phony Orchestra play Beethoven s ‘Em-
peror” and Tschaikowsky’s Concerto m
Flat in the afternoon. Evelyn Scotney takes
the platform for singing purposes in the
evening. The songstress will be there again
on the 14tli, 16th, and matinee on lsta,
whereas Moisei, and the Orch. will have
only the evening of the 15th to make a great
noise in,
s*: * *
“Adam and Eva” is offering the latest
counterfeit of high life at Hoyt’s De Lute,
Melbourne. It is the common miracle of the
Society nymph who, developing into a domes-
tic angel,' becomes a moral for the guidance
of her expensive kind. “The First Degree,
a murder story that inflicts a great wrong on
Frank Mayo, is the other besetting enchant-
ment of Hoyt’s supporters this week.
Majestic audiences are beiug informed that
Anita Stewart’s virtue is still holding out
against great odds. The latest bulletin ot
the siege is entitled “A Question of Honor.
“From the Ground Up,” on the same bill, is
based on the axiom that a lover scorned who
runs away will live to scorn another day
At the Britannia “Dangerous Curve Ahead
advises the just-married of the possible skins
and side-slips on tbe road to happiness.
“Souls” are for sale at the Melba, hut busi-
ness doesn’t appear to be brisk.
“L.H.P.” : Cronin Wilson, now at the Syd-
ney Cri., was Faulkland in Lewis Wallers
notable revival of “The Rivals” at the Lon-
don Lyric in 1610. Waller played Captain
Absolute. Ada Farrar’s clever sister Beat-
rice played Lucy, the part Gertrude Ellmt
took in the Nat Goodwin revival at the or
Sydney Lyceum in 1896. The Acres ot
IValler’s show was Robert Loraine.


ctoars
■WHISKY
QUALITY
Quality is the Essence of Goodness
and Fine Blending. It conveys that
indefinable distinction, which makes
a man a prince among his fellows,
and Dewar’s a king among Whiskies.
Excellence in Distillation is a
Science, Pre-eminence in Blending
an Art. Dewar’s is a Mingling of
Choice Spirits. Quality stands for
Character, and Dewar’s for the ideal
combination of both.


THE PERFECT COMBINATION.
WARATAH
MOTOR
SPIRIT
A CLEAN, EASY-STARTING, ULTRA-POWERFUL SPIRIT,
and
NEPTUNE
MOTOR
OIL
Prepared in Different Grades to Suit Varying Types of Engines.
NEPTUNE OIL CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Port Adelaide, North Fremantle.
Queensland Agents: J. KITCHEN & SONS PTY., LTD., Brisbane.
WORLD.FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
Poverty
Point
L.T.PIVER, PARIS.
The "FACE POWDER
de Luxe."
“Whitehall’s” picture of a gTeat comedian :
Charles Hawtrey, who died last week, was unique
in the annals of the British stage. Picture a
plump, pasty-faced man, with small brown eyes, a
formless nose much thickened by high living, a
kindly, weak mouth from which a half-smile was
seldom absent, an undersized globular head on which
the black hair parted in the middle was sleekly
plastered, and you get an idea of how the most
natural actor England has produced appeared in his
prime. Hawtrey was born 65 years ago at Eton,
where his clergyman father was then a master, and
where he was educated. He brought to the stage
that rarest of gifts—the capacity to be himself
behind the footlights. The Irvings, father and son,
were great actors, but who ever believed in one of
their creations? Tree’s characters were figments.
George Alexander aimed persistently at naturalism
but never touched it —he was too consciously charm-
ing, too gleamingly well dressed. In all England,
until the star of Du Maurier rose, Hawtrey alone
had the authentic touch. At the Gaiety, George
Grossmith, junior, was offering a type that a hand-
ful of youths in the West End of London delighted
to emulate, but in such plays as “The Man from
Blankley’s” and “Lord and Lady Algy” Hawtrey
NO CAUSE'FOR TEMERITY.
HARLEQUIN : “I’m almost too afraid to ask
your father for you, darling.”
COLUMBLNE: “Well, you needn’t be—father
says I’ve kept him poor long enough.”
gave theatregoers one who was the whole king-
dom’s notion of what an English gentleman should
be. Incidentally, it was France’s notion also: there
was no warmer admirer of Hawtrey’s genius than
Coquelin. What were the qualities by which this
stout, plain, dissipated-looking man won such
universal admiration? In the first place, his diction
was perfect—another proof of Tennyson’s theory'
that the vicarages of England are the custodians of
the language. His voice was high, but melodious,
and it had a remarkable carrying capai itv. There
was something ingenuous about his moon-like face
and round startled eyes. They suggested a fascinat-
ing simplicity of nature (which, it is perhaps super-
fluous to say, he was far from possessing), and did
much to make him the most perfect stage liar that
has appeared in any part of the world. “Restraint,
restraint and then restraint” was his artistic watch-
word. “Gall ’im an aristocrat!” the usual apocry-
phal Hebrew exclaimed" as Hawtrey walked on in the
first act of “Lord and Lady A'lgy.V “Whore’s ’is
jooleryf” He rigorously eschewed “joolery.” He
under-played sartorially, so to speak, in contrast
to the frequent type of London actor whose ultra-
perfect clothes hit the eye like searchlights. One
must add to these assets his Jiumor (the suave,
subtle humor of a cultivated and cynical cosmo-
politan) and a piercing eye for character in the
only quarters which interested him —London society
and the middle and upper-middle classes of Eng-
land.
“Xorbell”: Charles Hawtrey’s first big
success was with “The Private Sec-
retary” in ’B3. He was identified with
many popular hits afterwards, notably
“A Message front Mars.” He played
Horace Parker, and George S. Titheradge
the Messenger. The comedy had been hawked
about by Richard Ganthony as a serious
play; Hawtrey saw its possibilities as a
whimsical comedy and altered it accord-
ingly, making it a winner. Hawtrey’s brother
William, who had been in Australia with the
first “Sign of the Cross” outbreak, came back
fin 1901 with the “Message front Mars” and
had a great run with it. William died in
New York in 1914.
“A.R.C.”: It is 77 years since Sydney-
first saw “The Beggar’s Opera.” The
piece was produced at the old Victoria on
March 30, 1840, with Mrs. Stirling (Polly),
Mrs. Wallace (Lucy), Mrs. Gibbs (Mrs.
Peachum), F. llowson (Filch), J. Houson
(Captain Macheath) and J. Lazar (Pea-
chum) in the principal roles. It ran for only
-a few nights, but was revived on various
occasions in after years.
“Orb” : In 1728, or thereabouts, John Gay-
submitted “The Beggar’s Opera” to Cibber
at Drury-lane. Cibber turned it doyvn. The
poet then tried Rich, at the Lincoln’s-Inn-
Fields Theatre, and Rich had the nous to
accept it. The “Opera” was produced at the
smallest cost possible ; Lavinia Fenton, who
played Polly, received a. starring salary of
15 shillings a week. It ran for 63 nights and
made money for all concerned ; and Lavinia
married the Duke of Bolton. It is recorded
that “she became so obnoxious to the lower
orders, that when she died they were with
difficulty prevented from dragging her out
of her coffin.” Of Lavinia, Horace Walpole
wrote: "The famous Polly, Duchess of Bol-
ton, is dead. After a life of merit, she re-
lapsed into her Pollyhood.”
“Guarek”: My recollections of Elen and
Chevalier, as impersonators of the East End
wearer of the “pearlies” (B. 26/7/’23), are
that their modes of presenting the character
differed widely. Elen utilised an orchestra
and invited the audience to chortle the
chorus. Chevalier did his work to the
accompaniment of a stage piano, and sang
his choruses solus. In addition, Chevalier
was a character actor who included yokel,
Chelsea Pensioner and heavy tragedian items
in his music-hall repertory. Elen, on the
other hand, never essayed anything but
blimy-bloke stuff, save when he was Father
Christmas to slum kids of the Brixton neigh-
borhood where he lived. Both Elen and
Alec Hurley were Cockneys. Chevalier’s
were the efforts of an inspired student.
“Second Murderer” in his own defence :—-
“Histrionicus” (B. 2/8/’23) says that I’m all
abroad because I mentioned that Robert Brough
and Emma Temple played in “La Fille du Tambour
Major” at Melbourne Royal 38 years ago. Also,
“Histrionicus” gives what he claims to be the ori-
ginal cast of the opera and specifies Nellie Stewart
as the Drummer-boy. Here is chapter and verse.
Brough and Miss Temple played in “Tambour Major”
at the T.R., Melbourne, on June 27, 188.3. Nellie
Stewart was Stella. The opera was first presented
in Australia by George Musgrove at Melbourne
Opera House on Monday, Dec. 27, 1880, with Chas.
Van Gliele as conductor and Thomas Zeplin as
leader. It ran a hundred nights. On that same
Dec. 27 Nellie Stewart opened as “Sinbad the Sailor”
at the Royal; so she couldn’t have been the Drum-
mer at the Opera House. As a fact, Jessie Grey
was in that part.
“B.” : A life of the American theatrocrat,
Charles Frohman, who went down in the
Lusitania in 19i5, contains some kindly
references to Dion Boucicault, now appear-
ing with Irene Vanbrugh at Melbourne
King’s. Frohman employed Boucicault as
his producer during liis rather disastrous
control of the Duke of York’s, London,
where he made a brave and expensive effort
to popularise repertory drama with the
Cockney public. He had known the Bouci-
cault family in America, and Dion cherishes
sundry recollections of the little Ybankee who
made and lost fortunes with bewildering fre-
quency and had many personal eccentricities.
He recalls the manager’s extraordinary.fond-
ness for apple-pie, chocolates and syrupy
drinks. And it was Frohman’s habit never
to have a written contract with any of his
stars, and never to go back on his oral
agreements—they were often made in hotel
lounges. Another curious practice, which
excites mordant reflections on the self-adver-
tisement of other managers in our time, was
to efface himself entirely on a first-night
and watch the show in his ordinary clothes
from the last row in the gallery. It is to
his credit that he never once took a curtain-
call, generously allowing his subordinates to
express the heartfelt thanks of the manage-
ment.
"Wilfrido”: I fail to detect any sign of
improvement in English films. Stodginess
is still their chief feature. At least America
has learnt" that while a picture may make a
star, the corollary does not hold that a star
can make a picture. Recently I witnessed
Fay Compton in “A Woman of No Import-
ance.” The adapter has taken the liberty
of misconstruing the author’s ideas and
misquoting his epigrams. The spectacle of
Fay Compton, as a prospective mother,
bowed in sin, tottering back to her father’s
home, would have been excruciating torture
to Wilde. Then the movie depicts Gerald
Arbuthnot (he looks 10 years older than
h'is mother) as a rising barrister, in spite
THE EDUCATOR.
SEASONED AND SOPUISTICATED MOVIE PATRON: “ Kissin ’
her, eh? I wonder if that’s her husbin ’ or the
trusted friend of the family!”
of the fact that he is only 20, and that
Wilde was satisfied to let him earn his crust
as a bank-clerk. The lights and shades are
crudely photographed, and the action is
pitiably slow. The trouble with the British
producer is that he lacks not only artistic
vision but a working knowledge of his craft.
A matter of big fleas and little fleas: —
The slump in the London theatrical business is
partly due to the fact that a terrible lot of middle-
men have to be paid before a showman can place his
goods before thepublic, and the public, in buying
the goods, has to pay accordingly. Take the pro-
gramme of an entertainment at the Savoy. It states
that the proprietors of the building are the Savoy
Theatre, Ltd., and the licensee is Rupert
D'Oyley Carte. But the sole lessees and managers
are the executors of 11. B. Irving. Needless to say,
the dead man’s executors are not engaged in theatrical
speculation, save as lessees to a sub-lessee. So it
was Thos. G. Dagnall who presented Charles Hawtrey
in “Ambrose Applejohn’s Adventure.”
That was some months ago. Since then Robert
Courtneidge has sub-leased the Savoy from the execu-
tors of 11. B. Irving, and under his nominal manage-
ment the house is rented to the Mil'bourne Syndicate,
which presents “Pol ly,” of which Courtneidge has
only the provincial rights. Previously the blessed
Milbourne Syndicate presented “Polly” at the Kings-
vvay, by arrangement with Lillah McCarthy, the pro-
prietors of the Kingsway Theatre being a limited
company and the licensee a certain F. R. Littler.
The landlord, the licensee and Lillah McCarthy, who
presumably was lessee from the licensee, had to get
their bits ere the syndicate began to run “Polly.”
In some cases, of course, the first lessee (who may
even be his own landlord) is the person who presents
the show. The Queen’s, say, is licensed to Alfred
Butt, who produces “Bluebeard’s Eighth Wife,” with
Madge Titheradge as the heroine. Or the Aldwych,
licensed to our lucky' friend of yore, Tom Walls, who,
in partnership with Leslie Henson, produces “Tons of
Money.” In their case there is a “proprietor” of
the theatre, and his name is Abrahams. His name is
on the bill. But at the back of many such business
concerns there is an Abrahams, an Isaacs or a Jacobs
whose name is not disclosed.
“Bello”: Nellie Stewart (B. 2/8/’23) is a
direct descendant of that Mrs. Yates who
was in Garrick’s co. at Drury-lane. Her
father and mother were both noted nla.vers;
they were Captain Macheath and Polly in
an early Australian production of “The
Beggar’s Opera.” Nellie’s daughter, Nancye,
with such a mother, and born and bred in a
stage atmosphere, ought to carry on the
family tradition. She has had excellent ex-
perience in America with Walker Whiteside
and others, and had a long spin with the
Jewett Players at Boston—H. R. Jewett is
well remembered here. Just now Nancye is
with Emelie Polini in MX., and getting rat-
tling good notices for her work.
"T.P.”: W. 11. Hoskins, mentioned uy
“Second Murderer” (B. 19/7/’23), wasn’t
the kind of man to invoke the Bard in kerb-
stone language at a stock co.’s rehearsal,
i,ending Shakspearean actor and critic in the
days when I was theatre-mad, he spoke of
Shakspeare always in terms of reverence.
Hoskins died penniless, and sleeps in an un-
known grave. The last time I saw him he
was sitting up in bed —it was a bed of pain
—giving an elocution lesson. In reply to
protests he said: “It is all I can do. How
else can I live?” Yet the man was the idol
of the diggers in Ballarat’s roaring days.
He made money easily, and spent it like
water, as others of his profession did before
him and others will do again.
“B.” : Talking of stage realism I recall a
humorous rehearsal of "Tiger Rose,” the
French-t'anadian murder-drama that was
staged at Melbourne King’s
about three years ago. The
main feature of the piece was
one of Belasco’s imitations of
a thunderstorm that ended in
sousing rain on the heroine’s
back verandah. An American
person, who had taken honors
in the Belasco School of Pro-
duction, was specially imported
to see that the wet weather
was turned on according to
directions, and he had the
stage staff instructed carefully
in every operation. At the
final rehearsal the quiet out-
side was broken by a genuine
roll of thunder. Up jumped
the great perdoocer, his tongue
lolling out with the weight of
its unexpended blasphemy.
“ ! !” he spluttered to
the staff. “You’re a nice crate
o’ guys. That wasn’t a bit
like it!”
“The Deacon”: The eminent
Irish actor was doing the
“smalls” with his budget of
pretty Irish plays, so-called
because they were mostly made
in Chicago. In response to a
deputation from the citizens of
Hen Egg (there were about 40
paying guests at Hen Egg),
he agreed to produce “East
Lynne,” and undertook to play
the villain himself. It remains
with me yet, the memory of
that fruity brogue, with an
undertaker’s ruin two sizes too
small on the top of the round,
full face, imploring Isabel to elope. “Floi wid
me, Isserbil.” he entreated. And floi the
lady did, despite the advice of a corrugated
mass of whiskers in the front row to “think
twice, ma’am.”
“Thersites” his yarn
Bland Holt did hit the roof occasionally over first-
night slips and solecisms (B. 2/8/’23), but no one
could make him so absolutely rabid as John Cos-
grove, now older and more sedate after a long course
of Oscar Hashish. Cosgrove, an incurable practical
joker, was a constant anxiety to Bland. When the
big court scene of “A Woman’s Revenge” was
staged at Dunedin (Bland’s native town), two old
gentlemen-supers were secured as associate judges to
sit on either side of the presiding justice. With
rigid adherence to Old Bailey traditions, Bland had
large bouquets placed in front of each judge. John
interviewed the two greybeard amateurs just before
the scene opened. “D’ye know what those flowers
are for?” he demanded. “No, sir,” chirped the
ancients. “Tut, tut,” said John, “they’ve forgotten
to tell you. I'll see you right. Every' time I wink,
you stand up, pick up the flowers, and bow.” The
impressive scene started, and presently John, who
was on stage, gave the bench the wink. Promptly
the two old gents obeyed instructions. The audience
was puzzled, the presiding judge frantic, and Holt
delirious. Presently John winked again, and again
their Honors responded with a polite bow, and the
audience yelled. So did Bland Holt. John Cosgrove
didn’t climb down from the roof of the Princess’s
Theatre till 3 next morning for fear Bland would
shoot him with the property revolver.
“T. 0.1.”: When G. V. Brooke was about
to leave Australia in 1861 he planned to travel
by the Suffolk, Captain J. B. Martin. On the
Suffolk’s voyage out a sailor was lost overboard
in the night. A boat, manned by an officer
and four seamen, was lowered, and the
steamer stood by, but the cockleshell didn’t
return, and was thought to have been
swamped. Actually it was picked up by a
passing vessel, and reached Melbourne while
the Suffolk was still in the Bay. Bailiffs
were waiting for Brooke, and he shifted to
the Great Britain. They tracked him to that
craft, but one of them, Brady, warned his
assistant, whom I knew well, that he wasn’t
to see anything, so Brooke sat at ease in the
second officer’s cabin while Brady was
“searching.” In after.years Captain J. B.
Martin transferred to the London. He was
on the bridge when she went down in the
Bay of Biscay, January 13, 1866, with the
great tragedian and his fortune?
THE REBUFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“You’ll not betray me?” said, in accents weak,
The film-fan girl he fondled as they sat
Together on a log; he’d kissed her cheek,
For she was young, nor yet too thin nor fat.
“You’ll not betray me?” and she hung her head
She’d watched the damsels in the “picture” trade.
Poor Bill, embarrassed, felt his face turn red,
And dropped the arm he’d wound around the maid.
No evil thought had crept into his mind,
Nor hurried there. No prompting of Desire
Moved Bill to hearken to that demon blind
Whose touch is fever and whose breath is fire.
Did danger threaten, Bill was e’er alert
To combat, or to seek a safety zone;
But with this young and foolish piece of skirt
He’d reckoned he could trust himself alone.
“You’ll not betray me?” —now she whispered low,
For no reply had come from Bill as yet.
And he, the gallant knight who feared no foe,
Decided that the question must be met.
With critic’s eye he viewed the Yeas and Nays,
Two lots of arguments, and weighed them both ;
Then chilled the damsel with his honest gaze,
Ag thoughtfully he answered “No, my Oath!”
VICTORIA.
O.K.


//
in
P^-
<m
Which man did not
shave with the “VALET
jdutoStrop this morning?
TOOK round the compar.ment and see the
bright, clean shaved morning faces—all of
I .. -J men conscious that they are looking their
best and feeling their best. There behind his
newspaper is the unfortunate man who knev
not the ‘ Valet ’ Auto Strop. He keeps instinc-
tively in the background.
Managing Agents for Australia : PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 42 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The “Valet" Au'oStrop is a safety razor and
stropping machine combined. It sharpens its
blades in a few seconds by an ingenious
device built into the head of the razor, and can
be cleaned and stropped without removing the
blade. You save the cost of the “ Valet Auto-
Strop many times in the year by stopping the
wastage of purchasing “ throw-away blades.
“Wanstead,”
Ruby Street, Mosman,
Messrs. Phipson & Co. Ltd., 11/6/ 23*
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —I have used various kinds of Safety
Razors for over 20 years, and having recently bought a
“Valet” Auto-Strop Razor am decidedly of the opinion
that it is undoubtedly the best that I have ever used,
shaving cleaner and closer than any other, and quite
the most convenient for cleaning and stropping.
Yours faithfully,
( Signed ) R. E. JONES.
m
Of all high class dealers
N. 101. MODFL “C” SET.
Besides the well-known, highly-
finished set which has won and
retained its place as the world’s
finest shaving implement, there
is now obtainable a less expen-
sively finished model known as
Model “C.” This consists of
“Valet” Razor, strop and three
blades, in durable metal case,
complete at
i
[British 'J&ade.
■
lilljlli
i l ■ ■■
London-made
Grandfather
Clocks.
THE CASE is of solid Mahogany,
and the dial is made of pierced gilt
metal with silvered circle hand-
somely engraved.
THE MOVEMENT on 9 tubes
plays three chimes: St. Michael,
Whittington and Westminster,
changeable at pleasure by indicator
on dial. There is also an indicator
to shut off chimes and hour strike,
making clock silent.
Height of clock, 7ft. 6in.
PRICE, £l5O.
A smaller model, standing 6ft. high,
chiming the Westminster Chimes on
5 Tubes, with Plain Silver Dial, is
also stocked. This is an ideal clock
for the smaller villa or flat.
PRICE, £lOO.
Special attention is drawn to the
Jacobean Clocks, playing the West-
minster Chimes on 8 gongs every
quarter, half-hour and hour.
Height, 6ft. 3in.
£27/10/-, £35 and £5O.
®Em. Bruntmont! & Co
Jewellers,
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
For Buffalo
And Kosciusko
When you spend your holiday ’mid the snows CORRECT
CLOTHING is half the pleasure of the trip, and every item
here offered assures to the wearer a distinction of appearance
and the fullest measure of warmth and comfort possible.
FOR WOMEN:
The PALMERINE COAT, a light, warm,
shower-proof garment, made to fit over all;
with inverted pleat under each arm for per-
fect freedom; in Gabardines and Covert
Coating, 75/-. BREECHES, Tailor-made,
readv for wear, correct in everv detail. In
Khaki Drill, 35/-; Khaki Cords, 45/-;
Canton Mole, 42 /-; Gabardine,
50/-; Covert Coating. 70/-;
and Blue Twill, 84/-. PUTTEES,
Navv. 3yds. long, 10/- per pair.
HIGH-LEG BOOTS, in Black Box
Calf, 215/-. GUM BOOTS, 21/-.
PUTTEE LEGGINGS, for Girls
and Boys, 12/6; Ladies’, 14/6.
Spring Front Puttee Leggings,
Tan and Black, 18/6. 25/-.
BRUSHED WOOL SCARVES,
from 18/6. CASHMERE SPORTS
HOSE, 6/11.
FOR MEN:
BREECHES, in all Wanted Tex-
tures, from 25/-, Strapped and
Laced. CANVAS BUTTON SPATS,
impervious to Snow or Rain.
LE A THER CAPS, 15/-.
BALACLAVA CAPS, 4/6.
TW E E D II AT S, 10/6.
TWEED CAPS, from
4/6: with Earlaps, 7/6.
PUTTEE LEGGINGS, 18/6
to 25/-. PUTTEES, 10/-
COAT SWEATERS, all
shades, 15/-. HEAVY
ALL-WOOL KNITTED
1-HOSE, 3/6. GUM
BOOTS, 30/-.
CALL OR WRITE TO-DAY.
WE PAY FREIGHT.
V
v:
r
LINCOLN, STUART & CO. PTY. LTD
** Specialists in Sporting Wear,**
244-54 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


“The Blowpipe”
FREE TO WELDERS.
“The Blowpipe,” the mouthy publi-
cation of our service department, is
free to all interested in Oxp-Acety-
lene Welding. Send your name for
inclusion in our list.
%
«
vi
8 miles of Gas Main welded by COMOX
Over one thousand Oxy-Acetylene-welded joints
mm
1
Spur-wheel fdfri. driving the paddles of
a log punt on' the Northern Rivers—-
repaired by Comox.
TN the construction of pipe lines for the transmission of gas, air, water, steam, or
oil, the Oxy-Acetylene process offers many advantages over other systems.
1 hat this fact is now becoming universally recognised is shown by the accompanying
photograph, of a section of an alb-welded gas-main being lowered into its trench at
Adelaide, South Australia.
This main, which was constructed of Sin. steel piping throughout, was eight miles
in length, and contained 1,050 welded joints. For simplicity of construction, several
lengths of piping were welded together into sections, the pipes being rolled to facilitate
welding. The sectiora were then welded together, after being lowered into position in
the trench.
The advantage in welding is that, whereas a screwed joint constitutes a weak link, a
welded joint can be made even stronger than the pipe itself, by reinforcing the weld.
1 he South Australian Gas Co.—for whom the main was constructed—were evidently
alive to this fact when they specified oxy-welded joints. The fact that the main with-
stood a standard test of 401bs. per square inch, and was pronounced “highly satisfactory,”
justifies their action, and also reflects credit on the never ending power of COMOX. But
the adaptibility of COMOX does not end there. In every branch of industry there
is a hundred uses to which the Comox Blowpipe is applied. In the fabrication of steel,
in steel construction, in repair work, wherever metal is needful—there COMOX is a nec-
essity. From the cutting of massive girders, to the repairing of a homely kitchen pot,
Comox, by its almost human flexibility, becomes the great factor in productive and
constructive industry.
There are hundreds of Comox Welders throughout Australia, ready and willing to
demonstrate to you the economical short-cuts attained by the Comox Blowpipe.
COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN and ACCESSORIES LIMITED,
Foy Street, Balmain,
Melbourne: Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins Street.
Adelaide: Geo Wills & Co. Ltd., Grenfell Street.
Brisbane: Queensland Oxygen Ltd., Newstead
Ter., Newstead.
CX 161
Sydney, N.S. Wales
Perth: Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Murray Street.
Launceston: Harrison Bros. & Co., Ltd., 10
Patterson Street.
Suva, Fiji: Browne & Joske.


Safety and Long' Service
in these Motor-car Steels
—and that’s what the motor world demands. Resist shock and strain with
the famous High-grade Sheffield Steel, branded
“An Eagle on a Globe.”
°i£ OM^°
oz a s
91 as
zi a s
iz a s
High Tensile Chrome Vanadium Steel for
Axles, Baek-axle Tubes, Swivel Arms, etc.
Supplied Heat-treated.
Air-hardening, Nickel Chrome Steel for
Gears and highly-stressed parts.
Special Nickel Steel (to case-harden) for
Gear Wheels, Gudgeon Pins, Shafts, etc.
High Tensile Nickel Chrome (oil-hardening)
Steel for Shafts, Axles, Spindles, Differen-
tials, and similar gears which are always in
mesh.
Let “AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE” be your guide to economy and
better service, and send for post-free booklet, “Balfour’s Hints on Steel.”
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Associated Company ARTHUR BALFOUR & CO., LTD.
Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
SYDNEY: 379-381 Kent Street.
MELBOURNE: 343-318 Swanston Street.
NEWCASTLE: Paul & Gray Ltd., Scott Street.
BRISBANE: John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street.
ADELAIDE: Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie
Street.
HOBART: R. L. Milligan, 33a Argyle Street.
ALSO AT FREMANTLE AND KALGOORLIE.
SATISFYING SHAVES ,NONE
RAZOR
i |UJ,Y THIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
comfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-
ness brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
Pair in
Throughout
presentation Case
&J- Post Free
Ar
!
to
S!
Guaranteed
in order for two years free
CRAIG *, AITKEN.6S4 (3EORGE ST. SYDNEY
Boiler Scaling and
Rust Removing
by the most efficient and economical methods
ever invented. The “SKATOSKALO” Patent
Scaling Tools, Electric, Petrol, Pneumatic.
Write for particulars to the Australian
Agents: A. McARTHUR & CO., 29-33
Clarence Street, Sydney. [1
Amusement*.
g YI)N 15 Y’S CIII 15 F TIIISA T R E S
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: MARY.
CRITERION: ENTER, MADAME.
ROYAL: BRAN PIE.
PALACE: THE BEGGAR’S OPERA.
G band OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Tvr x- < Proprietor, GEORGE MARLOW.
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2.30.
EVENINGS AT 8.
Sir Benjamin Fuller and Mr. John Fuller present
NEW LONDON DRAMATIC COMPANY.
(By arrangement with Hugh J. Ward Theatres
Pty., Ltd.)
Sapper’s Thrilling play of Adventure.
BULLDOG DRUMMOND.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
J C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S.
SYBIL.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE CAT AND THE CANARY.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD’S COMPANY OF COMEDIANS IN
TANGERINE.
Plans at Glen’s.
pALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Lt.d.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD'S SPECTACULAR REVUE,
ROCKETS.
“THE BRIGHTEST SHOW IN TOWN.’’
_____ Plans at Glen’s.
M OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
’ * Also SYDNEY.
MARION DAVIES in
ADAM AND EVA.
FRANK MAYO in
THE FIRST DEGREE.
Prices as usual.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
IRENE VANBRUGH and DION BOUCICAULT in
HIS HOUSE IN ORDER.
|y| A.IISSTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
POOR MEN’S WIVES.
A CRICHTMAN PRODUCTION.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEARE AN
1 PRODUCTIONS.
SYDNEY SEASON: CONSERVATORIUM OF MUSIC
Sat., 18th August, to Sat., Bth September.
Head Office, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
5/ Commonwealth Loan 5%
1928.
PRINCIPAL REPAYABLE 15th SEPTEMBER, 1928.
CASH SUBSCRIPTIONS.
Subscriptions may be paid in full or by instalments.
Price of Issue - £9B
(Amount repayable to investors in 1928 = £100.)
Closing Date: 3rd September, 1923.
Nett Return on a £lOO Bond. How it actually works out:
OUTLAY.
Deposit with application .. £lB 0 0
linal deposit due September
14. 1923 . . • . . ■ 80. 0 0
Nett return to Investor oner whole period
of loan (5 years ) .. ..
£9B 0 0
27 2 6
£125 2 6
RETURN.
Ist special interest payment, March 15,
1924 £2 12 6
Nine half-yearly interest payments of
£2/10/- each 22 10 0
(Paid on March 15 and September 15
each year.)
Amount repaid to Investor on maturity
of Loan (September 15, 1928) .. 100 0 0
£125 2 6
Thus a nett return of £27/2/6 on an outlay of £9B represents an actual
interest return of £5/9/3 p.c. per annum.
Bonds may be taken us for as low an amount as £lO,
Commonwealth
Melbourne.
Treasury,
EARLE PAGE,
Treasurer.
i
Preciseness in Construction
T'HE last bolt on a Paige-
Jewett is as important as
the first and no part is so
small as to escape the scrutiny
of the closest inspection*
The Paige-Jewett Company
jealously guards its reputa-
tion for the perfect mechan-
ical construction of its
motor cars* The proper bal-
ance of the engine as related
to all the moving parts with
the correct placing of weight
allows of easy riding and
excess of power with little or
no friction or vibration*
Going up-hill is where the
mettle shows* The full
flexible power of the six
cylinders accelerates in go-
ing up-grade.
The Paige-Jewett motor car
was built for just such emer-
gencies. Every Paige-Jewett
owner will tell you this and
it can be demonstrated per-
sonally any day you arrange
for a trial run.
Victoria: WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
58 A’Beckett Street, Melbourne.
N.S.W.: HOSKINS AUTOMOBILE SALES CO.
172 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
&
mm
&TZ
90*
U-rf
fi
Lj
all
4
VL
I
■


You Can Learn to Draw.
There are many things you see and
hear that can be turned into money if you
could draw. Start a course now with
The Harry J. Weston Postal
School of Drawing.
It takes you step by step from the rudi-
ments of sketching- to the very highest
branches of the Artist’s profession.
The lessons are simple. You will make
rapid progress, and, remember, we teach
you to draw, not to copy.
Send three penny stamps with your name
and address, and we will post you a booklet
called
“There’s Money in the Pen.”
It explains the course, gives examples and
cost of tuition.
CO-'
fk
SsA
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
247 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
KINGSLEY PRIVATE HOTEL
Mrs. GREAVES, Proprietress.
The most exclusive in Brisbane. Accommodation
for 200 Guests. Newly Furnished throughout.
Room and Breakfast, or Inclusive Terms, can 1 e
arranged. Moderate Tariff. Every Convenience.
Adjoining Queensland Club and Botanical
Gardens, GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
The best in n
Mouth Organs
,f7Tse
BfIPMERANG
When Jimmy Jones opened
his Birthday presents, there
was one from his Dad that
he reckoned “the pick of the
bunch,” and to cut a long joy
story short we will tell you—
it was a
“BOOMERANG ”
MOUTH ORGAN
A Bonserino! a big one—one
with 20 holes and 40 reeds—
and a clear sweet tone.
The Large “Boomerang”
COSTS 5/“ ONLY
Postage 6d extra.
But there is also a
MINIATURE BOOMERANG
~ MOUTH ORGAN
with 10 holes and 20 reeds.
COStS 37-
Postage 3d extra.
J. Albert & Son
Dept. 18
“BOOMERANG HOUSE”
. 137 KING STREET
SYDNEY
Also at
294-298 LITTLE
COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE.
X
We welcome enquiries
from Wholesale Stores.
sdf
If any illustration appearing, in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Missing Friends.
GUS 3010.
Write to Dad. Anxious.
IF EDGAR B. ULPH will apply to under-
signed he will hear of something to his
advantage.
W. D. ULPH,
Waihi, New Zealand.
The National Trustees Company is
anxious to obtain information as to whether
the following children of John Zimmerman (who died
in 1916) and Janet Zimmerman (who died in 1890)
are still alive, or if dead, proof as to deaths, and
whether married and leaving issue:—
JANET JAMIESON (formerly Zimmerman).
HENRY ZIMMERMAN.
BARBARA LOUISA ZIMMERMAN.
Anyone acquainted with any of the above, or who
can supply any information concerning them, please
communicate at once with NATIONAL TRUSTEES
COMPANY, 113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
MADE-TO-ORDER LEGGINGS.
li
al"
No. 298 —SIMPLEX.
We specialise in these and guarantee
a Perfect Fit, if you can call and be
fitted.
If it is impossible to call, send us
measurements as indicated below.
No. 36. CONCERTINA LEGGINGS,
with Buckles at bottom. Color as desired—all
Black or Tan tops with Black centres. 45/-
pair. Postage 1/-
No. 310. CONCERTINA LEGGINGS,
with buckles at bottom, and colors as desired,
45/- pair. Postage 1/-
No. 298. SIMPLEX SPRING FRONT,
superior Pigskin Leggings, 56/6. Postage 1/-
No. 299. “SIMPLEX” LEGGINGS, in
smooth hide, bound top and lined bottom, 45/-
Postage 1/-
HOW TO MEASURE.
Measure with a tape over Breeches or Trousers,
giving Top, Calf, Ankle and Height. Don’t
measure too high—an average man needs a legging
121 inches high. For Concertina leggings measure
round Heel over Instep.
sdf
No. 36—CONCERTINA.
WRITE
FOR
CATALOG.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.,
Saddlers, 395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1
m
m
Scientifically
Infallible at
ALL Altitudes.
The
RED ARM
signals danger
20 minutes
beforehand.
• the conspicuous Red Arm of the Thermomanometre is plainlv
visible, warning- of the approach of overheating troubles, and helping as well to
forestall the expensive loss of petrol by overcooling.
With Real Silvered Wings, £3.
From Garages, Accessory Supplies and Dept. Stores.
GATTINO & CO., LTD., Agents, 39-41 York Street, SYDNEY.
Sy>e THERMOMANOMETRE
Indicateur.
“ Look for the warning RED ARM.”
sdf
Onoto Streamline Model
The most handsome and up-to-date pen ever made.
i? design—it cannot leak. Onoto in simplicity
—it rills itself. Its charming lines and superb balance,
its elegant finish and perfect construction stamp it
forever “A Prince among Pens.”
THOMAS Dli LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhurst
• 50 York Street, Sydney.
ONOTO INK —Best for all Pens.
Quality Creams
for Quality Shoes
They replace the natural oil in
the leather—keep it soft and
flexible, ensy on the feet—and
give a radiant, all-day shine.
Put up in bottles and tubes.
In all colours.
Bostock’s Polishes Ltd.
Box 91,
Haymarket,
SYDNEY
sd
s
Bostock
SHOE CREAMS
i THEY GOME AS A BOON g A BLESSING TO MEN
THE PICKWICK.THE OWL 8 THE WAVERLEY PEN.
SUNDAY TOURIST TRIP to SOUTH SHORE,
VAUCLUSE and MIDDLE HARBOR.
Leaves Fort Macquarie 3 p.m.
Adults 1/6; Children 6d.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE to BALMORAL
No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8-10 p.m.
Fare 9d. Return. Arriving on return about 9.45 p.m.
INSTRUMENTAL QUARTET BY MEMBERS OF STATE ORCHESTRA
ON BOTH TRIPS.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
0 notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
E.S.J. : That heap has been well raked
during the long run of the piece at Hammersmith.
• •■.Con A.: So bumpy that our teeth rattled as we
read it. .. . J.F.K.: Better send a child of that age
to a school. ...Gylandah: Everything accepted is
paid for, but there’s no space for items of only
local interest. You’ve got to ask yourself: Will this
interest the woman on Thursday Island and the man
at Esperanee Bay? Eye Witness: No use sending
us a long correction of an article that appeared in
another paper an article of which probably not one
m a thousand Bulletin readers ever saw as much as
the headlines.... Gesco: The personal pars are good;
there's always a market for their like Mulga W.:
i hanks; but we’ve got past those generalities, and
got down to particulars W.J.C.: We don’t know
what it means, but it sounds all right:—
No-one’s seen a government,
No one ever wid ;
If they did they’d be content,
Heach the high ideal;
All striving would be over —
That would never do ;
Soon get sick of clover,
Look around for rue.
....L.B. (Kensington): There is no pulse in it
A.H.8.: Misses... .James H.: Goes rather heavily...
T.P.D.: Two badly strained sonnets... D.F.W.: You’ll
lose your poet’s license if you do things like that
again.... Ex-Digger: Mercifully put out of its pain.
....lan M.: Also ran.... Dunbar: Send it to the
damsel; she may be able to endure it. .. .G.M.L.:
As faint and thin as the Hallelujah of an oyster....
J.F.K.: Story hasn’t much interest, and the melo-
dramatic part is the worst. .. .V.L. (Ararat): Almost
incredibly bad.... Ethos: An old idea not convinc-
ingly handled.... G.L.8.: We’ve killed your rabbit.
.... Charles M.: Not for u 5.... John Peel: Keeps too
close to the beaten track M.H. J.: Not unpleasant,
but it somehow doesn’t just get there.... A.A.A.:
The suggestion is well handled, but it is a bit too
slight.... W.M.8.: They are not very interesting....
G.E.A.G.: Those are impossible schemes of rhyme
that jar on any ear. The second and fourth lines of
a quatrain must rhyme, or there is no real rhyme
effect at all. Five lines of uneven length with the
same rhyme are also impossible. .. .W.J.W.: No good.
. ...P.R.S.: There is more humor in a hungry bailiff
on a wet day... .W.J.S.: Did the fish hit him, or is
it some mysterious way of saying that he caught the
flu?. .. .T.P.D.: You lean on a rail in the moonlight
—only that and nothing more.... Dix J.: Nothing-
in them but a little noise Geo. B.: That might be
amusing enough if spoken, but in print it would go
wearily... .A.R.G.: The same old thing... .Irene
W-: Not up... . Ausa: That ancient thirst has been
told in better verse Otaki: Doesn’t get past, the'
doormat. .. .R.D.C.: “Baronial Tendancies” is still
some distance off Bally: The “Cattle Judge"
doesn’t go briskly enough. .. .Jim P.: The yarn is of
ancient materials and not well carpentered.... Kat:
“The Illicit Still”-opens bravely:—
A poet’s born with a silvery tongue,
That’s what his readers think ;
But 1 know different, and I’m not sprung,
But what will you have to drink ?
For I can make nectar flow from a bag of chaff—
That is, if you’x-e a goat.
It’s tricky stuff, and you’ll have to laugh
If you lap up everything I wrote.
I make from a bag of rotten grapes,
After they have filtered down my pen,
A bubbling wine that operates
On wooden-headed men ;
And from a tin of cherry plum,
Which I blend with the east wind I bag
A brew that knocks politicians dumb—
Flows freely, till their tongues won’t wag.
But isn’t the silencing- of the politician’s tongue
carrying poetic license a bit too far? Simla:
“Anchored” is well enough done, but doesn’t say any-
thing. . .5.A.8.: only picture-show stuff of the shoddy
American pattern. You even put in the “bar-tender,”
an animal unknown in the Australian bush....
J.0.M.: You will have to do better than that....
W.J.0.: A very crude little thing C.W.P.: As
slight as our hope of the throne of China Meph:
Send them to the girl. If she’s deaf she may not
object to rhyming “yours” with “draws” G.D.
(Ryde) : She’s a very mild ginger-beer sort of char-
woman. .. .H.M.J.: It’s rather thin gruel for u 5....
G.W. (Thornleigh): We didn’t find it exciting
Cur: The “Man-eating Tiger” has too great a disre-
gard for metre and some other things... .Wybaleena:
The verses move feebly and are ungrammatical....
0.W.W.: The worst of your old commonplaces is that
so many of them are not true Chas. B.: Highly
moral verse that says the old copy-book headings,
and says them a little worse Hazard: One has a
chance A.E.M.: Not much in it N.K.J.: Must
go back. .. . A.T.D.: Truth is not enough in itself to
make a yarn go ; and long letters of explanation don’t
help. Returned. . . .H.N.T.: A wretched business. .. .
M.J.8.: Commonplace thinking and bad writing....
Har: The funeral is ugly without being interesting...
Henry IX.: The yarn doesn’t make us believe it’s
true. ... A.K.H.: Very lumpy... .Doctor: A repetition
of the same yarn without the same interest.... Gor-
don H.: It’s about the dreariest circus that ever
trailed the smell of elephants across a continent....
Lloma: No use. ...E.C. (Brisbane): They don’t get
to the target.... Midas: Too far from Australian feel-
ing to be worth while with that handling T.J.8.:
“Friendship” is not well enough done Curlew:
“The Southern Cross” doesn’t deserve that treatment.
....Harry P.: One has a chance... .K.S. (Doreen):
Not the worst first attempt. ... C.lv.T.: Only half a
yarn there. .. .Cazna: Nothing unusual in Maggie’s
night song Flicker: That collection yarn is a
grandpa at least R.P.S.: Comb out your story,
You wander round half-a-dozen blocks to reach the
gii'l next door Marion: Loose-jointed and ramb-
ling O’Archibald: Too much like every other
racing-crook yarn. There really seems to be only
one of them.... Will D. M.: Well done; but repul-
sive... .E.M.E.: “The Scribe” was beaten by a short
head.... Hilda E.: A few good stanzas; can’t you
do something with the inconclusive ones?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.L. J.: The sketch is not original; and that
throws suspicion on the gag... ,C.I t .: Drawing very
weak.. . .F.J.: That sort of pants is barred. .. .
Bon: Much too crude.... Ess Kew: Surely they don't
grow girls that shape out your way !... .M.H.: Old
joke. . . .C.C.McN.: Not worth it.... J.G.W.: Both
miss... . Haman: Nowhere near the mark... .G.H.:
Better; but joke sags at the knees V.L.: All
returning to the old home F.P.: Drawing shows
promise; but gag not worth while.... Davey: The
worst cocky to date J.G.W.: Ghostly little effort
passed out G.T.: Not a hope.. . .R.G.: The Noes
have it J.N.: Treatment too stiff... .E.M.S.: Not
quite up. . . .8.J.: May do as a suggestion. .. .P. 8.8 .:
Interested to read that you are “an artist.” Then
the drawing you send must he somebody else’s.


a
mm
mm
sra
,
Li
£
I,s 2Hi
Do you know of any “talking machine” manufacturer who
has invited great artists to sing publicly in direct compari-
son with his talking-machine reproduction of their voices,
and has defied trained ears to distinguish a difference?
There is no such case on record, yet it is the very test
successfully sustained over 6000 times by THE NEW
EDISON —“The Phonograph with a Soul.”
Real music
at last!
“Real music at last,” says Mr. Edison, and he is right. His
latest invention is definitely proved an entirely new
musical instrument —not a mere reproducer of sound, but
a faithful Re-creator that has been made welcome in the
homes of noted musicians and critics who would not
tolerate the old talking-machines.
<B» NEW EDISON
“The Phonograph with a Soul.”
The New Edison is the only instrument that has dared
the acid-test of direct comparison, the only one that
Re-creates the soul and emotion of the original performer
with its own records, and, moreover, plays all other makes
with improved musical value.
Hear “The New Edison” for yourself, or write for illustrated catalogues
post free on request to
THOMAS A. EDISON 1 , LIMITED, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
If climbing hills on top speed is your hobby,
you’ll like the Hupmobile. But if you are
the wise type of driver who appreciates a
“great” intermediate speed, and knows when
to use it, you’ll love the Hupmobile like a
brother —and win most of your wagers.
Hupmobile
Ip
G- 9
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-71 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
n 4 T CTTY /company LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic.
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 112-20 Pirie Street, Adelaide,
SKIPPER*' BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth, West Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Queensland. m
nTTNEAN LOANE West Devonport, Tasmania.
NZ FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurch, New Zealand.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION. Wellington. New Zealand.


w
THIS BULLOCK
may have a black background ; but the pros-
pect of securing top market values for him
is bright if he is consigned for sale to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE MARKETS.
All Stock—CATTLE, CALVES, SHEEP,
LAMBS, PIGS —-make highest possible
prices at Winchcombe, Carson’s Auctions.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
fs
MADE BY R. & J. DICK , LTD.
THJK ItUST-PROOF BRIGHT MPT AT.
PLATING of tlie inside and outside
surfaces considerably increases the life
of the BARRY Steel Split Pulley, ren-
dering it absolutely immune from rust
and corrosion.
There are no rivets in a BARRY Pulley to
work loose or shear under strain. The tubular
reinforcement inside the riin preserves the
exact shape of the pulley under heavy loads.
This also ensures true running under all
conditions.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
You do
a Sick
Friend a
Good Turn
bjj Recommending
HYPOL Increases Energy,
Nerve Force
and Power
Made by
Felton, Grimwade & (s. 55
Melbourne:
PHILIPS
df
WAIT
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Well-
ington (N.Z.), Auckland,
Christchurch, New Ply-
mouth.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Specialists in the Manufacture of
Telephone and Switchboard Apparatus for
Magneto, Common Battery & Automatic Working,
19 York Street. SYDNEY: 509 Collins Street. MELBOURNE.
Need an
American’
FLASHLIGHT
•• m
■/£
sr
NATIONAL CARBON CO., Inc.
30 East 42d Street
New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
<5
OLYMPIA
LONDON
Seventeenth International
MOTOR
EXHIBITION
for Private Motor Cars
2nd.-10th. NOV. 1923
sadf
Organised by The Society
of Motor Manufacturers and
Traders Ltd., 83 PALL
MALL, LONDON, S.W.I
International Commercial
MOTOR TRANSPORT
& ROADS DEVELOPMENT
EXHIBITION
(Including Town Planning Section)
NOV. 22nd.-DEC. Ist. 1923
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
i /!' hi l " n't.' T***^**^m^_^
0 II
• EGISTERB#
TRADE MARE
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
Australasian Representatives,
Norman Baker & Longhurst
SO York Street. Sydney.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
sd
•22 RIM FIRE
f
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
— —
ALL BRITISH
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Bung”: How is this for a fancy deal in
horseflesh? At a Jugiong (N.S.W.) sale a
splendid pony mare and her yearling colt
were purchased by a Gobarralong stockman
for £lO. He did not want the foal, and im-
mediately requested Cahill, the auctioneer,
to put the youngster up again. Less than
hve minutes afterwards he had the mother
for nothing and £2 to boot. And no new
buyers had arrived in the meantime.
* * * *
“Wilfrido” : The latest exploit of the vigi-
lant cops of the Shivery Isles is to arrest
a man for stealing his own motor-car. He
took it into the garage for repairs, and when
these had been effected he walked in and
drove it off. Although the garage proprietor
knew his name, the contention was that
the repairer had a lien over the car for work
done to it amounting to about £5, and that
this interest had been filched. But the
Beak thought there was an absence of fraud
and dismissed the information.
* * * *
Adamascus”: The Bananaland Govern-
ment has launched a big pastoral-land resump-
tion scheme ; 750,868 acres, comprising both
freehold and leasehold lands in the Western
and Southern Districts of the State, will
be affected. Three large holdings are in-
volved —Marathon, 4455 q. miles; Saltern
Creek, 2995 q. miles; and Charlotte Plains,
213 sq. miles. Notices of acquisition have
already been gazetted. To promote closer
settlement the land will be subdivided into
sheep-raising selections of about 10,000
acres each.
W hackey” : How’s this for enterprise and
grit? At a Frasertown (M.L.) horse sale
a grey mare was led into the ring. Her
only recommendation was that she had not
been ridden for four years. When no bid
was forthcoming, the auctioneer said: “If
someone will put my saddle and bridle on
her I’ll ride her and sell her at the same
time. ’ The mare was duly saddled and the
hammer wielder, a man well over 60, climbed
down from his rostrum and got on her
back. While she was trying to buck herself
inside out he sold her and bought her liim-
self for 30s. The mare now pulls his buggy.
“The Rumpus”: The decay of the W.A.
goldfields is enabling people on the coast to
buy houses and building material more
cheaply than they could ever do otherwise.
Coolgardie has been stripped of almost every-
thing removable, and now four-roomed wooden
dwellings in good condition are being offered
on. rail at Kalgoorlie and Boulder for any-
thing from £B5 upwards. The Government
provides a cheap rate for second-hand build-
ing material when trucks are applied for, and
it can well afford to, for such trucks would
otherwise return as empties. Five-ton capa-
city trucks cost £l2 19s. 2d. for the 375
miles to Perth ; this is exclusive of loading
and unloading charges.
* * * *
‘ Yarrum”: Batlow, in the Tumut district,
is one of the most productive spots in the
maternal State; almost any sort of fruit
will grow there in abundance. When a site
for the Federal capital was being sought
a public-school teacher, giving evidence
about the fertility of the district, said:
‘ Last year I received £5OO for cherries
grown on four acres at the school.” Hir;
salary at the time was about £2OO, and, being
the parent of two kiddies, he was exempt
from income-tax; but he got th e shock of
his life when a memo, arrived directing him
to include in his return that £5OO he had
spoken of. Another schoolmaster, in the
Bathurst district, made £4OO a year out of
Granny Smiths. He proudly mentioned the
fact to a stranger holidaying at Blayney.
And then something happened—the stranger
was an officer Taxation Department.
“Jack Horner”: In a list of some 130
kinds of hardwoods, Kempe’s “Engineer’s
Year Book” (1923) quotes 13 Australian
varieties, viz., blackbutt, blackwood, blue-
gum, red-gum, ironbark, jarrah, karri, myall,
raspberry-jam wood, stringybark, tallow-
wood, tuart and wandoo. All of them re-
ceive recognition for their merits, though
red-gum is saddled with the imputation of
not being durable underground—which can
be no more than true relatively, for the
South Aus. railways run almost exclusively
on red-gum sleepers. The term “hardwood”
is liable to mislead. It is used to meau
timber from non-coniferous trees and those
containing no turpentine or resin, and
although it embraces practically all the woods
that are hard, it also includes many de-
scribed by Kempe as “soft, easily cut and
carved, soft, light, neither strong nor dur-
able,’ etc. Kempe includes kauri in his
list, though other authorities rule it out as
resinous.
THE PAUCITY Of PUBS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“As a result of the reduction of licenses, Melbourne
City is threatened with a dearth of hotels.”
It was a city reft of pubs
Where thirsty souls went howling ;
Excluded from the swagger clubs,
For board and bedding- prowling,
They ate their dinners in the street,
Beset by flies and midges,
And in the market place would meet
For social intercourse and heat—
They slept beneath the bridges.
Came visitors from far-off lands
Beseeching board and lodging,
And tourists smart were seen in bands
About the city dodging
In quest of beds and nutriment.
Vain their solicitation;
The man who carried his own tent
Alone could hope to circumvent
The awkward situation.
The hospitality of inns,
Of parlors warm and glowing,
Is barred to all men for their sins.
Reluctantly we’re going
To sheltered parks with pangs acute,
Like tramps and such-like blankers;
And gentlemen of some repute
Now in Victoria constitute
The tribe of Yarra-bankers!
.VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Chocolates
I do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home t
The Famous Red Box of
Chocolates. Mailed to you
the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/-
and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia,
and Per V.P. Parcels Post if
desired.
162-166 Pitt Street
also
Cr. George 8 Ring
Streets, Sydney.
I
M
i
/,
\om
a
9
m
J
. ' ,’tN
if.
■I
i
; . ||g||i
BMP ...
o::-:
m
wmmmmr'
wßm
“BETTER THAN TATT’S 55
£4OOO for 1/-
KATOOMBA THOUSAND
No. 3.
GIGANTIC ART UNION
in aid of
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ANZAC MEMORIAL HOSPITAL.
Blue Mountains A., H, & I. Society’s Show
Ground Improvement Fund, and Katoomba
School of Arts Building: Fund.
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General.)
Ist Prize, 20 h.p. Rolls-Royce £1,850
2nd Prize, 6-Cylinder Buick ... £525
3rd Prize, Beale Player Piano . . £275
Total Prizes value £4,000.
(Values guaranteed.)
Drawn immediately subscribed
or not later than December 7th, 1923.
Results published “Daily Telegraph,” Dec.
Bth, 1923; other States, Dec. 15th or before.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post, 1/2. Three or more Post Free.
SIX TICKETS IX)R 6/-.
Each Ticket has 145 Chances and can
win Prizes value £4,000.
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope
for result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
(all branches), Hairdressers and Tobaccon-
ists in City, Suburbs and Country, also
Messrs. Prouds Dtd. and Lassetter’s, Sydney.
EDGAR BOOTH, Hon. Secretary,
Tweedie’s Chambers, Katoomba, N.S.W.
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
i> a Food-Drink which maintains
health a .d strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK'a daily. it
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Milk. Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK'S MALTED MILK CO.
SLOUGH, BUCKS. ENG.
C.. c fD
tQp Ka.r.
In 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
a
<~n
i
6V
Transmission
Equipment
The Works Manager who still uses uneconomical
plain bearings for line-shafting equipment pays for
more power than is necessary.
Transmission bearings which
absorb power in overcoming their
own frictional resistance are quite
as expensive as obsolete manufac-
turing methods.
Ninety per cent, reduction of fric-
tion loss means 20 per cent, saving
in total power. This has been
proved repeatedly in practical
work. SKF Ball Bearings auto-
matically align themselves to shaft
deflection or “whip.” This is a
unique and valuable feature.
Write for Transmission Catalogue,
mentioning this A d vert is ement.
Gardner, Waern &, Co. Pty. Ltd
481 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Distributing Centres also at:—
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., 157
Waymouth Street.
PERTH: Unhehaun & Johnstone (W.A.) Ltd., 37
King Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis, Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: J. R. Sides, 77 York Street.
B.B. 10/23
Dorothy’s Dilemma.
(BY PHLOX. )
44 \\ T HY ever don’t you bring him up
JJ to scratch, Dorothy ?”
“Oh, aunt, how can you talk
like that?”
“Well, my dear, one must be practical
these days. You’re the eldest of the family,
and you’ve never yet been engaged. There’s
May and Edna married, and Babs engaged,
and now that you have a nice man
paying you attention you don’t do your
part towards leading up to a proposal. Don’t
you care for Jack Hutton?”
“Yes, aunt, I’m just crazy about him.
But I can’t ask him to marry me.”
“All the same, I do think you might give
him a little more encouragement. But, who
kno\vs! The spirit may move him to propose
at the dinner-dance at the Wentworth to-
morrow night. You must look your best,
Dorothy.”
“I only wish I was as lovely as Mrs.
Merton.”
“Mrs. Merton is very beautiful, but 1
don’t know that she is the best companion
for a girl. I hear that all the young men are
in love with her. She’ll fascinate Jack
Hutton, if you’re not careful. They say she
was the cause of Mary Fletcher’s engage-
ment being broken off.”
“Mere idle gossip, aunt. A woman can’t
help being fascinating.”
* * * *
The Wentworth Cafe was all gaiety and
brightness, the softly-shaded lights throwing
a glamor over everything. In the beginning
of the evening Borothy had enjoyed herself;
now she felt that the sun would never shine
again for her. Jack Hutton had taken Mrs.
Merton into the palm court, and appeared
to be talking earnestly to her. After all, her
aunt was right. She was dangerous.
Before long, however, Mrs. Merton and
Jack Hutton returned to the ballroom. Jack-
made for Dorothy, and proposed that he
should take her into the palm court and show
her the gold fish. Before she knew where
she was Jack had taken her arm and led
her out.
With faltering voice he told her the old,
old tale, and he added, “If it hadn’t been
for Mi's. Merton I would never have sum-
moned up the courage to ask you. She said
that you are the sweetest girl she knows,
and that it would be a lucky man who got
you.”
They stayed in the palm court a long
while talking as if the world existed only
for themselves. When Jack led her back
to the room she walked as if on air.
Next day Dorothy mused on all that had
happened. How wonderful it had been!
She was so happy. There was, however,
one thing that troubled her and marred her
otherwise complete happiness. But she
could not confide in her aunt or her sisters;
they would only laugh. Happy thought—
Mrs. Merton would understand. She would
talk things over with her.
Mrs. Merton was in, the maid said, and
would she mind stepping into her bedroom,
where she was just taking it easy and resting.
Dorothy talked long of her engagement.
Then, after some hesitation, she mentioned
to Mrs. Merton that she wore false hair
over her ears, and she had always heard
that men detested women assisting nature
in that way. Jack would probably despise
her for it. “But what am I to do?” she
exclaimed with a sigh. “My hair is so thin
and scraggy that it would be impossible to
dress it in the fashion without using some
false hair. If I only had your hair, Mrs.
Merton! How glorious it looks falling
down!”
“My dear, any healthy woman can have
good hair by looking after it.”
'l’m quite sure I would go to any trouble,
if I thought I should ever have hair like
yours.”
“But y-ou don’t need to go to a great deal
of trouble. All I do to keep mine luxuriant
and glossy is to shampoo it regularly with
stallax. Usually, too, at the change of the
season I make a simple tonic at home. To
make the tonic I get from the chemist a
package of pure boranium, and mix it with
half-a-pint of bay rum. I rub it well into
the scalp night and morning for a week or
two. You can’t beat boranium for restoring
dull and lifeless hair, and making healthy
hair more beautiful.”
“Will the stallax shampoo and the bor-
anium tonic make my hair thick enough to
do without ear muffs?”
“Certainly, my dear. After using the
stallax shampoo and boranium a few months
your hair will be beautifully thick and
glossy, You won’t need any ear muffs then.”
“Please forgive me, Mrs. Merton, if I
ask what that cream is that you are rub-
bing into your face?”
“It’s mercolized wax; but I suppose you
know what wonderful stuff it is.”
“Indeed, I don’t.”
“Then I’d advise you to get a tin at
once. It’s the best possible cream for
the complexion, because it imperceptibly
removes the old, worn-out skin, and reveals
the baby skin underneath.”
“But does the young skin last?”
“Yes, if you use the wax regularly.
You know that in time the sun and wind
discolors the skin, and you need to periodi-
cally remove the discoloration.”
“Oh, it’s after 6 —l mhst be going.
You have been very helpful to me, dear
Mrs. Merton. But not a word, please, to my
people. I can’t thank you enough for helping
me out of my dilemma.” — Advt. [4


M COUGH u
REMEDY
Coughs.
CROI
CHA= , S
m
MOARSE.N
SORE THI
INFLUE]
\ND OTHER AFFECTK
THROAT and
in
i!jl|
sfl 1
rs
MADE inAUS
Si
Mi!
CHAMBERLA
SYDNEY F
SMALL £
CHAHBERLAIKS LIMI
ir*r-i
85
This medicine is trusted
the whole world over.
The qualities which give it
the high place it holds m
the public’s regard are —
Its unfailing effectiveness.
Its perfect safety for
children and adults alike.
Its very pleasant taste.
COUGH REMEDY
D.O.M.
0
0
asdf
Yes
Sir!
s
dfsd
Made in
various
sizes and
styles
from
y 2 -pt. up.
VACUUM FLASKS
JARS and CARAFES
When motoring, travelling,
picknicking and on all out-
door trips, ICY-HOT pro-
vides hot drinks or food or
cold refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY- H O T Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Food Jars keep contents
hot 24 hours and Cold
three days without the use
of fire, heat, ice or chem-
icals.
Built for Lifetime Service
ICY HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care
will last a lifetime. Easily
cleaned; absolutely sani-
tary. Look for name ICY-
HOT on bottom.
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 W. Second St., Cincinnati, 0., U S.A.
fs
Icy-Hot Food Jar
w
Can You Look Your Tongue in the Face?
DO you get up in the
morning with a
nasty taste in your
mouth and a dark-brown
coated tongue, that you
shudder to look at in the
glass?
Do you enjoy real flavor
of what you eat and drink
and smoke? Or has that
“coppery” taste got into
everything? If so, it is be-
cause your digestive sys-
tem is out of order. A
furred tongue is one of
Nature’s ways of indicat-
ing that all is not as it
should be inside you. In all
probability you do not get
enough fresh air or exer-
cise, are sitting down
nearly all day, work too
hard, worry too much and
snatch hasty, unsuitable
meals at midday.
This state of affairs can-
not easily be avoided
under modern conditions
of life, but Nature makes
no allowance for those
conditions. Sooner or later
she rebels. The first sign
is the coated tongue; then
follow headaches, depres-
sion, constipation, and all
the other ills arising out of
a disordered liver and kid-
neys.
It is a duty that you owe
to yourself to quicken up
the action of these organs,
to clear your blood, gently
and surely to cleanse the
impurities from your sys-
tem. You can do this by
taking Kruschen Salts,
Kruschen is a combina-
tion of six salts, all of
which are necessary to
keep your body in perfect
health. If you lived a
vigorous open-air life your
system would be able to
extract these salts from
your food. As it is, you
require Kruschen. just
enough to cover a six-
pence, taken every morn-
ing in your breakfast cup
of tea, will soon make a
new man of you. You will
wake up in the morning
with a clean, pink tongue,
feeling properly refreshed
by your night’s sleep,
bright-eyed and alert,
ready to attack another
day’s work and another
day’s play.
Kruschen will give you
the courage to look your
tongue in the face every
morning.
TO
u
Tasteless in Tea
Put as much in each
breakfast cup as will
lie on a sixpence. It’s
the little daily dose
that does it.
fr u SaJt s
Good Health for a Farthing a Day.
The dose of a sixpenceful taken
every morning is found in practice
just the right amount for a most
invigorating daily tonic. The medi-
cinal dose for persons suffering from
pains of rheumatism and gout, or
habitual constipation, with inactive
liver, etc., is half to one teaspoonful
in a tumbler of hot water before
breakfast.
Every chemist sells Kruschen
Salts. Each bottle contains 96
morning “pinches”—enough to last
three months. Get a bottle to-day.
NOTE.— Kruschen Salts are made in Manchester, Eng-
land, by E. Griffiths Hughes, Ltd., established 175(1,
in the reign of George the Second.
AUSTRALIA.—Trade Supplies stocked by H. & W.
Grear, 119-123 York Street, Sydney. And at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.—Trade Supplies stocked by Fair-
bairn, Wright & Co., Auckland, Wellington, Christ-
church and Dunedin.
N.S. 72.
A lady applying for a job of housekeeper
up north the other day remarked in her
written application: “I have no encum-
brances, as my husband has been dead some
months.”
Henry Wallace Lawson, dead at 61, spent
his last 10 years as manager of the National
Bank of N.Z. in Auckland, and had retired
only a few days before the end came. He
was a native of Balmain (Sydney) and his
wife’s grandmother was the first white girl
born south of the Bay of Islands.
As a memorial to seamen who died in the
war, the Sydney Yacht Club is considering
a scheme for erecting a statue on those rocks
in Sydney Harbor which are poetically called
the Sow and Pigs. It is the first suggestion
for a harbor statue since the large-ideaed
E. W. O’Sullivan proposed to spend a lump
of money upon a giant monument of Aus-
tralia Facing the Dawn on Pin digit t.
Died a few days ago, Tom O’Byrne, who
at various times kept the Criterion,'Crown
and City pubs in Launceston, and was the
oldest Bung j.n the place when he retired a
while back. He did good work as sec. of
the L.V.A.., and was president of it for
three-years; was a director of mining and
brewery companies and a foundation member
of . the Newnham Racing Club.
Mrs. M. Walsh, who died recently at 91,
had lived nearly all her life on the Lachlan,
where her husband was one of the earliest
graziers, having owned Boorabil, South
Euabalong and the Basin. Mrs. Walsh had
a family of 13, seven of whom are living.
The old lady used to talk interestingly of the
days of Ben Hall, the bushranger, whose
grave is in the Forbes Cemetery.
“Biloela” : Mention in recent Bulletins
of the Afghan’s religious scruples about
handling Pig in any form reminds me that
when storekeeping at Broken Hill the Old
Man always consigned pigskin goods as
“cowhide substitute.” One day the plan
miscarried* and about £lOO worth of saddles,
bridles and sundries were stacked by
aggrieved camel-drivers just outside the town
boundaries and relentlessly cremated.
Margaret Thorp, the Tasmanian girl with
the rosy cheeks, who was an active worker
in post-war Europe under the Quaker banner,
has lately joined Anthony Horderns’ as
organiser of welfare work. But she can’t
forget stricken Europe, so she sends out an-
other appeal—-this time for clothing, old or
new. Parcels may be left at the Friends’
rooms, 88 Pitt-street, or at Foster Clark’s
warehouse.
Sydney owns a lady who has intruded into
the sacred realm of mercantile brokerage,
and during ’ the last couple of years has
arranged some big deals. Miss Clarice Ponds
was typist in a broker’s office when she made
up her mind that she was quite as fit to run
that sort of business as most of those she
saw doing it. She is the only woman member
of the Mercantile Brokers’ Association;
and she is a young, fresh-faced, good-looking
woman who is not a bit contemptuous of
female fripperies.
New Guinea cannot boast of jazz bands,
and gramophone records are often loaned to
help entertain; so when a hostess, on receiv-
ing her guests, saw what appeared to be
round black records held in a gentleman’s
arm, she exclaimed : “How kind of you to
bring some records!” The gentleman re-
mained rigid for a second ; then his wee wife
came to the rescue. “It is John’s hat,” she
sam. But who would have expected to say
“How do' you do?” to a crush opera-hat in
tropical N.G. ?
Martin Burke, one-time postmaster at
George-street West (Sydney), had nothing
about him to justify the title of Mystery
Man except that he lived a lonely life, and
when he died was found to be worth nearly
£40,000. The old chap either had no rela-
tives or had forgotten all about them, had
long ago ceased to worry about his clothes,
and had a passion for second-hand books.
He was 80 when he died, and as he left no
will the Public Trustee is hunting for heirs.
Railway-construction man G. C. Bernard,
lately dead, is remembered in Wagga (N.S.W.)
as a “determined-to-get-there” sort. A loco,
men’s strike when he was in charge of the
building of the Wagga-Tumbarumba line in
1912-14 prevented a trainload of chaff being
brought to Wagga for despatch to starving
stock. Bernard promptly mounted the engine-
footplate of the idle train, and with two of
his office staff stoking, took the stuff to town.
Wagga threw a purse of sovereigns at him
when he left.
There is something uncanny about a
woman’s memory for millinery. A Goul-
burn girl recently took a hat to a local
business house to be re-trimmed. The assistant
examined it, and remarked, “I think I know
this hat. I believe it was bought at Hordern
Bros.’ two years ago.” The owner admitted
the fact. How marvellous it must seem to
a mere man that the saleslady should have
recognised that particular lid out of the
uncountable hats she had handled! How
many men would recognise even Randolph
Bedford’s hat unless they caught a glimpse
of Randolph under it?
“Mary”: All the wealth of Gympie (Q.)
is not underground. In June, 1921, some
children, playing near an old crumbling
brick wall on a. homestead lease formerly
occupied by Frederick Bracher, who died
intestate in 1914, found in pickle-bottles,
doubtless originally built into the wall, 184
sovereigns. Two or three weeks ago a couple
of boys playing near the same old ruin came on
three stone jars, in which were cached three
Q. N. Bank fixed-deposit receipts aggregating
£7OO, four £5 notes, 50 £1 notes, 555. in
silver and two gold brooches. The old miser’s
next-of-kin are in Switzerland, and the
treasure is claimed by the Public Curator
on their behalf.
“Mero” : Our shire council was engaged in
an animated discussion about the christening
of a new road; there were several claimants
for the honor of having their name perpetu-
ated, and the controversy soon became warm
and looked like becoming bitter. At this
point a peacemaker tactfully suggested
“Shakspeare-avenue.” This, he' ventured to
think, would obviate any further disputes
about the names of district residents, and
serve to honor the name of a great man. But
here Popjoy, the grocer, butted in spitefully.
"The councillor who’s just spoke mav think
he’s clever,” he said, “but any schoolboy
would tell him that Shakspeare isn’t the
name of a man ; it’s the name of a book.”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular, {riving new
rates, First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, AUGUST 29.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANE
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Directors —Janies Milne, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. G.
W. Gray; James Love, Esq.; VV. 11. ilart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General, Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
With Offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and S 3
Branches in Queensland, also representation through
the leading Banking Institutions covering Austral-
asia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest
facilities for the transaction of all general banking
business.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,670,265
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1923. . £14,148,751
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; George F. Todman ;
Duncan Carson ; H. R. Lysagiit, 0.8. E .; George
J. Sly, LL.D.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector for N.8.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting Manager: G. H. Westcott.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 26 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbaikn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares . . .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2.250,000
Reserve' Fund & Undivided Profits 2,246,957
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji. Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
£2,000,000
875,000
Reserve liability of shareholders
£875,000
720,000
£1,595,000
875,000
£2,470,000
Heap Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 95 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world. .
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Established
1849.
Australian Mutual
Provident Society
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1922
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income • •
£1,826,924
£3,000,000
£50,000,000
£7,500,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H W. APPERLEY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.) f Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA (13,500 tons) SEPT. 6
MAKURA (8100 tons) OCT. 4
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing's to San Fran cisco, via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United Siates can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
TAHITI (8000 tons) AUG. 23
MAUNGANUI . (7500 tons) SEPT. 20
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., BRISBANE —ADELAIDE.
.
?■
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3% TO 5 WEEKS
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
Burns-Philp Tours.
Passages arranged to ENGLAND, AMERICA, JAPAN, CHINA,
INDIA. CEYLON, HONOLULU, etc., by our
TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT.
SPECIAL ROUND EASTERN TOURS.
1. To JAVA (The Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by
the magnificent steamers MARELLA and MONTORO.
Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney every month.
7 weeks’ trip for £9O.
2. SYDNEY to JAPAN, CHINA, and RETURN to SYDNEY,
via SINGAPORE, JAVA, QUEENSLAND PORTS. Sailings
every two weeks.
9 weeks’ trip, lst-class throughout, £129/10/-
Apply for further information to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
df
sdfd
fd
BANK OF
WALES
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
T»
Director*:
- £6,000,000
- 3,800,000
- 6,000,000
£15,800,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maekellar,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H.
K.C.M.G.,
Palmer, Esq.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The lion. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Heart Office— George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
385 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. . .
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £3,000,000
RESERVE FUND 2,580,000
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,000,000
TOTAL- - - - - £8,580,000
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman ; Hon. 11. E. KATER, M.L.C., Deputy Chairman;
Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, M.L.C.; OWEN E. FRIEND;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C. General Manager: H. LI. MASSIE.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE.—IB Birchin Lane, E.C.3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the World.
DAILY
PARTIES TO JENOLAN
Leave Sydney 9.25 a.m. (Sunday excepted).
CAVES
OS'* is
clays ... £4 17 0
days ... £5 15 fi
clays ... £6 15 6
Covering every incidental
expense, first-class.
Write for Illustrated Programme to
NEW SOUTH WALES
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Challis House, Sydney.
Shinn!"*.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailing's.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne tor Geelong and othei
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf poi i.s ,
and at Fremantle for Perth, Banbury, CerakUen
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACK AY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane f6r Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Brisbane, Mackav, Townsville and Cairns.
[Brisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
DO THE GRAND WINTER TOUR TO CAIRNS.
Huddart ParkeiljM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every ten days. Between Melbourne
and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from Sydney only 144 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdouald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, l'hilp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“|“H E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS on TUESDAY, AUGUST
14, at 9 p.in. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday,
7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY, 7 p.m.;
passenger due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/5/6
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. C. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, THURS-
DAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA. MANILA, HONG-
KONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philip & Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO.. LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address: Cable address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “IROQUOIS.”
BRISBANE.
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Etd.,
and Eitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackheath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide, Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Oooktown.


The Bank of Victoria, Limited.
FIFTY-SEVENTH REPORT.
To 30th JUNE, 1923,
To be submitted to the Shareholders at the General Meeting to be held at Noon
on TUESDAY, 7th AUGUST, 1923.
with R.?? rd °f Directors submit their Fifty-seventh Report to the Shareholders of the Bank, together
With the Balance Sheet for the year ending 30th June, 1923, duly certified by the auditors, showing—
Balance brought forward from 30th June, 1922 . . . . . . £99 754 7 i s
Net profits for the past year.. .. .. .. _ ’ ' ' 18V709 14 10
Interim Dividend at 9 per cent, for half-year July to December 195*2
Preference Shares £18,’754 4 0
Ordinary Shares 47,756 5 0
£213,460 1 11
To Officers’ Provident Fund
£66,510 9 0
3,000 0 0
69,510 9 0
Balance .. .. .. .. .. . . . , t £143 949 12 11
The Directors recommend that the remaining profits for the year be apportioned’ as follows •-
lo Dividend on Preference shares at 9 per cent, per
annum for half-year ending 30th June, 1923.. £18,754 4 0
To Dividend on Ordinary Shares at 9 per cent, per
annum for half-year ending 30th June, 1923.. 47,756 5 0.
To Reserve Fund (making it £700,000) . .
To Balance to be carried forward
£66,510
50,000
27,439
The retiring Directors are Mr. H. E. Rowe and Mr. A. T. Creswick, who arfelftfble for Selection,
and offer themselves accordingly. ,
Two Auditors will require to be appointed.
Agencies of the Bank have been opened at Cranbourne, Lockington, and Noradiuha.
The Dividend will be payable in Melbourne on and after the Bth August, and at the branches and
111 London on receipt of advices.
The transfer books of the Company will be closed from 25th July to 7th August, both days inclusive.
EDWARD MILLER, Chairman.
The Bank of Victoria, Limited, PHIUP CH ' de CRESPIGNY > Gene ™l Manager.
Melbourne, 18th July, 1923.
BALANCE SHEET OF THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LIMITED
at 30th June, 1923.
_ (Including London Branch at 14th May, 1923.)
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Paid Up, viz.:—
41,676 Preference
Shares of £lO
each, fully paid
up in cash ..
212,250 Ordinary
Shares of £lO
each, paid up
£416,760 0 0
to £5
£1,061,250 0 0
£1,478,010 0 0
To Reserve Fund 650,000 0 0
To Profit and Loss 143,949 12 11
-£2,271,959 12 11
To Notes in Circulation .. .. ' 6,511 10
To Bills in Circulation . . . . 599,’038 7
To Government Deposits*—
Not bearing interest . . . . 85,079 15
Bearing interest 409,433 6
To Other Deposits and Interest
Accrued—
(lncluding rebate on Bills dis-
counted) not bearing, interest.. 4,320,184 14
(Including Officers’ Guarantee and
Provident Funds) bearing interest 6 491,730 15
To Balances Due to Other Banks.. 254,550 7
To Contingent Liabilities as per
contra 314,521 18
£14,753,010 7 6
ASSETS.
By Coin, Bullion,
Australian Notes,
and Cash at
Bankers .. ..£2,490,641 5 9
By Money at short
call and Treasury
Bills in London! 925,417 18 3
By Commonwealth
of Australia War
Loan Stock and
Debentures, Vic-
toria Government
Stock and De-
bentures, and
Municipal Deben-
tures . . . . 1,253,633 210
By Bills and Re-
mittances in
transitu and Bills
Receivable in
London . . . . 581,047 1 9
By Notes and Bills
of other Banks. . 198,408 9 4
By Balances due
from other Banks 49,326 1 7
By War Gratuity
Advances .'. 260,811 16 8
By Stamps .. 6,383 16 11
Cr.
£.5,765,669 13
“8,978 5
By War Loan Advances
By Real Estate, consisting of
Bank Premises 397,395 19
By other Real Estate . . .. 6,705 11
By Bills Discounted and Other Ad-
vances, exclusive of provision
for bad and doubtful debts .. 8,189,738 19
By Liabilities of Customers and
others in respect of Contingent
Liabilities, as per contra .. 314,521 18
Profit and Loss.
£14,753,010 7
To Current Expenses—Head Office
and 103 branches and 14 sub-
branches £205,964 7 2
To balance 143,949 12 11
£349,914 0 1
By Balance brought forward from
30th June, 1922 £146,264 16
By Gross Profit for the year ending
30th June, 1923, after deducting
all interest paid or due to cus-
tomers, and rebating Bills Cur-
rent, and providing for bad and
doubtful debts and taxes .. 389,670 2
Less Dividend paid
for half-year end-
ing 30th June,
1922 . . . . £66,510 9 0
Less Interim Divi-
dend for half-year
July to December,
1922 .. .. 66,510 9 0
Less Amount trans-
ferred to Officers’
Provident Fund .. 8,000 0 0
Less Amount trans-
ferred to Reserve
Fund .. .. 50,000 0 0
£535,934 18
186,020 18
£349,914 0
Reserve Fund.
To Balance carried forward
£650,000 0 0
£650,000 0 0
By Balance brought forward from
30th June, 1922 £600,000 0
Transferred from Profit and Loss .. 50 000 0
£650,000 0
... customary Auditor’s Report and Statemen t of the Directors and General Manager to eomrdv
with the Companies Act (Victoria) appear on the Official Report. manager to comply
The Food to give
an Influenza patient.
Among Foods which are regarded as essential in the safe
treatment of Influenza, Benger’s takes a first place. Its con-
stituents are Nature’s two greatest foods—wheat and milk—
and by reason of the unique process of self-digestion which
distinguishes Benger’s from all other foods, these can be pre-
sented to the patient in a partially digested form.
fs
Food
while yon prepare it, does for the patient what his or her
digestive system, weakened by the Influ#nza attack, cannot do.
k Bonder’s booklet is full of useful hints for nursing invalids. Post free from
BENGER’S FOOD LTD. 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers: BERBER'S FOOD, LTD., MANCHESTER, England,
A.*.
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE. ”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
Everything; for TENNIS.
-4
5s
VL2
V
rackets.
School Match 8/6
C. 8.8., Special 13/6
M.S., Special Practice 18/6
C.8.b., Leather Grip 20/-
M.S., Special or Premier 25/-
„ Wonder 25/-
Standard 30/-
C. 8.8., Double Strung 27/6
Oceanic 55/-
Britannic, Concave Throat ... 45/-
Haymarket, Special 40 /.
„ Selected 45/-
„ Extra Special 70/-
Titanic, Concave Throat 65/-
Cyclonic, Concave Throat 80/-
Ayre’s Sandown 30/-
- A 1 40/-
„ Champion 50/-
„ Matador 55/-
„ Central strung 00/-
Special sample, cork-ribbed grip... 35/-
Spalding’s Tournament 49/6
~ Continental 55/-
„ Gold Medal 70/-
Davis Kiseley Hexagon 90/-
Slazenger’s Renshaw 45/-
Demon 55/-
Whiteliouse 63/-
Ideal 75/-
Classic 82/6
E.G.M 80/-
Doherty .85/-
Stadium 87/6
Lambert Chambers 87/6
Patterson 95/-
H. C. Lee’s Senaca 55/-
Spartan 70/-
Tlie Bat 85/-
Bancroft’s Winner 85/-
RACKET REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Ayre’s Hardcourt 2/7 30/-
Ayre’s Champion, 1923 2/7 30/-
Barnet Glass Champion, 1923.... 2/6 29/-
SUNDRIES.
m (Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Tennis Nets, full size, Each.
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion 2/6 29/-
Slazenger’s Championship, 1923 (air-
tight tins) 30/-
Acme (square) Posts, pair 105/-
Tennis Court Markers 37/6
“Dalby” Patent Chip and Turf Court
marker (JO /-
Tennis Tapes 25/-
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle
Each.
Racket Covers . .. . 1/9, 2/6, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6
Tennis Ratchets 7/6. 8/6, 10/6. 13/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1 /-, 1/6 i
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6, 6/6 I
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-I
ILLUSTRATED TENNIS PRICE LIST FREE ON REQUEST.
BOXING
GLOVES
*
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
elfectiveness.
Set of 4.
MEN’S GLOVES.
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
real leather, special value* 12/6 13/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 16/6, 18/6, 21/-’ 237-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz., 25/-* 30/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms, 6orB oz 35 /_’ 4Q /
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively used by*
Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by Mr.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 49 /
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Postage 3d.) 4/9, 7/6 each
BOXING BOOTS, English Leather, extra light, weight 3iloz. (Postage 61d.), 15/6 17/6 pair
BOYS’ GLOVES. ' ’ Set of 4.
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed
„ Leather „ „ laced palms 9/-, g/ 6 12 /6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
Price List of Boxing Gloves, Punching Balls, etc., post free
PUNCHING BALLS.
THE EXPERT
The
PORTABLE
ARMY, Swinging Bail, reg. , for fast work, 10/C 13/6 17/6 21/ 2 > / o-/
ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed fo’r fast work,'guaranteed durable
and perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made ±K/.
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, elastic cord for floor and rope for ceiling 12/fJ
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light.... 21/-” 25/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings ’
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.) 30/- 30/- 40/-
PORTARLE BALL, strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and ’bladder
complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) lo'^/
All above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
SUNDRIES.
Ball and Socket Swivels 1 / 6 2 /e 5/6 each
Double-action Swivels, 6/- each. Ball-bearing Swivels ... . W/6 each
Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pair. Punching Platforms, 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
1C
Australia’s Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; Edward St, BRISBANE.
iittitiimmiiimiiiimimiiiii


Here’s the Remedy
for Eczema.
REXONA—The Rapid Healer.
881
I
. MM
'
:
■
m
Mr. H. RICH (from a photo').
What a plague Eczema is! It creeps on
slowly, at first almost unnoticed, until it has
a hol'd ; then it takes some moving.
Don’t give Eczema a chance, but at the
first sign of the trouble apply Rexona the
Rapid Healer.
Eczema is easily amenable to treatment m
its early stages. Eater, if allowed to run on
unchecked, it will be a trouble hard to bear.
Intelligent treatment with Rexona will
always get the best of Eczema.
Rexona promptly allays the irritation and
itching, taking away the desire to scratch
the parts affected.
Rexona quickly dries up any pus or exud-
ing matter, and eases the ache and pain.
Rexona promptly destroys all dangerous
germs and bacteria, for it is a germicide of
the highest order.
At the same time Rexona builds up new
skin tissues and cells, -so that in the end
a new and perfect skin is formed where the
disease formerly existed. 9
There is no better treatment for Eczema
than cleanly dressing with Rexona the Rapid
Healer. You will notice the improvement in
only a few days, and persistent treatment
will always bring its reward.
Rexona gives Prompt Relief.
“Mine was a very obstinate case of Eczema I suffered with it
for nine years, and spent pounds on many remedies which gave
me no relief. I was often unable to rest for quite long periods,
owing to the distress occasioned by my complaint.
At last, about two years ago, I used
Rexona Ointment, and it effected a com-
plete cure. I have not had any Eczema
since, and would never be without this
really wonderful remedy,”
(Sgd.) H. RICH,
5a Oxford Street,
Newtown, N.S.W.
1/6
H Coonito, \
#’ioolKir\q - \
/? - flealmq
Omlmmt ,
n (J rifi«> ? filiboluidv
' & Heals J Reliable
a
HajU2ECH3I3II
r i A Ratable Remedy for nil eruption > and trriianuis « me
Skin Eczema .Pimples Sores. Chilblains. Chopped Hands
Saahca Itching or Bktdmg Piles. Oils. Burns. Bnilso Scald
fSad Legs. Slings of Insects and all kinds of lnflammo«®»
I PEXONA DEPT
DRUG C« LLP
Uf
3 1-
Rexona—
The Rapid Healer.
K
.'1 11 0
p/-
C4/09
5f
T
Reports are favorable about
REX HAM PATE
On every side you hear it proclaimed that Rex Ham
Pate is the thrifty housewives’ great stand-by in
helping to solve the sandwich problem—whether for
the children’s or the worker’s daily lunches —or for
picnics where appetites need little coaxing.
Rex Ham Pate is all Ham —prepared in the exclusive
Rex way that gives it the most delectable flavor.
Try Rex Ham Pate by itself if you will. Add sliced
Tomato, Cucumber, beetroot, Chopped Olive,
Lettuce, Horseradish, Anchovy Sauce or Mayonnaise,
if you desire a change.
The young folks will soon show their appreciation—
and you’ll get lots of praise from them for “those
different sandwiches” which are eaten with zest.
&
Bure foods
GIVE REX HAM PATE
A TRY-OUT TODAY.
SOLD BY ALL
LEADING GROCERS
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F. J. 80
Roads.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T sea and moor and mountain height
There are long roads for my de-
£ 3 light.
The river road is dim and cool,
With fern-filled cave and rippled pool;
Where clear the azure ribbon shines
Green willows march in winding lines;
Hid in the reeds of still lagoons
The black swans rest through drowsy noons.
So will I wander slowly
Along the river road
With growing things for company
And only peace for load ;
A speckled thrush at dawning,
An owl at dusk of day ;
Brown mice that stir in sun-burnt grass
Beside the river way.
But I will take the moor road
When Autumn’s brown hosts burn,
Their fires of red and amber flame
In bracken ridge and fern ;
Crimson and gold the bramble,
Russet the swirling leaves
That dance with sudden, elfish glee
Among the ripening sheaves.
By moor and height and silver sea
There are long roads beguiling me.
The mountain road is rough and steep ;
It dips through dales and hollows deep ;
It hangs on ledges dim and high,
Between the green earth and the sky ;
Aloft upon a lichened crag
There stands serene an antlered stag.
So I will climb the hill road
While that the Spring is near,
And see the broom’s gold tapers light
Long slopes once brown and drear,
A pied-tit and a fantail
To chirp a roundelay—
Who seeks for sweeter company
Upon the mountain way?
But let me tread the sea-road
When storms exultant sweep
From where the grey horizons lie,
When wild white-horses leap
With snowy manes far-streaming
Across the smoking bar,
And thunder of the sea-king’s steeds
Is rolled from steep and scar.
By sea and moor and mountain height
There are long roads for my delight;
And should a long road lonely run,
There’s company of wind and sun.
N.s.w.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.
Fever.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MINNIE MITE had been a long time ill.
so long, indeed, she had forgotten
that the sun shone through the bam-
boos in front of the house, and that the
grass on the mound was always green.
The mound was green because it was all
that remained of a swamp. Minnie and
her playmates loved it because when they
jumped on it after rain it made a squash.
The swamp, according to tradition, which
was a blackfellow, had once stretched for
miles, and the Great Devil had dared the
Little God one morning to drink it all
up, which he did. Minnie had heard about
the Little God’s feat; and sometimes at
twilight or in the darkness of the night
the Great Devil breathed about the place.
In a straight line from the mound, if
you climbed over the hill, you found an-
other swamp, slimy, oozy; and in Spring-
time it was always full of blue-grey hya-
cinths. Children once had crossed it walk-
ing on the lilies, they were so matted
together. But Minnie hadn’t done that.
When the summer air was very still
she could hear, ever so faintly, the creak-
ing of the bamboos. They belonged to
the Colonel, who owned The Bamboos, the
great house whose parks and orchards and
gardens took up more than the whole area
of slum houses in one of which Minnie lived.
“Go out! Come in! Go out! Come
in!” Minnie wailed; and her small sister,
two years older, came in and went out,
came in and went out to the sick child’s cry.
Minnie was dying. The doctor had told
them there was no hope, and Minnie tossed
and turned on her bed of fever, sometimes
convulsively, sometimes wildly.
There was a narrow lane between her
house and the house next door, where Mrs.
Maleen lived. A fence, through which
the children passed one another pieces of
cold potatoes, stood on either side of the
lane. They always played there on Sun-
day afternoon. Sunday was the day when
they had the wonderful dinner. It was on
that day chiefly that they passed their
little offerings of cold vegetables, “pasties”
of oranges and, perhaps, bits of crust to
one another.
Minnie could see Bobby Maleen’s fence
through her own open window. She could
see the peach-tree, with its green fruit,
that stood beside the fence; and she could
see, at the broken window with its ragged
blind, Mrs. Maleen sitting with Bobby in
her arms. He was wrapped in a blanket.
Bobby was dying, too.
Minnie knew that Bobby was dying;
and she knew that she was dying. Even
children know Death. He walked up and
down, up and down between the fences,
now looking at Minnie, now at Bobby, with
his cold, strange eyes.
“Essie! Essie! I want to play with
Essie,” wailed Minnie.
Essie came to the door.
“Essie mustn’t come any further than
the door, darling,” said Minnie’s mother,
and then she looked through the window
and saw Bobby in his mother’s arms.
“Is Bobby going to die before me,
mumma?” Minnie asked. “Oh, mumma,
let us go out and have a play on the mound,
just once.”
The child lost consciousness again and
deliriously wailed “Go out! Come in! Go
out! Come in!” She began to sing very
softly, very gently, so that Bobby would
not hear. She sat up and played with the
bunch of shivering grass which Essie had
brought her. She wanted an apple or a
cake with pink sugar on the top of it;
but she could see nothing anywhere but
green peaches rolling over the floor, and
castor-oil trees waving their leaves about her.
Now she was singing the song of a game
they played at school. She thought herself
that she was singing it in a funny way;
but she had to sing to keep away the yellow
dancers in red hats who had caught hands
on the top of her head and would not stop
tap-tapping. She sang :
“We’ve come to see poor Jinny .Tones,
Poor Jinny Jones is dead in bed.
We’ll dress her in red, in red, in red.
Red is for the soldiers and that will not do.’’
The song did not go that way at all. But
she could not put it right; and the while she
played With the grass, bunching and un-
bunching it, she sang, and swayed forwards,
and backwards.
“You must be quiet, sweetheart,” said her
mother, watching her with the fascination
of fear.
The child put a piece of grass between
each finger and its mate. She placed them
so that they appeared to be growing, and,then
she bent forward and blew on them gently.
She stopped her singing and said to herself:
“Blow wind ! That’s the wind ! Now I’ll
make a little fence.” She gravely made a
little fence with the grass, and she said
slowly: “No. You can’t come over, Bobby.
There’s a big fence there. You’ll have to go
right round.”
Her mother trembled. “Now lie down,
darling,” she said. *
But Minnie broke up her fences and divi-
ded the grass again into bunches. She
spread it out all over the patchwork quilt.
"When I climb up to the top of the
Colonel’s bamboos,” she whispered to the
grass, “you won’t know what I’ll find there.”
"Lie down, dear,” repeated her mother.
But she was crying and wiping tears from
her eyes with the corner of her apron.
“Not yet,” said the child solemnly. “I’ll
find the Chinaman that buried the gold inMer
the gum-tree.”
“What Chinaman, darling?” asked her
mother ; and suddenly Bobbie’s mother called
to Mrs. Mite.
“I’ll come! I’ll come,” her eyes said
through the window to the mother next door.
“You wait at the door, Essie,” she said
to her eldest child, as she shivered through
the hall and out of the gate to the house next
door. _ <
The doctor who came to see Minnie and
Bobby was a tall man, who wore glasses;
and, when her mother had gone, Mipnie
thought that she saw him pass down the lane,
his leather bag in his hand, on one side of
him Bobby, on the other herself.
“I’m not going. I’m not going away in
the leather bag,” she cried suddenly. _
“That isn’t the doctor,” said. Essie with
quick child intuition, and she smiled. “That’s
the Chinaman that buried the gold. He’s
come down from the Colonel’s bamboos, and
he’s got all the gold in the little leather bag;
and he’s going to give half to you and half
to Bobby. You aren’t going to die, little
sister; neither is Bobby.”
Minnie put down her grass and lay back
on the pillow very still.
“Mumma ! Mumma !” wailed Essie, run-
ning out of the roon to meet her mother, who
came hurrying back again. “Minnie’s dead.
Bring the doctor !”
Mrs. Mite twisted her thin hands and
began to take down her long black hair, which
had been coiled up tightly at the top of her
head. The weight of the hair almost mad-
dened her. It sat upon her brain as heavily
as a little child’s body. Ah, it was heavier
than that. It was as heavy as the body of
a dead child.
She heard her husband’s and the doctor’s
footsteps coming up the stairs.
“I think she has gone,” she said to them
and began to knot her fingers as if she were
tying them together.
“There never was much hope, Mrs. Mite,”
said the doctor.
Then all three walked into Minnie’s room
slowly, and found her lying quite still.
“I believe she’s asleep,” said her father.
“Poor little kid!” The doctor sat down
beside the child and took up a small hot hand.
She snatched her hand away and sat up.
“Go away ! Go away, Chinaman!” she said.
Then she fell back without a sound, with-
out a sigh. Her eyes roved from one to
another, making almost a circular move-
ment in her head. She thought her eyes
were little green peaches, and they were
rolling round and round so that the China-
man would be terrified of her and would go
away. But he got up and stood at the end
of the bed. Her mother and father came
and stood by him. She opened her eyes and
the Chinaman and her father shook their
heads off. She saw the heads roll up along
the quilt and come nearer and nearer her.
She shuddered and struggled to keep the
things away from her. But they came up
to her, and as she writhed over upon her face
she felt them creep up her back and dis-
appear into her own head. She saw
the shadow of the two heads dis-
appear again, passing through her pillow
and away. Then the dreadful thing hap-
pened. She turned over again, and, with her
face towards the ceiling, she could struggle
no more. She tried so hard to open her
lips. They would not move. She wanted to
ask if she might play on the mound once
more, just hear it go “squash” once again.
Hands were undressing her now. Someone
was washing her body all over with a cold
cloth which smelt sickly sweet.
She could not see the window where Bobby
was. The tall men blocked her view. Every-
thing looked white, too, so white that she
thought the world was wrapped in snow.
She tried to call out to them “Let me
alone! Let me go! Stop tying me up!
Don’t hide me! Don’t put me under tne
mound! Let me play with Bobby!”
She felt them carry her slowly away.
They carried her round and round and round
the house: then up and down the stairs:
then round and round the roof. She tried
to tell them that it was stupid of them to
carry her about so much when all she wanted
was' to play with Bobby—just once. Only
once!
Then they brought her back into her own
room and put her down crosswise on her
bed. There was a carpenter with his sleeves
rolled up standing at the end of the bed.
He had a hammer in one hand and a hand-
ful of rusty nails in the other. He went to
the wall of her room and tapped it. The
wood crumbled under his hands and the
tall strangers, the dark men, pushed him
(Continued on next page.)


'Even/ Picture,
Mia dSton/'
BBS
\ <22
£
Is Every flay a
Backache Day?
Are you dragging along day after day, with a dull,
nagging backache? Does morning find you tired, lame
and stiff? And when evening comes are you all worn
out —barely able to finish the day’s duties and drag
yourself to bed? Truly, life can hold few pleasures when
you feel so miserable. But don’t be discouraged! Just
realise that a cold, a chill or a strain has likely weakened
, , , . your kidneys and brought on that all-day backache;
those sudden stabbing pains; the headaches, dizziness and bladder difficulties. But, fortunately,
kidney disorders are usually easily corrected, if treated promptly. So don’t worry! Simply take
t mgs easier for awhile get plenty of rest and sleep, and help your weakened kidneys with Doan’s
ackache Kidney Pills. Doan s have helped thousands and should help you. Ask your neighbor!
CONVINCING SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
Mrs. S. T. Burrows, 19 Springside Street, Rozelle, Sydney, says:
T t V- n , any ?J- l n rs I have nothing but good to sav for
Doans Backache Kidney Pills. Some few years ago I was suffering
a lot with my kidneys, and in consequence was troubled with pains
across the small of my back and dizzy feelings, besides having no
energy for anything One day my attention was called to Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and, in the hope that they might benefit me, I
got a bottle. After taking them for a few days my health began
to improve, and by the time I had used six bottles I was completely
cured. lam very grateful to Doan’s Pills for the good they have
done me, and hope many will profit by my experience and use this
splendid remedy. I never suffer with backache now; in fact feel
splendid in every way.”
J our years later Mrs. Burrows says: “I have had no reason to
alter my good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They cured
me some years ago, and I am still well.”
Mr. Jos. Goddard, 6 Windsor Street, Paddington, Sydney, says:
“For some time my health was far from good, due to the fact that
my kidneys were very disordered. I knew this to be the case, as I had
aching pains in my back, was always tired and languid, and could not
get proper rest at night. When I first began to feel off color 'I did
not bother about it, thinking I would soon be all right again, but
this is where I made the mistake. I got worse instead of better, and
by the time Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were recommended to me
I w r as suffering a good deal. A friend advised me to try these pills,
so I got some, and, after taking them for a few days my health began
to improve, and by the time I had used five bottles I was cured. I
feel grand now, thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Six years later Mr. Goddard says: “I am still well, and have had
no return of my old complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me over six years ago.”
df
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
sd
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
away and took up his hammer and the rusty
nails. They carried the boards across to
Minnie and tried to make a box about her;
hut the rusty nails would not hold the pieces,
and twice the hammer hit her head, which
she could not move. She saw, through the
hole which they had made in the wall, the
Colonel come riding, and she tried to scream
to them, "lie’ll kill you. lie’ll kill you for
taking away his boards.” But the tall men
clapped the boards all about her and nailed
them to her.
The rusty nails made a noise as thev
were driven through her, but no one could
hear it but herself, and the top board was
pressed down so tightly against her lips that
never, never could she move them again—
never, never, never struggle. Yet the nails
did not hurt her. That was the most dread-
ful thing of all. She could not feel, though
she could hear a little and see a little. She
longed for the rusty nails to hurt her. They
would not. She felt the boards at her feet
meet together, crushing her feet, but that
did not hurt either.
There was a phantom sound of wings
about her. She thought she heard angels
singing just as the teacher at Sunday-school
had told her angels sang. But they were
singing:—
“YVe’ve come to see poor Jinny Jones.
Poor Jinny Jones is dead in bed.
Black’s for the devil, the devil, the devil.”
They were not singing any of the hymns
at all.
fell down the bamboos and saw the
C olonel on his big white horse and heard
him say, as he shook his riding-whip, "If I
see you children climbing on my fence again,
use my whip.” But there were no
children on the fence. She was there alone
with the boards and the rusty nails about
her again, and the Colonel did not notice
her as he took "lie fence at one leap. But
jus heavy body pressed her so tightly down
into the mound, as the animal writhed and
rolled and pawed there, that the child heard
the ground make the “squash” sound all
about her just as it had done when she and
Bobby jumped upon it on a wet Spring
morning.
She could feel again. That was the slime
beneath the mound pouring like water
through her body !
“Go out! Come in! Go out! Come in!”
she whispered, opening her eyes and seeing
the ceiling of her little room.
“Darling! Darling! Darling! Darling!”
she heard a whispered sob, like the sob of her
mother’s voice.
Her body was wet in her hands, damp
on her neck. She could feel it dripping
from under her arms, beading upon her
forehead. A tiny drop trickled down her
nose.
“Darling! Darling! Darling! Darling!”
It was the age-old croon of her father’s
voice now.
She was very tired. Someone held her
hand. It was a tall man and a stranger.
He was bowed over the little frail hand,
and she saw her own doctor standing at the
foot of the bed. So they had had to get
two doctors to her. Then Minnie Mite
smiled softly and shyly—the first smile that
had loosened the little lips for many days.
For, standing beside the doctor, a red rose
in his hand, which .he had jjicked from his
garden" for her, was the young minister she
knew. He was pressing Ins lips tightly
together and his eyes were swimming with
water. Then he smiled at her, and it was
his whisper that broke the silence of the
room as he gave her the fresh rose: “Now
we shall soon be all right.”
The child felt a little hotter and a gentle
rustle about her. The tall stranger who
held her hand did not speak at all. But
he made a sound in the hollow of his throat
that was sweeter than all words to Minnie.
Child though she was, she knew that the
hollow sound-without words that was wrung
from the depths of the man said- plainly:
“You are better, Minnie Mite. You are
not going to die. at all.”
Her mother' suddenly put her arm about
the stranger and kissed his cheek softly.
He did not even seem surprised.
Minnie Mite lay quite still with the rose
in her hand. She wanted to lift the flower
to her face, but she was not strong enough,
and it was so pleasant to feel the green
stem, so wonderful to feel the touch of the
smooth glossy leaves against her own pain-
brown nails. The scent of it filled the room.
Minnie was very drowsy and she saw the
people about her begin to tip-toe away softly.
The pathos of relief palpitated through the
room as Sleep came up the lane instead of
Death.
Minnie looked at the window and she
saw that the blind was drawn where Mrs.
Maleen had been sitting with Bobby in her
arms.
It was Bobby, not Minnie, who had died.
ZORA CROSS.
The Third Lawn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SUDDENLY Esmond’s attention de-
tached itself from the colorful shift
~ ing groups. In the, monotone of the
patio’s twilight they seemed to be moving
silently, like figures on a stage too far away
for the hearing of their words. The violent
colors of the frocks and cloaks swam evenly
back and forth, soundlessly and smoothly
making color-schemes and compositions
which in no way really engaged his mind.
Subconsciously he knew that he was part
of this throng, that he had dined with it an
hour ago, and that soon he would be tearing
back to Buenos Aires in one of its motors.
Yet for the moment he had sunk into this
small' vacuum of time and space. The eyes
that perhaps glanced at him made nonimpact
on his consciousness; lie felt his lips moving
in answer to some question from Rodney
beside him; the pungent smoke of his
Havana cigarette assailed his nostrils as
gently as a memory; his hand seemed to
be lifting his glass—all definition of gesture
or sensation was blotted out by the thick
silence, the benevolent cloud into which he
had retired.
He was aware of a girl’s face in a far
group, a small face black-eyed and red-lipped,
pale under its shadow of pale gold hair with
the half-transparent pallor of the rare fair
Spaniard; but seven-eighths of his entity was
rigid in expectation, while the remaining
eighth carried on a slightly sullen and pre-
occupied traffic with a totally umnteresung
earth. Presently he felt the tap of the long-
forefinger on his arm ; he stood up at once
and followed the dark figure out into the
tangled Spanish garden.
Here at the touch of the moonlit air all
directness of sound and smell and vision
seemed to leap on him a hundredfold. An
oleander threw a handful of heavy perfume
in his face, a clotted shadow of scent which
brushed his lips; a tinkle of laughter from
a blackness under the trees at the far end
of the lawns smote his hearing like a bub-
bling apotheosis of music; sharp and hard he
saw the three lawns and the profiles of the
guarding trees and their shadows lying-
black on the grass, and beyond them the
brooding bulk of the house imposed, mellow
and memoried and secret, on. the night. All
this was still, still and serene as an icicle
in an Andes cave; only himself padding
wolfishly after the soft, swift figure dis-
turbed the breathless world. His eyes, alert
and bright with the hunter’s merry cunning,
felt the shadows of evil crowding behind
the matted wall of the night.
Reaching the level square of shimmering
grey grass he watched the guide’s figure slip
into the blackness whence the chime of
laughter poured suddenly out into the night
again. Esmond paused in the middle of the
third lawn, the moonrays beating on his
rigid figure and the silken sound enveloping
him in a flood of memories. For an instant
he saw her ashen-gold hair and hot vermilion
mouth on the heavy darkness of the trees
....his— his, in spite of all the lean con-
quistadores not yet in Hell ! Pizarro? No
more than a name!
Presently the man and his name stood
before him, his infamous heart staining
the whiteness of the night, the gleafn of his
sword a livid line of light. Esmond saw
the little heap of tumbled yellow where Piz-
arro’s cloak had dropped on the edge of
the lawn; sharply he saw, too, the plum-
colored crouching figure and the murder
mocking in the white, intolerable face.
Instantly Esmond leapt ou him, their
swords meeting in a long thin hiss as heart-
ening and bracing as Pizarro’s contemptu-
ous smile. Over the ripple and flash of their
beating, sliding blades he watched this
crafty thief, discovering coldly the hidden
morass of fear at the base of all his bom-
bast and feline cruelty. All broken faith
and hard, devouring hands! Not great, as
the greedy king had called him, but poor
and small, with an imbecile thirst for domi-
nation parching his flashy heart. Those
tales from Cuzco : the mad story old Perez
giggled and whispered to- the men in the
fo’c’stle, of the shambles, the childish slaugh-
ter this plum-colored fool had made in the
wide, white square of the mountain city;
the four and thirty royal women paraded
naked before the gasping wine-sodden con-
querors ; and the black dishonor on which
all the conquering leaned! All the gold they
slobbered over, this blue mountebank’s lie
for their password to the endless treasure.!
And that other foul tale of the white king’s
easy faith, his kept word, his faltering
astonishment at the swift breaking of the
conquistadores’ given word, so that in death
he lifted a royal amazement to the sky, a
face that could not believe so base a thing
—that was all true. This shifting malefi-
cence behind the restless lines of light proved
it, however passionately the Court gossip
denied it. Deep down, this stained heart
was wholly treacherous, faithful to no-
thing. A memory of Juanita’s shimmering
laughter sounded for a moment in his mind;
the supple steel of his wrist felt like drag-
ging lead.
He dropped his guard and attacked, bit-
terly, murderously, a cold ferocity watch-
ing omnisciently the quivering lines of fire:
not to this last ebb of falseness should his
ashen rose be subject, if Death be but just!
Upon the wall of the other’s impregnable
guard he threw himself, conscious of no
fatigue, no least uncertainty; an enormous
determination possessed him —-the possibility
of failure was entirely absent from his mind.
The crowding streaks of fire, hissing and
breaking and plunging into a momentary
pattern, were an old knowledge of his
memory; he could follow out each line to
the death at its end and frustrate its pur-
pose subconsciously, his whole being intent
upon liis own blade’s breaking-through. A
deep joy settled down upon his spirit:
almost this lewd conquistador was a friend
of his for giving him these royal moments
on the brink of triumph. Yet he must not
hold the joy beyond the instant of attack,
the instant coming nearer and nearer on
this tide of singing steel. In a little it
would be here; he felt the relaxation, the
slightest hint of fatigue in the glimmering
wall round Pizarro’s vulpine head. 500 n....
soon!
The instant came, and with it an omni-
potent calm. Steadily he swept away this
froth of leaping swords, crowding in with
a great song rising in his heart. Juanita!
—Juanita da Solis, the white flower of El
Dorado ! Now ! In a passion of confidence
he lunged, driving his sw'Ord through to the
ultimate whisper of his strength, the song
flooding triumphantly to his lips.
His sword slipped up into a mocking arc,
hung lividly there for a second, and snap-
ped at the hilt. Mail —he might have
known. Any fool would have known that
this sniggering traitor would wear mail
day and night; too many kept their daggers
bright for him.
Esmond waited. Here was the end.
Death had broken faith. He must go now on
the last adventure. The white flower of El
Dorado. Evilly the smiling face came closer.
The hot finger of Death slipped through his
doublet.
* * * *
Putting down his glass he was conscious
of Rodney’s finger on his arm.
“See that girl over there? That’s Juan-
ita Luzio —yes, the dancer. Extraordinary
type, isn’t it? The black eyes and fair hair
make an amazing contrast.”
Rodney stood up.
“Come over and I’ll present you. She’s
a fool, but quite amusing. Fearfully proud
of an imaginary descent from Pizarro’s
Juanita —da Solis, wasn’t it? Some name
like that.”
HILARY LOFTING.


mmmm
m
m
V-"
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
For Long Life 8 Good Protective Qualities
USE
BITUMASTIC SOLUTIONS
Supplied in Red, Grey, Brown, Green and Black.
Suitable for surfaces exposed to weather, sea air or chemical action.
Covering capacity much greater than that of Oil Paints.
In 1, 2 gall, tins, and 5 and 10 gall, drums.
Send for color cards to Sole Agents—
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR, LTD.,
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CAILLE “PERFECTION” MARINE ENGINES.
A Type to Suit Every Hull.
Now’s the time to buy if you want
your Engine this season.
BIG REDUCTION ON
ALL ENGINES.
New shipment of 4-h.p. Engines, com-
plete with Igniter, just arrived.
We have stocks for immediate delivery
at the following reduced prices:—
Neptune Outboard . . £32
5-Speed Outboard . . £43
Liberty Drive Outboard £34
Inboard Motors:
2h.p. £34, 4h.p. £47/10/-, Bh.p. £BO,
2£h.p. £45, 6h.p. £57/10/-, 14h.p. £l5O
WRITE, ’PHONE OR CALL.
Sole Agents for Australasia and Pacific Islands.
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED
76 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 107-109 Queensbridge Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Cable Address: “BROSBENSON.”
(Jjue
FfaiiKTlWtta:
A Splendid Rifle
A Speedy Cartridge
The Remington.
Model 14A
•25 Calibre
Six Shots
m
m
mm m
E 14
The
Hi-Speed
Mushroom
Cartridge
This high power repeater
will do the trick at ranges
from 500 to 700 yards.
Remington’s Hi-Speed mushroom rim-
less cartridge, 87 gr. bullet, develops a
velocity of 2700 foot seconds and a striking
energy of 1410 foot pounds.
Ask your dealer
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY. Inc.
25 Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
P. D. Bryant, Representative, Box 686 0.P.0., Melbourne.
fa
A
m
y/y.
m
ssy /
/
*777,
f
V.
//
n.
w%Y/j/ozir>'
l^PleeHoia
will be
ion
IF YOU TAKE
7/fffW//.-
t.v
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visitiug London
should read the Bbitisii Australasian,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, nse the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
C. BRANDAUER & Co. S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
r*i*ize Medals.
sdf
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt.
They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead pencil.
Works ■ Birmingham, England.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Is Your Stocky O
Well Watered r
Our new Catalogue is
very . interesting may
•we send you one?
When your neighbour proudly asserts
that there is “no Water Shortage” on his
place, rest assured he is a “Comet” user.
Many prosperous farmers and pastoralists have
written in telling us of the faith they have
in the “Comet” Windmill. And their faith
is fully justified. The sturdy build of the
“ Comet ” places it in a class by itself. The
powerful yet perfectly balanced working parts
make pumping possible in the slightest breeze.
Its automatic control means safety throughout
severe storms. Write in and tell us of your
watering problems—it is a pleasure to offer you
the secret of obtaining more water when you
need it most.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO. LTD.
Constitution Rd., Dulwich Hill, Sydney.
City Offices: 255 a George St., Sydney.
Also at Rockhampton, Brisbane and Townsville.
SWIS
G
14
3
wm.


‘Born
1820
Still
gomg
<j
i
iff
\
You cannot buy a drop ,of
“Johnnie Walker” any-
where that is anything but
“pure Scotch Whisky”—and
perfedly matured. In Aus-
tralia the bottling is done
under Government super-
vision.
\r o
sic~u
&
o
O
Guaranteed same quality all over the World
WALKER & SONS. LTD., SCOTCH WHTSKY DiSTTIXKRS Ktt.MARWOC*. Scottawtv
