

Mr. William Lenton, on the job.
There are many
ups and downs
in a “dog-man’s”
life .....!
In the occupation column of the Electoral
Roll, Mr. William Lenton is classified as
a “dog-man.” That is, one of those men
you see precariously perched on the end
of a chain wherever large buildings are
in course of construction.
Now a dog-man’s job requires nerve,
steady hands and a clear brain. Speak-
ing of this Mr. Lenton says:—
“On my job I must keep in good *nic.’
Exposure to all weathers and the strenu-
ous nature of my work (see photograph)
render it necessary to take a good tonic
occasionally. I find CLEMENTS TONIC
the ‘dinkum’ medicine. Whenever I feel
shaky or ‘run-down’ a bottle of
CLEMENTS TONIC soon puts me right,
and I have recommended it to others who
have not been feeling too good.”
Irrespective of your occupation, you also
will find CLEMENTS TONIC gives
prompt relief from insomnia, anaemia, im-
paired vitality, neuritis or similar nerve
and blood ailments.
CLEMENTS TONIC does not contain
alcohol or narcotics, but imparts its
invigorating, strengthening influence
through natural medicinal ingredients.
Try it. An occasional, dose will keep you
fit throughout the fatiguing summer
months.
CLEMENTS TONIC
..
is on Sale throughout Australasia and New Zealand,
“IT PUTS THE ‘VITAL’ INTO VITALITY.”
Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
Vol. 44.—N0. 2241.
Thursday, January 25, 1923.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Write for Circulating Library Catalbgue.
Posted free, with full particulars, to any
address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSACHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
OURNYILLE Cocoa
THE COCOA WITH THE DELICIOUS FLAVOR
CADBURY’S CHOCOLATE—“The Standard of Quality.’’
SsiiSll !
B
lisiU
Si
Isllil
Si!!
cast
L , !!i!i>!!!!L , j!i. i !!
EXACT ENGINEERING SCIENCE
is applied to the manufacture of Mangrovite Leather or
Raw-hide Belting, and w r e supply grades and sizes for every
kind of drive. That is why MANGROVITE BELTING is so
successful in increasing power transmission and minimising
costs.
Standardisation, and many years’ experience in manufacture-
and application have made Mangrovite Belting- Service a
science. Let us solve your belting problems for you.
Write or call to-day.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUOOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE-. Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henrv Clark & Co. Ptv., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd.. Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P, F. Mann, 5 Bedford Row, Christchurch.
Points the way to pencil supremacy . t*
i
THE PERFECT
PENCIL.
Made in 17 degrees,
6B to 9H.
ALL “KOH-I-NOOR” Pencils are yellow-
polished, but not all yellow-polished pencils
are “ Koh-i-Noor.” Every “ Koh-i-Noor ” bears
its name and the name and address of its
makers, Messrs. L. & C. Hardtmuth. This
precaution against confusion and substitution is
deliberate. It saves considerable disappointment.
From all Stationers, Drawing Material Dealers & Stores.
Agent for AUSTRALIA :
Mr. JOHN MACDOUGALL, G.P.O. Box No. 165, SYDNEY.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, 10, Both well Street, GLASGOW.
Factories — Budweis, Czecho-Slovakia.
if
n
0
O.
□
SODA WATERS
DRY GINGER. ALE
THE BEST
\w
ER
#
RCTr\
tm
Wi\t
JC
*«
<*«•
«. * /-K, «iiK
(< *s <
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
ir
IL
KILLS FLIES
Three Singers
The Res Page
Streets and Gardens, by M. Forrest (Queensland
Book Depot, Brisbane).
More Songs of the Open Air, by Nina Murdoch
(Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne).
The Yellow Cloak and other Poems, by Winifred
Shaw (Angus and Robertson, Sydney).
Mrs. Forrest has here collected a very
small book of her recent verses; and though
the selection does not represent anything
like the full sweep of her singing power it
is none the less very welcome. In her work
there is always thought, always melody and
rich embroidery of words, and her fancy
Hits like a bee froip flower to flower, gather-
ing a varied honey of minor ideas. It is this
which makes her unlike any other writer
of verse in the world. Is there a flower
that she has not sung? Is there one roman-
tic turn of life that she has not set to sun-
light and starlight and magic moon-haze?
Always the picture is clear-cut and the emo-
tion finely expressed. She seldom catches
the reader’s breath with a sudden inspira-
tion ; but her method is rather to smother
him in colors and fragrances, and then
lightly toss aside all these heavy but delight-
ful things and let one ray of light play for
a moment on naked truth that has neither
perfume nor lustre. This booklet represents
her in her quieter moods, singing of “Mint”
and “Honeysuckle,” of “Old Men” and
“Peach Trees.” She sees :
The white moon bathing in a pool of bloom,
The gold sun loitering in a quivering shade.
And she has laughed
And thought of love in some well-ordered lives,
And how God never sets His flowers in rows,
But lets them ramble at their own wild will.
But her fancy goes out to the primeval be-
ginnings of gardens:—
. .. .and blundering moths with jewels for their eyes,
And spicy herbs we crushed \vith naked feet
In springy carpets of primeval moss.
'Twas there you found the red hibiscus bloom
And fought for it, and sinking on my breast
Stained all my robe of leaves with dyes more red
Than the hibiscus petals; and you laughed
Over your wounds, for you had gained the flower.
As a foretaste of a larger volume to follow
it is good to have “Streets and Gardens.”
Nina Murdoch is a writer of graceful
verse, which is occasionally fresh and vigor-
ous but seldom exquisite. In More Songs
of the Open Air the verses are all moder-
ately good, but they have no strong singing
quality and hardly touch the high places of
poetry. Sometimes the choice of words is
almost distressing, as when “The Road”
runs
Past delightful things and small
Crannied i” in old stone wall,
Arid stark white creepers on old fences
Down to where the bay commences.
Verses that have little to say can only suc-
ceed by saying that little exquisitely. Too
often Nina Murdoch has little or nothing to
tell us, and what she does say is set in
rather harsh language. A larger voice and
stronger imagination could carry such un-
happinesses ; but the best lines in this volume
are only strong enough to carry themselves,
and not infrequently do so by grace of re-
membered lines of which they are echoes.
Here is a sample of her pretty versification:
TO A RED AUTUMN LEAF.
Can you be dying,
Little red leaf,
And on your cheek lying
No pallor of grief?
Does age not affray you,
Nor death coming after?
Why has time, the old thief,
Not robbed you of laughter?
The secret, I pray you,
O gallant red leaf!
Away in an altogether different region is
Winifred Shaw. Two years ago a little
book of verses, written in childhood, showed
how completely she had caught the method
of thought and expression of a certain type
of older ballad ; in her present volume, The
Yellow Cloak, she show's that she has lost
nothing of her childish skill, but also that
she lias added very little to it. Once the
knack is caught there is nothing easier than
to shape irregular quatrains with only two
rhymes to the stanza. Such a rhyme scheme
is hardly legitimate; and Winifred Shaw
should at least occasionally try for the other
pair of rhymes—if only to keep her easy pen
from running entirely away with a still
easier thought. Here is a characteristic
example of her verse:—
When I was only seventeen,
A gypsy in the lane
Told me that my sparkling eyes
Would win the crown of Spain:
Spariding eyes! Spanish eyes !
The Queen of Spain’s son.
The gypsy swore he’d marry me
Before the year was done.
The gypsy girl she took my hand
As we Stood in the lane ;
“Here is love, and here is gold,
And here’s the crown of Spain !”
Sparkling eyes ! Spanish eyes !
The gypsy read my hand,
A scarlet-skirted gypsy girl
As dark as Egyptland.
As I came to the palace gates,
As I came riding through,
A gypsy woman begged for gold
Because her words came true:
Sparkling eyes ! Spanish eyes !
The gypsy in the lane.
I filled her basket full of gold —
For 1 was Queen of Spain.
Pleasing as the verses are, they do not go
very far; but the “root of the matter” is
there, and Winifred Shaw has not belied
her first promise. It is a pity that the
edition is limited to 140 copies; for few
except book-collectors will ever see the
volume.
Charles Harpur
It is not right that Charles Harpur should
be altogether forgotten. His poetry is not
entitled to much consideration on its own
account, but he was, as Kendall called him,
the forefather of Australian verse, and in
this capacity he emerges from a group of
early most of whom were promi-
nent characters in the first stages of Aus-
tralian history.
Wentworth, Barron Field, Dr. Lang,
Henry Parkes—all found time to spare from
public pursuits for the stringing together
of verses more or less connected with their
Australian environment. Wentworth's Cam-
bridge poem, “Australasia,” was in vogue
as a school piece until a fevv years ago.
Field, by virtue of some rhymes published
as an appendix to a book of “geographical
memoirs,” claimed to, be “the second Austral
harmonist,” but his main achievement was
the rhyming of “Australia” with “failure”
in a poem on the kangaroo. His friend
Charles Lamb, who seemed to like twitting
his correspondent on the latter’s association
with a convict colony, asked in one of his
letters, “Have’you poets among you? Damn’d
plagiarists, I fancy, if you have any. I
would not trust an idea, or a pocket hand-
kerchief of mine, among ’em.” Dr. Lang
published verses with the object of “promot-
ing the practice of virtue throughout the
colony.” Parkes confessed that bis time was
“generally devoted to other, perhaps better,
purposes” than writing verse, but this did
not keep him from producing five or six
collections of it. One of these is dedicated
to Tennyson, who congratulated him on hav-
ing “not unsuccessfully, interwoven the
laurel of the muses with the civic wreath”
of a statesman. There were other poetasters
of the same period whose names have no
such garnishing interest.
But before Charles Harpur there was no
considerable attempt at poetic practice in
Australia —at any rate, nothing of the kind
with its source of inspiration in the bush.
He is, on this account, the poetic predeces-
sor of Kendall, particularly in the use of
blank verse for his bush themes. Kendall
plainly did—as the recurring phrase in his
poem “To Charles Harpur” puts it —sit at
the feet of the elder poet. Take the lines
regarding one
Who had with misery nearly all his days
Lived lonely, and who therefore in his soul
Did hunger after hope, and thirst for what
Hope still had promised him.
Though they might easily be mistaken for.
Kendall’s, they occur in Ilarpur’s “The
Creek of the Four Graves.” The compari-
son of Harpur with Kendall gives a general
idea of Harpur’s work. He is, as it were,
a Kendall without Kendall’s poignant sub-
jectivity ; without the same color-value in
his landscapes, which are often merely out-
lines ; with a conventional execution un-
accompanied by Kendall’s haunting cadence
and its refinements; without the same im-
petus of lyric passion. This last difference
explains generally the contrast between the
two attitudes. The earlier man’s style is
even but humdrum, and he drops easily into
bathos. He makes awkward, mechanical
blunders, such as an unnecessary fumbling
with the cognate object in the line, “The
thought of good is very sweet to think,” and,
again, “I roared a roar that startled e’en
myself.” Notwithstanding all this, he has
the right scenic sense—mountains with
“their bluff brows looming through the stir-
less air”; moonlight shadow in “Dense-
brushed valleys,” crouching “like a dragon-
doubt glooming a lonely spirit” ; and, more
forcibly, such descriptions as that of a pool
That in the knotted forehead of the land
Deep sunken, like a huge Cyclopean eye,
Lidless and void of speculation, stared
Glassily up—forever sleepless—up
At the wide vault of Heaven.
These word-pictures are direct reflections
of his life in the bush. His “Midsummer
Noon in the Australian Forest,” by which
he is represented in several anthologies, suc-
cessfully visualises a noon-mood. In read-
ing it one thinks of “The Woods of Wester-
main.” This, no doubt, is merely because
of the similarity of subjects and metre, for
the lines call for no comparison with the
verbal wealth and imaginative profundity of
Meredith’s poem. Harpur has nothing
deeper than a simple contemplation that
reaches its most incisive point in his verses
on “Words,” which are probably the best-
known of all his work.
His longest effort is “The Witeh of Heb-
ron,” in which he tells “a rabbinical legend.”
It attempts, but hardly succeeds in repro-
ducing, scenes of Oriental glamor, and de-
rives from its theme a strong didactic flavor.
Its value as a narrative is spoilt by a con-
fusing series of metamorphoses undergone
by the principal character, whose identity is
thereby confused. Another long poem, cover-
ing some 20 pages, is “The Tower of the
Dream.” It consists of a fantastic vision
vaguely allegorising the pursuit of the ideal,
but, like “The Witch of Hebron,” has only
occasional merit. The sixth of his series of
“Love Sonnets” is sometimes quoted for
its happy liveliness, but there is little spirit
in the rest of them.
From Kendall and- Gordon onward there
is a better standard of work. Harpur finishes
a sort of preparatory stage. But the first
milepost on a new road need not be with-
out honor in its own country.
FREDERICk T. MACARTNEY.
Academies of Letters
May I traverse some of the conten-
tions of “D.M.W.” in his “Suggestion
for an Academy of Letters’ 7 (B. 7/12/’22) ?
His fil-st point is that in other coun-
tries and centuries the State has helped
—not encumbered —literature with assist-
ance, and he leaves it to be inferred that this
assistance was given from love of learning
and with no thought of a return. In point
of fact, whenever a Government, ancient or
modern, has given any but casual assistance
to men of letters, it has almost invariably
done it as a prudent measure of State
policy, and usually the full pound of flesh
in the way of support has been exacted in
return. The instance of Athens does not
touch the issue at all. Whatever help Athens
gave the poet, the dramatist or the musician
was given because hymns to the gods, choric
odes, plays and the incidental music were
part of the State religious ceremonies..
Literature in the Roman Empire always stood
on its own legs; and, if Augustus showered
gifts on Virgil, Horace and Livy, they paid
him in epic, ode and history that helped the
Imperial policy. Nor is “D.M.W.” happy
in his choice of English writers who have
received aid from the Governments of their
day. Gower was a rich man and not in
any need of help. Sir Thomas Wyatt and
(Continued on page 3.)


y
me
Anthony Horderns' Half-Yearly Site
The Great Money-Saving Event.
Hosiery Bargains.
Ladies’ Lisle Thread Hose.
Plain, White, Navy, Tan or Mole Mer-
cerised, fine make, seam at back, double
suspender tops and soles. Usual Price,
3/3.
Reduced to 2/0
Ladies’ Cashmere Hose.
Plain Black, All Wool, seamless through-
out, extra-spliced lieels and Toes.
Usual Price, 3/11.
Reduced to 3/0
Plain Black, All Wool, full-fashioned
Indiana brand, medium weight, British
make, Double Heels, Toes and Soles.
Usual Price, 5/3.
Reduced to 4/0
Ladies’ Art Silk Hose.
Plain Black or White, three-quarter Art
Silk leg, seam at back, reinforced
Heels, Toes and Soles. Mercerised
suspender tops. Usual Price, 4/6.
Reduced to .., 3/11
Plain Black or White three-quarter Art
Silk leg, seam at back, heavy reinforced
Lisle Toes and Heels, “Kiwi” brand
double Lisle suspender tops and soles.
Usual Price. 4/11.
Reduced to 4/3
At ordinary times Anthony Horderns’
prices are fixed as low as they may be, in
accordance with quality, and allowing for
a reasonable basis of profit and working
cost. But at Sale Time consideration of
profits and expenses “go by the board’’; the
object is a clearance of stocks in preparation
for a new season; and while quality is as
satisfactory as ever, prices are considerably
reduced.
Opportunity is ripe throughout every
department. Save NOW on all your needs.
Footwear Savings.
Soft Glac€ Aida Vamp Lace Shoes,
sewn Soles, low leather heels. Usual
Price, 17/6.
Reduced to 15/9
Soft Black Box Calf Scalloped Vamp
Lace Shoes, pump soles, low leather
heels, sizes 3 to 7. Usual Price, 18/6.
Reduced to 16/9
Soft Nevis Kid Aida Vamp Lace Shoes,
pump soles, wide fitting, sizes 3 to 7.
Usual Price. 18/6.
Reduced to 16/9
All-Patent Lace Shoes, welted soles,
sports heels, smart extended last, sizes
2 to 8. Usual Price, 42/-.
Reduced to 37/6
Nigger Suede Lace Shoes, half-Louis
heels, pump soles, sizes 3 and 4’s only.
Usual Price. 85/-
Reduced to 27/6
Grey Crocodile Calf Court Shoes, covered
Buckles, Cuban heels, extended last,
sizes 2 to 7. Usual Price, 32/6.
Reduced to 28/6
Bronze Kid Court Shoes, hand sewn,
pump soles, full Louis heels, sizes 2 to
7. Usual Price, 42/-
Reduced to
37/6
Silks Drastically Reduced.
Eastern Silks.
30in. Washing .Satins, obtainable in a good assort-
ment of all the most wanted shades, including
YVhite, Navy, Grey, Sky, Pink, Vieux Rose, Helio,
Saxe, Apricot Brown Champagne, Nigger, Nil,
Reseda, Jade, Gold, Salmon and Black. Usual
Price, 4/6 yard.
Reduced to 3/11
Continental Silks (Colored).
BSin. Ducliesse Mousseline, in shades of Ivory, Black,
Sky, Saxe, Brown, Light Navy, Navy, Madonna,
Grey and Mole. Usual Price, 10/11 yard.
Reduced to 9/11
37in. Chiffon Taffeta, in shades of Champagne, Light
Navy, Navy, Nigger, Prune, Apricot, Pink, Saxe,
Peacock. Usual Price, 8/11 yard.
Reduced to 7/11
Black Silks.
40in. Lock-stitch Art Jersey Silk. Usual Price, 12/11.
Reduced to 11/9
36in. Drop-stitch. Art Jersey Silk. Usual Price, 12/11.
Reduced to 11/9
38in. Satin Feutre. Usual Price, 22/6.
Reduced to 21/-
27in. Jap Silk. Usual Price, 2/11
Reduced to . .
2/9
Manchester Bargains.
HORROCKSES’ WHITE CALICO, 36 inches wide:
A 1 B 1 II M 2 Quality.
Usual Price .. 1/- 1/4 1/11 2/4 yd.
Reduced to 9/11 13/11 21/- 24/6 doz. yds.
CREWDSON’S CALICO, splendid wearing qualities
with lovely soft finish; 36 inches wide —
G.O. 2 3 22 lv Quality.
Usual Price 1/2 1/6 1/9 1/8 2/2 yd.
Reduced to 12/11 15/11 17/9 17/9 23/6 doz. yds.
CREWDSON’S LONGCLQTH, 36 inches wide—
Usual Price:
No. 100 200
1/8 1/9
Reduced to—
-17/9 18/6
LONGCLOTHS, various, 36 inches wide
400
2/3
600
2/6
800 1000 Quality.
2/10 3/3 yd.
19/9 22/6 25/6 29/6 doz. yds.
1/3 yd.
13/11 doz. yds.
1/10 yd.
16/ 9 doz. yds.
inches wide.
Usual Prices .... -/II 1/2
Reduced to .... 9/11 12/11
TWILL CALICO, 36 inches wide —
Usual Prices .... 1/6 1/8
Reduced to ..... 14/9 15/6
CIRCULAR PILLOW CALICO, 40
Soft finish—
Usual Prices .. 1/8 1/10 2/2 2/6 yd.
Reduced to .... 1/6 1/8 1/11 2/3 per yd.
UNION SHEETING, excellent linen sheen, un-
equalled for wear; 80 inches wide —
Usual Price 11/6 12/11 yd.
Reduced to .... 9/11 11/3 yd.
Save on Dress Goods.
Plain Silk Mixture Dress Materials.
38in. Sponge Crepe, in Sky, Fawn, Pink, Putty ami
Canary, Usual Price, 3/11 yard.
Reduced to 3/6
3Sin. Silk and Cotton Marquisette, in Sky, Brown,
White, Grey, Saxe, Nil, Fawn, Champagne, Helio,
Pink, Navy and Rose. Usual Price, 4/11 yard.
Reduced to '4/6
Printed Cotton Dress Materials.
Slin. Hoyle’s Haircord Print (in Lilac only). Usual
Price, 1/6 yard.
Reduced to 1/4 %
32in. French Printed Beach Cloth, in Helio, Jade.
Navy, Cerise, Saxe, Amethyst, Wine and Tan de-
signs on White grounds. Usual Price, 3/9 yard.
Reduced to 3/3
Zephyrs and Ginghams.
38in. Fancy Colored Stripe Zephyr. Usual Price, 1/6
vaid.
Reduced to 1/4 %
3S'n. Overcheck Zephyr. Usual Price, 2/3 yard.
Reduced to 1/9
Household
Ironmongery.
White Enamel Hilly Cans (Eridish),.
10 pints. Usual Price, 7/0.
Reduced to 7/-
Blue Enamel Milk or Porridge Sauce-
pans, 4 pints. Usual Price, 16/6.
Reduced to . . . 14/6
Kitchen Sets, comprising 6 Best Eng-
lish Aluminium . Saucepans (1 each
3,4, 6,8, 10, 12 pints),' 4-pint Cast
Aluminium Kettle and Stand com-
plete. Usual Price, 95/-.
Reduced to 89/6
Aluminium Preserving Pans. Cast —■
12 14 16in.
Usual Prices . . 81/- -35/- 39/6
Reduced to . . 29/- 32/6 37/-
Aluminium Stewpans and Covers—
-3 5 7 9 11 pts.
Usual Prices:
5/9 6/9 8/9 11/6 13/6
Reduced to—
5/- 6/- 8/- 10/6 12/6
Brown Enamel Saucepans, with
Enamel covers, extra heavy quality:
4 6 10 pts.
Usual Prices . . 10/- 13/- 17/6
Reduced to . . 9/- 11/9 15/6
Grey Enamel Bellied Saucepans, with
Enamel Covers—
-2 34 5 7 pts.
Usual Prices .. 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/6
Reduced to . . 5/- 5/6 5/9 6/6
Saddlery and Harness
Reduced.
Brown or Black Leather Dray Breech-
in g S-r-3
-3 34 Lin.
Usual Price .. 50/- 56/- 60/-ea.
Reduced to.. 45/- 47/6 52/6 ea.
Leading Strapping—
-3 34 Lin.
Usual Price .. 42/6 48/6 55/-set
Reduced to.. 37/6 41/6 47/6 set
Scotch Winkers, plain eye. Usual Price,
12/9 pair.
Reduced to 10/6
Riding and Driving Bits.
Egg Butt Bradoons, solid Nickel. Usual
Price, 10/- each.
Reduced to 9/-
Taper-mouth Bradoons, N.P. Steel. Usual
Price. 5/3 each.
Reduced to 4/9
Taper-mouth Bradoons, Solid Nickel.
Usual Price, 6/3.
Reduced to 5/9
Sets Black or Warwick stain Sulky Har-
ness, solid Nickel buckles, two rows
sewn, Jin. Reins, -gin. sensible or square
eye Winkers and Bit, folded leather
breast Collar. Single leather or sewn
Traces, 4in. plain or patent leather
Saddle, liin. back-band and tugs,
Breeching gin. split hip strap. Folded
seat. Usual Price, £7.
Reduced to £6/7/6 set
Write for the Sale Catalogue.
Save on Poultry
Requisites.
Egg Cabinets.
A necessity in every house and in every
up-to-date Poultry Farm —Prevents
Breakages.
Egg Cabinets, for storing eggs, slightly
damaged on outside only, 2 drawers, to
hold 100 eggs. Usual Price, 32/- each.
Reduced to 27/6
Egg Cabinets, for storing eggs, slightly
damaged on outside only, 4 drawers, to
hold 200 egg's. Usual Price, 42/6 each.
Reduced to 37/6
Chicken Coops.
CYPHERS’ NEW MODEL COOP, for
Hen with Chickens —
Size, 4ft. 3in. long, 24in. wide, 20in.
high, lOin. high at back —
Plain. Painted.
Usual Price .... 61/6 68/-
Reduced to .... 57/6 62/-
Green-bone Cutters.
HUMPHREY GREEN-BONE CUT-
TER, hand power; weight, 1201 b.
Usual Price. £6.
Reduced to £5/10/-
HUMPIIREY GREEN-BONE CUT-
TER. Capacity, by hand, 200 hens:
by semi-power, 600 hens; weight.
1351 b. Usual Price, £7/12/6.
Reduced to V £7/2/6
A Copy will be posted
you FREE.
China and Glassware.
Coffee Jugs—Langley Ware.
1 2 3 4 pts.
Usual Prices:
3/9 5/3 5/9 7/6 10/-
Reduced to
3/3 4/6 .1/6 6/9 9*/-
Footed Glass Bowls.
Glass Bowls, Footed, Bamboo and
Star —
Tin. Sin.
Usual Prices .... 3/3 4/-
Reduced to .... 3/- 3/9
Glass Tumblers.
Tumblers, Thin, 752. lOoz. Usual
Price, 8/6.
Reduced to 7/6
Tumblers, pressed Hollow Flute —
6 8 10 oz.
Usual Prices ... 8/- 8/- 8/6
Reduced to . . 7/- 7/- 7/6
China Tea Sets.
TEA SETS, 21 pieces. Contents: 6
Cuos and Saucers, 6 Plates, 1 Slop
Basin, 1 Cream, 1 B. and B. Plate.
Biack Scroll, with gold line and edge.
Usual Price, 32/6.
Reduced to 30/-
Light Fawn Band, with clusters of
roses, Derby shape, gilt edge. Usual
Price. 32/6.
Reduced to . .30/-
ANTHONY HORDERN 6 Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone; City 9440.


Sydney to Melbourne Record
Broken!
GOLDEN SHELL
LUBRICATING OIL
enables an ESSEX CAR to make a remarkable run: 5651 Miles
covered in 15 Hours 38 Minutes. Previous Record lowered by
1 Hour 9 Minutes.
A TRIBUTE TO GOLDEN SHELL LUBRICATING OIL:
qvrtT.rj'iSoftSy 6 to i? f °r m you that during the recent successful attempt at the
5? , Road cord Wlth an ‘Essex’ Car, Golden Shell Medium Lubri-
-011 was used. The time occupied on the run, 15 hours 38 minutes, and the
pnf e n !nnf |U' e yious existing Record by 1 hour 9 minutes, is in itself a suffici-
ent pioot of the efficiency of the Lubricating Oil.
t)lo extremely strenuous run, during the course of which, from necessity,
thp to J£ ept going at its absolute maximum, never at any time did
started f lter ’ and the en g lne 1S now running in as good order as when the car
Prnv “l e .^ oald also , to inform you that the ‘Overland’ Car, driven by Mr.
recent Al Pfne lour, which was successful in securing 57 miles to
the gallon but was disqualified from First Prize in the Petrol Consumption Test on
all-in'th^r’esults^bteiie SheU Medium Rubricating Oil, which assisted materi-
(Sgd.) H. S. LANE, Manager,
oA,t . inoo NEAL’S MOTORS Pty., Ltd.,
20th December, 19__. 58-60 Collins Place, Melbourne.
The British Imperial Oil Company Ltd.
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND.
L.ll.
®n
□
m
R
c
S
n
E
□TOR, CAR
A Fair Principle and a Fair Price.
Every reduction in factory cost, inland transport, oversea
freight and saving in exchange has been consistently passed
on to buyers.
No saving, however small, escapes Dodge Brothers’ scrutiny,
and is taken into account by them when fixing the price of
the Car in this market; that is why buyers are assured of the
maximum of value when purchasing Dodge Brothers Cars.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne,
Waymouth Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide.
Winterbottam Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Dodge Brothera, Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Comments
Violet Blue Eyes.
By “PHLOX.”
“I
WAS a wallflower again last night,
mother.
Most unfortunate, my dear, most
untortunate. I can't think iho you take
after; certainly not after me. Anyway, we
must try and marry you off.”
“Suppose I don’t want to marry?”
the 0t t0 SUppoSe an Vthing of
“But if no man asks me?”
see'That he°does.” SOt 10 d ° J °“ r part '
“That I’ll never do.”
Ilien you’d better go into a nunnery.”
Ao, “other; that wouldn’t suit me. I’m
t0 ° w. nd ° f the Joys of the world.”
miJonary?" 0 '" *“ Is, ” nds «* •
“And run the chance of being eaten?”
hatever you do in this world, my deai
you nave to take your chance.” ’
“Anyway mine’s not going to be in the
Cannibal Islands.”
“By the way, Millicent, what are you
weanng tor the dance on Tuesday?”
I m not going to the dance.”
“Not going! Why?”
“I overheard that horrid Talbot girl say
to Be,:sie Myers that my skin was blotchy,
and my hair like rats’ tails.”
‘‘How very rude of her.”
‘Rude! I call it beastly. Anyway, I
have a grain of comfort. Jack Summers
Sdy ® “hat I have lovely violet-blue eyes.”
Of course you have.”
Instead of going to the dance Millicent
had Jones drive her to the home of Mrs.
Douglas a friend of whom she was very
fond. J
I m delighted to see you, dear,” was Mrs.
Douglas s greeting; “but I understood you
night ” that y ° U WGre SOi “ S t0 a dance t0 '
“I was, but—er—well, I’m tired of being
a wallflower.”
I m sorry, dear. Did you enjoy that
book I lent you?”
“I did, indeed; especially where Trine
says that you can usually be what you make
up your mind to be. Now, I want to be
beautiful. Do you think if I desire beauty
long enough, and earnestly enough, it will
ever come to me?”
It will, dear, if, as well as desiring, you
take practical means of assisting nature.”
“I would love to. I wonder if you would
be “kind enough to advise me?”
In the first place you need a good cream
that will nourish, and at the same time
remove the discoloration from your skin.”
“I did use a cream, and that horrid hair
you see on my face is the result.”
“So many creams do grow hair on the
face L but bave you ever tried mercolized
wax ?”
“No; I’ve heard of it. I thought, how-
ever, that it, too, might favor the growth
of hairs.”
Not at all, dear. I’ve used it for quite
a long time. You’ve heard of Frenchwomen
going into retirement during Lent, and hav-
ing the skin of their faces and necks re-
moved by a painful process.”
“Yes ; I’ve read about it.”
“Well, mercolized wax has the same effect
without causing any pain or inconvenience.
At night, before retiring, you simply wash
your face in warm water, using a good
soap—I always use Pilenta Soap—then
apply the wax to your face and neck.
Wash it off in the morning, and before
powdering rub in a little of the mercolized
wax,. which is obtainable from most good
chemists. Instead of ordinary powder I
always use cleminite, which gives that soft
velvety bloom to the complexion.
t Bor those blackheads on your nose and
chin, stymol tablets are the best cure. Drop
a tablet in a tumbler of hot water, and when
the fizzing has subsided bathe the face with
the liquid. After drying you will find that
blackheads have come out on the towel.
“For the hairs on your face there’s
nothing better than powdered pheminol,
which removes the hairs without disfiguring
the skin.”
“How very fortunate I met you, Mrs.
Douglas.”
“Now, for your hair. The first thing to
done is to shampoo it with stallax!”
“Yes, I’ve written that down. But I don’t
suppose you know of anything that will
keep my hair in curl?”
“Yes, I do—something, in fact, that will
make it curl.”
“How marvellous!”
“It’s a perfectly simple preparation, called
silmerine, which you can get at the chemist’s
and you apply on retiring at night. Brush
your hair out in the morning, when it will
be beautifully wavy, and any short pieces
curly.”
“Oh, how lovely that will be! You can’t
think what a load you’ve taken off my mind.
A°w if you would only prescribe something
■44 my red anc^s - 'I’m so ashamed of them.”
“I can, dear, give you a prescription that
T.ve tried myself with the best results. Add
bicrolium jelly to you-r list of wants from
the chemist. This pleasant, non-greasy sub-
stance quickly blanches the hands, removes
tan clears out the dirt which soap cannot
reach, and makes the skin soft, white and
smooth.”
“How clever of you, Mrs. Douglas, to
know all these things.”
“I’ve just found them out by degrees.”
Oh, there’s Jones for me. Good-night,
Mrs. Douglas; I don’t know how to thank
ycnj.”
“Don’t, dear; but consistently use what
I haye told you. When you have improved
your skin and hair you will be quite beauti-
ful, ahd should make many conquests with
those pretty violet-blue eyes.”
Prolactum tap Salve for cracked lips—
your chemist has it. — Advt.


Most Miles per Shilling
... this is the measure of service which
every Firestone Tyre is pledged to render.
For twenty years the Firestone Company
has devoted its most strenuous efforts and
entire resources to the generous fulfillment
of this pledge.
And it is a fact worth noting that to-day these
famous tyres are everywhere delivering
utmost mileage at the lowest cost per mile.
No matter how the standard of Mileage
climbs, the name Firestone will remain an
unfailing example of Most Miles per Shilling.
Distributors:
New South Wales:
E. G. BAGSHAW & CO.,
352 Kent Street, Sydney.
Queensland:
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.
Newstead, Brisbane.
Factory Representative:
ROBERT F. LEE 161 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Tfi*estone
Gum-Dipped Cords
the Earl of Surrey were wealthy courtiers,
and “came so close to the Governments ot
the day” that both lost their heads—the
charge was treason and not poetry. Chaucei
and Spenser, it is true, held posts ot some
importance under the Crown, and Spenser,
in addition, achieved the Greek gift of a for-
feited Irish farm; but the full tale of official
work was exacted from each. Twas not to
court patronage or the leisure arising there-
from that we owe “The Canterbury Tales, or
“The Faery Queen.” The true age of State
patronage of literature in England was the
age of Defoe, Swift, Addison, Steele and
Pope, but nothing is more certain than that
it was all a matter of the business of party
politics. The literary gladiator wrote some
verses, a play, an essay or a pamphlet in
which, to use Johnson’s phrase, he took
care that “the damned Whig dogs did not
have the best of it,” and was paid his rather
dirty money in the form of a sinecure. What
survives of Swift, the greatest pamphleteer
England has known? The “Tale of a Tub”
and “Gulliver’s Travels,” the one written
before, the other after that State patronage
which forced one of the finest minds of his
day to give up to party what was meant for
mankind. The truth is, Governments are
always ready to buy literary support; at
present, however, opnosition is less danger-
ous than when “Earless on high stood un-
abashed Defoe” in the pillory, or when, a
century later, Leigh Hunt spent two years
in prison for terming the Regent “a fat
Adonis of 50.” Governments do not love
ideas or ideals —they are dangerous, and dis-
pose subjects to the eighth deadly sin of
discontent; and a century hence methinks
I see a Soviet king paying treble rations for
a hymn to solidarity and cutting off the food
supplies from the bard who writes an ode to
freedom. Fortunately the proposal made by
“D.M.W.” that the New South Wales Gov-
ernment should found an Academy of Let-
ters, beginning with a dozen “writers of cre-
ative work,” can be criticised without any
reference to the merits or demerits
of Australian authors. A glance at
the history of the Academie Franqaise is a
sufficient commentary on the help such a
body is likely to give the struggling man of
letters. It has now been in continuous
existence for nearly 300 years, except for a
period of 10 years, when it was suppressed
by the revolutionaries, who no more loved
intellect and genius than they did kings or
aristocrats. Its members are 40 in number;
each receives, or used to receive, a small
annual honorarium, and has a numbered
chair of honor. When a member dies, the
remaining 39 co-opt his successor. The
career of the Academie began with a literary
scandal; at the instigation of Cardinal
Richelieu, a committee of the Academie
attacked “Le Cid,” perhaps the greatest
play of the greatest of French tragedians.
During the period 1803-53 there were
elected in all 81 academicians; the average
age at the date of election was 49 years, and
the average time for which a chair was held
24 years. The youngest elected was fully 30
years old—Shelley and Keats both died
before they were 30—and quite a third were
chosen on political and social rather than on
literary grounds. Victor Hugo was 40 at the
time of liis election in 1844 —he had then
been the greatest living poet in Europe,
“Victor in drama, Victor in Romance.” for
more than a decade; the mighty Dumas
and the even mightier Balzac were not
thought worthy of membership. The list of
illustrious authors who have, in their day,
occupied the famous 41st chair —outside the
walls of the Academy—includes many of the
giants of French literature, such as
Descartes, Pascal, Moli&re, J. J. Rous-
seau and Chenier. In his old age La Fon-
taine became a member after Louis XIV.
had forced from him a “promise to be good.”
Does “D.M.W.” cherish a hope that such
an academy as he proposes will include the
young iconoclasts who delight in breaking
the sacred tables of the current literary law?
Will it be free from cabals and jealousies?
Will it not exclude, in its turn, men who
will not “promise to be good,” or those who
affect orange or green or any temporarily un-
fashionable color? Will not the Farmers’
Union and the Labor party claim that their
“interests” must be represented ? History
has a knack of repeating itself, and in New
South Wales, as in France, aspiring youth
will be
Sure of the fortieth spare armchair
When gout and glory seat me there.
A. HART.
Is Poetry Necessary?
The Chap Book, which the Poetry
Bookshop in London began to issue in
July, 1919, and which appeared from that
date every month till the middle of 1921,
has started regular issues again. In
the first of these Harold Munro,. the editor,
adopted the good old magazine gag of send-
ing questions round to a number of re-
presentative people, asking their opinion
as to the necessity of poetry to the
modern man, its function, and whether they
thought there was any chance of it being
eventually dislodged by prose, “as narrative
poetry apparently is being by the novel,
and ballads already have been by newspaper
reports.” One may oresume that Munro has
selected those who are best able to give an
opinion; in which case there seems to be
a singular lack in England of original
thought on the question of poetry. The
majority consider it merely as something
added to life, perhaps necessary to the com-
plete or cultured man, but something which
life in the mass can do well without. R.
Randerson says: “If all the world’s poetry-
books were burned, life would not cease to
be enjoyable,” and John Gould Fletcher adds:
“Thousands of people exist who have never
seen a painting by Rembrandt.” They can-
mot see that these apparently incontrovert-
ible truisms do not touch the question.
It is obvious that the majority of mankind
hardly know that poetry or art even exist,
and consequently it seems ridiculous to claim
that they owe anything to it. The popular
answer will be that given by Rose Macaulay :
“Nothing is necessary Poetry is a form
of diversion which many types of men and
women of all periods, modern and ancient,
will probably desire to have.” Of course a
few replies are of the vague idealistic type,
which do not really express any more per-
ception of the function of poetry than
is displayed by these sceptics. Laurence
Binyon, for example, platitudinises: “As
long as the young continue to be
young, as long as love and religion
continue to move men and women
profoundly.... so long, I conceive, poetry
will continue to be enjoyed”; while W. 11.
Davies thinks he solves the vexed problems
of {esthetics by demanding that no man be
allowed to take a second glass of ale or port,
unless he murmurs first: “Is it not beauti-
ful!” For the rest there are references to
Shelley’s “Defence,” and to the Tolstoian
idea that the common things and occupations
are full of poetry. The peasant always
seems a poetical creature to him who merely
loolcs at the peasant and his toil.
Clifford Bax alone sees something of the
significance of rhythm, which is not an orna-
ment but the structural basis by which the
sensational and emotional material is given an
organic form. He says “this repeated rhythm
vibrates at a deeper level of consciousness than
that which represents us in daily life. Since
that deeper level will always exist, and since
verse is its natural and most powerful stimu-
lant, I do not conceive that verse can ever
be displaced.” It would have been truer
if he had said that it is in this depth, where
life is given form by rhythm, that there lives
the core and essence of consciousness, and
that if Man ceases to commune with the
energies of this depth and lives merely
on the upper and determined levels of con-
sciousness, then the spiritual stability of
mankind must be disintegrated. Humbert
Wolfe is therefore right in saying: “If poetry
is not necessary to modern men, then I do
not see the necessity of modern man.” He
adds, “Poetry is to the rest of literature
what the violet light is to the spectrum. It
is the last and loveliest color, and points to
something invisible beyond itself. The rest
of literature points to poetry.” And since
the greater can never be generated by the
lesser, the essence of life by the accidents of
life, then this violet light and the infmitv of
light which it presumes is the real living-
power which cannot cease while life remains.
R. A. BELLAY.
August—November (1918)
A feature of Major-General Sir A. A.
Montgomery’s huge book, The Story of the
Fourth Army in the Battles of the Hundred
Days (Hodder and Stoughton), is the
amount of space allotted to Dominion troops.
In a foreword Lord Rawlinson says:
“The Dominion troops won a reputation
second to none; the Australians, by their
skill and cunning, as well as by their sur-
passing gallantry” Commenting on the
severe fighting of _ August 8, General
Montgomery (Rawlinson’s Chief-of-Staff)
notes: “The final result of the day’s
fighting by the Australian Corps was the cap-
ture of the whole of the objectives allotted
to it, except a small portion on the extreme
left. The villages of Warfus6e-Abancourt,
Lamotthe-en-Santerre, Bayonvillers, Har-
bonnieres, Morcourt, Gailly and the greater
portion of the village of Cerisy-Gailly had
been taken, and touch had been established
on the right with the Canadian Corps....
Never had the Australian Corps had such a
successful day, and, as it was the first time
it had been in action as a corps of five divi-
sions, the result was especially satisfactory,
both to it and to its commander, Sir John
Monash. In this attack the Australians were
opposed by the 41st (East Prussian) and
13th (Westphalian) Divisions on either side
Of the Amiens-Brie-road, as well as by ele-
ments of the 108th and 43rd Reserve Divi-
sions .... So severely were the 108th and 43rd
Reserve Divisions handled in this and the
subsequent day’s fighting that they were both
shortly afterwards disbanded.”
The book is illustrated with British,
Canadian and Australian official photo-
graphs, and contains many interesting air
photographs and sketches. During the 100
days’ fighting covered, the Australian Corps
suffered in all 26,499 casualties, and took
prisoner about 23,000 Germans. In the same
period the Germans suffered 77,000 casual-
ties. A striking commentary on the valor
and ardor of the Australians is evidenced by
the fact that of 50 V.C.’s allotted to the
British, Canadian, South African and Aus-
tralian troops constituting the Fourth Army
.during the 100 days, no less than 20 went
to Australians.
Why the Index Expurgatorius ?
“Precisely what passages have brought
the great Frenchman under the Vatican’s
displeasure I do not know, but it might not
be hard to select many that would give a
rigid churchman offence,” writes G. C. Dixon
in a recent Red Page appreciation of Ana-
tole France. And the writer answers his
problem in his next sentence, in which he
says that the Frenchman “reveals every-
where a creed that forms no part of Chris-
tianity.” A Christian institution can hardly
have truck with pagan philosophy, even
though half the world has grown grey with
its breath. He that is not with Christianity
is against it. The Index Expurgatorius
bans “those newspapers and periodicals
which,' not only now and then, but regularly
and of set purpose, attack religion and
morality.” Anatole France bumps up
against the Index in a dozen ways. Long
before the Vatican decree was published W.
L. George had dubbed Jacques Thibault (for
that is our hero’s name to his valet) “an
indecent and blasphemous writer.” In his
book on the Frenchman, George summed up:
“One of his books is rather long-winded, here
and there dull, pedagogic, but it represents
him fairly well from an intellectual point of
view, though it contains none of the in-
decency, blasphemy and Falstaffian fun
which pervades his writings”’
Anatole France’s creed is a closed hell
and the pursuit of the primrose path through
life. He set out to be a big head-lined
Pagan, but could not achieve his ambition
without becoming a plagiarist. Cornelius
Celsus and the second-century sophists got in
ahead of him. Certainly he was “born late
and born French.” “The Church and the
Republic” was probably on the table when
the Vatican discussed Anatole France’s
works. The Pope’s ambition for temporal
power in France is outlined in this volume:
and with a few strokes of the pen Anatole
France would raise a second St. Peter’s at
Montmartre. "The Church might even show
fight to get France in her grip. Anatole
France writes with considerable force and
polish, and his subjects range from mario-
nettes to Joan of Arc. But he is not the
Olympian his friends would make him out to
be. He certainly registers the thoughts of
the dog Riquet, but he misses much of the
spirituality at the heart of all “massed and
golden beauty.” He is a mocker with a
philosophy full of sound, but really signify-
ing nothing but beautiful women and bottles
of wine. The mockers are not great men.
Were Augustine, Aquinas, Bossuet or Lacor-
daire mockers? Place Anatole France
among these, and he is like Gulliver in Brob-
dingnag—and a diminutive Gulliver at that.
Life is short and those who might be influ-
enced by the Index have nothing to lose.
FRANCIS DOOCAN.
Sudermann
Twenty or more years ago Sudermann had
a tremendous popularity. He was the arch-
priest of German naturalism who, in novel
and drama, professed his faith in uncom-
promising veracity. Not a doubt about it—
he caused a flutter. Those who could not
read him in the German clutched transla-
tions of “Es War,” “Frau Sorge” or “Der
Ivatzensteg,” and vowed that he was a dread-
ful man who had given a new savor to adul-
tery. “Frau Sorge” contained superlative
bits of writing, but it was messy, incoherent
and as devastatingly obvious in intention as
the ultra ultramarine specimens of our
trashiest “blue-book” school. The eye raced
from naughtiness to naughtiness, without re-
ceiving any of the entertainment that a
genuine study of impropriety gives, There
was too much love and glucosed sexuality—
too much maudlin emphasis on the prepon-
derant emotional processes of the Human
Female. And herein lies the defect of Suder-
mann. . Apparently a realist, he is at heart
an arrant romantic, puddling vigorously in
small-town passions, and gilding all their
treacheiues and ardors with a determination
to make the best of the coarsest facts of
existence.
And it is the same in his plays. “Heimat,”
over which pale Puritans shuddered deli-
ciously when it was first given to the Eng-
lish world as “Magda,” is, behind all its
Scribe-like mechanism, merely an attempt to
clear an atmosphere of intrigue with a
scent-spray. Nance O’Neil did “Magda” in
Australia, and Sarah Bernhardt, convinced
that she had another “Camille,” made the un-
fortunate heroine the Pollyanna of stage
seducers. Even Eleonora Duse, a remark-
able actress in anything she undertook,
thought Magda was worthy of her fire. Yet
“Magda” as a play was infinitely popular,
and Sudermann’s reputation bounded among
the critics who had not yet had the chance
to revise their estimates by a peep at “The
Fires of St. John.” “Johannesfeuer,” to give
it its Teuton name, was even a murkier depic-
tion of base affection, and when the drama
was produced in Australia there was amazed
trepidation at a state of affairs that was
leading up in Red-Lettered Moments to a
disenchanting scuffle in the dark. A grim
play in some respects, and stronger in char-
acter observation —for the types were East
Prussian, which Sudermann knew well—but
the eroticism was paraded like a festival,
which, indeed, it was, and many slunk home
from the performance with a definite stiffen-
ing of their moral sensibilities. It was sheer
prudery, of course, and probably ordinary
decency was offended by the sight of a pal-
pable amoureuse who for once hadn’t earned
the transpontine title of “victim.” Only Ger-
many and two or three other Continental
countries saw Sudermann’s other plays, the
most conspicuous of which is, in the matter
of emotional appeal, his high-voltage
“Johannes.” It was probably inevi-
table that the Ibsen of the Keyhole
should behold in the story of the chaste
John and the incendiary Salonffl pros-
pects of a considerable conflagration. Any-
how, he did his best, though he was always
artist enough to recognise John’s impregnable
respectability. Still, Salome, with her pro-
vocative beauty, and her lessen Sic tins leoen
invitation in her eyes, is eloquent of _ the
author’s audacity. She seems a tawdry little
courtesan, differing from the hieratic temp-
tress of Flaubert and the curious little maid
of Wilde, but she pictures her fancy for the
saint in ' honest and engaging speech. The
scene in the cistern between these two, where
John emerges victorious after a paralysing
mental conflict, provides a mordant comment
on the effeminacy which alienists associate
with a high strain of religious mania.
Sudermann was boim at Matziken, Ea3t
Prussia, in 1857, and he was a poor journal-
ist and tutor before he took to the wider
field of literature. As a dramatist he is dead
—dead as Sardou —and probably none of his
novels will be mentioned a generation hence.
Actually, his most artistic work will be found
in the short story. He has written several
of noticeable merit—some of conventionally
amorous structure, but marked by penetrat-
ing insight, resolute action, and that pre-
cious gift of irony which mitigates the bathos
of a happy ending. There is one yarn—l
have forgotten the title and the names of
the characters —which deals with a young
girl’s sacrifice of her honor for the well-being
of a stodgy lover who turns up in after years,
perfectly willing to marry her, but so blem-
ished, so hopeless, so uninspiring that she
sickens of his society. That is one of Suder-
mann’s rarest efforts. For once he is not pre-
occupied with the sex complex, but, sardoni-
cally visualising the tragedy of disillusion-
ment, has achieved a little etching from life.
C. R. BRADISH.
“El Verdugo’s” version: The latest batch of Lon-
don periodicals hardly bears out “A Londoner” anc
J.H. (London) (B. 4/l/’23) regarding the cir-
cumstances of the transfer of the Times back to tire
Walters. The Saturday Review seems to summarise
the best information, and the Spectator intimates
that Northcliffe did not secure complete control of
the paper in point of shares until two months be-
fore his death, when he purchased the last of the
Walter interest. Sir Campbell Stuart’s resignation
was not (as J.H. declares) the natural corollary
of the recession of the paper to the Walters, but
actually happened very early in the game in order
that he might act as intermediary for Walter and
Astor against Rothermere and a number of syndi-
cates which were in process of formation in Lon-
don to buy the paper.


of Construction
ALL-REINFORCED CONCRETE STORE and SHOW FLOOR
foi
The Co-operative Wool and Produce Co. Ltd.,
Ultimo, Sydney.
AREA*
330 feet by 180 feet.
Contract time:
Seven Months.
We will prepare
estimates for
any of your Building
Propositions.
w*
IBS
M9m
sn&* ;,". ■■rc^r, % "?b
s?sr •;'—
f|W|pM|l9- / “*erw\*v^
yo^wStafeSSs
F"
; ■
££-£:
T
WWIW
111
.•
:/•
Architects:
Ross & Rowe,
Sydney.
Builders:
Concrete Constructions, Ltd.,
Sydney.
The first portion of this mammoth Wool Store, constructed entirely of
Reinforced Concrete, covers an area of 330 feet by 180 feet. Ultimately it
will cover 330 feet by 330 feet. Y
CONCRETE CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.,
47 King Street, Sydney.


»
mm
mmmmm
■lllfSll
m
■S* T*s .t
llfll
11
S
B
ft
m
a
*
I!
\\
Hi
Pj 5
|P
a
■
mm
m
'A
vSS
IS
is*S
f§
m
*V:- :
1
The Prestige of
The PACKARD SIX
makes the inspection of it a matter
of considerable importance to those
contemplating the purchase of a car.
The Packard is a magnificent business
proposition—go over it carefully, point by point,
and then compare it with other cars —even
with those which sell for much more money.
Note the graceful lines of the body, the fine
and solid coach work, the lustre and beauty
of the lasting finish. Examine the upholstery,
the unstinted quality of the fabrics used.
And when you have gone over all these
features and appraised with a keen eye the
excellence of design and finish turn your
attention to the famous
Packard Engine
O
with its superb design and mechanical accur-
acy. Every stage in the progress of every unit
is true to the most minute limits of tolerance.
Machines almost humanly intelligent in their
action and super human in their exactitude
turn and grind and check the various parts.
The result is the production of one Single Six
Car after another with an unfailing uniformity
of quality that practically eliminates competi-
tion in cars of its weight and purpose.
IRA L. & A. C BERK
Distributors : 261, 263, 265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.
206 Russell Street,
Melbourne.
The Universal Motors Pty
Petrie’s Bight,
Brisbane.
Eyes 6C Crowle Ltd
75 Pirie Street,
Adelaide.
■in 111 IlliliillllpilliW
SB HS H HHb
“J’Tsfz the man, who owns one
99


Commonwealth Agricultural Service Engineers
LIMITED
Agents in Australia tor
CASE Power Farming Machinery
D&a
How our Organization
Operates
This Story can best be told by using an actual instance.
Recently a certain farmer phoned a CASE LTD. branch
bouse:
“Your Salesman has been telling me what
friends of mine have been achieving with
the aid of a Case Tractor. Can you supply
me one at once to take my crop off? If not
I will have to buy more horses as I am in
a desperate hurry”
... i » -■ •*. ‘e--
Although this man’s farm was 100 miles away, within 36 hours a Case
15/27 Tractor was operating there and one of our many service men
instructing the farmer how to speed up harvesting. Next morning the
ground was damp but having a good Reaper Thresher the CASE Tractor was able to operate in a
field which horses would have found impossible. When leaving, the Service Man said: “Now Mr.
the same increase of speed of CASE Tractor harvesting over horse harvesting can be obtained
in all your farming operations, such as fallowing, seeding, harrowing, cultivating, etc., and remember
the cost is reduced in all instances from one-third to one-half that of horses, as you have already
observed. Original spare parts can be obtained within a few hours. We are never short of them and
we have behind us an engineering works which we believe are the best equipped of their kind in
the Commonwealth, and the Company spares no effort to see that you get constant service—the
keynote of our success! ” j
Commonwealth Agricultural Service Engineers
LIMITED
53-57 MORPHETT ST., ADELAIDE
Engineering Works: 215 Waymouth Street
Graves Street, Kadina, S.A. 17 Martin Place, Sydney
Clarke Buildings, 430 Bourke Street, Melbourne 7& 8 Bank of N.S.W. Chambers, Perth
Bowen Street, off Ann Street, Brisbane
** Commands Agricultural Success Everywhere !


Permanent Hair Health
Promoted by Cuticura
Frequent shampoos with Cuticura
Soap, assisted when necessary by
gentle anointings with Cuticura
Ointment, afford the purest, sweet-
est and most economical method
of freeing the scalp of itchings and
scalings and of establishing a hair-
growing condition.
Soapls.,Ointmentls.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
DBHF* Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
9 *
fU i:^\li=r- A . v ==:
It’s just fine!
—The most delicious drink in
the hot weather is the famous
"MONTSERRAT” Lime
Juice. It has a flavour and
freshness all its own.
After exercise you will find it cooling
and refreshing and keeps you fit.
Children simply love it.
Insist on getting the genuine
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE
Imported from London and sold by all
leading dealers.
<I>S4.
Missing; Friends.
TAMES NEWTON.—WiII James Newton, formerly
J of the city of Leeds, England, who sailed in Sep-
tember, 1902, on the Aberdeen Liner Moravian, to
Sydney, with forwarding to Townsville, Queensland,
or any person having any knowledge of his where-
abouts, or of his death or of his family, please
communicate with UOOKE & MIDGLEY, Solicitors,
6 White Horse Street, Boar Lane, Leeds, England.
9
* '">6
“ What a
Difference!”
Try Dr.
Allen’s Mexi-
can Walnut
Stain on
YOUR HAIR,
and you’ll be
more than
pleased with
the difference
in your appearance! Don’t look
old any longer—change vour
GREY HAIR to a glossy WALNUT
SHADE. Easy to apply—harm-
less-waterproof—permanent!
All Chemists.
MEXICAN
I VfiUNUT STAINS
Clifton Gardens Hotel
Facing Sydney Heads.
An exclusive Residential Hotel conveniently close to the City, standing on a
commanding slope among the wooded hiils of Mosman.
A broad beach of silvery sand and rocky foreshores afford endless delight
to the children. The unique bathing amphitheatre invites the visitor to all the
luxuries of sea bathing. In the evening there is Dixieland nearby, with Derriman’s
Orchestra and a perfect floor; billiards, etc.
Fast, commodious steamers give direct access to Circular Quay, immediately
among the pastoralist firms and the Government offices. The theatres, shopping,
racing and other centres are reached by short direct routes.
The unique charm and convenience of Clifton Gardens Hotel appeal equally
to the business man on a hurried visit as to the family seeking recreation.
Terms from 4-J guineas. Special rates for special arrangements on request.
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Telephone Y 3001, 3002. T. B. Bank, Manager.
'//XT':
m
’mmm-m,
I
O
m
i ONOTO
| INK
Best
% for all
i Pens
m
Va %
EP©gq
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
I
NOiVd*.
s'f
m
o
Z.€*9l
r
m
*
/
LIFEGUARD
MILK.
JIFEGUARD CONDENSED
MILK is a genuinely Austra-
lian product—made in Australia, by
Australians with Australian capital.
All the profits remain and are spent
in Australia.
In buying it you are helping to build
Australian industries.
Always ask for LIFEGUARD
Kitz’s Cider.
An Unrivalled Thirst-quencher—
Cleansing to the palate—
Refreshing and invigorating.
For Motorists, Golfers, Tennis Flayers, Cricketers,
Cyclists and General Use.
From
All Licensed Stores and Hotels.
mm
TRe Finest B'ricir Pipes in the World
Famous Non-Cracking
French Bruy ere—
is made at St. Claude, Jura, France, by
French Diggers, from highest-grade Corsican
Briar Root in 100 smart shapes.
Illusti’ated, No. 809,
Silver-mounted,
15/-
as
&
We
will
show a
shape every week.
Every pipe is sold with
a 12 Months’ Guarantee
against cracking or burning,
and any doing so within that time will be
replaced.
ASK YOUR TOBACCONIST FOR ONE, or send a
post-card to the Manager of F.E.C., Box 954 G.P.0.,
Melbourne, or Box 29119 G.P.0., Sydney, and we will tell
you where to get one. [2
Consolation.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I watched the day turn into night,
A sombre night with not a star
Set for the joyance of man’s sight
To show Heaven’s gates were yet ajar.
The wounded earth in anguish lay
Moaning, her scars in that slow grief
Wrought by the ruthless hand of day
Far from the healing myrrh’s relief.
1 drew the joys of other years
From the close storehouse of the past,
A gladness all untinged with tears
Of old-time gods that still shall last.
I cast my largess o’er the earth —
“Bear thou the gift for which man sighs!”
And night, above the swart sea’s girth,
Unveiled the starshine of her eyes.
N.S.W.
JOHN EGAN.
Grey Eyes.
Now with the grey of morning in your eyes
I see you as Young Day, before the sun
Has flung his flame across the virgin skies,
And on his ardent bridal march begun.
I see you as that dreamed-of hour of dawn,
When silently and swift the massive bars
That gate the space’s doorway are with-
drawn
To hush the clamor of the frightened
stars;
And, fleeing swift as nesting swallows, they
Have left the clean skies most demurely grey.
My world is grey; not with the grey of tears,
Nor with the deadened grey of things once
bright;
Not now, dear girl, the grey of passing years,
But that soft, brilliant grey of coming
light.
And when within her arms the lovers meet,
And all that pomp of blue and gold is
worn
The sky may be as sweet, but not more sweet
Than in her virgin vestments of the morn.
So I am glad, because your eyes are grey
And hold that promise of the brighter day.
WESTKALIA.
ARTEMUS H.
Love Comes.
Mysterious as dusk ’neath whispering pines,
Sweet as the fragrance of a clovered lawn,
Light as the faSry grace of columbines
That sway upon the tender winds of dawn,
Love comes, as precious as the exquisite
Essence of bloom by pale star tapers lit,
Aglow like sunlight on the Autumn vines.
Joyous as sudden singing, in the hills,
Of wild birds breaking into rapturous
song,
Careless, ecstatic, till the blue air thrills,
Vibrant with happiness, the glad day long,
Love comes, swift, wonderful, sweet-voiced
and fair,
Fresh as the early morning winds that bear
The crystal sound of rippling mountain rills.
Soft as dew falling on a damask rose-
In some still cloudless night of starshine,
soon
Or late, at grey of dawn, or evening’s close,
In the bright beauty of the yellow noon,
Or when the twilight hours adream may be,
With soundless footfall, fleet and wordlessly,
Without regret, without farewell, Love goes.
VICTORIA.
O. ETHEL MARTYR.
Orange Blossom at Clayfield.
Twilight all thick and sweet with orange
bloom,
And over there the faint, fine, silver curve
That is the moon above the olive-trees.
Across the street a spreading fan of light
Comes from an open door: the click of dice,
Battle of castanets, and then an oath;
Some blood-drunk, vain, still-thirsty toreador
Quarrels about a bunch of ribbons, torn
From his silk shoulder by a girl’s white hand
And passed, between the puffs of cigarettes,
To her new lover from the hiding hills!
And as he curses, right against his mouth
She flings a red hibiscus, and she laughs,
Taunting him with his prowess who subdues
The angry bull more easily than the maid !
Her hillside lover is not made like this:
He crushes her against his leathern coat,
Bruises her softness till she cries a truce,
And lets him take his fill of pouting lips,
Warm as the mouths of southern women are.
And all the while the little moon climbs
down
Towards the olives and the orange groves,
And, stealing up the starry slopes of night,
Creeps the old fragrant lure of dancing girls,
The orange-blossom which the English bride
Takes in her innocence to altar stairs.
A drunken man from the posada reels
Drunken, or wounded by a flying knife—
What matter! For her brigand clips her
close
And shuts her mouth with kisses on a
scream,
And blinds her eyes with flashes of the blade,
Whispering strange flatterings to her ivory
ear,
Which, like a tide-swept shell, is peering
through
The sombre ocean of her banded hair....
Then —in a moment —I am left alone
In the tranquillity of country lanes ;
A bat stirs in the branches, and I smell
The cool earth-whiff of watered garden ways,
And o’er that paling fence of gloaming grey
There swings the thick sweet censer of the
bloom
That for an instant conjured up a scene
From some far land of color and romance.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


is
'U
X
m
I
* ■ *
-
■ -
y#a
i
VX* 'i
n
\ • .• 4*
-
Xo
u
I r
k m /
mm
- .>: tC Mv f
■ | 4j s
'l
• >-•-: , ■ '■
\j a
.&?<■? Si
■SIIIS
, l -
- •
■ t
m
y *J ' .
t. m &
: Jl- m
v
?K“. **
4>V, NRV
*>
-W;
II
a*L
WT» &,
m
M
m7r
s
xxr i
#a-i4 >#/
- ~
: 4- : --'
mm
wj
f jf ✓;««
fl?s ;
,« I
I
iii*
■
‘
IKS
39 s
i
lit
■H
.fc>—-
«1
ss£?
DM
I
X
/. • /
■ M


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 44—No. 2241.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 25, 1923.
Price 6d.
A DIFFERENCE ABOUT A BIRD.
“Here, Frenchy, that’s no good. If you kill the goose, who’ll lay our golden reparation eggs?”
“John, that bird isn’t going to lay any golden eggs for us. It’s only going to hatch more hawks.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
‘•Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleop. of
MusgPave and McLeod Streets, Mosinan, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Oitice: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street..
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly :
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, ISs. 6d.; 3 months, is.
To ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS: 12 month*, £1 lOs. ! 6
months, 165.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the ‘‘Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under lchich such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and
Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London
E.C.4; E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 16 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High Ilolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., h\l Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Col, 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt .—Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — . 4. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, IS St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, E.CJ/.
U.S.A .—J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: )oz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., Id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: J/oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
The Commonwealth Electoral Law.
Any matter in this paper which refers to the
late Federal elutions has been written, after dis-
cussion, to express the views of The Bulletin, by
John Dailey, James Edmond and J. E. Webb, all of
214 George-street, Sydney.
jTuTfyuZletitfi.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 25, 1923.
DAWN OF DUSK?
DAWN UR DUSK?
As usual after a general election we are
squealing about the appalling apathy of the
electors; but of what use is squealing if we
steadily refuse to recognise the true cause
of the apathy? The fault lies further back
than we will mostly admit—in our ridicu-
lous and expensive system of party govern-
ment, which makes the real interests of the
nation subservient to personal and sectional
advantage. During the recent campaign— ;
taking the latest as a type of many—the
several party leaders travelled the States
holding meetings to further the chances of
their various followers, and not really to put
public issues before the electors. The Prime
Minister went through the country telling
the people that the Labor party was a vile
and dangerous organisation which threatened
our national existence, and the Country party
was very little better—all this not really be-
cause their policies were bad, but because
they were opposed to W. M. Hughes.
Earle Page did much the same thing;
although he stated that the Hughes Govern-
ment was a menace to the welfare of the
State, he advised his audiences to give their
second preferences to the followers of this
public menace. Charlton told electors to
vote for Labor candidates, as all others
threatened industrial machinery, and were
sure to reduce wages and bring industrial
war to the land. Then came the party press,
which professed to stand for men of char-
acter and ability, public-spirited men who
would be alert and energetic in the interests
of the Commonwealth ; but only in the ranks
or one party were these qualities to be found.
The Labor press said that political rectitude
was a virtue possessed only by adherents of
that party, tile Nationalist-Lettered news-
papers urged electors to discard all candi-
dates who had not the brand of Toryism on
their foreheads, while the papers supporting
the Country party said that the well-being
of the people depended entirely upon the re-
turn of its own candidates. Then, last, and
probably least, came the various party candi-
dates limping along on their party crutch,
and screaming out the vicious twaddle served
up to them by their party leaders, repeating
ad nauseam that nothing was safe under any-
thing except their own soiled and ragged
banner.
* * * *
The Commonwealth thus made the mere
plaything of party and personal interests, is
it any wonder the electors stayed away in
their perplexity and disgust? To this paper
it seems rather wonderful that some of them
did not rise up in righteous and justifiable
wrath and slay a few of those who appeared
on the public platform under the guise of
public benefactors to do battle for some little
tin god and themselves. It all sets one won-
dering whether our boasted democracy is
really at th\e dusk or the dawn. The time
was when party leaders appealed to the
people on the broad grounds of public policy ;
now, amidst all the confused babel of bitter
party warfare, the taxpayer is forgotten,
policy is cast overboard, and an election is
something like a lot of schoolboys scrambling
for pennies at a country picnic. Australia,
in spite of the frightful lack of public-
spirited men, is prosperous; but it can-
not remain so if present neglect con-
tinues. We have given the vote to everv
adult, man and woman, in the hope that an
educated democracy is capable of a wise
choice in the selection of public representa-
tives, but what we have allowed ourselves to
drift into is the mere shadow of democracy.
The Nationalist party is controlled by the
Tory press, which is dominated by “big
business,” and only echoes the wishes of its
godfather. The Labor party, once free and
unfettered, is now merely the mouthpiece of
militant industrialists, and its members must
obey the call of unionism no matter how un-
just the demand be. If a trades-union rebels
against the law of the land bv refusing to
observe an award of a constitutional tri-
bunal,. Labor members must fall in meekly
and sink their personal feelings, otherwise
the industrial executive will issue instruc-
tions that the pre-election ballot is to be
used to defeat anyone so foolhardy as to put
law and order and justice before sectional
privileges. They' may not even wait for the
ballot, but use the guillotine of expulsion.
This is not Democracy; it is no better than
Czanst tyranny.
* * * «
So under our boasted system no member
of Parliament is now free to do what con-
science dictates. A Ministry, whether it be
Nationalist, Labor or oilier, cannot bring
down measures which are best in its own
judgment. They all have their outside mas-
ters, and. must frame their policies accord-
ing to instructions, express or implied,
otherwise they risk place and pay. Under
the foolish system of party government, the
best men, too, are often outside the Cabinet,
and a Prime Minister, possessing autocratic
power over his Ministers, often chooses those
whom it is easiest to control. Some day,
if we allow matters to go on drifting
history will repeat itself and another
Napoleon will arise, and then—despotism!
OUR BABYLON BY THE COTTER.
Dear Bulletin, —Some 10 years ago, when
the world was young and fresh, I went in
a “tin Lizzie” to look at the great metro-
polis of a continent at Canberra. At that
time the adjacent town of Queanbeyan,
slumbering long on the insolvent branch rail-
way which leads as near to Babylon as any-
body can get without hoofing it or hiring
his own conveyance, was filled with the wine
of youth, and expected the Governor-General
to arrive and settle down for life at any
moment. The person who opined that Can-
berra wasn’t much of a spot got the glassy
eye, if not the sour beer. The other day
I called in again, arriving in a fine Aus-
tralian-made car, for Australia has pro-
gressed if Canberra hasn’t. I didn’t hire
the car out of ostentation, but simply be-
cause I am now too old for the sort of means
of public locomotion that leads to the sort
of place Canberra still is. One way of get-
ting there is to leave Sydney at 8.25 p.m.,
and be turned into an inferior train at
Goulburn after a half-hour’s wait, the time
being then 1.55 a.m. The inferior branch
train ousts the passenger at 4.14 a.m., eight
miles from the only capital of a whole con-
tinent that the wide world possesses. But
two nights per week the pilgrim can also
reach the point eight miles from Babylon
at 9.10 p.m. per goods train, doing eleven
(11) miles per hour. If the pilgrim takes
some sort of vessel from Sydney to Eden,
and then walks or drives some 60 miles to
Bombala, he can steal on the gay metro-
polis, or rather on the point eight miles
away from it, per mixed train, doing 171
miles per hour, and reach said point at 9.5
p.m. The capital can also be attempted
from the west, where the approach is by
the main (Melbourne-Sydney) railway, and
the trains are less mixed. In this case the
pilgrim, whether he approaches from north
or south, is shed out of his conveyance at
a place (Yass, to wit) 43 miles from the
imperial city. Or. rather, the train leaves
him at Yass Junction, and about one train
in three is met by a tram to take the visi-
tor to Yass township, where he makes his
own arrangements to get to Babylon. No-
body appears to have any scheme for mak-
ing Canberra a big railway terminus, or a
small railway terminus, or even a wayside
station on a big main line, like, sav, North
Menangle (N.S.W.) or Baddaginnie (Vic.).
Of course I expect it to be understood that
I am speaking of the main part of the capi-
tal territory, for the affair is in two parts.
The minor section at Jervis Bay can be
reached (1) by road from Queanbeyan, the
town eight miles from the capital, the dis-
tance being about 140 miles and the arrange-
ments casual; (2) by train from Sydney to
Bomaderry and road vehicle; (3) by any
sort of vessel the visitor likes to buy or hire.
* * * *
There is about Canberra some suggestion
of that bewitched Chinese city which had
no perspective, so that only cross-eyed people
could live there. The long, new roads are
amazingly empty, there being' little traffic
for cross-country tracks that point from
Queanbeyan to Hall and other hamlets. It
is difficult to find anybody who looks as if
he really belongs and isn’t a mere way-
farer or sojourner, and yet the place has
been Federal property for 12 years. The
high road from Goulburn to Bungendore and
Queanbeyan, which is on State territory and
outside the charmed circle, is a busy ‘ thor-
oughfare compared with the ways of the
capital, and it looks like a place of human
resort. A feature of the Federal district is
the not very prepossessing village of Dun-
troon, where the military college is. Even
in busy times there are few students there
compared with the old number. There were
apparently none when I passed, it being the
holiday season, and the place seemed de-
serted. I drove past the Government offices,
the meagre bank (Commonwealth, of course,
for no joint-stock institution has made a
move ’Berrawards), the “bachelors’ quar-
ters,” and other structures, and saw not so
much as a Face at the Window. A
soft-drink shop, or even a notice-board
about a desirable allotment for sale, would
have been a break in the unholy calm.
I viewed the stone crusher, the power-
house, and the reservoir planted on a hill,
for Canberra is an unfortunate place, simi-
lar to Ivalgoorlie, which has to have its
water supply hoisted up to it, and cheap
adjacent coal hasn’t been found to hoist with.
Kalgoorlie has to be where it is, for the
mines are on the spot. It represents the
Act of God, while Canberra stands for the
Pigheadedness of Man. Why anybody should
have been at such pains to find a site which
must have its drink painfully dragged to it
from below, when there are eligible places
with the fluid rolling down to them gratis
from above, is a mystery. Perhaps some-
body had land and a “pull” thereabouts. Per-
haps the idea was to have a humble capital
that would never outshine even a modest
State capital, and maybe the humility, as in
the case of Mr. Heep, was overdone. The
proudest creature I saw on the premises was
a long and many-colored snake, which dis-
puted the roadway. It is a great district
for snakes, and I suppose they will always
dispute the roadway in the off season, when
the politicians and cadets and college pro-
fessors and most of the civil servants have
left for live places.
» * * *
I have seen some capitals, among them
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Hobart, Adel-
aide, Perth, Darwin (if it is a capital),
Wellington, Manila, Victoria (Hong Kong),
Calcutta, Delhi, Jerusalem, Cape Town, Pre-
toria, Pietermaritzburg. Bloemfontein, Salis-
bury, Cairo, Rome, Berlin, Paris, Brussels,
the Hague. London, Edinburgh and Damas-
cus (if it is a legitimate entry in the com-
petition). I have some idea as to what
capitals are like, and Canberra isn’t one of
them. Even the adjacent inhabitants are a
very different lot from those whom I
approached in the “tin Lizzie” 10 years ago,
and don’t seem to mind any longer who dis-
parages their gay metropolis. Many of them
scoff at it themselves. Probably the place
hasn’t a real friend except Austin Chap-
man, the wealthy local member, but it lin-
gers on, as the Moore Park tip or the
Cook’s River punt might do, from force of
habit. If it were a place to excite high
national nude it would be completed in
haste, and the Government would move in.
But the Government has no desire to move
to the uninviting spot, and if it ever gets
there it will most likely move out again.
Meantime, it becomes more and more rooted
in Melbourne, and is accumulating build-
ings there at such a rate that there is no
likelihood of more than an ostensible shift
to the ostensible political centre at most.
Ministers will presumably reserve a room
and keep a clean sb ; rt there to indicate that
they are in residence, but they will
be mostly elsewhere. Canberra’s one' great
achievement is that it has created Melbourne
in Melbourne’s Federal capacitv.
SOLOMON MALAPROP.
A BANKER IN BERLIN.
[Mr. Mackenzie Lees was the general manager
of the Bank of Queensland until its recent fusion
with the National Bank of Australasia. His article
was written at the end of October.]
“At Koln. in England,” say the Berlinese,
half in anger and half in derision. But
Cologne, with its half-million people, aprtears
to be well content. The British Army in
occupation means prosperity to the city
and safety from French control. Tommy
Atkins is compared to the French and even
to the Americans, and the popular opinion
is all in his favor. He courts and sometimes
marries German girls, drinks German beer
in the cafes, and spends money freely in
the shops. Brisk, genial, sensible young
fellows, they make friends where the French
make foes. Of course, there are Germans
who look the other way when they pass
allied soldiers. Their dislike, however, is
reserved for the Belgian and in especial the
French soldier. They say that France has
humiliated them by the introduction of black
troops. The feeling is so strong along the
Rhine that at Mayence, where we arrived
shortly after sunset, we found the cafes
dimly lighted and the streets deserted. People
stay at home at night as a sort of passive
protest against the presence of the colored
men. The so-called black soldiers of France
are brown men from Algeria and yellow men
from Tonquin. They are well disciplined,
smart, and, so far as I could learn, treat
the people of all classes with consideration.
The French profess not to understand the
German attitude. They say. “We have these
troops in France, and why not in Ger-
many?” Frenchmen are always logical, but
they make no allowance for racial pride—•
in Germans.
In travelling through Germany I met men
of various classes, but, to my surprise, I
found none to admit Germany’s responsi-
bility for the war. The popular view is that
war was thrust upon Germany by the hatred
of France and Russia, and by the jealousy
of the trading classes in England. They
at * mi j army and navy were pre-
pared for war because they knew that the
conflict was unavoidable, and they say they
would have won the war but for the unfair
interference of England and her colonies.
J hey certainly do not blame the ex-Emperor
or their military chiefs for their defeat. I
have seen photos of Wilhelm, the ex-Crown
1 Dc . e members of the Imperial family
sold in the streets and bought by working-
men among others. The authorised army is
only a phantom of the great army of pre-
war days, but its popularity is strikingly
evident whenever soldiers pass. In Berlin
I have seen a detachment of soldiers headed
by a band surrounded by masses of young
men who,. with heads erect, marched in
step until in a few minutes the soldiers had
merged into a great procession of civilians.
A feature of. the streets is that nearly
every man carries a portfolio, supposed to
contain his paper money. The size and the
thickness varies; some resemble suit-cases
in dimensions. I have seen in the Reichs-
bank men packing cases with various
denominations of notes, and the pay of a
great factory must fill several of them. .
nJvl September, when the mark was about
bUOO to the £, it was usual for English
people to regard the unit as 50 marks, or
Id., and to reckon their hundreds or thou-
sands accordingly. Now that the mark has
had a sensational drop to about 24,000 to
the £l, the 50-mark note would be worth
only a halfpenny. Every fall in exchange value
of the mark means a reduction in income and
an increase in the cost of living to the
working-man of most classes, and to the citi-
zen dependent on a fixed income from pro-
perty. While the manufacturer, the shop-
keeper and the farmer can increase the prices
of their goods, the others are helpless. On
the basis even of 6000 marks to the £ the
average pay of a working-man expressed in
English money amounted to £2 10s. per
month, and of a clerk to £3 per month.
Owing to the low prices at which goods are
sold, I am told that men can dress well and
can maintain their families comfortably at
these rates. I am satisfied they can buy
clothes, boots, etc., at low rates, but I think
that their families are not well fed. I saw
very few fat men or women in Germany,
while across the border in Holland there
were legions. Of course, with bread, butter,
milk and sugar rationed, and the good foods
selling at high prices, it follows that the
average family man disburses his marks care-
fully. Young men, however, are the spend-
ers in the cities. Many frankly admit that
saving is not worth their while —the mark
may be worth nothing to-morrow. They fill
the cafks and places of amusement, and are
apparently more prosperous than their
employers.
Meantime the Government printing
press works at high pressure, and millions
of notes are issued daily. The Government
declares that the circulation cannot be
limited, that the country requires notes for
its internal trade, and it cannot say what
becomes of the paper when it is issued.
Doubtless speculators in Holland, England
and America could enlighten Germany if
enlightenment was desired. Hundreds of
millions, reckoned in English sterling, have
been sunk in depreciated German paper dur-
ing the past two years. I was told at
Amsterdam by a Dutch friend that he
reckoned his countrymen alone had bought
marks to the value of a thousand millions in
English money; but I think that is an exag-
gerated estimate.
In travelling through the industrial, com-
mercial and farming districts of Germany I
was impressed by the prosperity that was
everywhere apparent. There seemed to be
no unemployed, no very badly-dressed people
and no discontent anywhere. Nearly all
the men here wear factional colors: one
wears at his buttonhole the colors of the
Republic, another of the Reich; and in
Cologne, where the Union Jack flies, I saw
an orderly procession of children pass along
the streets headed by the Red Flag. As the
children passed there came into hearing and
view crowds of bareheaded, barelegged stu-
dent lads, with mandolins, singing Rhineland
songs lustily and joyously. At Krupp’s City
of Essen work continued by day and night,
and the Ruhr Valley was alive with long
trains loaded with coal for distant factories
and perhaps for neighboring France. Huge
factories of various fabrics have been built
or extended since the Armistice; new
streets are being added to the towns, and
miles of buildings to the great cities. In the
shops not only necessary goods are for sale,
but furs and jewels that vie with those in
the shops of London, Paris and Amsterdam.
It _is not the Americans alone who buy
objects of art and luxury. There is a class
in Germany who have grown enormously
wealthy since the peace, and who live as
luxuriously as certain American millionaires.
The_ fall of the mark and the increase of
foreign trade have created men like StinneS
and his fellow-profiteers. There is thus good
excuse for the indignation of France and
the puzzled dismay of England. Germany
is apparently busy and prosperous, yet she
says she cannot pay the few millions annu-
ally as required by the Reparations agree-
ment. She has even borrowed millions from
the allied nations against her worthless
paper, so that her debt has increased rather
than diminished since the peace.
In fact, payment can be made in two
ways only, viz., in goods or in money—real
money. The first, if accepted, would mean
ruin to the workers of France and England,
and the second is not feasible because there
is barely enough gold in Germany to pay
interest for 12 months on her indebtedness
to the Allies. It appears to the average
Briton that when one is in doubt it is best
to do nothing.
Germany’s methods may be wrong and her
intentions dishonorable, but there are no
idlers and no serious disturbers of economic
Peace; and there are millions of patient,
patriotic citizens who submit to poor pay
and short commons without whining. France
works, too; and of her methods and inten-
tions there is no doubt Her workers ark
garrulous and temperamental, but they work
for France and not for themselves. Theif
courage, unselfishness and intelligence place
them in the front rank among the workers
of the world. Great Britain works when
there is work for her to do. At present the
shortage in her trade, mostly foreign trade
leaves her with about a million and a half
of workers who are eager for a job, but can-


, t +i ie rates which are demanded.
Ttoe aw nV better workers in the world,
hi with all their admittedly great qualities
l \ ut heh regretting that they have
z srsJi&sv tb ‘ FMtta “ “ 4
the discipline of the Geiman.
J. MACKENZIE LEES.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Decline and Fall of a Dictator.
From somewhere near the heart of things:
When the coalition was formed in Febru-
rv 1917 there were 15 Labor consenptionists
"the H».e“Tliep.. and 11 h. the Senate. At
Hughes's instance the 11 Senators were admitted
to the coalition caucus, and inasmuch as then- num-
bers were added to from time to time four mo
came along at the general election in May) whUe
those of the Representatives steadily dwindled, the
Senators became a mam source of his strength
longing as they did to a House which preserves the
action of being non-party, they had no morel ng
to be present at party meetings, but thej weie
always available for packing purposes when their
sendees were required. At the first hint of revolt
against the Priminister’s leadership or of oppo.
tion to his policy, in would troop his tame benators,
prepared shout the mutineer down or overcome
Idm by weiglit of numbers, as the occasion required.
When disaster smote Pov.ntox, Lamoxb, Rodqkus,
Gkbene, Wish, Laird Smith, Higgs, Story and
Foley last month, Hughes did not give up hope.
If only he could go to the party meeting with a
full hand of Senators, his fortunes might yet be
retrieved. But Fate struck smashing blows at Earle,
Plvin Senior, Thomas, Henderson, Buzacott, Ue
Lakgib and the rest. When the party meeting
could be delayed no longer—it was put off fox a
whole month, during which time the defeated .Minis-
ters froze on to their portfolios and their salaries
the autocrat gloomily realised that he would be short
of 14 Senators, on whose support he could have relied
in all emergencies, 11 having been defeated at the
polls and three detained in Queensland by an exas-
perating]!' incomplete count. The position was
vaguely reminiscent of Grouchy’s failure to arrive
on the field of Waterloo.
And the effects were immediately apparent when
the party got to business in Melbourne on Tuesdav.
Gone were the old familiar faces. Some of the
chairs were empty. On others sat strange men
with suspicious faces, the owners of which were
plainly determined to let nothing save dealt, come
between them and their £lOOO a year. There were
Senators present, of course, and nearly all were ior
Hughes. Some of them, being sure of their own
salaries for at least three years, were enthusiasti-
cally in favor of ordering the Country party to
choose between a coalition with Hughes as leader
and another election. This engaging course was
suggested by the move imbecile section of the
Sydney daily press, the same that reported the
election results as if the Nationalists were winning
all along the line. But those who were invited to
take the risk of immolating their hardly-won seats
on the altar of a beaten man’s ambition were, for
the most part, coldly unsympathetic.
Pratten intimated, in a polite speech, that the
proposed sacrifice didn’t appeal to him. Austin
Chapman, whose relations with the Cookies are such
that the local heads of the Farmers and Settlers’
Association refused to run a man against him, man-
aged to convey the same impression. Maxwell, the
sightless barrister, held that if any sacrifice were
called for it should come from the man whom the
people had turned dow'n. Lister and Francis were
of the same mind as Maxwell. Cameron and
Duncan-Hughes, the tw'O Liberals from South Aus., had
already made it clear that they were not committed
to Hughes, and W'ould refuse to put their political
fortunes to the touch in his interest, ihe same
with Mann (W.A.), Seabrook (Tas.) and Manning
(N.S.W.), who were elected by narrow majorities,
not as a result of Hughes’s leadership, but rather in
spite of it. Others shrank from the prospect of
going to tlie country with so little press support.
So, to please the Senators, the Priminister was
complimented “on the magnificent personal efforts
put forward at the recent election,” which resulted
in such a magnificent defeat. But on Prat ten’s
initiative, Chapman seconding, the Country party
was invited to a conference “to arrive at some
modus vivendi by which the King’s government can
be carried on.” By which invitation the Gountrj
party having said that under no circumstances
would it support a Hughes Government, and the
National caucus that the carrying on of the -King’s
government was more important than the carrying on
of Hughes— the fate of the dictatorship was sealed.
The Country party, meanwhile, was disposing of a
little difficulty of its own. Last year, when
Hughes essayed to break up the party by buying some
of its members with portfolios, one of the men he
tempted was Gregory. And Gregory nearly fell. An
old-style Liberal, he never wanted to join the Cookies,
but as soon as it became clear to him that their
spreading organisation dominated his electorate,
his disinclination vanished, and he was branded
in the customary fashion. Between Forrest’s re-
tirement from State polities and the advent of
Labor, full-armed, in 1911, Gregory was somewhat
of a continuous Minister in Westralia, and Hughes's
Greek gift revived his old desire of office. Strenu-
ously he urged his colleagues to accept the Pri-
minister’s offer of three portfolios and become cogs
in the Nationalist wheel. Steadfastly they refused.
Angered at their obstinacy Gregory resigned his
deputy-leadership and absented himself from party
meetings, and it was generally thought that
lie was about to change his coat. At this crisis in
his political career he fell ill. The malady proved
serious, and his recovery was slow. While he was
convalescing nomination-day dawned, and, thanks
to the magnanimity of the Cocky leaders, who agreed
to let bygones be bygones, he got an unopposed
return. Gregory took no active part in the elec-
tion, but, the moment it was over, he hastened to
Melbourne, having by this time recovered, and an-
nounced (quite in the pontifical manner of Sydney
Evening News) that the Nationalist-C.P. feud must
cease, that there must be a coalition, and Hughes
(this was implied) must lead it. He developed
these views at length when the Cookies were in
caucus assembled, in reply it was affirmed, by 13
votes to 1, that the party would only negotiate on
the basis that Hughes must go. "And that was
that.
The conference between the party managers began
on Wednesday afternoon (Hughes, of course, wanted
it postponed for several days, his pet illusion being
that time is on his side), lasted all Thursday and
Friday, and was resumed on Tuesday afternoon.
The Nationalists asked for a coalition, but the
Agrarians refused to consider any closer relation
than a working agreement, under which each ally
would preserve its identity and contest seats at its
own sweet will, as in Westralia. Earle Page has
high hopes for his young party. He is confident
tliat all the country seats now held by National-
ists are destined to fall into its grasp. He also
has a healthy ambition to become Priminister,
but the pear is not yet ripe. At the moment of
writing it looks as if Brtjce will be head of what-
ever Government may be formed. Many Austra-
lians would prefer Watt or P ratten to a Primin-
ister from Fliriders-lane, but Watt has made him-
self unavailable by his persistent refusal to battle
for a job which he could have had by battling for it,
and Pratten's following is confined to a few N. S.
Wales members, albeit the little manufacturer added
cubits to his political stature by his speeches in
the last Parliament. But whoever leads it the
new Government can’t be worse than the one we
have had.
-
Where There is Land for Settlement.
The Premier of N. S. Wales has fled on the
well-worn track to London, along with the
Premier of Victoria. (The Premiers of West-
ralia and South Aus. are just back from
London, and the Premier of Queensland re-
turned in a vile temper some time ago, with-
out any money. As for the Premier of Tas-
mania, he is presumably hanging around.)
George Fueler has left behind him, for the
community to ruminate on, his project for
the resumption of 30,000,000 acres of land
in one lot, and a lot more land in a lot more
lots. This area is to be denuded of sheep,
which animal is really one of Australia’s
strong points, inasmuch as this is the boss
sheep-country of the globe, and devoted to
wheat, a vegetable as regards which, despite
much endeavor, our success has been nothing
overwhelming. Dooleys and other despon-
dent characters and chronic oppositionists
have already begun to mention that the re-
sumption of even 30,000,000 acres, which is
only the genesis of the scheme, will cost
£00.000,000 if the land, which is said to
be mostly adjacent to railways, is valued
at even a modest £3 per acre, and
£180,000,000 if the value is £0 per acre.
These heroic figures are justly described as
impossible. The money for which the land
was sold originally by the State has all been
spent, and no one can point to any definite
assets, except a debt of £1 per acre, that
were bought with it. So it seems a case
of starting again, not from scratch, as in
the days of Governor Phillip, but behind
scratch. At this crisis in its career the Ma
State is reminded that it owns an area two-
thirds the size of N. S. Wales, at least as
fertile as N. S. Wales, where the debt is
little more than nothing per acre, and whore
land for settlement can be obtained, not at
£6 or even £3 per acre, but gratis, it being
owned bv the Government already. That
property' is the Northern Territory, which
belongs to the Commonwealth; and if the
States could remember that the Common-
wealth is themselves, and not a foreign
Power like Germany or China, they might
drop to the fact that there is money in this
common possession. Administrator F. C.
Urquhart has issued a report about this
region, in which N. S. Wales is the principal
shareholder to the extent of, say, 134,000,000
acres, and the report suggests that any mad
rush to buy back a mere 30.000,000 acres
at the price of a whole new Public Debt is
premature. This is an extract from the
Administrator’s account of the middle of
Australia
At Stuart, in July and August, I found the
climate perfect, with frosts at night, sometimes ice
in the morning, and bright sunshine, with cool tem-
peratures and a bracing, exhilarating quality in the
air, infrequently met with in Australia. The resi-
dents assured me that the climate was as described
for ten months of the year The health of the
community was perfect. The white children looked
like English children, and the adults, though some
of them well up in years, seemed pictures of health.
.... Abundant building material- —stone, lime and
cvpress-pine—-are procurable. The quantity and
quality of fruit and vegetables grown at Stuart is
surprising. I saw the largest navel oranges I have
ever seen, and they were of unsurpassable quality,
while the grape-vines were of strong and health}"
growth Tomatoes, cauliflowers, turnips the size
of breakfast plates and of delicious flavor, carrots,
beetroot, beans, peas, potatoes and onions all grow
in profusion wherever the ground is cultivated, and
water, which is obtainable at shallow depths of from
20ft. to 40ft., is provided. . . -.There are many gorges
in the Maedonnell Range of such a nature that com-
petent hydraulic engineers should find little difficulty
in constructing immense reservoirs, from which not
only water but power could be supplied over wide
areas.
Camel freight of £l7 per ton over a road-
less country* is the reason why Central Aus-
tralia doesn’t grow cities and nroeress gen-
erally. Yet there is nothing hopelessly re-
mote about tue oasis deserioeu. it is 8(0
miles £rom a good port on the south, and
830 miles from another fine port on the
north; and the built of the agricultural lands
of Canada are much further than that from
their seaboards. If the Australian was
blessed with a sense of national pride, as
distinguished from pride in his overgrown
city and in the horse that won the Mel-
bourne Cup, the opportunity to open up this
country should appeal to him. It might
appeal" to him even from a utilitarian point
of view, or, seeing that the work is one to
which he is pledged by contract, and for
which he collected payment in the shape of
a land grant of 200,000 acres per mile, it
might strike him as a matter of public honor.
In any case, a point for immediate considera-
tion is that, as N. S. Wales stands for two-
fifths of the population of the Common-
wealth, it is thus two-fifths owner of the
Territory—owner, that is, of some
134,000,000 acres awaiting settlement, which
it isn’t necessary to buy back from anybody
with a £90,000,000 or £180,000,000 loan, or
any other feverish speculation, and which
isn’t the same dismal proposition as some
of the country upon which N. S. Wales has
already nut settlers.
The Mountain in Labor.
Those inside know best hpw intolerable con-
ditions in the N. S. Wales Labor movement
have become to any man with enough self-
respect to make him worth while. Fortu-
nately, however, for those who run the
machine, the men who accept i,ts endorse-
ment and support are, in the main, oppor-
tunists who, so long as their possession of
safe party seats is not disputed, do not go
looking for trouble, and are content to turn
a blind eye to boss-control with its atten-
dant corruption, place-selling and general
graft. This weakness of the politician and
the party hack is, of course, the strength of
the “boss,” who at least has enough courage
to know what he wants and to get it. Since
the conscription split in 1916, the A.W.U.,
through its central branch, has exercised an
increasing control over the A.L.P., until to-
day the executive of that body consists almost
entirely of A.W.U. nominees or supporters,
and it was able to make its secretary, W.
H. Lambert, first, president of the executive,
then Lord Mayor of Sydney, then member
for West Sydney in the Federal Parliament.
It is safe to say that Lambert has never
made a coherent speech of over 10 minutes’
duration in his life, since he lacks entirely
the faculty for consecutive thinking. His
partner, and as some say, guide, Mr. John
Bailey, member for Goulburn in the State
Assembly, never makes a speech at all, but
is credited with being the most efficient in-
triguer and wirepuller in the State, with
ambitions to administer the Lands Depart-
ment. Certainly the election of the execu-
tive in 1921, conducted by Robert Sproule,
M.L.C. (then Solicitor-General), with the
assistance of the N. S. Wales detective force,
resulted in the return of a fair number on
an anti-BAiLEY-LAMBERT ticket, but this was
remedied in 1922. Members of the executive
know also that before any important matter
is decided prior consultations are held often
in Mr. Bailey’s office, which is in the same
building and on the same floor as the A.L.P.
rooms. John Storey, as Premier, faced the
continuous opposition of the Bailey-La M-
bert A.W.U. executive, which is allied with
a small number of the State party, headed
by Gregory McGirk, the Parkes landlord.
He defied them, and fought them openly, and
kept the Labor party together and in oflica
until he died. Dooley, who succeeded hiin,
failed. Then McGirr broke out in open re-
bellion against his new leader, precipitated
an election and provided the Nationalists
with enough material to defeat the party
badly. After the elections J. 11. Catts advo-
cated certain reforms in the party organisa-
tion. For this he was expelled. Following
his expulsion he made several speeches in
the Federal Parliament alleging corruption.
The persons charged contented themselves
with bare denials. Significantly enough
there was, and has been since, a deep silence
on the subject amongst Labor Parliamen-
tarians, except that the N. S. Wales caucus
carried a resolution for an inquirv by 20
votes to 5. But the executive showed fight,
and Caucus subsided. Most people thought the
matter ended, and certainly a number hoped
that it was. Now, however, comes the joint
circular to the leagues and unions by Dooley,
Charlton and Gardiner. They say that
the unsatisfactory control of Labor’s organ-
isation must be remedied, and that vital
changes in the constitution are needed “to
bring the movement back to a vigorous, whole-
some state, enabling it once more to become
a driving moral force in the community.”
If all were well with Labor such an appeal
would be superfluous, and if the needed re-
forms were not extraordinary the leaders
would not adopt the extreme step of appeal-
ing to the rank and file over the head of
the executive. A howl has been raised that
the circular is (1) a desperate attempt by
Dooley to escape being thrown out by hav-
ing a fling at the executive, (2) a plot by
the politicians to get control into their own
hands. That is all moonshine. During the
past year the methods of the Tammany
gang have aroused even the complaisant
Federal and State members in N. S. Wales.
They were making honest administration by
a Labor Government impossible, and more
than one Minister sighed thankfully when
they went out in April last. The bosses and
their camp-followers had made it a welter.
Ministers who manifested a spirit of indepen-
dence, and showed a reluctance to treat the
State as an oyster for the bosses and their
camp-followers, were persecuted. Storey,
Lang, Mutcii, Lougiilin, Kavanagh.
Lazzakini and others suffered, and those
who remain anticipate the withdrawal of
their endorsements as party men if present
control continues after the next conference.
Twenty-three members or thereabouts of the
State party have agreed to break away from
Macdonell House if the clean-up fails. They
will form a new Labor party with solid
union and country backing. If the gang
wins, Lougiilin, Mutch and Lazzarini and
others will not be endorsed for the next
election. Most A.L.P. conferences are more
or less “packed,” but the efforts on this occa-
sion are unique. Money is being collected
from all sources, and the two-up schools of
Surry Hills, which work under the protec-
tion of the ward boss, are contributing a per-
centage of their takings.
e
Concerning “Election Writs.”
“There are legal remedies provided for
everyone who is injured,” observed Lord
Raymond, C.J., in the Craftsman libel case
just on 200 years ago. Judges have been re-
peating this phrase ever since, though it is
untrue, and in no wise more so than in re-
spect of libel. It is an injury, in the first
place, to be accused unjustly of being a
libeller. Yet anyone with the price of a
writ about him may fire a demand in on a
paper, or private individual, for £5OO0 —or
for £50,000, for that matter —and then tell
the newspapers and get the details printed
as legitimate news. If he happens to be
friends with a speculative solicitor, he does
not even need the price of the writ: the
solicitor will do the trifling business free in
consideration of a cut out of the settlement,
which is occasionally agreed to by the victim
to save trouble. It is an injury also to be de-
barred from fair criticism of public men,
and more particularly when elections are
pending or in progress. An “election writ,”
as it is known to the legal profession, acts
as an effective blanket here: from the
moment of service the plaintiff, who may not
have the least idea of going into court,
becomes immune from rebuke so far as the
defendant is concerned, and so far as every-
body is concerned, as regards the particular
issue forming the basis of the complaint.
Sydney has just had a good example of this
injustice in working order. In August last
J A. Murdoch, president of the Citizens’
Reform Association, stated in a speech that
“Aid. Allen Taylor was the one man
responsible for the differences that had been
created in the ranks of the Citizens’ Reform
aldermen, and which were hindering the
work of reform in the City Council.” Allen
Taylor responded with a libel writ. The
effect was to present Murdoch as a person
who had unjustly aspersed one who was as
hostile to the distinctly suspicious methods
of civic Labor as himself, to close Mur-
doch’s mouth on the subject of Taylor.
and to put him to the expense and loss of
time of consulting a solicitor and having
counsel briefed. After laboring under these d's-
abilities for close on six months, he took steps
to have the matter brought to trial. Whereupon
Taylor filed notice of discontinuance, and
requested Murdoch’s solicitors to have their
costs taxed. The second move means, inci-
dentally, that Murdoch will be heavily out
of pocket over the affair, in addition to the
other inequities and annoyances he has had
to endure. And all because he exercised one
of the most salutary and valued rights a
British citizen enjoys—that of telling what
he conceived to be the truth on a question
of public interest. Whether Mr. Murdoch’s
charge of last August was true may best be
judged by the fact that three days after the
libel case collapsed Mr. Taylor was elected
vice-chairman of the Electricity Supply
Committee by a vote which, with one excep-
tion, was solidly Labor!
The Impending Obsequies of Bung.
“Mcllarg” sees something coming:—
Next October or thereabouts Bung of Queensland
is due, unless something untoward occurs, to roll
the last empty cask across the footpath, clear out
the change remaining in the cash register, and dis-
appear from the realms of business. For he will
have got under the axe of Prohibition. And the
dispassionate observer will not marvel greatly, because
he has watched the strange spectacle of Bung forging
the implement for his own destruction.
About two years ago Prohibition was defeated in
Queensland—not bumped out good and hard, but
simply defeated —-and Bung shewed his appreciation
by cutting down the “pint" and then demanding,
in Brisbane, eightpence and sevenpence, and in other
places sixpence for the abbreviated drink. The
counter-lunch went, and with a fine sense of the
fitness of things, and in order to Show his imparti-
ality, Bung jumped up the boarders’ tariff.
Granted that there was some justification for
raising prices during the War period and early
thereafter, tire cry is now for reduced wages; and,
further, wages are actually reduced, having - already
dropped in many instances from 20 per cent, to
30 per cent. Bung wants to have it both ways.
Further, he hasn’t yet explained how it is that beer
concocted by breweries in Brisbane is sold at Bd.
and 7d. for the shortened “pint” in that city,
and in, say, Rockhampton, from the local brewery,
at 6d., whilst Melbourne beer, which it is generally
understood costs about £1 a cask more, is brought
from Melbourne by - water, railed out to the towns
in the Far West in Southern and Central Queensland,
and sold at fid.
There was talk of a beer strike when the price
was first raised. But the beer-strike, as a weapon,
has been found to be of no account. It geheraflly
works out that if a “blackleg” goes into the pub,
five or six pickets have to go in and sample a pint
each to be sure that the publican is actually dis-
pensing the prescribed dope to the backslider, and
the committee has to go in to verify the statements
of the pickets that it is really beer. And the
pickets and committee and the hangers-on mop up
just about twice as much as they would in ordinary-
circumstances. Which brings peace and content-
ment to the soul of Bung, but is rotten strategy
as far as securing results is concerned; So that
Bung, in the simple? minds of the consumers of
beer and its allies, must be “got" some other
way, and that way is through the ballot-box.
As a profiteer, Bung dwarfs the soulless food
and clothing brigands who exploited the people for
a long time; but even they have reduced prices,
whilst Bung, entrenched behind his beer pump, turns
a deaf ear to the pressing cry for a reduction,
and a blind eye to the trend of the times. With
the spectre of Prohibition gibbering in the back-
ground, he is just the plain goat of the piece.
•
White Fiji and an Empty North.
"Marius” does some thinking in Fiji :
The meeting of country delegates and local colon-
ists held in Suva in June last provides a solid
meal for the Harwells of Australia who want to
bring in Indian colored labor to the North.
It was in 1892 that Black Brother started to
arrive in Fiji as an indentured immigrant
(and with all proper legal safeguards that he
should return to India in 10 years), so that he has
had exactly 30 years' tenure of the country.
The results have been remarkable. The Census
figures (April, 1921) showed the population of
Fiji as 157,000, and, omitting about 10,000 grouped
under miscellaneous heads (none of them European),
it was composed of: (a) Indians, 60,000 (increase
in 10 years, 50 per cent.) ; (b) Fijians, 84,000
( decrease in 10 years, 3 per cent) ; (c) Europeans,
3878 (actual, increase in 10 years, 171 souls).
It might be very comforting to imagine
that such an enormous percentage Indian increase
was accounted for by our system of immigration;
but a further analysis of the Census report deprives
us of all such consolation. For (1) all Indian im-
migration ceased in 1916; (2) the influenza epi-
demic accounted for 2500 Indian deaths in 1918:
and (3) the number of returnees to India since
transport became available has practically reduced
the increase to its normal proportion. In reality
the factors which have contributed to the increase
are: (1) Fiji is about the healthiest sub-tropical
country in the world; (2) Black Brother’s sister is
often a grandmother at the age of 25 years (about
the time the average Australian girl is thinking about
her trousseau),- and she keeps to the habit of being
respectively a mother and a grandmbther for another
25 years. So Fiji becomes an illustration of the
manner in which an alleged “labor supply” may
become the predominant racial factor in a short
30 years. And as the sexes of The native-born
Indians in Fiji are now almost equal, we may
enlighten ourselves as to the period it will take
for an Asiatic race, living under favorable condi-
tions, to double itself, without any immigration
whatever. Experience shows that it will do it
comfortably every 30 years.
Of further interest to Mr. Barwell and his mis-
guided followers is the platform adopted by the
Fiji colonists as the basis for the deliberations of
a committee appointed by the Governor to report on
the desirability of opening up the colony for
European settlement. As these people speak from
personal contact with the Indians (whereas Mr.
Barwell reads of their beauties at a distance of
some thousand of miles) their attitude is worthy of
attention. They want: —
(1) No more Asiatics introduced into Fiji.
(2) The withholding of the franchise from those
now there.
(3) European immigration.
(4) Facilitated land settlement for Europeans.
Despite the Treaty of Versailles, wherever there
is a large quantity of Indian he is useful only as
a servant, and he has always been used as such by
the C. S. R. Co., whose shareholders will remember
their general manager's suggestion of last year,
that the company may have to close down, as labor
conditions in Fiji aye so unsatisfactory. This con-
cern alone requires, roughly, a daily quota of 5000
Indian laborers, and as these have finally decided
not to work at the wages offered (Is. 6d. per dieml.


T- Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
i Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
6 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
CAPITAL - - - •Foejn non
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
and will probably decide not to grow cane for it
either, the like most other employers,,
wants a fresh supply of labor from India. Mean-
time, the coolie being seldom taxable, the country is
setting into a bad financial position, and the
European, who is individually bearing the ever-
increasing burden, has decided that a few more of
himself would be of advantage to the colony
generally and himself individually. That explains
the whole matter.
The moral seems to be that, however undesirable
it is that the Northern Territory remain unin-
habited, it is ten times better thus than over-
run by a race alien to us in blood, color and ideals.
We have to consider what “over-running” now im-
plies. The trend of Indian Nationalist policy even
when voiced by a leader so moderate as our recent
visitor Mr. Sastri may be gauged by the eloquence
and ability with which he put the case
for citizenship rights on behalf of those of his
countrymen who are already here. India has now a
seat at all Imperial Conferences. She sent her re-
presentative to the Washington Conference. Already
she is exercising her influence to obtain the
franchise for the handful of her nationals in Fiji
competent to exercise the privileges, and God
help Australia’s chance of refusing a similar de-
mand if the proper number required to populate the
Territory settled there!
As for the “imperialistic” clap-trap, settlement
along Indian lines never has provided, and never
will provide, fighting material to resist the
Asiatic Armada which will ultimately come this
way to dispute the supremacy of the White Race in
the tw'o most sparsely-populated paradises of the
world—Australasia and the Pacific Islands.
—
It has often been said that W. M. Hughes
is a Laborite at heart, and his manoeuvres
since the Federal elections certainly support
the claim. He went to the country for a
pronouncement on his individual record. He
asked for a sign, and he got it. Never has
Australia been more articulate at the ballot-
box. Had Hughes obeyed orders and got
out, an understanding might have been come
to between the anti-Labbr elements in the
House inside 24 hours. He chose to hang
on, not in the interests of Australia, not in
the interests of Nationalism, but on the off-
chance that something might turn up favor-
dble to W. M. Hughes. The inevitable
effect has been to widen the breach between
the Nationalists and Agrarians in Parlia-
ment, and to present both pnits to the elec-
tors as a scheming gang of place-hunters.
In point of fact, they are nothing of the
sort, taken in tbe mass. Men like Page,
Bruce, Maxwell and Latham are pro-
bably as straight-going, even as idealistic, as
any that have been returned to the Represen-
tatives. But as the situation has developed
as between the Hughesites and those who, in
accordance with the distinct orders of the
electors, are trying to oust Hughes, all the
disputants have been made to appear tarred
with the brush of ai'rogant selfishness, while
the Charlton crowd, standing silently aloof
from the turmoil, takes on an appearance of
patriotism and dignity. Six months ago the
idea of another Labor Ministry holding the
fort in Federal politics inside a decade would
have appeared preposterous. To-day the
calamity—and it would be a calamity in
view of the present temper of Labor in re-
gard to many national issues—is well within
the bounds of practical politics.
—o ——
The cry of a N. S. Wales soldier-settler:—
According to N.S.W. Lands Minister Wear me
many soldier settlers will prove failures. A great
number were doomed from the first; no less could
be expected from a scheme whereby any discharged
soldier could apply for land irrespective of his
knowledge of rural work or conditions. Many
settlers have already left their blocks, and the
State’s security for the £625 advanced for stock
or plant has disappeared with the settler. However,
a few are making a success of their blocks, paying
their instalments and building up decent homes.
Far more are simply hanging on, availing them-
selves of the opportunity granted by the Lands
Department of postponing the payment of their
instalments. Given decent luck, good seasons for
the next few years and a fair deal, most of these,
provided they have had previous experience of the
work, will pull through. It is these latter who are
mostly in need of assistance from the State. One
of their main difficulties is that their land, stock
and plant were bought at boom prices, and it is the
original cost that has to be repaid, not the present
value. The Minister’s latest announcement is that
he has issued instructions to district surveyors to
personally visit every group settlement, and take
charge of soldier-settlement matters within their
districts. This decentralisation should improve things
and cause less friction than if the management were
continued from Sydney. But the Minister should
go further and instruct district surveyors to inspect
each settler’s holding- to satisfy himself that the
soldier is competent and really working at
his job, and in such a case they should
be authorised to recommend that the settler be
granted further assistance should be require it. I
do not suggest that further advances be made far
in excess of the value of the land, stock, plant or
crops owned by the settler, but a policy of advanc-
ing money up to the full improved value of the
land and the present market value of the
stock and crops, should such an advance be genu-
inely required. In many cases the settler has put
all his profits back into improvements and further
purchases of stock or plant. Naturally, by doing
this, he improves the value of his holding’, and
consequently the Government’s security. In such
cases the State could do much to relieve present
difficulties. Another hardship is the size of the
annual payments. In nearly every case much of
what is earned during the first few years has to
be expended in improvements. If the basis of the
financial arrangements were altered, and no repay-
ments demanded for the first two years, and instal-
ments made much lighter for the succeeding five
years, the chances of success would be increased
greatly. It would certainly mean a temporary
sacrifice on the State’s part, but would, in the end,
save a colossal loss.
These days, although the monthly shipping
hold-up is supposed to be in force, steamer
after steamer, coaled, loaded and manned in
all departments by unionists, is leaving Aus-
tralian ports for Maoriland and other parts.
There have been no sympathetic strikes on
board or on the wharf; no falling-out of
cooks, stokers, coal-lumpers or carriers; no
serious riots have been reported The ex-
planation is that the average unionist is fed
up with the scowling Bolshevists who have
been running the maritime organisations into
ONLY A LITTLE ONE.
that was deeply concerned with the defeat of five Ministers, he did not believe
in of the electors should be taken as an indication that there should be a change
small.”— HERALD “ Several instances the majority against the Ministerial candidates was very
ERRING WILHELMINA: “Sacked, am I? Well, I won't go! Why, anyone ’d think, to
listen to you, that it was twins!”
the ground. Having baited shippers, tax-
payers and the travelling public into a con-
dition of cold ferocity—bv periodically
isolating Tasmania, by lurid threats to
darken the streets of Melbourne, by job-con-
trolling the Commonwealth line of 'steamers,
and by laying-up ships every time a fire-
man felt aggrieved or a bos’n got between
the galley-slushy and his nobilitv—these im-
ported mischief-makers have exhausted the
patience of their own class. Another of
their besotted achievements has been to
place the Navigation Act in peril. That
massive piece of legislation was passed in
the interest of the maritime unions, not less
than that of the shipowners, and thanks to
it they have received greatly-improved work-
ing conditions and weighty increases of
wages. But it is a question whether the Act
won’t have to be suspended to save Australia
from the waste and suffering caused by the
malignant tyranny of Walsh (imp.)' and
his associates.
The position appears to be that when the
present N. S. Wales Government took office
the state of the State finances was so bad
that it was impossible for the State to do
anything definite to make the state of the
finances much better until they got well of
themselves. That is the gist of Treasurer
Cocks’s explanation why he and his polite
but exhausted leader made no provision in
their first financial statement for the much-
needed sinking fund. But the Treasurer
uttered a pious aspiration on the subject
recognising the duty, though he let the duty
slide. How he put it was that if he had a
chance to present another budget he would
endeavor to “demonstrate in practice,” etc.,
for he believed that “with the return of
normal conditions/’ if there are or ever were
any normal conditions, a sinking fund would
be a good thing to have about the house.
Meanwhile the Dooley cripples may be back
next year, and the uninspiring character of
Cocks and Co. may be the reason for their
return. They won’t have the difficult and
invidious job of abolishing Cocks’s sinking
fund, there being none. They won’t estab-
lish one themselves. And if Cocks raves
they will ask him what he is raving about,
as they are merely following his example.
At June last the orthodox debt of the Ma
State was about £177,000,000. Some closer
settlement debentures made it nearlv
£181,000,000. If the Fuller Government
had added the deficit, making about
£184,000,000 of solid liability, with no loose
and distracting frills of odd lOU to disturb
its symmetry, and had then enacted and
established a real, honest cumulative sink-
ing fund of 1 per cent., starting at once by
monthly payments, that would have been
worth a ton of pious aspirations. Said sink-
ing fund might be specified among the con-
ditions in every new and renewal loan, to
give it a sort of fixedness. And if it was
enacted that any member who suggested its
abolition or suspension should thereby auto-
matically lose his seat (and his portfolio, if
any), and be disqualified, and that even
delay or neglect to pay up would mean that
that Cabinet was out, the fixedness might
become a habit.
•
“Edeheto” presents another view of Papua’s
language problem :
The Administration has adopted English as the lan-
guage for Papua, and subsidises the missions for
teaching it from the tax recently imposed on the
natives for the purpose, The Government insists
that its officers shall use English (not pidgin) in
speaking to natives. There are not less than 275,000
natives in Papua, of which number less than 6500
are Motuah-spea-king. The Motu that the work-
boys learn has about as much resemblance to that
language as their English has to the English lan-
guage. A considerable number of natives have already
passed examinations in English speaking, writing and
composition, the examiner being from the staff of
the N.S.W. Education Department, without any know-
ledge of any native tongue. As the native learns
English readily enough it would be absurd to teach
him a common native language, since very few
Europeans, except missionaries, ever learn one. If
Motu were to be taught, all the missionaries and
Government officials would have to be taught it first.
Fiji had two or three native dialects, and the
natives have all been taught to read and write one
of them. This is now regarded as a mistake, officials
and missionaries being 0 f the opinion that English
should have been adopted as the common language,
because there is no native literature to enable the
native to derive any benefit from his knowledge of
his own language.
During 1922 there was quite a substantial
reduction in Australia’s supply of £lOOO
notes, which is good news so far as it goes.
The millennium notes were first issued in
1914, as a strenuous piece of war finance.
At the end of that year there were £3,687,000
of them out, but they proved so handy that
by December, 1918, the issue reached
£28,148,000. The banks held the entire
swag, partly because they weren’t allowed
to circulate them, and partly because they
couldn’t, the number of people who pay for
their lunch with £lOOO notes being limited.
There was a fiction that the banks found
the otherwise useless tokens a blessing when
settling balances with each other, but the
old £lOO note had served well enough for
that, and it acted as real money in addition.
The thousand-pounders represented a com-
pulsory loan from the banks, without in-
terest and with a hazy prospect of repay-
ment. When the managers inquired how
they were to pay interest to their depositors
when so much of their funds brought in no-
thing they were told to swindle somebody
or sweat somebody or oppress somebody, and
pull through somehow. If anybody was sent
to the Hot Place by reason of the oppres-
sion, the Treasurer said it would be the
manager, and the manager said lie would
see the Treasurer d—d first. If the pile of
£lOOO notes had broken loose when the issue
was at its zenith Australian currency would
have started on the same road as Bolshevik
paper. The reduction of the pile of rag
tokens from £18,049,000 to £13,954,000 last
year is almost the first sign that the Gov-
ernment realises that the war is over.
•
“Nelki” : The statement of Judge Murray
in Melbourne Herald (21/12/’22) that
“there is little work left for explorers in
Papua” is hardly borne out by maps of the
Territory issued from the Lands Office, Port
Moresby. Large tracts are marked “appa-
rently level country,” this vague descrip-
tion covering most of the Western Divi-
sion. Incidentally, an inquiry \vas made
regarding some land within 50 miles of
Port Moresby, and the information given by
the Department was “We know nothing about
that portion of the country; when we want
information we generally apply to ”
(mentioning a well-known Territory iden-
tity). “and would advise you to look him
up if at any time you want to know any-
thing.” This was 18 months ago, and it
may be doubted if much exploration has
been done. by Government officers since. A
hurried trip by a patrol officer, whose whole
training may have consisted of a couple of
years’ clerical service in Port Moresby, can
hardly be termed exploration. What Papua
badly needs is a series of expeditions com-
posed of men competent to scientifically
examine the country and capable of giving
special attention to its minerals and timbers.
There are many sound judges who hold that
the whole future of the country lies in what
the main ranges. may contain in the way
of minerals. Agricultural development seems
to have reached a dead-end, and there is
little prospect of a revival without drastic
alterations in the attitude of the Common-
wealth towards the Territory.
•
“Thorold Waters” : It’s good to see The
Bulletin select the musical-examination
system, which has such a stranglehold on
Australia, as a supreme example of the over-
tasking of growing girls. But while the idea
was born in England, that country has never
pursued it so relentlessly or with such dis-
astrous results on music as an art as we
have done. The Commonwealth is over-run
at about three-monthly intervals by a tribe
of examiner-pedants, not only from its own
music aquariums, factories and rubbish
dumps and from reputable British institu-
tions, such as the Loyal College, Royal
Academy, Trinity College or Guildhall, but
also from alleged academies whose awards
are worth no more to their recipients than
the hangman’s certificate of character would
be to some wretch at Peter’s portal. I have
just been shown with great pride a com-
pletely valueless strip of paper and a cap
and gown, sold by a London music-
mill, which claims that it possesses
400 professors and something like 20,000
licentiates. The only thing that can
be said . for the institution in question
is that it lives by the sale of caps and
gowns, and doesn’t insist as keenly as others
do on clouding child minds with contrapuntal
pedagogics. . The worst of the musical-exam-
ination affliction, and equally the musical-
competition affliction on Ballarat’s South-
street lines, is that in most Australian towns
there is no eventual compensation in the
form of good music to atone for the awful
contrapuntal and fugal slavery to which so
manv girl-kids are subjected. The result
is the creation, of either a sheer hatred of
music on any lines, or an even more baleful
belief that what they have been undergoing
really is music at its highest significance.


The Commonwealth Electoral Act.
The addresses of the artists whose pictures deal
with the recent Federal elections in this issue are,
respectively, Percy Leason, 214 George-street, Syd-
ney ; Tom Glover, 268 Flinders-street, Melbourne;
and 0. H. Percival, 214 George-street, Sydney.
dsfdg
Peapes’ Molesßin
Riding Trousers
Great Strength without Weight.
Moleskin has proved itself one of the best materials for
riding garments, being soft, light and cool, yet very durable.
Of exceptional value are Peapes’ Canton Moleskin Riding
Trousers —light fawn, thoroughly shrunk, cut in the
popular stockman style, with cross pocket, belt loops, and
all seams strongly sewn. Very comfortable in the saddle.
25/-
Also in white.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state waist and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES & GO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Start the New Year Well Buy an
OVERLAND
The Economy Car.
1923 MODEL JUST ARRIVED.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
Price, £335 Complete.
WITH EXTRA TYRE AND TUBE.
TERMS ARRANGED.
GARRATTS LIMITED
173-75 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Probably the chief reason for the diffi-
culty of bringing W. M. Hughes up to the
scratch of resignation after his defeat was
his inability to imagine why anybody, let
alone almost everybody, should object to
him. Unlike the gentleman who promptly
broke off his engagement when he realised
that the girl hated him, and all her relatives
hated him, and all his relatives hated the
girl, and he didn’t care much for her himself,
Hughes always dislikes to face the unplea-
sant facts of "the case, and to sever a long-
standing connection. Still, if he were a
man of less vanity he would recognise that
there are grounds of complaint—more or less
reasonable. The wheat pool didn’t secure
for the local farmer anything like the top
prices which some other farmers got. His
Coal Control lagged superfluous for three
years after the war was over because, in
his hunger for power, the little man is loath
to let go even the steering gear of a wheel-
barrow, and the Control seems, to have been
a marvellous influence in making coal dear.
His sugar control put up sugar from
to 6d. And there were other things—dozens
of other things.
France, breaking away from its allies,
except Belgium, has marched into the Ruhr,
the great coal-mining area of Germany, and
has set itself up there as a military bailiff
in order to enforce payment of its claims
for reparation. If it can’t get gold it
reckons it will get coal, and, anyhow, will
make things so uncomfortable for Fritz that
he will be glad to pay the intruder to go
away. Of course, France is entitled tc
sympathy—tons of it. But there is an
appalling danger in the course it has taken
—danger that Germany will get out of hand
much as Russia did, and that sort of mad-
ness is apt to spread.
“0.K.”: As far as France hopes to force
reparations from Germany by putting the
fear of further warfare into the heart of
Prussia, any advance upon the Ruhr mines
has my best wishes. Until Germans in
particular, and warlike nations in general,
are taught by bitter experience to think that
war is a rotten game there can be no policy
of peace in the world. Militarism will con-
tinue until non-combatants suffer much
more from it in purse and person than they
have done hitherto. Therefore, sudden death
dropped on assembled Houses of Parliament
and the homes of fatted profiteers is,
from the broad humanitarian point of view.
devoutly to be desired. Given a proper,
equitable distribution of war bombs, no
issue of war bonds would need to be taken
up by future generations.
Everybody’s mutual friend, the Hun, lias
advanced a novel specimen of logic. He
says the action of France in occupying a bit
of German territory as security for arrears
of indemnity is an infringement of the treaty
of Versailles, which provided for the indem-
nity. So, if Jones owes Smith money and
doesn’t pay, and Smith goes to Jones’s house
to collect an instalment, that visit cancels
the entire debt. Possibly, indeed, Smith
owes Jones something.
No wonder the New State movement gains
strength in the fertile nor’-east of N. S.
Wales. Tenterfield used to have two flour-
mills, a tannery, a boot factory, meat-works,
soap-works, a cheese factory and a butter fac-
tory. Only the butter factory is left. Glen
Innes used to have three flour-mills. Only
one is left, and it doesn’t know how it can
carry on. Its raw material, like that of
most other works up towards the. Queens-
land border 1 , has to be drawn from the
south; but as that means away from Syd-
ney the railways come to the rescue of the
bloated metropolis. Wheat is carried from
Tamworth to Sydney (282 miles) for 15s.
lOd. per ton; but to take it from Tamworth
to Glen Innes, exactly half the distance,
costs 17s. Id. per ton.
Payment of members is being widely
blamed for the deterioration in the qual-
ity of Australian Parliaments. Well,
judges are paid, and the benches haven’t
deteriorated —on that account, anyway.
In fact, there are some people who
would rather trust a Full Court of five paid
’judges than the same number of unpaid
J’s.P. No, some other reason will have to
be found, and it shouldn’t call for the aid
of a microscope. Machine government is
what is the matter with us: a self-respecting
PROPPING THE RICK: A STORMY DAY.
An Autumn Idyll, after the picture, by G. Clausen, R.A., in the N. S. Wales National
Collection.
man doesn’t mind being paid for his services
—Ministers never felt hurt at being offered
a salary—but he can’t retain his self-respect
and be a ventriloquist’s dummy, to be cuffed
and kicked at the sweet will of the party
wirepuller.
From a town which is returning to sanity:
An enlightened body of legislators having decided
that the N.T. should be represented in the Australian
Parliament, as Hawaii is in the U.S. Congress, by
a member who may speak but not vote, our maligned
province has had its first Commonwealth election,
and put up a record in the process. The number
of persons on the Darwin-Parap electoral roll was
686, and all but nine of them voted —606 personally;
71 by post In effect, the poll was a shade under
99 per cent., far and away the best in the Com-
monwealth. Some of your southern constitutencics
didn’t muster half the proportion of voters. Another
record is that there hasn’t been a single strike,
go-slow or stop-work meeting on the wharf since
August. The fact is that Darwin is developing a
public conscience.
A recent Saturday was proclaimed a day
of mourning in Prussian State schools on
account of the French occupation of the
Ruhr Valley. Nearly eight years ago a day
of rejoicing was ordered to celebrate the sink-
ing of the Lusitania. Now, Prussia might do
itself a bit of good by instituting a day of
reasoning to consider the mess the country
has got into through militarism.
The Zimri or Greg McGirr of Queensland
politics is Elphinstone, M.L.A., for Oxley.
Elected as a Nationalist in 1920, he joined
the Country party a year later, declaring
that the death-dew was on “Nationalism’s”
brow. But after remaining a session with
his new associates he began shaping plans
for another party, and the Cockies have fired
him out. While balancing between his first
love and the Agrarians Elphinstone offered
to resign his seat in Tom Robinson’s favor,
to enable that old gentleman to lead an anti-
Theodore fusion, and he has been suspected
of a willingness to step down so that Sena-
tor Glasgow might work the oracle. For the
oddest feature of the odd young man is that
he is quite prepared to sacrifice himself for
the causes to which he attaches himself so
enthusiastically for 10 minutes or so at a
stretch. In which respect he is totally un-
like McGirr.
The cry of a baffled man: —
One of the vagaries of the Commonwealth voting
system was shown in Corangamite (Vic.). After the
first prefs. had been counted Crouch (Labor) led
Gibson (C.P.) by 3880; and Gibson was ahead of
McDonald, the Nationalist, by 378. Of McDonald’s
second preferences only 6 per cent, went to Labor;
and Gibson got home by 1892. The extraordinary
thing is that if Crouch’s supporters had given 400
of their first preferences to McDonald, Gibson would
have dropped out; and as the average proportion
which the Vic. .cockies gave to Labor was 30 p.c.
(in the adjoining constituency of Wannon it was
38 p.c.) Crouch would have romped home. A similar
anomaly arose in Henty three years ago. There
Boyd and Francis, who were running virtually on
the same ticket, and receiving almost entirely each
other’s second preferences, finished—Boyd 17,000,
Francis 12,000, Grant (Labor) 10,000. If 2100 of
Boyd’s first-preferences had been given to Grant,
Boyd, with Francis’s second preferences, would have
won by over 10,000. It is a baffling state of things
when a candidate’s best chance of success lies in ask-
ing a number of his supporters to give their first
votes to his weakest opponent.
“Xox”: Pressmen hungering for news of
the expected Federal fusion had some cold
waits in the House and Commonwealth offices
last week. One reporter, who had no luck,
pestered an official anent the whereabouts of
various Farmers. “Where is Earle Page?”
he asked. “Dunno,” answered the usher, and
the same response, more and more testy with
each repetition, was given to inquiries regard-
ing Gibson, Stewart and Gregory. Unde-
feated, the penman then said: “Can I see
Mr. Browse?” Here the officer suspiciously
brightened up. “Well, I dunno whether you
can see him”—he hesitated —“I think I’d
better not interrupt hint just now.” “Why?”
urged the other. “Well, you see, he said
he didn’t want to be disturbed —while he
was forming his Ministry.” This jest, which'
drove the angry journalist downstairs, was
a satirical reference to Prowse’s solemn im-
portance since the Cockies have become a big
factor in the political game. Prowse’s expec-
tation of promotion is visible even in his
stately tread.
Now that Victorian State electorates are
no longer districts for local-option polls, the
problem of redistributing the Assembly seats
has been rendered comparatively simple, llie
Government promised in 1920 to reduce the
number of constituencies from 65 to 60, but
it is certain that there will be no such
diminution. Instead of 44 country seats
there will be 40, and instead of 21 metro-
politan there will be 25. If the bill is pushed
through next session it will mean shortening
the life of Parliament, as members are always
restless after boundaries are recast. The
alternative to a 1923 measure is a special
autumn session in 1924. There would be
time to finish, in that case, by Aug. 30, the
latest date to which the House can run. But
nobody can tell whether the Lawsons will
remain in office till August this year, let
alone August next year.
The Vic. Railway Reclassification Board
was a boon and a blessing while it was
raising wages. So highly was it esteemed
by the union militants that a strike was
threatened when it was thought there was a
danger of the Board fading out. Hardly had
the strike talk subsided when the lauded tri-
bunal, applying the same principles on wh ch
it had repeatedly recommended increases,
knocked 6d. a day off the 13s. 6d. minimum
Now there are threats of another strike, and
the Government has been violently assured
that the Board is rotten and that the union
wants the Federal Court or nothing. A great
game is arbitration under win-tie-or-wrangle
rules.
“Tren”: Although it is true that two Labor
Senators struggled home _in Westralia be-
cause thousands of Ministerial supporters
ceased fire after exercising their seventh pre-
ference, things were different in Victoria.
There a large portion of the. Labor Senators’
majorities came from the eighth, . ninth and
tenth preferences on Nationalist ballot-
papers. While Barker’s election to first place
was in doubt, it was found that Nationalists
were giving their Nos. 5 and 6 to the Country
three. When the Cockies were cast forth
the seventh or eighth preferences mostly went
to Barker. In effect, the voluble old gent
who used to glory in being a J.P. was
pushed forward by the votes of his enemies
—absolutely the last thing they anticipated
or desired.
The latest information from the wonder-
ful republic across the Pacific suggests that
the revived Ivu Klux Klan is a Social Purity
Society—U.S. pattern. These hooded night-
riders and terrorists, who perpetrate kidnap-
pings, assassinations (with tortures or plain),
floggings and disappearances, are said to be
engaged in a pure-minded endeavor to put
down Flossieism, week-ending and eo-respon-
dence. It suggests the firm old Puritan days
when a man received 50 lashes for kissing
his wife on Sunday. A simultaneous item
of news is to the effect that three men fell
down dead in a t’dy row after having a pro-
hibition drink apiece in a Jersey City bar.
The N.S.W. Labor Council (ex-parson
Garden’s show) has issued a dolorous report,
in which it says that three more big unions
quitted it, while none joined, during 1922.
The fact is that the cranks in charge joined
up with the Red International at Moscow,
and in order to qualify for brotherhood they
had to attest that their body had nothing to
do with trade and industry, but was a re-
volutionary concern pure and simple. So
plain business-like unionists, who want their
own matters attended to, and don’t want
any roaring revolution devised by frost-
bitten Russians, began to look round for
other means of expression. Probably the
gadding of certain boss Councillors to Russia
to get orders at Moscow for the Australian
upheaval was the last straw.
SECRET DIPLOMACY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Prime Minister’s idea of democratic pro-
cedure is to station a policeman outside the door
of the room where Nationalists and C.P. delegates
are endeavoring to find a modus vivendi. ■to ward
off all newspaper representatives.” —Sydney Daiia
Telegraph.
“Press” was in other days a key,
A ringing “Open Sesame”
To any room where men debate
On ways to save or serve the State.
It passed you in, beyond a doubt,
But now it merely bars you out.
Wherever politicians met
(.Except it were in Cabinet)
That little monosyllable
Ensured an answering “Pass —all’s well,”
But now a cop is at the door
To see such passport works no more.
Within the disputations flow
If Billy Hughes should stay or go,
But God forbid the land should learn
The points on which decisions turn.
Such things should obviously be
Wrapt in Cimmerian mystery.
Oh, guardian in blue, beware
That citizen approaching there,
He looks as if he might be “heeled”
And on his person be concealed —
Guess what! A barker? Guess again.
A bomb ? Nay, worse- —a fountain pen!
Around the dovecot ’ware the hawks 1
That chap suggests a Guido Fawkes
In posse. Yonder bloke might be
A Bolshevik from Muscovy.
But deadlier peril far, I wist,
May lurk about a journalist.
Let no such wanted-nots intrude
Where Coalition broth is brewed,
Or put their frames where men debate
A tottering dictator’s fate.
To finalise this business
And make the meeting a success
You simply must keep out the Press.
N.S.W.
PIPAROS.
TIME’S CHANGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dr. Page asked Mr. Hughes if he remembered
offering to stand aside for Mr. Bruce. Mr. Hughes
made no reply. The question was repeated, but
Mr. Hughes’s acousticon was out of order. A
Countrv-Party man hinted that if Dr. Page was
leader * they would let the Nationalists have all
other portfolios, and later it was suggested that the
Country Party should be allowed to nominate a
Nationalist. None of these suggestions met with
any response from the Hugbesites.” —Report of last
week’s ejectment proceedings.
When from the tartshop in his noisy youth
The Deakin party dragged him by the hair,
He screamed, if those who dragged him tell the
truth,
Like some small famished boy in his despair.
He still aspires among the tarts to stay,
But other methods with the years have come:
Heels down, ears back, he takes his streetward way.
Fighting like mad, yet absolutely dumb.
N.S.W.
J. D.


/
H .
a
mi
4 i
J- m
R
H
ESC
\/H
\W
\W
GIVE A
CLEAR
SOFT
WHITE
LIGHT
ARE
ECONOMICAL
STRONG
AND
LASTING
21 ElijciboHiSn
Melbourne
213 Clarence!
St., Sydney. I
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Ensure the Safety of Your Estate
BY APPOINTING .
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Ltd.)
As Executor and Trustee under your Will, Trustee of your Marriage
or other Settlement—Attorney under Power, or Agent.
MODERATE CHARGES. ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
UNDOUBTED SECURITY*
Write or Call for Booklet, which explains the Company’s Methods and Charges.
33 to 39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE. Manager.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
From an old Wild Catter, who has been
considering things on the spot:—
At lunch in a Paris hotel 1 paid three francs for a
bottle of Perrier water. At dinner on the same day
at the same hotel the price was three francs 50 cen-
times. Of course they knew I was English, and the
50 centimes were added to set-off the fall in the
exchange value of the franc that day and for some
days previously. 1 had left London just when Lloyd
George resigned, and the franc was 58 to the £. A
month later, at Marseilles, I sold what few francs I
had at 71 to the £. Thus in a month the exchange
had gone 13 francs against France. To the English
speculator in exchange this meant a possible gain of
about 3s. for every £ gambled with. Two of us, for
whom Cook’s had arranged hotel and dining-car
accommodation, were left with two unused Swiss
lunch-coupons apiece. In the South of France, having
other business with Cook’s, we asked about these un-
used Swiss tickets. They offered to give us French
money for them. Now the Swiss franc had been im-
proving on the strength of the turning down of the
capital levy proposal, while the French franc had
been falling; so for our two unused Swiss coupons
we got enough in French francs to pay our fares from
Nice to Marseilles, a five-hour journey, first class, with
seats reserved ; and there was sufficient over to pay a
tip or two. Within the same fortnight the Italian
lira—-it was the period of the Mussolini “revolution”
—had dodged about between 104 and 121 to the
English £, with large possibilities of profit to specu-
lators in exchange. The case of the German mark is
still more notorious. A week or so before I left
London an Australian friend who had been left with
a pocketful of marks handed 10,000 to me. They
were then worth 325. in English money. Six weeks
later they were 25,000 to the £, and the 10,000 marks,
which in pre-war days were worth £5OO in English,
were worth only Bs. In six weeks the marks had lost
three-fourths of their value in English money. It
used to be possible to make or lose a fortune in a
day during the Kalgoorlie boom. It is possible now
to make or lose vastly more in this gamble in Euro-
pean exchange.
And it is not merely in buying and selling exchange—
in buying and selling nations’ money—that the specula-
tors are busy. Take the case of the fall of the franc
from 58 to 71 to the £ in a month. This also
meant that an English speculator could, other condi-
tions being the same, buy 71 French motor-cars or
rolls of silk or gross of gloves for what he could
previously buy only 58. And the same with stocks
and shares. This of course enormously increases the
speculator’s field. It is true that at a few hotels
frequented by foreigners and in places in the Riviera
supported by the visitor an attempt is made to fix
prices according to the exqhange value of the franc ;
but obviously in the open market it is not possible
to discriminate between the home and the foreign
dealer.
In themselves the operations of the speculator don't
matter very much to the general public. But some-
thing else matters a great deal. Nothing affects the
market in a foreign currency more than the threat
of civil or military commotion. A few months ago,
for instance, papers in London were screaming at the
top of their loud voices, “Stop this new war!’’ There
actually wasn’t any new war in which Britain and
France were engaged ; but the public was led to be-
lieve’there was, and that Britain and France were on
different sides. Later the pot was kept bubbling, and
the franc, which used to be worth about lOd. In
English money, fell, as shown above, to about 3id.
So long as speculators can make quick fortunes by
keeping international relations at bubbling point, or
by spreading reports that this or that thing may pro-
duce a rupture between the nations, so long will there
ire peril to the peace of the world. The great need
is to restore something like the old stability in the
exchange market. The issue of paper was no doubt
a necessary war measure; but it has been in some
countries continued since the guns cooled, and on a
greater scale than ever. The excuse is that it is
necessary in order to avoid revolution. But, as in
Germany, it is not doing the workers any permanent
good, and is producing conditions tending to war
which the workers are most interested in avoiding.
There is no hope except in sanity, economy and
work. We have got to realise that for a time we
cannot, be as well off as we were before the war, and
that the issue of paper cannot make us any richer
than the issue of toy-balloons.
The first step must be to make national budgets
balance. Failure to do that was the beginning of all
the trouble. When the expenditure was greater than
the revenue, Germany and the others simply set the
printing presses to work. This sudden increase of
paper-money was immediately followed by a reduction
in its value; in other words, it took more of this
money to buy anything. So there was an immediate
demand for still more money to redress the balance.
If Von Slump had 100 marks which suddenly lost
half their value because twice as many paper marks
were printed, he would now want 200 marks
to do his work. And as soon as he got the 200
marks—by putting up his prices for his goods or his
labor—the existing supply of marks would be found
insufficient to go round, and the presses would have
to be set to work again. That process has gone on
and on, repeated indefinitely. The other day the
mark passed 100,000 to the £. The old rate was 20
to the £.
This enormous volume of paper can never recover
its old value. New standards will have to be estab-
lished ; and it is urgent- that they should be estab-
lished without unnecessary delay. So far as internal
trade is concerned it doesn’t matter much what the
franc or the mark or the rouble is in relation to
other currency. Few people in England, for example,
know or care that the English £, is under par in
Holland. It is only when you w'ant to pay with
your money in another country that the exchange
value matters. Gold is the one common standard,
the one article of equal value in every “white” cotin-
try. So when 20 marks could be consistently ex-
changed in Germany for the same quantity of gold
as an English £1 note could be exchanged for m
England, the international trader knew exactly where
he was. To-day there is not enough gold in Germany
to support one-thousandth part of the note-issue; and
the value of the note depends largely upon the vehem-
ence w-ith which the latest lie regarding international
relations is told. Every menacing speech that Poin-
care makes also makes a fortune for one group of
speculators and loses a fortune for another group.
This is no good for the peace of the world.
There is not half enough gold in the world to sup-
port the new currencies at the old rates; so new
rates will hal e to be struck. And to support them
gold loans will have to be negotiated by the impover-
ished countries; for whether a country’s gold is its
own or is borrowed doesn’t concern other countries
so far as the currency question is concerned. Even
Germany could borrow ; she is desperately poor only
in gold.
There is another peril in the existence of States
which are crumbling to pieces—Austria is the most
conspicuous example. Some of their small neighbors
—Austria’s small neighbors, at any rate—are like
aimed camps, apparently awaiting the chance to seize
portions of the crumbling monster as it falls aoart.
Ihjs piesents another problem, and it is reallv a
problem for the world’s financiers. If they cannot
prevent the disintegration, then sooner or later there
is going to be a scramble for the spoils. In these
cases—in the case of Austria, at any rate—it is
doubtful whether anything the people themselves can
do will suffice to save the situation.
Tim English, Scottish and Australian
Hank:—
Profits on
Net Kepur-
Busi- chase of
ness Old De- Written Re-
June 1 lc^? ts * P° s^ s * Dividends. Off. serves.
!oii Ic' 1211 6 p.c. = 32,366 24L550
1919 ns I” » 37 > 761 21,500 259.180
iqi q -inv’nol Jo, 3 f» » 43,155 14,000 290,819
1914 iis’nqfi f” ” 43 > 155 15,700 346,973
1915 of’rl- JVr I” » 43 ’ 155 15,700 407.469
1916 ins’lOfi 9 ?i'r I” ” 43 ’ 156 16,600 447.614
1917 107917 qfiis f” ” 43 ’ 155 17 < 000 498,270
1918 K l 6- B ’’ ” 43 -!55 18,000 548,647
1919 108 180 49! 7 in ” ’’ 4 0’ 549 18 ’ 000 615,882
199 n i fit’ll ” » 53 ’ 944 20,500 653,935
1920 16a,179 4519 10 „ „ 53,944 22,500 747,189
London Dank of Australia and Commercial Bank
of Tasmania acquired.
1921 969 e 97r S 4Ai k Q en in in ’ £s ££’ l64 .. 1,329,353
qqn'r?? P ’ C ’ = 1 S 8 ’ 807 22,500 1,445,541
1922 330,4/4 7064 10 „ „ 131,989 50,000 1,601,090
June 30 last closed the second year of the
amalgamation of the E., S. and A. and Lon-
don Bank of Australia, and it was note-
worthy chiefly for the increase of net profits
from fLbi,9is to £345,474. In the table
Ji°r e oAA° i a staff fund 1921 . £5000; 1922!
£15,000) have not been included with profits.
Notwithstanding the slackened trade of the
period, gross earnings, after paying interest
on interminable stock and providing for bad
and doubtful debts and contingencies, ex-
panded from £835,719 to £1,094,686 ; mean-
time exes, moved from £567,744 to £749,211.
Phst year’s profit was so handsome that
while £131,989 flowed out in 10 p.c. divs no
less than a visible £198,485 went into re-
serve. And those figures do not take into
account the £7064 profit made by repurchas-
ing old deposit-stock at a discount. The
E., S. and A. is fattening, nowadays, on the
misfortunes of the creditors whom it could
not look in the face after the bank smash.
In desperation the old depositors accepted
an assorted lot of stock at low interest for
their good cash: they received approximately
one-fourth each of 4 p.c. debentures, 4 p.c.
terminable deposit receipts, 3 p.c. perpetual
inscribed stock, and 3 p.c. redeemable de-
ferred stock eligible for a maximum of 4|
p.c. (the latter rate has been paid for a
score of years). The deposit receipts were
met long ago, and under the arrangement
with creditors a specified portion of profits
has regularly been appropriated to buy de-
ferred stock in the market, where, on account
of the low interest, it is at a heavy discount.
The amalgamation having expanded profits,
larger sums have been voted for the purchase
of this stock: at the 1921 balance £42,935
was set aside, and with it during the past year
£50,000 of the paper was bought in. These
annual votes are employed to strengthen
inner reserves: the stock purchased is can-
celled, and an amount equal to the face value
is regularly struck off the book value of
premises. During the past 10 years no less
than £216,500 has been written-off in this
way.
The suffering creditor of the ’nineties
has become a benefactor to the bank in
another way. It has a permanent hold
on £1,872,966 of his m0ney —£983,547 at 4
p.c. and £889,419 at 3 p.c.—and £517,500
more at 41 p.c., -which will gradually be
repaid in about 10 years. Altogether these
stocks provide more than 2J millions of what
in actual practice is very cheap pref. capi-
tal. Not only do proprietors score by having
command of this money, but in a compara-
tively short period the management has been
able to accumulate huge reserves to help
earnings. Paid capital is £1,319,887, and
visible reserves, after payment of the final
div., totalled £1,601,090. Incidentally, the
directors were recently empowered to divide
the present £25 shares paid to £l2 10s. into
£5 scrip called to £2 10s., and were further
authorised to increase nominal capital to
five millions to enable new issues of shares
to be offered when expansion of business
warrants them.
The position of the E.. S. and A. is set out
in the following balance-sheet comparisons:
Liabilities.
1920. 1921. 1 922.
Notes . . £6,434 £1,340 £1,328
Bills, etc. . . 1,909,228 2,954,344 1,736,144
Deposits at in-
terest .. 20,834,113 11,042,810 12.621,395
Free deposits.. 11,509.915 11,152,026
Total . . £22,749,775 £25,508,409 £25,510,893
Assets.
Liquid assets . . £10,957,338 £10,941,447 £11,145,259
Advances . . 16,242,702 19,069,034 18,950,421
Premises .. 689,624 774,817 807,652
Total . . £27,889,064 £30,785,298 £30,903,332
The 1920 figures combine the last accounts
of the two banks prior to amalgamation.
During the past year there were no move-.,
ments of any consequence. After payment of
divs., capital, stock and reserves totalled
£5,311,443. For every £1 of those funds
only £4 16s. of the public’s money was held.
That is a very mild proportion, and indi-
cates no actual need for additional capital.
But the E., S. and A. management evidently
sees prospects of finding profitable use for
further funds, and proprietors probably also
appreciate the excellent prospects of receiv-
ing 10 p.c., free of income-tax, on any addi-
tional money they may put in. At June 30
liquid assets were held equal to 43 p.c. of
total liabilities. The £14,365,634 of the pub-
lic’s money not held liquid was backed by
advances with a book value of £18,950,421,
and premises written-down hard to £BOO,OOO-
-
The Intercolonial Investment. Land
and Building Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Ke-
i let.. Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1912.. £33,737 16 p.c. =£12,760 £20,977 £88,337
Transferred to capital, £9308 . . 79,029
1913.. 35,351 12J p.c. = 11,209 24,142 103,171
Transferred to capital, £39,774 .. 63,397
Cash bonus distributed. £145 .. 63,252
1914.. 30,263 8 p.c. = 10,482 19,781 83,033
1915.. 30,556 9 „ ~11,790 18,766 101,799
Transferred to capital £26,057 . . 75,742
Cash bonus distributed, £147 .. 75,595
1916.. 34,789 9 p.c. = 14,136 20,653 96,248
1917.. 36.016 10J „ „ 16,492 19,524 115,772
1918.. 37,605 10 „ ~ 15,708 21,897 137,669
Transferred to capital, £78,373 .. 59,296
Reserves disappeared, £164 .. 59,132
1919.. 39,305 9 p.c. = 21,190 18,115 77,247
Assets written up by £78,277 and transferred
to capital.
1920.. 41,789 8 p.c. = 24,321 17,468 94,715
1921.. 40,005 8 „ „ 25,098 14,907 109,022
1922.. 39,931 8 „ „ 25,098 14,833 124,455
The 8 p.c. divs. which this co. is distributing
regularly in half-yearly instalments look
very different when an eye is cast on the
numerous transfers of reserves which adorn
the table. Shareholders -are now receiving
every 12 months an amount exceeding half
their paid capital of a dozen years ago,
though they have not been called upon for
an extra penny to aid the expansion. The
co. is doing so well nowadays that after
shareholders have had their feast, visible sur-
plus profit equal to 4.7 p.c. on paid capital
is being laid aside. More may be going
into the reservoir unannounced: the accumu-
lation of internal reserves has been a habit
of the co. for many years, and when £78,277
was run off in 1919 the directors announced
that that was all profit earned prior to 1914.
The outstanding feature of the Intercolonial
is that it employs very little outside money.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet figures
for a number of years:—
Property Cash
and and In-
Liabilities. Advances. Premises, vestments.
1912.. £58,204 £184,490 £48,441 £1,508
1915.. 49,324 224,499 57,947 6,863
1916.. 38,995 225,629 56,623 10,503
1917. . 36,157 249,152 43,188 27,777
1918.. 30,095 246,016 57,979 30,547
1919.. 31,836 260.030 44,560 53,784
1920.. 25,947 289,499 84,740 86,896
1921 . . 15,057 305,515 74,788 86,318
1922.. 17,404 360,990 67,837 55,805
The revaluation of assets and writing up
must be taken into consideration in compari-
sons of figures since 1919. The book
value of advances is almost double that of
10 years ago, and meantime debts have been
reduced £40,800 and liquid assets, wholly
Government securities and cash, have ex-
panded £54,297. The management’s success
has been due mostly to very successful sub-
dividing, but unlike many others in the
business this co. restricts its holding of
vacant lands. Including office premises it
has an amount equal to only slightly more
than half of its visible reserves in proper-
ties ot all descriptions.
Besides making fat profits the Inter-
colonial management has provided very sub-
stantial support for shareholders’ written-
up interests. Deducting all outside liabili—
ties, at October 31 £38,401 of the paid capi-
tal of £313,724 was covered bv gilt-edged
securities. The balance of £275,323 had the
backing of advances with a book value of
£360.990 and properties written down to
£67,837.
The Herald and Weekly Times. Ltd.,
Melbourne (in this table goodwill, £198,000,
is not reckoned as an asset) :
• r Dividends—
Fref. ' Written
Profits.(6 p.c.) Ord. Off. Deficit.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1912. . 42,859 7500 12 p.c. = 15,000 2,549 72,543
1913.. 35,900 7500 12 „ „ 15,000 13,313 72,456
1914.. 42,028 7500 13} „ „ 16,875 6,650 60,453
1915.. 47,157 7500 144 „ ~ 18,125 9,766 48,687
Transferred to capital, £125,000 . . 173,687
1916.. 54,201 7500 8 p.c. = 20,000 4,881 151,867
1917.. 47,181 7500 8 „ 20.000 6,122 138,310
1918.. 29,035 7500 7 „ „ 17,500 5,754 140,031
1919.. 56,573 7500 9 „ „ 22,500 10,359 123,817
1920.. 60,048 7500 10 „ „ 25,000 5,484 101,753
1921.. 61,438 7500 1U „ „ 28,750 5,836 82,401
Reserves.
1922. .165,478 7500 13 „ ~32,500 8,529 34,548
This Melbourne newspaper co.’s profits last
year were very fat: allowing for the div. on
the prefs., the balance represented a return
of 60 p.c. on the quarter-million of ordi-
naries. Only seven years ago ordinary capi-
tal was doubled by the issue of bonus shares,
so earnings for the past 12 months were
equal to nearly 1] times the old capital.
As the directors have paid only 13 p.c. for
the year-—they decided to strengthen re-
serves “for. every possible contingency,
whether arising from competition, the neces-
sity to replace machinery or other business
fluctuations”—no less than £116,949, equal
to 46| p.c. on ordinary capital, was laid
aside. It has been a very timely gift for
the co. For the past two years the manage-
ment has been pushing ahead with new pre-
mises and installing new plant. Balanee-
sheet figures have moved in this way:—
1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Stock .. .. £38,119 £108,087 £92,959 £90,307
Book debts, etc. 18,926 56,890 65,829 67,272
War Loans, etc. 2,600 70,489 24,488 2,632
Cash . . . . 50,677 27,621 28,833 115
Liquid assets.. £110,322 £263,087 £212,109 £160,326
Liabilities ‘ .. 2,963 91,782 100,553 74,035
Liquid surplus £107,359 £171,305 £111,556 £86,291
Freeholds . . 60,924 73,645 131,988 196,055
Machinery & plant 46,155 45,796 67,805 167,452
Net assets . . £214,438 £290,746 £311,349 £449,798
In two years the net increase in the pro-
perty account has be<?n £122,410, and
£136,021 of new machinery and plant has
been added. Meanwhile there has been a
shrinkage of liabilities and the surplus of
liquid assets over all debts has declined only
£85,014. The management has not had to
go outside for another penny to acquire its
new building and machinery. Except for
the £85,000-odd of investments converted
into cash, surplus profits have thusfar pro-
vided the funds required.
Last year’s very handsome profits were
made under exceptionally favorable condi-
tions. Having a monopoly of the evening-
paper trade, the Melbourne Herald has con-
tinued to sell at the war-time while
in other cities the dailies have gone back to
Id. With the cost of newsprint greatly re-
duced, this extra ha’penny must have
accounted for many thousands of the record
profits. Meanwhile, other publications have
been doing well: besides the Weekly
Times, there is a boys’ paper, Pals, which
is reported to have made “substantial pro-
gress” ; and a new venture, the Sporting
Globe, has been “successfully established.”
It is unlikely that the co. will con-
tinue to do so handsomely as it has done
lately. Within a few months the very suc-
cessful Sun Newspapers, Ltd., of Sydney,
which has already started a pictorial morn-
ing daily in Melbourne, will launch its even-
ing news-sheet. This is the first formidable
competition which the Herald has experi-
enced. No doubt, for a start, the public will
once more be offered its evening paper for
a penny, and then the source of much of
the co.’s recent exceptional profits will dis-
appear. But it should continue to do well.
It is -well equipped to combat competition,
and, if Syflney experience is repeatedl, the
Sit_n activities should do much to popu-
larise the evening newspaper with the
public, and ultimately that would result in
an increase of advertisers at enhanced space-
values^
For the first time in its career, the Herald
co. has every penny of its capital represented
by tangible assets. In the published
accounts goodwill has for many years been
valued at £198,000, but against that reserves
of £232.548 of surplus profit have accumu-
lated. The book value of property, machin-


Scientific Glassware, Crucibles, Scales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-mills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request.—Advt.
* * n *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process woich makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm, Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. —Advt. [2
Pioneer Wood Pipe continually creates records as
the most economical conduit. A large tin-mining
company states in reference to wood pipes installed
in their works that during the last seven years not
a penny was spent in maintenance, and the pipes
are giving highest satisfaction. This conduit saves
33 per cent, in first cost and goes on giving its
superior service indefinitely. Write for our free
68-page book on the subject to The Australian Wood
Pipe Co. Ltd., Burns Bay-road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
—Advt.
* * * *
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
Scientific and Commercial Agencies throughout the
World. —Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. —Advt.
* » * •
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colljson & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* *
For Patent Apnlications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings. 350 George Street. Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.—Advt.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty.. Ltd., Circular
Quay, Sydney, and Collins House, Melbourne, sup-
ply: “Robey” Steam Engines, “National” Gas and
Oil Ensrinns. “Foden” Steam Waggons, “Multimix”
Concrete Mixers and Concrete Machinery, Conveying
and Earth-handling Machinery, Road-malting Plants
etc. —Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur is impossible
to say.
BUT
You Cam be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: “London House,”
97 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Esq-
Governing Director.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3,- 1,6
New Zealand..
.. *» v. njsrr,
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD.
281 Georgia Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346
(3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084
J. MILWARD. Manager in thp Pacific,
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
YG
0OORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
ft,
DTi
Swift A- Company Kill.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
UllQ
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
ery, stocks, book debts and cash, e
ceeded the ordinary capital of £250,000 by
£34,548 when the year’s final div. had been
distributed. In 10 years the co. has paid
£291,250 of divs., and has meanwhile laid
aside £232,004.
After a banking fusion: —
Following the purchase of the Bank of Queens-
land by the National Bank of Australasia many
changes have been made in the staff. N.S.W. State
manager R. S. Gregson retires on pension after
47 years’ service. His successor is E. H. Matthews,
at present State manager in Brisbane and formerly
manager of the Bank of Queensland there. J. P.
Canny, who had charge of the Sydney business
of the Queensland Bank for many years, has been ap-
pointed manager of the Branch Department in N. S.
Wales. L. J. McConnan, now sub-manager in Sydney,
has got an almost unprecedented rise to the posi-
tion of State manager for South Aus.
*. * * *
Metal products and markets in 1922: —
When the last Annual Review of the Australian base-
metal industry was written it sounded like a coroner s
inquest. The poor thing had been gathered in as a
corpse. At the beginning of 1922 the body showed
signs of vitality at Broken Hill. The zinc
contract breathed life into it, and, notwithstanding
the Edmunds award, all the principal cos. started
in to load up the British taxpayer with their full
quota of zinc concentrates. That was the turning-point
with the patient, for since then both lead and zinc
markets have improved, the latter by no less than
£8 10s. But, despite the oxygen which the unsound
zinc contract pumped into Broken Hill, a review of
mining operations throughout the Commonwealth dur-
ing 1922, when compared with pre-war conditions,
shows a state of paralysis. In haste the Federal Gov-
ernment raised the price of coal and coke during
the war, and to all intent and purposes, so far as
the mining industry is concerned, the war is still
on. With high fuel costs, high transport costs, and
high smelting charges, most of the small copper,
tin, lead, wolfram and molybdenite producers are
waiting to hear when peace is to be declared.
Taking a national view, the mining operations for
1922 can only be looked upon as very unsatisfactory.
On the average Australia worked to about 30 p.c. of
her capacity. The figures in themselves are of little
value because such copper-mines as were working
were run at a loss; so it may be argued it would have
been better to have left the ore in the ground. The
copper cos., notably Mt. Lyell, Mt. Morgan and Wal-
laroo, have made Herculean efforts to bridge the gap
between loss and profit, so far without success. One
effect of the war is to make it impossible to take
a long view. In nothing is this better illustrated
than in the case of base-metal mining. One may,
however, get an indication of the market possibilities
by comparing the prices from year to year. The
following table compares the average metal prices for
the years 1921 and 1922 with the present prices:—
1921. 1922. To-day.
Lead ..£22 15 6 £23 14 10 £27 0 0
Spelter . . 26 2 6 29 13 0 35 12 6
Copper (El.) 75 2 2 69 9 2 71 5 0
(Stand.) 69 8 7 62 3 5 64 6 3
Tin . . 165 8 2 160 2 3 181 1 3
S '(Stand.).. 3 1 2 101 2 7 3-16
Copper and tin interests have each suffered, while
lead and zinc have benefited. Silver has fallen back,
but in the case of the feilver-lead-zinc producers the
fall is more than compensated by the rise in lead and
zinc. Australia has no silver-mines pure and simple,
but the reduced price of the white metal is a double
disability to many copper producers whose ores con-
tain precious metals.
A comparison of the average prices for 1913 with
those ruling to-day is also of interest, as showing the
very good wicket on which Broken Hill mines are
for the moment. To those familiar with the con-
sumption of the refined metals the table also shows
along what lines the world is moving to-day.
1913. To-day.
Lead .. .. £lB 6 2 £27 0 0
Spelter .. 22 14 3 35 12 6
Copper .. 68 5 9 64 6 3
Tin 201 13 7 181 1 3
Silver .. 2 31 2 7 3-16
Although the production of practically all these
metals has been restricted, lead and spelter are, for
the present at all events, alone able to maintain
prices quite above the average. The consumption
is classed as domestic, or, in a world sense, as main-
tenance. Copper and tin, particularly the former,
will have to wait for the world to resume its pro-
gramme of expansion. For the moment there is
no such programme on the horizon.
Under normal pre-war conditions the price of pig-
iron more or less reflected the tendency of the base-
metal market. In the muddled circumstances of to-
day it probably reflects nothing at all so far as
lead, copper, zinc and tin are concerned, but it is
noted that the English price of pig during 19 9 1
fell from £7 to £5 per ton, while in 1922 it
dropped further to £4 7s„ and at the moment is
quoted at £4 11s. 6d.
Of more importance to the base-metal mines of
the Commonwealth is the gradual disappearance of
the premium which gold has commanded. At the
begining of 1922 the export price was £4 18s. 4d. per
oz. fine; to-day it is in the neighborhood of
£4 Bs. 9d., which is barely 4s. above normal.
The resumption or extension of operations at the
Barrier during the year, regardless of the Edmunds
award, was lucky for the B. H. South, British, North,
Central, and, in a minor sense, the Prop, and the
treatment cos. They ran into a gradually rising market
for both lead and zinc, and at present prices should
be making very large profits. The smaller cos., such
as Junction North, Block 10, Block 14 and Junction,
have so far been unable to resume operations with the
Edmunds award in force; but the plucky little Junc-
tion North contemplates a resumption presently as
a result of experiments which justify some new
plant. The long period of idleness has been a great
strain upon the resources of these smaller mines,
which, in the opinion of one London philanthropist,
“should be wiped out.” Their existence is certainly
a menace to the continuance of the Edmunds award.
All the Barrier cos. send their lead concentrates
to Pt. Pirie for treatment. The Cockle Creek works
(Sulphide Corp.) closed during the year, so that
there is only one lead refinery operating in Aus-
tralia to-day.
The Northampton lead mines in Westralia, with
assistance from the State Government, kept the Fre-
mantle Smelters going for a while, but costs were
too high, and it is now proposed to ship the ore to
Europe.
The Tasmanian silver-lead producers were the first
to appreciate the fact that European smelting
charges would permit of their mines working profit-
ably. During the year North Mt. Farrell and Round
Hill were able to resume. Eater Mt. Magnet fol-
lowed suit, and arranged to send its products to Pt.
Pirie, which, by oversea competition, had been forced
to make its smelting terms more attractive. There
is still room for improvement. At Yerranderie only
two mines, the Colon Peaks and Silver Peak, have
been able to work seriously. In Queensland silver-
lead production has been almost wholly confined to
the Cairns hinterland, where the Chillagoe State
smelters operate. Here it may be justly asserted
that the State Government saved the mining indus-
try from extinction. Both Minister for Mines Jones
and the general manager at Chillagoe, P. L, God-
dard, have earned more than a word of encourage-
ment. There is perhaps no mining-camp in the
Commonwealth to-day where labor has been giving
more efficient service for its pay. The Chillagoe
Works do not refine. The bullion, about 500 tons
a month, is shipped to London, where the silver,
lead and gold are separated and refined.
In the copper section the operations for the past
year have been of interest mainly by reason of the
efforts of Mt. Morgan and Mt. Lyell to check their
losses. Wallaroo spent most of its time trying to
arrange with its men a satisfactory basis of work-
ing. Eventually* agreement was reached, and it may
be hoped that Wallaroo production will play a part
in the copper figures for this year. Mt. Lyell has
been the only copper-mine whose production for
the year, slightly over 5000 tons, approaches pre-
war figures. Mt. Morgan had a period of idleness,
which cut the normal production of 6000 tons just
about in halves. Its resumption was on somewhat
parallel lines to that of Broken Hill. In Morgan’s case,
to permit of the wages rate being maintained, a
subsidy was volunteered by the State Government,
which the Queensland taxpayer has to find. In the
case of the Barrier mines, through the zinc con-
tract the British taxpayer is footing the bill for
the Edmunds award. The other copper centres dur-
ing the year were just about as active as a cemetery.
The gougers on the Cloneurry field, in reduced num-
bers, turned out minor quantities of high-grade ore,
but the mines and smelting works at Hampden-Clon-
curry, Mt. Cuthbert and Mt. Elliott were idle.
In N. S. Wales the copper figures are practically
a blank. With Cobar down and out, C.S.A. sealed
down, Tottenham producing a few crumbs and Mt.
Hope waiting for the turn of the tide, the Ma
State’s copper properties are mainly holes and hopes.
Under the prevailing conditions even the high-grade
copper-mines of Westralia added nothing substantial
to the figures. Whim Well and its smaller colleagues
are still idle or almost so.
Some of the enthusiasm which faded from the
Cloneurry fields has planted itself in Papua, where
the Laloki is being prepared for production. Erie
Huntley has taken with him to New Guinea many of
the staff and some of the plant that he controlled
at Hampden. ,
Tin mining in the Commonwealth seems for the
time being to have lost most of its dash through
our trained men and speculators having been at-
tracted to the larger propositions in Malaya. Given
reasonable working conditions, attention may later
on revert to areas which, to-day, give employment
to only small working parties.
In molybdenite and wolfram there has been little
doing. At the beginning of the year the price of
£2 ss. per unit moved very few producers to
activity. During the year it fell to 275. 6d. It might
just as well have gone to zero. At the moment of
writing the price is back to 455. for molybdenite
and 14s. for wolfram. Probably, with hard times,
will come lower fuel costs, lower transport costs,
lower everything except effort..
* * * *
Adelong Creek (N.S.W.), lingering by the
way, lost £2152 for the half-year, although
its big brother higher up the gutter has had
a good run of wash. Jas. George predicts
good dirt four or five chains ahead of No.
1, so the long road to Tipperary may be
ended. No. 2 has to pull on for another
two months to dig into decent grade stuff.
Costs have been stiff—for No. 1 6.09 d. per
c. yd. in 6.01 d. ground. This seems over the
edge, but the ground was tough, and the
dredge is old and small.
* * * *
Mount Dudley, near Trunke.v (N.S.W.),
has gone into liquidation, after spending
many thousands on exploring one of the
characteristic lodes of the district—rich in
small patches, very far apart. The co. made
a costly mistake in installing the old Mount
David Co.’s plant on the mine before develop-
ment work had proved whether works of
such capacity would be required.
* * * *
The coals in Western Moreton, to the
south-west of the Ipswich field (Q.), have
recently been examined by Government Geo-
logist .1. 11. Reid, and the verdict is any-
thing but optimistic. At Rosewood there
are a few fairly good seams of gas coal, but
outside that field, although there is ample
evidence of coal-bearing strata over a wide
area, scarcely one good seam has been
located. The area had been considered
likely to possess potential reserves of work-
able coal. But it has been found to be in-
tensely intruded with volcanic rocks, so that
it is extremely doubtful if coal-mining will
ever become established there, except, per-
haps, for local requirements.
Just before leaving the West for London
A. H. Collier took an option on the Sweet
Nell lease at Mount Magnetic, near Bulong.
Two rich returns obtained from outcrop ore
have been obtained from the property, and,
according to some Golden Mile managers
who advised Collier, the show is one of the
best that has been found for years in the
State. But that was said about several
failures at Hampton Plains and elsewhere.
Among other mines sampled on behalf of
Collier was the old King of Creation, near
Laverton ; but no reputable expert is likely
to recommend it for flotation in London or
elsewhere.
* * * *
Ingliston, at Meekatharra (W.A.), wants
a further £lO,OOO to carry on, and has closed
down pending efforts by the Board to raise
that amount. The excuse is that the coun-
try is too hard for hand labor, and that
rock drills are required, to push ahead with
shaft sinking and speed up development.
The public’s gullibility is unlimited.
* * * *
Associated Gold Mines belatedly reports a
profit of £3034 for the year ended March 31,
1922. The co.’s authorised capital was re-
cently reduced from £500,000 represented by
500.000 £1 shares to £250.000 represented by
500,000 shares of 10s. each, and shareholders
will shortly receive one dollar share in the
Canadian Keeley Silver Co. (in which Associ-
ated’s holding is 800,000 shares) for every
Associated share held by them. In 1922 the
Keeley mine produced over a quarter of a
million oz. of silver, and ore reserves at
Oct. 31 last were estimated at 1,153,4710 z.
silver and 324,0651 b. cobalt. In Associated’s
Kalgoorlie mine there is still a lot of visible
low-grade ore, and recent boring indicates
the possibilities of a good deal more being
opened up; but the manager—a canny Scot
—is hard pressed to make ends meet.
* * * #
Years ago Bullant Mclntyre said there
were tons of money in arsenic mining at
Southern Cross (W.A.), and later on Leggo,
the Victorian metallurgist, came along to get
some of it. Strikes and high costs crippled
his efforts to make a profit, and operations
were abandoned. Now he is about to have
another try, and has repegged the old show.
Mutooroo has dug up a second reef beside
the one from which John Warrick has sent
soul-stirring assays. Sampling figures go as
high as in No. 1 formation. Adelaide got on
the feed over Warrick’s first report. When
news of the second shoot was unloaded, the
market doubled up with joy and is now pre-
pared to believe that a second Kalgoorlie is
on the horizon. But this was expected of
Hampton Plains, where the story of “rocks
identical with those of Golden Mile” was also
heard. Mutooroo had good assays there,
too. But that was all. Still under Dck
Osborne’s guidance a sale of shares and
an option to Collins House brought, along a
big div. more rapidly than mining ever could.
Can he repeat the coup?
* v • •
The Bulletin learns from a man on the
spot that Mutooroo’s new Westralian option
comprises a group of leases on a schist rise
surrounded by a blue-bush plain. So far
surface prospects have been undoubtedly
good ; but to date nothing worth having has
been found outside of the leases.
* * * *
The snag in the way of barrister Morley’s
reconstruction of Dalmayne Collieries is the
bondholder. He has £45.000 in the mine,
and until lately it looked like sticking there.
With the Tas. East Coast Bailway Bill
through, plus land grants, and Cole Bay
given in as a deep-water port, Morley can
go ahead. But he has to get the bond-
holders to accept 45,000 £1 8 p.e. profs.
Holders of £32.700 are willing, only one
objector appearing. But there are holders
of over £11,0,00 bonds who have probably
written off the investment, and they have not
been heard from. If they don’t say “Yea”
Morley can only sell Dalmayne, lock, stock
and barrel. That may be the best thing to
get on to bedrock, but it won’t help the bond-
holder, unless a fresh crowd swims in at
a solid figure. If absent holders agree,
Morley and Adelaide will go ahead for
capital. Should they fail, the co. slips
back to the point where Morley began,
which means that it will fall to the bond-
holders. The new co. would be made up of
the 45.000 cum. prefs., 90,400 ordinaries on
a share-for-share basis to shareholders in
the present Dalmayne and 265,000 second
prefs. for subscription.
* * * *
Goldsborough, near Dunolly (Vic.), has as
its main nrop C. Dyring. The show is an
early Victorian, Dunolly being famous not
only for big nuggets but for rich, shallow-
reefing claims, too. Old miners pig-rooted
nearly a mile along the two reefs inside tlm
Goldsborough boundary. When systematic
mining was tried a shaft went down dUOlt.,
but it was not till Dyring shook up the old
bones of the show that anyone would
give anything for the leavings of the old
hands. Now the claim has a 10-head batter s*
a 9ft. reef and a manager chock full of pep.
Anything may happen with that.
New Blue (Bendigo) had the excellent
return last week of 5020 z. from 650 tons,
making a total for 16 days’ milling this
month of 13550 z. from 1686 tons, or 16dwt.
Bgr. per ton. A div. of Is. has been declared.
Now payable gold is reported in a forma-
tion at i6ooft. The directors are still con-
sidering the purchase of a battery.
* * * *
The Ulster (Bendigo) is the extreme
southern point at which the Garden Gully
line is being worked. For some years the
mine was one of the big producers, of the
field, and it seems likely to come again. The
co. is prospecting a large reef at the 1600 ft.
level; this has shown a gradual improve-
ment as driven upon to the north, until now
it is reported that the stone is payable. The
only other co. doing productive work on the
famous line is the Carlisle.
# * * *
The Government of the Federated Malay
States is considering a new mining enact-
ment dealing with the losses of tin. oxide
from the tables of dredges, with a view to
discovering the reason of the losses and re-
ducing them. It is intended to give the Gov-
ernment power to order that a dredge cease
working if the loss exceeds a certain per-
centage. Great difficulty has been experi-
enced in devising a method of obtaining true
samples of tailings. An Australian inven-
tion which is likely to minimise the loss will
shortly be in operation on some of the
dredges. It is an improvement on the re-
volving tables which T. H. Martyn had in
operation on his tin-dredges in the Stan-
thorpe and Emmaville districts. It is
claimed for the new appliance that several
tests have shown that practically all the
tin is saved in a 30ft. sluice-box, and then in
such a clean condition that only the final
separation of dross from cassiterite is neces-
sary. Little or no attention seems to have
been paid to the question of losses on Aus-
tralian tin-fields. There are millions of
yards of tailings and hopperings which,
with cheap electrical power available and
other economical conditions, ought to pay
for retreatment. Indeed, the future of the
industry is mainly contingent on these
desiderata. This annlies to cases where
clayey and cemented deposits have been
treated. Operations have had to be sus-
pended by an important New England co.
pending the designing of mechanical appli-
ances to provide for closer disintegration of
cemented wash, tests having demonstrated
that not more than half of the tin contents
of the wash has been recovered.


BILLYCAN AND BILLY CAN’T.


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged
Sir George Fuller, Sydney ..
George Robinson, Mildura
“Light the Binnacle,” >lt.
Gipp. Sawmill, Q.
.. £l7O 12 6
2 2 0
110
.. 10 0
£174 5 6
Contributions should be addressed to The
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and. endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
V,
The Ideal Summer Drink.
SCHWEPPES’
Dry Ginger Ale
Insist on getting Schweppes’ Dry Ginger
Ale, and avoid imitations.
Schweppes’ is only slightly dearer, but
the difference is in the quality.
Obtainable all leading Grocers
throughout Australia.
WARATAH
THE PERFECT COMBINATION.
MOTOR
SPIRIT
A CLEAN, EASY-STARTING, ULTRA-POWERFUL SPIRIT,
NEPTUNE
MOTOR.
OIL
Prepared in Different Grades to Suit Varying Types of Engines.
NEPTUNE OIL CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Port Adelaide, North Fremantle.
Queensland Agents: J. KITCHEN & SONS PTY., LTD., Brisbane.
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Whitehall”: What could be more insin-
cere than the rejoicings over the engagement
of the Duke of Lorlc and Lady Elizabeth
Bowes-Lyon on the ground that this is “a
true-love match,” and a sign that dynastic mar-
riages are to be virtuously abandoned so far as
CALVES, NOT CALIGRAPHY.
PRINCIPAL BOY : “I’m afraid I’ve signed my name rather badly on
the contract.”
THEATRICAL MANAGER: “ That’s all right , dearie; it’s not your
handwriting the public pay to see.”
British royalties are concerned ? Our marriage-
able royalties are not now looking abroad for
mates, because the only solvent foreign roy-
alties are irreconcilable R.C’s. There are
good reasons for believing that they are only
marrying commoners now because it is be-
comingly increasingly clear that the German,
Russian and Austrian dynasties are down
and out. The present King of England
married at 28, and would have done so
earlier had he not been a younger son. His
father married at 22, and so did the ex-
Kaiser, while the ex-Crown Prince faced
the altar at 23. The Prince of Wales looks
like being still unmarried at 30, which is a
rare phenomenon in the case of the heir to
any great title, and almost unprecedented
where the heir to a great throne is con-
cerned. Of those who wearied of waiting
Lord Louis Mountbatten married a multi-
millionairess, Princess Mary a multi-million-
aire, and the Duke of York is allying himself
with the wealthiest of the great families
which are without Jewish associations. It
is humbug in the circumstances to suggest
that royal marriages are not the marriages
of convenience they always were. The main
difference is that before the war blood and
money were demanded, while now money suf-
fices.
* * * *
“Chris”: In early days the Presbyterians
in Auckland (M.L.). before St. Andrew’s
Church was built, held their services in the
old Supreme Court in Queen-street. As the
elders, following the usual custom, had to
have a pew to themselves and the seating-
space was limited, they were accommodated
in the dock. No doubt, the thought that they
might yet occupy a seat there under very
different circumstances must occasionally
have haunted some of them. Which reminds
me that the R.C.’s, when Sydney was young,
had their services in the old Supreme Court
for a time, but which section, if any, used
the dock is not on record.
* * * *
“Fax”: One day last week was the coldest
bit of January ever experienced in Melbourne
since figures were officially recorded, the
second-best cold day having happened as
recently as 1915. Yet the Weather Bureau
continues to proceed on its misleading general
averages, instead of working in decades, or
20-year sections. Each year’s figures in
turn are added to those of the preceding 50
or 60, and so the average up to the end of
1923 will be struck as though it were not
possibly different from the average temp, up
to the year father was born. Under this
system a country’s temperature might gradu-
ally decline from tropical to arctic without
calling for comment from the local Weather
Bureau. It gives no idea of new vicissitudes
or slow changes. A batting Bardsley aged
70 could not be fairly judged on a compari-
son of his present form with his general
average for the past 50 years. What he was
long ago would not appear in the figures.
For the past 30 years, at least, the ancient
batsman would have been engaged in reducing
his general average. But the lump record
would be silent on that point.
*a* * *
Winkle”: Never heard of the lynching
at Turon Diggings, as related by < “Jim
Carew” (B. 2S/12/’22), but in 1913 I was
at Finley (N.S.W.), and a venerable Bung
told me of an exe-
cution which was
staged outside the
old Murray Hut
Hotel in the long
ago. A gang of
Melbourne sharps
had gone to Fin-
ley for the pur-
pose of taking
down the shearers,
harvesters a n d
other bush work-4
ers, who, having
chequed up, were
turning Christmas
into the Saturnalia
it was in the days
of ancient Rome.
The toughs coined
money, and would
have got peaceably
away with it had
not one of their
number —“a f e 1-
low in a black-and-
white check suit”
—met with unex-
pected opposition
when trying to rob
a blithered har-
vester. Caught in
the act of putting
in the boot, he was
Simply and expedi-
tiously strung up
to a nearby lamp-
post, and would
have been left there
had not a number
of farmers rushed
out, and, despite
indignant protests,
cut him down. A
meeting was then
held, and it was
decided that the gang be given an hour to
clear out of the town. The fleetest of them
was struggling into Tocumwal before that
time was up, and there were no stragglers.
!i * * *
“0.K.”; Probably the colloquialism about
“thinking oneself Christmas” has come to
stay. _ Our ancestors were often accused of
thinking themselves “somebody,” and in later
times the somebody might be vulgarly de-
fined as Lord or Lady Muck. “Christmas”
is a more picturesque and genial figure of
speech. A pretty little girl may think her-
self Christmas in a new frock, whereas she
never mistook herself for Lady Muck. The
term, moreover, accommodates itself to all
ages and conditions of humanity. There is
no*stern commonsense in the simile, but a
lot of kindly suggestion. Nobody feels in-
suited by the other person professing to
NOT CERTAIN OF HER FIGURE.
“How old are you, madam?”
“Fifty-four or sixty-four.”
“What do you mean? Don’t yon know your own age?”
“ I’m not sure; indeed, I’m not, You see, I always get my age and my bust-measure-
ment mixed up.”
suppose one thinks oneself Christmas.
As a sneer it is half a compliment, as a
note of admiration it rings true, and as a
mere descriptive expression of self-esteem
it fills the bill. In the hour of honorable
success, brave resolve, generous impulse,
charitable deed or convivial illusion, one
feels like what Christmas would be if it
Were all that Dickens painted it. Yes, I
think it will stay.
Fair Mollie took so long to dress,
With care and pains prodigious,
That he who waited did not guess
Her depth of thought religious;
But when she came in sweet array
To go to Church to kneel and pray,
She cried—“l wouldn’t miss mass.”
And then he heard her softly say:
“How good it is on Easter Day
To feel one looks like Christmas.”
* * * *
“Mujik” : No more vers libre for me when
lines singing of high adventure and romance
carol like skylarks from the small-advt.
pages of the morning daily. Some sample
warblings from one day’s S. M. Herald:- —
Picked up, George-street, 2 saucepans, en. and al.
Ap. , P. 0., Manly.
Will the person who picked up pup please return.
R. 0., ?
Lady who picked up turkey on Mosman boat ob.
ret. Tel. xOOOlB.
Pianos, picked up, bargains. Ex., t.p., lib. dis.
Tel. ad. or enq. 192 Herald.
Picked up Darlinghurst bundle p. and g., m. v.,
songs, also trousers. M.8.X., P.O.
Will gent, picked up lady fell off tram 2.30 Tues.
communicate husband ? Ring ’phone 7 or 8 p.m.
Lady who picked up splendid old specs, w. desk,
wardrobe, sideboard, anxious sell. Cheap. Ap. 124.
Will lady who picked up programme, smiled man
ev. dress, slight build, dark, “Sally,” meet Q. stat.
8?
Pick up know, mus., sat, guar., 4 less. £1 Is. ;
vamp, dance specialist. Private —— Chambers.
Apparently there is a race of people who
spend their time picking up something. It
is a bewildering yet stimulating discovery.
Here, while I am trying to pick up a living,
these more nimble-witted brothers fare
blithely forth and pick up pups, songs,
trousers, turkeys, sideboards and ladies. But
what I want to know is why anyone picks
up pups. Having picked up a pup, what
does one do with it? And why should a lady
pick up a strange turkey? Are these things
done by mistake? And how can one pick up
an able-bodied picker-up with view to
partnership?
* * # *
“Footslogger”: Sir E.. Biekham Escott, .
who was Governor of Fiji and High Commis-
sioner for Western Pacific in 1912-18, told
the Hants and Dorset branch of the Royal
Colonial Institute the other day that the
A.I.F. had gained 36 V.C.’s. His eulogy was
well meant, but his facts were upside down.
The A.1.F., according to a booklet issued
by the Royal Australian Historical Society,
was awarded 63 Y.C.’s. In addition, a couple
of the coveted bronze crosses were won
by Australian soldiers serving with the Rus-
sian Expeditionary Force after the Armis-
tice.
* * * *
“Spenner”: I have heard of other swift
courtships, but this beats everything else. A
cobber and I were in the bar on Victoria Sta-
tion (London). We had each received the
glad eye from a “lady” seated at one of the
tables, but had ungallantly failed to respond.
Presently in walked a Maori in all the splen-
dor of the first day’s furlough. He looked at
the unattached charmer, and she at him.
Hori “clicked,” and was soon filling ’em up
for his newly-acquired friend. After one
more round, my mate and I started for the
swing-doors, when a call from our Brown
Brother brought us back. “Say, Aussie, I’ve
just met this little ‘bint,’ and I think she’ll
do me” (I thought so too —for all he had).
“We’re just going along to be hitched up.
Would one of you chaps stand by?”
* * * *
From a parched land :
Herewith Maorilar.d’s Christmas card to the resi-
dents of Western Samoa:—
His Excellency the Governor-General of the
Dominion.... in pursuance of the authority to make
laws for the Territory of Western Samoa.... doth
hereby order that any person who carries, conveys
or conceals any intoxicating liquor, or is the owner
or occupier of any premises in or about which any
such liquor is found, shall be liable to a fine of
£2OO or to imprisonment for one year.
Nobody is exempt, not even the Administrator —
probably that is the reason it is so hard to find an-
other man to take on the job. Doctors are in fierce
demand, as it is from them alone that a run-down
citizen can obtain an order for a little something
to sooth his nerves. Others have to breast the bar
of the former hotel, now turned into an ice-cream
parlor, and imbibe frozen miilk and chemicals. The
British flag now waves over the group; but, m
THE FOOD GAG.
“Talk! Why, the blighter doesn’t even stop
for meals.”
“Oh, yes, he does. You ask him out to your
house and see.”
spite of the freedom we thus live under, there are
some of the older residents who are disloyal enough
to say that they never felt more like strangers in
the land of their adoption than they do at present.
(Continued on page ID.)
DRUNK AND DISORDERLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am ilrunk, and the sea is a beautiful sea.
All the land is with asphodel littered.
You will note I o’ertop this magnificent tree,
And that wasn’t a sparrow that twittered,
But it might be the song of a musical Gorgon,
For it rings like the tone of a twenty-ton organ.
I am drunk, and these minnows about me are cops,
Where I am a whale, or a wonderful Triton.
I will show them some steps of my marvellous hops,
Then seek an Imperial throne to alight on.
I must be a king or a Sultan of Siam,
Since no king in the world could be drunker than I
am.
Once before in my life, in a day that is dim,
I was but a ragged, ill-fed minor poet.
Now I’m brother to Shakspeare and equal to him.
I’m making this epic that people may know it.
For no Shakspeare, however divine he might be, sir.
Could—l call you to witness —be drunker than me,
sir.
Of the ancients I’m master. I lose Aristotle;
Petronius is nowhere; a back number Plato.
I’m fuller than they with the juice of the bottle,
Extracted from barley—and eke from potato.
’Tis a foible, you see, to which people grow kinder,
For though Milton was blind I am very much
blinder.
I am drunk, and I won’t doff my hat to the sun.
There’s Goethe, and Dante, and neither my equal.
Bernard Shaw is a boshter, but I am the one,
The boss of them all, as I’ll prove in the sequel.
I’m a thing iridescent, a knowledge out-topper,
Outrageously gaoled for assaulting a copper.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


The. r<z.S tf»z. City .
Rival Ad»r>\v*ls 4Ka.via. is Art order
down. •s■>«. a,“ioin <=/*' biscults *
M
CJoo d&y, Lidy • 1 spas*
you a-vini tar>n\ s
Courts y<=>u vva.toi'
rollin',
y*n ? ' j
TK«
ie U>a.»V>gf ofto-v-Ky
Wa»s’t«-d
A tank Should rr»-2kWt 2=»o
<z.kc.<i U i"ra»crt'or.
" TW's ik* tirrxr «J>«! S t>«>*V SU r>k ±f<Lrry. Wh&t ‘6 S U Siyx*^?*
PONT AS« FOR CORSETS . ASK ForVlASTo’' CORSETS?
HINTS FOR MAKING THE BEST OF A BAD) JOB.
“The trade and conunerce exhibition on board the French flagship Jules Michelet is artistic, interesting, unique. Instead of bringing samples of the
actual products the Civil Mission has prepared a gallery of photographic studies to illustrate in graphic manner what France can offer to the world. Effec
tive hidden lighting shows the soft tints of these masterpieces of photographic art to splendid advantage, and the reproductions of fine lace, jewellery,
furniture, dresses, shoes and millinery are almost perfect. A wide range of subjects is covered, and the exhibit, apart from the artistic aspect, is both
instructive and interesting.”


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Bath.s-de-Uuxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine,
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents s
GOLLIN h CO. PTY. LTD.
"For Ever Best/'
STA(a
LASER
TOOHEY'S.
"S.” : South Aus. has been celebrating its
86th birthday at Glenelg, where Admiral
Ilindmarsh landed from the Buffalo as Gov-
ernor and read the proclamation of the infant
“province,” which had been elaborately
planned in London. The old gum-tree
under which this deed was done, reputedly
—there is much dispute over the detail —is
quite dead, fallen in the form of a low
arch, and cemented in its gaps. There is
still living a South Australian, Miss Mari-
anne Hurtle Fisher, who arrived in the
Buffalo. At 96, she was unable to attend
the lunch; but she lives close by, and the
roll was taken to her to sign.
“Gaza” tastes the fierce joys of the chase:
It was at a popular seaside resort, and the band
was playing. Suddenly the cry of ,a lady sitting on
the sand: “My purse has gone!” awoke the hunt-
ing spirit of two blazered youths, who loudly reiter-
ated the tidings, and with a let-us-at-him challenge
sniffed around for a scent. It was picked up from
an observant girl. “I saw a man hurrying towards
the sundae shop with a lady’s purse,” she volun-
teered. Wives and girls were soon left alone, as
their husbands and “catches” joined in the chase
HIS OWN FAULT.
“Time and again I’ve forbidden you to have
that young man about the place. How
was it I found you on the verandah
with him when I came home!”
“You came home earlier than "usual, father.”
over upturned chairs, bewildered kids and dreamy
couples. “There he is,” shouted Diana, as the
quarry was seen entering an ice-cream Shop. The
hounds ran into him just as he’d bought a pink
cone. He was hustled, still clutching his frozen
banner, back towards the distressed lad;-. Appa-
rently thinking that protests were useless he went
quietly to an accompaniment of hoots from the
crowd. Confronted with his victim he smilingly
remarked: “They nearly made me drop your ice-
cream, dear.” The disappointment of the huntsmen
was obscured in the lady’s sigh of relief: “Oil, I
quite forgot. My husband had my purse.”
KEEPING DOWN THE EXES.
"What cigarettes do you smoke?”
"Mg husband's usually."
"Rox”: According to the Melbourne cor-
respondent of the S. M. Herald :
Melbourne has gained an unenviable reputation
in the minds of the 100 lads from New South Wales
who are touring Australia under the auspices of
the Young Australia League.
“The lads feel greatly slighted in not having
been given a civic reception in Melbourne,” said
Captain Brough.
At about the same time some of the Sydney
papers were warmly assailing the local Town
Hall authorities for refusing a civic recep-
tion to a visiting swimmer. In the past,
and particularly in Sydney, it has only been
necessary for a prominent singer, pugilist ox-
other advertisement-seeker to buy the ser-
vices of a dynamic publicity expert to make
practically certain of the same greeting as is
given a General Pau. The effect has been
to depreciate the civic-reception business so
that the offer of one of these tributes is
about as much valued as an M.B.E. If
the refusal of civic receptions in Sydney to
a Yankee swimmer and in Melbourne to a
pack of schoolboys represents part of a new
policy, and not spasmodic acts of common-
sense on the part of officials, these func-
tions should yet acquire the dignity and
meaning they possess in most other coun-
tries.
•» » * *
“Flicker” on a legal anomaly:—
“S. A. Lawyer” (B. 4/l/’23) is quite right in
giving S. AuS. a boost for its commonsense view of
marriage as legitimatising pre-nuptial births. But
a critical person, looking at that State’s divorce law,
might say that it first sets out to create plenty of
illegitimates. S. Aus. is, as far as I am aware, the
only part of the English-speaking world which tacks
this notice on to its decree absolute:—
Note: This Decree is appealable within three
calendar months, and any marriage entered into
either by the Petitioner or by Respondent before
the expiration of such period is invalid,, unless
prior to such marriage an appeal has been insti-
tuted and has been dismissed, or in result of such
appeal the marriage has been declared to be dis-
solved.
There is certainly need for a uniform Divorce Act
throughout Australia, and if the space between the
nisi and the absolute is not enough to appeal in,
the couples should pack up, and not start proceedings.
Very few people know of this proviso, which is right
at the end of the decree, and quite a number of men
and women to whom it is addressed remarry within
the “three calendar months.” The whole thing’s
an anomaly anyhow. Who ever heard of an appeal
from an absolute decision?
“The Deacon” looks for captiousness:—
Acting on “Tuan’s” advice (B. 11/l/’23)
in regard to Bulletin cartoons I tried G. H.
Percival’s “The Unseen” Mourners” on a num-
ber of funeral experts. The First Grave Dig-
ger complained of the absence of the neat and tidy
mound, without which no first-class grave is com-
plete. The second found fault with spades being in
the picture instead of the orthodox long-handled
shovels. My casket-maker friend immediately disowned
the cadaver case, dismissing it contemptuously as the
work of “Bush, Botch and Co.” He was at pains to
point out that his firm never supplied square-toed
coffins, but gracefully tapered them off towards the
feet; also, that old Rack-Rent was undoubtedly taken
down in the matter of the silver handles.
Someone else ventured the opinion that Rack-
Rent was evidently a Wesleyan-Methody, as
the parson had no nightshirt on. 1 went no
farther when the parson himself declared that it
was a most inefficiently-conducted funeral, inasmuch
as the coffin was placed back to front, the feet being
where the head should be.
• « * *
“Cartot” : A good deal of nonsense has
lately been talked about A.I.F. youths being
demoralised, mentally or- physically, or both,
by the rampant vice of
cities like Cairo. My
own opinion is that there
are just as many tempta-
tions for the usual young
man in Sydney or Mel-
bourne as in Cairo or
Alexandria, the only dif-
ference being that in the
latter places they are a
trifle more obtrusive. As
far as venereal disease is
concerned, let any of the
detractors of the A.I.F.
in this respect study the
civil statistics (which
necessarily understate the
case, whereas the mili-
tary statistics got very
neaV the mark), and
they will soon see that
amongst any thousand
young men between the
ages of,' say, 20 and 27.
in either of the two prin-
cipal cities of the Com-
monwealth, the number
of cases of V.D. far ex-
ceeded that of the num-
ber per thousand soldiers
of the same age, whether
the latter were at home
or abroad. Actually, the
men in the army had less
chance of contracting such
complaints than men in civil life, for there
was at least some control over the former,
and they were incessantly being warned of
the dangers that awaited them.
*■ * * *
“X2X”: After Wun Lung has been in
Australia for a few years he begins to ex-
change the yellow tint in his complexion for
something more distinctly brown. The newly-
arrived Chink is nearly always a delicate
saffron with a touch of pink, but apparently
there is some subtle influence at work in
his new surroundings which causes an altera-
tion. Most likely the change .in diet is re-
sponsible. There is no great difference be-
tween the climate of much of China and that
of Australia, but there is a vast difference
between what the average Chinaman lives on
in China and what he eats here. Inciden-
tally, those whose duty it is to look after
Chinese immigration are well aware of the
difference between an old hand and a new-
comer, and any Chink who is not properly
browned is pretty sure to be the subject of
investigation.
**. * *
"Dido”: The relations of Binn were
afforded a further insight into the possibili-
ties of an eccentric character lately. Binn
drove up to Scott’s hotel on the spot where
the road to Pibald junctions with the road
to Skewbald, His original intention was to
have one drink and pass on. He had ten
drinks, and stayed. First, he drank up all
his money, then he swallowed his watch;
after that he assimilated all his spare
clothes. It was at this stage, after his
absence had extended to three weeks, that
Binn’s relatives in Malvern received the
urgent wire which took them to Pibald. It
went to Binn’s elder brother, and ran: "Binn
drunk everything else. Can he drink motor-
car? Reply paid.” The car. as the pub-
keeper suspected, belonged to Binn the elder.
* * * *
F. Clinton, on plant and flower breeders:
In the field of plant hybridisation Australia
has one outstanding figure—Farrer, the wheat-
breeder. But there are many others whose work
is of great value. In the horticultural world
Australia has produced George Kerslake, who practi-
cally gave the world the modern cactus-dahlia,
improved the bouvardia out of sight, placed many
new perennial phloxes on the gardening calendar, arid
bred some fine perpetual carnations, which, with
their “sports,” have since his death been developed
into a separate group in the class of Australian per-
petuals, which are well to the front in all carnation
lists. In addition, he bred some fine new roses.
As a rose-breeder, Alister Clark, of Victoria, has
triumphs to his credit which challenge the best
work of the world-famous Irish breeders. A.
Yates has patiently gone about creating many
splendid new orchids. Bradley, of Sydney,
has led the way with hippeastrums; and
gentle old H. Selkirk —another Sydney-sider—whose
other hobby besides gardening is research work in
Australian history, has done wonders with daffo-
dils. Australia gave the world the new early
winter-flowering Spencer type of sweet-peas, and a
host of clever professional and amateur hybridists
see to it that Australia keeps to the front. Promi-
nent amongst these men ar.e Hatcher, of Brook-
vale, near Sydney; and Motte, of Albury. Dn
Poole and Errey Brothers —the latter a firm of Vic-
torian professionals—have improved the gladiolus
to a wonderful degree. Of carnation hybridists
there are scores. Strangely enough few, if any, of
our men have turned their attention to native flowers.
What is wrong with trying their hands on the
flannel-flower, boronia, Swan River daisy, erica,
Christmas-bush, Cliristmas-bells and the thousand
and one gorgeous flowers which smile in kaleido-
scopic glory in the Australian bush?
* * * *
“Rio”: It is too readily assumed that a
unit’s fighting value is in proportion to the
casualties incurred. In attack a force well;
trained and led will suffer less than one
badly-trained and officered; while in re-
treat a panic-stricken unit, which crowds
into bridges, cuttings, narrow roads,
etc., will lose far more men than a
well-controlled force whose rear-guard fights
stubbornly, and by destroying bridges, block-
ing roads, etc., keeps the enemy beyond range
of the main body. There are times when
heavy casualties are something to be proud
of; iit others they are a disgrace.
"Paudh”: Lower-court procedure is by
no means inflexible. In a M.L. country
court the other day an old cocky kept an
anxious eye on the lawyer who was pressing
his claim. Suddenly he jumped up. "Hey,
your Worship,” he yelled, "make that man
sit down! lie’s throwing away me case.’’
"It would do no harm to comply, Mr. Costs.”
beamed the indulgent magistrate. Mr. Costs
accordingly sat down and Cocky himself
took charge. He won the case.
* * * *
"Singemoine’s” sermonette: —
Tlie recent manifesto issued by the heads of the
churches on Sabbath-breaking was supported by an
odd argument. “The Christian Sunday has helped
to build up the high moral standards which are
part of our heritage to-day, and it is important to
consider whether encouragement of the present-day
demand for Sunday sport and amusement would not
lower these standards for generations to come.” The
lowland Scot is one of the most consistent Sabba-
tarians in the world, and statistics prove him to
be one of the laxest in the moral sense. Wales is,
for the most part, as naughty as it is Sabbatical.
Ireland breaks* the Sabbath pretty generally, and
wherever it does so is highly moral. On the other
hand it drinks heavily, showing that man’s attitude
towards the holy day has little to do with his con-
duct. The original Sabbatarian was, of course, the
Old Testament Jew. For close on 50 centuries the
cult languished outside Israel (the Jew, by the way,
has not been remarkable as a moralist in any age),
to be revived as a protest against the hedonism of
Rome in the 16th and again in the 18th century.
The present agitation is simpl3 r an attempt to clamp
on a country and climate which are utterly unsuited
for it the Scotch Sunday—a day on which the God-
fearing may go outside only to attend the kirk.
For the rest the righteous Scot lurks dyspeptically
WARY.
SHE : "Did you ever contemplate matri-
mony?”
HE : " Yes—but only from a safe distance.”
indoors, watching the lost ones (known as “Sabbath-
strollers”) malignantly through closed windows, and
otherwise diverting himself as best he may. How
much more rational is the attitude of that good
Australian Scot, Professor Angus, expressed
at the Students’ Conference a few days
ago: “We condemn young people as being
irreligious because they refuse to accept the
dicta of a purely Jewish code, requiring the recog-
nition as sacred and holy of one day out of seven, when
a more reasonable thing would be to teach them to
appreciate life in a natural fashion. Then every day
would be sacred and holy in the highest sense.”
BEWILDERED!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My innocence, I’m almost sure,
Acts as a screen against the lure
Of Sin. With many men I chat,
But words don’t glean a summer hat.
t smoke. I jazz with merry mien.
That nets no make of limousine ;
My wardrobe holds no musquash coat;
No diamonds glitter round my throat.
No millionaires exotic blooms
Dispatch to brighten up my rooms;
No Crcesus bids me come and dine
On mayonnaise and sparkling wine.
The girl who barbers up my nails,
Of lurid story never fails.
Against the world, lone-handed, she
Defends her fort of Purity.
Man dogs and hunts her, hour by hour,
A lion seeking to devour.
Each tramcar holds some miscreant who
Has vowed this virgin to subdue.
My neighbor, with the tinted hair
And carmined cheeks and baby stare.
Knows men who’ve wept upon her mat
To pay the rental of her flat.
And as for girls from Boggabri,
They’re punched with hypos, on the knee
If they «is much as sniff the park
Or seek an ice-cream after dark.
Maybe there are some little knacks,
Some simple tricks, my training lacks,
That blaze the primrose ways of Sin....
How do these others always win ?
N.S.W.
FLOSSIE FLUFF VTOP.
THAT DIRTY BOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dirtiest boy I ever saw
Played games beneath a tree,
Where all the mud was just as raw
As plain brown mud can be.
His toys were covered up with grime,
His hands were much the same;
He looked so black at luncheon-time
That nurse forgot his name.
A cabbage, walking round the world
To find a proper bed,
Went fast asleep and softly curled
Its roots about his head.
And so they had to bring the sea—
The great and stormy main—
And mix it all with soap that he
Alight be half-clean again.
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


Carlton Hotel Ltd.,
Castlereagh Street,
Sydney,
Where a genuine Welcome awaits you.
Ideally situated in the heart of the
Banking and Shopping Centre,
Direction J. LEVY,
Late Manager Grand Hotel, Auckland;
Usher’s Hotel, Sydney.
Excellent Cuisine.
Cable, Radio and Telegraph Address:
HOCAR, SYDNEY.
Satisfying—
Refreshing—
Appetising!
“WHITE HORSE”
BOTTLED
ALE and STOUT.
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
A
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1921 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Hears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT ATT) TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
TH3 MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
J. B. HATES, the Speck's Premier.
The great A.M.P. Society has made only
two incursions into politics—one definite, the
other lesj so. The first was when it whipped
up support for its long-time chairman, J.
P. Abbott, and its long-time vice-chairman,
J. T. Walker, as candidates for the Federal
Convention (1897). Both were elected,
though Walker was quite unknown in poli-
ces. Perhaps for that reason the polit cians
rather cold-shouldered him, and to his dis-
gust left him off the Finance Committee,
though it was as a finance expert that he
was sent to the Convention —he had been
through the mill in the Bank of N. S. Wales,
was the first g.-m. of the Royal Bank of
Queensland, and managed the great Thomas
Walker estate in N. S. Wales. Later, the
A.M.P. gave him a hand to top the poll in
the first Senate election—or many of its
officers did. Of the N. S. Wales 10 in the
Convention only two remain—-Carruthers
and McMillan. Mr. Walker died last week.
Ex-District Court Judge Murray, t>f
N.S.W., who passed out at 80 the other day,
was a Londoner, who came to Australia with
his parents in 1852. His father, Charles
Knight Murray, was a barrister, and for
years was Parliamentary draughtsman.
George Fairfowl Macarthur, of Macquarie
Fields school, nremired young Murray for
the ’Varsity, where he shared the honors of
his year with another brilliant youngster,
who afterwards became Chief Justice Grif-
fith.
Of the 32 who got into Vic. Leg. Assembly
for the first time in 1889 only seven survive
—Alec Peacock, little Dr. Maloney (in the
Rens.), knights Taverner and Best, ex-
Labor-leader Trenwith, Tom Smith of Port
Melbourne (still in
municipal life),
and .Joe Ivirton,
sec. of the Master
Bakers. Peacock
is the only one of
the seven still in
the Assembly.
There is now some
talk of a re-union,
and 11 others who
were in Parlia-
ment before ’B9
may join in to
make a crowd.
They are Winter
Cooke and Agar
Wynne, ex-Uppah
Chambah members;
and Alf Bailes, J.
L. Dow, Jack Gar-
diner, Joseph Har-
ri s, T. Hun t,
Walter Madden,
James McColl, A.
R. Outtrim and H.
R. Williams, ex-
M’s.L.A.
GEORGE
SWINBURNE,
who teas beaten by
a head for third
place in the Senate
election in victoria.
From the Federal lobbies:—
No one would suspect that Stewart, the new sec.
of the Federal Country party and one of the negotia-
tors for an “understanding” with the Nationalists,
owns the front names of Percy Gerald. According
to one impertinent biographer, the young farmer
once sold newspapers on the steps of the House,
and there is something more than a legend that he
saw hard life on a windjammer. Whatever his
origin, his is not the putty paw in the velvet glove.
He has the bull-terrier’s way in diplomacy, and it
can be safely stated that in the conferences with
the Hughesites he would never waver in his atti-
tude on the principal issue. Two or three farmers,
including Gregory, would, at the worst, accept a
Coalition headed by Hughes, but P. G. Stewart is
not one of them. Easily he has been the most
hostile in speech and interjection, and he once
annoyed Joe Cook so much that he was told he
ought to be with the Labor Party.
S. Australian squatter McTaggart, after
spending over 60 years on 1100 sq. miles of
dry country in the Far North, went to Lon-
don 12 months ago. But he didn’t care much
for the big city with its hustle and its con-
gestion and its crowds, and he was feeling
pretty lonely and miserable until one day,
thrown on his own resources, he wandered
into Hyde Park, and thence on to Kensing-
ton Gardens. After that he was quite happy,
for a little mob of 40 or 50 sheep grazed
in the park, and every day the veteran
hobbled down and sat among them and got
on yarning terms with every member of the
flock. If he ever goes back it will simply
be to swap yarns with those sheep in Ken-
sington Gardens.
“Morehead” holds another review:—
So far as front-names go, the new Senate will be a
drab lot. The Teds, Toms and Jacks will comprise
one-third of the House and will tie for top place
with four apiece. There are three Jims and the
same number of Alberts, and an octette made up
of pairs of Georges, Berts, Charlies and Walters.
Of the remaining 10 the only two that command
attention are Hattil Spencer Foil and an
alliterative from South Australia—Benjamin Benny.
Occupations are a motley. While in the House of
Reps, outback vocations represent nearly 27 per
cent, of the total strength, in the Senate they
drop to a little over 22 per cent, and include four
farmers, a cane-farmer, a grazier, an orehardist,
and a half-and-half “investor and grazier.” There,
are four secretaries, three journalists, and a
pair of solicitors, tailors, miners and car-
penters, and of these one apiece—clerk, retired
civil servant, barrister, mining-engineer, presser,
printer, agent, laborer, stonemason, managing
director and merchant. Alan McDougall owns
, up to having “no occupation,"’ although he
was a boilermaker in the old days. John New-
land (S.A.) is simply a “Senator.” Newland was
, born in Scotland in 1864, arrived in S.A. in 1883, and
was a sleeping-car conductor before being returned
as a Labor man for Burra in the S.A. Parliament
in 1906. A Senator since 1913, he is one of the
: five left in that House out of the 11 who broke
away from the A.L.P. with Hughes in 1916.
Dead at Toowoomba (Q.), ex-District
; Court Judge Noel, who was retired from
■ the Bench some years ag ■>, and resumed prac-
tice at the Bar. In his earlier days he
; was credited with one of the most acute
• legal minds of his time, but it is as a loti
: viv'ant and clubman that he will be re-
membered longest. For years he presided
over the Northern District Court circuit,
and the peripatet.c quartette which com-
prised Noel, Tom Daly (Crown Prosecutor),
Sheriff Macarthur and Crown Solicitor Sel-
wyn Smith bulked big up there in the days
of Queensland’s gaiety.
E. P. Fleming, just gazetted Under-Sec.
for Bands, is the youngest “Under” in the
Ma State Civil Service, being still on the
right side of 40. He was for less than a
year in the Railways before joining the
Lands, and six years ago was a mere clerk
in the Conditional Sales branch. Land Acts
were his hobby, but his prospects of promo-
tion were black, till suddenly luck ran his
way. Jack Yorke, officer in charge of bills
and regulations, went west, and Fleming
was given the job and a rise. Then, when
Campbell, K.C. (now Justice), sat as a
Commission to inquire into the Coal Indus-
try, Fleming, on Minister Ashford’s initia-
tive, got the job of secretary, while still hold-
ing his Lands billet. Shortly after the Com-
mission finished the burst-up in the Returned
Soldiers’ branch occurred, and Fleming was
appointed Acting-Director. Back in the
Lands again, he found Keating—as brilliant
an Under-Sec. as the Dept, ever had—on the
point of retiring; he was appointed Acting-
Under-Sec., and now he has the real
job. Fleming is the first dfficer of the cleri-
cal division for many years to get the billet,
and great is the rejoicing of the clerks.
Gone west, Robert Moodie Heddle, cap-
tain of the Commonwealth liner Hobson’s
Bay. An Orkney Islander, with the blood
of the old Norwegian Vikings in his veins,
he spent all his working life at sea—first
sail, then steam. As a captain of Loch Line
sailers, he made many smart round trips
from Britain to Australia and back by way
of the Horn. Then, came steam commands on
the Australian coast, transport work in the
war and service in the Commonwealth Line.
In his spare time he wrote prose and verse,
some of it for The Bulletin (he and Traill,
an early Bulletin editor, were related).
He married a Victorian girl, a descendant
of Lieut.-Gov. Paterson. Their eldest son,
Foster, is an officer on the Australport.
Just-dead Frederic Harrison was racially
a North of Ireland man. In New York he
wrote a letter to the Tribune on the Irish
situation ; and there was a reply by an old
friend, J. B. Yeats, father of the poet W. 8.,
maintaining that Harrison’s opinions should
not be taken seriously, as they came from a
Protestant, an absentee and a man nearly
90 years of age. It was then pointed out
that old Yeats was a Protestant, an absentee
and also getting on for 90. Ireland produces
a tough lot. Probably the shillelagh kills
off the weak.
Elizabeth Jackson, dead of tuberculosis in
Adelaide at 32, won all sorts of scholarships,
and was M.A. at 24. Then, with disease
already showing, she put in the rest of her
life in strenuous work. She was Tutor in
Philosophy at the ’Varsity, lectured at
Broken Hill for the W.E.A., with a special
eye on psychology, edited the Woman’s
Record of S. Aus., did a lot of research in
the early history of the State, and was pro-
minent in the work of building up the weak-
minded child. And always her pen was
going—even in a consumptive home she ran
a magazine.
Alexander Gordon Steven, one of The
Bulletin’s young Melbourne verse-makers,
has just passed out at 37. He was the son
of Dr. Steven, and in the ordinary course
he might have followed his father, but poor
health and a literary temper turned him to
the pen, and he was soon a victim to the
subtle tyranny of verse. Four little books,
“The Witchery of Earth,” “Wind on the
Wold,” “Poems” and “Revolt,” were turned
out during his career; they bore evidence of
careful polishing, and their sentiment was
graceful. He was a great admirer of Rupert
Brooke, and his salute to the poet, which
included the lines—
Death has wooed you syren-wise,
Seeing you were fair,
Soldier with the sea-blue eyes
And the sun-gold hair,
seems to contain a bit of self-portraiture.
C cele brated his jubilee, Pbineas
feelig, 33 years manager of the Christchurch
Pkess (M.L.), retires on Jan. 31. A Melbourne
native, he trod the Inky Way in Maoriland,
then in Sydney, and later returned to found
the Christchurch Referee. Ten years later
he took this sporting authority over with
him to the Press, which still issues it as a
Judge COHEN, of Sydney, formerly
Speaker of the Assembly.
weekly supplement. In his time Phineas has
been director and chairman of the United
Press Association, president of the Master
Printers’ Federation, member of the M.L.
Council of the Empire Press Union, chair-
man of the Newspaper Proprietors’ Associa-
tion, and M.L. representative at the Imperial
Press Conference in Canada in 1920; and
he is still chairman of the M.L. Trotting
Association, a job he has held since
the start, 23 years ago. Now a bunk in the
Leg. Council wouldn’t be greatly surprised
if he suddenly lobbed on to it.
Brig.-General “Gus” Sandford, who died
suddenly the other day, was twice married
—first to a daughter of the late C. J.
Roberts, a one-time Postmaster-General;
later to a Victorian girl. It was part of
the bad luck (from a soldier’s point of view)
of good-natured “Gus” that he never saw
active service, and missed the one chance in
his life of being an active belligerent. He
was stationed at Queenscliff (Vic.) in Aug.,
1914. On the opposite shore, at Point
Nepean, Cox Taylor, then a major, was on
duty, when he saw a German steamer rush-
ing for the Heads. He ’phoned to his
superior officer, Colonel Sandford, for orders
to fire a shot and stop the escapee. The
answer was: “We must consult headquarters
in Melbourne —it’s too serious a responsi-
bility.” By the time Melbourne could have
been raised Fritz would have been beyond
the three-mile limit. Cox Taylor took the
risk, and from Point Nepean fired the “first
shots” that stopped the runaway German.
“D’O.R.”: I often read pars about the
“last” Crimean veteran passing away. Well,
here is one who is still hale and hearty,
though approaching 89 years of age—T. W.
Richardson, of Ipswich (Q.). He is my
grandfather.
Dugald Thomson, who was Home Affairs
in the Reid-McLean Ministry, left £67,305,
made mostly in the Robert Harper business.
Hospitals and charitable institutions bene-
fit largely; the residue goes to nephews and
nieces—he had no family of his own.
Thomas Barclay-Miller, who went west
at Herberton (M.Q.) the other day, was
born in Scotland 85 years ago and came to
Australia when 26. He was one of the
northern telegraph-line party in the N. Ter-
ritory, and had a hand in the Tate telegraph
line and others on the roof of Australia. A
splendid bushman, he could fialk to Binghi in
' several abo. dialects, and found time to inter-
est himself in Australian flora, especially
the trees and shrubs of Queensland. He left
a widow, two sons, two daughters, 14 grand-
children and five great-grandchildren.
A. S. Cheadle, dead in Adelaide at 69, was
a Yorkshire wool-expert with French experi-
ence before he came to Australia, in 1880, to
the wool department of Elder, Smith and Co.
Later, the firm of Strachan and Ch»dle was
prominent in S. Aus., but eventually incor-
porated with Dalgety and Co., Cheadle re-
maining director of the co.’s wool department
He gave all his life to the one subject, and
was a recognised authority on that. At one
time he was president of S.A. Chamber of
Commerce. Tom Cheadle, a local golfing ex-
champion, is a son.
A note from R. A. Crouch: —
“Mr. Ocky” (B. 18/l/’23) says tfcat at a long-
past Vic. election I made a bitter attack on the
press, and particularly the Geelong Advertiser. The
incident is 16 years old, but I made no attack on
the press generally—as the Advertiser the day be-
fore the election issued a lot of misrepresentations,
I dealt with it. “Mr. Ocky” is wrong in saying
that after polling-day I was included among the
slain. I beat the Advertiser nominee by thousands
of votes, though it is too long ago to remember
the exact figures. As to the paper never reporting
me later, I don’t know whether it did or not. But
even if it didn’t, after this lapse of time I can
readily forgive it, and am glad to hear it still
lingers.
HEROISM IN EXCELSIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“On the authority of the Earl of Strathmore
(the lady’s father) ‘the Duke of York was not
in the least nervous when proposing.’ ” — -Cable.
Prince Albert Edward Arthur George has courage
royal and rare;
He’s as bold a duke as ever you did see.
He fought his country’s battles, as you’re possibly
aware,
On the water and was hankering to fight them in
the air
Before he’d reached the age of twenty-three.
And now we have his donah’s dad disclosing—
Which looks as if the old ’un round was nosing-
That the coolness he displayed
Of a soldier on parade
At the fateful moment when he was proposing.
There are thrusters in the hunting-field who dare
the ugliest fall
With laughing eyes and undiminished verve;
There are men who march to battle just as if it were
a ball,
The prospect of being outed doesn’t worry them at
all;
But for imperturbability of nerve
There’s a test that finds full many a hero lacking,
An experience that’s positively racking,
When a fellow calls to see
If his soul’s affinity
Will fall into his arms—or send him packing.
Flash it round the seven oceans—oh, the valor that
was shown!—
It surely ought to interest boys (and: girls).
Not the batting of an eyelash, not the quiver of a
tone
Denoted that a royal duke was.asking for his own
The daughter of a score or two of earls.
WTiat a picture for the films, “The Way To Win
Her”!
In the most exalted circles and the inner.
Clearly you approach the task
Calm as one .about to ask
If he may take a lady in to dinner.
Here’s to that Fearless Lover, every inch a prince,
whose sire
Is, and whose brother some day will be, king!
No more calm and unperturbed when in the air or
under fire
Than (the Earl of Strathmore vouches) when con-
sumed by a desire
To place upon a maiden’s hand a ring.
From a clan like this no Bolshevik shall swerve
us.
This indomitable grit should surely serve us
For a pattern. Ah! how few
Such a feat of derring-do
Have compassed in their time without being nervous,
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


m v
.
#
&WStimm
. i
/
m-:
m
%%
If!
V.i
St
t
&
-w ?
:
H
.-i- j
* v
«mi
; .- v -
-r&vj'-V
IS
MSSfe
W
ce:
co
KS
SSSMSS
i v- .. :-
••• •
"S V
m
mRHF* f - > ~ - j
mm
:■ 't
9^>
Af
D=>
Q=§)
tkt(7
-
-
X*
‘ -■
O
. ■:
#
! i
o
Qmß
*■ *
CO
irnmiiinm
mm
0
•’ *&■ V'l’M
'1 S
£i& sfe: .
7
s»
W fl
■*“*sl
' -f. %ss h
" .---.'*
■■'V‘ v - -
'■mmmrn ■■ ■■. ' mm-
ilk
#
it
MIS ■
S3S
9
m
i g
*sa
: ■ ■
mm
WMmm
RMfi
■
.
mm
•.- ■ . ' '■■ ‘'J k
. : t
:
» J® ; ■*!
" s
imes
■'■>::
A
l ' V’


THE FEDERAL,
MELBOURNE.
M
'r
Australia’s
Largest Hostelry
Room
only
or Full
Board.
Two
Dining
Rooms
and
Cafe.
For
Tariff
write
Manager.
A Signal Success
"‘Mill
King George IV
wsaisasx
TheTOP-NOTCH’Scotch.
moan mot'o
comfort and
stijio. Do not
take a substitute
All Mercers
sad
sd
sd
sd
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Tom Pepper”: Why isn’t there a Y.C.
for dogs? Fred Douglas, a youth of Boyerine
(W.A.), was thrown heavily against a tree, through
his pony shying, and got a badly fractured leg. He
couldn’t crawl, was miles away from home, and
MODESTY.
UNCLE DOORMAT: “Look here, young 'un,
every time I arst you to kiss me you
refuse. Wot's the reason now?"
MATILDA: “Well, uncle, I —I always feel
so nervous about tackling such a very
ticklish job."
there was very little hope of any aid reaching him.
He tried to send his dog home, but the animal re-
fused to leave him. Then, in desperation, he tore
off his shirt sleeves, fastened them together, and
tied them around the dog’s neck. It looked as
though this was what the tyke was waiting for —
some striking evidence that his young boss was m
distress —for he immediately set off with his silent,
yet eloquent message. When he got home all were
out and it wasn’t till evening that the father re-
turned. Then, in the dark, and through miles of
thick scrub the dog led the way to the crippled
lad.
"Kunika Tau” : Let me add my testimony
to “Bouragi’s” re “Morob’s” Markham River natives.
Being a member of Rupert Clarke’s expedition up the
Fly River in 1914, I can state positively that the
natives who inhabit that part of Papua near the
junction of the Alice and Fly rivers wear cuirasses
made of plaited • lawyer-cane, as I collected some
of them myself, the price paid being one tomahawk j
(Blair’s) for each cuirass, and even then the ,
natives were not too keen on the bargain. They <
place a very high value on steel tomahawks, but <
they appeared to think a lot of the cuirass, the ,
t.im.e spent on plaiting it probably being taken into :
consideration. These cuirasses were very neatly and ]
strongly made, and covered the body all over, from i
the waist to shoulders, with a curved space let in on 1
either side to allow of free use of arms. They were i
put on by getting in feet first and drawing them up •,
over the hips. That they did not render the wearer >
invulnerable we had good proof, as on our return |
journey we found several of the natives wounded.
They had been attacked by another tribe from lower
down the Fly.
* * * *
“Jackaburra”: “Bogan Bill’s” yarn (B.
11/l/’23) of the Dreadnought boys who rubbed rock-
salt on the sheep’s backs, reminds me of a friend of
mine who sent out his pommy help with an axe and
rock-salt, and told him to cut shallow troughs in logs
here and there, and place the salt in the troughs. Later
on he went along to see how Jimmy Woodbine was
getting on, and found the landscape for yards around
the first log strewn with small pieces of salt. He
searched out James, who was at the moment vigor-
ously walloping a large piece of salt with the back
of the axe. My cocky cobber had just about ex-
hausted all the swear words he could think of when
he was countered with an injured: “Well, you can’t
expect the blanky cows to chew those big lumps!”
* * * *
“Caley”: What “S.S.” (B. 28/12/’22.)
says of the snake’s partiality for children practically
applies to all animals. A feasible explanation is
that children are devoid of any of the enmity or
desire to conquer which animals intuitively detect,
and resent, in adults. A woman at Goulburn
(N.S.W.) was kept so busy making horse-hair whip-
lashes tor her two-year-old son that she became curi-
ous as to where the hair was coming from. She
nearly had a fit when his nibs confessed to obtaining
it from the tail of Peter, a blood horse, famed,
chiefly, for his kicking. A South Coast farmer, the
owner of a ferocious boar, found his small son
“breaking-in” the animal. Piggy lay, grunting
contentedly, while the kid fastened a string “bridle”
to his tusks. Dad nearly lost his life, as well as
the heel of his boot and portion of his pants, stop-
ping the business.
“FY7” : Tell “Babarantiko” (B. 4/l/’23)
that lie will find wallabies easy enough to strangle
if he goes the right way about it. Use fairly strong
copper-wire (not galvanised), twisted double and
make the loop with the eye as small as it can be
got while still moving freely. Set the loop open at
any size experience suggests over the hole in the
fence. Keep the loop at the exact height you want
it by shoving the copper-wire shank into a cleft
twig, planted in the ground. To the end of the
shank make fast a short piece of clothes-line, and
tether to a fence post as near as possible. No wal-
laby could get a copper noose off, even if he lived
long enough to try it. I’ve caught hundreds that
way, and never found a live one in the snare. Lastly,
and most important, do your utmost to keep all scent
of. hands off the gear, fence and the wallabies’ run.
Fix the gadgets, too, as unobtrusively as possible.
* * * *
“Y.C.”: Certain streets in Carlton (Vic.)
are regular stock-routes on sale days. The other
evening, near the Exhibition, a mob of about 1500
off-shears was working eastwards, when it was joined
(with a rush) by another mob of 1000 or so
from an intersecting street, and in spite of half-
a-dozen dogs the whole lot got hopelessly boxed in
about five barks. The respective drovers met in
rear, and, without any preliminary insult, engaged
in hearty stoush. As they appeared to be in-
stinctively following an established custom, I want
to hear from the Council what the conventions are
in such affairs. Do they fight for the honour of
drafting the mob, or on a winner-takes-all basis?
The Banjo Paterson case has no bearing, as Carl-
ton is short of grass just now.
“Aves”: Another foreign bird getting a
good hold in Australia is the Indian bulbul. So
far, I have met him round Sydney only, where I
understand he has been established in the western
and northern suburbs for some years. He is
a sprightly fellow, about as big as the wagtail;
rather brown on the back, white throat and belly,
fairly long beak, and a black head, with a sharp-
pointed black topknot. There is a small crimson
spot behind the eye and a larger splash under the
tail. I would like to know whether he eats fruit,
and is destructive. I’ve found him dining on the
vine-moth larvae, but I understand he is more
liable to become a pest than a friend. What does
the Council know about him ?
“Chris” : For cool impudence commend me
to the Shivery Isles spadger. When the champion-
ship finals at the Wanganui rifle meeting were being
fired the other day, one competitor, Carter, was just
aiming when a perky sparrow hopped on to the rifle
barrel and had to be vigorously “shooed” off. It
then flew along to worry R. J. King in a similar
way. Strangely enough, when Carter fired his dis-
turbed shot, he registered a magpie, otherwise a
“bird.” King then shooed off his unwelcome visitor,
fired, and got a “bird” too.
“Norfolk”: The mysterious waterhole
found by “Moon E.” (B. 21/12/’22) is no doubt a
“narriwa’dgee,” or night well. A mate of mine,
prospecting at the back of Esperance (W.A.), struck
a small well a little after midnight, and, finding
only a limited quantity of water, waited until the
trickle resumed operations next day, when the supply
was sufficient to provide for himself and his horses.
Someone has suggested that the contraction of the
earth forces the moisture through the absorbent
strata and forms a pool in some depression which
empties again when the earth expands with the heat
of day. The narriwadgee wells are not numerous
and are little known. The prospector who is
lucky enough to strike one usually keeps the fact
to himself, as the supply, though small, enables him
to prospect the adjacent country without making any
tell-tale trips to well-known places for water. There
are no surface indications to guide one to the tipple,
and its closing hours, like the modern pub, are
prompt.
NEEDLESS FEARS.
BILL (from the fence) : “There’s nothing to be frightened of, 'Arry. The are ain't sharp."
"P. Le L.”: I knew the equine wonder,
Lady, that “F.H.R.” (B. 28/12/’22) enthuses about,
when she was a four-year-old. The owner and I
used her and the antique buckboard (then new) as
a means of covering the 14 miles between Swamp
Oak and Niangala, an old mining-field on the New
England Tablelands (N.S.W.). It took a good horse
to climb up to Niangala, as the grade in places was
precipitous; but Lady did the trip every week-end,
off the grass, and we were usually loaded to the
extent of scwt. She was then a fine animal in
cither saddle or harness, but, like all her sex,
was whimsical. I remember a day when she point-
blank refused to drag a light garden plough in the
corn patch, and her owner-driver made lurid threats
to sever her glossy throat with a dessert knife. But
“F.H.R.” was a fiery-tempered cousin-jack miner,
and didn’t know that the animal was objecting io
work in a collar four inches too large for her
feminine neck.
* * * *
"Gecko” : It is incorrect to credit the
boobook-owl with accurately pronouncing the words
"More pork.” What he says is “Whoop-whoop.”
The lingering sound of the first “p,” unavoidably
blends into the second “w,” giving the hindmost
whoop a semi-pseudo sort o’ sound (“whoo-pwhoop”).
Again, the mistranslation of the cry responsible for
the naming of the cat-bird thunders for rectifica-
tion. The surmised “caterwaul” may fill the bill
for frivolous folk, but it is only an apology for the
correct setting to the Sound. The only real de-
JUST HIS LINE.
“No thanks. My husband does the gardening
at least he loafs around and pretends
to."
“Couldn't yer gimme a job 'elping 'im?"
scription that can be given is that it resembles
exactly the full tone-cry of a new-born healthy
child. Therefore, I suggest that the cat be let out
of the bag at once, by renaming our feathered friend
the "cherubic-bird.”
"Jim Carew”: Instances of a homing in-
instinct in Australian wild birds are rare, but I
struck one a while back. A friend of mine, the
owner of a sulphur-crested cockatoo—an exception-
ally good talker —sold his farm near Bermagui. on
the South Coast (N.S.W.), and came to live in
Sydney. As soon as cocky was allowed the freedom
of the yard he cleared out, and the family mourned
him as lost. About a week later they got a letter
from the man who had bought their place, stating
that the bird had turned up there.
“Mrs. S.”: "King Kurrajong’s” cool-
headed Alpine cattleman (B. f/ 12/’22) was no more
frigidly resourceful than a 10-year-old boy I know
who, on finding himself- thrown and dragged by a
frightened pony, flung his arms round a sapling when
passing it upside down at a fair speed, and, hanging
on like grim death, jerked the stirrup-leather free.
His head bore witness that he was upside down all
right by a bruise on the top where he hit a stone.
His brother, who was with him, was more scared
by the occurrence than the quick-thinking nipper.
* * * -tt
“Jimmy Possum”: Recent pars on bullet-
penetration recall a remarkable side-stepping bullet
tired from a .44 Winchester rifle at a medium-sized
wallaby. Both legs of the animal, which appeared
to be facing me, were shot off just above the hocks.
The bullet then entered the abdomen low down,
and, passing upwards, entered the thorax,, seared
the heart near the point, and, penetrating the ribs
on the left side, lodged under the skin between the
shoulders. I’ve never been able to figure out how
it happened. The hapless animal, maimed and
drilled by a heavy bullet as it was, travelled nearly
10 chains, and was still alive when I stumbled on
to it, at least 10 minutes after the damage was
done.
“X.Y.’s” honeyed words :
Re “Azrim” (B. 4/l/’23) on bush honey. My
experience was confined to the North Coast (N.S.W.),
but there the variation in color and other charac-
teristics was very great. It was widely believed
that green honey was poisonous: but the best and
most wholesome honey I ever used was distinctly
green. It was got in the coastal scrub close to the sea,
and was said to have been collected from flowers of the
grass-tree. At the same time, there were flowers
blooming in profusion within a mile of the bees’
nests, the nectar of which is a rapid and deadly
poison for house flies. I made the discovery of this
fact quite by accident. Seeing some beautiful white
flowers by the roadside, I took a bunch home and put
them in a bowl of water. Next morning the table
beneath them w r as littered with dead flies. The
flowers contained a large quantity of nectar of
a decidedly green color, and one can understand
how honey gathered from them would have results un-
pleasant to the consumer. On the North Coast the bee-
farmer hates the turpentine-tree; although it
bears a profusion of honey-laden blossoms, the
honey is strongly tainted with the flavor of tur-
pentine. (Strictly speaking, it is not turpentine,
but eucalyptus.) Ironbark, bloodwood, stringybark,
ti-tree and apple-tree all yield honey of excellent
quality. The flowers of the passion-fruit vine were be-
lieved to be fatal to bees; but I never saw any evi-
dence in support, and have seen bees and passion-
fruif flourishing together.
(Continued on page 2 ).)
THE SMELL UV COW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The mumblin’ bull with sullen steps
Escorts his harem in,
While Mary in the dairy sings
To sounds of janglin’ tin.
I know that it is milkin’-time.
Oh, wrists that ache and throb!
1 wisht I was a pitcher-star
Or some such fancy nob.
The boss is wild —he mostly is—
And itchin’ for a row,
While in the air that- lifts me hair
I smells the smell uv Cow.
Ole Strnwb’ry’s wild as wild can be,
An’ bawlin’ for her calf.
I slips the legrope round her tail
An’ makes the missus laugh.
I puts it right an’ grabs a stool
And bows me weary head,
And -as 1 milks —and milks —and milks,
I wishes I was dead.
The boss is brcakin’ Daisy in ;
He yells out “Shove ’er—now!”
And I can sniff that dreadful whiff,
The awful smell uv Cow.
I tips me umpteenth bucket in
The greedy waitin’ can,
And chases Polly round the yard;
An’ thinks as how a man
Had never ‘oughter left the town
To take on pullin’ tits.
The d—n fool turns an’ rushes me —
I drops me rope—and gits.
The boss comes swear In’ round the bails—
“ You'll take yer time, right now."
I lights a fag and humps me swag
Far from the smell uv Cow.
QUEENSLAND.
RUSTYFACE.


;
w
m
\
\v
it- a
I# Brand
t
•A.
a
- •>
ai
IS
s*
i
[*
fi
'
i
111
ml
tf !
Mi
I : .5
HI
i l! i
/M j!
:
i f
* t
w
Q
00*04‘-p®
'v‘-S-
-chate.au tanunda
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED
i
our
Brandy Sir!


--
A
=SeIIAUB3S:
rf/IM.M'lEfr
ROOFING. FLOORING. DAMPCOURSE.
GENUINE Malthoid Roofing lasts
indefinitely.
GENUINE Malthoid Floor Cover-
ing it is almost impos-
sible to wear through.
GENUINE Malthoid Dampeourse
has never let moisture
through, and has been
in use for IS years.
The Paraffine Companies Inc
( F.M.PRINCE Auxlralarian Manager)
Original Manufacturers of
P & B Materials.
CHALLIS* HOUSE
MARTIN PLACE
S Y D N E Y.
>3*
Sfc e g
I:
(}•
i
JLJ
/A b bl)|j
l_ A\ O £ R
■I
11111
aK
r? 39
[.miUllLitiilTilinillliril'lllfll
JllllUimLLlJiliLiiliullLMiiimmmiiiimimmiiiiinNmiinimimmimiiiMimMnvvu
I ii* mwsl* he
'abbots
% Li ACER
BREWED FROM
PURE MALT 5- MOPS ONLY
“Wild Oat” : I used to think that Steele
Rudd grossly exaggerated in describing his out-
back characters ; but I now tender apologies. While
crossing Hyde Park, Sydney, the other day I noticed
a tall son of the soil fiddling with a number of
rat-traps and carefully installing each in a separate
pocket. Thinking my first impressions were amiss,
I saluted him with: “After the rodents, mate ?”
“No ’ope,” he replied, “blankety-blank pick-
pockets !”
*-*•*#
“Herodot”: In a N.S.W. country town
where there are a number of overhead electric cables
carrying a fair amount of power, one ran at right
angles across an avenue of trees. In places it actu-
ally touched the foliage when the wind blew. Now
the other trees in the avenue have lost their leaves,
while those in direct contact with the cable seem to
have grown more foliage than ever, while the leaves
are bigger, greener and of a more luxuriant growth,
thus showing that their chlorophyll content has
Deeri greatly increased. Probably the result is due
to a stimulation of the cellular protoplasm of the
tree, which has caused the cells to put forth a
greater effort, and it suggests a practical application
of the phenomenon to the raising of crops.
A BLACK SUSPICION.
BUNG: “Surely yer don’t think I got yer
money, Billy?”
BINGHI : “N-no. But, by cripes, if you didn ’
help alonga me to look for it I’d a found
me plurry tickpence, mine tinkit.”
“F.H.R.”: The casual Australian again.
We were looking at a strange prad in the horse
paddock and I asked the boss if I’d put him out.
“Never mind,” he drawled, “he’s too weak to pull
the grass, and too poor to make a stink, so let him
stop.”
“FY7”: “Jaymac” (B. 28/12/’22) and
others on the irritableness of bogged bullocks, makes
me w'onder why no Abo. has raised the matter of
a pleuro bullock’s last dying flurry. The trouble,
they tell me, is pretty well stamped out nowadays
on the droving tracks, and, perhaps, that is the
reason. Many cattle affected with pleuro go mad
in the semi-final stages. In the old days, a bul-
lock who detached himself from the mob and stood
HER PRICE.
“What did Elsie marry Peter for?”
“Welt, I think it teas about £2000 a year.”
regarding the dray and the camp outfit with glassy
eyes, was always promptly dealt with by the boss’s
Winchester. I call to mind one such beast which
escaped notice arriving, at about a thousand miles
an hour, in the middle of the early-morning break-
fast. For 10 minutes or so the air was full of
fried chops and tin plates and pannikins, and it
became bluer and bluer as everyone tried to catch
the horses which had broken away. When the Win-
chester could be reached, the bullock was in the
act of climbing into the dray in an endeavor to eat
the cook, who had taken refuge there. Nobody was
eager to save the poisoner’s life —but our last bag
of flour was in danger.
* * * >
“Old Timer”: If “Jimmy Trousers” (B.
14/12/’22) lives anywhere neav the small yellow
water-hyacinth he will find in it a good substitute
for soap for cleansing his skin. But, as the well-
known advt. says, it won’t wash clothes.
“Flicker”: “Malokihi’s” reference (B.
4/l/’23) to the native-companion as a domestic pet
recalls that the community of Port Noarlunga (S.A.)
owns a pelican which wanders about the town, and
lives on doles given to it by the inhabitants. The
gentleman with the bill was found on the beach
after a heavy gale, and was taken in
hand by a lady, who kept him till he
recovered. He was then set at liberty,
but declined to leave the town, evi-
dently preferring charity to work. He
was sent to the Zoo at Adelaide, but
’ refused to eat, and pined away, so
they sent him back to Noarlunga,
where he now dominates the bread-
line of that township and waxes portly
on the game.
“The Moke”: Re cane-cutting
tallies (B. 14/12/’22). Here are some
actual tallies for the 1922 season: On
a patch averaging 17 tons to the acre
of Clarke’s seedling “plant” cane,
burnt, cut and loaded once —6$ tons
for each man in an eight-hour day.
On a five-ton to one-acre patch, second-
ratoon Malayashe, burnt cane, smoth-
ered in guinea-grass, cut and loaded
once —3 tons per man. Through-
out the whole season the gang ie-
sponsible for these tallies, in crops
ranging from 5 to 17 tons to the
acre, averaged per eight-hour day,
41 tons per man. The gun cutter
of the team, Dinny Jorgensen, in
a plant crop of Badilla going 25
tons to the acre, cut and loaded
once seven tons in six hours. This
record was put up on Mark Rudge's
farm, Proserpine (Q.) —the other
performances on Phaff’s. But put
any of these gun-cutters on some of
the loggy and bouldery slopes where
some southern cockies have the cheek
tc ask cane to grow, and only a highly-qualified
linger would cut and load his 2-J tons —that is,
if he struck standover cane, not burnt.
* * * »
“Rhino”: What “Kilang” (B. 2/11/’22)
has read of some Pacific Islands fish being poisonous
one day and harmless the next is quite true. In the
Gilberts and other atoll islands many of the fish
become poisonous at certain .seasons, and it is
never safe to eat most of them up there without
advice from a native of the particular island where
they are caught. There are also other fish about
these atolls that if caught inside the lagoon are
poisonous, while those of the same species caught a
few hundred yards outside, at the same time, are
quite edible. In the next island, perhaps only a
few miles away, the thing is vice versa. A native
on his own island always seems to know when it
is safe to eat certain fish, but take him to an island
a mile or two away and he is not at all sure of
them. I don’t know the reason for these changes in
edibility, and have not heard whether anyone has
ever got to the bottom of the matter.
“Barcoo”: There is a ewe on Oakwood
station, Wara River (S.-W. Q.), that usually has a
lamb with only one front leg. Two young wethers,
her progeny, run with the flock—or did a few sea-
sons ago—each with a single prop for’ard. Examina-
tion, proved that they were minus even the usual
shoulder-blade on the left side, and Nature had made
no attempt whatever in the formation of the regula-
tion fourth limb. Both sheep got about quite as
actively as their better-equipped mates, and showed
quite as much condition and health.
«■ e- » #
“S. Ringer”: While mustering on a sta-
tion out from Rockhampton (Q.) the boss and I pulled
up for dinner. My lunch was wrapped up in a
page of The Bulletin’s Aboriginalities, and I started
to read some out. Presently I struck one par. that
didn’t seem correct, and I said: “The bloke who
wrote that must have been a blanky fool.” To my
surprise the boss started to argue in favor of the
writer —in fact, got quite nasty over it. That started
a row, and it ended by me losing my job. It was
not till some time after that I discovered I had
actually been arguing with the author of the par.
*■*••**
“O. Ren” : The ponies they used to breed
in the Flinders Ranges (S.A.) were as hardy
and plucky as anything on four legs. There is an
accredited instance of a one-day’s drive from Pt.
Pirie to Pt. Augusta and back- —a matter of some-
thing like 65 or 70 miles each way. The man
behind was Dr. Stewart, lately dead in Adelaide,
and his pair were Beetaloo Valley ponies. The day
after their long run they went out on the usual
round without demur, though it was a bit over the
odds to ask that of them.
“Werrimee”: Thirst-tortured travellers
sometimes spend hours rooting for a soakage in the
bed of a sandy creek, the sand collapsing from ‘.lie
sides at frequent intervals as they proceed, and at
the end of the aggravating job they have a hole big
enough to bury a bullock in. Binghi makes soakage-
tapping a quick and simple operation. He merely
scrapes away the loose sand on top, then driving
his spear in, works it down as far as necessary,
judging by the dripping point when he has struck
a flow. Down the tiny bore thus made he inserts
a long, hollow reed, through which he drinks his
fill with ease and comfort.
“Arbeep” : “Mulgaite’s” (B. 4/l/’23) yarn
about the sapling felled by rifle-fire reminds me of a
hatter I met in the kangaroo country who has spent
years on an invention for reloading cartridges, to
be attached to his rifle. So far as I could gather
(he was very secretive when it came to details) the
general idea was that the ejected cartridge would
fall into a receiver, be reloaded by the recoil of the
next shot, and pass once more into the magazine of
the rifle. When he started to tell me how he had
once shot a man’s eye out, I left, using the accelerator
freely on the old grey horse.
* * * *
“Wild Oat”: I hasten to tell “J. Trousers”
to bide awhile before he uses “B. Buttin’s” substi-
tute for soap (B. 4/l/’23). “B.B.” recommends the
“reddish gum exuding from stringy-bark trees.”
AVell, I hadn’t been toiling long around a mill be-
fore I found that something more than soap is re-
quired to remove “8.8.’5” substitute itself. I
tried kerosene, turps and all the advertised dirt-
ehasers, but none of them was any good, and I only
got clean again by tossing up the job and letting
the damn thing wear itself out.
* * * »
“P. Le L.”: One more entry for the Queer
Accident Stakes. A contract tank-sinker, in the
Parkes district (N.S.W.), a few years ago, after
putting the nosebags on his team of six horses,
rode over to the homestead forge to sharpen his
ploughshares, and did not return as soon as he
intended. In the interim one of the horses walked
off to water, encumbered by the nosebag, through
which it made futile attempts to drink. The bag,
being thoroughly dry, became partly filled with
water, and the chaff-dross so effectively retarded the
escape of the liquid that the horse’s muzzle was
submerged long enough to cause death by asphyx-
iation.
* * * *
“Aves”: Can any Abo. find me a more
pleasing whistler or more cheerful sounding bird
than the white-throated bush-warbler (Geryor.s
albogularis), sometimes known as the native, or
bush-canary ? A pair have built near me, and
they are so happy about it that they sing most of
the day ; and though I’ve heard many of the same
species in various parts of the country, I have
heard none to equal this little Caruso-of-Gery-
onies, either in melody or length of song. It
is the nest of this species which the bronze cuckoo
so oftens singles out as a safe deposit for its
eggs, though perhaps the main reason lies in the
fact that its young will be brought up by a re-
spectable married couple.
* * » *
“P.M.S.”: Are sheep weather-prophets?
Before our last rain (eight inches) the jumbucks all
moved to the high ground, though it offered no gas-
tronomic inducements, being perfectly bare. They
are all young sheep, and having been born during
the drought had had no experience of rain up till
then.
• « * *
“Toby C.” : Has the Abo. page ever pro-
duced a springboard tree-felling record ? What
would be a decent height for an axeman to venture
on a board? A few tall stumps I have been looking
at here in N.Q. prompt me to ask. I have been told
that a Korrumburra (Vic.) woodjaminer crawled up
40ft. and felled a stringy-bark by way of entertain-
ing visiting royalty in 1901, or thereabouts.
* #• * *
Aii anti-ant offensive: —
“X.Y.”: Tell “3130” (B. 4/l/’23) that bi-sulphide
of carbon is a sure ant-exterminator. Locate the main
entrance to the ants’home, and carefully pour into it
three or four ounces of the chemical, then close the open-
ing with moist earth or clay. The vapor, being
heavier than air, permeates every burrow and gal-
lery, and, being a powerful narcotic poison, kills
with certainty. Some people apply a light to the
entrance after the chemical has been introduced.
This is not only unnecessary, but may lead to a
flattened-out experimenter. Above all, the nests of
sugat'-ants are not to be fired, as these creatures,
excavate great caverns, usually under a path, so
that a match at the entrance may result in most
of the path going skywards. Treat the black ants’
nests just before dark, as, by that time, they are
all at home. For bull-ants, sugar-ants and meat-
ants daytime is best, as their habits are nocturnal.
All these ants usually have several entrances to their
nests, and a small quantity of the liquid should be
poured into each of the. side doors, and a wet bag
placed over the hill. I haven’t tried the chemical on
white aiits, but can see no reason why it shouldn’t
be effective. An objection to carbon bi-sulphide near
a dwelling is its vile smell, and there’s danger- in
the explosiveness of its vapor, which should never
be near a naked flame.
“X2X”: “3130” should gas his ants. If he
puts about three-quarters of a pound of potas-
sium chlorate and a couple of ounces of con-
centrated hydrochloric acid in a large bottle (a
“Winchester”) chlorine gas—a greenish-yellow
PELION ON OSSA.
“Troubles never come singly. ’Ere they’re
locked yer pore father up yesterdee, an’
terday they’re lettin’ ’im out agen.”
vapor —is set free. The bottle should be tightly
corked in order that none may escape. When the
generation is finished, and no more gas comes off,
a pint or so of water is added and the bottle
shaken until as much as possible of the gas has been
absorbed into solution, after which more water
is added, and the bottle again shaken until
all the chlorine has been absorbed. The re-
sultant solution is then poured down the ants’
nest, and although it may be necessary to repeat
the operation a couple of times, “3130” will prob-
ably find that once is enough. I will absolutely
guarantee this method of wiping out ants.
“Joel”: Let “3130” dig a hole in the centre of the
nest, put in a handful of fresh carbide (more, if
the nest is very large), pour a bucket of water
on it, and refill the hole; then cover the nest with
wet bags. As the nest is sure to contain a num-
ber of eggs which hatch out in the heat, it will
probably be necessary to repeat the operation; but
that will be the end of the ants.
THK SISTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rose.
Blood red your lips, a smiling mouth
That at the corners slightly droops,
Rose pink your cheeks, your raven hair
Falls to your neck in silken loops.
Ah, Rose! If you could always be
As gentle as you are to-day,
And that small shadow of a frown
Would deepen not, nor i ome to stay;
Then all my life I’ll live for you—
Your captive and your willing slave.
But I’m afraid, yes, I’m afraid
You’d nag me to an early grave.
Lily.
Shed carefully and lightly clad ;
Bewitchir.gly your hair is bobbed.
Tingeir.g your cheek, a shade of rouge
Brings back the charm the sun has robbed.
In clinging folds your draperies
Enhance the contours of your hips;
That smile that lurks enchantingly
Displays the pigment on your lips.
Unruffled by the cares of life,
Plumper you are, by far, than Rose;
And I’m afraid, ere middle age
You will be dull and adipose.
Spud.
Quaintly old-fashioned in your ways,
Contentedly you work or read,
A trusty comrade and a mate,
A cheerful critic of my screed.
Pig-tailed of hair and flat of heel,
No sighing knight comes seeking “Spud.”
Unsullied daughter of the bush,
Love of the bush is in your blood.
Awkward of gait and lank of limb,
Sedate and calm you’ll live your life;
And I foresee and I foretell
Some bushman gets a charming wife.
N.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


:
Vi
g|'
!% .MZjk d
W. * ■ .. IAS
* ' *
>....
sa
C .-^y;
■ m i.- %
.,; ■
w»; ~v*. r« ■..
• T T>sgE?y - :
: m
SK
1
".; ' ' . ■'" '\
SMiS4U;j, T
f»wiffiiiTi liiiiarrirrmi
!*'-' |t,; '
.
Mm ’W |
r »riii| l ; l i ll .„. TO * J
N t™ 4 J
■ ... ... ..
Iff
- r— -4 p *— ~
i-. IlfTf '
** siifflMi
<» mKKmm:
*x&*wm>m**
tni^r
j
*
*
r !
i^WWII>IIWI(HIMIU«<ft
§|l '' '
|f i ®* W ® l,,W, *'"''~>'<''l!«-?#SW... < «<
,I *"* W *™ ■».«t»a»<MMlf»»<v*ft
« -v*. ,
'...' ..' .". >■•’'.■'■:■'■■'■. ...... .
MHfc 11 "■"mt-HW**
&
laiiifc
BBP
r~ 9 f
/
TJ.
am
I ■
‘V'ii
I /
-_ ft* •
A
■ ■ I I
L r-
m
%£&s&
■
■BI mBB Mn ■
. j
s
1
....
*. .
■■
.
-’■’aiMtt
ffe
[Jflfe
PI
■■■
. J.-
A .
Wm3ms
%• •;
1
ir
□
or
Tyre
?
The men who run the passenger and mail motor service over the
125 miles of rough tracks between Longreach and Winton (Central
Queensland) think it is. When asked “if it’s a fair thing!” they
smile—and make a remark that is amazing “we average from 3000
to 5000 miles per cover—with such loading—on
D
TYRE
—and it’s true. No wonder they are staunch supporters of “Dunlops.”
Such service illustrates what a margin of strength is built into these
covers, thereby ensuring to motorists many thousand miles of free
from trouble running. It’s the kind of tyre service that motorists
appreciate—hence the great popularity of “Dunlops.” You see them
everywhere—evidence of their value and dependability. Your garage
can supply in beaded edge or straight sided type.


Royal
Warrant
sda
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
%L*.
CHAMPAGNE
Qiarleslieidsiedt
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
SYNONYMOUS OF EASE AND COMFORT.
Perfect Service and Marvellous Cuisine.
Famed foi’ its ideal environment and perfect site on historic Church Hill,
THE RENDEZVOUS OF SMARTER SYDNEY.
THE WENTWORTH BALLROOM
and
PALM COURT,
of which guests may make free use for dancing.
Enquiries to —
WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
qA la c ß.eine des Fleurs :: Established 1774
L.T. PIVER, Paris
COMPLEXION POWDERS
de Luxe
Supplied in al! Shades and Odours. These Face Pow
ders are made in France by a Firm Established 150 Years;
they are of exquisite fragrance, perfedly adherent, and
will suit yourd cin: the name is the guarantee of quality.
Exquisite ‘Perfumes created by the
House of L. T. PIVER:
Le Trefle. Azurea, Floramye, Safranor, Pompeia,
Esperis, Mismelis, Gerbera, etc., etc.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
soaps
Powders
The Anniversary meeting on Saturday
might have been rechristened the Randwick
Ricnic Races —the attendance was scattered,
and lovely woman for the most part seemed
to be clothed in “the first thing on the front
peg.” The foliage on many a hat had that
after-the-drought expression, and the only
garments that had an assured air were the
silk hose and the high-lieeled shoe —the flat
heel and the long vamp are being steadily
outed. Sydney’s inveterate woman punter
may dispense with gloves and extinguish her-
self under a home-trimmed ss. lid. hat, but
her neat hoofs and slim ankles are always
sleekly groomed and shod. Mu slin-f rocked
small girls and smaller boys in striped suits
invaded the stands, and as the Vice-regals
were hobnobbing with the knuts at Bong
Bong the Government House enclosure was
a vasty emptiness.
Altogether it was a Randwick cheated of
noise and bustle; even the freak dresser
took a day off, and submerged her ultra
tastes in the recesses of a pale maute or grey
washing frock. Lilac tones were every-
where, with pink a close favorite. Pink was
worn by the belle of the afternoon, a young
Kreglinger girl from Belgium ; the bodice of
her sleeveless frock was short and tight, the
skirt long and flowing—she might have
stepped from a Morris decoration. Her pal
of the afternoon was Henriette Segaert, who
was In a sporting white jumper and skirt.
The surgeon MacCormick lady was a grace-
ful exponent of mole silkiness, with which
was worn a feathered hat; with her was
daughter Alison, who finished off orange-
striped frocking with a 12th of July lid.
Mrs. Colin Stephen was in mousey grey, and
a Knox girl wore a convolvulus-twined hat
and was otherwise lilac-toned georgette. Joan
Tregarthen was utilitarian in a grey
crocheted outfit and a small blue hat. Miss
O’Keefe wore voile prettily patterned in
brown; and Guy Belisario’s wife chose em-
broidered grey linen. Mrs. Lachlan Beaton
and Ruby Adams finished off their silk-
knitted frocks with a super brand of sun-
shade ; and Mrs. Hector Clayton was ins : de
a surplice-like garment of royal blue front
and back panels with sweeping black-lace
sleeves.
The big thrill of Saturday afternoon's
meeting came to the woman on the flat who
stood at the rails clutching a few-weeks old
baby, while a small girl stood beside her -eye-
ing as anxiously as mother the horses start-
ing in the Challenge Stakes. “D’yer think
Duke Isinglass has a chance?” the woman
asked the man beside her. “Struth, I Yope
so,” replied the bloke. “I’ve got five bob
on him straight out. You got something on
him, missus?” “Rather,” piped up the small
daughter; “mother ’ll win nearly £'2oo if the
Duke comes home first—she’s or, a double.”
“They’re off!” roared the crowd, and the
next thing the good-natured bloke knew was
that he was holding the baby and had pushed
the lady into a better possy. There was a
flash of gay silks down the straight, and the
woman was screaming: “Was it Duke Isin-
glass, Mister?” and then as the numbers
went up: “O my Gawd, it was!” She clung
on to the railing for a minute while con-
vulsive sobs tore her thin frame. Presently
she dried her eyes, and grabbed the baby.
“Guess you think me a fool. Mister, but
the furniture instalments were right back
and I had only till next week to pay up:
but this’ll mean good-night to the collector
altogether.” The Bloke watched woman,
baby and small girl make triumphantly for
the gates. No more tempting Luck for
mother.
A wanderer just back home brings a
neat description of the two Royal princes,
passed to him by an old officer who has had
to “nurse” both of them. “The one who is
Prince of Wales,” he said, “tries to make
£ou forget it; the Duke of York manages to
make you remember it.”
The Duke of York, by marrying Lady
Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon, will become a sort
of a brother-in-law to a Sydney girl. Lady
Elizabeth’s brother Fergus married the
present Lord Porta rlington’s sister, and
Portarlington is the husband of Winnie, only
daughter of George Yuill, of the Union Club.
You can work it out for yourself.
Surely every child in Sydney tried to
squeeze inside the gates of the Show
Grounds last week to have a day out with
“Cinderella.” Kitty Reidy was the silken-
clad kitchen tweenie who rose to be a Prin-
cess, and her retinue included the entire
panto staff, even to the baker of the magic
pies. But, truth to tell, it wasn’t till the
ice-cream man had comfortably chilled their
innards that the nippers took thought of
visiting their hostess. The fat cans of cold
cheer represented almost f 100 of the Firm’s
money. Mayor Gilpin and his lady were
somewhere about the premises, but were com-
pletely outshone by Prince Marie La Varre,
while the enormous oven in which Cinder-
ella’s wedding cake was baked drew the
close inspection of every little girl over eight.
The Ormuz carried the Premier Fullers
off for the regulation head-politician’s tour
of England. The Skipper of the State, more
companionable than the Skipper of the Hes-
perus, has taken not only his little daughter,
but also his wife, his son and a private sec-
retary, to bear him companee. Features of
the travelling-coats worn by many of the
women-voyagers by the Ormuz were the deep
collars and bands of opossum fur.
Married in a family-circle whisper during
the twilight of one evening early this week,
Dr. Garnet Halloran, who annexed fair-
haired Nora Foster at St. Mark’s, Darling
Point. Garnet makes an honest living in
Maequarie-street repairing the punctured
human larynx; and Nora is the daughter
of Dr. Foster, who 20 years or more ago
practised up the North Shore line. After-
wards he went in for bacteriology in Maori-
land, and came back about 12 months or so
ago—to die in Australia. The honeymoon
will be spent in Tasmania.
Marjorie Cox, the winner of the ladies’
singles in Country Week for the last three
years, is taking something more than a tennis
trophy home with her to Narrandera this
summer. It’s a very sparkling diamond-ring
placed on the engagement finger by tennis-
enthusiast Keith Poulton. But it wasn’t
on the courts the romance burst into flower.
It was still only at the budding stage when
two week-ends ago Marjorie went down to
stay at the Poultons’ Collaroy cottage. On
the Sunday Marjorie got into difficulties iii
the surf, and was being carried out, When
Keith dashed to the rescue and managed to
get hold of the lass just in time. After a
ton or so of water had been pumped out of
her, and Marjorie was beginning to sit up
and take notice, she rewarded her gallant
rescuer in the manner which the Best Novel-
ettes require.
This is how Doris Callahan, who was
Doris Egerton Jones, of Adelaide, looked
the other morning when she faced the E.B.
Studio’s camera. Back of the fine eyes is
the clever brain that, in conjunction with
Emelie Polini, wrote “The Flaw,” the play
to be produced next Saturday under the
Williamson banner, with Polini in the star
part. From which you can gather that the
play is dramatic, but what you’ll not guess
is that it concerns the new psychology.
Emelie Pblini is
strong on psycho-
logy ; and when any
technical point had
to be expressed in
just the right term
Dr. Donald Fraser
lent a hand. As a
small girl Doris
Egerton Jones set
out to write plays,
and kept on writing
them, till at length,
when she struck
London in the early
days of the War,
she had quite a
number to show to
such people as Rob-
ert Courtneidge. It
was Robert who
persuaded her to
keep on trying, and he went to no end of
trouble to explain to her the technical de-
tails of the craft. Doris even placed a
comedy just as the Armistice struck London,
but in the mad days and nights that fol-
lowed her producer couldn’t secure a play-
house to lodge it in. In the meantime Doris
had married her bit of the A.1.P., by name
Reg Callahan, and Australia seemed a good
place to them. After their return she de-
voted herself to writing books —“Peter
Piper” is the best known of them —and only
a chance meeting with Marie Ney suggested
the interview with Polini that led to the
birth of “The Flaw.”
The second of those nice Langtree girls
was married mid-way through last week
at St. Mark’s, Darling Point, where Padre
Howard Lea blessed the transfer and changed
the ivory-satin frocked and lace-veiled bride
into Mrs. Norman Miles, of Brisbane. The
young man incidentally writes C-M.G. and
D.S.O. after his name. Bride’s sister
Dorothy, in pink-satin frocking, a nut-brown
lace hat and a bunch of blue delphiniums,
supported Marjorie; while Golonel Mae-
Farlane gave the necessary support to the
bridegroom. A small group of relations of
both parties drank the usual toast at the
Langtree home at Darling Point.
Word comes from Gladys Baker, of the
J.C.W. Gilbert and Sullivan Opera Co., that
she has married, at Calcutta, E. Milford
Rice, an American surgeon and “Director
of Consolidated Agencies” there. Gladys’s
father is Walter Baker, one-time Bland
’oltian hero, and now president of the
Actors’ Federation.
Enid Douglas, whose dad is one of the
kingpins of the Merchants and Traders’
Association, is sporting something unusual
in diamond engagement-rings. The young
man is Dr. Curtis Elliott, pretty dancer
Madge’s brother. At the end of three
months Enid will accept the plain gold badge
of the licensed vacuum forewomen.
Tall Doris Gilliam, who used to act with
Polini and the Marie Tempest company,
decided to settle down in Australia the
other day. St. Philip’s, Church Hill, fixed
the moorings. The other person in the boat
is Herbert Millard, who was stage-manag-
ing for Marie Tempest when the two first
met. After the Tempest disintegration Doris
and her young man did a Tivoli tour with
two of Norman Campbell’s sketches. Now
she intends to set up a studio for training
youthful Siddonses and Garricks.
Herewith celebrated Fred Cavill’s grandson,
Dick Cavill Eve, who has a claim to fame
in his own right, as he is Australia’s cham-
pion diver. Dick was born at the Parra-
matta Baths, but spent his earliest days in
the waters of the Alameda Baths, in Cali-
forma, which his
father was boss of
for eight years. Only
once has the bauble
for diving been’
snatched from
him, and that was
in 1919, when Roy
Proban beat him.
Among a pyramid of
diplomas and medals
for swimming feats,
Dick cherishes most
of all a silver medal-
lion for life-saving
over (100yds, which
he did in 12min.
32sec. (a world’s re-
cord). Grandfather
Fred was one of the
first to attempt the
swim across the
English Channel, but he was beaten at the
final 200 yards. Incidentally, the acquisi-
tive Governor Davidson claims Fred as his
swimming teacher.
Well-known business woman Renee
Edwards slipped out of the real- into the
matrimonial-estate business on Saturday
afternoon at the Congregational Church,
Pitt-street. Padre and poet Cocks put his
seal upon the transfer, with the result that
Renee became Mrs. Tom Tweedie, of Wal-
lerawang. Her frocking for the event was
of heavy ivory crepe with floating side-panels
of georgette. A grey satin hat that carried
what looked like a beautiful white osprey
finished the bridal outfit. One bridesmaid
inside of clinging lilac trimmings faced the
usual Herculean tasks; and the mother of
the bride welcomed relations to the cake-
distribution at the Wentworth.
A note from London :
The other day I ran across Estelle Stead, the
strong-minded spiritualistic daughter of the late W.
G. Stead. She runs a psychic bureau in Baker-
street, and claims to hold daily converse with her
father and other dear departeds. There is nothing
of the wild-eyed fanatic about this eminently prac-
tical lady, although some of her beliefs postulate
the contrary. One of her pet mediums —a certain
Munnings-Gaulton—has just been pinched by the
Woking police for burglary. Estelle admitted he
got away with it at one of her seances, but won’t
hear a word against his psychic- powers. “The
trouble with the poor fellow,” she explained naively,
“is that he is in touch with the wrong p&ople on
the other side 1 At one stance he claimed to
have established communication with Sir William
Crookes, but the messages were absolute drivel.”
And she went on solemnly to explain that Mun-
nings-Gaulton’s “spirit” was an “unscrupulous per-
son” impersonating Crookes. You can’t argue
against that kind of thing.
That Mrs. Milford Auber Jones Who died
last week at her old home in Randwick,
aged 73, was a daughter of old-time Judge
Callaghan, and her grandfather was Justice
Milford. Her late husband was Auber
Jones, who owned a Wagga newspaper and
represented the Murrumbidgee in the
Assembly years ago. Her father bought
some acres at Randwick from W. C. Went-
worth, a valley which resembled the Vale of
Avoca in Wicklow, and that’s how Avoca-
street got its name. She was full of charity,
and had the wealth to do good deeds. For
ceremonial purposes Mrs. Auber Jones stuck
to the style of dress to be seen in old Du
Maurier drawings in Punch. The tight
bodice curved into the long trailing skirt
that fell over the suggestion of a bustle at
the back into a sweeping train. The frocks
(or it may have always been the one frock)
were affairs of the most beautiful lace ; and
the finishing touch was generally a dog-
collar of diamonds or pearls.
Margot Neville, who is really two sisters
rolled into one, “Margot’* being the first
half of Margot Goydcr and “Neville” being
the frontispiece to Joske (Neville’s
married name), drops a note from Melbourne
to say that “Marietta Is Stolen” is selling so
well that another edition will be on view in
Sydney early this year. The two sisters have
had another book taken by Leonard Parsons.
“This Can’t Be I” is its name.
Joe Coyne, back in London, has been say-
ing the most charming things about the Syd-
ney woman. We are big, beautiful, dress
well, and, above all, are the best-shod women,
not even excepting the Parisian, he has ever
seen. “Too true,” growled the mere brute
who read that last; “every girl in live I
pass in the street is wearing brand-new
shoes—l watch their soles. A man with a
name like Coyne can afford to be enthusi-
astic about such things. I can’t.”
“Boy” Charlton, Manly’s aquatic world-
beater, is very proud of one new possession
—a blazer with the Manly Swimming Club’s
badge, presented to him amid howls of ex-
citement by the club’s cub members. “Charlo”
is forever training the small fry in the
stroke it should make, and the other night
every boy in the near-Continental townlet
turned out on the pier to give their hero a
suitably noisy welcome—none of your silent
appreciation for the kid! That’s how it
came about that the populace was driven
nearly mad by the ringing of the boat-bell
for about 15 minutes before “Charlo’s” ferry
hove into view. Probably the Olympic
Carnes will know his prowess; then he is
going to Hawkesbury Agricultural College.
His proud dad is O. N. Charlton, of the
Bank of N. S. Wales head office.
There lives at North-shore Killara, hale
at 80, Mrs. Autill-Pockley, relict of Capt.
Itobert I'ockley, of the mercantile marine.
She is a daughter of Major Antill, who came
to Australia in 1809 as A.D.C. to Governor
Macquarie. The youngest of a family of
10, she married her captain at 10, the union
resulting in 10 children, 13 of whom still
live. When Capt. Pockley settled on the
North Shore he named his place (recently
demolished), in Miller-street, St. Leonards
House, and another place in Lane Cove-road
he called Picton Villa. The latter on the cap-
tain’s death, was sold to the A.J.S. Bank’s
general-manager Francis Adams, who re-
named it Dookat, after his native village in
County Monahan.
That remarkable twosome, Teddy Cahill
and George Brooke, are at last packing up
their shaving tackle for the long-threatened
onslaught on London. They finished up at
the Tivoli, in Melbourne, on the 12th of
January, and they sail by the s.s. Borda
on February 2. Teddy, at the piano, and
George’s tenor notes have been such a popu-
lar turn that every Australian circuit has
known them again and again, until “When
are y’ goin’ away?” became the kind of
remark that made the two young men grin
harder than ever they did at the figures on
their best contracts. There was a great
leave-taking at the Tiv. on their last appear-
ance—only the fact of his sex prevented a
delighted audience from crowning Teddy
Queen of the May; and only the presence of
their best boys kept the women from eloping
with the tenor.
The old grey dour building in Jamieson-
street known as Scots’ Church is celebrating
its centenary. That remarkable little bull-
ant, Dr. John Dunmore Lang, built it and
was its meenister until his death in 1879.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Harrington Reynolds and Edward de Tisne, with
their two pretty spouses, were supper guests at
Government House the other night. “Nobody's
Widow” is at the Royal, and the sudden illness of
Duleie Crane on the 15th (Dulcie wasn’t at the
party, so Sir Matt’s lobster and wine can’t be
blamed) let Lottie Sargent show what she can do
with a part at a bare three hours’ notice.
Asters, flags of U.S.A., Australia and Britain, and
red-shaded candles splashed color into the lounge at
the Cecil for C. H. Sager’s farewell dinner to a
posse of friends, before going back to the Bird of
Freedom. In the afternoon Mrs. G. H. Bryant
poured tea for Mrs. Sager and others at her
Eagle Junction home. Ex-Tramways Badger and
his missus were among those who entertained the
departers. They fed them under a big Yankee flag
at the Cecil, and included Col. A. J. Thynne and
his bride among their guests.
There have been several “afternoons” in honor
of bride-elect Lily Svensen. Mrs. E. E. Forth and
her girls set the pace for one, at Lennon’s, amid
red and yellow cactus-dahlias and nose-delighting
carnations.
News comes from Halifax, Nova Scotia, of the
death of Mrs. W. J. Meredith, a well-known South-
portian. She passed out in the home of son-
in-law Rockingham.
Blanche White recently got engaged to R. H.
Mackav; and another projected wedding is that of
Mary Grant, of Bowenville, who has promised the
hand the Prince held through many a jazz to a son
of the late “Carfin” Sword and of Mrs. Sword, of
Brisbane. Mary is a dainty girl, with a penchant
for wearing , pale blue.
Elocuting Nell Douglas Graham is back from
Sydney with the latest style in coiffure over her
pretty eyes, and a tale of hot winds and a very
good time in the South.
The country correspondence sub-committee of the
Queensland Country Women’s Association pressed
tea upon Mrs. Hubert Fairfax at the Women’s
Club the other day, and there was a whole crowd
there to see them do it.


Square Deal
Sale
YOUR OPPORTUNITY!
£* Pl
v Msg
fl
f A
K
m m
#
Ml
. i
-3-
Square Deals
in
Leviathan
Tailoring
Fit for the Best
Best for the Fit
■ ■—
A Square Dead Suit—'Tailored-to-Order
At the Remarkably Low Price o/
We do not disguise the fact that these Tailored-to-Order Suits at such
a low price are partly machine-made. The Cut, Fit and Make are
guaranteed. Write to-day for patterns of our magnificent range of All-
Wool Tweeds. Here is undoubtedly the greatest tailoring opportunity
ever offered!
£51216
£7/17/6 Guaranteed
Indigo Twills & Tweeds
Square
Deal
Price-
£6/19/6
These Suitings are made from Super-Worsted Yarns, of fine
texture, including Selected All-Wool Australian Tweeds, in
shades of Greys and Browns. The linings and trimmings in
these Suits are of a superior quality.
£lOllOl- Best Worsted
Suitings,
Square
Deal
Price-
£811 716
Absolutely the best and most fashionable Imported Worsted
Suitings for present wear; in Light and Medium Weights, in
Wedgwood Blues, Lovats, Light or Dark Greys, and Pinpoint
Designs. This Suit offer includes Best Finish, Linings and
Trimmings. An offer to be availed of quickly.
WRITE FOR OUR SPECIAL SQUARE-DEAL LEAFLET,
DEPICTING NUMEROUS OTHER BARGAIN OFFERS.
OUR GUARANTEE.
The Leviathan Pty., Ltd., guarantee absolute satisfaction to the
purchaser, who has the option of returning any goodg that are not
considered in strict accordance with the description. Provided they
are immediately returned in good condition the money will be
refunded in full.
df
Cor. Swanston BourKe Sts.
MELBOURNE.
POST COUPON FOR PATTERNS.
THE LEVIATHAN PTY., LTD.,
Cr. Swanston and Bourlce Streets, Melbourne.
Dear Sirs,
Kindly send me patterns of the above Suits, also your Special
Self-measurement Chart and Tape.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
Bulletin (25/l/’23).


L 64
mm
Laze 1 1 ’ s
Beauty Box
"As the petals.”
Lazell s dainty " Beauty Box,” containing five toilet
preparations. Miniature perfume powders, creme de
la creme—"As the Petals” series. Price ... 3/_
Farmer’s, Sydney.
Carriage Paid. Box 49 7, G. P. O.
Chateau Napier,
Leading
Mountain Resort,
Leura, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Central Heating System
Throughout.
BALLROOM, BILLIARD-
ROOM, TENNIS COURT,
GARAGES.
All products from Napier Farm.
Teh 121 Katoomba.
ds
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
Rumor still insists that the Queen wants
Royal blood to be paramount in the Princess
of Wales. This comment on the possibility
of Prince Edward marrying into the Caven-
dish family (which has been “baronial” since
1605) is a reminder that the Queen’s father,
the late Prince Teck, was only a “serenity,”
not a German “royalty,” anyhow. He was of
morganatic-marriage origin, and though his
wife was as nearly related to George 111. as
Queen Victoria, the present Queen is a com-
parative parvenu among royalties. The
political argument in favor of the Prince of
Wales marrying an English Cavendish is
about as strong as the argument in favor of
a foreign courtly alliance, which appears to
be useless as a safeguard against war with
the particular country the alliance came
from. The ex-Kaiser was begotten of the
Princess Royal of England.
People who think they know are asking
why the Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon twice
refused the son of the King, only to accept
him at the third asking. Was it merely
caprice, or was she looking for higher
game? Poor Edward P.—his choice is pretty
limited. Foreign eligible Princesses are so
scarce, and there are so many cousins
among the home product.
Melbourne Sun the other day had a por-
trait, sent in by a nameless Digger, which
showed the smiling face of Elizabeth Bowes-
Lyon. The photo is inscribed in a neat
schoolgirl hand, “To a naughty patient from
his good nurse,” and was given to the Aussie
by the elevated lady herself.
Keva Allardyce, who is to marry Major
Butler, of the well-known Hobart legal
firm, landed back from the Cold Country a
few days ago, since when she has been shel-
tering under the vice-regal Forster lady’s
wing. The knot is to be tied shortly in
Slowbart. The bride-elect is the younger
daughter of ex-Governor William Allardyce.
Her mother, who Avas a Melbourne Moles-
worth Greene, died in the West Indies.
Before leaving the Indies Dad took a fresh
matrimonial plunge with a widow, Mrs.
Goodfellow, whose son came as gent.-help.
Lady Novar—our Lady Helen—keeps in
touch with the Australian Red Cross. News
Avas sent to her of the opening of the new
premises in Latrobe-street, from which
centre there is still solid work done among
the permanently disabled Diggers, and she
replied that she yearned to look in and see
her many old friends in the new surround-
ings.
Lady Helen, by the way, scattered many
Christmas cards about this country. They
Avere based on a portrait of herself and her
good man cosily established at their own
hearth. It is a picture of domestic bliss —
the Earl warming his coat-tails at the fire-
blaze and herself seated in an armchair in
the corner.
Our Red Cross looks ahead. At one of
the final meetings of last year the central
council gave serious attention to a method
of work “should hostilities develop.” It was
resolved that each division of the society
should provide for any military unit em-
barking from its State “on the same basis
as in the last war.”
What a chance Thomas Walsh missed a
week ago! The G.G. and Lady Forster em-
barked on a boat for Launceston, and
“Walsh’s kindergarten” didn’t think to go
suddenly on strike.
Having been elbowed out of the only big
singers’ hippodrome of her native Melbourne
for a year or two to make room for exotic
musicians, Amy Castles has taken the bit in
her teeth, and is getting ready to push in
before the lot of them this season with three
concerts in the first fortnight of March.
Later, she will trip round the provinces.
Little sister Eileen is to help. The fact that
Amy has remained silent so long in Mel-
bourne, though quartered there, but has made
periodic vocal excursions into other States,
is a queer commentary on the present musi-
cal condition of McPhersondom.
The Princess’s Theatre, in its new guise,
comes back to its own after many, many
years. A mighty string of Sassiety motors
rolls round the corner every evening just
as the “broom” and fat horses used to in
the palmy days of the pretty theatre. They
sav Nell Stewart’s dressing-room in the old
Princess’s was a dream; but all the dressing-
rooms for the artists in the new theatre
are to be de luxe. Dainty Avhite-and-gold
boudoirs are provided for in the plans which
have yet to be carried out, for although the
auditorium is complete there is yet much
to be done “behind” and in odd corners else-
where. One joy of the Hughie Ward theatre,
by the way, is the fact that the gods have
cushioned seats. He’s a wise man who pla-
cates the gods.
The City Council will not do much to-
wards improving the Town Hall as a con-
cert or picture-show place, but it will do a
little. The unlovely old hall, which is so
mean and stupid in seating accommodation,
is now closed for a month to admit of the
removal of those obstructive posts under the
balconies. The cantilever system of balcony
support is to be introduced. Some of the
councillors were opposed even to that reform.
“Cantilever!” said one of the oldest city
fathers, contemptuously. “Cantilever! Can’t
’ee leave her alone?” After which he nearly
died of his little joke, no doubt
By the last English liner Harry Baillieu
brought home his bride—Peggy Robinson
that was. The Baillieus and Robinsons
have been so associated in business matters
that the marriage was almost a cousinly
affair.
The Charles Brebners spent part of their
honeymoon at the Hotel Windsor, in Mel-
bourne. Their wedding in Adelaide, just
before Christmas, was quite an inter-State
affair, so many visitors rolled up from Me 5 -
bourne, Westralia and Tasmania. Bride-
groom Charles Cave Brebner, who is associ-
ate to the Chief Justice in Adelaide, be-
longs to a well-known Westralian family.
Bride Emmeline, the dainty little daughter
of the Hayter-Reeds, of North Terrace,
Adelaide, is widely popular in Vic., as well
as S. Aus. Her family is linked up with
the Whites, who squatted in the Western
District, beyond Geelong, in the earliest
sheep-days.
New's comes oversea that Naval Com-
mander Evan Cavendish is engaged to a
Bristol dollar nrincess. daughter of the Hon.
Mrs. Gilbert Smyth, of Ashton Court. Cap-
tain Evan is the only son of Brigadier-
General William Cavendish. The Brigadier
is a son of the second Baron Chesham, and
married a Toorak girl, Elizabeth Baillie.
Her father passed out before coming in for
the family baronetcy, which fell to his son.
The elder Baillie daughter, who died many
years ago, was the wife of the late Colonel
Tom Price. There’s social history for you.
Tommy Ducker’s bride —she was the Tom
Hogan widow —sends a coo-ee from some
place 6000 feet above sweltering. Colombo,
where they get cool mountain breezes and
some golf on links among the peaks. The
two were thinking of wandering on to Cairo.
Acting Premier McPherson was a merry
host when the State Cabinet lunched George
Fuller, the N.S.W. Premier, on his way to
the Cold Land. Barwell, the S.A. Premier,
and Treasurer Cocks, of Sydney, who had
been talking tax-free loans to McPherson,
were fellow-feasters. McPherson dispelled
the. illusion that he is a Scotchbyterian by
telling yarns against himself to prove that
he was an Australian native and a Congre-
gationalist.
Dulcie Cherry, pictured herewith, is a
bud of the journalistic Cherry tree. Her
father for many
years sub-edited
copy and did musi-
ca 1 and dramatic
work for the
Herald. She is re-
gar d e d by Fritz
Hart as one of the
most promising
pupils at the Albert-
street aviary, where
she is undergoing a
course of voice-
training and general
education in music.
Dulcie also splashes
ink about freely,
and her short stories
and sketches have
appeared in various
Australian papers.
The family tree
goes back to Andrew Cherry, actor, play-
wright and composer of “The Dear Little
Shamrock,” which may account for the inky
kink.
Education Director Tate, who is off to
England on March IT, had a night out with
the school inspectors on Thursday. Being
vacation-time, the teacher-teamsters were
carefree, and Tate’s magic rolled back the
years and made them all, as well as himself,
jolly boys again. The Cathedral Hall has
been booked for March 12 for a big con-
versazione to Tate, whereat all sorts and
conditions of people will muster to give him
and her a send-off. John Macfarland, the
’Varsity Chancellor, will be chief host.
Jules Grant, that much-beloved member
of the business end of Bert Bailey’s theatri-
cal ventures, has got a tail to his name.
J. G. has been made a J.P. ! Now watch
Hugh Ward and George Tallis squirm.
Young singer Dorothy Murdoch has
returned, plus a surprising self-assurance,
two dimples in her cheeks and a spattering
of French in her speech. Williamstown, her
native suburb, is turning handsprings of
delight at the travelled transformation in
its once rather stodgy little ginger-haired
contralto. Dorothy had Melba as god-
mamma and put in much time at solid study,
but she toured some English towns with
the Dame and scored remarkably well at
London concerts. Concert work is her
metier, Dorothy has decided. An offer to
go into grand opera left her 'unmoved.
“There are so few real parts for a contralto
in grand opera,” was her discovery, and
she refused to ruin her lovely low notes
by mezzo work. Anon Dorothy flits abroad
again—this visit is just the outcome of an
intense longing for Australia and Mother.
Meanwhile, an enthusiastic musical crowd
is organising a benefit concert for February
24, and Dr. Barrett, Mrs. Emmerton, Mrs.
Moss and others are fixing up a committee
to work the ticket business.
Dr. and Mrs. Steven, of Toorak, are
mourning their only son, Alec Gordon, who
passed out last week
from heart trouble.
The young man, who
was a graceful versi-
fier, left four slender
volumes and a pile
of later MSS., and
now lies near Adam
Lindsay Gordon in
t h e wattle-grown
cemetery at Brigh-
ton. Alec Steven
only seriously in-
voked the muse
when, after two
years of achieve-
ment at the Mel-
bourne ’Varsity, ill-
health, born of over-
study, stamped out
a projected medical
career. During a
tour-years tutoring job in the Fog, when he
found himself in the thick of the London
literary world, his first set of lyrics came
in for much favorable comment, and John
Masefield declared he would watch the young
man’s future with expectation and interest.
Tall and fair-haired, with a fine sense of
humor lightening the sombreness of over-
reserve and sensitiveness, Alec Steven wore
an adventurous spirit which increasing ill-
health never succeeded in crushing, and
which earned him the nickname of “The
Crusader.”
An eye-arresting vision whom magnificent
hall-porters call Lady Constance Waugh,
and of an appearance so familiar as to make
Sassiety raise its lorgnette in wonder, has
been seen at recent race meetings. In clothes
that shriek “Paris,” she has walked the lawn,
peeping modestly through the transparency
of a pineapple-silk parasol. You know the
clear, amber-colored silk called “pineapple”
—it is procurable in Asia, and looks like
Japanese paper stretched taut. Sassiety, by
the way, is getting its breath before the
February-March meetings, and it looks as
though some of the long-lost clothes thrills
are to be regained at last.
James Campbell, the genial assistant-
secretary of the big Broken Hill Prop.,
is taking a long spell, and his friends
hope he will spend it on a voyage,
or in some other form of idleness
that will benefit his health. “Jimmy,”
who has been with the co. for 35 years, has
been a conscientious and valuable officer,
expressing his opinion—-and it has often
been wanted—-with a Scotch carefulness that
would make him a prize diplomatist for one
of the Great Powers. The only thing that
has been known to arouse him to compara-
tively reckless speech is a good picture ; and
when he warms up on some Australian work
that has taken his fancy, his well-judged
approval is really worth hearing.
The Grice family is mourning the death
of Mrs. Alfred Levey, who passed out last
Friday, after many weeks’ illness, following
an operation. A popular matron, with a
bright personality, she will be missed by
many. She was in Europe when the war
started, but she and her husband, with their
two daughters, drifted back here again after
the guns had been silenced. The strain of
the war years told on Mrs. Levey. While
she was Red Cross working several near
relatives, including her son-in-law. Medical
Major Guy Miller, fell in action, and her
husband nearly lost his life when a Hun
torpedo sank a steamer on which he was
travelling. Deceased was the elder daughter
of the late Richard Grice, senior partner
in the now-extinct Grice-Sumner firm.
The medical Reggie Weigalls are trying to
bear up under the prospect of simultan-
eously farewelling their two younger chicks.
Daughter Dora is just waiting until her
babe can face the trip to Westralia, where
its dad, Dr. Hildred Carlile. has lately
settled into a well-gilded billet; and the
youngest Weigall daughter, Mrs. Edgar Wal-
ton, is preparing to accompany her husband
back to his native fog.
Importer Norman Jack, who has a beauti-
ful week-endery at Christmas Hill, dwells on
the spot which gave its name to the range-
district bounding the Yarra Valley on the
west. The late squatter Ffrench, Mrs.
Robert Power's dad, built the original bouse
on this hill when he sought a change from
the tameness of his Portland holdings; but
before that a stockman named Christmas
had humpied there. It was open-range coun-
try in those days, and cattle-duffing was rife.
Even to-day the red-box posts of a duffing-
yard still stand near the “butterman’s
track,” over which a sturdy battler (one
Herbert, whose descendants still farm on
the Yarra flats) used to pack butter to the
diggings at rich One Tree Hill and Queens-
town. Norman Jack now has a duck-farm
on his lovely range crest, where aforetime
wild steers hustled for a living among the
tall timber.
The Agricultural Society isn’t quite so
enthusiastic as it was on boy scoutism. It
will take it all its time to repair
by next Show day the damage done
by a fire Avhen the kids were camped
on the grounds at Flemington. Long' odds
can be laid that the next time there is a
corroboree in Melbourne, no matter how
many peer Governors are patrons and big-
brother scouts, some other camping-ground
will have to be found.
In a Gippsland hamlet recently a storm
blew a circus tent down. Sam, the elephant
attendant, tried to save the situation —and
got his throat gashed with a flying peg.
They took him to hospital, and Bill, the
lion-tamer, was told off to take care of
Jumbo. But the way of the elephant with its
valet passeth understanding, and Bill, badly
crushed, soon followed his mate to a ward
bed. Sam, by this time, was sufficiently
recovered to sit up and take notice. With
a raw sneer he ejaculated: “How the purga-
tory could he look after an elephant? He’s
only a blooming lion-tamer!”
Some Adelaide gossip:—
The Victor Hugo temporarily roused us from our
social somnolence. There were a couple of dances —
one a dance-dinner affair at the Grand Central,
with half-a-dozen hostesses, the other at the
Mouldens’ home in North Adelaide; Captain Le-
querre and his officers as guests of honor, of course.
There were also a small dinner at Government
House, with Chief Justice and Miss Murray and
the Frank Mouldens (he is Consul for France)
among the local guests; a reception by the Mouldens
to the visitors and members of the Alliance . Fran-
chise ; and another dinner, with Consul Moulden as
host. Among the more public engagements were the
civic reception, a lunch by the Commonwealth
Club, a drive to the Penfold vineyards at Magill,
a picnic at National Park, and a dinner by the
Returned Sailors and Soldiers’ League. The Cheer-
up Hut has been in full working swing for the
men, with meals going all day, concerts in the
evening, and slightly difficult conversation all the
timet.
The Arthur Boults and their yon tiger daughter are
visiting the elder daughter, Mrs. Geoffrey Dufßeld.
The Boults, who have made Maoriland their home
for many years, were at one time among the best-
known figures of musical Adelaide. Parson Towers
and his wife (she was one of the Hawker clan)
are here on a visit, too. He has held one of the pick
rural livings of England for many years. Another
visitor is Miss A. E. Thompson, who was in charge
of the Y.W.C.A. a year or two ago, and since then
has been at a medical mission house in India. She
is staying with the Joseph Vercos, and was duly
tea-ed by her hostess at a party at the Botanic
Gardens the other afternoon.
Ivy Phillips has made her debut in London with a
recital at the Wigmore Hall, and has won good
notices from London critics. The Walenns and
Helene Taylor report their safe arrival, and the
latter says she is to begin training almost at once.
The new Grammar School for Girls, in the Law
Smiths’ old home at Glenelg, is to open in early
February, when there will be a garden-party house-
warming which her Ex. has promised to attend.
Dora .Gillam, who is to be in charge, has already
arrived from Sydney, and is putting in hectic days
of preparation.
The C. H. Warrens’ second daughter, just back
from a trip to England, has decided to make the
Cold Country her permanent home. There is a man
in the case, of course—an officer of the Naldera,
the ship in which she made both passages. He is
an R.N.R. and a son of the late Rear-Admiral W.
C. Codrington Forsyth, of Sheffield, England. An-
other engagement is that of Gypsy, one of the
Ernest Goode .twins, to “Pat,” youngest of the
Cave Colleys.
Mrs. Milne, wife of the precentor of the Angli-
can Cathedral, counts a silver model of an aero-
plane as one of her most prized possessions. It
is a tiny replica of the one Ross Smith was to
have used in his world flight, and was sent her by the
men of the Australian Air Force who came over
here for their colleague’s funeral, and have warm
memories of her hospitality during their stay.
A sporting little expedition has just been looking
into Pearson Island, a lonely spot in the great
Australian Bight. Chief Justice Murray financed it,
and it included Profs. Wood-Jones, Osborn and
Cleland of the Adelaide University, and Edgar
Waite from the Museum here. There is only one
landing-place, and iron bars were driven into the
reef to make a precarious wave-swept path to an
outlying isle which was found richest in specimens.
The party, which included Wood-Jones’s two young
daughters, stayed for a week, by the end of which
time seals were tame enough to be patted. The
isles are unoccupied, and have been proclaimed
an animal sanctuary. About 50 kinds of flowers were
collected, but no fresh water could be found any
where.


'SWAN'
' Self-
Filling
PEW
The Pen for Busy Writers
It fills in an instant from any ink
supply. Open and close the lever;
that’s all! The lever is flush-locking
and cannot be felt when pen is in use.
A special feature is a patent catch which locks
the lever when closed, thus preventing
accidental opening when pen is being put
away into the pocket
£e2&.
/
/ \
"MMte
*WAN’INK
The “ Swan ” Self-filler
is safe to carry in any
position without fear of
leakage.
Sold by Sta’ioners,Jewellers and Importers,
Self-fillieg patterns.
Standard patterns. Safety patterns.
Illustrated List post free,
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.
SWAN HOUSE,
133-135, Oxford Street, London, W.l
Manchester, Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Sydney,
Toronto and Cape Town. Associate House:
Mabie, Todd & Co. Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch (Wholesale): J. A. BURKE.
6. Primrose Bldgs., 255 a, George St.. Sydney
dsf
'Jj
w
HIGH-GRADE ENGLISH WORSTEDS
SUITINGS THAT WILL SATISFY YOU.
The most particular man—the man who wants something different and
distinctive m the way of suits and suitings—will find absolute satisfaction
in our Fine Selection of NEWEST ENGLISH WORSTEDS which we
offer now.
“ LINCOLN-STUART ••
Tailored-to-Order,
£.71151
The variety of weaves and shades allows exceptional width of choice —the
weights are ideal for present wants —and the quality is such that you would
associate only with suitings commanding the very highest price.
Stylishly Tailored, Faultlessly-fitting Garments are definitely assured and
complete Suit Satisfaction Guaranteed —at £7/15/-
PATTERNS ARE POST FREE.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co.
PTY., LTD.,
244-54 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Wi
9BsS
NOVWNOSM^or
€
«XNOSNHOrrS
s<yjo>^S
UM^idP^^WlCU
3511 S
mmss®
aUkt
m
?O s !
£
Slk
-fe
S*i
-'W
8
-v
S£
r-v*
IJ
\
n
<«.
m
c ßgnew Tour Linoleum
Is your linoleum dull and deadlocking ? Bring it back to life
and it will reflect a bright, clean, well-cared-for home. All you
need is Johnson’s Prepared Wax and a cloth. The Wax gives
a dry, glossy, dustless polish of great beauty and durability.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax brings out the pattern of linoleum
—preserves and protects it from wear. It doesn’t take long—
an ordinary sized floor can be polished in less than an hour
and it may be walked upon immediately. Waxed linoleum
and tile are easy to keep clean—they require but little care.
JOHNSON’S
Paste—Liquid-Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Polish all your furniture, wood-
work and floors with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. It forms a thin,
protecting coat over the varnish,
similar to the service rendered by
a piece of plate glass over a table
or dresser top. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches, and
prevents checking and cracking.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made
in paste, liquid and powdered form.
Use the Liquid Wax for polishing
furniture, woodwork, leather goods
and motor-cars. We advise the
Paste Wax for polishing floors of
all kinds wood, linoleum, tile,
marble, &c. The Powdered Wax
will give a perfect dancing surface.
Tour dealer has Johnson’s Wax— there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. §. W.


sr
mi
rr
A A
/\
N
3
V^
Various are the Tastes of Men
Every man has his own personal
tastes! This is always evident
when it comes to a question of
dress.
Some men have a decided preference as to
color. Others make a decided choice when
fabrics are being considered. Or, perhaps,
it is in the cut of the suit that certain
features are demanded.
At Gowings’ your personal tastes and
preferences are given every consideration.
One of our staff of expert cutters will
devote himself to the expression of your
wishes as to style. Finally, the high
standard of workmanship and quality of
material will ensure your thorough satis-
faction as to the lasting appearance and
wear of the suit.
Country Customers receive the same care-
ful attention from Gowings’ as that
accorded to city residents. A full range
of patterns, together with easy self-
measurement forms and tape-measure, is
sent post free to any address on request.
SUITS TO MEASURE
All-Wool English Tweeds,
All-Wool Australian
Tweeds .
£4/4/-
£5/5/-
All-Wool West of England
Tweeds, or All-Wool Eng-
lish Cheviot Serge, Indigo
dye
£6/6/-
All-Wool Fine Twill Eng-
lish Indigo Serge
£7/7/-
All-Wool Australian
Worsteds
£B/8/-
All-Wool West of England
Worsteds; also fine Eng- f* f \ //\
lish Saxony Tweeds ....
BROS. LTD.
486 George Street,
Branches at 304 and
454 George Street,
Sydney.
We pay Carriage on All Goods Throughout Australia.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE &. STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS. PHILP k CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
( v/iicefield')
R.eg<t.
MOTOR
OIL
is Recommended
Exclusively by 90%
of the Manufac-
turers of motor-car engines
Britain, as their lubricant for all
in Great
occasions.
The Organisations in Great Britain controlling the
Celebrated American Cars—HUDSON, ESSEX,
DODGE and OVERLAND—ALSO EXCLU-
SIVELY SPECIFY “CASTROL.”
Ask your garage for the “Castrol” Lubrication
Chart, and get the grade recommended for
your car.
m
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPELY
The surprise of the betting on the Chal-
lenge Stakes at Randwick was the rush for Absurdum.
Beyond a win on a suburban course in September he
had done nothing in N. S. Wales to warrant his
M.L. reputation, but when the word went round
that the owner had taken £l6OO to £2OO there
was such a scramble to get on that the Absurd bay
went out favorite at s’s. Naharadan was half-a-
point longer, Braehead 6 to 1, Glenacre 10’s, Duke
Isinglass 14 s (better in places) and Wish Wynne
100 to 4. Absurdum was never in the hunt. Trim-
acre (an early win-
ner) led for a few fur-
longs, but Braehead
passed her at the en-
trance to the straight
and looked to have
everything settled un-
til John Brown’s Duke
Isinglass was seen
coming with a long,
late run. Weight told
in the last half-fur-
long, and the fine-look-
ing son of Mountain
King—loli went under
by a neck to the Duke,
while gallant little
Wish Wynne carried
her lOst. 31b. into
third place, two
lengths off, and Trim-
acre, Duke Sterling
and Ruby Agnes
followed at her heels.
Naharadan was prom-
inent two furlongs
from home but faded
at the finish. They
ran the six furlongs in
lmin. 121 sec.
H. THOMPSON.
a successful Vic.
steeplechase jockey.
In the other races E. J. Watt’s All Aboard (7
to 4) made an exhibition of half-a-dozen alleged
hurdlers; Kainga (7 to 4) was lucky to beat
;he very promising Mountain Rain in the Nursery
Handicap; the fast-finishing White Lily (B’s) de-
feated 24 others in the Welter, which Blackadder,
but for mishaps on the voyage, would have won by
lengths; and Shepherd’s Daughter (16’s) gave the
Tommies a turn-up in the Three-year-old
handicap. Also, Peroration (s’s) made the
form of the current lot of middle-distance
horses look very poor by the ease with which he
won the January Handicap from Grey Arrow and
Dreblah. Scully’s gelding is highly fancied for the
12-furlong Anniversary Handicap, in which he nas
7st., on Friday, and it is in his favor that he is
thoroughly well, whereas some of the others present
a very weary appearance. Wildun (Bst. 41b.) has
also been showing a bit of form about Melbourne,
and he generally runs a good race at Randwick.
And there is the pote’s fancy, Julia Grey (9st. 21b.).
All things considered, it looks a good race to let
alone, but if this page is induced to bet it will put
a couple of tickets on Wildun and one on Swift
Shot (9st.) or a “roughie,” Kernada (7st. 41b.).
It may likewise be tempted by Gindi (Hurdles),
Mountain Rain (Second Nursery) and Denacre
(Highweight).
“Fax”: Lamed victims of long-ago acci-
dents are betraying a morbid interest in James
Scobie’s game leg. It is some years since Scobie’s
smart appearance was marred by the mishap that
left him with a much shortened nether limb. Visit-
ing Perth for the Christmas meetings he slipped
on a railway platform and re-fractured the mended
limb very badly. Now, after many weeks in hospital,
it is predicted that Scobie’s leg will be two inches
longer than before, and that he may be able to walk
without the aid of a stick. Considering the trainer’s
trio of brilliant successes with King Ingoda this
must count as one of Jim Scobie’s luckiest years.
He did the Hotham Handicap-Melbourne Cup-Wil-
liamstown Cup trick, and then broke that old leg
of his with gratifying results. His stable ought
to be in great form at the autumn meetings,
particularly if Scorpius, which has arrived at Mel-
bourne consigned to Jim, is the clinker he is
alleged to be and can be got ready in time for
the Newmarket.
“0.K.”: Strathredole, by Tressad.v-Per-
dita, has been sold in Melbourne to go to Queens-
land, for stud purposes exclusively. Time that the
fine-looking animal ceased to be used for racing pur-
poses. Since he won a three-year-old handicap at
Flemington in August, 1920, and was hailed as a
likely Derby and Cup winner, Strathredole has been
a ruinous deceiver. Two or more owners in suc-
cession dreamed of bringing off a coup with the
fraud, but the best he ever did was to run second
in a couple of second-class handicaps at Caulfield
and Flemington respectively. Strathredole, after
running third to Wirraway and Syce Knight in
the Rosehill Guineas, had started first favorite for
the A.J.C. Derby!
* * * #
The abounding popularity of tennis in
inland Australia, where no hamlet above the boiled-
wheat-and-wallaby plane of development is without
its courts, was attested by the recent country tourna-
ment, which it took ten days to decide. The Sydney
authorities didn’t anticipate such an influx of
racquet-spinners, and the less said of some of their
arrangements the better. But nothing could chill
the enthusiasm of the country players, and the form
shown in some cases was very high. Aubrey Sieler
(Goulburn) and Miss Cox (Narrandera), each vic-
torious in the singles, are among the best in
Australia; and they are very little superior to F.
Kalms (West Wyalong) and Miss R. White (Moree).
The doubles competition produced some excellent
pairs, notably the Sielers, the Spencers, Christie and
Yeo, and Grogan and Willard, the last-named, who
come from Binalong, winning the final from Aubrey and
his brother. Dubbo’s triumph in the teams’ match
(they have won four years running) was only gained
after Barraba had tied with them twice. And it
won’t be soon forgotten how the pick of the country-
men, with Todd away, beat the elect of Sydney,
Anderson included, with a match and three sets
to the good.
* * * #
“F. Clinton”: One aspect of the tennis
craze is the altitudinous price of paraphernalia. Eight
years ago you could buy the most expensive
racquet on the market for about £2. To-day,
for an inferior article £5 is demanded. Despite
the downward revision of quotations for rubber,
flannel and freights, to say nothing of wages, balls
have fallen only three shillings per dozen from the
pinnacle reached during the war. They are nearlv
twice as dear as they were in 1914. It wouldn’t
be so bad if the goods were as serviceable as they,
were a few years ago, but they are not.
Manufacturers of racquets exploit the names of
prominent players at the expense of “mug” buyers.
The latter are so numerous that there is a rush
for high-priced goods, camouflaged by some cham-
pion’s name, when less decorative but equally ser-
viceable racquets can be bought for considerably
less.
* * » *
The reassuring announcement has been
made that “Boy” Charlton is not to be offered up as
a sacrifice to the rage for sensationalism in sport.
He is booked for an agricultural course at the
Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) College, and during the next
year or two his appearances in first-class events
will be few and far between. At Sydney Domain
baths last week the 15-year-old wonder followed
up his victory in the State half-mile championship
by easily accounting for Harris, the Honolulu man,
in the quarter-mile. After a leisurely first lap the
methodical youth began to leave his -field, and at
the finish he was 16 yards ahead of Harris, with
Moss Christie a close third. The time was smin.
22 2-ssec, and Charlton could have reduced it with-
out much trouble. “Boy” didn’t take part in the
220 yards, and Harris’s task was easy. He won
in 2min. 26 l-ssec. from Herald and Christie, who,
once he started swimming at his top, could never
get near him. Bob Chalmers, brother of Jack,
who plucked poor Coghlan from the jaws of the
Coogee shark, won the 220 yards breast-stroke from
the versatile F. W. Bayldon in 3min. 20sec.—13 1-5
sec. behind Ivan Steadman’s Australian record. The
Eve brothers, of Manly, were adjudged the smartest
divers, Dick taking the senior title for the third
time, and Alan annexing the junior event. F.
Doyle, a likely-looking 14-year-old, proved the
slickest of the junior swimmers, winning the 100
yards in 63 3-ssec. The Manly team (Charlton,
Eve, Herald and Hay) got away with the 880
yards teams race in lOmin. 32 l-ssec., and A. W.
Walker stood out from the rest of the life-savers, suc-
ceeding in both contests. The offertories on all
three days were splendid, and it is to be hoped
that a liberal wad will be set aside for the en-
couragement of the youngsters and the bringing to
Australia of the M.L. girl-champions, Gwitha Shand
and Pauline Hoeft.
“Push Off”: The time recorded by “Boy” Charlton
in beating Harris over the quarter-mile was 4 3-ssee.
outside Ludy Langer’s Australian record, notched
at Sandy Bay, Hobart, in 1921. On that occasion
Ludy beat Beaurepaire by the touch, and it was
discovered afterwards that the bath was a foot
longer on “Bogey’s” side than on Langer’s. Still,
Charlton’s was a wonderful performance for a kid.
Compare previous efforts in the Domain baths over the
same distance: Ross, smin. 22sec.; Langer, smin.
23 2-ssec.; Longworth, smin. 26 2-ssec.; O. Healy,
smin. 28 l-ssec.; and Beaurepaire, smin. 31 l-6sec.
In the 220 yards on Saturday Harris knocked chips
off the Australian record by leaving the furlong
behind in 2min. 26 l-ssec., 1 3-6 secs. better than
Beaurepaire’s previous best. It shouldn’t be for-
gotten, however, that “Bogey” swam in lumpy
water over 110-yard laps and had to turn on a rope.
The time for the half-mile teams’ race, which Manly
won, was 4 l-ssec. faster than the Sydney club’s
performance in the first affair for the title last-
summer. Charlton was Manly’s leading performer.
He easily beat Longworth, Carberry and Henry, and
was clocked to do his furlong in 2min. 30sec., which,
though 3 4-ssec. slower than Harris’s figures, is beyond
the capacity of any other living Australian, except,
perhaps Beaurepaire.
* * * *
Morton, the promising fast bowler from
South Oss, made an excellent first appearance with
South Melbourne against Hawthorn-East. South
made 261, to which Morton contributed 47 and
Woodfull 93, and the others have lost 3 for 5, two
of them falling to Morton for blobs. Prahran, with-
out Willis, Ellis and Wallace, who are engaged for
the return match against N.S.W., treated North
Melbourne with such respect that at the call of
time they had 6 down for 193. Warwick Arm-
strong, who refuses to reappear in bigger cricket,
had a turn with Melbourne, and captured 3 of
Carlton for 73. The Dark Blues registered 9 for
223. L. Keating, of Collingwood, again proved his
value as a bowler by outing 6 of Northcote for
50, the whole side disappearing for 186. ’Wood,
with none for ■ 18,
haven’t a heartbreak-
ing job ahead of them.
Ponsford, of St. Kilda,
continues to appeal
strongly for selection
in inter-State games.
His share of Saints’
245 against Rich-
mond was a crisp 98.
Nobody but the sel-
ectors knows why
Ponsford should have
to stand down in favor
of Mayne, who is ris-
ing 40 and was never
a first-flighter at any
time. For Essendon
(2 for 19) against
Fitzroy (175) Mayne
was bowled by Dum-
mett after scoring 15.
He has done nothing
this season, and it is
up to him to justify
the selectors’ patient
faith in his genius by
knocking up a couple
of centuries in Sydney.
F. L. MORTON,
the S. Aus. fast
howler, whom
South Melbourne
has snapped up.
“Adelaide”: The booby prize for rotten
sportsmanship is hereby thrust on the South Mel-
bourne Cricket Club. For years South Aus-
tralia has been struggling along on the general
principle that it does rather well if it saves the
innings defeat. It has a really good batsman in
Arthur Richardson, who is also a steady, good-
length bowler. It has also dug up, in young Mor-
ton, an express of great possibilities. The State s
fine struggle against the strong Victorian side in
Melbourne, and its excellent second-innings stand
against N.S.W. on the Sydney ground, suggested
that the clouds were brightening at last for S.A.
cricket. And at this very juncture the “sportsmen”
of South Melb. make both Richardson and Morton
flattering offers to migrate. You can’t blame a
veteran who has a young family, or a boy with
his way to make, for accepting such inducements.
But surely there ought to be some central authority
(if there isn’t the necessary sense of sport) which
should prevent their being made.
Sydney is supposed to be short of class
bowlers, but some excellent performances are being
registered by the young brigade. In Saturday’s
matches Dr. Campling (Balmain) got 8 for 65
against North Sydney; Otto Notbling (Uni.) col-
lected 6 for 20 v. Paddington; and Albert Asher
(Sydney) demolished 7 for 53 v. Randwick. ’Main,
Uni. and Sydney each won on the first
innings. Also Sid Everett, the Petersham fast
bowler, took 7 for 77 v. Gordon, but in this case
Gordon gained an exciting victory by 5 runs,
thanks to a plucky 80 from Sid Trumper, dead
Victor’s brother. Everett played against S. Aus.
at Adelaide, but had to stand down for the clash
with Vic. owing to injuries. A well-built young
fellow, he bowls with great pace, and troubled all
the Gordon cracks. In Petersham’s second innings
Tommy Andrews hit up a sparkling 84 (out of 156).
Waverley led Central Cumberland by 135 on the
first knock. In the orehardists’ second innings (they
made 242 for 6 wickets). Harold Cranney smote
the bowling for 103, the only century of the day.
Mosman suffered a reverse, Marrickville beating
them by 23. Waverley and Gordon are leading for
the premiership with 23 points, Mosman and North
Sydney following with 20 and Balmain and Mar-
rickviile with 19.
* * * »
“Q.” : Why do southern writers persistently
name Jones as the fastest bowler who ever lived?
“J.M.A.” (B. 11/l/’23) is the latest offender. Did
he never hear of Henry, the Queensland abo? Henry
came out of the bush about ’O2, and was sprung
upon an astonished public by the Ipswich team,
then playing in Brisbane competitions. For five or
six overs his deliveries were so much like lubricated
lightning that they had most of the batsmen seared.
Once Henry was late —he had missed his train—
and the opposition, winning the toss, knocked up
100 for two wickets. Then a set of cricket togs in
a flaring red handkerchief was pitched into the
dressing room; a lengthening shadow descended on
the ground, and the side was out for 120. Henry
was an even-time sprinter and brilliant in the field.
There is a legend that he once stopped a four from
his own bowling by fielding it on the fine-leg
boundary. He died years ago in a blacks’ compound.
The late Frank Laver, who saw them all, Kortright
included —was Jonah faster than Kortright?—
placed Henry an easy first for speed.
* * •* *
Wendouree won the Vic. four-oar cham-
pionship on the lower Yarra from start to finish.
Mercantile, Banks, Albert Park, Melbourne, Haw-
thorn and Shepparton competed as well as
the Ballarat men, who had a good station
and led off from the pistol. Barring one
period, when they lost way through bad steering,
they were never bothered by the opposition, and
finally paddled home with four lengths to spare.
Mercantile, who fell into the ruck early in the race,
made a great recovery and beat Banks by four
lengths for second place. At one stage near the
finish Mercs, were less than a boat behind the
winners, but the Ballarat crew bad the steam to
shake off the enemy after a valiant challenge. The
time, 14min. 42sec. is not remarkable, considering
that the rowers had a flood tide and a strong breeze
behind them.
Only two Sydney boats, Kismet and
Mavis, were taken to Brisbane to compete in the
annual contests for 18-footers, and their recent
form has been indifferent. The excuse for this poor
representation of what should be the premier sailing
city is that “inter-State trips cost so much.” A very
different spirit was shown by the Queenslanders
when they sent seven 16ft. skiffs to Sydney for the
Christmas races, and by Chris. Garland, of Perth
(W.A.), when he brought over his ne\V Mele Biio to
defend the title won by the old boat of that name,
which was afterwards burnt. In a handicap on
Saturday the places were filled by Vione, Vision and
Oulalah, Mele Bilo finishing eighth, Kismet ninth,
and Mavis eleventh. Which suggests that Brisbane
will presently acquire the Mark Foy cup.
* * * *
“Barney” : Sydney owns a motor-boat en-
thusiast whose craft is fitted with a 100-
h.p. aerial engine. At a recent regatta it gave
some of the others over ,a lap start (a lap measured
1760 yards) in three miles, and won so easily that
it went round again and finished second. At any
rate it passed the winning-post for the second time
with the rest of the field crawling in its wake.
On the way home one of the beaten catamarans
sustained a broken spring and the driver was
unable to repair it. A brilliant thought struck
him. There were five girls aboard, and it was a
blowy afternoon. Manfully he explained the situa-
tion and turned his head away what time the gig-
gling damsels manoeuvred with their silk leg-cover
ings. The expedient was simple but effectual. They
arrived at the boatshed with three garters in hand.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The Rugby Union game is
enioying a glorious resurrection in Britain. The
England-Wales match at Twickenham was watched
by 40,000 spectators, up to £8 being given for
tickets. England won by 7 to 3, Smallwood, the
English full-back, dropping a field goal in the last
few minutes, when each side had scored a try.
The trouble over the Rhodes scholars has come to
a head, T. Lawton, the Queenslander, having been
suspended for playing the League game with Bris-
bane Uni. That Lawton was only a technical
pro. will avail him little with the British authorities;
and by the rules of the R.U. all the Oxford team, with
whom he has played for two seasons, are pros
also. The Lawton suspension was inevitable,
sooner or later, and the fault mainly lies with the
N.S.W.R.U., which should have reinstated the
Queenslander as a lilywhite before he left for
England. As a Sydney ’Varsity Union player he
was an ex-member of the N.S.W.R.U.
* * * *
“Winkle” : Constable Barney Herbert, who
played football so long and so well for Richmond,
cherishes a vivid memory of the late Henry Young,
of Geelong (B. 18/l/’23). Barney had established
his reputation with the Collingwood Trades, which
played all-in rules, so when he came to Richmond,
and was being badly beaten by “Tracker,” he felt
aggrieved. Finding himself out-manoeuvred when
the ball was thrown in from the boundary, he
concentrated on “Tracker’s” ribs. Down came the
Geelong man’s big boot on his foot, and the
“stops” ground into the flesh. “I don’t let kids
interfere with me,” said Henry, with a wintry grin.
Then he bogged into the game again.
* * * *
Tommy Benstead has sliced the Mel-
bourne-Sydney motor-cycle record down to 16hr.
57min., an improvement of 36min. on Alan Sadler’s
figures. The 23-year-old Sydney flier began at
4 a.m. on a schedule designed to obliterate the
memory of the slickest motor-car journey (15hr.
51min.), but tyre troubles between Gundagai (where
he was 20min. ahead of schedule) and Camden held
him up. Benstead, who holds the N.S.W. track and
road championships, was on a Ilariey-Davidson.
There is talk of sending him to the U.S.A., where
the great ones of the prepared track are supposed
to abide.
* * * *
“Slip” Carr broke even-time at Sydney on
Saturday, when he won a 100yds. handicap from
scratch in 9 9-10 sec. He will try to do it again
during an interval in the N.S.AV.-Vic. cricket match. A
trip to M.L. follows, for the East Sydney sprinter
has decided after all to measure strides with the
American, Kirksey.
The Sydney boxing boom vanished in the
long ago, and so remote is the prospect of re-estab-
lishing it that the Stadium management talks of
installing a miniature cycling track at Rushcutter’s
Bay. But there are still barrels of money for top-
notch bruisers in Melbourne. When Spargo boxed a
return match with Freddie Jacks, the combative
young Englishman, there was £l7OO in the house.
As on the first occasion, Spargo got the verdict, but
he had to travel every inch of the journey, and three-
fourths of the crowd would have been satisfied with
a draw. Jacks, the best imported feather since
Criqui, has decided to settle in Australia, and, while
preparing himself for further battles, will start a
gymnasium for the production of promising pugs
of about his own weight. Despite his homely “dial,”
which looks as if it had been caressed by a steam-
roller, Jacks is a likeable fellow, and his frank
admiration for his opponent after the first bout
was made conspicuous by the reluctance of Spargo
to return the compliment.
* * * *
Jack Cole, supposed middleweight cham-
pion of N. S. Wales, defended his title (current
value about 12s. 6d.) against 19-year-old Archie
Hamilton at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night,
and the exhibition pleased those who paid the tariff
—2ls. Bd., 10s. 10d., os. sd. and 3s. 3d. Cole’s
greater experience enabled him to gain the decision.
Each man weighed in at list. 41b., which was pounds
too light for Hamilton, a splendidly proportioned
youth, and both fought energetically from beginning
to end. Hamilton’s snappy right was often very
effective, but Cole’s persistent left and his well-timed
countering piled up the points, and at the final
gong he had a fair margin in his favor.
* * * *
“Gaza”: Mr. Affable hated cards, but,
yielding to that persuasive veteran General Request,
he agreed to take a whirl in a four-handed game of
euchre. He went through all the tortures of instruc-
tion, sometimes from one, but mostly from the three
others in chorus, till his brain was in a whirl of
passes, bowers, trumps and suits, and his partner and
their opponents were hoarse and distracted. “You
can’t turn it down when it’s, not your deal,” he was
wearily informed at length. “Oh, then, will you turn
it down, please, partner?” he smilingly requested.
They all turned it down.
THE BALLADE OF JULIA GREY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The day breaks fair on Randwick flat,
And on the flats foregathered there.
Let Care destroy the casual cat,
We’ve money here to speed the mare.
Once more witli confidence we fare,
In gay and gladsome raiment deekt;
Though Ikeys loud their offers blare,
We’ll tote sweet Julia and collect.
For Ikey Mo’s are far too fat;
Too dazzlingly their diamonds glare;
And brimming like a brewer’s vat
The moneybag's that Ikeys wear.
What if their greasy locks they tear,
After the fashion of their sect ?
Unheeding how they sweat or swear,
We’ll tote fair Julia and collect.
Perhaps some other speedy “tat”
Is drfe to make a showing rare
And finish at a rousing bat
Before the hats fly in the air;
But dead-game sports and flappers ..ir,
When others’ hopes are dashed and wreckt,
Will bless the day 1 bade them dare
To tote dear Julia and collect.
Envoy.
Prince, though a poultice she must bear,
Let no mad lurk your choice affect —
Of other whisperers beware!
(Just tote old Julia and collect.
N.s.w.
CENTURION.


HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/C per day, or apart
meats may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
HAWAII
THE YEAR'ROUND PLAYGROUND
■A\
&
Land of Lunar
Rainbows
—rare colors and climate,
is an ideal vacation resort
the year round. Swim
and surf, play tennis and
all other outdoor games every day.
Good Hotels of all classes. Ask
nearest travel, tourist or steam-
ship agency; or write for new
illustrated booklet, to —
Dept. B.
Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Box 241 G.P.0., Sydney, or
Honolulu, Hawaii, U.S.A.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
a AM
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 lied and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
PHL3tVr»?~
Uniformly Excellent-Why ?
From the raw ingredients to the finished product
Bostock’s Shoe Creams are under the control of
Leather Experts. Only in this way can their strict
standard of excellence be maintained. Bostock’s
Shoe Creams preserve as well as polish.
In Bottles and Tubes, in all Colors.
Bostock’s Polishes Ltd., Box 91
Haymarket, Sydney
©
©
A
m
C2S>'
Abundant Hot Water
For ALL Domestic Purposes!
m
■
S 3
VZLs
■ —«
im*
WHEN you have plenty of Hot Water
always “on tap,’’ things run smoothly
in the whole household. Mother and
her helpers can have all they require for their
many cooking and cleaning duties; father
can have his morning shave without waiting;
and the kiddies can have a rollicking time in
the bath at any time of the day.
All these and many other benefits that
accompany an uninterrupted supply of
Hot Water are available in the home
equipped with
“IDEAL”
Hot Water Supply
This convenient system gives CONSTANT Hot Water
—day or night—at lowest cost. It fits in with any
kitchen scheme; occupies small space; and is easily
installed or connected to existing pipes. It will burn
coal, coke or wood, as well as any combustible house-
hold rubbish ; and requires very little attention.
In addition to cheap Hot Water
Supply, the “Ideal” Hot Water
System will, if desired, provide a
more healthful and economical way
of warming your home. “Ideal”
Radiators can be attached in the
living-rooms and bedrooms to pro-
vide ample warmth with a fuel
consumption of about 101 b. of coke
per day per room.
Call and have the system explained,
or write for interesting booklets,
“W 73” (Hot Water Supply), and
“W 75” (“Ideal” Heating).
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD. Q
Va
A
sdf
324-30 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
THE INKY WAY.
“Buster”: There are further changes on the staff
of Melbourne Herald. F. J. Whitehead, news editor,
left the other day. He has various freelance pro-
jects in mind and is linking up with his old friend
Jack Davidson as Melbourne rep. of the latter’s new
Adelaide sheet. And now associate-editor Guy
Innes is off to London for three years as head of
the cable section, with his previous rank and privi-
leges unimpaired. Speculation as to who will be
next in succession to Keith Murdoch is being hushed
by the rumor that a news-editing genius will be
imported from London. Meanwhile Murdoch and
Innes are invited to derive some comfort from the
fact that Col. W. T. lteay, a previous editor and
Innes’s predecessor in Britain, has not been entirely
dispensed with by a grateful management. Reay
goes on to the commercial side of the paper, junior
in status to Mackenzie and Bourbaud, the highlights
of the circulation dept.
“Mr. Pirn”: “El Verdugo” (B. 21/12/’22)
needn’t have mentioned the threatened dailies in
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth to remind
one that good journalists will soon be getting
scarce. Competition is already keen, and in Mel-
bourne, where this is written .from, scribes are being
sought for by hungry editors. One man, who lately
changed over, had an embarrassing tribute paid to
his genius by one ambitious journal. He was loath
to drop a good job, but the offer of an increase was
not to be despised, and in a fever of irresolution he
mentioned that he would have to consult the wife,
That was the end of the waverer. The paper that
was trying to pinch him ordered out the best of
its innumerable limousinds, and the editor in person,
with a wake of aidekongs, honked out to interview
(say) Mrs. Snooks, who promptly decided in favor
of the higher salary.
“Reynard”: Pantagruel’s boxing reporter (B.
4/l/’23), who “delivered the cul-de-sac with a terrific
straight left,” reminds me of the Melbourne junior
put on to do spoi'ting. He summarised the pros-
pects of a notorious non-trier by suggesting that
he would be heard of “in the doles jar niente” —
his cultured periphrasis for the sweet by-and-bye.
“Morehead”: At the close of its sixth year,
Birth, the official organ of the Melbourne Literary
Club, has fallen dead. It was started as a personal
venture by Wm. Mitchell; was soon after adopted
by the M.L.C., and has been edited by Wm. Mitchell,
Gilbert Wallace, Bernard O’Dowd, Mrs. Vance Palmer,
Frederick Macartney and Furnley Maurice, in that
order. Two annuals of verse were published by the
Club, one in 1920 and another in 1921. In the
course of its swan song, the paper takes comfort
in one melancholy reflection: “If Birth has not dis-
covered the Australian Keats.... neither has any
other paper.”
“Flicker”: There is one fairly common type of
literary lapse not noted in Louis Lavater’s article
(B 4/l/’23), perhaps because the writer would hardly
admit the verse in which it is found to be poetry.
I refer to verse written in “The Sentimental Bloke”
style, in which the character suddenly abandons
his uncouth expressions for a highly technical, or
really imaginative phrase. The most striking cxr
ample in “The Sentimental Bloke” is in the “Stoush
of Day,” where we are told that “The jealous
night sends ethergrams through space.” I yield to
no one in my admiration for the Bloke, right
through his career, but surely it’s expecting a bit
too much to assume him acquainted with such a
term. Another instance was in “Contrast” (B.
4/1 /’23), when just after “Tarts and blokes in
snowy clo’es. .. .havin’ tea,” we find: “the moon
ascends her stai'-bejewelled tower.” It’s not consis-
tent. Anyone may have the germ of a beautiful
thought, but he can’t ex,press it without some edu-
cation.
“Coot”: Re the local serial discussion. The
Melbourne weeklies all patronise Australian writers.
The Age has for some years refrained from publish-
ing a serial at all, while the Argus treats its readers
to bi-weekly instalments of such fiction. The majo-
rity of the yarns used by the Argus are imported,
but during last year the old paper gave a story by
11. B. Walsh a spin. Melbourne’s only evening paper,
the Herald, sticks religiously to the imported article,
although its readers are continually being urged to
purchase Australian productions. From what I can
learn amongst my friends, there is a special public
for Australian serial stuff, consisting of people who
never read any other kind of serial. I personally
know half-a-dozen of these folks, and have heard of
scores of others. But whether those who revel in
the adventures of Lady Belinda de Vere, of the
Moated Grange, at £7 10s. per 80,000 words, are
also interested in the activities of mere Australians
at a much higher figure, is a problem I haven’t yet
been able to solve.
“Stellsby”: The Commonwealth Department of
Health’s new publication, Health, will be issued
monthly. The first number has already appeared,
and hypochondriacs are presented with a splendid
opportunity of crediting themselves with quite a
number of new diseases. Hookworm, smallpox,
and various other complaints are dealt with exhaus-
tively. Incidentally, Professor Harry Allen suggests
that a new Federal portfolio be allotted, and it may
be taken for granted that in this connection his nib
is pointing at Neville Howse.
“0.K.”: A while ago somebody was writing in the
Red Page of a revived demand for Anthony Trollope’s
works, and a dilettante inquiry for first editions
thereof. Is there a distinct market value for these
things? I have illustrated first editions in one
volume of “The Vicar of Bullhampton,” and a
very bulky o.e. of “Phineas Finn,” whose 20 wood-
cuts are by Millais. But what is a first edition of
novels originally published along with other matter,
as happened with “The Old Curiosity Shop” and
“Barnaby Rudge.” These appeared first in the
ill-fated “Master Humphrey’s Clock”? The Wst
known of Trollope’s is “Framley Parsonage,” I
suppose. I lately read it again in my bound volur-.es
of the first three half-years of the Cornhill Maga-
zine (1860-61) the illustrations in that case also
being by Millais. Are the first four bound volumes
of the Cornhill (containing Trollope’s “Framley
Parsonage,” Thackeray’s “Phillip,” etc.), of special
booklover value, and if not, why not? My edition
of “The Old Curiosity Shop” admits in the pre-
face to having been lifted from “Master Humphrey’s
Clock,” and the numbering of the pages betrays
that fact. The numbering starts at 37, and the first
jump is from page 37 (in the “Clock” aforesaid)
to 79. Isn’t the first issue of Dickens’s novel in
complete form, and one \olume, an “original” edi-
tion? Again, Oscar Wilde’s deplorable “Dorian
Gray” was first published (minus the author’s name)
in one volume of Lippincott’s Monthly Magazine.
My bound copy of . the story was long ago torn from
the American magazine in question. Is it a first
edition? Is there a real market value for any
old novel of note that contains no interesting illus-
trations, woodcut or steel engravings, nor any
distinguishing characteristic? Seems to me that
the novels with interesting illustrations of artistic
merits and bygone fashions must eventually be the
most sought after. I value my old Trollopes for
their pictures of the period’s apparel.
HIS CARELESS RAPTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With fine bravado sounds the poet’s claim:
“I care not when my poem’s fairly writ,
Who snatches up and carries off the same,
Once made I am for ever done with it.
“I spill my silver words upon the grass,”
He cried, “because my burdened heart distills
Their scent and beauty. Then I let them pass,
The property of anyone who wills.
“I write when hot afflatus urges on
My leaping Pegasus. My soul abhors
The task of selling, like some common Jack,
Who hawks his wares among the editors.”
There’s ramping in the kitchen, ugly swears
Along the passage, and the roarings run
About the drawing-room, and up the stairs —
“The boss has lost a sonnet what he done t”
VICTORIA.
E. D.


-€•
:
rfiX
Jm
5?;
@o UDaddu
dcfit teos&e
iOe Anao t/wu ahe
HILLIEPS
CHOCOLATES
you
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and mailed to
the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-. 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
free to any address in Australia.
?8
•Sc ■uxJjuo
€kn£4t HiMigA
162-166 PITT St.ec+.
& Cr George 6 King Sts
SYDNEY.
K
-Sg-
-3^
CTTV
£!_PRE
FOOD
-X-
-o
/
o
Picnics to Right of Us—
Picnics to left of us —-
And who has not heard of
REX CAMP PIE
the Picnic Dainty with few equals.
When cut in thin slices, it is fine for sandwiches.
Combine it with Lettu.ce Leaves, thinly sliced Egg,
Tomato, Beetroot, Cucumber, Olives, etc., and you
can prepare dozens of k nds of dainty sandwiches
quite unlike those usually served at picnics.
If the picnic takes the form of an impromptu meal,
serve Camp Pie with a Salad.
REX CAMP PIE is prepared from choicest meats —-
cooked to retain the savory flavors - packed in the
tins and surrounded by clear mouth-watering jelly.
Be sure to include it in your Holiday P.cnic Menus.
Sold Everywhere.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
FJ33I
/*
K oX\X
>"„L 1 V
*£:m2? m fir*. T
3
i#4 fft
Tour in Comfort
with the B.S.A.
BODILY comfort is carried to a
fine point in B.S.A. Motor-
cycles. They are so well bal-
anced, so well sprung and flexible,
that the experienced Motor-cyclist
who turns to B.S.A. finds an enjoyable
relaxation from the “riding tension”
he had hitherto unknowingly acquired.
Such a condition is indeed invaluable—but it is the
comfort of mind which experience of B.S.A. per-
formance makes possible that is responsible for its
widespread popularity.
This comfort of mind—this confidence which every
rider of a B.S.A. has in his mount, springs from
observance of its service under all conditions. With
increasing length of prideful ownership comes the
realisation of the true worth of quality* of the advan-
tage of those steel drop-forgings at every vital point
—of the value of the long experience that stands
behind the “three piled rifles.”
RIDE THE DEPENDABLE
D
D
Motor Bicycles
FOR SOLO OR SIDECAR.
Full particulars regarding Prices and Horse-power of various
models may be had from
D. Y. RENNIE.
Representing the B.S.A. Co. Ltd.,
Australian Buildings, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Or from these State Agents:
N.S.AV.: Bennett & Wood,
Limited, Pitt St., Sydney.
VIC.: Finlay Bros., Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne.
Q’LAXD: Canada Cycle &
Motor Agency, Creek Street,
Brisbane.
S.A.: J. N. Taylor & Co., Etd.,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
W.A.: Mortlock Bros., Queen
Street, Perth.
TAS.: J. Bilyard, Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
DO YOU USE
A B.S.A. GUN?


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
European Plan—Charges for Room only.
Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
snoii
Suites de luxe, with bathroom attached.
Telephone in every Room. Roof Garden.
Under the Direction of—
ROWE’S LIMITED, PROPRIETORS.
For Reservations address Manager.
An Alarm Clock
combining elegance of appearance with accuracy in
time-keeping, durability in wear, and resistant
qualities against the vibration of the Alarm and of
travel.
These Clocks go with WONDERFUL
ACCURACY.
They possess a musical alarm.
Their appearance is choice, being of finely-
finished heavy brasswork gilt.
They are made with ordinary and with lumin-
ous dials.
Although higher in price than the common-
looking and inferior alarm clocks, they really are
cheaper in the long run, as they last a lifetime,
and, moreover, are dependable always.
With ordinary dials, 39/6; with luminous
dials, 52/6.
Best quality Alarm, in heavy
brass case, with ordinary dial,
39/6.
With luminous dial, 52/6.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street
CARTRIDGES.
“A.P.” FRESH-LOADED DUCK CARTRIDGES
are best. All loaded with Full Charge Smoke-
less Powder and Chilled Shot.
“BLUE SEAL.” The famous brand. 20/- 100
“KILOS.” Specially suitable for Automatic
Shotguns 21 /- 100
“A.P.” Cartridges, loaded with SCHULTZ,
AMBERITE, EMPIRE, DU PENIT or SMOKE-
LESS DIAMOND, SMOKELESS POWDER,
•. 21/- 100
“APOID,” the king of Cartridges, deep brass
gastight English cases. Once used always
wanted 24/- 100
“A.P.” SPECIAL. Splendid deep brass gas-
tight English Cases; loaded with Ballistite
powder 25 / - 100
MATCH 2f Cartridges. For long-range shoot-
ing. 26 /- and 27 / 6- In deep brass gas-
tight Cases 30/- 100
WE ALLOW 6d. per 100 on all orders of
500 Cartridges. THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
C/u»
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's • “Sally’’
Criterion ‘ T l )e , 11 \ aw .
Royal “Cinderella
Palace “The Sentimental Bloke”
Fuller’s New “Spangles”
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s
Royal “A Southern Maul
King’s .7 “The Forty Thieves”
Princess’s “The O’Brien Girl”
Palace “Dick Whittington
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦
At the Grand Opera House, Sydney,
"Little Bo Peep” maintains its riotous appeal
to the taste and fancy of panto patrons.
The girls are dainty, the frocks becoming,
the scenery gorgeous, the fooling excellent
and the (mostly pasteboard) menagerie,
which ranges from a cow and calf to fish
and fireflies, would tickle a Calvinist and
make a Christian Israelite grin outright.
“Cinderella” continues to be whirled to
the ball in her helicopter at Sydney Theatre
Royal. But she has only a week longer to
make her dazzling transformation from
kitchen to court. On Saturday week Louis
Bennison will re-appear, with Lizette I’arkes,
in a romantic drama, “Benvenuto,” a play
written around Florence when the Renais-
sance was beginning to scan itself in the
mirror for wrinkles.
** * *
At Sydney Cri. the curtain will rise on
“The Flaw” next Saturday, a new play that
will exhibit Emelie Polini in a role largely
of her own design and creation. Written
not only for, but partially by, an uncom-
monly capable actress, of a school that grows
rarer with the rolling years, “The Flaw”
will have an interest all its own.
That piquant musical comedy, “Sally,” has
established itself firmly in public favor at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney. Josie Melville dances
like the daughter of Herodias —or I’reciosa
in Longfellow’s Spanish Student —or any
other danseuse you care to think about who
was acclaimed by the cognoscenti of her
period as A 1 and bosker. The play is a
whimsical absurdity, like most of its kind,
very tastefully presented.
“Spangles,” at Fuller’s Theatre, Sydney,
continues a cheerful medley of fun and frolic,
and Ada Reeve and Gus McNaughton. The
lady of the oscillating headgear and the
haunting songs of Cockaigne became a grand-
mother last week, which commendable
achievement naturally made her reception
more tumultuous than ever.
** * *
The Sentimental Bloke and Ginger Mick
are still diffusing topical gladness and home-
made mirth at Sydney Palace. Eileen Alex-
ander is a charming Doreen, and Stella
Payter a “Mar” whose acquaintance is well
worth making.
** * *
The most interesting turn at Sydney
Tivoli this week is the usually dismal Pathe
Gazette. There are some fine scenes of the
“Near East” wrangle, including the burning
of Smyrna and the abdication of ’Tino. May
Sherrard’s turn is full of fun; she has some
new numbers, which are even funnier than
her old ones. She keeps on reminding this
Show-man of Marie Lloyd. Of the dancers,
Eddie and Decima McLean are the most
popular. Their turn is more whirlwind-like
“THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE," AT
SYDNEY PALACE.
Ginger Mich (Tail Ordell) gives Bill (Walter
Cornock) a word of advice.
than that of the less strenuous Lola and
Senia, but no more artistic. The faultlessly-
garbed Billy Maloney still brings in his
silver stick; also one Zellini juggles with
cardboard cannon and other props. The Tiv.
never fails to have g fiddler on its menu,
and smiling Maggie Foster is a very accept-
able item on this week’s bill.
* * * <s
Katherine Macdonald’s "White Shoulders”
are a better draw at Sydney Lyceum than
all the padded lower limbs that ever came
out of Hollywood. Katherine’s mamma would
have made a first-class sales-lady for the
slave department, judging by. the way she
parades Katie —screen-name Virginia—be-
fore possible husbands. The inevitable mur-
der, court scene and amateur motor-races
are wedged in, and so the “fans” are satis-
fied. When an Amurkan film doesn’t deal
with the lounge lizards of Sassiety, it is
even money the story will be about a lumber-
camp. “The Man from Lost River,” the
additional picture at the big house that shel-
ters Methodist prayer-meetings on the Sab-
bath, is in the lumber class. “The Old Nest,”
quartered at the Crystal Palace, is in the
aquatic division: if there were a few more
like it the water-shortage in Sydney would
be a jest of the past. Of course, it is the
very latest out in “mammy” flickers. The
Globe denies the rumor that it is going
to pay W. M. Hughes £25.000 to appear in
a prologue to its bull-fighting picture. At
the Strand Wallace Reid is enthroned as “The
Dictator,” whilst pert May McAvoy unravels
“THE FORTY THIEVES," AT MEL-
BOURNE KING'S.
One of the Mello and Nello acrobats.
“A Private Scandal.” The Empress tears
your heart to tatters with “The Child Thou
Gavest Me,” and “The Desert’s Crucible”
at the Majestic is calculated to convert any
perspiring audience into frozen mummies—
sultry nights notwithstanding. At the Pic-
cadilly handsome Elaine Ilammerstein makes
glad the flapper heart that beats beneath the
georgette blouse in “One Week of Love”;
and Hoyt’s are making the wages bill out
of “Shirley of the Circus.”
* 3= * *
Melbourne continues to be over-run with
children of all shapes and sizes at those
times of the day and night when panto
houses swallow or disgorge their prey.
Panto, as previously remarked, is the sport
of the King’s and good business at the
Palace. At the one theatre “Forty Thieves”
continue to spread the good old Christmas
gospel of larceny made easy, while at the
other “Dick Whittington” gets rich quicker
than Wallingford. There are plums in both
of the Grand Annual puddings—plums
devoured greedily by kiddies only, as well
as the riper sort, so acceptable to old and
fruity fathers. Among rival displays of
limbs at various centres of girl, the legs at
the King’s make a, brave show, and although
adult figuahs at the Palace are not numer-
ous they include some strikingly fine ones.
Also the human forms divine include the
amazing spectacle of a comedian billed as
Tom Long, whose legs would interest an
emu and set an old giraffe thinking.
* £
“The O’Brien Girl” promises to write
history at Melbourne Princess’s. This week
a special matinee on Thursday will make
the number of performances nine in all, so
the physical condition of an enthusiastic
ballet and chorus is almost as fine as the
lighting, which counts for so much in Hugh
Ward’s production.
* * 3: *
At Melbourne Royal they have taken off
“Maid of the Mountains” to make room for
final rehearsals of “A Southern Maid” under
Oscar Asche’s guidance. The co., with
Gladys Moncrieff in the name-part, takes on
extra hands for the coming opera. Ilowett-
Worster and Claude Flemming have parts,
and the show on Saturday (27th) is to be
a matter of much importance.
“Cairo” has abated none of its scenic
effects at Melbourne Majesty’s, and the
Sultan is still picking his one and lawful
bride from where he chooses. In the won-
derful world that Oscar Asche created, every
good-looking girl carries a sultana's powder-
puff in her pocket.
** * *
The return of Allen Doone to Melbourne
provides Erin-green drama for artless souls
at the New Gaiety. “Lucky O’Shea,” as of
yore, presents a prologue in Prussia and the
rest of the narrative in Dublin during the
Napoleonic era, when Allen Doone started
as a weirdly simple spy in the Emperor’s
service and finished as a wooer of Edna
Keeley in the glad fancy dress of the period,
or something like it. For three, hours, partly
composed of long waits between the acts,
Allen loved Miss K. in his accustomed man-
ner. The fact that a vociferous colonel had
compelled the lady to marry Allen in the
prologue, after which the gallant fellow left
her to suppose him dead, made the success
of his subsequent suits a foregone conclusion.
Finally, the hero, being now an actor in
Dublin, dodged the bailiffs in time to un-
mask the duplicitv of a Frenchman who
falsely posed as the deceased husband, and
the curtain fell on Edna’s recognition of
the man of her dreams, owing to his vocal
abilities. She undertook to accept which-
ever of the two gay suitors could establish
his matrimonial identity by singing the ser-
enade she heard on the Prussian hillside
long ago. and Allen, whose suit was now a
red shade of purple, won easily. Doone
retains all the inoffensive personality and
a good deal of the singing-voice which have
ever been his stock-in-trade. Edna Iveeley’s
rather hard winsomeness clings to her, and
a notably efficient member of the satisfactory
company is Charles Brown, as an elderly
person named O’Toole. The audience cele-
brated the occasion by requiring Doone to
sing “The Wearing of the Green” before
school broke up.
* * $ >N
At Melbourne Tivoli the final week of G.
P. Huntley was to have dated from Saturday
last. But from the advt. on Saturday the
turn of Huntley and co. was missing.
S{! ;;; s|: $
“Rich Men’s Wives” heads the menu at
Melbourne Majestic this week. It is only a
well-dressed illustration of the proverb that
the Tertium Quid finds much for idle Annes
to do. In “The Highest Bidder,” that fol-
lows, there is nothing more remarkable than
the determination of the heroine to scorn the
dahlers in favor of a true man’s love. “The
Dictator,” at Hoyt’s, unrolls a parcel of
South American revolutions that almost
telescope in their hurry to get on to the
screen. Edward (alias “Hoot”) Gibson fig-
ures in “The Loaded Door,” and his coolness
when facing unparalleled odds makes the
cucumber look like a chilli. The legend of
the man who neglects his wife for the gee-
gees gets another revival in Hoyt’s third
item, “A Private Scandal”; the Britannia
has a fine assortment of “Godless Men,” and
at the Melba flappers gloat on the noble fea-
tures of Dustin Farnum humping a load of
misery along “The Yosemite Trail.”
if s!: if :j:
Adelaide Royal is reopening with a revival
of “Within the Law” by Nellie Bramley
and other old friends; and in pictures the
first of the modern silent-strong-men appears
at the Grand in “Jane Eyre.” As a violent
contrast, young Wesley Barry, at West’s,
does an American progress all the way from
“Rags to Riches” —a clever kid, this. At
the York, Thomas Meighan adopts a whole
family (plus some animals) as an amiable
“Bachelor Daddy,” with a prologue, unneces-
sary but seemingly popular, by some real
youngsters. Mary Miles Minter is her own
attractive and sufficient self in a very Ameri-
can yarn at Wondergraph, and “The Shiek’s
Wife” is having a second innings at the Pav.
The variety bill, at the Majestic, is strong-
est on the musical side, but Bert Le Blanc’s
co. adds an amazing comedy dealing with
Hades —evidently a more attractive summer
residence than one had imagined.
“Snell”: The man on my right got off a
striking comment on Oscar Asche in “Cairo.”
Oscar had thrown off his outer garments
for a wrestling bout with the Sultan, and
stood in an Oriental version of tights and
trunks. “Bless my soul,” exclaimed my
neighbor, “what a magnificent pantomime
boy!”
“Edo ”: A little disputation was afoot
between the Firm’s publicity man and a local
journalist at a Melbourne theatre. “You
might have seen for yourself, if you had
used your ’brains,” snorted the official.
“Pardon me,” retorted the journalist, “it is
many years since I discovered the futility
of bringing my brains to this theatre.”
“Ashmead,” in bitterness of soul:—
The cinema industry in Sydney is certainly doing
its best to cut its own throat. When, for example,
are patrons of the business going to get a fair deal
with local gazettes? The Australian gazette
is too often crammed with hundreds of feet
of some such subject as the official open-
ing of a town pump in Sydney; or the ruins
of a fire that occurred the week before. A
series of scenes of the work of the pilot at Sy ne.
Heads bored “movie fans” stiff f° r wee ”
some time ago. Other times, when the camera
man is hard-up for material, he shoots a few h un re
feet at a mud lake or a group of pelicans in a
onga Park. Occasionally he wakes up to the
that there is such a place as Melbourne, and sna P-
some municipal king laying a foundation stone
the new rest-camp for tired politicians. e
“SPANGLES AT FULLER'S THEATRE ,
SYDNEY.
LIZ ( Saronova ) : “Isn't your sister anaemic?”
LIZA (Ada Reeve ) : “No; she's as straight
as a die. Not one of them sort!"
Screening of white sails on the bay would not be
unwelcome if it took less than half-a-mile of celluloid
every week to it. When Was the last shot taken
of a championship boxing-match, or any event of
note outside either of the two largest cities? Did
Wallal have a visit from the “movie” camera-man?
Do any views ever appear of remote activities,
such as a gold rush, or the cane harvest of
Queensland, or the crowded inter-State steamers
arriving at ports in Westralia or the Speck. Let s
have some live stuff, some variety, and above all,
some news. Again, what an awful lot of time is
wasted over those confounded serials! They are
bunkum from start to finish, full of the most
preposterous and unfeasible mush an idiot mind
ever created. What makes it worse, they ale put
on in the middle of a programme (presumably the
theatre manager is to blame for that), so that the
sensible onlooker walks out in disgust and chances
missing later pictures that might be attractive.
If the serial were flashed on first, and patrons notified
accordingly, they would not mind leaving home a
quarter of an hour late; or again the imbecility
might be shown as the finale. It is these puerile
serials, by the way, that inspire some of our mis-
guided kids to become bushrangers and so forth.
“F.S.” goes to the play in China: —
The best sex impersonators are the boy actors
who take the female parts on the Chinese stage.
Not only do they have to train their voices to an
excruciatingly shrill falsetto which must be extremely
painful to maintain, but they have to crush their
feet into the tiny thimbles which serve as shoes for
the “golden lilies” of the Chinese heroine. The
“female” stars of the capital are paid salaries
which might make even a movie star envious. One
boy who has captured the fancy of Peking gets
14,000 dollars a month. Women used to be pro-
hibited from appearing on the stage, but this con-
vention is in the melting-pot. There is, in
fact, a company in which not only are the
female parts taken by women, but the male as
well; and so skilfully is the imposture done that 1
once watched this entirely feminine cast without
realising that I was looking at anything unusual.
One follows a Chinese play through an atmosphere
of steaming tea-kettles, amidst a tempest of talk,
crackling melon-seeds and the din of an orchestra
whose appalling accompaniment scarcely for a
moment ceases. One is offered hot towels to lave
one’s face, and every now and then a coolie with
an extraordinarily long-snouted watering-pot leans
over from the top tier of seats and with unerring
aim shoots boiling water into the teapot of a
spectator in the tier below one. The plays are
interminably long, in the provinces sometimes last-
ing three or four days. The actors inform the
audience who they are and what they propose to
do, and their characteristics are plainly indicated
so that he that runs may read. The villian has a
white nose and the hero a black beard. The cos-
tumes are gorgeous and priceless, but the scenery
is of the simplest. Placards are exposed to prompt
the imagination of the audience, and the hero,
when he wants a steed to escape from his pur-
suing enemy, simply turns his chair round and
gallops off on that. The property-man strolls on
and off the stage, carrying bits of furniture about,
nonchalantly pausing to arrange the disordered
head-dress of the hero or disentangle his sword from
between his legs. If the night is warm he peels
off his coat and goes stripped to the -waist. In
Japan the property-man is clothed in black to
give the illusion of invisibility; but in China his
typical coolie-air of bored imperturbability is
sufficient to wipe him out of the consciousness of
the onlookers.
Sands’ Directory for 1923 comes along in
its 63rd year, ruddy and fat, with an amaz-
ing tummyful of information. It has grown
into something far more than a “directory,”
and the portly old reference book is as in-
dispensable in the office these days as a silk-
stockinged typiste.


s/
/ bring up my blades in
the way they should go
A Valet blade is like a millionaire’s son —
/ \ it has every advantage from the time
J. Vit leaves the cradle. Furthermore, a
Valet blade is always a sharp little fellow.
The judicious application of leather plays
no small part in this. I always strop my
own blades so that I know the job is pro-
perly done.
I carry in my head a device which turns the blade
over—first one side, then the other—as I run up and
down my strop. The result is a keen razor edge for
every shave and ev£ry Valet blade lasts for weeks.
Come and see me do it at any good razor shop—the
dealer will be glad to show you.
VALET
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australasia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
dsf
THE STANDARD SET
No. 1 consists of heavily silver;
plated self-stropping ’’Valet t
Auto Strop Razor. 12 “Valet
Blades and "Valet Strop, it
handsome case, lined 27/6
velvet and satin
The word "Valet" on Razors, Strops and Blades indicates the genuine product of tie Auto Strop Safely Razor Co.. Ltd.. 197-207. City Road London, Eno
£
*
K*
2
V
if
Give me a Tin of Oil! ”
Blind Luck —or Science , Choose !
BY saying “ Give me a tin of
oil ” you may accidently get
correct lubrication, but you
are taking a long chance. If you
are one of the many who know
the satisfaction of using Gargoyle
Mobiloil, we advise you
to avoid this careless
request.
Your best insurance of
engine results is
to ask for Gargoyle
Mobiloil, being
particular to specify the correct
grade for your car. The careless
request, “ Give me a tin of oil,”
means you are matching blind luck
against lubricating science. At
least 50% ot repairs are made
necessary by bad lubri-
cation —by the old hap-
hazard “ Give me a tin
of oil.”
Don’t say “ Give
me a tin of oil ”
Make the Chart
your Guide.
v -»
Mobil oil
Make the chart your yuide
? VACUUM OIL COMPANY PP WT
Use Plume Motor Spirit (extra quality) or Mercury Motor Spirit (first quality)
for Power and Economy. m 2
High-grade Cabinet,
containing 69 pieces
of A 1 Quality old
Engl i sh Silver,
plated Spoons,
Forks and Stainless
Cutlery,
£4O.
SB
- -
m
* ■ - ====
BB ■
-n 1 ■
:m
J#
mm
CTLERY CABINETS rank probably amongst the
most appreciated of all useful Gifts. The Firm
carry a large and varied selection in finest English
manufacture, containing either half- or full-dozen quantities
of best Stainless Cutlery, with Silver-plated Spoons, Forks,
etc. These spoons and forks are triple-silver-plated, and are
recognised as the best substitute for Sterling Silver. Prices
are based on to-day’s reduced cost of production, and a
comparison of price and value is invited before purchase.
OTm. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


/A
A
i
m
tt
m
1
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
N SW MONT de PIETE
T4r Cdstlereddh St.
Phone City 9325.
Capital & 300.000.
Sydney. 74
Joseph. W. Hill.
Genera! Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire, the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co., Ltd.”
Branches at
Hunter Street West (opposite
Union Street), Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Suanston Street, JVelbourne.
Isles Street, Brisbane.
ISTa Cantlereagh Street, Sydney,
15!) George Street West, Sydney
Poverty
Point
L.T.LPIVER, PARIS
The FACE POWDER
de Luxe
“L.E.”: Something will have to be done
about these pantos. An intelligent kid is
bored stiff by them. He goes to see a story
he knows, but never gets it. And, if the show
is meant for children, why do the alleged
comedians indulge in such vulgarity? The
older kids blush as much as their mothers,
while the young ones go to sleep. With a
little care, a panto could bte made bright and
amusing. As it is, ShavV’s suggestion still
holds good, that the mass of the “comic”
stuff should be cut out, and something from
Ibsen or Browning substituted to liven the
thing up.
“Blackfriars”: Alberto Zelman caught it
hot from some of the critics after his essay
in command of the London Symphony Orches-
tra. Their complaint was that he would
“The O'Brien Girl,”
at Melbourne
Princess’s.
Mamie Watson (the
leading lady ) as Alice
O’Brien, the girl.
not leave well
alone, but bothered
his players with
over-guidance i n
familiar sympho-
nies and things.
One of them asserts
that “Mr. Zelman
knew the music
better than he
knew the kind of
help that compe-
tent players (require
from their conduc-
tor.” Well, Zel-
man’s the best in
conductors that
this country has
turned out yet,
although he may
have been too exact
in his handling of
the London bow-
men and wood-
whisperers after
years of striving to
coax his Melbourne
amateurs to the
lesser observances.
There is also, for
those who know, a
keen suspicion that
the British Con-
ductors’ Union,
which exists,
although it has no
charter, may have
said a word to
some of the critics beforehand. Such things
have happened to even greater conductors.
“0.K.” : Feminine adoration of Wallace
Reid’s ghost on the screen looks more inane
than ever in the light of the widow’s state-
ment that Wallace suffered from a complica-
tion of diseases, and died on the sunny side
of 31. There is al6o evidence that he was
a dope fiend. Presumably the poor devil’s
voice was weak, and his natural color un-
wholesome, but with his complexion prepared
for the camera the young man “made a iove y
photo,” and millions of foolish women ador d
turn. Talk of female worship of stage
beauty-actors! It is as naught compared
with neurotic love for the motion photo on
the screen. Some women sit in the semi-
darkness and let their imaginations run
riot in the direction of a Wallace Reid. A
real man who talks has not nearly so good
a chance. His voice may break in roughly
upon the illusion, whereas the silent ghost
has musical support from the orchestra
when he is not holding the girl so rapt in
fancied bliss that she hears nothing save the
beating of her heart against the film-ghost’s
breast.
“Stargazer”: Went to see “Cairo” the
other night, and judging by the dimensions
of the audience concluded that O. Asche had
discovered that elusive thing, the substance
the public wants. What amazed me most
wasifthat an adult public should want one
half of it, and why Asche, having discovered
what the public wants, should dilute it with
something nobody on earth can possibly
want. The play is not the thing, the pictures
are the thing, and Asche will yet find his
true metier devising gorgeous color schemes
for the movies. I have often wondered why
this has not been done —why someone has
not devoted the kinemacolor to the produc-
tion of gorgeous blendings of color, mere
feasts for the eye, to run a few minutes in
a popular programme. It is what Asche is
giving us on the stage, and the stage is too
cumbersome a medium; his eye-effects have
to be spoiled by cheap and unsatisfactory
audible notes. As it is, “Cairo” reminds me
of the growing of carrots in a hothouse.
“G.”: Oscar Asche, it is said, wants an
Australian play, the rea tiling. Can’t some-
body evolve an Aus-
tralian “Cairo” ?
It needs “atmo-
sphere” and plenty
of action. And there
must be a pictur-
esque crow d '
What’s wrong with
an Eight Hours
Day procession, in
which the full
strength of the
company could
join, red-shirted
squatters, Jap
pearl - divers,
Malays, Chows,
camels, niggers and
fowls, leading up
to the entrance of
the hero, a 20-stone
rough-rider, who
delivers virile
speeches as he cas-
ually eats bananas?
A few murders, an
extra supply of
limelight, surf-
bathers (for
nudity), another
procession, and
more bananas for
the hero (or pine-
apples)—and we
have the ingredi-
ents of a real
Aschetvalian play.
“ Eyes of Youth,” at
Sydney Criterion.
Rupert Lumley as
Robert Coring.
“J.H.” (London) : In a Lyons teashop
recently I dropped across Julius Knight,
who will be paying a visit to Aus-
tralia shortly—he travels by the Orvie-
to in March. Julius told me that, apart
from a touring season with Henry Ainley in
“Uncle Ned” three years ago, and an essay
in musical comedy with Jose Collins in
“Peg Woffington” shortly afterwards, he
has done no work on the English stage for
a long time. He is still as debonair and well-
groomed as ever, and talked interestingly of
old Sydney days with Ada Ferrar and Maud
Jeffries in “The Sign of the Cross,” “Beau-
caire” and “A Royal Divorce.” Touching
contemporary mummers, his superlatives were
all reserved for Irene Vanbrugh in “Mid-
Channel,” one of the recently-revived Pinero
series. You will soon see this greatest of
English comedy actresses in Australia.
_ “Caesar’s Ghost”: I question “Orb’s” asser-
tion (B. 11/1/'23) that George Musgrove’s
invasion of the provinces with Nellie Stewart
was “the best ‘smalls’ tour” —I presume he
means financially—on record. Charles
Arnold did the “smalls” with “Hans the Boat-
man,” and boasted of having cleared £GOO
a week. Of course, Charlie went in for steep
charged and a low expense rate. He was
a cannier man than Musgrove, and a suc-
cessful season at Sydney Palace gave him a
good start. Some of the Firm’s bushwhack-
ing ventures didn’t deserve the success they
failed to achieve. Neither the management
nor the artists seemed to take the provincial
performances seriously, and a lot of the latter
lacked the training necessary to carry off
their work on small stages without city
advantages. All such performances did was
to make the country people angry and spoil
business for hard-working cornpan es regu-
larly engaged in the small-town trade.
Ganesha” : It is to Josie Melville’s advan-
tage that she is not a_ singer. Australia has
never had a really first-class dancer, and,
doubtless for that reason, sets the mere leg-
artist on a lower plane than the musical-
comedy star. But every shade of emotion
may be expressed in dancing, as the Russian
Ballet has shown. In other countries a
Lopokova, a Pavlova or a Karsarvina ranks
higher than the toothiest of musical-comedy
dames. She takes an equal place with great
actresses. It would be a pity to waste Josie,
who is the most promising dancer we have
yet produced, on the kind of singing and act-
ing that serves for musical comedy. The more
pure dancing she does, and the less of any-
thing else, the more chance she will have of
a brilliant future.
“Second Murderer”: I saw “Cinderella”
at the T.R., Sydney, the other night, and
it recalled my first “Cinderella” at ihe T.R.,
Melbourne, in the mid ’eighties. Nellie
Stewart was the heroine, and her sister Docy
the Prince; and Maggie Moore (Dandini),
Greville and Harry Taylor (the ugly sis-
ters), Edwin Kelly (Baron), Harry Daniels
(Buttons) and many other old favorites
were in the cast. Greville and Taylor saug
a tremendously popular topical duet, “We’li
Have to Make Other Arrangements.” Poor
stuff the lot of it was, but for acting and
mounting that show would not shame to-day.
and for singing it would lose the present
effort. Ah, I was younger then!
“Bond”: The resemblance of lan Hay’s
plays, in simple humor aud obvious senti-
mentality, to those of H. J. Bjron has often
been remarked. The comparison has now been
rammed home by Hay having given the name
Mildred Cradock to the heroine (finely played
by Ethel Irving) of his new effort, “The
Happy Ending.” It is the identical name of
the heroine in one of Byron’s best, “Blow for
Blow.” As nobody would wish to use a
second-hand name, it must be a case of
unconscious memory. The two plays, have
nothing else in common.
“0.K.”: Memories of the Tranb> Croft
scandal of 80-odd years ago are revived by
Galsworthy’s “Loyalties.” In the play the
curprit is a high-toned military captain, who
is accused by a young Jew of the social-
cumoer species, of robbing him of £lOOO.
Loyalty forbids that the captain’s pals
should easily believe the Hebrew’s accusa-
tion. They tacitly agree not to think ill
<ff “one of them” with whom they are good
friends, whilst their affected unbelief is a
damnable injustice to the Semitic accuser,
whom they dislike —such a charge ought not
to be made against a' gentleman, by Jove!
All the same, a high-toned old family lawyer
refuses to be guilty of conducting an action
for libel against the Jew when he discovers
that his client was really guilty, the law-
yer’s loyalty to a professional ideal over-
shadowing his loyalty to social rank. The
only moralising in the play, however, comes
from a woman character, who says: “Loyal-
ties have a way of cutting against one an-
other.” Quite so. Ask Hughes!
“Morehead”: Amy Sherwin has passed on
some of her brains, and artistry to her two
children. Jeanette Sherwin made a suc-
cessful appearance recent! v in Galsworthy’s
“Loyalties” at the New York Gaiety; and
Louis Sherwin is dramatic critic of the
New York Globe.
“C.McL.” closes the controversy:—
I thank Miss Lute Drummond (B. 18/l/’23) for
correcting my par. about Boito’s “Mefistofele,” and am
sorry, that I missed her lectures on the operas. In
Boito’s prologue the stage is dark and you see
nothing but stars and drifting clouds; you hear
nothing but great voices booming ironical music
to a raving orchestra. Soon afterwards I saw “The
Valkyrie ’ with Florence Austral as Brunnhiida—the
best Brunnhiida I ever saw; but, even so, Wagner’s
opera did not seem as mighty as Boito’s. It is a
pity we cannot have “Mef.” hei-e instead of the
everlasting “Butterfly,” “Pagliacci” and “Rigoletto”
bellowdrama. It would at least show us what the
Italians can do when they try.
Faust” has always been a snag. Berlioz got
over the difficulty by hanging Margaret for murder-
ing her baby, while Faust was duly carried off to
the abyss by a good old-fashioned sneering devil,
who kept the ladies wondering what naughty thing
he was going to say next. Gounod, writing sugary
music for a sentimental epoch, sent Margaret to
Heaven and. Faust to Hell, as no doubt the young
persons of that time thought they richly deserved,
and consequently it touched the great heart of the
people and. has been the most popular opera ever
since. But Goethe, and after him Boito, give Faust
a second chance. They revived the most desirable
of all women—Helen of Troy—and suggest that
even with her there is not much in sensuality to
an intellectual man. Mephistopheles has nothing
better to offer, so Faust gets off. Not so senti-
mental as Gounod, perhaps, nor so cynical as
Berlioz, but how much greater!
“T.W.”: “Mefistofele” (B. 4/l/’23) has
been done at Covent Garden often. It was
in the 1914 repertory—there has been no
great Covent Garden season since—and it is
one of the big features this year at the New
York Metropolitan. Except Verdi’s “Fal-
staff” and “Otello,” Boito’s opera is
esteemed by cultured Italian opera-goers as
the greatest in their country's list, but it
suffers even in its abridgments from exces-
sive length. In the original mass it runs
for six hours, which is an hour or so longer
than “Tristan and Isolde,” and about as
long as the most portentous work in the
“Ring” cycle.
“J.H.” (London) : “Passion,” the first
German film to be screened in London
since the war, is quite first-class. The
principal character, the fair and frail
Du Barry, is enacted by Pola Negri, a beau-
tiful Pole, who used to be premiere danseuse
in the Imperial Russian Ballet, and if the
rest of her work is up to the standard shown
in “Passion,” Nazimova and Pauline Fred-
erick will have to return to the pickle-
factory. London has seen no finer movie for
many a month. »
“Ca?sar’s Ghost”: There is no lack of
opportunities these days for actors of a sort,
but I can name half-a-dozen highly efficient
Jack Kirby, pro-
ducer, “Dick Whit-
tington” panto, at
Melbourne Palace.
mummers who are
walking the streets
unable to get a
“shop.” Prolonged
hard times have
left them with
threadbare ward-
robes ; and though
a man on the
modern stage
needn’t be able to
act he must have
clothes. To be
shabby is to be
unemployed. Things
were different in
the old days. Ap-
pearances counted
for little when
Frank Harcourt
arrived at the
stage-door of a city
theatre with his
make-up, wigs and
apparel resposing
in a spotted hand-
kerchief. As often
as not the nose-rag
was tied to the
end of a stick,
which Frank car-
ried over his shoul-
der. And nobody
objected in those
times to Teddy
. , Corless’s velvet
coat, of the 1880 vintage.
“0.K.” praises a dead German :—-
“II Seraglio” has been produced in London, with
Gertrude Johnson as prim a donna and Melba in the
audience. It is a rarely-staged work of Mozart, the
greatest genius of them all. Mozart’s most popular
operas, written when he was a young man, with
no great models of composition, have survived those
of his greatest contemporaries, and promise to out-
live those of famous melody-masters who came long
after him. Donizetti, Bellini, Berlioz, Rossini and
Weber, whose works still get a hearing, were young
when they found celebrity, but none of them
flourished until 30, 40 or 50 years after
Mozart. They had the advantage of following tin-
man whose charm of style they never rivalled. Had
Verdi lived no longer than Mozart did, he would
have scored no fame at all, for not one of his
earlier operas save “Ernani” is now spoken of.
The same with \\ agner. Of his solid musical dramas
three- Rienzi,” “The Flying Dutchman” and
“Tannhauser” —had been staged when he was 37, an
age which Mozart fell short of. Mozart was
hustled into his grave on a wet day without
a soul save the undertaker to drop a flower
on his coffin. Could the man have given
more of his musical genius and bright intellect to
theatrical work, poorly paid as it was at the time,
he might have lived long and have left 20 charm-
ing operas, instead of two or three.
“T.W.”: Australia’s composer, George
Clutsam, had a small but dexterous hand in
turning out the lyrics of “A Southern Maid.”
His love song in the Second act has been
about the most saleable thing in the whole
show. This “Maid” was first produced by
Oscar Asehe for Robert Evett, who is George
Edwardes s successor in controlling Daly’s
Theatre, and was formerly the most envied
ot his principal tenors. Claude Flemming,
who is connected by marriage with Clutsam’
played the part of Sir Willoughby Rawdon
in the first long run of the comedy.
“Samson”: Some people profess to dis-
cover a Sissified personality in Ireland
Cutter, the light comedian in “The O’Brien
Girl” at Melbourne Princess’s. The pre-
judice againt him is excited by the affected
archness of his conversation, but this is
merely the theatricalised callowness of a
sportive youth belonging to one of America’s
best families. Cutter is quite another man
off-stage. He is a well-built, athletic lad
who can keep his end up with a pair of
Boz. gloves.
“Stellsby”: James Dundas Grant, Lon-
don s throat specialist, recently examined
the larynx of a young man employed in a
Threadneedle-street bank. The youth sang to
him in a tenor voice, a baritone and a fal-
setto. lie wound up by singing baritone and
tenor simultaneously. “The larynx is quite
normal,” said the puzzled throat specialist,
and he looked altogether baffled when the
stripling said that it didn’t strain him a bit
to use umpteen voices at once. Strathie
Mackay is the marvel’s name.
THE PERFECT GENTLEMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Screaming, the lovely maiden whirled in a freniy
of shrill distress,
As the long, brown, whiskery stranger-bloke grabbed
hold of her swirling dress—
Grabbed hold of her beautiful knees, he did, in a
callous and brutal way
And sat her down by the dusty track while she
shuddered and gurgled, “Hey!”
I roared, and galloped along to set the terrified
maiden free —
A hero, ready to do his dash, whatever the risk
might be.
He was a whiskery, rough, brown bloke, w'ith thews
like posts-and-rails,
A gnarled, long, wiry, awkward chap, bow-backed,
but hard as nails —
The simple sort of soul who might eat peas with
his knife, and drink
Tea from his saucer, wear his hat at the festive
board, and think
Nothing of using his brawny arm as a table-napkin,
nor
Trouble to say “Ah, pardon me!” a 3 he passed
up his plate for more.
“Hey, there!” I yelled, in a splendid bass, and
“Whadder y’ mean by this?”
He lifted his hairy chin and glared as 1 came cn
the scene—and miss
Upraised her wonderful eyes to mine and helple; sly
shook her head.
“When a bull-ant bites a la-a-ady,” the whiskery
person said—
“ When a bull-ant bites a la-a-ady, wot should a
gentleman do ?
I collared the cow ’n’ I broke ’is neck—y’ kin go to
blazes, you 1 ”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


dsf
z
"LOOK TOR THE
SILVER LINING.”
*c Lt‘a-tdr,eht/ wtfA
CL
a
- ... , >'? sv \
DISH
WASHER
Perhaps the most disagreeable of all domestic duties
is washing up, and yet it is one that must be per-
formed three times a day every day in the year.
Someone must do this work in every home, and
where it falls on the shoulders of the housewife,
it becomes a form of drudgery which makes serious
demands on her already crowded hours.
Why not let Electricity do this work for you ?
The Walker Electric Dish Washer will thoroughly
cleanse, sterilise, rinse and dry, at one operation
and in from 5 to 10 minutes’ time, the whole of
the dishes and cutlery used during the meal.
This Dish Washer is neat in appearance,
takes up little space, and is a most valu-
able addition to any kitchen.
Come and see it in operation in our Showrooms.
MDA-3
Doing'
the work
for her !
y
\
V/
'
o
to
,,r
■/
?//«fli
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, 8.W., MAILED FREE.
Australian General Hgctric 0 |td
“Mazda House,” Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Box 2517 G.P.O. ’Phene: City 3510.
Also Queen and Collins Streets. MELBOURNE.
’Phone: Cent. 2646. Box 53S GP.O.
BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
TASMANIA—OIiver & Oliver. HOBART and EAUNCESTON.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd.,
“Mazda House,” 89i Has Street


Hupmobile
H immobile
Hupmobile drivers, like old friends,
greet each other on the road. There is
a spirit of comradeship between them
which has its foundation in the sincere
respect which they have in common for
the good qualities of the Hupmobile.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED. 112-120 Pine Street, Adelaide. S. Australia
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY. LIMITED. 427 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Queensland
DUNCAN. LOANE, West Devonport, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS' CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.. Christchurch, N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION. Wellington, N.Z.
n.
His Master's Voice ”
There's no joy like
the joy of good music .
His
Master's Voice
REGISTERED trade mark.
- I
;
v:
c=r
V
4
*
; Z J.-/JL rr—
y»
<2
fiC
0
« ii . I
.X/
yi%=r:,&.r
H#.
—no outing can be quite what it might be unless you take
“His Master’s Voice.”
With this--the world’s most perfect Instrument —you can sit at your ease anywhere
—by the sea, in the cool green depths of the mountains, on the shady verandah at
home—and listen in ecstatic content to the most wonderful music in the world.
Melba, Caruso, Heifetz —all the greatest stars will sing and play for you.
if you feel inclined to jazz—why, there are the most irresistible orchestras and
bands to set your feet moving. Hear “His Master’s Voice” now —Summertime’s a
great time to own this ideal entertainer.
Instruments range in price from 11 guineas to 91 guineas.
Write for Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists and
name of nearest dealer.
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
“His Master’s Voice,’
Regd. Trade*inark.
“Gramophone,”
Regd Trade-mark.


Amtifteinrnt*
g V l)N E Y’S CHI I? F THEATRE S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: SALLY.
CRITERION: THE FLAW.
ROYAL: CINDERELLA.
CULLERS’ NEW THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Proprietors: BEN and JOHN FULLER.
s. irection Mis 3 ADA REEVE.
SPANGLES TWICE DAILY.
ADA REEVE Presents “SPANGLES” with her own
, Company including' GUS McNAUGHTON,
the Modern Style Comedian, Nora O'Malley, Saro-
nova, Nella Duval, Betty Howard, Jess Sweet, Harry
t .• • Alec Har disty, Frank Wilson.
Twice Rally, at 2.15 and 8 o’clock. Popular Prices:
Evening, 5/- to 1/-; Matinees, 3/- to 1/- Plus Tax.
Box Plans at Paling’s.
pAI.A C IS TIIISA T It IS. SYI)X IS Y.
Lessees J. and N. Tait and Bailey and Grant
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinefi Wednesdays at 2.
E. J. and DAN CARROLL present
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
An Australian Comedy in three acts by
C. J. DENNIS.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
J C. WILLLVAiaoN, LTD, MELBOURNE
W ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S.
CAIRO.
THEATRE ROYAL.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, JAN. 27.
A SOUTHERN MAID
Public Notice.
Sale of Queensland Government
Stock and Bonds.
FROM Ist February, 1923, until further
notice, Queensland Government Stock
and Bonds may be purchased on the under-
mentioned terms:—
Price of Issue—Par.
Rate of Interest. —54 per cent, per annum,
payable half-yearly.
Interest will be free of State Income Tax,
and is at present free of Commonwealth
Income Tax, but the Queensland Govern-
ment does not guarantee that interest will
be free of Commonwealth Taxation during
the full currejicy of the Stock or Bonds.
Date of Maturity.—lst July, 1938, but
the Government has the option of repaving
on or after Ist July, 1933.
Forms of application may be obtained at
the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Syd-
ney or Melbourne, and at any branch of
that Bank in Queensland.
Commission of Ten Shillings per centum
will be allowed to Members of recognised
Stock Exchanges of Australia only on appli-
cations lodged by them and which bear their
stamp.
EDWARD G. THEODORE,
Premier and Treasurer.
Queensland Treasury, January, 1923.
I/egal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND
WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
In Divorce, No. 2369.
To JOHN RAYMOND BAKER formerly
°* Wellington Motor Mechanic but now of
an address unknown to the petitioner.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Wellington citing you to appear
and answer the petition of May Matilda
Baker of Wellington Married Woman where-
in she prays for a dissolution of her mar-
riage with you on the ground of desertion
and such citation intimates that in default
of your so doing the Court will proceed to
hear the said petition and to pronounce sen-
tence therein notwithstanding your absence
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
\°_ T the purpose aforesaid you are within
45 days after the date of this publication to
attend in person or by your solicitor at the
Supreme Court Office at Wellington and
there to enter an appearance without which
you will not be allowed to address the Court
at any stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said citation and petition
will be supplied to you on your applying for
the same at the Supreme Court Office at
Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this 10th day of
January, 1923.
(l.s. ) G. S. CLARK, Deputy Registrar,
Friends of the respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
C. B. O’Donnell is the solicitor for the
petitioner whose address for service is at
the office of the said C. B. O’Donnell, 200
Lambton Quay, Wellington, New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 865 of 1922.
Between ETHEL GERTRUDE PERRIER
Petitioner and JOHN MOORE
PERRIER Respondent.
To JOHN MOORE PERRIER late of
Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ETHEL
GERTRUDE PERRIER has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the fourth day of May One thousand nine
hundred and twenty-three and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A
conv of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
Dated this 9th day of January a.d. 1923.
For the Registrar—
M. A. SIMON, Chief Clerk in Divorce.
H. E. _ McINTOSH, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 32 Elizabeth Street, Sj T dney.
. Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD’S COMPANY of COMEDIANS in
THE O BRIEN GIRL.
_____ Plans at Glen’s.
D ALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Direction: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
HEN & JOHN FULLER’S GREAT 1922-23 SHOW,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
Plans at Glen’s.
ING'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
J. and N. TAIT’S Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE FORTY THIEVES.
THIS ALLAN WILKIIS SIIA KS PEA REA N
■ ntom utions.
ON VACATION.
Australasian Representatives: WILSON & SODEN,
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
l_l OVT’B Til KA TICKS, M ISI.IiOIi ItN B
" Also SYDNEY,
WALLACE REID in
THE DICTATOR
“ED.” GIBSON in
THE LOADED DOOR
Prices as usual.
jiy| A.IICST 1C Til ISA Tit IS. iMEI.IIOUKN E
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
STEEL HEARTS.
A VITAGRAPH PRODUCTION.
Mntinfes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
IDEAL HOLIDAY RESORT,
PALM ISLANDS.
Four Hours from Townsville, per Mail S.S.
KURANDA.
EXCELLENT BEACH. BATHING, FISHING,
TENNIS.
For Tariff, write MRS. CURSON.
KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
Made in Eugland: Loaded in Australia. For
all gauges of shot-guns, and loaded with the
best Powders.
In case of difficulty refer your dealer to
K YNOCH LIMITED,
90 WILLIAM
STREET,
MELBOURNE.
dsf
277 CLARENCE
STREET,
SYDNEY.
PLUM
RAZORS
&
R
The “Tried
and True”
oimlity-main-
tained Razor.
Fo r thirty-
five years
the “Plum”
has retained
the confidence
and patron-
age of men
who appreci-
ate its sterl-
ing qualities.
Price 12/6
Pair in Pre-
sentation
Case. gj/.
Post. Free,
Kept in
order for
two years
frteo.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 b GEORGES!SYDNEY
COMET
IT is during dry seasons that the “Comet”
Mill becomes a veritable Godsend. In
cases innumerable, shown in testimonials
received from stock owners, large and small,
the “Comet” Mill has killed any anxiety as
to water shortage and kept plant and sheep
life revelling in a good water supply. Truly
have these owners kept smilingly on their
way to prosperity with a “Comet.” Even
the lightest and most spasmodic winds to
which other mills cannot turn are instantly
converted to water supply by a “Comet” Mill
Here are but a few of the features back of
our three years’ guarantee, and responsible
for the superior performance of “Comet”
Mills in transforming wind power to water
supply.
STRUCTURAL STRENGTH—onIy best quality
materials in a “Comet.’’ LARGE BEARINGS
running in continuous oil bath practically eliminat-
ing friction and wear.—LARGE DIAMETER SHAFT
—ROLLER GUIDES—‘-SET’’ OF SAILS per-
fected after trying every conceivable type and angle
of sail, to give maximum pumping power in the
lighter winds—SPECIAL SPRING GOVERNOR
to prevent racing and damage in high winds
—SUPER-SENSITIVE BALL-BEARING TURN-
TABLE, etc. Let us give you all the facts. Write
to-day for catalogue and particulars.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS 8 Co. Ltd.
Works—Constitution Road, Dulwich Hill, Sydney,
City Office—2ssa George Street. SYDNEY.
Alio at ROCKHAMPTON. BRISBANE & TOWNSVILLE.
No Drought Where There’s
a “COMET”
•‘Bogunda,’’ Toowoomba.
“During the last dry time in the west all my
surface water dried up, and only for the
“Comets” I would have been stranded for water.
They never failed me—and although 1 had one
of your pumping heads and engine I did not
have to use it- lam not sorry for discarding
other makes of mills and erecting “Comets.”
They are no trouble—the only ones worth
having.” (Sgd.) W. T. MOTT.
<vN\
uu
■'•iliys
\i .. V
— 2
«


Why Not Learn to Draw?
*?v
You can do
it easily
and quickly
without
drudgery, by
following the
Weston method. It
is just as easy to
Learn by Mail,
and you have the
advantage of the
personal aid and
helpful criticism of
Mr. Harry J. Wes-
ton, Australia’s
leading commercial
and poster artist.
The Harry J. Wes-
ton Postal School
of Drawing will
develop your latent
talent, and put you
on the road to
making big money.
Send • your name
and address, with
three stamps to
cover postage, for
the book, “There’s
Money in the
Pen,” which tells
all about the
course, fees, etc.,
and gives ex-
amples of the
lessons and stu-
dents’ work.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
106 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
X
A Raincoat that
Has Our Strongest
Recommendation .
THE >
JACKEROO
Guaranteed for Twelve
Months.
Made of strong texture Cloth, rubber
lined and fitted with V-piece for
Riding—also in walking style.
Thoroughly Rainproof, and guaranteed.
Mail to Desk stating chest
and height measurements.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba.
n-
e/x
REX—the Duplicator
100 copies in a few minutes.
Works like a £lO machine.
Price 35/-, Foolscap size.
Postage 27-
Write for particulars.
H. DIBBS & CO., Dept. B,
Station House,
Rawson Place, Sydney.
o omt3,
** TAMCENT TEMPERED
PATE NT , urn
REEDSj
NEITHER WIRELESS NOR
WAGGON
needed to transport the
“BOOMERANG”
The King of Mouth Organs
You can take it anywhere,
and with its clear musical
voice, give a wide-range
concert at a moment’s
notice.
The “ BOOMERANG,” Large size,
has 20 holes and 40 reeds. Perfect
musical tone, smoothly finished
and strongly built.
Price - 5/-
Posted 5/6
The Miniature “BOOMERANG”
resembles the Large in make, tone
and finish, but has only 10 holes
and 20 reeds. A fine little instru-
ment to train a boy’s musical
talent.
Price - 3j~
Posted 3/3
J. ALBERT & SQN
Dept. B.
“Boomerang House ”
137 King St., Sydney
Also at 231 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Special quotations for wholesale lots
dsf
THE GENUINE "KEMP
»•
SADDLE
is a General Utility Saddle
POLO, PARK or BUCK-JUMP.
?010 Players are using this saddle, and
professional buckjuinpers have used it for years
—one satisfied customer wrote that he could
stick to it a great deal easier than to his money.
The secret of all this lies in the shape of the pads and
the position of them —almost levtl with the head of
saddle. It is a high-grade saddle bearing our name.
£14 151-
Freight Paid for Cash with Order
to any N.S.W. Railway Btation.
WHIPS
Plaited Belly Thong's—-Kangaroo right through.
Bft. Thongs. 12-plait 22/6. 16-iilait 25/“
Handles—l6-plait 16/6. 24-plait 18/6. free for eash.
Write for our General saddlery Catalogue,
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
wo v rsji ■
NAMES
dsf
dsf
A Great Convenience
For Marking Linen
And they stve a noyance often caused by
exch nge or loss when the articles are
not marked. Any Name woven into a
Fine Cambric Tape in Fast Color.
ji"j nMiiimiiiiiHiimiiiiiimijiiiiimuiimniiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiJ
! c m:walker |
ITllfiniiiiniii’miinninriir.iiininiiiirinmii iiHi'Hiiiiuiiniirinin
Actual Size of Style No. 9
Prices: 12dz, 7/6. 6dz 5/-. 3dz, 3/6.
Sold by All Best Drapers.
JR* T PTY - 85 Cubitt Street
* J* V-'d.&ll. LTD . Richmond, Mel
Write for Style Book.
Are You Troubled
with Rupture?
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us, and we will send vou our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR-CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away with all
cumbersome springs, giving a feeling of case
and comfort from the first day’s use. It is
the most scientific appliance yet invented for
this complaint. It will hold a rupture firmly
and comfortably under all conditions. To
prove what we state,
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU ON A FREE TRIAL
Tf it is not satisfactory, we do not expect you
to' keep it, and the trial costs you nothing. It
is suitable for men, women and children, and
the price is within the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW COMPANY,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, V c. [l
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
ACTUAL SIZE
The cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each.
Special sampl-
ing cabinet
containing
10 cigars, 6/-;
25, 12/6;
50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Post paid to any
address.
CRAIG g AITKEN,
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
Missing: Friends.
FRANCIS JOHN DUNNE.—WiII Fran-
cis John Dunne, formerly of Broken
Hill, or any person having any knowledge
of his whereabouts, or of his death, please
communicate with the undersigned.
H. P. LAWRY, Solicitor,
Bridge Street, Reefton, N.Z
.*N?S
a-o
%/
4>W
iioN
®Ce om> 6
The Choice
of Australia’s
Leading: Mills
It is in Australia’s most progressive
mills, where correct tension, accurate
cutting and a lasting edge are para-
mount necessities, that first choice is
invariably given to
“An Eagle on a Globe’’
Circular Saws.
We make them ourselves in Australia—cut them from blanks of
Sheffield’s best Double Extra Crucible Cast Steel, the finest steel pro-
duce! for the work. The keen competitive price of these high quality
saws is a worth-while feature to every saw user. Fifteen standard
patterns of teeth. Any size hole or gauge. Sizes from 4in. upwards.
Sind your order and ask for “Book of Saws” and “Balfour’s Hints on
Steel,” post free.
Tile Eagle &. Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-speed Steel,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 312-48 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
Cliff Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie. Paul &
Gray Ltd., Scott Street, Newcastle; Jt. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle
Street. Hobart; John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street,
Adelaide.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and, no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Carda Book: It dawdles too long on the
track....A.G.S. (S.A.): Not bad, but eats too much
space.... Kamura: It chokes itself in. a tangle of
words. Aim at simplicity.... C.1.-D.: Doesn't suit
u 5.... Oya: Why not tell your own yarn ? Why
put it into the mouth of somebody else?... .Eureka:
Thanks, but somebody else has covered that ground.
....Ruby D.: “Prisoner” nearly broke in....
A.W.D.: Light weight. .. .E.S.J.: Oh, no; the her-
maphrodite isn’t like the moa and other extinct
birds —the birth of one was registered in Ceylon
only a year ag0.... Sana: In the almost-good-
enough class. .. .R.T.M.S.: Off our beat. Render
unto Broadway the things that are Broadway’s....
A.M. (Manly): Not up. . . .V. 8.8.: Love sighs want
a stronger draught to carry them. ... A.S.M.: The
ship sails heavily... .Jack H.: The “lvangaroo-paw”
scratches no emotion... .C.H.0.: None quite. The
sonnet is the best, but too extravagant. Better
carry a full supply of rhymes and punctuation....
Yas: Poor stuff.... U.R.E.: A bit too artificial to
be mirthful. .. .Alban S.: “Lament” is nonsense....
Extravagances of the sort can only get through when
there is extravagance of feeling to back them....
Midas: Must go back.... A.G.S.: Thin and uncon-
vincing. ... A.C.W.: Nothing to make a yarn there.
...,0.8. (Leichhardt): Some very dull people made
another dull person drunk to keep him from
voting; but he had been to the polling-
place in the morning! Doesn’t seem to jilstify
ten sorrowful - pages of copy.. «■ .H.D.P.: Very poor.
.. . .C.T.L.: Not in our line;.. .H.S. (Petersham):
It only says in rather commonplace verse that you
are sorry your love is dead.,. .Joseph M.: No good.
... .Pertinax: “The Dreamers” don’t dream anything
fresh... .Azac: Not up... .H.8.M.: Excellent verse
for a lady’s album. .. . W.C, (Parkes) : Too rugged.
. ...J.P.M.: Send pars, in any time, marking the
date and page... .McJonah: Verse bumps all over
the place... .W.F.8.: Very p00r... .Frank B.:
Wanted better handling... .Horton B': Ridiculous
stuff C.H.H.: They don’t get near....E. John
S.: Poor both in shape and matter. .. .A.T.M.: Not
up.... Devon: Far too ‘thin R.H.R.: Yes, dawn
“follows on the night”; but it’s no excuse for 12
lines of commonplace... .H.D.8.: Poor stuff....
O.M. (Grafton): You spoil your work with those
twisted phrases.... Sea Lover: Sing out, gay min-
strel :
The fishes are skimming o’er the ocean deep,
The waves with their white-crested tops are no
more;
The sea has calmed down to rest like in sleep,
The seagulls are hopping about on the shore.
The whales and sharks are roaming about,
Seeking for prey that is easy to find;
Swordfish are seeking the small fishes out,
Snapper and whiting and any of that kind.
Fishermen are moving back with their ships ;
Far away on the horizon a black cloud arises,
The waves are donning their white-crested coats,
Awake from their slumber in all different sizes.
. ...J.M. (Menzies Bay): Doesn’t make anything
like a yarn... .C.S.S.: “Crushed Hopes” and all the
others are very bad verse. . . .C.W.WAV.: Not quite
well enough done... .Basalt Boulder: Too rugged....
R.F.G.: Pretty, but they miss....H.W. (Dulwich
Hill): Doesn’t hang together... .R.T.K.: The birds
are without interest. . . .E.R.R.: Pretty horrible, even
for first attempts.... Alechnik: Your sense of humor
is cross-eyed. .. .E.C.S.M.: Too small a point for the
rather lame approach. .. .P.K.J.: Not up. .. .B.C.
(Coonamble) : The basket yearned for it ... .Footscray:
It may be sincere, but you can only get the skill
needed by hard work. .. .Bill: Doesn’t get near....
White Cedar: You have the ability to say things;
why not find something to say?....Gum Tips: Not
bad, but covers the old ground.... Stanley S.:
“Strategy” is not for us R.F.S.: Excellent verse,
but says nothing.... Bellerive: We’ll clear the ring
for you : ,
“F.T.8.,” I read your patter
In the Inky Way.
I did scan it very clearly—
At the close of day.
I began a-contributing—-
Short defected rhymes ;
In the Answers I was slated,
Slated many times.
In my attic-room I’d read ’em,
They came as no surprise ;
I knew I was a novice,
Not a Gordon in disguise.
I did keep the pen a-moving,
My art was in its dawn —
A farmer’s got to set the seeds
Before he reaps the corn.
I did battle in the Answers,
The truth I do declare;
In The Bulletin I entered
And was treated fair.
....Charles B.: We specially liked that remarkable
line, “Life will ne’er forsaketh”. .. . T.T.R.: If it
had a fair number of rhymes it would have a slight
singing quality, but it is merely pious commonplace.
. ...J.S. (Hornsby): If you want to curse Adam for
making Monday curse him as if you meant it....
W.C.K.: Don’t like it ... .E.W.K.: Not quite
Colin W.: An old yarn not much better dressed than
its hero....R.S. (Bowen): It moved the anthro-
pophagous editor' to tears... .T.8.D.: Terrifying....
Les L.: It doesn’t say anything except that there is
a clock at Sydney Central Station Yanga: The
point doesn’t seem to be very strong. .. .Cot: Arise
and smite the whited sepulchres in mystic song:—
Oh, ye, who tread the Narrow Way,
Oh, ye, whom Devil hath no sway,
Judge not ’er less the break of day
The virgin pure be stole away.
Oh, she, the fallen sister low,
Was once a child as white as snow.
But ere the break of goldern day,
Her morals were as filth and clay.
Across the waste the trumpets call
To gather them of sin’s red shawl.
How shall ye stainless judges fare
When standing ’fore the Judgment Chair?
... .Tapu: Hardly enough in the sketch. .. .
Idaloo: Ditto 8.1. (Geelong): Verse doesn’t carry
it... .W.R. (Norwood): Both pretty crude... .J.fl.:
Something newer than that is wanted. .. .R.M.A.: A
bit late.... H.L.N.: Uninteresting stuff so closely
typed that it would be ruled out anyhow.... Gaza:
Slight variation of Old Bulletin yarn.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.P.T.: Don’t use old jokes—anyway, not deli-
berately. .. .S.T.: Nowhere near it. . . .L.P.M.: Draw-
ing in pencil on ruled paper is just inviting obloquy. ...
M.L.: Scores of school kids are doing exactly that
sort of thing in the backs of the exercise-b00k5....
K.K.8.: Seeing you’ve carried two about with you
ever since you were born, your idea of what feet
look like is amazing... .No. 7: No interest in two
pencilled faces staring at one another.... E.McG.:
Throw those scratchy little lines overboard and
develop a broader style. .. .8.P.5.: There’s promise
in it; keep pegging away.


A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Tobacco Box, richly engraved,
gilt-lined, self-acting spring lid, 25/-
With Gold Shield, 40/-
A Saunders’
Perfume Bottle,
Solid Silver Mounts
Cut Glass Bottle,
A.. Saunders’ Puff Jar, pure Sil-
ver-plated lid, Crystal Glass Jar,
657-
Hair Tidy to match, 65/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Collar Box, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, beautifully engraved and burnished, £5.
GIFT SUGGESTIONS.
A. Saunders’
roon edge,
Lady’s Solid Silver Hair Brush and Comb, Gad-
extra-quality Bristles, in Silk-lined Case, 50 / *
’’ure Silver-plated, 40/«
- r
Post-Carb
,
A. Saunders’ Leather Writing Folio, various designs, 60/■
Others, 45/-, 50/-
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Safety-match
Holder, highly burnished. Pocket size, 15/-
Engraved Ribbon design, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver
Cigarette Case, engraved
Ribbon design, gilt lined,
highly burnished, 35/-
With 9ct. Gold Shield,
40/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Calendar,
highly burnished, plain design,
20/-
A. Saunders’ Handkerchief Box, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, hand
burnished, plain design, Silk-lined, £5/10/*
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
£
£
K
$
SYDNEY:
<9
\
&
is
&
<s
s
a
<3^-
©
■
zh.
o
c
_ y ’
-t>
JfS-'' ,
;' *jl\
a
<
!
mm
K
_
n/p'
th
y
JL
THe Heart of tHe
Player-Piano.
The Victor Player action is the Heart of the
Player-Piano—the vital mechanism that is instan-
taneously responsive to the “brain” contained in
the Music Roll.
There are four supreme tests which prove the superi-
ority of the Victor Player action: —
1. Ease of Pedalling.
2. Perfect Responsiveness.
3. Exceptional Strength.
4. Beautiful Workmanship in every
detail.
Send for Catalogue.
dsf
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Rockhampton.
Toowoomba. Lismore and Newcastle.
15he
VICTOR
Player-Piano
A Source of Inspiration
to Parents and Children.
All thoughtful parents wish their children to love and
understand music. They wish, also, that their children
will learn music naturally, and not as the result of force
and discipline.
This can only be accomplished by inspiration. Place at
the disposal of your children an instrument of which you
and they will be proud—A VICTOR PLAYER-PIANO.
The charm of appearance is only one of the many features
of the VICTOR PLAYER-PIANO.
PERFORMANCE is a permanent factor that wins your
favor instantly. Ease of pedalling- and perfect responsive-
ness in the VICTOR PLAYER-PIANO is supplemented by
a beauty and quality of Tone that wins your approval.
Visit PALING’S and see the VICTOR PLAYER-PIANO,
hear it, operate it yourself, and you will be in a better
position to decide.
Illustrated Literature and Price List, with
particulars of
EASY TERMS,
posted FREE.
Paling's will take your
Piano as part payment,
giving you full mar-
ket value.


Ti,
ri?*
: A
A Skin
in hand
may be worth two
in the bush.
But “there’s many a slip ’twixt cup and
lip.”
Make, sure that your consignments realise
top market values. Send your RABBIT,
KANGAROO, FOX SKINS, etc., to
WINCKCOMBE, CARSON
Expert Salesmen, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
FfblFiiTlTfe
HUX
The cost Of a home or any other class
of building: constructed with “Fibro-
lite” Asbestos Cement Sheets .is con-
siderably less than a similar building:
built of weatherboard and roofed with
iron or tiles.
“Fibrolite” improves with age, is fire-
resistant, white-ant proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rot, rust
or corrode. The sheets have a great tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in 36 handy sizes. Before building send for
full information.
Write for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
"Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Coiiins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
BRISBANE, Q
Wire
Ahead
for
Rooms
Queen S(.
BRISBANE
INCLUSIVE TARIFF
JDEALLYsituated in the heart
of Brisbane, this establish-
ment offers every comfort,
service and convenience you
expect to find at a modern hotel
14/
o
Showing:
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on .all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or f ood or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
< Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
dsf
ICY- HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
FULLER-LEHICH
PULVERIZED FUEL-FIRING SYSTEMS
zmm
Boiler equipped for firing high volatile fuels —
Bituminous and Lignite Coals.
\
t ' ;
Boiler equipped for firing low volatile fuels —
Anthracite Culm and Coke Breeze.
Send for particulars to
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE AND PERTH.
AUSTRALASIAN ENGINEER S’ OFFICE,
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PHILIPS
ds
y^WJSTT
wiMier*
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Well-
ington (N.Z.)> Auckland,
Christchurch, New Ply-
mouth.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.>
Specialists in the Manufacture of
Telephone and Switchboard Apparatus for
Magneto, Common Battery & Automatic Working,
7 Macquarie Place, SYDNEY; 509 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY
(Opp.
Station)!
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OP SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/C.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/-. Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /-.
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS,
WIGS/ BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
T
\ -J
j
FOUR MORE FARCES,
in one book, 27-
Contents —Our First
Performance, My Turn
Next, Area Belle,
Mock Trial for Breach
of Promise. PLAY
Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 17-
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage 1/6
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
WSSI
3EGISTEREV
mAOE HARK
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
Australasian lii-pt toctitatives: —•
Norman Baker & Longhurst
5O York Street. Sydney.
SKANDIA Crude Oil Engines
Now available in stock for immediate delivery
and for arrival.
SCANDIA Woodboard
For Buildings. Ideal for Linings, Partitions, etc.
Waterproof, non-conductor of heat and cold.
Samples and illustrated catalogue posted free on
application.
Nelson & Robertson,
11-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
business, Robbery, etc.
J.H.N.: “Min Yip’s” worthless Jap ther-
mometers (B. 4/l/’23) will soon be
forced off the market by Fritz, who
still maintains his pre-war standard in this
class of goods. A consignment of ther-
mometers arrived from Hamburg by the liner
Hanover. Tested, 50 of these were found
to be accurate to a degree. They were in-
voiced at l(Qd. each.
* * * *
“Stony” : Just at the time when Victoria’s
eat-more-fruit campaign started, and while
the daily papers were gloomily ..advertising
the fact that the jam-factories wouldn’t be
buying fruit this summer, I was paying 6J.
per lb. for cold-storage apples, in a district
only 100 miles from Melbourne. With apples
widely used as pig-feed during the flush of
every Victorian season, surely it should be
possible to average a full year’s supply of
apples at no more than, say, 3d. per lb., for
the whole population. Cheap apples, cheap-
enough labor and cheap cold-storage are all
available. The expensive middleman, of
course, is the. codlin-in-the-core.
* * * #
“0.K.”: Now that the old Day and Mar-
tin firm proposes to “dispose” of the busi-
ness, all sorts of tales will be told to account
for tjje former! immensity of its blacking out-
put. f'The allegation that a soldier sold for a
trifle the original recipe to Day, when he
was a hairdresser, is given as an explana-
tion of the Day and Martin success, where-
as the blacking the firm sold was probably
no better than others on the market at the
same time. The fortune of the firm was
founded by the advertising stunt of six-horse
waggons, driven around London by a man in
scarlet and gold livery, who had other gaudy
men beside him and at the back of the wag-
gon, which was laden with dummy cases
of the newly-introduced blacking.
.** * *
“Seno”: Melbourne’s ragshops, like those
of Sydney, seem to be seeing how big they can
grow. Time was when Little Bourke-street
was an obscure lane of stores and factories;
but the intrusion of Myers and their dazzling
shop fronts have changed its aspect alto-
gether. Myers are still building, and threaten
to make the area one of Melbourne’s busiest.
Buckley and Nunn’s have a new building
in Little Bourke-street nearing completion;
and other schemes are talked of. For a long
time Myers have been displaying their price
tickets from Bourke-street right back to
Lonsdale-street; and only lately they have
shot westward and have connected an Eliza-
beth-street frontage with their huge block,
making frontages in Bourke, Little Bourke,
Lonsdale and Elizabeth streets.
* * * *
“Jimmy Possum”: As one who has had a
good deal of practical experience on the
land, let me tell “Gippo” that he is wrong
when he says that the only way to check
couch grass is by frequent turning over of
the ground (B. 23/11/’22). Turning over
the ground only makes it grow with . in-
creased vigor. If you want to get rid of
couch _ you must dig up and destroy every
root, joint and seed of the grass, or smother
it out with more vigorous grasses, such
as Red Natal and Rhodes grass. So
persistent and tenacious is couch that it
will revive and strike root after being dug
up and exposed to the mid-summer sun for
several days. Have knpwn apparently dead
grass revive after being ploughed under to a
depth of 12 inches in light volcanic soils in
Bananaland.
* * * ir *
“Cattleman”: Re “Ragar’s” remarks about
the tired Queensland cattleman and his big
brands (B. 7/12/’22). Has he ever heard
of any buyer giving more for a bullock with
a small brand, other things equal, than for
one with a large one? I have been 20 years
selling bullocks to the meat exporters, mostly
at a price per 1001 b., with by-products
thrown in. On many occasions a few beasts
in the mob did not carry a brand of any
description, but never have I received a
bonus for the clean hides. Furthermore,
“Ragar” is wrong when he suggests that
the big brand is used to save the cattleman
trouble in cutting-out the beast. Cattle-
men in the North don’t bother about reading
a beast’s brand unless a dispute arises be-
tween owners. They detect their cattle at
a glance by their earmarks.
* * * *
“X2X”: The recent sporadic cases of
anthrax, believed to be due to Japanese
shaving-brushes, illustrate a new phase of
this horror. There are doubtless brushes
imported into the Commonwealth long before
the Custom prohibition where anthrax
organisms still exist in a condition of dorm-
ancy. This dormancy or spore-formation is
a characteristic of the disease, arid instances
have been recorded in which at the end of
20 years it has been as virulent as ever.
Spore-formation is really a sort of suspended
animation into which the organism is forced
by reason of adverse surrounding circum-
stances,_ and although it lasts for only a
short time in the case of most organisms
there is no limit apparently, to its dura-
tion with Bacillus Anthracis. Moreover,
laboratory tests have indicated the possi-
bility that the germ is more virulent —pro-
bably as the result of the recuperation
it has undergone—at the termination of the
spore period than it was before it
* * * " »
“Azac” on pipes of wood:—
Our hardwoods are ideally suited to be transformed
into water-pipes. All history goes to show that the
very earliest form of this pipe, was the hollow log,
and the superiority of wooden pipes over metal pipes
for most purposes is unquestionable. The wood does
not corrode, while the pipes are lighter and cost less
to handle. Moreover, the absence of chemical action
as between the water and wood allows of a quicker
flow through the wooden pipes. 'At Footscray (Vic.),
a local company is using pipes made of W. Australian
karri. They are cut to correct section and dove-
tailed together, wrapped with heavy-gauge wire and
dipped into a water-resisting composition. There
are proper kilns for seasoning the timber. One of
the company’s contracts is for about 5A miles of
16in. by 2001 b. pressure wood-pipes for the Hamil-
ton Waterworks Trust. As regards the life of the
article, the-Romans hold the record at -present:
wooden pipes Tut down by them have been excavated
in London in a good state of preservation. It will
take some time for Australia to top this achievement,
but Footscray is hopeful.


■§i
n
Just at present is probably the
most trying period of the year
owing to the extreme heat, often
accompanied by great humidity, with wet and cold
snaps sandwiched in between. It is this sort of
thing that makes people feel washed out, bad
tempered and devoid of energy. Any kind of work
is most irksome. The business man goes home
each day with a headache or some other bilious
symptoms, and probably finds his wife and family
in a similar condition. None of them seem to
know exactly what they want or what is the matter.
In most cases it will be'found that it is nothing
but the liver which has become disordered and upset
the system. Very simply caused but most distressing
while it lasts. At such a time Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are invaluable. They will correct this
trouble speedily and restore the organs to regular action. They
act directly, though gently, on the liver, and thus tone the
system. Users of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are urged to
take them more freely while the trying weather lasts, as the
liver is most apt to get out of order at this time of the year.
'zzmm.
■■
vmvwwrn**
LIVER
the
FOR
m
wz^m.
They Make You Fee/ Brighter.


dfdf
he larqest selling
■*«*■, l , *
quality pencil m
the woxlcL
ENUS
PENCILS
dsf
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
A
Better
Beverage
for the
Same Money
WOLFE'S
AROMATIC SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
can be truthfully
termed ‘priceless’
in its beneficence
as a beverage. It
may now be ob-
tained at all first-
class hotels AT
THE SAME
PRICE
per glass or per
bottle as any
other high grade
spirit.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
The Beverage that Benefits
DOM
0
as*
<r
Lj
Yes
Sir!
// iOfO
Indigestion,
4ND cAclfl
COItMtIAL
WISE’S W
FLUID MAGNESIA
IfLTIiaiMMEUUKU
this Popular family Remedy prospers
Because those who take it prosper.
Recommended by Doctors as the safest
and most dependable Children’s Medicine
Cooling in Simmer. Reliable Always .
The Genuine Kruse's is made by
Felton, Crimwade & Do. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne,
SDNITIIHS
OMJ.
JOJ.
TURF
BIG
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
The irresistible Cigarette
for discriminating Smokers
Turf Cigarettes make an epoch in cigarettes.
Beautifully made with golden leaf from the
famed Old Belt and Eastern Carolina
Districts of Virginia they are irresistible
to the man of taste.
Turf Virginia burn slowly and smoke sweetly
and have a softness at once distinctive.
Be sure to buy Turf—the Big Handsome
Cigarettes—2o for two shillings.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL TOBACCONISTS
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Made by
Alex. Boguslavsky, Ltd*
55, Piccadilly,
LONDON.
England
"77?
i
a
Vi
Vi
a
/ujjini
r 4
UJinHinmiiiiiiiniimiw/jjw
PLUMBERS
BRASS WORK
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
Medium
Country
Melbourne
Sydney
Brisbane
Hobart
Perth
Adelaide
(Bib Cocks, Hose Cocks, Gully Bibs, Stop
Cocks, Shower Cocks, Ferrule Cocks, Straight
. Ferrules, Path Cocks, etc.,
TANK COCKS, fin., lin.
WINDMILL PUMPS
ALDERDICE, Warrnambool.
: T 3
Died the other day in Maoriland, John
Barton, civil engineer, who, in 1850, put up
the record of being the first white child
born in the Upper Ilutt district, near Well-
ington. His mother was the daughter of
John Butler, the first resident parson in
the Shaky Isles.
F.H. ’: We all do our best to give and
take in these trying, unsettled times. The
other week a Melbourne parson was advocat-
ing the encouragement of dancing, properly
supervised, for the Young Person; and at a
bush dance, a few nights later, I took the
floor to the tune of “Abide with Me”—
jazzed.
Ellis Negus, Scotch born and Melbourne
trained, is dead in Adelaide at 76. As a
young man he did much building in and
about Melbourne and Geelong, but for 45
years he had operated in S. Aus., starting
with the line from Kanunda which taps the
Murray at the Nor’-West Bend. His chief
work was the deep-drainage system which,
established in Adelaide as early as 1880,
for years gave that city the laugh over
Melbourne.
Macshe”: Lewis David Edwards, Pro-
fessor of Logic and Psychology at the
Bananaland V arsity, who has just ceased
m i^ e » President of the Queensland
teachers Union, has, during his 36 years
of life, held the jobs of pupil-teacher,
assistant, headmaster, high-school principal,
inspector and Varsity prof. His versatility
as an educationist makes him a strong tin
for the Under-Secretaryship, vacated by P.
S. Commissioner Story.
J. Malone, the new chief telegraph man-
ager for Australia, began as a telegraph-
messenger, but there is nothing exceptional
in rising from that humble job. In all the
States there are similar bright examples.
J. A. Norris, Vic. State Auditor-General,
and Murtagh Murphy, Vic. Deputy-Commis-
sioner of Taxes, are two. Malone, however,
lias climbed a bit quicker than some of the
others. He is only 38. An M.C. came his
way when he was a wireless oflicer with the
A.I.P.
Thomas John Hebblewhite, just dead in
Goulburn (N.S.W.) after working for 35
years in his groove on the Evening Post
of that town, believed right up till the time
ot Ins death that Freetrade was still a live
thing. He was an occasional contributor to
Sydney and Melbourne papers, but Goulburn
uTi egai ,' t e(1 as own historian, and
his -Recollections of a Journalist,” which is
due to see print, is full of the history of
the district and its identities. He was 65
when he died.
Baaalt Boulder”; Lately I’ve been tin-
scratching and bismuth-trailing on Fossil-
brook Creek (N.Q.) . It’s a cow of a climate
right enough that s why the young ’uns on
the creek pass out in all ,their youth and
innocence. Some of ’em there now: Harry
trench, aged 80 years; Jack Shields, 71:
Tom Picken, 70; Tom Burke, 69, Scotty
Donaldson, 68; ‘Smith, 70; Jackv
Johns 65; Andy Lockhart, 62; and Charlie
Nicholson, i l 9. Most of these young chaps
walk into I ossilbrook town every fortnight
lor the mail and a spot or two—a stroll of
lb miles. For two years they have averaged
nait a bag ot tin per week per man.
“Stellsby’s” endorsement:—
“Yardley” (B. 4/l/*2S) is right. One of the
most idiotic of all the conventional lies of our
civilisation is that which attributes close-fistedness
to the Scot. In particular, as “Yardley” remarks,
the seafaring Scot is an artist at scattering the
ca ?h when he gets going. Also, the Scotch have
a positive genius for hospitality. During the war
I was dumped ashore at a Scottish port, hurried
to a Glasgow hospital, and nearly killed with kind-
ness. Ask any returned soldier who has been north
of the Tweed what he thinks of the burgoo-eaters,
and if he numbers stinginess among their vices I’ll
consume the only relic I now- possess of my soldier-
ing days—a pair of issue boots.
11. A. Pitt, who follows M. A. Minogue as
V ic. Under-Treasurer, started his official life
as Clerk of Courts and Receipt and Pay
Oflicer, but did his best work during the war
as sec. and manager of the Vic. Wheat Com-
mission. later taking control of the Austra-
lian Wheat Board. Pitt has one of
the most curious hobbies on record.
He is the foot-fault expert of the
Vie. Lawn Tennis Association, and in the
first-class matches of a tournament he sits
with his eye glued to the serving-line. The
effect of his fearless decisions is that when
Pitt is on deck players now decline to take
risks, and serve a few inches behind the
chalk.
From the Age: —
BEER DRINKING IN BRITAIN.
London, Ist January.—The Brewers’ Society of
Great Britain points out that the beer consumption
in 1922 was 18,000,000,000 gallons, compared with
36,000,000,000 gallons in 1918, 26,000,000,000 gal-
lons in 1920, and 23,000,000,000 gallons in 1921.
The society attributes this decline to excessive taxa-
tion and unemployment.
Putting the population of Great Britain as
43 millions, it would consequently appear
that every man, woman and child consumes
just about nine pints of malted liquor every
24 hours. And in the year that the war
ended, they were averaging 2:} gallons a
day. Someone—whether it be our kin be-
yond the seas, or the Brewers’ Society, or
the Age —ought to put more water in it.
“Yardley’s” aid to beauty:—
Some few years ago it was noted that in. the col- '
liery districts of the English Midlands elderly
women carried their heads erect and their shoulders
well squared, whilst their grace of movement and
erect poise of figure could not have been surpassed
by soldiers who had spent years on parade-grounds,
whereas the younger women simply slouched about
their daily chores. The explanation was simple;
the difference of deportment wgs due to the action
of the mine-owners. In the good old days, when the
wife of a colliery employee delivered dinner to
her husband at bis work, she was allowed to take
home as much coal as she could carry. Continuous
practice trained the women to tramp along briskly
under a load verging on 2cwt. Hence the queenly
deportment. Later, the heavy loadings became such
a tax upon the mines that the proprietors rescinded
the concession, and the younger women grew vip with-
out any of the benefits of this branch of athleticism.
Any Australian girl may thus vastly improve her
attractiveness by carrying a cwt. or two of coal on
her head daily, and if, owing to strikes, there happens
to be a coal shortage, bricks or road-metal or even
sand may be employed.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR monthly sailings.
Reduced Pares all classes.
IV rite for illustrated circular, giving new
rates, First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING. FEBRUARY 21,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Bunking, Public Companies, Jfcc.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. Q.
W. Gray; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq,;
. ,C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
MEAD OFFICE
BRISBANE.
With Offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 84
Branches in Queensland, also representation through
the leading Banking Institutions covering Austra-
lasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest
facilities for the transaction of all general banking
business. “
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,523*000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922.. £13,269)793
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman;’ Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman; George
F. Todman; Duncan Carson; H. R, Lysaght
O. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, ML A ’
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting-Manager: G. 11, \Vkstcott
Branches and Receiving Offices at 148 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chiel Inspector for Queensland: J. N. IT. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 23 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Ruudle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director; A. Don.Ds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world
Every description of Banking Business Transacted
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner (JFORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
CRAMTS DRAFTS
Britain ami Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office : St. George’s Terrace.
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Btreet.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 650,000
£1,275,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£17900.000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 95 Branches and Agenices in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E;C,
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921
yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about • •
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income
£ 1.551.18 S
£2,629,000
£47,000,000
£7.000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping,
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
IHE LAR bIihVeEN V^ ATT^TnA?¥A S^iwr?^5 BST ’ BQUIPPBD STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, Ist MARCH, 11 a .m.
MAKURA, 29th MARCH.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip,
bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
■ reat Cities of the United States can be seen on the Journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 15th FEBRUARY.
MAUNGANUI, 15th MARCH.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services appiy-
UNION NI qTKAM E «mp H /-n ■ C nAu?sini? HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION SXEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island
and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3i TO 4\ WEEKS
Affording a restful holiday amongst
beautiful scenery and interesting
people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
US.
w
Burns-Philp Tours.
1. To JAVA (The Wonderland of the East) and
SINGAPORE, by the favorite steamers
MARELLA and MOXTORO, sailing from Mel-
bourne and Sydney every month.
7 weeks’ trip for £9O.
2. ROUND EASTERN TOUR.
Sydney to Japan, thence to Singapore and return
to Sydney via Java and North Queensland Ports.
11 weeks’ trip, First-class throughout, £146/10/-
Apply for further information to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817,
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
dfs
dsf
- £5,864,360
- 3,675,000
- 5,864,360
£15,403,720
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The lion. Sir Charles Iv. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Xhreadneedle Street, E.C.
374 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1884.
Capital paid up .. £3,000,000
Reserve Fund .. £3,460,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,460,000
dsf
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. K. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. J. W. Macarthur Onslow,
M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
Grneiul Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane. E.C.
Londois Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
JENOLAN CAVES TOUR PARTIES
Leave Sjdney daily, 9.20 a.m. (Sunday excepted).
Inclusive Cost: 3 days, £4/17/6; 4 days, £5/15/6; 5 days, £6/15/6
Programme and Booking at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
CH ALLIS HOUSE (opp. G.P.0.), SYDNEY,
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOB MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FHEMANTLK
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunnury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOlt Bill SIIANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MAOKAY, BOWEN
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
fßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen and Towns
ville.
Huddart Parker LIM
, Magnifloent
' Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
frora Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney.to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from Sydney only 141 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, lMiilp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY,
9 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY, 7 p.m.;
passenger due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, ini hiding:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-elassj on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers on these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVOUITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, THURS-
DAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONG-
KONG, NAGASAKI. KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp & Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DAI.GETY & CO.. LTD.,' MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address.
“IROQUOIS."
Macdonald, Hamilton S Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug ana Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOK
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. JLtd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackliealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & o. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co..
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.), Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd!
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktowou


Why you should use
.c
G
E
Electric
Lamps
Their history is one of continuous improvement. They
stand to-day pre-eminent.
They are made throughout by British labour, with British
capital, in a British factory by one of Britain’s greatest
industrial organisations—The General Electric Co., Ltd.
Sold by all principal Electrical Contractors and Stores.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth,
Adelaide, Hohart, Launceston; Wellington,
Auckland, Dunedin, N.Z.; Suva and Levuka, Fiji.
THE TEXAS COMPANY
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND.
TEXACO
h
Q> u.
k. ..(11l Hi
If'"
Uiin
-111“'
iff* 1
„|||H
,|U»‘
i3o.
.III"
i
iin*'
ii** 11
n.iMdlfi
Qmnn
.1)1,
<
fitiifiitiiimifiiitTM&zS mumm?
0 (X
■■iinini
£
35
"•ti.
o
“'"•••in
•'•lt,,,
n *l»l
h-
f »i»#
'*»»!#
0
£ O
"Jili
"<h»
2
POWER TmAX M M rLtXiaiUl'l INCREASCD
Volatility: the readiness with which
motor spirit gives up its power
The Vo/at He Motor Spirit
The Clean Clear Motor Oil
“MADE FOR BETTER SER VICE.
z
z
H
cm
43
m
u
RACKETS.
2. School Match
3. C. 8.8., Special
4. M.S., Special Practice
4A. C. 8.8., Leather Grip
5. fJ.S. Special or Premier.
10. C. 8.8., Double Strung
11. C. 8.8., Concave, Double Centre
14. Haymarket, extra special
17. Titanic, concave throat
18. Cyclonic, concave throat
19. Bussey’s Standard
21. „ Handicap
22. „ A 1
23. „ Invincible
24. Ayre’s Sandown
25. „ Handicap
20.
27.
28.
29.
A 1
Champion
Matador
Central Strung
9/6
14/6
18/6
21/-
25/-
27/6
45/-
70/-
65/-
80/-
25/-
32/6
35/-
50/-
30/-
37/6
40/-
50/-
55/-
60/-
dsf
RACKET REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
TENNIS BALLS
- Each. Doz
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion • • *5/7 «W-
-SEAZENGER’S Championship, 1923
[Each. Doz.
Ay-re’s Court 2/2 25/*
Ayre’s Champion, 1923 2/9 32/-
(airtight tins) 32/-
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Acme (square) Posts, pair 1 05/-
Tennis Court Markers rf7/o
Brush Spray Court Marker 105/-
Tennis Tapes ;■•••• :* ' *^/0
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle 1/-
Each.
Racket Covers.... 1/ 9. 2/6, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6
Tennis Ratchet . 7/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/-, 1/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6, 6/6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/'
TENNIS PRICE LIST FREE
ON REQUEST.
ILLUSTRATED
BOXING
GLOVES
3
*** •
KW
v
A
ss
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES.
S>et of 4.
(J. 8.8., real leather, special value "" 7« /«* i «/ft ©?'/ 6 ’ 2?/!
PKB Fighting, tan napa, laced palms, CorB oz 16/6, J ?/ 6 ’ ’ on/
U’-pRTfocTTON FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz., 25/-, 30/-
mrfr fJRADE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 35/’* 40 /"
T WF H '‘LI<HITNING,’ ’ made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively used by
Baker sTatoms, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally reconimended by >lr.
Reg. L. (‘Snowy )^tage'on ’one setN.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed
BOYS’ GLOVES.
Set of 4.
8/-
Leather
jf laced palms 8/-, 9/6, 12/9
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Tor'll: STRAPS best quality (Postage 3d.) 7/0 eac
BOXING BOOTS, English Leather, extra light, weight 3joz. (Postage 6jd.), 15/6, 17/6 pair.
Price List of Boxing Gloves, Punching Balls, etc., post free.
PUNCHING BALLS.
I#
rs.
y
MmmXn'*-
THE
ABPIY
PORTABLE
THE EXPERT
ARMY, Swinging Ball, reg., for fast work, 10/6, 13/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
ARMY extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable
and 'perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, elastic cord for floor and rope for ceiling. .12/6, 15/6
EXPERT’ double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light.... 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT' double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings,
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.) 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTARLE BALL, strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and bladder
complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) 100/-
All above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
SUNDRIES. _ h
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/G, 5/6 eac
Double-action Swivels, 6/- each. Ball-bearing Swivels ••••••••••• .W 6
Ball Gloves 3/0, 4/0 pair. Punching Platforms, 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
! immons
c
Australia's Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St, NEWCASTLE; Edward St, BraSBANE.


All Australia
Uses Rexona.
Never a day passes but that Rexona scores another triumph
over those serious troubles of life: Sores, Bad Legs, Piles, Eczema,
Pimples, Blotches, Burns, Nasal Catarrh and Rheumatism. The
dainty little triangular pot of Rexona, the Rapid Healer,
contains a combination of the most antiseptic, soothing
and healing properties known to science. Rexona is the Skin
Remedy of the Age, because it destroys the harmful germs that
may be present in a sore, pimple or any abrasion of the skin, thus
preventing any contagion of the blood, and at the same time causes
a new healthy skin to grow. Rexona immediately reduces the
inflammation and pain; it acts as a distinct stimulant to the pores
of the skin, and sets up a healing action immediately that increases
day by day. Bad leg sores that have resisted every other treat-
ment succumb almost immediately to its wonderful influence, while
for Piles there is nothing its equal.
In every home Rexona is an essential need, and if going away
for a holiday don’t let your vacation be spoiled by any of the
usual troubles, such as Sandfly or Mosquito Bites, Sore Feet, or the
ever-occurring Cuts, Burns and Bruises
incidental to holiday-making; but take
with you a pot of Rexona and a box of
Rexona Soap, and thus be able to
enjoy your holiday to the full.
Rexona—
The Rapid Healer.
1/6
//. (1
[{ Coolinq, \
\
ff - Healing
/'■flnliseplic Omiment .
PorifiCi P iHbioluiely
1 6 Heals j Reliable
r A Reliable Remedy for all eruption) mid irritations of Hit
Skin. Jxzein/j «Pirnples. Sores. ChilMciins Chapped Hands
Sciatica. Itching or Bkfding Piles, Gils. Burns. Bruises.Stwlds
Btid Legs, flings of Insects arid oil kinds of iMflarnmofta*
REXONA DEPT
SHE LOON DRU-G C 9 LLP
3/-
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
dfs
-22 RIM FIRE.
dsf
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALL BRITISH
PUT UP YOUR HANDS
and use them as though you had
to defend yourself! See how
absolutely lost and helpless you
are through lack of Boxing In-
struction. Could you hold your
own in a rough-and-tumble, or
would you get the worst of it?
Learn Boxing by Post
and secure the scientific knowledge that will protect
you from the bully and the thug.
This simple, interesting system of instruction teaches
you all the points of the fascinating art in a series
of easily-graded lessons whioh anyone can master.
Just cut this advertisement out, write your name and
address across it, and send it in with three stamps
for postage, and you will receive a copy of the irfter.
esting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,’’
which tells all about the methods used, terms, etc.
It’s worth while —act to-day.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
mm
m
mmrnm
wmm.
1
mm
■
■m-
wm
“The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS,
253 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
The Path of Adventure.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHERE shall Adventure stray
This morning of silver and grey ?
There are ships at the crowded quay
But the end of every sea
Is marked by a scarred sea-wall
And the merchant-houses tall;
And every wave has washed thrice over
The water-gate where the last sea-rover
Went blindly exultant up paths of blue
Seeking the wonder that still was new,
Till the charted bay and the story told
Had staled the coastline and made it old.
This morning of silver and grey
There is no rich Far-away ;
For all is so near
That our hearts can hear
The people talking in Valparaiso
And Kandahar,
And the idle say-so
Of tongues that jar
From Athens to Spain
And back again
To the weed-green tideway of brown Bal-
main.
The ship that spread its sails to a dream
Of yesterday’s great hearts
Is only a ferry over a stream
To more houses and carts.
Where shall Adventure stray
This morning of silver and grey .' 1
Shall the kings be merchantmen
Where gold is only ink of the pen?
Shall the bold rider sit on a wheel
The winter air on his face to feel?
Shall Montagu, for last night’s sport,
Take Capulet to the frowsy court?
And must we narrow and narrow and narrow
Into our poor life’s withered marrow
Till for lack of one wide, holy breath
A mind-slum chokes our souls to death?
* * *
Adventure with me all the way
Walked in a morning silver grey.
Through a place of winter trees
We found a path and followed a breeze
To a hillside of brown grass
That the creaking waggons pass
With great sawn trunks of heavy wood
That keep the screaming mill in food.
As wo watched there came a sea
Laughing up the world to me,
With islands floating on its breast-
Tawny beach and palmy crest—-
And cities colored by the sun
With flaunting magic, rainbow-spun,
While secret stairways darkly wound
To caverns where nor light nor sound
Might fall upon the precious things
Hidden by tall, blue-turbaned kings.
We took a skiff and crossed the sea,
And found a land of mystery,
Of great grey rocks and yellow sand
And castled steeps by bandits mannea.
We heard a sudden trumpet peal,
We heard the clash of steel on steel;
And found our horses fretting there
With gilded arms that we must bear.
And far we rode redressing wrong
With heavy blows on helm and mail,
Or heard a sudden pirate song
In seaward woods when dawn grew pale,
Or clattered over cobbled courts
To join the fair, where rustic sports
By booth and gypsy caravan
Cried challenge to the stronger man.
Wide lay the wo«rld to east and west;
Good horseflesh failed us in the quest
To find the world’s last secret-place.
We sought for wings to fly
Down the red western sky,
And up the morning’s face ;
Yet the swift soaring aeroplane
Caught at the broken clouds in vain.
And lagged a hundred leagues behind
The purpose of our racing mind.
Where shall Adventure stray
In a morning of silver and grey?
Where the far voices call
That the world is greater than all
The deeds or the dreams under Heaven....
Through a place of winter trees
I found a path and followed a breeze
With a boy of seven!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Tales of Quart-pot Creek.
LOVE AND THE LIVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
V\T ILLIAM PUTTIFOOT, butcher
V \ and smallgoods-maker to Denny
Deneen, drove back to Quart-pot
Creek on the top of the butcher’s cart that
swayed nearside to offside and back again,
as near or offside wheel was selected
by the road to take the next stone.
It was but 10 o’clock, yet Puttifoot
had finished his rounds, and was driv-
ing the chariot of beef and matton back
to the township as if there were reward and
not merely more work for him on arrival.
But this particular work w r as its own re-
ward. He had to drive the storekeeper’s
cart that day around the place known as
the Upper Settlement, a collection of small
houses perching precariously on the higher
rocks.
With the tilted eart loaded with under-
clothing, canned foods, groceries and to-
bacco, and the hairy-footed horse stopping-
dead as soon as he was unbeaten or
“unfussed” —meaning thereby that his
mouth was not agonised by the bit —Putti-
foot saw a pleasant afternoon ahead, rush-
ing down hills and through the little streams
that snaked through the coarse granite sand,
hoofs and wheels in that sand sounding like
a woman walking in silk; driving up to
houses and selling goods and having a cup
of tea, and on to the next. And then, at
the end of the road Mrs. Choquindie—that
highly-educated, well-connected English lady,
Mrs. Choquindie, who seemed to Puttifoot
as far above him as the Southern Cross In
the firmament might seem to a man at the
bottom of a well.
Mr. Puttifoot was in love, and loved, alas,
above his station. He saw himself lower
than he was by the light of the countenance
of the skinny lady, so hated by Denny
Deneen. She had an appetite good enough
to lyin a dead heat with Cleghorn's for the
Greedy Stakes. On the day Denny discov-
ered her browsing on biscuits, cheese, Ger-
man sausage and dried apples—each and all
removed and eaten with an abstracted air
that pretended to say that Mrs. Choquiridie
was not in Denny Deneen’s store eating up
liis substance as if she were a swarm of
locusts, but on some lone mountain-peak far
withdrawn from food, exchanging mental
notes with angels, that air of great dignity
(which was mostly stupidity trying to mask
itself) had imposed on Puttifoot as it had
enraged his employer. Puttifoot, strong in
admission of his unworthiness, had yet hope.
As in Spring the iris mantles on the bur-
nished dove, so did Piittifoot express his
views with his clothing and his horse and
his ox and his ass arid everything that was
his-—or Denny Deneen’s. The black horse
wore a bottle-brush bloom of the banksia on
either side of his headstall, a branch with
three of the round, bristling, yellow blooms
was held to the saddle by the crupper-staple,
and Puttifoot had circled his old felt hat
with spikes of the red epacris. The decora-
tion made notable the fat, round, little face
with its short, red whiskers tufted to the
skin as if glued there by a Japanese artist—
a face that, without the decoration,
seemed so insignificant as to be without
features. The flowers in the hat gj}ve that
fried an' -expression of- rollicking humor —a
little daring, slightly reckless. The meek
Mr. Puttifoot had studied the improvement
in the little mirror in the kitchen at the
house of his last order, and had seen him-
self appear as he desired to be.
So he cracked his whip and rattled through
the bush, and as he struck a big clearing saw
the morning sun flashing on the galvanised-
iron roofs of the town, and knew the world
was good. Then in a small but not unplea-
sant voice he sang of love’s devotion and
its sacrifice:—
For the sake of (giddap) my er—lady
(Giddap, yer blank cowl),
For the sake of my er —lady,
I’ll conquer or die.
Me smote the black horse on the flank, gal-
loped down the last hill through Quart-pot
Greek aud up the hill and home.
* * * *
Blithely Mr. Puttifoot went about his
duty, scraping and washing the meat-block,
washing counters and hooks and gambrels
and meat-rails in hot lye; breaking down a
forequarter of beef for the pickle-cask and
for small goods, which latter job promised
the reluctant Micky the exercise of turning
the handle of the sausage-machine. This
was done, according to Denny Deneen, not
so much for the manufacture of sausages as
for the conservation of Micky’s health.
Before him was the afternoon and the
widow Choquindie. and Puttifoot’s hitherto
unengaged heart felt younger than its 53
years of action. As he scrubbed the fittings
and used knife and axe and saw on the fore-
quarter of beef, Puttifoot’s old hat flapped
to the rhythm of the movements of his song:
My-a love is passing fay-air
(he cut through the shin),
My love has golden ay-air
An’ eyes so blue
An’ heart so true
(he sawed through the shinbone)
That none with her com-pay-aire;
So what cay-aire I
Though death be nigh,
(he chopped off the brisket pieces),
I’ll fight for love or die.
The bright-eyed lizards came out of the
stone foundations to listen to him; Denny
Deneen, hearing the thin voice of Puttifoot,
wrinkled his nose and put the end of his
beard in his mouth, and then turned over
the ledger leaves to the account of Mrs.
Choquindie. To the debits he added the
total of items written in the day-book by
himself:—
One pound dried apples, 9d.
Half-pound cheese, Bd.
Quarter a pork, German, 4jd.
One pound fancy biscuits, Is. 6d
To which entry was added a note: —
These were ate by Mrs. 0. at shop-counter before
she knew D.D. was looking.
Strangely enough Denny then turned the
ledger-leaves to the account of Mr. Putti-
foot, and found some relation to Mrs.
Choquindie in the entry of “one bottle of
o-de-Cologgin.”
* * * *
Puttifoot, “fussing” cruelly the black
horse’s mouth so that the black horse ran
the faster in the' hope’ of ridding himself of
the bit, and beating the root of the black
horse’s tail, drove upward from Quart-pot
to the heights of the upper settlement, where'
he made good sales among the people whose
trees were not yet more than a foot high,
and who were living precariously on toma-
toes and other catch crops—so-called because
they catch the grower as often as not. With
the cart lighter and the black horse more
willing—he judging from the lighter burden
that he would now turn his head for home—
Puttifoot, at nearly 4 o’clock, drove the horse
into a rough track off the main road, and
only a mile from the township, and stopped
at Mrs. Choquindie’s gate. Mrs. Choquindie
was in waiting for the cart. As it stopped
she came from the house and joined Putti-
foot, and immediately proceeded to business.
Her business was partly turning over the
stock in the cart and buying some fourpenny
matter at the last. But her real business
was “tasting”; and Puttifoot, knowing her
ways, had placed ready to her hand the
sausage and cheese, the biscuits and the
bacon and the raisins, and pretended blind-
ness ; and Mrs. Choquindie tasted as a bush-
fire tastes ripe grass, and pretended that she
didn't know that Puttifoot pretended that
he didn’t know either.
The tasting finished, Mr. Puttifoot, as he
expected, was invited to drink tea with the
widow; and the difficulty that the household
was out of milk Mr. Puttifoot luckily
answered by withdrawing a tin of condensed
milk from the stock. He also withdrew a
tin of the biscuits known as “fancy” and a
pot of anchovy paste. For in these ways
does love express his blooming views; the
love that laughs at locksmiths derides also
the Ten Commandments, especially that re-
lating to theft. So William Puttifoot laid
siege to the widow with artillery stolen from
Denny Deneen; creeping into the affection
of Mrs. Choquindie by the way of Denny’s
commodities; arming Cupid with condensed
milk and anchovy paste—love-gifts by Denny
Deneen, although Denny did not know it yet.
While the big, black, hairy-footed horse
swished his tail and shook his ears and
kicked at the flies, Puttifoot and Mrs. Cho-
quindie drifted to an understanding, not yet
expressed in words but with all fhe eloquence
of the eye. At parting Mr. Puttifoot re-
moved his hat, which he had donned as he
(Continued on next page.)


"Every Picture
tells a Story*
“You Have Neglected
Your Kidneys I”
That’s why you are tortured with that dull, all-day
backache! It’s the reason for that lameness, soreness,
and those sharp rheumatic pains! And it’s due to neglect
of these early warnings that we find so many people with
gravel, dropsy and other serious kidney ills.
To be well and stay well you must watch your kidneys.
You cannot afford to ignore even the slightest symptom
of kidney weakness. That nerve-racking backache, those
knife-like pains, those headaches, dizzy spells and distressing urinary irregularities, while easily
corrected if treated promptly, may prove serious if neglected.
Don’t be discouraged! Use commonsense and take things easier for awhile. Cut down your meat.
Drink plenty of water, and help the weakened kidneys with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This old,
reliable remedy has a world-wide reputation, and is recommended by scores of your friends and
acquaintances. Ask your neighbor!
SYDNEY RESIDENT CURED.
Mr. James Higgins, Queen Street, Beaconsfield, Sydney, says:—“Some time ago I was taken very badly
with kidney trouble. I don’t know how to account for it, unless several accidents w r ere to blame. I consulted
three doctors and underwent treatment, and each one, failing to do me good, advised me to go into the hospital
for an operation. They said my case was almost hopeless, and that an operation was my only chance, as one
of my kidneys»was in a very diseased state. I took medicine of all sorts, but everything failed, and I was in
such pain and misery that I did not care if I lived or died. I had severe pains in my back, giddiness, headaches
and scalding urine. I was completely done up and scarcely able to lift anything. The day was appointed for
the operation, when a friend asked me if I had tried Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. He told me he knew of
fi man who was as bad as X was and who had been completely cored, and for good, bv this remedy. I post*
poned the operation and commenced using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. ' A fortnight later I returned
to work, and the men there could not believe the change they saw in me would ever have been possible. There
is no doubt it is wonderful. I am quite cured and as fit for work as a man could be.”
Sixteen years later Mr. Hisrgins says:—“Since my cure I have had one or two slight attacks of kidney
disorder, but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have always given me quick relief. I am a great believer in this
remedy, and with reason.”
dsf
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney,
closed the gate, and the flies flew to his
bald head and enjoyed a final skate. Mean-
time, Mrs. Choquindie said that she would
see Mr. Puttifoot at the shop to-morrow,
and Mr. Puttifoot murmured that he would
put aside an ox-tail, and did Mrs. Choquindie
like liver and bacon? She did, then. Well!
And was there not a lamb’s fry held for her
by the devoted Puttifoot? There was, then
—and so, to-morrow.
Love, like wine, the spur and the demoral-
iser, made the little bald butclier-man a lyr.c
in flesh. The hairy-footed horse, eager for
the manger, sped down the long hill to
Quart-pot as the sun went to his setting
dead ahead, and Puttifoot sang as lie cracked
his whip:—
My love-a lias golden hay-air,
My love is pass in’ fay-air.
Which was not strictly true; but every lover
is a poet, and most poetry is beautifully
inexact.
Denny Deneen, watching Puttifoot driv-
ing to the stables, cross-examined Micky, who
was retiring to his home, having finished
his day.
"You say that Puttifoot didn’t want you to
dhrive the cyart this day?”
“Yes,” squeaked Micky—“that’s dead
right. Said he could do it himself, and I
see I wasn’t wanted, lie cleaned his boots,
too.”
“And had a shave, didn’t he, too, then?”
“Yes, an’ I see him puttin’ hair-oil on
his head.”
“To make his little baldy bead shine like
a candle in the night, did he? An’ o-de-
Cologgin on his hankychy, too. Now, you
moight be confused in your rfloind, Micky;
but who’s a widdy Jives at the upper settle-
ment ?”
“Ole Mother Chook-one-day.”
“Thrue for you, Micky; au’ with his
shave an’ his polish boots, an’ his hair-oil
for his baldy head an’ his o-de-Cologgin on
his hankychy. Can’t you hear Puttifoot in
love as loud as a church-wardin’s new boots
squeakin’ for the parson? Can’t you, Micky?”
“My oath !” squeaked Micky cheerfully.
"By cripes ! Funny, though-—Puttifoot and
Mrs. Chook-one-day!”
“Not a worrrd, Micky—not a worrrd. I’ll
make it sorrer in the bowels of him if he
gives as much as a knuckle-bone to that
faymale cannible that would pick an’ eat
cheese an’ sossige without consideration for
age or sex. Not a worrrd, Micky. Not a
worrrd!”
Love the Gilder, the Heartlifter, the
Stringer-on, the Universal Confidence-man
with the tale of the Rich Uncle in Fiji, gild-
ing the common things of life as moonlight
can give beauty to galvanised-iron! Love
for Mr. Puttifoot beautified even the
butcher’s shop, so that the pig was
beautiful in death and the sausage-machine
seemed made of mother-of-pearl with golden
knives that chopped idealised meat made of
dew and sunlight. Puttifoot, in the clatter
of the machine, heard the wondrous voice
the Greek reapers heard in Sicily. For Putti-
foot’s profession was not far removed from
that of Theocritus, who herded sheep, where-
as Puttifoot made lamb cutlets of them.
Theocritus desired not to own golden talents
nor to outstrip the winds, but to sit beside a
rock with the beloved in his arms playing
upon h.s p.pe and looking upon his sneep
feeding togetffer and toward tffe Tyrrhenean
Sea ; and rurtifoot wished but Ins beautiiul
life of butchering dove-railed to the life of
Mrs. Chook-one-day. So Puttifoot sang and
turned the handle of the sausage-machine,
and the Planet or Love was on h.gh.
* * * *
Early morning, and Denny Deneen, seeing
Micky at ins work of feeding fowls, clean-
ing boots, milking the cows and chopping
wood, drank his cup of tea in contentment,
and then remembered Puttifoot and the
“faymale cannible.” and contentment de-
parted. He went to the butcher’s shop and
heard Puttifoot singing at his work, and
when Puttifoot reiterated for the hundredth
rime that “for the sake of his lady he’d
conquer or die,” Denny’s gloom deepened,
as he decided that Puttifoot's death would
be less expensive that Puttifoot’s conquest.
But there was yet nothing he could openly
object to; he left the shop and entered the
store and took his morning course in litera-
ture from the ledger; reading the entry to
Mrs. Choquindie with the approval of an
artist who confesses to himself that lie has
done a good thing, and then lashing his in-
d gnation as he read of Puttifoot’s purchase
of eau-de-Cologne. The situation interested
and irritated him, and when Puttifoot de-
parted on his rounds, and while George the
butcher-boy cleaned up the shop, Denny be-
gan his search for evidence.
Evidence there was in plenty, the exhibits
being one ox-tail, one lamb’s fry and one piece
of bacon. Denny traced the bacon to the
store and found it to be Puttifoot’s property,
purchased by Puttifoot with legal tender of
the Commonwealth of Australia; so Denny
replaced the bacon in Puttifoot’s cach6
iii the mouth of a great sack of salt, and
waited developments. Watching from the
house after Plittifoot’s return in the early
afternoon, Denny saw the tall, thin figure
of Mrs. Choquindie approaching. I hnny
approached the enemy unseen, saw her
entering the butcher’s shop, Puttifoot wel-
coming her from the topmost step. Denny
waited a minute or two; then, unconsciously
imitating the actions of a stage Indian
creeping within scalping distance of the
sleeping paleface, Denny entered the room
where the sausage-machine did its fell work,
and where the salt was stored. There he
quietly removed the ox-tail and the lamb’s
fry, and taking the evidence of the theft and
the goods stolen with him, he stepped behind
the open door. He heard them speaking, and
as he listened his rage grew.
“Four pound breast o ’mutton, sixpence to
you,” said Puttifoot tenderly.
“Oh, Mr. Puttifoot, you are too good!”
“Too good! Too good!” groaned Denny.
“T’ree ha’pence a pound. ‘Sixpence to you,’
says he, the thief o ’the wurrld!”
“No fear,” replied the enamored Pu<t ; foot.
“No fear! I wouldn’t do it for nobody but
you. But you —well, ther !”
“Oh, Mr. Puttifoot, how kind! Have you
a bit of suet you don’t want?”
“I have that,” replied Puttifoot. “An’ a
cupple o’ sheep’s kidneys. An’ somethin’ else
I put away fer y’r. What I told yer yes-
tidday—-wait a shake.”
Denny heard him making his pilgrimage
of love to the salt-sack, and heard his indig-
nant remarks when he found his own true
and lawrui bacon there, hut not the ox-tad
nor the lamb s fry that represented tne spoils
of office.
“Thieves —that’s it!” said the indignant
Puttifoot to Mrs. Choquindie, who had fol-
lowed him and now stood at the back door
of the shop. “Thieves —who would expect to
find thieves in a quiet place like this?”
Denny could bear no more. He burst
from his concealment, in his hands the proofs
of Puttifoot’s crime. Seeaig that black-
bearded cyclone about to destroy Puttifoot,
Mrs. Choquiudie proved the quality of her
love by uttering a piercing shriek and run-
ning through the shop to the street. Denny
fell on the astounded Puttifoot and struck
him with the ox-tad. Aghast at the attack,
Puttifoot suffered a second and a third blow,
which left but one joint of the disarticulated
tail in Denny’s hand. The blows were griev-
ous, and Puttdoot recovered his senses when
he saw the tail fly past him. Forgetting that
Denny had another weapon, Puttifoot de-
cided to run for it; and Denny, loving the
exercise, changed the pluck from the left
hand to the right and smote the flying enemy
with it on the head. It was such a large,
moist, expanding and comprehensive blow
that it turned Puttifoot half around, and
Deneen struck again, and the half-turn be-
came a full circle, Puttifoot still running
and revolving as he ran.
For his stoutness Denny’s activity was
marvellous. He pursued Puttifoot through
the shop and down the street, Puttifoot re-
volving in his flight and cursing Lis revered
employer as he ran. At last Denny recog-
nised that he had destroyed his weapon by
use; there was but a fragment of the pluck
left in his hand. With a parting yell Denny
threw the fragment at the butcher and gave
up the chase.
A bruised and chastened Puttifoot cut up
the orders next morning, what time Denny
Deneen, at peace w r ith all the world, listened
to Micky telling of the flight of Mrs. Chook-
one-day.
“1 see her,” squeaked Micky, vigorously
polishing the boots —“I see her last night.
Goin’ like a runaway horse she was—
runnin’ like a grey-’ound. What’s up with
Puttifoot, boss'?’
“He have a little palpitation. Palpitation
of the pluck, that’d be all the matter wid
him. Which way was the faymale cannible
runnin’ —east or west?”
“East. I think she’s runnin’ yet.”
“She’ll come to the end of her journey
quicker goin ’east, Micky, me bold bucko. If
she run west she’d go two t’ousan’ five
hun’red mile before she'd shtrike the Indian
Ocean, but the Pachific is only a hundred
mile away. She’s a wise woman, runnin’
east!”
“Puttifoot’s lookin’ awful. Will I tell
him what we want for dinner?”
“You might just say we’ll have an ox-tail
an’ a lamb’s fry, an’ a bit o’ bacon in a salt
bag, Micky, me lad.”
And as Micky departed to innocently
plunge this poisoned shaft into the wounded
heart of Puttifoot, Denny Deneen, well con-
tent, went to his morning course of litera-
ture in the ledger.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Being Hanged.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD been bird-nesting, and was caught
by the throat in a branch, my cousin,
who had fallen at the same time,
tumbling flat among the roots. How long
I remained unconscious I am unable to tell,
but the agony which accompanied the return
to life I shall never forget.
My cousin worked hard for my resuscita-
tion, under the advice of Stiffy Lapp, who
had been watering his horse at the creek not
20 yards from the scene of the accident.
The words they say I used as I came to were
shameless ones, the kind which editors blusn
for, and, in lieu of figleaves, dress with
strokes in self-respecting papers. I fought,
too, and burst my knuckles on the bole o:
the tree, so that Lapp got tired of me and
wrung my nose in a hand that smelt of
horrible deeds and uncooked parts of rabbits.
After a bit, when I had quietened down, and
was lying in a warm stupor with my cousin’s
hat over my face to keep the sun out of
my eyes, I began to listen to the conversa-
tion.
“Cripes!” said Stiffy, and I could heai
him blowing down his pipe. “Cripes, that
ain’t nullin’! ’Ow woojer like to be ’anged
by the neck till you was dead, and then
to be blooded and rubbed until yer howled
on account of being brought back again?”
“You’ve never been hanged,” mj
cousin, “so what do you know about it?”
“A lot,” resumed Stiffy. “Me farver’s
uncle was ’anged for ’ouse-breakin’ in 1790
Fifteen minutes after ’e was in the air tliej
cut ’im down; a reprieve come, and his two
brothers took ’im to a ’ouse just over the
way. First thing they done was to bleed
the corp’, then they give ’im a real good
’iding orl acrorst the ’eart and dahn along
bofe sides of ’is belly, never lettin’ up for
a moment in two hours. And at the end
of that time they ’ad got ’im that far round
that ’e set up and wanted to know why the
bloody ’ell they wouldn’t leave ’im alone.”
“Did he say what it felt like to be
hanged?”
“By God, he did. He was a big fat man,
and he said the pain nearly drove ’im mad
when ’e was turned off on account of the
weight of ’is body..,.he felt all the blood
rush up to his head, and something seemed
to give way. Then ’e seen two moons come
together and crash in front of ’is eyes. It
was dark after that and no pain until ’e
wuz cut down.. . .the worst part was coming
back to life, when ’is brothers got ’im on
the table at the little ’ouse acrorst the way.”
“I shouldn’t have thought that would have
counted compared with the swing-off,” inter-
rupted my cousin.
“Well, yer see, ’is brothers give 'im a
devil of a beltin’. It was a good eharnst
for them, ’im not bein’ able to ’it back, and
in their debt for over u ’undred quid!”
HUGH McCRAk


#4
ft"
m
j
llllSteMliiSt
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIMCHOUSE BRAKE CO, OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHUItCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—B3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—B9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
, v 7
AVOID LEAD POISONING
USE
Bitumastic Paint
Anti-corrosive, tasteless, odorless.
Specially adapted for Galvanised-iron Roofs.
Colors: Red, Grey, Brown, Green and Black.
J. Wildridge 8 Sinclair (Brisbane) Ltd.
228-30 Elizabeth Street, BRISBANE, Q’land.
CAILLE “PERFECTION” MARINE ENGINES.
&
m
R»FtdWHltaw(
DETROIT rtlthlWH
A Type to Suit Every Hull.
Now’s the time to buy if you want
your Engine this season.
BIG REDUCTION ON
ALL ENGINES.
New shipment of 4-h.p. Engines, com-
plete with Igniter, just arrived.
We have stocks for immediate delivery
at the following reduced prices
Neptune Outboard . . £32
5-Speed Outboard . . £43
Liberty Drive Outboard £34
Inboard Motors:
2h.p. £34, 4h.p. £47/10/-, Bh.p. £BO,
2|h.p. £45, 6h.p. £57/10/-, 14h.p. £l5O
WRITE, ’PHONE OR CALI*.
Sole Agents for Australasia and Pacific Islands,
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED
76 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 107-109 Queensbridge Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Cable Address : “BROSBENSON.”
Remington
R 6434
sdf
R 3333
"They cut keenly fi
Remington.
Pocket Knives
Many Styles
One Quality
The Best
wusT W
P 2
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, INC.
25 Broadway, New York, U.S.A
D. D. BRYANT,. Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Efficiency
is the secret of success and the desire of the people.
When minor ailments and derangements are by neglect
or wrong treatment allowed to threaten a serious
disturbance of the general health it is important that
the best remedy should be taken at once.
R€€6HAMS
PILLS
ARE EFFICIENT
(ft Promoting Digestion a
in improving the Appetitem
in Regulating the Flow of Biiea
In Cleansing the Stomach»
In Arousing a Sluggish Liver a
In Purifying the System a
In Assisting the Kidneys a
For more than half a century BEECHAM’S PILLS have
I been the Family Medicine in thousands of homes, to be
resorted to when illness and physical discomfort
threaten health and happiness, and their efficiency is not
I only unquestioned, but has become proverbial and has
i earned the reputation of being
“ WORTH a GUINEA a BOX.”
L Sold in boxes, labelled 10£d., ls-lid and 2s-9d. (original English prices.)
If any illustration appearing in
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
CO.
' ■
Prop. ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
os. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WIIXIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
Invite Enquiries for ANY MACHINERY
PROPOSITION such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
\
r
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
Only the Highest-Grade Machinery Supplied.
AGENTS.-
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
SYDNEY:
Li. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Zitd.
PERTH:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd. Newton, McLaren Ltd. Brown & Dureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch Street.


Dewars
The Spirit of
REALITY
Reality is better than dreams
for it has to do with things as
they are and not as they might
be. What matter to-morrow if
to-day be kind? The cup of
life can never hold a greater
measure of happy content
than that ever found in
©etoatr's
