

o
$=
*1
©
3
o
£0
Xj
©
*
o
o
o
£
a
3
o
P
About the Home
Section
CLOSES JULY 16.
The subject is easy, so you can
still do well if you only get
your Kodak this week. Box
Brownies are priced from
I 1/3; Folding Brownies from
47/6, and Kodaks from 42/~
See them, and get your entry
form now.
/:
3
a
il
Ki
£s^
KODAK
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
379 George Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Towns-
ville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., 672 Hay Street,
Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Vol. 44.—N0. 2263.
Thursday, June 28, 1923.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The new Library Catalogue for 1923 is
now ready, and it will be sent post free, with
full particulars, on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.,
428 Oeorge Street. Sydney.
LYSAGHT
i
o
B
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
gams
ii!l
ilia hSlIi
sstm=
111:1
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
REDUCES TRANSMISSION LOSSES.
Power evaporates iu transit like water in the desert, tfit
only solution to the problem being to improve your trans-
mission equipment. The non-slipping, elastic, lasting- grip
of Mangrovite Belting- will effect stupendous savings, Inutal
it on every drive.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWIOI, Managing- Diraotor,
♦9 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derliam & Co. Pty„ Ltd.. 578-85
Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & (Jo., Perth.
TASMANIA: Henry Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel. & Co., Ltd.-, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 5 Bedford Row, Christchurch.
9
9S*6ii
TV*
; \ 11111111 | iit
\ 4/ • t,
l „ / ,ss,SSSSS/’SSSS"""""""""""""""""""""W**,„„ < 0^
5%S
ss/ss/S/'''
\ 'My/s/ss/s,
w//.w>
1 s«
I»
?\
rcr
SjgJjggjjg
?sg
r\
3
i;
//»
ONOTO
INK
Best
(or all
Pens
tilh®
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY ® O ,
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Dp With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1 /-. Magic Made Easy, 1 /.. Tricks with
Coins, 1/.,
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or eall for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS,
WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
«*»
r
• «r
FUNNIEST F 0 UR
FARCES, in one book,
2/-. Contents—April
Fools; Who Is Who;
lei on Parle Frangais;
Who’s to Win Him?
PLAY Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/-
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage I/O
LODGE
SPARKING PLUGS
• give unfailing service in all types of
tractor engines.
The severe conditions under which tractors
operate —continuous running at full load,
with low grade fuel —demand special plugs.
Lodge Plugs are expressly
designed for tractor engines.
Ask your dealer or stores for prices
Lodge Plugs for traders are
m
w TRACTOR
(taper thread)
Regular —Model TBS
Extra long —Model TFs
METRIC
Regular —Model TM3
Short (for Fiats)
Model FM3
m
Tractdf.
Sole Manufacturers:
LODGE PLUGS, LTD.
Rugby, England.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION. —The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to gel;
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. Y6u may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Goughs, Colds and Sore Throats,
©
•xt
a
A. The Larynx or
Organ ,of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
Psychology and Science
There are three ranks of organised know-
ledge—Science, Pseudo-science and Dream-
ery. A science is such a thing as biology,
consisting mostly of statements that can be
proved and demonstrated to anybody who
will take the trouble to attend. A pseudo-
science is such a thing as philosophy or
psychology, whose statements are attractive
to* the intellect and need to be thought of
very seriously, but yet cannot be proved just
now, if ever. Dreamery is such a thing as
psycho-analysis, which consists of offensive
statements that are incapable of proof, now
or probably ever. They are mere assertions.
The name of Freud is associated with them,
of whom Tansley, in his “New Psychology,”
states that he uses words to mean things that
nobody else means by them. That, to many
minds, will save Freud from a charge of
mere obsession.
The Evolution of the Conscious Faculties,
by J. "Varendonck, Litt. Doc., D.Sc. (George
Allen and Unwin) is a study in the greatest
of all pseudo-sciences, psychology, which is so
intermingled with physiology and meta-
physics that it is hard to say when Science
ends and Dreamery begins. It is only fair
to state that Huxley classed psychology as
a true science, a branch of physiology; but
muc h has happeued since Huxley’s day to ex-
tend the dominion of psychology over regions
that are very doubtfully scientific. The
psychologists are still striving honestly to
adorn their goddess with the crown of
Science, but she is a shy damsel, and as soon
as her acolytes think they have caught her
for the ceremony she laughs playfully and
says : “Oh, this is not really Scientific; this
is only Dreamery.” But the true scientific
method, of painful research and strict criti-
cism, is being followed ; and no doubt in time
it will be possible to acknowledge her as a
true science. You cannot prove an alleged
fact of psychology as you oe- .>'•.» a fact
in biology, by allowin'- dy who
cares to look; yo*- t. By
trying very be- o a .. c elf be-
lieve. You ruths,
suctl e r lb ’Ow a
- un a
hing
true
* : -, in the
a demonstrate,
oie brain, conscious-
.,«n know whether a cow is
enough we may strongly suspect
„ sue is, at least sometimes. But it is all
very 'interesting, very puzzling, very (to
misuse a hackneyed but useful word) “in-
triguing.’’
Dr. Varendonck laboriously tackles con-
sciousness as everybody else artlessly tries
at some time or other in his life, but he does
not seem to have got much farther than the
old aphorism of Descartes in the 17th cen-
tury : “ Oogito , ergo sum" —I think, there-
fore I exist ; possibly the first undoubtedly
true statement ever made by anybody. But
when you come to define “I” you are at once
in philosophy, and you meet that terrible
Hume, who says there is no “I,” no “ego,” no
psyche, no sottl. There is nothing but a
bundle of ever-changing perceptions, which
happens to reside in a mass of cells that
has somehow taken on the form of your own
brain. I remember very well when, as a lad,
I had been reading Hume, and his full mean-
ing suddenly flashed upon me. I rushed
to my father, who was a very learned man,
to tell him that Hume dax-cd to say that I
didn’t exist! Seventy years ago he had
gone through a similar experience himself,
ahd he smiled sympathetically as he said:
“It doesn’t very much matter what we be-
lieve, philosophically speaking. What you
and I believe is not very likely to alter the
known facts of the universe, is it, old son?”
0£ course Ilume did not know about the
modern cell-theory of physiology: the body
cells were not then discovered. But that
great discovery has, if anything, only
strengthened his theory, substituting the cell
for the brain as the unit. Nattirally religious-
minded people were highly indignant at him
for saying that they did not exist, philosophi-
cally speaking, and they vented their rage
upon Oie good-natured and kindly Hume.
They even thought that he must be joking;
it seemed impossible that the soul and all
those divine elements that they had proved
in man could be only figments of the imagina-
tion. But there, can be no doubt that Hume
was desperately in earnest over his psycho-
logy, and all the efforts of earnest-minded
men to get over the difficulty have only added
to the intense scepticism of modern man,
which really takes its roots in Hume’s psy-
chology, or “philosophy,” as it is more often
called. Huxley took it seriously enough, and
opined the word “agnostic” to suit his own
peculiar beliefs; that is to say, “I don’t
know, and I can never know.” Haeckel
adopted “monism”; that is to say, there is
only one thing, matter —there is no soul at
aSL Huxley’s idea seems to be the more
accurate, although the Church has cast
almost as much opprobrium upon the agnos-
tic as it used to cast upon the atheist. The
good clergymen retorted that these scientific
men were preaching rank materialism, to
which they always applied the adjective
“crass.” Good word “crass”! Mr. Hughes
should learn it if he will persist In interfer-
ing with matters which he does not under-
stand, such as Mr. Hickson's cures.
Why is it that writers on the pseudo-
sciences always write so laboriously? They
are like whales rushing up from the depths
of the Pacific which greet their first breath
of fresh air by mighty gasps and thunderous
thil-whackings. They invent new technical
terms where no technical terms are really
necessary. Much that would be intensely
interesting is rendered almost unintelligible
by vague and foggy writing. The fact is they
don’t know what thought is, and they try to
pretend they do by writing' in a’ heavy,
pseudo-scientific style. Oabanis said, though
he probably knew when he said it that he
was not telling the truth, “the brain secretes
thought as the liver secretes bile.” Though
that is a libel on the brain it goes to show
how extraordinarily difficult it is to put the
ideas of psychology into intelligible language.
Oh for a page of Hume, whose clear and
beautiful English would at least frighten a
little boy, though it could not convince a
clergyman! “Our Davie” is still the most
readable psychologist of the lot, even though
the horrified citizens of Edinburgh are said
to have named St. David’s-street after him
in mockery. When his serving-maid told
him, he said “Dinna fash yourself, lassie.
There’s many a worse man been made a
saint!” When modern psychology attracts
a Hume or a Huxley it may perhaps rank
as a true science. A good psychologist must
not only have thoughts, but he must be able
to express them in comprehensible language.
C. McL.
“The Knight of the Burning Pestle”
Wiiat is often disparagingly termed “High-
brow Culture” contrives curious methods of
sporadic manifestation, which evoke equally
curious comment. The recent attempt by
the Sydney University Dramatic Society to
present Beaumont and Fletcher’s comedy of
“The Knight of the Burning Pestle” was
dealt with by critics as though it had been
some Egyptian curio rescued from oblivion.
As a matter of fact, this joyous play marks
a definite stage in the development of the
classic comedy in English literature. In it
the dramatists poked sly fun at their audi-
ence, and thus contributed to the aesthetic
education of the great British public. For
the rest, and apart from design and intent,
“The Knight” is a hearty and wholesome
burlesque; and the Citizen and his Wife, to
say nothing of the apprentice Ralph, received
at the hands of their well-born and highly-
educated creators distinctively human treat-
ment, and a sympathetic comprehension of
their qualities and humors, sadly lacking in
the works of the dramatists who hectored
it over the stage from Caroline to early
Georgian days.
That very accomplished man of letters, J.
St. Loe Strachey, in his introductory notice
of “The Knight,” writes: —
Although “Don Quixote” (published in 1005, trans-
lated into English in 1612) no doubt furnished the
leading idea of this comedy, its main purpose was
evidently to ridicule the military ardor of the citizens
of London, as exhibited in lleywood’s “Four ’Prentices
of London,” Kyd’s “Spanish Tragedy” and other popu-
lar dramas.
True, the second scene of the fifth act is
devoted to a burlesque review of London’s
train-bands, with Ralph as generalissimo, and
much banter is indulged at the expense of
the amateur soldiers. But this is a solitary
instunce. Moreover, the satire is hardly
harsher than that to be found in the old-
time pages of London Punch when dealing
with the ineptitudes and gaucheries of the
citizen warriors at annual Easter encamp-
ments on Wimbledon Common. True, also,
the Citizen has all the importance of his
civic standing, and is no whit less stalwart
in the. assertion of his freeman’s privileges
than Dekker’s Simon Eyre in “The Shoe-
maker’s Holiday”; but, speaking generally,
the power and influence, the dignity and
functions of the Mayor and aldermen of
London, and the awesomeness of the city’s
train-bands, are no more frequently alluded
to in “The Knight” than in other dramas
of the period dealing with contemporary
metropolitan life. And it could hardly be
otherwise, for England owed a great debt
to the “military ardor of the citizens of
London” and to the magnificent patriotism
of the Mayor and Corporation in their splen-
did effort against Spain. When Elizabeth
asked London for 15 ships, the city gave 30,
fully manned and amply furnished. The
Armada was defeated in 1588. Of the two
plays to which Strachey refers, Kyd’s “Span-
ish Tragedy” appeared six years after,
and Heywood’s “Four ’Prentices of
London” 12 years after; but “The
Knight of the Burning Pestle” was
produced a whole generation after the re-
pulse of Spain; and meantime that glory of
New Castile, Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra,
had published his immortal “Don Quixote” ;
and although it was not Englished until 1612
it was undoubtedly known in the original to
such cultured linguists and accomplished
men of letters as Beaumont and Fletcher.
That distinguished Hanoveriau, Yon Schlegel,
in his “Lectures on Dramatic Art and Litera-
ture,” says of “The Knight” that it was
“an incomparable and singular work of its
kind”; and that, although “the thought is
borrowed from 'Don Quixote’ the imitation
is handled with freedom, and applied so par-
ticularly to Spencer’s ‘Faery Queen’ that it
may pass for a second invention.”
Now, greatly daring, I should like to dis-
pute the conclusions of Von Schlegel, St.
Loe Strachey and other critics, who see in
“The Knight” only a travesty of “Don
Quixote,” incorporated with a treatment
borrowed from “The Faery Queen”; or
an attack on the “military ardor of the citi-
zens of London,” as shown in plays by Kyd
and Heywood. True, these plays are men-
tioned in “The Knight,” and the inspira-
tion of “Don Quixote” is interfused in every
scene in which Ralph appears and in every
speech he makes; but the hitting is all round,
and the strokes of satire spare nobody’s head.
But “The Knight” shows higher purpose,
and aims at the perverted dramatic taste
of the theatre-going citizens of their period,
and the excessive trouble and tribulation to
whichAhe playwrights were put to meet aud
satisfy that perversion, to the lowering of
their art and the degradation of their dig-
nity as dramatists. Beaumont and Fletcher’s
burlesque comedy is practically a humor-
ously satirical enlargement, in five acts, of
Hamlet’s “Advice to the Flayers”—a jocund
homily, addressed to the ears of the ground-
lings, whom to please, by speaking more than
is set down, is only to make the judicious
frieve. If Quiller-Couch be right, even
hakspeare himself was, by the box-office
exigencies of the period, obliged to obey the
behests of the groundlings. I submit that the
frequent expostulations of the Boy (who
stands for stage-manager and producer) as
to “spoiling the plot,” etc., show the true
aesthetic intention and the real object of
the satire.
As n composition, apart from its didactic
intent, the play is an entertaining rigmarole
—a twisted yarn of three strands. There is
a drama proper, treating the course of
Jasper and Luce’s love-comedy; but the un-
smoothness of its running is largely the re-
sult of the improvisation of Ralph and Ms
(Continued on page 8.)


we
r//,
%
a
is
Wj
llnrr.
m
"n
• //
More Value for Your Money in TROTTING REQUISITES
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Before being tempted to purchase your requirements
elsewhere, compare quality and price at Anthony
Horderns’. Comparison is the true and only test of
value. In this announcement a few of Anthony
Horderns’ standard values are enumerated—not
reduced prices, but just examples of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
The Globe Derby Pneumatic Tyre Racing Sulky, made of
the best materials throughout. Similar to the sulky
GLOBE DERBY trotted his mile race in 2.12 (as
■ illustrated). . PRICE £25
The Happy Voyage Pneumatic Tyre All-Hickory Racing
Sulky, made of the very best material and first-class
workmanship. Similar to the GLOBE DERBY.
PRICE £3O
Lightweight Track Harness. —Best Colonial
black leather, solid nickel or brass
buckles; reins with hand holts; winkers,
square or sensible eyes, with overhead
check bits; flexible tree saddle and
shaft fittings.
PRICE £B/17/6
Track Winkers, with Overcheck.
PRICE 44/-
Open Track Bridle. PRICE 44/-
Trotting Hopples. PRICE £4/4/-
Chrome Bloomers. PRICE . . 33/6 set of 4.
Rubber Bell Boots—
Red Boomerang: No. 1, 8/9; No. 2, 9/6;
No. 3, 10/3.
Grey Ribbed: No. 1, 9/-; No. 2, 9/9;
No. 3, 11/6.
Red Ribbed: No. 1, 6/9; No. 2, 7/3; No.
3, 9/-
Front Shin and Ankle Boots.
PRICES 20/-, 24/- pair
Inside Knee Boots.
PRICES 23/6, 26/9 pair
Leather Bell Boots. PRICE .... 26/9 pair
Single Quarter Boots. PRICE . . 27/- pair
Front or Hind Ankle Boots.
PRICE (1 , 8/- pair
Single Quarter Boots, with high inside pro-
tection. PRICE 29/- pair
Front Shin and Ankle and Half-knee Boots.
PRICE 26/9 pair
Kildare Knee Caps.
PRICE 24/- pair
Kildare Knee Caps, chrome leather.
PRICE 24/- pair
Braces for Knee Boots and Knee Caps.
PRICE 10/9 pair
Navy Blue Horse Blankets, 72 in. x 54in.
PRICE 10/6 each
Navy Blue Horse Blankets, 81 in. x 7 2 in.
PRICE 15/6 each
Blue or Fawn Serge Quarter Sheets —s ft.
6in., 29/6; sft. 9in., 29/9; 6ft., 30/- ea.
Woollen Coolers, 31b. weight, 90 x 80.
PRICES 42/6, 54/-
Leather Rollers, with dees and metre straps.
PRICE 19/6
Tod Sloan Pattern Trotting Riding Saddle,
London color, hogskin seat and best
plated tree. PRICE 95/-
Fittings, 3in. wool girth, 1 £in. leather sur-
cingle, 1 in. bevelled-edge stirrup
leathers and n.p. stirrup irons.
PRICE 18/6 extra
Felt Saddle Pads.
PRICE 8/6 each
Felt Saddle Pads, with 4 pieces leather sewn
on. PRICE 12/6 each
Hagley’s Hopple Chafe.
PRICE 2/6 bottle
Doyle’s Reducine.
PRICE 12/6 tin
Clark’s Hoplemuroma.
PRICE 12/9 tin
Elliman’s Embrocation.
PRICE 3/11 bottle
Victory Absorbent.
PRICE 7/6 tin
Victory Gall Cure.
PRICES 1/3, 2/4 tin
QUALITY and VALUE in STOCK, and PARK SADDLES.
Gent.’s Stock Saddle, bag-leather seat and
pads. Plated tree.
PRICE £3/17/6
Gent.’s Stock Saddle, hogskin seat, bag-
leather pads, plated tree.
PRICE £4
Gent.’s Stock Saddle, same as above, only
larger in seat; knee pads and full skirt.
PRICE . £4/16/9
The above can be supplied with roll
knee-pads if required.
Ladies’ Astride Saddle, hogskin seat and
pads, London color, plated tree.
PRICE . £6
Queensland Park Saddle, kip flaps and skirts
whitened, hogskin seat and pads, dark
saffron-stained, Victoria facings, skele-
ton panel, extended girth straps, very
neatly finished.
PRICE : i. £7/7/-
Queensland Park Saddle, same as above
only larger size, knee-pads let into
skirt, London color, excellent value.
PRICE £7/15/-
Kemp Pattern Saddle, kip flaps, skirt and
knee-pads, hogskin seat,. plated tree,
Victoria facings, skeleton panel, ex-
tended girth straps.
PRICE £7/7/-
Northern Stock Saddle, kip flaps and skirt,
hogskin seat, capped knee-pads, dark
saffron-stained, Victoria facings, skele-
ton panel, extended girth straps, plated
tree, unbeatable for value.
PRICE £7/15/-
“Wieneke” Pattern Stock Saddle, is all over
kip, capped knee-pads let into skirt,
Victoria facings, skeleton panel, ex-
tended girth straps, plated tree, Syd-
ney’s best value.
# PRICE £9
Fittings for above Saddles, folded girth,
1 4-in. stirrup leathers, n.p. stirrup irons.
PRICE 15/6 per set extra
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440.


X
o
\\o
*
0*
CO
•if"--
, F
YO.
O'
£
//
VI
%
r
COSMOS
CKAWNWIAt
>*T«MT
tnmsHMAor
oov
60W
C 0 S mos
naiwM W»**t
GASFIU-* 0
COSMOS
LAMPS
for every purpose
fem n-fNfrrjjß
Vacuum and Gas Filled
Are Made in a Wide Variety of Styles and
Sizes Suitable for all Standard Voltages®
m
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES:—
21 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne; 213 Clarence Street, Sydney
and at Adelaide Perth, Newcastle and Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND OFFICES:—
“Vickers House,” Wellington.
m


FOR 'MOR
POWER
1
1
In
m
1
i.
il
m
H
8
n
m
>
v.
vk
The Genuine British
Balata Belting.
You pay for power according to
the coal you burn, but you GET
what your belts deliver. A por-
tion of 1% saved in power soon
pays the cost difference between
a poor belt and a Dick’s Balata
Belt.
DICK’S BELTING delivers maxi-
mum power, year in and year out,
with never a halt. There are no
heavy losses through breakdowns and
labor thrown idle. No big power
losses through slipping. No heavy
repair bills. In addition —Dick’s
Balata Belting is unaffected by damp-
ness.
Write for free copy of the Balata
Belting Book—a Catalogue for the
practical Engineer.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY.
York and Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE.
581-83 Little Col-
lins Street.
ADELAIDE.
30 Currie Street.
QUEENSLAND.
The Queensland Machinery Co., Albert Street, Brisbane.
fellow-apprentices, whilst point is given to
contretemps upon contretemps, conceived
with adroit maladroitness, by the sententious
comment of the good-natured but self-suffi-
cient Citizen and his equally good-natured
but matter-of-fact wife. But when Jasper
and Luce have the stage to themselves the
speeches are beautifully poetic; and Jasper’s
soliloquy in the presence of the sleeping
Luce has all the fine gusto characteristic
of the noblest Elizabethan verse.
And through all the good humor, the fun
and hilarity, the pleasant satire, the glimpses
of contemporary customs and manners and
habits, the travesty of Heywood’s ’prentice-
boys and Cervantes’s Knight of the Rueful
Countenance, there gleams the understanding-
sympathy of the authors with the pleasures
and the prepossessings of the everyday folk
who made up the everyday audiences that
thronged the theatres —the audiences whose
sole literature, opera, picture-show, art-gal-
lery, was the theatre, where every ’prentice-
lad was an unhatched hero, a Ralph in posse.
The revival of such a sterling old comedy
deserved better treatment and a more hearty
welcome than it received at the hands of
its journalistic critics.
FEED J. BROUMFIELD.
Two Singers
The death of Alice Meynell has brought
back another echo. Few in these days write
of Elizabeth Barrett Browning. She is not
adequately ancient, she is not sufficiently
modern. Perhaps in 50 years Alice Meynell
will be to the young a dim and misty name.
Yet both these women are worthy of a keen
remembrance. Though in most respects dis-
similar, they had this in common —they sang
for the singing’s sake. But while Alice Mey-
nell’s singing is a thing of slow, exquisite
traceries, like a Gothic arch, stately and sure,
Elizabeth Browning’s was like a chapel-tower
with trembling bells that any wandering air
or any hint of wind could startle into song.
Had she sung less she might be more re-
membered. There was this difference too:
from the point of passion purely Elizabeth
Browning soars above the other woman;
Alice Meynell had a native reserve that hin-
dered revelations of self such as we find in
“Sonnets from the Portuguese.” She would
have felt a sense of self-abasement —-a sense
that here was humility of body, rather than
humility of soul. Yet she has her own love-
poems. The sonnet “Renouncement” is one
of the greatest written by women.
Elizabeth Browning could never have writ-
ten Alice Meynell’s prose; Alice Meynell
could never have written the other’s lyrics.
It is almost unfair to compare them. Though
both possessed a strong religious sense, they
derived it from different sources. Alice Mey-
nell found her joy in Catholicism. She owes
to it much of her sweet mysticism and her
delicate imagery. One might almost call her
the poetess of the Mass. None has con-
ceived more deeply or portrayed more rever-
ently the meaning of that last _ breaking of
bread, that last drinking of wine as it. is
caught up in the symbolism of the Eucharist.
Elizabeth Browning’s studies of Christian
subjects had melted into her readings with
Hugh Boyd until the old gods seemed to her
forerunners of the new. Alice Meynell’s
poems are all of Christ and His angels. The
other could set beside “The Virgin Mary to
the Child Jesus” that poignant thing, “The
Death of Pan.” The one had an exquisite
restraint that made her fearful of too much
fire; the other burned her body out for the
sheer joy of flame.
In certain poems of the two there are
curious resemblances of thought and expres-
sion. Take Mrs. Meynell’s sonnet, “Thoughts
in Separation” :
Our guardian spirits meet at prayer and play;
Beyond pain, joy and hope, and long suspense,
Above the summits of our souls, far hence,
An angel meets an angel on the way.
And compare with it this from Mrs, Brown-
ing :
Our ministering two angels look surprise
On one another as they strike athwart
Their wings in passing.
Mrs. Browning thinks of herself and her
lover as of two personalities folded into one:
What I do and what I dream include thee, as the wine
Must taste of its own grapes.
God sees within my eyes the tears of two.
Mrs. Meynell thinks of her youth and her
age as folded into one. Thus the Neophyte:
Who knows what days 1 answer for to-day?
Giving the bud I give the flower. I bow
This yet unfaded and a faded brow ;
Bending these knees and feeble knees, I pray.
The early poet has this thought:
A clock
Chiming the gradual hours out like a flock of stars.
The latter echoes, it:
Brief on a flying night,
From a shaken tower,
A flock of bells takes flight
And goes with the hour.
Alice Meynell’s conception of God is clear
and definite. He is the Christ of Bethlehem
of Gennesaret, of Calvary—infant, youth
and man become the King of Heaven. There
is something of pantheism in Mrs. Brown-
ing’s wondering desire “to dazzle black her
sight against the sky. For then it seemed
some grand, blind love came down and groped
her out.” Both had a burning sense of the
injustice of the world. Sometimes their very
quickness led them into hasty judgments.
Thus Elizabeth Browning hailed Napoleon
111. on his entry into Italy as the saviour of
a nation. She set him above all other
rulers, and cried out to him: “An English
poet warns thee to maintain God’s Word,
not England’s.” But when she heard of
Solferino, when the first word came from
Villafranca, lo! he became in her sight as
“corrupt as seven devils,” and her scorn bit
deeper than a tooth.
Alice Meynell was less rash, yet she has
written at least one recantation. The origi-
nal of it was given me by the gifted editor of
the Blue and White, a fine college annual
of old St. Patrick’s, Wellington, for which
it was written. The twisted, curling writ-
ing is hard to decipher ; but when you have
done it you get this retraction:
He who has never written a line “which dying he
would wish to blot” is an author greatly to be
envied. I, not waiting for the last recantations of
death, have a whole essay I wish to blot. Living, I
ask pardon of the colonies for certain pages of which,
I am happy to hope, not many colonies may have any
knowledge. I shall withdraw it from the next edition
of my book, and I shall never republish it. The title
of the essay was, I thought then, rather a success —
“Decivilised.” It was written because at a colonial
party in London there had been recitations. The
verses were in a taste that annoyed me (I being then
younger and more irritable). I thought there was in
them a vain show of youth, novelty, roughness, pro-
mise undefined but insistent; whereas the poetry was
aged, hereditary, enfeebled. Authors and reciters a
little decivilised seemed to be pretending that they
were a little uncivilised.
I whetted my pen against them. Some little truth
there may have been in my criticism, but some mis-
understanding- also. And now that the colonies have
sent us heroes of the most ideal spirit, the most mag-
nanimous nature, fresh in enthusiasm, and yet r'pe
in resolution ai d judgment, what shall we say of the
young men, apart from the “poets”? What is a
literary grievance in face of that army? Yet even in
the matter of literature I am answered and humili-
ated. The finest student of letters, and the man of the
widest and deepest reading I have met for many years,
was a young Colonial who had come over to fight for
England ; if to die for her, a wonderful life will be
cut off at one-third its due of days. It seems to me,
in my tardy penitence, that the Colonial to-day, edu-
cated, energetic and devoted, is neither the uncivilised
of the boast of pioneer poetry, nor the decivilised of
my hasty retort, but the civilised man himself.
I have seen no finer tribute than this re-
traction penned by a hand now cold. It
rings nobly. I cherish the MS.
This woman, by her soul alone, should
live. I have said before that she would
never have spoken bodily humilities. She
did not hesitate to speak the humilities of
the mind. A daisy was to her a reminder
of the invincible ignorance of the greatest
of human intellects. The ancients had a
great phrase, “No man is happy till he is
dead.” Alice Meynell would have said,
“No man is wise till he is dead.”
Her art reminds us of an old Grecian
marble, so pure, so spare, so cold. It is as
if a living bird with lifted wings and throb-
bing throat were smitten by a spell till song
and flight were both forever locked within
the beauty of the stone.
EILEEN DUGGAN.
Australian Art
One thing that the collection of Aus-
tralian pictures got together for exhibition
in London proves is that most of our artists
either have no clear aim at all, or are
wasting their powers on wrong ones, in-
cluding mere picture-making. Art means
very much moi'e than the little business of
providing something pretty for the decora-
tion of walls and illustration of books. Its
true purpose is to assist in the development
cf vision, and the value or greatness of a
picture is determined by the degree of con-
viction it carries for the highly developed
vision. It is mental laziness to leave it to
posterity to decide which is the great and
the small in modern art. Lacking in the
supreme quality of conviction, a picture is
doomed to oblivion: in spite of the artist’s
sincerity, his patient labor, his extraordinary
flights of imagination and in spite of his
staggering dexterity, and of all the other
characteristics considered priceless virtues in
his day. A passing fashion may revive his
glory for a time, but eventually his work
goes the way of the air machine which would
not fly, of the medicine which would not
cure.
True vision is concerned wholly with the
discovery of and compliance with funda-
mental iaws of reality. Centuries hence it
will have changed only in that it has grown:
the process by which it grows will remain
the same as it was in the beginning and is
now. All other forms of vision pass with
the diversion which they produced. The true
visionary in graphic art is the true student
of light, for he concerns himself wholly
with what reveals realities through the
medium of his eyes and enables him to dis-
cover optical realities for the rest of man-
kind. The eyes of primitive man conveyed
to his brain so little of all that light reveals
as to leave him satisfied with a crude tinted
outline as a complete record of objects. His
drawings are now only profoundly inter-
esting to the historian and a host of “mod-
ern” painters; but just as without light there
would be no life, so primitive art and any
picture lacking a true record of light remains
to the. mind that is conscious of the action
of light in the revelation of life a flat surface
patterned with dead symbols.
Leaving out the few disciples of one small
school, the Australian artist, while he is
more or less interested in light, is not a
true student of it. He is too pre-occupied
with one or more of the less striking fashions
which modern schools have imported into
art; like the primitive artist he trusts too
much to the one element—-drawing—and
neglects or takes liberties with the other
two, tone and color, which must also be
accurately recorded to gain full realisation
of the subject. And he is too prone to in-
dulge in fancies which no artist could com-
pletely realise, for the simple reason that no
artist has a complete knowledge of light. It
would be impossible to put down from
memory the exact tones the light and shade
of any object would have under a certain
light; yet these must be stated exactly in
order to project the object back into its
right place in the space of the picture, and
thus create the illusion of atmosphere. A
picture cannot give a convincing impression
of actual life unless the human beings, or
trees or whatever else form the motive of
the subject, appear to be surrounded by atmo-
sphere as real as that which surrounds them
in actual life. From this it will be seen that
the artist who concerns himself wholly or
even partly with unrealities, or who ignores
something before him and fills the gap with
something from his fancy, is either refusing
to recognise the limitations of his powers,
and is therefore at least unwise, or is merely
picture-making and is consequently a hin-
drance to the development of vision; for
vision, like everything else, grows healthily
or unhealthily according to its food.
The most striking object-lesson of the re-
cent exhibition of these pictures in Sydney
was afforded by the placing of H. B. Harri-
son’s “Portrait” beside G. W. Lambert’s
“\Vhite Glove.” Harrison’s simple record,
in spite of some doubts about the head,
strongly suggested life; Lambert’s attempt'
to suggest movement succeeded only in rivet-
ing attention on canvas and brilliantly-
handled paint, distorted forms and the waste
of a very capable artist’s powers. If free-
dom of individual thought was one of the
characteristics of our artists and critics, the
lesson which might have been learned from
that comparison would undoubtedly have led
to an early recognition of the soundness of
the principles on which Harrison’s work is
based. Unfortunately there is little likeli-
hood of an early general recognition. Max
Meldrum has been for 10 years patiently ex-
plaining these principles to mostly deaf ears.
Prejudice, which has no doubt been partly
responsible for keeping Australian art free
of the worst influences of “modern” art, has
also kept it from reaping the full benefits of
Meldrum’s valuable offerings, and has given
him the unenviable distinction of being the
most abused member of our little art world.
In spite of the service he is rendering in the
thoroughly sound painters he is producing,
and in spite of the general acknowledgment
that he is at any rate one of our six best
artists, he was passed by in the appointment
of the seven selectors of work for the London
collection; which doubtless accounts for his
being represented in it by only one small
canvas.
It is the general criticism that Meldrum’s
principles are too logical, which, of course,
means too sane; and surely there could be
no better condemnation of his critics than this
evidence of their desire to have Australian
art remain, at least, a little insane. “Mel-
drum’s principles are wholly admirable when
he alone uses them,” one hears, too. As well
say: “The fundamental laws governing wire-
less are wholly admirable when Marconi,
who discovered them, alone pursues the
attempt to perfect wireless.” Could anyone
with a normal vision believe that?
P. L.
Monte Cristo
The day of the romance seems gone. Nowa-
days it is as unfashionable for a novelist to
write a story as for a musician to compose
a tune; and the true romance of old, which
was not.only a story, but a story in which
everything was possible and nothing absurd,
has vanished from among a sophisticated
and introspective generation. But time was
when men, ignoring psychology and caring no-
thing for brevity, dared to tell stories for
the stories’ sake. Alexandre Dumas was
the prince of storytellers; “The Count of
Monte Cristo” is one-of the greatest stories
in the world.
After the studied formlessness of most
modern fiction, we are impressed by the
wonderful skill and intricacy of the plot.
Without pause, without haste, the amazing
tale marches to its conclusion, where all its
complexities are straightened out, and all
its mysteries explained. The whole 750
pages seem as though Dumas had written
them at a sitting, without effort, in a sudden
rush of inspiration; it is the apparent spon-
taneity, so deceptive, of great art. And the
freshness of great art is there, too. The
dramatic scenes do not cease to thrill us on a
second reading—and of how few tales of adven-
ture can this be said ! When Edmond Dantes
takes his horrid plunge from the Chateau
d’lf we shudder, even at the tenth perusal.
Our reason cries “Impossible!”; but our
imagination is fired, and Romance has us
in her clutches. It is as easy for us to
accept the Count and his Treasure Island
as it is to accept Sindbad the Sailor and his
Valley of Diamonds.
Romance has been defined as something
which always was and never is. It is true
that the past is always romantic, and that
“battles long ago” strike the imagination
largely because they are far away. It would
be interesting to determine liow much of the
romantic effect of the modern Irish play-
wrights is due to their fondness for a period
of history so vague and remote that we are
tempted to wonder if it ever existed. But
Dumas did not hark back to the past for
the glamor of romance ; he found it in his
own prosaic age. The Paris of the Restored
Bourbons is his scene; the Paris of Balzac,
so wealthy and brilliant, yet so corrupt and
commercialised. It was not a glorious period
of French history, this period of reaction
from the perfervid idealism of the Revolu-
tion : the age, sordid rather than romantic,
which witnessed the substitution of pluto-
cracy for aristocracy in France. Dumas
faithfully mirrored these upstart pluto-
crats, so luxurious and ostentatious.
We enter their gilt drawing-rooms and
drive abroad in their smart barouches,
and feel that for all its manifest impossi-
bility the book is a true picture of an epoch.
Danglars, the banker; Eugenie, the eman-
cipated woman; De Morceuf, the military
baron, are types of the new society created
by the Revolution and by Napoleon. In the
beginning of the book these people are sailors
in Marseilles ; 20 years later we meet them
leading society in Paris. And their relent-
less enemy, the Count of Monte Cristo, is
himself an epitome of the spirit of the age.
The industrial revolution had created a new
standard of wealth; banking had become an
exciting science. The Count, with his un-
limited credit, his miraculous horses, his
stupendous banquets, is the apotheosis of the
new ideal of prosperity; he is the pluto-
cracy of the Bourbon Restoration incarnate,
yet withal as romantic a figure as any in
the Arabian Nights. Indeed, we feel that
the Arabian Nights were, to a certain extent,
at least, Dumas’ “great original” in the
conception of this remarkable character.
The atmosphere of Oriental luxury and
mystery in which the Count lives completes
the picture of the age as it adds the final
touch of romance to the tale. The Eastern
Question was a burning one to the French
of that day. The romantic and terrible Ali
of Janina was fresh in their minds. Dreams
of conquest in Turkey, relics of Napoleon,
still stirred in the soul of the most military
of European nations. It was in keeping
with the temper of the time that the beau-
tiful Princess Haydee, ward of the Count,
should be Ali of Janina’s daughter. The
Count’s Oriental grotto, where he deals out
the mysterious drug hashish to his friends,
may smack of Scheherizade, but it reflects
also the trend of contemporary French Im-
perialism.
When we analyse it, how nearly this
great book, with its Turkish princesses and
fabulous fortunes, approaches to absurdity!
Yet how great it is, even when it is nearest
to being absurd! For Dumas, the portly
high priest of romance, happened to be a
genius ; and his fairy-tale Count, “rich and
revengeful,” moving with such fell purpose
among the Parisian nouveaux riches of the
’thirties, is the creation of a master-hand.
“The Count of Monte Cristo” is as immor-
tal (though not so immoral) as the Arabian
Nights, to which it owes much of its in-
spiration. Truly “a tale to hold children from
play, and old men from the chimney corner.”
C. B. M.


Is your instrument just
“a means to an end”?
Sit down before it some evening in a critical mood, and ask yourself the
question: “How much does it really mean to me?”
Very many machines are merely interesting mechanical achievements—interesting for the faint hope of
what might be accomplished some day—for any sort of makeshift music is better than none, in its
opportunities for the listener to call upon his imagination. But when it comes to falling passionately in
love with what they have to give, it can’t be done!
The full glory of music is not its tunefulness, nor its massed harmonies, but its exquisite
richness in qualities almost too subtle to be given a name. If any part of it is left out,
then it is music with the soul gone—and music with the soul gone is just imitation music.
Yes, listen to the instrument in your own home—ask your-
self whether any quality is lacking that was present in the
original? And if the answer is “Yes!” then it is time to
change to the true Re-Creation instrument:
“75. NEW
EDISON
“The Phonograph with a Soul.”
We have a few copies of William R. Leighton’s delightful
essay, “The Music Passion.” May we send or hand you
one of them?
THOMAS A. EDISON, LIMITED, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
► m
r>>s—
■£>•>; i 5
mi
ci;
m
Jj# —*X*A
♦o*
Diuuiini
m
l<M
mu
A&
■ aiairv *»imi
b££Zs~s**z&
555-
~~.f
S S
-w/
£
vs
m
m
Almost any motor car might render
good service to an expert mechanic*
But Hupmohiles are made for people
who enjoy using a motor car more than
they do “tinkering” with it.
I. PHIZACKBRLEY, 169-71 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney, N. S. Wales.
DALGETY & COMPANY. LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street. Melbourne, Victoria.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 112-20 Pirie Street, Adelaide, S. Aus.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LIMITED, Perth, West Australia.
EVERS MOTOR CO.. LIMITED. 437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. Queensland.
DUNCAN. LOANE. West Devonport. Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.. Christchurch. New Zealand.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, New Zealand.


Saves over SO% in Power Costs and 1 ime compared with Air Power
DORMAN
SELF
CONTAINED
DUSTLESS WAVE POWER ROCK DRILL
GENERATOR CAN BE WORKED CLOSE UP TO ROCK FACE.
INDEPENDENT and Automatically synchronised Rotation of the Drill Steels on the return stroke of the Hammer. No Splines
used. Any Drill Steel used from 1-in. to 4-in. bits with one chuck only. The short stroke and high frequency make for ease in
collaring holes as Wave Power impulses arrive continuously at all lengths of stroke from zero.
The running Water conveying the Power converts all the rock debris into liquid sludge. Controlled by Drill Operator. Keeps Drill Cool. Bit always operates on the virgin rock face
WAVE POWER COSTS compared with COMPRESSED AIR POWER COSTS
Using Electricity as the motive Power at 3d. per unit, Wave Power shows a Saving of the Power Costs alone of approximately 16/- per 100 ft.
when horizontally drilling short holes (4 ft. deep). With deeper holes (20 ft. deep) and fewer changes of drill bits Wave Power would show
greater savings of the power costs than 16/- for each 100 ft. drilled.
Wet Drilling without
Increased
Equipment
or Power Costs
I
m
m
LE W A\:% *
»KttaKraftrara
p ; :^x
>!‘>/avXv>
TOWWWW
a
m
yAV. B . B . B * y mmp
DOWN HOLES drilled by single plant to a
depth of 20ft. at Double the Speed of a Steam
Driven Piston Drill.
Will Drill
and Clear
20ft. holes
Can be
worked by
Unskilled
Labour
PURCHASED BY THE BOMBAY MUNICIPALITY.
WORKS THREE DRILLS Simultaneously or Separately.
A Three Drill Self-contained Wave Power Plant is permanently fixed on a Steel Frame Trolley to run on a 2 ft. 6 inch gauge railway,
and consists of a 4 cylinder Dorman Petrol Engine, 36 R.A.C. rating, coupled to a Wave Generator (Patented) through an ordinary gear-box
and clutch. Can be designed for Engine, under its own Power, to move the complete unit any distance. Rails not necessary.
THREE Cradle mounted Dustless Rock Drills, can be worked simultaneously or intermittently, each on a separate Pipe Line at a
length of One Hundred and Thirty feet each drill.
Or, Two Cradle mounted Dustless Rock Drills can be worked simultaneously or intermittently, each on a separate Pipe Line at a
length of Two Hundred and Fifty feet each drill.
Or, One Cradle mounted Dustless Rock Drill can be worked at a single pipe line length of Five Hundred feet.
Several separate pipe lines of 500 ft. each can be in economic use serving in rotation the several districts of the Quarry. One Drill
continuously at work while the other rock faces are being cleared.
The Power Input through Generator instantaneously and automatically adjusts itself to the varying working load to correspond with
the number of Dustless Rock Drills being operated at any one time. Immediately one or more drills are shut off or temporarily stopped,
the Power Input automatically reduces itself to the minimum power demanded. There is no heavy idle load.
The “ Dorman” Engine is a standard design with all working parts standardised and interchangeable and giving ample reserve power.
If necessary can be adapted to run on Paraffin. The Oil Lubrication of Engine and Wave Generator is automatic. The complete Generator
Plant can be left unattended for long working periods. The Plant can be worked by unskilled labour. The working pressures are within
perfectly safe limits. Wave Power is transmitted through “Flexstel” —a Patented Flexible Steel Pipe Line tested hydraulically up to
9 tons pressure per square inch. Wave Power can be transmitted through permanently fixed plain piping. The complete equipment is
made to withstand the roughest usages of practical mining.
There are no Mechanical Springs in the Equipment as the basic scientific principle of Wave Transmission, viz., the Storage of
Energy in fluids, is practically applied. A distinct feature of the Dustless Rock Drill is the independent automatically synchronised
rotation of the Drill Steels on the return stroke of the Hammer. No splines used. Any ordinary standard Drill Steels can be used
with any Wave Plant. The Cradle is made to suit standard rigs.
Water—the medium for carrying the Wave Power —is continuously passed under pressure down the centre of the Drill Steel to the
drill point, and this supply can be controlled and varied by the Operator as he works the Drill. The running water helps to keep the Drill cool.
The prompt and continuous clearance of debris eliminates the cushioning effect associated with air drilling, and the natural result is the
drilling speed of Wave Power correspondingly increases. The drill always works on the virgin face of the rock. Dry drilling, if required,
can be done on a closed Water Pipe Line, and does not involve any serious or expensive alterations in the Wave Equipment,
Wave Power reliably secures dustless rock drilling without extra water cost. With certainty it eliminates all dust, and
effectually overcomes the cause—dry dust—that creates miner's Phthisis—the dreaded disease peculiar to the Mining Industry.
Actual comparative drilling results on hardest Cornish Granite show a saving in power and time of more than 50% over
compressed air. On the basis of equal power consumption the drilling results by Wave Power are more than double
that by compressed air.
Wave Plants work with any ordinary Drill Steels varying in diameter from 1 inch up to 4 inches at 2,400 blows per minute or
whatever number of blows conditions require. One Chuck is only necessary for the whole range of Drill Steels sizes named.
Regular working Drilling speeds in hardest Cornish Granite as follows. In quarries, other than Granite these speeds are exceeded.
Diameter of Bit.
4 in
3t in.
3 in.
2§ in.
Rate of penetration.
2 ins. per minute.
3
4
6
Diameter of Bit. Rate of penetration.
2 in. - - 10 ins. per minute,
li in. - - 14
1 in. - - 18
Where the drilling hole traverses fissures or joint planes or drilling near a faulted zone there is reduced jambing of Wave driven drill.
W. H. DORMAN & CO.,
LTD., STAFFORD.
Head Office and Works
STAFFORD, ENGLAND.
London Office
ST. BRIDE’S HOUSE.
SALISBURY 5Q..E.C.4
“ Flexstel” is a Registered
Trade Mark
This Border is a reproduction
of Flexstel.
Flexstel Patented in the Chiet
Countries of the World.
This Border is a reproduction
of Flexstel.


.
HHH
• X : ': ;
!
: E'.':/.,
■ i
r >*•
s:k
1
nßmmSm
X: .
k. : ? , r X 4
. .
4€ 4 \
1
!?«;; i'svl
«a
■«
si
Hi
BiK . .# i
&
.
Vi
> ' - '■
■
m
mmsmm
V
c Miaf aw your thoughts of the future?
When you are thinking of the future, in your
own mind you instinctively award a high place
to Packard.
The thought of Packard comes first, and in-
stantly, when the finest cars are discussed.
The name of Packard leaps to your lips when
you are seeking a synonym for the best.
These instincts, intuitions
and impressions of yours
can be trusted. They can
be trusted because they
are true— and because your
mental process in regard to Packard is the
almost universal process.
Packard has passed into the inner life of the
nation and taken a permanent place in litera-
ture as symbolic of pre-eminence.
Nothing that we might say of Packard could
possible compare with this spontaneous, almost
unconscious, and well-nigh
unanimous tribute. Trust
your own thoughts of Pac-
kard—they will lead you
to unalloyed satisfaction.
m
IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES
IRA L. 6c A. C. BERK
Distributors : 261, 263, 265 Castlereagh Street - Sydney.
Ring City 3338 for demonstration. IVrite or call for Catalogue.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Limited,
206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
The Universal Motors Pty.,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
Eyes & Crowle Limited,
75 Pine Street, Adelaide.
PACKARD


w
Jnqßak§»
rD
TRADE MARK.
&jyz JStgnnf (|>nnd Cuiterg
THE HOUSEOF STEEL
FOUNDED A D 1888
VALET AUTO=STROP
Strops Itself.
No. 50 — Domed Nickel Case, con-
tains heavily silver-plated, self-stropping
Razor, Twelve tested “Valet” Blades and
Leather Strop, complete, 25/-
No. I—Standard Set, same as above
in Leather-covered case, complete, 25/-
No. 12—Black Leather Travelling
Set, lined velvet. Contains silver-plated self-
stropping Razor, Twelve tested- “Valet”
Blades and Strop, two silver-plated tubes
containing Shaving; Brush and Soap, and
Bevelled Shaving Mirror, as illustrated, 50/-
complete.
Without Mirror, 42 / 6 complete.
“VALET” AUTO-STROP (Model
C). Not adjustable.
Containing 3 Blades and Strop.
8/6 Complete Sn Case.
All Razors Post Free throughout Australia
for cash with order.
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Extra Blades (Packet of 5) 3/- \ Postage
Extra Strops.. .. .. 3/61 3d.
W. JNO. BAKER, T »V' s ?.°r*
3 Hunter Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it..
leai
■
E
V
NURSERY POMADE.
Ensure your kiddies being free
from NITS, SCURF and all other
SCALP TROUBLES. 1/- from
your Chemist, or direct from
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY PTY. LTD.
349 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
p
VOL;,.
STYLE built in the hats on the founda-
tion of quality is the secret of Stetson
success. Your finger tips will tell you
about Stetson quality—time will show
how the hats wear.
Stetson
Meris Hats
P. B. Sheather Co. , Ltd,
Sydney and Melbourne
Sole Australasian Representatives
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
RUDYARD KIPLING.
The Irish Guards in the Great War.
Edited and compiled from their
Diaries and Papers, by RUDYARD
KIPLING. With Maps. 2 Vols.
40s. net.
Possession. By Mazo de la Roche.
(Being No. 680 in Macmillan’s
Empire Library.)
A story of Canadian life, conveying with re-
markable success an attractive picture of an
overseas rural community.
Wisp: A Girl of Dublin. By Katha-
rine Adams. Illustrated by Jay van
Everen. 7s. 6d. net.
The Spectator: —“This charming story of
a Dublin waif who became acquainted with
some well-to-do children, and the subsequent
improvement of her condition is very deli-
cately t01d.... It is, in fact, quite a triumph-
in its unaffected style.”
Heredity in Poultry. By Reginald
Crundall Punnett, F.R.S., Author of
“Mendelism.” With Illustrations in
Color and Black and White. 10s. net.
The Field :— '“A mine of extremely inter-
esting information and suggestions with a
direct practical bearing. .. .The book covers
a wide range and provides an excellent intro-
duction to a fascinating study, of considerable
value alike to the experimental breeder and
those whose object is mainly practical or com-
mercial.”
Popular Poultry Pointers. A Book
of Popular Up-to-date Recommenda-
tions that have proved successful on
many Farms. By Ralston R. Hannas.
Illustrated. 10s. 6d. net.
THE ROUND TABLE
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of the
British Commonwealth.
ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum, post free
to any address within the Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOE MARCH:
FRANCE AND GERMANY.
IRELAND AS IT IS.
THE FUTURE OF REPARATIONS AND
INTER-ALLIED DEBTS.
WALTER PAGE.
THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
AMERICA AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS.
THE LAUSANNE CONFERENCE.
To be Obtained from alt
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
Stevens No. 335 Hetnmerlosa
12- and 16-Gauge
Renew your
Youth
ET yourself a Stevens
shotgun. Go out into
the open and again enjoy
the thrill of the outdoors and
the companionship of a good
gun. The Stevens you have
known for years is still at
your disposal—just as ac-
curate, just as dependable as
ever. Your dealer will show
it to you.
The two models pictured above
are excellent guns at a low
price—they will last a lifetime.
Both are made in 12- and 16-
Gauge and from 26 to 32 inches
in length. Barrels are of high-
-pressure compressed steel,
bored for nitro powder; barrel
and lug in one solid piece. Will
fire any standard factory-
loaded shell.
Stevens name and trade
mark on a firearm are your
protection.
Exclusive Representative for Australia & New Zealand
A. ASHER SMITH,
Dept. \ P.O. Box 966, Sydney, N.S.W.
■I. STEVENS ARMS GO. Chicopee Falls, Mass. U.S.A.
SAVAGE ARMS CORPORATION, Utica, N.Y., U.S.A.
Export Office: 50 Charch St, New York.
A2b
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fate’s Way.
With velvet winds to fan them,
Upon the selfsame tree
Twin roses grew in a garden
As like as like could be.
Came Fate upon her day’s round,
All in a golden hour,
For Fate is a busy worker,
And knows not man from flower.
One rose a rose-sweet damsel
Now wears, a flower of fire;
And one, by an urchin ruined,
Lies trampled in the mire.
To one she gave swift ruin,
To one an hour of bliss —
'Oh, this is her way with the roses
And all that mortal is!
N.S.W.
HODERIC QUINN.
Dawn in Drought.
A creak from roof and flooring, the sigh of
wind that passes
Wearily through the treetops, leaving
them then in peace;
The ghost of a sigh in the space where once
grew knee-high grasses,
The chirp of a half-awakened bird —then
all sounds cease.
A sense of pregnancy around that makes one
listen and wonder—
And then a silver streak in the lead of the
eastern sky,
Like a lean, grey, stalking beast, bent on
some eerie plunder;
And the pageant of the colored clouds
floats in its glory by.
Each morning comes this mockery of splen-
did flaunting color,
Each evening sees its sequel in a glory of
the west;
Each twilight hills turn purple, and then
grow slowly duller,
And the cold points of stars pierce through
the darkness of Night’s breast!
And all goes unreflected, for the deepest pools
are drying,
The very trees are wilting, and humblest
growth is vain.
Look down, O skies! in pity, on the weak,
dumb cattle dying,
In paddocks bleached with agony for lack
of your sweet rain!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
After Victory.
Helen is home. The moon is strangely white
Above Eurotas and the hollow vale.
The palace is all sprinkled with the light
Of moving festival. A gusty gale
Of shrill pipe-music blows about the door.
Stiff warriors wrench with ancient wounds
that ache,
Stand heavy in grey mirth about the floor,
Or lift a shout, brave-lipped, for the sad
sake
Of victory, the prize of weary days.
Helen is home. All seems unreal, cold.
The pipes are all a little out of tune;
But there are scattered piles of Trojan
gold.
Within they hearten pride with their own
praise ;
Without is the chill mockery of the
moon.
Helen is home, and Troy a blackened waste.
The loud Achaean vaunt is shallow sound,
The wine is thin and acid to the taste;
The sullen Captives in their fetters bound
Can urge no spur to quicken withered hate.
Helen is home. Beneath the lights she
stands,
Tall, pallid, lined, beside her grizzled mate,
Her yellow hair, in long and faded strands,
Twined in and out through leaves of Priam’s
gold,
Her robe all hard with gems that lately
shone
In Ilion’s fatal firelight, and a fold
Of red—blood-red —about her stringy throat.
The bloom that Theseus coveted is gone.
Helen is home. Her beauty paid the price
Of large adventure on the sea and land;
But very weary are the arms that smote
Wrong to its grave in blackened Asian
sand,
Though Sparta jests to hide the sacrifice.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WEIGHT.
The Mourners.
They wrung their hands and loudly wept
All through the bitter night;
They twined pale flowers in her hair,
Placed in her still hands slim and fair
Lilies of virgin white.
“As pure and innocent was she
As the first blush of morn ;
Love with its all-consuming ways
Had touched her not,” they said in praise,
“And passion was unborn.”
Apart a silent mourner watched
His fair love decked for death.
Their pallid, wintry wreaths he spurned,
Deep in his heart her kisses burned
Like a devouring breath.
VICTORIA.
N. YUONG.
Short Life.
When all the passions of my youth are spent,
And I no longer walk in Summer’s way.
May my call come, O God. nor bid me stay!
Death will be sweet, and I will be content.
I, who have sinn’d, have suffered chastise-
ment.
Grief has been mine, and sorrow, and dismay.
Still, I have lived forever for the day,
And find that life is truly excellent.
But Age creeps on. I see myself bereft
Of pulsing passion and divine desire.
Grown old, and cold, with only mem’ry
left—
The dull, grey ashes of a burnt-out fire—
Lord, take me hence ere autumn bares the
trees.
Life has been sweet—l want no memories.
N.S.W.
JOHN BAIN.


(%
.
m
IftHMk
*
m
' 1 '
.- .;*'’ 7
■MH
.v ,# ■
# V;: v \
■r ' ■■ \-:\i \l
*
■ -
'S-* ;
ii*
raw
* ■
Mi
M£
AAA
H
• . M
nam*.
1
Mi
n
lilßlfM K
V
ranrai
mm
m
■ <
r; 11*11#
.
I Hi ■
■%, «iBE:
4 /
-• A'" "
•'■ '. . ■ ~■/ W.. -
■ ; - ■ ... ; /
■. r,f.. %mmm
\
m
r/j a


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspap
Vol. 44. —No. 2263.
THURSDAY, JUNE 28, 1923.
Pbice 6d.
THE PLOUGHING SEASON.
“Four no-confidence and censure motions have already been submitted in this Federal session. The voting was on strictly party lines.*'
LITTLE AUSTRALIA: “A fine lot of ploughing you’ll get done this way!”
ONE OF THE DRIVERS: “Shut up and clear out! This isn’t ploughing; it’s politics.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co-, 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
1~ months, £1 65.; 6 months, ISs. 6d.; 3 months, Is.
lo ANY address Oveuseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
M anager.
Special Notice
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
Ihe contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
pai t of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publisher..
Ihe Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
/ olitical, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
Vann ex ceeding tuio columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Betters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
“ le jfddress is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” can he obtained from the
“British-Australasian” seller at the entrance
li l l House, Loimloh. Also from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and W. Dawson and
Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London
E.C.-'i; E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, !fi Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High Holborn, London, W.C.I; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central Mews Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., lilil Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie
Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde. New York: Bren-
tano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New York City;
Ilotaling’s News Agency, 203 West hist Street, New
York City. Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle.
California: California News Agency (Rothstein and
Freedberg), Metropolitan Buildings, 315 West, sth
Street, Los Angeles; Wheatley News Co., Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco.
Egypt.. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Peddcr Street, Hong
Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, E.C.h.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: hoz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: hoz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
jTuTS^xzllglzvi,
THURSDAY, JUNE 28, 1923.
THE DIGGER AND HIS RIGHTS.
It will soon be nine years since the first
Australian volunteer hurried to a recruiting-
station—nine years since men who were then
in their physical prime but are now going
downhill heard the political chiefs, Labor and
anti-Labor, and the leading figures of the
professional and commercial worlds promise
that it would not be Australia’s fault if any
soldier who returned from this war regretted
having gone. It was a different war from
all others, and the men who survived would
get different treatment from that accorded
the returned soldiers of other wars. Cer-
tainly not half so much money ever was spent
upon a returned army. Mostly for the
glorification of politicians millions were scat-
tered among the Diggers, without the slight-
est regard for their needs. And then a hard
frost set in. Since then they have come to
understand that people give assurances
when their possessions are endangered which
they find it convenient to forget once the
menace has been routed. Most of the poli-
ticians who pledged the nation’s word to
stand by the soldiers are out of office, and
many of the private citizens are dead or out
of business. The Federal Labor party—the
party that first adopted the principle of
national military service—has gone pacifist.
Its leaders were to be heard last week talking
the idealistic humbug which lands desirable
countries in ruin. The logical corollary of
anti-militarism is a dislike of soldiers, and
a disposition to argue that any fate is good
enough for those who have voluntarily been
soldiers; and this spirit is discernible in the
present-day Labor movement, Federal and
State. As for the Nationalists, they began
curbing their enthusiasm for the Digger the
moment the war was won, if not earlier. It
soon became a matter of saving money which
Mr. Hughes and his colleagues felt might be
better spent on maintaining the splendor of
the great war-bred departments ; and to that
end the heads of the Army Medical Service
were instructed to be indefatigable in reduc-
ing pensions, cutting out pensions and secur-
ing signed acknowledgments from invalid sol-
diers that they had no right to pensions.
* * * *
While the fighting was in progress the sol-
diers believed that the officers who had
achieved the highest distinctions as a result,
all said and done, of the valor and self-sacri-
fice of the other ranks would show their
gratitude in a tangible form when the oppor-
tunity offered. A general in the field could
only display his appreciation of a particu-
larly fine effort on the part of his division by
thanking it, or (a more popular method with
generals) giving it an early opportunity to
again cover itself with glory. But it was
felt that at home, anyhow, the generals would
rise to the occasion and place the interests
of the Digger above considerations of class
or politics. It was the same error the men
had fallen into with regard to the politicians
and business magnates. A general who is
bracing up his command for a feat that may
win him a knighthood is an entirely different
proposition from the same man,when bracing
up a constituency to return him to Parlia-
ment or a Prime Minister to give him office
or a lucrative job. So the returned soldiers
have little to expect from the influence of
those they made influential: the very quali-
ties that caused a man to become a general
debar many of our generals from remember-
ing that the former regimental number, the
pawn who was moved about for so many
years without regard to his fears or pre-
judices, is a human being once again. And
there is a powerful silent vote registered
against the Digger by those who should have
gone to the war and shirked it, and by their
parents, their sweethearts and their wives.
These are the people who dwell with relish
on stories to the detriment of the A.1.F., and
who smugly deplore the immorality and gen-
eral worthlessness of the Digger as often as
they see a one-armed drunk or read that an
ex-soldier has been charged with a crime.
The average Australian who served in the
Imperial Army is, for various reasons, no
great friend of the Digger either; and the
same remark applies to many of the immi-
grants we are getting from the United King-
dom. But the greatest enemy of all is Time
■ —Time which every year is throwing on
the labor market thousands of young men
and women who were small children when
the war began; to whom it is almost as
remote as the last South African war; who
never understood what it meant to themselves
or the men who fought in it; who are not
morally responsible for the often fantastic
promises made by their parents and grand-
parents.
* * * *
No Digger who is worth his salt wants
from the country, on the strength of his war-
services, anything more than he is legally
and equitably entitled to; nor will he be
found sympathising with the few wasters
who do. Ninety-nine per cent, of the under-
takings shouted in the ears of the soldiers
years ago may with advantage be allowed to
go the way of the young women who were
proud to take incapacitated fighting men for
motor-drives, or to sing or get up theatrical
shows for them, and who now regard their
war-time idols as captious undesirables. But
there are men, thousands of them, who have
a right to consideration; which right is being
denied them in part, and which, as the tide
of indifferentism rises and rises, threatens
to be withdrawn or allowed to lapse alto-
gether. The Bueletin recently stressed
the inhumanity and illogicality of the review
arrangement in T.B. cases which leaves
these unfortunates in perpetual doubt about
their pensions, and which presupposes the
impossible-—that a lung which is partly gone
can be made whole. There is not a branch
of the R.S.A. which cannot produce cases
of great hardship; there is probably not a
T.B. hospital in the country which does not
contain ex-soldiers and sailors who, on some
technicality, have been jockeyed out of their
pensions and have no money beyond the few
shillings of charity which the Red Cross or
some similar body allows them. Despite the
continual appeals for work made by Diggers
with clean discharges, and in many cases
families, the comfortable theory is promul-
gated that no ex-soldier need be unemployed
who does not want to be; and by way of
proof it is pointed out that the State Labor
Bureaus are periodically cleared. But scores
of the ex-soldiers who got jobs through the
N. S. Wales Bureau months ago have long
been out of work, their employment having
terminated in a few weeks through no fault
of theirs, and no one else has since been pre-
pared to employ them. However, The Bul-
letin ia less concerned about tne able-
bodied among these men than it is for those
who have suffered and still suffer from physi-
cal disabilities, and for their dependants. It
is a scandal and a reproach that these men
—and these women and children —should
have any less than we promised them ; and
tens of thousands of them have less, and are
in perpetual dread of having nothing.
• • # *
Where is the remedy to be found? The
answer is that it can be supplied by the
Diggers themselves, and by them alone. Not
by the ex-soldiers of political importance
(their positions hamper them even when the
will to help is there), but by the indepen-
dents of all classes outside Parliament. Their
strength, when they unite in a good and rea-
sonable cause, was shown the other day in
connection with the Ryan matter. They are
in a position to get equally satisfactory re-
sults in other directions if they so decide.
The requirements are that every fighting
man, and every fighting man’s father, who
is in a position to join a Digger association
shall do so, that one body shall move for all
when action is decided upon, and that no
cases shall be touched except indisputably
good ones. On such lines the vast majority
of the A.I.F. who have made good may save
the handful who have struck misfortune from
undeserved misery, and at the same time
enjoy the knowledge that they are in a
sense saving Australia from itself. What
better advertisement could the Common-
wealth have than the reputation of
being the only belligerent country whose
ex-soldiers have no legitimate complaints
against their Government or their people?
And what better recruiting agent could there
be than such a tradition if the life of the
nation is again threatened?
THE MENACE OF UNDEMOCRATIC
GOVERNMENT.
The Sydney Labor Conference dispersed
after much vituperation, but also after mak-
ing a lot of progress towards the “revolution”
with which it is proposed to end self-govern-
ment in Australia. The Red Objective, which
had formerly rather hung fire in the Ma
State, was declared to be adopted by far
more than the required majority. It was also
resolved (though this will require formal
confirmation later) to adopt the Communists
into the Labor movement. True to the
latter-day policy by which the allegedly sane
and level-headed Australian worker allows
the worst “extremists” to take charge, they
will presumably assume control when they
arrive. Even if no overt acts of the kind
habitually called “revolutionary,” such as
street-fighting and a general rushing about with
flags and uniforms, take place, the new party
should sooner or later drift into power in the
ordinary process of events and public forget-
fulness. When it does so, the real authority
is to pass to an outside body, which will
make and direct and unmake Ministers and
supply the policy. The people’s representa-
tives are to be superseded by an institution
which isn’t openly elected—in fact, there are
great doubts as to how it is elected; which
operates in secrecy or semi-secrecy; and
which a very large section of the community
can hardly even locate, much less define.
When the new power arrives it proposes to
remain—at least the more outspoken of its
leaders say so ; and unless it is wrecked by
internal dissension, or comes to grief through
sheer cowardice, long or permanent remain-
ing should be quite possible. It ought to be
merely a matter of judicious roll-stuffing,
judicious counting of the votes, and (as is
done in Russia) well-considered disqualifica-
tion- There is much foolish talk about
revolution” to please the ears of the lower
sediment, but the natural policy would be to
wait and achieve place and power by the
ordinary means. With a good majority, good
leadership and no scruples it should next be
possible to make the power legally permanent
by a little unusual legislation/ Then the
onus of attempted revolution would rest with
the peaceful, sane and honest section of the
community, and the organised forces of the
country would be against that section. It
would be superfluous madness for Bolshevism
to fight against even a poor military organi-
sation when there is a possibility of annex-
ing it and fighting with it.
* * » *
It is a matter of interest to speculate on
the prospects in case of inward upheaval. In
George Washington’s country the States
possess their own organised militia or National
Guard to maintain order, but as a precau-
tion against any part of it turning revolu-
tionary it is liable to the Federal Govern-
ment,_ which can even send it on foreign ser-
vice in war-time. It is also equipped and
to some extent subsidised by the central
authority, so it has to serve two masters.
Ihe advantage of it being a State concern is
that the local regiments are on the spot if
required, whereas if there is only one army
in a continent it is apt to be too far off the
spot. The United States has various other
reserves unknown here, and one way and
another a fair number of the men who
learned their trade in the Big have been
attached to semi-regular services, with pro-
S SIO S f ol ' peeping up their number. Here
the Bolshevik movement has probably done
more recruiting among the war veterans than
the Government has done—it could hardly
have done less. In Australia the Federal troops,
such as they are, may interfere to put down
local violence at the request of the Govern-
jUGnt of the State which has become vio-
lent. If the State Government doesn’t
apply, being insurrectionary itself or terror-
ised by insurrectionists, or imprisoned by
thein, or dead, the Commonwealth is sup-
posed to look on at the destruction of its
authority, save at Canberra and in the
Northern Territory, which directly belong
to it, and where it may legally take brisk
action to protect the lives and goods of its
subjects. It is not really supposed to inter-
pose, save by invitation, though Sydney and
Melbourne are burning simultaneously, and
there is no povVer to protect them.' Aus-
tralia is a country where the capture of two
cities by the forces of anti-civilisation would
leave other people with no big rallying-
points. It has no organisation in the cause
of peace, freedom and liberty to compare
even remotely with the gigantic one run from
Macdonell House, Sydney, and similar
places, which the Moscow element appears
to be successfully annexing—nothing to sup-
plement the paltry defence forces, which
may themselves, be legally ranged on the
wrong side.
* * * *
It is in such circumstances that Australia is
confronted with a conspiracy which avows
its intention and its ability to impose upon
the country a policy hatched in Russia. It
is as well to assume that it means what it
says and take its gun from it before it has
quite finished loading the weapon. If the
vast sane majority of Labor is too indif-
ferent to do it —if it refuses to realise the
danger which is confronting it—then Parlia-
ment, as the guardian of the self-governing
rights of the people, will be compelled to
consider where it stands in the matter. It
is no use merely saying that there are but
a handful of Bolsheviks in Australia That
may be perfectly true. But if those few
are permitted to control Labor Conferences,
and if the Conferences are permitted to control
Parliaments, then there might just as well
be millions—they could have no gre/ater
power. The whole immediate seriousness of
the situation lies, indeed, in the fact that
the vast majority are permitting the ridicu-
lous minority to grab and exercise power;
and it is that fact which will justify Par-
liament in taking a hand in the business.
THE CHINESE POSTMAN.
It is one of the most extraordinary charac-
teristics of the extraordinary country that
fathered Confucius that, at a time when
political disruption exists in every province,
the Chinese postal courier goes imperturbably
about his business, delivering money-orders
and Celestial valentines to the inhabitants
ot walled cities in Shensi and cave-dwellings
m Kansu, and that, despite the operations
or hong-hutzes and robber barons, the statis-
tics ot the Chinese post office show year
by year a steady improvement. Some people
who get their ideas of China from willow-
pattern tea-sets and missionary libels might
be surprised to hear that China has post
offices at all; yet at a time when letter-
carrymg was a brilliant discovery in Europe,
China had a system in full operation which
bad served her well for upwards of 3000
years. A European traveller in the 14th
century recorded that there were 10,000 mail
stations situated 25 miles apart serving tlm
whole empire, and that 200,000 horses were
employed in the business, however,
was an official service: the necessities of
the most commercially-minded race in the
world created later on the min-chii, which
were private letter-firms serving the needs
ot the common people. Centuries of experi-
ence developed them into a system which
had no equal until modern postal organisa-
tions were evolved. They had armies of
couriers and navies of boats, and they col-
lected mail at all hours of the day and night,
accommodating themselves to the most exact-
ing needs of their clients. They carried bank
drafts, bullion and parcels, and the value of
the contents of a letter had simply to be
indicated on the envelope for them to accept
the_ responsibility for its loss. Urgency was
indicated by the burning of the corner of a
letter or the insertion of a feather, the tip
protruding. The addressee usually paid half
the postage, but rates were extraordinarily
moderate, and were never more than six-
pence. In Shanghai alone there were 46
registered- and 27 unregistered-letter firms.
One of these simply conveyed letters between
Shanghai and Woosung, a distance of 10
miles, at a rate of less than a halfpenny;
another had 50 stations covering several pro-
vinces and extending 1600 miles up the
Yangtze. When the foreigner came to China
he was astonished to find this system in
operation, and that it was able to compete
on more than equal terms with his own im-
mature and high-priced organisation ; yet he
had the impudence to impose his own post
offices on the country, and to-day in the
treaty-ports there are the offices of half-a-
dozen nationalities to add to the complexity
of life in those cosmopolitan emporiums.
The present Imperial post office started as
an offshoot of the customs, and was due to
the enterprise of Sir Robert Hart. It has
gradually superseded the letter hongs and
the official postal service, and this year,
under the terms of the Washington Confer-
ence, it will see the last of the foreign post
offices. To-day the national service will
stand comparison for efficiency with any
European system. It triumphs over ail
obstacles in a country which is mainly com-
posed of obstacles. Its mails are conveyed
by mule-cart, camel and barrow; they are
propelled over frozen Mongolian rivers on
sleighs, over the Yangtze in tubs, across
Szechuan gorges on wires; after months of
painful progress they reach as far as Tibet
and Chinese Turkestan. Great passenger
aeroplanes now transport them between
Peking and Tsinan-fu, and wherever roads
exist the postal motor-van is familar. In
15 years the mail matter posted has increased
from 3 to 400 millions, and the courier lines
from 20,000 to half-a-million. Controlled at
first by its European sponsors, the Depart-
ment is gradually emancipating itself, and
out of a total of 32,958 employees only 115
are Europeans. The Chinese have shown that
they are able to adapt an ancient institution
to modern exigencies. From the first year of
the Revolution to the tenth, a period of con-
tinuous upheaval, the mail matter entrusted
to the native post office increased five
times, parcels increased seven times and
money-orders ten times. When the 400 mil-
lions start writing letters on the same scale
as Western people, the statistics of the ser-
vice will stagger imagination.
One of the most cheering traits of our
common human nature is its ability, under
the most difficult circumstances, to find some
modus operandi whereby we shall be able to
eat, sleep, love or go on making money in
the way we are fitted for. China is corrupt
from top to bottom. Your “boy” makes a
“squeeze” on everything he buys you, and
probably a quarter of your salary goes in
this informal commission. Every official
“squeezes.” Judges “squeeze” plaintiff, de-
fendant and witnesses. The merchant who
has a grievance dare not claim legal pro-
tection, _ for he is certain to be fleeced by
every limb of the law, from yamen-runner
up to viceroy.. Despite this discouraging en-
vironment Chinese business has always been
the wonder of the world, and Chinese busi-
ness men, although the legalised inequity of
European methods is gradually undermining
this virtue, are still renowned for their in-
tegrity ; so Chinese clerks are employed in
Japan because they are more trustworthy
than the native article. Since there are no
legal checks on dishonesty the Chinese have
been compelled to evolve other means. Every-
body is guaranteed by someone else. The em-
ployee is not responsible to his employer but
to his guild, society or family; and from
this system there is no escape by legal sub-
terfuge. The shroff is a sort of financial go-
between. A shroffs’ union has actually been
created to deal with a new phenomenon in
China, the defaulting foreigner. The white
man, to begin with, gets unlimited credit
in China. He signs chits which the shroff
countersigns for his drinks and haircut,
and nothing is easier for him than to live
above his income. In Shanghai the shroffs’
union has elaborate offices in which every
foreigner’s financial status and his personal
characteristics are tabulated by the most
modern American method of indexing. The
union never goes to law. It has branches
throughout the provinces, and when a
foreigner departs for fresh fields without
settling up, he finds that his activities are
mysteriously restricted, and that he cannot
get even a cocktail without producing the
cash for it.
It is because of this extra-legal organisa-
tion of responsibility and not because of
foreign control that the Chinese post office


is able to perform the yearly miracle of
transporting, without conspicuous loss, 60
million dollars’ worth of money-orders and
20 million kilos of parcels over a sea of law-
lessness and corruption. Chinese postal
clerks are all guaranteed. Public opinion
and the weight of the family system are
more effectual in keeping them honest than
the most elaborate legal agreements which
Western lawyers spend half their time in
making and the other half in finding means
of breaking.
Chinese history of recent years has been'
profoundly modified by the mailbag. With-
out it the Revolution would have been im-
possible, and because of it the tuehuns are
rapidly becoming foolish anachronisms which
must eventually go the way of all anachro-
nisms.
FENG-SIIUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Topsy-turvy Politics.
An Australian Hip van Winkle, returning
to one of the Big Cities after a 10 years’
sleep in the Macdonnell Ranges, would get
many shocks these days. Who could have
imagined in 1913 that the Labor party
would receive within its bosom, and confer
high office upon, the leaders of a faction which
advocates the seizure of property, the repu-
diation of public and private debts, the aboli-
tion of the color-line (and with it, of course,
the White Australia policy), and which owes
allegiance to, and is doubtless subsidised
by, a foreign Power? That happened in
Sydney three, weeks ago. Who could have
foreseen that the Parliamentary chiefs of
the party which created the Australian Navy
and ushered in the compulsory training
scheme, regarding them as logical conse-
quences of the interdict on colored immi-
grants, would renounce their belief in
national defence and object to Australia
being forearmed against the possibility of in-
vasion, or some other challenge to the
national policy, from Asia? Or that it would
be reserved for a Prime Minister from Flin-
ders-lane to reply that “Australia has staked
her existence on the White Australia policy
and must be prepared to fight for its mainten-
ance”? That happened in Melbourne last
week. A cry of the anti-eonscriptionists in
1910 was that it would be madness to de-
nude Australia of men for service abroad
when they might be needed at home to de-
fend it against the Japanese. Suspicious no
longer, but full of a touching faith in Nip-
pon, the same gentry now contend that be-
cause the Japanese didn’t invade us then it
is perfectly safe to conclude that they will
never invade us. “Japan proved her desire
for peace,” says the forcible-feeble Charl-
ton, “by not attacking us during the war.”
“Instead of attacking us it protected us,”
avers Anstey, perverting history to bolster
up his case. A point overlooked by these
enthusiasts is that Japan whs bound by
alliance not to attack Australia. To have
broken that bond would have involved the
breaker in war, not only with the British
Empire and its numerous allies, blit with the
Americans, who would have been obliged to
fight in defence of their Pacific interests,
whether they wanted to of not. It would
have forever destroyed the reputation of the
perfidious party to the contract —branded it
for all time as a false and treacherous
nation with Which no self-respecting country
would ever again enter into treaties or alli-
ances. Also, instead of making tons of
money out'of the struggle between the Allies'
and the Central Powers, Japan, isolated
from nearly ajll its customers, would have
been facing commercial ruin in a few
months. It is: easy for some people to per-
suade themselves that a country which re-,
spects the terms of an alliance (now ter-
minated) when it pays to do so is prompted
by pure philanthropy and the will-to-peace.
It is not so easy for others when they recall
that the very .same country took advantage
of Britain’s preoccupation with the German
to exact enormous concessions from China—
a giant as de fenceless as some people would
like to see Australia —which concessions, if
not against tlae letter of the Anglo-Japanese
alliance, were certainly against its spirit.
But it suits Charlton and Anstey not to
remember the Twenty-One Demands.
An Apostfte of Colored Settlement.
For some time, past Australia’s only colored-
laborists have been the extremists of the
Labor party who have preached “inter-
nationalism” and the brotherhood of man.
The advantage of this view is that, if the
Red Republic is once established, it will be
orthodox to employ colored brethren, as is
done in Russia, to prevent any popular vote
or popular movement disestablishing it. Re-
garded as ah individual who can be made
a serviceable' and ferocious private, but who
has hardly Sufficient brain and initiative to
reach out-for his commanding officer’s job,
Brown Brot her might be more valuable than
a white man. That was as far as the re-
vived pro-color movement had got till Pro-
fessor Griffith Taylor, of Sydney Univer-
sity, took up Brown Brother, not as a useful
mercenary who might prop up tyranny at a
■crisis, nor as a cheap laborer according to
the old Tory illusion, but as a social and
intellectual equal and a desirable acquaint-
ance and bedfellow. In the congenial atmo-
sphere of the Millions Club he made state-
ments like these: —
(1) Why are we so horror-stricken at any sugges-
tion of marriage wflth Mongolians? These Asiatic
peoples are precisely the same races as ourselves.
(2) Though the reoult of a union would be a half-
caste race it would be in no way inferior to either
of the parent races.
(3) By way of illustrating how widely the differ-
ent racial stocks haw been scattered some of the
people of New Britain are closely allied to the people
of old Britain, and some of the people of the
Solomon Islands are closely allied to those over
whom King Solomon ruled. Yet New Britain and
the Solomon Islands are quite close together.
It is a feeble case for a supposedly learned
man to put forward. To take the points
seriatim ; —
(1) We are not necessarily “horror-stricken” at
marriage with Mongolians. Nor are we “horror-
stricken” at a fly in the tea. We simply prefer the
fly to be somewhere else.
(2) The trouble is that the half-caste races of the
past which still survive are inferior. The Portu-
guese used to be a demi-god, a leader in exploration
and adventure, a superb fighting- man by land and
sea. Now he has much colored blood in him, and
is. not held in high esteem anywhere. Other well-
known mixtures are the Maltese; the Eurasians of
India (much scorned by Kipling and other acquaint-
ances) ; the mulattos of the Cotton States; the Mexi-
cans, who have mixed, and have also fallen away,
since the days of Cortez ; and all the other half-
tribes which are hanging round. Why take a risk
which has proved so deadly in the past unless the
mixed race is to be superior f Color mixture, like
suicide, seems irrevocable, and why commit suicide
on the mere assurance of a person who doesn’t do it
himself that it won’t make things any worse?
(3) Descendants of British people are also com-
mon enough in Collins-street, Melbourne, and persons
of Hebrew origin have been traced in Pitt-sti-eet,
Sydney. If the British and Jews in New Britain
and the Solomons have become the savages they are
through associating and intermarrying with colored
races, while those in Bridge and Pitt streets have
avoided their doom, Griffith Taylor’s case doesn't
seem to be improved.
•
The Pearl That Was Cast Before Swine.
Ministeb Pearce went to the Territory via
Queensland, and came back the same way.
This involved cutting most of it out of his
itinerary ; nevertheless he arrived home in a
state of such admiration as to suggest that
his previous education had 'been neglected.
Yet when the census-mail compiled “Bulletin
No. 7,” which deals with the Territory, he
acted “under instructions from the Minister
for Home and Territories,” which is Pearce,
and these were among the things he knew: —
The Macdonnell Range stretches in a huge red
wall of granite 400 miles east arid west. The main
lines of the range have an altitude of 4000 ft. above
sea-level. At intervals it is broken by huge fissures,
which serve as outlets for a number of creeks. One
of these fissures, the Heavitree Gap, situated two
miles south of the township site of Stuart, and four
miles south of Alice Springs, serves as a gateway
for the whole of the traffic across the Territory.
The telegraph line passes through it, and it has
been adopted as the most suitable crossing for the
transcontinental railway.
That is as nearly as possible the centre of
Australia, and there are few patches like
it in the continent. After enumerating the
big coastal rivers of the North, the official
writer describes some of the Territory’s other
waters: —
The Finke rises on the north side of the Mac-
donnell Range, flows south through magnificent
gorges of red sandstone in the James Ranges, then
south-east through more level sandy country until
it is joined by the Hugh, its largest tributary. Con-
tinuing‘in a south-easterly direction for another 120
miles,, it spreads itself out in box : flats north-east of
Oodnadatta, then it forms again, joins the Macumba,
and its waters eventually reach northern Lake Eyre.
The whole course of the Finke has never been tra-
versed, but it is probably over a thousand miles in
length....
Mr. Staniforth Smith, late Acting Administrator,
in his . annual report, stressed the fact that the
Northern Territory is not subject to the periodic and
prolonged droughts of Western Queensland, N. S.
Wales and other parts of Australia.... Generally
throughout the Territory it has been proved that
unlimited artesian supplies can be got at depths
varying from 100 to 300 feet All the main: stock-
routes are now provided with water. Still, progress
is but slow owing to the exceedingly heavy expenses
connected with the transport of machinery and supr
plies for long distances by primitive means in an
almost .roadless) country.
The natural features are somewhat different
from those of West Queensland, where Theo-
dore wants to divert the South-to-North rail-
way. ' West Queensland lacks the 4000 ft.
range,- and the picturesque gaps, and the
1000-mile river, and the shallow bore-water,
and, as Staniforth Smith remarked, the
sure rainfall. As regards the “problem” of
the Territory, the official pamphlet published
under Pearce’s own directions explains it in
a few words :
With a freight bill amounting- to something like
2s. 9d. per ton i pel" mile "for goods carried inland,
and a rpostal service by which a letter from one
of the southern States, sav, to Newcastle Waters,
may take longer than orie froin Melbourne ‘to the ■
northern parts of Norway, there is little hope of
progress.... Comparing the mileage of railway in
the Northern Territory with that:, for instance, of
Queensland, the former lias 199 miles of railway,
the latter 5752. miles State-owned, besides a great
deal which is privately owned: During the last 10
years 54 miles were added to the railways in the
Northern Territory, while Queensland added 1884 '
miles to her railway sytsem. Further, these 199
miles are in a great measure rendered ineffetive
through failure to reach where they are wanted.
Apparently the Northern Territory has progressed as
far as is” possible without further heavy outlay of
capital.
The soul of Australia, growing sluggish and
cold by burrowing in cities, should be capable
of . warming to something like generous en-
thusiasm over the magnificence of the Pearl
that was Cast before Swine. It might almost
renew its youth and start pioneering again,
instead of grubbing about eternally on the
south-east corner of the continent. South
Australia, with the most meagre resources,
constructed the overland telegraph line and
624 miles of the overland railway. Then it
handed over a stupendous land-grant, includ-
ing the great oasis of the Range and the 1000-
mile river, on .condition that the work was
completed on the original plan. The com-
monwealth built 54 miles of narrow-gauge
line in 12 years, used the estate as a pasture
for official parasites, and treated its contract
as null and void. Now, all progress, is blocked
pending the fruition of the great -conspiracy
to divert the track from the Macdonnell
Range, and the oasis, and South Aus., and
the best part of the great Federal es’tate itself.
The development of a great rich area and
the safety of Australia are involved. But,
then, votes are votes.
Practical Imperialism.
W. Scott Fell, a N. S. Wales ALL.A.,
threatens to put up a new Australian record :
a political Imperialist of long standing, he has
now set out to do something constructive in
the interests of the Empire. We all know
that the murders, burglaries and seductions
of the films, with their leavening of custard-
pie comedies, which form the chief relaxa-
tion of most young Australians and many
old ones’ are almost entirely American.
Scott Fell’s investigations have shown him
that not only do practically all the picture-
show profits go to the U.S. (“out of the
Famous Lasky Film Service’s total nominal
capital of £lO,OOO in £1 shares jno less than
9708 shares are held in New York”), but
that the U.S. Cinema Trust ha»s taken effec-
tive measures to prevent rivalis from enter-
ing the field. The different Yankee com-
panies work in groups :
Picture-theatre proprietors are required to take
their full programme from one group on Monday and
Tuesday, from another group oil Wednesday and
Thursday, and from a third grouip on Friday and
Saturday. Such proprietors may substitute a picture
obtained from a source not amalgamated with the
groups, but the pictures of the groups must be paid
for just the same.
There are objections, on Imperial grounds
alone, to this state of affairs. At a time
when we are demanding preference for our
meat and other foodstuffs from the overtaxed
and hungry people of Britain, we are virtu-
ally putting an embargo on one of their
luxury products—a product which is con-
sumed by every class here—and going for
the article to a foreign country. The com-
pleteness of the protection enjoyed by the
U.S. in this respect may be judged by the
fact that out of 1500 pictures released in
Australia during the past two years 1428
belonged to the combine. (Britain supplied
11 and Australia 12.) Financial considera-
tions apart, the cinema is one of the most
powerful factors in forming national habits,
manners and even ethics in the world. It
is chiefly responsible for the fact that this
98-per-cent. British community is becoming
more Americanised every day. A generation
has appeared, which, in the case of the
males, wears the flash clothing of the coon-
American; which . talks American to the
best of its ability and reads locally-published
papers that are largely written in the Ameri-
can of the music-hall and film “studio.” In
brief, we are importing the culture of the
nation which stands lowest, culturally,
amongst the great Powers, and are rejecting
that of the nation which for several cen-
turies has stood highest. The quality which
makes the film so great an instrument of
national propaganda makes it also the great-
est instrument of national advertisement. A
moving picture is one of the few advertise-
ments that people will pay in thousands to
see. It is not only desirable from an Im-
perial standpoint that we should get Bri-
tain’s pictures into the Commonwealth: it
is equally important that Australian', films
should be got into the United Kingdom.
Percy Hunter, who, it is estimated,, costs
the Commonwealth about £lO,OOO per annum,
partly as an immigration expert and partly
as a" Nationalist electioneering expert, can
never give this country a thousandth part
of the publicity it would be well paid for
providing by means of an established cinema
industry. The Germans have built up an
enormous film industry by enjoining that for
every foreign film which is released in Ger-
many a German film must be released in
the invader’s country. The passing of such
a law here would build up a local film indus-
try in a very few years, and while it was
on its way those who now patronise Yankee
pictures would have no cause to spend their
nights at home. All would be as before, save
that imported British films would replace
the foreign ones which have so disastrous
a monopoly at present.
Sydney as a Federal Capital.
Federal Speaker Watt offers the bleak com-
fort that Parliamentary sessions will be
brief at Canberra, because members will dash
the nation’s business through in order to
get away; but that will only 7 make the
town’s live season shorter and consequently
more expensive, and the dead time longer.
Some Federations settled a similar problem
by making a big old city (often the biggest
old city) the Federal capital, the State
which owned it handing it over to the Com-
monwealth with a bit of adjacent territory,
and setting up a State legislative tent else-
wnere. Thus Buenos Aires, the biggest city-
south of the line, is Federal property with
72 square mile's attached. So are Rio
Janeiro, the second biggest city of the south-
ern hemisphere, with 431 square miles;
Mexico City (578 sq. miles), Montevideo
(256 sq. miles), and Caracas (area uncer-
tain). In addition Vienna,' Stockholm and
Christiania are separate provinces. as well as
capitals. Sydney would have been the Aus-
tralian metropolis (at least, the chances are
1000 to one that it would) if N. S. Wales,
instead of upsetting the original draft Con-
stitution- by silly trickery, and wandering
into the “bush capital” maze which has
landed it at Comicberra, had offered Sydney
to the Commonwealth right off, giving with
it a sufficient area to ensure a water- supply.
The people who were cut off would still have
had perhaps 270,000 sq. miles to make a
State out of, with all the land revenues;
and they could have founded an ideal capital
and a rival port up the coast to 'do business,
robbery, etc., in. And in addition to the
pleasant chances thus opened up the same
crowd would have had the business, robbery,
etc., of Sydney—a far more promising Syd-
ney—in their hands; for even if the place
was transferred to the Commonwealth a
dozen times Over it would still be in the same
latitude and longitude, and the same old
traders and financiers would be in their
offices in the same old streets. But Sydney-
failed to notice that it was better to be the
capital of a continent than of the tenth part
of a continent, and to collect tribute from
the whole than from 10 per. cent, of the whole.
Probably if the matter of handing over Syd-
ney and environs as a Federal capital was
mooted even now, the proposal would come
to grief over a demand that it should sur-
render its self-governing powers and its right
to send members to the Federal Parliament.
But there was and is no real reason why it
should make any such surrender. Washing-
ton certainly hasn’t got any Federal repre-
sentation ; but in Federations which are not
freaks the capital ranks as a State for pur-
poses of Federal representation. So the
severance of Sydney to make a metropolis
might have given the old N.S.W. area 12
senators in lieu of six. It probably is too
late to suggest any such thing now; but
the Canberra madness is so mad that it would
be worth sounding other-State Federal poli-
ticians on the subject.
Australia’s Emptiness.
Leslie Wrigley writes from Thargomindah:
During recent years the number of inhabitants per
sq. mile in the far north-west of N. S. Wales and the
south-west corner of Queensland has been decreasing
steadily. Prom personal knowledge I attribute this
largely if not wholly to what is known throughout
these areas as Kidman blight. To many people this
may be an unheard-of complaint. Nevertheless it
exists; and more white men have left the country
through the stations they were working on becoming
infected by this “disease” than from causes more
commonly known to city dwellers.
Recently I travelled overland from Mildura to
Thargomindah. On arriving at Momba, outside Wil-
cannia, I found that since my last visit the station
had suffered from u violent attack of the malady.
Some few years back this was the largest sheep-
station in Australia. Something like half-a-million
sheep were shorn there. Seventy men at least were
employed all the year round, besides manager, overseer,
storekeeper, etc. Now, since Kidman and Co. have
bought the station, the “staff” consists of two black-
boys, two gins, and an ex-policeman. The country
was mostly subdivided into five-mile paddocks. A dog-
proof netting fence,, erected at enormous cost by the late
owners, ran the whole length of the boundary, some
500 miles. These fences have been allowed to fall,
and the cattle trip merrily over the dog-proof net-
ting, which in places is flat on the ground. As the
adjoining Kidman stations are run in much the same
way this does not worry the “staff” in the least. The
homestead, one of the: largest and best-improved in
N.S.W., is rapidly falling into disrepair. And this
is only one instance of many in that locality.
As one travels up the Paroo it is easy to distinguish
the stations Kidman is interested in. On each one,
without a single exception, improvements which
existed when he bought have been allowed to go to
wrack and ruin. Fences are on the ground, wells
fallen in, and tanks silted up. This state of affairs
appears only natural when one reaches the homestead
and sees, say, one black-boy and a caretaker to look
after some hundreds of square miles of country.
Stations on the Paroo, situated between Kidman’s
holdings, form a striking contrast. In.place of the
black-boy and caretaker, three or four station-hands,
manager, overseer, and even an occasional jackeroo,
are employed. The improvements are being main-
tained, and in some cases new ones effected.
In this district (Thargomindah) Kidman is inter-
ested in some thousands of square miles. No more
striking example of what the blight has, done for the
“Corner” could be found anywhere. Prior to the Kid-
man occupation, Thargomindah boasted a bank and
a mail service direct to the N. S. Wales border (Tib-
ooburra), a distance of 200 miles. To-day, the bank
lias been removed to C'unnamulla (outside the
“affected” zone), and the mail service discontinued.
No serious effort has been made to maintain existing
improvements on stations in this locality. Miles of
wire lie rusting on the ground; tanks have silted up;
wells been allowed to fall in. Despite the low state
of the cattle-market, selectors in the district can and
do improve their holdings and still make a living.
Some of the cookies have holdings of no more than
50 square miles, whilst Kidman in one holding
alone (Bulloo Downs) has 5000 square miles.
Whether the Government or the individual is to
blame for the present lamentable state of affairs is
a matter of opinion. Personally, I consider the onus
lies with the Government. Kidman is quite entitled
by law to do what he is doing ; and no doubt he believes
that he can make most money this way. But it is
not the best way for the country. Kidman is attend-
ing to his interests ; we have to look after ours. A
few sane legislative measures (strictly enforced)
relative to the maintenance of existing improvements
(dog-proof fences, wells, bores, etc.) would help mat-
ters enormously. This would do a vast amount more
good than the importation, at great expense, of inex-
perienced people to a region where the climate and
conditions are totally unsuited to them. Furthermore,
it would be of assistance to the few remaining inhabi-
tants of an area which is fast becoming deserted.
The Dope Devil.
Unless something drastic is soon done Aus-
tralia is going to have a fresh social problem
on its hands : the cocaine habit has been
increasing with startling rapidity. Every
week or two the papers contain reports of
the prosecution of some blackguard druggist
who has infringed the provisions of the
absurdly-inadequate Poisons Act by selling
“snow” to an unauthorised person; in each
of the larger capitals there are from 20 to
30 chemists who make the illegal sale ot
prohibited narcotics a profitable side-line. To
such as these, who are willing to consign
the souls and bodies of their miserable vic-
tims to a hell upon earth, no warnings are
of. any use. Recently it was discovered that
one Sydney chemist was in the habit of pay-
ing his two assistants a liberal commission
on all the cocaine they sold, with ,a bonus
for new customers introduced; and the autho-
rities have learned that the stuff is smuggled
into the Commonwealth from overseas ships
—a fact which lias been common knowledge
in many quarters for months past. That suf-
ficient demand exists for it to lead to _ the
formation of an Australian “drug ring ’
should be indication enough of the hold that
the habit has on the community. Unlike
alcoholism or gambling, it does not flaunt
itself; it is the sort of curfee which advances
by stealth, the bulk of the public being un-
aware of its existence, until one day there
comes a full realisation of the horror—gen-
erally when it is too late to eradicate it.
England, Canada and the U.S.A. have had
this- experience, and the statistics relating
to the number of drug-iaddicts in those coun-
tries are appalling; it is estimated that in
the States one person out of every six is
addicted to narcotics. In the Common-
wealth the habit has increased probably ten-
fold in the past seven years, and hardly any
grade or class of society is free from it. Its
particular stronghold is, of course, the under-
world, amongst the habitues of which it is
present to the extent of about one in every
30 persons. The ranks of the demi-monde
include scores of addicts, while those whose
occupations lead them to night-casualty
rooms where the habit was unknown 10 or
12 years ago, can tell harrowing stories con-
cerning the unfortunates w’ho importune the
doctors for a few grains of the drug. As
the Federal authorities permit no retail
chemist to purchase more than 4oz. of cocaine
or its salts a year, and as every scrap of
it must be accounted for, it is obvious that
the bulk of the stuff illicitly disposed of is '
sold in contravention of the law. A deter-
mined and vigorous crusade ought to be un-
dertaken against everybody connected with
the traffic. Fines are no good: the profits
are so enormous that a successful run of a
few months will enable those concerned to
pay easily the penalties that are all that the
law can at present inflict.
♦
The Railway Men and Arbitration.
Fkom Will Smith, gen. sec. Australian
Railway Union: —
Injustice legalised by Act of Parliament is a
legacy bequeathed the Commonwealth by W. M.
Hughes, and his successors evidently appreciate the
idea. Consider the case of State Instrumentalities
as it affects the railwaymen of Australia. Whether
Capital or Labor holds the reins of government, it
cannot be good for the community to upset verdicts
of the High Court and the Privy Council in order to
maintain the Cabinet point of view. Yet this is
just what (1) the Nationalists and (2) the Nation-
alists-eim-Farmers have done and are doing-. In 1920
the High Court ruled that railway employees were
permitted under the Constitution to take action


HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £250,000
ustralia
Limited
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
Premium Income—First year (1916\ . . . . . . . . £8,849
Seventh year (1922) . . . . . . . . £87,728
During the seven years since the Company was established £58,424 has been paid for Claims under
Policies, CASH DIVIDENDS of £17,019 have been paid to Shareholders, besides which the whole of
the Formation Expenses (£9395) have been paid off, and a Reserve Fund created.
Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly-established
and progressive Company.
Managing Director
through the Federal Arbitration Court. This was
appealed against after the Australian Railways
Union had secured registration under the High
Court’s ruling. Other grounds were taken, and again
the High Court decided in favor of the Union. This
did not suit the State Premiers, and they met W. M.
Hughes in conference; but the then Prime Minister
temporised and said he would not. pass legislation
excluding railway men from the Federal Arbitration
Court unless there was a surrender of other State
powers to the Commonwealth. This the Premiers
would not agree to; but another conference was held,
at which W. M. Hughes consented to wait until the
Premiers, at their own expense, had sent Owen
Dixon, K.C., to London to argue a case for appeal
before the Privy Council. This enterprise ended in
a rebuff for the State Premiers. Now Bruce and the
State Premiers (Theodore dissenting) have agreed
to introduce legislation to exclude raihvaymen from
the Federal Arbitration Court. So it means that
railwaymen and others are to be shut out from the
Federal Arbitration Court by either (1) amending
the Federal Arbitration Act, or (2) amending the
Constitution without a referendum. This affects
over a hundred thousand workers in Australia, not
counting their families and connections. Can it be
defended in any way?
There seems to be some muddled reasoning
here. It is absurd to talk of a conspiracy
to “upset verdicts of the High Court and
the Privy Council in order to maintain the
Cabinet point of view.” The railwaymen
ought to rejoice that neither the Privy Coun-
cil nor the High Court is the supreme author-
ity in Australia. If those courts decide that
an Act means so-and-so, and if an Act with
that meaning does not meet with the
approval of Parliament, then it is Parlia-
ment’s duty to revise the law. Probably
neither Privy Council nor High Court
approves of the law either: all that these
bodies say is: “We believe the Act means
so-and-so.” If the Parliament of to-day is
not to amend a law with which it disagrees,
it follows that we are to be governed not by
what we think, but by what our ancestors
thought. And a proposition to that effect is
a queer thing to come from a union or any
other democratic body. All this, of course,
is quite apart from the question whether the
railwaymen should come under the Federal
Arbitration authority or not. But that isn’t
to be settled by reference to the opinion of
the Privy Council or High Court or even of
the Parliament which framed the Arbitration
Act. It is to be settled by the Parliament
of tonlay ; and if the settlement isn’t in accord-
ance with Labor views, then Labor is en-
titled to go to work and convert a majority.
But it isn’t entitled to say to the present
Parliament: "You mustn’t touch that law.
Somebody else passed it.” That would be
the Rule of the Dead Hand with a vengeance.
• ■
The Law as to Deportation.
“J.8.D.” further discusses this question:—
It is difficult to debate a constitutional law point
(however simple) with one like “J.E.,” who (B.
21/6/’23) was surprised to learn from a bookseller
that the British Constitution is not a written instru-
ment ; who deprecates, like any I.W.W. orator, “a
prostrate respect for English law” ; who believes that
the penal code of England prescribes transportation
(wiped out by the Prison Act 46 years ago) and
“boiling alive” (inflicted in Henry VIII. ’s reign for
poisoning but repealed under Ed. VI.) ; and who
imagines that all the Irish law records were burned
with the Four Courts—thus making it practicable
for a controversialist to prop up a bad ease by citing
a fictitious one.
However, the question at issue is too serious from
the standpoint of the peace and good government of
Australia to be left behind the smoke-screen raised by
this odd blend of comic supplement and sergeant-
major's law. As a writer “J.E.” may appreciate the
dangerous effects of Board control in a free commu-
nity if he recalls that the press censors of the war
period were only so many Boards. Like the Board
which reported on the Irish envoys, they were
appointed ad hoc; and naturally some of them did
capricious, unreasonable and even outrageous things.
The result was they soon became by-words all over the
Empire. St. John Ervine— a loyal Ulsterman, if
ever there was one —wrote as follows in the North
American Review last year of G. B. Shaw’s “Com-
nonsense and the War”:—
The pamphlet was well-timed in this respect that it
reminded the British people of their most priceless
privilege, the right of free speech. The whole of the
British press had collapsed before the Press Censor,
and editors were afraid to open their mouths about
things which were scandalous. Mr. Shaw restored
the freedom of the Press.
Shaw was able, solely because he was Shaw, to do
what would have ruined a smaller man; and this is
where the exasperating fortuitousness of the Board
system comes in. Under it privileged persons can
do anything, while the mere herd, the class or party
that happens to be out of power or favor, is in con-
tinual peril. Russia has reached its present plight
largely owing to Board control, the Board being
a Communist one. Bulgaria has just got rid of its
anti-Communist Board by assassinating it. London
Times (3/5/’23) observes:—
M. Stambulisky announced that he would fight
Bolshevism with the same methods as Lenin used
against his opponents. On the dissolution of Par-
liament all its Communist members left the building
deputies no longer; they found police in waiting,
who conducted them to gaol. Equally ingenious was
his announcement on the eve of the elections which
are just ended that a law was to be brought before
the new Sobranye providing for the confiscation of
Communists’ property in villages where the number
of Communists exceeds 10.
It is easy to deride the English legal system,
which (save for a few measures such as the War
rrecautions Act derivative under discussion) is to
all intents and purposes the legal system of Aus-
tralia. Every one of “J.E.’s” gibes has been level-
led at it thousands of times on the one hand by
revolutionaries, and on the other by those who
believe that the only way to deal with alleged revo-
lutionaries is to punish them without trial, or,
anyhow, without trial according to the ordinary
law of the land. Yet the fact remains that this
system, forming as it does the basis of the British
Constitution, is the one British institution which the
whole world —outside the classes mentioned above—
reveres. Miscarriages of justice may occur under it;
but, so far as any human contrivance can, it pro-
vides a fair deal all round, irrespective of class, and
it will not find according to the orders of any poli-
tical or other dictator. Chiefly because of it England
has never had a Terror and is still a monarchist
country, and no section realises this more clearly
than the Lords, who passed the unanimous resolu-
tion condemning imprisonment without legal trial
which I quoted the week before last. It is fairly
safe to prophesy that not till England’s “J.E.’s”
begin deporting and gaoling people of whose politi-
cal opinions they disapprove, on the authority of
ALL BROTHERS WE!
“At the first Parliamentary elections in Turkey the voter was handed a blank sheet on which, if
he favored any candidates not on Kemal Pasha’s list, he had to write the names. As mostly he could
neither write nor read, he was given a printed list of Kemal’s nominees. This he usually dropped into
the ballot-box.”— Cable.
SYDNEY LABOR BOSS : "How about buying a few of these to make Turkey safe for
democracy? You can have a dozen cheap”
ABDUL : Thank you, comrade, but ours is a primitive race. Your methods are not
simple enough for Angora”
Proclamations, Orders in Council, Board reports and
similar Asiatic devices, will the present dynasty go
out and an era of bloodshed and loot come in.
•
The Neglect of the Weak-minded.
Dear Bulletin, —“R. G. N. Cliffwell” in
his fine article (B. 7/6/’23) is quite right
in condemning gaols as at present conducted
for the sexual moron. They are equally un-
suitable for the imprisonment of any moron.
Recently a young man was sentenced at
Armidale (N.S.W.) to five years’ hard labor
for placing large stones on the railway line.
He put them there, he said, “to see the sparks
fly.” He was quite incapable of visualising
the probable awful consequences of his act.
Parts of the engine were broken. But had
scores of. passengers been slaughtered who
would be morally to blame? The half-wit,
who did not realise the awfulness of his act,
or society, which allows him and his weak-
minded fellows to roam at large? A weak-
minded girl of 17 in the same part of the
country was a while ago intercepted on her
way to the dam with her mother’s newly-
born baby in a bag. “We will drown this
one like we do the kittens,” she proclaimed.
She is still about, and in the ordinary course
of events will bear children. Surely nobody
with a sense of justice will maintain that an
ordinary prison is the right place for either
of these types if they commit a wrong. Yet
a Judge can do nothing but sentence them
as if they had full possession of their facul-
ties. It is high time the State introduced
some form of permanent retention for the
weak-minded. Such a place should be con-
trolled not by gaolers, but by sympathetic
teachers. The inmates could learn and follow
useful occupations, and be without doubt a
self-supporting community. While at large
they cannot hope to gain a decent livelihood.
They often cannot secure employment; some-
times when they do it is to have their simple-
ness taken advantage of. Under guidance
they could live happy lives. They would
do healthy work in healthy surround-
ings; play simple games; have picture-shows
and other entertainments; be comfortably
clad and housed ; be free from imposition by
quicker-witted folk —in every way lead lives
as full as their limited mental capacity would
allow. Without such control they are a
source of danger, both physically and morally,
to themselves and to others. ‘The introduc-
tion of such a system would, moreover, lessen
the State’s burdens. The weak-minded at
present furnish a perennial stream of re-
cruits to the pauper institutions, hospitals,
asylums and gaols.—Yours, Oobagnak
'
“Fitzwilliam” : In “The Slumbugs and
Puffadders” (B. 21/6/’23) the writer men-
less rel —
My own Whence is that
nnrw G rlf )earm f ma . lmers of the 1 edera l De-
Mr WmnS’f 8 ! 1 ? 8 S ° W - lth
}£• u f bana method ?!, Winning
rJ’ a /®J ar J e l y responsible for the
in«?nn^i aut <3 ™io * ederal office. Take an
n ll ™?,!™ fn Son !.u mont bs ago I prepared
a o ® ta „ , for a client ’ on . wh l£ h an assessment
Accompanying the notice was an
n !l U wi en k sheet showing that the net in-
J 56611 increased by £lOOO over my
t 8 my c^ ent wa ®L ta ?,f d accordingly,
«Boii- eC an < ri J t be adjustment-
Q anC Lv° Und th at the Department had
nmde a glaung error m addition. I wrote
to the Department pointing out the error,
and a fortnight later received a curt reply
to the effect that the tax as assessed would
have to be paid and that it was open to my
client to appeal. We paid and appealed
accordingly, and eventually received a
gracious reply that the subject matter of
the appeal had been considered, and the
ea l allowed. To-day we got a refund of
±49, of which the Commissioner has had the
us e f° r three months past. No apology was
tendered. Another point. The ordinary
grazier is driven to desperation by the
“Live Stock Adjustment” sheets. I think I
am correct in saying that in the eight years
the tax has been in existence the method of
estimating the value of live stock has been
altered six times, and at the bitter end the
High Court holds it to be ultra vires, any-
how. Apart from this, you are liable at any
time to receive a request to state, say, the
number of sheep on hand on June 30, 1910,
specifying separately those purchased, those
bred and those on hand at the end of the
previous year. This puts a premium on fak-
ing, which is well understood by everybody
except the taxation officials. Not 1 per cent,
of graziers in the country keep the herd-
and t stock-books that would be necessary to
supply the information truthfully. Neverthe-
less, the man is threatened with a fine of £lOO
if he doesn’t make a return. Consequently he
fakes. The State Department seems to get
on very well without these complicated re-
turns, and the consequence is that every un-
fortunate taxpayer who is trying to make
a living on the land is thirsting for the blood
of the Federal Commissioners, and by con-
trast looks upon Mr. Whiddon in the light
of a benevolent institution.
The New State Convention having finished
its sittings at Armidale (N.S.W.), Sydney
Telegraph hastily turned on W. M. Hughes
to deal with the case. William was, of
course, the same old Apostle of the Obvious:
What ig the objective of the New State move-
ment? As I understand it, the great motive behind
the movement is decentralisation. I believe most
strongly in decentralisation, and if this cannot be
ensured in any other way than by cutting up
Australia into many more States, then’l am for that
too.
In other words, if political decentralisation
can only be arrived at by having more politi-
cal centres —which he doesn’t know for cer-
tain, after all these years—then he believes
in more political centres. On the other hand
(likewise, moreover, nevertheless and notwith-
standing), if political decentralisation can
be attained with no new political centres,
but still keeping things centralised at the
old centres —which he doesn’t know either,
despite all that salary—then he doesn’t see
any reason to the contrary, but is still open
to conviction. It isn’t exactly helpful or
illuminating. Only once in the article did
the Great Uncertainty say something defin-
ite. He wanted the New Staters to drop
their subject altogether, and try instead for
another Federal Convention with power to
take the whole Constitution to pieces and
lose a lot of the pieces. The misfortune is
that every seat in that convention would pro-
bably be contested by a candidate pre-
selected by a Red institution which gets in-
structions from Moscow. And when the
Red, or partly Red, convention got together
it might not even look at the New State
matter. Wherefore New Staters are decidedly
not turning that way.
The luck in Ireland appears to have turned
definitely in favor of the Free State Govern-
ment. It might have turned a year earlier,
to the immense saving of life and property,
if the Government hadn’t been a poetic and
sentimental creature, and its secretary a
gushing child of nature who spelled himself
Diarmuid O Eigceartnigh. Commissions
were given only to patriots who had done
good service in the Sinn Fein uprising before
the Sinn Fein army became legal and ortho-
dox, and, as men of that sort had consistently
refused to'learn the military art in the Brit-
ish forces, they were, with hardly an excep-
tion, self-taught geniuses of the irrejgular
school. Unemployed officers with retcords
and decorations offered in plenty, but, they
hadn’t served in the Sinn Fein mix-up, so
they couldn’t qualify. Then it was desired
that the officers should know Gaelic. At
first, indeed, there seemed to be a tendency
not to move against the enemy till the whole
army had learned Gaelic; but better <?oun-
sels prevailed. The young officers learned
something of their trade in time, and iiegan
to make head against the enemy; in fact,
they learned at the country’s expense. fffiiere
remains the intense but probably ephemeral
resolve to make a national language out of
the Gaelic, So that the rising generation will
have to know two languages, or else, know-
ing only one, it will be marooned on its; little
island, and cut off from almost all the world’s
literature. The Englishman, who is no
whale for sentiment, acts differently. He
was conquered by the Normans; but the
abolition of the veto exercised by the H'ouse
of Lords has been such a set-back to the
old “ruling class” that the trouble it took
to win the battle of Hastings in 1066 snems
almost waste effort. Yet even the most
“advanced” democrat in England didn’t pro-
pose to celebrate by reviving the Anglo-
Saxon of Alfred’s day, and keeping the
books of the Bank of England therein.


Extra warmth for cold days
Peapes’ Jacket Sweaters
The pure wool of which they are woven, the
correct proportioning and handy weight of
these admirable garments makes them ideal
for wear between the coat and waistcoat, or
as sports or house coats.
They are made with V neck and two pockets,
in grey, heather or cream.
The quality is excellent despite the reason-
ableness of the prices.
M.lllllllllllllUM
36in.
17/6
40in.
18/6
44in.
19/6
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-11 George Street, Sydney.
NOW
£.295
COMPLETE
WITH 5 NON-SKID TYRES AND TUBES.
Place your order Now for the World’s Greatest
Motor-car Value.
Immediate Delivery. Terms arranged.
GARRATTS LIMITED
173-75 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Federal Gallery:—
Federal Laborites are children in political strategy.
Last week they greeted the Bruce-Pages with a dreary
procession of no-confidence motions, doomed to ex-
tinction as soon as they were put to the vote. Never-
theless Charlton, Anstey, Blakeley and Scullin went
on as if the fate of the Government was in the bal-
anoS£ and thereby saved the Prime Minister from put-
ting up his own speakers on the Address-in-Reply. If
Charlton and his colleagues were nimble-witted they
would have sat back and' compelled the Ministerialists
to do all the talking, which would have been very
embarrassing for Bruce, since, in expectation of at
least a week of hot air from the Opposition, he was
by no means ready to get down to work. In fact, he
is so little ready even now that lie has abandoned his
original intention of sitting on Tuesdays, and has
gone back to the old Wednesday-to-Friday routine.
In a young country with most of its indus-
trial development yet to do companies
shouldn’t be singled out for any special taxa-
tion at all. On the contrary they ought to
be encouraged. It is in the cdmpany that
the young man and the poor man find their
best and often their only hope of doing some-
thing for themselves and their country. They
may have ideas and skill and experience and
energy, but they must also have capital; and
their only chance of getting it, as a rule, is
by inducing a few richer men to risk a few
pounds apiece. These richer men would not
come in as partners: they naturally want
their risks limited, seeing that they will not
have the control of the concern, and in a
plain partnership their financial risk must
be limited only by their total To
put a special tax on companies., is to dis-
courage the handiest and generally the only
means by which the little workshop may be-
come a big workshop, with a corresponding
growth- in the pay-roll.
Flushed with an assurance of success now
that they have almost completed the capture
of the ' potent Labor machine, with its
700,000 unionists, the Communists recklessly
published their plans for confiscation and
repudiation, along with the enslavement of
those who differ from them, by “organising”
them at “urgent tasks.” Whereupon Minis-
ter Ley, of N.S.W.: —
Revolutionary force is the only means by which
the Communist party can bring about the policy out-
lined in the official statement.
As a simple, obvious fact, the new men don’t
mean to revolushe, and fail, and be hanged.
They mean to capture both Federal Houses,
and, of course, the army and navy, just as
Watson and Fisher did, and then legislate
to make their permanent retention of power
legal. As for the use of “revolutionary
force,” Ley and his friends may try it if
they like, and be duly scragged upon a tree.
As things are developing in this land of let-
it-slide, no one else will need to.
The Queensland Ministry is to go into the
Caucus melting-pot on June 28, but will
probably emerge in the same shape as before.
There are 43 Labor Assemblymen, and 14
hold portfolios and other Parliamentary
offices. Their block vote gives them an enor-
mous advantage over outsiders ambitious of
breaking into the Ministry or the Speaker-
ship.
N. S. Wales begins to talk of a surplus
for the year of close on half-a-million. In
the same circumstances in his private busi-
ness Arthur Cocks would show a deficit of
perhaps a couple of millions. For of the
10 millions or so of borrowed money spent
during the year interest will certainly not
be earned on more than two-thirds; and the
£185,000,000 of debt ought to be steadily
written* down for the same reason —written
down and paid off. In these public accounts
surpluses are shown only by methods which
would get men refused their certificates in
bankruptcy, and they would be roasted in
the process.
The wild and whirling Lazzarini in the
lleps. the other night declared that most Aus-
tralians were starving—half the population
was on the bread-line, anyway, he persisted
when the former statement was challenged.
Still, they manage to put a bit in the savings
banks. In 1913 the total savings-bank de-
posits in Australia were £62,426,492; by
June last year they had grown to
£153,050,337. In other words, in the past
nine years depositors have been able to put
by more than they had stored up in all the
preceding years since savings banks were
first established. Quite large interest-collec-
tors these 869,017 depositors have become:
they gathered in no less than £4,441,476
last year, exclusive of what the Common-
wealth Savings Bank paid, two-thirds of it
THE ULTIMATUM.
“The Lawson Government is seriously threatened. Following the lead of Mr. F. W. Eggleston, the
six other Melbourne metropolitan Liberals have jointly demanded that the Cabinet be reconstructed."
ACTING-CAPTAIN MCPHERSON: “Here, what’s this—mutiny on the high seas?”
CABIN-BOY EGGLESTON: “Yus. The fo’c’s’le ’ands of this ship have decided that the
brains aren’t all on the quarterdeck—present company suspected. So if there
ain’t a few promotions mighty quick we’ll be puttin’ rat-poison in the officers'
stew, or somethin’ ekally desperit!”
coming from interest on the Government secu-
rities in which the savings banks had in-
vested their surplus moneys. For a country
whose people are starving in such vast num-
bers it isn’t a bad record.
A few names from a list of financial sup-
porters of the Sydney Communist party, the
crowd that the A.L.P. wedded itself to at the
last conference: —
Zerkaloff, Semenoff, Bolatnekoff, Ostrobsky, Goo-
zeeff, Shupero, Sergeff, Pernecha, Oskerech and
Trahky.
And some people are wondering why the
old objective which contained reference to
“the cultivation of an Australian sentiment
was dropped in such a hurry.
In his annual report to Parliament, W. B.
Edwards, the retiring Federal Service Com-
missioner, fires a farewell shot at Atlee Hunt,
the public service arbitrator. The increase
in awards and living allowances granted by
Hunt in the financial year ending June, 1922,
was £1,318,572. Between 1901 and 1922 the
number of Federal officers increased from
11.191 to 24,759, and their salaries from
£1,439,938 to £5,802,919. Heaven only
knows how long the glorious drunk is going
to last; it certainly won’t be stopped while
the public will pay the ever-increasing taxes
without a kick.
The halcyon days of the Lawson Govern-
ment are over. Nothing desperate can hap-
pen till the Premier returns on July 26, but
the unemployed are making things uncom-
fortable, and ambitious and office-hungry
Assemblymen are snarling. _ There is no
chance of Prendergast getting a smell of
office; it is more likely that Lawson and
Peacock will allow a stopgap Ministry to
have an innings in the belief that they will
soon be called back in a clearer atmosphere.
“The hand that rocks the cradle fills the
ballot-box” —in Bananaland. Of 1823
females on the roll for Mitchell electorate,
1346 voted at this year’s election —nearly
three out of every four. But of 3913 males
only 2031 materialised at the poll. The
others may have been tired. On the other
hand, many of them may have been ghosts.
From another upstairs critic: —
If Bruce has any aptitude for “telling retort” (B.
21/6/’23) he is keeping his gift a close secret.
So far he has countered the gibes of the Opposition
with heavy commonplaces which no one could pos-
sibly mistake for devastating rejoinders. Close
scrutiny of the Prime Minister lias convinced me
that he is constitutionally incapable of wit or humor.
Repartee is beyond him. His only defence against a
sally from the other side is an admirable affectation
of aplomb, : the effect of which is marred occasionally
by the heightened color of his face. Not even a
Bruce can sit undisturbed under the charge of being
a “chocolate Mussolini,” and one would wish that be
had an answering sneer ready just to let the Opposi-
tion know that it cannot scoff at him with impunity.
But Bruce’s enormous dignity is, I fear, an invita-
tion to sarcasm. The other night he was asked if he
was going to England to help Joe Cook get through
the banquets which were threatening to engulf him.
Here, if anywhere, he had a chance to add a little
to the gaiety of Hansard. But stiff and unruffled
as if he were granting an audience to some inferior
colored potentate, he gave a haughty, smileless “No,”
and solemnly sat dowm.
A deputation waited recently on Prime
Minister Bruce asking that he should .find
work for the unemployed, and was told, very
truly, that relief work was a State Govern-
ment responsibility. Then he relented, and
promised to find £500,000, not towards the
transcontinental line and the opening of Fed-
eral lands in the Territory, which is Ins
business, and very urgent business, but to
patch and top-dress State roads, an affair
that he has no call to interfere with. Most
of the energy of the Bruce-Piige Government,
and it really has more than the average, goes
in pottering with irrelevant jobs. One or
these days somebody is going to ask tne
haughty Bruce to explain the diller-
ence between fishing for votes with “ crook
ballot-boxes and angling for them with things
like road grants and railway diversions.
After the Federal Labor Opposition had
been defeated on four clumsy motions of
censure these things began to impress them-
selves on many tired people: (1) That there
should be no Address-in-Reply; (2) that on
a motion of censure speeches should be
limited to one on each side, except that the
man who proposed to vote against his party
should be entitled to explain why ; (3) that
one censure motion per week should be the
limit, and it should be followed by an extra
sitting-day to make up for lost time; (4)
that the Legislature should do at least five
days’ work a week, like any other artisan.
The real or simulated rage and astonish-
ment of some thousand-pounders when it was
proposed that they should toil three easy
days per week, with meals supplied below
cost and the promise of a long holiday after
10 weeks, was grotesque.
“Labor Student’s” gloomy view :
Five years’ membership of an A.L.P. branch in
Sydney has convinced me that, as a movement, the
A.L.P. is essentially bourgeois. As a supposedly
working-class organisation it presents a paradox in
its membership of small capitalists and aspiring
property-owners. There is an absence of the ideal-
ist, the brooding fanatic or dangerous intellectual
common in contemporary socialist bodies. The
leagues are composed mostly of members who are
comfortably situated, for, despite an everyday asser-
tion, the bottle-oh and pub-corner loafer do not
give ardent support to the leagues. ' The bulk of the
men are little interested in economics and sociology,
whilst as for international politics their acquaint-
ance goes as far as the headlines in the daily press
have carried it. Most of them can, however, talk at
length upon local personalities and about racing
and football, and a few of them can swap good
yarns. As for the womenfolk, where one can give
an intelligent speech on the conditions of female
factory-workers, 25 will display an extensive know-
ledge of recent royal festivities. Whereas the young
Russian or Italian can be found in full strength m
the more revolutionary socialistic bodies, the young
Australian fights shy of the lot, and divides his
time between Ikey and Maudie. Despite the A.L.P.’s
Red objective and the alliance with Moscow and its
wild-eyed leaders, the rank and file don’t want any
“blood bath.” They won’t bother so long as
Douglas Bareshanks and Mary Pickaxe continue to
sport themselves at the “pitchers,” and 26 muddied
giants engage once or twice a week tearing off one
another’s jerseys.
“The Deacon” on police and politics: —
N.S.W T . police service’s agitation for an Appeal
Board has been intensified by the recent dismissal
of a Sydney constable. The story, as the bulk of
the force seems to believe it, is that two men were
attending to an inebriated gent, at Circular Quay.
Suspecting they were crooks, he tried to shoo them
away. They said they were looking after the man,
but couldn’t or wouldn’t say who he was or where
he lived. For the drunk’s own protection the con-
stable took him in charge, and was followed to the
station by one of the other men, who was so aston-
ished that his care of the fuddled one should be
questioned, and made so much fuss about it, that
he was locked up too. Then the fat was in the
fire. The man who had been looking after the in-
ebriated gent, wasn’t a crook; instead he was a
man with a strong Ministerial “pull,” and it was
exerted so heftily that the constable was sacked and
the other parties thus nicely whitewashed. Of course,
there was a departmental inquiry; but it seems to
be a case where something more than that is called
for. Political interference with the judiciary would
be a calamity hardly more serious than political
interference with the police. There ought to be the
completest safeguards against both.
A strange rumor of “the influx of foreign
capital to develop our great natural re-
sources” is heard from Newcastle (N.fe.W.) :
Operations that will mean the substantial develop-
ment of Port Stephens are stated to be contemplated
by an American co„ which may erect factories with
the employees housed near by. Options over land
have been" asked for The company is said to be
prepared to put down an expensive railway to con-
nect the present railway with Port Stephens....
Port Stephens is only 83 miles by sea from
Australia’s biggest city and is alongside
Australia’s biggest coalfield. It is _ a good
harbor. It doesn’t need any expensive rail-
way to connect it with the existing line,
which isn’t far away—just a common or
garden line. No wonder the passing Yank
got. a little excited when he saw a place like
this, and concluded naturally that we. are
a poor, dull people who don’t know possibili-
ties when we see them. Between 1900 and
1920 his cities of from 100 to 250 thousand
people multiplied from 23 to 43; those be-
tween. 50 and-100 Thousand from 40 to 76;.
those from 25 to 50 thousand from 82 to 143.
His country, not being cursed with Big City
domination, isn’t in the habit of wasting
good things just because their development
might compete with vested interests. And
the queer thing is that his big cities find
that the development of this host of little
cities pays.
MISCALLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Bruce said that the practice of using Austra-
lian names had not been departed from in the case
of the Commonwealth’s new 12,800-ton steamer
launched on Thursday. Fordsdale was the name of a
town in Queensland.”
Maybe. But, on a liner’s side engraven,
Of some grey hamlet it would seem to tell
Skirting the banks of Thames or Trent or Avon,
Or perched aloft upon a Cumbrian fell —
Some golfers’ paradise—some anglers’ haven —
Some old-world Eden in a Devon dell.
Fordsdale! The word’s as crudely Anglo-Saxon
As Jackson.
Why this selection, Bruce, when you were able
To borrow from the aborigines’
Vocabulary some mellifluous label
Breathing of Austral plains and streams and trees,
Some jewel-word lisped by Nature’s children sable
To the wind’s whistle and the wash of seas,
As wild as Wagga Wagga—or as rural
As Booral ?
Fordsdale, so commonplace, so English-sounding,
When we have names that pulse with rhythmic song,
Suggesting Centaur stockmen cattle-rounding
With thud of shoeless hoofs and crack of thong,
Or kangaroos in mobs through gum-trees bounding!
Why not have called her Croajingalong?
All the distinctiveness that Fordsdale misses
In this is.
When down the tallow-covered slips they thrust her
Was such a handicap baptismal meet ?
No hint therein of all the life and lustre
In wild new lands trod by no clodded feet;
None of the ringing memories that cluster
Round Wantabadgery or Burrumbeet.
Fordsdale! It’s rather less Australian, Stanley,
Than Manly.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


BRITISH-
MADE
H33SEB
ELECTRIC
IRONS.
-nr
'far.
:%
nniii!
•*'T
ers
tCTRJCAL
CO.. LTD
21 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
213 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Oua/lty throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety > c uso
Detonators
Cartridges
mmmm
“VALLO”
SHEEP DIPS
II
In Powder and Liquid Form
Obtainable at all Stores
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Manufacturer* of ‘VALLO’ Brand Chemical*. Dip* & Spray.
And at
Sydney & Brisbane
Head Office:
497-503 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Correspondence
Invited
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Assurance and Thrift Association
Ltd. (Sydney) :
Life and House Purchase Branch.
Added Assur-
. ~ to ance
Mai., Revenue Claims. Expenses.* Funds, tunas
J 912. . £5,536 Nil £4467 £1,069 £1,202
Preliminary exes., £l4 .. 1188
1913.. 9,598 £S9S 5518 3,482 4 670
1914.. 11,597 534 6355 4,708 g’37B
1915.. 11,702 988 5572 5,142 14 520
1916.. 12,039 1821 5379 4,839 19!359
1917.. 13,021 1031 5756 6,234 25 593
1918.. 14,321 2258 5868 6,195 31,788
transferred to contingencies reserve, £395 31,393
1919.. 16,587 3041 5943 7,603 38,996
19L0.. 18,703 3031 7041 8,631 47 627
’9 21 .. 24,022 2718 8131 13,173 60,800
1922.. 21,4/3 2299 8382) „ „
Transferred to reserve fund. £ 1000 ( 9 ’ ‘ 92 "0.592
1923. 26,045 5002 9173 11,870 82,462
* Including divs: 1912-18, 4 p.c. : 1919. 5 p.c. :
6 P- c - ! 1921-23. 7 p.c. A 7 p.c. div takes
£l3OO p.a.
These are difficult times for the small Life
[office whose management keeps to the narrow
track of sound underwriting. So many new
cos. are in the field that the competition for
policies has become fierce, while costs of
hunting the new-assurer are so high that,
in innumerable instances, the business writ-
ten can’t possibly show a profit for many
tears. And cos. like the Assurance and
Thrift have not got large invested funds to
offset heavier costs by improved interest re-
turns. Its managing-director, Wm. Dove.v,
is an actuary and one of the “old-fashioned”
assurance-men who hold that “safety first”
is the elemental necessity of the business—
that adequate backing for policy-holders is of
far more consequence than large business
figures. In recent years his co. has been un-
able to write much business within the cost-
limits laid down. Consequently, after 13
rears its renewal income is only £14,386. and
last year’s first premiums were but £2333.
rhe latter were from 263 policies assuring
£61,655. But while younger offices are pil-
ing up assurances, which spell liabilities, in
millions—and incidentally building up larger
and larger deficits—the' unobtrusive little
A. and T. has always had reserves accu-
tnulated from premiums which have been
ample to meet the actuarial requirements
under policies, the whole of its paid capital
lias at all times been represented by assets
vhich could be seen and if necessary mar-
ked —-it had no need to introduce the usual
‘establishment and organisation account”
nto its balance-sheets—and from the begin-
ning shareholders have had divs. Distribu-
i°ns have aggregated 60 p.c. for the 13
'ears. Some of its noisy competitors won’t
lonestly be able to pay any div. in the next
3, and some of them, if they don’t mend
heir ways, will not reach that age.
Though progress has been slow, income has
list doubled in six years. War conditions
ffected policy-writing in another way be-
ides through prohibitive costs: the co. ori-
lnally set out to popularise house-purchase
mlicies, but risks for an assurance co. be-
anie too great when values had boomed and
onstruction became very costlv. There are
iow mortgages for only £14,065 in course
i repayment. Nevertheless the business
■rought in some good profits; the manage-
lent decided a few years ago to establish a
arden-suburb near Newcastle, and the subdivi-
ion of the co.’s estate yielded £16,000 or so
lore than the outlay. The latest accounts
how £2005 additional profit on property
L'ansactions, £lOOO of which is “nart increase
■ i value of Queen’s Chambers.” Evidently
iat _is writing-up. However, it is only
minor movement in a balance-sheet now
itting up £112.120. and as policy-holders
IN apparently fully covered by the assur-
nee funds accumulated, any appreciation so
1 1 hen credit for is the concern of share-
plders. Another triennial valuation of poll -
les is due this year. At the last investiga-
i on—conducted on the conservative lines
dopted by the co.’s millionaire competitors
-surpluses W ere shown which justified the
fvs. paid to shareholders and the bonuses
i policy-holders. In 1918 20s. p.c. bonuses
■-ere distributed, and for each of the three
ears to 1921 325. p.c.
Claims were unusually large last year, hut
mt was not due to unfavorable mortality
• heavy maturities; surrenders accounted
r £2442, “owing to farming depression
lused by the drought,” the management ex-
ains. The future is rather obscure. The
isition is snug from the point of view of
>licy-holders, but proprietors cannot expect
uch until there is a larger business to carry
j-eiffipfirl exes. Present conditions are not
favorable for expansion, so the co. will probably
plod along steadily, nurse the business, and
take advantage of any pickings available.
Some day it may thus get the larger oppor-
tunity it deserves.
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co.,
Ltd.:—
March, Paid Capital. Net Profit.
1917*.. £276,005 £27,367
1918 .. 276,005 23,023
1919 . . 276,005 20,309
1920 . . 276,005 51,106
• 1921 . . 442,489 65,524
*l5 months.
Reconstructed and amalgamated with Zetland Glass
Bottle Works, Ltd.
Net f "-Dividends. To Re- Ke-
Profit. 9 p.e. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923* 139,370 18,375 10 p.e. = 90,850 30,145 35,360
*l4 months.
This is the big amalgamation which has
revolutionised the Commonwealth bottle-
making industry. The original co. was
established in 1915 to take over the Mel-
bourne Glass Bottle Works Pty. and two
old Sydney businesses, the Waterloo Glass
Bottle Works, Ltd., and Vance and Ross,
Ltd. Branch works were established in
Queensland, S. Aus. and Tas. The concern
soon became the most powerful in the in-
dustry, but fat profits did not show up
until manufacturing practice had been en-
tirely re-organised; early in its career the
management began to instal machinery to re-
place hand-manufacturing. Prospects looked
so good that the directors spent a lot of
money on extending plant and preparing for
further factory expansion, £175,000 of 9
p.e. profs having been raised in 1921. Mean-
while, though, W. J. (“Knockout”) Smith,
who had effected the amalgamation and re-
organised the industry, withdrew from the
management, and, with solid backing and
assured contracts, established the Zetland
Glass Bottle Works in Sydney. By 1921
this Sydney co. had £140,003 capital in the
business (£49,500 of it represented by good-
will) and was making handsome profits. The
competitors soon realised that it would be
of mutual advantage to amalgamate, so Aus-
tralian Glass Manufacturers was recou-
strueted, the Zetland Co. was absorbed, and
V\. .T. Smith was again put in control.
Contracts for some millions’ worth of
bottles, and the practical control of the
Commonwealth and Dominion markets,
assured handsome results from the com-
mencement. Paid capital is now £950,695
in 175,000 9 p.e. prefs. and 775,695 ordi-
naries all paid to £l. The first accounts,
which cover a period of slightly more than
14 months, show a net profit of £139,370
which is at the rate of about £119.460 p.a.
Deducting the prefs.’ 9 p.e. (£15,750), the
return on the ordinary capital exceeds 13
p.e. p.a., notwithstanding that goodwill
stands in the books at £114,500. The dis-
closed profits, however, do not give the full
measure of earnings; the whole of the costs
of reconstruction and amalgamation may
have been charged against the period.
In the balance-sheet a reserve fund of £706
and other reserves totalling £119,009 show
up, and any additions thereto have not been
counted in with the year’s earnings. No
doubt some reserves were transferred to the
.amalgamating co. after the components had
issued bonus shares, but no figures are avail-
able. The astonishing feature of the first
accounts is that, after payment of 9 p.e. to
prefs. and 10 p.e. on ordinary capital, the
whole of the goodwill watering has been re-
placed by tangible assets: reserves exceed
goodwill by £35,360. Whether some of the
accumulation is a set-off against deprecia-
tion is not ascertainable from the published
accounts. The £950,695 of canital is now
represented by:—
Land and buildings .. ~ £195,188
Machinery and plant.. .. 502 159
Stocks . . . . . . . . 223’,481
Book debts .. .. .. 114 011
Cash, investments, etc. . . 27,282
Total assets .. ..£1,062,121
Sundry creditors . . ..
Fin al divs 46,’634
Net tangible assets .. £986,055
Original subscribers to the 9 p.e. prefs.
(£175,000) hold one of the most remunera-
tive protected industrial stocks on the mar-
ket. Ordinary holders in the old cos. now
have the whole of their scrip—original hold-
mgs and bonus additions—represented bv
tangible assets. It has been a remarkable
performance, and, given a continuance of
good management, handsome results may be
expected in future, particularly when the co.
has extended its manufacturing to plate-
glass and other side-lines. Nominal capital,
by the way, is two millions, and 1,049,305
shares are held unissued. The amalgamating
cos. anticipated paying 10 p.e. from the begin-
ning, and, sizing up prospects on contracts,
i eckoned that ultimately bonus issues would
be possible. The div. anticipations have been
realised, and if the present accounts and the
experiences of the amalgamated cos are a
reliable guide to the future the directors mav
later on. find use for some of the unissued
scrip.
* * * »
Garratt’s, Ltd., importers of motor-cars,
body-builders, etc. The co. began in 1908
but was listed on ’Change onlv four years
ago. Prior to 1913 the co. lost £7OOO, and
' or next nine years disclosed profits were
as follows:
! 1916 --£V232 I 1919.. £7039
1914.. 1053 j 1917.. 5973 | 1920.. 9623
i 915 4329 | 1918.. 7027 | 1921.. 9071
capital movements were :
1918" I £40 > 893 I 1921" £93,121
1918.. 28,108 | 1920.. 63,678 | 1922.. 107,045
di y . was Paid until 1917, profits being
used to cover early losses and to extend the
business. Nominal reserves were then only
±49uU-odd less than paid capital, and as some
compensation for shareholders’ patience an
amount equal to ss. per £1 share was dis-
tributed as a bonus addition to capital For
the four years 1917-20 10 p.c. divs. were
paid, but in 1921, owing to the Hood of
cais which had been poured into the market
by foreign manufacturers after the war a
couple of years’ arrears of orders were
dumped in a few months—the co. held on
to the profits it had made on that year’s
trading. Reserves then totalled £22,471.
Stocks were nearly four times larger than
those held only a year before, and as prices
wei e tailing the co. appeared to be in grave
danger. Fortunately buyers were found at
Pnces, and when the accounts to Jan..
J .J~_, were made up the management esti-
-ITiat!;d that the co. had escaped with a loss
9 , £4o,uoJ. The directors decided not to
delay a clean-up: deducting reserves, there
remained a debit of £23,189, and £21.296
ot tniit W3s erased by writing the 106,478
tuily-paid £1 ordinaries down to 16s. So
the past year opened with £1893 debit at
Profit and Loss.
The published accounts suggest that the
co. made a good recovery during the 12
months ended January 31 last. The com-
mercial depression having lifted, the motor-
C f iSj ev ' an( f Garratt’s turnover
at £325,160 was £109,666 larger than for
the previous year. But included with the
year s profits was the surplus from the saL
i aD i °Pti°n of purchase which the co. had
long held on its city premises. That deal is
understood to have given £30,500 over and
above the option price, and if the co. re-
ceived the whole of that during its financial
year, the £ll,BOO net profit claimed by the
accounts and the “immeasurably improved
position” of the co. were not quite all they
seemed. Possibly the period carried addi-
tional heavy losses from stock unloading not
allowed lor in the reconstruction. After
paying prefs. 18 months’ divs. to Januan
mst that takes £9O; £lOOO carrying a
emulative 6; p.c.—Profit and Loss was
£9Bl l in credit. But the ordinaries canno!
receive anything yet: this table explains
' v , an( l also shows how the business was
pulled out of the ditch :
~ 1929 - 1921. 1922. 1923.
Capital ..£63,678 £93,121 £107,045 £B6 182
Liabibtres .. 5,105 173,827 161,082 149 026
r reeholds and
leaseholds ~ 4,711 41,582 87,756 89,350
1 lant, etc. .. 5,364 6,071 9,333 10,510
Stocks .. 53,959 201,298 106,757 90,’748
Book debts .. 27,694 31,513 34,903 48,080
Cash, etc. ... 1,049. 9,475 2,708 1,805
1 jesent paid capital is quite inadequate - the
properties account in January was only
±6<4B less than the co.’s own total funds,
and for all trading activities it was depend-
ing on outsiders. Liabilities were If rimes
paid capital: £93,852 was bank overdraft
and £55,174 was owing otherwise. That was
a top-heavy load, and tile co. needs much
more capital to make its position comfort
able, even if stocks and book debts calf'Be
reduced considerably. Still, looking back
on happenings since the co. plunged heavily
into works and properties with small capital,
and was caught with large stocks on a fall-
ingmarket, shareholders have something to
lie thankful for tnat the co. escaped the atten-
tions of a liquidator. Even now the con-
cern is being , kept afloat by the grace of
guarantors, the bank and other creditors.
Lately its business has been booming: turn-
over for the first three months of the cur-
re.“f financia l year was £85,049, compared
with £64,209 for the first quarter of 1922.
Nevertheless, accountant Fred Marks, who
is now chairman of the co., has a stiff job
ahead of him to restore the co.’s affairs to a
sound basis.
* * * *
The Xllawabra and South Coast Steam-
Navigation Co., Ltd. (N.S.W.) :
iqi * M - - ~ Dividends. SSt. Reserves.
1913 .. £5,24/ / p.c. =£5,250 £9O
1914 .. 5,705 74 „ „ 5,625 £BO 170
1915 .. 5,9/5- 7£ „ „ 5,437 538 708
1916 .. 6,342 7-1 „ „ 5,624 718 1 426
191/ .. 6,611 8-J „ ~ 6,187 424 l’sso
1918 .. .8,882 10...-,, „ 7,500 1382 3’e39
1919 . . 8,039 10 „ ~ 7,500 539 3’77]
1920 .. 7.843 10 „ „ 7,500 343 4’114
Special div. (5 p.c.) from inner
reserves, £3750
Reserves taken in, £17,350 .. .. 21 464
Co. reconstructed; £25,000 of re-
serves capitalised.
1921 . . 10,137 10 p.c. = 8,750 1387 1 387
1922 .. 10,500 10 „ „ 10,000 500 1 887
. . 10,045 10 „ ~ 10,000 45 1,932
“Owing to the general depression and
droughty conditions,” the directors’ report
says, ‘trade over the year did not come up
to expectations.” and the fleet was not fuliv
employed. Nevertheless, the published
accounts claimed a profit, after providing
for depreciation, only £455 less than for
the previous year, and the usual 10 p.c. div.
was distributed. This performance in a
lean year suggests that the P'ig-and-Whistle
fleet does magnificently nowadays when con-
cfitmns are favorable on the N. S. Wales
feouth Coast. Not so many years ago the
co. appeared to be struggling to earn 7 p.c.
tor shareholders, but it was made clear later
on that substantial surplus profits had been
ioon by duriu g the period of mild divs. In
19-0 an accumulation professedly for re-
pairs, public risk, taxation and contingen-
cies provided most of the £25,000 required for
a one-in-three gift-share distribution. Since
then 19 p.c. p.a. has been paid in regular
halt-year divs. Meanwhile, though, dis-
closed profits have exceeded by only £1932
the £28,750 divided. The disclosed figures,
however, depend entirely on how much of
the earnings is taken by the management to
provide for depreciation, etc., and no infor-
mation is available on that important matter.
An examination of balance-sheet figures does
not throw much' light into dark corners
1913- 1920. 1922. 1923.
inabilities .. .. £5,506 £11,505 £12,508 £11,911
Ship property .. 70,375 49,500 79,470 74,065
Other property . . 1,206 1,717 2,324 3,110
Plant, stocks, etc. ... 1,666 3,362 3,806 3,525
Book debts . . . . 7,150 14,078 11,049 17,121
War Loan and cash 6,317 43,062 28,787 25,881
Ten years ago the co. had a surplus of more
or less liquid assets over liabilities of £9633.
In 1920 the s.s. Duroby was added to the
fleet ; yet at March 31 this year the liquid
surplus stood at £34,586. Slightly over one-
thn'd ol paid capital was more or less gilt-
edged. The balance was represented by free-
holds and shipping property, whose' book
values are probably very conservative; they
had been steadily diminishing for many
years, and in the reconstruction assets were
written up only a trifle.
* * #
niello wells, Ltd., drapers, outfitters, etc.
(Sydney). Goodwill (£16,693) is not
treated as an asset in the table:—
Towards
Pr 9 9t - Pref - f)l< t Total, serves. Deficit.
7““ ] L0,2i4 8 p.c. 7 p.c. £4970 £304 £16,389
'• ,?- 579 8 » 5 •• 6742 16)552
U-3 .. 11.464 8 „ 74 „ 8284 3180 13,372
'flight months.
It used to be'McDowell and Hughes, Ltd.,
m 26,099 £1 fully-paids and 14,000 paid to
lps. Hie present co. took over in 1920.
Jaid capitai is now £109,847, of which
±lO,OOO is in 8 p.c. cum. prefs., and good-
wdl Hess Accumulated profit) represents
£13,3 1 2. Since almost one-sixth of the ordi-
nary capital in the reconstruction was repre-
sented by this intangible asset, the return to
the old proprietors is slightly better than
tlie div. rates shown in the table. But the
business is not fattening them, though, per-
haps, the principals get some compensation
from the salaries list. Three years’ balance-
sheet figures have been as follows
T . ...... 1921. 1922. 1923.
Liabilities. . .. £7,217 £6,437 £9,243
Leaseholds, etc. . . 21,501 21,646 21 490
n to< i k j •’ 60 > 411 56,111 64,509
Book debts .. 18,078 18,674 21 14?
Cash, etc. . . . . 3,543 5,172 3^963
.The business is housed in leasehold premises •
the book value of leaseholds is £6416, and
xi k ’ fittings and improvements
i j- 4. J-he surplus of liquid assets (in-
cluding stock) over and above liabilities at
the latest balance was £80,376, giving very
solid backing for the £lO,OOO of prefs.
John Hicks and Co., Ltd., which in
193 o took over the business of John Hicks,
Ltd., house and general furnishers (Bris-
bane) :
r Dividends
a i ~ Pref - Ordinaries To Re- Re-
loir (7 p.c.). (inc. tax), serves, serves.
7 p.c. = £2BOO £224' £224
1918" 8091 7 £ a-9 r Nil 167 391
loio" 4a3 5 p.c. = 2000 568 959
1919.. 047 i 500 7„ „ 2800 2177 3136
1920.. 6294 574 8,, „ 3452 2268 5404
Lansferred to capital, £4718. . .. 686
, 19 f, 1 " 674 8 p.c. = 3900 4047 4733
1955" 7004 r 7! 8 » » 4984 13 4746
1 9 - 3 -. <094 oi 4 8 „ „ 5052 1468 6214
At the 1922 balance stock values were re-
duced to a “safe minimum,” so latest profits
may have benefited to some extent at the
expense of the previous year’s figures. The
average for the two years, after deducting
f 1 ™ dlvs ” £ ave a trifle over 9 p.c. on
of ordinary capital, which includes
£4 tlB of reserves transferred three years
a £°- "'hen the present co. took over in
i™ s ™§ aid (>a P ital was £40,000; it is now
0.746. The business continues to expand,
and the directors are planning additional
extensions to premises. Meanwhile they
have been encouraging t.-p. business, and
book debts at April 30 were £12,600 larger
than L months back. So the co. is now
leaning on outsiders more than at any other
time. This shows balance-sheet movements
since the beginning: -
T . 1916. 1921. 1922. 1923.
Liabilities. . . . £26,517 £34,686 £27,935 £40,390
Property, plant, etc. 11.676 38,949 38 336 37 791
Stocks .. .39,255 43,602 35,138 39,335
Book debts . . 18,122 20,856 23,243 35 860
Cash, etc... .. 13 7,688 8,555 7,190
Liabilities are made up of mortgage on pre-
mises, £16,000; debts secured by debenture
£19.985: sundry creditors, £4405. Stocks)
book debts and other liquid assets at Anril
30 totted up £82,385.


Scientific Glassware and Apparatus, Hydrometers,
Scales, Crucibles, Filter Papers, Acids, Crystals, in
fact everything for industrial laboratories at mines,
sugar-mills, breweries, confectionery works, etc., is
obtainable from Messrs. Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, and Eagle-street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
• * * *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cfcnt. in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [3
, * * *
To the municipality or the individual about to
instal a pipe line —Pioneer Wood Pipe offers safe
economy. It saves on the first cost, transport and
labor charges and incurs no maintenance; and
economy is not the only recommendation. Its
smooth interior bore offers no resistance to the flow,
which is at first 25 per cent, greater size for s'ze
than from metal pipe, and this superior flow in-
creases rather than decreases with age. Write for
our illustrated book of detailed information. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
• » * *
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
Scientific and Commercial Agencies throughout the
World. — Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Robert Davidson, metals and ores, 28 years’
service Dalgety and Co., Ltd., now operating same
agencies at 8 Spring Street, Sydney.— Advt.
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Circular
Quay, Sydney, and Collins House, Melbourne, sup-
ply:' “Robey” Steam Engines, “National” Gas and
Oil Engines, “Foden” Steam Waggons, “Multimix”
Concrete Mixers and Concrete Machinery, Conveying
and Earth-handling Machinery, Road-making Plants,
etc. — Advt.
Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur is impossible
to say.
but
You Can be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office:
Southern Cross Buildings,
315-317 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
THOS. J. CONFOY,
Governing Director.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The. “M.Iv.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
4/3 HN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
r
&
YG
3 ° °N
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
Swift * Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
Insure witH the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire. Marine. Personal Accident. Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Junction Reefs, Mandurama (N.S.W.),
which Mt. Boppy Co. is developing under
option, was formerly worked by the Lynd-
hurst Railway and Mining Co. It abandoned
production when a dyke had apparently cut
off the ore. Later Sheahan Bros, acquired
the property, and driving disclosed that the
ore-beds had been faulted vertically, and that
widths and values persisted beyond the dyke.
They have worked the show successfully loi
nearly 10 years, and nine beds of ore, rang-
ing from lift, to 20ft., inclined at an angle
of about 18 degrees, have been proved. Mm-
ing has been difficult; the ore Jodies have
been tapped by a tunnel over 530 ft. long
and crushing material has often had to be
handled several times, while development
has been prompted mostly by dish prospects.
Nevertheless, the Sheahans have pulled out
10,000 tons or so. Since the Boppy Co. be-
came interested systematic development has
been undertaken, and, according to reliable
local reports, large tonnages, which will
assure years of profitable work, have been
proved. Payable ore in sight is claimed to
exceed 40,000 tons, and there are reasonable
prospects of developing a quarter oi a mil-
lion tons by the end of the present year.
In the hands of the experienced Mt. Boppy
crowd Junction Reefs should become a sub-
stantial and profitable producer.
* * * *
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) has b:red a few
thousand feet in the aggregate, and although
no definite indications of a commercial oil-
pool have resulted the work is described by
the Board as “very important.” At Mt.
Wynne drilling is to be accelerated, and at
Rough Range an examination is being made
to ascertain whether the “oil-bearing strata
lie directly under the upper-sandstone beds.
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) milled 110,220
tons crudes for 12,9330 z. (fine) during the
12 months ended December 31. Cyanidmg
gave 49180 z., the filter-presses won 30,2730 z.
from slimes, roasters produced 10,1830 z. from
concentrates, and residues turned in 31830 z.
Including £21,106 gold premium, bullion re-
turned £286,689. But after providing for
taxes and writing off £3247 for development,
only £25,783—9 p.c. of the gross proceeds—
was left as a result of the year’s work. So
the half-crown div. on 300,000 shares
(£37,500) was not nearly earned and the
carry-forward dwindled to £17,70*. With
existing costs of production and treatment,
and the premium on gold contributing only
a trifle, the div. outlook is not at all bright.
* * * *
Gibraltar, 25 miles from Coolgardie, is
again engaging the attention of option-takers
and co. promoters. For a quarter-century the
district has been claimed to hold, promise,
but until recently it has disappointed. A
Sydney crowd has persevered with the Lloyd
George, and this show appears to have some
good features. The lode is 20ft. wide and has an
ore shoot 300 ft. long, but the lode threatens
to dip into adjoining ground at about 400tt.
Values run about half-an-ounce, and as the
lode can be mined cheaply a few divs.
should be possible. N. E. Giblin inspected
the show recently, but reported adversely.
Since then the intrusion that had apparently
cut off the lode in its southward strike has
been passed, and ore 20ft. wide and worth
an ounce has been disclosed.
As there is a likelihood of the Lloyd
George shoot running into the adjoining
Carlton, the owners of that show are spar-
ing no effort to locate it. Co. promoters see
possibilities of a lively float in the Carlton
if the ore-deposit is located, and Gibraltar
may soon experience another mild boom.
Less favorable developments in Brown’s
Reward, Yalgoo goldfield (W.A.), are a
bitter disappointment to Westralian holders
in the busted Lass o’ Gowrie co. The Lass
was controlled from Adelaide, and Fertn
shareholders fought hard to effect a transfer
of operations to Brown’s Reward; they
finally succeeded, and the co. subsequently
changed its name. The other Adelaide Re-
ward c 0 .—Ives Reward—though it and the
Lass were run from the same office, is not
in any way connected with the 1 Brown show
and has never been interested in the Yalgoo
field. Brown treated 306 tons for a yield
of £7OOO prior to selling to O’Connor for about
£2500; the latter offered the show to Lass
o’ Gowrie enthusiasts for £lO,OOO cash and
40 000 shares. After having been encouraged
by’ a couple of good crushings, they are now
wondering whether they should not have
looked deeper before committing the co. to
the vendor’s price. # v
W. Bestwick, reporting for Adelaide on
Chapman’s Reward, on Jones’s Concessions
(W.A.), states that the quartz veins are
small and irregular in size and are in gran-
ites. This conflicts with State Mining-
Engineer Montgomery’s findings. He re-
ported that the country enclosing the quartz
was very similar to Edna May gneiss, and
the Government petrologist agreed.
* * * *
Devon, Linden (W.A.), had a meeting in
Melbourne last week, and on the strength ot
the new manager’s opinions the directors ex-
pressed “confidence in the future of the
mine.” Latest sampling “right across the
face” is claimed to have given ounce results,
and in sft. of driving south the narrow lode
is declared to have widened to sft., accom-
panied by 25dwt. assays, and to have since
expanded to 6ft. The co. still owes £2OO
on the Chiide Harold plant, and when that
and a few sundry liabilities are met
tors expect the show to “pay its way, ’ not-
withstanding that the previous manager had
condemned it. The doubt is whether the
Devon is of any value to a co., and before
inviting shareholders to pay further calls
the directors should bring in an outside
expert # . *
The Manxman line of reef, north of Bull-
finch (W.A.), was discovered 12 years ago,
and a number of leases were pegged. For
years nothing better than a narrow, erratic
quartz-vein, and occasional, short, rich
shoots, were located, and most prospectors
gave up. Some stuck to the Radio lease,
however, and its output to date has been
53000 z. from 1760 tons. In ground adjoin-
ing the Radio, Hackett and party at 130 ft.
have just struck a 3ft. reef going 3oz.
* * * *
At the Langi Logan (Vic.) meeting, old
alluvial-authority George Bryant testified
that, in his opinion, recent work had made
9000 fathoms of wash available, and that
values were equal to any he had seen in the
Cathcart and Cathcart Central mines, which
he had managed. Manager Toole said that
he expected to have four squads of men
panelling within five or six
“Bendigonian”: The New Blue mystery
deepens. The directors have so far not volun-
teered any explanation why shares should
have declined from 455. to 14s. in about six
weeks;, but a most significant fact is that
the mine manager has resigned. It is not
more than four months since, at a meeting
of shareholders where all was ecstatic en-
thusiasm, the manager was elevated to a
pedestal never before occupied by a Bendigo
manager; his salary was increased to £l2
per week on top of a substantial bonus. This
constituted him the king of managers, and
why he should so abruptly quit his throne
has excited wonderment;
Morning Star, Woods Point (Vic.), has
been caught in the wave of depreciation which
has been swamping Melbourne Stock Ex-
change. Shares have dropped from 455. to
255., but it is claimed that “there. is no
change at the mine,” and meanwhile the
extra 10-head of stampers are just about to
be put into commission. Regarding adverse
market influences, a leading co, secretary
writes: “There is a singular lack of sym-
pathy with gold-mining on Melbourne Ex-
change and in other quarters ; favorable facts
are studiously ignored, but any unfavorable
feature is seized upon and made the best —-
or worst—use of.” This may seem regret-
table, but is inevitable; the old-time specu-
lator, who backed his faith in a mine, has
been supplanted by the gambler pure and
simple, and the majority of Exchange.opera-
tors are no longer merely brokers acting for
clients,, but are dealers, mostly spec.-sellers,
on their own account.
* * * *
Retaliation Reward reports a “most im-
portant development” at the Great Southeim,
Bendigo—“a firing at the 946 ft. level has
exposed centre country.” Nothing startling
in that to the outsider; but the manager in-
terprets the discovery as “proving that centre-
country formations had not been seen from
No. 3 to No. 13 levels.” In other words, the
old co., which paid about £150,000 in
divs. from workings between those levels,
could not have intersected the main forma-
tion. That seems highly incredible —-almost
as incredible as the fact that in less than
two months from the resumption of work the
new co. should have been in a position to
start crushing payable stone which the old-
timers had left in the working faces.
• * * •
About £2500 was needed to run the Cuth-
bert mines (Q.) during the past six months,
and most of the money. went in keeping
workings safe, especially in the Kalkadoon.
They are standing up fairly well with occa-
sional bailing. That is about all A. E.
Powell can do till it is known into which
furnace Cuthbert is to be thrown: Hamp-
den is thought the more likely, hut Mt.
Elliott would have no difficulty in taking
over the derelict. Its deficit is now of re-
cord dimensions; P. and L. is on the wrong
side to the tune of £184.569. At the balance
Cuthbert showed £13,800 of stocks, and they
and plant and mines have to stand up against
the following debts :
Debentures .. •• •• £55,500
Deferred interest . . • • • • 3,885
Creditors and Bank, secured by
prior lien bonds .. . . 26,812
Other creditors .. .. • • 26,717
Total £112,914
It is generally believed that Theodore ass : sted
the co. with some cash, and if so the State
will no doubt have first say as a creditor.
Next come the prior lien crowd, so the
chances of old debenture-holders getting any-
thing from a sale are remote.
« * * •
Queensland Oil Co. apparently still has
faith in its area at Woolston, near Brisbane.
Boring is being resumed from the bottom
'675ft.) after a long period of idleness. The
hole is said to have been cased and the water
cemented off, so any oil indications will now
have a chance to show up. According to
Geologist St. Smith the bore has already
penetrated more than 200 ft. into the Ipswich
coal measures, in which carbon ratios run
about 70 p.c. Commercial oil has never yet
been found in with such high
carbon ratios, so if the Woolston bore strikes
oil it will provide something entirely novel
in' petroleum exploration. The co. has
dropped about £4OOO into the hole so far.
• * * •
Scottish Gympie (Q.) is threatened with
extinction. That would be a serious matter
for Gympie; 150 men were employed under-
ground recently, and the show produced the
bulk of the field’s 15,6780 z. for 1922. The
big Inglewood reef is a low-grade proposition,
averaging about sidwt. With No. 4 North
Phcenix looking poor just at present, its
demise would put Gympie nearly out of the
business. The State has been approached
for assistance, but Theodore, with an im-
pending dehcit, is not likely to respond. In
May the Scottish crushed 3300 tons for
908 oz. worth £2936, which was lower than
recent returns.
The boring lately carried out on the
Palmer River goldfield (Q.) proved that the
reefs carried gold all right, the values being
mostly locked-up in sulphides. All the min-
ing evidence so far indicates that values are
patchy; and a couple of geologists and
mining-engineers who have examined the
field in recent years have not been impressed,
although Dr. R. L. Jack believed that goou
reef-gold would be found at fair depths. Ibe
reefs wpre subsequently proved to carry
high gold values down to a few hundred
feet, but not one of them looked like living.
The’ Comet syndicate now intends to put a
shaft down on its lease, and it has good
prospects of striking values. The vital
factor will be the size of the shoots.
* * * *
Charters Towers No. 2 drill hole, now
down nearly 400 ft., struck a fairly promis-
ing formation at 360 ft. which can be linked
up with one struck in the No. 1 bore. It is
about 4ft. to sft. thick and carries a few
inches of stone. It is doubtiul whether it
is worth prospecting at that depth. Near
the surface it would be worth a small party s
attention. .
* * * *
Mt. Clear View (N.Q.) is still shaping
well. On present appearances the big ore-
body should continue to 300 ft. without much
diminution. Assay values are up and down,
but averages are said to be payable, con-
sidering the size of the reef. The main under-
lie is being deepened below the 150 ft. level,
and also the No. 1 shaft. The option over
the mine does not expire till August, and is
likely to be exercised. #
Arbouin tin, Stannary Hills (N.Q.), re-
turned to the fold in May with a crushing
of 550 tons, giving 14 tons concentrates
worth £1260. The mine went under to the
low prices prevailing in 1921. The co. was
then stoping a shoot 60ft. by 15ft. averaging
about 14 p.c. tin. The latest crushing is an
improvement on the 11 tons concentrates
from 720 tons ore obtained from the last
crushing prior to closure, and the market
price is roughly £3O higher.
The old Bradlaugh, Herberton (N.Q.),had
a sweet crushing in May: 29 tons gave 8
tons 13cwt. concentrates worth £865, a shade
under £3O a ton. For the same period New
Bradlaugh won 71 tons from 41 tons of ore
(£950), and the Wild Irishman 5 tons from
33 tons (£650). The Great Northern was
handling rather low-grade stuff from the old
shaft-workings: 150 tons ore gave 6 tons
concentrates worth £575.
» * • *
Waihi (M.L.) pushed development hard
last year, and as work was in broken ground
and values at depth were lower, theyear s
working profit at £34,362 was £72,231 less
than for the previous 12 months. Conse-
quently the directors had to dip into reserves
to pay divs. There were several disappoint-
ments; the run of 475. 6d. grade over 21ft.
in No. 12 level, which created a flutter this
time last year, proved short; later 60s. and
70s. values on the same lode two levels up
lasted only 100 ft. There are still possibili-
ties in this Edward lode, and work is now
proceeding higher up. There has been an im-
provement lately on the Martha lode m No.
13 level and the directors announce that the
chances’ of success in lateral development
seem better than they were.” Reserves at
466,565 tons are 19,442 tons more on the 3-
months, but the average grade has declined
from 31.375. to 30.725. The “suspense ore
reserve is 7537 tons higher at 262,284 tons,
but the average value is also a trifle lower.
During the current year less development
work is being done, and milling is being
speeded-up “without unduly depleting mine
resources.” So the next accounts should
show improved results, though probably at
the expense of the reserve of crushing mat-
erial The directors’ search for another min-
ing property has so far not been successful;
durino- 1922 a score were offered, and
although a couple looked promising, the
Board considered that the prices asked were
exorbitant. The £50,000 voted by share-
holders for prospecting is still intact, witn
two years’ interest added. * *
“Bulletin 24” of the Commonwealth In-
stitute of Science and Industry deals with
the production of liquid fuels cnl
and coal. Written by a
ist, R. E. Thwaites, the pamphlet deals com
prehensively with the matter from an Aus-
tralian standpoint. The probable failure
the well-oil supply to meet the growing -
mand for fuels is stressed, and the need to
make use of the coals, lignites and oil shaies
we have here in such abundance is empna
sised. The urgent need, for systematised
fuel research in Australia is set forth plainly
and forcibly. We have the raw material in
plenty and it is reasonable we should at
once develop the business of extracting ml
from it, so as to save our manufacturing in-
dustries and expand our system of trans-
portation. *
The Coorong, an inlet from the ocean
along the coast south of the mouth ot tne
Murray River (S.A.), is likely to be th
scene of an attempt to find petroleum. It is
proposed to drill below the surface, on. which
that rubber-like substance coorongite is usu-
ally found after the Murray has been in
flood. The chronology of coorongite begins
in 1552, when the gold-seekers from Adelaide
found it on Albert Flat in great quantity.
In 1874 the late T. U. Scrutton collected the
stuff after a Murray flood. In 1888 fecrut-
ton distilled kerosene from coorongite and
read his lecture before the S.A. Chamber of
Manufactures by the light of a lamp ted
with the kerosene. In 1869 Bernays a Lon-
don chemist, sent an analysis to Adelaide
of this elastic bitumen, showing it to con-
tain 97 p.c. volatile matter. This was cor-
roborated by Boverton Redwood, who found
by examination that coorongite contained
97.44 p.c. hydro-carbons, and on his advice
an English co. was formed to drill for oil at
Albert Flat. The bore-hole went to 922 ft.
and stopped there for want of funds. Except-
ing that effort, no drilling for oil has been
conducted on the Coorong since 1801.
Since 1884 the Transvaal has produced
more than 163£ million oz. gold, worth, at
the normal price of the metal, nearly
£700,000,000. The Rand has accounted for
all but a few million ounces. The pride of
place for production is held by Crown Mines,
over 13,000,0000 z. The East Rand Prop,
and the Randfontein run close for second and
third places, the former with 10,000,0000 z.
and the latter with 9,000,0000 z. The Crown
and the Central still have long careers be-
fore them. About £1 per ounce of the pro-
duct has been distributed in divs. As a pro-
ducer the Rand has never been seriously chal-
lenged by any other of the world’s fields.
Last year the Transvaal gave 52.4 p.c. of the
world’s estimated output; the United States,
15.3 p.c.; Canada, 5.6 p.c.; Australia, 5 p.c.
The British Empire produces more than
three-fifths of the world’s total.


thoti something now. ibnt H ?. Yos Sin Its dos,ono<i to SOVO t.mo Sir. In n busy o/ico Kko 4b,s (otc) Wis procloo*
Fov oxomplo /ostor<loy_(etc otc) onj oil solflod ,'n oro inj throo guortor SoconJs. WouU bovo tokon kolf on koun. by 4bo
oU wsy 1 romombor ones -(otc.o+c.otb) You S «o, wo oHoncl to 5« konJroJ p-Toplo Jolly: So™ Joys moro . somo Joys loss .
Lnst TWsJny./or tropic -/'etc.otc.otc.do). /low, Without 4bis mnekino . tt woulj to nocoSSnty /or mo to - (otc, otc.otc.ofc.*;
Tj,s l.ftle mocU.oo JI 4>ot wns+o of Kmo Gwo you on illustration. I consult it on - (oto,ctc,etc,otc..*k A.J rtow.wotck it.
1W ■ All .sotfloj m two -Soeomls . W;^ S It tokos o l>ltk longory mono guieW. Lost Mondoy/o,- , TO We-
My word. , tkats naw You cli Jrn’t kave
tkad -Ike last 3 tivn<z. 1 wa>s m *
"Ha, J\\2>A**n [is ike very latest m time, .
you. s<w.//\adam, inabusy like Jkis (<ztc, ate,de. ate,*+* -
THE TIME-SAVER.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
mmmm,
fghfg
h
fgh
SCHWEPPES’
Dry Ginger Ale
Insist on getting, Schweppes’ Dry Ginger
Ale, and avoid imitations.
Schweppes’ is only slightly dearer, but
the difference is in the quality.
Schweppes’ Flavoring Essences,
Vanilla, Lemon, etc.
Obtainable all leading Grocers
throughout Australia.
“For Ever Best/'
STA 6
LASER
TOOHEY'S.
SOCIETY
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Queen Street”: “Oarst out in this wide
worl-ld lies pore little Joe.” The Cockney
concluded the song with a sort of sigh that
sounded like a horse drawing its foot out of
a bog. His assistant and collector approached
the verandah post against which leaned a
Digger. “What abaht somethin’ for the
poor blanker, Dig.?” he appealed. “That
there was a good song.” “Yairs,” replied the
audience, shifting its cigarette to the other
corner of its mouth ; “that song and a shil-
lin’ ’ud get ’im a drink anywhere.”
“The Rumpus”: Re “Feather’s” shell-
opener (B. 7/6/’23), who came ashore in a
rough sea to collect his mail, and found that
it consisted of bad news and bills. Pros-
pecting in the Never-Never of Westralia s
SHE WAS A TOUGH PROPOSITION.
HER SUITOR: “ Your dad’s promised me I can marry
your sister when I’ve earned a thousand pounds,
"He said his first thousand was the hardest he
ever earned. Any idea how he made it?”
HER BROTHER : “ By marrying mother, I think.”
Nor’-West, I once made a journey of 60
miles on the word of a walk-about half-caste
that a letter awaited me at Nautarra sta-
tion When I arrived there I learned that
the letter had been sent on to Hardy Junc-
tion station, where it was believed I was
working. I was a week late at this station,
the elusive missive having been taken on to
Ashburton Downs by the up-river teams.
Half-way to this last place I met the mail-
man who handed me my packet. It was from
the Dead Letter Office—a communication
written by myself to a girl.
“Tocemma” : I know one wireless station
that isn’t obsessed by the sport fetich. In
1919 we left Devonport in the troopship
Somali homeward-bound the day before the
Derby was run. Of course, there was a
“sweep” on the event, and investors relied
on the wireless to give them the results. In
due course Sparks called up Teneriffe with
“Any news English Derby?” That night the
shore station solemnly replied: “No ship
Derby on English list. Please send further
particulars.”
-* * * *
“R.G.N.C.” on a Melbourne “stunt’: —
The monument which newly-knighted Mayor Swan-
son proposes for himself is a machine to organise
the begging on behalf of Melbourne hospitals. It is
to be called the Metropolitan Hospital Fund, and
is to be a constant cadger. Its office was opened
with ceremony and the help of a clutch of new knights
last week. The idea is not new. Melbourne already
tries to maintain a general fund through the 0.0.5.
Bendigo has for years held an annual Fair which goes
far towards maintaining local charities for the year.
Geelong during the war financed its army funds by
an annual Gala Day by which £20,000 was raised
at one burst. It is continuing this in Peace-time,
employing a full-time organiser at about £8 a week
to devise “stunts” and so on. Melbourne’s plan is
akin to Geelong’s, but it will pay its booster £l5 a
week. Much of his early work will be diplomatic,
for already most of the big hospitals have stipendiary
“organisers,” who probably won’t like the idea of
supersession nor of pooling proceeds. The first real job
will be to increase the number of givers—to get, in
short, almost as many subscribers as there would be
if the State took the business in hand and levied
contributions, incidentally doing away with all the
“stunting” and the uncertainty, not to speak of the
mendicancy. The first stipendiary mendicant is E.
Glanville Hicks, before the war a journalist, since
then one of the products of the age, a professional
booster. Lately he has been running the resuscitated
Liberal party of Victoria, represented in Parliament
by Latham, K.C. Incidentally, it was over providing
him with an office that there was the storm recently
in Melbourne City Council which ended in Stapley,
the Council’s town-planning enthusiast and an ex-
Mayor, resigning all his offices.
* * * *
“Flicker” : A story is told of a South Aus.
Judge who, after a brief absence on leave,
was chatting with a colleague. He asked
if there had been anything much on while
he was away. “Only an appeal from a
decision of Blank, 5.M.,” was the reply, the
reference being to a magistrate whose deci-
sions have no luck, somehow. “Ah,” said
the man who had been away, “an appeal
from Blank? Any other reason given?”
“Sierra”: During the war
I saw a queer sample of
crowd psychology in Kim-
berley, S’Africa. One sunny
afternoon a sharp-sighted
youngster spotted a glitter-
ing object in the sky, and
was soon joined by a hetero-
geneous gathering of white,
Chinese, Indians, Malays,
Kaffirs and intermediates,
all staring at the pheno-
menon. Although there
wasn’t a Fritz within a
thousand miles, the magic
o f mass-suggestion con-
vinced the variegated assem-
bly that the object was a
sun-glinted German aero-
plane. They stood and
watched its apparent evolu-
tions against the blue sky to
the accompaniment of ex-
cited ejaculations in Eng-
lish, Dutch and half-a-
dozen other tongues. “Ha,
he’s swinging to the right!”
“He’s dropping fast now!”
“There he goes up again!”
“G ee ! He’s travelling
some!” and so on. Sud-
denly a high-pitched voice
burst out: “Look out. he’s
coming our way!” There
was a sudden dash for cover,
and in an instant the street
was empty. But the planet
Venus remained unperturbed
in her orbit.
* * *
“Centurion”: Recent
newspaper blitherings as to
the condescension of Royalty
in stooping to wed “mem-
bers of the aristocracy” re-
call that there are plain
misters in the U.K. who can
show far longer descent and
a more ancient right to bear
arms than any titled people. Not long ago a
lease granted by Ely Cathedral to the Der-
ings, of Bui'rendon Dering, expired. Its
term was 999 vears, and its expiry called
attention to the fact that the Derings have
lived at Burrendon Dering withou a break
since BSO.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The proposed residential col-
lege in connection with Adelaide TJni. is to
be called St. Mark’s. The name first selected
was Christ's, but that has been dropped, on
the strong advice of men with Cambridge
experience—they had heard this and other
similar names yelled, for encouragement or
abuse, in the excitement of sporting con-
tests, in a way that was startling to out-
siders. St. Mark was an excellent evangel-
ist ; but he can kick 15 behinds, revel in
the mud or go all to pieces in the last half-
mile without hurting anyone’s susceptibili-
ties much.
BIRDS OF A FEATHER.
“Oh, I say, are you married?”
“Would it make any difference?”
“Not a bit—so am I!”
“Stellsby” introduces his neighbors: —
Their hut stands in a scrubby block among' the
foothills of the Dandenongs. When the mother—
and widow —is not down with chronic bronchial
trouble she is out on day-work in the three-mile-
distant township, earning' a crust for the four
youngsters, ages 6 to 11. Sticks, the 17-year-old
daughter, for the family’s salvation and what she
calls “big money,” leaves home every morning at
G to catch the first train to the city, where she
toils in a factory at piece-work rates. At present
the weather is too bad for her to take the short-
cut through the bush, so she does the three miles
by road. Once or twice a week business takes me
to the city, too; but I am more fortunate than
Sticks —I’ve got a cart. As there is only one
civilised evening train from the city, Sticks and
I often meet. Poor child, she is grateful for that
three-mile lift home. For months her mother has
been unable to do her full time at charing, and
Sticks has carried the burden almost alone. But
one thing brightens her existence; she expects a
bonus from the knitting factory, and it is to be
spent on sending mother on holiday to some
struggling friends in the warmer Mallee. Sticks
can talk on no other subject than the factory bonus.
F.very time I drive her home she dilates on it. but
never mentions the sum. Mentally I assess it at
£lO. “What’ll happen to the kids, Sticks, when
vou send your mother to the Mallee?” I inquired
recently. “Oh, I’ll manage,” she replied; “any-
how, the factory doesn’t work Saturdays, so I’ll have
two clear days for cleaning up; and I can do a
lot of mending in that time.” “And when do you
get the bonus,- Sticks?” “Oh, soon; and won’t it
be a godsend!” The denouement came last night.
Sticks caught me as I walked through the station
gate. “I’ve got my bonus,” she whispered. “Good,
Sticks!” We clattered through the level crossing
and were soon out of the township. “Now, tell me
the good news.” Bv the cart lamp I saw the
ecstasv in her face, and boldly assessed the bonus
at £25. Then the doer of a wonderful thing
spoke: “I beat my last year’s bonus by 125.” I
gasped. “Yes” (delightedly), “this year it came to
395. It’ll more than pay mum’s fare. Isn’t that
lovely !”
* * * *
“0.K.”: Snobbery surely reached its diz-
ziest limit in a conspiracy of silence and
camouflage about the honest and respectable
and useful shopkeeping of the late David
Ilennessy, five times Mayor of Melbourne.
Hennessy made his rise to public life by sell-
ing bread, as his father before him had done.
From boy to middle-aged man he was a
baker, and a very good baker, too. During
the war the troops in camp ate tons of bread
supplied by the ancient firm which David s
father founded. Everybody knew that he
had been an active and intelligent working-
baker in his time; but, when he came to
die, obituary notices in the Melbourne dailies
seemed designed to persuade St. Peter that
the late knighted Lord Mayor had never
been aught so commonplace. The Argus
published the best part of a column about
him without betraying that he turned a
myriad of honest pennies by casting dough
into the oven. It merely chronicled that as
a lad of 15 or so young Hennessy had
left his first billet in order to “enter a busi-
ness established by his father.” It was
added that, at the time of the land-boom
or thereabouts, David made a lot of money
in land speculation and retired from busi-
ness. The Age contented itself with record-
ing that, leaving college, he “went into busi-
ness in the flour milling and bakery trade.”
How contemptible all this evasive fooling!
* * * *
“Wart”-; Porpoise Rock, five miles inside
Tamar Heads, which has worried mariners
ever since ships began to use the port, will
soon be a thing of the past. During the last
two months the Launceston Marine Board’s
Lobnitz rock-breaker and a bucket-dredge have
chipped and chewed 10ft. off the top of it;
and before the end of the winter there will
be 30ft. of water at low tide instead of sft.
Porpoise Rock got its name when 11.M.5.
Porpoise, carrying Norfolk Island settlers to
Launceston, went aground there 100 years
ago. The Porpoise was got off without much
damage, but in June, IS9O, the Nelson came
to grief at the same place on her first trip
to Launceston, and became a total wreck.
And she stuck so fast that the Marine Board
had to shift her with explosives before it
could get to work.
SUSPICIOUS HASTE.
E DWIN (who has proposed) : “And, please,
please, do let me know — don't keep me
waiting for an answer!”
JANE ( surprised ) : “Oh, I suppose you've
got another engagement on your hands
for this evening!”
“Hamer” : The emotional atmosphere cre-
ated by the Hickson mission was favorable
to other things besides the healing of the
sick. I know a suburban Sydney family
with a trio of daughters who were fast
approaching the age when age is never men-
tioned. Now there is rejoicing in that
family, for all three have become engaged.
The-girls, enthusiastic workers, attended the
Hickson mission, and subsequent events
marched rapidly.
(Continued on page 19.)
THE YEARS OF YOUTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
While yet the years of youth are mine,
And I may laugh the hours away,
I crave delights of Love and Wine.
Tut! Whisper not of drear repine!
I loiter down the primrose way
While yet the years of youth are mine.
While there are maids to dance and dine,
With favors fair to grant the gay,
I crave delights of Love and Wine;
A pair of eager eyes to shine
Seductive into mine alway
While yet the years of youth are mine.
Let no grapes rot upon the vine,
Let no maids languish in dismay,
While yet the years of youth , are mine
I crave delights of Love and Wine.
QUEENSLAND.
G. A. LLOYD.


JUST CAUSE AND IMPEDIMENT.
Mr.bruce still refuses to levae Dr. Earle Page in charge of the House while he is away at the Imperial Conference."
HER POND HUSBAND: “Look, darling, at the awful characters hanging about the neighborhood! Can you wonder at me locking up the place and packing you hmoe to mother i go away?"


Every 333 is alike. The
same high quality is there—
always.
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
THE FAMOUS
RED PACKET
20 for 16
“R.U.M.” : “Tin Hat” says (B. 31/5/’23)
that he has never seen any official figures of
the casualties in the Fleurbaix blunder on
July 19, 1916. I can supply him with two
reports. The first, headed “Official, 1
clipped from the London Daily Mail of
two days later. Here it is (with the italics
mine) : “A successful raid, in which Austra-
lians took part, was made upon the enemy at
Fleurbaix on the night of the 19th. We took
250 prisoners.” The same paper a day
or two later published what purported to be
the German official account of the “raid.”
Fritz’s record stated that “the Australians
attacked in force; 2000 of their number were
killed outright and 480 were taken prison-
ers.” The Hun figures must have been pretty
near the mark. I was in an ambulance camp
just behind the line, and got the dinkum oil
from survivors as they were brought in
wounded. Later on I became one of the
reinstoushments for Tivey’s brigade, and
found for myself that the gaps in the good
old Fifth Division had not been over-stated.
If the Fleurbaix stunt was a raid, I wonder
what would have happened if Birdwood had
ordered a battle for us.
* * * *
“Cartot”: The high physical standard of
the A.I.F. left an impression in Europe that
Australians are a towering race. But some
new statistics fail to support this. At one
of the Universities it was recently established
that the average height of one crowd of
students was sft. Sin.; in one Government
Department where some thousands of men
THE CATS.
THE TABBY “I suppose I can marry any man I please!"
THE TORTOISESHEI I: “Yes, and I conclude that you haven'I pleased
any yet."
are employed it was only oft. 2jin.,
and in another State Department, where
the nature of the work demands a
robust physique, it was a shade under oft.
2in. The six-footers numbered less than
1 per cent., and men between oft. Tin. and
6ft. were a fraction over 10 per cent. Pro-
bably the average height of Australia s male
population is rather less than sft. Sin.—-only
just about equal to that of England aud
Prance, and slightly less than that of Ger-
many and the United States.
f ‘Eight-and-Four”: “Counting out,” the
pointed but decorous Australian form of dis-
approval, seems to be spreading. In a law-
suit over military discipline in Adelaide,
where among the statements suggested as
libellous was one that the officers in a train-
ing-camp had been so dealt with, counsel for
the defence made light of it, and stated (in
the indirect “Would you be surprised to
know?” form dear to barristers) that “at the
Methodist Conference the other day one of
the delegates was counted out, and then
counted in again.”
* * * *
“Taipo”: Among Henare’s pleasant cus-
toms is that of naming his offspring after
pakehas with whose acquaintance he con-
ceives himself to have been honored, a prac-
tice that may occasionally prove a little em-
barrassing to the unconscious sponsor. Last
month I happened to escort my wife’s maiden
aunt on a journey which necessitated a halt
near a large Maori settlement. Presently
we were approached by an elderly native
whom I had known 20 years before when I
was on survey work in the district. He
greeted me as if I were a long-lost brother,
and his wife cried vigorously over my hand
as memories were revived of people long
since dead and gone to Te Reinga. Just
then a smart young Maori went by on horse-
back. “Here, you ! Hooker ! Hooker .
called the old man. “You ’member that baby
come along that year you been our place,
Mist’ Hooker?” “Yes,” said I with dawn-
ing apprehension. “That’s him—Hooker.
We call it after yon.” Auntie is still just a
little distant.
* * * *
“To Po”: The school kiddies of Colling-
wood, so an Argus report says, listened to
Schubert’s “Cradle Song” from a gramo-
phone. The teacher asked them if they would
like to hear a ragtime record for a change
but “by a large majority young Collingwood
voted for a repetition of the Schubert
classic.” Which reminds me that I once
taught the top grade in an aristocratic
suburb, and took a vote as to who was the
best poet in the year’s school-papers. Shaks
peare Tennyson and Browning mopped up
all the glory. Then I gave out fresh slips
of paper, and said: “Now, write down what
vou reallv think, and not what you think
I think.” Then Henry Lawson scored 100
per cent. Youngsters haven’t changed much
since Noll Goldsmith wrote of their laughing
“with counterfeited glee” at his jokes.
• * * *
“Spare Corporal”: The casual Digger has
left 95,000 medals unclaimed at the jN.S.VV.
Victoria Barracks alone; and there was so
little demand for returned-soldiers badges
that some time ago it was decided to put
them into the melting-pot and issue no more.
But, according to present arrangements, the
medals will remain until claimed. In many
cases men who applied for them changed then-
addresses before the goods were delivered:
no less than 130 sent out in one week came
back again. In some cases, too, there is
cash awaiting claimants. There were soldieis
who were so anxious to be shot ol the
army” that, having seized their discharges,
they wouldn’t go near the barracks again
even to collect deferred pay.
* * *
“Urairao”: The Education Department of
M.L. is confronted with the same difficulty
that Australian States have been grappling
with. By the time a girl is fully equipped
for imparting knowledge to the young idea,
she has cost £5OO. Though a bond is re-
quired from the girls to remain m the pro-
fession for a certain period after such an
outlay, it has hither-
to been usual to can-
cel it if the trainee
desired to exchange
teaching for matri-
mony. Now it is pro-
posed that girls should
refund some of the
costs of their educa-
tional equipment if
they decide to marry
before their contract
is completed. Rural
school committees cor-
dia 11 y ap-
prove of
this. Re-
cently one
of them had
a comely
wench, highly certifi-
cated, sent to fill a
vacancy. A young
farmet soon appropri-
ated her. Two more
schoolmarms, of phy-
sical charm and
graded highly, met the same fate. Then
the Hayseed chairman, with whiskers brist-
ling, sat. down and wrote the Education
Board: “Please send us the oldest and plain-
est teacher you can get, and damn the cer-
tificates.”
“Wilfrido” : The worst of the law is that
you can’t always depend upon it being an ass.
Through a bailiff’s error an execution for
distraint by a M.L. firm was recently en-
forced on the wrong premises and a motor-
cycle removed. Immediately on discovering
the mistake, the firm sent the machine back
and offered to compensate the owner for any
loss he had sustained by being temporarily
deprived of the use of it. The owner refused,
demanding a substantial poultice for his in-
jured feelings as well, and after some
exchange of lawyers’ letters he issued a writ
THINGS LEFT UNSAID.
THE ARTIST : “What did Madder say token you told him I said
he looks like a hanker , talks like a hanker , and jolly well
paints like a, banker ?”
THE MODEL : “Well, he said you look like an artist and TALK
like an artist."
THE ARTIST : “Yes, what else?"
THE MODEL : “Oh, he stopped at that.”
claiming heavy damages for wrongful seizure.
The defendant paid £2 into court and let
it go at that. The Judge, after perus-
ing the correspondence, said that in his
opinion the claim was not a lona fide one,
as the plaintiff had been offered his goods
and reasonable compensation before the writ
was issued. So, though he gave judgment for
the £2, he ordered the plaintiff to pay the
defendant’s costs, and as these amounted to
£4O the firm may yet have to seize the bike
to satisfy the judgment.
* * * *
“Alex. Val”: Ten or twelve years ago
some kerbstone wit in W.A. changed the
word “immigrant” to “pomegranate,” in
allusion to the rosy cheeks of the new
arrivals from the U.lv.; later the term was
abbreviated to “pommy.” The handy nick-
name caught on till it is heard all over the
Commonwealth. Every now and again, how-
ever, a newspaper controversy is started
about its origin, and all sorts of quaint
theories are advanced. The limit was
reached in Brisbane Daily Mail the other
day when one dialectician confidently
asserted that the English girl’s “fondness for
Pomeranian does” was responsible for the
word. Possibly in 50 years’ time philologists
will be debating as to whether the term was'
originally derived from Pompeii beauties,
Pomeranian dogs, Pompadours, pomade, or
that Indian fruit, the pomelo, which fur-
nisUed a nickname for one of Kipling’s
characters.
From an amateur ethnologist
More interesting to me than the squalid charges
about faked ballot-boxes and bogus voting papers
was the racial composition of the N. S. Wales Labor
conference. It is not so many years since the
shamrock was far less conspicuous at these assem-
blies than the thistle and the rose. Its influence
was so small in 1908 that only one representative
of the Race was admitted to the first Fisher Minis-
try, formed in November of that year, and he was
dropped when the party swept the polls in 1910.
But times have changed and the A.L.P. with them.
When the next Federal Labor Government arrives
the Mahon case will have no parallel. Quite 75 p.c.
of the delegates to the Sydney Donnybrook were
Irish, or of Irish descent. But while the sons of
Erin were indulging in their divarshuns the insidi-
OUS Sassenach got away with the baton.
SJ SSJ-ffl S™.e B "*i«h ta M M oow pngtih,
or so as ’Ow-wie. And we oppressed Australia •
don’t drop our aitehes.
“Echap” : When
will Aussie critics
of English dialects
recognise that
vowel sounds are
distorted in a dif-
ferent manner in
every county in
Engla n d? The
latest, “Reoh” (B.
7/'6/’23), informs
us that “the
Pommy” makes
cows “cays,” and a
house a “hace.”
Strawberry, in the
mouth of a yreal,
pearl-button Cock-
ney, is a ‘‘call’ ;
between Limeaase
and Belgravia she
becomes a “caliw.”
In Lincolnshire she
is the dinkum Aus-
sie “keow,” and in
her progress north-
ward t h r o u g h
Y o r kshire and
Durham she gradu-
ates through “co”
and “caw” till by
the time she hits
the Tweed she’s a
“cop,” ye’ll ken. If
“Reoh” piloted the
already c o m p 1 e x
milker back south
again through the
western counties lie
would hear her
libelled in varying
shades of the above
that nothing in
our pool' 26 char-
acters could fix on
paper. Also, in
he r travels she
would be found
eating everything
from “graahss” to
“g r a s.” “gress,”
"g r u s s” and
“gross.” And now
for one outstand-
ing Aussie pecu-
liarity which I
haven’t yet seen
specially mentioned
in The Bulletin.
My hardest task
w h e n learning
pure merino was
to alter final “it” sounds to a modifica-
tion of “ut” — -e.g., "pockut,” “artust,” “piek-
ut,” “tickut,” etc., ad lib.
“Baldy”: Re “N.P.’s” par (B. 14/6/’23)
on the detestation of the Afghan for pork or
bacon. It goes beyond aversion to the meat
itself; if only the word “pig” is mentioned
in his hearing a good Mohammedan will always
spit. When I was in the Muychison dis-
trict (W.A.), nearly all the camel transport
was done by Afghans and Beloochis. One
day a ’Ghan was inspecting a riding-saddle
in" a Mount Magnet store with a view to
purchase. The saddler, thinking to push the
sale, unwarily observed that the stuff was
“real pigskin.” The ? Ghan dropped it like
a hot spud, grunted, spat and fled from the
scene like a man pursued by devils.
“JUST BECAUSE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sometimes I hold her hand in mine—
It almost stops my heart to see
A tantalising something shine
In two grey eyes so dear to me.
The something goes. I ask her why.
She smiles and sighs—
Such funny sighs—
“Oh, just because.”
Sometimes she shows me Paradise
By simply nestling in my arms,
But other times her baffling eyes
Send sudden doubts and queer alarms
Into my heart. The reason why
No use to ask —
She draws the mask.
It’s “Just because.”
Then suddenly the sun shines bright,
And all the world is rose and gold—
She pouts and smiles ; I hold her tight
And tell a tale that’s new and old.
Between the kisses
I ask why this is—
“Oh, just because.”
Sometimes I wonder why it is
That, though her treatment seems so mixed,
I stick the whole, distracting biz
And keep my heart on one goal fixed,
A goal that’s near and far at once.
I kiss her hand
And understand —
It’s “Just because.”
MAORILANI).
R. N. S.
A LEGAL ARCUMKNT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Chappell replied: ‘There’s no law in the British
Empire that will stop me groins' out with your wife
or meetins her at the front gate!’ ” —Divorce Court
evidence.
“There is no law,” her lover said,
With courage naught could stem,
“To stop my meetings with your wife,
Or yet with two of them!
I challenge you to show the rule
That might prevent our kisses ;
There’s not a statute made, you fool,
To keep me from your missus!”
His attitude was debonair ;
His eye flashed keen and bright;
He stood upon his legal lore
And knew' that he was right.
“There is no law,” he boldly cried,
“Our right to love can shatter.”
“Just half a mo,” the husband sighed,
“While 1 look up the matter.”
No book of law the husband sought
To aid him in debate;
A bright and shining axe he brought,
And in his eyes shone hate.
“There is” —the lover tried to pipe.
Alas, that he should risk it!
Tt was a most illegal • swipe
That cleft him to the brisket'.
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


THE
Deaf
ear
H
gfh
fgh
fgh
BY USING THE NEW INVENTION
MEARS EARPHONE
Many deaf people have had their hearing:
absolutely restored. Thousands have received
wondrous help by using the Hears Earphone.
WHY NOT YOU?
Write for particulars of our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
Established in Australia 1910.
The Mears Earphone Co.,
Dept. 12, 387 George Street
(opp. Strand Arcade), Sydney.
Nourishing and Appetising
EXTRA
QUALITY*
“BULL”
STOUT
EXTRA
QUALITY.
Equal to the Best Imported
Brewed and Bottled by
TOOTH and CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
AW
CON
OR
•Mde
HOU
9 r Ae Little Lamp
with the Li^ht.
If you cannot obtain tit locally send
dealer’s address to Scott & Holla-
day, Ltd., 31a Pitt St.. Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Customs Minister Austin Chapman cele-
brated his 32nd political birthday on June
21, establishing a record in Federal Parlia-
ment. Bamford, of Herbert (Q.), is senior
in years, and for this reason is generally re-
garded as Father of the House; but Chap-
man’s service is longer. He and Groom out-
distance all other members of the present
team in Ministerial experience. A while
back Chapman, in addressing some constitu-
ents, alluded to his political longevity with
self-satisfaction. Then there came a voice
from the back seats: “It takes longer to find
some people out than it does others.”
From a Gallery hand: —
Political opponents are opposed to remain per-
sonal friends, but when W. M. Hughes returned to
the Reps, last week he was observed to discriminate.
Two- Ministers were singled out for the cold glance ;
one, wanting to prove that he harbored no illwill,
deliberately placed himself athwart W.M.H.’s path,
and proffered the glad hand. “Ah, how d’ye do?”
was the snapped-out response, with a rapid handshake
and no further parley. The other did not even
obtain recognition. Billy has taken a seat in the
corner, near H. E. Pratten, and has been given the
use of a room near his old quarters. Nobody pays
him any particular deference.
A good Australian, Brother Edwin, the
oldest home-grown member of the Marist
Order, passed out the other day at 74. He
was a cricketer of repute in his youth, saw
the birth of the G.P.S. Assoc, in N.S.W.,
and became its secretary nine years ago.
Tne keen old sport on the last evening of
his life had the newspaper account of the
football match between N.S.W. and the
Maoris read to him.
A. M. DAVID, who recently gave up the
Vic. State Secretaryship of the R.S.A.
to take over the management of Soldiers'
Farms, Ltd.
Retiring M.L. Judge Frederick Chapman,
recently be-knigbted, was admitted to the
English Bar 52 years ago. His first brief
was held with a rising junior named Edward
Clarke, who became Solicitor-General of
England ; and their client was Alfred Russell
Wallace, the naturalist. The case, which
was undefended, arose over a dispute about
the shape of the earth, and the jury decided
that it was an improper form of scientific
criticism for the defendant to say of Wallace
that-had-he beem a. sporting man he would
have been kicked out of the society of the
lowest blacklegs in England. Wallace got
£6OO damages. Judge Chapman’s father was
also a M.L. Judge, and, strangely enough, it
was 52 years ago that he examined the pre-
sent Chief Justice Stout when he applied
for admission as a barrister.
A parson with unusual ideas went out
when Frank Pulsford died while on a trip
to Melbourne the other day. Pulsford, who
was a son of the one-time N.S.W. Senator,
was an accountant by profession, and had an
idea that a man should do his preaching with-
out monetary reward. However, after serv-
ing in the A.I.F. as a chaplain he accepted
the “call” of the Croydon (Sydney) Con-
gregationalists. He introduced innovations
which drew crowds, but shocked many. One
of them was the conversion of a church ser-
vice into a study circle.
Depledge Sykes, the brilliant Adelaide Con-
gregational parson, who was imported a
dozen years ago to give an added tone to
Stow church, was made a deacon of the
Anglican persuasion last year, and bloomed
into the priesthood a few days ago.
“Q.E.D.”: Theodore, who is more fit phy-
sically than any other Premier in Australia,
helps to keep himself so by frequent visits to
the Booroodabin (Brisbane) baths, and at
week-ends he goes fishing down Moreton Bay.
If ever he should quit politics he will
he able to go back to the northern mining-
fields. During his recent tour he was offered
his old job byck
again, “should the
necessity ar i s e,”
and he accepted
the chance quite
m agnanimously.
The hefty Premier
has, too, a flair for
caricature. At the
Labor convention
at Emu Park he
kept the crowd
near him in good
humor by turning
off and passing
along caricatures
of the chief wind-
bags. He is keenly
interested in art.
and at his home at
New Farm is get-
tin g together a
very passable col-
lection.
P. E. COLEMAN,
Labor M.H.R. for
Reid, the infant
of the N.S.W.
con tin gent.
A pioneer in massage treatment, Mrs.
Creighton Hale, died lately in Wellington
(M.L.). The certificate of her London
“Institute” was recognised by Harley-street,
and her book, “The Art of Massage,” was
an authority on the subject. Mrs. Hale
was the first to teach massage to the blind,
and her publication issued in Braille type by
one of her blind pupils is still used at St.
Dunstan’s.
“The Patriarch”: Forty-nine years ago St.
Pat.’s College, Goulburn, came into being.
John Gallagher, still bishing in his 80’s, was
the College president for the first 14 years of
its existence, and has kept a benevolent eye
on it ever since. Lately the boys have grown
too numerous for the building. The founda-
tion-stone of a new wing to hold another 150
was laid by the veteran early this month.
Two of Pat.’s old boys are Bish. Dwyer, of
Wagga, and Father Hartigan, of Narran-
dera. alias John O’Brien, of “The Boree
Log” book of verse.
SS. Peter and Paul’s Day (June 29), 1847,
was a great occasion in Westminster Abbey
for the~ Anglican Church in Australia. A
job lot of bishops were put through the con-
secration ceremony—Charles Perry (Mel-
bourne), William Tyrrell (Newcastle), and
Augustus Short (Adelaide). All three dio-
ceses were new then. Tyrrell died in New-
castle ; the other two in England.
“Jumbo” : Ryan always made one feel at
home; Theodore is sometimes cheerful, but
very often chilly. During election campaigns
he relaxed considerably, but it is doubtful
if he would behave as Ryan did on one tour
in the Far North. At a wayside railway
station at 1 a.m. T.J. was aroused in his
bed and told someone wanted to see him.
He got up cheerfully, and met the deputa-
tion of one at the carriage-door. “Mr.
Ryan,” said the dep., “my name is Williams,
Billy Williams. Is my name on the roll?”
Ryan assured him that whoever else’s name
might be left off the roll Billy Williams’s
certainly wasn’t likely to be. “Thank
you,” said the “deputation”—“l was told
that if anyone could tell me you could.”
Then he vanished, and Ryan returned to
bed. Was it any wonder he got back to
Parliament that year with 48 members out
of 72?
John Gatenby, who died the other day, was
a man who didn’t like to let things beat him.
He was in Forbes (N.S.W.) during the
big drought of a score of years ago, and with
a minimum of water, painfully secured, he
grew lucerne to maintain his flocks. He
established the record of feeding 78 sheep to
the sown acre.
N.S.W. Speaker Danny Levy, who had
himself disbarred a few years ago so that he
might practise as a solicitor, is getting his
wig curled again before applying for re-
admission to the “higher branch.”
During the visit of the British Overseas
delegation to Ecliuca the other day some-
body recalled the yarn of I’ascoe, a former
Town Clerk, who, when the Murray was
flooding the borough, wired to Henry Parkes:
“You say the Murray belongs to N. S.
Wales, if you own it, please take it away ;
it is swamping us out.” Wignall jotted it
down to tell in the Commons’ smoking-room
when he gets back.
“Flicker”: Some of these bishops are a
little puzzling. Recently Thomas, who wears
the Anglican apron in Adelaide, got exceed-
ingly cross with Canon Wise, of Goodwood,
for objecting to laymen speaking in the
cathedral—the Canon had added to his
offence by describing the Hickson Mission
as a “blasphemous insult.” But as the
Bishop is an earnest advocate of Church
Union, the Rev. Webb, of Trinity, probably
felt that he was on safe ground in asking
the distinguished Baptist visitor, Dr. Meyers,
to preach in Trinity Church —the oldest in
S. Aus. To everybody’s surprise, however,
the Bishop promptly stepped in and vetoed the
arrangement. Hit high, hit low, it looks
as if there was no pleasing some prelates.
Thomas Carlyle Irving, one of Acting-Gov-
ernor Kell’s captures from the Union Bank,
left last week for Perth to manage the chief
Westralian branch of the Commonwealth
Bank. He takes the place of C. R. Riddle,
who now fills Acting-Deputy-Governor Hulle’s
chair as Sydney manager. Irving is an ex-
Victorian tennis champion, and won trophies
galore at tennis and bowls while managing
branches of the Union Bank in Queensland.
When Trumper’s visiting team was in Rock-
hampton (Q.) he pasted the bowlers all
over the place for 78 not out, and repre-
sented Central Queensland at cricket when
available. Nowadays he golfs. He is still
in the early forties.
The estate of the late John Killian, a
retired N.S.W. Lands Department messenger,
who must have mixed other things with
messenging. was proved at £25,645.
Gone aloft, Captain South, who guided the
destinies of the Q. Government steamer
Lucinda for many years. It was aboard
this old paddle craft, that Griffith used to
take his colleagues when he wanted them to
do a bit of hard thinking. There were Pre-
miers, too, who flew to the same ark for a
bit of hard drinking.
Joseph McCabe, rationalistic lecturer, now
touring Australia, is a ’vert from Rome. At
one time he was the theological professor in
the training-house of the Franciscan Order
in London. It was after he got a lectureship
at an English University that he broke from
the Church. But he still sticks to celibacy—
and probably will go on doing it, for he is
now in the sixties.
N.S.W. Tax Commissioner Whiddon, whose
job has been extended another year, was
once a Bung. His hostelry was the Adel-
aide, in Park-road, Paddington, which catches
the trade of the crowds that leave the Syd-
ney Cricket and Agricultural Grounds on
the Paddington side. But he soon forsook
the beer-pump, joined the civil service as a
temporary clerk, and quickly made his mark.
Died recently at Parramatta, Edgar Syd-
ney Kable, son of John Kable, of Windsor,
where he was born. The grandparents Were
First Fleeters, and were among the first to
be married by parson Johnson —in 1788.
Henry Kable, this grandfather, settled at
Windsor. For some time he ran a coach
to Parramatta, and later (1811) had a
public-house and brewery.
About some of Britain’s old nobility:—
The Beaufort family, whose 23-.vear-old heir has
just allied himself with a sub-royalty, with a king
and two or three queens heaming on the nuptials,
has obviously appreciated a good deal in reputation
since the present Marquis of Worcester’s grandfather
was wont to scandalise the conventions of Queen Vic-
toria’s time. The Old Duke, as he used to be called,
died 24 years ago; his celebrity as a sportsman was
high (the “Badminton Library” was written under
his aegis), and as a titled roue it could hardly have
been wider. The late David Christie Murray satir-
ised the lord of Badminton in one of his novels under
the pseudonym of the “Duke of Belisle” —this was
when his Grace had got too old to hunt any four-
footed game —and the picture was draw'll with mali-
cious skill and biting vividness. Still, the “Old
Duke’s” profligacies, like those of Thackeray’s Marquis
of Steyne, were at least normal ones; a much darker
page was written in the family history when two of
his younger sons had to bolt from England in the
’eighties never to return. The present Duke, who has
lived for nothing but fox-hunting since the days
when he was a subaltern in the Guards, and is little
known outside of his own ancestral area on the
Wilts-Gloucestershire border, remained a bachelor till
he was nearly 50. The Marquis who has found a life-
mate in Queen Mary’s niece is the only son. He
was still at Sandhurst when the war ended, but he
is already acclaimed as keen a hunter as the Prince
of Wales, and the youngest M.F.H. in the realm.
“W.”: Retired Sergeant Patrick Lonergan,
of Tas., who was decorated with the Long
Service Medal on Empire Day, was 45 years
in the Force. Pat had a passion for sonor-
ous phrases picked up in and about the pray-
cincts of the coort. No matter how brief his
GEORGE
BARNES,
the producer and
manager of the
“ Queen of S[?]ba ”
show, [?] has
begun to give the
glad eye to
Australia.
constables’ reports were on the big blue
foolscap forms, the sergeant invariably
scrawled his own remarks on the back of
the document. A probationer once asked
him why he didn’t write his minute on the
blank beneath the report V “Well, me b’y,”
said Patsy, “it’s this way, y’ see: I like
writin’ about ‘the matter mintioned on the
face hereof.’ The wurrds ‘on the face here-
of’ are gerrand wurrds. Ye’ll be noticin’
the lawyers use thim a lot.”-
It. G. Nichols, the Anglican parson who
has introduced moving pictures into his ser-
vices at St. Mark’s, Fitzroy (Vic.), con-
tinues to have the limelight. Talking to the
Ad. Men the other day, he said he intended
to provide for “a courting night” in a room
attached to the church—to give the youths
and lasses a chance to meet “in respectable
surroundings.” He admitted that fellow-
clergy were cold about his schemes, but for
all he cared they could “go to the Devil.”
“Lucius”: Add to McKenna, Hegarty and
Watson (B. 31/5/’23) the names of Gibney
and Langley as episcopal golden-jubileers.
Gibney, who was once R.C. Bishop of Perth,
is in his 88tli year, and linked up with the
Church’* on .June 14, 1863. He it was who
entered the burning hotel at Glenrowan when
the Kelly Gang made their final stand. Lang-
ley was Bishop of Bendigo till he resigned.
He, too, is in his 88th year, but still rigor-
ous enough to mount the pulpit in a Mel-
bourne church almost every Sunday.
Frederick Risden Jolley, deputy-chairman
in Rabaul of the Expropriation Board, under
whose eye returned soldiers are beginning to
make many ex-German plantations pay, went
to German New Guinea as a boy under
“Queen Emma,” became British Consul, and
was put into prison in Kaewieng at the out-
break of the war because lie -wouldn’t give his
word not to escape. He was released wiien
Australia captured the Territory, and won
his captaincy in France with the A.I.F.
Still under 40, he is one of the strong men
in the Islands, politically, talks German like
a Fritz, the lingo like a native, and some
forcible English when necessary.
“Old Banker”: Unobtrusive George E.
Emery, head serang of the Vic. State Sav-
ings Bank, and a Castlemaine native, has
done more real good for the people of the
State than all your politicians and advertis-
ing benefactors. All his business life has
been spent in the bank, and its remarkable
development is due to his native gift for
doing the right thing. George Turner’s baby,
the Credit Fongier, had Emery as its god-
father, and this system of lending the
people’s surplus money to the people needing
to use it has helped hundreds of farmers to
prosperity. Emery realised, too, that some
of the public surplus should be used to help
citizens build their own homes, and his
genius shaped the means to that end.
“The Deacon” : N.S.W. Speaker Danny Levy
still persists in recognising the defunct mili-
tary titles of Dunn and Bruxner, and Cecil
Murphy is a standing jest as the “Little Cor-
poral.” But these are not the only mem-
bers who have purred to swashbuckling titles.
There was the late (politically) Dicky
Price. Away in the years the locust has
chewed he was a member of the volunteers
or something similar, and attained some more
or less exalted rank by effluxion of time, or
habeas corpus, or whatever the way is they
have in the military. Dooley was the first to
recognise Price’s weakness, and it was one
of the sights of Parliament during the war
to see Dicky swelling out his chest and shout-
ing for the company to whom he was intro-
duced by the leg-pulling Dooley as “our
esteemed military member, Lieut.-Colonel
Price!”
THE PATRIOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“His social popularity, according to his friends,
has forced him to eat so many luncheons and dinners
that his health is undermined.” —Sydney Telegraph
re Sir Auckland Geddes, British Ambassador to
the U.S.A.
When patriotic duty hails
It does not find him lacking ;
With appetite that never fails
His country he is backing.
His happiness and health and ease
Alike he sacrifices ;
His duty’s path he plainly sees
From hors-d’oeuvres down to ices.
No savory will give him pause,
No curvy make him falter;
His stomach in his country’s cause
Is laid upon the altar.
Though trouble’s clouds may loom, still he
Keeps to his fearful duty,
And eats his way to victoree
For England, Home and Beauty.
x.s.w.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


«* There’s no sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia and no better
brand than the ‘THREE CASTLES.”’
THACKERAY. "™E VIRGINIANS.-.
\
\
\
S 5
Y
(V
SO
V 1
t C J
A
\V"
2)
5>
m
M,
4
S
&2
ssSsfi£
The blending of the highest selected grades of Virginia Tobacco in
the “Three Castles” formula produces that mildness and distinctive
bouquet found in no other cigarette.
The
three Caftles
Cigarettes
fgh
In convenient packets of 10, 15 and 50. The hermetically sealed tins of 50
are recommended for travellers on land or sea.
W. D. & H. 0. WILLS
fgh


Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets, Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident and
Sickness, Burglary, Live Stock.
Public Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation, etc., etc.
A Signal Sweeest
The TOP-NOTCHScotcfc
Carlton Hotel Ltd.
Now under the Management of
J. LEVY,
Late Manager Grand Hotel, Auck-
land, N.Z.; Usher’s Hotel, Sydney.
Courtesy, Comfort and Home-
like Atmosphere.
Bed and Breakfast or
Inclusive Tariff.
Perfection of Service and Comfort.
Cable, Radio and Telegraph Address:
“Hocar,” Sydney.
Telephone 86141 (10 lines).
ABORGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRAKIA
BARNES.LINSEED OIL
PLAYTNG WITH FIRE.
“ Hic! Goo ’ night, walrus!”
“Parama”: “Jim Carew” (B. 7/6/’23) is
wrong when he says “an alligator prefers a dog
to anything else.” A dog is generally used be-
cause it’s the handiest thing around, and it yaps
and yelps when left tied up ; generally, too, it ’s some-
body else’s dog. The ’gator will pass the dog
every time for a young porker. I’ve tried, and I
know. I also knew that the best bait is a native
youngster in the crawling stage. I’ve tried that,
too, and it has never failed to bring the big
saurians up to where I could plant the bullet in
the right spot. The natives in parts of India use
their own children in this way, ’ keeping close so
that they can go to the rescue if necessary. The
kiddie is tied to a tree, or more generally to a
stake driven in the earth, at the end of a few
feet of rope, so that it can crawl around as it
howls. I’ve also seen this bait used in Africa.
* * * *
“Geo. Rich”: Bob Muir, a S.-Westralian
amateur, makes a slashing mess of “J. Possum’s”
’roo-peeling argument (B. 3/5/’23). For my edifi-
cation Robert undressed a lady ’roo of average
figure in 2min. 2sec. A few rips and slashes with
the knife, up and about the arms, then legs, up ■
the centre and around the neck, and the furry gar-
ment was lifted off. A booted foot placed on the
despoiled lady’s warm bare neck and a pull up-
wards facilitated the unrobing. The peeler’s eom-
ment was: “Over two minutes! No practice lately.”
The S. Groperland one-man record for a day’s ’roo-
slaughter is 40.
* * * 9
“D.F.”: “Pat Bushie’s” incident (B.
7/6/’23) of the platypus breaking into the fowl-
pen and killing the fowls reminds me that a
rabbit-trapper on the Ous e River (Tas.) once told
me that the platypuses used to go into the burrows
along the river banks and catch rabbits. Before
I heard about the fowls I didn’t believe him.
I don’t now.
..* * * *
“Billy Brolga”: Three at a time is cer-
tainly over the odds for Mammy ’Roo (“W.D.G.,”
B. 26/4/’23) ; but there’s nothing impossible about
it, as the lady usually has a batch, the likeliest of
which is placed in the cradle, the others being aban-
doned. Twins are not uncommon with bears, walla
bies and kangaroos, all of which usually have only
one baby nursing at a time, and although I have
found provisions for three in the nursery of these
animals occasionally, two has been the limit. The
pretty ringtail ’possum, by the way, generally has two,
often three, and sometimes as many as four in family
at a time, the allotment, of other ’possums being one
and sometimes two.
* * • *
“Sequani”: Let me in on a double-
‘ Azrim s” par re ringhals and “FY7’s” miraculous
shot (B. 17/5/’23). I was at a place in the W.
Transvaal where ringhals were as plentiful as com-
mission agents in Australia. This wriggler expecto-
rates all right, and for this reason we used to pay
our compliments to him from the business end of a
shotgun. But I never heard during my six years’
stay of a case of death or blindness from the ring-
hal’s spit. I don’t even remember the nigs, men-
tioning any danger. The only serpent to put the
wind up them properly was the mamba. The
l'inghal, by the way, will bask on the track, and
when approached on horseback will circle round
to the rear, nicely coiled, and spit like a machine-
gun. And this brings me to my miraculous shot.
I saw a wriggler on the track as I cantered by
one day, and when he put up the circling act, I
let drive with a Webley- revolver. The range was
about 15 horse-lengths, and on returning the follow-
ing day I found that Mr. Ringhal’s expectorating
apparatus was shot off 4in. from the neck.
* * * *
“St. Peter’s”: Re the origin of the ex-
pression “So long” (B. 7/6/’23). It is the Chinese
for “Good-bye,” so a family home on leave from
China tells me.
* * » „
“W.R.” : R e “Bauliinia’s” puzzlement (B.
31/5/’23) about Binghi’s name for Castle Hill, at
Townsville (Q.). Isn’t it “Cootheringa”—not “Boo-
theringa” or “Gootheringa” ?
“Biverina” : I. used to think that the top-
storey in the tomtits’ nest (B. 3/5/’23) was for the
use of the family in the early firing stages when
they were getting past sleeping inside; but my
idea is now that it is a charming piece of deception
intended by the architects to fool marauding birds.
This view is supported by the fact that the material
round the side entrance is loosely woven, so that
it sags together and effectively closes in the home,
thus making it appear that the top nest is the only-
one.
* * * *
“Yarrum” : The other night I landed home
with a game cock and tossed him in with a few
old weather-beaten hens. Next morning I went to
feed them and, although the he-bird had had nothing
to eat for ,36 hours, he stood around and watched
the ladies scoff the meal. A couple of grains escaped
into corners of the yard and these he found, but
the gallant gentleman promptly tuccatacoored the
old girls up to take the lot. And those ancient
dames took all his politeness as a mere matter of
course. Has breeding anything to do with it?
Would a hybrid cock have acted like that? Or was
it just a case of the young spark trying to make
his marble good with the ladies on his first appear-
ance?
* * * «
“C.B.II.”: “Pantagruel’s” reference (B.
10/5/’23) to J. F. Jones’s method of keeping his
jumbucks clear of blowfly reminds me that the
Capetow-n press recently featured an effective scheme
adopted by a Graaff-Reinet farmer to deal with
both blow- and house-flies. He poisons every car-
case of a dead animal which has become putrid, using
a mixture of arsenite of soda, water and sugar,
and also puts the entrails of animals slaughtered
at the homestead into petrol tins, allows them to
become putrid, adds the poisonous mixture and
places them around watering-places. Blowflies can’t
resist the bait, and as a result the farmer keeps his
place practically free of the pest.
“Azrim”: Perhaps the vets, on the Abo.
Council will be able to give “Ringer” (B. 7/6/’23)
the dinkum oil as to whether it is possible for a
filly under 20 months to become a mother. I don’t
know anything about prads—not even the ponies—
but this information may help him to solve the
mystery. We are accustomed to regard puberty in
humans as a necessary precedent to pregnancy; but
this is not always true. A few years ago a bright
little girl astounded the Carlton (Vic.) residents by
becoming a mother a few' weeks before her 11th
birthday; and previously she had given no signs of
having reached the “age of puberty.” The case
is by no means unique; in fact, medical text-books
record many such instances. According to De Lee
the world’s record in this respect is held by a young
lady who had arrived at the mature age of eight
years and nine months by the time she became a
mother.
Tile Rumpus”: Besides shearing,-women
canv on other jobs looked upon as man’s exclusively.
In Perth there is a woman carrier earning her crust
in open competition with members of the ' heftier
sex. Some years ago there was another, Mrs.
Nesbit, who not only took on man’s carrying job,
but also his trousers. Hers were a familiar sight in
the streets and were better publicity than full-page
advts. Mrs. Nesbit also sold antiques.
NOT A COMMUNIST.
“Poor beggar-but perhaps he’ll get some joy from them when they’re all able to work."
“It’ll look like “production for profit ’ then."
“Kowrah”: An ordinary bag of brown
sugar will knock Government weather prophets and
mechanical barometers sideways. For weeks I had
been running one eye over the weather tips, and
with the other watching a glass that four times a
week promised me the badly-needed juice. At last
I gave both up as hopeless but consistent liars. On
Saturday I went to the sugar-bag, and found the
hard lumps of two days before converted into a
moist, soft mass. The barometer was still telling
the same old story on its bland dial. Next day rain
set in and we’ve had, at time of writing, an inch
and a half. Yes, in future I’m keeping tag on the
sugar. Mares I’ll ignore, and as for the “brom.,”
well, anyone can have mine for the asking.
* ♦ » *
“Jimmy Possum” : “Centre” and his mate
are both wrong (B. 26/4/'23). The hawk was neither
playing with the rat after the manner of a cat nor
dropping it to kill it, as the jackass is
erroneously believed to do with the snake.
The bird dropped the rodent simply to save
himself from getting damaged by it.
When Jack takes a snake aloft and lets it go he does
so for the same reason, or, as is frequently the case
with larger reptiles, from sheer nervousness. Some-
times it is dropped so that a better hold can be
obtained. When Jack catches a small wriggler he
kills it by cracking it as a dog does; but the larger
ones are given the coup de grace by having their
heads bashed against a log, etc., to which they must
be carried. A little careful and unprejudiced obser-
vation on this point would dispel a lot of moonshine
that has been woven around Jack and his snake-
killing stunts.
* * * *
“G.F.6”: Re “FYT’s” fluke shot (B.
li/5/’23). Some time ago, a friend and I went
fishing in the Balonne (Q.), and, finding our grue-
some collection of bait of no avail, we decided
to add to the menu with the innards of a bird, a
white cockatoo perched on a lofty gum close by.
My mate let go with a ~32 Winchester, but with
a few indignant screeches Cockie flew away, appa-
rently unhurt. To our utter astonishment, however,
another of the same species fell dead from a tree
a considerable distance away. We picked up the
fallen victim and found that the bullet had shat-
tered the heart. Then we carefully stepped the
distance back to where the shot had been fired —
380 yards.
* * • •
“Q.” : Now that “Dave Shep”(B. 7/6/’23)
has told us how to kill couch grass in a paddock,
will someone oblige with a recipe for the extermina-
tion of nut grass? It grows up through asphalt
paths—in fact, any kind of path that is inclined
to crack—as may be seen as near at hand as the
Sydney Botanic Gardens.
* * * *
• “N’lmporte”: Re the Animal Speed
Stakes. “Monaro ’ (B. 31/5/’23), in quoting the
600 to 1000 yards aristos—greyhound, racehorse,
etc. —merely introduces staying power, but I was
careful to keep my entry'—the whippet—within the
150vds. distance. “Monaro’s” assertion that 30 yards
in 100 is the utmost that a whippet can concede a
man is wrong. Polly, the one I mentioned, gave
Arthur Postle 50yds., as I stated, and lost by only
a few feet. Polly is known to have covered 100yds.
in 5* seconds. Westralians will remember Ranger.
Prince and other whippets that were considered
equal and even superior to Polly. What is the time
record of “Monaro’s” greyhound ?
* * * *
“Skyrider”: “Ezekiah” (B. 24/5/’23)
may know all about lyre-birds, and is perhaps right
about the female of that species being more con-
ceited than the male, but the same remark doesn't
apply to other birds. The male robin-redbreast
will spend much time which might be employed in
hunting for grubs admiring himself in a pool of
water, and ring-necks will do the same. One
of my pals, a willy-wag, the other day sat on
the window-sill of a back room and discovered his
reflection, and now we can’t keep him away from
studying himself. He is a male bird, and his wife
sits on an adjoining post and jeers at him.
* » * .
“Notrelle” : Re E. F. Muruane’s sure signs
of rain (B. 24/5/’23). In this part of the mallee
(Manangatang, tie.) the big brown flying-ants are
an infallible indicator. When they come about
just before sundown you can bet on rain being not
more than two days away. At times they come
thickly enough to prevent horses working comfort-
ably. Incidentally, their matrimonial affairs are
somewhat similar to those of the bees in that they
mate in the air. When the honeymoon is o'er the
lady alights with poor hubby and bites him to
death.
* * * *
“Riverina”: It may interest “Six and
l-ight (B. 3/5/’23) to know that there are probably
eels deep down in the Murray River. At any rate
they are found occasionally in its tributary the
Edwards, when that stream ceases to flow and becomes
merely a succession of waterholes. I saw only a few
of these eels—tiny creatures a few inches in length—
and never knew their right name. We called them
“mud eels” because those we found were in the mud
beneath snags in almost dry pools. They arc so
scarce that many people along tile river scoff at the
suggestion of their existence.
COMPLIMENTS IN OUR ALLEY.
“If I had a fambly skeleton like you I
wouldn’t parade it before me neighbors.”
“No! If you ’ad a fambly skeleton you'd sell
it to the medical stoodents."
(Continued on page 24.)
WHEN THE DROUGHT BREAKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In reply to an appeal made some months ago
from_ drought-stricken settlers in the Bourke (N.S.W.)
district for a water-bore, the Water Conservation
and Irrigation Commission replied that a plant
would be sent ‘when the drought breaks.’ ”
Oh, ’ere’s me ’orses dyin’
An’ me sheep are humptdy-doo,
With two mile to walk to water at the dam,
An’ the milkers slowly dyin,’
All around the place they’re lyin’—
An’ the worst part of the winter ter go through.
But wait, jest wait until the drought breaks
An’ the river an’ the criks are all abank ;
W’en the sodden gums are creakin’,
An’ the ’ole bark ’umpy’s leakin’,
VI e’ll start again from nothin’ when the drought
breaks.
We tried to get some borin’
Done by Guv’ment plant this year ;
’Arf a dozen of us wanted ’olrs put down;
They took six months replyin’
(S’elp me, Joey, I’m not lyin’).
Did we get a bore? A r o blank// fear!
Orl they said was “Wait until the drought breaks
An,’ the plants are finished vvorkin' down below;
Just hang on till the summer,
Then we’ll put yer down a hummer—
That is, of course, previdin’ thet the drought breaks.”
But wot’s the good of borin’
W’en the bills are due to-day
An’ the storekeeper is howlin’ round fer cash,
An’ the missus, stitchin’, stitchin,’
W’en she isn’t in the kit.chin—
An’ another bloomin’ baby’s on the way!
But we’ll keep on cuttin’ scrub until the drought
breaks
As long as we’ve a ’oof to cut it fer!
An’ till we see the grasses growin’
W'e’ll just simply go on owin’....
Yes, blarst ’em. Let ’em wait until the drought
breaks.
N.S.W.
NNMILC.


mm
m
m
%
'
mjo
1111
lia
■
swr i
m
h-.
■
fi 8$
£;1
■ua
■Hffi
. ■■
:
I
3
a
Si
8
>
r\
stl.
,
N£,
SSI
I o
111
/
Cemfiyit
T %: AvJ
MS - <v. ■ o .
B
v A
ilill
m
N
Ilf
Inis
is the way
to stop ttie
Colds "
r
:
■' 1 / ft
The quality and construction of every DUNLOP Hot Water Bag
ensures long service without leaking. Being recently made
and free from perish, they are better than imported bags.
Ask your Chemist or Store for “Dunlop” brand-it’s your
guarantee of Value and Service. Guaranteed against defects.
All States DUNLOP RUBBER CO. And N.Z.


wSH
mm
TUTANKHAMEN t, HIS TOMBf
»■
The same indestructible mineral pro-
tects the felt fibres of MALTHOID
from the elements as that which
has so thoroughly preserved the
mummies of Egypt for thousands of
years. MALTHOID is made from
rag felt and pure bituminous
mineral, and lasts indefinitely.
Ask ns for free booklet and samvles
«fKe PARAFFINE COMPANIES Inc
(F.M.PRINCE Australasia* Manege r)
Oriqinal Manufacturers of
P & B MATERIALJ'
fgh
fgh
Good To The
LasT Drop
m
ABBOTS
LAGER
T/?eßeer m/Aoufaßm/.
73reWf>d from Pureffd/tdHop? On/y
<-89i
“E.S.S.”: In some parts of the world
affected by malaria and otherwise pestered with mos-
quitoes, the value of the insectivorous bat is being
recognised. If we get rid of mosquitoes, say the
doctors, malaria will disappear; and the surest way
to exterminate Ming Ming is by propagating bats.
The first law to protect these useful little chaps was
passed by the Texas Government in 1917. In that
State, at San Antonio, a municipal battery, or oat-
TAILING NO RISKS.
THE ATTENDANT : “ 'Ere, you, git away from about 'ere. I know
yous kids: there's nothing on this 'ere earth yer wouldn't
try ter pinch orf with.”
roost, was erected to accommodate 250,000 ha s; one
previous.y erected outside the city, at Mitchell Lake,
sheltered 75,000, and in one year produced 40001 b.
of guano. It was reported some time ago that the
Cuban Government was erecting a similar roost at
Havana; Italy was following suit, and Dr. A. It.
Campbell, originator of the roosts, had been invited
by the British Government to go to India for the
same purpose. Bats are numerous throughout eastern
Australia, and settlers’ homes are plagued with mos-
quitoes because women bash and bang at every bat
that comes indoors. At Dorrigo there are huge caves
that shelter myriads of our little friends, and on the
floors there is an enormous accumulation of guano —
the rich fertiliser which this country imports. Like
everything else in wild life, with the advance of
closer settlement and destruction of natural sanctu-
aries the bats are being driven away or destroyed.
“Pick”: In performing the disappearance
trick when danger threatens, any aquatic fledgling
is an adept, but the widgeon duckling is the cham-
pion. When surfing with mamma on any expanse
of reedless water, if a hawk hovers above or a
gunman looms over the bank, one flap of the old
girl’s wing and the downies are gone. They dive
instantaneously on the warning signal and, though
it be hundreds of yards to shore, their forms will not
appear on the surface again until assured by the
quacking of their parent that the danger has passed.
The feat is not, however, as commonly supposed,
that they swim extraordinary distances underneath.
They have light-blue beaks, indiscernible in water,
and they get air by exposing the mere tips, where
their nostrils are worn.
* * * *
“Wanderer” : I have read of and tried a
good many ways of tanning skins, but does any
Abo. know anything about the kerosene and baking-
powder process? My informant (as truthful as the
average Abo.-liar) showed me an unlined rug which
had been through the “kero, and dynamite” treat-
ment, and, in my opinion, for velvety softness and
finish had the wattle-bark method well and truly
stoushed.
* * * *
“Colub”: Recent tests show that while it
is possible for a snake to fast for a fair length of
time without being apparently any the worse, it
is necessary that it should have water just the
same as any other living creature. The larger
ophidians particularly can fast for weeks or even
months at a stretch, and a North Australian carpet-
snake has been known to do without food for 14
weeks —and this not during the hibernating period
either. All carpet-snakes are not such long-distance
fasters, for the average specimen in captivity
shows an ordinary healthy appetite, especially
if kept in a place where mice or rats abound.
When one does decide to fast, it is probably because
of the reptilian equivalent of sulkiness. So far as
either the black or brown snake is concerned, an
entire absence of food and water for about 30 days,
or less in some circumstances, will result, in the
wriggler’s death.
* * * *
“B.”: The Adelaide abattoirs have some
astonishing exhibits in the way of stones discovered
in bullocks slaughtered on the premises. The
stomach of one bullock was found to contain 31lb.
of stone, some of the pieces being 2J inches in
diameter. Another fat beast which had been graz-
ing on the banks of the Murray added to its weight
by swallowing 431 b. of the stuff Mr. Macadam
used to make roads with. It has been suggested
that the animals swallow the stones when search-
ing for salt, or the rocks go down when the beasts
are drinking from fast flowing streams ; but neither
theory sounds safe enough to bet on.
* * * *
“E.B.J.R”: “Mamaku” (B. 10/5/’23)
mentions two million acres in Maoriland on which
cattle are prone to a
wasting disease, though
there is apparently real
good feed there. This
seems to be identical
with a complaint
known for many years
to the cattle-raisers on
King Island and called
there “coast disease.”
Much inquiry and many
experiments have been
made by the islanders
themselves and by the
Dept, of Agriculture,
but as far as I know
nothing definite as to
the actual cause of the
disease has resulted.
The trouble is confined
to the west side of the
island, and the only
effectual remedy is to
change the cattle to
middle and east coast,
usually twice a year
for seven or eight
weeks at a time. The
islanders don’t worry
about the thing now —
everyone recognises
that it is absolutely
necessary to make the
change. It is a com-
mon thing to buy ex-
pensive land on the
west coast for head-
quarters and feed, and
also take up an area
of poorer and cheaper
land on the east
(known as sound coun-
purpose of giving the stock the change. Calves
should, of course, be sent away after weaning • but
they want to be put on land which offers* them
something more than scrub to live on.
* * . ’ »
“B.”; The mallee-fowl is becoming very
scarce in South Aus.. and foxes are busy clearing
U p the remnants. T. P Bellchambers 'the orni-
thologist, has been successful in breeding these
birds in captivity at his estate, Humbug Scrub
near Gawler. Frank Downer, an Adelaide lawyer
has also three young mallee-fowls which were bred
at his place at Marryatville, Adelaide. Of the
parents, the cock bird was supplied 1 by Bellchambers
and the hen came from the Zoo. The pair were
soon busy with decayed leaves ar.d sand, constructed
a mound, and eventually brought out several young
ones. Three of the offspring, which were hatched
in February last, are doing well and are now
CAUSE FOR COMPLAINT.
“Resignation! I arsks y[?] as man ter man, would you yerself be
resigned if yer 'ad the first leg in of a double—the second
leg a stone moral, an' the race ter-mo[?]er — an' you ter be
'ung at eight o'clock in the mornin'!”
about three-quarters grown. The chicks show
plenty of energy as soon as they are free from the
mound, and one youngster flew away from the
property a couple of hours after he first saw day-
light. He • was returned by a neighbor.
'** * *
“D.P.L.”: An old bushman I know of has
a way of his own in dealing with marauding snakes.
He brews some black tea, then makes it into a
syrup with sugar, and, lastly, adds strychnine. I
saw the remains of two that had come to his tea
party. ;
'** * *
“Jumbo”: While I was digging my new
garden two tame kookaburras flew down and ate a
hearty meal of worms. The performance was repeated
daily while I operated on ground that was protected
from the sun ; but immediately I began to dig the
soil that was exposed to the sun they went on a
hunger-strike. I went back to the protected area,
and Jack and his missus promptly came and searched
for their breakfast. For a week I tested them, and
they always refused to eat when the ground was
subject to the rays of the sun. Personally, I could
not see any difference in the size or appearance of
the worms. Did the glare of the sun affect the
kookaburras’ eyes, or did they prefer their meat
underdone?
OBSTRUCTIVE VEGETATION.
APPRECIATIVE LISTENER: “Now, then, Bill,
give us 'After the Ball.' ”
MOUTH-ORGAN ARTIST : “ Wait a bit till I
pokes ’er out. I had mashed pertater
for dinner.”
“Jim Dandy”: Two happenings have come
my way that are puzzling me. Our cat on his
first nocturnal ramble had the stiff luck to get
caught in a rabbit-trap, and came home next day
with one of his feet-hanging by a few sinews. • It
didn t look to have a ghost of a chance of ever
joining up again; but
it did, and in four or
five weeks he was able
to do Blondin stunts on
the back fence as usual,
the weld being perfect
in every respect. But
otherwise Tom was quite
unrecognisable, and a
queer freak he looked,
for during those few
weeks he had changed
from crow-black to al-
most white —a small per-
centage of the fur retain-
ing its original color,
and thus saving a com-
plete reversal. The
changing process started
on his dial. I first
noticed it on the third
day after the mishap,
and thought he had been
butting into a flour-sack.
Two days later it had
reached the shoulders,
and from that on it
gradually extended till
Thomas was all frosted,
even to the tip of the
tail. What I w r ant to
know is whether this
phenomenon was the
result of physical hurt
or of sheer terror when
the unknown demon so
relentlessly gripped him.
The second puzzle con-
cerns a wooster which
my womenfolk were pre-
paring for the oven,
when they found he had
no heart. When they
called to me from the
kitchen to come and see
for myself, I smiled
loftily; then I recalled
something Bill Shak-
speare had said, and
looked it up in “Julius
Caesar” —that part about
no heart being found
when the entrails of an
offering had been
plucked out, and the augurs, seeing therein
an omen of evil, advised Julius not to stir forth
that day. After that, I lowered my dignity enough
to go to the kitchen and investigate. There Wasn’t
a trace of a heart in that rooster’s internal economy,
yet the chook was normal in every other respect.
Now, if that bird had a heart, why couldn’t it
be located? And if it hadn’t, how the deuce did he
ma nage to carry on ?
* * * *
“Naniko”: For strange pets let me nomi-
nate a wasp that has its abode at Popo, the spot
in Papua where the Anglo-Persian Oil Co. is boring
for oil. The wife of one of the staff has a wasp
that she has tamed sufficiently to allow her to
handle it. The winged hl’podermic is extremely
fond of honey, so a small pot of the luxury is
always on the table for the insect’s attention.
This is the first time I’ve heard of such a feat in
animal taming; but maybe the Council knows of
others.
* * * *
"Jay Aye” : An old Queenslander declares
that when camped in the Rosewood forest some years
ago he came across a number of birds which he
swears were a cross between a pigeon and a parrot.
They were brown, with short wings and long rail.
The head and bill were those of a pigeon ; the body
a mixture of the two, very long and plump, and the
and feet were of the parrot variety. Was the
old chap dreaming, or is there any bird answering
the description ?
* * * *
“Pick” on a kaleidoscopic waterhole:—
Unless he means it is full of emptiness “Yarrum”
is far astray when (B. 7/6/’23) he says that Lake
George (N.S.W.) is again full. Two weeks ago I
tramped out miles over its dry and thirsty bed
hunting for hares and foxes, and i found less water
there than a navvy mixes with his beer. Also
“Yarrum’s” subterranean river that drains the lake
is a myth. In the memory of the oldest resident
beardy, the lake has not once been full. But sur-
veys have proven that when in the long ago the
waves lapped its still clearly-defined high-water mark,
its deepest part, under the eastern foot of Mt.
Alhoyonyiga, was only about 2 i fathoms, and for
several miles from its southern, western and northern
shores its depth never exceeded 4ft. Such an
expanse of shallow water, in a region of low average
rainfall, evaporates with indecent haste. And then,
too, the sea-breezes that almost daily on summer
afternoons blow hard from the east, drive the
waters over the levels to the western shore, and
under the succeeding suns huge cracks open in the
mud-beds left bare. But in a day or two, when westerlies
bowl along, the moisture is forced back over the
vacated area, and is swallowed up in the fissures.
After the floods of 1916, a considerable sheet of
water was spread over the plain.- In the dry summer
that followed, observation and measurements showed
that the soakage and evaporation caused the edge of
the water to recede at the rate of 6ft. a day in
still weather, and over 30ft. a day when the winds
got a move on. Anyhow, every summer and autumn
for the past 15 years the bed of Lake George hM
been a vast feeding area for paddocked sheep, ana,
to date, no fencer, boundary-rider or musterer has
found an opening to any underground watercourse.
THE KOUMONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Night has gathered the Ivoumong
Fast in its gloomy fold;
Dark and secret it journeys
Under its bastions old.
Gone is the sunset’s purple,
Hushed is the feathered choir;
Lone in a sea of blackness
Glimmers an isle of fire.
Head at rest in his saddle,
Sleepless of ears and eyes,
Warmed by its glow, a rider.
Hunting for cattle, lies.
Bastions of stone surround him,
Grim and ragged and wan,
Fretted by wind and water,
Carven in ages gone.
East of his camp and westward,
Sombre and silent lie
Ridges, like giants sleeping,
Hip and shoulder and thigh.
Ever to him, far stealing,
Comes through the lonesome nighi
The lure and fear of the hollow,
The fear and lure of the height.
Life by the day close hidden
Night in the trees reveals;
Red from his new-made slaughter
A fox through the jungle steals.
Prey of fine fur and feather
Hunger, keen-scented, seeks;
Dingoes howl on the ridges,
Dingoes hunt by the creeks.
Silent, with wide wings gliding
Close by his place of rest,
Eyes through the leafage burning,
Owls in the gullies quest.
Lamps in the frondage lighting,
Circling the fireflies swim;
Airs from the cliffs steal downward
Coldly through leaf and limb.
Alien and cold and callous,
Stars in the heavens throng;
Heard is the Koumong River
Singing its sorrow-song.
Sorrowing, singing of sorrow,
Darkly its waters flow;
Men who camp by the Koumong
Know what none others know.
N.S.W.
RODE[?]JC QUINN.


Solving a Newspaper’s Problem
With Economical Transportation
.. . . - o . ... •
The New Superior
fgh
7J H
ME and newspapers wait for no man. News is
news only so long as it is fresh.
EALISING the task ahead of their new ventures
Sun Newspapers (Melbourne), Ltd., took no risks
with their transport.
'“THEY selected the NEW SUPERIOR CHEVROLET,
1 and now get what they aimed at —fast, efficient
and economical transportation. CHEVROLET is
helping them live up to the standard they set themselves
—“earliest with the latest.”
DISTRIBUTORS OF THE NEW SUPERIOR CHEVROLET:
Victoria:
S. A. Cheney Motors Pty., Ltd-
-22 Flinders Street, Melbourne
South Australia:
Mann’s Motors, Ltd., Currie Street
Adelaide.
New South Wales:
John McGrath, Ltd., 181 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.
West Australia:
Skipper Bailey Motor Co., Ltd..
900 Hay Street, Perth,
Queensland;
Howard Motor Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Tasmania:
Beasley’s Garage Pty., Ltd.,
6T2 Patterson Street, Launceston.
274 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
- i
bMHHI 1 WimmMi
ms.
I
wmmmt
mm
% 88?
mm
■
m
m
“V t
i
wm
m ;
#**3^
i
i
<5. .
i
m.
A
8
a
■
i
■
lif
1 :
MH
1
mm
m
mm
■ ;■;.-
9
•'• ~ ■' 'V.:.
•••
v", ‘
i
.
Above: Portion or fleet of
New Superior Chevrolets
which Sun Newspapers
(Melbourne), Ltd., use to
ensure quick and certain
delivery of their papers.
Right: A unit of the fleet,
showing ordinary touring
chassis mounted with speci-
ally-designed light delivery
body.
A General Motors Prodttct.


Royal
Warrant
fgh
To H.M.
King
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
SNI3H
>p3TSpRHS3yBiQ
3MOVdWVHD
-Ml*
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
WENTWORTH CAFE
POLO WEEK,
June 28 - - - JULY 9.
July 4, Special American Independence
Dinner Dance.
Latest American Novelties.
July 6, Hawaiian Dinner Dance.
Novelties from Hawaii.
Hawaiian Ballet of 20 Performers.
Early Bookings.
Phone, City 9931.
fg
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
The Society butterfly will be working over-
time for the next month, according to the
jazz entries. There’s a 4th of July dinner-
dance at the Wentworth, followed on the
flth by a Hawaiian dance at the same ad-
dress. On July 8 and 9 occur the polo
dinner-dances in aid of the Country Women’s
Association. On the 27th there’s a Violet
Matinge at the Royal, in aid of the Child-
ren’s Hospital, organised by Mrs. Pitt
Rivers; and the Artists’ Ball and the Egyp-
tian Ball are other fixtures in a crowded
July. For the Artists’ Ball (no connection
with the Brawl—that’s a different thing alto-
gether) Thea Proctor has designed a subtle
lighting scheme, and Palette and Daub are
already working on the decorations.
The College dance is still taking up much
of the social calendar. St. Joseph’s .Old
Boys’ lit up Paddington Town Hall with an
extra burst of glory in the way of decora-
tions. These were a donation from Foy’s
and the firm had used a lavish hand. Miles
of cerise and blue streamers billowed at the
head of the stairway, from the central lights
and in front of, the stage. The electrics
were veiled behind kind yellow shades, and
yellow-blossomed decorations overhead just
missed entanglement with the taller girls’
tortoiseshell. It w’as a happy affair of bal-
loons and young things, with a few padres
and older people to suggest solidity and the
earnestness of life. The new supper-room,
with its red-and-white decorations, and the
comfortable sitting-out lounge were O.lv’d.
M. J. Page was president of the committee,
and Con Duffy and Frank McNamara were
the secretaries; Dr. Fallon and his wife were
among the dancers, she in soft black chiffon
velvet; and Anne McGrath, in lilac softness,
and a Page girl, in a deeper tone of lavender,
were two other attractive frockers.
The King’s School nailed its colors to the
mast at Paddington Town Plall during the
week-end, and the old boys of the venerable
school put forward a good imitation of
revelry all night. Pale blue and white
streamers formed a canopy over the dancers’
heads, and in the willy-willy whirled up by
the jazzing youngsters hundreds of balloons
bobbed and swung from the colorful rigging.
Present-day boys in grey and scarlet added
a cheerful note. Frocks smart and pictur-
esque came in hundreds to the flutter. One
girleen’s slimness was sheathed above the
waist in a straight little bodice of thick
corded silk; below this a skirt of cream lace
billowed out, sheathed in turn by large
rounded petals of the corded silk. Another
who had sought sartorial inspiration from
the family album was Vi. Whipp. Her frook
was built of blue-and-gold shot-taffetas that
carried a deep berthe of silver lace around
the Victorian bodice. Audrey Pickburn
blazed a trail of glory in flame-and-gold
tissue; the neutrality of mauve clothed Enid
Westmacott; and Betty Lamb’s black maro-
cain was draped on Greek culture. Every
third girl wore velvet. There were rose vel-
vets and yellow velvets; blue velvets and
ivory velvets. Fair Helga Halbery struck
an individual note in green brocade bordered
with fur, which she eclipsed at intervals with
a shawl of Persian design. Headmaster G.
M. Baker was at the revels with his good-
looking wife, who dressed herself in the
school’s colors, carried out in the softness
of ivory lace with a pale blue and silver
girdle.
One of the jolliest parties of the week
was the Pierrot Carnival at the Wentworth
to help the babies at St. Margaret’s. The
dance was of the kind that is sub-sectioned
by olives—starts with the soup and grows
really busy after the coffee. The big room
was dotted with tables, and the statistical
chemist calculated that if every doctor pre-
sent wrote one prescription the combined
sheets of paper would be sufficient to bring
out a year’s issue of the S. M. Herald, ex-
clusive of the “In Memoriam” notices. Dr.
Slattery’s fair wife was a Junoesque Pier-
rette in sable trappings; and a bunch of
gladsome nurses from the hospital frolicked
in yellow pom-poms and discs on a black
background. The light-footed Glennie and
Johnson combination were voted the best
Pierrot and Pierrette; and Edna Reid, who
looked like a journey in Alaska, carried off
a prize as a pierrette without a beau. A
powdered and patched Mrs. Gregory, hooped
in black and white, was one of the most
radiant figures in the room ; and the hospi-
tal’s secretary, May Sheehan, Mary Hughes
and Bronzie Clonan were among the night’s
good-lookers.
Every dancing-lass in Sydney who could
persuade her parents to spring the price of
a new frock and a railway ticket to Goul-
burn was at the polo carnival on the Pines
Ground last week. The country girls, who
began with a whole-hearted enthusiasm for
polo, are growing somewhat perturbed at the
invasion of their preserves that is represented
by these battles, which keep attracting the
youth and beauty of Sydney to their men-
folk, and the latter to Sydney. Any ex-
change that there may be is one-sided, the
country providing at least half-a-dozen
eligibles to the city’s one. Still, there were
few traces of gloom or rancor when the games
began with the defeat of Braidwood, which
is practically a Goulburn team, by the Vic-
torian braves of Tallangatta. Sydney went
down to Tallangatta next day in improved
weather, and in the presence of crowds of
Ryries, Litchfieids, de Laurets, Faithfulls and
Chisholms —these representative of the dis-
trict —and a sprinkling of Horderns, Stin-
sons, Schutes and Milsons representing Syd-
ney. Harden and Cooma covered themselves
with glory as usual, and the ball which
threatens to outclass the Tiranna affair be-
fore it is finished was a tremendous success.
The lads and lasses from Farmer’s were
off to the tick on the night of their yearly
dance; and the Wentworth was the rallying-
ground. Iceland poppies and gay balloons
bloomed everywhere, and literally hundreds
of young things danced without a minute’s
thought of the next day and the customer
who simply would not be satisfied. H. N.
Pope and Charles Whyte represented the
heads; and the firm’s welfare superinten-
dent, Miss Hinder, who had quite a lot to
do with the evening’s success, clothed her
gratification in black chiffon velvet warmed
by scarlet poinsettia.
At the Institute of Journalists’ luncheon
in honor of Nellie Stewart and Mrs. Brough,
the tables were set in Farmers’ lounge, and
there, above the salt, sat the guests, with
Emma Temple and Lily Titheradge Knowles
leavening the mass of officials. Throned
among these was president Adam McCay,
with his lady in leaf-brown tailorings; and
further gladness was added to the board by
Mrs. Holman’s black hat that drooped violet
plumes above each ear. Our Nell was in a
little black suit with white muslin collar
and cuffs; and the big eyes glowed from
beneath a wide sweep of black lace hat that
glistened with jet moorings. Adam McCay
proposed “The Guests”; Farmer Whyte
seconded it, taking at a second’s notice the
part for which the urbane and silver-tongued
Holman had been billed and had probably
been rehearsing for weeks. It was left to
Marr Thompson to make the speech of the
day. With clean-cut strokes he made his
picture of the theatre when Art was Art,
and the two guests its chosen disciples in
Australia. He pointed the parallel between
the career of Marie Tempest and Nellie
Stewart, and sat down leaving behind him
the thought of what Marr Thompson himself
might have stood for if theatrical London and
not Sydney had been his workshop.
There has never been a greater rally to
one of these
lunches, and
when Mrs,
Brough very
tailor-made in
a cigar-brown
coat and skirt
deeply beav-
ered as to col-
lar and cuffs,
on her head
one of those
severely
turned-off-the-
face hats
affec t e d by
Queen Mary—-
stood up to
make her
thanks, there
was a hurri-
cane of ap-
plause that
nearly swept
the girl behind
the cigarette counter into the scuppers. The
Brough tradition of crisp English was in the
arresting voice for the newer generation to
hear. Then followed Nell Stewart, visibly
overcome by emotion, followed by dear Emma
Temple. At this point Lily Knowles’s
hunted blue eyes began to seek sanctuary
under the table; but at that moment the
photographers arrived, and she escaped with-
out speech.
Mrs. Knowles tells another story of her
actor dad, George Titheradge. Before all
things he was a gardener—the family says
he always studied a new part with one eye
while the other scanned a seed catalogue.
One night, just after the Brough-Boucicault
Co. had started at the Bijou, in Melbourne,
with new scenery and new costumes, at what
in those days was a colossal expense, Mrs.
Titheradge heard her husband’s latch-key in
the door at half-past nine instead of the
usual 12 o’clock sharp. She went out to
meet him. “The Queen’s dead!” she ex-
claimed. “No,” he replied. “Then,” said
she, “there’s been a fire at the theatre.”
"Burned to the ground,” said her husband.
While she stood dumb for words adequate to
his disappointment and loss, he moved to-
wards the kitchen. “Where’s the salt?” he
asked ; “I’ll have a good two hours with the
snails to-night.”
Three weeks ago The Bulletin told the
story, of the two Litchfield boys of the
Northern Ter-
ritory who
had just been
through an ex-
traordinary ex-
perience. The
younger, Ken-
neth, aged 5,
had fallen
down a 30ft.
well with 10ft.
of water in
it; the elder,
Boyne, rising
twelve, after
thinking i t
over for a few
seconds, dived
down, and,
though he
bumped him-
self in his
drop, he man-
aged to get
hold of his
brother and support him till help came Here
is a bush-picture of surely the pluckiest 11-
year-old this Letter has ever mentioned,
along with the nipper he saved.
The popularity of the Havilah dances
never wanes; and secretary Rose Merivale
must have felt like cheering over last week’s
roll-up in Paddington Town Hall. The usual
bunch of Sydney’s dancing girls was present,
with the addition of some pretty chicks
from others States, and the dressing was par-
ticularly smart. A dark Woolf girl from
Perth wore glowing yellow georgettes, and
the softness of attractive ivory lace envel-
oped Dorothy Luscombe from Melbourne.
Kathleen Osborne was in black drapings;
Dorothea Collins and Penelope Cay repre-
sented Brisbane. Two or three Sheldon girls
and Margaret Knox helped to make up the
crowded roomful.
The Red Cross flew its banner over Admi-
ralty House one day during the week, when
in the cold stillness of the June afternoon
Lord Forster presented a group of war-
workers with Overseas Medals, and his lady,
as president of the Australian Red Cross,
played hostess to the Red Cross executive
and large numbers of voluntary helpers.
Dame Margaret, who is president of the
N.S.W. branch of the society, was one of the
two hundred who sauntered first in the peace-
ful old garden, and later on went into the
dining-room for an informal tea-drinking.
To-night the Old Sydneians make merry in
the Paddington Town Hall. The ’ gate”
goes to the Old Boys’ Scholarship Fund.
Edith Harrhy’s recital of her own com-
positions drew a crowded Conservatorium on
Saturday night. The small Welsh-Austra-
lian played the accompaniments for the inter-
preters of her creations, of whom the prin-
cipal were the creamy-voiced Emily Marks
and Phyllis Hazel, Anita Roma, Charlie
Smythe and William Dallison. Clever Rene
Rich fiddled brilliantly, and Edith Harrhy
paid Chopin the compliment of including
him in the programme.
Helen Laidley is to be married to-day
(Thursday) to Pat Levy. The wedding will
take place not at the Synagogue, but at the
Levy home; it will be followed by a recep-
tion at the Wentworth given by Helen’s
mother, who is now Mrs. Charlie Young.
By the time this Letter puts up its new
date Janet Enid, second daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Jack Thompson, of Lammermoor,
Merah North, will have brightened Wee Waa
with a wedding, becoming thereby Mrs.
Harold Wilson Anderson, of Melbourne.
Joan Rolin is in the last lap of her spin-
sterhood. After July 11 she will be Mrs.
William Owen. The transfer will take
place at St. Mark’s.
Josie Melville had a pretty compliment
paid her on Saturday afternoon when Ger-
trude Elliott, accompanied by daughter
Anne, both furred to the eyebrows, and
shepherded by producer Mollison, slipped
into a box to view 7 the little Sydney girl’s
Sally. Lady Forbes-Robertson had only
arrived from Melbourne on the morning’s ex-
press, and she opened her season at the Cri-
terion that evening; but it was the one
chance she’d have to applaud her small stage-
sister in person, and she jumped at it.
On July 30 the Town Hall won’t know
whether it is a palm court or an Egyptian
bazaar; and it seems .likely that Boy Scouts
and Girl Guides may have to put in some
good work as rescue parties. The Cairo
scenery promised by J. C. Williamson is said
to have a dizzying effect, and a man or/and
a girl might easily get lost for a w 7 hole even-
ing among the bulrushes. Oscar Asche is
running a side-show of gallery attractions.
As the baksheesh is for her beloved Girl
Guides, Dame Margaret presides over the
committee; and Mrs. Albert Littlejohn is
secretary.
On August 14 the Sydney Day Nursery-
will reap a harvest at King’s Cross Picture
Palace, which will blossom into a gala
matinge for the benefit of the three-day
cr&ches. Ex-Mayoress McElhone is presi-
dent of the committee, and Mrs. McKelvey
and Mrs. Stuart Macphail share the labors
of secretary. Mrs. A. E. Hughes is arrang-
ing a sale of Spring flowers, and Mrs. Keith
Jacobs will supply you with _ programmes
and sweets—at a price. And if that’s not
enough to fetch you, Dame Margaret has
promised to be present.
As a haven for retired educationists, Mos-
man is establishing a record. Among them
are Peter Board, ex-Director of Education
and a champion at devising educational
schemes, though a somewhat lesser light at
billiards; James Dawson, ex-Chief Inspector,
a devotee of Latin and Scottish literature
and the rolling bowl; and W. G. Thomas,
ex-Senior Inspector, most methodical of peda-
gogues, who spends his leisure in honorary
work for the Hospital Saturday committee.
To this company of retired super-sehool-
maste”s will be added in a week or two that
doyen of disciplinarians, C. J. W. Friend,
Senior Inspector, a man of the Fred Bridges
temperament, a stalwart friend or the re-
verse according to whether a teacher’s views
and his own harmonised or clashed, but a
straightgoer whose bark was always more
terrifying than his bite.
Back in Sydney after a long residence in
Cambridge, and installed in the Simpsons’
fiat at Darling Point, is Mrs. Arthur Las-
setter, one of the greatest friends of the
women prisoners. Mrs. Lassetter was one
of the first members of the Prisoners’ Aid
Society, and the first woman visitor to the
gaols of Sydney. When the Darlinghurst
pens were in use the lady “visited” four or
five times a week; even now, when Long
Bay confines most of the women prisoners,
her journeys are made twice weekly. In
Cambridge Mrs. Lassetter found educational
matters largely under the dominance of the
three sons of Darwin, each of whom has been
knighted to the glory of science.
The other morning, in the teeth of a bitter
westerly, a boat was leaving for the Solo-
mon Islands. The wharf was crowded with
the usual clutter of returning Island dwell-
ers, accompanied by native boys in their
white cotton shirts and pants. They carried
all sorts of their owners’ travelling kit, from
a racquet to a baby; but whatever their
burden they all showed blue with cold through
their blackness. Presently a missionary and
his wife hove in sight with their native at-
tendant. No shivering boy was he. Every
square inch of him that respectability de-
mands was covered ; and his crowning glory
was a reefer coat, brave as to brass buttons.
As the complacent youngster snuggled in-
side its cosiness and gazed over its collar
at his thinly-clad heathen brethren you could
almost hear him purr: “Thank God, I’m
saved!”
There arrived in Sydney the other day,
all the way from Ayr, in Queensland, a suf-
ferer seeking an operation for a malignant
growth in his face; a great part of the dis-
tance he had walked. He bore a letter from
a Bananaland medico to Herbert Maitland.
Maitland was dead before it could be de-
livered ; but Sydney Hospital opened its
doors to the travel-weary patient and an-
other doctor will operate.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Our Sir Matthew has been lending his radiance to
Barcaldine, where, after a shire council welcome, lie
proceeded to inspect a woolscour at Westbourne ; then
the cup that cheers was handed to him by A. M.
Ferguson, and in the evening he was fed by the town
council.
Mrs. R. M. Gow gave a party the other day to a
number of maids and matrons in honor of bride-elect
Flora Moffatt. Gowan-brae was filled with roses for
the event, and Edris Forth and Maida Marlay added
music to its joyousness.
Last week J. J. F. Reid (late A.1.F.) read a paper
on “An Anthology of the A.1.F.” before the Queens-
land Authors and Artists’ Association, M. Forrest con-
tributed a paper on “Possibilities of the Future of
Australian Literature,” and Mrs. J. D. Cooke gave
an address on her favorite writers. ’Varsity profes-
sors, medical doctors, Steele Rudd and several black-
and-white artists were in the crowd of listeners. Or
the 22nd the Assoc, commenced a series of “florin”
teas —social functions which, it is hoped, will pre-
sently help to provide a club-room for this live body.
Passed out at Sherwood in her 83rd year, Margaret
Paterson, widow of the late James Paterson, of Well-
camp, Toowoomba. It is 56 years since she arrived
with her husband on the Downs. She left three sons,
six daughters and 28 grandchildren. One grandson
was killed in the war. A daughter is Mayoress of
Toowong.
A ease of cotton bolls and oodles of cream roses
were the decoration of the table for the Cotton
Association’s dinner at the Bellevue.- The big ball-
room was marked off for the shivoo, and Owen Cox
and Hugh Denison, of Sydney, were among the
bidden.
Tall and handsome Marjorie Green is Queensland’s
golf champion this year.
Wearing a full-bottomed wig and the silks of a
K.C., a bronze likeness of the late T. J. Ryan will
step up on to a pedestal in the Queen’s Gardens
about 12 months hence. Bertram Mackennal has
already mixed the mud for the model.


ip ->' I H ', -»v,_
' ,•;****■■' 1
■
i
w" » jli
’^3‘' v 1
WrKKmK&mM inl^l
KSMB
■3
V
:s
.
ihHhl'
M™ ™»%&J®Hgl
■
■m
l —■
I
HI
■
■■
H
Specialists
in
Fine Pearls
{ . . . .....
Pearl
Necklaces
Earrings
The firm have a large
and varied collection of
loose Pearls from which
selections may be made
for the gradual enlarge-
ment of customers’ own
necklaces.
Mm. Brummonb & Co
JEWELLERS.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
m
m
am
mm
■
V
■
m
%
WM
U i
m I
m a
if
0
Hi
m
C
mmmmm
W/m
1 BHMf I hum
' ,•
...
m
Em
'
ADORABiy FR£Kiey-
IQUISiTay F(?A@RANT
vour dealer,-a Large, box zt-
ei
B
•' '< :
\owpis t )
»0S V HOSNHOr 3 g
P»>f*<ujp7
JfcOU!
ffllU IHliJiTlTOfe
V/
1
1
/
\' \
t
is »
I
trauw •
m
Better Floors— Better Homes
Well kept floors—poiished with Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste—
lend a note of refinement and good taste to the simplest home, making
a suitable background for furniture, rugs and other home furnishings.
And when you consider the ease with which these floors are kept dusted
and polished, you do not wonder why so many housewives have adopted
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile a
linoleum, &c.
JOHNSON’S
* Waste — Liquid — Wowdered
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s . Prepared Wax is also prepared in the Liquid form for
v furniture, phonographs, pianos, leather goods, motor-cars, &c.
It contains no oil and therefore cannot gather
or hold dust, or become soft in warm, damp
weather, It imparts a hard, dry and durable
surface that protects the varnish and covers
mars and small surface scratches.
Johnson’s Powdered Wax will im-
mediately put any floor m perfect
condition for dancing.
Your dealer has Johnson?®
Wax —there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
Office and Factory: Rosebery, N.S.W.


m
&Z 3
Saves every cash buyer
21- in every £ spent.
Farmer’s
Cash Bonus
Sale
Double Savings
Commence on June 26th.
The Winter Cash Bonus Sale
features double savings on ail
goods. Country clients should
write for the Sale Catalogue.
FARMER’S
BOX 497, G.P.O.
NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
European Plan—Charges for Room only.
Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
ation
E
Suites de luxe, with bathroom attached.
Telephone in every Room. Roof Garden.
Under the Direction of—
ROWE'S LIMITED. PROPRIETORS.
For Reservations address Manager.
Riding Trousers
Tailored to Measure
The “SHEIK"
Fine Riding Twist Quality,
specially purchased in London.
“ Pair
Hard wearing—Close weave
—Washes well —Fadeless.
Mail to Desk SB ” for Patterns
and Self-measurement Form.
X
PIKE
Brothers Limited
BRISBANE
Townsville Toowoomba
Melbourne thatter
The Occidental
P[?]
Federal Speaker Willie Watt is giving a series
of sparkling little dinners to fellow-members.
Each is limited to eight—the full capacity
of his table—and the Parliamentary refresh-
ment-room is understood to do the catering.
Watt is more lavish than his predecessor,
Elliot Johnson, who never treated his col-
leagues to anything approaching a full-dress
meal. F. W. Bamford, the genial ancient
who has followed the defeated Chanter as
Chairman of Committees, will also break
Chanter’s precedent for carefulness with a
collection of afternoon-teas to members and
their wives. Possibly the appointment of
a new President of the Senate after the
meeting of the Chamber next week (Bakhap
and J. D. Millen, both of Tas., are well in
the running) will mean further unaccus-
tomed raids on the larder.
Mrs. Tim Mclnerney and Mrs. Dynan
combined with Marie de Bavay and the Col-
lege matron, Miss Egan, to hostess the New-
man College students’ yearly dance in the
St. Kilda Town Hall, and a battalion of
Melbourne’s prettiest girls were all best-
dressed for the glad occasion. It was a red-
letter nsight for them, as the brace of hon.
secs., T. R. Bown and F. Doherty, conspired
with Marie de Bavay to see that no one
lurked, unpartnered, in the dressing-room.
The College heads, Fathers Murphy and
Ryan, beamed from the end of the hall, where
bridge outfits had been spread in case they
were called for. Mrs. Tim, who came with
her big Lieut.-Col., accentuated her delicate
fairness with cloudy black chiffon, and
Marie de Bavay shone sweetly in ethereal
blue encrusted with silver at the equator.
Mrs. Dynan and Miss Egan both smiled
above inky frocks. Prof, and Mrs. Skeats
were active on the dancing-floor; T. C.
Brennan forgot his legal worries looking on
at the attractive sight, and the venerable Dr.
Mclnerney, of the Costs Brigade—who is
still one or the lads, and says he always will
be so long as he keeps going—showed that he
has mastered the steps of the vei’y newest
jazzes.
Following the example of sister Esther,
Betty Paterson was married last week to
Kenneth Newman, a bright young Austra-
lian, who is related to the Melbourne jewel-
lery firm. It happened at Scots’ Church,
Collins-street, and the beaming bride shat-
tered precedent by wearing mauve and silver
topped off with a black velvet hat. More-
over, she grabbed her new brother-in-law,
George Gill, to give her away, and that fault-
less young Englishman carried out his duties
with becoming skill. After a peck at the
Oriental Mr. and Mrs. Betty hurried away
to cheer up the Buffalo Chalet for two or
three weeks. On their return they will
settle down in a new villa in South Yarra.
Her Majesty’s was packed when “Sybil”
took her first curtain on Saturday night.
The John and Frank Tait matrons were
boxed on the prompt side, the former in
rose-pink silk and the latter in primrose
georgette under furs. The Geoff Symes
faced them, Mrs. Geoff in black and daughter
Mardi in white furs. Mrs. Hugh Ward
who also covered her metallic lace dressings
with fur, was in the circle to watch the
latest triumphs of Gladys Moncrieff. She not
only taught but launched our home-made
musical-comedy star. The Pounds sisters
perched together like two tropical birds, one
in a flame-colored wrap, the other with an
Oriental scarf athwart pink georgette pleats.
The dressing of the show is a long shriek
of colorful loveliness, all quasi (very quasi )
Russian in design. Gladys’s first effect was
a short white cloth frock heavily ballasted
with brown fur above white Russian boots
and sashed with red to match the lining of
a befurred cape and cap. Her royal robes
as the pretended princess might have been
snatched from a fairy queen—silver hangings
thickly encrusted with glittering dew-drops
over a white, misty underdress and backed by
a flowing train of silver lace with rosy in-
sets, a glittering dew-drop border and a
rosy lining. She also wore a blue tissue
cloak shot with silver, and turned back with
fleecy white, and topped the whole gorgeous
display with a diamond crown, which, how-
ever, lost something of its regal impressiveness
on the wearer’s buster crop. Busters and
diamonds don’t mix worth tuppence. Ethel
Morrison struck a queenly note in black
satin hemmed with jet and looped at one
side with jet strings and a diamond buckle,
the lot topped with a diamond coronet.
Clarice Hardwicke started off in a Russian
outfit of old-gold velvet outlined with white
fur; and further swamped her slim person
with a monster fur-edged muff and toque.
She next fluttered in handkerchief drapings
of pink and pale yellow, overset with another
sheaf of blue hankies and a velvet straight-
jacket. Her cloak was blue veiled in gold
lace with fluffy blue edgings and a gold
tissue shoulder swath. Loud applause
greeted a feminine chorus, in ducky little
crepe de Chine nighties with colored bows
starring the fronts, under little pink or blue
bed-jackets, with close-fitting caps to match.
It was a vision of sonsy loveliness, and even
those matrons who noted a Turk-like glint
in the eyes of their bald-headed escorts could
scarce forbear to cheer.
Mrs. William Pearson, formerly of Kil-
many Park, Eosedale, did not long survive
her squatter husband, who used to be in the
Uppah Chambah. After relinquishing the
big family mansion to the Scotchbyterian
Kirk for a homestead for lads on the adjoin-
ing training farm, she went to Metung. She
was one of the G. C. Gooches when she
wedded Will Pearson; and a son and two
married daughters are carrying on the squat-
tocrat tradition.
The dental students staged their ump-
teenth annual whirl in the St. Kilda Town
Hall the other night, and for it Frank
Walker had guilefully contrived to disguise
the commodious jazzing place as an Egyptian
interior. Mrs. Tuckfield starred as hostess
in pink brocade that half-concealed silver
lace flounces. The widow of the first ball
president, John Iliffe, was there in becom-
ing black as guest-in-chief, and with her
was the Austral Salon president, Mrs.
Quinnell, who sported dark red velvet. Cold
turkey and speeches were spread in the
ante-chamber, which was a joyous riot of
balloons and ribbon streamers and golden
poppies, the ball president, H. D. Chapman,
leading the oratorical outpourings. Among
the dresses were a couple of little bits of
skirts to remind us of the legs of yesterday.
(By the way, bobbed hair seems to have
been swept into fashion’s waste-bin with
the abbreviated petticoat.) Miss Chapman
one-stepped in rose silk over silver lace,
which swayed lyrically from wired hips like
the pack of a camel. Several dental head-
lights had been doused for the night by ’flu,
but General Monash’s Bertha, brocaded in
white and silver, turned up with her tooth-
doctor husband, Gershon Bennett.
In applying to Irvine, C.J., for annul-
ment of her marriage the other day, one
Lilian Ralston mentioned that she had had
22 children, though only seven of the little
lot were above ground. The excuse for seek-
ing freedom was that Robert Ralston, her
second husband, with whom she had not been
living for some time, was the brother of her
first husband. She also owned up that she
wanted to marry a man who had been kind
to her and whose gifts included three of the
infants. What worried Irvine when he de-
clared the marriage void was the legal effect
it was going to have on the children of the
second “marriage.”
Monteath shows you Ethel Sagasser, a
promising lyric soprano who made her Mel-
bourne debut at the Athenaeum the other
night, and heard enough from critics next day
to justify her friends’ fond hopes for her
future. She is
a Bendigo girl,
but has lived
most of her
life in Hobart,
where one of
Marchesi’s old
pupils, Lucy
Atkins, po 1-
ished up the
Voice for a
tour which has
already put
something in
the money-box
for the inva-
sion of Europe
at the end of
the year. Miss
Sagasser, who
is going for a
period of solid
training i n
London, is the
daughter of a
former tenor of the Bendigo Liedertafel. The
family name, by the way, is understood to
be early Norse for “a singer of sagas,” so
the Sagasser vocal talent must have been
born a few generations back.
Nothing could have been more disappoint-
ing than the demonstration given at the
Education Department of the gramophone
records of George and Mary’s Empire Day
message to the school kiddies. To begin
with, the records were a month late. Then
they made him speak with a Yankee accent
and her as if she had made a bet to get
through the job in so many seconds. Whether
it was the fault of the machine or the
records wasn’t clear—in fact, clearness was
the quality mostly wanting.
Mrs. Elizabeth Trenwitli, who was'assigned
a little lot in Coburg cemetery the other day,
was the wife of the man who led the Vic.
Parliamentary Labor party from 1889 till
1900. She always kept in the background, but
was very proud of her William Arthur’s suc-
cesses, especially his early triumphs—the
election to the presidency of the Trades Hall
Council in the ’eighties, and his return to
the Assembly in 1889. For the last 14
years he has lived in retirement. His wife
was said to be 79, which would make her
three years her husband’s senior.
There’s a joyous response to music in Mel-
bourne’s soul when the right goods are sent
along, and piano-impressionist Benno Moisei-
witsch is filling the Town Hall with his
recitals. He finds it much more difficult to
get the crowd away than to draw it in. On
the opening night everyone stood and waited
tensely to hear two or three more of the
thin, tired young man’s Chopin revelations
after he thought he had really finished, and
so it is with each recital. His swift alter-
nations in Beethoven’s “Appassionata Sona-
ta” are really emotional, and not merely
essays in thick and thin playing. The exqui-
site singing tone that he runs into its slow
movement is far ahead of anything he used
to do, and his toes, which must be quite as
sensitive as his hands, put in more of their
fine work as artists while he is plaving such
things as Saint-Saens’ piece for the left hand.
The way in which he gets the bass notes to
back up the lark-like theme makes lesser
pianists quite feverish with envy.
This is Victor Baxter, the Melbourne
youth whose dramatic tenor called forth
some excited applause the other day, when
he starred in
the ’Varsity
Con. produc-
tion of “Lohen-
grin.” He is
expected to
outrun all his
previous suc-
cesses at the
forth coming
performance of
“Faust” in the
Melbourne
Town H a 11,
when he will
be seen and
heard in the
name - part.
Baxter is Mel-
bourne born
and bred, and
is still earning
his crust as an
engineer. He
began his vocal
studies only about two years ago, and is now
a scholarship pupil with Sobell at the ’Var-
sity Con., where big things are expected of
him. His voluminous tenor is weighted with
that dramatic intensity which the Italians
claim to be purely Latin.
Betty Hiscocks, the girl who won the
Sydney Daily Telegraph’s play-writing
competition, swore to love, honor, etc., one
Arthur Jupp, of Honolulu, at St. Paul’s
Cathedral recently. Sisters Kathleen, Nina,
Muriel and Eunice bridesmaided, little Cyn-
thia Hiscocks carried Auntie Betty’s train,
and Rupert Beswiek looked after the bride-
groom. Afterwards there was a cheerio,
which wound up as a jazz, at the Oriental.
And now the Jupps are off to settle down m
picturesque Honolulu.
The death of Miss J. M. Read, of Wan-
garatta, recalls memories of her late grand-
father, parson Joseph Docker. The rev.
gentleman took up Borthoramba station in
1838, and his wife was the first white woman
to settle in those parts. The old saying in
border districts, “Oh, you’ll find it where
Docker found the axe,” is said to have its
origin in the parson’s system of charging to
an employee’s “store” account any axes or
other tools the man happened to mislay—
hence losses were rare.
Admiral Creswell and his dame, who have
been sheltering on their chicken patch, near
Upway, ever since the old seaman left the
Naval Board, have convoyed their family
(including daughter Noel, not long home
from across seas) back to Toorak; they
have a bungalow in Washington-street,
which backs on their old quarters. _ The
dame, by the way, has been interested in the
recent hunt in England for the bones of the
Indian Erincess Pocahontas, who happens
to be an ancestress of hers. Noel Creswell
put in some months at Gibraltar with a
Creswell aunt who enjoys the hereditary
title and privileges of post-mistress there,
which is not the homely thing it sounds —
it’s something like being a member of the
Honorable Fishmongers, and that's a thing
not even royalty would sniff at.
Manager Percy Crawford went on as under-
study for Harry Musgrove at Menzies’ to in-
troduce I’hky Wayfarers and others to his
newest Tivoli star, Ruby Norton, of N’Yark.
The teacups were spread in the Eastern room,
where the richest brands of cakes were laid
under pink carnations. Gagliardi, who tootles
a soulful flute at the Theatre Royal, was. re-
sponsible for a ravishing orchestral backing,
and Walter Kirby defied a relaxed throat and
sang his sweetest. It was a gay gathering.
Ruby had dressed her tiny proportions in
black satin and smiled widely from under
a tricky little white poke bonnet. Sister
Nellie, who has come to look after her, was
brocaded, blackly under a peach-tinted bon-
net. Mrs. Percy Crawford dimpled adorably
under a black velvet hat, and had with her
two of her good-looking sisters, Mrs. Stone
and the newly-wed Mrs. Carrodus.
Gladys Kettlewell has agreed to fix a mat-
rimonial date in the not distant future with
Geoff Strachan. The ’groom-to-be, a nephew
of Dalgety’s George Aitken, sacrificed one
eye at the war.
Moiseiwitsch put in to the Melba Hall the
other afternoon, under the wiug of the
Charles Taits, to sample the ’Varsity Con.’s
stars at a welcome spread for him by Profes-
sor Laver. Over a hundred Con. pupils
thrilled at sight of the musical lion at close
quarters. Benno bore up nobly, even though
it was like taking water to the Mur-
ray to make him listen to four piano
soios. The gem of the show was Wolf Fer-
rari’s trio for ’cello, violin and piano by
three girleens, Allinson, Zeibell and Procktor.
Prof. Laver, who had welcomed the first
guest with honeyed words, afterwards fed
him on teacake in the Ormond Club room,
with Mrs. Laver, Sutton Crow. Sobell and
his wife and a group of lesser lights. See-
ing that the fire was laid but not lighted
Moiseiwitsch promptly whipped out a match,
and with a smiling “Allow me” risked his
valuable fingers kindling a blaze to brighten
the wintry gloom. Then everyone smiled,
and the room became comfy.
Surgeon Dunhill’s handsome wife (she was
an Affleck) left her husband to a term of
grass-widowerhood in the Fog, and dashed
back to her native Western District to see
Jack Mackellar (her son by her first hus-
band) tied up with Bea Laidlaw. She was
welcomed back last week at a tea-and-cakb
gathering, hostessed by daughter Mrs. Sam
McCaughey, who came down from her
Mother State for the purpose.
The Alliance Frangaise has bagged the
overworked St. Ivilda hall for the French
day revel— he Hal Du Chat Noir. After
laying the foundations of a novel decorative
scheme, the committee is putting in many
wakeful nights plotting the spectacular de-
tails. As only a handful of admittance-
cards are being offered for public sale, non-
members will have to get in an early word
with the hon. sec. at the Alliance rooms.
Some Adelaide gossip :
The Moulden lady is paying the penalty for over-
work, and is under doctor’s orders to go slow ; hence
her resignation as president of the National Council
of Women and Commissioner of Girl Guides —two
posts she has held since those movements were resus-
citated here. In the latter case Lady Bridges will
take her place, with Miss Judge as her deputy ; and
Dr. Christina Krakowsky and Mrs. Keith Bowman go
on as Metropolitan and South-Eastern Commissioners.
The Port Adelaide Racing Club had amazing luck
for its Winter Meeting, and struck the first decent
afternoon for ages. The Hunt Club finished its run
at the course, among the first-in being Mrs. J. M.
Toll, in smart grey. Lady Bridges was there, also
in grey, with Miss Judge and Legh Winser.
The St. Peter’s College Mission, run by old scho-
lars, is to have as its adjunct a women’s guild. The
affair was to have been settled at a meeting at the
College with the Head as host, but ’flu upset that
arrangement, and the gathering was at the Mission
Hall instead. The Guild—“to bind the mothers and
sisters of St. Peter’s boys in a common work for the
good of others”—was formally brought into being
with Mrs. Francis Fisher as its first president.
Lady Bridges went to Riverton the other day and
opened that town’s war memorial hospital—an insti-
tution that was badly needed and for which a
Government subsidy has added 150 per cent, to all
private subscriptions raised. But another £6OO is
wanted by the end of June, and if it isn’t forth-
coming the subsidy will be reduced and subscribers
will have to foot £l5OO to clear the debt.
It rains and rains, but still we dance. The old
scholars of the Convent of Mercy and Walford
House have both given balls —the former at the
Osborne Hall and the latter at St. Colomba’s Hall,
Hawthorn. Henley Beach went gay with a fancy-
dress affair in its kiosk, promoted by Mrs. Britten
Jones, Mrs. Clifford Miller, Mrs. Rogers and Miss
Iverrison; the School of Mines had its annual frivol
in the Brookman Hall; the Fenners have given a
couple of dances; invitations are out for a small
one at Government House, and the Palais and
Winter Club are booming.
Mrs. Clive Milne as hostess dispensed tea at the
Seaton Golf House, when her trophy was played for
and annexed by Miss Dorothy Jessop. Most of the
feminine golfing fraternity were there to thank
the donor and congratulate the winner.
Rosetta, the youngest daughter of Mrs. R. Ben-
nett, of St. Margaret’s, North Adelaide, is flying the
“engaged” signal. The young man in the case is
Alfred, only son of the A. R. Paxtons, of Balwyn,
Victoria.
Passed out at 61, Dick Gwynne, a son of the
S.A. Judge of long ago. He was a fine athlete and
sportsman, and spent the whole of his business career
in the land department of Elder, Smith and Co.;
but for more than a year he had been laid aside br-
ill-health.
We are to have a new arcade from Rundle-street
to Grenfell-street, a little west of the big one which
was opened by a company 40 years ago, but has
never been much of a success. The Harris-Scarfe
hardware firm started in Gawler-plaeie, and has bur-
rowed eastward into the block. Now it has acquired
one frontage to Rundle-street, and another to Gren-
fell ; the new passage-way is all on its own ground,
and gives it a vast window-space.


“ON EMU CREEK,”
A New Novel by STEELE RUDD,
the famous Australian author, whose “Selection” Novels have
been successfully produced on stage and screen throughout the
Commonwealth and elsewhere.
“ON EMU CREEK,”
JUST PUBLISHED.
ANOTHER “SELECTION” STORY
FULL OF SPARKLING HUMOR.
All Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout the
Commonwealth and New Zealand.
ONE SHILLING EACH —Posted 1/2.
The Same Price as all “Bookstall” Novels.
OTHER NOVELS BY STEELE RUDD
On Our Selection.
Back at Our Selection.
The Book of Dan.
The Poor Parson.
For Life.
Our New Selection.
Dad in Politics.
Grandpa’s Selection.
Duncan McClure.
Memoirs of Corporal Keeley.
From Selection to City.
Sandy’s Selection.
The Old Homestead.
The Dashwoods.
On an Australian Farm.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney,
Gift-
s-1 in
Diamonds & Onijx
Whole Peati
cO mix Ring
S, 1610 0
Diamond t~
Onyx Ring
£ 85
Diamond
Fancq Brooch
St 7810 0
Diamond t Platinum
Bou) Broach.
£2OO .
hfg
hfgh
Diamond e Onvix
tDrisHet iDaVch.
£75
fgh
Oni)x & Diamond
Cluster Rink
£35
fgh
fgh
Ornjx 6 Platinum
Front Studs (in case)
£6lOO
fg
Diamond i Platinum
Bangle
£165.
'WILLIAM FARMER &C° U?
Jewellers, Gem Merchants .Silversmiths.
U HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
lOGE
Chocolates
I do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home !
The Famous Red Box of
Chocolates. Mailed to you
the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/-
and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia.
Ernest Hillier,
162-166 Pitt Street;
also
Cr. George & King
Streets, Sydney.
hfg
hf
ƒgh
The New Canadian
“SPORTING” BOOT
-7*
Jh
. A
■pr*
In Finest Rubber
Absolutely Waterproof.
Every sportsman or outdoor worker, who must encounter the severest wet-
weather conditions, standing, maybe, for hours at a time knee-deep in mud and
water, needs this splendid Canadian Gum Boot, that is guaranteed to keep the
feet absolutely bone-dry under any circumstances.
It is made in finest Black Rubber, with 15in. leg, stout Red Rubber Sole
and Flush Heel, and a long grooved Tongue firmly stitched to sides of boot, so
that not a particle of dampness can enter.
For Your Health’s Sake you need this Boot NOW.
Special Price -
-42/-
CALL OR WRITE TO-DAY.
Lincoln, Stuart &. Co.
PTYo, LTD.,
244-54 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.


MAKE IRONING A PLEASURE.
TTD=O
ELECTRIC IRON
(Improved Pattern)
The new “Magnet” Iron, easy
to handle, simplicity itself to
operate, and needing no pauses
for reheating, turns the labour
of ironing into a pleasure. An
absolute necessity in every
household.
fg
Let us, your local Electrician
or Supply House demonstrate
the unique features of the
4 ‘Magnet” I r o n —improve-
ments which make the “Mag-
net” the best Electric Iron on
the Australian market.
BRITISH MADE AND GUARANTEED FOR 3 YEARS.
Price - - - 37/6.
A Wide Range of the Latest Designs in Radiators and Heating Apparatus in Stock.
The “HANDILITE” Inexhaustible Flashlamp. No Refills Required. PRICE 35/-
Sold by all reliable Electricians and Storekeepers, or direct from
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY LIMITED
NEW SOUTH WALES—MAGNET HOUSE, 154 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE—London Bank Chambers, Scott and Bolton Streets.
VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA—MAGNET HOUSE, 590 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MAGNET HOUSE, 203-07 Murray Street, PERTH.
QUEENSLAND —Norman Bell and Co., Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
NEW ZEALAND—MAGNET HOUSE, 8 Willeston Street, WELLINGTON; 238 Cumberland Street, DUNEDIN*
24-26 Lome Street, AUCKLAND. FlJl—Morris Hedstrom, Ltd., SUVA and LEVUKA.’
Sfte AUTOTONE
PLAYER
hfg
BY reason of its Beautiful Tone,
its charm of appearance, and
its capacity for artistic inter-
pretation, the Autotone Player
Piano has become an established
favorite with discriminating pur-
chasers.
On all points the Autotone Player
Piano gives the utmost satisfaction
and good service: Touch, Tone,
Design and Finish, Mechanism and
Workmanship.
It will pay you to become conversant
with the value of the Autotone.
If unable to call, write for Catalogue
and Prices.
h
fgh
THE Permanent Excellence of
the Autotone Player Piano
is apparent in every detail
of its construction, reflecting the
highest degree of artistic perfection
throughout.
The Autotone can be played by any
member of your family—opening
the gates of music and creating a
new realm of endless enjoyment for
all.
A visit to Palings Player Piano
Salon will prove of great interest
to you—but should distance prevent
you paying us a visit, we will gladly
forward you all information on re-
quest.
Write for Illustrated Particulars
to-day.
Paling’s Easy Terms
4
offer a very convenient way to pur-
chase the AUTOTONE PLAYER
PIANO. After making a small
deposit the balance may be paid
in monthly instalments up to a
period of three years. The AUTO-
TONE will be delivered to your
home after the deposit is made.
r.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
Also at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA,
LISMORE and ROCKHAMPTON.
Your Present Piano
may be taken as
Part Payment
if desired. Paling’s allow the full
value of your instrument, thereby
making the initial cost of the Auto-
tone lighter.
’PHONE, WRITE OR CALL
TO-DAY.


THE PERFECT COMBINATION.
WARATAH
MOTOR
SPIRIT
A CLEAN, EASY-STARTING, ULTRA-POWERFUL SPIRIT,
LuMmIE
N
MOTOIi
OIL
Prepared in Different Grades to Suit Varying Types of Engines.
NEPTUNE OIL CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Port Adelaide, North Fremantle.
Queensland Agents: J. KITCHEN & SONS PTY., LTD., Brisbane.
RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS PHILP ft CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Toolambool Hurdle, at Caulfield,
though not always a strong hint as to the National
chances of the field, is sometimes good enough to go
nap on. Six years ago Merunqua beat Bundong a
head in the Caulfield event, and did exactly the same
thing in the National a fortnight later. The extra
mile at Flemington made not the least difference to
their respective form, both horses being seasoned
jumpers. Last year Roisel won the Toolambool, and
found only 1 iscom too good for him at Flemington.
Looking at Mnemar’s victory last Saturday one would
say that the son of Mnemon and Marta,' being bred
to stay, would be a real good thing for the classic
hurdle race over the longer V.R.C. course, but for
the question whether he has thus far qualified his
jumping muscles for the more severe test.
Little Berrinbo’s attempt to overhaul Mnemar in
the straight was a reminder that a stone off his
back at Flemington will mean a good deal to so
small a horse—a mere handful as hurdlers go. If
the extra mile suits the natty Ritualist gelding he
will want only a good run to ensure him a “shoo”
in the National, wherein he will carry only 9st. 61b.
instead of XOst. 61b. On the other hand Mnemar,
who has run only two hurdle races up to date and
is acquiring facility in timber-topping each time he
tries his luck, will have 121 b. off his back when he
tackles the three miles. With Boyd atop he should
surely have a rather better chance than Berrinbo
and Royal Guardian, who took the place money last
Saturday.
Of the other National candidates that ran not one,
save Brownland, looked dangerous in the last quarter
of a mile, but there may, of course, have been
reasons why some should make a much better show-
ing next Saturday week. Of the non-starters for
the Toolambool only Jaekstaff and Argosy Boy have
been loudly talked about, and neither of them has
so good a National chance on paper as Mnemar and
Berrinbo, not to mention the dangerous Royal Guar-
dian, by Shepherd King. The performances of those
three last Saturday bore out this column’s opinion
of them, and for the present they are here preferred
to all competitors. To couple one of them with a
’chaser for a double in the two Nationals The
Bulletin would suggest Wooloo as the other “leg.”
Faithful Knight’s capture of the steeplechase at
Caulfield stamped him as something of a king among
’chasers where the jumping test is not too severe.
His way of beating first Ilaoma and then Stonemarten
and the trusty Liberate was masterful, although
there were only heads and necks between them. The
misgiving re Faithful Knight is a Flemington ques-
tion. The s.on of White Knight has not proved him-
self equal to the National journey over fences.
Doubtless he would beat Mountain God at the weights
with a stand-up, but whereas the God has stood up
for two successive victories Faithful Knight has not
been once round the course at racing gait. Again,
what chance will Mountain God have of humping
his 13st. to the fore for the third time if Wooloo
can repeat his form of 1921, when he ran a good
second, beating old Doiran to nothing in the fight
for places? He meets Mountain God on 171 b. better
terms this time, which is a good allowance for the
two lengths’ beating, and is apparently a much more
robust animal than he was. If a good professional
jockey, not his amateur owner, is to have the mount
at Flemington, many good judges will fancy Wooloo.
Times have changed since The Rover, with Bst. 41b.
up, ran second for the Melbourne Cup, whilst Purser,
carrying under «st., was beaten out of a “shop.” On
Saturday at Caulfield the Wren division backed The
Rover for a heap of money against Purser in con-
sideration of the fact that this other son of Sea
Prince was giving 311 b. to Wren’s gelding. For a
few moments it looked as though the coup would
come off. At the distance The Rover was in front.
Then Purser shot out and made his half-brother look
silly. The stable’s patience with The Rover went
unrewarded.
* # * *
“Machete”: One of the smartest jokes ever
worked on the Sydney betting shops came off last
Friday at Menangle pony races. The party behind
a pony called Nardo knew that noble beast was a
moral for the 14-hands handicap, but it chanced
that there were only two other starters. There being
no hope of getting a price at the course, where the
pencillers wanted 4 to 1 on, the money was put on in
town at “tote odds.” Just before the machine closed,
the only amount staked was £2 on Nardo, which
meant that his backers in town would lose Is. 6d. on
each 10s. bet. Waiting till he was sure he would
be the last speculator, one of the Nardo crowd
planked £5 on each of the other starters, which
brought his pony’s price to 4 j to 1 against. On
that basis the s.p. operators naid out a poultice, and
piercing were their squeals. ’
* * * *
“Wodgil”: Dr. Lang, the veteran V.R.C.
handicapper, doesn’t believe in crushing the life cut
of a good horse in the interests of squibs. For the
Melbourne Cup he has given David 9st. 101 b., which
is 31b. more than the sturdy son of Baverstoek —Lino-
type carried to victory in the Sydney Cup. Heir
Apparent, second to David at Randwick, has ''lb.
more than the 7st. 121 b. he shouldered on Easter
Monday; and Shillinglee, who ran third with 7st.
21b. has 7st. 71b. Inconsistent on the face of it, but the
doctor may justly argue that the Heir and Shilling-
lee are young horses who have«?t done much racing
and may reasonably be expected to improve, v'hereas
David is nearing the end of his arduous career. All
three have paper chances, anyhow, and if Shillinglee
can be delivered at the barrier in good order and
condition, with a boy aboard who won’t try to win
all the way, this writer will select him to beat the
other pair, and all the rest. Speciality, a horse with
a knack of succeeding only in big races, is well in
with Bst. 121 b., and the handicapper hasn’t been
hard on the youngsters, King Carnival (7st. 71b.),
The Monk (7st. 51b.), Rahiri (7st. 41b.), Trilisa anu
Linaway (6st. 131 b.). There may well be a Cup
winner in that lot. The Caulfield Cup is more of a
puzzle than ever. Stare looks rather attractive with
9st. lib., and the handicapper has been rather kind
to Sister Olive (Bst. 101 b.) and Soorak (Bst. 61b.).
The doubt about Olive is whether she will stand
training, and Soorak’s temper and stamina are both
under suspicion, although he stayed well enough in
the A.J.C. Derby. An impressive lot lower down are
Maid of the Mist (Bst. 51b.), Shillinglee (7st. 91b.),
Paratoo (7st. 41b.), Quintus (7st. 41b.), and Penny-
bont (7st. lib.). When Maid of the Mist beat
Eurythmic at w.f.a. she looked capable of winning
any race in the land. She is certainly worth bearing
in mind for Caulfield.
Considering Purser’s great sequence of successes
with heavy weights up, his Epsom Handicap burden
(9st. 131 b.) is not excessive. Were the race to be
run in July instead of September he would indisput-
ably be one of the favorites, but he has had a
heavy season and may not be at his best on the day.
Inia’s Boy (Bst. 51b.) and Popaway (Bst. 41b.) are
rather well treated, and there will be many inquiries
presently for the English horse Balaton (7st. 121 b.),
who ran third in a race at Randwick recently after
dwelling on the mark. Vaccine has a distinct chance
with 7st. 71b. Other possibilities are Pteropod
(7st. 51b.), Lady Aura (Bst. 21b.), Golden Treasure
(7st. 81b.) and Barosca (7st.). Air Balloon, who
was not quite first-class in England, heads the
Metropolitan list with lOst. 51b., being asked to
concede 61b. to David. The latter is greatly to be
preferred. Stare went off last year, but if he can
be produced fit and well he will be extremely
dangerous with 9st. Others nicely handicapped are Scor-
pius (9st.), Heir Apparent (Bst. 71b.), Honey Bee
(Bst. 61b.), Iveneppil (Bst. 21b.), Even Song (7st.
111 b.), Sea Risk (7st. 91b.), King of the Forest
(7st. 91b.) and Pennybont (7st. 71b.). Some of
those mentioned may be reserved for Caulfield and
Flemington. At this stage Inia’s Boy and Keneppil
looks a rather attractive double, with Popaway and
Pennybont for a rough second choice.
The original of
this sketch is Jimmy
Munro, who rode his
fiftieth winner for the
1922-23 season at
Rosehill (N.S.W.) on
Monday. He is hav-
ing a great tussle with
Toohey for pride of
place among the Syd-
ney jockeys. Each
steered two winners
on Saturday, but
Toohey failed to add
to his list on Monday,
whereas two of Mun-
ro’s five mounts were
successful. That left
the boy with 50 firsts
and Toohey with 47
firsts and two dead-
heats. Munro is an
excellent judge of pace
and rides a strong fin-
ish. He is son of an
old-time trainer, who
was associated with
the famous St. Alban’s
stable.
Ihe Deacon : Little Fielder, grandson of
veteran trainer Sam, has had his full issue of trouble
this year. Badly smashed up in a race at Rosehill
(N.S.W.), he was laid by for months in Parramatta
Hospital. Then, after he had been soled and heeled
and patched and riveted, appendicitis took a hand and
there had to be another operation. Having weathered
that little matter, the youth is about to juggle with
his remaining seven lives.
* * * *
“Flicker”: Travelling from Port Augusta
to Adelaide there were a fair number of us in the
carriage, but when the two overdressed citizens
returning from the races suggested a “little game
of poker,” only two of the others “bit.” One,
a long lean cattleman, addressed by his friends as
Bill, looked to be the ideal goat for a pair of
clever cardmen to skin. But as the game went
on > won cons^s tently, and the faces of Mcßook
and his accomplice grew gloomy. Then came a
fairly big pot. “Jacks on the down” for the
fourth time. The cattleman opened it and one of
the strangers straddled the blind. There was a
brisk rally of bets and finally Bill “reckoned he’d
see em. “Well/’ said Mcßook amiably, “I’ve got
four aces.” “Yairs,” replied William, “I thought
y’ad. So’ve /. Wot’s yer next best?”
* * * *
Britain, playing- against a weak Spanish
team at Manchester, has lost its place in the Davis
V, up b / t, hre e matches to two. In the absence of
Manoel Alonzo, Count de Gomar, who appeared for
Spam last year, took the offensive for the hidalgoes
and managed to win both his singles engagements,
defeating Lycett in three straight sets. The cable
mentions that the court was wet and slippery, and
this ought to have suited Lycett, seeing that he put
up some good performances on wet turf in Aus-
tralia, keeping his foothold by jumping about in his
socks. Anyhow, he ought to have had the advantage
of De Gomar, who, like most Continentals, is a hard-
court artist. But the probability is that the Spaniard
is a much stronger opponent than he was last vear,
when Lycett was much the superior. Lycett' and
Godfree were tipped to score an easy victory in the
doubles. But De Gomar and Flaquer forced them
to the defensive at the back of the court, where
they were impotent to engage in the volleying game
which alone wins doubles contests in first-class com-
pany. It is the first time in the history of the Davis
Cup that Britain has gone down to a non-English-
speaking nation.
<l ls-30”: If they all toe the mark there
will be 133 competitors in the singles at Wimbledon
next month, and judging by the quality of some of
the entrants, there ought to be some brilliant tennis.
Johnston is making his second appearance—last time
lie was knocked out by the veteran J. C. Parke—
and he is expected to win the final from Lycett,
Norton, or his countryman Hunter. The last-named
has shone in indoor tennis in the U.S., and has
played well against the Australians. Another Yankee
who ought to go close to the semi-finals is Vin-
cent Richards, who partnered Tilden in the Davis
Cup doubles in New York last year and was almost
knocked off the court by the combined attack of
Patterson and O’Hara Wood. Richards’s game, how-
ever, is the singles, and if he strikes form he ought
to account for most of the opposition. Others who
will be seen in action are Washer, the Belgian
champion; Campbell, who did well for Ireland
against Prance in the Cup; the promising French
youths, Borotra and Lacoste; and the Spaniard,
Count de Gomar.
* * * *
Jimmy Wilde, whom the English reckoned
unbeatable, has lost his flyweight crown in America
to Pancho Villa, the Filipino. Wilde, who is 31
and hadn’t fought for a couple of years, was fright-
fully mauled by the Manilaman, but displayed such
gameness that the crowd waited till he had recovered
his senses (he was “out” five minutes), and then
cheered him to his dressing-room. Having licked the
British, Australian (Mendies) and American (Buff)
title-holders Villa is a real world’s champion. So,
no doubt, would Dencio Cabanela have been had he
lived and kept sound. Considering that they never
heard of glove-fighting till about 20 years ago the
Filipinos have done wonders in the ring.
* * * *
Cheered on by the Queensland footballers,
Archie Bradley, the Gympie exponent of Prof. Grif-
fith Taylor’s theories, who can weigh in at 9st. 121 b.
and fight stronger than most middleweights, gave
Jack Dale an awful hiding at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night. Hustling the youngster from pillar
to post he knocked him down in the fifth round
with a wild right swing that landed on the back of
the neck. Later on he closed Dale’s left eye, and
the Victorian was in such a bad way in the eleventh
round that the police inspector intervened. Dale
is a growing boy of 18, and it was a shame to send
him against so powerful and experienced a fighter as
Bradley. Not by such get-rich-quick methods are
champions developed.
* * * *
“Push Off” : In the latest list of world’s
swimming records only two new free-style achieve-
ments are recognised, and both are credited to
Arne Borg, a 21-year-old Swede, who flashed into pro-
minence in 1922. The Yanks are considerably annoyed,
because their Johnny Weissmuller, Gertrude Ederle
and Helen Wainwright established fresh figures last
season over several short distances. All the same,
the American authorities have only themselves to
blame, for they didn’t send Weismuller’s records,
or those of the girls, to the Federation de Natation
Amateur, the body which sets its imprimatur on
swimming feats. Neither did they forward Beaure-
paire’s times for the 1500 metres and the mile,
although asked to do so by the Hawaiian officials,
under whose auspices the little Australian swam.
For that matter the N. S. Wales A.S.A. has never
bothered to claim the 1000-yards record established
by “Bogey” at Sydney Domain Baths in March, 1922.
* * * *
An English Soccer club has fought and
won a legal action over maximum wages. It engaged
a man for a year, in March, 1922, at £9 a week.
The next month, the Football Association fixed the
maximum at £8 a week during the playing season
(which lasts about eight months) and £6 during
the “close” season. So the club cut him down to
that. He sued for the difference, claiming that a
prior agreement was binding on both sides; but
the club’s lawyer successfully urged that the Associa-
tion rules, whatever they might be from time to
time, settled the whole business.
“Past Grammar” : “Ex-Englishman’s” just
scoff at the silly notion that Wills evolved the
Australian code out of kindly regard for the work-
ing classes (B. 21/6/’23) reminds me. Before
the “broken time” split in the English Rugby Union,
which ended in the Northern Union (or League)
being formed in the early ’nineties to play the
13-a-side code, the “working men” of the great
Yorkshire and Lancashire towns were the backbone
of the Rugby Union in the north of England.
There is an old yarn of a famous Yorkshire forward
who, before going south to play for the county
against Oxford, expressed his doubt of being able
to behave himself against the cultured opposition.
To eager questions on his return he said “Ay, it
was aw reet. A was floomooxed at t’ start, but
when one o’ they college laads says to ma, saays
he, ‘Git tha onside, tlia big heap o’ muck,’
A knoowed A was playin’ wi’ gentlemen.”
• • • •
Although they tried hard enough the
Rugby Union Maoris failed to win a match against
N. S. Wales. In the second (and deciding) game
they were beaten rather easily, the scores being 21
points to 16 in favor of N. S. Wales, but in the third
tussle, which was fast and exciting throughout, they
were leading by a point, 12—11, with 10 minutes
to go. Then Crossman put in one of his dazzling
runs and gave the home team the winning try. He,
Raymond (injured in the second match) and Tancred
were largely responsible for N. S. Wales winning the
rubber. The Maoris had a fine lot of forwards, but
in other respects they were neither so swift as
their opponents nor so sure.
* *• Mr *
Tureia, here pictured, is the visiting Maori
captain and one of
the finest players in
the XV. The sturdy
five-eighth hails from
Poverty Bay and, like
12 others of his side,
served ait the Front
with the M.L. Expedi-
tionary Force. After
the Armistice he be-
came a member of the
famous M.L. Service
team in England,
which won the King’s
Cup for a Rugby tour-
nament between teams
of the Allied Armies.
The contestants in-
cluded England, Wales,
France, South Africa,
Canada and Australia.
Tureia’s side played
38 games, won 33, lost
2 and* drew 3, the
losses being to the
A.I.F. and Monmouth-
shire.
The old rivals,
and neighbors, Col-
lingwood and Fitzroy,
played fast and skilful
’ball on Saturday to
the delight of the
25,000 who braved the
bitter weather to
watch them. The Mag-
pies had the surer sys-
tem and handled the
more cleanly, and in their now famous third quarter
piled up a 16-point lead. But it wasn’t quite enough.
In the last term the Maroons, realising all that defeat
meant, put in a series of dashes that kept play away
from their own goal and the deadly Collingwood
forwards, and gave them a six-point victory. ’Roy,
53 ; ’Wood, 47. Essendon walked over Geelong ruth-
lessly with 97 points to 54, the redoubtable Stock-
dale adding eight more goals to his tally of 29 —
3/ for 8 games. Clover emphasised his return to
health and the captaincy of Carlton by getting the
best out of his men and beating Melbourne by 74
points to 65. South Melbourne, slowly finding their
feet, made a saintly show of Richmond —South, 85
points : Richmond, 34.
* * * *
“Wink”: One of the reasons why Colling-
wood never fail to reach the semi-finals, though half-
a-dozen of their most talented players are each year
lured away to captain and coach other teams, is
named Jack Joyce. In 1878, two days after it
formed, Joyce joined the Britannia club (which on
admittance to the League in 1892 became Colling-
wood), and to the end of last year was a committee-
man. He was a fine footballer in the ’eighties, and
the Duke of Manchester, fascinated by the Aussie
game, made Jack coach him. The knowledge he Las
picked up in the process of the seasons has been of
the utmost value to ’Wood. Last year _ Joyce
retired, and the club, to show its appreciation of
his services, donated him £lOO. It also gave £25
to George Baldie, who did not seek re-election to the
committee after 22 years’ service. Wal Lee has
been trainer at Victoria Park since 1886, and is
still going strong. Dick Lee, who, beginning w'hen
16, kicked over 700 goals for the side in 17 years,
is his son. Jim Sharp, president for 11 years, was
a wonderful half-back ; Bob Rush, hon. treasurer, and
“Rosie” Dummett, delegate (both champion back-
men in their time), have been with Collingwood for
25 and 23 years respectively; E. W. Copeland has
always been the hon. sec.; and Dr. B. Crellin has
patched up the players in an honorary capacity for
20 years. The club’s famous coach, Jock Mcllale,
first joined in 1902, and played centre for 18 years.
On the non-players’ committee are men ilke Percy
Gibb, Eddie Drohan .and “Doc” Seddon, who served
long and faithfully on the field ; while in the club-
room —the finest in Australia —can always be found
stars who kept the team in front in bygone days.
* * * *
From time to time there have been mys-
terious reports from the North that the Queensland
Rugby Leaguers preparing to invade N. S. Wales would
give that State something to remember them by.
This feat they accomplished on Saturday, to the
astonishment of a great crowd on the Sydney Cricket
Ground, which saw a strong Metropolitan side (vir-
tually the State’s best) well and truly walloped by
23 points (5 tries 4 goals) to 14 (4 tries 1 goal),
The Bananalanders were much the superior team.
Their ruck men were too strenuous for their rivals,
and their rearguard moved to the attack like a
machine. Also their tackling was almost uncanny.
It was 13 points to 11 at the interval, but after that
Sydney never had a look in. Oddly enough, the losers
were led by Duncan Thompson, the AVarwick (Q.)
boy, who played for Queensland against N. S. Wales
in 1915, and the winners were skippered by Jimmy
Craig, the ex-Balmain (N.S.W.) crack. Craig was
the best man on the ground. Conspicuous in every
Queensland attack, he got over twice and kicked four
goals. Frauenfelder, the full-back, who, like Craig,
plays for Ipswich, also gave a wonderful display.
His catching, running and tackling were alike fault-
less, and he found the line with unerring skill.
McMillan, the home back, played soundly, but the
youth from Ipswich overshadowed him.
On Monday the Queenslanders removed all doubt about
their superiority to the present lot of Sydney players
by defeating N. S. A4 r ales on a muddy ground. Ex-
hibiting sound team work and brilliant passing, they
scored 18 points (4 tries 3 goals) to 13 (3 tries 2
goals). The Ma Staters lost Schultz and Latta early
in the proceedings, but inasmuch as the original XIII
did not include a goaler the substitution of Oxford for
Latta bv no means weakened the side. Watkins played a
splendid game for N. S: Wales, and Craig again led
his men like the consummate general he is. It was
Queensland’s first victory over a thoroughly represen-
tative N.S.AV. XIII since the inception of the code
in 1907.
THE AGGRIEVED BARRACKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Is there anything particularly sporting in the
spectacle of a crowd of scores of thousands watching
a few gladiators kick a ball about? Would it not
be better if they played some game themselves, how-
ever inexpertly ?”—S. M. Herald.
Not sports, we barrackers ? That’s how you snout us 1
Unskilled ourselves at games? Dirt, plain and
flat!
And how on earth would Sport get on without us ?
You blithering bleater, kindly tell me that.
It makes me tired, this newspaper flapdoodle.
Who is it fills the air with clamorous glee
And joyous bellowings ? Who brings the boodle
And leaves it at the turnstiles? Who but we?
Not sports ! That sneer, by whomsoever wrote,
Fair gets my goat.
Not sports! For gall that passes understanding
Commend me to this supercilious scribe!
Did ever Romans, bread and games demanding,
Encounter so preposterous a gibe?
Who called into existence gladiators
But those who revelled in the flowing gore
From coigns of safety? Were there no spectators
I wonder who would be a matador.
And how could football boom without the bobs
Of cheering mobs?
How would the clubs maintain their coffers swelling,
And champions come and go, if there were none
To pay their money for the right of yelling
Where games are played and ashes lost or won ?
Not sports? Who is it cricket’s charm that doubles
With roars tumultuous and comments shrill.
Satire that stings and persiflage that bubbles, •
Spontaneous wit and humor from The Hill?
We barrackers not sports? Go, get your head,
Fool critic, read 1
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Make Sure !
“STON EWALL”
SHOES
Mens Wear & Shoe Catalog Free
Jacksons d S SYDNEY I
¥
C\
CuticuraPromotesGo odHsur
Treatment: At night rub Cuticura
Ointment into partings all over the
scalp. Next morning shampoo with
Cuticura Soap and hot water. Re-
peat in two weeks.
Soapls.,Ointment ls.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress: *‘R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
jjUßjjP’Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
JOOAWAM
JHTAVin«»
*•
m
a
IMade Myself HEAD
"I used to be cne of the hands. Luck? Pull?
There’s no such thing in business! Training is
everything. Only three years ago I had your very
job! Standard Technical Books put me where I
am to-day!” That’s the way the head of a big
organisation spoke to one of the younger men.
“ Take a tip from one who knows. Buy a set of
S.T.B. books and let them fit you for a big job, as
they did me. They’re crowded with pay-raising
facts written by noted experts. They are easy to
read, too—charts, diagrams and illustrations make
them as simple as A B C."
“ But don’t take my word for it. Investigate for
yourself—it won’t cost a penny 1” Pick the set you
want, mail the coupon and the books will be sent to
you for 7 days' free inspection.
PAY RAISING BOOKS
at Greatly Reduced Prices
Automobile Engineering, 6 volumes, 2,600
pages, 2,3oopictures. Was £l4 14 0...N0w £lo 10 0
Carpentry and Contracting, 5 volumes, 2,138
pages. l.OOOpictures. Was £l2 12 0...N0w 9 9 0
Civil Engineering, 9 volumes, 3.900 pages,
3,000 pictures. Was £zl 0 0 Now 16 0 0
Accountancy and Business Management,
7 volumes, 3.000 pages, 2,000 pictures.
Was £l5 15 0 .Now 14 0 0
Fire Prevention and Insurance, 4 volumes,
I,soopages,6oopicts. Was£ll 11 0...N0w 7 7 0
Electrical Engineering, 8 vols., 3,800 pages,
3,000 pictures. Was £lB 18 0 Now 14 0 0
Machine Shop Practice, 6 volumes, 2.300
pages, 2,soopictures. Was £l4 14 0...N0w 10 10 0
Steam and Gas Engineering, 7 vols., 3,300
pages,2,soopictures. Was £l5 15 0...N0w 11 11 0
Telephony and Telegraphy, 4 volumes, 1728
pages, 2,ooopictures. Was £lo 10 0...N0w 7 7 0
Sanitation, Heating and Ventilating, 4 vols.,
1,454 pp., 1,400 picts. Was£lO 100...N0w 7 7 0
Drawing, 4 vols., 1,578 pages, 1,000 picts..
Blue prints, etc. Was £lo 10 0 Now 7 7 0
Employment Management and Safety En-
gineering, 7 volumes, 1,800 pages, 540
pictures, charts and diagrams. Was
/-16 16 0 Now 13 13 0
SEND NO MONEY
7 Days’ Free Trial
You be the judge of these books. Don’t send us a
penny but mail the coupon and we’ll send you any
set you want for 7 days’ free examination. Use
them a whole week. If you don’t want them, return
the books at our expense. If you decide to keep
them, remit only 20s. at the end of the week and
20s. a month until the balance is paid. Take the
step toward bigger pay to-day. Before you turn this
page, mail the coupon —NOW !
The Standard Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd , Melbourne
The Standard Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Rialto, 497 Collins St., Melbourne
Please send me set of.
tor 7 DAYS' examination, carriage paid. X will ex-
amine the books thoroughly and, It satisfied, will send
20s. Od. within 7 days and 20s. Od. each month until I
have paid the Bpecial price of If I decide
not to keep the books I will return them at j our ex-
pense at the end of one week.
Name....
Address.
(write plainly)
Employed by.
(Please fill out three lines)
As we are prepared to do business with you on very
easy terms, we’d naturally appreciate knowing a
little about you. Please tell what you feel wili help
us—sending two references if possible. You have
everything to gain and nothing to lose by establish-
ing confidence.
For Sale.
PATENT RIGHTS of Rotary Razor-
Strop for Safety-Razor Blades for
Sale, or will sell to manufacturers on a
Royalty. This is a good opportunity for a
business man, as the strop meets with a ready
sale. Address: CHARLES FORTESCUE,
Ralnarring P. 0.. Victoria.
fgh
Q V
‘Rings may be just baubles or
Exquisite Jewels
alive with the personality of the wearer.
ELICATE hands fittingly adorned with rings are amongst
the world’s ideals of beauty.
No wonder then that they are amongst every true woman s
favourite jewels. Rings a-gleam with gems and set with
an originality that will express her personality.
As makers of fine jewellery for over 80 years, our thorough organisation
and cash buying powers enable us to offer values unapproachable else-
where for high-class jewellery.
3 Choice Diamonds set
in Platinum and ortr
18ct. Gold. Price
Australian Black Opal
and choice Diamonds
set in Platinum n q r
and 18ct. Gold. XoD
2 Choice Diamonds set
in Platinum and flon
lbrt. Gold Price XOU
5 Fine Diamonds set
in Platinum and n «
Ibct. Gold- Price X 1 Z
Fine Blue Sapphire and
2 Diamonds, set in Plati-
num and 18ct Gold/» | r
Price * 1 D
FineßlueSapphirc and
Diamond-, set in Plati-
num and 18ct />no iin
Gold- Price
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY HOUSE IN SYDNEY.
Our Optical Department, under the supervision of Mr. Gardiner, M. 1.0., is fully equipped
to rpndcr the most skilful and modern service.
U?
Zb is Zb Hunter Street Sydney
fg
(Ideal)
FouritKnPen
hfg
It makes
you “right”
for life
Three Type* : Self-Filling, Safety and Regular.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, Ltd., Ccvitcr London, England.
Australia : HAROI.D D. DIXON, ICS, Clarence Street, Sydney.
h
Made in
various
sizes and
styles
from
Vz -pt. up.
VACUUM FLASKS
JARS and CARAFES
When motoring, travelling,
picknicking and on all out-
door trips, ICY-HOT pro-
vides hot drinks or food or
cold refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY- H O T Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY- H O T
Food Jars keep contents
hot 24 hours and Cold
three days without the use
of fire, heat, ice or chem-
icals.
Built for Lifetime Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care
will last a lifetime. Easily
cleaned; absolutely sani-
tary. Look for name ICY-
HOT on bottom.
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 W. Second St., Cincinnati, 0., U S.A.
fgh
Icy-Hot Food Jar
“BETTER THAN TATT’S”
£4000 for 1 /-
KATOOMBA THOUSAND
No. 3.
GIGANTIC ART UNION
in aid of
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ANZAC MEMORIAL HOSPITAL,
Blue Mountains A., H, & I. Society’s Show
Ground Improvement Fund, and Katoomba
School of Arts Building: Fund.
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General.)
1st Prize, 20 h.p. Rolls-Royce £1,850
2nd Prize, 6-Cylinder Buick ... £525
3rd Prize, Beale Player Piano .. £275
Total Prizes value £4,000.
(Values guaranteed.)
Drawn immediately subscribed
or not later than December 7th, 1923.
Results published “Daily Telegraph,” Dec.
8th, 1923; other States, Dec. 15th or before.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post, 1/2. Three or more Post Free.
SIX TICKETS FOR 6/-.
Each Ticket has 145 Chances and can
win Prizes value £4,000.
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope
for result slip.
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
(all branches), Hairdressers and Tobaccon-
ists in City, Suburbs and Country, also
Messrs. Prouds Ltd. and Lassetter’s, Sydney.
EDGAR BOOTH, Hon. Secretary,
Tweedie’s Chambers, Katoomba, N.S.W*
CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic Liquid—32 per cent. Na2o.
Electrolytic Solid—76 per cent. Na2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
BLEACHING POWDER, 33%.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILUE. VICTORIA.
THE INKY WAY.
“0.P.H.”: The Standard is to be the new paper
in Geelong which is to replace the Times, deceased.
A grandson of Angus Maekay, of Bendigo, politi-
cian and proprietor of the ’Tiser, has been made
business manager.
“J.F.H.” (Lond.): Marie Tempest’s reminiscences
are to appear in two volumes, the first dealing with
her travels in Australia, America and S’Afriea; the
second embodying her British theatrical and social
recollections. Her husband, Graham Browne, has been
giving her a hand with the job.
“Buss”: The Albion, among the earliest of Mel-
bourne’s weeklies, had a hectic career. One of its
first editorials was as follows: “We beg to apologise
to our readers for the paucity of matter in this
week’s issue, in consequence of some of our staff
having absconded after having drawn more pay than
was good for them.” After staggering along for 18
issues, its editor and the proprietor were gaoled for
libel, and the paper died.
“Stellsby”: Have the Federal Government and the
Mitchell Library been sold a pup ? This is how Lon-
don News op the World (l/4/’23) puts it:—
“It is a mistake to suppose that the N. S. Wales
Government has bought the original of one of Captain
Cook’s logs. What it has bought is a copy made by
Captain Cook himself and sent home, and for this it
lias paid £5OOO. .. . The original is in the possession
of Mr. R. M. Hudson, the Sunderland shipowner and
formerly one of the M’s.P. for that town, who inheri-
ted it from his maternal ancestor, Admiral Pallisser,
a friend of Captain Cook.”
“Wilfrido”: The latest recruit to the swelling
ranks of M.L. journals is the Critic, a fort-
nightly of current opinion, with a format resembling
that of the Spectator. Its first number is unpre-
tentious: it contains articles on the Dominion, the
economic outlook, the policy of France and historic
peace settlements. An authority who prefers to
be nameless contributes the first of three articles
on India, while an apostle of Labor is given an
opportunity to state a case for his party. The
object of its founders, well-known Auckland men. is
gradually to enlarge the journal and give M.L.
writers the chance of expressing opinions literary,
political and sociological.
“M.D.”: Editor-proprietor St. Loe Straehey, who
when he purchased London Spectator doubled its
circulation in 12 months, is nothing if not pro-
gressive. His latest plan for increasing the number
of subscribers looks at first sight like an industrial
insurance policy. The scheme aims at getting life-
members who will receive a copy of the paper every
week as long as they live, and may be invited to
confer with the editorial staff as to the welfare of
the concern. I can imagine the editorial staff listen-
ing with strained ears to suggestions from the sort
of person who can afford to pay 15 guineas or so —
the rate depends on the subscriber’s age—for the
assurance that he will never have to buy a Spectator
again.
Art in Australia is now one of the accepted
beautiful things of the Commonwealth. The
Mav-July number is rich in illustrations —57 of them,
some in' color (including a reproduction of the Van
Eyck for which the Felton Bequest recently paid
a" small fortune), but the great bulk woodcuts and
etchings. The woodcuts are particularly noteworthy,
not only because of the revival of interest in this
craft, but because of the merit of many of the
pieces. Norman and Lionel Lindsay show a fine
facility in handling this medium, and Lionel has
a couple of blocks that are something like triumphs
in their way. Another to achieve arresting effects
is Napier Waller, though in his case linoleum takes
the place of wood in the “blocks.” A fine number ;
on the artistic side, it can stand proudly alongside
anything of its kind in the world.
The Mitchell Library has acquired an interesting
manuscript, with photographs, pictures and land
plans, entitled “The Romance of the Great Western
Road,” by J. M. Forde —The Bulletin’s “Oldest
Inhabitant.” The road is traced from the obelisk
in Macquarie-place to the site of the old Blue
Mountain Inn at Lawson. “The Romance” contains
the substance of four lectures delivered in Hazel-
brook and Woodford last year. Several popular
legends of the Mountains are discarded or corrected.
It is shown, for instance, that Govett of the “Leap”
was no bushranger, but an early surveyor under
Thomas Livingstone Mitchell. Again, Captain J. E.
N. Bull, of the 99th, who was Commandant on the
Mountains 1842-48, and with whom tradition has
dealt hardly as a tyrannous oppressor, is shown to
have been a humane and lenient officer who earned
the goodwill of the road-makers of the day. Capt.
Bull, who was later to be well known as the first
Gold Commissioner and Warden at Castlemaine and
Bendigo, died not so very long ago at Goulburn in
his 95th year.
“Pax”: The Melbourne Sun presses were work-
ing merrily on the first edition the other day and
the delivery-vans had commenced to scatter abroad
their bundles of wisdom, when suddenly the machines
stopped, and the word was passed that someone
had blundered. The whole office hummed like a
hive of disturbed bees, and relays of messengers
rushed after the vans in a frantic effort to retrieve
their burdens. When the paper was opened there
were long, low whistles and brisk bursts of pro-
fanity. Two blocks, the same size, had been made, one
depicting a tugboat and the other a particularly
nice-looking girl. The stonehands in the com-
posing-room had mixed up this pair, and the
runner-up in the Lord Mayor’s Beauty Competition
appeared over the caption of “Mysterious Founder-
ing” with an intimation that the subject of the
picture had been located on the bed of Sydney
harbor with her plates torn and had been taken
to Mort’s Dock for repairs.
“J.F.K.” : As the writer who received the “magni-
ficent sum of one guinea” for a short story for the
Tasmanian Mail, and the sum of £5 for a serial
story (“Antibluff” B. 31/5/’23), I think it only fair
to state that the short story (my first serious attempt
in that line) was submitted without any expecta-
tion of payment, and merely for any advertisemeht
it might bring. So when the guinea was offered
to me, I accepted joyfully. The £5 was offered
for a serial before the story was written, and after
due consideration I accepted. It was the first serial
by a Tasmanian writer ever published in a Tas-
manian paper ; the consideration which determined me
was not the money (which, however, paid for the
typing and bought me a new hat!), but the publicity
mv name would receive. I argued, like many young
writers would, that it was better to sell a story for
a small amount than not to sell at all. Of course,
having since then sold stories beyond Tasmania, I
now realise that the payment was low; but I
got the encouragement I had hitherto lacked. Put
it to the credit of the Mail, that it is the first Tas-
manian paper to ask for contributions to its regular
issues and to pay for them.
THE SONG OF THE FREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It must be delightfully easy to write —
This modern kind of
I’oetry.
(Sorry, Apollo! Don’t shy darts at me! It’s their
name for it, not mine.)
You just set down your alleged ideas in prose,
Cut it up into lengths,
Any old way,
• —Like this —
Drop in a few unusual words
(“Frore” and “circumvalent” and things like that)
To make it look a bit different
From a slab out of the daily papers ;
Then you sell the result to an editor who has lost
his sense
Of humor ;
And claim brazenly to be ranked with the poets,
The real poets,
Who took pains to give their best, and did
Not
Loaf on the job.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
S. TALBOT SMITH.


ORDER
B. H. P.
STEEL
<?-
>/
-v<e
~9
ft
CS
m.
0^
&
Z
<fe
o
&
FuM Information and Particulars from
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY:
28 O’Connell Street.
ADELAIDE:
28 Franklin Street.
IRON AND STEEL WORKS:
NEWCASTLE.
Cables and Telegrams: “Hematite,” Melbourne.
Why
Pioneer Leather Belting
is Better.
1. —Made from leather tanned in our own tanneries specifically for
belting use.
2. —Greater tensile strength—and therefore best for heavy drives.
B.—Superior grip—less loss of power through slippage.
4. —'Longer wear—many still in use after ten, fifteen and twenty
years.
5. —Reliability—minimum of time lost through repairs and break-
downs.
For these reasons Pioneer Leather Belting has been selected by Australia’s
foremost engineers for use in many of Australia’s largest mining, industrial
and manufacturing plants.
An instance of this is the enormous biscuit-making plant of William
Arnott, Ltd.
The main power-house at Arnott’s Homebush factory generates 800 h.p.,
which is distributed throughout the factory almost exclusively by Pioneer
Leather Belting. The illustration shows a small section of the plant,
where the dough is rolled, preparatory to cutting and baking.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
WAKEFIELD
Read
0
w
OIL
MOTOR
Again in Isle of Man
T ourist T rophy Races
Wins Senior T.T. Race
by Tom Sheard on Douglas,
and Side-Car Event
52 m.p.h. by 3ih.p. Douglas.
JUNIOR T.T. RACE,
2nd and 3rd places and Fastest Lap by 2|h.p. A.J.S.
Fight years in succession, “Castrol”-lubricated motor-cycles have
won the Senior T.T. Races—the blue ribbon of motor-cycling—
and the Junior T.T. Races three years in succession.
“Castrol,” the successful lubricant,
Order it from your Garage.
OIL
that
o
EVERViv/g
ft
v-'
m
Cotton and Mixed Farms
£lOO
deposit
will secure a 100-acre Cotton and Mixed Farm holding
at £lO per acre in the celebrated Dawson Valley—
served by railway (50 miles) direct from Rockhampton
to the property itself, and on one of the finest and best-
known estates in Queensland, Calliungal Estate, Wowan,
Dawson Valley, Queensland. Permanent water from
two fine rivers which traverse the property.
YOUR FARM WORKED FOR YOU.—For those
unable to devote their time to the land, but who wish to
secure a farm property while its price is cheap, we have
made arrangements whereby local farmers and experi-
enced cotton-growers will take purchasers’ farms over
and cultivate them on the Share-Farming basis.
£l5O PER YEAR CLEAR PROFIT (net income after
paying instalment and interest and allowing working farmer
two-thirds of return) is possible from a 100-acre farm having
50 acres Cotton and 50 acres cereals, dairying, etc.
5 YEARS’ TERMS. Annual payments at 5% interest.
Write for plans and all particulars with illustrated booklet —
or call personally to
The Cowan Company, 115 Pitt St., Sydney.
Agents in Queensland:
D. D. DAWSON & CO., William Street, Rockhampton.


The Primary Producers’ Bank of Australia
Limited.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL £704,141
A Mutual Bank Owned and Controlled by the Man on the Land, Operated by carefully selected Bankers of Experience.
FEATURES:
Branches now operating in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and South Australia.
Available resources and deposits loaned only to men on the land.
No loans granted to city merchants or overseas traders.
Interest paid on Current, Fixed, and Savings Deposits.
No charge for keeping accounts. No exchange charged between our branches.
P. W. STRACK, P.A.1.5., F.C.I.S. (En«.), Chief Inspector.
O. L. CARLILE, L.1.C.A., A.8.1.A., Secretary.
19 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sally”
Criterion “Woman to Woman
Royal “The Peep Show”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sybil”
Royal “If Winter Comes”
Princess’s “Tangerine”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Despite its theatre-sodden conventions of
plot and behavior, “Sybil” invites respectful
regard for its music. Little is allowed to
interfere with just attention to the score, and
there are proceedings, like the long second-
act pretence of clandestine amour between
Gladys Moncrieff and Claude Flemming,
wherein the composers have genuine operatic
moments. This scene is easily the best, and
if the business leading to a moist, half-hearted
kiss is rather promiscuous, the voices and the
band make atonement. Elsewhere the com-
posers conduct themselves with taste and
decorum, and the absence of interpolated bal-
lads and freakish pas seuls is a merit in tue
circumstances.
* * * *
Where the piece makes one reluctant to
bestow a superlative is in its inferior dis-
position to levity. The industrious Arthur
Stigant has the external aids of grotesque
embellishment, ranging from a yellow waist
coat to auburn hair; yet with all the grind-
ing routine of his knockabout humor he is
often hardly distinguishable from the type
of farceur whose ability is reckoned in Mel-
bourne by the number of his allusions to
Footscray. Once or twice Stigant seems
trembling on the verge of mentioning that
suburb, but there is rarely an episode-—the
threatened duel with Leslie Holland is an
exception—in which he isn’t producing some-
thing approaching the terrible revelry of the
self-conscious funny man at an evening
party. He works too hard. Many an en-
trance becomes an intrusion through his
merciless exuberance. More welcome is the
soubrettish pertness of Clarice Hardwicke,
who scores a saucy conquest at the expense
of a Lothario of ancient vintage undertaken
by Leslie Holland. The engaging Holland
is always in the picture—always true to his
conception of his fictitious nationality. In
an entertainment not abounding in pic-
turesque characters Claude Flemming has
been handsomely treated with the role of
the Grand Duke Constantine, who, while
waiting to re-establish friendly relations with
his wife, spends a furtive hour with her
impersonator. Flemming is decidedly im-
pressive. His manner rises superior to his
avoirdupois, and the sustained quality of his
singing entitles him to a recognition he has
never earned before. Gladys Moncrieff is
up to standard, but she needs to train down
a bit to depict Sybil’s alleged witchery in
terms of physical charm. The heroic Paul
Petroff grows somewhat stentorian through
the gusty tenor of Robert Chisholm, but the
young man unquestionably has a voice which
only requires training and self-control to
become an expressive instrument. Ethel
“THE FAITHFUL HEART," AT MEL-
BOURNE PALACE.
Chas. Road Knight as Capt. Edgar Ruck-
ham, and Douglas Calderwood as Gil-
bert Oughterson.
Morrison checks any tendency to friskiness
in the Grand Duchess Anna, and appears to
be rehearsing for a coronation. The extra
ladies and gents, have little to do but mobi-
lise for full choral effects, and advertise the
Firm’s munificence in the matter of ward-
robe. The scenery amounts to three interiors,
all of which are fairly striking in color and
design. The show is now at Melbourne
Majesty’s.
* * * si:
Upon the mystery of Life
Mark Sabre oft would brood:
His nature, by his hard young- wife,
Was never understood;
He laughed convention’s rules to scorn
And gave his spouse offence,
For she, a worldling bred and born,
Was stuffed with commonsense.
Life’s lessons Mark declined to learn
And inwardly digest:
• In points that give wise men concern
Mark took no interest.
When Winter came, with fog and mist,
He felt the cold intense
That mostly strikes an egotist
Devoid of commonsense.
To one who has a close acquaintance with
Hutchinson’s novel the drama staged at Mel-
bourne Royal last Saturday is fairly enter-
taining. It excites
one’s curiosity to
begin with. But to
the uninformed “If
Winter Comes”
must be a tiresome
puzzle in its wordy
first part, and a
rather confusing
melodrama after
the trouble begins.
As far as it strays
from the novel,
except in the
humorous introduc-
tion of the Jinks
girls at the inquest,
the sympathy of
the audience is re-
pe 11 ed. Mark
Sabre and his un-
affectionate wife
appear as being six
of one and half-a-
dozen of the other
in the matter of
mild intrigue. Mark
flirts secretly with
Lady Tybar, and
Mrs. Mark gently,
but firmly, repulses
the advances of the
Majah. In the
book the Uriah
Heep-like treachery
o f Twyning to-
wards Mark has a
clear commercial
meaning, but in
the play Twyning
“Back Again," at
Sydney Palace.
Ernest Sefton tries to
send ten pounds home
to mother.
is a highly colored villain of the piece all
the time; consequently some force is lost in
the melodramatic scene where Mark is
baulked of his revenge by the sudden arrival
of his enemy’s domestic sorrow. Neverthe-
less, Leslie Victor’s impersonation of the
hateful Twyning is a notable feature of the
show. His knock-out, on hearing of his
son’s death, is sufficiently indicative of the
cowardly, self-centred character of the dirty
dog. His heart is torn with pity for himself,
and his contemptible soul yearns for condo-
lence.
* * * *
Of the people imported with “If Winter
Comes” there can be no question that Garry
Marsh was well chosen for the hero part,
and Jane Savile for that of wife Mabel.
Perhaps the lady is even more convincing
than the man, because the dramatist has
made her objection to Effie and the Baby
more understandable than Mark’s inability
to arrange a temporary compromise with
her. Miss Ailsa Grahame is picturesque and
pleasing as the sketchy Nona, and Miss
Muriel Martin-llarvey is not unacceptable
as Effie, though she quite fails to realise the
personality of a sunshine damsel who would
be so guileless in her trouble as to bring a
bundle of suspicion into her benefactor’s
home. Of the unimported people, in addi-
tion to Leslie Victor, George Blunt, Sidney
Stirling, Atholwood, Wykeham, Lorna Helms
and Georgia Harvey do well. Nobody does
badly, indeed. The acting, like the mount-
ing, is artistic.
* * s’: *
The art of Moiseiwitsch has matured since
he was three years younger, and the charm
of his performance is honestly admitted by
the comparatively undemonstrative majority
who bring a sane mind to consider it. As
for the “enthusiasm” of music-lovers, mock
and otherwise, they bring it boiling to the
recitals, and would go equally mad if Moisei-
witsch were a less brilliant executant and
interpreter. One night last week the gifted
pianist made a profound impression witlj
the Chopin sonata, which includes the Fun-
eral March. The same evening brought a
splendid performance of Liszt’s setting of
the Tannhauser Overture, amounting in
effect to more than a small orchestra’s treat-
ment of the hackneyed composition. This
(Thursday) afternoon Moiseiwitsch caters at
the Town Hall for the crowd that rarely
braves Melbourne’s wintry night air in quest
of musical delights.
“Tangerine” is brisking up at Melbourne
Princess’s, though there are still one or two
features that call for amendment. One of
them is the ukulele orchestra, which ought
to be bribed with a few sacks of beads to go
away to the next island and play the reign-
ing cannibal to death. Also, the mournful
Glee Singers, who look like Hawaiian Boy
Scouts, could be curbed without any strong
remonstrance on the part of the audience.
On the other hand, the utmost latitude should
be allowed to Mark Daly, May Beatty and
the dancing-girls.
** * *
These are restful times at two of the Mel-
bourne theatres. Grossmith ends to-night his
period of “Quarantine” at Melbourne King’s,
where silence will supervene until Lauder
comes on Saturday, July 7. The same date
is earmarked for the advent of “Rockets” at
the Palace, whence the “Bulldog Drummond”
co. has departed.
** * *
The shade of the late Wallace Reid is get-
ting “Thirty Days” at Hoyt’s, Melbourne,
this week, and the reason for the imprison-
ment is a jealous Dago husband. In “Hush
Money” at the same house Alice Brady re-
pents (with waterworks) a dubious deed
in an otherwise in-no-cent past. “The Power
of a Lie,” a Universal tear-squeezer, is pro-
bably convincing many of Hoyt’s customers
of the necessity for veracity in the ’ome.
The Majestic is making much of “Thorns and
Orange Blossoms,” another divagation on the
Carmen motif, in which a Spanish prima
donna tries to make a hash of a young man’s
life. The moral tale of Tenderheart who be-
came a fervid exterminator of town bullies
under the stimulating influence of a Western
wench is related in the supporting fiction,
“His Back Against the Wall.” Not the least
of the features of “Truxton King” at the
Melba is a Marathonic embrace that Theda
Bara would have loved to copyright. Anti-
ng, a man-eating vamp, is at large in “Miss-
ing Husbands” at the Britannia. She also
has a hug that will take some beating.
V * * 9T
“Woman to Woman,” at Sydney Cri., in
which Gertrude Elliott (Lady Forbes-Robert-
son) is starring, is a sex-problem play carry-
ing a full cargo of sentiment and emotional-
ism. It deals with the relations of one man
with two women —(1) his society wife who
refuses to bear him a child, and (2) a charm-
ing and passionately loving dancer whom he
meets at Paris during war-time, and who
repairs the omission. The first act brings
together David Anson-Pond and his uncon-
sciously unlawful and tenderly-devoted affin-
ity ; also it introduces him to his child and
compels him to explain his duplicity. After
that the playwright set himself to bring
about a happy ending to the domestic tangle,
and his ingenuity couldn’t suggest any other
plan than to make Louise Deloryse rise to
the heights of self-sacrifice by handing over
the boy to his father’s wife, which enables
him to’inherit a magnificent patrimony, while
Mrs. Anson-Pond is gradually wrought upon
to recede from her first attitude of fiery jeal-
ousy and taunting scorn and become mag-
nanimously forgiving and acquiescent. The
plot, all things considered, is on the mushy
side, but there is clever and occasionally
powerful dialogue, and there are vibrant, sit-
uations which Gertrude Elliott and Lilias
Waldegrave exploit with considerable success.
There isn’t much for David himself (W.
Cronin-Wilson) to do, except to exhibit as
much remorse and penitence as the embar-
rassing situation calls for. He is a foil for
the two women, and makes a tolerable best
of a sorry enough part. Miss Elliott acts
finely and convincingly, as far as such a play
permits of convincingness; she captures and
holds the audience without undue vehemence
or passion-tearing. The curtain went down
the first night amid a display of genuine en-
thusiasm. Miss Waldegrave played the scorn-
ful and subsequently relenting wife with
arresting quality. The clearness of the enun-
ciation was notable in either case; so was
the gorgeousness of the frocking. The prin-
cipals are well sustained ; among the minor
characters Henriette (Miss Ann McEwen)
and Dr. Gavron (Aubrey Mather) are
selected for honorable mention.
* * *
“Sally,” at Sydney Majesty’s, is in her
final lap at last. After dispensing mirth and
melody for six months, the little lady will
say au revoir to her adorers on Friday week.
* sfc SK #
Herschel Henlere, just finishing his last
week at Sydney Tivoli, changed his turn for
the last few nights, and in place of the comic
musical mixture offers Rachmaninoff’s “Pre-
lude,” Rimsky Korsakov’s “Song of India,”
and such-like. Also he introduces with some
success a rather-decent-in-spite-of-its-name
recitation, “The Shooting of Dan McGrew.”
Alan Brooks maintains his deserved popu-
larity with “Dollars and Sense”; Bert Har-
row is received by the gods and some others
with open- arms; and newcomers Haywood
and Hay deserve a mention for their bright
little songandance. But the nasal atrocities
of Olive Carew and Helen Boice inspire this
page with a will to live to the end of their
season just to be able to say with a full
heart, “Thank God !”
Sydney Lyceum hangs out the “Dangerous
Curve Ahead” sign for the benefit of married
couples who go joy-riding; and Earle Wil-
“Bach Again,” at
Sydney Palace.
Hector St. Clair as a
happy schoolboy.
liams turns up on
the same strip of
calico to collect
the kisses at the
fade-out after be-
ing mixed up in a
goreless South
American revolu-
tion. The Lyric
reserves its second
part for an Aussie
production called
“The Dingo.” This
specimen of local
fauna, possessing
but two legs, is
pretty certain to
engender some
heat on pages 22
and 24. The
ghost of W allace
Reid now haunts
the silver screen:
its owner’s last
and almost-best
effort is keeping
the Strand in good
humo r. Hall
Caine “study
circles” are mak-
ing a pilgrimage to
the Globe to cry
over one of the
Master’s pinkiest
creations, “T h e
Christian”; “Oli-
ver Twist” is ask-
ing for more at
the Crystal Palace,
an d incidentally
“p itch e r” man-
agers are doing the same thing. They struck
a brilliant idea when they invented what they
call “de luxe rates of admission.” Thus
the public was stung for from 2s. SJd. to
4s. 4d. on the holiday night. The Piccadilly
has buried its bone and is giving “Turn to
the Right” a breeze, and Hoyt’s won’t have
to go to the counter-lunch so long as it has
the comical Lupino Lane on the premises.
Adelaide Royal is resting after the excite-
ment of “Sybil,” over which the public went
rather mad. The last night saw an enthusiastic
audience crammed uncomfortably in every
available corner of the house. Grossmith
comes next. Also Gerardy is moving back.
Meanwhile the Prince of Wales’s carries on
with a bright variety bill, with the Southern
Singers, in plantation melodies, and the
dancer Terpsichore doing some sensational
feats. At the Majestic, Jim Gerald and his
co. still provide half the show, but their long
season is nearing its end; Ruth Bucknall
sings well, and Marie St. George shows how
Galatea came to life.
** * *
Blamire Young reappears in Melbourne:
His art, which is showing at the Fine Art
Society’s Gallery, is settling down into a mellow
middle age. Of course, we still get the old man-
nerism—the twiddlesome bits of flat foreground de-
tail on a broad decorative panel of background, while
the blotchy, skiagraphic trees continue to huddle on
some curve of the middle distance; but the color
schemes are more subdued and the achievement is
distinguished by a craftier simplicity. The first
picture in his catalogue, “Grey Day at Moorool-
bark,’’ is a change from his average work, and if
there were a few more of the same charming kind
one might declare that a ripe talent was definitely
emerging from 'the fog of Japanese impressionism.
But the earlier Blamire persists too strongly for one
to suspect him of a less theatrical attitude to
Nature. The artist demonstrates his Soul in such a
complex effusion as “Gypsy Vans,” wherein the vans
and gypsies are muddy foreground phantoms before
a lavender-tipped hill which is almost photographic
in its veracity. You are also confronted with an
“October Evening, Hampshire,” which is very
pretty and buyable, yet strikes you as a pic-
torial exercise for the exploitation of the painter’s
personality. Take further the graceful designs, “A
Dream of Flanders,” “Evening on the River,” and
“Castle from the North,” and though a certain bril-
liancy of effect is undeniable, the steady parade of
the technique grows wearisome at times. It is when
Young is more delicate in method that he touches
one more. Despite its self-evident artificiality, the
present commentator prefers a little thing like
“Elms in Mist” to a bale of the larger studies.
4c * * *
Dawn, with a promise in it: —
A freedom from conventional artifice in the depic-
tion of simple outdoor effects is the welcome charac-
teristic of Clarice Beckett, who is giving her first
show of pictures at the Melbourne Athenaeum. Most
of her efforts are low-toned land and seascapes, a
little monotonous in their almost unvarying greyness ;
but they are all sincerely painted, and, in instances
like the small “Dead Tree, Sherbrooke,” provide an
impression of distance and loneliness which some other
artists couldn’t obtain in ten times the canvas. A
study of a gum- and pine-tree (No. 24) is commend-
able for its accuracy and restraint, and “A White
Gum” (No. 39) is also well handled. In still lifes
Miss Beckett reveals a special talent. The, daisies in
No. 20 and the carnations in No. 23 will Satisfy the
most exacting eye.


3
L:
X
m
"m
A
4s?
Whieh man did not
shave with the “VALET”
jdutoStrop this morning?
¥OOK round the compariment and see the
bright, clean shaved morning faces—all of
J J men conscious that they are looking iheir
best and feeling their best. There behind his
newspaper is the unfortunate man who knew
not the “Valet ’ Auto Strop. He keeps instinc-
tively in the background.
Managing Agents for Australia : PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 42 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The “Valet" Auto Strop is a safety razor and
stropping machine combined. It sharpens its
blades in a few seconds by an ingenious
device built into the head of the razor, and can
be cleaned and stropped without removing the
blade. You save the cost of the “ Valet Auto-
Strop many times in the year by stopping the
wastage of purchasing “ throw-away blades#
“Wanstead,”
Ruby Street, Mosman,
Messrs. Phipson & Co. Ltd., 11/d/ -3.
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —I have used various kinds of Safety
Razors for over 20 years, and having recently bought a
“Valet” Auto-Strop Razor ain decidedly of the opinion
that it is undoubtedly the best that 1 have ever used,
shaving cleaner and closer than any other, and quite
the most convenient for cleaning and stropping.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) R. B. JONES.
Of all high class dealers
{Rritish z%Cade.
N. 101. MODEL “C” SET.
Besides the well-known, highly-
finished set which has won and
retained its place as the world's
tinest shaving implement, there
is now obtainable a less expen-
sively finished model known as
Model “ C.” This consists of
“Valet” Razor, strop and three
blades, in durable metal case,
complete at
%
SQUARE DEAL SALE
rz.
9k
t
H
3 Square Deals in
LEVIATHAN TAILORING
New Winter Suitings.
A Suit Tail©red-to-Order for
Such an amazing opportunity may never come again! We do not disguise
the fact that this particular line of Tailored-to-Order Suits, at such a
remarkably low price, are partly machine-made. The cut, fit and make are
guaranteed. Send to-day for patterns of our magnificent range of All-
Wool Tweeds.
fgh
£7/17/6 Guaranteed Indigo Twills 8 Tweeds for
These Suitings are made from Super-Worsted Yarns of fine texture, including
All-Wool selected Australian Tweeds in shades of Greys and Browns. All linings
and trimmings are of a superior quality.
fg
£lllll/- Best Worsted Suitings for
Take advantage of this splendid offer ! Fashionable Imported Worsteds medium weights
suitable for present wear, in Wedgwood Blues, Lovats, Light and Dark Greys and Pin-
point designs. Finest linings and trimmings are used throughout.
£9/1916
OUR SQUARE DEAL LEAFLET DEPICTING BARGAINS FROM OUR LADIES’,
MEN’S AND BOYS’ DEPTS. POST FREE ON REQUEST.
ORDER BY POST
■WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, Melbourne
PTY.
LTD.
*
V
&
/
o
■ ~


The Federal,
Melbourne.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
hfg
h
Fox Rifles.
FOX-SKINS ARE DEAR. RIFLES ARE
CHEAP. WINCHESTER REPEATERS, as
illustrated. Under-lever action; full or half
magazine. Rifles, 24in. barrels. Carbines, 20in.
barrels: 25/20, 32, 38 and 44 Cal., £B.
MARLIN REPEATERS. Similar to illustration.
Under-lever action; side ejection. Take-down
pattern; 44 Cal. An ideal rifle at a marvel-
lously low price, £5/10/-
WINCHESTER .303 REPEATERS. Under-
lever action. A neat and reliable rifle for long-
distance shooting: 28in. barrels, £l3/10/-
Also Carbines. 22in. barrels, £l2/10/-
ROSS .303 REPEATERS. Bolt action. Still a
few left. Don’t let the chance slip bv.
£6/10/-
BROWNING F.N. 9mm. AUTOMATIC RIFLE.
Neat, compact, quick and accurate. £l5.
Send for Catalog, Post Free, or for special
information on Browning 9mm. rifle.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
318 Little Collins Street. Melbourne,
Poverty
Point
L,T,PIVER.PARIS.
THE FACE POWDER
de Luxe
COMPENSATIONS.
“ Isn’t it a shame that clever men are always
so poor and rich ones generally so fool-
ish!”
“Oh, well, it makes the rich ones easier for
us to catch.”
From The Bulletin’s Melbourne critic:
When we are historical let us at least be accurate.
In an Argus notice of the death of Kate Bishop I
read, to my astonishment, that the mother of Marie
Lohr “was engaged about 38 years ago to appear in
Australia as leading lady of an English comedy co.,
organised by Mr. Arthur Garner, who was in partner-
ship for some years with Mr. J. C. Williamson and
Mr. George Musgrove. A very favorable impression
was made by Miss Bishop’s work in the comedy,
‘The English Rose.’ After the season of the Eng-
lish comedy co. she took the principal feminine
parts”—as though Kate Bishop ever could
have been engaged for masculine parts—“with
Mr. George Rignold’s company.” Heaven knows
how Kate Bishop came to be associated with
“The English Rose” in the mind of any-
one who remembers the production of that ill-
fated melodrama by the J.C.W. firm. The co. that
played it was not Garner’s English Comedy lot, nor
did it appear until some time after Kate Bishop had
been imported to Australia by Rignold and Allison, not
W., G. and M. That was in 1884, and the first
notable success Rignold and Allison’s new leading
lady scored was in the farcical comedy “Confusion,”
which was out of the line for which Rignold had
engaged her. In England, the year previous, Kate
Bishop had played in the original production of
“Confusion,” at London Vaudeville, with Phil Day-
in the principal-man part; and although Rignold, 1
fancy, tried to be a farcical comedian when the
comedy reached these shores, it was Phil Day who
resumed his old “Confusion” association with Kate
Bishop when the piece was staged by Rignold’s firm
in Melbourne, in January, 1885. Phil had then
broken away from the W., G. and M. firm, with whom
he had set the old pattern for Jaikes in “The Silver
King.” What struck me in the appearance of Kate
Bishop at that time was her general physical expan-
sion since I had seen her in London some six years
earlier in a revival of “The Two Roses.” She was a
big-framed woman, and at 38 she had a mighty pair
of shoulders. An effective actress in melodrama (not
to mention her occasional work in Shakspearean char-
acters), Kate Bishop was never quite so first-class
in heavy parts as she had been in young-girl charac-
ters.
“Wodgil”: Though not exactly a great
actress, Kate Bishop was a great old woman.
When she married L. J. Lohr in 1885 she
was rising 38 and had earned her living on
the boards for 19 years. Marie Lohr arrived,
at Sydney, when the mother was two months
short; of 43. At 51 Kate was back in Eng-
land beginning her stage career over again.
The Kendals took her up, and thanks partly
to their influence, but chiefly to her own
solid merits, she never lacked for engage-
ments until her retirement, at 68. Between
1902 and 1915 she was engaged every year,
except 1910, in one of the West End theatres.
When Kate was 60 and Marie 17 they
appeared together in “The Other Side.” At
66 the indomitable old lady toured as Mrs.
Gilbey in “Fanny’s First Play”; in the
same year (1913) she impersonated Mrs.
Cortelyon in “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray” ;
at 67 she was Lady Schmaltz in “Search-
lights” and at 68 Lady Matilda Rye in “The
Case of Lady Camber.” That was her last
part.
From an elderly gent, with a sore head :
Perhaps with the idea of compounding for the sins
of contemporary “criticism,” as well as of paying
a courtly compliment to two distinguished women,
the Sydney Institute of Journalists has been entertain-
ing Nellie Stewart and Mrs. Robert Brough at lunch.
It is a mournful fact that these excellent ladies,
whose association with the Australian stage goes
back 40 years, have left no successors who measure
up to their standard. I can’t name any young-
native-born actress at present employed in the Com-
monwealth who is entitled to be mentioned in the
same breath with Miss Stewart, Mrs. Brough, Flo
Young and Vi Varley, of fragrant memories.
The reason is not far to seek. When Nellie and
Florence were girls the actress who aspired to
reach the top of the theatrical bidder was expected
to have natural ability and charm. She had to
learn her profession in an exacting school. Suc-
cess was reached always via the broad and honest
track of unremitting toil —there was no short cut
through the offices of mercenary or gullible news-
papers. In those days’ the press-agent had not
arrived. Now he is three parts of the business. Be-
cause of his fatal skill in pulling legs, girls immature
in mind or person (sometimes both) are imposed on
the playgoer in roles for which their unfitness is
glaring and are accepted, nevertheless, as finished
actresses. One result is that their little heads swell
to an abnormal size and they become too high and
mighty ever to learn their trade.
Some of these misguided young women rush away
to Europe or America and either crash once and for
all or descend gradually to a humble level. (It is
significant that all the Australians who have succeeded
abroad during the last dozen years—Reggie, Elsie
Mackay, the Pounds girls and Florence Fawaz, for
instance —never basked in the glory of the press-
agent’s praise.) Others remain to enjoy their brief
day of more or less fraudulent fame, whereupon
they are mostly moved down (or out) to make room
for undistinguished importations.
Mortifying as the fact is, we have no home-grown
young actress of outstanding ability in the Common-
wealth at this moment. But there are more than
enough of self-sufficient young footlighters who mis-
take bawling and squawking for singing and who
gabble and mispronounce their native tongue, the
development of their natural talents, such as they
are, having been arrested, permanently perhaps, by
dishonest boosting and ignorant applause.
The dear old “mug”-public, whose taste has been
debauched by American pitchers and ragtime revues,
and which has an insatiable appetite for idiotic
small-talk about the ladies of the theatre, is, of
course, responsible to some extent. But mostly I
blame the press-agent and his newspaper accomplices.
“The Deacon” : Recent comments on pro-
vincial tours which have been disastrous to
the tourists recall the crash Melba came on
her travels through the North Coast
(N.S.W.) cow country. In Casino there was
onlv one hall available, and that belonged
to the local School of Arts.. When xMelba
saw the meagre congregation she was in-
wardly volcanic, but said nothing. Not till
after the show did she discover that the
library, smoking-room and so forth were on
the floor above. The night was warm, and
the hall windows had to be left wide open,
which enabled half the town to hear the
concert from the street. That was bad
enough, but when it dawned upon the “diver,”
as the cockies called her, that the mob who
had been toadying to her at the civic wel-
come had availed themselves of their 2s. 6d.
per quarter library privilege to hear a guinea
concert buckshee —well, it extended even
Nellie’s vocabulary.
"Nella”: Talking about full-blooded Ameri-
can negroes on the stage, does anyone remem-
ber the tragedian who came here in ’B7 and
was billed as “the Black Wilson Barrett”?
I heard him do Othello’s speech to the
Senators at a Sunday-night concert at the
Sydney Royal.
“Mancam”: Since we are looking for dirt
in the classics, how about “Pericles” being
Sha-kspeare’s most “unpleasant” play—that
it, if Bill really wrote it? It is the
AFTER ALL, SHE WAS A WOMAN.
PIERROT: “Why won't you marry me? You know I
love you!”
PIERROT: “Yes, I know, dear; hut you told rue you
couldn’t live without me, and — well, I'm just
dying to find out.”
first and most vital of all the white-
slave shockers, and the three scenes laid in
the business establishment of the Mit.vlene
Flossies have a wealth of frank Paphian
color that makes “Damaged Goods” look
chaste.
“L.11.P.": Reading a Life of E. L. Blan-
chard, a well-known panto.-writer in the
latter part of the last century, I came across
the following:—
April 17, 1876. —To Adelphi, Mr. and Mrs. J. C.
Williamson in “Struck Oil.” Both very fair actors,
but the drama not remarkable.
August 5, 1876. —To “Arrah-na-Pogue,” at Adelphi,
for the first time at this house. The Williamsons
played finely.
In the Boucicault play J.C.W. and his wife
had the support of Shiel Barry, an Austra-
lian (destined in later years to be famous
as Gaspard in “Les Cloches”), as Michael
Feeny; the ill-fated Bill Terriss as Mac-
Coul, and Sam Emery as Colonel O’Grady.
The Williamsons appeared in London under
the management of Chatterton, who ruled
Drury-lane and the Princess’s as well, but
their engagement ended when they very pro-
perly refused to appear in a revival of “The
Shaughraun,” which was not Chatterton’s
property, but had not then been copyrighted
by Boucicault.
“Orb”: “Hamfat” asserts (B. 21/6/’23)
that George Rignold “combined an excep-
tional talent for acting with a poor head
for business.” Those who knew G.R.’s busi-
ness capabilities will smile at this. Also,
Rignold didn’t transfer to the Lyceum from
Sydney Majesty’s, but went on to the Mel-
bourne Royal and a profitable season. He
made Her Majesty’s pay for upwards of
eight years with his own show, a perform-
ance unapproached by any other Australian
actor-manager. AM Woods, his successor at
Her Majesty’s, didn’t last as many months,
and his successors fizzled out in a few -weeks.
Rignold had such a poor head for business
that he retired and lived comfortably ever
afterwards on the proceeds, and even left a
tidy roll when he made his final exit.
“Second Murderer” : I suspect that neither
“G.A.C.” nor “0.K.” ever played in Shaks-
peare or they wouldn’t gush about the “fat
small parts” of the Bard. “G.A.C.” (B.
21/6/’23) says “no Shakspearean can ever
complain of having a poor part.” Has he
ever had to balance himself on a wobbly
rostrum as the Governor of Harfleur and
listen to Henry Y.’s yards of talk, shiver-
ing the while for fear his own seven poor
lines that follow wall not be vigorous enough
to satisfy his Majesty? Has he ever had to
wait all night to blow on as Jaques de Boys
at the tail-end of “As You Like It,” and
then try to be convincing? How about Ber-
nardo, who stands like a policeman with
Horatio and Marcellus through most of
scene 2 act 1 of “Hamlet,” listening to that
loquacious sermoniser, and having nothing
to say through the whole dreary scene but
"Longer, longer!” in chorus? Garrick him-
self couldn’t look animated and intelligent
through it all. Ross in “Macbeth” is the
accepted pattern of a bad part. “G.A.C.”
cites the Doctor in the same tragedy. How
about the waiting-gentlewoman who “feeds”
him? Shakspeare wrote more rotten acting
parts than any other 10 dramatists. Gimme
Dion Boucicault or Henry Arthur Jones.
“Pollio” : In the controversy about Shaks-
peare’s most unpleasant play “Measure for
Measure” gets my vote. It is. the
only genuine Shakspearean pro-
duction (there is a doubt about
“Titus Andronicus”) that has ever
broken through the patriotic pro-
Bardism of the London Times. When
Charles and John Kemble and
Mrs. Siddons played it at Covent
Garden in 1811. the Thunderer
described it as “beyond any com-
petition the most offensive play in
the English language.” The pro-
ducers were, in fact, “deliberately
insulting a British Public —and
when we speak of a British Public
we speak of a multitude of both
sexes of the most enlightened, the
most decorous, and the most pure-
minded people that are now to be
found in the world.” The last sen-
tence may be commended to Em-
pire Day orators. But—how one
wishes that modern newspapers
would occasionally let themselves
go in that fashion, and say
straightout what they really think
of the stuff we are fed with !
“Lud”: “Angelo” (B. 14/6/’23)
isn’t tin 1 only loser that the Drury-
lane people have backed since their
success with “Decameron Nights,”
nor is the misfortune peculiar to
them. This year 15 plays at West
End theatres have averaged runs
of 36 performances each. “An-
gelo” lasted three weeks at the
Lane, and “Ned Kean of Old
Drury” was under sentence at the
end of the same period. “Ned”
was kept on at the instance of a
Scotch-whisky distiller, one Green-
lees, who rose in the stalls on
what was to have been the last
night and offered to stand the
exes, for a month. His offer was accepted
and the Scotsman can boast that he has made
history as well as whisky.
“Ancient Prompter”: The English con-
stellation of high-priced stars had finished
its Sydney season and was about to set out
for Brisbane. Its cockney comedian sur-
prised the manager by requesting an increase
of salary for the Queensland visit. “In
Heaven’s name, why?” asked the staggered
boss. “Well, guv’nor, it’s like this,” ex-
plained the imported button-burster; “I hear
the pubs in Brisbane keep open till 11
o’clock. That’s five hours longer than Syd-
ney. As it’s all I can do to make my money
last till 0 o’clock here, how am I to get along
there?”
“O. Blin”: A Great Comedian, now in this
part of the world, was lately accosted by a
down-and-out who claimed to have known
the celebrity in his youth. “Nevah heard of
you,” the magnifico asserted. But the caller
was not to be so lightly dismissed. “Do you
remember ” (naming a once-prominent
London music-hall) “and your first appear-
ance as an emergency?” he inquired. “Yes,
I remember it well,” the wondering genius
admitted, “but I don’t recall seeing you
there.” “No, you never saw me, but you heard
me,” answered the other wickedly. “I was
the usher. I mean, I was the applause.”
“T. 0.1.” : Before Eloise Juno reached Dun-
edin (B. 21/6/’23) she had served a
three-years’ apprenticeship with Mrs. Wynd-
ham, of the Queen’s Theatre, Edinburgh.
For the first two years she got no salary ; in
the third year she received 10s. a week. In
the early ’sixties Miss Juno and her mother
migrated to M.L. to join a member of the
family who had settled there. They arrived
at Port Chalmers in the ship Ethereal on
June 6, 1864, to find him in poor circum-
stances. Eloise, with mother’s consent, ap-
plied to Clarence Holt, manager of the Dun-
edin Theatre, for an engagement. He sug-
gested a week’s work without pay to show
what she could do, and Eloise gladly agreed.
Holt played Hamlet, Juno Ophelia, and Marion
Dunn (afterwards Mrs. Marcus Clarke)
Osric. Then Eloise —still on the unpaid list
—played her crack part, the Bonnie Fish-
wife ; and, Dunedin being a Scotch settle-
ment, it took on. At the end of the week
Holt pressed an envelope into her hand. She
expected nothing, and would have been con-
tent with half-a-sovereign, but there was a
tprl-nminrl-noi-p insirlp
VAUDEVILLE’S CRYING NEED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I sing ‘cry’ ballads, or ‘onion songs,’ or ‘sob-
stuff,’ whatever you like to call them, and I think
Sydney will like my songs. The latest I made a hit
with in New York is, ‘Why Do I Cry Over You'?’ ”
— Newly-arrived Tivoli star.
Gee! Sobstuff, they just love it! So no wonder that
I shove it
Down their throats at any show where I perform.
Let’s be happy—start ’em crying! That’s the way.
there’s no denying,
To “get” your audience! Their hearts will warm
When you hand ’em out a chorus framed, just like
a plaster porous,
To draw their sentiment; each patron longs
For any sort of drivel that’s con rived to make him
snivel.
My ! Ain’t I it when singing “onion songs” !
Oh boy, I guess I knock ’em ! Songs that make ’em
weep 1 stock ’em ;
I've enough in hand to iLod this town for years.
Laughs? I don’t go in for that stuff', for it’s way-
back junk and flat stuff.
If a hit you want to make, go strong for tears;
The g'uvs who pay their money sure don’t want a
thing that’s funny,
And I’d never touch it with a pair of tongs.
“Mommer,” “baby”—sing ’em quiet, they’re a cinch
to cause a “riot”—
Get your hankies ready for my “onion songs” !
Bless the men, the dear old gabies, they are nothing
but cry-babies,
Each with a big heart beating ’neatli his vest;
And it’s me that knows his failing, so my art is all
plain sailing—
I sing the song and Nature does the rest.
I have “tried out” all my ditties in the “dry”
Amurkan cities,
Where they’re easy marks all thinking of their
wrongs ;
I’m a turn that’s bright and cheerful, for I make
the whole house tearful,
When I’m squealing my appealing “onion songs.”
VICTORIA.
BILL BILE.


r
Put on
Good Australian
BARNET GLASS
BOOMERANG TYRES
for Quality. Economy
i ■ ■■p■ i
| • _ ._„±-_— ' -‘1:.
Hi
1 H
■:....
]n :
m
111111111111
a
i
i
• -
k.
■
H
■ «&*.
a .
mm
mm
: : :
I
8
I
LAND
fgh
US


m
m
.■ ■ -aaaaa : a;; <*•
1 4.
. a .
■
wm : ;
.
liiiiiilfe :
1 *****
mm
~,:
Mk
- . A ~
. a . * - :.
.
i h aaH
- .| L ff I '
■ 4iiit :
I %
■ £*-■
e
as
, «.* 11 ? ; r mZ
; : *,%i,r a*
1
II
~„t '’ -
■ - : -
■ ■
!»
/**?££
fill ■*fiar' s^®aai»J
-
s i -
,
■ 2% ■■?*-■ 1>:
f*
f
: £ i
I
••■ a
■UpJKa^”!
;sf»-sS;^
a
•' .1-W
II a
a®#
■aa
*
aanniii
pP/4
5/m s Wit
tv VS
r.v
■ itmrmmm I
I l-m-i
■
i
■ :
■
■I
ißiiii
: a ' •
111
I
HI
11
111
11
■
8 : 1 1
mm
■ ...... ■ ■ ■ ■ ; . ■ :.■■■■
■
.
Presbyterian Assembly Hail, Collins St., Melbourne.
Architects: Messrs. Geo. C. Inskip & Henry H. Kemp.
ALL FLOORS REINFORCED WITH B.R.C. FABRIC .
m
arMfiilHilßihti
fghfgh
Greater strength and safety are the two outstanding
features that make B.R.C. Reinforcements preferred for
all types of structures by architects and builders the
world over.
Further recommendations of B.R.C. Fabric are its accu
racy of spacing and the ease with which it can be accu
rately laid in position by the ordinary workman.
The severest tests under all conditions have served to
emphasise the advantages of B.R.C. Fabric.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone 8861. Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:—
VICTORIA Goilin & Co. Pty. Ltd.) Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide,
WEST AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA T. Tabart, Jun., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND John Burns & Co., Ltd., Auckland,
Made in
Australia
From Australian
Materials.
»
r A
Fabric
nn.UHjllimit II up 111
3ESE


The Missing Pearls,
(By PHLOX.)
my pearls, my precious mascot!
The necklet was given me by a
Roumanian Prince, and I never make
a first-night appearance unless wearing it.”
Miss St. Julian, the celebrated English
actress, an Australian management had been
fortunate in securing for a season, had only
arrived in Sydney the day before, with other
members of the company, and was making
her Sydney debut that evening. When she
retired for the night she watched her maid
put the precious pearls away. In the morn-
ing they were gone.
To the suggestion that her maid had taken
them Miss St. Julian turned a deaf ear. She
trusted Marie as she would her own sister.
A notice telling of the missing pearls and
the reward offered for them was posted up
in the hotel. The head detective had just
remarked that it was one of the most baffling
cases he had met, when a hotel guest came
along with the startling information that in
the dead of night he had seen a very beautiful
woman tiptoe into Miss St. Julian’s room,
and just as noiselessly tiptoe out again with
something in her hand. To the detective’s
inquiry as to what he himself was doing awake
at that hour of the night, he explained that,
the night being insufferably hot, he had left
his door open, and he had seen the vision
from his bed.
“Would you know her again?”
“Certainly, she had a wealth of golden hair,
a perfect complexion, and soulful grey eyes.
Sh—sh ! There she is.”
“Miss Mountford, I believe,” inquired the
detective. “This is Mr. Vernon. He tells me
that he saw you steal into Miss St. Julian’s
room about midnight.”
Miss Mountford laughed merrily.
“This is no laughing matter,” the detective
reminded her. “Were you in Miss St.
Julian’s room about midnight?”
“Yes.”
“What for?”
“To borrow something. Miss St. Julian
was asleep, so I took it.”
“Took what?”
“Oh, I’ll explain that little matter to Miss
St. Julian herself when I see her.”
“You know her pearls are missing?”
“Good heavens! You surely are not hint
ing that I took them?”
“Well, there’s the circumstantial evidence,
and many a person has been convicted on
that. Miss St. Julian swears by her maid’s
honesty, and the hotel management swears by
its staff.”
“If the imputation were not so preposter-
ous, I should say you were insulting me.”
Miss St. Julian then came to the door tc
inquire if there were any developments.
“Oh, you’re there, Ida,” she remarked tc
Miss Mountford. “Assisting the detectives, I
presume?”
“Well, the detective and this gentleman
have as good as told me that I took the pearls.”
“Nonsense.”
“But Miss Mountford acknowledges steal-
ing quietly into your room about midnight.”
“I went in to borrow something.”
“What did you borrow?” asked the detec-
tive, eyeing her critically.
“I know,” said Miss St. Julian, “that my
tin of mercolized wax is missing as well as
my pearls.”
“That's what I borrowed, and your tin
of stallax as well, because my dressing-case
has been mislaid. I knew you wouldn’t mind.”
“Of course, not; but I did miss the mer
colized wax after my bath.”
“What is mercolized wax, and what is
stallax?” asked the detective.
“Mercolized wax,” replied Miss St. Julian,
“is that wonderful preparation with which
we actresses regain our youthful complexions.
It does this by harmlessly removing the old,
worn-out skin, thus enabling the new skin
underneath to show up. Stallax, we use
as a shampoo to keep our hair beautiful.”
“Dear me, that’s very interesting. But
you see what an invidious position it has put
you into, Miss Mountford. You’ve got to prove
to the satisfaction of the law that you did
not take the pearls at the same time that
you took, er —borrowed the mercolized wax
and stallax. You must not leave this office
until the mystery has been cleared up.”
“Then I am under arrest. It’s monstrous.”
Miss St. Julian was wanted in another
direction. Other detectives had been fol-
lowing up another clue. The housemaid who
attended to Miss St. Julian’s room, and a
porter in the hotel were soon to be married
and leave for San Francisco. Their respec-
tive rooms had been searched, but nothing had
been found. Still Detective Murphy wasn’t
satisfied. He again visited the girl’s room.
“Why did you give the pearls to Jenkins? ’
he asked her.
“I didn’t give the pearls to Mr. Jenkins,”
she replied defiantly.
Murphy never took his eyes off the girl,
and presently her eyes wandered to a boot-
shelf in the room. Murphy lifted up the
boots, and several of the pearls which had
been unstrung dropped from the boots to
the floor. “Are all the pearls here?” lie asked.
“Yes, every one, and Mr. Jenkins knows
nothing about my taking them!” cried the
girl, sobbing violently.
“I arrest you in the King’s name, Beatrice
Turner.”
The head detective apologised to Miss
Mountford, and at the same time advised
her not to again borrow toilet preparations
from a friend on the same night that her
jewels are stolen.”— Advt. m
Amusements.
g II)N£ Y’S CHIEF TIIEAT It E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: SALLY.
CRITERION:
WOMAN TO WOMAN.
ROYAL: THE PEEP SHOW.
TIIE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSI’EAIIBAN
PRODUCTIONS.
QUEENSLAND TOUR: Rockhampton School of Arts,
JUNE 30 to JULY 7.
Head Office, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Sydney Manager: J. V. De Batyn.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S.
SYBIL.
THEATRE ROYAL.
IF WINTER COMES.
DKINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
HUGH J. WARD’S COMPANY OF COMEDIANS IN
TANGERINE.
Plans at Glen’s.
TOURING AUSTRALIA.
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
WESTMINSTER GLEE SINGERS,
Whose phenomenal success is now indelibly engraven
on the annals of music in Australia.
Amusements.
ALACK THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, JULY 7,
HUGH J. WARD’S SPECTACULAR REVUE,
ROCKETS.
“THE BRIGHTEST SHOW IN TOWN.”
Plans at Glen’s.
Hours THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
WALLACE REID in
THIRTY DAYS.
ALICE BRADY in
HUSH MONEY.
Prices as usual.
|y|A.IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
DARLING OF THE RICH.
A 8.8. P. PRODUCTION.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Missing Friends.
JAMES HALLY, DECEASED. —The
relatives of Janies Hally, late of Ireland,
but formerly of East Maitland, deceased, are
requested to communicate with Messrs.
Magney & Magney, Solicitors, 79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, when they may hear of some-
thing to their advantage.
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES RAZOR
j*UY THIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
comfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
fgh
gfh
r Ar
to
Guaranteed sKeprßl^mi
in order for two years free^
CRAIG & AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY,
PUBLIC APOLOGY
to
Mr. Arthur N. Bishop.
E herewith offer a Public
Apology to Mr. ARTHUR N.
BISHOP, late of Australia, but now
a director of the. Commonwealth
Development Co. of Colombo, Cey-
lon, for statements published in our
paper in March last, reflecting on
his honor and character. We
copied the article from a Sydney
paper known as “Smith’s Weekly,”
therefore it did not originate
from this office. We have paid Mr.
Bishop Five Thousand Rupees, in
full settlement for the damage
caused him in Colombo.
The SEARCHLIGHT NEWSPAPER.
Keyzer Street, Colombo,
May 29, 1923.
m
m
1777/
M
fj
rv-
HB
M
m
£33
£3»
0/?e {Preference foe PAIGEnIEWETT Special
(Rests, not on (Beauty (Alone
WHO would not be attracted by the exterior beauty of
the Special Paige-Jewett car with its moleskin gray
finish, hand crushed Spanish leather upholstery, steel disc
wheels and nickel-plated radiator! The steel wheels have
rims of demountable type and outside valve stems —a
decided convenience.
But examine the engine under the bonnet with its six
cylinders; study the construction of every assisting member.
Then take a trial run. You will be convinced of its superiority
and you will know what has caused the extraordinary demand
for the Paige-Jewett.
Victoria: WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.,
58 A’Beckett Street, Melbourne.
N.S.W.: HOSKINS AUTOMOBILE SALES CO.,
172 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
iiiiinii him
| g
hiiUlfnii
ImiiimiiH
J
jTnffta
Si
TSS


“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN”
T«
&
frimm
The
above is
flip title
of our book-
i e t, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing—
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
lIAR’iY J. WES-
T 0 N, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
successful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet—-
"THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE- HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
234 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
Potted Fish Cremes
Packed in hermetically-sealed
FANCY VASES.
ELEVEN VARIETIES.
The fike, delicate flavor of each
variety is unsurpassed—they make
the most delicious sandwiches and
are inyaluablfe for Luncheons, Pic-
nics, At Homes and Card Parties.
Lobster.
Anchovy & Salmon.
Bloater.
Salmon & Shrimp.
Anchovy.
Salmon & Tomato.
Salmon.
Crab & Lobster.
Shrimp.
Prawn.
ST. IVEL FISH CREMES
are made only at
YEOVIL—SOMERSET—
ENGLAND.
Obtainable from Principal Stores.
Wholesale Agents
LYALL, WILLIS & CO., LTD.
ADELAIDE: Arthur Glover.
BRISBANE: E. Darragh.
MELBOURNE: Baldwin & Slattery
Pty., Ltd.
PERTH: L. M. Cullen & Co.
SYDNEY: Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
DANGERS OF
RUPTURE
RUPTURE is a condition that should
not be neglected. If you are troubled
with that complaint, you should wear a
Proper Fitting Support—one that will
hold the Rupture firmly and comfortably
in place under all conditions.
OUR PATENT AIR CUSHION RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Will do this, and to prove what we state
WE OFFER TWO DAYS’ TRIAL
with every Appliance we send out.
It is suitable for Men, Women and
Children, and the price is within the
reach of all.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATA-
LOGUE. POSTED FREE ANYWHERE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
97 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Write for Catalogue.
THE WINTON
HIGH-GRADE
STOCK SADDLE
REDUCED PRICE,
£,15110/-
This Saddle has done more to make
our big reputation for Good Saddles
than any other. Its great features
are the comfortable seat and narrow
grip obtained by sewing the flaps
direct on to the seat and doing away
with the usual skirt. The pads ex-
tend well up along the rider’s thighs,
giving the utmost security. The
mounts are folded leather girth,
bevelled leathers and solid nickel
stirrups.
FREIGHT FREE FOR CASH WITH
ORDER TO ANY STATION ON
N.S.W. RAILWAYS.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
Saddlers, 395 George Street, Sydney.
TDOCTORST
DISAGREE
but on this point they are
always unanimous, namely—
the unvarying excellence and
dependability of—
MAKTELES
13 tJA N DY
Shipped Solely from the Cognac District
ill
£1
**?<?*'
KINGSLEY PRIVATE HOTEL
The most exclusive in Brisbane. Accommodation
for 200 Guests. Newly Furnished throughout.
Every Modern Convenience.
Room and Breakfast, or Inclusive Terms, can he
arranged. Moderate Tariff.
Adjoining Queensland Club and Botanical
Gardens, GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Missinir
l''rien<is.
GEORGE TAYLOR.
ANY person knowing anything of or con-
cerning George Taylor, one time of 10
Bath Place. North Williamstown, Victoria,
is asked to communicate with the under-
signed. '
R. D. NEWTH,
District Public Trustee,
Invercargill, N.Z.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works i Birmingham, England
fghgfh
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt.
They glide over
the roughest paper
with the ease of a
soft lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-).
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6).
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9).
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- ).
Handy pocket tin 10 Cigars 5/-
(posted 5/6).
i
i
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
SUNDAY TOURIST TRIP to SOUTH SHORE,
VAUCLUSE and MIDDLE HARBOR.
Leaves Fort Macquarie 3 p.m. Adults 1/6; Children 6d.
SUNDAY EVENING CRUISE to BALMORAL
No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay, 8.10 p.m.
Fare 9d. Return. Arriving on return about 9.45 p.m.
INSTRUMENTAL QUARTET BY MEMBERS OF STATE ORCHESTRA
ON BOTH. TRIPS.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice fexcept of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Cockie: Think it quite a fair thing to use
a pen-name for accusing a public man of advocating
a certain policy for his personal profit? E.D.T.:
, \ our muse is on a camel; and not a riding camel
either Cuckoo: Sorry, but we can’t hatch that
one out for you W.S.G.: All true; but you
haven’t carried the discussion any further.... Fisho:
We’ll put you in our next list of Birthday Honors
for your heroic attempt to rhyme “Barwell” and
“purple”... .J. Nib: Traces of humor, but none of
poetry Caveman: Interesting, no doubt; but you
don’t throw any light on the mystery... .P.C.L.:
Get down off those stilts.... 1.L.R.: The Bulletin's
tame abo. has gone bush; get in touch with some
linguistic expert P.J.H.: Hardly worth while.. .
A. 8.8.: Been done before J.P.: Terribly tired of
men who sit on logs that are snakes. . . .The Bus);,
man: That is a good idea. Wherever a rhyme is
needed just write “wombat” E.M.T.: Suitable for
a tenth-rate lady’s album ; and this paper is not for
tenth-rate ladies.... J.R.: If you are burning to
get into print write about something J.H.M.:
It’s worth some good verse, but yours wants too
much mending Gertrude M.: As weak and thin
as a curate’s afternoon tea E.R.C.: Little thought
and many bumps Margaret C.: Too many people
are writing fluently about nothing. .. .A.B. (Elsterr.-
; wick): The yarn doesn’t work out well enough.. ..
E. (Flinders Island) : The verse doesn’t say what
you want it to Iris N.: “’Polio’s lyre” is a
novelty. But it gives us an idea for “Min’s helmet”
and “Jo’s thunderbolts.”... .John D. L. G.: You
can't achieve that mixed gladness in verse that creaks
off into dry tags R.F.C.: Too much water in the
milkman. .. .J.0.M.: There is a yarn there; have
another try at hatching it....J.G. (Abbotsford):
Not much point, and it isn’t convincing. ... Charon:
The poem on the red plague wrecks itself... .A. S.
(Darlinghurst) : Do you mean that the sun lays the
night?. .. .N.C.M.: “Moonrise” hasn’t much resem-
blance to verse; the “Butterfly” is not so bad....
Douglas C.: Not well enough built... .Kathleen J.:
No use. .. . W.J.8.: An idea, but you don’t make the
best of it....lCatt: You seem related to “Kat,” but
you haven’t his force. . . .F.C.M.: Doesn’t get near
F. : It can’t push through.... W.8.R.: Rubbish.
. ...B.I.: (Wingham) : The verse is never good and
never very bad; but it says so little Mombak:
What an awful scoundrel:—
A miscreant on the wallaby-track
Weapons in belt, swag on back,
Relentlessly tracked, there in the sand,
Out in the wastes of no-man’s land
By a policeman armed to the teeth,
Who suddenly sees him resting ’neath
A sandalwood tree. “Hands up,” was the cry ;
“If you don’t, villian, sure you’ll die.”
Uprose the miscreant, weapon in hand,
To try to kill him in no-man’s land.
Bullets were flying thick as hail,
Suddenly with his hand on his head
Down he dropped dead as a doornail.
Up rushed the policeman ; instead
Of finding out if he was truly dead,
Around rolled the villian. With awful crack
Down crashed the policeman, shot in the back.
He twisted in his agony and clutched the sand,
Ard died in the wastes of no-man’s land.
. ...J.H. (Maclean): Looks like something cut out
by a circular saw with half the teeth missing....
R. : If that’s the best poetic address you can
make to your girl, it might be better to whistle to her.
....Bohunk: They make horrible noises, but they
don’t say much. .. .Bertram I.: Not up to the mark.
....Red-gum: Doesn’t strike us as an answer....
Jendi: It doesn’t make much of a story.... J.C.M.:
Seems to be a yarn that has been often told; but
your handwriting is beyond hope. .. .C.M.S.: That
rain is wet and falls on the roof (sometimes) has
occurred to two or three people before... .A.E.E. :
Empty as a Domain bottle at 3 in the morning....
W.E.8.: Too mechanical, and it doesn’t seem pro-
bable. ... Tick Ell: The verse is poor and only re-
peats what the advertisement says. . . .A.M.M. : Verse
pleasant enough, but stale. The dog-washing doesn’t
make a yarn. . . .L.G.W. : Both dull. . . .Bushman :
“Draw” won’t rhyme with “sure” in this paper....
Fred A.: It doesn’t sound true. .. .T.J.L.: And so
the fine young drunken hero took the fluffy-haired
girl and all was well. Hooray !... .A.C.A.: Judging
by the verse, that school must have been a cow-yard
S. : Very crude. .. .Maurice S.: Needs a course
of Swedish exercises... .11. J.G.: No g00d....
M.R.L.: You’ll have to do better than that
G. : It sounds like the corporation roller going
over a heap of blue metal. .. .Francis A.: Sorry, no
use to us J.8.W.: We tried, but we couldn’t get
excited about your rats.... Horatio E.: Those feet
have marched themselves sore to much better music.
. ...A.H.D.: Send it to some curate’s magazine,
where they may be impressed by the names you
quote.... F.W.S.: Good in patches; but the subject
can’t be fairly treated that way.... Gertrude L.:
There is force in it; but you’ve turned it out very
roughly... .E.C.: Do leave a bit of space between
your typewritten lines and give a sub-editor a chance
to at least pretend that he’s earning his salary....
Also: But that’s not right. German economists have
been discussing-—and discussing quite rationally—
possible plans for meeting the reparations bill. Per-
haps they are now quite as eager to reach an early
settlement as France is. ... J.W.L.: You have beaten
your little bit of metal too thin... .Picton: Now
take hold of it and see if you can’t write it without
using more than a dozen adjectives.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E. 11.: Call again when you grow up. .. .W.H.R.:
Drawing below the mark. .. . G.W.: Lines too
jumbled. . . .F.F.: Awful. .. .E.B. (Q.) : Slight varia-
tion of very ancient gag....E.8. (Glebe): Far too
small to judge; originals of Bulletin sketches are
much larger than the printed pictures. .. .M. 8.: Not
yet. .. .D.8.T.: No use for pencil sketches. .. .L. 8.:
Some promise in drawings ; take lessons from a com-
petent teacher. .. .W.G.: The pen-work won’t d 0....
A.A.H.: Not the shadow of a ghost of a hope. ...
J. : The funniest piano to date... .D.M.: Worse
than the drought itself.... D.P.: Too Batemanish...
T. :No improvement there... .H.W.T.: Misses....
K. Can’t see the drawing for ink....R.H.: Not
worth it.
“D.F.”: A trip to India with horses 50
years ago and three years’ work on the rail-
ways have helped Captain J. H. Watson,
research secretary of the Australian Histori-
cal Society, to explain at least one Austra-
lian place-name. Many people must have
wondered why Rooty Hill was so called. Cap-
tain Watson finds the explanation in the
Hindustani “ruti.” meaning bread. No doubt
some of the soldiers who were stationed in
those parts in the old days had served in
India, and applied the name to the place
where the bread was served out.


Saunders’ pure
silverplated Flower
Vase, 10/6. 12/6.
15/6, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Dinner Cruet, pure
silverplated frame, cut crystal
glass bottles, 70/-
s
Sill!
WW 1 ;
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, cut crystal glass jar,
pure silverplated mounts and servers, 21 / -
A. Saunders’ , Biscuit Barrel, pure
silverplated floral design, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Honey
Jar and Spoon, pure
silverplated, Clear Cry-
stal Glass Jar, 10/6.
Silver-plate Table-Appointments
Extensively Reduced.
CATALOGUE
SENT FREE
ON
REQUEST.
A. Saunders’ Flower Stand, pure silverplated A 1
quality, highly burnished, 35/-
WE PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
ORDERS.
A. Saunders’ Teapot, pure silverplated A 1 quality,
highly burnished, 35/-, 40/-
A. Saunders’ Salt Cellar
and Spoon, pure silver-
plated frame, Cut Glass
Jar, 5/6 each.
ASAUNDERS
JEWELLER - - - OPTICIAN,
805-13 George Street (opposite Railway Station)
SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Four-cup Egg-stand
and Spoons, pure silverplated A 1
quality, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Pure silverplated
Flower Vase, 12/6, 13/6-
15/6
A Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure silver plated A 1 quality,
highly burnished, pierced design, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Hot-water Kettle, pure silver-
plated A 1 quality, handsomely burnished and
engraved, 84/-
*
His Masters Voice^^
Every home can have
the world’s best music
on
“His Master’s Voice”
IT is easy for you to enjoy at will the greatest musical art
of all the world —if you have the instrument which brings
the magnificent interpretations of the greatest artists into
your home.
“His Master’s Voice’’ enjoys that privilege —a distinction
accorded it by the most famous artists in the world of music.
They realise that “His Master’s Voice’’ reproduces their art
with a fidelity that parallels their actual performances on
the opera and concert stage
Only “His Master’s Voice’’ satisfies their artistic demands.
That is why they make “His Master’s Voice ’ Records
exclusively.
“His Master’s Voice’’ Instruments range in price from
1 1 guineas to 91 guineas.
Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists and name
of nearest dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“His Master's Voice’*
Regd. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone
Regd. Trade-mark.
9


THIS BULLOCK
may have a black background; but the pros-
pect .of securing top market values for him
is bright if he is consigned for sale to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE MARKETS.
All Stock—CATTLE, CALVES, SHEEP,
LAMBS, PIGS —make highest possible
prices at Winchcombe, Carson’s Auctions.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
MADE BY R. & J. DICK, LTD.
THE RUST-PROOF BRIGHT METAL
PLATING of the inside and outside
surfaces considerably inereases the life
of the BARRY Steel Split Pulley, ren-
dering: it absolutely immune from rust
and corrosion.
There are no rivets in a BARRY Pulley to
work loose, or shear under strain. The tubular
reinforcement inside the rim preserves the
exact shape of the pulley under heavy loads.
This also ensures true running under all
conditions.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Save Money
Save Time
Save Worry
By Treating
CHEST OR LUNG
COMPLAINTS
With
fghfghfg
Thousands of permanent cures
have been effected by this cele-
brated Cod Liver Oil Emulsion,
which at the same time increases
energy, nerve force and power.
HYPOL is a rich, nutritious prep*
aration. delightfully palatable,
and very strengthening.
Sold Everywhere
MADE BY
Felton, Grimwade&Co. Ltd;
Melbourne
W&W26.
MusßrMWn
mm
w
London Office:
“Gresham House,
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
fghfghfgh
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors ivith the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
PHILIPS
Va
i
mn
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors —
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Well-
ington (N.Z.), Auckland,
Christchurch, New Ply-
mouth.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Specialists in the Manufacture of
Telephone and Switchboard Apparatus for
Magneto, Common Battery & Automatic Working,
7 Macquarie Place, SYDNEY; 509 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
“Always Reliable.*'
The very name
EL E Y
is synonymous with
ART RIDG E S
Obtainable from
all Dealers.
Australian Sales Offices:
ALBERT ADAMS,
Ammunition House,
277 Clarence Street,
Sydney..
KYNOCH LIMITED,
Scottish House,
90 William Street,
Melbourne.
fghfghfgh
“Wheels within Wheels”
There can hardly be found a more apt application of this
old saying than when applied to
SKF
BALL-BEARING AXLES
w
The old-time hub is really more of a fitting to hold
the axle rod as the centre of the circular wheel- but
the races of the SKF Ball-Bearing Axle can actually
be termed wheels in themselves—the core which
carries the outer framework.
Thus the ball-hearings eliminate friction and drag,
and allow the heaviest load to be moved with mini-
mum effort.
It’s worth your while to inquire.
Write for Illustrated Literature.
Gardner, Waern# Co. Pty.
Ltd.,
481 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
Distributing: Centres also at:
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence
Street
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide
Street.
ADELAIDE: Wm. Adams
& Co., 137 Waymouth
Street.
PERTH: Unbehaun &
Johnstone (W.A.) Ltd..
37 King Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis
Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: J. R.
Sides, 77 York Street.
iH. 4/23.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Septimus : Somebody a while back men-
tioned a crop of onions that averaged 28
tons to the acre. A good crop, but not a
record. I have seen crops of brown Spanish
onions grown on the flats of the Barham
liiver, Apollo Bay (Vic.), that averaged 33
tons to the acre in 10-acre patches. Similar
yields have been secured on several occasions.
* * * *
Arthur Griffith’s kick :
Called yesterday to get a suit of flannel pyjamas at
one of the large Sydney draperies, whose principal
proprietor—a politico-military person of some note
makes great play once or twice a year with the
Made in Australia” slogan. Asked the salesman
n he could let me have some made of Australian
flannel, but was met with the haughty reply: “We
don’t stock it, sir; all ours are made from British
flannels.” The same thing runs right through the
trade. None of the big Sydney retailers will sell
an Australian article if he can get you to buy an
imported one.
* * * *
Clinton : A development in the nursery-
man s business promises to open up to him
markets hitherto beyond his reach. It has
been discovered that rooted plants—roses,
cai nations, perennial phlox, bouvardias, chry-
santhemums, etc.—can be sent overseas in
cold storage. While there they do not grow
but life remains in the plants. When un-
packed and planted, they commence grow-
mg at once One result is that the Pacific
Islands, India and other places can now be
served by Australian nurserymen. And as
this applies to fruit-trees as well as flower-
ing shrubs, the line may be worth following.
Wilfrido”: A new line of steamers is
about to open up trade between Maoriland
and New Caledonia. The French possession
has now a population of about 47,000, more
than two-thirds of them colored. The white
population has been for years decreasing •
even in 1876, shortly after the National
Assembly of Versailles decreed that Com-
munists should be sent there to be as violent
«sfeypleased, the whites exceeded by nearly
P resen t number. Occasionally some
ol the more adventurous have escaped to
Australia; others have provided tit-bits for
cannibalistic Kanakas. The principal ex-
ports are chrome ore and manganese, cotton,
col lee, copra, timber, nickel, niaculi essence
and preserved meats. The boat which is to
establish the connections is to travel between
Dunkirk and Noumea, via Wellington.
X * * ❖
“T. 0.1.”; Old tavern memories cluster
thick around the S.-E. corner of Market
and Castlereagh streets, Sydney, where the
Bookstall Co. is erecting its central premises.
Ihe corner is in the estate of John Fraser,
long deceased. A century ago a red-brick
cottage, standing back from the pathway
bore the sign of the Globe Tavern, and from
here stage-coaches started for “the interior.”
It was demolished in 1879, George Brown,
an old actor, being the last landlord. On
the opposite corner stood the Travellers’
Rest, which, as an inn, dated from 1849
The corner still holds a license. In the
second decade of last century the Grey-
hound stood on what is now the extension
of Market-street from Castlereagh-street to
Elizabeth-street—Commissioner Bigge men-
tions it in his report on the state
ot the colony, and gives Robert Hazard
as the licensee. On the north-west corner
of Elizabeth and Market streets for many
years stood a fourth old-fashioned inn—the
Albion. It passed out in the early ’eighties,
Tom Punch being the last landlord. He
managed to get the license transferred, how-
ever, to a new Albion on the south-west
corner of the block.
* * # *
“Cartot”: So far the principal difficulties
in the way of producing a cultured pearl
indistinguishable from the genuine article
has been with regard to lustre. Even when
successfully counterfeited for a time, it soon
faded. Now, however, a biologist and a
chemist, both French, have been exhibiting
in Paris a number of pearls, grown by arti-
ficial means, which have deceived the ex-
perts. Each pearl has the true sheen, and
each is geometrically perfect. Hitherto those
who have been engaged in attempting to
culture pearls have concentrated on the con-
stitution of the substances introduced into
the oyster. The French experimenters are
satisfied that the composition of the medium
in which the shell-fish is placed must be
taken into account, too ; also other factors,
such as temperature and pressure. When
these difficulties are surmounted, they are
confident they will be able to produce pearls
actually superior in quality to those obtained
from the ocean-bed.
* * * *
A new industry is proposed at Port Pirie
(S.A.). Strong, of Sydney, and Dance, of
Melbourne, have been struck by the profits
in the crab-tinning trade in both Japan and
the U.S.A. They, as well as the local resi-
dents,_ consider that the Spencer’s Gulf blue-
back is a far better crustacean than the im-
ported article; and have obtained a lease
of many miles of the shore. It is a winter
proposition only. Crabs are in season, just
as English oysters proverbially are not, in
the months which have no R in them.
GAMBLERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
_ 111311 ws }° went to church on Sunday was
probably more a sport’ than he who went picnicking.”
Queensland clergyman.
The gambling fever holds us
Before the day we’re born;
Our parents take their chances
Upon the wedding morn.
All life is but a gamble
On fancies, hopes and gods;
And everywhere we ramble
We take or face the odds.
Though one may fancy horses,
And one—for instance—wives,
In life’s ten thousand courses
The love of chance survives.
Whilst I back Sabbaths merry
Against a future fate,
Jones backs his chance of Heaven
With thrippence in the plate.
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


THE NEW BEALE
Justifies Pride of Possession
• ■ ■.•
;t ! ? IT f,
A-..
*
***»
tCA
■;;
PRI D Eof possession is a condition of mind induced by ownership. A careful consideration of the vari-
ous merits of an article may sway our judgment into actually making a purchase, but pride of ownership
is kindled only by association —by actual contact —with constantly reviewed qualities whose appreciation is
more a matter of feeling than intellect.
The New Beale Player-Piano is an instrument that never fails to justify a high degree of pride in ownership.
It has superior constructional points which are very apparent. It possesses features that result in refined
performance. It has beauty of design and encasements of exquisite texture, steeped with the colour of genu-
ine, rare, cabinet woods. Yet intense as one’s first feeling of enthusiasm may be, appreciation of its real worth
as an interpretive instrument only comes from long association.
Intimate relationship reveals much that cannot be apparent during the first days of possession. Tone, for in-
stance. True, the intrinsic quality of tone is readily recognised immediately it is heard. But as a medium for
subtly and sympathetically interpreting one’s musical thoughts and aspirations it cannot be thoroughly
understood until so used. The velvety, sensitive action —permitting nuances as delicate and as expressive as
those of prominent concert artists—appreciation of this is something that companionship only can bring.
The freedom that results from having, in such a superb piano, a wondrous technique of limitless range and
artistry—this, too, is a matter for actual experience.
The New Beale is essentially an instrument for the man who is not satisfied with a passionless parody of the mighty
themes the masters have wrought. It has made a wide circle of friends amongst concert artists themselves—men like
Messrs. Lindley Evans, Frank Hutchens, Arthur Benjamin, Fossati, Foote, A.R.C.M., who have heartily endorsed it as
an instrument with distinct concert attributes.
To the man who will impartially investigate, the New Beale is an education in fine craftsmanship. In the selection of raw
material; in the precision methods used in the production of the more delicate parts; in the finish of details usually
considered unimportant, it stands a worthy piece of work that will justify pride in possession for a generation.
The New Beale is sold on a generous plan that brings it within reach of even modest incomes.
''Silent” pianos are accepted in part payment and terms arranged to suit individual cases.
BEALE
AND COMPANY LIMITED
Showrooms: 340 Cjeorge Street, Sydney.
Head Office and Factories: 41-4 7 Trafalgar Street, Annandale.
BRANCHES : New South Wales: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maple", Launceston. South Australia: Savery’s Pianos Ltd., Adelaide.
Western Australia: Thomson’s Ltd., Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen St. (opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane,Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville and Mackay.
P N—t; x 4


u COUGH u
REMEDY
Coughs, C
CROL
VBSB*
REMc&DY
Pis
?•!«**
SORE THJ
«S.B;
INFLUE
f i
THROAT and
Mi'll
MADE in AUS
5|»ll
.]Ul\
*shii
CHAMBERLA
SYDNEY, h
<»• SMALL
CHAMBERLAINSUMITED
This medicine is trusted
the whole world over.
The qualities which give it
the high place it holds in
the public’s regard are —
Its unfailing effectiveness.
Its perfect safety for
children and adults alike.
Its very pleasant taste.
(•HAMBERIAIirc
U Cough Remedy u
DOM
fSO"
Yes
Sir!
w©
For Markind
all Linen-
S
Are a Boon in Every Home
for identifying- any article or garment.
Any Name woven into a Fine Cambric
Tape in Fast Color.
“A Few Stitches and They’re On.”
fghfghfgh
Actual Size Name Style No. 6.
Prices: 12d Z , 716. 6dz,5!-. 3dz,3/6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS
J. & J. CASH
85 Cußitt Street, Richmond, Melbourne
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK
•I6ISTCRBI
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
I Wist
imimkiiu; **o {>S
Si.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst
5O York Street. Sydney.
%
- S&
m
m
n
m
w.
M
%
A
9 teres.:on
one
ghfg
fgh
THEY GOME AS A BOON S A BLESSING TO MEN
THE PICKWICK THE OWL 8 THE WA/ERLEY PEN.
fgh
fghfgh
mu
V
i7=
y
a>
TP
'p
aa
To
Sunny Queensland
Through the Great
Barrier Reef to
CAIRNS.
Smooth Seas and Sunny Skies.
The round trip occupies 26 days from Mel-
bourne and 19 days from Sydney.
By Modern Steamers fitted with every comfort.
“Levuka” - - “Canberra” - - “Kanowna”
“Cooma” - - “Wodonga” - - “Wyandra”
“Wyreema” - - “Bombala”
Two sailings each week. Leave MELBOURNE on Saturdays and
Wednesdays, and SYDNEY on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
The Grandest Sea Trip for Health and Pleasure.
Ports called at are BRISBANE, PORT ALMA, MACKAY,
BOWEN, TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS.
Full particulars from
Howard Smith, Ltd.
35 Market Street, Melbourne
350 George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.,
469 Collins Street, Melbourne
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“An industry whose phenomenal rise was
destined to make the miracle of moving-
pictures as a fortune-mill look slow and con-
servative in comparison.”— George Agncw
Chamberlain, American novelist, on the
smuggled-liquor traffic in the U.S.A.
The jubilee celebrations of Cambridge Ter-
race Methodist Church, in Lyttelton (M.L.),
recall that the first parson was Robert Ward.
He also pushed a breezy pen, which has a
bookshelf memorial in “Life Among the
Maoris.” One of his sons is F. W. Ward,
one-time editor of Sydney Telegraph ; two
others followed dad into the clerical collar,
and a fourth was a Judge of the Native
Land Court.
“The Rumpus”: Labor is going in for
some adventitious aids in Groperland. The
new wing of the Trades Hall cost £9OOO
approx., and is shortly to be opened as a
theatre fpr vaudeville. Budding aspirants
for selection ballots will now have an oppor-
tunity of practising the spruiking business
from the doorstep, and candidates defeated
a_t the polls will be able to recuperate by
light turns on th e stage.
“Sol Malaprop” reflects among the tombs:
The digging up of Pharaoh and the search for the
bones of Pocahontas has raised a cheerful but silly
debate on “Is it immoral to dig up the dead?” I
think that if one digs up none but moral people it is
all right, but it is a dangerous habit to dig up any-
body, and it is a morbid and disgusting state of
things that there should be people to be dug up.
Compulsory cremation is the first stage of cleanli-
ness. Burial is a wholesale and beastly hoarding up
of germs. Apparently the microbe of everything
except dipsomania can be preserved in the ground
by judicious interment for at least 1000 years, and
that is why diseases don’t get lost. Instead, the
cross-breeding of germs in cemeteries produces new
diseases, some of them very curious and interesting.
The one-man-one-job principle is being
pressed by the river fishermen at Murray
Bridge (S.A.) on the notice of the Railways
Commissioner. The railwaymen on night
shift, it is asserted, put in their days at fish-
ing, then sell the produce of this side-line
at prices which the professional cannot
accept if he is to get a fair living. The
Association, of Fishermen ingeniously urges
on the Railway Commissioner that, if his
nien are allowed to earn money in the day-
time—another side-line is droving work "on
markets days—they are unlikely to do a
fair thing when they come on duty at night,
and accidents may result therefrom.
“N.K.P.” : “C M.” (B. 7/6./’23) thinks it
strange that Bligh should have remembered
the date of the restoration of Charles 11.
well enough to christen the island where he
landed on May 29. Per contra, I find it
natural enough. Even so recently—in the
historical sense—as the ’eighties, when as a
boy I attended my first school in the Cold
country, we used to sing
Royal Oak day,
Twenty-ninth of May.
Most English boys still know w'hen “Oak-
apple Day” comes round.
“C. Coral” among the old darkies:—
Passed out recently, up in Torres Strait, a couple
of old-timers who linked up with the early b6che-de-
mering days. Lui Lifu, as a sugarfield Kanaka, saw
life in Queensland from many angles (one of his
pioudest boasts being that he once won a horse ir,
a sheep-shearing competition), and later landed in
the Straits among the fishermen. Then he took up
the job of school-teacher at Yam Island, and ended
his days at Qarnley after a spell of teaching in
New Guinea. Lui was a Loyalty Islander, and of
big family in his own country. Beginning as an
R.C., he became an L.M.S. member in the Straits,
crossed into the Anglican fold when that body took
over the L.M.S. mission a few years ago, and lived
to see his son ordained as a native clergyman.
The other old fellow, Jimmy Mari, also a Loyalty
man, came across with the blackbirders, which was
perhaps the reason why he put in a few hectic days
on his own account when some of the Straits islands,
received too close attention from visiting ships. But
Jimmy earned good money for his masters until he
became too stiff for swimming. The old immigrant
hands are nearly all gone now from these tropical
specklets. Old “Bamboo,” of Darnley, a black-
birded immigrant, close upon 80, is very tottery;
Koko Lifu (like his compatriot Lui, a French sub-
ject) begins to show signs of wear, and the rem-
nant at Moa is thinning out. But the introduced
blood is showing itself very plainly in the virile
sons and grandchildren. There is perhaps something
to place to the blackbirders’ credit, after all.
“Tauwarra” proposes a toast: —
Every now and then some simple soul deplores the
fact that the Papuan native is mercilessly exploited
by unscrupulous whites in the interests of absentee
shareholders. The other side promptly counters by
demanding proofs (which never materalise), and
points out that no Papuan concern has yet declared
a dividend worth mentioning. In my view the
white man who can successfully take a rise out of
Brown Brother, and keep on doing it, has yet to be
born. In selling his produce, bartering his relatives’
labor, or driving any sort of a bargain, the native
Papuan can give points to an Aberdeen Jew; and
woe to the trader whom he has catalogued as an
“easy mark.” Nevertheless, the man who denies
the existence of exploitation in Papua is fool or
knave. The real exploited one is the white woman.
Suppose she acompanies her husband to take up a
small-salaried billet in Moresby. She finds the
housing problem more acute than in the city she
has left. There are half-a-dozen homes suited to
the climate. The remainder are mostly two-roomed,
tin-roofed shacks, built by bowelless speculators in
pre-war days, who made corrugated-iron their god,
and bowed down and worshipped it. She finds the
cost of living 100 per cent, higher than in Sydney,
and the standard of living immeasurably lower.
Fresh water costs 40s. per thousand gallons in the
wet season and 20s. in the dry. Fresh “bullum-
acow,” of a sort, costs Is. 4d. per lb.; kerosene,
up to 15s. a tin; a night at the “pitchers,” 2s. ; a
17-mile car-ride, 80s. The sanitary service is cheap
and efficient, mosquitoes are free, and beer costs 3s.
a bottle. Of course, she has cheap native labor in
her kitchen, and discovers that the “cheapness” is
a delusion and a snare. The “lure of the scented
tropics” soon loses its appeal; her husband mortgages
a month’s pay in return for a steamer ticket south ;
and he, poor devil, acquires that prized possession
of all good Austral-Papuans—a debit balance. Some-
times —often—she elects to stick it out; realises that
the £7 per week which looked so attractive ia Syd-
ney means grinding poverty in Papua; and helps her
husband up the ladder. She has now graduated into
that class of stout-hearted women without whom the
White Australia policy would be a shadowy ideal,
impossible of realisation. Exploited? Of course she
is exploited. God help us! We have been playing
her with stacked cards. Let us drink to her, stand-
ing.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular, giving new
rates, First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JULY 25,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G.
W. Gray ; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager — M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
With Offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 83
Branches in Queensland, also representation through
the leading Banking Institutions covering Austral-
asia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest
facilities for the transaction of all general banking
business.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,523,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922.. £13,269,793
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman; George
F. Todman ; Duncan Carson ; H. R. Lysaght,
O. ; George J. Sly. LL.D.
General Manager; C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector jor N.S.W.: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting Manager: G. H. Westcott.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 149 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 24 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodje.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
(RANTS DRAFTS land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
ritain and Ireland, and other places.
lECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
•ansacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Perth Office: St. George’s Terrace.
Melbourne Office: 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office: 105 Pitt Street.
-up Capital
rve Fund
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£875,000
650,000
£1,525,000
875,000
£2,400,000
ad Office : ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
vith 95 Branches and Agencies in that State.
sdon Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
mcies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Irafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
lerica and elsewhere. Bills froin abroad collected
l proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
nsacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1922
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income ..
£1,826,924
£3,000,000
£50,000,000
£7,500,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLEY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, &c.
Canadia n-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA. (13,500 tons) JULY 5
MAKURA (8100 tons) AUGUST 2
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z.),
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:—
MAUNGANUI (7500 tons) JULY 19
TAHITI (8000 tons) . AUG. 23
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
«i
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3 h TO 5 WEEKS
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHIiLP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
Burns-Philp Tours.
Passages arranged to ENGLAND, AMERICA, JAPAN, CHINA,
INDIA. CEYLON, HONOLULU, etc., by our
TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT.
SPECIAL ROUND EASTERN TOURS.
1. To JAVA (The Garden of the East) and SINGAPORE, by
the magnificent steamers MARELLA and MONTORO.
Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney every month.
7 weeks’ trip for £9O.
2. SYDNEY to JAPAN, CHINA, and RETURN to SYDNEY,
via SINGAPORE, JAVA, QUEENSLAND PORTS. Sailings
every two weeks.
9 weeks’ trip, lst-class throughout, £129/10/-
Apply for further information to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
m
.
m
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Keserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£6,000,000
3,800,000
6,000,000
£15,800,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maekellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office— George Street, Sydney. ' London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, EC.
385 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. . ,
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ------- £3,000,000
RESERVE FUND 2,460,000
RESERVE CAPITAL 3,000,000
TOTAL £8,460,000
Directors;
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. H. E. KATER, M.L.C., Deputy Chairman;
Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, M.L.C.; OWEN E. FRIEND;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C. General Manager; H. H. MASSIE.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
LONDON OFFICE.—^IB Birchin Lane, E.C.3. LONDON
BANKERS: The Bank of England; The Westminster Bank,
Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the World.
DAILY PARTIES TO JENOLAN CAVES
Leave Sydney 9.25 a.xu. (-Sunday excepted).
Write for Illustrated Programme to
NEW SOUTH WALES
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
Challis House, Sydney.
3 days ... £4 17 6
4 days ... £5 15 6
5 days ... £6 15 6
Covering every incidental
expense, first-class.
Shißßl"*-
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and ot er
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf >
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACK AY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
*Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
tßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville
and Cairns.
DO THE GRAND WINTER TOUR TO CAIRNS.
Huddart Parkei Li^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every ten days. Between Melbourne
and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The rnsau journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from Sydney only 144 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton .V Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
T h E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and o'.her cireunistances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY.
9 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY, 7 p.m.;
passenger due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/5/6
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: BURNS, PHILIP & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE AGENTS: H. 0. SLEIGH, 524-526
COLLINS STREET.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, THURS-
DAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONG-
KONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp & Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO.. LTD.. MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Etd.,
and Eitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackheath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co:, Etd. .
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. &O.S.N. Co
Queensland line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull, Martin & Co.). New Zealand Shipping Co.
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd!
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Adelaide. Port
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.


v
X
'2SE
)3J FOOD w,
W/M
■■■HnniiiilllUlllii
The importance
of Benger’s Food
in illness and
convalescence.
“I have just recovered from a
serious illness, and think it only
my duty to write and let you
know that my life ivas saved by
the use of Benger’s Food ”
{London).
Wherever there is a case of impaired
digestion, there is a case for Benger’s Food.
In illness, Benger’s is the safe Food to give. It is
soothing and satisfying even in the crises of illness .
Very frequently it is the only food it is possible to give
and be retained.
It contains no rough or indigestible particles to
irritate or inflame the sensitive organs, and although
among the very lightest of foods, it is rich in all the
elements necessary to sustain life.
fghfghfgh
Food
is made with fresh new milk which it enriches and
blends into a delicious food cream. The process of
making it so modifies the milk that no matter how
weakened the digestion may be, the patient can readily
assimilate and gain strength from it.
In convalescence, as health and strength improves, Benger’s
Food can be adjusted to the digestive system, thus materially
assisting in the progress towards ordinary diet.
POST FREE.— The booklet of Benger’s Food contains a variety
of dainty recipes prepared especially to relieve the monotony of milk
and similar diet for sick persons. Every household, especially where
there is an invalid, should possess a copy. W rite for it to-day.
Benger's Food is sold in Tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
BENGER’S FOOD, LTD., 117, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A6l Sole Pi oorietors and Manufacturers i BENGER’S FOOD, LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
G 4/&
'■<-
i
Reports are favorable about
REX HAM PATE
On every side you hear it proclaimed that Rex Ham
Pate is the thrifty housewives’ great stand-by in
helping to solve the sandwich problem—whether for
the children’s or the worker’s daily lunches —or for
picnics where appetites need little coaxing.
Rex Ham Pate is all Ham—prepared in the exclusive
Rex way that gives it the most delectable flavor.
Try Rex Ham Pate by itself if you will. Add sliced
Tomato, Cucumber, beetroot, Chopped Olive,
Lettuce, Horseradish, Anchovy Sauce or Mayonnaise,
if you desire a change.
The young folks will soon show their appreciation—
and you’ll get lots of praise from them for “those
different sandwiches” which are eaten with zest.
GIVE REX HAM PATE
A TRY-OUT TODAY.
SOLD BY ALL
LEADING GROCERS
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F. J. SO
Bure
foods
“MADE FOR BETTER SER VICE. ’’
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
Everything for TENNIS.
RACKETS.
School Match
C. 8.8., Special
M.S., Special Practice....
C. 8.8., Leather Grip
M.S., Special or Premier..
~ Wonder
.. Standard
C. 8.8., Double Strung
Oceanic
Britannic, Concave Throat
Haymarket, Special
~ Selected ....
~ Extra Special
Titanic, Concave Throat ...
Cyclonic, Concave Throat .
Ayre’s Sandown
„ At
~ Champion
Matador
, Central strung ....
8/6
13/6
18/6
20/-
25/-
25/-
30/-
27/6
55/-
45/-
40/-
45/-
70/-
65 / -
80/-
30/-
.40/-
50/-
55 / -
60/-
Special sample, cork-ribbed grip...
Spalding’s Tournament
„ • Continental
„ Gold Medal
Davis Riseley Hexagon
Slazenger’s Rensliaw
, Demon
Whitehouse
Ideal
Classic
E.G.M
Doherty
Stadium
Lambert Chambers ...
Patterson .'.
Lee’s Senaca
, Spartan
, The Bat
35/-
49/6
55/-
70/-
90/-
45/-
55/-
63/-
75/-
82/6
80/-
85/-
87/6
87/6
85/-
55/-
70/-
85/-
H. C.
RACKET REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
TENNIS BALLS
Each. Do/..
'unlop T?psru]ntion Grey 1/4 !?>/-
Dunlop’s Champion 2/7 30/-
Slazenger’s Championship, 1923 (air-
tight tins) 30/-
Each. boz.
Ayre’s Court 2/2 25/-
Ayre’s Champion, 1923 2/7 30/-
Barnet Glass Champion, 1923.... 2/6 29/-
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-. 70/-
Vcmo (square) Posts, pair 105/-
Tennis Court Markers 37/6
“Dalby” Patent Chip and Turf Court
marker 60/-
Tennis Tapes 25/-
Cut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle
1/-
Each.
Racket Covers.... 1 /9, 2/6, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6
Tennis Ratchets .... 7/6, 8/6, 10/6. 13/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1 /-, 1/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils .. ... 2/6, 4/6, 6/6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, G/0, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-
ILLUSTRATED TENNIS PRICE LIST FREE ON REQUEST.
BOXING
GLOVES
MEN’S GEOVES.
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
Set of 4.
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
r r real leather, special value 12/6, 13/6
(' 'll 15 ’’ Fighting tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 16/6, 18/6, 21/-, 23/-
PFRFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz., 25/-, 30/-
WTC’H GRADE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 35/-, 40/-
THE "‘TiIGrHTNING ” made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively used by
Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by Mr.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker Vin'n/n’x.
rOPTC STRAPS best quality (Postage 3d.) 4/0, 7/o each
imYTiyrr ROOTS English Leather, extra light, weight 3*oz. (Postage 6id.), 15/6, 17/6 pair.
HOXIND uvuio, BOYS’ GROVES. Set of 4.
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed ••••••■■ Q’ ft /« toZ/fi
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
Price List of Boxing Gloves, Punching Balls, etc., post free.
PUNCHING BALLS.
rs.
4
\¥
Wm
'THE
ARMY
the
PORTABLE
THE EXPERT'
ARMY, Swinging Ball, reg., for fast work, 10/6, 13/6, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
ARMY extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable
and perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, elastic cord for floor and rope for ceiling. . 12/6, 15/6
double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light.... 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
F XPERT* double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings,
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.) 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
pQjjruxEliE BAER, strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and bladder
complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) 105/-
All above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
SUNDRIES.
Ball and Socket Swivels
Double-action Swivels, 6/- each.
Ball Gloves 3/9. 4/9 pair.
l/6, 2/6, 5/6 each
Ball-bearing Swivels 10/6 each
Punching Platforms, 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
c
Australia’s Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; Edward St., BRISBANE.


s
BY
SWEAR
Football Time is
Rexona Time.
Boys! Just think if you were picked to play in the match on
Saturday, and then had to drop out on account of a damaged
finger that had festered and got sore through lack of care, wouldn’t
you be furious? And if you had just had a tin of Rexona in your
locker it would be quite healed again. If you make a bad mistake
at practice or the match, if you fumble a pass, if you kick care-
lessly, you determine at once that it shall never occur again.
You do not neglect anything that will make your form better,
so when you get badly bruised and knocked about at football you
should never fail to make your-
self fit again by using Rexona
Ointment. Rub it in well after
your shower, and from bad
cuts and bruises no ill effects
will follow.
Boys, use Rexona and
keep fit.
Rexona-
The Rapid Healer.
1/6 and 3/-
.Cool mo,.
JsS'oolhmg . -
W Mealing
Jflntiseplic Ointment
|ei -? j%iol'j(ely N
f & Heals \ Reliable
lexond*
31-
A Reliable Remedy for all eruptions and irritations of the
J'Skin Eczema. Pimples. Sores. Chilblains. Chapped Hands
r Sciajica Itching or Bleeding Piles. Cuts. Burns. Bruises. Scalds.
Bad Legs Slings of lnsecls and all kinds of Inflammation
Sole Proprietors -
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
fghfgh
■22 RIM FIRE.
fghfghfgh
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ir
ALL BRITISH
WHEN YOUR TURN COMES
Sooner or later you may be
forced to face the bully. Will
you give him the hiding he de-
serves, or will YOU get beaten
and suffer the humiliations that
hurt even more than the blows?
If you lack a thorough know-
ledge of boxing you will have
absolutely no chance: your size
and strength count for nothing.
WE TEACH BOXING BY MAIL
—teach you to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. The lessons are simple, practical and
thorough, and you cannot fail to progress
quickly.
Just write your name and address across this
advertisement, and send it to us with three
stamps to cover postage. We will mail you
in return a FREE copy of our interesting
booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,”
which gives full particulars about the course.
(■I
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS,
344 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street (Corner Crown St.), Sydney.
The Song of the Little Feet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY heart goes beating to the sound
Of little feet in thin refrain
That, running happily around,
Make ghostly music in my brain.
Pit-pat! Pit-pat! Again, again
They tinkle through the gloom,
As soft as summer-falling rain—
Wee feet in some bare playing-room i
Oh, dancing little feet of joy,
I creep down step and stair,
Down dusky hall and corridor,
To see the children playing there.
I go to find the hidden room
Where fast those footsteps beat,
But. ah. they vanish ere I come,
Light as the wind and fleet!
Yet echoing still,
Benumbed and chill,
I hear far-off the feet;
’Twixt soaring wall and window-sill
Those unseen, ghostly feet—
The pattering, the clattering
Of little children’s feet!
And in the sunny afternoons,
When all the garden beds are gay,
I hear around me broken tunes —
The feet of children as they play.
Beneath each downward-hanging spray
They toss the crackling leaves,
And scamper where the creepers sway
Beneath the purple-lidded eaves.
Trembling I lift the rusty latch,
Along the paths I run ;
Only the empty lawns are there,
The flowers dreaming in the sun.
The staring hollyhocks I see,
The ferns and meadow-sweet;
But none have loitered on the paths,
Or sought the fountain-seat.
By walled-in door
And petalled floor
There gleam no bare, brown feet;
Yet all my dreams are drifted o’er
With sounds of running feet—
The dancing on, the prancing on
Of children’s happy feet!
And when the blinds are drawn around,
And when the cloth is laid for tea,
I hear the whispering little sound
That gathers close and close to me—
The stamp of feet that wearily
Lag after hours of play,
And climb the staircase shadowy,
So tired at the end of day.
Beside the banisters I wait.
I wait, but what is there?
Oh. little, weary children, I
Wait weeping, weeping on the stair!
My heart is crying for a hard
Pressed close to still its beat,
And lifted straightly to my own
A face tear-stained and sweet!
Would that my breast
Spelled peaceful rest
For those dear, dragging feet!
Yet only in my dreams confessed
Can come those ghostly feet.
Oh. aching heart! Oh. breaking heart!
O God, the little feet!
VICTORIA.
Myra Morris.
Nectar of the Gods.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOU may date. this story ten thousand
years ago. It may have been more,
it may have been less. I can only
say that it was after the sinking of Bass
Strait separated the island of Tasmania from
the mainland of Australia. That much is
certain, as Merriwee’s great discovery never
reached the continent. Perhaps, on second
thoughts, it would be better to date it “Once
Upon a Time.”
Warm rain had melted the last of the be-
lated winter snow on the Western Tiers and
the Lake River was in flood. The water had
risen over the flats where Merriwee’s tribe
usually camped for a few weeks before climb-
ing the mountains; so they had built their
bark breakwinds under the shelter of the tea-
trees in a gully of the foothills. The smoke
from their fires rose straight into the clear
air, and every peak along the range was
plainly outlined against the blue sky.
Merriwee was proud of a new chopping
tool that he had just fashioned from a piece
of chert. It had a nice hollow for the thumb
to get a grip of (no genius had yet arisen to
show the tribe how to put a handle to their
tools), and its crescent edge was chipped
beautifully even and sharp. Parts of it
were keen enough to shave the hairs from
his arms. More by way of giving it a trial
than anything else he was searching the tree-
tops for a bee’s nest or hollow limb where a
brush-’possum might be sleeping.
Twice he had passed thick trees contain-
ing the bulky stick-and-leaf nests of the ring-
tails. But the ring-tailed ’possum feeds on
gum-leaves and is only fit for women to eat;
whereas the brush-’possum comes down and
feeds on the succulent grass, wherefore its
flesh is food for warriors. There were scratches
on a tall cider-gum ; and a few minutes’ exami-
nation convinced him that the ’possum was at
home in a hollow limb 50 feet up. Three
feet from the ground he chipped a notch in
the white bark. Then he swung his grass
rope round the tree, got inside the loop that
it formed, placed his big toe in the notch,
and stepped up. With the ends of the rope
in one hand, he leant back and chopped a
notch for his left toe. Then he pulled the
rope until he stood close against the trunk
of the tree, jerked the loop three feet higher
and stepped up again. He continued
chopping and climbing until he reached the
first limb. Then he took the loose end of
the rope, swung it across the fork, caught
both ends and pulled himself astride. From
that upwards it was easy climbing until he
reached the broken hollow limb where the
’possum had his nest. He hammered until
a round-eared, brown-eyed creature came out,
blinking at the sunlight. Catching it by the
bushy tail he dragged it off the limb, swung
it round, dashed its head against the tree,
and let it drop to the ground. In a few
seconds he was beside it.
He felt well pleased with his new chop-
ping tool. Two or three cuts with it made
a beautiful climbing notch. He picked it
up and idly chipped at the first notch until
it was large enough to put his fist into.
Yes, he decided; it would be equally good
for cutting out bees’ nests.
A piece of honeycomb would be good eat-
ing after his ’possum, and he began to look
for a hive. The ground w r as covered with
orchids, irises, buttercups and daisies, but
there were few bees visiting them. Nearly
all had been lured to the tops of the gum-
trees, where they were helping the birds
rifie the pale yellow flowers. But the tops
of the gum-trees were too high for him to
be able to see in what' direction the bees
were going.
In a near-by creek-bed the blackwood and
prickly wattle made a patch of gold, and
the thick scrub that bordered the creek was
covered with lilac blossom. At one of the
low bushes he caught a laden bee and stuck
a tiny piece of feather fluff to its back with
a dab of wattle-gum. Then he released it
and followed as it flew heavily away. Up
the hillside it led him, straight as an arrow,
to a blue-gum, where the little shiny bees
were passing, in and out of the knot-holes. To
climb up was easy, but the hard, dry wood
took a lot of chipping away, in spite of the
excellence of his new chopping tool. He
had been at work half-an-hour before he was
able to put in his hand and draw out three
circles of brown comb, oozing golden honey,
sweet and aromatic with the scent of gum
blossom. Satisfied, he wandered back to
the camp-fires in the gully.
Some days afterwards, passing the cider-
tree that he had climbed for the ’possum,
Merriwee was attracted by the sight of hun-
dreds of moths and butterflies flitting
around the hole he had chopped in the trunk.
Half-a-pint of pale golden liquid lay in the
hollow, and every insect about seemed to
have collected there, drinking. When they
had drunk their fill they climbed or flew
aimlessly, or sat, half stupid, basking in the
sun. The day was hot, Merriwee was thirsty,
and the liquid looked tempting. He dipped
a finger and sucked it. At first he was
hardly sure whether he liked the half-sweet,
half-sour taste or not; it was so different
from anything he had tasted before. Two
fingers dipped in for a second taste decided
him. He skimmed away the insects that
had fallen in, put his mouth to the hole, and
sucked up as much of the liquid as he
could reach. It was sharp to his tongue,
tingled in his throat, and gave him a warm,
comforting sensation in his stomach.
He liked it so much that he plucked a
straw and drained the last dregs.
Picking up his spear and club he went up
the hillside on the look out for a kangaroo.
As he walked he began to experience some
new and pleasant sensations. He had never
noticed before what a beautiful world he
lived in, or what a wonderful adventure it
was just to be alive ; he felt as though he
owned the earth, had a mortgage on the sea,
and a reasonable chance of inheriting the
sky.. He wanted to shout, to .jump, to sing,
When he saw a kangaroo, instead of stalk-
ing, he began to run after it, waving his
spear and shouting, confident that he was the
faster runner of the two. The ground seemed
to rise up in front .of him, and he tripped
and fell; but he got up satisfied that only
for the fall he would have been successful.
Not only did he feel that he could run as
fast as the kangaroo, but he believed he
could fly like a bird if only he could get a
start. He climbed on to a log and he saw
the trees and bushes circling round him and
the earth rising and falling like the waves
of the sea. The sight made him giddy and
he tumbled to the ground; but nothing
seemed to matter. As he lay beside the log
he felt that it was necessary to hold on to
the earth lest he should fall away into space.
But even that did not worry him. The sun
was comfortably warm, myriads of insects
were singing a lullaby and he was sleepy.
When he woke it was getting dusk, and
he was obliged to return to the camp empty-
handed and be laughed at by the successful
hunters. He recounted his experiences to
an incredulous audience. In the Happy
Hunting Grounds, he assured them, such
nectar was drunk by the Immortals. The
young men jocularly hinted that he had only
invented an excuse for coming back without
any game. The old men gravely listened to
his tale of the magic liquid that made a man
feel like a god, and solemnly shook their
heads over the fact that he, a young man,
hardly more than a boy, should have pre-
sumed to drink what was, doubtless, in-
tended solely for the elders. Their council
immediately decided that this new drink, if
Merriwee’s tale were true, should be taboo
to all the women and young men, as were all
the choice bits of food.
Next day Merriwee led several of the
elders to the tree, expecting to find a fresh
supply of nectar. The hole was full of
liquid, but when the old men tasted it was
sour, and none of them afterwards felt the
magic that Merriwee had boasted about.
After scolding him for leading them on a
foolish quest they went back to the camp.
But Merriwee was not satisfied. The liquid
appeared the same, and yet there was a dif-
ference, but a difference he found it impos-
sible to explain to the scoffers. He decided
that the hundreds .of moths and butterflies
that had been rioting around the tree were
in some way responsible. Full of hope he
chopped the original hole deeper, and an-
other alongside it.
Early in the morning he visited the tree
again. Both holes were" full of sap, but there
were no moths or butterflies, and when he
tasted the liquid there was no magic in it,
so he went away disappointed. Next day
there was a kangaroo hunt, and Merriwee
was obliged to take his place in the line of
warriors that speared the animals as the
women and children drove them past. Had
his experience been ordinary he would have
forgotten it, but it was not, and on the
morning after the hunt he went across and
found the tree surrounded by a halo of flut-
tering insects.
He only waited to assure himself that
the magic had been at work once more, and
then went back to the camp for the old men.
He found them incredulous; but two, less
sceptical than the others, followed him.
They tried the liquid and found it pleasant,
and the magic sensations that came over
them afterwards were like nothing they had
ever experienced before. The three of them
drank deep of the fermenting sap and then
started back to the camp with the good
(Continued on next page.)


"Every Picture
tells 3 Story ''
ll"'r *
V.ML
n
yi/imr
“You Have Neglected
Your Kidneys!”
That’s why you are tortured with that dull, all-day
backache! It’s the reason for that lameness, soreness,
and those sharp rheumatic pains! And it’s due to neglect
of these early warnings that we find so many people with
gravel, dropsy and other serious kidney ills.
To be well and stay well you must watch your kidneys.
You cannot afford to ignore even the slightest symptom
of kidney weakness. That nerve-racking backache, those
knife-like pains, those headaches, dizzy spells and distressing urinary irregularities, while easily
corrected if treated promptly, may prove serious if neglected.
Don’t be discouraged! Use commonsense and take things easier for awhile. Cut down your meat.
Drink plenty of water, and help the weakened kidneys with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This old,
reliable remedy has a world-wide reputation, and is recommended by scores of your friends and
acquaintances. Ask your neighbor!
SYDNEY RESIDENT CURED.
Mr. James Higgins, Queen Street, Beaeonsfield, Sydney, says:—“Some time ago I was taken very badly
with kidney trouble. I don’t know how to account for it, unless several accidents were to blame. I consulted
three doctors and underwent treatment, and each one, failing to do me good, advised me to go into the hospital
for an operation. They said my case was almost hopeless, and that an operation was my only chance, as one
of my kidneys was in a very diseased state. I took medicine of all sorts, but everything failed, and I was in
such pain and misery that I did not care if I lived or died. I had severe pains in mv back, giddiness, headaches
and scalding urine. I was completely done up and scarcely able to lift anything. The day was appointed for
the operation, when a friend asked me if I had tried Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. He told me he knew of
a man who was as bad as I was and who had been completely cured, and for good, by this remedy. I post-
poned the operation and commenced using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. ' A fortnight later I returned
to work, and the men there could not believe the change they saw in me would ever have been possible. There
is no doubt it is wonderful. I am quite cured and as fit for work as a man could be.”
Sixteen years later Mr. Ilisgins says:—“Since my cure I have had one or two slight attacks of kidney
disorder, but Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have always given me quick relief. I am a great believer in this
remedy, and with reason.”
fghfgh
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Price 2/9 per bottle, a*
all Chemists and Stores,
or from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
news._ By the time they came In sight of
the fires their progress was hilarious and
their antics, after they arrived, provided the
tribe’s dramatist with the material for the
most successful corroboree he had ever pro-
duced.
The council of the old men considered this
strange thing and decided that, as Merriwee
had become possessed of a powerful magic,
lie should be admitted to their circle,
although he was only a youth. Dire penal-
ties were promised the other young men and
the women if they dared to drink so much
as a drop.
For two weeks the tribe stayed in their
camp and Merriwee regularly extracted nec-
tar that was fit for drinking every second
day ; and the old men saw that none of it
was wasted. But as summer drew nearer,
and the weather grew hotter and drier, the
supply of sap diminished, and nothing but
a sticky gum would ooze into the holes that
Merriwee chopped.
The time came for them to gather up their
belongings and follow the spring to the
mountains. They camped on the plateau by
the shores of the Great Lake, where there
were other groves of cider-gum. For several
weeks Merriwee was able to produce a regu-
lar supply of nectar. Then these trees, too,
dried up, or, as the old men affirmed, Merri-
wee lost his magic.
The matter was long debated round the
council fire. Merriwee had a powerful
magic and now he had lost it; what was lost
must have been stolen; the thief must be
one of the Big River tribe. Such logic was
irrefutable.
The summer was passed pleasantly on the
top of the Tiers, and when autumn came
tl}e tribe migrated to the coast. If it had
not been that the corroboree of Merriwee’s
magic was regularly performed most of the
tribe would have forgotten the Nectar of
the Gods. But not Merriwee: he still went
about chopping holes in the trees —in blue-
gum, peppermint, myrtle and sassafras trees ;
in trees on the hills and trees in the gullies
—but none yielded anything.
Camped behind the sandbanks on the sea-
shore, the men had an easy time. Prizing
limpets and oysters off the rocks, diving for
crayfish down amongst the strands of the
giant kelp, and digging for edible roots was
all women’s work. The men took their pick
of the food when it was brought to the camp,
and threw what they did not care for over
their shoulders to the women who had done
the collecting. Occasionally, for sport, the
men speared stingrays in the shallow hol-
lows of the beach, or for a change of food
organised a kangaroo hunt.
While the black swans were moulting they
were easily speared, and when they built
their nests in the shallow waters of the
lagoon the tribe feasted on their eggs. Then
it was time to follow the spring towafds
the mountains. On their way two of the
young warriors speared one of the men be-
longing to the Big River tribe, who was
trespassing on their territory. Trespassing
was punishable by death ; but this doubtless
was also the thief of Merriwee’s magic. They
arrived back at the camp at the foot of the
Tiers, and Merriwee chopped a number of
holes in the clump of cider-gums where he
had first discovered his magic. Next morn-
ing the holes were filled with sap, and the
day after a halo of winged creatures testi-
fied that his magic had again been success-
ful. Great was the rejoicing of the old men ;
and Merriwee was once more admitted to
their council.
Some days later it was the Spring full-
moon and a great corroboree w r as held to
celebrate the re-discovery of the Nectar of the
Gods. What had been merely an impromp-
tu farce when first performed was expanded
into a full night’s entertainment. A piece of
level ground was cleared and ringed round
with fires. The women and children took
up positions on one side, the men on the
other, the old men in a group slightly apart.
The performers, a picked band of the younger
men, as naked as they were born, had been
w r ell coached by the tribe’s dramatist. The
orchestral accompaniment was provided by
the women hammering sticks together and
beating with their hands on rolled-up kan-
garoo skins.
Merriwee’s discovery of the magic liquid
was acted; his taking the old men to be
disappointed : then his taking of the two old
nien and their return to the camp after find-
ing that the magic had worked; the young
man of the Big River tribe stealing Merri-
wee’s magic while he slept; the spearing of
the thief; finally, Merriwee’s magic again
successful. The intoxicating rhythm grew
faster and faster, and the performers leapt
higher and higher until their sweat-covered
borlies gleamed like polished bronze in the
light of the fires. It was midnight when
the performance ended with the exhaustion
of the last dancer.
Year after year the corroboree of Merri-
wee’s magic was performed at the same place
and season. As time passed, what was origi-
nally intended as celebration was believed to
influence the sap rising and fermenting in
the hollows cut in the cider-trees. It be-
came a symbol, a myth, part of the religious
ritual of the tribe, the omission of which
would in some way prejudice the return of
Spring.
H. W. STEWART .
White Shoes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A VIE dear”—my voice was caress-
I y ing—“I do believe there’s a calf
in the garden. Bo go down and
see. Nobody can manage cattle as you do.”
His favorite vanity flattered, Davie dear
arose and departed importantly. We watched
him down the path and out of sight.
“It seems rather mean, poor kid!” said
I, smitten with sudden remorse.
“Nonsense,” rejoined Nell. “He’s always
after tea. And it’s bad for infants.”
So we two went within to the enslaving
cup, and to discuss for the 50th time the
dance that was coming off that evening—the
first event beside the weekly mail for five
months, eagerly anticipated for weeks, and
the cause of many excited communings over
fashion journals. For Fashion reigns in the
most unexpected places; and in our farthest-
out-back township, which is hardly even a
township, it is no unusual thing to see a
lady sporting a “creation” copied from a
recent _ Paris model. Our dance frocks,
mother's, Nell’s and mine, each "a perfect
dream,” and more expensive than anything
we had yet worn, complete, and laid out
ready to pack for the journey, occupied our
minds with a kind of hazy joyousness. (What
a lot mere man misses, who knows not the
joys of radium lace and crepe georgette and
silk stockings!) In my case joy was un-
shadowed even by the knowledge that one
of my new white shoes fitted my foot a little
too closely.
I went out to fetch in the horses with my
head in a pleasant whirl of silvery satin and
net. It was one of those clear, golden after-
noons, with a tang of coldness coming eerily
through the glowing sunshine, that one often
notices in quite early autumn in the Farthest
North, when the birds are silent, but there is
a soft chorus of grasshoppers and crickets in
the long grass ; one of those afternoons which
seem likely to last for hours, but on w T hich
the dark falls suddenly, like a black veil
dropped over a jewel.
Coming in with the horses, ‘ after a two-
hours’ search, was like stepping out of calm
waters into a raging torrent. For the in-
visible machinery had been started, and the
entire household had commenced the speed-
ing-up which appears to be necessary before
any of us go out. Father was polishing
boots, inquiring between rubs, with aggra-
vating frequency, “Well, are you ready yet?”
Nell was frenziedly frying steak and cutting
bread and cake for the evening meal. Mother
was feeding ducks and chickens. The enfant
terrible chanted “When you come home, dear,
all will be fair” in the office; a wild-eyed
uncle chopped the morning wood with light-
ning speed; the dogs, catching the prevail-
ing sense of excitement, chased an unhappy
fowl whose shrill cacklings were mocked
and interspersed with bursts of demoniac
laughter from the cockatoo. Like a leaf
I was drawn into the vortex of hurry. Dash-
ing down to the shed in search of bridles, I
dodged and implored and roundly vitupe-
rated recalcitrant horses that did not want
to be caught. At length they were all stand-
ing meekly under the mango-trees, and
saddled. Then I went to select the flowers
we were to wear while Nell chased the rest
of the family in to tea.
“Come and eat, come and eat, come and
eat —where’s ma?”
She flew off in search of ma. who is one
of those people with a little habit of vanish-
ing into thin air at mealtimes. Whereupon
I slid in and secured the first cup of tea
and a large portion of steak, so that when
the rest finally assembled I was able to push
away my plate and say, in a faint, faraway
voice, “it’s no use, I can’t eat. Oh, yes,
I’ve had a little —just forced it down, you
know” —and left the table to pack our dresses
in a pillow-slip and our dance-shoeS in a
canvas-bag.
Nell and I speeded up for all we .were
worth, but mother and father gained on us
while we were washing up, and when at
twilight mother had put on her riding-skirt
and hat and dad was searching for his
riding-whip, we girls were only in the first
stages. Impatient murmurings rose, and I
paused in my ablution.
“Mother, don’t wait for us, if you want
to get down before dark. We’ll come as
soon as we can get ready.”
“All right,” said mother. “Listen, we’ll
take the hurricane-lamp and the shoes; you
can bring the frocks and flowers. Where are
the shoes?”
"They are in that canvas bag. Everything
we’re taking is on the kitchen table.”
"Don’t be long,” called father, as they
rode out of the gate.
“No, dad,” I answered; then remarked
disrespectfully: ’-Now they are fairly gone
I’m going to have another look for that
necklace. We’re never late.”
Getting into our riding togs in the half-
light, however —we had mislaid our bedroom
matches—proved a somewhat lengthy per-
formance. I dropped two hairpins down my
back, and managed to break my bootlaces.
Nell felt all over the room for an indispen-
sable lmir-clasp, until she remembered having
heard somethin? drop into the soap-dish. At
the last minute,, as we were mounting our
fiery steeds, I recollected my black fan, and
went back to fetch it —and a powder-puff.
But at length we were off on our five-mile
ride to the one and only hotel for fifty miles
around, where the new landlord was giving a
dance, which all our scattered population,
proud and humble, enemy and friend I there
are no rich and poor in the tin districts;
all of us have yet to find the lode), were ex-
pected to attend, by the ancient unwritten
law of the community.
Trotting along beneath the little stars, on
the narrow stony track, we talked happily of
the resplendent visions we should shine, until
lights, the sound of vigorous strumming on
a veteran piano, and cpiite a pleasant hub-
bub of voices announced to us our arrival
at the Black Kid.
When we stepped on to the verandah, the
light, blazing on our dusty riding clothes,
made us shrink a little under a battery of
feminine eyes. Then our hostess bustled
forward to greet and convey us to a dressing-
room.
Mother came in to us as we were putting
on the war-paint.
“Hurry up, girls, they’re having the first
dance in a minute or two. Here’s the bag.
I’m sorry now I wore my shoes down—they
are dusty.”
For the next five minutes we pushed and
scurried in front of the mirror. From the
hall adjoining the hotel came the sound of
a violin being tuned; then the pianist began,
and the voice of the M.C. rang out: “Take
your partners, gentlemen, for the lancers!”
I got the seam of my stocking straight up
the back.
“Four more couples wanted !”
I put in the last hairpin.
“Three more couples wanted !”
I fastened my white rose.
“Two more couples wanted !”
I made a dive for the canvas bag, and
shook out on the bed, not those white, those
elegant, latest-style, slightly-tight shoes,
but
A slab of salt beef, crusted, horny, evil-
smelling, reposed on the snowy counterpane!
There had been two canvas bags on the
kitchen table.
L. PATRICIA FRANCIS.


-
r
w
v-i
WH
■ -y
. i «££*■.\\ •■*
.-„ : JS go!»fr‘ _
,. >5?-A
- - •' >
?3§ V%|
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Roc.ter-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agent*—HOLM KS & CHURCH* Brisbane.
N,Z. Offiee—93-10? Feathers ton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Avoid Lead Poisoning.
USE
Bitumastic Paint
Anti-corrosive, tasteless, odorless.
Specially adapted for Galvanized-iron Roofs.
Colors: Red, Grey, Brown, Green and Black.
J. Wildridge 8 Sinclair (Brisbane) Ltd.
22530 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
fghfg
What a Satisfactory File Means.
A File that will satisfy the most exacting user—that will stand
up to the severest test, means a great saving in time and work.
That is why leading engineers and metal-workers endorse "AN
EAGLE ON A GLOBE” as the most satisfactory File Service.
“An Eagle on a Globe”
Engineers’ Files.
Famous for quality and lasting service the world over. Each file
must conform to a high standard of efficiency before leaving the
works in Sheffield,
guarantee.
They are
s best, that’s your
JDeeide now that your next file will be “An
Eagle on a Globe,” and send your
specifications and orders for
any quantity to
mm
mm.
m
mm
\ ll 'm
•JIH
The Eagle & Globe
Steel Co., Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfoui
and Co., ltd., Sheffield,
.'lakers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
SYDNEY: 379-881 Kent Street. ‘ » '•tlW
MELBOURNE: 342-318 Svvanston Street,
NEWCASTLE: Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street.
BRISBANE: John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street.
ADELAIDE: Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street.
HOBART: R. L. Milligan, 33a Argyle Street.
Also at Fremantle and Kalgoorlie.
CAL
Three-Fold Safety
The Remington Model 51 Automatic Pistol is ab-
solutely safe. There is no danger of accidental dis-
charge because of the three safety devices: (1)1
automatic grip safety, (2) thumb-operated safety levei>
(3) magazine removal safetv-
JRemli igloit
for Shooting Right
SPECIFICATIONS?: Caliber, .380; length, 6 5/8 in.;
thickness, 9/10 in.; weight, 21 ounces unloaded; finish,
dull black; magazine holds seven rimless automatic j
standard cartridges, one additional cartridge in chamber. A
Cartridges, .380 APH (9 m/m
Browning Short) rimless auto-
matic standard metal cased or
soft pointed, the same cartridge
•s is used in other American
Automatic Pistols of this
i caliber.
fghfgh
C-9
* l HI)
'mi,*,
HUfll.j
"’•/It,
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D, Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
w
76
/
/
%
*
7/
i
Y//
ePleoHorz
ion
IF YOU TAKE
Y/i
15 PIS
If any illustration appearing in The
*
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tue
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bumsu Australasian,
Gd. weekly—au illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.GL„
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
4 1 .r ITT T'l T|
\ r.::
\
IjEjj,
L
ffi
■the Quality Light.
One trial of “Light of the Age” is all that is necessary
to prove its superiority.
Every shipment is of the same dependable quality—
always maintaining its high standard.
Its Quality means reliable service.
“Light of the Age” gives the clear yet restful illumina-
tion that makes the evening hours so comfortable.
No smoke, no odor.
Ask for it by name —“Light of the Age.”
THE TEXAS COMPANY
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.,
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
TE
»CO
A


I,
m
O
&
/
&
v t
\fj>
•;■ * •»<>.■■' ■- V
i
V,fVv*,
•:»
*v:-v
e ßorn 1820
going Strong /
If you want to be sure of
getting “pure Scotch
Whisky” of guaranteed quality
and perfectly, matured ask
for “Johnnie Walker.”
It is bottled in Bond under
Government supervision.
mm
0
pa m
Guaranteed same quality all over the world.
JOHN WALKER A SONS. LTD., Scotch Whiskt Distillers. Kilmarnock. Scotland,
