

KOD
VK
k
St*
.
an
m
m*
t:t/S t
SSifS
, t --V
Details of this big competition for photographs
taken (by amateurs only) with a Kodak,
Brownie, Graflex or Premo, will soon be
announced. Get one of these cameras now,
and make a special effort to secure suitable
pictures during the Summer months.
Of all Kodak
tmmmmsamsausßaam
(Australasia) PTY.
Street,
George
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane; and The Valley.
‘The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
1 7 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
4o Elizabeth Street, Hobart; ltuthveil Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville- East Street
■TiTS; S f«e?WeSSo^N.f a H " y T* P ° rtl,i “ The KOll ' ,t Co ™*-'’
The Bulletin
VoL 44.—N0. 2240.
Thursday, January 18, 1923.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Pogt Office, Sydney, JST.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Write for Circulating Library Catalogue.
Posted free, with full particulars, to any
address.
DYMOCK’S' BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
Saadis!
*
■!
3BS
v jm
A CORRECTLY MANUFACTURED BELT
will retain a grip on the pulleys that transfers every ounce
of generated power to the machines, and such a one is the
iow cost MANGROViTE LEATHER BELTING
Tanned by the special Mangrovite process, it retains to the
right degree the elasticity, strength and durability “of the
selected Australian ox-hides from which it is manufactured.
It cuts costs. Write or call to-day.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henry Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 5 Bedford Row, Christchurch.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY station),
and 201 Eourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1 /-. Magic Made Easy, 1/.. Tricks with
Coins, 1/..
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS
WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &rc.
CATALOGUES FREE.
P^WvlV
FOUR MORE FARCES,
in one book. 2/-
Contents —Our First
Performance, My Turn
Next, Area Belle,
Mock Trial for Breach
of Promise. PLAY
Catalogue Free.
MOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/-
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage.... 1/6
*
“Koh-i-Noor ”HB
is the writer’s degree.
“Thank goodness it’s back,
writing will become a pleasure
again ” wrote one enthusiast. No
pencil is so silky in touch, or so
long-wearing as is a
THE PERFECT PENCIL.
The favourite of everyone who has once
used it. Made from a formula exclusive to
L. &C. Hardtmuth, Entirety free from grit.
In 17 degrees, 6B to 9H.
From all Stationers, Drawing Material Dealers and Stores.
Agent for AUSTRALIA :
Mr. JOHN MACDOUGALL, G.P.O. Box No. 165, SYDNEY.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, - 10, Bothwell Street, GLASGOW.
Factories— Budweis, Czecho-Slooakia.
For Infants
an all-important advantage.
Babies and growing children obtain from Benger s Food
the great advantages of being reared on pure fresh milk.
These include healthful natural growth unchecked by the
under-nourishment which arises from unsuitable food.
cvbn
cvbn
is always prepared with fresh milk, or milk and water
according to the age of the child.
It is specially prepared to adjust the milk to the delicate digestion
of children and invalids. All the great good m milk Natures
all-important food —becomes available with Bengers.
117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Stole 1 Propria tors^anlfManufacturera: BENGER S FOOD, LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
BENGER’S FOOD LTD.,
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
"MUSTDIE Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
the powder is distributed
MUSTDIE
NON POIMNOU3 POWDER.
THE 6RDU INSECT QDTKOyfR.
( Hies.
, nt »
) Bugs.
( Mosquitoes.
*. it-
more effectively, and we
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney, 18
The Red Page
A Plain Man’s History Book.
“The Making of Australasia/'
by Thomas Dunbabln.
{A. F. C. Black, "Ltd .)
It is inevitable that this book should come
into comparison with Professor Wood’s re-
cently-published “Discovery of Australia.”
But, except for the facts that the latter has
been written by a much older and riper
student of history, who possesses a literary
style and charm of his own which is not
easily excelled anywhere, and that it goes
far more deeply into what may be termed
the mythological origins of the Great South-
ern Continent, Dunbabin’s book suffers in
no way from such a comparison. Wood’s
brilliant essay has to do mainly with pre-
historic Australia —if we regard our his-
torical records as dating from the hoisting
of British colors at Botany Bay in 177 U
by Captain Cook. Dunbabin tells briefly
the story of Australasia from the fifteenth
century 'to 1921. And he tells it plainly,
accurately and fairly—and with a love and
respect for his country and countrymen
that cannot fail to recommend it to Aus-
tralians. He is well qualified for the work
he has undertaken so successfully, being a
Rhodes scholar from the University of Tas-
mania, a scholar in geography of Oxford
and an Australian journalist, whose shorter
essays in historical subjects, having to do
with the South Seas, have earned a deserved
appreciation.
Throughout the book Dunbabin lias for
the most part contented himself with the
plain statement of facts, and has seldom
sought to color them by his own interpre-
tation of their causes and effects, though
when he does so his conclusions are always
valuable. He explains its scope in his in-
troduction.
“This book,” he says, “is an effort to
give a brief but accurate account of the
winning and making of Australia. It may
seem that a disproportionate amount of
space has been given to the earlier history
of Australia. For this there are several
reasons. .. .Apart from the special interest
that attaches to the beginnings of develop-
ment, the early days present very much of
historical interest. What may be culled
the middle period of Australian history is
comparatively featureless, except to the
specialist.... In some of the colonies im-
portant constitutional questions were raised
and dealt with, but in a work of this kind
it is impossible to treat of these in detail.
With the years 1914-18 the case is different.
Australia was then drawn into the main
stream of world events, and the years of
the war were crowded with happenings of
great magnitude. .. .The central fact to be
borne in mind is that the war and the after-
events have meant a complete re-adjustment
of the relations of Australia. In a sense
it has almost meant to Australia what the
visit of Commodore Perry’s fleet meant to
Japan.” „ , . .
But although the author feels it incum-
bent upon him to apologise for devoting so
large an amount of space to the picturesque
early period of Australian history, lie by
no means neglects what he calls the “middle
period.” Some chapters of his book are
extremely valuable essays on the later de-
velopment of the Commonwealth and Maori-
land. Take, as an example of this,
Chapter XI: “The Winning of the West”
—in which, in four terse and vigorous pages;
he tells the story of Westralia up to the
middle of the last century. It is a piece of
work that may well stand as typical of one
of the best qualities the book possesses—
its freedom from confusing elaboration. So,
indeed, does “The Colony of a Theory,” in
which he traces the development of South
Australia up to about the same period. But,
perhaps, as is only natural,. Dunbabin is
at his best when he writes of his own Tas-
mania. Here he displays so intimate a
knowledge' of the country and its story as
to cause the reader to hope that lie. may
one day publish as good a book as this one
concerning his native State alone. It would
be well worth doing, and should be well worth
reading.
As to the style in which the book is writ-
ten. the opening passage of the chapter on
“Old New Zealand” is eminently quotable:
In almost every respect the history of New
Zealand differs from that of Australia. To begin
■with, the natural setting and geographical features
are altogether different. In place of a great con-
tinent of 3,000,000 square miles with a coast but
little indented, with great plains and few important
mountains, and with a generally dry climate and
large areas of arid country, you find two long narrow
islands with a broken and irregular coastline, chains
of mighty mountains rising in Mount Cook to over
12,000 feet, or not far short of twice the loftiest
mountain in Australia, and a climate to which
droughts in the Australian sense are practically
unknown.... The contrast extended to the inhabi-
tants. The aborigines of Australia were of an exceed-
ingly primitive type. Their numbers, too, were very
small in comparison with the vast areas over which
they roamed, and at no time did they offer any
serious obstacle to the progress of settlement. The
Maoris of New Zealand, an offshoot of the great
Polynesian race which occupied the islands scattered
over a vast area of ocean in the Pacific, were
savages of a much higher type..... Physically they
were a far stronger and more heavily built race than
the Australian ' aborigines. In disposition they
were bold and aggressive, and their greatest delight
was in fighting. A battle was meat and drink to
them —the former literally, for they were inveterate
cannibals.
Throughout the book the author is able to
make such telling contrasts as the above
with a brevity and accuracy that it is not
given to every writer to emulate. He never
wastes space, and he never stints his reader
of requisite information. This is only pos-
sible in the case of one who is inti-
mately sure of his facts, and knows how to
present them in the fewest possible words.
It is one compensation for the many draw-
backs that daily journalism inflicts upon
good writing that it sometimes teaches jour-
nalists, who have it in them to be taught, so
much as this. Dunbabin displays in the
terseness of his style and the vividness of
his brief descriptive passages the fact that
at least journalism has done no harm to a
naturally' literate fashion of telling a story.
The later chapters of the book are very
valuable, indeed— particularly those having
to do with Federation, the Great War, the
more recent development of Maorfland and
the last one of alTTwhich is devoted to "borne
Final Considerations,” and ends thus: —
And now, as in the past, the one essential con-
dition of the security of Australia is the integrity
and continuance of the British Empire.
A valuable contribution to Australian his-
tory —well written and not over-written.
An Australian Adventure Yarn
Into The Ring Valley, by John D. I ltz-
gerald (Hodder and Stoughton), comes the
glamor of the days of the great gold rushes,
of the big cattle-duffers and bushrangers,
of the new settlements in the western bush,
and the mystery always shrouding the unex-
plored country just behind the ranges. It is
still a rich back-cloth for Australian romance.
Almost anything may reasonably happen;
and tlio chances of life and death, of strange
loves and stranger quarrels, were as good
200 miles from Sydney in ISOO as in Dumas
Paris of the sixteenth century. In entering
this charmed region of stirring deeds and
broadly-realised hopes, J. D. Fitzgerald had
the advantage of boyhood memories and
tales heard first-hand from the generation
before his own. The adventures of the
Ring Valley could have occurred at a time
when the author was in his earliest infancy,
and no doubt many of the minor happenings
in the story are drawn from life. The result
is a tale that holds the attention and
has plenty of the charm without which no
romance of daring deeds can live. The
characters are slightly drawn and are only
sufficiently real to serve the purposes of the
plot; but many of the incidents are most
vividly described and on every page the
colors are lavishly spread. There are few
Australian boys—or girls either, for that
matter —who would not find this book a
source of delight; and if it is decried by
some of the older readers, who begin to think
that fiction is inseparable from psycho-
analysis, that is entirely their misfortune.
It seems only yesterday that J. D. Fitzgerald,
as Minister for Health, was ordering us all
to mask ourselves against the plague;
and now that he has gone, and left us
this book as a parting legacy, we cannot
but feel the pity of it that he wasted effort
in politics which might have filled a shelf
with better Australian fiction than most that
bears the name.
In “The Ring Valley” you will read how
the wandering circus van came staggering
out of the bush bearing a dead woman and
two living children. The children could ex-
plain nothing; no search ever revealed the
secret that the wide wilderness held. The
children- sprang from nowhere into the lives
of other Australian boys and girls that they
were so strangely to influence. Then there
is the story of the great first funeral on
the new goldfield that is suddenly halted by
the wild cries and gesticulations of the dig-
gers who were sent before to dig the grave.
They have bottomed on rich gold. The war-
den of the field holds the crowd in leasli by
his strong appeal to their decency. The
men line up for the start; and at the signal
rush to" peg out the ground, leaving the hearse
and corpse and mourners to find another
burial place.
There is a cave of wonder in the tale, a
gold discovery like that of Mount Morgan, an
anti-Chinese riot followed by the arrival of
British soldiers, a sensational murder trial
and a still more, sensational man-hunt.
Through the pages moves a hero of the strong
arm who has many fights; a villain of the
most approved cunning, and-much, personal
daring; and there are enough nice girls, good
women and solid men to make the reader feel
that all through Australia is tolerably right.
Of course there are crudities—plenty of
them —but romance is a fruit that can often
be eaten raw. The very nice girl who urges
her lover on in the rough-and-tumble of the
gory fight is better in the book than out of it;
so is the hero, who prefers to bring the des-
perate villain down in a personal tussle when
he could so easily capture him without a
struggle. It is a convention of writers of
adventure stories that their valiant men and
true shall be semi-idiotic in the way they
blunder into traps and pitfalls prepared by a
not very brilliant enemy; but Fitzgerald
modifies the method a little. Certainly none
of the actors on his stage have much intelli-
gence, but he contrives to show that they
have a certain resourcefulness when in tight
places.
“The Ring Valley” makes no attempt to
follow the exact course-of the history of any
place. It gives glimpses of history, which
are probably truer than anything our his-
torians have yet done, but it cheerfully
throws a bit of Queensland’s story into New
South Wales or lifts a piece of 1875 back to
1865 to meet the requirements of the tale.
This is all legitimate enough if the narrative
as a whole warrants it; and “The Ring Val-
ley” is likely to give a great deal of pleasure
to a great many readers.
In manner the book is quiet and dignified,
told by the younger brother who plays but
a small part in the actual game of life. You
feel the narrator’s character a little in the
pages—a singularly decent and modest fel-
low with a tremendous faculty for admira-
tion —and it is but justice that he should get
the nicest girl. He knows the color of the
bush and knows something of its heart. Per-
haps it is that knowledge which gives the tale
its chief charm.
Logic Applied to Spirituality
Religion and Biology, by Ernest E. Un-
win (the Swarthmore Press), is one of the
Christian. Revolution Series. The author is
science master at Leighton Park School,
which is greatly favored by the Quakers,
and he has not hesitated to write the truth
as he sees it. His work is a preliminary
treatment of religion through biology, and
is primarily written to stimulate interest
in religion by students of science. Contrari-
wise, it will stimulate interest in science
among those who are seeking to-day a revi-
val of religious faith. It is reasonable to
believe that if we can understand God in
(Continued on page 3.)


Jk
n
&
mm
Mi
nsm
> > : . .-:•>. ••:•:
■Z^"
m
m
! i
X '•-:- v
§&
■n^
i
n
i
i
w
m
m
fe.-.
v x
m
in
.
il
msm
c
u
No. 1.
“Hordernia’*
Sac Suit,
84
Men’s
Wear
Ground
Floor,
George
Street
Entrance.
Two-Piece
Sports Suit,
676
No. 2.
TWO
STRIKING SUIT VALUES
COMBINING THRIFT AND SMARTNESS
We
Pay
Carriage
in
New
South
Wales.
No. 1. —The “Hosrdernia” Sac Suit, Coat
has two-button front, centre seam and no
vent. Trousers are designed with side
or cross and hip pockets, and cuff bottoms.
In neat dark effects in All-Wool Tweed.
PRICE 847-
Other Values: 58/6,75/-, 90/-, 105/-, 115/-
No, 2. —The Sports Suit, Coat has half*
belted back, patch pockets, three-button
fronts. Trousers possess loops for belt,
side and hip pockets and cuff bottoms. In
All-Wool Australian Tweeds, new effects
in Grey and Brown.
PRICE 67/6
Other Values: 75/-, 84/-, 90/-, 105/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 2712.
Telephone: City 9440.


cvbn
Wine


Comfortable Boots
at Keen Prices
David Jones’ have an enviable reputation
for quality in footwear. These three items
exemplify the exceptional values in evi-
dence throughout this section of the Store.
&*■■■
Men’s Black Box Calf Derby Boots.
Sizes 5-10. Price per
Pair
351-
Men’s Tan Calf Lace Boots, extra stout
welted soles. Sizes 5-10.
Price per Pair
27/6
Men’s Tan or Black Box Calf Oxford
Shoes. Sizes 5-10. Price
per Pair
32/6
We Pay Carriage.
David oJones
for Service
Opp G. P. O.
SYDNEY
(City 63 J 6
* ' 1(Aut0.)86971
Nature, then we are some way along the
path of understanding God m man the
supreme product of Nature It is on tins
thesis that the author works. lheie are
many who will not agree with him. borne
may admit an evolutionary development ol
man's bodily structure from lower orders
of animals, but refuse to Nature any share
in his spiritual development. Others sug-
gest man as the result of a special creation,
nhvsically and spiritually. Ernest Unwin
strongly denounces all efforts to deny the
completeness of Nature’s work, and as a
biologist he is, of course, justified in doing
so. Biology is the study of evolution, and
the greatest heterodoxy of the science is
the denial of the continuity of evolution.
Most people nowadays will admit the author s
support of the Darwinian theory. Man is
a physical evolution, not the mysterious
growth of a rose-bush or the product of
magical deeds in the Garden of Eden. This
much may be acknowledged, but it is when
we come to an explanation of man’s spiritual
nature that the theory of the biological
development of man becomes intriguing. If
the biologist can prove his claim, then all
religion as we know it, as a divine revela-
tion, as the perquisite of the elect and holy,
must go by the board. We may substitute
a morality for it, but whilst a morality may
have force it has not sanction, and the
power of religion lies not in its force but in
its sanction. We are not saying that the
world would be any the worse off for the
change either. Only experience can decide
that, and on past experience a morality is
never as noxious as a religion. The author
of “Religion and Biology” argues that man’s
spiritual nature is within him: it is in-
herent: it is not conferred upon him by
baptism or any other mysterious rite or
ceremony, the product of ages which had
not the facilities for scientific examination
which we possess to-day, and which were
obliged to find an explanation for that which
was beyond their comprehension. Senti-
ment, emotion, right and wrong, are all,
according to biology, the natural processes
of evolution, or, as in the case of sin, the
result of the inhibition of those processes.
God is the revelation of Nature, or Nature
the revelation of God. God is to be found
in every bird and bush, in every tadpole
and worm, because God is Nature. Man,
too, is Nature, physically and spiritually.
He is the primate of the animals, physically
and spiritually. The argument is attrac-
tive and the case is well put, even though
it is not proved as yet. Where, and Mr.
Unwin admits it, the case falls down is in
trying to prove religion biologically. Reli-
gion is to every man something personal.
Everyone who believes in religion at all
must have some vague idea of a per-
sonal God. He may be a pal, as the Kaiser
made Him; or a particular patron, as Glad-
stone believed Him to be. And biology cannot
be made to square with a personal deity, even
though Mr. Unwin makes a most ingenious
effort to square the two off properly. Nature
may be that exfoliation of spirituality which
Edward Carpenter preaches, but it will take
a good deal more than any scientist’s say-so
to persuade the priests and paragons that
Jesus was only the greatest example of that
exfoliation operating in a human being. We
may admit the argument and exclude Jesus,
or we may reject the argument and accept
Jesus, but for the present, anyhow, the two
together are inadmissible on the historic evi-
dence. To Mr. Unwin there does not appear
to be room on this question for compromise.
A. M. P.
The Tragedy of O. Henry
Al. Jennings first met William Sydney
Porter (O. Henry) in Honduras, and
Through the Shadows with O. Henry
(Duckworth) is a record of their subse-
quent experiences together. Accused of em-
bezzlement in the National Bank at Austin,
Texas, Porter had to serve three years in
the Ohio State Penitentiary, though it
appeared after he was released that the
deficit was due more to careless book-keeping
than to any wrong-doing on his part. Jen-
nings was a more sinister character. He had
profiteered in train-robbing, which is about
the tenth largest industry in the United
States. Moreover, he was endeared to shoot-
ing at short notice, and had several funerals
to his discredit. But no questions were asked
in Honduras, and he and Porter, united by
misery in a thirsty country, commenced a
lifelong friendship at the hinder end of an
extensive queue of drinks. They remained
there some time, but, having to flee from
the results of a revolution, they made a for-
ward movement on Mexico City, where the
dignified Porter unconsciously insulted a
greaser magnate at a ball and just escaped
a knife-thrust through Jennings’s readiness
with his Colt.
It was a mere coincidence that when both
were caught and sentenced —Jennings for
life, though he was eventually released and
recovered all civil rights through the per-
sonal intervention of President Roosevelt—
they should encounter one another in the
Ohio gaol. Porter, who had included
medicine-mixing among his load of queer call-
ings, was in the dispensary, and it was dur-
ing the bleak night watches, whilst the
infirmary was audible with terror and pain,
that he started to turn his experience to pro-
fitable account. But, with the possible ex-
ception of “A Retrieved Reformation,” which
furnished the plot for “Alias Jimmy Valen-
tine,” he never exploited his prison life,
though every man around him was a drama,
and the records were bloated with shudders.
Plainly Porter wanted to forget the hells of
his daily round. It was his job to sponge
down and restore the apparently dead after
the numerous floggings, and he had to attend
to the hospital cases as well. Jennings, pro-
moted to clerical duties through good con-
duct, had to play a super’s part at the execu-
tions. To him death was a familiar thing,
but his story of the Kid. a loutish youth who
had been led to the electric chair on the
flimsiest of circumstantial evidence, makes a
common hanging read like a parlor game.
A man jolted into eternity by electricity is
not pretty to write about. He has a marion-
ettish flexibility in the final convulsion, that
in cases seems a burlesque of the victim’s
jelly-like dread in the last few seconds of
preparation.
Jennings’s book contains some moving de-
scriptions of the American prison system. The
national habit of “graft,” he says, permeated
the business of victualling for the convicts.
Rotten and maggotty meat was common,
adulterated and underweight stores, worth
about a tenth of the contract uviee, were
run into the penitentiary, and the prison
clerks (Jennings was one, though lie did his
best to stop the abuse) were surreptitiously
rewarded with wine and comforts for wink-
ing at the frauds and misrepresentations.
Both he and O. Henry, of course, were used
to a better diet on account of their positions,
and he tells a remarkable yarn of how he
restored oeace to the soul of a human tiger
bv offering him an annle. This man, who
was subsequently proved to be a homicidal
maniac through the pressure of a bit of
bone on the brain, had been bashed to a
pulp by the cat, and had to be chained up in
an iron-barred cage, living like an animal
in unimaginable filth,....because he had taken
to violent reprisals for the hideous cruelties
inflicted upon him. Memories of those hor-
rors might well have developed O. Henry’s
early fancy for highballs. When Jennings
joined him in later years he was
camped in princely fashion in New
York, and his pal recalls that he could
have compiled from memory a Baedeker’s
guide to Manhattan’s best potions. Porter
was a Bohemian, whose constant improvi-
dence was assisted by his amazing generosity
among the waifs and strays of the under-
world. He did many noble things, but his
kindly pity for prostitutes, whom he openly
succored when times were hard, -reveals a
rare and wistful tenderness. But Jennings
apparently wasn’t with him when he died.
After his reprieve and reformation the old
train-bandit had returned to the West to
die in the attar of respectability.
C. R. BRADISH.
The Value of the Par.
Edward Dyson’s recent statement that the
man who cannot write a good paragraph will
never write a worthy book needs challenging.
Nobody could accuse Sir Walter Scott of
being a great or even a good par.-writer,
and whilst it is admitted that many of his
books would be greatly improved if
they were more concisely written, none
could be called anything but worthy.
As for the moderns, neither Compton
MacKenzie. nor Stephen McKenna lias con-
sistently written good pars. Yet “Sinister
Street,” “Sonia” and “Rich Relations” are
emphatically worthy books. Undoubtedly
par.-writing is good, if not the best, literary
training for the young and ambitious writer,
but the reasons with which Dyson supports
this proposition are not altogether sound.
The demand to-day is for brevity and con-
ciseness. The reader of the weekly or daily
newspaper has not the necessary time to de-
vote to reading columns of matter when the
meat could easily be compressed into lialf-a-
dozen lines. A generation ago it was differ-
ent. People had more leisure to read lengthy
accounts and long-winded criticisms of cur-
rent events. The author had no need to
cram into a dozen lines facts which could be
made fill a whole page. To-day all the
best-paid work is the shortest. The article
that does not run to greater length than 400
words is more easily marketed than the one
running to 1500 or 2000 words. The short
article may not be as easy to write, but
once the cub author has mastered the diffi-
cult art of expressing himself concisely in
half-a-dozen lines instead of in 40 or 50, he
is on the high road to literary and, perhaps,
financial success. It will all depend whether
the goods which he has to offer are of suffici-
ent interest to hold their own in the literary
auction-room. But providing he writes what
people desire to read, he should always be in
a position to make a comfortable living. For
the. cub author who dreams of entering the
fiction market par.-writing is essential.
Novel-writing is not the paying game some
people believe it to be, and the number who
achieve success financially in this direction
is but a very small percentage of those who
make the attempt. On the other hand, the
short-story market is a paying proposition,
and there is no better way to learn how to
write good short stories than by par.-
writing. To construct an imaginary tale in
a few thousand words is a feat of no little
merit. Characters have to be drawn with
a few bold strokes, atmosphere described by
inference and suggestion rathey than by pic-
tures painted in words, and the action of
the story must ever move forward. Every-
thing that is irrelevant to the story’s action
has to be omitted. The dialogue, the inci-
dents, every word and every line, must carry
the reader ou’.cklv and rapidly towards the
climax and the final denouement. For such
work there is only one method of training—
the writing of paragraphs.
HENRY BATESON.
A Satchel of Books
Fair Harbor, by Joseph C. Lincoln (Appleton).
Another American small-town story, with some fair
characterisation and humor; but the writer hasn’t
made this reader believe that his yarn is true.
Souls for Sale, by Rupert Hughes (Nash and
Grayson). A readable story of the development of
an American film' star, with some interesting infor-
mation about the inside of the business, and manv
reflections upon its morals and value, social and
commercial.
Three Plays of New Zealand, by Alan E. Mulgan,
are one-acts representing the first native dramatic
effort to be published in the Dominion. So says,
by way of introduction, Professor J. Shelley, of
Christchurch, who is attempting to start a repertory- •
theatre movement in M.L. The dramatist has kept
before him the excellent model of Louis Esson. The
first play, “For Love of Appin,” is already known
through the medium of the Sydney Repertory
Society; but it is not nearly so fine a piece of social
analysis as “The Daughter.” Here we have the
tragedy of an intellectual woman, a university gradu-
ate, marrying an out-back, farmer and becoming a
household drudge. John Bailey is the type who
might he worth £50,000, or might be wondering
where the next instalment of his interest is coming
from. He is really a fine fellow', although his in-
terests and his viewpoint have been narrowed down
to his cows and his eternal grouch against the Gov-
ernment. The daughter takes after her father, with-
out inheriting any of the refinement of her mother,
while the son, who does inherit it, is bound to the
soil with chains from which there is no escaping.
The third play', “The Voice of the People,” is an
amusing little trifle about a politician who takes
notes of the domesticated prides and prejudices of
his female constituents —and loses his notebook. It
would provide a good curtain-raiser for any show.
Odds and Ends of a Learned Clerk, by Arthur
Eckersley (London: The Bodley Head). The late
Arthur Eckersley was Chief of “Mr. Punch’s Staff
of Learned Clerks,” and “Odds and Ends of a
Learned Clerk” has been selected and issued
by his friends, Owen Seaman and Desmond Coke, as
a tribute to his memory. He was a master cf
English as it should be, but seldom is, written,
and a possessor of the spirit of eternal youth. Born
48 years ago, he was educated at Rugby and St.
John’s, Oxford, where he made a name for himself,
not only in the schools, but in the O.U.D.C. He
might have made fame and fortune as a comedian,
but instead he diverted his talents to literature,
where his wit, his irreverence for authority, his
sense of adventure and his sympathy, combined with
an intellect well above the average, placed him on
the staff of Punch as a reviewer, and later as a
writer of those satirical sketches which formed for
so long a feature of the middle pages. Eckersley
died in 1921, after a long illness, accentuated, for
his health was never strong, by war work. This
book is a collection of sketches and playlets which
have appeared from time to time in Punch. All of
them are delicate, whimsical and delightful things,
but others besides dog-lovers will probably give the
palm to “The Appro. Week,” a sketch right out of
Eckersley’s heart of the dog that would not go home.
My Memoirs, by ex-Kaiser William 11. (Cassell).
Most of us who have been schoolboys remember
“The Swiss Family Robinson,” and at a hundred
points ’William’s memoirs remind this reviewer of
the wonderful Mr. Robinson. Their hero knew
everything, could foresee everything, could adjust
everything. That in the end he lost everything
wasn’t a bit his fault, of course: he would have
saved everything if some stupid people hadn’t got
tired of believing in his omniscience and omnipo-
tence. But the poor egomaniac doesn’t romance
so successfully as the man who wrote “The Swiss
Family.” “I consciously sacrificed myself and my
throne,” he writes, “in the belief that by so doing
1 was best serving the interests of my beloved
Fatherland.” Elsewhere, however, he complains
bitterly that he was pushed into the sacrifice. “The
Imperial Chancellor, on his own initiative, had
summarily announced my abdication —which had
not yet occurred —as well as the renunciation of
the throne by. the Crown Prince —who had not even
been questioned!” As a contribution to history the
Memoirs are only valuable as exposing the true
character of the hopeless maniac who, to the world’s
cost, was Emperor of Germany at a time when that
country had become enormously powerful—largely,
it is some comfort to reflect, by the exercise of
qualities which may still be of great service to
humanity.
Forty Years of Diplomacy, by Baron Rosen
(Allen and Unwin). Young Rosen wanted to be a
cabdriver, but became a Russian ambassador
instead—had various important posts in Europe,
was afterwards in Washington, was representing his
already distracted country in Tokio when the Russo-
Jap war began, and was one of the plenipoten-
taries- at the signing of the Treaty of Portsmouth.
Though he writes ponderously he makes a good
story out of the hundreds of people he met in the
great game of international politics ; but he becomes
most ' interesting when he returned to Russia to
watch the Great Powers make ready for the tragedy
of 1914, and, so far as Russia is concerned, the
greater tragedy of 1917. As to the origin of the
war, Rosen doesn’t blame the Kaiser so much as the
system under which nations make treaties to stand
by one another in trouble, and then, when trouble
merely threatens, proceed to mobilise: —
“Two things stand out in bold relief as a lesson
to be deduced from the condition of things whicli
determined the outbreak of the World War: the ex-
treme danger to peace and the welfare of nations
lurking in secret alliances, conventions, understand-
ings between rulers, pledging the lives, the
fortunes and the honor of their peoples with-
out their knowledge and consent, and the
no less formidable danger of the ultimate deci-
sion of the question of peace or war being left
to the military element; that is to say, to the
element least qualified to deal with problems of such
overshadowing moment in a spirit of true states-
manship, because its professional training is neces-
sarily directed, not towards the study of the means
of ensuring peace, but towards the elaboration of
plans for the better preparation and conduct of pros-
pective wars.”
Rosen’s reflections on the outbreak of Bolshevism
exhibit the mind of the acute observer. He pooh-
poohs the idea that it was the result of a German
plot, though he admits that Germany may have
taken a chance and helped it in order to rid itself
of one opponent. The revolution, he asserts, was
the protest of the war-weary, and he is amazed at
the ignorance of Bonar Law, who, in a speech
to the Commons, declared that “the discontent
against the Government was not for carrying
on the war, but for not carrying it on with
that efficiency and energy which the people had
expected.” But perhaps Bonar Law was not so
ignorant as Rosen thinks —-or thought: he died while
the book was in the publishers’ hands. The fact
which Rosen forgot is that war and democracy are
so incompatible that you can only carry on war
under democracy by persistently lying to the people.
Memories of a Turkish Statesman, by Djemal
Pasha (Hutchinson). Djemal Pasha, who was ass-
assinated a few months ago at Tiflis, was one of the
leaders of the Young Turk movement, and, during
the war, held the leading army command against
the British and Australians in Palestine. He de-
votes some space to his side of the battle picture,
freely refuting English statements regarding Jaclco’s
strength and casualties, but the main interest of his
book lies in his revelations of the diplomatic intri-
gues in the two or three years preceding the Great
Clash. Djemal, who, like his friends, Enver Bey and
Talaat Bey, had achieved some distinction as an
international conspirator, isn’t loath to express his
satirical admiration for the Great Powers which were
always ready to befriend his country at a price. He
speaks tartly of Italy, which offered to return the
Aegean Islands, stolen during the brief Italo-Turkish
conflict, in return for a powerful railway
However, as this proposal would have conflicted with
an agreement already made wi(h Britain, Abdul
indignantly refused to consider the swindle, well
knowing, of course, that his attitude would have
the unanimous support of the British Government
and the press. Djemal was no friend to Britain,
but he honorably mentions the energy and conscien-
tiousness of the Naval Mission under Admiral Lim-
pus, which reorganised the awful Turkish Navy and
prepared a scheme (which the Turks doubtless used)
for mining the Dardanelles. Djemal was exceed-
ingly angry at Britain’s perfidy in seizing the two
Turkish Dreadnoughts which were on the verge of
completion when Austria delivered the fatal note
to Servia. The fact that work on the two ships
had been frequently delayed suggested to the author
that J. Bull had much earlier wind of the approach?
ing disturbance than his Government was prepared
to admit. Anyhow, the battleships became welcome
additions to the British Fleet, and Djemal Pasha
wept at the dishonesty of the proceedings, though
a few days later he was a party to Turkey showing
its benevolent unneutrality to Germany by announcing
the “purchase” of the Goeben and Breslau, which
had taken shelter in the Dardanelles. He declares
with diverting frankness that the “sale” was purely
“fictitious,” as it had not the necessary authority
of the German Reichstag, but it enabled the Turkish
Government to make the best of an awkward situa-
tion. There are numerous other references to Tur-
kish duplicity, but Djemal contends that the Porte
had numerous precedents among the Allies for its
consistently faithless behavior. Still he doesn’t
show much personal bitterness, except in the case
of Henry Morgenthau, the U.S. ambassador in Con-
stantinople, whose hawk’s-eye view of the Young
Turk Government, when serialised in the Yankee
edition of The AVoii-k, revealed -the smooth-
tongued Djemal as a shoddy political adventurer.
•
“Wilfrido” : The James Tait Black Memorial Book
Prizes for 1921 were gained by Walter De La Mare
for his imaginative novel, “Memoirs of a Midget,”
and bv Lytton Strachey for his brilliant and witty
biography, “Queen Victoria.” The prizes were insti-
tuted by Mrs. Janet Black, of Millearn, Ayr, in
memory of her husband, who was a well-known pub-
lisher in Edinburgh.


BLACK and WHITE
'I
m
nm
m
w
.
m
M
m
u
1
■
~111..
1
m
m
V
‘
■' ■
- -■ ■ ■ , . ■;
i
■S
vu,
!»
* J
K ~V''v-y..
“AGE AND QUALITY.”
WHISKY
IMPORTANT NOTICE!
Messrs. James Buchanan & Co., Ltd., Scotch
Whisky Distillers, Guarantee that all
“Black and White” supplied in Australia is
PRE-WAR WHISKY, and that they and their
associated companies hold the largest stock
of Old Matured MALT Scotch Whisky.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD.


FOUNDATIONS of SUCCESSFUL FARMING
*
■<
r
*4
ri
0
C
r
555
I*Q
ym
/
i*r.
ti,
n
/s*S
' ■"/
>\ irv
=5
V
\
*>
V -
* \jj
MEGGITTL
pis FOOD
LiMEGGITTr
¥ HORSE POOD
( MEGGITTL
POULTRY FOOD
MEGGITTL
CAT TLff pood
:v
ITO
Pin
K
>-
•<
L to T
fA EGG ITT L TO
PARRAMATTA
'V^CTU!^ 0
nEGGITT L TO
PAR RAM ATT*
9
MEGGITT L TO
PARRAMATTA
0
MEGGITT L TD
PARRAMATTA
J
J
MEGGITTS STOCK FOODS
All scientifically compounded on Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal.
The best and most reliable proprietary Foods, combining all the
constituents of complete balanced rations.
% i
it
READY TO SERVE.
99
MEGGITT’S DAIRY CATTLE FOOD
MEGGITT’S CALF FOOD - - - -
MEGGITTL PIG FOOD
MEGGITT’S GROWING MASH - -
MEGGITT’S LAYING MASH - - -
MEGGITT’S HORSE FOOD - ~ ~ ~
More milk for more days.
Rears Healthy, Husky Calves.
Puts on more weight in less time.
Best Food procurable for growing stock.
Produces more eggs, saves time and labor.
Ensures Stamina, Strength and Bloom.
“Different in kind but alike in Quality.
MEGGITTS PURE LINSEED OIL MEAL
The most valuable single ingredient for all stock under all conditions.
Particulars, prices and feeding instructions —free upon request.
yiSEEDOiiMBn.
HEAD OFFICE ‘W KING ST sfYENEY^«fe:l^minatta)
OPieboyonthebac
guarantees quality'
AGENTS. — Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd,, 666 Bourkc Street, Melbourne;, Messrs. Denhams,
Ltd., Brisbane Q.; Messrs. Denham Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton; Messrs. Cbrser A Co., Ltd.,
Maryborough: Messrs. Cummins & Campbell, Ltd,, Townsville and Cairns; Messrs, F. W.
Heritage & Co., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston; Messrs. William Adams tf Co„ Ltd., King
Street, Perth; The S.A. Fanners' Co-op. Union, Ltd., 66 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
°fAe hoy on thehaq
guarantees qualify


British Built “SENTINEL” Steam Waggons
for
j
Heavy Speedy Road Haulage at Lowest Costs
Fuel Costs Id. to Id. per ton mile.
The Last Word for Removed Work.
More Care, Less Cost.
1
fiz
Xffi
<52
The above Sentinel Waggon is owned by Messrs. Grace Bros.,
Ltd., who undertake Removals by road from any part of the
State, and accept responsibility for your furniture in transit.
The fuel cost for a Sentinel Waggon for one week, 398 miles
being travelled, was £l/18/6.
Numerous Repeat Orders Received from Satisfied Owners.
PROMPT DELIVERY.
Full Particulars from
WILLIAM ADAMS 8 COMPANY Limited
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence St.
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins St
BRISBANE:
Cor. Edward &
Mary Sts.
PERTH:
33-35 King St
ADELAIDE:
C’n’r Waymouth &
Morph ett Sts.
NEWCASTLE:
Watt SL
LAUNCESTON:
31a Cameron St.
NEW ZEALAND (South Island): Messrs. Anderson Ltd., Christchurch.


Powder and Perfume
With Cuticura Talcum
An exquisitely scented, antiseptic
powder. Gives quick relief to sun-
burned or irritated skins, overcomes
heavy perspiration, and imparts a
delicate, lasting fragrance, leaving
the skin sweet and wholesome.
Soapls., Ointmentls.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Ijessjp ' Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per (lay inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
\&rdleys
T 016 (EnqliS'6
Lavender Soap
The chosen Soap of the Lady
of Fashion, and one of the
daintiest items of her toilet.
Made of extra fine materials and
luxuriously perfumed, it clears
and refines the skin and en-
hances the beauty of the com-
plexion.
Large tablet 2/-. Three in Box 5/9.
Sold by the best Chemists and Stores.
YARDLEY & CO., LTD.,
8, New Bond Street. London, W. 1.
9
A
n
$
MEXICAN |
1 WALNUT STAINS
Greet Youth
Once More!
Become
Young again
by transform-
ing your
GREY HAIR
to a youth-
ful WALNUT
SHADE 1
Easily and permanently obtain-
able by using Dr. Allen’s Mexi-
can Walnut Stain! Quite Harm-
less to the Skin —Waterproof !
All Chemists.
cvbn
Mr. Stockowner!
You, who know the value of your stock, and realise
the danger to which it may be exposed by the use
of faulty or unscientific veterinary instruments—
the wise course is to use
The “Eclipse” Triple Crush Emasculator
This splendidly reliable instrument is solidly and scientifically
constructed so as to give a safe and certain operation for all
classes of stock. It obviates all risk of injury to the animal and
loss to the stockowner. Write for fuller information NOW.
DENYER BROS.,
Veterinary Specialists, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dependable
.Marine Engines
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H. P.
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
cvbn
Reduced
Prices
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F.O B. Detroit
. Mich..U.S.A.
All Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
<Cerm»th Marine Engines are made with the precision of a watch,
all parts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representative:
V Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia) Ltd.,
> S>. 25-37 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia
Kermath Manufacturing Co., Detroit, MieIi..U.SJL
Cable Address-KERMATH
TTaicriiiaii^
(Ideal
Fountain Pen
—the World's best Pen, used by
the greatest Writers everywhere.
Three Types: Self-Filling, Safety and Regular.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. 6. SLOAN, Ltd., ll Comer
KINGSWAY, LONDON. ENGLAND.
Australia : HAROLD D. DIXON,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
W ATE »\
Regular
&
Sarnia
Self-filling
BEST rORj
® o
y / r
BABY
I
f FOR- MM
THE.
HOME
~Z3T
FOtO
THE.
CAf^P
PATON
AN D
PICNIC
Tjf
/
« o
16446
ike UajicLu Sunuuerlune
IJUjUu
| Jar every ul. re
LIFEGUARD
Ml
“LIFEGUARD’’ solves the problem
of a summer milk supply by fur-
nishing an ever-ready, tasty milk,
which cannot sour or curdle, which
is always fresh and tempting.
AT ALL GROCERS
ALWAYS ORDER
King of Table Waters!
From the Crystal Springs of N.S.W. The Finest of
Mineral Waters. Rich in Curatives containing
Lime, Soda, Lithia and Magnesia.
BALLARAT MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
PURVEYORS TO VICE ROYALTY
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Green Forgetfulness.
To the place of Green Forgetfulness
If you would care to go,
And know the peace of the shining leaf
That tree and sapling know,
Then take yon track through the bracken,
That leaves the road behind,
And echo the joy of the butcher-bird
That whistles adown the wind.
To the place of Green Forgetfulness.
If you would care to fare,
And find the calm of the drooping frond
That sleeps forever there,
Then take yon track through the bracken,
And choose the day at prime,
And think the thoughts that the roving-man
Has thought from the dawn of time.
In the place of Green Forgetfulness
There is no thing that grieves;
The wind is blithe as a wind should be
That travels through bright leaves.
And there you will find no sighing,
And there no sorrows grey,
And young lights chase young shadows there.
Like fairy-folk at play.
To the place of Green Forgetfulness
If you would care to stray,
Then bid “Good day” to the leaden cloudi
That darkened yesterday;
For this is its greenwood message,
As told by bird and wind—-
That he who carries a light heart there
A lighter heart shall find.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
In Paradise.
The lawns of Paradise are white
With little flowers for our delight,
That once as stars we knew;
The golden robes of saints and kings,
And seraphs’ sweeping peacock wings,
Are trailed through twinkling dew.
The fruited trees bend down for all
Beside the polished jasper wall,
And living waters gush.
Tame antelopes and hares disport:
The panting hart, by branches caught,
Hears the loud-singing thrush.
Such various hues of shrub and tree,
Such blended strains of minstrelsy
And rainbow fires above
Span and re-span the ardent sky,
Where sapphire thrones are set on high
Beneath the Holy Hove. . . .
Yet would we pass through all the bowers,
Treading a Milky Way of flowers,
And watched by gentle pards—
From bliss to ever lovelier bliss,
Where every tree-trunk lustrous is
As Indian beetle shards—
Till in the midst of Paradise,
Sudden, to our delighted eyes,
Would three plain pine-trees stand,
And we should hear the moan of doves
Complaining o’er regretful loves,
And feel a sea-wind bland—
A blowing wind from off the sea.
Sweeter than incense-breath to me:
The opal blue and' green
Would heave and sink and break in swells
As coldly white as ocean shells—
The thrown spray salt and keen.
So life is curled in death’s bright heart r
The twain are one—they cannot part:
Eternity and Time—-
Lover and lover —blend and kiss.
And on the heavenly coasts of bliss
The earthly sea waves chime.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
The Lantern Festival.
Across the sea the moon-made Dragon Path,
Dappled with gold and moving shadow lies.
Midnight is high above the sharing sands
Where she is watching, holding in her hands
The glowing lotus lantern for her dead,
One tiny ship upon the moonpath, spread
Dazzlingly bright before her misty eyes.
The lighted Ships of Souls bear precious
freight,
The spirits of well-loved ones who have died
When the hour strikes must take the ebbing
tide,
Reluctant ghosts, returning whence they
came,
These three days since each little ship, a
name
Upon her sail, is launched to meet her fate.
Soft the surf whispers on the foamy beach.
The colored lanterns burn, lights come and go.
Whom did she love that she is grieving so,
This dark-eyed maiden with the quivering
lips?
The breaking waves bear out the little ships,
Lamps burning bravely seaward out of reach.
In . mute farewell her hands are stretched,
while fast
The tears are falling. Comfort her, oh, sleep.
Useless it is to grieve or pray or weep.
Let the lamps die, the flickering candles fail.
No voice, no tears, no calling will avail.
Once more the Lantern Festival is past.
Gold is the glittering moonlit Dragon Path,
Tranquil the night and beautiful the sea.
Soon dawn will break on grey and desolate
sands,
Upon the grey waves moaning where she
stands,
And she has need of rest, surcease of tears,
To meet the coming day, the coming years, ’
Bearing, relentless, all that is to be.
VICTORIA.
GRACE ETHEL MARTYR.


• > -v
a
a
■ ■ 'V-
f
.
Hk
I
I
mm*’
i- ■ -fe- v;;;^
'
ii
> £*
tfAeHjcViect Will
to sfieU
CUutta/icU


The bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 44.—N0. 2240.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 18, 1923.
Pbice 6d.
THE ALTRUIST.
“The political influence of the Churches in America is very strong, and if the Churches in Australia did the right thing they, too would see to it that thev received
proper notice and respect from Australian Governments,” said Rev. William Allen, representative of the International Committee of Justice and Goodwill 4?
Stephen s i resbytenan; Churqh last week. He added that the abhorrence of militarism in America was the cause of the refusal of Americans to agree to the proposed cancella-
tion of Allied debts, since it was feared that European nations would spend increasingly upon armaments. — Sydney Telegraph. S ' P P “ ce
GOOD UNCLE SAMUEL t “Mind, Bo, I’m not doin’ this for the dahlers. I’m simply doin’ it because 1 got a great, big heart like a bullick, an’ want everyone
to be poor and peaceful the same as I am.”


The Bulletin
Ttlfc NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man."
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, weekly.
13 months, £1 65.; 6 months, ISs. 6d.; 3 months, Is.
To ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS I 12 months, £1 lOs.f 6
months, 155.; 3 months, Is. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently .stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid, for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—-will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and W. Dawson and
Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London
E.C.b; E. T. LI ole, Holerth Satire Service, i 6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Coi, 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue
and 21th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington. .
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Book, and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, E.C.li.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: )oz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., Ud. United States: l,oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
The Commonwealth Electoral Law.
Any matter in this paper which refers to the
late Federal elections has been written, after dis-
cussion,- to express the views of The Bulletin, by
John Dailey, James Edmond and J. E. Webb, all of
214 George-street, Sydney.
ffurfyulletivi,
THURSDAY, JANUARY 18, 1923.
AUSTRALIA’S SEVENTEENTH-
CENTURY PRIME MINISTER.
The Old Guard of N. S. Wales toryism has
rallied to the desperate enterprise of re-
imposing W. M. Hughes, as dictator, on a
Commonwealth which has said in the clearest
manner that it has no further use for him in
that capacity. The line commonly taken is
one of plaintive wonderment that any Fed-
eral politician of anti-Labor sentiments
should be so unreasonable as not to want
Hughes, accompaired, usually, by despair-
ing bleats about the disasters which are
likely to ravage the country if Hughes is
superseded. Joseph Cakrutlers’s recent
effort in the S. M. Herald was typical:—
I am one of those that fear the consequence of
“dropping the pilot’’ in these times.
We are now at the parting of the ways. If the
Nationalist party be broken up —if the anti-Socialist
parties continue their quarrels—whither will we
drift? Surely the electors have indicated what they
desire in returning 46 Nationalist and Country party
representatives against 29 Labor men.
There is not a hint here, or in the equally
disingenuous arguments of other Efughes-
eliers, that the voice of the people has spoken
regarding Hughes ; no mention of the facts
that a majority of the “46 Nationalist and
Country party representatives” were elected
on a definite anti-HuGHES ticket; that all
the Hughesite candidates secured relat.ive’v
contemptible votes, and that several unfortu-
nates, such as Major Hay, were thrown out of
Parliament merely because they were associ-
ated with Hughes. The toll of Hughes’s
achievements during the war, which is always
introduced by apologists of the Carrutuers
stamp, is an irrelevancy at this time of day.
No one denies his ability; and, anyhow,
Attila and Nero, Horatio Bottomley and
Jabez Balfour all evinced conspicuous
ability when in their prime. The war did
more than give Mr. Hughes an opportunity
to “rouse and unite Australia to play her
part”—a thing, incidentally, that Australia
would have done with equal zest if Hughes
had never lived. It uncovered our Welsh
ruler’s soul. And it was for that reason
he got his walking-ticket last month.
The spiritual home of W. M. Hughes is
not in this country or this century: he be-
longs to the England of 300 years ago. It
has been impossible for the Carrutherses
of N. S. Wales to deny that their idol
sounded A. B. Piddington, K. 0., with the
object of finding out which way the latter’s
decision on constitutional questions would
go, as a preliminary to putting him on the
High Court Bench. Faced with documen-
tary evidence, Mr. Hughes has admitted the
. charge himself. * In the Stuart period such
inquiries were the rule. Sir Nicholas
Hyde, for example, was raised to the Bench
because the W. M. Hughes of the period
had previously ascertained that he could
be relied on to remand to prison Darnel
and the other patriots who had resisted
forced loans. The Petition of Right was
only given the royal assent after Hyde and
his fellow-judges had been interrogated by
the Attoimey-General, and had promised to
do to the new Act what W. M. Hughes
wanted done by Piddington to the Grif-
fith interpretation of the Trade and Com-
merce clause. The Hughes war-censorship,
which was largely superfluous, if not actu-
ally injurious to the national cause, was
protracted well into the peace period. “My
Lords,” began Lord Chief Justice Richard-
son to the Star Chamber in 1633, the occa-
sion being the prosecution of the Puritan
Prynne for his book attacking stage plays,
“since I have had the honor to attend this
court, writing and printing of books, though
sharply censured, doth grow daily worse and
worse.” And he proceeded to pass a sen-
tence on Prynne which would have stag-
gered the starkest of Hughes’s war-censors.
This was not a matter qf admiration for the
drama. Coke, who was still living, had re-
fused to meet either Shakspeabe or Ben
Jonson, on the ground that “they were vag-
rants who ought to be set in the stocks or
whipped from tithing to tithing.” The basic
aim was to curb the unduly articulate, who
might be expected to criticise Authority.
That was the Hughes policy, rigorously en-
forced throughout the war: it is his policy
still, and it will be again should he succeed
in retaining the Prime Ministership. During
the late election campaign the mere mention
at a Hughes meeting of the Prime Minister’s
£25,000 caused the interjector to be violently
assaulted by policemen. And, naturally, in
course of time, this attitude towards the old-
established and salutary practice of heckling
became general. In the closing stages of
the fray a woman asked a perfectly relevant
question at a meeting held by a Hughes
supporter in a North Sydney street, and
was arrested. When the Earl of Somerset
stood his trial in 1616 for the Overbury
murder it was feared that he might say some-
thing derogatory to the King. And, with
reason, for he undoubtedly knew far more
about James than the anti-Nationalist heck-
lers of last month did about the source of
Mr. Hughes’s £25,000. We are told accord-
ingly :
When the Earl was brought before the Lord High
Steward and Court of Peers....two Yeomen of the
Guard were stationed ready to throw a cloth over
the head of the prisoner, and to remove him from
the hall as soon as he should begin to say anything
offensive against the King, the Lieutenant of the
Tower having told him roundly, that, if in his
speeches he should tax the King, the justice of Eng-
land was to stop him, and all the people would cry
“Away with him,” and the evidence should go on
without him.
Could anything better epitomise the atti-
tude adopted towards freedom of speech by
W. M. Hughes and his agents from the
beginning of the war to the present time?
There is one plea which those who are
trying to argue Parliament into saddling
another three years of Hughesism on Aus-
tralia might profitably make —that is, if
there was any chance of its being believed.
It is the plea which was made over aDd over
again for Charles I.; that the leopard had
changed his spots or, anyhow, was prepar-
ing to do so; that the shifty tyrant of the
nation’s experience was about to be trans-
formed into a practiser of constitutional
methods. However, Hughes has repeatedly
demonstrated that he is imbued with as
whole-hearted a contempt for the sentiments
of the people, once he has reached a position
from which he is enabled to impose his will
on them, as any Stuart. His salary steal
is one instance amongst many. It in no
wise differed in principle from Charles’s
ship-money steal. Hughes’s device was
designed to raise money for himself and his
friends, and so was Charles’s, and both
were notoriously hateful to the taxpayers,
who were required to provide the money for
them. The only essential difference between
the two was that, whereas the King and
Brampston (who had been appointed to the
Bench for the purpose), share the blame for
the imposition of ship money, Mr. Hughes
appears to have both instigated and put
through the salary imposition. There is even
a seventeenth-century flavor about the Prime
Minister’s cant on the subject of “loyalty,”
and the suggestion which he impudently
advances that all who are against him and
his unconstitutional methods are against the
King and the Empire. England had some
honest judges even in the blackest days of
the Stuart era, and one of them happened
to criticise the ship-money steal and its
authors, just as in our time judges have
criticised the salary steal. A parson named
Harrison, imbued with all the fire of a
Sydney Nationalist pre-selector, burst into
this Judge’s court and cried: “Mr. Justice
Hutton, you have denied the King’s
supremacy, and I hereby charge you with
being guilty of high treason.” He was
allowed to jevelon an argument, bfumd on a
text which, in its idiocy, was very like some
of the propositions our own nol’tical loyal-
ists have advanced, in recent times:—
Having taken the oath of supremacy I am bound
to maintain it, and when it is assailed, as by the
denying of ship money, it is time for every loyal
subject to strike in.
And, finally, there is Mr. Hughes’s mysteri-
ously-acquired £25,000, a phenomenon wmch
is peculiarly characteristic of the seventeenth
century. That was a fortunate period tor high
wuen uioneLaiy testimonials were
constantly being subscribed by anonymous
donors. The recipients nearly always ex-
pressed blank amazement at the arrival of
the cash, coupled with ignorance as to why,
and by whom, the consignment of bullion had
been provided. However, there were doubters
who whispered their uneasy suspicions, opin-
ing, rightiy or wrongly, that the liberties ot the
nation were involved in some of these trans-
actions. These were the men who ultimately
banished monarchism 110 m the country. And,
analogously, Mr. Hughes, Australia’s twen-
tieth-century embodiment of absolutism, has
only to hang on long enough, encouraged by
fatuous supporters of the Joseph * Car-
rothers stamp, to bring about the total ruin
of Nationalism.
LOST, OR PARTIALLY MISLAID, A
LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
In the days when President Woodrow Wil-
son was the Heaven-sent Pecksniff of a
great peace conference, much time which
might better have been devoted to the prompt
finishing of the existing war was spent on
elaborate provisions against the problemati-
cal new one. VV hile tne comerence made
paper preparations against the tar future
the near present went from bad to worse.
Friends had time to grow selfish and cold,
and enemies had leisure to get over their
first terror, and say to one another tuat
the Alliance might be a formidable fighting-
machine on the outside, and yet be a painted
gasbag within. Then the United States re-
pudiated its self-appointed plenipotentiary,
and denied responsibility for ail nm works,
except those which said that the Allies had
to pay the States a vast sum of money.
Europe was thus left witfi an unsatisfactory
machine of foreign invention on its hands —
unsatisfactory most of all to the inventor,
whose neglect to patent the apparatus and
keep it for local consumption is deeply re-
gretted in various quarters. For there are
serious troubles on hand, and serious
troubles appear to be just the sort that tie
the League in a knot. The difficulties re-
volve round the Turco-Russo-liun alliance,
of which one end is ferocious and swollen
with pride, and the other is fathomless and
sly, while the middle is a mystery.
* * * *
The Turk, having repented of his. tem-
porary tendency to show signs of reason,
quitted the Lausanne conference with a
bellow of derision. He refused even to pro-
fess an intention to leave off the habits of
massacre and plunder which he has followed
as consistently as he dared towards his non-
Mohammedan subjects, since 1877 especially,
and since previous years generally. When
something was said about compensation for
the looting and utter destruction of the
European sections of Smyrna—in other
words, seven-eighths of a rich mercantile
and manufacturing city with a population of
400,000 people—the Turk told the Allies to
deduct their (taxed) costs from the big
indemnity they owed the Turk, and hand over
the balance without needless delay. Then the
‘‘Near East” swaggered forth from the
marble hall, while the League of Nations
gazed after it with its lower jaw sagging
upon its waistcoat. Smyrna dates back to
the days when Europe extended to the
Taurus mountains, if not to the Euphrates,
before the Turk was heard of, and almost
before the Arab happened. Homer—assum-
ing Homer was a man and not a syndicate—
was born there among other places. It was
a growing city—not that Turkish cities
grow, but because this city wasn’t Turkish
except by misrule. The Ottomans chased a
section of Constantine’s mismanaged
Greek army there, and then prodded it into
deep water. Next Abdul, having recovered
the jewel of Asia Minor, had one of his fits
of madness, and the burning of Rome and
London read like small incidents compared
with the burning of Smyrna. He ran amok
in the midst of his own prize in
an excess of pious zeal, for a Turk
at a revival meeting is the last word
in destructive mania. Allied warships
were in time to yank most of their subjects
out of the flames, but some thousands of
British and other residents who were rich
one day were penniless the next, and have
remained so ever since. Christians may re-
build Smyrna, but the Turk won’t. He
rebuilds nothing. A good deal has been said
and written about the sensational (or in-
sane) growth of the world’s population dur-
ing a century when science made wonderful
strides in beating the death-rate, and about
the inability of the food supply to keep
pace. _ Certainly the population of England
grew, in 120 years, to be four times as great
as the accumulation of all the previous years
since Creation. The population of the
United States multiplied twenty-five-fold,
and that of Egypt increased five-fold, till all
the habitable country by the Nile held, in
1917, 1061 human beings to the square mile.
It has been suggested, on the strength of
these and similar happenings, that it may
be necessary, in time, to cut down undesir-
able tribes so that air and light may be
admitted to the jungle of humanity, and
common action against the Turk has been
mooted —painless, if possible, but decisive.
* * * *
The German situation is also calculated
to keep any League awake o’ nights. It is
known that the German factories, which the
war left intact, are full of orders, and work-
ing at high pressure. The total number of
unemployed in the country was lately esti-
mated at 12,000, against Britain’s 2,000,000.
The land is in a fever of speculation, and
talks of spending some spare cash on a ship
canal to the Black Sea, to turn the flank of
the Dardanelles. Yet, through skilful manipu-
lation of its paper money, or from other
causes, it seems quite unable to pay any
indemnity for an indefinite period, this
despite the fact that Great Britain is mak-
ing payments off its huge indemnity to the
United States. As for Russia, the mystery
of it doesn’t clear up with time. The coun-
try has no debt, having written it off; no
indemnity to pay: no royalty or aristocracy
to maintain ; and, according to its own self-
presented testimonial, its system of govern-
ment is ideal. Yet it passes round the
beggar’s hat to all and sundry. It lately
raised its army, strictly on paper, to nearly
O.UUU.OOU, and then proposed to its neigh-
bors an all-round reduction of 75 per cent.,
which would have left it with some 1,500,000
and them with next to nothing. And the
other day it tried to borrow Foch, of all
men, to put its stupendous military machine
in fighting trim. Happenings iike these
make the Dawn of Peace rather murky.
Even from the United States, which is itself
a League of 48 “sovereign” States, which is
non-military, and which evolved Woodrow
Wilson, the most prominent news is of mas-
sacre in the north, murder and terrorism in
the south, and bad liquor everywhere.
* * *
There have been peace combinations in the
past which were fairly durable, and which
did good work in their narrow circles. (All
circles were narrow then.) The Achaean
and Hanseatic Leagues were samples. And
there were attempts, made by much bigger
men than Woodrow Wilson, at Pan-Euro-
pean leagues. They. failed, but not in worse
fashion than his. The “Grand Design,” by
Henvy I V. of France, was one. The Man
of Navarre was one of the very greatest
statesmen that Europe produced, though the
stories of his white plume dancing in the
forefront of the battle have led many to set
him down as a mere swordsman. His plan
for a Federation of six hereditary monar-
chies. . five elective monarchies and four
republics was going very well indeed, when
a person of no account cut everything short,
including French Parliamentary government,
with a rusty knife. The “Holy Alliance,
devised by Alexander I. of Russia in the
10 years of peace which the Napoleonic wars
allowed him, was the scheme of an apostle
who didn’t get a sufficiently long run for his
money. In his time he supplied Russian
Poland with the most liberal constitution in
Europe (the one that was fooled away 16
years later), and tried to extend the system ;
but circumstances were too much for him.
though he at least furnished Russia with a
Senate. He dotted the land with schools
and universities, put a Government medical
officer in every district, freed the press, abol
ished serfdom in the provinces where his
authority was strong enough, and furnished
Russia with the mildest and most humane
criminal code that Europe possessed. Also,
he secured the signature of every ruler in
Europe who counted, save the Sultan, the
Pope and Britain’s very objectionable Prince
Regent, to his League of Nations. They
mostly signed to oblige one whom they con
sidered an amiable lunatic. Still, the apostle
was so much in earnest that some kind of
genuine League might have emerged but for
the intense hatred of three politicians—
Talleyrand, Metternich and Castlereagh,
and popular opinion said that the worst of
these was “Out-throat” Castlereagh.
Such was the disrespect in which Castle-
reagh was held that his suicide was made
an occasion for public rejoicing, and it has
been said that even paralytics and dead
people ran behind his hearse with gratified
curses—but this was probably an exaggera-
tion. Unfortunately the ill-luck doesn’t
appear to have died with this appalling
specimen of the genus statesman, judging by
the poor weather the newest League of
Nations is making.
IN REPENTANT RUSSIA.
One Ascfie, of Melbourne, who has got as
far as London on his homeward trek from
Russia, has been supplying his views there
in the capacity of an admirer of Bolshevism.
The misguided man who writes the sum-
mary for the S. M. Herald put the matter
like this: —
Mr. E. T. Asche has arrived in London from
Russia, and made a statement as to the condition
of the country. He states that life is secure and
safe, and that there is no poverty.
But here is the real Asche:—-
He spent two months in the famine - areas of
Buzuluk and Samara. He pointed out that though
there was no food shortage in cities and towns the
needs of the famine areas were as great as ever,
because the American relief organisation had ceased
feeding adults, and was confining' its attention to
children. The Quakers had planned to continue
operations till September, but without further funds
they must curtail their programme.
Mr. Asche is convinced that the terrible plight
of Central Russia was not due to political causes,
but to three years of drought following the war....
The political experiment that was being carried
out in Russia was most interesting. Moscow was now
one of the pleasantest capitals in Europe in which
to live. The fluctuations in the rouble had not
affected the people’s lives. The exchange rate had
Increased from 18,000,000 to 220,000,000 roubles
lu uie ,jOUi.u sterling in five months, but wages
went up often prior to the rise in prices, with the
result that there was no poverty.
Lenin's Government was conducted by able,
zealous and efficient men.... The State owned all
lands and properties, and all the people were either
lessees thereof, or the lessees’ employees. Life was
secure.
The Government had made many arrests of proved
or suspected anti-Bolshevik agents. These were all
well treated. He was once arrested and imprisoned
for a week as a suspect, but he underwent no hard-
ships, and was liberated as soon as he satisfied
his questioners as to his bona fides. On the contrary,
when he was penniless he went to the Communist
headquarters, and was immediately given a free
room in a hotel and one free meal daily.
For the British-Australian tourist, owing to the
exchange rates, Russia was the cheapest and most
interesting country in the world to-day. He hoped
to be able to return there for further relief work.
* * * *
And this picture was painted by a “com-
rade” —one who was trying to put the best
possible face on things. There is “no food-
shortage in cities and towns.” Especi-
ally in Moscow, the show city, and
“now one of the pleasantest capitals in
Europe,” where the Government hangs out,
and, like the CdSSARS, spreads itself to keep
the local mob in good humor, things are so
superfine that there is no poverty. Still,
Mr. Asche went stone, motherless broke
there, whereupon he was supplied with one
meal per day. He could have raised three
in Sydney. But outside the gilded city “the
terrible plight” of the community has beeD
raging for three years, alleviated chiefly by
charity from capitalistic countries abroad.
Lenin’s “able, zealous and efficient” Gov-
ernment has no interest bill (the overwhelm-
ing locust which eats up the revenues oi
other States) to pay; for the Russian debi
has been repudiated. It has all the rent?
of all the lands and buildings in its domain
coming in. And it can only look on with
a vacant stare at a scarcity which, after all,
only affects one-half the cultivated area.
(The wheat harvest of the famine year ]921
was 765,000.000 bushels, and rye ran to


more than that.) A handy and customary
measure of the efficiency, but not the zeal
of a Government is the soundness of its cur-
rency, and this especially applies when it
is the luckiest Government on earth, with
no interest, rent or indemnity to pay, and
no war on hand. When its paper was so
low in, say, January, that it took £1,890,000
of it to equal £1 of gold, and so much worse
in May that it took £22,000,000 of it to
equal £1 in gold, most persons would say
that, on the clearest evidence, it was a
rotten Government. Apparently, it is a sus-
picious concern, too, brooding darkly in its
pleasant quarters at Moscow, and even a
“brother” who came there on a charitable
mission was dashed into gaol on suspicion
of not approving sufficiently of the self-
appointed Cabinet. It is disappointing to
learn that there are “wage-slaves” in Soviet
Russia, the people being either lessees of
.stolen or confiscated State property, or “the
lessees’ employees.” In fact, this entire tale
of Russia reeks with disappointment.
* -k * *
Almost simultaneously with Asche two
other returning Australian “brothers,”
Garden and Earsman, were heard from.
Garden said:—
In Russia the happiness o£ the people is un-
bounded, They are so happy that you see them
walking- singing arm-in-arm.
And this was the more cautious Earsman —
but Earsman is an engineer, and not an ex-
preacher, accustomed to draw fancy sketches
of Heaven:—
The country has improved by 500 per cent, during
the year. Russia’s new economic 'policy has helped
immensely. Famine still hangs over the country,
which needs technical aid and machinery.
Always the same need for “aid.” The land
has, it seems, improved 500 per cent., so
apparently it was five times worse a year
ago than it was when Asche saw it. Ears-
man’s allusion to “the new economic policy
(described by Asche as “the political experi-
ment”) which has brought about the partial
resurrection is interesting. The policy is
explained on page 1258 of the “Statesman’s
Year Book” for 1922. It was adopted in
March, 1921, and it meant that the weary,
disillusioned Government utterly abandoned
its “control of the means of production, dis-
tribution and exchange,” and threw the Aus-
tralian Labor "objective” to the winds. It
eut down the Government ration-list from
38,000,000 to 8,000,000, and the disqualified
30,000,000 were turned adrift with the stern
advice, “Rout, hog, or die!” Some of
the stolen industries which the harassed and
bedevilled commissaries at Moscow had tided
to manage direct, with the result- that pro-
duction dropped, on an average, 75 ner cent.,
were handed over to local trusts. The great
bulk were offered for lease, and by the end
of the year 10,276 had been taken over, 94J
per cent, by private individuals or companies,
and the rest by "local Soviet institutions.”
All through 1922 the Government was busy
throwing the “means of production, distribu-
tion and exchange” overboard. It arranged
to pay its remaining employees a wage “vary-
ing with output”—piecework, in fact. It
reduced the “corn levies” which had aggra-
vated the famine. And it allowed every-
body t:o buy and sell as he pleased, whereas,
for nightmare years, it had been almost, if
not quite, a capital offence for one man to
sell an egg to another except through the
monstrous Circumlocution Department which
ran the show at Moscow. Russia being
essentially a land of compulsory military
service, Brothers Garden and Earsman
were entertained like princes at a march
past of 30,000 conscript troops, with tanks,
artillery, airships and all the panoply of
And Russia being a repentant land
which is trying to get back to sanity, LeniN
told the staggered delegates that they and
their fellow-Reds of Australia were going
too fast and too far. It was the only thing
they disliked about Lenin.
IS THE WAR GOD DEAD?
The muddy pool of German politics does not
get clearer the closer you come to it. While
I was packing to cross the Channel, I met
two men well trained in finance, who had
just returned from the Continent. Said one:
“Germany is down find out. Europe has
nothing to fear from that quarter. The
middle-class is broken, and when its middle-
class is broken a country is broken.” The
other saw quite a different picture: “Ger-
many is still a military camp. It has all
its old aspirations; it has some added bitter-
ness—that is all. I don’t believe it has
yielded up anything like ail its arms. But if
it has it has all the means to make more.”
If we judged by the exchange value of
the mark we should have to conclude that
the old empire of the Kaiser was desperately
poor. But except in the faces of some of
the people there are hardly any signs of
poverty. On the contrary, there are many
signs of prosperity, certainly of great indus-
trial activity. Not only are old works in
full operation; new ones are being built
everywhere. Germany is not self-contained ;
and if we looked only at the fall in the
value of the mark we should say that it
could not possibly buy abroad. But it does
not pay in marks. It already has a large
trade in manufactured goods, and much of
the money it receives for them it keeps
abroad —in Denmark, in Holland, in Switzer-
land, some in England and the United States.
Huge amounts were also paid in the U.S.A.
and in England for German marks when
they were a few hundreds to the pound; even
in Australia many thousands went that way.
The foreigners still have the marks, now
worth hardly anything; the Germans have
the foreign money to buy what they need.
And Germany’s trade is greatly simplified
by the old deliberate German policy of cor-
rupting its neighbors. Practically all the
go-slow doctrines which are spouted from the
world’s soap-boxes were made in Germany.
They have been swallowed more or less in
every country except Germany itself; and
that was exactly how it was figured out it
would be. Almost every country has slowed
down except Germany. Germany set the
nets, and the rest of the world flew into
them. Now it proceeds to recover itself
out of the spoil. The really distressing thing
is that the birds do not yet realise who it
was that laid the traps.
Certainly there are internal dissensions
of a sort. But they are mainly as to the
instruments to he used in carrying out the
great plan. Industrial rehabilitation is the
first thing sought, and the great industrial
leaders are the real rulers. They have less
trouble about labor than any other of their
class in the world, and their first difficulties
with regard to outlets are disappearing. They
are more closely in touch with Russia than
any other country. Independent Poland is
no barrier at all. Poland has a few great
industries—it has the largest cotton-mills in
Continental Europe—but it sets the highest
value on its carrying trade, and it is offer-
ing all sorts of facilities for traffic between
Germany and Russia, so the German indus-
trial organiser is getting a larger and larger
hold upon Russia, and no doubt there is
much German money behind him. Of course,
Germany laughs at this suggestion: what
else could it do when it alleges that it has
no money to meet reparation claims? A
cynical German said to me: “Charity begins
at home—you taught us that, you know.
Well, we think the same about claims for
reparation.” German organisation had very
much to do with making Northern Italy—
Turin and Milan especially—the industrial
centres they are. Here there were the same
great undisciplined labor stores that the Ger-
man may find in Russia. With the outbreak
of war the German managers were with-
drawn. But they have returned or are re-
turning, and the industries of Northern Italy
are recovering rapidly. It was this north,
with knowledge of what organisation and
administrative economy mean, which was
responsible for the Black Shirt “revolution”
of a few months ago—a revolution so blood-
less that two Australian women passed
through Milan, the Fascistis’ headquarters,
while it was going on, without knowing
that anything more exciting than a bicycle
road-race was in progress.
Only France among the European Powers
holds the German at arm’s-length. She is
implacable, and because of it has again
and again, since the Armistice, found her-
self in lonely isolation; and she has been
rather like a spoiled child in the expression
of her feelings. Four years ago the two
great allies talked as though the Entente was
immortal. One even noticed a good deal of
gratitude on the part of France for British
and Australian help. To-day it would be
difficult to find much gratitude for British
help, at any rate. Indeed, I more than once
heard it made a grievance that what was at
least as much Britain’s quarrel as France’s
was fought almost wholly on French soil and
not at all on British. This explains the
demand that Britain should do all the for-
giving of war debt. No similar claim is
made upon the U.S.A. American opinion has
always had itself very well expressed in
France, and French affection for the U.S.A.
has been skilfully cultivated: Lafayette has
been very hard-worked, indeed. France,
therefore, never says: “We fought America’s
fight for three long years, draining ourselves
of our men and our millions; and now,
though she cannot give us back our youth,
killed in a cause which she afterwards con-
fessed to be hers as well as ours, she might
at least forgive us the millions we borrowed
from her to do her fighting.” France does
not think, never has thought, of the war
as having been fought for Civilisation. To
her it was nothing so vague and misty as
that. It was just an attack by a great pre-
datory Power upon the possessions of its
neighbors. It was materialistic and not at
all spiritual. And France, so far as it really
feels any gratitude at all, feels it now for
the U.S.A., which, though their possessions
were not imperilled, came into a fight which
was not their own. France seems to be quite
satisfied that Lafayette did it —that the old
friendship of France and the U.S.A. was
more potent than the new statesmanship of
A.. J. Balfour.
The Entente may last for very many years.
It is to be profoundly hoped that it will
But it seems madness for us to proceed on
the assumption either that the world has
settled down to peace or that we have in
any other nation a natural ally. The only
natural allies Britain has are her own kith
and kin ; and whether the U.S.A. are included
in the category is doubtful. And because
of these things the rapid development of the
Empire's overseas resources, with an accom-
panying increase of population, is urgent.
And that is merely another way of saying
that what is called for is a redistribution
of the Empire’s white population in the way
best calculated to result in a rapid improve-
ment, both in numbers and in wealth.
S. H. P.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Monopoly that Missed.
In politics, as in more intimate matters, it
is a mistake to be too greedy. This is being
realised in vexation and bitterness of spirit
by a dozen nominees of the National Federa-
tion, who reckoned themselves sure of elec-
tion for the Senate. Six years ago their
party, fusion or fraud, captured every one
of the 18 contested seats in that branch of
the Legislature. In 1919 it won 17 seats
out of 18, and would doubtless have gained
the 18th if a number of intelligent N. S.
Wales electors, votaries of Nationalism,
hadn’t got confused between Gardiner, the
Labor man, and the third Hughesite, Gar-
ling, and given their No. 3’s to Gardiner.
The result was that for two years the Senate
presented the grotesque spectacle of a second
Chamber in which 35 of the 36 members were
supporters of a Government with a bare
majority in the popular House. About a
year ago the death of John Adamson, in
Queensland, enabled the Labor interest,
which polled 46 p.c. of the effective votes in
1919, to get another Senator by the nomina-
tion route, but no such chance went the
Country party’s way. Although strong
enough to send 12 men into the House of
Reps., and to poll over 100,000 No. 1 votes for
one of its Senate candidates in N. S. Wales,
that party was unrepresented among the flock
of chin-waggers over whom Tommy Givens
presides. The time came when the Nation-
alists had to decide whether this extraordi-
nary situation, so advantageous to them in
the party sense, was compatible with the
usefulness and prestige of the Senate and
the higher interests of the Commonwealth.
They had to choose between letting the Labor
and' Country parties have representation
according to their strength (in which case
they themselves, with 17 uncontested seats
in hand, would have been certain of at least
six more, one in each State), and (2) going
after a three years’ extension of their mon-
strous monopoly. The choice, was soon made.
They resolved to grab 35 of the 36 seats (the
other was beyond their reach), for which
purpose they not only retained the fantastic
variety of preferential voting which made the
1919 result possible, but introduced a mere-
tricious Yankee device, designed to save the
old gang of Senators and increase the power
of the machine. By virtue of this expedient
candidates endorsed by the party bosses could
have their names grouped on the ballot-papers
to the detriment of candidates standing in the
same interest but not "in with the clique.” The
alleged object was to reduce informal voting,
and extravagant prophecies were made in
this regard by the preposterous Pearce. As
a matter of fact, informal voting increased
enormously—of 622,286 ballot-papers exam-
ined in N. S. Wales 62,206 were rejected as
invalid. Also, an immense majority of elec-
tors sourly refused to vote for Hughes’s
tame Senators— Henderson, Buzacott, De
Largie, Senior, Earle, Plain and Thomas
—even though their names were bunched on
the ballot-papers and they had the right of
vetoing applicants for admission to the bunch.
Contrary to the intentions of its.authors the
grouping system only benefited the Labor
candidates. Along with the small poll, the
high percentage of informals and the per-
verted sort of preferentialism employed, it
enabled them to gain three seats in Victoria,
three in S. Australia and two each in N. S.
Wales and Westralia—four or five more than
they would have got under proportional
representation, which, though dangerous in
the case of popular assemblies, inasmuch as
it aggrandises minorities and does away
with by-elections, is suitable for Second
Chambers, like the Senate. If the crowd in
office hadn’t been so infernally greedy, Gar-
ling or Abbott would have been elected in
N. S. Wales instead of the odd Labor man;
Swinburne, and perhaps Andrew, in Vic-
toria ; McLachlan in S. Australia; and
Allen or Carroll in Westralia. To
add to their chagrin, the two W.A. Labor
Senators are the choice of less than half of
the electors who cast effective votes, or
effective up to a certain point, Graham
getting only 32,921 out of 71.321. This was
due to the exhaustion of ballot-papers con-
sequent upon there being 14 candidates and
the Nationalists having decided, in the
fancied interest of the trio favored by the
machine, that the elector needn’t vote for
more than seven. Thus were the grasping
and clumsy gang on the Treasure benches
blown to ribbons by their own booby-trap.
De Valera’s Terms.
Ireland has been called a land of bulls
and contradictions, and the offer of “peace,”
made by De Valera, the homicidal Spanish
mixture from New York, whom the island
imported and made into a sort of President,
is a blend of both. Pre-eminently, however,
it is a specimen of the frozen nerve of self-
appointed persons. In the first place all
mention must cease of the fact that De
Valera is a rebel against the hard-
won sovereignty of the Irish people: a
truculent contemner, after the true fashion
of the Spanish-American political adven-
turer, of majority rule; and a criminal who
has soaked the land in blood while chasing
the phantom of his lost Presidency. He
appears rather as a. great Power offering
terms to a minor one. He proposes to
“select three buildings”—whose buildings is
not stated, but they would probably be fort-
resses of some sort. In them are to be
stored all rebel arms and ammunition —
except, of course, any that his henchmen
may think it prudent to keep in reserve for
sniping purposes. There is to be anew
election not later than May, the old one not
having ended to his satisfaction, and anew
head of the State is to be chosen. The rebel
chief and all his followers who are at large
are to be “allowed to move about without
molestation.” Those who are in gaol are
to be released and allowed to move about
without molestation also. The De Valera
faction, ou giving its verbal assurance that
it won’t defy the will of the majority—the
same verbal assurance as it gave before- —is to
be eligible for office. The press censorship
is to be abolished in order tb .help its elec-
tion campaign. A casual promise is offered
that the rebel arms and ammunition stored
in the three selected buildings will be given
up to the new Government after the new
election, they being retained till then in
case the rebels don’t approve of the new
Government. Meantime, the property, it is
suggested, should be guarded by 50 De
Valeraites and ten (10) of the troops of the
people’s Government. If the election, say,
on May 31, doesn’t pan out any more to De
Valera’s satisfaction than the last one did,
and June 1 reveals that the 50 have cut
the throats of the 10 and scooted with the
weapons to join up with the released pri-
soners, it will be the fortune of war. Fail-
ing acceptance of these terms the half-Span-
ish gentleman will presumably withdraw his
ambassador from the Court of St. PATRICK
and clear the deck for action.
The Repair Rill of France.
“ J.E.’s” view of it: —
“Moderate” people, of one brand and another,
have been shedding a good deal of superfluous mois-
ture over the refusal of France to accept at their
face value the Hun’s assurances of his absolute
inability to pay for even a decent fraction of the
damage done by the brigands. In particular
United States politicians of many Pecksniff
power have spoken seriously about the “spirit
of hate” which animates certain bad people
in Europe, and recommended the cultivation of a
more Sunday-sclioolisli frame of mind. Tn this
matter the U.S., quite apart from the national
tendency to copy-book platitudes which found ex-
pression in Woodrow Wilson’s Fourteen Points, is
in a category by itself. It can’t really feel otherwise
than mildly grateful to the Hun, who cost it little in
human life and nothing in devastation of its territory
or brutal insult to its womankind; and whose mad-
ness made it the greatest world-creditor and world-
financier in history. Britain didn’t come out so well,
but though it lost heavily in money and human life
it had compensations. It got rid of the ruinously
expensive German-naval nightmare. It saw the German
shifted from its borders in every part of the world,
and was relieved of a costly military nightmare.
It wade bigger gains in the way of mandated terri
tory than any of its partners. Its wives and daugh
ters weren’t dragged through the mire of degradation
by bulky characters in spiked helmets, and though
a few shacks in London suffered from casual air
raids England hadn’t one town or city to rebuild.
But France had 22,900 factories and about 720,000
other buildings wrecked, 42,000 miles of road and
all its coal-mines destroyed, hundreds of towns
blotted out, and over 9,000,000 acres of land turned
into shell-holes. In the four years since the cessation
of hostilities, France, in addition to working for its
usual daily crust, and working extra hours to sup-
port the population which the Ilun rendered home-
less, has done £650,000,000 worth of additional
toil on the repair of Hun devastation, and even now
the business is not half done. To the Australian
unionist, with his theory of a 44-hours’ week, and
anew loan once a month to oil the wheels of toil,
and with not so much as a hen-house obliterated in
the great struggle, such a position is hard to realise.
It suggests a whole nation—man, woman and child —
laboring 72 or 84 hours per week, with few holidays
and little pay. Across the border, the fatted Hun,
who has no repair bill to pay and no unproductive
area as a handicap, professes blandly that it takes
him all his time and exertion to earn the current
crust, and that the payment of anything to speak
of in the way of indemnity is next to impossible.
The Frenchman, who has paid what would be re-
garded as a massive indemnity if he had lost the
war instead of. winning it, regards the whining plea
as a lie, and the maker of it as a liar. But the
Allies grow cold, partly because standing by a
grievously injured brother involves trouble, and
partly because there is a feverish desire to get back
to “normal trade,” and if the Hun is assured that
he needn’t pay he will presumably give up his pose
as an artificial pauper, and begin to trade. France
didn’t even get a defensible frontier at the end of
the great mix-up, while Britain took all manner of
care to shift the Hun from its vicinity in New
Guinea, Polynesia and South Africa, and secure Hun-
proof borders everywhere. At the election of Decem-
ber, 1918, Lloyd George won his last victory- as a
debt-collector. He promised that the Hun should
be made to part up for the ruin he had wrought
in France and Belgium, and after that for the
cost of the war as far as possible, and that many
other pleasant things would happen, among them
the trial of a large number of persons who had
outraged the rules of war and the ordinary usages of
civilisation. The Hun agreed all round, but it now
appears that the unfortunate condition of his note
issue prevents him paying anything. The unfortunate
condition of his note issue has also prevented him
from surrendering anybody for trial. In IJ9IB the
country gave Lloyd George, he of the valiant speech
and the big promises, 478 supporters, which meant
a majority of 249. A few weeks ago he went before
the electors again with a coalition and a reputation
that were alike burst, and returned with about 60
followers. The failure, after so much hi’falutin,
to collect either money from the Hun or common
civility from the Turk must have helped Lloyd
George’s downfall. Amid so much weakness and
falling away there is spiritual refreshment in the
idea of France putting the screw on the com-
mon enemy single-handed. The said enemy was
fast approaching that stage of infatuated compla-
cency in which he would have tried to collect indem-
nities instead of paying any.
—♦
Driving Capital out of the Country.
A dozen years or so ago one L. F. Bullot,
of N. S. Wales, began experimenting
with methods for keeping meat fresh
without chilling it. He discovered that
fresh cai’casos subjected to treatment
by fumes of sulphur dioxide retained
their freshness for weeks, and that the
flavor was not affected as in the case
of refrigerated meat. Dr. Chapman, Pro-
fessor of Pharmacology and Physiology at
Sydney University, bacteriologist Dr.
Stokes, Government meat inspectors and
scientists generally have approved the pro-
cess. Its commercial value, however, de-
Coming Events,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Walter Marks, M.H.R., Parliamentary Under-
secretary for External Affairs in the Hughes Cabinet,
who has not been a participant in yacht-racing for
three seasons, has announced (says Sydney Daily
Telegraph) his intention of returning to the spori.
Once again he’ll be seen in a costume marine
Now his job departmental seems gone;
And since Sancho’s resuming his life on
the deep
Where over the billows the racing craft
sweep,
What lurk do you tip for the Don?
Will Billy, I wonder, be potting
The red and alternately spotting
The spherical same?
It’s the solit’ry game
(Bar falling off horses) he has to his
name—
When rollicking Wally is yachting.
When Marks takes his place at the tiller,
his face
Adorned by a commodore’s cap,
Will Millen his worries and bungles forget
By tapping a tennis-ball over a net,
Or golfing at Manly? Mayhap.
And Bykie, of course, can bo knotting
His lips into tunes for gavotting
Or tango or jazz—
From Darwin to Tas.
As siffleur ’tis certain no compeer he has—
While t’other offsider is yachting.
There are Foster and Pearce. It’s an
effort too fierce
To picture these ehurchified souls
For Flemington bound and a plunge on the
turf
(Or one from the beaches where Venuses
surf),
But they might find nepenthe in bowls.
Can you see them consulting and plotting,
Where brown globes the greensward are
dotting.
And toeing the track,
Determined to whack
The other chap’s marble away from the
Jack,
While Wentworth’s Isaiah is yachting.
Stan Bruce is no slouch, as the records will
vouch —
Or wasn’t in youth—with an oar.
Released from his Budgets an eight he could
stroke,
Or, if that’s infra dig. for so high-placed a
bloke.
Just loll in the stern of a four.
Groom, freed from political swotting,
Can punt where the ponies are trotting.
In fact, Billy’s whole corps
Should have leisure galore,
For coming events cast their shadows
before,
And —Marks is resuming his yachting.
N.s.w.
T. THE R


Not Meat but Marmite
And Better for Your Health.
BREAD, thinly sliced and spread with butter and the merest speck of
Marmite —how good it is, how delicately flavored, how “different”!
Marmite gives you a new idea of what a sandwich should be.
Marmite immensely improves the flavor of gravies, soups, stews and sauces,
and makes a delicious drink, a drink pleasing to the palate, but that builds the
body too.
Marmite is a vegetable extract, rich in vitamines, and possessing the same
natural value as a well-prepared meat extract, but without the dietetic disad-
vantages of meat. It is highly concentrated, and therefore very economical in
use. Remember, too much spoils the flavor!
Marmite and other Sanitarium Health Foods obtainable
at all leading grocers throughout Australia, and at all
Australian Branches of
THE SANITARIUM HEALTH FOOD COMPANY.
'is/'
V ECETABLE
EWR«t
Ha
WITF
7+/*
FOOD EXTRACT
r
pends not only on the superior product it
gives, but also on the vast cash saving made
possible by the treating, at small cost, of
meat in country centres, and thus preventing
the loss of livestock and loss of weight
experienced tinder the present abominably
cruel system of metropolitan slaughtering.
Health regulations restricting the use of
sulphur dioxide are the barrier by which
the Bullot people have been checked.
Use of this preservative in limited quanti-
ties is allowed in various products, but the
regulations do not apply to fresh meat.
The N. S. Wales Board of Health, when
approached for permission to so apply sul-
phur dioxide, could not decide whether or
no it was “safe.” However, it eventually
conceded the co. the right to sell Bullot-
treated meat in Orange for six months, and
made no objection when the enterprise was
continued for a couple of years. That ex-
perience demonstrated beyond doubt some
of the possibilities of the process, and con-
vinced the scientists that the quantities of
sulphur dioxide remaining in Bullot meat
when cooked were harmless. But all efforts,
private and public, to stir the Board of
Health into a decision one way or the other
have failed. And in the meantime South
Africa has begun negotiating for the Bullot
co.’s rights. This is the outcome of one of
the severest tests to which the process has
so far been subjected. A lunch of Bullot
meat, treated 200 miles from Sydney, frozen
and shipped to Capetown, then sent on a
five-days’ journey on a guard’s van, in the
hottest period of the season, was dished up
at Bulawayo early in November before the
Premier, cattlemen and leading citizens of
Rhodesia. The meat arrived in the best of
condition, and the shipment in every way
established all claims made for the process.
Weeks afterwards, a Bulawayo bu;cher’s-shop
was publicly exhibiting some BuLLOT-treated
pork which still retained its freshness. The
Rhodesian Cattle Owners’ Association is
contemplating the exploitation of the process
on an extensive scale, and another big meat-
producing country is also investigating. But
the inventor and his company cannot secure
a hearing in their own country because a
Health Board doesn’t know its own mind.
A Death-bed Conversion.
A remarkable change has come over the
A.W.U. Departing from the bumptious in-
tolerance which caused the long hold-up at
•Mount Morgan (Q.) and the annual strike
in the pastoral industry, and which might
have ruined Mount Lyell (Tas.) if the local
workers hadn’t taken matters into their own
hands, the union executive has shown a
sudden desire to make industrial agreements
based on a recognition of economic facts.
Within the last week or two it has signed
undertakings to lump N.S.W. wheat for 9d.
per 100 bags less than last year’s figure
(silo workers are to get Is. 3d. a day less)
and to man the Newcastle steel-works at
Rolin award rates, “subject to variations in
the basic wage.” That is, until- June 30,
after which date the steelworkers’ wages and
conditions of labor are to be fixed by a con-
ciliation committee. Also, the executive’s
tame paper has evidently been commanded
to drop the crude Bolshevism by which it has
been distinguished for the last five years.
Wherefore it publishes this curious recanta-
tion :
Moscow has nothing to show us. It went its
ordained way, but for us it is not ordained that we
should follow in that way. Internationalism is
good-—is necessary; still, as Lenin has said, each
country must find its own solution of the problem
of exploitation. Here we can solve it without the
sword, without the general strike, without the tactics
of tumult and disorder, of violence and starvation.
In no other land on earth have the workers such a
marvellous, glorious opportunity as we have in
Australia, where the political temperament has been
so highly developed.
The fact is that things have arrived at such a
pass that the Blakeleys and Bootes are
obliged to leap publicly on their foreign
idols. It is the only way of regaining con-
fidence in the executive, and restoring the
union’s lost strength. The last A.W.U.
strike —that against the Powers award for
shearers and shed-hands —was a costly fail-
ure. After its collapse in N. S. Wales the
Graziers’ Association publicly announced,
without contradiction from the other side,
that thousands of A.W.U. members, fed-up
with the executive, had worked at award
rates. This notwithstanding, the infatuated
officials carried the war into Victoria, where
the shearing occurs later than in N. S.
Wales. The result is moodily announced in
an official report from the A.W.U. office in
Melbourne: —
Shearing is about finishing in Victoria... .A num-
ber of shearers that had been shearing in Queens-
land and along the Darling at Queensland rates (40s.
a hundred) and conditions came into Victoria and
shore at award rates (355. a hundred). This
enabled the sheds to fill up with fast shearers. The
supply of shed-hands has more than met the demand,
the majority being first-season men from the cities.
Obvious is the connection between this con-
fession of disaster and the conversion of the
union heads from direct-action to concilia-
tion, extremism to sweet-reasonableness. In
effect, the change has been brought about by
the loss of thousands of members, and pro-
bably tens of thousands of pounds sterling,
in a besotted strike.
The Threat to Theodorism,
There is an impression at Macdonell House,
Sydney, and other rf -of the kind, that
if another 10 p.c. of votes had been
recorded on December 16 Labor would have
won. An examination of the election figures
doesn’t support that view. It reveals that
the party did best where the poll was small
and worst where the poll was high. Kal-
goorlie (W.A.) was gained on a 50 p.c.
vote; Calare (N.S.W.) lost on a 65 p.c.
vote. In Grey (S.A.), where Poynton was
outed, only 49 p.c. of the electors bothered to
exercise the franchise; in Adelaide and Deni-
son (Tas.), Labor gains also, the percentage
dropped to 47. It is significant that the
only State (S.A.) where the party won a
majority of the seats in the House of Reps.,
and all three in the Senate, the poll was the
lowest since 1906. In Queensland,, on the
THE MIRAGE.
“A press message states that work has been resumed at the Federal works, Canberra.”
“Owing to the accumulation of several millions of bricks, the brickworks at Canberra are closing
down.” —Another press message , same date.
The work mirage—an ephemeral imitation of the real thing.
other hand, only two of the 10 A.L.P. can-
didates for the House of Reps, moved the
vote of thanks to the returning-officer, and
the four Senate aspirants are apparently in
a hopeless plight. Yet the Queensland poll
was far and away the best in the
Commonwealth; and the higher the
proportion of votes to electors the
worse the Labor man fared. In Brisbane,
with a 73 p.c. vote, the non-Labor majority
increased, as compared with 1919, from 729
to 1234; in Hunter (70 p.c.) it soared from
1448 to nearly a thousand more ; in Darling
Downs (79 p.c.) from 4794 to 5735; in Wide
Bay (77 p.c.) from 2587 to 7025; and
in Moreton (82.9 p.c.) from 3343 to
6313. As regards the Senate, Labor
was in a minority of 38,382 after the
first count. If this voting is repeated at the
State election in October, the Theodore Gov-
ernment will go out for at least three years.
But the clouds have been brightened at the
moment for Theodore by another furious
outbreak of wrangling among his opponents.
One of the Cocky members has resign ea from
the party, another has been ordered to toe
the carpet, and a third has been informed
that his room is preferable to his company.
A muddled attempt is likewise in progress
to form a new party. All this is very re-
assuring to the continuous Government. ‘ And
if the situation grows really menacing, it can
always do something spectacular, say, extend
the franchise to flappers and cockerels of
18, with the aid of the Premier’s proxies.
Australia’s Oil Prospects.
“Talba” states some facts:—
“Grlffitii Mose.;” (15. 21/12/’22) has evidently
not given much time to rhe study of the potential
oil or gas resources of Australia. He asserts, for
example, that not “one assured pint of ‘ile’ ” has
been produced here. Actually several gallons were
collected at Ruthven Bore, near Longreach (Q.),
and a quantity of aviation petrol measurable in
gallons was extracted from the Roma gas by I.
B. Henderson, Q. Govt. Analyst.
In the Q. Hydraulic Engineer’s tables can be
found dozens of water bores giving off inflammable
gases in varying quantities, and three or four
have given traces of petroleum. Whether these
gases are “dry” or “wet” can only he proved by
analysis, and nobody has taken sufficient interest
in the subject, so far, to get them properly tested.
If they were proved to be “wet,” that is, to con-
tain measurable quantities of petrol, then the
probabilities would be that petroleum was some-
where near, and that the gas had not migrated far,
otherwise the heavy fractions would have been
deposited. Meanwhile the discovery of even the
smallest quantity of petroleum is a sign that con-
ditions exist, or have existed, favorable for its
formation.
It required 17 years’ prospecting to find the oil
sands of the West Columbian Pool (Texas, U.S.A.),
and something like 20 years elapsed between the first
test bore and the development of a flowing- well at
Pierce Junction. This is now the largest produc-
ing field of the Gulf Coast, making 28,000 barrels
daily. I could name maily other fields, such as
Hurghdah, Egypt, where many thousands of pounds
sterling were spent and many years occupied in drill-
ing before there was any commercial production.
There is just enough possibility of obtaining a
Commercial supply of oil in Queensland to encourage
a number of companies to try to get rich quickly by
misrepresentation. Many of these concerns demand
from 50 per cent, to 776 per cent, of the share
capital in return for their good offices in floating
and taking up a few oil-prospecting licenses, and
having a little geological work done on them by
“doctors” without diplomas, or by “experts” with
weird letters after their names. No report has
ever been issued by one of them over the signature
of a geologist well known in the oil world. Gener-
ally they “locate” without prospecting at all,
although some report that months have been spent
prospecting, which resolves itself into days, or even
hours, on examination.
All this has naturally discredited the oily hunt.
However, given really sound geological advice and
a rational developmental scheme, in which most of
the capital would go into field work and not into
the pockets of “vendors,” there is no reason why
oil should not be found in Australia. At the
Commercial Congress held at Honolulu in October
last, a paper was read by Dr. David White, chief
geologist of the U.S, Geological Survey, on the oil
resources of the Pacific Basin. In hi 3 final sum-
ming up he gave N. America, including Alaska, W.
Canada, W. United States, and one-half of Mexico’s
reserves as 5,000,000,000 barrels, and Australia as
4,000,000,000 barrels. This is how our chances
are v iewed by one of the world’s authorities.
»—
‘O.K.” : Hughes’s sphinxlike silence makes
me as tired as those persistent cables about
Melba and her doings. Neither will will-
ingly quit the limelight, but they retain their
old positions by different means. The one
gets advertisement from seeking new places
wherein to open her mouth in song; the
other keeps himself large in the public eye
by getting his untimely silence talked and
written about. Hisi manner of mystery
is utterly derogatorv to the dignity of
the office to which he clings. Moreover
it tends to bring all party governments
into contempt, seeing that Hughes, as
representative of one which received its
death wound a month ago, refuses to order
the funeral and give the corpse decent burial.
The pretentious little man is just maintain-
ing an attitude of thrilling reticence upon
the party’s cold remains. Meanwhile, the
world wants to know what we need with a
Parliament and parties most of the time.
The new Parliament, if you please, remains
officially non-existent until it is sworn in,
and the old Government, which is mostly
a mere spectre of the past, continues to draw
its salary for pretending to retain the confi-
dence of the public after it has been pub-
licly kicked off the premises. For this open
display of indifference to public opinion
Hughes, with his insatiable craving for
limelight, is solely to blame. He makes his
late colleagues, living and dead, look poor
nonentities whilst he delays his resignation
at the bidding of his preposterous vanity.
They dare not open their mouths when
the boss dog barketh not. Practically they
are assisting to fix the limelight on their
master, whose catchline is “Watch me care-
fully and you will see what you will see.”
One comforting conviction is that the longer
the discredited performer postures in this
fashion the more disgust he is bound to
excite among former disciples.
“Bildad” does some calculations: —
It has been customary to regard the present
N.S.W. Premier as a man who is “moderate” to the
point of laziness, and mildly exhausted in all his
doings. Consideration of the amazing figures in his
Government’s land scheme suggests that he may
have rushed into excess to clear his character,
just as an enraged sheep may give way to cruelty
to prove that it isn’t really a sheep. The first
proviso which strikes the eye is that the owner of
any big freehold within 12 miles of a railway is to
cut it up within eight months, failing which he may
be struck with something in the way of graduated
taxation that will make him wish his grandparents
had died in infancy. If this is to be taken seriously
the Government aims at putting 30,000,000 acres
(30,000 wheat farms of 1000 acres each) on the
market well inside a year, and even if 30,000 buyers
could be found, and they weren’t two-thirds dummies
and speculators, that avalanche of land should reduce
prices to a shilling or two per acre. Then all the
available State land in the Eastern and Central
Divisions is to be thrown open, making another
8000 wheat farms. The published figures seem to
run wild hereabouts, but there is mention of
21,000,000 acres of State land in the East and
Centre; another 15,000,000 “under reservation”;
another 6,400,000 acres “that could be thrown open
regardless of suitability” ; and 2,558,207 acres already
open but apparently a drug in the market. If all
these items are to be added to the 30,000,000 acres
which it is proposed to resume it is a staggering
total for a State which, after 1917, got tired of
cultivating the poor 5,164,434 acres it had under
crop, and began to go out of the business at quite
a rapid rate. Where the settlers will come from;
where the money will come from, and the imple-
ments, and the railway trucks, and the ships; where
the crop will go to (it should make the Ma State,
in a decent year, the second biggest, if not the
biggest, wheat-raiser on earth) ; and where all
the evicted animals will go to —all these matters
are beyond thinking. The present sudden land-craze
began with a story' about how the offer of a State
grazing lease for an old song somewhere attracted
1061 or so of applicants. But it doesn’t follow
that the disappointed 1060 will rush to buy farms
at fair value. And if they did 1060 applicants
would be only a drop of hope in the bucket of
calamity.
— * ——
“Medea” : The job of keeping Chinamen
pnt of the Commonwealth -is made harder
by the fact that in the Pacific is a British
colony that practically welcomes them.
Immigrants of any origin are freely admitted
into Fiji. John Chinaman, realising that
this is an admirable stepping-off place for
richer countries, arrives tliere, labors until
he has obtained £lOO, and then “steps off”
on to the mainlands of either Australia or
of Maoriland. The Taxation Committee of
the . Legislative Council of Fiji, sitting on
5/12/’22, stated that they had recommended
that Chinese desiring to enter the colony
should pay an entrance fee of £5O, but that
the Secretary of State for the Colonies had
cabled to say he disapproved of this protec-
tive measure and could not sanction it.
Chinamen, unchallenged, will now continue
to pour into Fiji, and a certain proportion
are bound to filter, later, into Australia and
Maoriland.


As showing how machines designed originally for a special
industry are found useful in other industries, it is interesting
to note that the widely-known “Dorr” Appliances, namely—
Thickeners, Classifiers, Agitators and Dorrco Pumps, invented
for the more economical treatment and recovery of minerals, are
now used for the recovery of a large number of industrial products.
“Dorr” Patent Thickener.
$ OUAfi ovuuom
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown (City), Sydney,
MINING AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The eternal muddle of the Hughes Gov-
ernment’s soldier-settlement and war-service
homes department, which began to go to the
dogs while the absconded Prime Minister
was eloquently saving the universe and the
human race all over England, is being
cleaned up in Queensland. Tenders have
been called for eight bullocks, 294 acres of
land and 4,100,000 ft. of timber, being the
d6bris of some gigantic deals made in happy
moments' when cost was no object. A total
loss of £300,000 is estimated.
Australia House is liable to be rather a
pitfall to Australians in England than other-
wise; and it isn’t the fault of Australia
House, either. During last year various
Australian stock-raisers were in Britain buy-
ing cattle to improve their herds, and they
were in and out of Australia House while
they were doing it. Several of them had
arranged freight, etc.; then one of them—-a
Victorian—got a private cable telling him
that there was a new regulation absolutely
forbidding the importation of cattle from
England for the present. Of course, the
vvhole mob swooped on Australia House to
find out what the new regulation was; but
Australia House hadn’t heard a word.
Perhaps it is a sign of growing disrespect
for the monopoly of all things except rabbits
by the State capitals that the establishment
of a university at Armidale (northern
N.S.W.) is mooted. Once there were banks
which belonged outside the capital cities, at
Bathurst, Townsville, Launceston, etc. With
the exception of a little institution at Bal-
larat they have all been eaten up. But a
university which didn’t hang out its shingle
among the picture-shows and racecourses of
the metropolis would be a new heresy. The
idea is common enough in the British Archi-
pelago, where the fount of learning can be
found at places like Aberdeen, St. Andrews,
Durham, Oxford, Cambridge, Bristol, Car-
diff, Bangor and even Aberystwyth; but the
Briton establishes banks, insurance offices,
railway headauarters and colleges at all
manner of odd places, even on islets like
Guernsey and Man.
We shall not get honest results from our
preference voting until we learn to cast our
second and subsequent preferences honestly.
At present we mostly give our first vote to
the man we want to come first; but thou-
sands of us give our second vote to the can-
didate we think least likely to interfere with
the first man’s chances—to a candidate we
don’t want, and whom we think either a
calamity or a joke. There may be another
man whose policy differs little from our own
man’s, but for that very reason, instead of
giving him the second vote, we label him
“Dangerous,” and send him to the bottom
of the list. Presently, when in the course of
the count our second vote has been changed
into a No. 1 vote, and we have sent the
man we like least, to represent us, we are
not half as mad with ourselves as we ought
to be.
“Amateur Gent”: Massy Greene’s defeat
was due, not to the reasons assigned by
“Organiser” (B. 4/l/’23), but to (1) a
recently-acquired hauteur, which alienated
the sympathies of the farmers, even in such
formfer strongholds as Tenterfield and Nim-
bin, and (2) the similarity of the names,
Green and Greene. Ryrie’s gibe at the cow-
cockies had little or nothing to do with
Massy’s licking. But it definitely settled
John Thomson.
The war profiteers are getting more un-
popular than ever in England. They call
them there the incarnadined rich, or a word
to that effect; and Labor men use them as
an argument in favor of a capital levy,
which, in SDite of; Its inherent fool shness, is
tremendously popular over big areas. Natu-
rally the old rich and the not-so-rich, who
made their much or little out of peace-time
business, robbery, etc., laboriously and
slowly, writhe at the prospect of being cruci-
fied for the sins of others, and hate these
others accordingly.
Melbourne Age of January 11 gave a
column to a description of the fertile h : ll
country in the south of the Northern Terri-
tory and the tableland beyond, based on the
Administrator’s latest report. The headings
were interesting: “The Far North,” “Amaz-
ing Fertility,” “Regions without Invalids,”
and so on. There is so much evidence of
the existence of fertile patches along the
South-to-North railway route that the Mel-
bourne and Sydney and Brisbane press can’t
keep it from creeping into print now and
then. But in the leading columns the route
is the same old desert track, and the line,
which should rank with the half-dozen rail-
ways across North and South America, and
the trans-Siberian route, and the canals of
Panama and Suez, as one of the great high-
ways from ocean to ocean, is always an in-
MIGRATION RECEIVES THE DEATH-STROKE.
“I do not like your Bolshevik laws,” said Sir Horace Bayer, of Britain, when interviewed in the
lounge of the Wentworth Hotel. Sir Horace, who represents a well-known corset company, was indig-
nant because a consignment of corsets had had to be left in bond owing to an increase in tariff
duties while they weu [?] route. “I am very well known,” he added, “in Ireland and in the South
of Scotland, and I shall use every effort to prevent anyone of the farm-immigrant type from coming
to Australia.” —Sydney SCA.
SIR HORACE : “And when you learn, chaps, that in Australia, owing to the iniquitous
tariff, one of my ‘Sir Horace’ corsets —an ordinary ‘rustless,’ such as most
of you wean—will cost you up to ten guineas; when you are told this, I want
to know: Will you go farming in Australia, and. perforce, abandon the corset-
wearing habit, or stay at home and keep your figures?”
teresting myth to be considered along with
Einstein’s theory that parallel lines meet in
time, and straight lines come back to their
starting-point.
N.S.W. Premier George Fuller has car-
ried off to London another great scheme of
land-settlement —all designed to help him
when he proceeds to further bite the ear of
the moneylender. What the moneylender will
not do, though he ought to, is to point out
three things to Premier George: (1) One
of the reasons why the cocky so often fails
is that rail freights are so burdensome, and
this is largely due to the fact that there are
far too few cockies to support each mile of
rail; (2) the area within 12 miles of exist-
ing rail officially declared to be wheat-growing
land, is 34,083,000 acres, whereas the total
area under wheat in 1921 was only 3.124,000
acres; and (3) notwithstanding that only
one-eleventh of wheat-growing land already
served b.y rail is cultivated, the Government
proposes to further scatter settlement by
building more lines and borrowing money
wherewith to do it.
Following on the reduction of Vic. rail-
waymen’s pay by 6d. a day, the men em-
ployed on waterworks, railway-construction
and road-making are to have their wages
docked to the same extent. So the V.c.
Cabinet decided at the first meeting at which
McPherson presided as Acting-Premier, Mac
explaining that, inasmuch as the water, rail-
track and road-making workers had been
given rises in sympathy with the train-
running staffs, it was only fair they should
have corresponding decreases with those
staffs. There are rumblings of protest, and
landlords lean toward the men. They fear
that rents will tumble.
What is that strange paralysis which
comes over quite simple public works, so that
everybody agrees on the need for them and
everybody weeps over the impossibility of
them? For generations Sydneyites have
been held up at the Middle Harbor punt, and
have said darkly that a bridge should be
built, as if they were talking of the libera-
tion of Poland. “As with all great schemes,”
moaned the Telegraph, the other day,
“the paramount difficulty is that of finding
the money.” Now, in a neck-or-nothing
mood, some authorities have gone into the
matter, and found that, even at present
prices, the cost of a first-class bridge would
be about £150.000, which is. much less than
the loss on the State timber-yard, to quote
one silly iob out of many. Four recognised
means of escape from the Queen City of
Australasia are four great punts—Sydney
Harbor, Middle Harbor, Wiseman’s Ferry
and Tom Ugly’s Point. The early convicts
used to escape by the same routes, and at a
very similar rate of speed.
“0.K.” : Piddington missed a chance at the
declaration of the North Sydney poll. A
press myrmidon, with a camera, requested
him to look in the direction of Billy Hughes,
and the thoughtless man did so. He should
have told the photographer to ask his dis-
credited opponent to look up to him.
“Gallery”: None of the victims of De-
cember 16 was more shocked by his defeat
than McWilliams, the ex-Cocky leader. With
his white hair, large wdiite moustachios and
militant blue eyes, McWilliams liked to be
told that he was a replica of General Pau.
But his scathing speeches were always de-
livered in the tone of a jeweller’s shop-
walker guiding a valued customer to the
tiara department. Even when he was leader
of the Farmers’ party he didn’t rank high
in the councils of the nation. Presumably
the rejected of Franklin will now find some-
thing for his idle hands to do, but at pre-
sent he seems to have scarcely recovered
his wind.
At present the Australian Government
note says that “The Treasurer of the Com-
monwealth of Australia promises to pay
the bearer ten shillings,” or some other
amount, “in gold coin on demand at the
Commonwealth Treasury at the seat of
Government.” New notes are to be issued
changing the venue from the Treasury to the
Commonwealth Bank, but _ presumably the
promise to pay in gold, which busted like a
bubble of hydrogen-gas montns or years ago,
will remain. Why not be honest and print
“promises to owe the bearer,” and make
the essential word stand out* in red?
Treasurers have been damned before now for
smaller falsehoods than that promise to pay,
and what use is a damned Treasurer to any-
body?
If we are going to stick to preference
voting and the representation of minorities,
and want to get rid of such scheming and
wire-pulling and intriguing and veiled cor-
ruption as we have had in the past few
weeks, we shall have to think seriously
about elective Ministries. We can only
carry on government now by compromises
which are mostly dishonest; for we main-
tain the myth that Ministers who but yester-
day fought one another fiercely are suddenly
agreed upon a whole programme—are, in
fact, so completely in accord that what one
says the other will swear to. The system
of electing Ministers exclusively from within
the two Houses may not be the best system
—the U.S.A. has discarded it—but it is at
any rate infinitely better and more honest
than the present one of offering a premium
to intellectual and moral roguery.
The Newcastle steel-works are in a fair
way to resume work, but not on the hilarious
basis laid down by the Full Industrial Court
in one of its inspired moments. The Court
seemed to treat the award, which really ex-
pires next June, as immortal, and ordered
that any reduction which circumstances ren
dered inevitable should be a cumulative debt
due by the co. This might amount to a mil-
lion or more if the return of war prices was
delayed long enough, and the co. hated to
buy indefinite liability with hard toil when
it might go fishing. A peaceful arrangement
has been fixed up, making the liability
limited instead of boundless and eternal, and
when coal drops a little from its present
giddy elevation work is to resume. Hughes,
in his craze to beneficently regulate every-
thing, from the sunset to the setting hen.
contrived to keep the Federal war control of
coal going till the close of 1922, and the
results in the way of inflated prices, inflated
profits, inflated wages, and the inflation of
Hughes’s opinion of himself have been sur-
prising. The agile little man was never
Treasurer, which shows that the Lord hasn’t
wholly forgotten Australia; and he is re-
puted to have acquired his knowledge of
finance in the retail fruit and umbrella trade.
So a sort of happy amateurism marks his
handling of big things.
From the Federal Gallery:—
The current allegation that Hughes has offered
one of the five vacant portfolios to Latham, the
Libera] M.H.R. for Koovong (Vic.), is as unlikely
as the yarn that Prowse has been asked to take
charge of the Post Office. Latham is pledged to put
Hughes out even if it means putting Charlton in.
Prowse wouldn’t be a bad P.M.G., but his party
loyalty is such that he wouldn’t take office without
his leader’s consent. Despite Earle Page’s profes-
sions to the contrary, Billy still believes that the
C.P.’s deep-rooted distrust of the Bowyangs will
turn the scale in his favor, and that he will .ulti-
mately be called to head a coalition as a relief
from an intolerable situation. Hughes is a great
optimist, but the weakness of his position is that
he grossly overestimates his personal popularity.
It was William O’Callaghan, member for
the Wimmera (Vic.) in ISSO-83, who
answered adverse criticism on the hustings
by saying he “denied the allegation and
scorned the allegator.” O’Callaghan scored
better perhaps when the free and inde-
pendent asked him if he was a supporter
of “circular” education. “Certainly,” re-
plied O’C. “It’s very evident that ’tisn’t
round enough already to give the likes o’
you a show.”
“Fax” : Why are high officials doomed to live
in a cloud of guff? Lord Stradbroke, of Vic-
toria, is going for a trip “home,” his wife
and daughter sharing in the jaunt, and as
his name will be off the salary-list during
his absence the State Government w r as not
really called upon to offer any excuses. Yet,
Acting-Premier McPherson thought it neces-
sary to say that “His Excellency, whilst in
England, will assist the Premier in connec-
tion with several important matters that Mr.
Lawson has in hand.” Which is arrant non-
sense. Lawson Iftas practically nothing to de
except pose as a figurehead', and in that
capacity the holiday-making Premier doesn’t
want another figurehead to help him.
The Commonwealth Electoral Act.
The addresses of the artists whose pictures deal
with the recent Federal elections in this issue are
respectively, Percy" Leason, 214 George-street, Syd-
ney ; Tom Glover, 268 Flinderssstreet, Melbourne ;
and C. H. Pereival* 214 George-street, Sydney.
TREATING UP-TO-DATB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The M.L. Labor party is petitioning against the
return of Mr. Parr, Minister of Education, on the
ground that he treated some of the electors to
music and strawberries and cream.”
If you’ve read about the Eatanswill election
Whereof in sprightly fashion Dickens wrote,
you’ll recall the issue rested with a section
Who demanded market value for their vote.
It isn’t stated just what Perker paid them
When they finally responded to his scheme,
But one doubts if gratis music would have swayed
them,
Or a plate apiece of strawberries and cream.
In the venal days that entered with the Georges
There were furnished, for electioneering cheer,
Pat oxen roasted whole —Gargantuan gorges —
And seas of eleemosynary beer
For the free and independent. Whigs and Tories
Catered thus for their constituents’ esteem.
Now has treating sunk— o temporal O moresl
To music and to strawberries and cream?
When our sisters got the franchise ’twas contended
That a purer, sweeter era was ahead,
That the bad old days of buying votes were ended,
That bribery was counted out and dead.
Is this sweet and gracious influence waning, fleeting?
Or was corruption’s vanishment a dream?
■» * * *
It isn’t mentioned who were at the meeting,
But I’ll bet it wasn’t men whom Parr was treating
To an orchestra and strawberries and cream.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Telegraphic and Cable Address
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches : Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Christchurch,
Dunedin and Napier.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety e uM
Detonators
Cartridge*
The Hadfield System of Steel Manufacture is the cumula-
tive result of over 40 years’ research and practical experience
in the Largest Steel Foundry in the World.
** * *
The Hadfield System has now been established in our
works by picked men from Sheffield, and we are now pro-
ducing Steel Castings and Forgings of the same High Quality
that has made the world-wide reputation of Hadfields, Ltd.,
Sheffield. * * * *
HADFIELDS (Australia) LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Mutual Life Associa-
tion of Australasia :—-
Ex- Writ- Added to
Sept., Income. Claims. penses. ten Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1909.. 1,043,801 449,957 157,147 427 436,270
1910.. 1,122,667 441,323 168,511 3640 509,193
1911.. 1,198,148 514,596 176,344 4744 502.464
1912.. 1,284,304 520,249 174,664 2016 587,435
1913.. 1,395,866 511,045 175,031 709.790
1914.. 1,479,109 591,062 177,491 710,556
1915.. 1,555,268 697,173 165,655 - 692,440
1916.. 1,663,128 763,001 168,805 —• 731,322
1917.. 1,770,371 846,497 182,271 741,603
1918.. 1,921,765 876,989 204,737 840.039
1919.. 2,116,562 1,063,275 237,716 - 815,571
1920.. 2,352,957 832,177 275,846 1,244,934
1921.. 2.519.203 912.321 262,925 1,343 957
1922. . 2,722,513 969,145 267,064 1,486,304
The National Mutual is growing rapidly:
funds now exceed 164 millions, and at pre-
sent they are being added to at the rate
of approximately 14 million per annum.
This mutual office has done so well in the
policy-writing boom of recent years that its
income has almost doubled in nine years.
The war and pneumonic ’flu were powerful
agents for the life offices, and the air of
prosperity of the war period also brought
many more people within effective range of
the policy-writer. The publicity and can-
vassing campaigns of numerous young offices
have also, to some extent, helped the big,
old-established concerns to reap larger har-
vests. The National Mutual’s record year
for new business was 1920, when 1G,893
policies assuring almost 6 A millions were
written. For 1921 14,160 policies assuring
54 millions were accepted; and last year
there was a decline to 13,232 policies for
slightly more than 5 millions. Under the
most favorable conditions the new policy
is costly, and the smaller volume of new
business in relation to old is mainly re-
sponsible for the improvement of the expense
rate shown by this comparison:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905.. £lB 2 9 p.c. | 1918.. £lO 13 1 p.e.
1910.. 15 0 3 „ ! 1919.. 11 4 7 „
1914.. 12 0 0 „ I 1920.. 11 14 6 ,
1916.. 10 3 0,. I 1921.. 10 8 9 „
1917.. 10 5 11 „ 1 1922.. 9 16 2 „
Last year’s cost rate was lower than for any
other period in this office's 53 years. A
division of costs of old and new 7 business,
however, puts the performance in another
light. In the comparison which follows it
has been assumed that old business costs
7 p.c. of each year’s renewal premiums (3
p.c. for single-premium business) and that
the balance is a fair charge to set against
premiums from new 7 policies;—
Exes. New
Chargeable Business
New to New Expense
Sept., Business. Business. Rate.
1900 .. £40,939 £64,767 158.2 p.c.
1910 . 114,195 119,426 104.6 „
1915 .. 118,357 97,229 82.1 „
1916 . . 126,850 96,229 75.8 „
1917 .. 134,198 105,278 78.4 „
1918 . . 176,518 123,430 69.9 „
1919 . . 226,503 151,038 66.7 „
1920 . . 250,796 176.694 70.5 „
1921 . 210,909 153,264 72.7 ~
1922 . . 189,715 160,448 79.3 ..
On that basis of calculation new business
last year cost a little more than in previous
years'. But 79.3 p.c. is a very satisfactory
rate, particularly considering the keen com-
petition and the fact that the period was less
favorable for policy-writing. It means that
approximately one-fifth of the introductory
premiums remains in the National Mutual’s
vaults awaiting the time when the policy
becomes a claim. A few of its big competi-
tors cannot do so well, while some of the
young offices pay out as much as two years’
premiums before they can lay aside a penny
for the policy-holder. One factor assisting
to keep costs down is that for small assur-
ances and limited terms the National Mutual
does not employ the stethoscope to the same
extent as other offices, and its medical costs
are consequently smaller. Twenty years ago,
medical fees and travelling allowances took
more than 10 p.c. of new 7 premiums: last
year the ratio was 4.7 p.c.
Manager and actuary E. J. Stock is now 7
busilv engaged on his triennial valuation of
policies, and there is every indication that
it will reveal a handsome surplus for
bonuses. Since the 1919 investigation the
National Mutual has had a very favorable
run. The expense rate has remained moder-
ate, and the claims rate has been normal. At
the last policy-overhaul, notwithstanding
war and ’flu, the death claims represented
only 96 p.c. of what the management had
allowed for. Losses by death for the past
three years have been as follows: 1920,
£381,154; 1921, £399,124; 1922, £371,245.
During the past three years 17 millions of
new assurances have been written, but latest
mortality claims were almost £lO,OOO less
than those of tw T o years ago. The surplus
has been helped in another way: funds are
earning better interest than they used to.
This table illustrates the important part in-
vestment earnings play in a big assurance
office, and also show's the amounts contri-
buted to taxing authorities :
Gross Interest Rates Net Interest
and Rents. and Taxes. Return.
1909 . . £266,250 £8,527 £257,723
1914 . . 418,326 13,624 404,702
1918 . . 597,218 34,330 562,888 ,
1919 . . 653,939 27,160 626,779
1920 . . 709,761 28,550 681,211
1921 . . 791,589 38,062 753,527
1922 . . 897,697 39,624 858,073
Eight years ago £3 ss. p.c. of gross pro-
ceeds from investments went in taxes; last
year £4 Bs. p.c. Nevertheless, the ratio of
net earnings to average funds has improved
in this way :
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900.. £4 13 2 p.c. 1919.. £5 3 5 p.c.
1910. . 4 12 3 „ 1920.. 5 3 8 „
1914. . 4 16 8 ~ 1921. . 5 4 5 „
1918.. 4 19 9 „ 1922.. 5 8 4 „
The 3s. lid. improvement for the past year
is surprising. It is explained, no doubt, by
the investment of a lot of new funds in
higher-interest investments. During the year
£462,518 went into Government securities,
net additional loans on policies amounted to
£195,810, and the premises account expanded
£31,764. Since 1914 the interest return has
improved 11s. Bd. p.c., and on present funds
that means an annual addition to income of
approximately £96,250. Incidentally, though
funds are now earning £5 Bs. p.c., when esti-
mating policy-liabilities the National Mutual
assumes that only 31 p.c. will be earned dur-
ing the life of policies.
In pre-war days this office did not invest
heavily in Government securities: almost
three-fifths of all assets were mortgages. But
the War Loans were too tempting, and there
are now 7 6J millions-odd of Government
lOU’s. Twelve months ago the National
Mutual was working on an overdraft of
£885,000 to finance its plunge in Common-
wealth loans: in other words, the manage-
ment had mortgaged prospective surpluses to
get the Government paper. As almost 1J
million went into the coffers from the year’s
operations, the management was not only
able to wipe out the debt, but also had a big
margin available for additional investments.
Balance-sheet groups compare in this way
over a dozen years:—
1910. 1914. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Public secu-
rities .. 5.1 p.c. 6.9 p.c. 39.9 p.c. 40.5 p.c. 40.7 p.c.
Mortgages 56.1 ~ 59.3 ~ 34.8 ~ 31.8 „ 30.9 ~
Foreclos-
ures . . 1.3 „ 0.6 „ 0.2 „ 0.1 „ 0.1 „
Freeholds 12.8 ~ 9.9 „ 6.0 „ 5.6 ~ 5.5 ~
Loans on
policies 9.8 „ 9.4 „ 7.8 „ 8.4 „ 9.1 „
Other as-
sets . . 15.9 „ 13.9 „ 11.3 „ 13.6 ~ 13.7 „
“Other ssfyfts” at September 30 included
£795,096 of cash.
* * * *
Carlton Hotel, Ltd. (Sydney) :
( —Dividends. A Towards Nomi-
Net Pref. Re- nal Re-
Oct., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1921 £3139 £l6OO 2$ p.c. =£lsoo £39 £39
1922 2992 1600 Nil 1392 1431
The Carlton Hotel—one of the trinity of big
residential pubs which have nested in
the heart of Sydney—w r as erected in 1913.
In 1920 several of the owners w'anted their
money, and the present co. was formed. The
vendors received cash and 8 p.c. prefs.; the
public was invited to take ordinaries. The
hotel is on a 50-years’ leasehold. Original
cost was not disclosed; but in 1920, when
building costs were at their peak, architect
Chas. Rosenthal estimated that “it would
cost from £128,000 to £130.000 to erect the
hotel,” and auctioneer J. R. Lawson valued
furniture, appointments and plant at
“£lB,OOO to £20,000.” The enterprise was
passed over as a “going concern” for
£l2-3,500; £50,000 was covered by a first
mortgage at 8 p.c., one vendor took £20,000
of prefs. and 8000 fully-paid ordinaries went
to promoters and underwriters. To provide
the £45,500 cash to complete the purchase
the public fully subscribed £52,000 in
ordinaries. This placed the old proprietors
on velvet. Though the purchase price was
less than the valuations, they no doubt made
a good profit on the sale of the property, and
they unloaded all risks by taking prefs.
The public has fared very badly. The
prospectus claimed that, on the basis of
trading for the 10 months to June 30, 1920,
annual profits could be “safely estimated
at about £18,000.” Why a period of only
10 months should have been selected when
records for five or six years could have been
laid before the public was not explained. Net
profits for the two years of the new co. have
totalled £6131, only slightly more than one-
sixth of the “safe” estimate of the prospec-
tus. Considering the earnings of other big
residential hotels during the same period,
shareholders evidently need to look deeper
than the directors’ excuse, that they have
“had to contend against circumstances over
W'hich they had no control.”
The introductory table shows £1431 of
reserves after paying the prefs. 8 p.c. and
an average of 11 p.e. p.a. on ordinaries. But
these reserves are purely nominal, and do
not take into consideration the amount of
capital represented by intangible assets:
goodwill, preliminary exes., underwriters’
cut, licenses, etc. Unspecified amounts have
been written off these accounts in both years,
so actual net profits may have been a
little better than those shown by the pub-
lished balance-sheets. Preliminary exes,
have been charged up with general expenses,
and depreciation of buildings, leases, furnish-
ings and plant has been allowed as follows:
1921, £2598; 1922, £275K. In the latest
balance-sheet “leases, licenses and good-
will” are shown at £27,946 and “preliminary
exes, and repairs and maintenance suspense”
at £2077. It is impossible to ascertain wh.at
portions of these entries are intangible. At
October 31 the co. had liquid assets totalling
£10,221, and, apart from the mortgage, owed
£5352. The lease has 40 years to run, and
in that period, besides finding interest for
mortgagees (they get 8 p.c. at present) and
divs. for shareholders, the co. has to provide
for the extinguishing of the mortgage and
the return of £BO,OOO capital to shareholders.
* * * *
The National Trustees. Executors
and Agency Co. of Australasia (Mel-
bourne) :
To
Oct,, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1912. .£3540 10 p.c. = £3oo© £540 £28,452
1913.. 4114 10 „ „ 3000 1114 29,666
1914.. 4274 10 „ „ 3000 1274 30,840
1915.. 3242 12 „ „ 3600 - 30,482
1916.. 3509 10 „ „ 3000 509 30,991
1917.. 3847 10 „ „ 3000 347 31,338
1918.. 3680 10 „ „ 3000 680 32,018
1919.. 4118 10 „ „ 3000 1118 33,136
1920.! 3921 10 „ „ 3000 921 34,057
Transferred to Capital, £3750 .. 30,307
1921.. 4603 10 p.c. - 3375 1228 31,535
1922.. 4680 10 „ „ 3375 1305 32,840
This is one of the few r trustee cos. wffiich is
silent as to volume of the estates which have
been given to it to administer. All that is
visible from the published accounts is that
it is a very snug business, and that 10 p.c.
is found regularly for shareholders without
any difficulty. There are visible reserves
of £32,840 to assist £33,750 of paid
capital, and as funds are out in
sound securities the trustee operations
would need to be very unsatisfactory
before 10 p.c. divs. would be in danger. The
figures of the introductory table, however,
suggest that this 35-year-old concern has not
developed so w r ell as many of its competi-
tors. Net profits are only a ,few hundreds
better than the average for 1910-14, and
£3750 of the capital of £33,750 is the only
transfer of surplus profit the directors have
considered advisable in the co.’s career. An
examination of Profit and Loss entries shows
that gross income has expanded considerably,
but that exes, have kept pace:—
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
£ £ £ £ £
Gross earnings 13,329 14,222 17,871 19,521 20,464
Expenses . . 7,249 9,176 13,869 14,838 15,708
Exes. p.c. of
earnings . . 54.4 64.6 77.6 76.1 76.7
At October 31 the co. owed only £7IS and
displayed the following assets; Government
securities and cash, £14,029; premises and
fittings (the latter written dow 7 n to less than
half-cost), £52,556; book debts, £2486. Paid
capital is £33,750 in 75.000 £2 shares called
to 9s. So, besides £66,590 of visible net
assets after payment of the final div., the
directors could call on shareholders for
£116,250 more should loss of principal result
from careless or wrongful handling of trusts.
*****
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd., tea-import-
ers and manufacturers of foodstuffs, etc. —
This co. was registered 11 years ago, but
its shares were listed on Sydney ’Change
only last year. Ten years ago there
were 17 shareholders, and 122,507 of the
quarter-million £1 shares authorised had.
been fully paid up. The first accounts pub-
lished, for the year ended September 30 last,
show that paid capital has since increased
to only £128,607, but it was assisted by
£52,364 of reserves, though £21,741 of it
was an accumulation for depreciation. The
net profit for the year, after setting aside
£6500 for taxes and £3OO for doubtful debts,,
was £19,646, giving the handsome return
of 15 p.c. on capital. Divs. totalling 10 p.c.
were distributed, leaving £6785 for reserves.
Whether that represents the co.’s normal
performances is not ascertainable in the
absence of accounts for other years. Judg-
ing by the present volume of reserves and
the small increase of capital during the past
10 years, unless there has meantime been a
reconstruction, or distributions to share-
holders have been large, the co. does not
appear to have done so well in the past as
it did last year. Larger reserves should now
be materially assisting earnings, and the latest
15 p.c. is very handsome in view 7 of the fact
that £54.517 of funds are represented by good-
will and trademarks. These intangible assets
still exceed total reserves by a couple of
thousands. At the balance the co. owed the
bank and others, including mortgagees,
£47,027, and showed the following assets:
properties, etc., £00,205; plant, machinery,
etc., £59,541; stocks, £43,347; book debts,
£32.540; cash, etc., £5285. The co. has
lately been making extensive additions to
its mills.
* * * *
The Langridge Mutual Permanent
Building Society (Melbourne) :
Added
Written to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1910.. £5643 5 p.c. =£3676 £664 £1303 £21,952
1911.. 633 S 5 „ „ 3681 13,679 10,930
1912.. 6815 6 „ „ 4354 2461 13,391
Shares forfeited . . 394 13,785
1913.. 71C9 6 p.e. = 4348 2821 16,606
1914.. 6940 6 ~ „ 4262 2678 19,284
1915.. 6935 8 ~ „ 5637 1298 20,582
1916.. 6484 8 ~ ~ 6593 891 21,473
1917.. 6783 8 „ 5530 1253 22,726
1918.. 6598 8 ~ ~ 5515 1083 23,808
1919.. 6446 8 ~ ~ 5515 931 24,740
1920.. 6696 8-,, ~ 5515 1181 25,921
1921.. 7024 8 „ „ 5515 -- 1509 27,430
1922.. 6742 8 „ „ 5505 1237 28,667
Though house-building in Melbourne has
become more active, and other building socie-
ties have for several years had a rush of
applicants for advances, the Laugridge is
maintaining its business at modest dimen-
sions. Advances at September 30 were
smaller than they were 12 months ago, and
less was owing to outsiders than at any
time since the society was recovering. from
the wounds it incurred in the ’nineties. Here
is a comparison of balance-sheet figures going
back 17 years:—-
Deposits, Pore- Other
etc. Advances, closures. Assets.
1905. . £12,229 £59,172 £54,245 £3678
1910.. £1,351 96,143 24,997 Nil
1914.. 26,826 116,745 3,996 Nil
1918.. 15,545 99,829 3,970 7941
1919.. 18,351 105,956 3,378 6144
1920.. 16,863 103,768 4,187 7216
1921.. 16,842 106,147 3,378 7134
1922.. 13,780 105,146 3,433 6118
No capital was written off’ after the Mel-
bourne land smash, but for many years the
management was busily engaged unloading
foreclosures and utilising whatever profit it
could squeeze to fill holes. The apprecia-
tion of values enabled the society to make a
more rapid recovery than had been antici-
pated, and substantial reserves accumulated
to assist capital. Since 1914 regular 8 p.c.
divs. have been paid, and a good margin of
profit has been available to strengthen re-
serves. Paid capital is now £68,810 and
reserves amount to £28,667; so the prospects
of a continuance of the present rate of div.
look good. With increased business the
society could probably give shareholders a
bit more than 8 p.c., and it is surprising that
an effort has not been made to increase de-
posits to finance a few more borrowers offer-
ing good-class securities. At September 30
there were assets with a book value of
£114,697, £5962 of which was War Loan.
Liabilities amounted to only £13,780, less
than half of which was due to depositors.
Having assets with a book value of almost
£8 to protect every £1 of outside money, the
Langridge is in a very sound position to
invite further funds to assist its expansion.
* * * *
The N. 8. Wai.es Associated Blue
Metal Quarries, Ltd.—This co. was
formed in November, 1921, to take over
the Prospect, Minnamurra and Bombo
(Kiama) quarries, and to raise additional
capital to complete purchase of properties
and to equip them efficiently to cope with
the demand for blue metal. The vendor co.,
the N.S.W. Blue Metal Co., Ltd., received
for its assets £69,855 wholly in shares —
15,800 10 p.c. prefs., and 54,055 ordinaries.
The public was offered 50,000 prefs., con-
vertible into ordinai’ies within two years
of issue. The three quarries, as pre-
viously worked, were claimed to have
been turning in profits at the rate
of £lO,OOO p.a., and the vendors estimated
that additional output would increase the
annual profit to “well over £25,000.” The
first accounts issued, to November 30, show
a net profit of £17,344, but the quarries had
not had the advantage of the additional
equipment for most of the period. Paid
capital at the balance w 7 as £112,711, in
42,095 prefs. and 70,616 ordinaries. After
providing £2721 for depreciation, writing
off one-third (£1287) of flotation exes., 10
p.c. was paid for the year on both classes
of shares. This took £10,299 and left a
balance of £2969, £2500 of which has been
reserved for taxes.
The co. has made a good start, and as
“several large contracts have recently been
entered into” and the demand for metal is
certain to continue, prospects look good.
Additional plant and machinery now in-
stalled are regarded as ample to cope with
the w 7 hole of the city and suburban require-
ments. Quarries, leases and plant at
November 30 had a book-value of £124,893,
which was £12,182 more than paid capital.
But £20,925 of the purchase price of the
Minnamurra property was still outstanding;
that balance is “payable by instalments”
(terms not stated) and secured by mort-
gage. In addition the co. was working on
an overdraft of £5996 and owed £5052- other-
wise. Stocks, book debts, cash, etc., ae-


Scientific Glassware, Crucibles, Scales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-mills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request. — Advt.
* * » *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Win.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [1
* * * *
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe is chosen by so many en-
gineers to-day—not merely because it is light and
easily handled, but because it renders permanently
satisfactory service, never diminishes in capacity,
and is not affected by electrolysis or corrosion.
Write to-day for your copy of the 68-page book
on the subject, free by post from The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove.
—Advt.
* * * *
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
Scientific and Commercial Agencies throughout the
World.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* • • «
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
For Patent Apnlications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings. 350 George Street. Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
• • • •
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Circular
Quay, Sydney, and Collins House, Melbourne, sup-
ply: “Robey” Steam Engines, “National” Gas and
Oil Engines, “Foden” Steam Waggons, “Multimix”
Concrete Mixers and Concrete Machinery, Conveying
and Earth-handling Machinery, Road-making Plants,
etc. —Advt.
* * *
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being stiown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.—Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Sydn“v.— Advt.
EFFICIENT TRUSTEESHIP
is a matter of vital importance to all who wish to conserve the
interests of their beneficiaries.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE GO.
OF N.S.W. LTD.
can offer you all that the most exacting could require in the way
of efficient trusteeship. The Company cannot r
dje —by making use of its service you obviate all risks whatsoever.
Under the Company’s Act of Parliament the whole-of its Capital
and Assets is security for the proper fulfilment of its obligations to
its clients.
The Company defers its charges for acting until the estate becomes
distributable.
WRITE DEPT. P FOR FREE BOOKLET.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Assistant-Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
REALLY
. SAVES .
«
A.A.A. PETROL SAVER CO
Commerce Buildings. Ash St., Sydney
Used by
Winners Brisbane
to Sydney Tests,
1921 and 1922.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock’,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, Genera] Manager.
counted for £28,225 of assets, giving an
excess of liabilities over liquid assets of
£3748. Prospective divs. depend to some
extent on how the balance of the Minna-
murra purchase is to be completed. After
the successful first year the directors would
probably have no difficulty in raising addi-
tional capital to cover instalments; not un-
likely they are expecting profits to assist.
Capital is wholly represented by the quarries
and their equipment. The deposits of blue-
metal in the three properties are of first-class
quality and “for all practical purposes are
in quantity inexhaustible.” In this instance,
the security for capital does not come into
consideration: the value of the properties
depends wholly on the demand for the metal,
and prospective profits, which might also be
expected to provide for return of capital
some day, are the draw.
* * * •
N.S.W. gold return last year was the
lowest on record—£lo7,l3o as against
£217,370 for 1921. The record retux-n was
£2,660,946 in 1852, which is closely
approached 10 years later with £2,467,780.
Prior to 1919 the lowest yield recorded w r as
£317,241 in 1888.
* * * *
As far back as 1891 it was proved that
there was an extensive coal-seam under Syd-
ney Harbor. A bore was put down at Cre-
morne, which, at 2800 ft., passed through a
seam 7ft. 4in. thick; but the site had been
chosen close to the outcrop of a dolorite dyke,
and where the drill penetrated the seam the
coal was charred, or partly converted into
coke by molten rock. With State assistance
another boi'e was put down, and at 2917 ft. a
10ft, 3in. seam of coal, free from any altera-
tion by contact with dykes, was passed
through. This is the Bulli seam, and it was
probably penetrated at the deepest point of
the basin between the outcrops at Bulli and
Newcastle. The discovery led to the forma-
tion of a local co. which proposed to sink
a shaft near the site of the bore, but this
was objected to on the ground that the pit-
head and other works would disfigure one of
the beauty spots of the harbor. The co. then
purchased a freehold site with a deep-water
fi*ontage at Balmain. This co. made a start
on the shafts, but the cost proved to be
altogether beyond local enterprise, and, after
a long delay, an English co. with a capital
of £1,000,000 was formed. The shafts reached
the coal-seam at 2800 ft., where the thick-
ness of coal (in two sections separated by
a shale band of 3ft.) was only 3ft., but at
64 chains east the thickness was sft. 2in.
with only lin. of shale band, and at 84 chains
(the present face) there is 6ft. lOin. of
coal. Two miles and a half east ’from this
is the site of the Cremorne bore, with over
10ft of coal. It is stated that over £650,000
was spent in developing and equipping the
colliery, and that nowadays the cost would
run into £1,000,000. For various l’easons,
principally the narrowness and dirtiness of
the seam where it was intersected, the entei*-
prise was not successful, and for seven years
past the colliery has been idle.
An effort is now being made to revive the
enterprise by the formation of a local co.
to be called Sydney Collieries, Limited,
with a capital of £500,000 in £1 shares;
192,000 shares fully paid are to go to the
vendors, and £BO,OOO cash, payable £20,000
on the signing of the contract and the balance
in three equal yearly payments. Contribut-
ing shares to the number of 230,000 are
offered at 2s. each on application and allot-
ment, wfith the liability of calls not exceed-
ing Is. each not oftener than one a month.
As a financial proposition this seems very
reasonable. .Tames Mathieson, manager of
Hetton Bellbird, has examined the mine and
made a highly favorable report. He states
that analysis “places the coal as superior
to that from any other mine working on the
Bulli seam, also superior to any other colo-
nial coal for steam-raising purposes.” Mak-
ing an allowance of 40 per cent, loss for
small coal and shale bands, he estimates the
workable Coal in the three-mile limit (co.
has only the right to mine Under the waters
of the harbor) at 11.025.000 tons, which,
on an annual output of 250,000 tons, would
make the life of the colliery 44 years. “On
an output of 1000 tons per day, the cost at
the present wage scale of delivering the coal
would be in the vicinity of 15s. Id. per ton,
and as the selling price will be approximately
255., the profit would be 9s. lid. per ton.”
The promoters, on a basis of 600 tons per
day, calculate on a profit of £77,350 per
year, equal to 16 p.c. on the issued capital.
“It is estimated that the co. should be in a
position to commence to pay dividends after
the first year’s operations have been com-
pleted. If this can be accomplished it will
be a unique result for a proposition of this
class and magnitude.”
All these things indicate a very atti’ac-
tive proposition, but there is a feature which
possibly may modify this. What proof is
thei’e that the coal seam, as coal, is per-
sistent under the harbor? Geologists affirm
that the harbor and its indentations repre-
sent fissui’es and rock changes l-esulting from
volcanic action ; the original bore disclosed
coal converted into coke by such action, and
on visible evidence of the magnitude of the
eruptive influence it might not be unreason-
able to assume that large sections of the coal
have been subjected to it.
* * * »
The cables report that somebody has suc-
ceeded in floating in New York a co. with
a capital of £lOO,OOO to bore for oil at
Grafton (N.S.W.). The bore, of which the
daily press now speaks so glowingly, was
originally put down by the State Government
about 25 years ago to test the eastern slopes
for artesian waters and to furnish a permanent
water supply for the town of Grafton. When
it was down 3600 ft. a heavy flow of methane
was encountered, and shortly afterwards the
scheme was abandoned, a considerable quan-
tity of boring equipment being lost and
allowed to remain at the bottom of the hole.
At intervals since attempts have been made
to exploit the supposed oil-bearing district,
but each time chemists’ and geologists’ re-
ports have discouraged the enterprise. The
last attempt was about five years ago, when
the bore was pumped out for 1000 ft. or so
and samples of the water sent for analysis
to the Mines Department. The finding was
that the only hydro-carbon of which any
traces could be found was methane. Later
a Government geologist declared that from
the point of view of petroleum-bearing possi-
bilities the area was hopeless. In 1917 a
syndicate of Sydney business men was formed
for the exploitation of the property, but after
a month or so the matter was allowed to
drop and the syndicate was dissolved.
* * * *
Westralia produced a little over 2£ mil-
lions’ worth of gold last year, or just half
of what it did five years ago, and a little
more than a quarter of its output in 1903-
04-05. The normal value of its yield to
date is £147,992,476, but Avith the premium
derived from the export sale of gold by the
Producers’ Association it works out at
£158,152,440 plus the premium on sales yet
to be finalised.
* * * *
Hard and unfeeling things are being said
about the North Fingall and its controllers
in the West. Although condemned by reli-
able experts years ago, the show Avas floated
in _ Melbourne last March, and the shares
paid up to 2s. soared to 15s. Then the bears
got busy and the market burst. Noav the
plant is for sale by tender, and the co. is
looking for a hiding-place.
A. H. Collier, of the Lake View, I\ T anhoe
and Associated Boards, has been expressing
optimism in Perth and Kalgoorlie about the
future of the Golden Mile. Collier told inter-
viewers that he had come to the West to
clear away misunderstandings between mine-
owners and miners, and before leaving he
met, argued with and drank the health of
several influential, Laborites. He did not
publicly discuss the position of the indivi-
dual Kalgoorlie mines, but he suav enough
to convince him that the position of some
is pitiful compared Avith what it Avas Avhen
he last visited the field 12 or 13 years ago.
As for the three mines with which he is offi-
cially connected, the Ivanhoe is looking
better at depth, the Associated just manages
to carry on, and the Lake View has some
rich ore and immense bodies of low-grade'
stuff. Owing, however, to high costs, a com-
paratively small treatment plant and big
share issue, the VieAv shareholders are not
likely to benefit much.
* * * *
Mutooroos are being boosted in the West
on the strength of “the best surface find since
Bullfinch,” on which the Board recently
secured an option. The show is a bit east'
of the 37-mile peg from Kalgoorlie on the
Trans, line, and a mile or tAvo aw r ay from
the 1922 alluvial discovery on the Hampton
Co.’s block. Optimists—all of them scrip-
holders —reckon that the slugs and nuggets
unearthed at the latter wmre shed from the
reefs exposed, and to be exposed, at the
former find. A report by the Mutooroo Co.’s
expert states that two or three dozen samples
taken “over a length of 300 ft. and an ap-
proximate Avidth of 60ft.” averaged 35dwt.;
but while independent sampling showed good
prospects, the values are in leaders.
* * * *
Menzies Consolidated (W.A.). which has
unostentatiously carried on mining for over
20 years, has issued its annual report in
London. After providing for all expendi-
ture, deducting a div. paid about a year ago
and including £4878 brought forAvard, there
is a debit balance of £3173. But the co.
struggles on.
* * * ■*
Brpwn’s Reward, alias Lass o’ Gowrie
(W.A.), recently took an option on a lease at
Fields Find when its shares Avere Is. seller;
now they have soared to over 10s. -A crushing
of 200 tons is being treated at a State mill!
20 miles from the mine. Judging by official
assays the return ought to be about 4oz.
per ton. but the clean-up will probably be
nearer 2oz. The Rewmrd lease has been
worked to a depth of 40ft., and although
there is the cash and share consideration to
the vendor to be taken into account, its
market valuation at present stands at over
£50,000. Ore in sight and in prospect does
not justify this. Meamvhile. the mine is
being depleted of its best ore to furnish an
impressive crushing. Some small share-
holders are going to be hurt as a result of
this policy, but as most of the larger ones
are working on the safety-first principle they
will probably escape injury.
The oil spasm in Queensland quietened
down during the holidays, and there have
been no new floats for a week. J. L. Strevens
has returned to the search in the Beaudesert
district, and is still looking for the best s.te.
Meanwhile, public interest has faded, pro-
bably owing to the opinions of oil-geologists
who have been on the spot. There doesn’t
seem to be much indication of oil there,
except, possibly, at Dunn’s bore, and there’s
a strong smell of kerosene about that. The
Brisbane oil syndicate put up shutters at
Woolstcn before Christmas, and it looks as
if they won’t be taken down quickly. The
bore is down about 700 ft., and various
accounts of oil and gas being struck have
filtered out during the past six months. Still,
there has been no official confirmation or
otherwise. Tewantin is going ahead with the
boring. They talk about rich oil shales, but
the search is really for liquid oil, although
they seem to forget that.
* * # f
Mt. Mulligan (N.Q.) hasn’t been happy
since it reopened. There has been trouble
right from the start over the cavils. It has
now ended in a strike closing up the coke-
ovens, which were heated up a couple of
months back. The coal output has been too
small, only about 100 tons a day, and the
coke turned out is hardly worth mentioning.
This hits the Chillagoe Co. hard, because it
cost a lot to clean up the mess caused by
the explosion and build an up-to-date coking
and washing plant as well as a six-million-
gallon dam on Geraldine Creek. It also hits
Chillagoe State smelters. The co. had a big
contract from the State for coal and coke.
The orders are now going to Ipswich and
Newcastle. The Cairns railway bought up
a consignment of Newcastle at £3 ss. a
ton, and reckons it’s very little dearer to
use than Mulligan at 425. Bowen is now
shipping all the coal north via Townsville.
Kangaroo Hills (Q.) starts the year with
its tail well up. Tin is rising, and there have
been good rams, which will let crushing re-
start. The Sardine is still looking well, and
has already paid out all the capital sunk in
it. In three years 2700 tons ore has given
613 tons concentrates, worth £62,500, and
£30,000 has been handed out in divs. The
Canary was the find of 1922. Its returns are
small, but it is only down 100 ft. Still, the
ore so far crushed has been worth £33 a
ton. While a lot of the talk about the
Canary has been justified, it isn’t likely to
ever come near the Sardine. Its shoots are
narrower and in hard country, and will cost
more to get out, especially as they get deeper,
Seventy per cent, concentrates are bringing
£lOO to £lO5 up in N.Q. now\ and it is
pretty certain a couple of the newer shows
temporarily turned down will be given a
chance.
* * * #
There are more divs. ahead for Tyreonnell
(N.Q.), the last crushings being well above
the average. The December lot, 120 tons,
returned 178 oz. gold and 15dwt. concentrates.
November figures were 125 tons for 1550 z.,
so the ore is now averaging nearly SOdwt.
as against the old ounce. The crushings will
come* in handy for the development work that
is now going along, and the mine looks like
being one of the most useful in the northern
State —which isn’t saying a great deal.
* * * *
Badak, having a staff to keep up, is not
letting its money lie idle. First it got off
the A jura, an alluvial show in New Guinea,
per R. E. Booth, and retained 122 500 con-
tribs. out of the float Next it sampled shows
on the Upper Murray and at South Mt.
Cameron (Tas.), but turned the blocks down.
This opened up the way for an option over
the Golden Gate, Matbinna, Bill Cundv and
H. 11. Miller being the reporting experts.
Terms, £7500 cash and a fifth paid-up in-
terest in any co. formed. From the spec-
tacular point of view no better deal could
be made. The mine in the old days yielded
231.4340 z. from 276,000 tons quartz and paid
£355.000 in divs. So if a bit of gold be
struck, what revels! A working party oij
four has held the old claim since 1912. anti
by scratching round has got out 12,091
tons for 94130 z. The old Tasman, next door,
is in the option, so Badak has a double-
barrelled gun for the market. Miller says of
the Golden Gate: “I am sure the mine has
not been worked as it should have been, and
if given a start with up-to-date methods the
profits will be large and its life long.” Cundy
is equally emphatic: “I feel convinced it
is a good property if properly handled, and
one that has been much mismanaged years
ago. I have, therefore, strongly recommended
that the option be exercised.” On talk like
this no Board could pass the show by. What
remains to be seen is whether the old hands
were such duffers as to let good stone slip.
They were thought to have done that at the
Tasmania, but ,T. Bull soon learnt he had
come in late. To get cash in hand a 6d.
call has been made bv Badak on its 200,000
shares. It is distributing the Ajura scrip,
20 to the 100 Badaks, and when the Golden
Gate option is finalised another distribution
of the same size will be made from the co.
that takes that over. Badak had £4OOO cash
against £2479 of creditors on Sept. 30. Play-
ing with options is costly, and so the call
is needed.
* * * *
White Range, in Central Australia, seems
to have been got off the stocks. Capital is
£75,000 in 600,000 shares of 2s. 6d. Of these
200,000 are to furnish working capital and
200,000 will fall to vendors. As it has taken
about three years to get the show off, such
a big grab may be pardonable, but it means
carrying a heavy swag. What is aimed at
is to get Luce’s and other blocks at White
Range tested for gold. The formations are
wide and the crushings taken out average
well, but the hunt throughout has been for
rich patches. The new co. has a big job
ahead to get cheap transport and a decent
staff of workers.
* # * ♦
New Blue (Bendigo) has made a splendid
start for the current year. Last week’s re-
turn was 5200 z. from 630 tons; adding the
product for the preceding four days, the re-
cord for ten days’ milling is 885 oz. from
1036 tons, an average of 17dwt.
* * * *
Costerfield antimony-goldmines at Heath-
cote, east of Bendigo, treated 2612 tons ore
and 2382 tons tailings for 1283 tons concen-
trates worth 60 p.c. antimony and 2oz.
18dwt. gold per ton, of the estimated value
of £22,965. The loss in tailings has been
reduced to 1 p.c. antimony and ldwt. 2gr.
gold per ton. A new make of rich ore has
been cut in the southern end of the mine ;
this is believed to be a continuation of the
rich Minerva shoot worked in shallow levels.
There has been no report as to what hap-
pened with the proposed co. to work the
mine on a more extensive scale and to instal
plant for the production of antimonial oxide
as a basis for paints.
* * * *
Carshalton is a new Bendigo co. formed
to work a large spurry formation at Spar-
rowhawk Gully, immediately west of the
Hercules.. Co. consists of 40,000 shares of
10s., 8000 of which are paid to 2s. 6d. and
32,000 paid to Is. The last workers on the
area—-Craven and Valentine—are reported
to have won 4400 z. from 372 tons, their deep-
est workings being at water-level—l2oft.
Friedman Bros, and the old Empire Co.,
which worked on this section of the field,
had a long run of prosperity.


J q|j|. Fido
nv&Xe i\we for yer&elf, but
■for '£yi<\c?& cioiit co<?vke vwe-
UD W(tV»
“Not that, steujAi-a. r>fo- L
2mw tKirsK oj- orve.
iwcire ■fAv'ewie U <^>l2\titv»dc^
-to Victoria
Premier Lawson, of Victoria, marked the
occasion of his departure by a valedictory mess of
platitudes such as: “Pull together,” “Keep the flag
flying,” “Do the fair thing,” “Keep
pegging away,” etc., ad nauseam.
' Satisfactory tests have been carried out
in connection with the introduction of police-
dogs and wireless to assist the Victorian police
in tracing criminal*. , —v
"KpsFF t-Pv'f'y "RouE-s
Hoty terror " Umfires % rules be
blithered 6vcn if- it UJasnT
<2\ INO- baM , I've got the.
blinking bat &v\d m I
stays!“
“Mr. Hughes, despise the .verdict of
the polls, has decided to stick in office as
long a* he can- ’ — Press par
1-j" Kilt's*—•
fWhy not" com^utsoiy
jroiM tweir
Aesthetic claws,
their life-s-isviwj?
value as
Shark*-Scaverel
-rTwAst not be J
overlooked J
rant fe «>« Viclorian Po!| Office'S
—
“ "Then tUe el bourse A umXVi
s*Jcl\el, shining wxorrung fa\ce*,
creeping |jke sn&il _ cdfTK
tKe Suburban letTers son*e.uofoere
“Bathers must be clothed effectively in
a costume ‘with a kilt’, ” — Ukase issued by
WilKamstown Council.
**f ot* (SjLJVEkK •
MOSTLY MELBOURNE.


NATIONAL HOTEL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
European Plan—Charges for Room only.
Service a la Carte.
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
mu
Suites de luxe, with bathroom attached.
Telephone in every Room. Roof Garden.
Under the Direction of —
ROWE’S LIMITED. PROPRIETORS.
For Reservations address Manager.
i+v ■
r
w
Complete
Toilet Harmony.
Used together with your Lepit Perfumes
what could be more desirable than dainty
Face Powders and Creams of the same
alluring fragrance?
All Lepit Perfumes are from the real
extracts of the choicest flowers of Italy,
and cannot be imitated by synthetic or
ordinary perfumes.
Rose <V Italia (Roses of Italy), Fior di
Xottc (Night's Flowers), Lavanda, Nin-
jea (Lilies of the Water), and Acqua
Colonia Lepit (a rare creation of Eau de
Cologne) are a few Lepit fragrances—
really unique and of indescribable beauty.
From all Good Pharmacies and Stores .
GATTINO & CO., LTD., 39 York Street, Sydney, Sole Agents.
Carlton Hotel Ltd.,
Castlereagh Street,
Sydney,
"Where a genuine Welcome awaits you.
Ideally situated in the heart of the
Banking and Shopping Centre.
Direction J. LEVY,
Late Manager Grand Hotel. Auckland;
Usher’s Hotel, Sydney.
Excellent Cuisine.
Cable, Radio and Telegraph Address:
HOCAR, SYDNEY
SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Nemo Me” from the inside: —
An interesting innovation is the appointment, at a
record salary, of M. .1. Shanahan, of Sydney Daily
Mail, as supervisor of all the Truths. None of the
editors of the big Norton organ is to be displaced,
but the new man will edit the lot. Truth has
been hit to leg somewhat, particularly in N. S. Wales,
by Smith’s Weekly. Smith’s, while J. F. Archibald
THE ETERNAL QUESTION.
“Stop! How have you used your wealth? Have you
ever in your life given anybody money without
expecting a return for it?”
“Great Scott! Are you still harping on Billy's £25,000
up here?”
was advising, threatened to make a literary appeal.
Then Archibald died, and the Arcadian sheet, dropping
poetry, art and the drama down the sink as mere
“highbrow stuff,” went out after the rape-and-murder
business, which had been the monopoly of Troth.
Smith’s Gun Alley issues, with their intimate details
of the ravisher’s mental processes, and their pic-
tures of the gallows, with dotted lines indicating the
grim route Ross would be required to walk, made
Truth’s forthright presentation of the horror look
dull. Truth lost a lot of what may be called its
Squizzv Taylor circulation at one sweep. In Sydney
Smith’s has an immense and growing vogue
amongst the younger factory-’ands, male and female,
and amongst the non-politieal workers—classes which
demand a generous issue of displaced human brain
and bowel in their week-end reading. All these
people formerly revelled in Truth. However, the
directors of the Sabbath oracle are determined to
respeetabilise their property, and its orientation
under Shanahan will probably be away from Sadism
and back to those exposures of scandals, public
and private, which John Norton did so well, coupled
with a strong, independent Labor line in politics.
Shanahan has one unchallengeable proof of journal-
istic efficiency to his credit. During close on 12
months he almost daily attacked some big abuse,
while collecting a minimum of practicable libel
writs.
* * * *
“Clifford Snook”: According to my matu-
tinal rag “the outlook for the new year in
the real-estate market is bright.” It needs
to be! In Sydney, whenever a man is justly
enraged, disappointed in love, or finds time
hanging on his hands he puts two chairs in a
vacant shop, and starts a property agency.
He copies the “For Sale” notices that are
scattered round, so that 10 agents are buzz-
ing about trying to trade off one house, and
his sign says that estates are managed, mort-
gages effected, and that the inmate is agent
for the Combustible Fire Insurance Co. In
the half-mile, mostly cottages, quarries and
sand, between me and the sad and fish-like
shore there are six property-agents —three
side by side—and they all “manage estates”
and represent the Combustible Fire Insur-
ance Co. The business is a sort of station-
ary vagrancy, and the Law should drop to it.
“Stellsby” : The first case under the Brit-
ish Infanticide Act was that of a 19-year-old
domestic of Coningsby (Lines.). She pleaded
guilty to killing her newly-born child, adding
that at the time she didn’t know what she
was doing. She got four months and the
blessing of Mr. Justice Lush, who remarked
that the new Act “was a most wise and
humane piece of legislation.” It was passed
in April last, and saves a woman who inten-
tionally slays her offspring, but who was at
the time suffering, say, from puerperal fever,
from having to face a mnrfW trial, w'th the
chance of either a conviction, or immure-
ment in an asylum “during his Majesty’s
pleasure."
* * * *
“X2X”: Apropos the fact that multiple
births never occur in the case of wom’en
who live in luxury, a good deal of interest
has lately been aroused in English and Euro-
pean scientific circles by the published
opinion of a leading obstetrician that the
pelvic index of civilised women
is gradually growing smaller
and smaller. The scientist _in
question has been collecting
data in maternity hospitals and
other places during the last 30
years, and has compared the
figures so obtained with ana-
tomical measurements taken
from the skeletons of females
who lived in the 17th, 15th and
14th centuries —lack of material
prevented him from going
further back. The comparative
study of the whole of his data
points unmistakably to the fact
that there is a constant diminu-
tion of the width of the pelvis
in European women, to which
is ascribed the circumstance
that child-birth in that part of
the world is steadily becoming
more difficult, protracted and
painful, as well as that the per-
centage of stillborn births and
deaths of both mother and child
in labor is constantly increas-
ing. It is stated that the dif-
ference in size between the
average pelvic measurement of
the 14th century and that of
the present day is nearly seven
per cent., and that it is the
women belonging to the better
class, that is, the class which
habitually takes the least exer-
cise, who are mostly affected.
The obstetrician attributes the
change to altered social condi-
tions. habits of luxury and
methods of living entirely dif-
ferent from those of a couple
of hundred years ago. He
winds up with the gloomy prog-
nostication that the human race,
or at least the white part of if,
will gradually and automati-
cally extinguish itself, and that,
indeed, the process of extinc-
tion has already begun.
“The Deacon”: “Wilfrido’s” .yarn (B.
4/1/’23) recalls the joke which was put up
a few years ago on a well-known R.O. digni-
tary. This particular ecclesiastic was an
enthusiastic disciple of St. Paul on the
woman question, and his only tolerated re-
tainer was a venerable hag of witchlike
appearance. Some of the lads of the village
sent an attractive advt. to a morning daily,
and put the old man’s address to it. Fearing
that the genuine answers might lack zip they
concocted several of such “ripeness” that the
recipent, declaring the end of the world to
be at hand, held a special service where, in
addition to denouncing mixed marriages, god-
less schools and the prevailing reluctance
to contribute to church funds —his stock
abominations —he prayed for the conversion
of those wanton daughters of Eve who had
offered to supply him with a complete supply
of genuine home comforts at the minimum
of expense.
AND SO SAY ALL OF US.
SOPRANO: “My face is my fortune.”
BARITONE : “Thank God, I have my brains."
DUETTO: “Lord, isn’t it rotten to be poor!”
“Azrim” : “Morehead” is right in his con-
tention (B. 4/l/’23) that the birth-rate is
not higher around Christmas, albeit Christ-
mas Day itself is a busy one for the obstet-
rician. The excitement inseparable from the
festival tends to precipitate events; more
especially in those households which, by
means of beer, make of the holy day some-
thing approximating to a riot. However,
statistics compiled from the maternity hospi-
tal records show that the Stork, with his
old black bag, works most of his overtime in
August and September. And —though usually
statistics fail to intrigue me—l remember
calculating one wet week-end that the popu-
lation of Victoria would be doubled annually
provided there were (1) four Henleys. (2)
three Melbourne Cups, and that _ (3) the
mean average of Sunday-school picnics re-
mained constant.
“R.R.” sees carnage ahead; —
It is not only the N.S.W. Railway Commissioners
who are enraged with the motor-’buses, whose com-
petition in Sydney has lost them £25,000 in anti-
cipated tramway revenue during the last six months.
Time was when the harbor-side tram admirals —known
as “tram troubadors” —had something the same
appeal for a section of femininity that was held in the
days when N.S.W.’s Rum Corps flourished by the dash-
ing highwayman. But nowadays the girl who has smiles
and kisses and the prospect of amorous adventure
to offer in return for free transport sneers at the
trammy and his lumbersome vehicle and patronises
a motor-’bus. Some of the rejects are bitter
about it; and a clash last week between three
“troubs” and a similar number of petrol Lotharios
was the gory beginning of a feud which promises to
bite into the State’s very vitals.
“The Deacon”; My nomination for the
Malaprop Stakes (B. 4/1/’23) comes from
the same stable as “Niinshi’s.” inasmuch as
he is a Labor League president and alder-
man of a country town. When the
place was arguing about the best form of
permanent memorial to the fallen soldiers,
Mick stoutly declared his preference for a
retinue of trees. At the banquet following
the opening of a new R.C. school, after put-
ting away the usual aldermanic quota, ht
genially remarked that since boyhood he
had always been a bit of an epigram with
regard to feeding. In his speech he com-
mended the nuns for always turning out
sculptured scholars as against the mob of
mophridites, for which the public schools
were responsible.
•+ .i *"• •
“Flicker’s” case of youthful resourceful-
ness :
One of the officials of Adelaide Tramway Trust has
taken up dieting, and gets a special brand of sandwich
concocted for him at a ham-shop in town. Lately
he secured a new office-boy, and on the first day
of the latter’s administration sent him to purchase
the hygienic fodder. Then he remembered a corn-
mission from home. “Oh,” he added, “and while
you’re in town get me half-a-dozen ping-pong balls.”
In due course the youth returned. “Here’s yer sand-
wiehes,” he said, “but they had no ping-pong balls,
so I bought yer a deener’s worth of fancy cakes.”
* * * *
“F.A.”: The word “Brevet” prefixed to
the rank of an officer invariably caused argu-
ment among Diggers—possibly because the
conditions under which this rank came into
being were almost un-
imaginable during the
life of the A.I.F. It
was introduced into
the British Army _ in
185 S, and was a kind
of sop for regimental
officers who were due
for promotion but
could not be moved
up owing to lack of
vacancies. This was
in the days when men
were captains up to
45 and majors were
crusty old “boys” with
unerring palates and
a pronounced dislike
for quick changes of
weather. An officer
with brevet rank takes
seniority dating from
his first commission,
excepting in his own
regiment. The thing
is a paradox, for an
officer may bo a junior
captain in his regi-
ment and at the same
time be senior to every
major in the army.
The first to get the
prefix was Captain W.
11. Hughes, of the 54th
West Norfolks, who
distinguished himself
when his troopship,
the Sarah Sands,
caught fire on her way
to India with his regi-
ment aboard. The
Indian Mutiny was
the disturbance re-
sponsible for the voy-
age. With n color-
sergeant Hughes vol-
unteered to jettison the
big stock of ammunition, and though they
did the job the Sarah Sands burned to the
water’s edge and sank. It was for his share
in the ammunition dumping that Hughes
was given the promotion which necessitated
the first use of brevet rank .
“Pat Bushie” : Re the S.A. law which auto-
matically legitimatises post-marriage births (B.
4/l/’23). In N.S.W. the Legitimisation Act
of 1902 provides that the father, on making
the prescribed declaration, can re-register the
child (anywhere in N.S.W.) and give it its
proper status. I know a man who travelled
from near Broome (W.A.) to Broken Hilt
(N.S.W.) for this purpose. I know another
case where, just after the World War broke
out, the father married the mother of his
nine children, then travelled 30 miles to the
nearest registry office to “fix it up” because
his four eldest sons had answered the call.
HIS BIG CONTRACT.
“But you told me you'd pay for an expen-
sive frock after the war.”
“I ain't paid for the war yet, 'are I?”
“Lexite” : At St. Mark’s AngTcan Church,
at Fitzro.v, a short evensong was conducted,
after which a picture entitled “Over the
Hill” was shown. Many people were unable
to gain admittance.
The people scramble to worship God
Where the parson gives them a free film show;
For entertainment that’s on the nod
Is one to which sinners love to go.
His plumes of pride the parson preened
At the crowd he’d won, and its garnered pence.
“Over the Hill” was the film he screened,
Though wowsers claimed it was over the fence.
(Continued on page 19.)
BALLADE OF MYSTERIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Twill not avail us to ask the Sphinx,
Not even she can a cause supply
Why the unshrinkable always shrinks,
Nor say how it really feels to die;
No matter how deeply the sages pry,
There are riddles aye that perplex and pose
Questions still which have no reply—
These are the things that no man knows.
Not the oldest, hoariest owl that blinks
Can explain why the world w'ags so awry,
And how it happens that all his drinks
Leave the bibulous battler just as dry,
Why the creeds can never see eye to eye,
And where the dickens the money goes,
And what is put in a cook-shop pie—
These are the things that no man knows.
What songs were sung by each siren minx
As the bound Ulysses went sailing by?
Does a demagogue think when he thinks he thinks?
And what makes women at weddings cry ?
And what is truth ? And, above all, why
Do the awful legs wear the striking hose?
And where do the walls of Atlantis lie?
These are the things that no man knows.
Envoy.
Prince, the master of such as I
Asked of yore: “Where are last year’s snows.
And the fair, dead dames?’’... .but the echoes sigh,
“These are the things that no man knows!”
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


ONE-EYED JUSTICE.
“It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich orofessional man to earn disqualition.”-Sydney maxim.
ONE OF THE STOUT GENTLEMEN: “How remarkably lucky It is for us that the bandage always slips on the same side!”


THE HENRY LAWSON MEMORIAL
FUND SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount acknowledged .. .. £169 11 6
N. Turnbull, Nevertire .. .. 110
£l7O 12 6
Contributions should be addressed to The
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
Stewart Dawson’
in 10-Year Gold-Filled Hunting Case,
15 Jewels, f-Plate Nickel Movement
GUARANTEED
to be Scientifically and Soundly Constructed, and
to Keep Accurate Time.
Stewart Dawson & Co.
ESTABLISHED IS7L n.*.w. ltd.
I
\
"V
■U*
nrm
/
Defiance Lever
Special Price : 65
For Reliability and Value this Watch is Unequalled.
POSTAGE FREE.
Two Sydney Establishments:
412 GEORGE STREET, STRAND CORNER.
183-87 PITT STREET, NEAR KING STREET.
From this side of the butcher’s block: —
If you are a writing man and take an anaesthetic,
of course you must say something about it. It
seems to be one of the rules of the game. But as
no two of us tell the same thing it isn’t as bad
for the victims as it might be.
When I had climbed on the table and someone had
told me to breathe deeply I remembered I had a
message for the surgeon. It wasn’t a long message,
but before it was finished the voice that was deliver-
ing it seemed to be a long way off. I heard some-
body say, “Right. Now tell us the story of your
life.” But just then the inky part of me remembered
that I had to keep my mind on that anaesthetic.
The previous day I had read a yarn by Norman
Campbell in which another man on the table had
heard a train roaring up in the distance, coming
closer and closer, until presently he was in the
midst of smoke and sparks—and then they all fell
into a tunnel. I listened for that train, and....
five hours later woke up in bed. “All over?” I
asked the sister. She nodded and....the lamps were
lit now. I had a hazy idea that someone had been
talking, and fancied that it might have been me.
Then they turned me over, settled my pillows, gave
me an injection and....it was morning.
I don’t suppose it is always like this; but that
it can be like that makes me still more contented
that I was born myself and not my grandfather.
* * * #
“Schuorrer” on kosher meat:—
There is trouble in orthodox Israel over a rumor
that the use of a killing-mffsk may be made compul-
sory in all slaughter-houses here, as in England.
(According to the Talmud, only meat killed by the
Jewish method may be consumed —though amongst
“Society” Hebrews, who entertain, and are enter-
tained largely by Goyas, the rule is more honored
in the breach than the observance.) The S.P.C.A.
advocates slaughter by means of a spring-gun, work-
ing behind a mask which fits over the forehead of the
doomed beast. The Jewish scheme consists of sever-
ing the big veins in the animal’s throat, the purpose
being to drain the body of blood. Incidentally, it is
maintained tliat the quick loss of blood produces an
instant anasmia of the brain, and consequent uncon-
sciousness in a few seconds. As against this com-
forting theory the S.P.C.A. people point out that
only the victim knows what degree of agony it
suffers from having its throat cut and being left to
AN EYE FOR AN EYE.
“ Isn't Toots naughty, mummy? He ate my
slipper."
“I hope you punished, him, darling."
"Yes. I came straight out here and drank
his milk.”
bleed to death, ahd that it isn’t in a position to
say. It is odd, by the way, that the Jews should
be worried by the S.P.C.A. The originator of that
Society was a Jew.
* * * •
“Tapu” delves into the past:—
When the Victor Hugo and the Jules Michelet
entered Port Jackson on the 4th January they re-
peated fairly remote history. One hundred and
nineteen years ago, for close on five months Le
Geographe and Le Naturaliste, of the French fleet
commanded by Captain Baudin, lay at anchor in
Neutral Bay. They were on a voyage of discovery
at the instance of Napoleon, became separated from
the main squadron in a storm off the Tasmanian
coast early in March, and did not meet again till
Le Naturaliste, on the 3rd July, anchored in Neutral
Bay, a fortnight after Le Geographe.
It was at 6 o’clock on the morning of June 20,
1802, that Le Geographe, in fine weather, appeared
off South Head flying a signal of distress. The
crew to a man was in the grip of scurvy. The dying
THE SPENDTHRIFT.
“ Er — er, I've got some peppermints for yer."
“Thanks very much; but you ALWAYS buy peppermints."
"Yes; but I’ve gone an' bought double-strength ones this time."
lay with the dead along the decks. The balance were
emaciated phantoms unable to bear a hand to get
the corvette through the entrance.
Matthew Flinders’s Investigator was riding at
anchor in the harbor, and from her Governor King
sent a crew to work the stricken vessel into port.
A fragile peace, which had a few months previously
been patched up between Josephine’s husband and
the rest of the world, secured a welcome for the
visitors. Francois Peron, the naturalist and historian
of the voyage, notes “that"one of Governor King’s
first acts was to give Commandant Baudin unlimited
credit to obtain stores, supplying him with official
requisition-forms to fill up at his pleasure.” A bag
of flour in 1802, when the colonists were on short
rations owing to floods on the Hawkesbury, was much
the same as a jazz party at the Wentworth in 1923.
Baudin. and Flinders saw much of each other
and compared notes and charts over bottles of near
wine, made in the Colony, and then the Frenchman
sailed away and on the map he drew named South
Australia and Victoria Terre Napoleon; and Spencer
Gulf and St. Vincent Gulf respectively Golfe Napoleon
and Golfe Josephine.
Both these navigators had bad luck: Baudin found
a premature grave presently on the Isle de France
(now Mauritius) ; and a few months later Flinders
reached the same spot to begin a six and a half
years’ term of imprisonment.
* * * *
“Harold H.” on a superannuated craft: —
The Penguin, which made her first appearance
in the R.N. 46 years ago and has been located in
Australia since 1894, is due for D. Jones’s locker.
Moored at Garden Island, she has provided a home
for generations of officers unattached to any ship,
and, incidentally, a name for the caps of sailors
attached to auxiliary naval units. Even the mes-
sengers of the Navy Dept, were branded as rollick-
ing Jack-tars of H.M.A.S. Penguin. The label has
become so much an institution that the Encounter,
which becomes the new marine hotel, is to be re-
named Penguin 11. The Penguin was a wooden
ship whose only active service was at the blockade
of Zanzibar in 1888.
* * * *
“G.F.”: An over-zealous young Adelaide
policeman is kicking himself for a mug just
now. He espied a workman with a heavy
jarrah post on his shoulder and inquired
where the load had come from. The answer
was “the yard.” The man’s manner inspired
suspicion, and he vims requested to pro-
ceed to the police-station. He agreed but
refused to carry the post. The case was
no good without the “evidence,” so the con-
stable shouldered the burden himself and
humped it about a mile to the station.
Arrived there the suspect drew a receipt
from his pocket showing that he had bought
and paid for the timber, and warmly thanked
the constable for his courtesy in carrying
the timber for the greater part of the owner’s
homeward journey. While the officer was
debating the possibilities of laying a charge
of “offensive behavior” or “vagrancy” the
man faded out, timber and all.
*• * * *
“Buttinski”: If I am not too late to chip
into the “Tauwarra”-“Centurion” argument,
I would suggest that an article in The
Ladies’ Home Journal of January, 1922,
by Charles A.
Sladen might
assist the two to
reach finality. The
author states that
in the examination
of soldiers for the
U.S. Expedition-
ary Force, out of
one. million and a
half examined one
quarter were found
to be illiterate —
that is to say, they
could neither read'
nor write. This
did not take into
account those who
could read a very
little and write to
about the same ex-
tent. The author
quotes Dean West,
of Princeton, as
estimating that
these nearly-illit-
erates would make
up another quarter
of the entire popu-
lation, thus giving
a total of more
than 50 million
uneducated people
in the United
States. An experi-
ence is also men-
tioned where a
farmer, born, bred
and schooled in the
sa me place as
Abraham Lincoln,
didn’t know for
certain whether
Lincoln was white
or black. The
farmer could read
and writ e, but
“Tauwarra” could
hardly class him as
literate, though,
being a voter and
a taxpayer. his
name would be included in the list of such
compiled for statistical purposes.
* # * •
“O.K.’s” kick:—
One speaks of public hospitals as one finds them,
and when it was my misfortune recently to sample
the Daylesford (Vic.) Hospital (there being no private
equivalent in the town) I found it a place where
liquids were Supplied to patients—alike to “paying
guests” or benevolent gsylumers ending their days
under the hospital roof —in disenamelled vessels
which would be liable to prosecution by the Board
of Health if discovered in a Melbourne boarding-house.
Yet there was cause for innocent merriment in that
Daylesford Hospital. On an exceedingly sultry day
I suggested to the matron that a glass of mineral-
water would be acceptable. Mineral-water, macaroni,
and fickle gold-mines are Daylesford’s staple pro-
ducts. The matron giggled. There was no mineral-
water to be had in the institution—nor, by the way,
did I hear it stated that any had been available the day
previous, or would be available next day. Thereupon
I was pleased to be sarcastic in a merry way.
Shaking with assumed laughter I remarked to the
lady on the quaintness of the fact that whilst Dayles-
ford was being advertised as a place where one can
get mineral-water gratis, whilst there were springs
to the right of the town, springs to the left, springs
north, south, east and -west, with motors and
coaches touting for passengers thither, the local
public hospital had gone bone dry on the mineral-
water issue. Smiling she retired, in her pleasing
crisp uniform and white kid boots, but I doubt
whether she saw the joke. Jokes are out of place
in the grim atmosphere of a country hospital.
* * * *
“Sierra”: Bill the Boatman, who has a
nodding acquaintance with Mrs. Malaprop,
hitched up his pants and contributed a squirt
of tobacco-juice to the cementing of the
Entente. “Them parlevoos has got their
nuts screwed all right,” he ventured. “It’s
not all sediment with them. These ships
come here as a commercial preposition as
well as to show their gratuity to Orstralia.
Firin’ salutes at one another is only inter-
national courtship. The guard of honor at
Alan-o-war Steps was gunners from the
South Head barrage. They stood that
straight you’d think they was toeing a chalk-
lime. Soldiers have to keep to the left of
sailors, because navals take proceedings over
militaries.”
* * « •
“Anaf ’: Edith Thompson, hanged \yith
Bywaters for the Ilford murder, is the first
woman to suffer the capital penalty in the
U.K. for close on 20 years. The last females
to be hanged in England were Amelia Sachs,
for baby-farming; Ada Chard Williams, for
the same crime; and Mary Ann Ansel 1, who
murdered her sister by sending her a poisoned
cake through the post. The three were
executed within a few months of each other.
In the case of Alary Ansell, a girl of about
18 years of age, a strong but ineffective
public outcry was raised against her being
handed over to Jack Ketch. Shortly after-
wards a select committee of the House of
Commons inquired into the question of the
death penalty, and, although it made no de-
finite recommendations, it was generally
understood that capital punishment in the
case of women would be abandoned. It is
a long time since a woman was hanged in
N. S. Wales or Victoria, although one Martha
Rendall, a poisoner of children, was executed
in Westralia 16 years ago.
“Bishop’s Offsider” writes: —
“Morehead” slipped (B. 4/l/’23> in including the
Unitarians among Australia’s unclassified sects. The
“Commonwealth Year Book,” gives their strength, and
though the figures make somewhat melancholy reading,
still, there they are. Whereas in 1891 the Unitarians
numbered 3889, in 1901 they dropped to 2629; in
1911 they were 2176, and at the last census they
numbered 1586. Tasmanian and West Australian
figures are not yet available, but based on previous
returns there cannot be any more than 100 in both
States, which would bring the 1921 census total up to
about 1686. The movement was established in Syd-
ney about 1853, and the first minister was Rev. Dr.
Stanley. At present there are four Unitarian
churches in Australia: at Sydney, Melbourne, Adel-
aide and Shandy Grove (S.A.). The Sydney church
is in Liverpool-street, opposite Hyde Park, and its
minister is the Rev. George Walters. Walters, who
is 69, comes from a rigidly orthodox Devonshire
Anglo-Irish family. At an early age he and a brothn
became Unitarians, and George was ordained at 21.
was minister at Burnley, Lancashire, and was after-
wards minister at Aberdeen and Melbourne, coming
to Sydney in 1888. If all the Unitarian clerics
bad his gifts, by the way, the church as a whole
might be booming. His own fane is invariably
packed when he takes the pulpit.
» * * »
“The Deacon” on church entertainments:
Judging by the yelps which are ascending from
clerics who have missed the church movie ’bus, one
might imagine that adventitious aids to church
services were at all times anathema, which is non-
sense. In what respect is the presentation of a
picture on ' a suitable subject more harmful than
the practice of hiring professional singers—often
of other faiths, or none at all. Melba, who is a
Presbyterian, if anything, was the paid soloist of an
R.G. Church in Melbourne for years, and certainly
any singer or instrumentalist of note that visited
Sydney during the Consulship of O’Haran, at St.
Mary’s, was secure of the loud advertisement of a Sab-
bath performance. Which reminds me that when
Amy Castles was in her first boom, St. Mary’s was
thronged, mostly with Jews, who disappeared at the
conclusion of her first solo, which, of course,
synchronised with the appearance of the collection
ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
“What is heredity, father?"
“It’s something a father believes in till
hits son starts to act like a dam' fool."
plate I They weren’t always ecclesiastical solos
either; when Amy Sherwin sang “There Is
a Green Hill” O’Haran got over the difficulty raised
by the Cardinal’s inquiry of what the effort was by ex-
plaining that “Madame Sherwin’s Latin was very
poor.” On at least one occasion in Moran’s time,
by the way, the Cathedral housed a sacred-concert
party given by the Castles sisters. The host was
removed and the public admitted to face the organ
gallery at popular prices.
* * » «
“Albatross”: Further to “Nimshi” (B.
4/l/’23) on Malapropisms. A foreman steve-
dore in N. Queensland recently informed me
in strict confidence that he was suing his
aberrant missus for “dilution of congenial
nights.”
DAYBRBAK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some people rise to see the daybreak come
And Nature’s color-schemes anew display.
I try to sleep, but the industrial drum
Boats ’neath my panes and drives all sleep away;
And with my bedclothes covered to my nose,
I curse, and seek, but cannot find, repose.
The silence of the dim, cool morn is smashed
By a. loud train that avalanches past.
Some empty milk-cans on the pave are crashed;
Loud morning shoutings through the air are cast.
It seems that all the early birds agree
Since they are up, that it is up to me!
What with the rumble of the whirling wheels,
Shutters clanked open, unlocked doors a-bang,
The myriad newsboy with his raucous squeals,
The clatter of the milk-oh and the clang
Of his dismounting—l’ve no need to wake
To see the daybreak: I can hear it break!
k.s.w.
HAMER.


vbn
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
Xhe Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
I JtfSVSftfl Store 102 Daking House.
LdniStHl Servicc Svdney.
O'JerFe-'t, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor 203 Hitth St., Christchurch
W A. —H. L nle &• Co., 851 Hay St., Perth
THe Winning' Double!
“WHITE HORSE”
ALE and STOUT
Pick your preference; either
way you must win on quality.
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED, KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Uuxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
souih of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Adelaide has news of the death, in Lon-
don, of one H. F. Shipster, who made a
good thing out of infant S. Aus. Son of
ofie_ of the earliest Adelaide lawyers, he in-
herited a lot of land in the city and suburbs-
six whole town acres in North Adelaide, and
130 acres now comprising Kensington Park
—auctioned the lot in 1865, and retired to
England to live on the proceeds.
An odd record was held by Wilbf'm
Nance, known on the Northern Rivers
(N.S.W.) as “Uncle Bill.” For 54 years
superintendent of the Methodist Sunday-
school at Ivempsey, he had to walk three
miles from Greenhill every Sunday, and
then walk back at night; yet, until he re-
tired, two years ago, he missed only one
Sunday in the 2808 or thereabouts.’ The
old sticker died at Macksville the other
day, eight years short of the century.
Uramao”: Ernest Page Lee, the only
member of tire Massey Cabinet beaten in the
recent Maoriland elections, represented the
beerless city of Oamaru, wherein he has
amassed shekels in the Costs trade. A couple
of decades ago Lee fought a coterie of Peck-
sniffs who were urging the Public Library
committee to ban-
ish The Bulle-
tin from the in-
stitution. Though
in a hopeless min-
ority on the com-
mittee, he man-
aged to prevent its
complete expulsion
and won consent
to its retention for
the smoking-room,
where it flaunted
its gay cover for
many years, till
promoted to the
tables, where it
now lies cheek-by-
jowl with all the
other pious publi-
cations under the
unprotesting noses
of the sanctified.
HUGH J. WARD,
who has just got
in the first blow
in the great Ward-
Tait battle.
"8.C.”: Some person who is either im-
pish or careless has rearranged the por-
traits in the Queen’s Hall, Federal Parlia-
ment House, with the result that Lambert’s
George Reid is now next to Meldrum’s Sir
Samuel Griffith. Nothing could be more elo-
quent of the contrast between the two schools
of artistic thought. Griffith is presented
without any of the academic pretences
of the well-taught painter, though to a
certain extent the wig, gown and posture
of the Judge conventionalise the effect. Pic-
torially there is little more relief from the
sombreness of his robes than the subdued high
light on the one visible shoe, but how strik-
ing he is beside Lambert’s colored cartoon
of Reid. George is dressed in a bluish suit,
and his absurd, tailor-dummied legs end in
tiny feet crushed into patent-leather boots.
He sits in front of a dreadful blue curtain,
and his Lambertised hands, tapering at the
finger-tips, seem to be pulfy with gout. But
the whole conception is cheap in that hall
of solemnities. Indeed, its triviality is
made deafening by Fred McCubbin’s Alfred
Deakin on the other side. McCubbin didn’t
pretend to genius as a portrait-painter, but
he made a dignified and convincing job of
Deakin.
Although there have been complaints from
the profession that many Adelaide lawyers
are battling hard for a crust, and assertions
that the shark business is over-catered for
in S. Aus., 12 new members were admitted
to the Bar and signed the roll of prac-
titioners on the 16th December. Cleland,
Iv.C., mentioned that one of the dozen, Keith
Cameron Wilson, was the fourth generation
of the Wilson family to be admitted to the
Bar of the Court. Another of the embryos,
Lance Vivian Pellew (brother of C. E. Pel-
lew, the international cricketer), is now
playing for S. Aus. against Victoria. Lance
is a champion athlete, and the State’s fast-
est sprinter and hurdler.
“Ashmead”: I heard a quaint palm
handed to a Digger when I was repatriat-
ing myself through the States after the war.
I happened to be waiting for a yarn with
one of the head
serangs of a uni-
versify.. The
serang was out;,
but his secretary
noticed my Dig-
ger’s uniform. She
promptly asked if
I knew Signaller
Tom Ske y h i 11,
'‘My word,” she
remarked, “y o u
ought to have
heard what my
boss had to say
about him! The
Professor c a m e
back after hearirg
a lecture by Skey-
hill, and confided
to me that he
guessed he was the
finest talker the
war had produced.”
Sir ALFRED
PICKFORD ,
Commissioner for
Overseas Scouts,
now in Melbourne.
Alfred Pickford, Commissioner from Eng-
land to look into Boy Scout matters, is im-
mensely tall, and looks absolutely, mountain-
ous when decked in his scanty Scout uni-
form. He told Adelaide interviewers, among
other things : “I have come instead of Baden
Powell, who is under promise to visit Canada
this year and South Africa next... .There
are about two million scouts in the world;
the Americans alone number half-a-million.
Great Britain has about 300 000, and the
rest of the Empire about 100,000. But it is
a world-wide movement; at the conference
in Paris last July, between 30 and 40 coun-
tries were represented.”
Premier Lawson (Vic.) knows that
Treasurer McPherson, his deputy while he
is tripping abroad, will not try to dig into
the job with a view of annexing it. Mac.
has no ambition to be a party leader • the poli-
tician part bores him. When George Turner
went to see Queen Vic., in 1897, Isaacs (now
of the High Court), who was proxy for him,
dimmed his light rather than flashed it, as
he didn’t want to outshine his chief while
he was away. John Davis, who acted for
Bent, was an Uppah House man, and there-
fore not a rival. But while Willie Watt
was deputy for Jack Murray 11 years ago
he displayed qualities that forced Murray to
step down and serve under his. erstwhile
first lieutenant. When Watt went over-
seas, and it was Jack’s turn to take the helm,
he made no attempt to retain it. Ilis grip
on life, in fact, was beginning to get less
firm then, and ambition’s flame had burnt
itself out.
“Tally-Ho”: Leonard George Holden
Huxley, the Speck’s Rhodes Scholar for
1923, has distinguished himself in local
’Varsity Science examinations since the pre-
matriculation stage. Incidentally, the last
five Tasmanian Rhodes scholars have been
Science students. On the athletic side he
is a speedy runner.
“B.” William Harrison Story, the big
South Australian who left Labor to follow
Hughes, and was turned down at the recent
Federal elections, worked as a mason’s
laborer round Adelaide in his ’teens, and
eventually became a master-builder and con-
tractor. Then politics got him, and he is
sorry now he didn’t stick to a more reputable
business. At 65 he has to return to work-
arid a former partner in the building line
recently retired with a fortune. Though
Story first dipped into Labor organisation in
the ’eighties it was not until 1903 that he
was selected as a candidate. He was elected
to the Senate with Gregor McGregor and
Bob Guthrie, but in ’l7 res.gned to enter the
Reps, as member for Boothby, the district
that has just turned him down.
“Snell”: I remember a neat retort from
Alek Sass. It was at a banquet during the
American fleet visit, I think. Sass was
seated opposite an M.P. whom he had often
traduced in cartoons. Evidently the legisla-
tor took the caricatures in bad part. When
Sass was introduced to him across the table,-
the M.P. said: “Sass, eh? SASS. But
why the preliminary Sr” Sass looked up
from his place. “To distinguish me from
the politicians,” said he.
“Lorazzam”: Woodside, a little hills town-
ship in S. Aus., boasts rival publicans, one
of whom, Kelly, is organist at the Anglican
church, and the other, Lowen, lay-reader.
Both are abstainers, and neither has been
known to serve a man the worse for liquor.
“Wilfrido”: By the death of Rev. R. S.
Gray, at Wellington (M.L.), Cold Tea loses
one of its best men. Gray—born at Ballarat
(Vic.), in ISG3. and an accountant before he
took orders —was a genial cleric who
abhorred cant or any methods which were
not clean. He was president of the M.L.
Alliance for some years, and the chief execu-
tive officer of the Baptist Union. A facility
for repartee of the more intellectual kmd
placed him among the few prohib. orators
who could drink water and still dispel
gloom.
“Dido”: Billy Hughes is not the only
Hughes who can fall off a horse and get him-
self all broken up. The Hugheses are brother®
in adversity. Here is Canon Hughes, of
Melbourne, going one better than the bigger
gun, and falling off a neddy greatly to his
disfigurement and disadvantage. And the
Canon is used to the high horse. On one
occasion, when a young scoffer insisted on
invading his place of worship, and passing-
pagan criticism on the nroceedines. Hughes
set out to eject the intruder, and
finding resistance stronger than he had
anticipated was prone to turn the plump
hands usually raised in prayer into a pair
of heathen dukes. W’th these he smote
the ungodly hard and often, with the result
that it was a very gory young heretic who
spilled into the drain a moment later.
In the list of fancy-dress costumes worn
at a New Year ball at the Hotel lvoseuisko
appears the following:—
Mr. Piddington, K.C.: “Nero.”
And speaking at the declaration of the
North Sydney poll a week or two later, the
eminent jurist was credited with observing:
“Nero fiddles while the whole industrial
fabric is decaying and the principle of child
endowment remains unadapted.” Self-
reproach, or what?
“Thor”: H. A. Peterson, who recently
returned to Billy Hughes’s department in
Melbourne after three years at Australia
House, is a linguist who used to be in de-
mand as secretary to minor emissaries at
international confabs. He wound up by
piloting Jocook through the wire entangle-
ments at the League of Nations in Geneva.
In the case of at least one of his chiefs
Peterson had some terrible half-hours trying
to restrain the great man from delivering
himself of what he fondly regarded as French
orations. It’s even said he once locked the
intending offender in a bathroom until he
promised to stick to the only tongue he
knew.
Died at St. Kilda, Melbourne, Thomas
Watson, Anglican clergyman, aged 82—the
last of the four brothers Watson, of Young
(N.S.W.). The other three were big store-
keepers on Lambing Flat, and two of them,
William and James, represented the district
in Parliament for some years, James climb-
ing to a Colonial Treasurership and from
there to the Council. Dr. Watson, the
Historical Records compiler, is James’s
elder son; the other got a D.S.O. and M.C.
in the war. The fourth brother looked after
the milling business of the firm.
“Xox”: There were no better friends in
the late House of Reps, than the spruce
and .spatted Edmund Jowett and Michael
Considine, the ardent Bolshevik -who is now
trying to forget his defeat on an outer-
suburban poultry farm. Jowett was about
the only member of his party who could
listen patiently to Michael’s views on the
-capitalist class, and when the hirsute young
tribune defied the chair, it was always Jowett
who went over to soothe him into repent-
ance. Once, when a vote was taken to
suspend the obdurate Communist for the
remainder of the sitting, Jowett refused to
vote, and came into the Speaker’s gallery
whispering his assurance to all who could
hear that Considine was “quite a good sort
of chap, even though one couldn’t altogether
agree with his opinions.”
A busy life ended too soon when E. S.
Fraser died suddenly at Port Pirie (S.A.).
He was the son of an Auckland shipbuilder,
and was sent to Pirie in 1915 as chief
engineer to the Associated Smelters, which
had just taken over the local works from the
Broken Hill Prop. There he had the laying
out of a lot of money, including the restora-
tion on an improved and bigger scale of the
Dwight and Lloyd plant after the disastrous
fire. Latterly he had had charge of con-
struction work on the electrolytic side of the
industry, with visits to England and the
U.S.A. to see how things are done there.
Only 53 at the end.
L. D. SMITH. Australasian manager for
Buckanan[?].
“Tuggiong”; Since they were before the
public in big type, three of! the I.W.W. 12—
Beattie, Bob fiesant and Hamilton —have
found a nook where they are forgotten by
the wo'-hl. For a counie o(f years they have
been living at Norah Head (N.S.W.),' where
they have a red-roofed, scrim-walled hut
and an ancient tent, a tiny garden r»tch and
a wobbly boat, in which tttey go out to fish.
Their only neighbors witbin miles are Vin-
cent Rossetti (no kin of the pbet) and two
other Italian fishermen and their families
who use the same little cove, the lightketepers
and a boardinghouse on the point a mile or
so away. The evidence of Rossetti is that
the three “know noting about to catch ze
feesh,” but otherwise they are all right.
“Mr. Ocky” : R. A. Crouch, the Melbourne
solicitor, who unsuccessfully Contested Coran-
gamite (VicA on the Labor ticket, was once
M.P. for Corio, One of his speeches during
his campaign for re-election was marked by
a most bitter and sustained attack on the
press, his particular aversion being the Gee-
long Advertiser, at the proprietor and editor
of which he hurled somie extraordinary mal-
edictions. The paper having noted his lurid
remarks, closed down on him. In no cir-
cumstances was Crouch to be reported, nor
might so much as his name defile the ’Tiser
columns. The only exception was after poll-
ing day, when the sheet included him among
the slam. Even now. after the lapse of
years, Crouch finds it the Devil’s own job to
get a mention from Victoria’s oldest morn-
ing sheet.
The doyen of Australian field-surveyors,
J. S. Hosie. who, in his picturesque home at
Cremorne (Sydney), is climbing to his 90th
year, arrived in Australia with his parents
in 1841. He says he remembers the first
election for the first Parliament in 1842.
His early survey work was beyond the Blue
Mountains, and he remembers a stockade
at Sedwalls, where prisoners in irons were
working on the roads. Also, he has tales to
tell of Lambing Flat in the roaring days
when the diggers rolled up to bash the
Chinese.
“Harold HarduDp”: At the time of the
Prince’s visit Jack Grant, who has got back
to the Senate from N. S. Wales, scandalised
some of the legislators ivho had scrambled
into borrowed or hired glad rags for the levee
in Melbourne by turning up in his faniiliar
grey clothes. The Prince, however, seemed
rather to like the man who wouldn’t change
his coat for him, and Grant agreed that the
Prince was “a decent young fellow.” Grant
was secretary of the A.L.P. when it was
the P.L.L. and the salary for the job was
only £4 per week and wasn’t always forth-
coming. Although he is a poor speaker
with a . squeaky voice, his unpretentious
honesty is a big recommendation.
“B.”: The late Inclement Wragge once
tried his hand as a rainmaker. In the
Bananaland drought of 1898-1902 he selected
one of the driest spots in Central Queens-
land to demonstrate, by means of “smoke
rings,” how the dry spell could be broken.
Everyone that could turned out on the great
occasion. In due course the smoke rings
were sent up, but no rain came down. The
crowd made ribald remarks and some of it
heaved lumps of dirt at the eccentric
meteorologist. After that Wragge concluded
that forecasting droughts was more likely to
be successful than breaking them.
GREY EYES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When we were wed, eight years ago,
Small measure did she weigh,
A wisp of womanhood with slow,
Great, kindly eyes of grey.
The grey eye ,is a gentle eye
With love and gaiety hard by.
I had her in one arm to keep,
And slim her ankles were ;
But now her dimples are so deep
I take two arms to her.
My heart was full eight years ago,
’Tis wondrous how the heart will grow.
She conies to greet me at the gate,
Her full, warm lips are mine,
And now my love has gathered weight
I will not have her fine.
W 7 hen she was thin my love was such
I hated plumpness over-much.
As Grey Eyes has increased in grace.
More roundly flows each curve,
More roses bloom within her face,
More charm has she, more verve,
Eight years to-day we married be,
And still my darling grows on me!
VICTORIA.
E. D.


I
: .
■
m
m
i
mm
\ l, ; I
L
m
k
m
I
1
m
sc
sK
I
<jhe>
Road 'round tke
World
IT criss-crosses every continent.
And every section of it differs.
Yet there is a type of ‘United
States’ tyre that exactly fits every
possible road surface.
‘United States’ tyres have five dis-
tinct and different treads, which
appeal to Australasian motorists.
They are called: ‘Royal Cord/
‘Nobby,’ ‘Chain,’ ‘Usco,’and ‘Plain’.
They are made by the world’s
largest rubber manufacturer.
Royal Cord
Tyres.
StsßUc*
S4TEO
mm
m;
> -• > -
Are Good Tires
DISTRIBUTORS:—
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’SIA) LTD.,
53 YORK STREET, SYDNEY;
517 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE; 76 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., LTD., Adelaide
Street, Brisbane.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
F. W. HERITAGE & CO. PTY., LTD.
Hobart.
W. A. SORRELL, 165 Castlereagh Street
Sydney.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine and Accident.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Branch: 860-66 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual
Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australian Branch: 86 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Branch: 6 Bolton Street.
King GeorgelV
Aw nv M WHISKY
3*r>» <!&&
tHETOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
Smart!
Serviceable!
We should
sau so!
Whtj don’t
uottwear a
* -le
is
SHIRT?
MAKERS
\ ALEXANDER STEWART\
| AND SONS LTD
SVE
Mat®
BRISBANE
AMD
SYDNEY
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Pick”: In the way of animal patience
Abos. are invited to better the performance of Jim
Sloan’s old stock horse, Gohanna, at Injigoodby
(N.S.W.) last summer. Jim rode the old fellow to
his log-fencing job away in the mountains, hitched
him to a wattle twig in a shaded jungle, and then
proceeded with sapling felling far along the line.
Two days later Jindabyne cattle musterers found the
fencer with a broken leg jambed by a fallen tree;
but their search failed to locate the prad, and it
was decided that he had wandered away. Jim was
stretchered to civilisation and aid, and Gohanna was
left to look after himself. A week later a man
sent to collect the fencer’s kit found the nearly-
starved old galoot still hitched to the wattle twig
that he could have broken with one jerk of his head.
* * * *
“F.H.R.”; Re “S.S.” (B. 28/12/’22) on
the snake’s partiality for children. At Gurley
station (N.S.W.) last shearing a boy of four or
five told his mother “a long stick” bit him, and
pointed to the doorstep, where he had been play-
ing. When the father came home at night he
thought there might be something in it, and on
removing the step found and killed a black snake.
Investigation proved that the snake had bitten
the youngster on the forearm, but not bard enough
to break the skin. No ill-effects followed. As
someone remarked in the Abo. column recently, the
snake has to strike to puncture the skin and force
the venom into the punctures; so I think the boy
was playing with the snake and accidentally hurt it,
and was bitten as a gentle remonstrance but not
struck. Incidentally, it isn’t generally known that
a snake goes, apparently, groggy after biting any-
thing, has an inclination to keep near its victim
and can easily be killed. Does the act of striking
and the injection of its venom really leave it dopey,
or is its sluggishness just due to it banking on
the death of the thing it bites ending all argument?
*** # *
“Zabut”: You can’t beat a sheep-dog for
•'mis. The other dav & very busy lady dog, on
her way to the trucking-yard with a mob of lambs,
slipped into the Bank of N.S.W. at Mansfield (Vic.)
and had a litter of pups behind the counter.
» * » •
“The Deacon”: Re “Ned Kelly” on alba-
trosses attacking a swimmer (B. 28/12/’22). A
decade or so ago a fellow-passenger of mine on a
steamer between Maoriland and Sydney went mad
or something one afternoon, and, with a loud whoop
shot overboard. As the bad old practice of wedging
the engines to prevent vibration had been followed
the steamer couldn’t go astern, and had to circle.
A boat was lowered, but capsized on hitting the
water, and the interest at 6nce shifted from the daft
gentleman to the four men struggling in the sea
alongside. A fresh boat was got out, rescued the
first floundering crew, then set out for the originator
of the trouble, who, by this time, was swimming
with sanity and vigor in the direction of the ship.
Presently a big albatross was seen to swoop and the
man began to dive, coming up for air with# his
coat drawn up protectingly around his head. Soon
the whole flock attacked him, and when the boat
eventually reached him he was floating face down-
wards with his day’s work done.
**• * »
“Old Harry”: The appeal of “Jimmy
Trousers” (B. 14/12/’22) for a bush substitute for
soap wrings my heart. Let’s hope he has plenty of
hair-oil and tooth-paste on hand, or he might die.
But tell him to grease himself all over—that is, after
he has taken off his corset and bloomers—then stand
in the sun for a while, and the dirt apd other things
will peel off him like an old snake-skin, and he’ll
come out, or rather in, like a brand-new sovereign,
though I’ve almost forgotten what that looks like.
* * * #
“Key-string”: The tape used by “F.J.A.”
(B. 14/12/’22) when he measured two successive
bounds of a ’roo and records them as 41ft. 4in.
and 39ft. 6in. respectively, won’t pass the weights
and measures inspector. I have slain over 5000
alleged ’roos in my four years’ skin-getting, and,
incidentally, chased them in all sorts of country;
but if a ’roo can bound 41ft. 4in. arid follow it
up with 39ft. 6in., then I’ve never killed or even
seen one. My experience is that the ’roo is not
a good steeplechaser, and that whenever he makes
a long jump he invariably flounders badly on land-
ing, and frequently rolls clean over. I’ll stick to
“Pick” and “Boomerang” (B. 16/11/’22).
GIVING TRUE LOVE A SMOOTH RUN.
“Fancy that coot who worked for old Geebung clearing off with his daughter!”
“Serve Geebung right. 'E oughter known somethin' was on when the blankard
started greasin' the axles of the sulky.”
“Bullet”: Can any of the Abo. h.v. rifle
authorities say what would be the probable effect of
substituting a load of high-pressure powder and a
pointed bullet in place of the standard load in the .22
calibre long-rifle cartridge? Would the range and,
inu particular, the stopping power of the rifle be im-
proved, or would the rifling be injured? The barrel
and bolt have plenty of strength to stand the increased
charge. The factory-loaded cartridge has good pene-
tration on small game, i.e., rabbits and hares, up to
200 yards, but it lacks the punch to knock out even
these immediately (unless they are shot through
head or spine), let alone anything much bigger, such
as a fox. And is any reloading tool obtainable to
do the crimping of the case round the bullet?
» * * «
“George Rich”: Hunting brush-kangaroos
with dogs is now a pastime of yesterday in the
Gordon River district (W.A.). Simon Smith, a
quarter-caste, by running down the fleety miniature
’roos on foot, has initiated a new mode. Recently
Smith gave a demonstration, and in four runs made
three kills. Any Abo. got a tame “Postle” roaming
their run who can match Smith’s feat?
* * * •
“McJ.”: Well, if a pig, having swallowed
a bucket of milk, can get into the bucket, as
“C.R.D.” says (B. 14/12/’22), then how is it that
a snake can get into a chicken-coop, and. after
swallowing a chicken, can't get out?
PROOF PRESUMPTIVE .
“I saw that little widow-friend of yours with
a gentleman last night.”
“With a gentleman! Tush! Rot! Impos-
sible! She teas with ME.”
“The Wanderer”: The other morning I
watched a pitched battle between about half-a-dozen
wagtails and a kookaburra—a peewit being in the
same tree at the time, and periodically taking a
hand against Jack, who was evidently too near a
nest belonging to some of the birds concerned. The
wagtails attacked the old chap from all quarters, but
he sat tight on a limb and his big beak clapped
every time a wagtail made a chaa'ge. The, assault
lasted some minutes, Jack appearing to just miss
the attacking birds each time. At last he snapped
a wagtail, and immediately flew -off with it, like a
hawk with a chicken. The ot.hfcrs, including the
peewit, set off in hot pursuit, but it’s safe to say
that John dined off that wagtail. Apparently the
jackass will burgle the nests of small birds, and
make a meal off the youngsters. Can anj r other
Abo. throw light on this matter?
* * * *
“Chris”: Talking of the weight of a pig.
Maoriland has an entry for the world’s champion-
ship. “Billy,” a Tamworth-Berkshire, bred in
Amberley, Christchurch, two years ago, holds down
the scales at 10581 b. His length is Bft. 3in., height
3ft. 9in. and girth 6ft. 9in. “Billy,” who is as lively
as a kitten, despite his enormous size, is said to
be some 2501 b. heavier than the world's previous
best, and he is still visibly filling out!
“Dr. Nil” defends a lady:—
As an old member of the Binji-Binji branch of
the Abo. Association, I must protest against Zora
Cross’s terrible and unjust indictment of Australian
December in her verses of 7/12/*22. I have known
December intimately at regular intervals for many,
many years, and I never heard of the death
of her husband, nor even that she was married. But
let that pass. At present she is staying in the same
township as myself, and I can assure Zora Cross
that she is as cool as a cucumber- —the tempera-
ture in the back verandah is exactly 70 deg. Fahr.
—a lively breeze is blowing from the south, the
sky is overcast and the honey-birds are warbling
ecstatically in the sandal-woods. So far from lean-
ing a thin and fevered hand upon a skinny cheek,
she is smiling and waving plump lingers at us like
any schoolgirl home for the holidays. Catch her
allowing stark Summer to suck the muddy creek—
even if there were one, which there is not. And as
to harsh kookaburras passing her in a band, what
a spiteful thing to say about our hilarious friends!
Again, I am sure December would never allow pee-
wits to shriek. January or February might permit
it, though, personally, I’ve never heard them do
it. And in the second verse, how Zora Cross reviles
poor November —though here there appears to have
crept in an anachronism, because November must
be dead before December can be born. Also, de,
inortuis, etc. Lastly, doesn’t Zora Cross think that
as good Australians we might leave these likenings
of our glorious climate to that of Gehenna to such
as Geo. Lansbury, of the London Herald, who
couldn’t stand our country on account of the “ser-
pents” and “the howling of the jackasses”?
(Continued on page 24.)
RUBY’S RETURN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A drab and dreary life it was—to those who passed
it by—
Out there amidst the mulga scrub, under the desert
sky.
Ruby, the barmaid, hated it, as only girls can hate—
Hated old Piker most of all —the spider who would
wait.
The dark-tanned drovers, now and then, when seasons
went awry,
Whispered with her and drank to her (don’t ask
me how, or why).
Good chaps were they in distant lands before the
tents of Shern
Lured them out West —but oh! those tents!—has
one made count of them?
The barmaid knew them one and all, those drovers
on the track
That runs in seeming endlessness through all the
Great Outback.
And, knowing them, each Bill and Jim, and some
who’d left their name
At home, she loathed them one and all—she loathed
them all the same.
And swagmen, too. Not all were down and out;
for more than one
Had those old English hopes that cheer the exiled
younger son
She heard their hopes impatiently, those hopes of
future gold—
And loathed the tellers of the tales and loathed the
tales they told.
NATURE'S WONDERS.
WILLIE WOOP: “ Gripes , dad , look at that
spotted gum-tree eating the stringy-
baric!”
And squatters from the east and west, and from the
north and south,
Made love to her —to her blue eyes—her rosy cheeks
—her mouth.
And to her ample bosom, too —that most of all —
ah well!
For like the waves of breeze-blown seas it softly
rose and fell.
But did she glance the lights of love into those
squatters’ eyes ?
And did she voice glad welcomings, and weeping- wet
good-byes ?
Ah, no; she seldom spoke a word. The undisguised
disdain
That filled her glance most plainly said, “Your
hopes are all in vain!”
And jackeroos from England came, with eyeglass,
“hum” and “haw.”
These Johnnies fixed her with a glance. Their own
reward they saw
For coming out so far from Home, and suffering
so much —
(Oh! she was good to look upon, to speak to —and
to touch !)
She knew those jackeroos; she knew just what their
longings were;
She knew the codes of Piker’s Pub, but, knowing,
did she care?
Ah, yes! The insult keenly felt, she hated all their
ways—
Impatient with their compliments—disgusted with
their praise.
Yes, Ruby hated all of it; and, hating all, she
went
By coach one midnight from the scene of her great
discontent.
Yes, went to Sydney, eastward-ho, with all its false
and fine—
Its white ways, and its wickedness —its women,
and its wine.
And did she stay in Sydney long—-afar from Piker’s
Pub?
Yes, did she stay?—ah, did she stay?—philosophers,
the rub!
Well no; she swore a silent swear in penitence and
pain....
And packed her ports and westward went —to Piker’s
Pub again!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


cvbn
vS^WtSrM
/
//t
%
%
%
7
MiK
\
<r>
rv
Vi.
1
0
jp?
#
m /'
§iipi»
/ /
m
w \
1
m
\
ig
\. o->
fvN
X s -
Shi
%
THE I92MORIZON
The Two Most Successful Cars of 1922.
The "HUDSON” and "ESSEX” are indisputably the cars that can justly lay claim to the
above title, thereby placing them in the van position in the march of Automobile Progress.
Each car is the absolute leader in its class, a triumph that has been gained by years of steady
progress, during which the “HUDSON’* and “ESSEX” never looked back, but forged
ahead to their ultimate goal.
This priceless position has been secured through the sheer merit of the cars themselves.
To-day, “HUDSON” and “ESSEX” cars are being sold to the public in quantities never
before approached in this country; quantities that are increasing daily with such rapidity
that Australia’s Automobile outlook for 1923 is one vast panorama of “HUDSON” and
“ESSEX” cars and satisfied owners.
AUSTRALIA’S AUTOMOBILE OUTLOOK.
Dalgety & Company Ltd.,
136 Phillip Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Neals’ Motors Pty., Ltd.,
58-60 Collins Place,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Motors. Limited,
26 Flinders Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
The Victorian
1922 Alpine Trial:
AN ESSEX
TRIUMPH.
C 3?
m
©h
*
■■r.
A
m
i
%s
n
8
//
“Public opinion never fails,and it has endorsed
the HUDSON and ESSEX
HUDSOM
SUPER
SIX. 4!
Motorcars, Limited,
93-105 George Street,
Brisbane, Q’land.
Johnston, Bradley &
Williams,
41-45 Pier Street,
Perth, W.A.
H. C. Heathorn, Ltd.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
The Sydney-
Melboume Record,
December:
AN ESSEX
TRIUMPH.


THE PERFECT COMBINATION.
WARATAH
MOTOR.
SPIRIT
A CLEAN, EASY-STARTING, ULTRA-POWERFUL SPIRIT,
and
NEPTUNE
MOTOR
OIL
Prepared in Different Grades to Suit Varying Types of Engines.
NEPTUNE OIL CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Port Adelaide, North Fremantle.
Queensland Agents: J. KITCHEN & SONS PTY., LTD., Brisbane.
V
a;*'
'
Homr looKing at You"
ABBOTS
LAGER
The B<?qk
without a Rival
BREWED FROM
PURE MALT
AND HOPS ONLY
“Flicker”: My friend Bill, who had come
down from a northern station lor the New Year, sit
on the verandah and eyed The Bulletin I was
reading. An expression of dislike gathered on ids
face. “Is there anything in this week from that
blankard that told us how to shift bogged cattle?”
he demanded. “I’d like to meet him ; makin’ a man
make a fool of himself.” X pushed refreshments
towards Bill, and begged for details. Bill absorbed
a long one, and explained. “There's a hole about
half-a-mile from the house, and a couple of days
after I read that par. up comes a boy and says
Jenny, the wife’s pet cow, is lying in the mud
there and won’t get up. Well, ail the boys are
away somewhere except the one that brings the'
news, and as there’s a belt of trees between the
house and the hole, I thinks I’ll give this new
stunt a fly. I reckoned Jenny, being a pet cow,
would make it pretty right. Well, I goes down,
strips to the buff, as the bloke says, and wades in.
But I’m not tickling Jenny’s nose for more than
20 secs, before she gets up. Yes, she gets up all
right—and if I hadn’t side-stepped quick and lively
I’d be wearin’ a wooden suit now. 1 gets to the
level ground about half-an-inch in front of Jenny,
and makes towards home. My first idea is to climb
a tree, but Jenny keeps too close; then I try to
make the men’s quarters—but no chance. Then
1 finds that some blanky fool has left every gate
open, and that dam’ cow chases me right up to the
verandah, where the wife is entertainin’ her two
sisters from town. Did they laugh? ’Strewth, are
they ever goin’ to stop ? It’s a sure way to get a
beast up all right; but for mine they can stay-
down till they rot —unless someone else tries it.”
SOBRIETY GUARANTEED.
“But I’m afraid you are not suitable. I told them to send me
a total abstainer.”
“I’m the next best thing, lady.—yer can’t make me drunk.”
“Askeaton”: You can’t beat some dairy-
farmers when it comes to a helping hand. I was
on a place in Kangaroo Valley (N.S.W.) in the
holidays, and none of the farm-hands turned up on
Christmas morning to bail up Strawberry and co.
Feeling a bit anxious, though in no way respon-
sible, I called on the nearest dairy-farmer and ex-
plained the position to him. He had just finished
milking his own herd. “All right,” he said, “when
we’ve had a cup o’ tea we’ll hop over.” Soon after
three men in a sulky and two girls on horseback had
landed on the premises, and in a jiff were extracting
the juice from the cow as if they loved the work.
“Ned Kelly” : Johnson, who owned a God-
forgotten selection, advertised for a wife in Sydney,
and got one; but the silence and hard work were
too much for her, and after three months she van-
ished. Johnson and the neighbors, thinking she’d
wandered into the bush, left their ploughs for a
whole week and vainly searched for her. Johnson
felt her loss keenly, and for the next three years
spent every Sunday afternoon wandering far and
RUBEING IT IN.
CABBY : “ ’Ere, mister, try this.”
wide in the bush. Then a young relation came to
visit him and told him the vanished wife was living
in Sydney with a man who had done some scrub-
cutting in the district three years before. The blow
seemed to stun Johnson, who sat with his head
bowed, unable to speak. The relation, wishing he
had held his tongue, began to express his sympathy,
and wound up by saying it was foolish to grieve over
a woman who clearly wasn’t worth a thought. “It
ain’t her livin’ with th’ other bloke that’s worrying
me,” replied Johnson solemnly. “It’s what I’ll do
now on Sunday afternoons. I alwus went lookin’ for
bones of a Sunday.”
“Parama”: The trouble experienced by
“D. Jay” (B. 7/12/’22) and others with cock-
roaches on their luggers
and gutters is largely due
to the condition of those
vessels. I know the
Torres Strait conditions,
to my sorrow, and, ’fore
and aft, every boat up
there is filthy. Native
crews don’t appreciate
cleanliness, and the per-
functory slopping of a few
buckets of sea water over
the deck once a day—•
more than most of them
get, by the way—-doesn’t
go far. Have your lugger
cleared of the pests by
cyanide, as “D. Jay” says,
but if you have the vessel
cleaned as well, and kept
clean, you need not fear
anchoring alongside any
dirty lugger. Cockroaches
dislike light, and where
clean whitewash is used
there is little risk of their
forming colonies. I’ve
used the following with
success: Sgab. of white-
wash ready for use, 21b.
of tallow or other fat,
21b. of salt, sufficient lime
in the slacking stage. Put
the lot into a beche-de-
mcr boiler and boil gently
to thoroughly incorporate
the fat with the whitewash
mixture. A little care and
judgment will show the
necessary consistency for
smooth and rough sur-
faces. Properly put on
this will not rub off,
especially from smooth
surfaces. The cockroaches
might get on the lugger
—they’re good fliers —but
finding a clean vessel they’d move off again to
something more to their taste.
“Sir Spen”: My belief that mopokes were
not ground-roosters was shattered on a blazing hot
day last week. In an open-faced hollow of a tree-
trunk I saw three full-grown mopokes squatting on
the ground. They didn’t get flurried when I ap-
proached to within a few feet for closer inspection,
but merely stared vacantly with half-shut eyes. It
certainly looked much cooler in the little shady
chamber than in the branches above; but who ever
heard of mopokes roosting on the ground before?
“Jim Carew”: In spite of what “Alkaloid”
(B. 28/12/’22) says, I maintain that the kookaburra
has a strong sense of smell. At Sackville Reach
(N.S.W.), recently, our meat, ordered fresh from
Sydney, went astray, and arrived, making a good
deal of itself, three days late. The boatman put it
in an empty fruit-case on the wharf and closed the
lid. When we went for it, about two hours later,
our two tame jackasses were perched on top of the
case eagerly waiting for us to open it. The meat
was in a sugar-bag, and the ease was so closed that
none of the bag even was visible; so, unless the
jacks are gifted with X-ray eyes, they had no hope
of seeing it.
* * # *
“Colub”: Somebody was pulling “O.N.'s”
leg (B. 7/12/’22) with that yarn of a man
being poisoned through a drop of snake-
venom touching his eye. Any quantity of
venom is perfectly harmless so long as
it doesn’t get into the blood stream, which carries
it to the particular centres that it affects, and one
could drink a cupful without any untoward happen-
ing taking place. Nor would there be a possibility
of absorption occurring through the tissues of the
eye, for the chances are that the tears that would
be produced by its presence would bring about a
chemical neutralisation of the venom, so that it would
be rendered comparatively innocuous.
* * * *
“Dinkhi Dhi” : I can’t say about the horse
logic of the Pitt-street stockmen at which “Mur-
ranji” tilts (B. 14/12/’22), but I do know' a Pitt
street Digger who “put some of it over” at Bailleul.
“Long’un,” of the sth Artillery Brigade, wanted to
see his best girl in a neighboring village so badly
that he lifted a prad from the nearby Woodbine lines
for the purpose. All went well till the ardent one
bumped an astonished Tommy officer, who wanted
to know what he was doing on his charger. “Gam.”
bluffed the rider, “wot makes yer think he’s yours ?’’
“I know him by his w T all eye,” insisted the owner.
“But, has your neddy got a gold-filled tooth?” de-
manded “Long’un.” “No-o,” replied the nonplussed
officer. “Well, then, he ain’t yours, ’cause this one
has,” retorted the Digger as lie headed for the
horizon.
* * * *
“Talyeale”: Now that “Azac” (B.
2S/12/’22) has uprooted the hatchet and cast doubts
upon the statement of J. H. Maiden, Government
Botanist, that the Moreton Bay fig is a good fodder
plant, let him go west to Nyngan (N.S.W.) and cui
a bit of scrub for Strawberry off the big Moreton Bny-
at Colane station. 1 have seen horses and cattle
gorging themselves on the leaves —even in preference
to the succulent old boot mentioned by “Azac.”
“Prof.”: “Parama” (B. 2S/12/’22) asks
bow the breadfruit-tree is propagated. All varieties
are not seedless. In many of the Pacific islands the
kind which produces seeds is the only one encoun-
tered; but in Fiji, Samoa, etc., the other sort pre-
vails. The latter is most easily propagated from the
suckers which spring from the roots some distance
from the tree's trunk, and grow readily when trans-
planted. The seedless variety of breadfruit is un-
doubtedly the better one, though the other is not
to be despised in spite of the numerous seeds which
surround the central core. These, after removal
from the boiled or baked fruit, are eaten like chest-
nuts, which they strongly resemble in flavor.
* * * *
“Long ’Un”: The claim of “20865” (B.
21/12/’22) for the droving record on behalf of two
men who started out with two bulls and lost one,
has no hope. Me and Nugget got a job to deliver
eight (8) ewes late one Saturday night. Nugget
had a few in, and I wasn’t altogether empty. We
lost eight (8) ewes and ourselves two pubs from
the railway where we took delivery. We were fined
ss. each on Monday morning; and the cocky two
miles out to whom we were to have delivered the
ewes wouldn’t even pay our fines. Nugget says
“Cookies is mean” —and I’m not arguing with him.
h S-S. ’ (B 28/12/ ’22) knows a bit
when he says snakes have a partiality for children
particularly the smaller kiddies. Some years ago.
on a Bananaland station, where X was jackerooing,
the wife of a boundary-rider presented him with a
little girl, who was left to coo and kick on pillows
under a shady tree without even a fig-leaf to hide
her nakedness. One day a carpet-snake—-17ft. of
him -happened along and took a violent fancy to
the nipper. \\ hen, later, the mother came to attend
to her offspring, she found that the snake had
slimed the infant as a preliminary to swallowing her.
ty * * »
X2X”: Some time ago a N. Queensland
botanist friend showed me a small plant belonging
to the order of Solanavea (to which family the Nux
Vomiqa, or strychnine, plant also belongs) that he
had found in the scrub near Cooktown. The speci-
men was one of a kind certainly not indigenous to
Australia, and, as far as X have been able to find
out, there is n 0 record of it ever having been found
in this country before, it being a native of South
America. As there were a number of fair-sized
clumps of it, and as the possibility of anybody
having planted it there can be excluded, it looks
as though the seeds had reached Australia with
migrating birds. Does anybody else know of a
similar occurrence ?
“Tauwarra” : I once sat in a poker game
at “Billy the Cook’s” in Samarai (Papua), with a
crowd of diggers from the Lakekamu. One player
had a disastrous run; then, towards the end of the
session, he was dealt four tens pat. He went the
limit--and lost. “Corblime! yer stiff,” growled
the winner, as he raked in the chips, “if yer was the
Archangel Gabriel flyin’ round lookin’ fer a perch
some silly cow'd shoot yer fer a crow.”
* * * *
An argumentative gang
~P„ ig ” : Re “ Jim Carew’s” query
(B. 30/ 11/ 22) as to whether the greater
strain is on the front or back legs of a
horse when pulling. I hold that at the
start of a pull the strain is on all legs equally;
then, as the load shifts, the strain equally is on
one hind-leg and the opposite fore-leg. 1 have
also questioned six different teamsters who bring
our grub, and each one’s opinion coincides with
mine.
“Picko”: The prad pushes himself, and the big
proportion of that push comes from the hind-legs.
“Dr. Nil” (B. 21/12/’22) has the idea O.K. The
liiud-legs propel, the fore-legs are used somewnat
in the nature of a fulcrum. In a dead pull the hind-
quarters are spread, the legs strained to meet the
weight. On the other hand, if the pull is steady,
the fore-legs are set so as to cause a balancer—r.o
push in them ; they are there just to take the strain
of the fore-part of the body. The horse, pushing
with his hind-legs, upsets the balance by pushing
himself (literally) over the top of his front-legs.
In a scrambling pull, where the prad “toes in,”
“kneels to it,” or “pushes himself off the ground,”
the pulling power of all that toeing, kneeling or
rearing is nix compared to the shoving power of
the rear end. The hind-legs don’t scramble or paw
about. They are there for business. We’ve all
seen horses lift their front-legs off the ground in
a frantic, starting pull. Have you ever seen a
horse pull himself off his hind legs ? No! —and
that proves it.
“Toiler”: A horse when pulling has the bulk
of his weight on his front-legs. I’ve closely watched
dozens, and in every case of very heavy going the
hind-legs leave the ground, and the neddy swings
round on his front-legs.
“Fleming” : Watch a moke pulling in soft ground.
He sinks quicker and deeper for’ard than he does
aft.
“Spenner”: I’ve just had a practical demonstration
proving that the hind-legs bear the brunt of the
strain. A four-horse wool team pulled to the side of
the road to camp, and during the night over an
inch of rain fell, so that in the morning it took a
stiff pull to get back on to the metal. With “Jim”
Carew’s” par. in mind, I examined the tracks in
the soft ground. In every case the hind-feet had
bitten in 2in., or morn, deeper than the front.
Q.E.D.
“Hawker”: Any expert that wants a prad that
will 'pull looks at his chest —I'.e., the width between
his fore-legs at the top—and the wider it is the
THE OIL.
PUNTER: “What’s doing, Bill? ’ Ow’s she
labelled?”
BILL : “ With care. Use no hooks.”
better. The moke I have now, fore-legs set wide
and rather light in the hind-quarters, will pull loads
up hills that bigger horses jib at. As far as I can
judge he does most of his pulling with the front
extremities; and yet—he wears out there pairs of
hind shoes, steel-tipped, to two fore pairs. I admit
that this information throws a flood of darkness on
the problem ; but there it is.
SECRET WATERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 know of secret waters
Skimmed o'er by happy swallows,
With teal upon their bosom,
And tlie blue cranes in their shallows.
There sleeps the drowsy noontide,
And there the white moon glasses
Her face in pool and channel
Among the brown swamp-grasses,
There glowing brush-flowers redden.
And there, by grass-trees rooty,
Reed-warblers, shyly warbling,
Lend music’s aid to beauty.
There comes the kookaburra,
And, laughing long, arouses
To sudden life the lizard
That, bronzed and gleaming, drowses.
I keep my secret sacred,
And ne’er a fowler slaughters
The wild-fowl, floating, sleeping.
Upon those secret waters.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


STONEWALL SHOES
\fi% QA The Dependable Boots,
liVa «V i suitable for heavy work
or street wear. They are made from
Selected Box Hide, Waxed Stitched
and reinforced at every necessary
point. Have three-decker soles,
clumped with Genuine Stonehide
Leather. Made in broad and medium
lasts. The Stonehide Sole, with which
they are clumped, is of picked heavy
leather tanned through and through
with a resistance the quality of which
is not excelled by any known process.
Plain Toe or Toe-capped, 23/6.
N.S.W. Postage, 1/3; Interstate, 2/2.
Same Boot in Tan, 24/6, plus Postage.
Same Boot for the Boy, Toe-cap: 10
to 13, 15/11; 1 to 4, 18/6; 5, 21/6.
. Postage 1/- extra.
State Your Size and Wire or Write for a
Pair by V.P. Post to
JACKSON’S LTD., SYDNEY.
Ask for our New Free Catalogue.
MMITED
(STONEWALL STORES)
380-82 Pitt Street,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
DO YOUR SHOPPING
IN BLOCK 14.
■
S
m
gas?
“T®TH E* STO N E HID r 5
CLUMP SOLE
Hie Stonewall Clump Sole Boot.
L B 1. Silver-plated
Shaving Mug and
Brush.
Usually, 14/6.
SALE, 12/6 each.
Silver
LB2. —Gent.’s Sterling
Hair Brush.
Usually 42/6.
SALE, 30/- each.
(Post Free in N.S.W.)
s
mm
.
LB3.—Gent.’s Reliable Time-
keeper, 15-jewelled lever movement, -of
high-grade quality, compensation balance.
Fitted in a Demi-Hunting Oxidised Steel,
plain case. Warranted for two years.
SPECIAL SALE PRICE, 40/6.
Post Free.
“All for Men,
and for All Men.
Some Price Cuts at
Lassetter’s Sale.
Lower Prices for Quality Mercery.
Post Free all over Australia.
Men’s Natural Wool and Cotton
Underwear. —“Woolvove” Summer
Weight UNDERSHIRTS, Half Sleeves.
Assorted smart stripes. Small Men’s size
only.
Usually, 15/6 to 19/6.
ONE SALE PRICE, 12/6.
Plain and Twill Cotton Pyjamas,
neat stripes, 34in. to 44in.
Usually, 14/6.
SALE, 11/6.
English All-wool Black Cashmere
Sox, 10in. to ll^in.
Usually 3/6.
SALE, 2/6 pair.
“Duro” Cambric Golf Shirts, with-
out collars. Neat Colored Stripes. Sizes:
14, 154, 16, inches.
Usually, 7/11.
SALE, 5/6.
Fancy Colored Broadway Ties.
Assorted designs and colorings.
Usually, 2/0.
SALE, 1/6 each.
Fine Oxford Golf Shirts, without col-
lars. Neat colored stripes, strong make.
Usually, 9/6.
SALE, 7/11.
Fine Zephyr Golf Shirts, collar to
match. Neat stripes.
Usually, 10/6.
SALE, 8/11.
LB6.—Best Quality Cattle Knife, stag handle, 1 skinnin
blade, 1 cutting blade, 1 sheep-foot blade.
Usually, 11/6. SALE, 9/6 each.
(Post Free in N.S.W.)
F. Lassetter & Co. Limited
George Street, Sydney.
LB4.—Coates’ “B a y
State” Ball-Bearing
Hair Clippers, with two
Extra combs.
Usually, 307-
SALE, 17/0.
(Post Free in N. S. Wales.)
/
N
KMSSETTFR &OT.UD,
SYDNEY
V
LBs.—Gent.’s Pocket Piece
Watch. Solid sterling silver (open
face) case, fitted with a crystal. A 15-
jewelled lever movement, compensation
balance. Warranted for two years.
SPECIAL SALE PRICE, 31/6.
Post Free.


dfghj
CIMRLES
HEIDSIECKS
Vintage 1911
CHINE
HE PLUS DLTRfI
PELLiSSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
sdfg
FINEST DIAMOND & PLATINUM RINGS.
The Company has a comprehensive selection op Diamond and Gem-set
Rings in the newest ideas. Inspection is invited.
sdf
Goods forwarded on approval.
Diamond Octagon
Cluster Ring,
mounted in
Platinum,
£67 10 0
Fancy Single-stone
Diamond Ring
mounted in
Platinum,
£155 0 0
Other designs in
Single-stone Dia-
mond Rings from
£l6 10 0
Full particulars sent on
application.
Diamond Two-stone
Ring, mounted in
Platinum,
£V,S 0 0
WILLIAM FARMER &C° LT D
Jewellers, Gem Merchants .Silversmiths
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
Chateau Napier,
Leading
Mountain Resort,
Leura, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Central Heating System
Throughout.
BALLROOM, BILLIARD-
ROOM, TENNIS COURT,
GARAGES.
All products from Napier Farm.
Tel. 121 Ivatoomba.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
soaps
Powders
The ball on the Jules Michelet was the
final rocket in the French social pyrotech-
nics last week. For it, the ship was picked
out in electrics, and the flaunting illuminated
tricolor and the cordial-eyed “Welcome”
above the gangway’s doormat cheered the
hearts of even those who had to face the
perils of the deep in the roughly-planked
barges. “God help the chaperons!” one
pious youth from Adelaide remarked, but
in Sydney the traditional chaperon is a
non-existent quantity. Here the lady who
used to be of mellow vintage is generally
slim of hip, rosy of cheek and never with-
out partners, even though her own daughters
mav show symptoms of becoming chronic
wallflowers. The decks of these French
boats are covered with some dull red
substance, and this was polished till it
shone like the corridor of a hospital. The
sides of the ship were closed in by the allied
bunting; every bit of brasswork glittered,
and by half-past 8, when the Admiral
arrived with the Mclvor Edwards couple,
who had been dining him on the Melbourne,
the quarter-deck was as congested as a
football scrum. What with the crowds and
the “kitchen utensils,” as one profane youth
who had stubbed his toe, called the copper
excrescences that litter the landscape of a
battleship, the dancing-girl and boy were
relieved to discover the higher deck behind
the band, where there was room to shift
their feet. The Admiral, after the official
hand-shnk’ng, took a ’busman’s holiday and
went off for a little harbor cruise, attended
by a squad of fair women and brave men.
They got back in time to snatch a bite of
supper in some inner retreat.
Black, glittering like the armor of Re-
becca’s knight, seemed the popular wear.
The Consular Campana lady chose if, as did
Mrs. Playoust, who came with her quiver-
ful of daughters. Mrs. Nelson Clover vacil-
lated about the waistline, and the result
was a swathing of bright color. Mrs. George
Vivers displayed a turquoise blue-and-silver
dress, whose ankle-length skirt was a petalled
and ruffled thing cuddling into a swathed
bodice that gave the effect of a calyx of
silver tissue. Mrs. Ernest Watt wore a
striking silk and fur wrap over her black
frock. Eugenie Moreau and the Vice-Con-
sular Turck lady, from Melbourne, were
other black frockers, and Beatr ce Kelly was
inside something that looked like a green
ribbon trellis, through which a riot of rose-
buds gambolled. Charlie Oakes came with
his daughter, and all the Australian Navy
that wasn’t at Goulburn for the Tirranna
races turned up to a man. Edith Hill wore
black lace and pearls, and film-star Ruby
Miller was a glitter of Chinese embroideries
that might have been worn by a Mancliu
lady of the highest degree. Among countless
noticeable young things were Argie Mitchel',
Henriette Segaert, whose ninon frock was
the color of a pink rosebud ; golden-haired
Eileen O’Brien, from Adelaide, glittering in
blue and silver; and brown-eyed Mollie
Dingle, in black and gold.
The young French visitor was not always
quite so unsophisticated as he seemed. One
of him who had suffered a somewhat over-
whelming hostess even beyond his elastic
endurance, and had finally escaped from her
mellow’ charms to a younger partner, mur-
mured with an expressive little lift of the
shoulders and a quizzical glance at his former
captor’s determinedly youthful appearance:
“Ah, Australia’s Sarah Bernhardt!” An-
other slim white-coated youth was fright-
fully bogged in his dinner partner’s conver-
sation. The lady, who prides herself on her
linguistic attainments, was pouring a flood
of truly marvellous French over the young
man. He looked at her inquiringly, per-
plexedly, then he exclaimed brightly: “Ah,
madame, English and French I spik, but
what is zis?”
The Bible hath it that some shall be chosen
and others left; and Helene Esserman, being
of the Chosen, is off to England to cultivate
one of the myriad voices v'hich Melba
admired. Sydney Jewry, ever lavish wfflere
worthy Jews are concerned, put up the
necessary cash. As the young artist really
is well equipped vocally, and packs in her
port all sorts of introductions given her by
Melba, she stands a good chance of doing wmll.
From one of the Bodington boys:—
What a wonderful mystery is woman! We here
are a poor lot of T.B. crocks, many of us under sen-
tence of death; yet the other day one of the finest
of our nursing sisters married one of us, a good
chap but without money, whose life can be saved
only by a miracle and who can do no work worth
mentioning, and requires hard nursing. Of course
they shouldn’t have done it; but —well, thank God
that women are made like that!
And while I’m on the firing-step may I carry on
and say that we had a good Christmas, thanks to
the Red Cross and many other people and in spite of
the bush-fires that twice threatened to lick us out
of existence? Our chef really deserves a special
word. We are not always an easy mob to handle;
but there is nothing that is toq much trouble for
him to do for us, and after Christmas dinner we
paraded our Old Man and told him a few of the
things we think about him.
The Stork has left a daughter with Dr.
and Mrs. Duhig, of Brisbane. Mrs. Duhig
was the pretty eldest daughter of J. M.
Taylor, the Sydney solicitor, who was at
one time a member of the N.S.W. Public
Service Board. The Archbishop of Bris-
bane (the youngest archbish. in Australia,
by the way), who is an uncle of the proud
new father, married the young couple, and
will now baptise the infant.
A little scene at the farewelling of the
Scout wolves and cubs is etched on the
brain of one Central Railway porter. Just
as the 920 small warriors were getting
aboard the train, one old dear, who was call-
ing a List injunction to little “Johnnie” to
be sure to wire as soon as he got there,
found herself suddenly hoisted a foot or two
from the platform-level, and a sweating,
swearing and scandalised porter found his
trolley had become intimately entangled in
the base of the lady’s corsets. Fortunately
it was a flank attack ; and the 920 goggle-
eyed youngsters, being perfect Scouts, closed
their eyes and turned their heads while the
lady unhitched Tierself.
Another Tirranna has come and gone. In
the main it did not differ from any of its
predecessors. The same local people had
house-parties—Chisholms, Gibsons, De Lau-
rets —and there Were the same events called,
mostly, after well-known stations round
about Goulburn. There was the same old
ball. There were even some riders, such as
W. E. Manning, who have been tear-
ing across the downs over which the
course runs, aboard every type of horse
from grass-fedder to Cup favorite, for the
past quarter of a century. But Tirranna,
like Bong Bong, grows steadily less countri-
fied, more metropolitan. »* It partakes some-
thing of the personality of George Lambert,
who, of course, was there, and of whom that
cheery wit, Bill Kelly, observed that “in
town he suggested a horsey and even some-
what bucolic character, but in the country
he appeared the man-about-town.” Among
the representatives of the many families
present which are better known in Castle-
reagh-street than on the southern tableland,
were Knoxes, Fullers, Onslows, Garvans,
Stephens, Allens, Falkiners and Thorn-
thwaites. As this page goes to press Bong
Bong is proceeding. It has been defined as
Tirranna with imported instead of local
champagne.
Herewith Margaret Bruce, who is on a
flying trip to Australia before taking up a
five years’ engage-
ment with Ranelli,
who has just formed
a grand opera co. to
tour in America and
on the Continent.
She will be the only
English girl in the
co., and she says
she owes the chance
to Sydney’s old
friend Mavrogor-
dato, who used to
teach at the Conser-
vatorium (where he
launched Dorothy
Hehnrich), and is
now some pumpkins
in London. Mar-
garet and Dorothy
both attribute the
fact of their never
lacking a singing job, even during the slump,
to his tuition. The lady in the Mon:e Luke
picture above says that her financial suc-
cess is due to the fact that she has never
aspired to fill either the Albert or Queen’s
Halls. She has been satisfied with Society
entertaining (grand opera to her own accom-
paniment is her trump card), the Sunday
League concerts, and the provinces—and she
can cross her heart and say: “Never out of
an engagement since I started, over two
years ago.” She first hit the musical-agency
bull’s-eye with “Song Pictures” done in com-
pany with Enid Grossmith, George’s
daughter. Enid supplied the picture, and
Margaret poured out the song. Last year
she sang at the Australia luncheon at* the
Cecil, and chose Arthur Adams’s prize Aus-
tralian Anthem. It apparentlv went well,
because the Duke of York not only applauded
vigorously with a spoon-handle, but after-
wards murmured a cheering word or two to
the singer.
The Selznick people struck a new note in
publicity last week when they filled the ball-
room of the Wentworth with guests to see
Conway Tearle and Elaine Hammerstein
live -jOne Week of Love” on the big sheet at
the top of the room. There were literally
hundreds of men and women seated about
the supper-tables, and as supper and jazz
were chucked in, dancing Sydney had a
bargain-sale night out. The movie opens on
a wonderful water-party with everybody in
strike-the-eye bathing suits; and something
quickly flashed on and off that might be
Aphrodite rising from the w r aves, or a lady
advertising fit-the-skin woollen underwear.
Jimmy Osborne’s only son has won a
Divinity Prize at Melbourne Grammar
School. The marked spirituality of the
popular pastoralist’s intellectual outlook
may have something to do with the business.
Heredity is a powerful influence. But it
should be further remembered that the boy’s
mother was beautiful Maud Jeffries, who
scored one of her greatest triumphs as
Mercia in “The Sign of the Cross.”
Mrs. Ernest Watt is going to London
with her children in March, and the head of
the family intends to follow, on a flying
visit, a month or so later. On the other
hand, Mrs. Alec Hay and her sister are on
their way home, and their sister-in-law, Mrs.
Beau Burdekin, writer of “Anna” and other
novels, who has been staying with her people
in Cheltenham, will reach Sydney in April.
These days, when Sydney spends half its
time in the water, it’s small wonder that
everyone Is talking
about the human
torpedo that Manly
has given us. Here
is his p’eture—
Andrew (“Boy”)
Charlton, who. to
the frantic delight
of hundreds of
women as well as
men, at the Domain
Baths on Saturday,
shattered the 880
yards record with
an ease that made
it look as though he
did that sort of
thing every morning
before breakfast. He
is only 15, but in
his bathing-suit he
has the long, clean
lines of a young Greek god; and there wasn’t
a woman who saw him on Saturday • that
didn’t love him for the quiet modesty with
which he bore his wonderful triumph.
A Maorilander’s note: —
I was in an Auckland bookshop one morning, last
year, looking into “The Garden Party,” Katherine
Mansfield’s second book, when a woman-friend pointed
to the portrait of the serious face on the cover,
staring out at the world under a straight fringe of
black hair. “Cass Beauchamp,” she said. “I was
at school with her at Wellington. She was already
a dabbler in literature, and used to write for a
girls’ magazine that we had under the name of
‘Julian Mark.’ She was also a musician—a ’cellist.
We both had the same music master, who is pictured
in ‘The Wind,’ one of the best tales in ‘Bliss,’
Any of his pupils will recognise him from the
picture. He is still a noted figure in Wellington
musical circles. All that first book is full of scraps
of Wellington —the Thorndon-parade on a windy morn-
ing, the old houses in Fitzherbert-terrace and Hob-
son-street, and the Picton boat. It’s strange how
genius can invest the commonplace with ro-
mance.” She rambled on, painting a vivid picture
of a strange emotional, delightful creature, which
never wholly faded from my mind. And last week
it was brought back in full force as I read the
cabled news that Katherine Mansfield Beauchamp had
died at Fontainebleau.
One limousine-de-luxe that didn’t turn
towards Fort Macquarie and the Jules
Michelet on Wednesday of last week swept
out to St. Mark’s, at Darling Point, where
Doretta Russell, of Bowral, was marry-
ing Lieut. George Dunbar Moore, R.A.N.,
whose father is a well-known Bris-
bane medicine-man. The church was a
mass of white blooms and white favors
in honor of the little bride’s wedding linery
of crystal-beaded georgette and silver tissue,
which was topped by a veil of Limerick
lace. There were five bridesmaids, compris-
ing a sister of each of the two principals,
Jean Raine, Trixie Marshall and Evelyn
Brunton; and there were one best man and
four groomsmen to watch Padre Howard
Lea closely and see that he did not
skimp his job. In addition there was a
church-full of guests and relations to view
the ceremony ; and after the customary arch
of steel had been successfully negotiated and
the usual flashlight photographs taken for
the papers, everybody sought the Golf House
at Rose Bay, where the bride’s parents had
laid knives and forks for about 200.
Among the latest engagements that the
doves are cooing about is that of Miss K. L.
(“Peggy”) Mansfield, of this city, to Lieut.
tJlex E. Ewart, of the Staff Corps, and eld-
est son of Prof, and Mrs. A. J. Ewart, of
Melbourne ’Varsity.
Eighteen knights attended the farewell
banquet to Premier Fuller. We’ll soon have
as many Iv.B.E.’s (most of those who fed
Fuller belong to that despised order) as
Amurka has colonels.
How solemn is the warning conveyed by
the published photo, snapshot of Geoffrey
Hughes and his bride, after their wedding in
Sydney! The Sun ruthlessly revealed the
broadly laughing faces of the joyous pair,
and lovers, who were startled by the result,
will hardly be likely to get caught “smiling”
on their day of days. Only actor-people,
accustomed to looking merry before a mirror,
can afford to risk it when a snapshotter is
out looking for game. Intelligent girls in
general may be capable of effective counten-
ance work as regards archness, pensiveness,
innocence, innocent surprise, sadness and even
distress. Think of how many Iteggie-boys
under 30 have been reduced to subjection by
a pained expression followed by weeps in
moderation, of the sort that don’t leave the
eyes red. But not one girl in a hundred can
manage a laughing mouth and eyes like a
trained actress. As for the less theatrical
sex—why, not one man in a thousand knows
the rudiments of the art. For that matter,
many men never try to pretend to look merry.
When they are not looking annoyed they
maintain the same air of gravity as the typi-
cal American gentleman who protests that he
is being'tickled to death.
Mrs. Charles Regan has settled her girls
in England for three years’ study, and she
herself hopes to be back in Tamworth in
April. When last heard of she was in
Spain busy doing cathedrals and bull-fights.
Her daughter Kathleen is settled in St.
John’s Wood studying singing from Syd-
ney’s old teacher Mavrogordato. Later on
she goes to Italy. Mary is at school with
the Sacred Heart nuns at Roehampton. The
name of the Reverend Mother is Ashton-
Case; and she is a first cousin of Lord
Forster.
Died recently in Sydney, Wilfrid Henry
Robinson, son of the Rand millionaire
baronet, Sir Joseph Robinson. The young
man had come a few months ago to Aus-
tralia a good deal for health reasons, and
his intention was to buy a £60,000 sheep
station. Coming across from Mosman after
a blazing day he was caught in a cold snap,
developed pneumonia and was dead in three
days. Three casual friends stood by while
the last sod was straightened over the rich,
lonely yobng man. He was an old Etonian,
and a well known “wet bob.” Also, he had
a good record during the war as an airman.
He spent most of his childhood at Dudley
House, the huge Park-lane mansion of our
most festive G.-G. (it is now owned, by
the way, by Dudley’s brother, John Ward,
who married a Yankee heiress), and as a
small boy he was a great favorite of King
Edward. His father the other day refused
a peerage; and in the press of two conti-
nents has contradicted Margot Asquith’s
story in her new book presenting him in the
light of a moneyed vulgarian.
A note from London: —
Melba scored a point against Clara Butt at the
general election —the Australian got her man in,
and the massive and melodious contralto didn’t. Melba
chattered and warbled at Southampton for Lord
Apsley, the Conservative candidate, and explained
that she did so to repay a debt of gratitude. Apsley
belongs to the Borthwick family, the proprietors of
the Morning Post, and that family was very helpful
and encouraging to her when she arrived in London,
an unknown and friendless stranger. She added,
incidentally, that it was in the best interests of the
Empire that the Conservatives should be returned
to power—a sentiment which may or may not find
a vociferous echo in her native Australia. On the
other hand Clara backed the Liberal candidate for
Brighton, cricketer C. B. Fry, who also had the
whole-hearted support and assistance of Ranji, at
one time, like Fry, a member of the Sussex XI.
There are two seats for Brighton, but C. 8., though
he polled well, got neither.
A Brisbane postscript:—■
Our Sir Matt, paid his first visit to the Phcenix-
like Theatre Royal the other night to put the social
hallmark on “It Pays to Advertise.” He had in
his party Mrs. Hammond (Sydney), Mrs. Jack
Chandler, Margey Hammond and Margaret Ross-
Munro. In the house were noticed Dr. Christine
Rivett, the William Deardens, O’Neill Brenans,
Melbourne’s Mrs. Hope, Barbara Sisley and Gladys
Pollard.
Archbish. Duhig was greeted with a blare of trum-
pets and a large gathering of the Faithful this
week. The bell pealed at St. Stephen’s, and the
Children of Mary donned their white veils, and St.
Stephen’s congregation Overflowed into the street.
Cerise and purple decked the church, and, fresh from
a hobnob with the Pope, the; Doctor looked very
splendid in his flowing purple robe and biretta.
He brings in his portmanteau an order for Father
Lane (the first handed out in Australia)—-pro
Ecclesia et Pontifice.
This month the Queensland Book Club has been
a year at sending books out back, and the secs,
report that the denizens of the Bush fairly clamor
for Galsworthy and Hugh Walpole. Sailor-man
George Waugh has given the club a table and shelves,
and the Eliza Hall Trust dumped down a cheerful
25 notes with a spontaneous New Year’s wish.
Another flitter is H. J. Ringland, who, with his
domestic belongings, is off to England. The Press
Institute farewelled them in a eulogistic atmosphere
on 12th. Ringland has been hon. sec. to the Insti-
tute, over which Spencer Browne presides, for some
time.


11
HARDY BROS. LTD
Jewellers.
' v; '"
w M
M ' ii:
i j§
WM
m t *
1 ,;/. ■
-
PLEONASTE
and
DIAMOND
JEWELLERY.
o
The exhibition of
Diamond and Gem
Jewellery on view
at the Company’s
Showrooms demon-
strates the highest
standards obtainable
both in the quality of
the gems and the ex-
cellence of work-
manship and finish.
1. Fine Diamond and Pleon-
aste Circle Brooch.
2. Fine Diamond and Pleon-
aste Drop Ear-rings.
These ornaments together
form a most effective suite,
or may be worn separately,
as desired.
Inspection is cordially
invited.
Selections are sent on approval throughout Australia.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
cJew&llet-s <£a Silversmi£fLf?.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
IJ6-118 Queen St.,
BRISBANE.
LONDON.
298 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
Situivrui tkaX
Slid you MCcomo.
STAINED Wood Floors
—softly lustrous in har-
monising Wood Tones
—inform the entering guest
that yours is a home of
comfort and good taste. In
Taubmam
Floor Stain
you have a combined Stain
and Varnish which conveys
this note and fulfils the most
exacting requirements of
every day use. Active feet
will not mar its surface ; nor
time fade its lustre. Easily
applied and dries flint-hard
overnight. There is a Har-
mony Tone to match the
color scheme of any room in
your home. At all Stores .
31
&
TAUBMANS
FLQOK STAIN
Note. Old stained work chat needs reviving should
be coated with Taubmans Varneeros. Saves re-staining.
TAUBMANS LTD. SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE.
JEL F. WILKS, Genera) Manager.
DONT!
Be
Satisfied with
being merely
an Operator
on the Player Piano,
OWN A
GULBRANSEN
3sucsScncertd
AND BECOME
A MUSICIAN.
THERE IS A REASON I
The Gulbransen Duo-Concerto provides a
complete control over the stroke of the piano
hammer, and that is why this remarkable
player can, and does, really produce perfect
tone color, and in the hands of anyone, after a
little practice, rivals the musical performances
of the highest class of virtuosi.
Whether the piano is played by hand or by the
foot-pedals, perfection of tonal values is the.
aim of every performer.
Call in and play the
Duo-Concerto for ten
minutes, and then you
will fully understand
the enthusiasm that is
shown for this Player.
12
10
9
3
ft
4
7
ft
"TT
If through sentiment or for some other reason
you would not care to part with your own
piano, we will convert it into a D: o-Concerto
Player Piano, containing all the latest
improvements.
Call or write for our Monthly Bulletin of 88-
note Music-rolls, produced by our new and
up-to-date Reproducing and Cutting Plant.
They are unique.
CASH OR TERMS. OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET (Next to Y.M.C.A )
SYDNEY. p A p
' li.
Newcastle Agency, 28 Hunter Street.
1 •: - ■£: ’• > -1>


Zephyr Shirts—
at Cash Bonus Prices
The Cash Bonus Sale ends on
January 20th; for three more days
the double savings wiil apply. Mail
orders bearing Saturday’s post-mark
will be in time for this last offer.
RRl —Fancy Zephyr Golf Shirt, Peter
Pan collar to match; woven stripe designs.
Usually, 11/6. Sale Price 10/6
Less 10 per cent. Cash Bonus.
FARMER’S
Carr iage P aid. Box 49 7, G. P. O.
~7
Hotel Carlyon’s,
Esplanade,
St. Kilda.
Special arrangements can be made for
Room and Breakfast or Inclusive Tariff.
Dine Here and Dance in Our
Famous Ballroom.
Hotel guests are invited to
make free use of Ballroom.
qA la ‘Reine des Fleurs :: Established 1774
L.T. PIVER, Paris
COMPLEXION POWDERS
de Luxe
Supplied in all Shades and Odours. These Face Pow-
ders are made in France by a Firm Established 150 Years;
they are of exquisite fragrance, perfectly adherent, and
will suit your skin: the name is the guarantee of quality.
V"
m
'kids
Cxquisite ‘Perfumes created by
House of L. T. PIPER :
Le Trefle. Azurea. Floramye. Safranor
Esperis, Mismelis, Gerbera, etc
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS AND
the
V Pompeia,
etc.
STORES
I2L
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
Chief Scout Stradbroke, backed up by
his lady, beaming under a wide navy
brim, Sir Alfred Picltford (behind his
monocle) and others stood near the
vice-regal porch the other day and took
the salute from the Boy Scout Brigade.
Afterwards a bun-fight happened in the
Stonington cow-paddocks, to the mild de-
light of some of Society’s cream. The
Countess was looking stunning when the
Scouts swarmed her champagne and navy
georgette, begging for autographs. She
dashed off signatures by the dozen. Lady
Helena stood up for the rights of fashion in
a long pink, spongy skirt and a flimsy blouse.
Archdeacon llindley and others similarly
gal-bed were there, and Admiral Everett,
General Cbauvcl and Brigadier Coxen gave
a rainbow display of ribbons. The Geoff
Synie dame was in modest grey, and Mrs.
Harpy Einmcrton’s fringy robe Haunted
gorgeous panels of harem hues in the breeze.
By the way, one small Scout missed the
show, thanks to a pain in his little inside,
but was consoled by a visit from the Strad-
broke lady. She, with motherly intuition,
guessed his guilty secret of having swamped
his interior with soft drinks. Incidentally,
the vice-regal lady confided to a kind in*
quirer that she had never known her own
little family suffer quite so severely from
pliim-puddingitis as they had this season.
On Friday night Governor Stradbroke and
his Countess slipped along for their third
visit to “The O’Brien Girl” at the Prin-
cess’s. Her Ex. looked cool and comfy in
pale chiffon and with her thick, dark hair
simply coiled and unadorned. But, anyhow,
the open boxes make a cool perch these dog-
day nights.
Perhaps when our Earl goes to the Cold
Country he will be able to rope in the ideal
private sec.—he doesn’t seem to be able to
find the right man here. In two years he
has had several secs.; and the latest, Major
11. A. F. Wilkinson, M.C., has now thrown
up the job to return to W.A. There is a
suspicion that his Ex. is not too easy to
please. Keppel Palmer, A.D.C., has to do
double duty for the present—dash it all—
hut it will be only for a few weeks at the
worst, as the Governor, the Countess and the
eldest flapper leave at the end of March.
Billy Hughes—once a careless dresser who
let liis bags bag at the knees—seems to turn
over a new sartorial leaf every day. This
was strikingly evident in his recent jour-
ney back from Sydney. On the Albury rail-
way station, at 7 o’clock in the morning,
Billy strolled the platform, wonderful in
a pale-grey suit of irreproachable cut
and creased in the right places. A delicate
hanky of lavender and pale-blue peeped from
his breast-pocket; his pale-grey hat had a
jaunty angle worthy of a Julius Superbus,
and he raised it with an air and a smile
to numerous feminine Melbournites who
were fellow-passengers. A large railway-
man in blueys came on the scene—he must
have been engaged especially as a foil—and
towered over our exquisite Prime Minister.
Billy made signs of deafness, and coyly
cached one ear. The big man in blueys
stooped and shouted. Billy looked bland—
then appealingly at his secretary. “What is
he trying to say?” his glance suggested. The
big man faded embarrassedly away.
Mollie, the eldest of the Norman Fal-
kiners’ girls, who became engaged to Cap-
tain Blakeney. of the Indian Army, last
year when staying with her maternal uncle,
Major Smithwick, will leave by the Mace-
donia with her mother for Simla early next
month. She takes a perfectly ravishing
trousseau and a ton of wedding presents.
W. J. T. Clarke is off to England, where
he will collect his wife and youngest daugh-
ter Wilma, who, for two years, have been
dividing their time between the Clarke son
and heir and his sister Vanda Moule, whose
military husband has been helping the Bri-
tish to keep the watch on the Rhine. The
Eric Harrison pair, who have been keeping
up the spirits of Mrs. Eric’s dad during his
gyass-widowerhood, will stay on at the
family Toorak house to keep the moths at
bay.
Knitted garments are fashionable, but
have their drawbacks. One of our swankiest
girls took to Portsea a bathing-gown of
hand-knitted silk. She caught the- hinder
part on a jagged plank as she climbed to
pose on the spring-board, and was bliss-
fully unaware of the unravelling until a rude
young man started a jackass chorus by
betting a motor-cyclist he wouldn’t be game to
catch the dangling thread and run from
Portsea to Sorrento without a stop. When
realisation came the maiden ceased postur-
ing and took a header into the sympathetic
water.
Theyre a’Beckett Weigall was nervous
while being sworn in as an acting-judge of
the Supreme Court at the Executive Council
meeting. Perhaps the chief scout’s uniform
worn by his Ex. to save time (it was his
day out with the boys) upset S’Onor’s equili-
brium, or, possibly, oath-taking on his own
part was so new to him that it disconcerted
him.
Melbourne Savage Clubmen’s new wigwam
in Bank-place, near the moneylenders and
bankers and lawyers, includes Rupert
Clarke’s former flat, and they have installed
some of their most primitive drawings on
faded walls which still show the traces of
furnishings, which must have been a perfect
Sybaritic idyll. One comfortable chamber has
four great mirrors which resemble entrances
to another apartment, and the Savages spend
these days between fear that they will try
to stalk right through, and wonder as to
how Rupert himself managed to avoid that
catastrophe.
The John Grice knight became ill early
this month at his Toorak home on the eve
of his trek to Mount Macedon, and his wife,
who had gone on in advance, hurried down
to be with the invalid. The family have been
out of all social activities for some weeks
past owing to the serious illness of Mrs.
Alfred Levey. The younger Levey daughter,
Mrs. Robert Renton, steamed down from
Singapore directly the bad news reached her,
and with her widowed sister, Mrs. Guy
Miller, never goes fir from the sick room.
Pretty little Phyllis Wheatley, daughter of
the scholastic head of the Jervis Bay Naval
College, has become engaged to Naval-
Lieutenant Sadlier, only hope of the J. C.
Sadliers, of Putney (England), and grand-
son of the late Victorian police magistrate
of the name. The young man is in our own
little end of the Navy list. Miss Phyllis has
a brother who is also there, but he is now
getting some overseas polish on a British
cruiser.
Bilking taxi-car men would soon become
unfashionable if every. driver adopted the
rule of Frank Mahony. He whizzed two
women all over the city the other day, and
they stopped at pubs for refreshments.
When he held out his hand for £2 10s. he
was tongue-trounced instead. So he re-
started the engine and landed his passengers
in Russell-street barrack yard. Adjustment
of the dispute was left to the police and
the court.
The Scotchbyterians have bought the
homestead block of Kilmany Park estate,
with its mansion of 30 rooms, for a training
farm fbr lads who need a helping hand. So
the home of the Pearsons, close to Gipps-
land’s capital, has become an institution, and
tired lads, earning their bread with the sweat
of their brow, will occupy the rooms where
fortune’s favorites revelled and rested. The
property had no sooner been acquired than
Meenister D. A. Cameron applied for a
State grant, and McPherson asked to be
convinced in writing that he should hand
over guid Treasury siller.
In the little photo
alongside Lafayette
introduces you to
Mrs. B. Chadwick,
one of that group
of enthusiasts who
direct the workings
of the District
Nursing Association.
She has always been
keen on philanthro-
pic efforts, and,
though the “war-
work” claim is ter-
ribly overdone these
days, she 'certainly
did achieve much
during the trying
period when the Dig-
gers were arguing
with Fritz and
Jacko. Mrs. Chad-
wick, by the way, is a daughter of that Mr.
Musgrove who was Victorian Comptroller
of Trade and Customs for many years.
Mrs. David Finlayson, widow of the late
Victorian banker, died last month in Eng-
land. They settled there 20 years ago, soon
after the death of their elder daughter, who
went out to a fever contracted in India. One
son, who had a good record in the war,
married a daughter of squatter Richmond.
The youngest son, Alec, went west in South
America just four weeks before the passing
of his mother. The Finlaysons’ old Toorak
home, which was bought from the late James
Bain, is now owned by the Arthur Paynes.
The latest word from Melba was written
on Nov. 21 at Stoke-on-Trent. The concert
there was the seventh within a fortnight (in-
cluding a big one at the Albert Hall). The
energy of the Dame is amazing. Her con-
certs involve not only her singing powers but
a lot of organising work. Also, she is unable
to escape the demands made upon her as a
social lioness. From Stoke-on-Trent she
was going on to a visit to Lady Grey Eger-
ton at Oulton Park, and from there again to
concerts at Liverpool and Manchester. Lady
Eva Wemyss—who is a sister-in-law twice
removed, as it were, of Melba’s old friend
Dick Nevill —has lent 51 Portland-place for
a concert. Lady Eva was the late Lord
Cowley’s sister, and Lady Violet Nevill was
one of the numerous wives who divorced him.
The Limbless Soldiers’ Association was
formed by limbless men who were more for-
tunately placed in
life to help their
brothers who find it
hard to get work.
It is felt that there
must be a place for
every man in the
community, and the
Association is out to
find it. One prac-
tice is to look out
a kindly - disposed
employer and induce
him to take in a
maimed man and
train him. The em-
ployer pays no
wages, but the Asso-
ciation makes up the
man’s pension to 50s.
a week, and, in the
case of a married
man, to 60s. The Digger gains proficiency
enough to either command a paid job with
his employer or to set up in business for
himself, and so far the idea is panning out
very well. All of which introduces one of
the most hearty workers in the cguse of
the limbless men—Mrs. Stein, the lady who
was Gaud Mayoress for her uncle during
the time of the Prince’s visit. Whilst in
office she expended a tremendous amount of
energy in public causes, and she has not
abated her interest and practical work since
she withdrew from the civic spotlight. The
photo is by Lafayette.
Observations of an unintelligent male: —
For the past nine months, off and on, I have
been watching the lambs of both sexes, and the muttons
who masquerade as lambs, doing what they call
modern dances, mostly on shipboard, in cabarets* and
in the casinos of the Riviera. I don’t know why
they do it, but, judging by their pained, strained ex-
pression, they nearly all wear; tight shoes: you
hardly ever see a smile on the face of a fox-trotter,
or a shimmy-shaker. The odd movements go on
more or less simultaneously with uncertain noises,
which proceed from something I am told is a band ;
at any rate, when the band stops the sad people
also stop, and either clap their hands languidly cr
flop into their chairs. That is the only time when
anything done by the people who make the noises
seems to have any meaning for the people with the
tight shoes. I have watched and watched them and
have’ never found any two pairs of the sad people
doing the same thing at the same moment, from
which I conclude that the music, or whatever it ;s,
has no message for them, or if it has it has a
different message for each .pair of them. So now I
understand why it hat become necessary for the
young woman who gets a young man to take her to a
dance to dance with him all the evening. “You must
know what your partner is going to do,” it is explained,
which seems to be a complete exposure of the super-
fluousness of the band except as a sort of screen behind
which couples may make remarks that they wouldn’t
care to make 'in front of it. But is this really
dancing?
Marion Jones, the clever little Bendigo
painter, who won the last Melbourne Gal-
lery scholarship, completed, just before she
left for London, a couple of studies of Billy
Hughes, which appeared to have been
snapped in the middle of an animated con-
versation. Miss Jones was justly proud of
the efforts, and one day called in a well-
known Melbourne critic to pass an opinion
upon them. When the penman unexpectedly
arrived, he found the two portraits face to
face on easels. It was an accidental
arrangement, but he professed to consider
it intentional. “Ah,” he said, “I see what
you mean, Miss Jones —the Prime Minister
discussing with the Almighty a policy for
the Commonwealth.”
In the gentle cable tramcars one gets
opportunities for studying the ways of the
panto, girlie off the stage. She is much in
evidence these times. She carries her theat-
rical atmosphere about with her. In com-
pany with other kiddies of her stamp, or
under the wing of a watchful mother, she
takes care to let everybody guess she is in
the panto, ballet or what not. Sometimes
she is dead tired, at other times her viva-
city is appalling; but always she is self-
conscious. The panto, girlie has not as
yet thought of acquiring the art which con-
ceals art. She makes a feature of her un-
naturalism. She lets you see she is on the
stage by her manner of rolling her eyes
and looking bored when mother speaks to
her of anything but the theatre. Mother
doesn’t protest in public these times, be-
cause little Miss Precocious is a bread-
winner of some importance, and the glamor
of “the profession” attaches to her. All
the same, you notice an occasional harden-
ing of mother’s mouth, suggestive of a de-
termination to put the little minx back in
her place when the pantomime has done
with her. Generally speaking, the restless
chick appears to be putting a strain on
maternal affection —especially in those cases
where she has a little speaking- and dancing-
part all to herself and a weekly salary to
match.
Lord Forster, Chief Scout, forgot to men-
tion something when he addressed the minor
Scouts in Melbourne last week. He told
them that scouting had prospered greatly m
the past 12 months, and that the young
pole bearers in brief pants and bare legs
were now double the number they were three
years ago. What his Ex. overlooked was
the visit of that famous unofficial recruiting
agent, Wee Georgie Wood, whose creation
of the ideal scout was an inspiration to the
boys. Thousands joined the force on account
of his moral soliloquy and picturesque ap-
pearance in his uniform; and didn’t the
King or Baden Powell or somebody tell the
little actor that he had planted a spirit of
emulation in boyhood’s breast, or words to
that effect? But for him, perhaps, there
never would have been the particular scouts
who “spotted” signs of rapid decay in some
sandstone squares of St. Paul’s Cathedral
wall.
Melbourne’s eccentric summer climate will
be given another chance next month. The
Wirths are to re-open their grounds beyond
Princes Bridge as an amusement park, where
merry-go-rounds and Avheels will revolve, and
swingboats and captive balloons will be
available. A small army of workmen is
now clearing Wirths’ Park of shanties used
by the Red Cross and Repatriation people.
The whole space where these things were —
and the Hippodrome, skating rink and
Olympia buildings remain—is to be devoted
to the new park scheme, and February 17
is the date predicted for the inaugural festi-
vities.
Margaret Hippisley, just dead at Bendigo,
at 90, was the widow of the prospector who,
with two others, opened up the Garden Gully
mine, the richest concern on the Bendigo
field. It paid over a million in dividends.
Hippisl.ey died in 1890. , ■
The Dufferin marquis, who, as Lord Fred-
erick Blackwood, spent the year before the
war on the staff of his vice-regal brother-
in-law, Lord Novar, and was afterwards
seriously wounded in the French trenches,
is now having an equally risky time—-he is
a Free State Government officer in the Dis-
tressful Isle, and can’t move round without
a police escort. His little daughter, Veron-
ica Blackwood, after spending the war years
out here, is in the Fog sharing a governess
with a small friend. The Novars will be
there most of the time now that the ex-G.G.
has a portfolio.
Adelaide sends a line or two: —
Something like a general move is going on. Gov-
ernment House is temporarily bereft of Lady Bridges,
who is on a visit to the Forsters in Melbourne;
the J. W. McGregors have embarked on a year’s
wanderings abroad ; the E. W. Haywards have gone
to England ; W. J. Isbister is off in the same direc-
tion ; and Mrs. W. Pope's sisters, who have been
paying her a long visit, have gone back to the Fog:
A honeymooning couple, motoring from Clare to
Glenelg t’other day, halted at a friend’s house for
an hour or so on the way, leaving the car standing
under the full blaze of an electric light, at a busy
street-corner. They emerged to find that the whole
of their luggage had been cleared from the back
of the car —all her trousseau and all his newest
and most prized garments, too. Eventually the
suit-cases turned up, buried in the sandhills, some
distance from where they were stolen, and with the
contents intact. But can you imagine what that
poor little bride went through in the intervening 24
hours ?
From Tasmania comes news of the death of Mrs.
W. B. Propsting, eldest of the Jenkin Coles’ daughters.
She and her husband had been living in the Speck
for 30 years or so, and she was one of Hobart’s
best-known workers for war and philanthrophic funds.
Hilda Reimann, daughter of H. Reimann of the
Con. staff, has taken herself and her fiddle to Berlin,
where she is to study under Otto Nikitis for a
couple of years. Kathleen O’Dea is still studying at
Milan, and her sweet-toned soprano has won her an
engagement to sing at the San Carlos theatre, Naples
—the second largest in the world —this month.
A queer personality has passed out in Miss Keith
Sheridan, whose bequests include £20,000 to the
’Varsity. For years she had lived entirely alone in
a little cottage in Lower North Adelaide, and ap-
parently so poor that more than one kindly neighbor
dropped in to offer a helping hand ; yet, giving gen-
erously (though anonymously) to various charities. Her
cottage, with its books, pictures, music and piano,
goes to the Institutes’ Association to be used as a
public institute for the benefit of her erstwhile
neighbors, and most of the balance of the estate
to such charities as her executors think fit. Among
the mass of papers she left were letters in all lan-
guages, and from most countries in the world, prov-
ing her to have had at least a nodding acquaintance
with German, French, Spanish, Italian, Danish, Greek,
Hebrew and Latin. Years ago, she published a transla-
tion of some of Hans Andersen’s stories that had not
then appeared in English ; but apart from that, not
even her own people seem to have known of the range
of her reading, correspondence or interests. Her
only sister was the late Mrs. A. M. Simpson, and
her brother was the J. B. Sheridan who collaborated
with J. W. Bakewell in compiling the Magistrates'
Guide.


NOVELS BY
ARTHUR WRIGHT
Australia’s Most Popular Novelist.
A Game of Chance.
A Rogue’s Luck.
A Rough Passage.
Gambler's Gold.
Boss o' Yedden.
In the Last Stride
Over the Odds.
Rung In.
The Breed Holds Good.
The Outlaw’s Daughter.
Under a Cloud.
When Nuggets Glistened.
The Sport from Holiowlog
Flat.
A £olt from the Country.
Fettered by Fate.
Obtainable from all Bookstalls and Booksellers.
II- each 1/2 posted
The same price as all other volumes in the famous
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels
150 Novels by Best Australian Authors.
INCLUDING—
J. H. M. Abbott.
Thos. E. Spencer.
J. McLaren.
Randolph Bedford.
Arthur H. Adams.
Beatrice Grimshaw.
Steele Rudd.
Edward Dyson.
S. W. Powell.
Roy Bridges.
E. J. Brady.
Ambrose Pratt.
COMPLETE DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE
OBTAINABLE FREE FROM PUBLISHERS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 Georg'e Street, Sydney,
The Lightest Camera in the World.
Cs6e
BRITISH.MADE
Aluminium Ensignette
No. 2.
For Roll Films Daylight Loading,
Quite the Smallest, Lightest and Most Dainty Roll-film
Camera in existence, original in design, and perfectly made.
It goes easily into the waistcoat pocket and produces
splendid contact pictures 3x2, which enlarge perfectly.
It is substantially built of aluminium and weighs only 7oz.
PRICES:
With Single Achromatic Fll Lens. . . £3 0 0
With Extra Rapid Aplanat Lens, F 8 . . £3 12 6
With T.T. & H. Luxor Anastigmat,
Lens, F 7.7 £3 17 6
POSTAGE 9d.
Each Camera is supplied with a Limp Leather Case.
/
mk
- •;
Size of photo taken with an Aluminium Ensignette.
&uwunftfc7ss up
The House for
Good Cameras,
386 George Street, Sydney.
Ivatoomba Street, Katoomba.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.,
1C Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland, 'N.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
wmimwmiumwmiii
v;v: :
m
Wm
U
« J:
lilli
' : "
mm
mem
m '
■ ■
»
!
I
m
m
(7
%
y\
*
No. 866.-
One of the 25 different models.
COMFORT
IS NOT FOR THE CITY DWELLER ONLY.
DELCO-LIGHT gives to the country dweller of
to-day the conveniences of the city home. His
rooms are brilliantly lighted with flickerless,
odorless electric lamps. Labor-saving devices
wash and iron the clothes, wash the dishes, sweep
the floors, operate the sewing-machine, and enable the
housework to be done in half the time. Strongly and
simply constructed, Delco-Light is practically self-
operating, gives years of unfailing service, and is so
economical in use that it pays for itself.
Delco-Light is within your reach. Let us show you how to obtain it.
Write for Booklet “B.”
DISTRIBUTORS;—
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, MELB., LTD., Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
SMELLIE & CO., LTD., Brisbane, Queensland.
GILBERTS, LTD., King Street, Perth, AY .A.
\\ T . F. & E. A. STEWART. Launceston, Tasmania.
sdfg
ASK THE MAN WHO OWNS ONE.


I
I
33
m
*&
04
Si
JI
04
01
Jm
aa t
£1
jr
II
S»
JI
J f
01
m
m
m
ss
m
m
\m
ffl
fS
Bargains in
Men’s Wear.
Hats.
Murdoch’s Famous “Prince” Hat, with
silk-bound, edges. Shades: Drab, Stone
only. Sizes: 6§ to 7|.
USUALLY 21/-
Red Spot Price .. . 14/11
The Celebrated “Victory” Shape. The
Hat of Hats for Young Men. Flat-set
brim, silk-bound edges, Slate, Smoke,
Fawn, Grey, Brown, Myrtle, Green and
Navy.
USUALLY 21/-
Red Spot Price .. . 17/6
Shfrts.
White Mercerised Tennis Shirts. Good
quality. Made with Collar, Pocket and
Button Wristbands. Double sewn and
gussejtted throughout.
USUALLY 8/6
Red Spot Price 5/8
English Zephyr Golf Shirts. Woven
Stripes of Blue or Black, on White
grounds. A splendid-wearing shirt.
USUALLY .* 7/6
Red Spot Price .... 5/4
Boots.
Special Heavy Black Box Yearling
Derby Boot, double-decker welted soles.
Medium round toe.
USUALLY 22/6
Red Spot Price . . . 18/11
A Special Line of Tan or Black Mili-
tary Cossacks, watertight tongues, heavy
standard screwed sewn soles. All solid
leather. An excellent boot for the
hardest wear.
USUALLY 21/-
Red Spot Price ... 18/11
Bathing Costumes.
Superior Quality All-wool One-piece
“Surfo” Costumes, in plain Navy or
Black; also Black or Grey, with colored
trimmings or red, green, royal, sky, gold,
marone or white. Sizes: 32, 34, 36 inches.
USUALLY 9/6
Red Spot Price ..... 8/7
Usually
Red Spot Price.. .
Inches, Inches,
38-40. 42-44.
9/11 10/6
8/11 9/6
Kit Bags.
Strapped Kit Bags, specially selected, Cow-
hide, strong lining and nickel fittings, two
strong supporting straps. Very service-
able, 20in.
USUALLY 407-
Red Spot Price .. . 33/9
Size 22in. 24in. 26in
Usually 44/- 48/6 52/6
Red Spot Price . . 36/11 40/6 44/2
WE PAY POSTAGE
on all Sale Goods to all
parts of Australia. Write to
Desk R.
FOR three weeks only!
Welcome return of Sydney’s supreme Bargain
Event.
EVERYTHING IN MEN’S AND BOY’S WEAR
(except a few proprietary lines) HAVE BEEN
REDUCED AT LEAST 10 PER CENT.
Many Lines Reduced almost to Half-price.
Send for the Sale Catalogue—costs nothing and will
save you Pounds.
Now is the Time for
Suit Bargains
A
I
I
SIU
B 8
MURDOCH-TAILORED —that is the factor that
adds lustre to the Bargain-price. Here is a
splendid opportunity. Take your choice.
A genuine pure Indigo “Fox” Serge, bearing the
“Fox” Trade-mark, sun-, rain- and acid-proof; or
a High-grade Pure Wool Australian Tweed Suit,
skilfully tailored to your measure by Murdoch’s
expert suit designers, ensuring comfort, good service
and lasting attractiveness. Each worth 5 guineas.
Special Price
Red Spot Price -
(MADE TO MEASURE.)
£4/18/9
£4lBlll
Other
Prices £4/2/9 £5/13/9 £6/10/- £7/10/- £B/10/-
Red Spot
Prices £B/14/6 £5/2/5 £5/17/- £6/15/- £7/13/-
SEND FOR FREE PATTERNS! WRITE TO DESK R.
URDOCH’
In Parß St. Ltd., Sydney
“The World’s Largest Men’s 8 Boys’ Wear Store,”
s
Bargains in
Boys’ Wear.
Cots wo Id Suits.
Made from English or Australian Woollen
Tweeds. Coat has 3 or 4 patch pockets,
yoke, half-belt. Knickers are strongly
lined, with plain knees. Sizes: 6 to 12.
Fit boys 8 to 14 years.
USUALLY 37/6
Red Spot Price .... 25/8
Cotswold Suit, as above, to fit boys 15 to
18 years.
USUALLY 40/-
Red Spot Price . . . 31/6
Wash Suits .
Washing Cotswold Suits. Made from
famous, hard-wearing Bengal Tweed, and
selected striped Crashes. Made as above.
Knickers unEned and have plain knees,
lit boys 6 to 14 years.
USUALLY 15/6
Red Spot Price . . . 12/5
Washing Cotswold Coats, from dark- and
light-blue stripe Galatea, dark grey Bengal
Tweed, and plain Crash. Fit boys G to
14 years.
USUALLY 9/6
Red Spot Price .... 7/10
Knickers.
Murdoch’s Famous “Wooltex,” made
from dark-grey Australian Woollen
Tweeds. Fully lined, with plain knees.
Sizes: 4 to 12.
USUALLY . 9/11
Red Spot Price .... 8/6
Barb-wire Tweed Knickers. Stand any
amount of wear. Sizes: 4to 12.
USUALLY 7/6
Red Spot Price 6/6
Hats.
Boys’ Felt. In shades of Slate and Steel,
smart shapes.
USUALLY 8/11
Red Spot Price . . . . . 6/2
White Fibre Panamas. Celluloid finish.
A truly smart and distinctive Panama
USUALLY H/6
Red Spot Price 8/1
Shirts .
Special Line Boys’ Zephyr Golf Shirts,
in many neat and attractive stripe effects
USUALLY 7/6
Red Spot Price 5/4
Hose .
All-wool Golf Hose, in Black and Grey
shades. Good-wearing quality. Sizes to
fit 13 to 8 boot.
USUALLY 5/11
Red Spot Price 4/1
Send for Free Sale Catalogue,
brimming over with bargains
for you. Write to Desk R.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS PHILP * CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic—32 per cent. N a 2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
BLEACHING POWDER, 33%.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“ON TOP” WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Australia has waited 15 years for another
Barney Kieran, but it has one in “Boy” Charlton, a
nephew ol the old international cricketer of that
name. At Sydney Domain baths on Saturday in
the presence of 6000 yelling enthusiasts, the 15-
year-old Manly wonder got away with the 880 yards
State championship in the world’s-record time of
llmin. 5 l-ssec. He led from the start and finished
90 yards ahead of the next man, Christie, of Drum-
moyne. So evenly did the lad swim that his second
lap (110 yards) was traversed in lmin. 221 sec. and
the last in lmin. 21 l-ssec. There is no doubt
about the time, for W. T. Kerr was in charge of
that department, and no cooler man ever held a
watch. Tall, broad-shouldered and deep-chested,
Charlton is built on perfect lines tor a swimmer,
and will do great things if he isn’t overworked, as
Ivjeran was. He was to have met Harris in the
880, but the burly young man from Hawaii had to
Withdraw from the engagement, having exhausted
himself for the time being by his finishing effort in
the 100 yards championship, in which he got home
by a touch from W. Herald and H. M. Hay, both
of Manly, in 57 l-6sec. The time was nothing to
rave about, and the visitor would have been beaten
with another stroke or two to go. However, his
performance was excellent considering that he was
only half fit, and it is questionable whether Herald
or Hay will ever get as close to him again. In the
other races Keith Kirkland, ladder, won the 100yds.
back-stroke title in 74 4-ssea ; and a fast five from
the Sydney club took the 500yds. breast-stroke race
in 7min. lsec.
“Push Off”: Charlton’s swim was 19see. faster
than Norman Ross’s performance in the same race
four years ago. Ross’s time (llmin, 24 l-ssee.) is
A. RICHARDSON, who made 155 for S.A.
against N. S. Wales.
listed .as a worlds record, a distinction not accorded
to Lady Langer’s figures (llmin. 16 4-ssee.), set
up ist the same event a year later, nor to Barney
Kiernarfe llmin. 11 3-ssec., registered in the Rush-
cutter’s Bay baths (50-yard laps). Kieran is
also 'credited with having swfim the distance
{n llmin. 2 l-ssee. in a 25-lap enclosure at
Belfast, Ineland; but, for that matter, Charlton’s
trial for Saturday’s championship was done in
llinin. 0 3-ssec. “Boy” employs the trudgeon
stroke with a slight balancing wriggle between his
major scissor kicks. His arm work is long and
sweeping, and he glides through the water like an
eel, with perfefct continuity of motion. His success
is a knock for those who have been arguing that
Australian swimmers would never be able to live
with the Yanks or the Hawaiian* until they adopted
the double-trudgeon crawl.
* * * *
A 14-year-old schoolgirl, in Miss A. Nel-
son, of Geraldton (W.A.), captured the Swim through
Perth. She had a 45min. start on the scratch men,
and they never got near her. E. W. Jones, who
swam third to Beaurepaire and Langer in a couple
of races during the 1920-21 season, tied with A.
Preshaw for fastest time, lhr. 32min. Sosee. Still
only 18, he will represent his State in the Aus-
tralian championships this year.
* * * *
“The Emu”: There is a healthy boom in
rowing along the Big River and the supremacy of
the Murray Bridge (S.A.) cracks is threatened. At the
recent Berri regatta a JVlannum four rowed the cham-
pions to within a third of a length, and repeated
the performance at Renmark next day. The story
goes that the Bridge club is short of likely recruits;
if this is so Mannum will snatch the palm from it
at no remote date. Berri, the baby club, has pro-
mising material, and there is no lack of stout oars-
men at Renmark, albeit the best of the Renmark
men are blockers, who find it hard to get in for prac-
tice. Also, Wentworth’s initial appearance in the
river regattas was strikingly successful; a four
from the thirsty township at the confluence of the
Murray and the Darling won by so many lengths
that the judge lost count. And a likely crew is
being put through its paces at Merbein, on the Vic-
torian side.
# *
Julia Grey was the heroine of Saturday’s
Rosehill (N.S.W.) races. Carrying top W’eight (9st.
vlb.) in the 10-furlong January Handicap, Julia
came with a great run at the right end, and shoved
her head past Dick Wootton’s English mare Kiku-
inon, in the course-record time of 2min. 6see.
Pike rode her; 12 to 1 was her price in the ring-;
•and among the beaten lot were Dreblah (favorite
at 3’s), Cymric, Swift Shot, Erasmus and Tere-
rnarau. Julia is engaged in the Anniversary
Handicap with 9st. 21b., and will make the others
travel if she goes to the post. Another heavily-
burdened animal in Glenaere (9st. 61b.) won the
first division of the Flying Handicap, for which
he was a 9-to-4 favorite, after a rousing finish with
John Brown’s Duke Sterling and Theory. But the
useful Mousqueton mare Naharadan took the second
division in much easier fashion, and in a quarter-
of-a-second faster time (lmin. 13see.). Like Brae-
head in the Carrington Stakes, she trailed the
slick Lady Aura for a couple of furlongs, settled
that faint-hearted filly, and bade the field good-
bye, but nothing tackled her at the finish as Duke
Isinglass tackled Braehead.
Naharadan, who went out at 7 to 1, is owned
by Carl Scott. Last year most of her racing was
done about Newcastle, where she picked up about
half-a-dozen handicaps. Her two recent victories
in metropolitan company have drawn attention to
her prospects in the Challenge Stake's, in which she
will carry only 7st. 111 b., 41b. less than she won
with on Saturday. Handy at the start and a deter-
mined finisher, she will carry a ton of public money,
especially as she seems to like the long straight.
Others in the picture are Glenaere (9st. 41b.), and
Duke Isinglass (Bst. 41b.). All three may figure
in the finish, but this page has a slight preference
for the Duke, a fast four-year-old, with a moderate
weight. Gindi (list. 71b.) looks like being worth
a ticket in the Hurdles, and others that catch the
eye are Swift Shot (Bst. 121 b.) in the January
Handicap and Victrola (lOst.) in the Welter.
* * * *
Squatter Norman Falkiner made a bad bar-
gain in horseflesh (and he has made more than one)
when he paid a lot of money for old Sir Prim, the
steeplechaser. Sir Prim, who had jumped hurdles
from his two-year-old days, took kindly to ’chasing
in his old age, and won a National. After that he
appeared to be “home and dry” for the Australian
Steeple, at Caulfield, when he slowed down to a
crawl and was beaten on the post. Apparently the
old chap jibbed at the four-mile job, for never
again was he any good to speak of. Falkiner bought
Sir Prim after he had turned no good, and the stable
had many bad gambles on the animal. Lately the
owner wisely gave Sir Prim away for hunting' pur-
poses to Mrs. Alex. McCracken.
* * » *
“Slip” Carr, the Sydney sprinter, has
been invited to go to M.L. and meet Kirksey,
whom the Americans reckon their fastest bit of
human machinery, next to Paddock. Some of
Carr’s “friends” are urging him to remain on
this side of the heaving waste of waters, alleging
(1) that a three-days’ voyage will spoil his con-
dition (it is admitted that he is in the pink), and
(2) that there is something softer on in Melbourne
about the same time. When Ayres-Oosterlaak, the
Afrikander, came to Sydney to meet the speediest man
in Australia, Carr refused to race on the ridiculous
ground that he was reserving himself for Rugby
football. An acceptance of the M.L. invitation
would redeem his badly-smudged reputation for
sportsmanship. Australia has no use for a cham-
pion who won’t take a chance.
* * * *
By way of showing that the craze for
tennis is not confined to the cities, a country
“carnival” has been dragging on for a week at
Rushoutter’s Bay, Sydney. Color was lent to the
otherwise monotonous proceedings by flocks of
flappers in one-piece gowns and white silk stock-
ings. According to the stern-faced men who prowl
about the courts in the interests of illustrated jour-
nalism, there has never been a more lavish dis-
play of jazz-garters in the local history of the
game. Also, an unrehearsed comic turn was pro-
vided by J. O. Anderson, who, twice foot-faulted
by Dr. McElhone for swinging his left pedal
extremity over the line, plunged into an argument
which the umpire curtly terminated by quitting
his stand. Anderson writes tennis notes for one
of the afternoon papers. In his lucubration next
day he ignored the foot-faulting incident, but effu-
sively mentioned that “Sieler was only able
to secure three games in his rubber with myself,”
and that “the pace of my drives was too severe
for Sieler”; also that “I repeatedly forced him
out of position and finished the stroke with a
delicate drop shot.” Which suggests that, instead
of wrangling with the doctor, the young man should
have invited him to prescribe for a distressing
case of enlargement of the head.
Kensington Gardens, a new Adelaide sub-
urb, runs an annual tennis tournament which has
grown into a big thing. The chief event, this
January, was a surprise. Since R. V. Thomas re-
turned from Sydney, where (with Anderson away
in America) he won the championship of N.S.W.,
he has been thought locally unbeatable. But Milligan
(who had beaten O'Dea) ran him to five sets,
and in the final, the same afternoon, young Stuart
ran through him, 6—4, 7—5, 6—l. In the
doubles, Thomas and “King” Roberts (son of A.
“• the S.A.L.T.A. president) lost to Geoff
Kymn Thomas, the veteran left-hander, with young
Gar Hone, the best of a brilliant fainiiy.
* * * *
, • People who smiled doubtfully
when laden was alleged to have ruined his game
bv the loss of a finger have had their scepticism
confirmed by the report from America that Tilden
has beaten Hunter, the previous indoors champion,
by three sets to one. Hunter is considered the
speediest indoors player in the U.S., and Tilden’s
triumph in circumstances which would be novel
and even embarrassing to grass-court experts must
have proved the needful tonic to revive his droop-
ing spirits. It is worth noting that good indoors
men are not always striking on grass or asphalt,
the only one who, besides Tilden, seems to shine
under any conditions is the comparative French
veteran, Gobert, who did so well for the tricolor
m the Davis Cup last year.
* * * *
lu what was alleged to be positively his
last Australian fight Salvino Jainito stopped Ilavilah
Gren in 13 rounds. It was the most satisfying feast
of stoush that has been provided at Sydney Stadium
for many a month. Uren, who shapes right hand
foremost, took the first round, but Jamito crowded
him after that and won e.very round up to the finish.
The Filipino dropped his opponent for nine in the
12th, but the white fought back so hard when he
got up that the crowd
cheered him to the echo.
In the devil’s round, how-
ever, Jamito dropped him
for three, and when the
paleface was floored again
the referee crowned the
man from Manila.
Jammy is booked to re-
turn to his native jungle
by the Tango Maru on
January 26. It has been
alleged in several ill-
informed papers that he
earned £15,000 in 47 Aus-
tralian fights, but the
amount was nearer £lO,OOO
than £15,000; also, his
manager was entitled to
50 per cent., and a lot of
the balance went t o
Mcßook. Though a prohi-
bited immigrant on pro-
bation Jamito has been in
Australia for .‘5-j- years—
long enough to have ac-
quired a wife and child.
What a thing it is to be
under the patronage (of
Wren!
VAL QUIRK, Mel-
bourne boxing referee.
Jackie Green, who did his best fighting
before he had qualified for the vote, inade one of
his periodical returns to the ring at Brisbane on
Saturday, when he met Jimriiy Ryan, another Syd-
ney product. The argument went 20 rounds, and
the referee gave it to ltyan, whom the secohd-rate
Hunefeld knocked out in half-a-round. Poor little
Jackie!
» * * •
Bert Collins, captain of the A.I.F. and
N.S.W. elevens, and known in a smaller circle as a
shrewd punter, has been appointed assistant stipen-
diary steward, at £5OO a year, to three of the
Sydney pony clubs. His employers do most of their
racing on Wednesdays, but sometimes they will
require Herbert’s services on a Saturday, and it looks
as if his cricket will suffer. When Clem Hill got a
similar job in South Oss he withdrew from the
game, All the same, Collins would be a severe loss
to N.S.W. cricket in its present uncertain condition,
and the pony people will be earnestly entreated to
stretch a point in his favor, more especially as the
man is at the height of his powers. He will be 34
on Jan. 21.
* * * *
The most remarkable feature of Saturday’s
cricket in Sydney was Warren Bardsley’s 122 for
Glebe v. Western Suburbs. The runs were made
at the rate of one a minute—a marvellous speed
for Bardsley, whose batting is generally as lively
as a hen that has been left in the rain. Glebe
got 339, which ought to be a winning score. Waver-
ley (5 for 166) have a comfortable lead over Central
Cumberland (129). Waddington (68 not out) was
largely responsible for Petersham’s 176 v. Gordon
(8 for 110). For Gordon Macartney took 6 for 59
and top-scored with 47, while Sid Everett, Petersham’s
fast bowler, gathered six good wickets, Macartnev’s
and Kellewaiy’s among them, for 56, and a more
agile point might have snapped up. the little man
before he had made a run. Scott, the Marrickville
express, also came off, skittling five for 82. Mos-
man made 170 and Marrickville have lost six for
124—an interesting match. Thanks to P. M. King
(33 and 5 for 35) and H. L. Collins (20 and 5 for
43), Sydney (144) are well ahead of Randwiek (81).
For the latter McNamee took 5 for 33.
* * * *
Scott, the fast bowler, who reappeared for
N.S.W. against S.A., has some remarkable figures
in Sydney premiership cricket. He headed the aver-
ages with 45 at 8.60 in 1914-15, and upset 57 at
10.84 in 1915-16. In 1917-18 his bag was 60 at
11.35, and in 1921-22 he got 20 at 24-40. Recently
he fell foul of the Cricket Association for loudly
criticising the umpire’s decision in a club fixture,
and had to take a few’ weeks’ rest. Nowadays Scott
is the fastest bowler playing cricket in Australia,
and if he trains on, and doesn’t let his fiery tem-
perament overcome him, he will projbably fij'l
McDonald’s place in the next. Australian XI.
The leisurely engagement between South
Melbourne and • Collingwood, iit Melbourne,
ended in a win for ’Wood by 50 runs. Ryder
(6 for 58) and L. Keating (3 for 43) induced
South to retire for 163, of which Allison made
69 and Park 58 n. 0., Woodfull plodding heavily
for 12. University were 141 behind North Mel-
bourne, mainly owing to the bowling of Carlton,
who captured 6 for 47. P’ran had an exciting
two-wicket win against St. Ivilda, Willis, the
P’ran skipper batting finely for 92. Hawthorn-
East got home by 3 wickets and 52 against Carl-
ton. Le Couteur made the victory possible by scor-
ing 101 n.o. Essendon, who were licked by
Richmond by 71, are now level with South at the
bottom of the list, with the awful record of*-4.
Fitzroy, closing with 7 for 305 (Cody 100, Liddi-
eut 74, and H. Lansdowne 64 n. 0.), had no difficulty
in knocking out Northeote for 166, 'A. Lansdown
dismissing 8 for 96.
* * * *
Victoria, which so far has tlio best record
for the Sheffield Shield, is promised further acces-
sions of strength from S.A. A. Richardson, who
knocked up 155 against the Ma State, ’is shifting
to Melbourne, and will probably take the field
for South before the finish of the present argu-
ment for the pennant. Morton, the fast bowler,
of whom Richardson has a great opinion, has also
labelled his traps for the Victorian capital. Which
is distinctly rough on South Oss.
* * * *
“Slip”: Woodful], who lias done well for
1 iotoria this season, is about the most unformed
batsman in first-class cricket. ■He has few graces,
but his habit of watching the ball right on to the
bat has developed his defence to the point that it
is now very difficult to bowl him out. It is
alleged that he has been (lean-bowled twice in the
last four seasons. Seeing that he has only about
three scoring strokes—a drive, a modest cut and a
peculiarly placed shot to leg—his exceptional record
must be due to his patient smothering of all dan-
gerous balls. Yet, with all his lack of polish, he
gets the runs. liis first three knocks for South
Melbourne, after coming from the country, yielded
303, including 156 n.o. Picked for a colts’ match
against a South Australian team, he got 14 and 186
n.o. Two appearances against N.S.W. second
elevens yielded him 34, 20 and 227, the last two
hands without losing his wicket. Promoted to
Sheffield Shield rank for Victoria’s final tussle with
South Australia last year,'he was sent in late and
carried out his bat for 22. Travelling to Perth he
scored 153, and he opened out brilliantly this season
by putting 74 to his credit in the match with Mac-
laren s XI. Against N.S.W. he made 131 for once
out, and against S.A. 115 in the second innings—
scores which largely helped his side to win each match.
If he maintains his defence, while developing his
strokes, he ought to be a champion in a very short
time.
* * * *
“Winkle”: When Jimmy Matthews is on
the job there is. no stopping him. It’s a barrel of
beer to a button that nis achievement of a hat
trick in each innings of a Test Match—a feat he
accomplished against the -South Africans, when a
member of Syd Gregory’s 1912 team in England—
will never be equalled. For a long time after his
return to Australia Matthews was often ill, and
dropped out of first-class cricket, though he played
casually with the Williamstown Diggers. But re-
cently he joined North Melbourne, and has been
doing great things for them. Also, playing for Vic-
toria against N. S. Wales in the inter-State rail-
ways match he took 3 wickets for 24 runs in the
first innings, and in the second he captured eyerv
wicket. His figures were 10 for 9, five clean-
bowled. Taking the whole 10 wickets in one innings
is an unusual feat in any class of cricket. It has
never been accomplished in a Sheffield Shield match,
though George Giffen, playing for South Australia,
in 1892, bagged nine Victorian wickets.
* * * *
W. G. Ingleton, who passed out in Mel-
bourne the other day, got a game or two with the
Victorian XI in the days of Harry Trott, Bruce,
Graham and the tvvo McLeods. But he was better
known as a baseballer. He was the finest second base
this country has seen. The outstanding success of
the only Australian team of ’bailers that has visited
America, he was hailed as “a marvel” by a leading
critic of the game, and the Giants or Red Sox were
recommended to snap him up. But Ingleton didn’t
like the U.S.A. or the methods of its professional
’ball players, and returned home with the team,
whose principal achievement, apart from Billy’s
fielding, was the discovery of mixed-bathing.
* * * *
“Lucius”: A great all-round athlete was
Harry (“Hen”) Young, who recently dropped dead in
the swimming baths at Geelong (Vic.). For 21
years “Hen” w’as a leading League footballer —he
captained Geelong and several inter-State teams—
and for 30 years he was associated with the Corio
Bay Rowing Club a« oarsman, vice-captain and coach.
For six years he coached the Geelong College head-
of-the-river crew. A road cyclist of parts, he com-
peted in a Warranambool-Melbourne race, and as a
swimmer he represented Victoria in at least one
lot of inter-State championships, while he was known
in the coursing world as an owner and trainer of
speedy dogs. Finally, he used to be the best heavy-
weight boxer in his district. Young’s exit, at 49,
leaves troops of friends sorrowing, for he was a
white man through and through.
* * * *
“Azrim” : In butting into the argument
about the greatest all-rounder from Vic. public
schools, “First Slip” (B. 4/l/’23) is painfully in-
accurate. He asserts that Boynton was an oarsman,
and nothing more. But the ’Varsity records show that
Boynton was a quadruple blue. Again “Hartkopf
was commonly regarded as the greatest half-forward
of the year.” I recall Paddy Shea, Dave McNamara
and Harvey Kelly, and pass on. As for “F.S.’s” re-
mark that neither Prout nor Newham nor Gravenall
gained the highest State honors for any brand of
athletics, the facts are that Newham won the Vic.
championship pole vault; Prout, whose score of 459
against Geelong College has been surpassed on onlv
four occasions, has been chosen to represent Banana-
land in sprints and hurdles; and Gravenall wore the
Groperland jersey at an inter-State football carnival,
where the Arges rated him superior on the day to
Rod. McGregor, of Carlton. And what a wonderful
centre Rod. was!
THE TOPIC OF THE HOUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The absorbing topic in tennis circles is the un-
happy incident at the Country v. City match, when
Anderson was twice foot-faulted by the umpire, Dr.
McKlhone, who vacated the stand on his action
being questioned by the player.”—Sydney daily.
Will Jules push Fritz too hard, do you opine,
And strife again distracted Europe tear?
Will Billy Hughes reluctantly resign?
Oh, cut it out! We neither, know nor care.
This is a far more serious affair,
W e’re arguing day and night what should be done,
The world’s bewildered eyes are focussed where
Doc. MeElhone foot-faulted Anderson,
Ihe champ., the nonpareil, the superman, The One!
Has Kemal of Angora ceased his fuss ?
Did the world wrong departed Constantine ?
King off! Far knottier problems we discuss:
Were Andersonian toes across the line,
Stealing, as yours are sometimes found and mine,
When the grim fiat sounded? Can you see
W ithout a shudder running down your spine
An idol narked at such indignity,
And sprinting from his stand a maddened referee?
Are France and Britain severed? Well, we sports
Have more important happenings than that
Obsessing us from the White City courts.
Will Anderson be called upon the mat
To tell them what the devil he was at ?
Will the tribunal his offence condone
When at the sporting law he rudely spat,
Opposing to the umpire’s view his own,
And forth there streaked in righteous wrath Doc.
MeElhone ?
N.s.w.
IFORD.


To Avoid Sickness.
To avoid and to overcome sickness of all
kinds, watch your bowels. Don’t allow old
fermenting food to stay in them for days,
but get it out.
If your stomach is disordered, or your
bowels constipated, if you feel sluggish,
dizzy or bilious, get a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets at once.
They act directly upon the liver, regulate
the bowels, invigorate the stomach, cleanse
the system. The result is a relish for food,
increased strength and a clear head.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are good for con*
stipation, sour stomach and gases on the
stomach. A single dose often relieves these
troubles.
The use of these Tablets is not followed by
constipation as is the case with many laxatives.
Instead of weakening the bowels they strength*
en them to act naturally without assistance.
Chronic constipation may be permanently
relieved by Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
have none of the sickening qualities of pills,
and do not produce an unpleasant effect.
Keep Your Bowels Clean.
That listless, tired, drowsy feeling may be
due to poisonous matter lodged in the bowels.
Many folks who always feel tired and only
“ Jialf alive” will be surprised how much
better they will feel when they get rid of this
matter which has been poisoning their system
for days.
Nervousness, sleeplessness and some kinds
of headaches are frequently signs of poison-
ing of the system through poisons left in the
bowels.
Irritation of the bladder, breathlessness,
so-called weak and fluttering heart, are often
caused by pressure of gas in the intestines—
this gas may originate from decaying food in
the system.
A man is seldom sick when his bowels are
regular, and never well when they are
irregular. Bear this in mind and take
Chamberlain's Tablets as occasion may
require. There is nothing better. They
are mild and gentle in their action and
pleasant to take.
Old Age.
Old age as it comes in the orderly process
of nature is a beautiful and majestic thing.
It stands for experience, knowledge, wisdom,
counsel. That is old age as it should be,
but old age as it often is means poor digestion,
torpid bowels, a sluggish liver and a general
feeling of ill health, despondency and misery.
This in almost every instance is wholly
unnecessary. One of Chamberlain’s Tablets
taken immediately after supper will improve
the digestion, tone up the liver and regulate
the bowels. That feeling of despondency
will give way to one of hope and good cheer.
Children’s Ailments.
Children, like adults, are subject to
disorders of the stomach, liver and Dowels,
and many of the apparently alarming ailments
of childhood are due to these causes.
Constipation is a common trouble among
children and is often the cause of seeming
stupidity at lessons and also of many an
exhibition of temper.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are invaluable for
children. They are pleasant and safe to take
and absolutely without harsh effect.
Half a Tablet is sufficient for children from
six to twelve; for children under six, one-third
of a Tablet will have the desired effect.
If your child is bilious, if its appetite is
poor and variable, if it is fretful and
nattering, restless in its sleep, you may be
sure that its stomach is out of order and a
few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets will
quickly set it right.
Chamberlains
THE home laxative should be safe
for all members of the family,
from the kiddies to the grown-
ups. Chamberlain s Tablets are the
safest remedy for the home. They
strengthen the stomach and induce
the bowels to act without further aid.
If you wish to try before you buy, send
your address and twopence for postage to
Chamberlain’s Ltd., 520 Riley St, Sydney, N.S.W.
&>
►o
BBSs
CDrt
r'.Tp
os
- a-NO
r
H**
vtv*
red
Is'
pt&° V
ss
w»:h
&io«
cS^S*
v r
\|6
nC<
S^D
■
m
j^ptv
■
■
WBBHm
I
mm
: mt
■H
Illustrating an ideal “Morris” Runway System in a
large store.
HERBERT MORRIS
All British
Lifting 8 Handling
Equipment.
All lifting and handling equipment manufactured by the
well-known house of HERBERT MORRIS, LTD.,
Loughborough, England, is tested with 50 per cent, over-
load before leaving the works.
A system of overhead handling is applicable wherever
heavy or bulky goods need to be constantly handled. You
can readily imagine the practical reduction in handling
costs in your own business when you realise the enormous
amount of time that an overhead crane or runway system
can save you. Then, again, the handling is safer and
surer. If you have a lifting or handling problem we
can offer equipment built bv HERBERT MORRIS
LTD., to meet it with thoroughness and profit.
l l
“Morris” Electric Hoist.
“MORRIS”
Lifting Blocks.
“HERBERT MORRIS” Blocks and Hoists cover
a large Tange of duties for any description of over-
head handling, and we invite inquiries for Triple
Gear, Spur and Warm Gear, Chain Blocks and
Electric Hoists, also Overhead Runways, Cranes,
Jacks, Elevating Trucks, Convevor Systems, etc.
All “Morris”-built equipment is rated with full
British ton capacity, and all parts are inter-
changeable.
SUBMIT YOUR PROBLEMS TO US.
Send you inquiries now
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle; 125 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane. (MELBOURNE PTY., LTD.), 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne, and
Darling Building, Adelaide. Also from J. R. W. GARDAM, 138 Murray Street, Perth.
Recently died in London, in his 82nd year,
W. A. Horn, pastoralist, legislator, sculptor,
versifier, author and banker. He was born
in N.S.W., but was schooled at St. Peter’s
College, Adelaide, and, later, at Worcester
College, Oxford. Horn was one of the origi-
nal proprietors of Moonta copper-mines, an
early pioneer of Silverton, and was in-
terested in Broken Hill, as well as West-
ralian mining. He sat for Flinders in the
S. Aus. Parliament (1887-93), and equipped
the Horn Scientific Expedition to Central
Australia in 1894.
“Sucre’s” story:—
I was in Brisbane when Clement L. Wragge came back
from Europe with the plans of a “Stiger Vortex” —
the Austrian anti-hailcloud gun—bulging out of his
carpet-bag. A firm of Brisbane engineers built
two of these weapons for Clement, at Government
expense, the artillery bearing a strong resemblance to
shooting-gallery tubes. When the clouds failed to
weep at Mount Morgan for over nine months, and the
M. M. Gold Mining Co.’s dams consisted of black mud
and eels, Wragge rushed his ordnance to the front.
The first discharge produced a series of concentric
rings of pale-blue smoke —the second occasioned the
biggest stampede for safety' I ever witnessed in C.Q.
The breech had blown out of the alleged rain-maker.
For my part, I was shot into a bunch of Bathurst-
burr fully 10 yards away. Clement, like a prudent
general, withdrew in good order to his hotel. The
last I saw of Stiger, a Mount Morgan “stinker” had
got his head and horns firmly planted in the breech.
A local policeman decapitated the goat to save the
shooting-iron, and then had to smash the breech to
get the unhappy creature’s head out.
“G.” : The latest eccentricity comes from
Cyril Scott, some of whose songs have been
dedicated to Edward Goll and are well
known here. Cyril’s musical formula com-
bines occultism with the glandular theory.
He conceives that every musical composition
produces a thought and color form in astral
space. For example, if the preponderating
colors be lilac, violet, blue, pink, yellow and
apple-green, it follows that the work is one of
intrinsic spiritual value. This isn’t as easy
to do as it looks; for according to Cyril
“this method of gauging the spiritual value
of art is only possible to him who has awak-
ened the 'latent faculties of the pineal gland
and pituitary body.” It’s up to Alf Hill
and Fritz Hart to add a surgery to their old-
fashioned Conservatoriums, where pupils
would have their glands operated on before
they were allowed to take up the violin.
“Wessel”: The Giles who came south from
the Territory the other day was not a brother
of Ernest Giles, the explorer, as one of the
Sydney papers said. But he was something
of an explorer himself, having been the first
man to follow McDouall Stuart across the
centre of Australia. He took cattle to the
Territory for Dr. Brown, and has been in
those parts most of the time since. Giles
has kept a diary right through, and it will
be worth a lot some day.
“Yardley”: “Norbell’s” reminiscence of
Rignold’s manner of dealing with a boozer
(B. 30/11/’22) recalls to me a stratagem of
clever stage-work by which Rignold pulled
through an awkward predicament. He and
the heroine’s lover were gathering the sub-
climaxes of the play into amalgamation
for the denouement. The lover was too
drunk even to stand upright, and Rignold
was prompting and skilfully dragging the
delinquent through his part. Derisive com-
ments were showered upon the actors, and
there arose gruff shouts of “Order! Order!”
Quick as a flash, George roared, “Stop that
shouting ‘Order.’ You make more noise than
anyone else.” Amidst the tumult Rignold
piloted the drunk off the stage. He must
have been generously dosed with soda and
other restoratives, for, at his next entry,
he managed his part much as usual.
Concerning that morose cynic, “Props”:—
The property-man usually feels a pitying contempt
for the author, while his opinion of the producer is
unprintable. We had done some weeks of a Bris-
bane season with Lizette Parkes, Cj'ril Mackay,
Arthur Styan and others, and “The Third Degree”
was about to happen. I was s.m., and I handed
the script to Props to copy out his plot. I was a
bit apologetic about it, because <he first scene was
in the rooms of an art connoisseur, and there were
two or three closely-typed foolscap pages of require-
ments. They began with “oil paintings by Velasquez,
Rubens, Vandyck, Teniers and Titian, a water-color
by Cattermole,” and so on through an old curiosity-shop
inventory of statuary, Chippendale furniture, china,
cabinets, tapestries and so on, winding up with
“Important: A beautiful antique carved Japanese
screen, in ivory, gold and ebony.” Props glanced
at it. “’Struth!” was his comment. He read it
through, and then scribbled something on the back
of an old envelope. I had a look at his transcript.
He had considerably modified the author’s demands,
for the property’ list now read, “Pictures on wall.
Best furniture. Screen, left.” “But” , I began.
“ ‘But,’ be jiggered,” he said decisively, “tell Cyril
Mackay to put in a line about having the vacuum-
cleaners in, or something.”
“Thorold”: I have never seen a more con-
vincing scenic effect upon an Australian
stage than Rege Robins’s glimpse, in “The
O’Brien Girl,” of a long stretch of lake
country in the Adirondacks. It really gives
the illusion of water and tree-clad land
running 20 or 30 miles back, and reminds
me of an amazing Alpine set which the
Geneva Swiss reserve at their fine opera-
house for a favorite national opera, unknown
outside their own country and Baris. In
that case one could come straight off the
real ice, yet freeze again with the scenic
realism. Geneva’s opera-house, by the way,
is .an exact replica in miniature of the Paris
Grand Opera, and its resplendent foyer is
now used for many brilliant international
galas in connection with the League of
Nations.
Holden, Boyd, McLennan, Andrews and
Appleton have been re-appointed on Melb.
Harbor Trust for five years. Holden,
whose job is worth £l5OO a year, graduated
on Geelong Harbor Trust when he was also
Assembly member for Warrenheip. Boyd
and McLennan are also ex-politicians. Bent
made Boyd an Hon. Minister when he sat
for Melb. in the Assembly. Later he was
in the Reps, for Henty, which refused to
give him a renewal in 1919 or on December
16 last. McLennan was Assembly member
for Barwon from 1917 till 1920, when he
was washed out on an anti-temperance wave.


Mats
iiniili'- , |
neat!
F
jh.
%
*d;
That s the New Captive Cap
fitted to the
DENTAL CREAM
IS'
C o**tt
W 2
Oft'
ooo?
«ta*V
«rt»°
nl**
«ttf
oSl°
.ftlß
tube that everybody is talking about to-day. That’s
the attachment which prevents the cap running away
down waste pipes and under baths.
Father is trying to apply the idea to a Cap-
tive Collar Stud. He says that it saves his
time and temper in the morning to such an
extent that dressing’s a pleasure. Not only
that, but with the Captive Cap the Kolynos
Dental Cream can’t possibly remain uncovered,
so that there is no danger Whatever of
deterioration.
Don’t forget, the Captive Cap is only on
Kolynos Tubes.
If you do not know Kolynos Dental
Cream, send for a sample to-day. The
big tube you buy from your chemist or
storekeeper is fitted with the new Captive Cap.
Pj -».e , end me hngt ° n Street,'VeS*’ Ad^
Kot ™“ crejm
Add
rena
K— 107
Ws/fy/
m
Ys/a
s
a
SI
s.
1
8 sr
■
r Shaves with incomparable ease and
smoothness, not a mower, but —
A RAZOR THAT REALLY
SHAVES!
PRICE, 12/6 EACH.
Ivory Grain White Handle, 15/-; Real Ivory Handle,
21/-; Presentation Case, to hold two razors, free with
pair of razors.
Seven-day Plum Razor Sets, 85/-, 100/-, 140/-
Blades, fin. or fin., set ready for use and guaranteed ant
kept in order for two years free.
Plum Razor Strops, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6 each, post free
anywhere.
Country visitors: Call on us for your hairdressing
needs. We provide the finest and most efficient
service in the best-equipped Hairdressing Saloon in
Sydney
'A
?'A
’udtmifa
LOWE’S
Clean Sweep Sale
*r-
■
m
the most favourable
time for purchasing
a suit to-order
10 °lo —2/- in the £
at least off all
Tailoring.
Many Prices
Reduced 33°/ 0
6JB in the £
THREE EXTRA SPECIALS
of which Fox’s No. 99 Serge
deserves special mention
,ne common'
-90/-
Men's Sac Suits, to-order, from Fox’s famous No. 99 Serge. This
is an all-wool Cheviot Suiting of pure Indigo dye. At its ordinary
price it cannot be approached for value throughout the Common-
wealth ; at this special price it is no exaggeration to
call it the most wonderful sales offer ever made. Usual
Price, £5. Less 10 per cent. Clean Sweep Price
Fine Twill Indigo Serge
Reduced nearly 25 •/•
Men's Sac Suit, to-order, from fine, all-wool, Twill Serge; Indigo
dye, guaranteed sun, rain, and acid proof. The quality of this
suiting more than compensates for the little
extra in cost. Usual Price, £7/7/-. Reduced to
£6,6/-. Less 10 per cent. Clean Sweep Price
.lie quailly ui uiia
£5/13/6
West of England Worsteds
specially reduced in price
Men’s Sac Suit, to-order, from West of England all-wool Worsteds
in the season’s most favoured patterns. Tailored in any of the
latest styles, and according to client’s own wish.
Usual Price, £8 8;-. Reduced to £7/7/-. Less!
10 per cent. Clean Sweep Price
irea in any ui uic
£6/12/6
£4 4
£5 0
£5 15
£6 15
£7 15
£8 8
Other Reductions
0 Less 10 per cent. £3 15
0 Less 10 per cent. £4 10
0 Less 10 per cent. £5 3
0 Less 10 per cent. £6 1
0 Less 10 per cent. £6 19
0 Less 10 per cent. £7 11
6
0
6
6
6
0
Clean Sweep ends February 24th. All
oraeis in the post by that date will
be executed at the above prices .
a' JgSfe
r
Jowe's «/?&
Box I6ZZ GP O ejK
•Please post me patterns of English Worsteds,
tweeds, and Serges for suits to order at Clean
Sweep Prices ; also Self-measurement Form , etc.
Name
j. ddress
Lowe’s sell it for Less . Lowe’s pay carriage
The Leading Merchant Tailor
STORES ALL OVER TOWN , SYDNEY.


AN ITALIAN SOFT FELT
for Excellent Service.
sdf
This smooth-finish Felt of really
good quality is one certain to give
satisfactory service.
It has a medium crown, brim
with unbound edge, and 2in. band
with bow at side.
The colors are Dark Fawn and
Smoke —either of which will prove
sunproof and unfading.
Price 35/-
Pcapes Pay Postage.
Please state size and color.
PEAPES ®. CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS.
309-312 George Street, Sydney.
FATHERS!
What more suitable wedding present for
your daughter than a cabinet of Spoons and
Forks and Cutlery?
The “Fx and R ” Spoons and Forks are
the most heavily plated.
They are plated on hard, white nickel
bases. They will wear like silver for 40
years.
They are practically heavy sheaths of
silver covering the hard, white base.
They engrave like solid silver.
They are the best, yet far away the
lowest in price on the market.
sdfg
Handsome Oak Canteen, containing
47 pieces, Spoons and Forks and
Cutlery £2O 0 0
Less 20 p.c. discount 4 0 0
FAIRFAX
ROBERTS LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Sally”
Criterion “Eyes of Youth”
Royal “Cinderella”
Palace “The Sentimental Bloke”
Fuller’s New “Spangles”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Cairo”
Royal “The Maid of the Mountains”
King’s “The Forty Thieves”
Princess’s “The O'Brien Girl”
Palace “Dick Whittington’’
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦
Melbourne’s latest shows, unanimously
picturesque and musical, are still appealing
to the holiday spirit of the period. Even
“Cairo,” which mixes much murder and
grief with its music and magnificence, and
where incidental animals preserve a natural
gravity, foreign to the four-legged friends
we meet in panto—even “Cairo,” at Her
Majesty’s, has a special attraction for the
frivolous in its Orgie scene. Melbourne is
glad to see how wild festivities were con-
ducted at old Egyptian palaces in the days
of Nur-al-Din, and is naturally comforted
by the discovery that merriment and bright-
ness have improved a lot since then. The
Orgie is but a mere Eastern pretence of
razzle-dazzle, judged from a modern Aus-
tralian point of view. The old Egyptian
conception of a gay time has no apparent
sincerity. Roysterers don’t royster worth
a cent in a St. Ivilda beach sense of the
term, though they compare not unfavorably
with a fancy-dress ball in the cause of
charity. However, the Egyptians seem to
have kept it up with more zest. They
didn’t go home till morning, because
they all slept the sleep of the unrighteous
on the old palace floor meanwhile, and the
early dawn (or was it pale moonlight?)
peeped in to see they were all laid out,
neatly as sardines in their final resting-
place.
* >:-• * *
“The O’Brien Girl,” at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, tells its graceful story to admiring
throngs eight times a week. Popularity has
descended like a dove on the tout ensemble
of Hugh Ward’s show. The domestic affairs
of the Drexels and the Pattens are matters
of common interest. A thrill of fellow-feel-
ing greets the tearful confession by Mark
Daly (as Drexel) that it is a terrible thing
for a man to be afraid of his wife, but, on
the other hand, there is joy among the
angels when Mark’s brief rebellion is sup-
pressed by May Beatty. Melbourne likes
Daly, of the husky voice. There is nothing
too violent and grotesque about his comedy,
save a sham tip to his nose, which suggests
that it could not survive an influenza epi-
demic. Without waiting for the epidemic
he might as well blow it off. False nose-
tips are no longer in fashion, outside of
panto. Daly could do without a facial dis-
figurement that reflects on the taste and
intellect of his two stage wives. The wife
who divorced him (Ena Dale) was not
present at last Saturday’s matinee, a comely
girl with an almost inaudible speaking voice
serving as understudy.
Melbourne King’s makes an advt. feature
of the fact that Ali Baba distributes sweets
among the children at every matinee —a dis-
tressing reminder to numerous kiddies who
happened not to get some. Also bargain
matinees four days a week are announced, so
that any child who stays away from “The
Forty Thieves” will only have its parents to
WILL REDSTONE, conductor of “The
O’Brien Girl,” at Melbourne Princess’s.
blame. Cannot, Brennan, Mona Magnet
and the rest of them continue to do their
best for the Taits’ panto. The well-dressed
entertainment contains more bustle and
noise than at first, but is still short of sea-
soning for that class of dish.
“Dick Whittington,” at Melbourne Palace,
persists in giving new aspects to the road
whereby London’s mayoral crown is reached.
Nobody worked in Alderman Fitzwarren’s day.
When in doubt the shapeliest young drapers
sang coon songs. Both Dorothy Lena and
Trixie Ireland burst into song very pleas-
ingly, the first-named, being the hero of the
contorted tale, having a fairy queen to
warble for her—or, rather, him—when
danger threatens. Moreover, the alderman
himself (Harry Thurston) sings when he
ought to be giving his thoughts to ribbons
and underclothing, and his neat ditty about
Uncle Joe deserves more careful enunciation.
In some respects, though, the world has not
changed since Whittington lived. It seems
that his Cat ate the canary.
Last nights of “Maid of the Mountains”
promise to extend over another week at Mel-
bourne Royal. The revival has confirmed all
good theatregoers in the opinion that comic-
operas so “classy” as this come to them only
as rare compensation for the worst things
they have suffered.
* * * *
Allen Doone is due back in Melbourne on
Saturday. He and the co. will plant the
flag of Old Ireland at the New Gaiety,
where the first drama of the series will be
“Lucky O’Shea.”
** * *
Hoyt’s Melbourne followers are captivated
this week by the capers of Harold Lloyd in
“Grandma’s Boy.” It is a' diverting tale
of Harold shedding his simplicity and find-
“EYES OF YOUTH,"
AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
John Fernside as Kenneth.
ing in stoush the charm of life. “The Young
Diana,” follows. In Hoyt’s third offer-
ing, "“Out of the Silent North,” the course
of true love is alternately hampered by the
awful climate and the Other Fellow. A
windjammer romance, “Godless Men.” brings
a beautiful castaway into prominence at
the Majestic. Also, there is “Restless Souls,”
wherein the trials of a plain husband with
a “literary” wife are depicted with unusual
humor. “How Women Love,” at the Bri-
tannia, is not a treatise on the vamp, but
another lame tale of the pew-er in-no-cent
who gets into the clutches of a wealthy capi-
talist. The Melba, announces that “Youth
Must Have Love,” and has Shirley Mason
to prove it.
W., B. Mclnnes’s portrait of Prof. Harri-
son Jiloore deserved the Archibald prize for
1922. At any rate, no other body of judges,
with present-day ideas of art, would have
been likely to award it to any other por-
trait out of the large and varied collection
submitted. This is the second time the
prize has gone to Mclnnes, and if he con-
tinues to improve as rapidly as he has done
since his win last year, it is likely that he
will be able to regard the Archibald £4OO
as part of his regular annual income.
Mclnnes employs hit-or-miss methods, but he
achieves so remarkable a degree of illusion as
to suggest great possibilities if he will only
pin less faith to technique for the sake of
it; make his record more scientifically : and
use about half the quantity of paint that he
now ladles on to his canvas. Such changes
might prejudice his chances in future Archi-
bald competitions, but they would guarantee
a very valuable contribution to the art of
this country.
“The Sentimental Bloke” is still deliver-
ing the goods at Sydney Palace. The cast
is full of “bits of all right,” and the Spad-
ger’s Lane pastoral will take a lot of beat-
ing in the realm of wholesome burlesque.
* * * *
Ada Reeve has returned to “Spangles” at
Fuller’s Theatre, Sydney, amid the loud roar
of welcome and the glad tumult of acclaim.
With the gifted Ada, Gus McNaughton and
the rest, “Spangles” is rich in infinite
variety.
* * * *
“The’ Eyes of Youth,” at Sydney Cri., are
due to have their pearl-tinted lids dropped
over them. “The Flaw,” a four : act play
especially written forrEmelie Polinj, will be
first-nighted on Saturday week. Miss Doris
Jones and the actress herself are the co-
authoresses, and it should be interesting to
have the Polini’s own idea, or some of it, of
a thoroughly congenial role.
❖ ❖ ❖ jJc
“Mother Goose,” Fuller’s big panto, at the
Hippodrome, is proving a regular “Pied
Piper” in its drawing power. Besides its
natty damsels and mirthful comedians, it’s
full of monkeys and dancing teddy-bears and
birds and acrobats and enchantment and
snap and sparkle.
** * *
At Sydney Grand Opera House “Little
Bo Peep” continues to lose her jumbucks
and have them restored to her, tails and all.
There are, in addition, swans, frogs, geese,
spiders, calves, fish, fireflies and various
other attractions, disporting themselves in
their native haunts. It’s a stupendous show,
with an exceedingly handsome principal boy.
** * *
“Sally” is knocking’em with a merry clang'
at Her Majesty'Sydney, and the joy is par-
ticularly unconfined over the Terpsichorean
section. Sydney is assuredly taking Josie Mel-
ville to its expansive heart. Grade Lavers
is a bright-eyed packet of attractiveness, who
sings pleasingly, while George Lane and
Gaston Mervale weigh in with some very
sound acting.
** * *
Ethel Hook has left Sydney Tivoli, and
Eddie and Decima McLean have arrived.
They are dancers who rely mostly upon their
whirlwind and spectacular display of mus-
cularity, unlike Lola and Senia, who are
still on deck, and feature a quieter brand
of artistry. A hilarious drunk sketch
is provided by Bradley and Hamilton. May
Sherrard is back, and Billy Maloney is sing-
ing amorously through tiis nose of Kitty
Kelly.
** * #
Sydney Lyceum features Nazimova in “A
Doll’s House.” “One Week of Love” has
arrived at the Piccadilly. This is the pic-
ture that was given a private screening at
the Wentworth Hotel. The Rialto, a house
that shows as good a film as any but at a
smaller figure, presents “The Young Diana,”
a Marie Corelli thriller. The Strand blows
cold and hot with “Nanook of the North”
and “Tracks,” which-is a tale of bad, bold
cow-punchers, “Blood and Sand” is at the
Globe. The Crystal Palace has opened its
doors to “The Old Nest,” a flicker which, so
far as sobs are concerned, should outpace
that watery masterpiece, “Over the Hill.”
* * *' =!:
At Adelaide Dampier is about to re-open
Austral Gardens; meanwhile the Serenaders
under Huxham’s lead are trying something
quite new on the other side of North Ter-
race—a Red Riding Hood panto, in the open
with daylight afternoon performances occa-
sionally. The Royal is again closed, after
an Allen Doone season ; he put in some fine
work as a kindly priest in his final offering.
At the Majestic the variety programme goes
on twice daily, weather or no; Carlton Max
and Con Moreni are keeping return en-
gagements. Constance. Talmadge, at the
York, is a Ming Toy heroine in “East
is West”; Alice Brady shows the “snares
and pitfalls that beset business girls” of the
U.S.A., at the Grand; Charlie Chaplin con-
tinues his double role in “The Idle Class,”
at the Pav; Wondergraph, in “The Good
Provider,” asks both laughter and tears for
a sentimental Jewish family; at West’s
“The Sheik’s Wife” (English made) has
all the burning sand and blood that the
title implies.
“T. 0.1.”: Printed that Frank Talbot is
arranging to have Melbourne’s Athenaeum
Hall transformed into a theatre “suitable
for the production of high-class comedy.” The
present building dates from 1843. It used
to be known as the Mechanics’ Institute, and
served as a town hall before the existing
hotel de ville arrived.
“Malua”: Some years ago a speculator
brought a merry-go-round and waxworks
show to Samoa with the object of giving the
unsophisticated islanders a treat. When the
properties arrived an accident caused one
case full of waxwork figures to collapse just
as it was being unloaded into the lighter
alongside the steamer. Several blackboys
were working the cargo, and when they saw
what appeared to be a well-preserved human
head descending on them there was one wild
yell, and the whole gang went over the side.
It took a lot of persuasion before the last
of those crates was unshipped.
“Floater”: Willy Redstone, who com-
mands Hugh Ward’s orchestra at Melbourne
Princess’s, was born in Paris in 1884. He
is a graduate of Paris University and went
through the local Conservatoire. Students
at that institution are forbidden to pro-
duce in public, so Redstone Anglicised
his French monniker when he wanted to try
a little operetta, “Le Trou d’Almanzor,” on
the Parisian populace. He has since done
good work as a light-opera composer, and one
of his efforts is well known to Australia as
“A Night Out.” He is a nephew of Charles
Gounod, and one of his cousins manages the
Opfera Comique.
Blackfriars”: A bunch of mummers
favorably known in Australia in supporting
Marie Lohr in her new play, “The Laughing
Lady, by Sutro, which replaces “The Re-
turn. ’ She has with her Godfrey Tearle as
“SALLY,” AT HER MAJESTY’S,
SYDNEY.
Comedian George Lane as the inebriated
Dulce of Czechogovinia, discovers a new
use for the cords on footmen.
leading man, Violet Vanbrugh, Henrietta
Watson and Herbert Ross, who used to be
victimised for his own good by the Messen-
ger from Mars in William Hawtrey’s show.
Charles Hawtrey, by the vray, is producing
Marie’s play for her.
“Beamish”: The extent to which O. Henry
became involved in the drama was not fully
covered by “Whitebait” (B. 21/12/’22).
“Alias Jimmy Valentine” was written by
Paul Armstrong for H. B. Warner, who was
urgently in need of a play to restore his
wilting popularity in Chicago. Handed the
O. Henry story, “A Retrieved Reformation,”
by Warner’s manager, George Tyler, Arm-
strong retired to solitary confinement in a
pub and produced the script in four weeks.
O. Henry had previously sold the dramatic
rights for 500 dollars, and, with brimming
pockets, he went on his happy way without
arranging for a cut of the receipts, and
thereby lost a share of over 100,000 dollars.
Tyler, who had high hopes of making O.
Henry a dramatist, tried to produce the
needful inspiration by sending hifii audited
statements of “Valentine’s” prosperity. The
hard-up author, then living at Asheville,
North Carolina, promised to come to New
York and set up the scaffolding of a drama
if Tyler would advance him 750 dollars. Re-
peated appeals brought the cash, and Henry,
but the latter’s resolution vanished in sundry
“welcome-homes” from favored pals, and the
next Tyler heard was that the yarn-spinner
had gone over the edge from pneumonia.
“0.K.” : Frequent mention .of Alberto Zel-
man since he conducted orchestras in Berlin
and London reminds one that the talent of
the Zelman family runs in all shapes. Old
Alberto Zelman, the musical identity who
introduced the name to Melbourne, left five
sons, of whom the present Alberto is the
eldest and most musically distinguished.
The second son, Victor, follows in his father’s
footsteps by conducting the band on Flem-
ington racecourse lawns. Ernest, the third
son, is a picture painter and a flautist, who
has done much travelling in his time with
J.C.W. opera companies. Another son runs
a music-shup at Newcastle (N.S.W.), and
the youngest, Ernest, is about as versatile as
they make them. Before the war he was a
teacher of the piano. Then he enlisted and
did very well in the fighting line, the new
business giving him an utter distaste for the
sedentary town life he had lived of yore. He
decided to go on the land when he returned
to Australia, instead of going on with music,
and the thing he saw money in was pig-
breeding. For a while he studied the idio-
syncrasies of pigs on the Earl of Ellesmere’s
stud-farm, near Manchester. Three years
ago he came back to his native land, bringing
pedigree pigs with him, since when he has
lived mostly in hot Tatura and built himself
a pretty home, of his ow r n artistic design,
when he was not travelling around with his
pigs and taking first prizes at agricultural
shows. Now, for family health reasons, he
is going to dwell at Hepburn Springs, Dayles-
ford (Vic.). He and his brother ATctor mar-
ried two of the Borsa girls, whose late father
dated back to the Jim Crow gold-rush, and
whose name has been associated with a guest-
house at Hepburn Springs for as long as
tourists have flocked thither to drink the
waters.


A Message to
Australian Manufacturers.
Australia possesses enormous potential wealth in her manufac-
turing industries; she has the resources and facilities to develop
into a great manufacturing country.
One of the primary necessities is efficient equipment.
For sixty-four years
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
has been the standard belting for efficient power transmission.
Many of Australia’s largest industrial enterprises use it
exclusively.
The illustration shows a portion of the enormous biscuit-making factory of
William Arnott, Ltd., Homebush, N.S.W., where Pioneer Leather Belting
is used on all main drives, and almost every other drive throughout the
plant.
J. C. LUDDWICI & SON LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
Protect it with
TEXACO,
the clean,
clear oil.
here
Run it with
TEXACO,
the Volatile
Motor Spirit.
THE WRIST-PIN BEARING
It gets the full power impulse that
takes you over the road at 20, 40 or
60 miles per hour.
It works in a temperature from 300
to 500 degrees Fahrenheit.
There’s the real test of a lubricant.
Texaco Motor Oil is right for wrist-
pin bearings, crank-shaft, cylinder-
walls, and for every other part of
- r our motor—and stays right. It
keeps your engine free from the
knocks that annoy. It ensures the
care-free feeling that goes with a
smooth-running car.
Give your Motor Texaco Motor Oil —
the oil that perfectly cushions the
bearing surfaces —the oil that holds
all its good qualities under difficult
operating conditions.
Watch your motor respond.
THE TEXAS COMPANY
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.,
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
a
m
n
M
m
yr.
THE Latest Song- Success—
“IRELAND’S
RIGHT NEXT DOOR
TO HEAVEN,”
2/1
By Dennis Magnire. (POSTED)
The greatest Irish song since “Mother Machree.’
The
PLAYOTONE
Player-Piano
Creates and Sustains
a Youthful Atmosphere.
The moods and fancies of youth find sympathetic under-
standing in the glorious reproductions from the sensitive
mechanism of the PLAYOTONE PLAYER-PIANO.
In the early years of musical effort, attainment seems so
difficult and so far away—and it is just here that the
PLAYOTONE Player-Piano encourages the determina-
tion in youth to strive to something in musical spheres.
A new source of happiness and harmony awaits you and
yours the moment you instal into your home a
PLAYOTONE PLAYER-PIANO.
Paling’s Easy Terms may be extended over a period of
three years—and the value of your Piano taken as part
payment.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
price particulars, and easy-payment terms to-day.
Paling’s for Everything Musical.
PIANOS,
Violins,
Cornets,
’Cellos,
Flutes,
Autoharps,
Zithers.
Bagpipes,,
Saxophones,
Guitars,
Mandolins,
Clarionets,
Banjos,
Ukuleles,
Accordeons,
Concertinas,
Trombones.
etc.
Send for Free Catalogue of the instrument
you are interested in.
5i»D/lEy.
rtMD AT
BRlSßflttfc.nE.WtflJTLt.
TOOWOOMRR UXMORt,
ROCKHAMPTON.


H Alston” Windmill Plant
I wll assure a Plentiful Supply of Water
for Household, Stock and Garden.
No other \windmill is so sensitive to light
winds, stronger or more durable, lower in cost,
or easier and Reaper to erect and maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gear's, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubri-
cation and Stonu-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture windmills in all sizes, from
sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
on application.
“Alston” Windmills
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS PTY. LTD.
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
sdfgs
5’
'WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents s
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
Poverty
Point
L.T.LPIVER, PARIS
The FACE POWDER
de Luxe
“Orb”: The most convincing stage-fight I
ever saw occurred at Armidale (N.S.W.).
The Alfred Dampier Dramatic Co. had
arrived late, and two local youths were
snared from the audience to make a riotous
crowd required in “To the West,” an out-
break by Colonel Kenneth Mackay, M.L.A.
The two supers had no rehearsal, but they
got vague instructions to “go on and fight
with Mr. Dampier.” They did. One enthusi-
ast gave the old man a vicious left hook in
the solar plexus, while the other landed a
snorter on the point. The rag descended
hurriedly, the star being down and out for
ten —or a hundred, for that matter. When
we brought the old man to, his first amiable
remark was very characteristic. “Poor
chaps!” he said; “they certainly did their
best!”
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos Barrington’s alleged
prologue (B. 4/l/’23). Alfred Lee, a Syd-
ney collector, dug it up in “Original Poems
and Translations from Lorenzo de Medici,
chiefly by Susannah Watts, 1802.” On
turning over the pages he found several Pro-
logues by a Gentleman. Of one, “suitable
to be spoken on any occasion,” it was ex-
plained that “the newspapers having
announced that a theatre was to be opened
in Sydney Town, Botany Bay, and plays to
be performed by the conv’cts. this prologue
is supposed to have been spoken by Mr.
Barrington on that occasion, 1801.” There
is no doubt about the,wit of “True patriots
we,” but there is a great doubt about the
authorship.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: A Sydney paper pub-
lishes an American photograph of “Miss
May Wirth riding King Jess,” and adds
that May is a daughter of one of the circus
“THE FORTY THIEVES;” AT
MELBOURNE KINO’S.
The comic sailor.
ts. fehe is really a daughter of a one-
u|tni|Kjr performer at Wirths’ circus, and
;u tra tried by Marizles Wirth. Marizles,
bit wonderful rider, is a sister of the
e 3 b -others (incidentally, much their
and the only other girl of the
is Phyllis, Philip’s daughter, also a
fine rider and dancer. Strictly speakin«-,
there isn’t a Wirth girl at all, now, for
Phyllis Wirth is Mrs. Blackmore, and
Marizles is Mrs. White.
“Nimshi” : I agree with J.F.H. (B. 4/l/’23)
that Forbes-Robertson was the daddy of
them all as Hamlet. Tree wore a beard for
the part, and was jumpy and melodramatic.
Martin Harvey was self-conscious, and had
Sydney Carton mannerisms ; F. R. Benson
was unmemorable. Forbes-Robertson out-
distanced them all. Gifted as he was with
a majestic presence, a splendid voice and a
distinguished intellect, he seemed endowed by
Nature and by learning taught to imper-
sonate the Dane to the life. His interpre-
tation of the great soliloquies impressed one
as self-revelation rather than acting.
“Norbell”: That the hundred-guinea prize
dangled by Sydney Daily Telegraph for the
best original Australian play should have
attracted2lsdramatic efforts is not surprising.
Nearly everybody thinks he or she can build
a play. Graham Browne said that Marie
Tempest, during her season in Sydney, regu-
larly had 10 or 12 masterpieces submitted
each week. Gregan McMahon is persistency
bombarded with deathless works, and he con-
scientiously hands out his “opinions” to
scores of sprouting dramatists. The 215
titles have been published. They range from
“Oh, Ye Estate Agents!” to “The Power of
Love and Patriotism.” I don’t envy the
judges their job.
“Santander” : Wilfred Cotton, Ada Peeve's
husband, who was here with her in 1917-18.
has got control of a new London show called
“Kiki.” Dot Brunton and Alfred Frifh
have parts in it, and for the leading rO’e
Cotton has annexed the Broadway star,
Lenore Ulrich. lenore was born in Mil-
waukee and escaped from a poor stock com-
“THE FORTY TUT FIVES” PANTO, AT
MELBOURNE KINO’S.
Jack Cannot (AH Baba) asks the audience
to join in the chorus.
pany to take the chief part in “The Bird
of Paradise,” in which Muriel Starr and
Louis Kimball w r ere much thrown together
in the Commonwealth. She followed this
up by leaving few critics dry-eyed in “The
Heart of Wetona,” an Injun romance pro-
duced by Belaseo, and she was the original
Rose Bocion in “Tiger Rose,” another Bel-
asco show, which also had an innings here,
with Marie Ilka competing w'ith a realist c
thunderstorm for the audience’s approval.
“Cmsar’s Ghost” : Sara Bernhardt’s Aus-
tralian season was most notable for the
flick-flick of leaves that punctuated her per-
formances. Students of French carried
translations of her plays to the theatre, and
followed the magic lines with a devotion
that annoyed her extremely. On one occa-
sion at Adelaide the leaf-turners were
puzzled by a quickly-uttered phrase. Vainly
they searched their tomes for the strange
words. Annoyed by a draught, the lady
had interrupted the action of the drama by
commanding a pampered menial, in the lan-
guage of her country, to “shut that damned
door.”
“Peter”: Rachmaninoff, the Russian pian-
ist, who is due out here about the middle of
the year, seems to be always figuring in
stories concerning his Prelude. In the latest
anecdote to hand he was invited to a swell
party at Palm Beach, U.S., and being asked
to relieve the boredom of the evening, strode
up to the piano and played the much-fingered
composition. “I’m sure you know that,”
he said to his hostess when he had finished,
and the lady answered immediately: “Why
of course, that’s Beethoven’s Prelude.’
“Quite right,” returned the Russian, “though
I ought to tell you in confidence that Bee-
thoven stole it from me.”
From Lute Drummond :
Perhaps it would interest “C. McL” (B. 4/l/’23)
to know that Boito’s “Mefistofele” was one of the
works included in my “Six Stories of the Opera,”
given during his absence abroad. The opera is in
truth a musical treatment of the philosophic side of
Goethe’s drama. Whereas Gounod wove his produe-
tion round the love-story of Faust and Marguerite,
Boito, having already written the libretti of “Otello”
and “Falstatf” for Verdi, made the conflict between
Mefistofele and Faust the pivot of his inspiration.
But “C. McL ’ is mistaken in his impressioi) that the
Almighty figures in the Prologue. Cherdbim and
seraphim act as the Divine mouthpiece. “Mefistofele”
(Chaliapin was the name-character’s peerless inter-
preter) w T as followed by another work, “Nerone,”
which was to have been performed at La Scala, after
Boito’s death, a couple of years back. If my
memory serves me rightly, the citizens of Milan
voted a million lire for its production.
“Thersites”: G. A. Atkinson, commenting
in London Daily Express on a new 12-
reeler from Los Angeles, “When Knighthood
Was in Flower,” grows ponderously ironical
over the infusion of Yankee “pep” into Eng-
lish history, and suggests that Uncle Sam’s
leg has been pulled. But “When Knight-
hood,” etc., is an old joke by now. Ten
y.ears ago The Bulletin smiled at its
aberrations, when Nellie Stewart appeared
here as Mary Tudor. The play was not very
young even then. It was hatched by Paul
Ivester, who was also responsible for “Sweet
Nell of Old Drury.” Supporting Nellie were
Eardley Turner (Henry VIII.), Jerome
Patrick (Francis d’Angouleme), J. B. Athol-
wood (Buckingham), Gregan McMahon f Duke
de Lpngueville), Harcourt Beatty (Charles
Brandon). Norman Campbell (Sir Edwin
Caskoden), Gaston Mervale (Thomas Wol-
sey, Bishop of Lincoln). Madeline Meredith
(Queen Katherine), Florence Gleeson (Anne
Boleyn). Nella Campbell (Mistress Caven-
dish), Rosslyn Vane (Lady Jane Boling-
broke). and many others —quite a decent
cast. The anachronisms of the movie ver-
sion, as scoffed at bv Atkinson, seem to have
been carefully lifted from Kester’s play.
“Faceplate”: “Ganesha’s” remarks (B.
28/12/’22) on the philanthropy of Hugh
Ward, in supplvine gallery patrons of
the re-furbished Princess’s with an opera-
seat for a shilling, are technically correct.
But the house has a distressing habit of
fill‘rig at early-door prices, so the bob-to goes
without his opera-seat. And he is likely to
go without it for an indefinite period, for it
looks as if “The O’Brien Girl” will park her
powder-puff at the Princess’s for quite a
while.
“The Deacon”: Did Irving Sayles (B.
11/l/’23) die in his bed? The cabled
account I saw was that he dropped dead in
the strebt in front of his theatre in Welling-
ton (M.L.).
J.F.H. (London) • Marie Lohr’s latest
enterprise at the Globe —-“The Laughing
Lady,” by Alfred Sutro —is praised by the
critics for its sparkling dialogue and the
ability with which Marie presents the
strongly-contrasted moods of the lady of the
title. She is not always laughing by any
means. She has some intensely serious
moments. But the story is not easy to
swallow. At the outset Marie, although
innocent, is subjected to a merciless cross-
examination by an unscrupulous K.C. and
is divorced. That very evening she and the
K.C. meet again at a social function, and
the aud’ence is asked to believe that the
K.C. falls in love with her there and then.
Likewise, the Iv.C.’s wife calls upon Marie and
offers to resign her hubby, so that his bril-
liant career at the Bar may not be inter-
rupted or spoiled. In real life Mrs. K.C.
would probably suggest pushing Marie’s face
in.
“Frinigga”: American stage-plays are
steadily getting more horrible in plot. The
latest production of the Theatre Guild in
New York, “R.U.R.” is based on a Wells-
like idea of robots, a kind of automaton in-
vented and turned out in millions to do the
hard work of the world. Secondly, they
are used to do the world’s fighting. Thirdly,
a scientific improvement gives them some
approach to reasoning power; on which,
fourthly, they turn on the human race and
exterminate it. The main thrill is a scene
in which the last half-dozen humans, sur-
rounded and hopeless, are seen awaiting their
doom.
“Dido” : Apse, the actor, had a birthday.
He arranged for a dinner to eight or ten
of his acquaintances at the boarding-
house, and greeted his guests in unaccus-
tomed splendor, wearing a brand new suit.
All were seated. Apse lifted the cover from
the big tureen that should have contained
the soup, and disclosed nothing but a scrap
of paper. It was a-bill. Apse excused him-
self, and fled in quest of the landlady. He
was gone nearly a quarter of an hour, and
returned a changed man. The splendid new
suit was gone, and Apse was wearing his old
and shabby garments. The soup appeared
and dinner was proceeded with, but came to
a rather tame conclusion after the entrge,
when Apse was compelled to explain: “P
am sorry, but the landlady went back on
me. That document in the soup tureen inti-
mated that unless I paid what I owed and
the cost of the dinner in advance there would
be no dinner. I w 7 as reluctantly compelled
to send my suit to the pawnshop, and I re-
gret to say results will not run to the
roast and sw r eet. But if you’ll wait a
moment I’ll see what can be done with my
boots.” But the guests refused the Sacrifice,
“Stargazer’s” second thoughts:—
Seeirg G. P. Huntley in “Selling a Dog,” run-
ning at Melbourne Tivoli, one acquires a little more
respect for the judgment of the gods on his open-
ing night, when there was a disposition to herd
and be heard in direct opposition. G.P.H. runs
a shade thin in these sketches of his. We re-
member him as the brightest thing ever as
Hoggerheimer, and as a long-linked Johnnie from
the links coming in bearing a lump of turf, and de-
claring he had torn the bally cloth, what? But in
“EYES OF YOUTH,”
AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Arthur Greenaway as Alfred Brooks, Maurice
Dudley as Picquard , and Edwin Lester
as Asa Ashling.
the operas he was a younger, a slimmer and a
more earnest operative, and he had the advantage
of superior setting and association, and the wit was
close and keen where it is now somewhat jaded
and comparatively attenuated. We remember Hunt-
ley’s monologue over a haresfoot, which no chappie
would eare to meet in the dark; there is nothing
as attractive, as pertinent or as piquant in what
is now' being done by the somewhat elderly, rather-
stout Wodehouse .Tohnnie boy in operation at the
Tivoli. But if we had never seen the much better
Huntley, the deteriorated H. would appear altogether
excellent. He is his own dangerous rival.
“F.”: A book of “Cairo,” compiled by
Phil Finkelstein, is by way of being a useful
glorification of the big show as well as a
profitable medium for advertisements.
“Cairo” makes a good picture-book, and a
biography of Oscar Asche, illustrated with
photos of Oscar from the age of eight up-
wards, is more interesting than the average
yarn of how a born genius rose to be a real
haetor.
“T.P.”: Dan Barry became stage-struck
when a college-boy in Melbourne. A sur-
prise party visiting the Barry mansion in
Dan’s absence, his father engaged cabs and
shouted the crowd to the Royal circle. The
first mummer that swam into their ken was
Dan. Years after, at a Wimmera township,
I reminded Barry of the incident. It set
him recalling how, when his co. was nearly
stranded in a Tas. town 5 Dora Mostyn had
packed the house by confidentially informing
the local cackle society that the great actor-r
was a son of Judge Barry.
“Second Murderer” recalls his past:-
The proposed demolition of the Royal Standard
Theatre (The Playhouse), in Oastlereagh-street,
Sydney, reminds me of my first non-appearance on
any stage. .Tolin L. Hall put on “Across the Con-
tinent” there in 1888. I was pining to act in
those days, and a friend of mine secured me an
engagement. 1 w T as to load on the American Army,
and rescue the hero and herowhine from an embar-
rassing tight corner, devised by redskins, in the
last act. The army under my command was an-
other ambitious youth. We had no rehearsal what-
ever, but on the opening night we dressed in Uncle
Sam’s uniform about 6.30, to be ready for our
triumphal entry at 10.45, or thereabouts. Breath-
lessly we watched the show from the o.p. till our
turn came. The s.-m., who w 7 as also a Red Indian,
promised to give me the wink when to lead on
the army, but in the tumult and shouting of the
proceedings he forgot. Anyhow', our imposing entry
never happened at all, and the curtain came down
on a rather ragged ending. I took a peep on-stage
just then, and saw John L. Hall with his back to
the curtain, commenting. He had a lovely flow of
language, and it seemed a pity* to interrupt him,
so the other half of the army and I faded out. We
dropped our guhs, shed our uniforms, and stole out
unobtrusively ihto the silent night, without waitirg
to ask John L. for the half-crown apiece we hadn’t
eafned. It seemed ungentlemanlike to bother him
for it.
FROM LIGHT TO DARKNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pictures have been shown at a prominent Meib.
Anglican church on Sunday.
The church that once took proper pride
In spreading wide the light,
Mow bids its little flock abide
In darkness as of night,
Will pagan methods on a screen
Invoke a truly pagan scene?
While no auld lichts are visible.
The service makes its way,
And silently the pictures tell
The moral of the day.
The parson merely now and then
Intones a solemn, slow' “Ahmen.”
The film will tell a godly tale
One of well-ordered love;
No reference to this sinful vale
Or faith’s reward above.
But I am sore perplexed, I vow—
Who is the Prince of Darkness now ?
VICTORIA.
E. D.


What is the matter
with your hair f
Falling ?
Dand\ uft ?
Dull?
You can stop your hair falling. You can cure dand-
ruff. You can restore to dull and faded hair its
healthy vigor and natural beauty —if you know how.
SILKY, glossy hair—live hair—
is the reward of intelligent care.
You can prove this easily. Be-
gin by learning how to shampoo.
Ordinary washing with a carelessly
chosen shampoo or soap seems to
make oily hair more oily and dry
hair brittle, whilst it leaves practically
untouched the flakes of dandruff
which pack around the hair roots.
Ordinary washing cannot make or
keep hair beautiful. PALMOLIVE
SHAMPOO can and does. In
Palmolive Shampoo experts have
embodied the oils of the palm and
the olive. Olive oil possesses soft-
ening qualities which neutralise the
drying effects of washing. Palm oil
contributes body, richness and lasting
benefits. In combination they pro-
duce a mild, profuse, penetrating
lather which softens the scalp and
reaches every root and hair cell.
The lather of Palmolive Shampoo
loosens the dandruff scales, dislodges
and dissolves them, leaving the scalp
and hair free to fundion healthfully.
This thorough removal of dandruff,
which doctors call seborrhea, is most
necessary, as even its accumulation
on healthy scalps injures hair and
causes it to fall
Just one Palmolive Shampoo will
show results. The moment it is
dry and you pass your fingers
through its silky brightness, you
will see and feel a marked improve-
ment in your hair.
Palmolive Shampoo
sells everywhere . If
you have any diffi-
culty in obtaining
it please write direct
to us.
SHAMPOO
You can prove its benefits for 6d.
So that you may prove the incomparable value of Palmolive Shampoo for yourself,
so that you will realise how simple it is going to be to keep your hair always looking
its best, we will send a loz. Bottle, containing from 4 to 6 Shampoos, just
for you to try. Think what your hair means to you. Let us show you how
to make and keep it quite beautiful. Enclose 6d. and post this coupon to-day.
aim
ampoo
Palm
Olivfe
Sh ampoo
I lu- Olive Oil Shampoo
rhe
VeOil
ampoo
«3'-
MmolivrCo
P.O. si B.
Trial Hair Treatment
The Palmolive Co. ( Aust .) Ltd.,
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Herewith please fiud Stamps to the value of
6d., my remittance for a loz . Trial Bottle of
Palmolive Shampoo.
ante
oAddress


A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Wristlet Watch, set double-
cut Diamonds, Platinum settings, full-jewelled
chronometer halance, £75,
A, Saunders’ double-out Diamond ’ Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £lO,
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Bow
Necklet, loct.
Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18et. Gold,
tx3.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders'
double-cut
Diamond Scarf
Pin, 15et. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Stolid Gold Wristlet Watch, Silk
Bracelet, solid Gold Catch and Mounts, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
A. Saunders'
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £2O.
Larger Diamonds,
£25.
A. Saunders’
fine double-cut
Diamond Marquise
Ring, 18c t. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
LBct. Gold, £l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £lO.
&
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond two-har Brooch,
15ct Gold, £7O.
Smaller Diamonds, £5O. v
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bracelet,
16et. Gold, £l5.
Larger Diamonds, £25.
A. Saunders' Lady's 9ct. Solid Gold Patent Ejroand*
lng Wristlet Watch, £7/10/-. Others, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5,
£2O.
SEND FOR FREE CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Expanding Wristlet Watch,
;>et 8 double-cut Diamonds, full-jewelled lever move-
ment, compensation balance, £2o.'
JL Saunders’ double-e.ut Diamond Cluster Bar Brooch,
ISct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
Diamond and
Pearl Soar!
Pin, 15ct.
Gold, £B.
A. Saunders'
double-cut
Diamond Crossover
Ring, 18et. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Necklet,
15ct. Gold,
£l2/-10/«
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £l2/10/-
JEWELLERS, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
WHEN you first ride the depend-
able B.S. A. Motor-cycle you are
impressed mainly by its riding
comfort—its flexibility—with your own
sense of Control and absolute Mastery.
But it is as each trouble-free month of
ownership succeeds the last that y'ou
grasp the significance of our claim for
leadership.
Continuous service under all conditions
finds your mount still flexible and easy-
running—still the same sturdy, pleasur-
able cycle that first impressed you with
its smart appearance and easiness of
control.
* * * # »
Many are the reasons for such rugged
service—not the least important the pres-
ence of a drQp-forging of the finest
Sheffield Steel at every vital point.
RIDE THE DEPENDABLE
D
D
Motor Bicycles
Foil particulars as to the price of every Model
etc., may be had from
D. Y. RENNIE,
representing the B.S.A. Coy., Ltd.,
Australian Buildings, Melbourne,
or from the following agents:—
N.S.AV.: Bennett and Wood Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
VTO.: Finlay Bros., Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Q’L’D: Canada Cycle and Motor Agency, Creek
Street, Brisbane.
S.A.: J. N. Taylor and Co., Ltd., Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
W.A.: Mortlock Bros., Queen Street, Perth.
TaS. : J. Bilyard. Elizabeth Street. Hobart
DO YOU USE A B.S.A.
GUN?


AninnemenU.
SY I) Nl5 Y’S CIII E F TIIEAT It E 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
SALLY.
CRITERION:
EYES OP YOUTH.
ROYAL: CINDERELLA.
FULLERS’ NEW THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Proprietors: BEN and JOHN FULLER.
Solo Direction Miss ADA REEVE.
SPANGLES TWICE DAILY.
ADA REEVE Presents “SPANGLES” with her own
London Company including GUS McNAUGHTON,
the Modern Style Comedian, Nora O’Malley, Saro-
nova, Nella Duval, Betty Howard, Jess Sweet, Harry
Gould, Alec Hardisty, Frank Wilson.
Twice Daily, at 2.15 and 8 o’clock. Popular Prices:
Evening, 5/- to 1 /-; Matinees, 3/- to 1/- Plus Tax.
Box Plans at Paling’s.
pAI, A C E TII E V 'l' 1C H. SYt>V E Y.
’ Lessees J. and N. Tait and Bailey and Grant
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinefi Wednesdays at 2.
E. J. and DAN CARROLL present
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
An Australian Comedy in three acts by
C. J. DENNIS.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
C. UILLIAMMIN. LID., MELBOURNE
ATTIC ACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S.
CAIRO.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Lessees: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH J. WARD’S COMPANY of COMEDIANS in
THE O’BRIEN GIRL.
Plans at Glen’s.
PALACE THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* Direction: Hugh J. Ward Theatres Pty. Ltd.
BEN & JOHN FULLER’S GREAT 1922-23 SHOW,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
Plans at Glen’s.
Missing Friends.
FRANCIS JOHN DUNNE.—WiII Fran-
cis John Dunne, formerly of Broken
Hill, or any person having any knowledge
of his whereabouts, or of his death, please
communicate with the undersigned.
H. P. LA WRY, Solicitor,
Bridge Street, Reefton, N.Z.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Official History of the Great War.
MILITARY OPERATIONS.
FRANCE AND BELGIUM, 1914.
Compiled by Brigadier-General J. E.
EDMONDS, C. 8., C.M.G. With 8
sketches of operations. 21s. net.
Thirty-four General, Battle and
Situation Maps in separate case.
Svo. 21s. net.
Evening Standard : “Nothing so illuminating
about the war has so far appeared in any coun-
try ; anyone really interested in the war is
advised to scrap any previous published book
he may possess.’’
VOL. 11. JUST PUBLISHED.
The Belief in Immortality and the
Worship of the Dead. By Sir
JAMES GEORGE FRAZER, F.R.S.,
F.B.A. Vol. 11. The Belief Among
the Polynesians. 18s. net. Previ-
ously published, Vol. I. 18s. net.
GEORGE SAINTSBURY.
A Scrap Book. By GEORGE
SAINTSBURY. 7s. 6d. net.
Mr. Evans: A Cricket-Detective
Story. By CYRIL ALINGTON,
Author of “Strained Relations.”
(Being No. 678 of Macmillan’s Empire
Library.)
Dr. Alington’s new story is a record of three
days, during which the last Test Match of the
season is played between England and Aus-
tralia, and the extraordinary adventures asso-
ciated with Jack Winterton’s inclusion in the
English team are told in the author’s liveliest
manner.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum, post
free to any address within the Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR DECEMBER:
THE NEAR EAST.
ITALY AND THE FASCIST.
THE COLOR QUESTION IN POLITICS.
AMERICAN POLITICS.
GERMANY FROM THE WINGS.
THE MALADY OF CHINA.
UNITED KINGDOM: THE POLITICAL
SITUATION.
Also Articles from “Australia,” New Zealand,”
“India,” “Canada” and “South Africa.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN gCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
|_| OVT’S
Amusements.
MICIJIOIIItNK.
Til HAT ItKS,
Also SVDNGV.
HAROLD LLOYD in
GRANDMA’S BOY.
MARION DAVIES in
THE YOUNG DIANA.
Prices as usual.
ITING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
J. and N. TAIT’S Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE FORTY THIEVES.
Amusements.
|y| A.IHS'I IC TIIKATKK. MXLiiODIt A’P..
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
RICH MEN’S WIVES.
A GISNIER PRODUCtTION.
Matinees daily at 2.30. NSghts at 8.
THIS ALLAN WILKIE S’flA KSPEARBAK
ritoin ctions
NEW ZEALAND TOUR: NORTH ISLAND.
Australasian Representatives: WILSON & SODEN,
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Holds More Ink
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
Onoto, the Pen, has for years hjeen the busy
man’s pen. The ease with which it fills and
cleans itself, its readiness to write whenever
wanted, its absolute security from leakage,
and the fact that it holds 5Q per cent, more
ink than any other self-filling pen has gained
for Onoto, the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CC. LTD
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
. OWOTO INK- Best for all Pens.
Kitz’s Cider.
An Unrivalled Thirst-quencher—
Cleansing to the palate—
Refreshing and invigorating.
For Motorists, Golfers, Tennis Players, Cricketers,
Cyclists and General Use.
From
All Licensed Stores and Hotels.
m
■
la* fauijui u-4 idarine Motor, £llO
and up according to equipment. Four cylinders
—4 cycle—3fin. x 4in. medium speed. Uses
Benzine or Kerosene. Suitable for boats from
20 to 40 feet. Write for Catalogues.
Invincible Motor Construction Co. Ltd.,
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HAWAII
THE YEAR'ROUND PLAYGROUNDS
df
Land of Lunar
Rainbows
—rare colors and climate,
is an ideal vacation resort
the year round. Swim
and surf, play tennis and
all other outdoor games every day.
Good Hotels of all classes. Ask
nearest travel, tourist or steam-
ship agency; or write for new
illustrated booklet, to —
Dept. B.
Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Box 241 G.P.0., Sydney, or
Honolulu, Hawaii, U.S.A.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“BILLABONG”
Windmills and Troughing
offer you a full measure of Service,
Dependability and Value.
Their outstanding quality and many exclusive features
make “BILLABONG” Pumping and Water-supply Plants
the preferred choice of all who demand the utmost of the
above qualities.
Referring to “BILLABONG” Windmills, an enthusi-
astic owner writes as follows:
“When in need of a Mill, I obtained catalogs of every
make of Mill known to me. These I submitted to two of
my brothers (who are expert mechanics, and one especially
skilled in machine design and construction), asking them to
pick out a Mill. They had not the slightest hesitation in
arriving at the conclusion that the absolute superiority of
the ‘BILLABONG ’ over all other makes was evidenced by
even the most casual perusal of the catalogs. I consider the.
‘ BILLABONG ’ can give points to every other make of Mill
from top to bottom.”
“BILLABONG” Patent Steel Troughing is equally superior in
its class. It is constructed on commonsense lines that enable it to
withstand rough usage and hard bumps. Its patent interlocking,
grooved joints are easily fitted together, cannot pull apart, and cannot
leak. “BILLABONG” Troughing is supported in a framework of
heavy angle steel, and will give so many “years of extra service” that J
it is' easily the cheapest troughing proposition available.
There is much that we would like to tell you about
“BILLABONG” Mills and Troughing, but as the space available
here will not do them justice, we will gladly send you our illus-
trated booklet, “W. 65,” which tells the whole story. Write NOW
for your copy.
*>JOHN PANKS 3, SON PTY. LTD.
m
sdfg
324-30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
»
II
:
m
m.
im.
a
siioi
?o *r
cs
Wr.WJ
f
&V 72
.tH*f4L)Z
A**?/
£*■■• »*
.•/
ifetste
%
%P' S
(ftvSf
r-
>: 0 *•" :?‘r"‘<-?' ■.&':’■hl4*. lil
s<r
psapiM
■/-■•. r
P*
m<
ft*®'; - a H' 7
-■ >-''.vPSi®St«iasSMiaf& Air i&wssST'* j «»&&***
-
v'v >*•• £?#> V^X
t#*fW
gggg
icra#**
*->€&'■ Cv|s^^Sg»ta
«***^
•*•»• w«/^ *1 . '•■... ..*
mi/
fiiiSai
S.’S
mmm4
'rifNrrfw- a * ’A’*? •%'♦s£»*&
5*3
=s^
iS
ie^A.*V4i
fSHgli
N q 2| 7 q
p
*\ ,
r > ; vP*/*
*"12" . •.
•x#.H
-< iiW a&~ v^-
f
KjsysiKT^rZ.
r f j/./
~fi i .Ujfc
?&# JM<i
Wlfr ,Ws
A
rA* A*
mmm
'*® T « •*••''»• •


Why Not Learn to Draw?
\SS
m
You can (Jo
it easily
and quickly
without
drudgery, bv
following the
Weston method. It
is just as easy to
Learn by Mail,
and you have the
advantage of the
personal aid and
helpful criticism of
Mr. Harry J. AVes-
ton, Australia’s
lead ing eommerei a 1
and poster artist.
The Harry J. Wes-
ton Postal School
of Drawing will
develop your latent
talent, and put you
on the road to
making big money.
Send your name
and address, with
three stamps to
cover postage, for
the book, “There’s
Money in the
Pen,” which tells
all about the
course, fees, etc.,
and gives ex-
amples of the
lessons and stu-
dents’ work.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing*
193 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
MUCILINE
£7/?e S&er/ecf
©FIFSCgB FASgH
CLEANEST,
STRONGEST.- BEST
SOLO BY ALL STATIONERS
«% ,e ALEX Cowan & Sons, Dp
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
WJ
REX—the Duplicator
100 copies in a few minutes.
Works like a £lO machine.
Price 35/-, Foolscap size.
Postage 27-
Write for particulars.
H. DIBBS & CO., Dept. B,
Station House,
Rawson Place, Sydney.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE!
£2
Ail Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d
each.
Special
sampling
cabinet
containing
10 Cigars, 6 -
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
I’ost paid to
any address.
Craigs Aitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigar Factory.
Missing Friends.
NOTICE.
4 NY person by the name of NEWING
who has resided at Canterbury, Kent,
England, and who will communicate with
the undersigned, will hear of something to
their benefit awaiting them.
Signed, E. T. NEWING, Langney, 4
Guildford Road, Canterbury, Kent, England.
DON’T BE A “TAILOR-MADE” MAN!
dfgb
Don’t rely on your tailor to make you look like a man. Don’t
substitute padding tor muscles, and the smartness ot well-cut
clothes for the smartness that comes of Perfect Physical Con-
dition. The best of tailors can only make you LOOK well;
we make you FEEL well.
The Baker Postal Course of Health and
Strength Culture
starts at the foundation of physical perfection. It energises the
bodily organs, the lungs, the stomach, etc. It fits them for the
proper performance of their various functions, and gradually
takes in the whole nervous and muscular systems, building them
up and fortifying them. The result is that glorious feeling of
buoyant Health and Strength that is THE GREATEST OF ALL
POSSESSIONS.
The instructions are clear and concise, and each set of
exercises is adapted to YOUR individual requirements,
based on the particulars you supply on the enrolment
form. One month has worked wonderful improvements in
the health and measurements of many pupils. Their
numerous testimonials are contained in the booklet,
“Health and Strength from Self-culture.”
Just write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and send it with three stamps, and we will send
it to you by return with full particulars of the course
and moderate charges. Ladies should send for “Health
and Beauty from Self-culture.”
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
“ The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,’ 1
249 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
1
o
o
D
ONOTO INK-
Best for all Pens
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
For Saie.
“ OULLETINS” FOR SALE. From No.
IJ 37, October. 1880, to date, without a
break. About half of them are bound. All
in first-class order. What offers?
ARTHUR FRY.
“Denegully,” Northc-ote Road, Lindfield.
Missing: Friends.
( "1 AY.—Will LESLIE MAYO GAY, for-
merly of Saskatchewan Province,
Canada, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
communicate with NORTON SMITH &
CO., Solicitors, 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
WHAT GRANDMOTHER MISSED.
Grandfather : “ Well, when I was a young man I gave your dear grannie everything
I could, hut she never had the good things you girls have.”
CnOKI'S of Grandchildren : “Oh, hut, grandfather, there were no HILLIER S CHOCO-
LATES then /”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
JVo notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insu))iciently stumped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
K.K.M.: Well written: but not enough
interest for the space... .F.C.: Rather a tame insect.
....Steve B.: it is worth doing; but it will have
to be well done to make it credible....
O’D.: That rum was recovered a long while ag0....
Deirdre: Some feeling- in it; hut it is an ugly little
sketch.... Bernard B.: Captivating streaks of humor;
but the plot is well worn. Try again... X’.Y.O.:
Merely a flood of words... . A.J.P.A. (M.L.) : The
kind of articles we want are the kind we publish. . . .
Dr. Nil: Snook and barracouta may be as different as
bandicoot and native-bear, but you involve yourself
in difficulties of your own creating when you assume
that the letters S.A. must stand tor South Australia.
How anyone could think that, in “Centurion’s” par.,
they stood for anything but South Africa passes our
comprehension.... J. A.: Been paragraphed too often;
try something else.... Blue Gum: None gets past...
J. : Not enough in it.... 492: They dodge through
sometimes. .. .8.D.C.: Too slight for us.... Tom P.:
Not ati attractive picture as you paint it... .11.E.R.:
“The Dead Town” is dead. . . .V.K.: Doesn’t strike
us.... Annie M.: “Interpretation” hasn’t enough in
it... .B.R. (Wellington) : They ax-e rather too easy
and thin. .. .A.J.N.P.: Says practically nothing
rather nicely.... Athos: Not up....ltax: Not quite
our sort... . Alalagmos: One daring sentence: “From
time immemorial it has been recognised that the
'unexpected often happens.”... .11.R.P.: The yarn is
so small that it wanted a flavoring of humor in the
verse to carry it... .M.P.S.: A nice pious little
thing Annie M.: “Perhaps some day” you may.
....Basalt Boulder: Far too rugged... .M.K.: Not
nearly up.... Jean M.: No good. Drop the “thee”
and “thou.”..;. .R.G.P.: Doesn’t strike a fresh note.
. ...W.W.A.: As you remark, a thing like that
should finish the “bigots of all creeds” for ever:—
As wealth were ours, all wintry winds
Just pass’d unheeded by.
No threatening storms disturbed our minds
No tears escaped our eye.
’Twas thus, as Australia’s lyre-bird
Near us chirrup’d one day,
The appealing notes our ears heard
Were “Crumbs,” then flew away!
We felt dejected, it not accepting some
As was our fondest hope,
It seemed to think, from us a “Gnxmb’
Another conspiracy of the Pope.
. ...A.L.P.: Sawn-off prose.... Alice N.: The old
commonplaces in poor verse.... J.J.M.: Not up....
Festus: It wobbles along without saying anything.
... .C.F.D.: Doesn’t strike us... .Pam : “Memory”
too obvious and commonplace... .W.L. (Welling-
ton) : The first requirement of verse is that it should
say something... .J.R. (Bargo) : Not enough there.
. ...P.8.P.: No use.... J.E.S.: Horrible stuff, which
is not improved by your bragging challenge to any-
one to “produce something better or more original.”
.. . .L.J.L.: You don’t seem to have any notion what
verse is.... Con R.: Doesn’t get near.. . .D.M.R.: A
sound like an ungreased wheelbarrow is all the music
we can find in it. . . .F.A.M.: As far as we can read
the thing it is no g00d.... Jas. M.: Bellerive is not
dull; you are... .A.M.: “Marie” is a sweet little
thing:—
Love —we’ve loved each other
Constantly,
For three weeks together—
Marie.
Love, we will not sever
Tearfully;
You’ll repent it never,
Marie.
Love,' 1 mav remember
Fitfully.
Love died in December',
Marie.
Love has a fond mother—
Variety;
So I’ll find another
Marie.
Bushlog (or something): The wild thing flew to
the basket. .. .Westerner: It hasn’t Bellerive’s pun h.
... .Stan Beck : Very thin and p00r... .H.W.: “Spring
Sunday” has no novelty..... H.E.R.: “Dancers”
doesn’t get near J.P.P.: Doesn’t strike us.
H.M.G.; Not for us W.E.L.: “Summer”
misses... .W.S.E.: Very dull commonplace....
K. : Admirably suited for singing on wet
Sunday evenings in a grocer’s drawing-room in
the suburbs after the gramophone has broken down.
M.L. (Kilcoy): You must either rhyme or not
rhyme; Two of your lines kick a loose leg, two jar
horribly and the rest are all in order. .. .J.C. (Nor-
rnanton) : Don’t know what it means. . . .A.H. (Glen
Osmond) : Violence is a poor substitute for sincerity,
....Arthur W.: Two uplifting stanzas:—
It is not by foolish Egoism,
It is not by make-believes,
It is not by choosing Cynicisms,
We rise to noble deeds.
It is not what you think you have been,
It is not what you think you are,
It is not what others think you should be,
It is what you really are.
... .K.A.S.: Only three killed! It wants more bio’d
—red, sticky blood —to cement the gaps in the
grammar... .Eschap: Must go back.... A.F.W.: Not
enough there. .. .L.L.: “1 kissed a horse on his velvet
nose” is a bit over the odds as an introduction to
the rest. .. . Artemus H.: “Homeward” just misses.
....Wistaria: The sketch doesn’t get to anything.
J.S.H.: Sorry, but there are a lot of others in
the same box. -. . . K.F.M.: It’s a rather tired old train
that has puffed its wav through print too often....
Annie M.: The verse is pretty rugged H.S.
(Mosman) : It wasn’t much of a dream, and the
verse is very poor. .. . J.F.N.: The dictionary that
told you “Elysium” means “Heaven” was a liar.. . .
A.W.D.: The final couplet spoils the curious “Drunks”
sonnet... .11.R.C.: None of them well enough written.
H.W.B.: Wlxat’s the use of asking if we buy
short stories? Read the paper... .L.G. (Norwood);
Not up A.M. (Waverley): Doesn’t get to any
thing L.A.R.: Pompous verse of no quality...
S.S. (Randwick): “Father’s” trip is joyless.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.J.C.: You’ve a. long way to go yet.... J.R.W.:
Misses.... R.A.R.: Drawing poor, and verse worse.
T.B.: A terrible trio C.B. J.: It’s a safe bet
that you didn’t hear that language in Camberwell
(Vic.) ; and there's no market here for “figures
copied from old London weeklies”... .C.LAY.: That
original joke has a very stale- smell about it... •
T.W.: Drawing below the mark; but may use a
couple as suggestions S.T.: The most awful hands
to date.., .J.J.: Will use one G.C.H.: Out again.
W.R.S.: Not up E.McG.: We got no further
than the feet J.N.K.: You seem to have some
trouble with boots, t 00... .W.P.: Sorry, but drawing
below par. Both are Sydney men A.L.: Off the
target.


0
I
c
o
Jt
S
ittrC
ut2Z
H*
\
You can rely on them
jUDTHING in motoring is
' more satisfying than the
confidence a man feels when
his car is equipped with Good-
year Cord Tyres. He has
beneath him the strength, en-
durance, and resilience that
only Goodyear Cords, on ac-
count of their construction,
can insure.
Through the embedding of
every cord in rubber; friction
and heat —the destroyers of all
tyres —are reduced to a mini-
mum, and much more mileage
is assured.
The man who rides on Good-
year Cords enjoys Irom his
tyres that long wear and sec-
urity for which the Goodyear
All-Weather Tread is every-
where known.
You can realise these advan-
tages in the tyres you buy, by
insisting on Goodyear Cord
Tyres.
The World over, more people
ride on them than on any
other kind.
Obtainable from Service Sta-
tions and Dealers everywhere.
xcv


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
i to ro Ril'd
Ft
Cost Less than
Weatherboard Houses
Build your new home —exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings —with Hardie’s
Australian-made “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and Roof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made in 36 sizes.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collin 3 St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
-“t*.
is
Eft
-'V)
s&<e
Ik/ei
THE TWO SHEEP
above are typical of the flocks which grow WOOL.
The firm below stands pre-eminent among sheep-
owners as selling brokers who secure top values for
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Sydney and Brisbane. LTD.
And the firm’s reputation is well earned. It is based
on their consistent success in making good sales.
SEND YOUR WOOL TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.
oriiiwi
THE (Dietz)
SCOOT LANTERN.
Wind and rain proof, burns kerosene.
Height 7-J inches. Price 5/- post
free. Also Storm King Lantern and
Comfort Iron. LUX LIGHT CO. OF VIC.,
495 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Trade Supplied.
Reduced 10/- in Price
and delivered at your door any-
where in Australia.
QUICK-LITE
L’ANJERN
■'*£?**■
72
300
Candle-
Power.
Lights
with
Matches.
It’s Easy to do Better Work
with Quick-Lite at Night.
Quick-Lite gives 300-candlepower light from
petrol-gas generated by the lantern itself, and
pms a;y other outdoor light in the shade.
Strongly built for service in the wildest storm.
Cannot blow out or spill, and has unbreakable
mica chimney and twin mantles that cast no
shadows.
The Light that Never Fails.
Reduced to 65 /- each.
WITH FULL KIT OF TOOLS
AND TWO SPAKE MANTLES.
GUARANTEED AND DELIVERED FREE BY
/RAIL OR MAIL IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
I
ORDER NOW, or write for pamphlet to
Coleman Quick-Lite Company of Australia,
395 Collins Street. Melbourne: Box 1083.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
Jfat 7nosttoipotf&nt
When nursing: infants to see that
their stomachs are kept sweet
and heaithy by giving
small doses
of
xcv
A great many
infantile ailments
can be positively avoided
by taking this simple precaution,
and the unpleasantness and distress
arising from teething greatly minimised by
the use of this delightfully cooling and safe
aperient,
COOLING SUMMER RELIABLE ALIVA YS
The genuine KRUSE'S FLUID MAGNESIA contains no
harmful drugs, and is strongly recommended to people of
all ages by the Medical Faculty
Sold Everywhere
Made by
Felton, Grimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
BBS* Hi
4EGISTERE3*
r**AOE MAR*
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
Australasian uX-p<beciitatives:—•
Norman Baker & Lenghurst
5O York Street. Sydney.
SKANDIA Crude Oil Engines
Now available in stock for immediate delivery
and for arrival.
SCANDIA Woodboard
For Buildings. Ideal for Linings, Partitions, etc.
Waterproof, non-conductor of heat and cold.
Samples and illustrated catalogue posted free on
application.
Nelson & Robertson,
11-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
‘‘Snell”: I bought two small crayfish in
Melbourne the other clay, for which I paid
3s. each. Met a man at dinner just up
from the waterside, Portland way, who, that
morning, had seen fine large crays sold to
wholesalers at 3s. a dozen. It sticks in my
craw.
* * * *
"M idgee” : There may be “a fortune” in
cotton-growing, but Gippsland has lately
discovered something that looks nearly as
good and returns results much quicker.
Local small farmers have been raising vast
quantities of peas and French beans for the
Melbourne market, and getting high rates for
them. A district produce-agent, with his
hand on his heart, told me the other day
that this season s output has already given
a net return of £BO,OOO to the growers. The
trouble with the Victorian farmer has been
that in the past he has regarded this class
ot production as “market-gardening”— and
hence below the notice of a Caucasian.
*,* * *
“Condamine”: “Cellu Lloyd” may be
right when he says (B. 28/12/’22) that
the pores of telegraph poles absorb less
moisture if stood small end downwards, but
this would not result in adding one minute
to the efiective life of the pole. Poles stand-
ing in the open, such as fence and telegraph
posts, almost invariably rot off just under
the ground. The average post which has
rotted off would, if cut down just above
the ground and re-erected, last as long again.
Also, the timber over a foot below the sur-
face remains partially sound after the shal-
lower portion had gone completely. I have
found 3x2 struts of a paling-fence post
fairly sound two feet below the surface,
when the 5x3 posts had rotted away years
before.
* * * *
“Coot”: Re “Centurion’s” par (B.
21/12/’22) about the projected export of fish
from South Africa, the (Victorian) Austra-
lian Legion has long advocated the estab-
lishment of village fishing communities on
the islands off the Australian coasts, and at
suitable parts of the coast-line. Such a
scheme might very well be run as a branch
of the Federal Government’s immigration
policy, and experts in the preparation of fish
products selected from oversea countries and
induced to immigrate to Australia. The
communities might be encouraged by Gov-
ernment grants of land and financial assist-
ance in the purchase of fishing boats, plant
and gear. Such communities would not
only supply Australia with cheap fish from
her own waters, but also form the nucleus
of a seafaring and maritime population for
the development of Australian commerce and
the manning of our Australian navy.
* * * *
General Birdwood, writing from the
Northern Army in India to Premier Bar-
well, of S.A., barracks for Australian fruit,
largely in the interests of returned soldiers
as growers<
In recent letters from England I am told that
the markets there are flooded with fruit from the Con-
tinent, and probably a good deal of it is from Germany.
Australia being in the Southern Hemisphere, should
be able to place fruit on the market just when it
is out of season in the North, and therefore in greatest
demand.... Then India ought to open up a tremen-
dous market. The masses are fruit- and vegetable-
eaters, and at present a good deal of Californian
fruit is imported. In my own small way I do
everything I can. I have been ordering all our
tinned fruits and jams from Tasmania for the house.
I also got one of the biggest purveyors here to give
large trial orders to an Australian firm, and recently,
on my recommendation, the army director of supplies
ordered 125 tons of Australian jams. Give my very
kindest remembrances to all old comrades around the
Murray settlements.
* * * *
“Wilson Hill” (California) : Tell “Gonn”
(B. 20/7/’22) that while Tye’s orange-
orchard on the Murray is quite hefty. Cali-
fornia can out-acre it in many parts. ' I have
just quit superintending James Mills Com-
pany’s 725 acres of lemons, 40 acres valen-
cias and 20 acres pomelo, in Northern Cali-
fornia. The Limoneira Company, at Santa
Paula, Ventura County, has 960 acres
planted to lemons, and several hundred acres
to navel and Valencia oranges. But the very
biggest orchard is the Bastanchury Bros.’
ranch. 20 miles from Los Angeles. It has
2500 acres planted to oranges, all Valencia
barring 40 acres of navels, and 425 acres
of lemons, all six years and younger. It is
financed by royalties collected from oil wells
on land leased to the Standard Oil Com-
pany.
* * * *
“Randolph Rentless”: N.S.W. State
Bakery passed out unregretted with
1922. It was the first of the Govern-
ment trading concerns—excepting the experi-
mental trawling industry—to be instituted,
and it is the last of those enterprises to go.
When it commenced operations nasty re-
marks were made about the appointment of
Boss, a master baker, who was a personal
friend and supporter of Davy Hall, to the
job of manager, and there was also much
criticism of the terms upon which the works
were secured. Ministerial apologists for the
bakery were never tired of explaining, later,
that the thing saved the State enormous
sums of money by supplying State institu-
tions at a low charge; but, as it has since
been found that contracts for bread supplies
can be made at even lower prices, it looks
as if the saving was illusory.
* * * *
“A.P.B. ’: May I settle the couch v.
buffalo controversy before the disputants
come to blows? I know of a five-acre block
at Gosford that was once a top-notch graz-
ing paddock, covered with couch, but buffalo
grass go*- a hold and completely extermi-
nated the couch. The paddock now contains
about five acres of rank buffalo unfit for
anything except a soft bed for drunks. On
the other hand a friend of mine laid a lawn
of buffalo sods on the South Coast which
throve splendidly until some couch grass
cuckooed it. Now it would be as difficult
to find a blade of buffalo on that lawn as
it would be to discover a cardinal at an
L.O.L. picnic. My explanation is that each
grass becomes invincible in a particular kind
of soil.


Modern Methods of Construction
ALL-REINFORCED CONCRETE BUILDING
for Astor Ltd., Macquarie Street, Sydney.
THIRTEEN
FLOORS
ERECTED
IN
TWENTY-SIX
WEEKS
ARCHITECTS:
Esplin & Mould,
Sydney.
■jjgmsntf'ifaft Hamm.' - frjggjg./
i ,«s. .jasaaffljjK^g
x. -i ,*ar.
; ygSjffjS?
w':,.'.
it 9MHI W
.:■ :
jllWfifW'llßl *
■»'
This huge structure, constructed entirely of Reinforced
Concrete, was erected by us in the record time of a floor
a fortnight. It contains fifty-two flats, and is to the order
of Astor, Ltd., Macquarie Street, Sydney.
WE ARE AT YOUR SERVICE IN ANY STATE.
WE WILL
PREPARE
ESTIMATES
for any of your
BUILDING
PROPOSITIONS.
BUILDERS:
Concrete
Construction, Ltd.,
Sydney.
CONCRETE CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.,
47 King Street, Sydney.


D. O. M.
BENEDICTINE
Is the GENUINE LIQUEUR with
400 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
The best-known Digestive Tonic, as well as
the most fashionable After-Dinner Liqueur.
ill® I
©
*'*Mrs imu'*
THE ,
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The idea! Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by tho addi-
tion of hot or cold water only-
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C?
\ Slough, Bucks. Eng.
Isn’t Vacation
Wonderful?
It would be wonderful if every
man could enjoy his introduction
to Mennen Shaving Cream on his
vacation —out in the open.
He’d get up when he felt like it
—no worry, no hours, no boss.
A bucket of water from the pond
—a rock to sit on where he could
watch the clouds drift over the
tree tops—then Mennen’s.
He’d be startled to find that cold
waterworks as well as hot, but the
crowning moment would be when
the razor starts clearing away the
underbrush. No sensation of cut-
ting—more like a gentle caress.
And afterwards, his face would
feel so balmy that his shaving
habits would be fixed—Mennen’a
foreverl
(Mennen Salesman )
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO., LTD.
249 Ceorge Street, Sydney
James Smith’s Building, Cuba Street, Wellington, N.Z
xcvb
Ignition Sets for
“Fordson” Tractors
and ‘ Ford’’ Cars
now available.
Smith, Sons & Rees
Limited,
30=32 Wentworth Avenue,
SYDNEY.
’Phones, City 7518 (3 lines)-
Increase the Capacity
of Your Horses.
Are you in that awkward posi-
tion in which you wish to cope
with MORE deliveries, yet
you do not care to spend
more money on horses,
waggons and extra labor?
A very practical way out of
the difficulty is to equip your carts with
I
Ball Bearing' Axles.
If you do this you will reduce the friction in the hubs so greatly that the
horses in each waggon will, with the same energy, be able to pull a load
fifty per cent, heavier. The vehicles will last longer and need less repairs,
the axles will need greasing but three or four times a year, and your horses
will be in a better condition and live longer owing to less strain on the
heart and lungs.
Full particulars and prices on request.
GARDNER, WAERN & CO. PTY. LTD.
Head Office: 384 City Road, South Melbourne.
Showroom: 369 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at: —
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: 122 Currie Street.
PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd., 87
King Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis, Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: J. R. Sides, 77 York Street.
H22/25.
torsicdnBruuen?
Style No. 530
Silver-mounted,
15/-
xcvb
The World’s
Best Pipe.
i
I
y rfl~ -
Made by French Diggers at St. Claude, Jura, France,
from the highest-grade Briar Root the world can supply.
100 Smart Shapes, each sold with
A TWELVE-MONTHS’ GUARANTEE,
and any pipe cracking or burning within that
time will be replaced.
ASK YOUR TOBACCONIST FOR F.L.C., or semi a post-
card to the Manager of F.Li.C., Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne,
or Box 2939 G.P.0., Sydney, anu we will
tell you where to get one.
[1
We
will
show a
shape
every
week.
zxcvb
The 14-h.p.
4-cylinder
SUNBEAM
4-seater
Touring
Model.
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROS., LTD.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
THE AUTOCAR INDUS-
TRIES PTY., LTD.,
104-112 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
HOWARD MOTOR CO.,
LTD.,
370-378 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
“The feel of Quality
That indefinable feeling which is
noticeable in the latest six-cylinder Sunbeam
Models, as evidenced by the following opinions
of “Men who know”: —
The Autocar : —“There is no doubt that the six-
cylinder SUNBEAM car is a distinct advance on the
previous model, good as that was. The flexibility of the
engine is as remarkable as its silence of running, and
although the car is decidedly fast, it behaves with the
utmost docility.”
The Motor: —“The side valve six-cylinder SUNBEAM,
of which we gave our impressions about 12 months ago,
was undoubtedly a good car, but the present overhead
valve model is far and away superior to it. Than this
•there could, perhaps, be very little higher praise.”
_ THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
Mail hr Particulars :
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD., Wolverhampton, England.
V-snort Dent.: 12 PRINCES STREET, HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.I.
Cable Address — “Subeamoco, ,> London.
AND AT NEW YORK.
GOVERNMENT
cv
SAVINGS BANK
of N.S.W. and RURAL BANK.
Head Office: 19-23 Martin Place, Sydney.
4 e/e INTEREST allowed on Savings Accounts up
to £5OO, and 3-|- % on any excess to £lOOO.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS opened for any person, firm, company
or institution.
There passed out the other day, in her
86th year, Margaret Cecilia, eldest daughter
of the late William Cummings, of Clear
Creek, Bathurst (N.S.W.). William Cum-
mings settled at Clear Creek in the mid*
’thirties, and sat for East Macquarie in five
Parliaments (1859-74). When James Mar-
tin, Premier and Attorney-General, was
bumped out by the free and independent of
East Sydney, and it became necessary to
find him a seat, John Bligh Suttor (Cum-
mings’s colleague in the ’69-’72 Parliament)
retired and “Billy” undertook to shepherd
Martin into the vacancy, which he did. Mar-
tin’s Government, however, was defeated by
Henry Parke’s, and in ’73 James accepted the
C.J.-ship and left politics for good.
"Alkaloid” in reply to “Geologist” (B.
28/12/’22) :
It’s a case of 50-50 in the rivalry between the
two theories of origin of the “Australites,” “Tas-
manites” or “Billitonites” (from the small island
of Billiton, off N.-W. Australia), so-called. How-
ever,! there is a majority, one way or the other, that
favors “Larrapinta” (B. 7/12/’22). E. J. Dunn,
late chief of the Vic. Geological Survey, was the
champion of the bubble theory and the terrestrial
origin; and his beautifully-illustrated monograph
(Records Victorian Geological Survey) must have
secured him many converts. Experimental work in
the artificial production of obsidians has been carried
out in Simpson’s laboratory in W.A. The obsidians
found there rarely have the bubble appearance. All
that is left is generally the dependent pellicle of
the hypothetical bubble. Their rarity, their sporadic
and apparently unaccountable distribution and certain
characteristics in their chemical composition, arc
the main arguments advanced in favor of an extra-
terrestrial origin.
“Lond”: A kind uf sex question, not on
the screen but in the audience, is being
developed by a film now showing in London.
It is the French story “Atlantide,” already
popular as a novel: the Central African
white queen who takes as husband every
white man who happens along, and then has
liim killed (as soon as another is available)
and petrified into a statue for her Hall of
Triumph. The Sahara scenes are finely
done, and the picture is a big thing every
way. Incidentally, one of its posters has
scored the success of being barred 1 by the
Censor. But women have no sympathy with
this super-vamp, who shows about two dozen
statue victims in the film story—There were
twice as many in the book. Men, on the
other , hand, seem to think it a great yarn.
But experience shows that male audiences
only won’t keep a picture-show going.
“Gallery”: Let us trust that we haven’t
said a long farewell to Hector Lamond. Aii
excellent talker, well furnished with the
vocabulary that brings a dying debate to
life, he was in the front rank of the Nation-
alist snipers. Before he took office a few
months back he was the most pungent inter-
iector on the Government benches. Some-
how, the tone more than the matter of his
thrust would make the orator mad for repri-
sals, and in the following exchanges Lamond
was never nonplussed for a knockout word.,
“T. 0.1.”: The recent sale for £25,600 of
Moffitt Chambers. Elizabeth-street, Sydney,
recalls that the Moffitt fortune commenced
to pile up in King-street, near Pitt-street, in
1826, when William began business as a
bookbinder and copperplate-engraver. In
the mid-’thirties he moved to the west side
of Pitt-street, one door south of the old
Liverpool Arms, kept in the ’fifties by Ben
Palmer, grandfather of the new Iv.C., Clive
r t'eece. Moffitt was in the business until his
death, when his manager, Yeo, took it over,
to be in turn succeeded by the Penfolds. It
is said that when Bananaland once wanted
a loan, Bill Moffitt took up the entire quar-
ter of a million. One of his daughters mar-
ried John Marks, friend of Henry Parkes
and father of the sporting architect Theo J.
Marks and of Mrs. George Vivers.
: “Alkaloid’s” memory :
j Now that Badak is disposed of, let’s have a note
isbont its most tragic figure—the late J. R.
Raleigh. When I first met him he was running
the Roaring Meg tin shows, 50-odd miles, two rivers
and several goodly-sized creeks from Cooktown.
Raleigh’s job was getting tin ; but his fame up there
rested on his legs. Every Wednesday he walked to
Ayton, 121 miles away, for his mail, and humped
it back over the most damnable country. Seven
o’clock saw him take off on the 25-miler, and he
generally got back about the close of the mid-day
ineal. Raleigh suddenly determined to visit Cook-
town one morning towards the close of ’l3, and he
did the whole 50 miles or so on foot. Leaving his
fcrib at China Camp a little before midday, he hove
to at Cooktown just as the pubs were closing.
Those who know the country will appreciate the
effort. Moreover, the job was done after a con-
siderable residence in N.Q., when, by all the laws
of Barwell, he should have been warped and wilted
by the tropic climate.
“Nero”: Curious how divergent were the
Melbourne dailies’ accounts of G. P. Hunt-
ley’s first appearance at the Tivoli. One
paper asserts that Huntley’s characterisa-
tion was “a triumph of quiet, restrained
and artistic acting, and received a splendid
reception from two crowded houses”; but
its contemporary affirms that “his long,
rambling string of idiotic expressions grew
monotonous, and the gallery gave vent to
noisy expressions of anger.” When G.P.
was out here 18 years ago with “The Three
Little Maids,” the company crashed disas-
trously, and it was a ripping good show, too.
While Huntley played at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s to almost empty benches, the Knight-
Jeffries Co. was giving the umpteenth revi-
val of “The Silver King” at Her Majesty’s
to packed houses. Which shows there’s no
accounting for taste.
“G.A.C.”: Is England going to produce
the greatest tragedienne of this generation ? It.
looks very like it, judging by the notices that
Sybil Thorndike has been receiving for her
work in Shelley’s tempestuous poetical
drama. “The Cenci,” which has been revived,
after some half-century of oblivion, at the
New Theatre, London. The part of Beatrice
Cenci, who slew her incestuous father, is a
huge hurdle for anyone out of the divine Sarah
class, but she seems to have cleared it won-
derfully. “Great,” “magnificent” and “colos-
sal.” are among the adjectives hurled at her
by the critics, some of whom remember Alma
Murray in the part at the last performance.
Prior to this, Sybil had done similarly fine
work in Gilbert Murray’s translation of
Electra and Medea, so. that she can appa- ''
rently stand huge draughts of tragedy with-
out: losing her head.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Reduced Fares all classes.
Write for illustrated circular, giving new
rates, First, Second and Third Class.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, FEBRUARY 21,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY,
7 p.m., passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORAR.A SAILS EVERY SATURDAY, 7 p.m. ;
passenger due in Brisbane following Monday, 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—-
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on Rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers on these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply;—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
. Blinking:, Public Companies, &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incoi’povated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G.
W. Gray ; James Love, Esq.; AV. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN,
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
With Offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 84
Branches in Queensland, also representation through
the leading Banking Institutions covering Austra-
lasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest
facilities for the transaction of all general banking
business.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised. Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,523,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922.. £13,269,793
Directors: ' Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Prank
N. Yarwood, P.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman; George
P. Todman ; Duncan Carson ; H. R. Lysaght,
O. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M:L.A.-
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting -N anager ; G. H. Westcott.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 148 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Qiieensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 23 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director ; A. Dodds Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. ... .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS Z£/gSi£?£Z
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
V ;: •’ :
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about • • • •
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income . •
£1,551,188
£2,629,000
£47,000,000
£7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class '.of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W APPERLV. F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping:, eta.
Can&d ian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, Ist MARCH, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 29th MARCH.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing’s to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 15th FEBRUARY.
MAUNGANUI, 15th MARCH.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island
and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3} TO 4i WEEKS
Affording a restful holiday amongst
beautiful scenery and interesting
people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne. Adelaide and Brisbane.
i m
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
rom £96 to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
insisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
rom £37 to £45 to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
ieturn tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Vills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane,
iilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
■ eorge Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
•SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
•DIOGENES 12,500 tons
•New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
sdfvg
Directors:
£5,864,360
3,675,000
5,864,360
£15,403,720
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
The lion. Sir Charles Iv. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Thread needle Street, E.C.
374 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua- and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
CommonwdtbJi43ank "Bustralta
HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
tn the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.Q.,
Deputy Governor. Governor.
GOLF AT KOSCIUSKO.
Enjoy a Game at an Altitude
of over 5000 ft.
Always Cool. No Humidity.
HOTEL KOSCIUSKO.
Admirably Equipped. Tariff from £5/12/6 week.
Full Information, Booking and Concession-Fare Certificates at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney, N.S.W.
•Suidujus
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports). )
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MAOKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
tßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen and Towns
ville.
Burns=Philp Tours
to All Parts of the World.
TOUR AND TRAVEL ADVICE.
For direct Passages to LONDON, ; EUROPE
AMERICA, INDIA, CHINA. JAPAN, also SPECIAI
ROUND EASTERN TOURS and ROUND WORLI
TOURS,
Apply our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT.
B\irns-PHilp Line to
Java and Singapore.
Passages booked through to India, Burma, Siam,
China, Japan, etc., via Singapore.
For further Information apply,
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Huddart Parker LIM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston ps per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, THURS-
DAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONG-
KONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp & Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
"IROQUOIS."
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co.. Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackhealtb Collieries, Lt\, and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd. \
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOB
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Lin<
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Mari times Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide
Melbourne, Sydney, SuVa (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HDNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances ejected on all classes o£
——————— Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on, Wool, Merchandise,
■— - Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes, i
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.


m
m
mm
55
m
m
S§
JPCTE.C
Electric Lamps
Why you should use them.
Every detail in their manufacture is minutely
watched. Numerous tests throughout production
ensure first-rate quality in every lamp which
leaves the factory.
They are made throughout by British
labour, with British capital, in a British factory
by one of Britain’s greatest industrial organ-
isations The General Electric Co., Ltd.
Sold by all principal Electrical Contractors and Stores.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., Ltd..
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
Hobart, Launceston ; Welling-
ton, Auckland, Dunedin, N.Z. ;•
Suva and Levulsa, Fiji.
THOMPSON U CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON'S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AX WILLIAMS!'OWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTIED.
sdfg
Steam-driven Pumping: Set, comprising: Triple Expansion Q.K. Forced
Rubricating: Engine, speed 450 r.p.m. Direct connected to Two-stage
Turbine Centrifugal Pump, delivering 7500 gallons per minute at a
pressure of 651 b. per square inch.
ENG/NES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE .
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering: Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
E. Hinks & Co. Etd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McEaren Etd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Xtd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, JFenchurch Street*
SPORTING RIFLES
We have an unrivalled selection of Sporting Firearms, and
can supply suitable weapons for all classes of shooting.
We carry the finest range in Australia
dfg
“A marvel at the price.”
82. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
snot Rifle, 22 calibre. ISin,. round steel
barrel: open rear and knife-edged front siglits.
w eight, about 211 b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3 : other States, 2/2.)
26 -
dfg
"Simple and extra strong in construction."
iJ 10. Winchester Single-shot liille, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim tire cartridges, 21iu. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 374 in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip.
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b c r* f
Freight Paid.
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
You can now purchase Sporting Rifles
and Guns without first obtaining a license.
sdfg
81. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
ior 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim lire.
It can be taken apart easily 'and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
n>id rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight 25/"
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
HSBS
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
832. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 High Power calibre, 6
shot, Mil. round tapered barrel, take down, weight about 71b., muzzle
velocity, 2800 ft,. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing
from point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched
bullets (70 grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds:
freight paid
£l2/10/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
sdfg
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
812. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model IC-sl>ot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about s}lb. ..
Freight pain,
£C
xcv
“A cheap and reliable weapon.”
84. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R-F.
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case.-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
45/-
xcv
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
828. Remington Automatic Hammer less
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
ies. Magazine bolds 15 cartridges. Weight 531 b jp q
Freight paid, J
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
xcv
818. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1832
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £B/10/.
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £9
817. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine. y/| ,
20in. round barrel, weight about 551 b Freight paid, /I j “
WE R.EPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
New Edition Illustrated Shooting Catalogue free on request.
1C
m •
Australia’s Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 72Q HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
are Bound to Help You.
Mr.
JACK
SINCLAIR
(from a
photo )
aW
1
w.
Iff
■fyTzv&'m
>y/>-
“I have much pleasure in send-
ing you a testimonial for the
benefit of others who may suffer as
I did with Stone in the Bladder
and Kidney Trouble. I was ad-
vised to use Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills, which I did with great suc-
cess, and have the stone passed.
It gave me a shock at the time, but
great relief, and I am only too
pleased to show that stone to any-
one or tell of the good I derived
from the use of Gin Pills. I had
to give up my trade as a baker,
through my suffering and take on
cooking, which was lighter work.
I wish you to use this testimonial
to your best advantage, also I wish
to state that I took Gin Pills
strictly by direction; I drank
plenty of water, knocked off tea
and coffee, and ate very little meat.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are really
a valuable medicine, I cannot
speak too highly of them.
“Wishing you every success,
“Yours very truly,
“ (Sgd.) JACK SINCLAIR,
“Baker, Balranald, N.S.W.’ y
Men! Look Well and Feel Well
Don’t suffer the agonies of Backache, Lumbago, Run-down feeling, or Kidney
Troubles of any kind; but remember that Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills were specially
designed to banish all these ailments. No matter how long you have suffered, how
old you are, or what you have used before, you should try Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills;
they are sure to help you, as it is practically impossible to take them into the human
system without benefiting. They help you from the very first dose, banish Backache
and make your Kidneys strong and healthy once again.
D
Sheldons
BANISHES -|
BACKACHE,KIDNEY, BLADDER,
AND URINARYTROIiBLES.
Those Merry
Picnic Days Suggest
REX
Luncheon Cheese
No need to get up at daybreak and tire yourself
out cutting mountains of sandwiches. Instead
pop into the hamper a couple of tins of Rex
Luncheon Cheese, a loaf of bread, and, if you
prefer, a jar of butter, though it’s not necessary
with “Rex” Cheese.
Then in the shade of the trees, or on the sands,
as the case may be, you can make the sandwiches
as they are needed —fresh, tasty and satisfying.
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese possesses all the valuable
food properties of perfectly matured cheese. In
addition it is easily digested by those to whom
ordinary cheese is “Taboo.”
In handy hygienic tins at all grocers. Be sure
you get “ Rex.’’
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
FJ332
urn" 1
\ll IW' 1
mviaUll
Id
“Vi
|\V'
oilO
CHBW
vsCwa
MCHEON
Q
Patience.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOU have fitted your lamp with a
beaded screen,
Have set white roses upon the shelf:
As you deal your cards with a careful hand
You are white and gold and a rose your-
self ;
There’s a growl of traffic from streets below,
And in city gardens the night moths go.
What are you playing? At patience, dear?
You place your cards in an even row,
And you “like me best in a dinner coat,”
And you love me most when my pulse
beats slow.
This is how marriage was meant to be,
And my sick soul drowns in its calm, grey
sea.
Could you know what I’m dreaming! Oh,
my dear !
You would scatter the cards from that nice
new pack;
And the beaded shade and the florist’s
flowers
Were poor recompense for the things I
lack!
So I sit and fume o’er a mild cigar
Lest your blue eyes pierce where the Real
Things are.
Play patience, dear! You’d have need of
it
If I could tell you what I can see;
The shanty roof that is black with rain 1 , -
And the fat lamps burning eerily,
And the wooden shutter the blast blows in,
And the narrowed eyes and the out-thrust
chin,
And the hand too near to the pistol butt,
And the dirty cards and the red, marked
ace.
It was redder yet ere the game was done
And the man who held it was on his face,
On his face on the mud-pooled floor
As dawn crept up to the swinging door.
Then memory switches to other tracks:
There were yellow shades on the lamps
she lit,
And a tiger-skin on a silk divan,
And she lay like a tiger stretched on it,
Purring over a sapphire ring
As a cat will purr o’er a captured thing.
Her eyes were topaz and long and fringed
With soft brown lashes, where yours are
gold.
But her heart was a rose of fire to me
And its flaming petals were never cold.
While you play at patience in tempered light
There are ashes over your cards to-night. <
And she went out on a quick knife’s blade'
Because she loved me too well —and you?'
You go to church and you pay your calls
And do all —that the other women do —
Are plaintive about me at times, perhaps,
Playing snooker with other chaps!
To forgive a man in a grudging way,
For, of course, you never could under-
stand
“Why a married man wants to gad about,”
And you turn my ring on your plump,
white hand,
And say we are growing old—and staid —
It is time that patience was all we played !
Can I live it out to the stupid end?
The moving hearse, and the neat grave-
stone?
Every night in a broadcloth coat,
While my soul is clanking its chain —
alone—-
Watching you growing older, too,
Heart and body—as good wives do.
So long she will have been sun and rain,
So long the breath of the summer breeze
Will have carried the drift that was all of
her,
A fragrant dust, from the wattle-trees
Blown to the stars —where her eyes were
made—
For patience was not a game she played!
Yawning, dear? You are tired now,
Going to bed? Then I’ll smoke awhile;
Yes. I will see that the door is chained.
There is tolerance in your sleepy smile
As you drop the cards in their lacquered box
And make me warder of bars and locks.
Moonlight lies on the drowsy city,
And the far-off grief of a violin
Weeps silver tears on the silver air,
A restless dream in my heart to spin
While I remember (my two-years’ bride!)
One night of love on a brown hillside.
We could hear the kangaroo shyly feeding
Away on the grass flats, while the moon
Struck shining spears at the lurking shadows
Behind the shield of the round lagoon.
If she was a tiger —on that divan—
She was yet a woman to hold a man.
The clock strikes “one” in the square, grey
tower,
And a wind comes up from the moaning
sea,
As marriage waits (with an empty pillow,
That mocks —in a white reproach—at
me).
Through the shuttered window there seem
to float
Ghost fingers locking about my throat.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
“Great Girl”—a Diggings Heroine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GOL£)EN POINT had justified its
name. It was an alluvial lead in an
ancient river-bed running under a
basalt-covered plateau. It had been phe-
nomenally rich, and for years hundreds of
men who had worked under the hill earned
substantial rewards. At the time of this
substantially true narrative it ivas practi-
cally worked out. All that remained were
some pillars and thin streaks of wash on
the shelving slopes up to the high reefs. Not
more than 10 men were left to take out
these remnants. It was dangerous work and
the risk was unite out of proportion to the
return. It was inexplicable why anyone
should remain, but those who have had ex-
perience of the diggings know that there was
some enchantment which so influenced men
that they could not quit particular spots to
go forth and try fresh fields.
Among this class was Jim Tregonning, a
burly young Cornishman. He knew to an
inch where the pillars and side strippings
were in the old John Wesley claim, and no
new rush was magnetic enough to draw him
away. He had mate after mate who became
tired of hard toil and small earnings, and
ultimately; for such assistance as was neces-
sary, he had to rely on his faithful help-
mate Polly. She got used to doing the
chores of a laborer attending a practical
miner. Seated comfortably in a “bosun’
she would be lowered down the 50-feet shaft;
she would help Jim to put in the sets of
timber; she tvouid barrow the wash-dirt from
the face to the shaft, and, when it had to be
raised to the surface, she would either till
the buckets below or haul them up by the
windlass; when wash-up day came she would
work the pump or ply the fork in the sluice-
box. ►She was a giantess, and it was a
minor effort for her to haul Jim—a 15st.
man-—-to the top, or to lower him.
She could not always be in attendance at
the claim, and at such times Jim had to
“straddle” up and down the shaft. Polly
had often asked to be allowed to perform
this feat, but Jim would not listen to the
suggestion.
"Bad enough, Great Girl, for thee -to have
to work in the claim like thee be’st a man,
but it bain’t so bad that thee must go climb-
ing about like a monkey.
They had “cut out” a couple of sets of
big timber and an extra “false set.” Jim
knew that he was in the vicinity of a broken
roof of heavy ground, and, cautious miner
that he was, had prepared, as he thought, to
avert the worst danger.
The first set of timber having been put in
position, and tightened, Polly was hoisted to
the surface, and she started on her domestic
duties, in good humor. She was noted for
her cookery, and this day she had an oppor-
tunity to distinguish herself. A milk-fed
kidling had been killed the night before, so
she had materials for pasties which, for
delicate succulence and melting tenderness,
would please the most epicurean of gourmets,
and, for bulk, would gratify the appetite of
the most gluttonous of gourmands.
Half-past 12 arrived, and longing eyes
were directed towards the shaft —about 200
yards distant. Minute after minute passed
without the bulky figure of Big Boy emerg-
ing from the shaft. The minutes seemed
.b'ours to Great Girl.- The suspense became
'agonising, and at a quarter to 1 she hur-
ried to the shaft. The customary coo-ee
elicited no response. Instinctively she knew
that there "ms something amiss. The im-
pelling force of love allowed no pause. The
rope was twined around a leg of the windlass
stand. She clutched it and slid down the
shaft. Time and the Man were too precious
to allow of any steadying by “straddling.”
At the bottom there was sign of neither
light nor life. But there were sounds that
might quail the stoutest heart.
Creak ! Creak ! Creak !
Battle! Rattle! Rattle!
Great Girl knew well what these sounds
signified. Crashing and splintering of tim-
ber and falling and shattering of rock! She
was horror-stricken, but this was no time
for hysteria. She had matches in her apron-
pocket, and, having found a candle, she soon
had a light. The reflection of this called
forth faint moans from the end of the drive.
“He do be alive! The Lord He be
praised!”
With almost the quickness of a light-flash
she was at his head, which was the only part
of him showing in a pile of timber and rocks.
Her voice restored him to consciousness and
alertness.
“They two sets there do be cornin’ to-
gether. you. Run and get some slabs and
‘tom’ ’em as best thee can.”
“Tommed” they were, and this stopped
some of the creaking.
“Now, bring us in false set; pull away
stones from my back and put us in one
leg there. ... Now, other leg behind that
broken stick; put on cap; wedge ’un up;
get some slabs and drive ’em home into
fallen ground there.”
These and other orders were promptly
given effect to, and creakings and clatter-
ings were almost subdued.
“Now, Great Girl, give I a kiss. Thee
must be tired.' Sit us down there and rest.
Everything seems tolerable snug now. Cou’st
climb up shaft and get Polglase? I be all
right, you.”
“Polglase? No! nor no other man till I
get thee out and see what be’st wrong wi’
thee.”
She set to work to remove the broken tim-
ber and stones amongst which he had been
imprisoned for nearly three hours. It was
not until the weights which were crushing
him were being removed that he began to
realise that he must be seriously injured.
He was in great pain, but although he
winced occasionally, by a supreme effort he
suppressed any marked demonstration of
his suffering.
When she had succeeded in freeing him the
awful truth was revealed. His head and
body were covered with contusions, and his
clothing was saturated with blood; but,
worst of all, they soon found that his right
collar-bone and left leg were broken —they
dared not think of what other injuries there
might be.
His removal along the low, narrow drive
for 60 feet to the shaft was a trying ordeal
for both. It is hard to say who. was affected
the more—he by his bodily agonies or she by
her desperate physical efforts and mental
anguish.
What was to be done now was a crucial
question. Pie first suggested that they
should wait in the hope that neighbors
would miss them and come to their rescue;
but she pointed out that this would not do.
(Continued on next page.)


xcv
m.
W//s/" A
/ BK/
■hl
W//r--Y/y/////'
w ,///////.
■,//////////y/////yj7Wk l '/■
'"""//////"
I
’////////A
ZAH-BDK THE BEST HEALER FOR WOUNDS fi SORES.
YOU CANT AFFORD TO negled even the slightest skin trouble.
Such painful and disfiguring complaints as Eczema, Barcoo, Ulcers,
Ringworm, Poisoned and Festering Sores usually start with a
Pimple, a Rash or a simple Cut or Bum.
The only safe plan is to keep Zam-Buk always handy and
use it at once whenever you have any trouble with your skin.
This herbal balm, which is the product of years of scientific research, has
no equal as an antiseptic healer and cure for obstinate skin diseases.
In Zam-Buk is the modern successor of those wonderful healing balms used by the
ancient Roman Gladiators.
Zam-Buk is so refined that it is at once absorbed by the pores of the skin.
Impurities, poison and disease are drawn out of the tissues, and new healthy skin is grown. So
powerful is Zam-Buk that the worst skin affection yields to its marvellous healing influence.
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is specially prepared to meet the needs of those people
with a diseased, tender or irritable skin. It is invaluable when used with Zarat-Buk balm
for the cure of skin troubles.
All
Chemists
Stores
i/6 and
Si*
xcvb
Insist upon
Zam * Buk,
there's
nothing
“ just as
TEST ZAM-BUK FREE.
readers on receipt of name and address, and stamp for return
postape. by the Proprietors. C. E. Pul ford (Aust.) Ltd., Sydney,
Piease mention Thb Bcllitih (18/l/’23) when writing.
*2
A
A
/
%
/
m
\
The nearest habitation was half-a-mile
away; social intercourse was not frequent;
they were not near any regular track, and
they might be kept there for days. Then he
proposed that she should clamber up the
shaft and go for assistance. But she would
not do anything of the sort. She was deter-
mined to get him to the surface by her own
devices and exertions.
The “bosun” in which she had ridden up
and down so often happened, fortunately,
to be below —a safe, if not a cosy, chair. He
w r as put into a sitting position in it, and
now the problem was how was he to be
securely fastened in? With his broken limbs
and in his weakened condition it was hope-
less for him to think of steadying himself
in the ascent.
“Why doesn’t thee go up, Great Girl, and
get help? There be only short piece o’
lashin’ here —not quarter enough to tie I
up.”
“Dost think there be nothin’ but short
piece rope down here? What’s think about
this?”
She had doffed her wincey dress and soon
had it ripped into strips. There was enough
of this lashin’ to envelop him from head to
feet.
The rope having been made taut for about
three feet above the “bosun,,” Jim was
lashed in and all was so securely knotted
that there could be no accident short of the
breaking of the rope, or Polly being unequal
to the hauling task —neither a likely contin-
gency.
“Great Girl,” said the man, astonished at
the performance of the woman, “I’d like to
be free and shaw thee what a big bear I
cou’st be.”
A code of signals having been arranged,
Polly undertook the task of climbing up
the shaft. When she had accomplished it
and had recovered her breath and seeming
calmness, which much belied her mental
perturbation, she gave the signal “all ready,”
and on the response, “heave up,” the wind-
less was started. Slowdy the inei't burden
was brought to the surface.
Now the crowning difficulty presented
itself. How was she to, land this 15st. man,
who was as helpless as a log of wood and
more unwieldy to handle?
She hauled him up as high as possible and
put in the peg which keeps the windlass-
handle unmovable.
While Jim was thus suspended over a
drop of 50 feet, there was much “argifyin’ ”
as to what should be done. He was content
to remain where he was until she could
get assistance, but she was unyielding—
she would complete the job which she had
undertaken, and have him safely resting on
terra firma. Finally, it was decided to
cover the shaft with slabs set close to-
gether * and lower Jim on to these, which
was not done without much trouble and
pain in straightening out his legs. The tick-
lish job of sliding him off this treacherous
resting-place having been completed, nature
asserted itself and Polly swooned.
On reviving she rushed to Polglase's tun-
nel, and had the good luck to meet the two
men and a boy coming off. The boy was
hurried off to the village— two miles away—
for a doctor. Another stroke of good luck.
He was at home. By the time the
men had improvised a stretcher and car-
ried Jim to his house the doctor had arrived.
His diagnosis was broken collar-bone, broken
leg, two broken ribs and, probably, some
internal injuries. .Tim, bound up in splints
and bandages, was soon on the way to the
district hospital, eight miles off
The doctor arranged to follow in his dog-
cart, and yielded to Polly’s entreaties to
be allowed to accompany him. The sur-
geons having “fixed up’’ Jim, she was
allowed to see him “for two minutes only.”
Little did they think that their mutual
ecstasy was to be the last that they were
to experience. Polly was quartered at the
home of a sister of the doctor’s, where she
was assured that she would be a welcome
guest for as long as she chose to stay. The
doctor, however, was much concerned. He
had learned about the marvellous exploits
of the day. He knew that Polly was
“poorly,” and had serious misgivings as to
what might be the outcome of the violent
physical and mental strains to which she
had been subjected, and of the inevitable
nervous reactions. His fears, unhappily,
were justified, as at about midnight he was
summoned to Polly’s bedside. She was in
travail. Every doctor and every nurse in
the town were in attendance during the
night watching and working in relays to
try to save the stricken hei’oine, but their
skill and attention were without avail. As
day was appearing she passed through the
shadows.
In her delirium she had but one obsession,
the thought of the man for whom she had so
bravely struggled. Her last audible mut-
tering was, “Big Boy; God bless ’un.” His
last words to her are recorded on marble:
Sacred to Great Girl. “Thy will be done!”
Nameless and dateless! Simplicity and
sublimity !
J. WHEAR ROBERTS.
Primary Education.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CRASH ! Crash! Clatter ! Bang !
“You’ll break those plates, Mabel.”
“Oh, damn the plates! You leave
my book alone, Harry.”
Mabel O’Mara was finishing the Satur-
day dinner’s washing-up, so that she might
read “Ben-Hur.” She had just reached the
chariot-race, which is the most exciting part
of the story; and Harry, her brother,
wanted to know whether Ben-Hur or Messala
was going to win the race. Mabel had been
reading the book aloud before she began the
washing-up.
Harry was doing his lessons at the table.
Just outside the kitchen door, in the dining-
room, Mabel’s mother was making daisy-
chains with white and yellow beads, and
measuring each chain along the piece of
black velvet which it was to adorn.
“That won’t be long enough for your neck,
Ethel,” said Mabel’s father, watching his
wife try the velvet and chain about her
brown, scraggy neck. The father was
pasting up newspaper cuttings on cancer and
recipes for hairwash and camphorated oil and
jam at the table opposite the mother.
“Auntie Janey’s given me a little buckle
that goes with it,” the latter explained.
There was a squeaking sound of pigs from
thte paddo'cks beyond the back gate of the selec-
tion. Presently all the family would be cut-
ting up pumpkins and mixing them with
molasses to keep this noise down.
Mabel’s sister was cutting up rosellas for
jam, pulling the red, hibiscus-like fruits to
pieces bit by bit, counting the pieces as she
had been told to count them, “One, two, three,
four, five,” then cutting off the red piece at
the end, putting all that in one tin dish, then
dropping the seed pods, which made the jelly
of the jam, into another dish.
Now and again she looked up at Mabel’s
book, which was on a small shelf built into
one corner of the kitchen.
Mabel’s sister was 12 years old. Her name
was Rose.
Mabel was 10.
Crash! Crash ! Clatter! Bang !
“Mabel, wash-up quietly,” called out her
mother.
Harry put down the fine-pointed pen with
which he had been drawing a map of France,
and went whistling across to the shelf
where the book rested. He flicked open the
front page, on wdiich there was an arresting
picture’ of Ben-Hur and Messala in the act
of racing their chariots round the arena.
Mabel saw Harry as she swung round,
washing-up cloth in hand. “You leave my
book alone, Harry,” she shot at him.
Harry was 13 and went back to his lessons.
Crash ! Crash ! Clatter ! Bang !
“She’ll break everything,” said Rose.
“I’ll bet you a penny Ben-Hur wins the
race,” cried Mabel, clashing all the knives
and forks together into the dish. “Oh !” she
squealed as the hot water scalded her finger-
tips and she tried to save the knives, w r hich
she had been told not to put in hot water,
as the handles went yellow. “Bet you a
thousand pounds he does!”
“You haven’t got a thousand pounds,”
said Harry; and out of the corner of his
mouth he said stingingly, bitingly, in the
very agony of a man who is watching a race
and has many pounds on a losing horse,
“Messala ! Messala! Messala!”
The washing-up stopped and Mabel wiped
her hands on her apron.
“Go on with that washing-up,” said her
mother.
“Bet you a million pounds,” said Mabel.
“Messala! Messala! Messala!” hissed
Harry.
“Hurry up, Mabel. Hurry up,” he said ;
for he knew that only when the washing-up
was finished the race would begin again.
“Who is Ben-Hur?” asked Mabel’s father,
carefully pasting the full account of Jimmy
Governor’s murders in his scrapbook.
“I’ll bet you ten million pounds Ben-Hur
wins,” announced Mabel.
Crash ! Crash ! Down came a pannikin on
the table with such violence that Mabel dinted
it.
!>he shook all the knives and forks together,
and the kitchen began to look like a sea with
the water she had splashed on the floor.
“Hey ! Look out! Mum ! There she is.
She s watered aller me good map.” Harry
began to whimper. “She’s sprinkled it. Ah!
I'll give you something for that, Mabel.”
Mabel started to bounce the plates about
in her hand as she wiped them rapidly.
Then she juggled them from her hands to
the shelves.
Crash! Crash! Crash! Bang!
The girl ran from the washing- and wip-
ing-up to “Ben-Hur,” drying and wetting
her hands alternately, as now she shook a
plate, now ran wiping it to the book, now
ran back, put up the plate, wiped her hands,
ran back and opened the book, put it down,
and rushed back to the washing-up.
“Finish your washing-up before you read,
Mabel,” said her mother quietly, between
the rushes and dashes and bangs of Mabel’s
hands and the plates and knives and forks.
Crash ! Crash! Cr-rasli!
“There y’are. Blast washing-up!”
“What’s she broken?”
“Only a saucer,” said Mabel, picking up
the pieces with one wild sweep. “I’ll bet
you any money in the world Ben-Hur wins.”
“Messala! Messala! Messala!” hissed
Harry, white with primitive excitement.
Mabel finished her washing-up and wiping-
up with a flourish of wet towel. Then she
emptied out the washing-up water.
Clash! Batter!
“it’s like living with a whirlwind living
with that child,” said her mother. “What
is Ben-Hur?”
Mabel got her book at a rush, found the
place breathlessly and began to read. Rose
put down her rosellas. Harry left his map.
Everyone hung pantingly on every word she
read.
The room hissed and jarred and jambed
and palpitated and swayed backwards and
forwards till the air was pulsing with the
atmosphere of a racecourse.
“Ben-Hur !Ben-Hur !Ben-Hur JMessala !Mes-
sala!”
Mabel’s mother and father came into the
room and listened as Mabel rattled off the
words, her tongue like a whip lashing the
race to an end.
From the doorway the parents stood look-
ing in upon the children, mouths half agape,
fists beginning to clench.
“Ben-Hur !Ben-Hur IMessala !Mess”
“Ben-Hur !” cried Mabel with a shout, and
waved the book in the air. “What did I tell
you? I told you ! I told you !”
The air vibrated with clatter of the dishes
on the shelves. Bang ! Crash ! Clash ! Cym-
bals of silence smitten into sounds of rushing
horses’ feet, chariot wheels, plates and dishes
and knives and forks!
“Mabel, you’ve left the pudding-dish,” said
her mother.
There sat the mulberry-pie dish on the end
of the stove.
“Got it soaked,” said Mabel, as she dodged
under her mother’s arm and ran away to the
bush with her book.
ZORA CROSS.


lifer
‘fe.
;
.
WKE3IS\'
-- - : -
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIUCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—93-107 Feathereton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
SUFFERERS
FROM RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us, and we will send you our catalogue, fullv
describing our _ PATENT AIR-CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away with all
cumbersome springs, giving, a feeling of case
and comfort from the first day’s use. It is
the most scientific appliance yet invented for
this complaint. It will hold a rupture firmly
and .comfortably under all conditions. To
prove what we state,
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU ON A FREE TRIAL
If it is not silisfactory, we do not expect you
to keep it, and the trial costs you nothing. ' It
is suitable for men, women and children, and
the price is within the reach of all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW COMPANY,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic. [2
to succeed
and hoping if you wish
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL &C °td
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
cvb
7
t
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches; Stroke of Piston 2 Yz inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Bails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd., SfcSFftSU
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
CAILLE “PERFECTION” MARINE ENGINES.
m
(psU-uc
rtR FICTION MOTOR?
DETROIT MtCHKaAN
A Type to Suit Every Hull.
Now’s the time to buy if you want
your Engine this season,
BIG REDUCTION ON
ALL ENGINES.
New shipment of 4-h.p. Engines, com-
plete with Igniter, just arrived.
We have stocks for immediate delivery
at the following reduced prices:—■
Neptune Outboard . . £32
5-Speed Outboard . . £43
Liberty Drive Outboard £34
Inboard Motors:
2h.p. £34, 4h.p. £47/10/-, Bh.p. £BO,
2£h.p. £45, 6h.p. £57/10/-, 14h.p. £l5O
WRITE, THONE OR CALL.
Sole Agents for Australasia and Pacific Islands.
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED
76 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 107-109 Queensbridge Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Cable Address:
bocal
V
xcv
Three-Fold Safety
The Remington Model 51 Automatic Pistol is ab-
solutely safe. There is no danger of accidental dis-
charge because of the three safety devices: (1)
automatic grip safety, (2) thumb-operateo safety level*
(3) magazine removal safety.
fcemingtotfj
ifop Shooting Righf
SPECIFICATIONS: Caliber, .380; length, 6 5/8 in.'
thickness, 9/10 in.; weight, 21 ounces unloaded; finish,
dull black; magazine holds seven rimless, automatic
6tandard cartridges, one additional cartridge in chamber.
Cartridges, .388 APH (9 m/m
Browning Short) rimless auto-
matic standard metal cased or
soft pointed, the same cartridge
S 3 is used in other American
Automatic Pistol 6 of this
w t caliber.
C-8
•Mill
«»Mtn
'•no.
WMUH
H "»lh
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
WHenyouYe jfeelincj outojsoits
and Jijb seems
wea
&
Jake
a
=r\
D
O
a
o
mM
©M
o
o
m
a
o
o
o
o
o
Q
©L©
o
o
o
a
Q
0
O
Q
Q
0
D
a
o
o
£2
o
fttediaiifc Pills.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your iancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
Gd. weekly—‘an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
li
THE HEART of THE AUTOMOBILE.
9 9
xcvb
Schebler de Luxe. The latest
Schebler Motor-Cycle Carburetter.
Prices: lin. size, £5/2/6; Uin., £5/5/-
THE FAMOUS
SCHEBLER
Carburetter
Is Made at a Factory
that is Unique,
inasmuch as it is the only works
in the world which makes in-
struments for every conceivable
type of motor.
It is NOT the policy of the Schebler people to concentrate on one
particular model of vaporiser, and launch it on to the motoring public
as a device suitable for every type of motor.
Schebler Service is Much More Thorough
than that. If you own
A Motor-car for Pleasure,
A Motor-truck for Business,
A Motor-boat for Pastime,
A Motor-cycle for Celerity,
or
An Industrial Engine,
There is a Schebler Unit to Suit It,
and, what’s more, when so equipped your engine will Pull Better, Run
More Economically, and generally give Greater Satisfaction than if not
so fitted.
The Latest Model Schebler Car Carburetters
are proving themselves veritable doers. Prices from £5.
The Schebler De Luxe, the Newest Carburetter
for Motor-cycles, is now available, and is causing quite a stir among
the Cycling fraternity.
SWANS LIMITED,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
The House for Motor-Engineers’ Supplies.


What a Burroughs Does
Adding long columns of figures so tedious and unending a mental task—can
be accomplished on a Burroughs Adding Machine by simply depressing the
Addition
la a 4
44 a o
4 % 4
*2L a e
2414 0
a a o
iaia o
16.10
na 6
ii& a 6*
*
aaia ?#
11 // Multiplication
26*a 4 5«
14a 1410
94 a 7#
Subtraction
2 5.14 3ft
30 4IE 3*
9 »
Division
SR 47. H
«r©
*m
proper keys and pulling
Mats the amounts and
correct result.
Multiplication, subtrac-
tion and division can
all be performed by the
Burroughs as readily as
addition.
If required, sub-totals
can be taken at any
time and retained by the
machine to be included
in a grand total
the handle. The machine
automatically prints the
All the operations of the
Burroughs are mechani-
cal and therefore instan-
taneous and accurate.
Figures are printed on
a strip or wide sheet of
paper in neat, legible
type, all naughts and
punctuation printing
automatically.
The Burroughs method of figuring means vastly
increased speed, accuracy, neatness. These in turn
mean time saved, money saved, accounts always
balanced, statements always prompt.
They mean a hundred other things that
directly or indirectly increase profits and
eliminate loss. But most of all, they mean
that the business with a Bur-
roughs is the business where
the figure facts essential to
success are constantly available.
Burroughs Machines are made by a
Company with a capital of £6,000,000,
with factories at Nottingham, England;
Windsor, Canada; and Detroit, XJ. S. A.,
and sales and service offices in the
principal cities of the world.
Sole Importers
IRA L. & A. C. BERK
Challis House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Hobart.
Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.
New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
Adding —■ Bookkeeping Calculating
• r -
Machines
xcv
